

me veieran or vvniSKies
R. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
!■■«(](
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
■■■■ ■ ■■-—■■■ ■»—
M-5 W MOINT DE PIETE D SI C
Office: 74 CASTLE REACH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
Telephone: City 9325.
And at
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
litiiiiEiinSiE
ill il
Kb
connoissEDßs
W
wrn ) m
V
u
T,P
w AO'
Supplied by the bottle, case or g’ailon at
wholesale price.
Richardson’s
Wine & Spirit Stores
68 Market St., I
SYDNEY. !
158 Russell St
MELBOURNE
a
.Hu Item’d
6<icoi\
CHUBBS
STEEL
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablet*
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious' and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
rrnrzHazß
Junket
a
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
ECOEtART.
3SJSS—^
iiadtey’ s Orient jjotel.
C.
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILtfERTOWN RUBBER GO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
£
Roofing' maKes for cooler
Homes.
In most parts of Australia the beginning of this
month saw some mighty hot days. Sydney tem-
peratures were a new experience. Everywhere
was the one thought—to keep cool.
White Malthoid Roofing, being asbestos coated, is a
temperature-resistant. It aids materially in keep-
ing the house beneath it cool. It not only does
this, but it makes a roof that is absolutely depend-
able and waterproof, and a roof that looks “just
fine.”
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager. Agencies everywhere.
à
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
á
THE CLYDE:
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
HELIDON SPA
is the only Australian Mineral
Water with Genuine Osmotic Properties.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip StSydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
Vol. 36.—N0. 1828.]
[Thursday, February 25, 1915
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WAR LITERATURE
(Postages in
parentheses.)
THE TIMES HISTORY OF THE WAR. Hlustrated. To be completed in 4
volumes. Price £2/12/6. Vol. I. is now ready. Orders registered for sets only.
Foster Fraser’s Deeds that Will Never Die, 1/3 (2d.). Rose’s The Origins of the War, 2/9 (2d ).
Arnold Bennett’s Liberty. 1/6 (2d.). The Despatches of Sir John French, vol. 1., 1/6 (2d.). Graves’
The Secrets of the German War Office, 2/6 (2d.). Bemhardi’s Germany and the Next War 2/9 (2d ).
McCrae’s Soldier, My Soldier, War Verses, 1/- (Id.). Wise’s War of Nations, 1/- (Id.). ’ Australia’s
First Naval Fight, illus., 1/- (Id.). Robinson’s Finance and the War, 1/- (Id.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y LTD., 238 Pin STREET, SYDNEY.
t*
pg
KILLS ALL
- *>
4.'-'V-' • *
- a
j *
Death to Flies, Cock-
roaches, Mosquitoes,
Fleas and Bugs.
BLOWER.
The “MUSTDIE” Blower is recommended to oe
used, tor it is not only economical but the powder is
distributed more effectively, and we want you to get
the best results out of every ounce of the powder.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining’ “MUSTDIE,” forward 9d. in Stamps to Dept. H., Box
1520, G.P.0., Sydney, or write for trial sample, forwarded post free.
AGENCIES IN ALL THE AUSTRALIAN STATES. f 3
The Red page
Little Poems by Nettle Palmer
The simplicity of the poems of Nettie
Palmer is their chief excellence. It is
one of the most difficult things in verse-
writing to be simple without being silly.
But Nettie Palmer’s na'iveness is inherent
in her outlook. All she has added to it is
a delicate and delightful art, a care and a
choice of words that reach their meaning by
the least ostentatious route. For what she
writes is poetry—a poetry of limited range,
a fireside poetry, domestic and human. Her
verses have an atmosphere; they are bur-
dened with scents that, analysed, are not
entirely to be traced to the mere words.
Thus the beginning of a verse with these
words:—
Blackbird, you sweet, you cruel,
You with the perfect song before the sun,
Where is my soul to runt
arouses in the mind of the reader an indefi-
nite yet haunting expectation—not, in this
case, completely satisfied. So the line,
Australia, you our own,
is stimulating; but the next,
You last leaf shaken from Igdrasil
disturbs, shifts us rudely into another, a
literary, train of thought. The charm is
broken. And when she sings of Melbourne,
she is too infantile-wise to describe Mel-
bourne : that would be prose. Melbourne is
Melbourne, simply because Nettie Palmer
loves it.
Other cities, voices tell me,
Age-old beauty consecrates:
Other cities glow with color,
Stir with mightier loves and hates:
City, little world of wonder,
Only world I ever knew,
Hell may gape or Heaven may open,
I know all through knowing you!
A slight, little feminine song, but from an
unaffected human and singing throat.
* •
That assiduous journalist, John Foster
Fraser, has collected from the accounts ap-
pearing in the daily press a bookful of Deeds
that Will Never Die (Cassell; Is.). These
stories of heroism in the present war are
well worth preserving; and Fraser recounts
them as well as his hurry to get the book
out will let him.
THE PRISONER.
It seems the world would set itself
The task of still reminding me;
So many little hints of you
Keep crowding in and finding me.
To-day absorbed I passed along,
And town was only town to me;
A crossing woke my sight; I thought
“Just here , two eyes laughed down to me!”
Sometimes I think outside my door
There sounds a footstep known to me,
But passing on. Not so would pass
The step that brought my own to me.
Familiar things, the dawn, the dark,
The trees, the stars, are binding me.
Forget? How can I, all the world
Reminding me, reminding me!
IN THE CONCERT HALL.
Who is to blame? The woman,
Just for being there
Simple and human?
The man who wants to look at her,
And slightly turns his chair,
And as he likes will watch her faintest stir?
I wonder if he guesses
Hoio his casual stare
Stabs and oppresses; 1
The woman dreads to raise her eyes
Or even touch her hair;
All seems a pose to which his gaze replies.
The thing is hardly level:
Woman, if you glance
You're called a devil;
For hours he tempts you and you endure.
Behold the world advance:
You’re paying now for Cleopatra's lure.
GLOW.
Lighting the fire, my dear,
Setting the logs and the chips,
Somehow I felt you near,
You and your eyes and your lips.
First, as the tiny spark
Steadied beneath and shone,
You seemed bright in the dark,
You, and the night was gone.
Gray smoke rose in a stream,
Lit with a gathering glow.
Soft as your hair in a dream,
Dim, long drifts of it flow.
Lighting the fire, my dear,
Watching the strong flame start,
Somehow I'm glad with fear,
Thinking I feel your heart!
THE RETURN.
And when the last, last winds have touched
the lake,
A vow upon my age-dead heart I'll take,
And in that waiting hour when all is still,
I will come back, my Sweet, for this time’s
sake.
I will come back, and you! Ah, from what
hill,
What valley, in what world? From good or
tilt
This thing we know: our hearts with love
will ache
And shall we hear, as now, one late thrush
trill?
From “The South Wind” (Wilson, London).
Maeterlinck
Of late, evidence has been increasing of
Maeterlinck’s interest in psychical research.
His latest collection of essays, The Unknown
Guest (Methuen, per Dymock’s Library,
Sydney), deals entirely with this subject,
to which he was evidently led by his study
of death in Our Eternity. And The Un-
known Guest contains but half of his inves-
tigations : the remainder, treating of the
Lourdes miracles and kindred subjects, will
form the theme of a further volume. The
Journal and the Proceedings of the
Society for Psychical Research are evidently
Maeterlinck’s bible, though he has consulted
the researches of work done in this new
scientific investigation by many other bodies
and scientists. His conclusion is that in
the majority of cases of so-called spiritualism
the facts are incontestable; but to them he
appends another psychical explanation.
He does not need to call spirits from the
dead: he finds the cause of these extraor-
dinary happenings within ourselves, the un-
known guest that inhabits our subconscious-
ness. Confronted by the spiritualistic, or
neo-spiritualistic hypothesis and the mediurn-
istic hypothesis, Maeterlinck inclines to the
latter, seeing, indeed, no need for the inter-
vention of the dead.
When it is proved that the dead exercise
some intervention, we will bow before the
fact as willingly as we bow before the
mediumistic mysteries... .The hour has not
yet come to abandon the principle with re-
spect to our communications with the dead,
and it is natural that we should remain at
home, in our own world, as long as we can,
as long as we are not violently driven from
it by a series, of irresistible and incontro-
vertible proofs coming from the neighboring
abyss. The survival of a spirit is not more
improbable than the prodigious faculties
which we are obliged to attribute to the
mediums if we deny them to the dead. But
the existence of mediums is beyond dispute,
whereas that of spirits is not; and it is
therefore for the spirits, or for those who
make use of their name, to begin by proving
that they exist. Before turning toward the
mystery beyond the grave, let us first
exhaust the possibilities of the mystery here
on earth.
Maeterlinck holds that “psychometry”
cannot any longer be seriously denied. There
are plenty of mediums available. AE you
need do is to hand the medium some object
belonging to some person unknown to the
medium, and forthwith the medium, “not
only sees the person in question, his physical
appearance, his habits, his interests, his
state of health, but a 150... .describes exactly
his immediate surroundings, the scenery out-
side his window, the people who live with
him and who wish him well or ill, the
psychology and the most secret and unex-
pected intentions of all those who figure in
his existence.”
Of this faculty Maeterlinck gives some
remarkable instances. His theory is that of
Dr. Osty, who says that the object proffered
to the medium —a letter, a scarf, anything
connected with the absent person—has no
other function than to allow the medium’s
sensitiveness to distinguish a definite force
from among the innumerable forces that
assail it. Just so a dog picks out one scent
from the innumerable other scents that sur-
round it, and follows this trail. In the
equally mysterious phenomenon known as
“cross-correspondence,” in which several
mediums who do not know each other, who
are often separated widely from each other,
each write a part of a sentence, which, as it
stands, conveys no meaning whatever, but
which, on being pieced together with the
fragments from the other mediums, acquires
“an intelligible and obviously premeditated
sense,” we find the same faculty that per-
mits a medium to detect, among thousands
of others, a definite force that is wandering
in space. So the claim that the experiment
is organised by a discarnate intelligence, by
a spook, cannot be allowed. “Since the
faculty is manifested in psychometry without
the intervention of the spirits, there can be
no sufficient reason for attributing it to
them in cross-correspondence.”
We are our own spooks. The mission of
the mediums is merely to awaken the secrets
of our own subconsciousness, and bring them
to the surface of our normal lives. These
phenomena, which Maeterlinck assures us
are proved facts, occur between the living
and the living, on this earth; “and the
spirits, the dead, the gods and the inter-
planetary intelligences know them not.”
Turning to the class of premonitions, of
which there are many authenticated in-
stances, Maeterlinck is compelled to the
conclusion that our subconscious mind is
informed of the future. “An unknown
faculty, buried deep in our being and gener-
ally inactive, perceives, on rare occasions,
events that have not yet taken place.” For
we possess within ourselves all the unusual
forces with which the spiritualists endow
discarnate spirits. But this knowledge of
the future —evidently time does not exist
in our subconscious mind, past, present and
future being the same—is of little use to us.
Our subliminal self utters vague warnings;
but as it knows the future, knows that a cer-
tain calamity will fall upon us, that calamity
has already happened—in the future: it is
fixed there; and no warnings can be of any
use. It cannot prevent the calamity, which,
for it, has already happened. Yet, to con-
plicate an already complicated matter,
there are instances on record of sub-
conscious warnings which have saved the
person’s life.
Many extraordinary things Maeterlinck
has to tell us of the Elberfeld horses. These
are well-authenticated animals that have
been trained to a degree beyond that of many
human beings. These horses do sums,
extract square and cubic roots, spell
words, and write sentences of their own,
communicating their ideas by clumsily knock-
ing with their fore hooves, the number of
knocks and the hoof used corresponding to
an ingenious alphabet. There can be no
suggestion of trickery in this performance,
since the horses do their work and answer
questions just as well when their trainer is
not present or with their heads in hoods;
and one of the horses is stone blind, unable,
therefore, to perceive any signs made by
their interlocutor. One of the horses did
simple little addition and subtraction sums
correctly within a fortnight of his first les-
son ; and in four months’ time he knew how
to extract cubic roots.
What strikes one particularly is the
facility, the quickness, I was almost saying
the joyous carelessness, .with which the
strange mathematician gives the answers.
The last figure is hardly chalked upon the
board before the right hoof is striking off
the units, followed immediately by the left
hoof marking the tens. There is not a sign of
attention or reflection; one is not even aware
of the exact moment at which the horse
looks at the problem; and the answer seems
to spring automatically from an invisible
intelligence.
Dismissing, as we must, all theories of
trickery or imperceptible signs, Maeterlinck
does not accept this marvel as the result of
the horses’ intelligence. He cannot conceive
how the difficult sums, of which the answer
is frequently not known to the examiner,
are so swiftly done. He finds the explana-
tion in his theory of the subliminal con-
sciousness, which thus he detects in animal
as well as in man. The once celebrated
“lightning calculators,” able to handle col-
ossal figures in a moment of time, reached
their conclusions instinctively, subconsciously,
and in ignorance of the method by which
they arrived at the correct result. Hence
Maeterlinck suggests that the calculations
of the horses are due to the same power
of the subliminal consciousness. Why not?
The subliminal consciousness is probably
more developed in the animal kingdom than
in man: an animal practically exists sub-
merged in a state of permanent subconscious-
ness —unlike man, who is afflicted with con-
scious intelligence.
The subliminal consciousness, then, is
“The Unknown Guest” that resides not only
in man but in the animal kingdom.
We have seen it, in experiments in clair-
voyance and intuition.... reading in our
very souls forgotten secrets of the past, sen-
timents that have not yet taken shape, in-
tentions as yet unborn. We have discovered
that some object once handled by a person
now far away is enough to make it take
part in the innermost life of that person...
to see what he sees, and even what he does
not see.... the dangers that threaten him
and the secret passions by which he is
stirred. We have surprised it wandering
hither and thither, at haphazard, in the
future, confounding it with the present and
the past, not conscious of where it is, but see-
ing far and wide, knowing perhaps every-
thing, but unaware of the importance of
what it knows, or as yet incapable of turn-
ing it to account or of making itself under-
stood, at once neglectful and overscrupulous,
useless and indispensable.
But does this unknown guest really exist?
“In the realms where we suppose it to exist,
everything happens as though it did exist.
Do away with it and you are obliged to people
the world and burden your life with a host
of hypothetical and imaginary beings ;....
accept it and all those phantoms.... become
superfluous or accessory.” For the sub-
conscious mind is discarnate; it belongs to
us, but, on Maeterlinck’s hypothesis, it
exists everywhere and knows everything,
past, present and future. Why, then, does
our unknown guest not speak plainly ? Why
does it play tricks with us? Because, argues
Maeterlinck, it cannot communicate freely
with us. “It roams around the walls, it
utters warning cries, it knocks at every
door; but all that reaches us is a vague
disquiet, an indistinct murmur that is
sometimes translated to us by a -half-
awakened gaoler who, like ourselves, is a
lifelong captive.” The medium does his best
to translate the messages he indistinctly
catches into our language. If he believes
that the dead survive, he will naturally
imagine that it is the dead who speak to
him.
A supremely interesting book, it may be
useful as a clarifying agent to those minds
that are scientifically interested in this
difficult subject of the subliminal self.
Prize Poems
Australasia was well represented in The
Bookman (London) second prize-poem com-
petition. Mrs. Lilian Wooster Greaves,
Wongan Hills, W.A., won the five guineas
award for the best humorous poem,
though with a poem that would with diffi-
culty find admission to The Bulletin.
T lilla Gormhuille McKay, of Auckland,
M.L., who is well known to this page by her
sonnets, achieves print, but no prize, for a
much more humorous effort in the same
section: —
THE OPTIMIST.
The picnic from our Sunday-school went
down-a road jus' now;
There was six brake-loads singing songs, and
makin’ such a row,
An' when they saw me waitin' here they
waved so nice an' kind ,
They all teas feelin' sorry-Uke to see me lef'
behind.
There's goin' to be an ocean wave, an' lots
o’ boats that swing,
An' they'll play tig an’ nuts-in-May, an' run
roun' in a ring,
There's goin’ to be a peanut hunt —you eat
all wot you find,
Oh-h, they'll be havin’ lovely fun while I am
lef’ behind.
I had a new blue dress to wear, I had a hat
with lace
(A better one than Gerty Smith's, I told her
to her face),
An' then I fell an' cut my leg—the rag’s all
twined an' twined,
An’ at the back it’s red with blood — an’ so
I’m lef’ behind.
We all was goin ’ to run a race, the other
girls an' me,
I know I could have beat the lot an’ come
first easily;
But racin’ makes you awful tired. I think
p’rhaps I don't mind
A-sittin’ here alone. Maybe I'm better lef
behind.
My Gran’ma curled my hair so nice with
papers, rows an’ rows ,
All up the front my dress was trimmed with
heaps o' little bows;
But picnics aren't the place at all to wear a
dress that kind,
Of course it’s better in the box, kep’ clean
an’ lef behind.
I shan’t cry, not a little bit, I’m reely, truly
glad,
Them horses did look awful wild a-rushin' by
like mad,
An’ when they all git back to-night I shan’t
be s’prised to find
They’ve all been brought back dead but me,
wot’s safe here, lef behind.
An’ when they all o’ them is dead an’ no one
lef but me,
Won’t everybody treat me nice, an' ask me
out to teal
An’ then their mothers all will say, “Well,
dear me, never mind,
The reely lucky little girls is them wot’s lef
behind.”
In the lyric competition, W. Siebenhaar,
Perth, W.A., is quoted, though scarcely
worth print, and many Australasian names
are mentioned. In the sonnet section A.
Howe, Way College, S.A., is honored by
quotation. The lyric awarded the first
prize is by Thora Stowell, Cairo, an interest-
ing poem, but of a quality that does not say
much for the stimulus of a world-wide com-
petition
THE LITTLE BLUE LANTERN.
A little blue lantern high on the shadowy
wall stirs and swings.
Hushed and still is the incense-laden air of
the crooked street,
Never a breeze to stir the tiny flame, nor
passing feet
Nor idle hand to jar the poise of the delicate
silken strings.
Canton sleeps as the dead might sleep.
There is never a light or cry,
Never a passionate lover’s song the exquisite
silence thrills,
But the eerie desolation lies like a pall, and
its magic fills
My veins with a creeping terror, for surely
I know that, by and bye,
Someone will move in the shadows, with
naked feet that make no sound,
Creep, as a shadow creeps to the circle of
delicate, ghostly light,
That burns like the flame of a death-candle
in the gloomy tent of night —
Someone will break the spell which holds
the dreaming city bound.
Then from all about us shall crowd the
pattering naked feet,
Dead gold faces, crazed with hate, in the
misty lantern gleams,
All the passions of Hell will be 1005 ed....
are dreams then only dreams?
Or have I seen in some long-dead Past this
lamp in a crooked street?


it
u
ANTHONY HORDERNS’for AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
:R
Ji
J
1057
Canton Guard Lever Harrows
Similar in construction to the ordinary U-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition
of the Guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars.
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards, or trashy
ground. The ends of the tooth bars being protected, prevents injury from colliding
with trees or shrubs, and avoids the accumulation of trash that would foul the
ordinary-Harrow.
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or
to clear the Harrow of trash. 0 .
Made in two Sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the Section. The teeth are 8 inches
long by $ inch square. . oc .
2 Sections of 25 teeth each, with bars as shown, weight 2031 b., width Mt.,
complete •• . , •• •• •• • • • • ** .** **
2 Sections of 30 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft„
complete .. •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• ***'“
THE STAR DISC HARROW
THE STAR DISC
HARROW contains all
the features of any im-
portance in a disc har-
row, and includes besides
many advantages and
conveniences for the
cheap and successful use
of such an implement.
The seat is so arranged
that it can be adjusted
for a light or heavy
driver, and all excess of
weight taken off the
horses’ necks. A two-
wheeled fore truck takes
the place of the pole, do-
ing away with all friction
on the horses, and enab-
ling the operator to turn
his team in their own
length.
■*3
y
Light 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 discs, lGin. size of discs, 3021 b. net weight
2 or 3-Horse, 6ft. wide, 12 discs, 16in. size of discs, 3691 b. net weignt (Ao. Tx
1065) £7/15/-
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
WIARD PATENT PLOUGHS
L'fi’ll
9*
No. 62. Pony Plough, will plough 3in. to sin. deep, 6in. to Bin. wide ; Wood Beam,
weight 401 b., with wheel, 23/6. Extra Shares, 9d.
No. 100, Two-Horse Steel Beam Plough, as illustrated, fitted with ordinary
Colonial Coulter, and with Iron Handles if required, will plough 6in. to 9in.
deep, lOin. to 14in. wide; weight, 1061 b., 75/- Extra Shares, 1/9.
No. 21, One-Horse Swivel Plough, Wood Beam, will plough 4in. to 7in. deep,
6in. to lOin. wide; weight, 771 b., 42/6. Extra Shares, 1/6.
Canton Scotch Clipper Plough, lOin. Steel Beam, for two Horses, weight, 911 b.,
with one Steel Share, 75/-. Extra Steel Shares, 9/6.
Send for Price List of Agricultural
Implements and Tools of Trade,
Post Free on request.
SilttUl
THE CANTON DISC PLOUGH has been universally successful for general
use everywhere (in hard, soft, dry, wet, old or new soil).
The Discs are 24 inches in diameter, and the Single Disc will turn furrows
from 3 to 12 inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions
between each Disc. The Discs are all ball-bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are
set at the proper angle to revolve freely when in contact with the soil. The soil
is turned completely over and is thoroughly pulverised. Can be adjusted to cut 10
or 12 inches.
1- weight, 6721 b. .. .. .. Price, £l4/5/-
2- weight, 7801 b. .. .. .. Price, £l7/5/-
3- weight, 9001 b. .. .. .. Price, £22/5/- ,
26in. Spare Discs, 24/- each.
CANTON No. 4
DISC PLOUGH.
No. Tx 1056. —New Model One Horse Plough, wood handles, low set, the
famous Scotch ploughs (No. Tx 1056) .. .. .. .. .. 50/-
Empire All Steel
Cultivator
We specially recommend this Cultivator, as, with the attachments, it can be
used for cultivating almost any crop.
With Attachments, weight, 901 b., 34/ 6. Extra Tines, li, I£, 2J in., 6a. each.
Sweeps, 10in., 1/-; 12in., 1/1; 14in„ 1/2 each.
Hilling Board Attachments, 10/6 pair.
Extension Pieces, to make into 7-Tine Cultivator 7/6 pair.
ã
ä
å
IRON PLOUGHS.
No. 0. — One-Horse Iron Plough, as illustrated, with one extra share and spanner;
weight, 1161 b.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth and width.. .. .. 75/-
Two-Horse Iron Plough, similar to No. 0, but much stronger.. . . £5/5/-
The Little Beauty Iron Pony Plough, weight, 821 b.; will do 7in. to Sin. depth
and width . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 50/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace EmtJorium,
Brick-field Hill,
-SYDNEY, N.S.W.


r
■ %, ■ \
m
a?" i
?*«
.22 CALIBER RIFLES
For target shooting or hunting small game, Win-
chester .22 Caliber Rifles give entire satisfaction,
because they are made with the same care and
skill as the “big guns.” There are three different
Winchester .22 caliber repeaters and four different
single shots made. From this array you can surely
pick out a rifle that will suit you. Your dealer has
them. Remember that
YOU CAN’T GO WRONG ON A WINCHESTER.
Save Time and Money
in Putting up Your
Fences.”
m
m
iwM
IM
IWi
tmY'i
-T*.
\
mm
ms
•Hlf
£2
/fw $.,. £«•*••••*... • •■•J
if*** 1
* • <
T .:*■*'*
r (,- i
w
,J A '
ss^
N
2L
USE AN IWAN
POST-HOLE DIGGER.
Post-hole sinking need no longer be a labor-
making operation. With the “Iwan” work
is reduced to the minimum.
No digging the hole about four times the
size of the post, which is the custom with a
shovel.
The average man can dig 120 Post Holes in
a day with one of these Diggers, each one
the same size, and made to suit the post,
leaving little ramming to be done.
A few turns fills the “Iwan,” which can
readily be emptied.
Made in the following sizes. Try one.
Size ... 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 in.
Price I/-, I/-, 7/-, 7/-, 7/6,8/6,9/6,10/-, 27/-, 34/- e».
Write for opr 300-page Catalogue of Farm,
Home and Workshop Tools.
Proprietary Limited
554=66 & 582=88 Collins St., Melbourne
RMB® 5V
r>
L
D
D
r
o
o
with B.S.A. 4 h.p. Engine
B.S.A. Countershaft Three-Speed Gear.
It will take a sidecar and passenger up almost any hill with
power to spare.
It is superior to high-powered machines, it requires less
attention, easier to handle, costs less to run. and is
equally suitable for solo or sidecar work.
It is perfectly balanced. The weight is evenly distributed,
the back wheel being free from over loading.
The transmission is protected against mud.
dust and wet. Smooth reliable running
in all weathers is thus assured.
‘THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.’
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle List Free.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Agent: MILLEDGE BROS., Sydney.
a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN SONS LTP.
J
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
R
LOCAL
#
PATRIOTISM
| .Your
Aim? c
Then have a JHOT
|% at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
1
T
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Severs
Prize Medals.
feTT-ioj
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
papers With the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works: Birminghatn, England.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDIL 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra tong ra “S e .
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fi
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified T
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN , ,
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND : oe an( j
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice ad
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH S FAVORITE. d
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. unii/iov
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best se ‘* ers , ; .
Price, 18/6. WrUe f or 0u Camogue '
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOORKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


J& 1g53 1
6
A
A
A
A
6
“3-in-one” Oil
Keeps Your Bicycle
In Perfect Order!
Steering, bearings, chain, brakes,
frame, bell, seat—there isn’t a part of
the machine “Three-in-One”
won’t benefit !
“3-in-One” Oil is a perfect
lubricant. It prevents rust or tarnish
on plated surfaces in any weather;
polishes the frame ; keeps the seat
soft and pliable.
Free from grease—never thickens
nor collects di t.
Obtainable everywhere in Bottles
and Handy Oil Can.
WRITE FOR FREE SAMPLE -BOTTLE,
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 E, Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
! \
A
6
4
A
c 7
O « HAINES
ā
5
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
-
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook's Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3m 10 to £ 9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer ou sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY.
Dept A 282 LIVERPOOL.
WAR
Prompt Shipment S Safe Delivery
Guaranteed. No Advance in Prices
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES-
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you ,
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size lOg x
Bf, post free 4/0 ; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Sin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/C.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
if
r
FXS&D
ą
Now is the time, boys, to .
Man the Guns an a prepare I
to defend your country
against the ruthless inva-
der. Gun and Carriage of
ǻ
æ
Solid Iron, with castdrOP. wheels, very strong and substantial.
Perfect model of the original style of Field Artillery. It
measures over 3 inches* long, \ iti. high and IY% in. wide.
NINE PENCE each, 2 for 1(3, 4 for 2/«* carriage free.
The UNION COMPANY, 299 Elisabeth Street, Melbourne. _
‘ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Great Danger of
Insecfl Bites.
DOCTOR’S ALARMING STATEMENTS.
Protect Yourself Against Ordinary
Dangers by using
NEV-A-BITE
“There is no question,” says a leading-
specialist, “that insect bites may lead to great
danger to health, and have been known to end
fatally.”
This alarming
statement, which
has appeared in
the influential
newspapers of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
bites from mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
to worry about.
It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect
bite might set up
such serious in-
flammation as to
cause blood-poi-
soning, and—as everyone well knows —blood-
poisoning may lead to even the amputatipn of
a limb.
One has only to glance at the illustration
given here of the mosquito to realise what
terrifying poison-injecting parts this insect
has. It is absolutely necessary, not only for
the woman who desires to keep her complexion
in its natural condition, but also for the pro-
tection against more serious dangers, to secure
some reliable preparation which will prevent
insects from biting.
The best form of treatment of mosquito bites
is prophylactic, or preventive. The application
of a little of the Nev-a-bite lotion to. the
forehead, neck and the instep (when openwork-
stockings are worn) reduces the probability of
mosquito-bites to a minimum.
Nev-a-bite is a perfectly harmless pre-
paration, and serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
Nev-a-bite can be obtained at 9(1. per
bottle. Postage 3d. extra from—
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY
Manufacturing Chemists. MELBOURNE.
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects.
' •' m
m
Nunsc?
Kerr^
L«te of Dtxrfholoirus ws &nd Quys> HoapitaJ 5. LONDON. vx/ptE
July 9th, 1913.
Dear Sirs, —I am pleased to bear testimony to the merits of your “Bonning-
ton’s Irish Moss,” which, personally, I have proved to be a valuable and safe
remedy for all bronchial and throat affections.
I have never failed to recommend it to my patients and friends, in coughs
and colds, as I deem it a most valuable preparation. (Sgd.) NURSE KERR.
a
nsr
i>
The Great, Harmless Pain-Killer.
UNTIL the advent of Kephaldol there had
been no certain and reliable remedy for
the lumbago sufferer. Those afflicted
know the agony that this complaint can cause,
and are only too well acquainted with the violent
Lumbago
symptoms of
which it is charac-
teristic—stiffening
of the back —impossibility of making the
silghtest movement without absolute agony,
enforced rest and immobility, etc.
Ivephaldol is the doctors’ remedy. It was
discovered by a noted doctor —is used by doctors
—prescribed by doctors —and most enthusiasti-
cally endorsed by doctors. It cures Lumbago.
Sold in Tubes by Chemists and Storekeepers.
Prices 1/6 and 3/6. (Made in Australia.)
(4000)
4
mj
im:
Wool from Australasia, plus British Labour.
mnsmiKKSS
ǽ
u Stockings & Socks
for Men, Women and Children.
I That is the combination that constitutes the world« best value in
Stockings and Socks. The materials are expertly woven by skilled British workers,
and beautifully finished with the soft silky “feel” exclusively ‘ Jasons’ own, and
guen, is branded with an honest British mark that signifies the maker’s
confidence in the goods.
This brand protects you from the cheap unnamed German-made hosiery that lacks finish, and
stability—obviously a pretence t> and a false economy. Support the industry of the Home Country
—buy the branded that protect your interest and your pocket.
Your Draper or Outfitter will, if you insist upon having only supply you.
Sole Manufacturers— The Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
Aaol <?>
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “1 was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but alter taking your treatment for V t days 1
gave the pipe up for good , and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[2.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially 'in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge,
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you hu.ve tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, «nd SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collina-st., Melbourne, Vic.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Heat-Wave Girl.
I’m happy when the overworked thermometer
Above the hundreds sprints and does not
tire;
I love the west wind when she comes to
vomit her
Parched heat up6n the pavements that per-
spire ;
For when the air with sultriness is laden
You walk abroad, the Sydney Heat-Wave
Maiden!
Your figure shows beneath your gown tran-
sparently
With just a lacy gossamer to sheath it;
And there is nothing else but Girl, appar-
ently,
Beneath it.
We men must swelter through the heat per-
spiringly,
But, Heat-Wave Girl, how sensible are
you!
We watch your semi-nudity admiringly ;
With what a little clothing you can do!
Where are the snowy things of yester year
That swathed you thickly? In the wash, I
fear.
You must not blame us if we often wonder
things ;
The wind’s disclosures rather make us
want to;
We ponder deeply where your filmy under-
thin gs
Have gone to.
Low neck, low corset, and a sweet simplicity
Where once hung things to mention which
is low—
We envy you the open-air publicity,
You give to parts that once you didn’t
show.
And when against the sun you’ve silhouetted
To it and to the heat wave we’re indebted.
I do not know what nicely thought-out plan
you have
That tells you where to clothe and where
to break off;
But when you go to bed I ask what can
you have
To take off?
There’s less of you on show in your
Canadian,
But I don’t mind, nor does the stolid cop.
Your costume is delightfully Arcadian,
And instinct tells you somehow where to
stop.
But though you are so nice and cool to see
Your coolness hasn’t that effect on me;
You look so cool, and yet, I don’t know what
it is—-
Your coolness to the heat no antidote is :
’Tis only when I see you that how hot it is
I notice!
In winter garb you cruelly used to cloister
us
In miseries of wonder and of doubt;
But now you are undressed by breezes
boisterous
There is so little left to be found out.
Arid yet the Southerly my thanks deserves:
He comes revealing unexpected curves.
I know with maiden modesty imbued you
are,
But when the wanton breezes rudely woo
you.
I fear, Heat-Girl, you do not know how
nude you are —
Or do you?
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
By Quiet Waters.
The pleasant slopes of Tarragoon,
Where grasses sigh and seep and quiver,
Where peaceful browse the dairy cows
Among the reeds beside the river;
The marshy flats of Tarragoon,
Where grows the rye-grass and the clover
By bank and tree, shall I not see
Till many toilsome days are over.
The laughing jackass and the thrush,
The magpie on his agile pinions.
The yellow crest, the crimson breast.
Have freedom of those broad dominions ;
Though rarely now the lyre-bird comes
To dance therein his tarantella,
You still may hear in branches near
The lory and the gay rosella.
For when the apples droop with fruit,
And flags of cocksfoot crisp and wither,
When dries the sward, the painted horde
Of half the parrot-world comes hither,
From cockatoo to parrakeet—
Galah and love-bird green and yellow—-
From scarlet king with purple wing
To black macaw, a dingy fellow.
Again in thought I haunt the sedge
Where cresses spread their emerald laces
By some dark pool of waters cool,
Which, swirling, checks the runlet races,
And fish for speckled mountain trout
Of Izaak Walton’s quaintest fancies;
The dream renews the antic muse
Or monarch perch, whichever chances,
By quiet waters, shot with gold
Through woven branches, one might linger
In idle dream beside the stream,
Forgetful of Time’s moving finger *
Nor heed the turmoil of the world —
The traffics of its sons and daughters —
For there is ease and rest with these,
The lichened logs, the quiet waters.
And still in trance I plod the road,
The dusty highway, grey and gritty,
That twists and swerves and climbs and
curves
From distant sea to far-off city;
It takes one back, by turns And dips,
Past falling waters echoing dully,
With which is heard the shrill of bird
From wattle-clump and ferntree-gully.
One well might make the final camp
By Tarragoon, when done with striving,
And pass the days apart from ways
Where human swarms are hotly hiving ;
Till Time shall ring the curtain down
When sweet and bitter days are over ;
And long and deep shall be the sleep
Beneath the rye-grass and the clover.
VICTORIA.
Q. G. A. COLLES.


ALUMINIUM
as manufactured by the British Aluminium Co. Ltd., of London, England, and for
whom we are the Sole Australasian Representatives, is for
RAILWAI ROLLING STOCK CONSTRUCTION
largely superseding wood and steel as a material for side panels, ceilings, interior
fittings, etc. We are at p'resent supplying Aluminium in sheets to the Victorian
Railway Department.
IN THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY
Aluminium is used as a metal for casting Crank-cases and Gear-boxes, Dashboards,
Car Bodies, Radiator Frames, Water Jackets and almost every metallic accessory.
Let us sent! you Aluminium Facts as applied
to all Engineering needs. Write now to
W. G. WATSON O. CO., LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything: Electrical,
279 Clarence Street; 426=430 Kent Street, SYDNEY
Melbourne Representative : Geo. SMITH MORISON, Collins House, Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Western Australia: LESLIE & CO., Perth. Hobart: A. J. TODD & CO.
Study Your Own Comfort and You’ll Use Electric Light.
•«$*
8 I
HI.
! f 0
4C
=5*-* J-,,' ■ *>
II 5
HHH
* ■
% m
&
«*#
Electric Lights are clean, healthful, and
how handy ? Turn the Switch as you
enter the door and the light flashes up in
an instant. You can have lights on the
Ceiling, Walls, at the Piano, even Port-
able Lights, Electric Fans to keep you
cool, Electric AVashing and Ironing Helps,
Door Bells, Burglar Alarms, etc. Elec-
tric Light in your home would be
‘•simply great.” You can have its bene-
fits, too, -without the costly running of
wires from a central supply. Let us send
you particulars of
“LISTER-BRUSTON”
AUTOMATIC
Electric Lighting Sets
AGENTS: N.S.W. —W. a. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng,
Insist on “ Singleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Godsends for
Grain Growers.
Farm Implements which work well
on starting and continue to do so
for years without costly repairs'.
'l'hiiiv.'l'ZLXxl
□
The “Sunrise” Stump
Jump Disc Plough.
Unequalled in Yankee Grubbed
Paddocks or wherever the
land is not completely cleared.
SB
The “Sunflower”
Disc Cultivator.
The famous “one way” disc.
Reduces to a fine tilth a
larger acreage per day than
any other implement. (Also
made in Stump Jump style.)
r?a
IVllll*
A w
The “Sunshine”
Spring Tine Cultivator
All sizes to 30 tine (cutting
10ft.). Built with ample
strength for the work. Afamous
fallow stirrer and weed killer.
Ask for “ Sunshine Farm Implements,” 48 pages, illustrated. Sent post free on request.
H. V. McKAY-Sunshiae Harvester Works
Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
102 Spencer Street, MELBOURNE.
56 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
The Wise Old Gardener Knows
2Eo
ran
IK
m
a?
that he will not get the best results
unless the garden gets plenty of
water with a rubber hose.
He has already ordered a length of
"Watershed
RED RUBBER
AUSTRALIAN-MADE HOSE
! 9
because there is not a better one to be
obtained.
So order your length to-day.
Made in 60ft. coils, but cut to any
length.
32/-
30ft., fin. x 3-ply, complete with fittings ...
Carriage Extra.
Send for a copy of our Hose List, containing full particulars of all garden hose and
fittings.
If your storekeeper does not stock “Watershed” Hose, send your order direct to us.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Australian Manufacturers of All Rubber Goods,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
w
-l|4mh^=f
Sfo>*
The brilliant, durable gloss imparted to
I/inoleum by Shi-noleum renders any room bright,
cheery and pleasing. It renovates and beautifies
with the least trouble and in the quickest time.
Shi-noleum is also splendid for polished and leather
furniture, wood floors, tan boots and all leather
goods. Insist on Shi-noleum.
BEST POLISH FOR LINOLEUMS-
In placing before the Public
20 Years
Terms
(102 Farms from 8 acres to 238 acres) (Q)
The Agricultural Editors of the "Australasian" and the ‘ Sydney Mail were
requested to nominate a Victorian and a New South Wales Expert Lucernist
to inspect and report on the quality of the land.
HERE ARE THE REPORTS:
Millbank, Bacchus Marsh, 30th October, 1914.
Messrs. Isles, Love & Co., Brisbane.
Re COOCHIN COOCHIN ESTATE.
Dear Sirs, —Referring to my having been selected by the “ Australasian,”
through A. R. Robertson, Esq., M.L.A. to inspect the Coochin-Coochin property
in Queensland, I may say that there is splendid land on the flats —in most places
as deep, and really superior in quality to anything to be found on Bacchus Mafcsh.
I have examined the soil which varies from brown to black in colour, it is
of good texture and easy to cultivate under any climatic conditions, wet or dry.
The bddy of this soil, which is from 10 to 25 feet deep, rests upon a bed of
water-worn drift, an ideal factor for drainage and the best indication of permanent
lucerne land. The enormous supply of water, and the ease with which the flats
can be irrigated is a very important feature.
I have lived for sixty-three years at Bacchus Marsh, engaged mostly in
lucerne and other cultivation, and I. conscienciously state that I was astounded at
the magnificent quality and extent of the Coochin land, which I can only describe
as “the best which I have ever walked over.” If the Coochin Flats were shifted to
Bacchus Marsh, my friends there Would rush them at £lOO per acre and upwards.
Yours faithfully, W. GRANT (Bacchus Marsh),
Chairman of the Bacchus Marsh Milk Co.
Woodville, Maitland, New South Wales, 30th October, 1914.
Messrs. Isles, Love & Co., Brisbane.
THE COOCHIN COOCHIN ESTATE.
Dear Sirs, —Having been nominated by the Agricultural Editor of the
“Sydney Mail” to inspect and give an independent report upon the quality and
suitability of the above Estate for the cultivation of lucerne, I have pleasure, after
completing my inspection, to report as follows: —
I have been engaged successfully in lucerne' growing on the Hunter
River, Maitland, for the past fifty years, and have formed the opinion that the
Coochin-Coochin Flats are in every way equal to the very best quality land in my
district for the cultivation of this valuable fodder plant.
An immense depth of rich alluvial soil —little or no clearing necessary-
abundant water for stock or irrigation, splendid railway service—a pros-
perous Town with Schools, Churches, Sawmills and Hospital practically adjoin-
ing, a well-established Butter Factory on co-operative lines, and the evidence
of my own personal inspection of heavy crops of lucerne, maize and potatoes
at present growing upon the Tenant Farms of the Estate, unite in offering
exceptional attractions to southern farmers to settle on Coochin-Coochin, I
would even go further and say that, were I a young man I would not hesitate
to make my home upon this lovely property, where the richest of land will be
obtainable at a mere fraction of the prices at present ruling where I reside
(from £5O to £9O per acre).
I shall be glad to answer any enquiries from genuine farmers in my
State who may be desirous of making a move to Queensland.
I am, yours faithfully, GEORGE BISHOP, Maitland.
Author of “Lucerne Growing,” published by the N.S.W. Govt.
COOCHIN-COOCHIN is one of the “Show” Stations of Southern
Queensland, situated about 60 miles from Brisbane, 10 miles from the
border of New South Wales, within 1 mile of the Dugan dan Railway
Station, and li miles from the prosperous town of Boonah.
THE DISTRICT secured the District Exhibit Prize at the Brisbane Show
for both 1913 and 1914.
THE DISTANCE FROM THE COAST direct is about 45 miles, and the
scenery is magnificent. The Main Range with Spicer’s Peak, Mount
Wilson, Mount Alford, Mount French and Min "o Crag apparently surround-
ing Coochin in the Valley of the Teviot, on three sides.
THE ESTATE has always been famous for its Fat Cattle, and holds the record
for Queensland since 1902, when fats were sold up to £23 2s. 6d. head.
THE RAINFALL is about 40 inches, well distributed, and the inexhaustible
waters of Teviot Brook render the Estate drought-proof.
SALE DATE: WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, by Public Auction, at BOONAH(Q)
TERMS: Twenty years at five per cent., with one-tenth Cash.
INSPECTION If or 30 days preceeding the Sale) by Motor from Boonah where there
are four large hotels providing ample accommodation. Rail fares of purchasers
paid by vendors from any part of the Commonwealth.
ILLUSTRATED PLANS will be posted to any address.
ISLES, LOVE & CO.
Auctioneers, BRISBANE
acting in conjunction
with
T. H. GARTSIDE
Auctioneer, BOONAH


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper.
Vol. 36.—N0. 1828.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25. 1915.
I’IUCB BD.
“VORWARTS!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Wan.”
Printed and published by William Maci.eod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. ner Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas ..umber, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
nil business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letteis are liable to be re-
f used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read. and. where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. u-her,
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
■ ithout stamps for return it -will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible fox the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted fo~
niUECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e.. any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- — Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. / Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego.
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 535
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Bates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maorilartd,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., B£oz. to 10oz., 21 d. :
10nz. to 12nz., 3d.; elsewhere, hoz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
Zfce'tßxzlleZz/rL
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1915.
AUSTRALIA AND ITS PINT OF BEER.
The announcement that the Commonwealth
is going into the pub business will cause a
lot of liquor people to sit up and rub their
eyes. Although the experiment is at present
to be confined to the Northern Territory,
where the population is lamentably sparse,
it is the kind of venture that, once essayed,
will make a tremendously strong appeal to
every Treasurer, whether of State or
Commonwealth, who has a public purse to
fill. Bung is a person on whom very little
sympathy need be wasted. His profits are
made easily from a public that is never quite
satisfied, and there seems no sort of decent
reason why he should not be called upon to
stand aside and allow the community to be
its own publican and gather in the shekels
to its own profit. Local option votes, which
have as a rule been strongly in favor of the
continuance of the sale of liquor, are not a
true indication of the people’s opinion of the
publican. Were the vote taken on the
question of publican or no publican, without
reference to the further question as to
whether drink should still be sold or not,
there would be an overwhelming majority
against the man whose name goes over the
door; and the abolition of the licensee
without the abolition of the liquor trade
could mean nothing else but nationalisation.
Prohibition efforts have nowhere proved a
skyscraping success. In America, State
after State attempted to blot out the saloon,
and most of them after a trial gave up the
attempt in despair. The movement in favor
of State drought reached its highest point
before the outbreak of the civil war, and
has since waxed and waned in an erratic
manner until there are to-day rather fewer
States with prohibition on their statute
books than there were when Abe Lincoln
was a promising politician with small hope
of the Presidency. Of all the States Maine
alone has stuck to the job of moral reform
by Act of Parliament with real persistence,
and on all the evidence sobriety isn’t
conspicuous in that ton corner of the Union.
In Maoriland liquor shops have been wiped
out by local option in 12 districts, but
there also the experiments in thirst have all
a question mark against them. Maoriland
as a whole drinks a lot more per head of
population and gets drunk enough to be run
in a lot oftener than in the days before a
'single electorate closed its pubs. Looking
squarely at the question it seems plain that
! prohibition of liquor sales does not stop
idrinking, and there is something more than
a lurking suspicion that it may actually
increase the work of the pewter or other
utensil.
Prohibitionists, no-licensers and other folk
who believe that Beelzebub and beer are
interchangeable terms try hard to convince
themselves and others that a closed pub
really represents a moral reform. But their
special pleading fails in the face of the
accumulated evidence; and the mere person
who tries to balance the claims of Bung
and Cold Tea is forced rather grudgingly
to admit that Bung has the best of the
argument. The admission doesn’t increase
his love for Bung to any extent, but he is
too tired to worry about finding a settlement
of the liquor problem in which Bung might
go out on his ear without Cold Tea
achieving a victory or waving the umbrella
of holy joy over a beerless land. Such a
settlement, however, is quite practicable; and
there is no good reason why the democracy
should not be its own publican and work
the beer-pump to its own taste and profit.
A certain amount of moral reform must in
the nature of things accompany the elimina-
tion of private profit in the sale of liquor.
While there is a tendency on the part of
the public to get drunk and forget what it
is doing, or to get muzzy or recklessly
enthusiastic, there is always the opportunity
for the drink-seller to increase his profits
by playing up to the weakness of his
customers. He will even on occasion burst
the law and break all the most useful of the
Ten Commandments in order to put a few
more pounds in his pocket. Under public
ownership of the liquor trade this feature
of the business goes out. because the person
who hands round the drinks need have no
pecuniary interest in the quantity he sells.
A fixed salary can be paid him to run things
decently, and the continuance of his job
may be made to depend on the cleanliness of
his record. No man who has nothing to
gain by such iniquity will keep a crowd of
drunks round his bar, sell bad or doubtful
liquor, trade after hours, supply the chronic
inebriate with the means of slow suicide, or
do any of the things that are done, and done
all the time, under our system of private
groggeries. On the other hand, with national
pubs in working order, the decent citizen
could find liquid means to get glad, to drown
his sorrow or to show comradeship; and as
long as he kept comparatively sober and did
not make himself a nuisance nobody would
interfere with him.
* * * *
In estimating the publican it is fair to
remember that he is not often a free agent.
In most cases he is owned by the breweries,
and the demands of the breweries are so
large that his own share of the profits of a
busy bar trade is seldom the huge ,one that
might be expected. On the other hand, the
action of Special Courts for the reduction
of licenses has shown that the free houses
are often the least worthy to remain, while
those tied to the breweries and under some
measure of outside control have a better
repute. Again the inference is in favor of
State ownership. If the control of pubs by
the breweries, which are not exactly burning
and shining lights in their desire to promote
the public good, makes for improvement, the
control of the Government should clean
things up to a vastly greater extent.
* * * *
. A further thing to be said in favor of the
State going into the business is that the
profits of liquor are far too large and far
too easily earned to be farmed out to
middlemen. Theoretically, by its system of
license, the community recognises that the
trade in alcohol is something which it owns
and has a right to retain for the benefit of
its own pocket; but the license fees represent.
such a ridiculously small percentage of the
earnings of the grog business that it is time
a demand was made for a larger helping of
the cash that goes over the bar. It is not
enough that the public should be its own
retailer; it should be its own merchant also,
and in some instances its own manufacturer.
There is cash in every section of the trade;
and while the cleaning-up consequent on
the change to full public ownership might,
and perhaps should, result in some reduction
of actual sales, the economies possible when
the monopoly had been brought under one
head would more than counterbalance such
loss. Further, it is reasonable to suppose
that Australian alcohol manufactures would
then come to their own. Brandy as good
as any but the very best —and the latter is
rarely or never sold over the bar —is made
in Australia. Whisky is also brewed by
Australians to some extent, though nobody
ever seems to see an Australian label on a
whisky bottle. Rum grows in parts of the
continent, and gin would grow if anybody
thought it worth while to cultivate the
nauseous tipple. Beer, suited more or less to
our peculiar taste and the decencies of our
climate, runs in foaming cataracts and rivers
from our mills. Practically all the means
of intoxication for which there is a big
demand are produced or can be m’oduced on
Australian soil ; but most of all our wine
trade needs and deserves the fostering caress
that might turn it into an important national
industry.
* * * *
Every way, then, the nationalisation of
grog is an attractive proposal. For the
moral reformer it means less drunkenness.
For the police it means an easier job. For
the ordinary customer of the pub it means
good liquor, a clean glass, a quieter
atmosphere and better bar company. For
the wine grower, barley grower, hop grower
and a host of workers engaged in the trade
it means surer markets and steadier toil.
For the general public it means less nuisance
and a share in big profits. For “the trade”
it means socialism, revolution, a dead end.
the Day of Judgment. But it doesn’t mean
highway robbery. Victoria has indeed
already shown how the whole business might
lv turned over to the new hands without
injustice to the old ones.
THE CRIES OF WILLIAM SHEEP.
Dear Bulletin.—l see by the paners that
the present horrible and self-satisfied Gov-
ernment of New South Wales urges me to
plant more wheat this year, and I wish to
explain to this tripe-hound Cabinet my exact
position. I have been accustomed to grow
wheat—under difficulties. That is to say,
prices have been low and seasons none too
good. I have to send my wheat to Sydney,
though there is an equally good but wholly
unused port 110 miles nearer. lhis long-
range business costs me an absurd amount of
extra money. The only reason I can find
for the expensive misery is that a brutally
selfish and bald-minded conglomeration of
not-very-prominent Sydney solicitors and
rather obscure, not to say inconsiderable,
Sydney barristers, and other characters for
whom I have neither time nor space, which
calls itself “Labor,” is so tied up to the
interests of its rich and capitalistic acquaint-
ances, the Sydney landlord and the (often
German) trader in Sydney, that it dare not
let me send my wheat to the nearest port
lest some unhanged Prussian who jobs and
earns commissions beside Darling Harbor
should lose the little bit that he realises at
my expense. Yet, after all, I wouldn’t so
very much mind the absurd distance to Syd-
ney if I could get my wheat promptly to
Sydney. .But this mud-skulled association of
Sydney lawyers and sundries which calls
itself “Labor,” and which, I really believe,
doesn’t know oats from water-melon or a
locomotive from a wheelbarrow, insists on
personally fooling with the railway system.
And from that cause, or some other cause, I
have to wait weeks, or even more, for
trucks. And just when I am crying out for
a chance to pay freight to the bull-headed
mass of humanity which is allegedly “Labor”
I am informed that the services are to be
reduced because there isn’t enough freight
to make them profitable. I suppose that is
what comes of too many ignorant city legis-
lators, and too much abasement to the city
landlord and trader. —Yours, W. Sheep.
Dear Bully,—I invested some hard-earned
money in land, and by working longer hours
than any wharf-laborer would look at I have
earned a really respectable wharf-laborer’s
wage. (I think I mentioned that I have
been urged by a clumsy Administration which
is always falling over its own feet, to plant
more grain this year.) Well, there came a
year when crops were poor, and I took it for
granted that prices would go up. I know
that the of farm-laborers, wharf-
laborers, carpenters, boiler-makers, and toil-
ers at Cockatoo Dock goes up when labor is
scarce. And if labor isn’t scarce, but super-
abundant, the price is put up by a Wages
Board. It is never, by any chance put down.
As for the price of ramshackle politicians,
they put that up themselves. I forget how
often they have put it up. but it seems to me
that a certain dunderheaded and circumlocu-
tory association of city orators is always at
the job of increasing its own remuneration,
or privileges, or something. Because I had
little to sell, this collection of public blight-
ers and misfortunes (I am endeavoring to
keep calm) enacted that I must sell it below
the market rate —far below the market rate.
The gang didn’t reduce its own pay, or the
pay of the Sydney wharf-laborer, or the
toiler at Cockatoo Dock (Sydney), or the
recompense of the metropolitan carpenter or
boiler-maker, and I never heard that the
separate members of the hungry and side-
long push which is professedlv “Labor” re-
duced the rents of the houses in which its
savings are invested. But they reduced the
price of the scrap of wheat which I had to
sell, on the ground that the less I had the
less I should get for it. They did this, they
said, because the country required a cheap
loaf. But as the mutton-headed herd of Syd-
ney portfolio-grabbers forgot to make equally
prompt arrangements about flour, I pre-
sently found myself selling my wheat cheap
and buying my loaf dear.—William Sheep.
Dear Bullock-team, —Speaking as a
man who has been urged by certan thick-
headed yet plausible expounders in Sydney
to grow more wheat, I beg to say that I
wouldn’t mind the present position so much
if it wasn’t that the whole thing seems to
be bogged by the incapacity of people who
collect their own pay regularly, yet seem
unable to realise that anybody else expects
prompt payment. I can only sell to one
of three enormously rich firms appointed by
the blind leaders of the deaf and footless
and imbecile at Sydney. These firms get
in >re than the ordinary commission—appar-
ently because the lack of competition saves
them expenses. They can buy any time
they like, because there is no competition.
The bottomless and dishevelled assortment
of hoofless ghosts at lViacquarie-street,
though it would probably lose its job in a
week if it kept one Cockatoo Dockite wait-
ing a day for his remuneration, can pay me
when it likes. That is to say this hag-
gard outfit can take my wheat, and sell it for
cash at a profit, and let me have the money
■—my own money—when it is sufficiently
rested, assuming that it isn’t too tired.
Meanwhile my own creditors sit on my
doorstep like a row of beheaded skeletons,
each with its polished cranium under its
arm. Twice, when I have gone out to see
if the Government wheat money was com-
ing, I have broken my neck through falling
over my liabilities. The alleged Labor Gov-
ernment —which seems to me to be partly a
cow, and partly an ass, and partly an agent
for the rich landlords and traders of Svd-
nev, and partly the slave of the city trades-
unions, and nartly the bugle-blower of the
cheap-labor importers—can’t be hurried.
But it never thought of giving me any
relief from my creditors;' or relieving me of
hurry. I have a number of odds and ends
that I could realise upon in Sydney if T
could get them there, but again I am up
against the truck shortage. It seems that
the more direct interest the Government
takes in the railways the greater becomes
the truck famine. And the less there is to
carry the worse becomes the truck-hunger.
The present lot in power—which reminds me
of a bob-tailed but feasible menagerie lost
among the dense undergrowth of affairs —
has had quite a number of years in which
to. provide trucks. My theory is that it
failed to make the provision because ib
doesn’t know a truck from a trunk. —W. S.
Dear Bull.—The mouldy and incom-
petent but well-meaning chorus which draws
big salaries with its practised salary hook at
Sydney, and looks after Sydney interests,
and apparently believes that it is “Labor,”
and which has sold me, as if I were a dog
or a horse, to its rich wheat-buying
acquaintances, so that I have become a worm
waiting patiently, on the door-mat of three
wealthy monopolies for the crumbs which
fall from the corporation’s table, despite the
fact that these crumbs are the produce of
my own scanty and hard-won crop—
however, this -sentence has become too long,
and I had better start afresh. What I
wanted to say was that this mellifluous
regiment of theoretical stragglers urges me
to plant more wheat. But it seems quite
probable that it will annex my next
crop at 3s. per bushel. Also it may hand
the wheat-buying business over to one rich
monopolist instead of three, and I may
have to wait longer than ever for a settle-
ment. And whereas trucks are scarce to-
day, it is quite possible that, 365 days hence,
there may be no trucks at all. Then it may
be that the flock of well-intentioned Sydney
office-holders, who act to me as an uncle or
stepfather, may shove up the wages of farm
artisans next year in order to secure votes.
Also it is possible that the same benighted
agglomeration, which grows oats in its mind
in Pitt-street and cultivates imaginary
mental cabbages at Redfern, may put up
the land-tax in order to cover its deficit.
It always has a deficit, and it doesn’t seem
to care, though if I had a chronic deficit
with no better excuse I would be sold up,
and the Bankruptcy officials would talk to
me as if I we,re one of the beasts that perish
—and a lot of them ought to perish oftener.
I suppose the trouble is that so many of the
workers who support the staring and
staggered rout which is so busy saving the
country that it hasn’t time to have common
sense, won’t work except on jobs paid for out
of loans and charged to posterity. These
are jobs, quite unlike mine, where the rate
of pay has no bearing at all on the pro-
ductive character of the output. Then there
is no guarantee that railway charges won’t
be put up again next year, or that the
drought won’t be worse than usual, and that
the hulking self-advertisers who look sc*
carefully after the interests of the Sydney
landlords and dealers won’t raise their pay
once more on the strength of it. And, as I
may have mentioned already, the hand-to-
mouth bagful of city lawyers and garrulous
sundries, who can never keep the State’s
finances out of the ditch (though they can
always find £4 a day for their old colleague
Neilsen), and who hardly know a turnip
from a pineapple, and who probably think
the goat should be picked off the tree before
it is over-ripe—but there is nothing to be
gained by anger. All I wish to say is that
this he-hen convention of loud and lame and
deafening philosophers wants me to plant
more wheat. Why doesn’t it plant more
trucks, and more sinking-fund, and more
political honesty? Also, why does it look to
me so like a deranged mule with a pig’s
head? —Yours in good faith and profound
calm, Bill Sheep.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Holman and the Party Wheeze.
The Party swindle has nowadays abandoned
its old-time attitude of pompous respecta-
bility, and degenerated to the level of the
specialist with three cards or the nephew of
the rich philanthropist in Fiji. Thus the
slick and voluble Holman, in referring to
the audacity of a candidate in coming for-
ward to contest Castlereagh against the per-
son surreptitiously chosen by Holman and
his friends as the proper nerson to represent
the electors, weepily declared that ‘ this
represented an unscrupulous disregard for
the decencies of party warfare, as well as a
similar disregard for the duty of citizens to
support the established Government in an
hour of crisis!” By what standard does
Holman measure the intelligence of people
to whom he addresses such guiver as this? In
what text-book shall the democracy discover
defined the indecencies of party warfare, and
where are the tablets of the law on which are
inscribed injunctions giving protection to
Governments in “times of crisis .
only place to which the citizen of a btate
can look for instruction as to what are the
“decencies” of “party warfare” is Parlia-
ment, and if he selects the N.S.W. Legisla-
ture as the source of enlightenment he will
there find the “war” being. waged m tne
midst of contemptible intrigues and per-
sonal enmities —that it consists of wi a.
clamorous noises, offensive interjections ana
The Younger Sons.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While yet the war-drums muttered,
Ere throated cannon crashed,
Their flags a message fluttered,
At night, their signals flashed
From Moresby south by Moreton
And coastwise past the Bight;
And morning lights gleamed short, on
Their bayonets so bright.
Ere elder sons were training
And arming for the wars,
They, with their young eyes straining,
Watched forts and river bars —-
Aye, where the shoreline stifles
The surge that landward runs,
They ringed the coasts with rifles
And slept beside their guns.
We know that mothers, waking,
Thought, in the windless nights,
Or when the storms were making
The skies a whirl of lights,
Of how, from northern borders
To lonely southern posts,
Their younger sons had orders
And watched Australia’s coasts;
How, o’er the greybacks hollowed
And tossing crests that leapt.
With beams that crossed and followed,
Their blazing searchlights swept,
To question Ocean’s spaces
And light the leaden skies —
These sons with boyish faces
And grown men’s steady eyes.
Oh ! strange sea-lights are blinking
And landward lights, like ghosts —
But. see, their signals, winking,
Have warned the dreaming coasts!
So —though they scorn such trifles —
Here's to the younger sons,
Who ringed, this land with rifles
And slept heside their guns!
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


provocative shouts; of dodge, subterfuge and
evasion. He will, moreover, see a party
maintaining itself in office by betrayal of
every principle it stood pledged to
defend. If these are the “decencies” of
party, then the more they are disregarded the
better. So far also from its being the
duty, of a citizen to support a Government
in time of crisis, the reverse is the case
when the crisis happens to be one of
the Government’s own making. The duty of
the man with a vote is to support the poli-
tical policy he believes in; and having done
that, to stand by and watch the performance
of those to whom he delegates authority to
act for him. Then if they leave the broad
highroad of clear honesty and bolt into the
underscrub of gloom and deceit, the duty of
the elector is to go with a club in pursuit
of the runaway. The crisis having arisen,
the climax immediately follows. At this
moment, when Holman goes round the coun-
try babbling about the “hour of crisis,” the
principal crisis on hand is Norton Grif-
fiths & Co., and after bringing this new
specimen of Private Enterprise into the coun-
try. a Labor man needs all the sublime
assurance even of W. A. Holman to try
to shove down the throats of Labor elec-
tors the demented theory that some sort of
duty compels them to welcome the intruder
with loud applause.
*
A State Governor Falls Over His Feet.
Of all the blazing indiscretions perpetrated
by Australian State Governors of recent
years, Colonel Galway’s outburst at the
Uraidla (S.A.) show was most like a bush
fire encouraged by supplies of petrol. This
new arrival from Nigeria and other remote
parts of Africa, who appears to be in the
habit of “looking generally at the future of
this vast continent,” found himself at Uraidla
unable to conceive how the Northern Terri-
tory is going to be developed by white men
—and said so. With cheerful unconscious-
ness, apparently, of the flagrant outrage he
was committing upon the obligations which
surround his job, he added some remarks on
the difficult problem confronting the nation,
and referred to certain aspects of the matter
created by participation of Asiatic troops in
the war. No more unsuitable moment could
possibly have been chosen for controversy on
this subject. Dozens of reasons exist why
what Galway calls “the problem” should
be left where it is, the most cogent being
that full discussion is impossible, and any
discussion at all is unnecessary. No one has
dug up the old bones for inspection lately
except to remark that they had been well
and truly buried, and on every side a general
desire exists to leave undisturbed the settle-
ment long ago arrived at and now adopted
by everybody except The Bulletin’s old
friend, Bruce Smith. Yet knowing this, if
he knows anything, Galway, of all men,
came out with a number of fatuous, untimely
observations upon the subject. The Com-
monwealth Government could, of course, not
allow such a blundering intrusion to pass
and a polite inquiry from the
Prime Minister whether the speech had been
correctly reported brought reply that on
reflection his Ex. saw the error of his ways
and regretted the impronriety. There the
matter nominally ends; but an early mail
from London will inevitably contain a large,
official communication couched in cold,
politely-offensive language. For its part,
Australia can only assure his Ex. that if he
desires to take part in politics the road is
open to him; but he must first surrender the
cocked-hat of distinction and be prepared to
meet the contradiction, the criticism and the
loud bray of popular derision from which he
is now immune. If Galway, being merely
Galway, in the way that Jones is Jones,
stood up in Adelaide to express the senti-
ments he appears to be afflicted with, the
chorus of advice to shut his head and go
back to Nigeria would probably be heard at
Carpentaria. But, then, being only Gal-
way, he would most likely know something
about his subject—that the Northern Terri-
tory was for a generation open to his friends;
that while it depended on them for develop-
ment it remained the most backward part of
Australia, a spot where nothing developed
except debt, disease and the opium habit;
where mining, pastoral pursuits and every
other industry fell into miserable decay.
But being an imported person and Governor
of the State where all this was common
knowledge, Galway didn’t know anything
about it. The best thing he can do now is
to give up “looking generally” at a vast con-
tinent, and make himself acquainted with
the history and conditions of the single part
concerning which his stock of information
is so painfully inadequate.
They Asked for Bread and Hennessy
Gave Them a Soup Ticket.
It seems hardly credible, but it is a fact
that the other day Melbourne City
Council rejected a Victorian machinery
tender of £15,525 in favor of a
British tender of £15,230, a paltry differ-
ence of £295, or less than 2 per cent. That
£15,000 contract meant the spending of
about £6OOO in wages directly, and probably
as much more indirectly. Not only that,
but (say) 95 per cent, of the whole sum
would have remained permanently in Aus-
tralia, to be passed round and round among
bakers, butchers, bootmakers, landlords, etc.
Now the 95 per cent, goes to engineers in
Britain, who are already so rushed with
work that men are being taken from other
trades and put to the less-skilled descrip-
tions of iron work. The contract, if given
to an Australian firm, meant the employ-
ment at good wages of some 60 men
for about six months; but apparently
the importers’ barrackers and Hen-
nessy—who has just inaugurated an
Unemployed Relief Fund —prefer that the
Melbourne out-of-work should be handed
£6OO as charity rather than £6OOO as wages.
In their insane worship of the importing
fetich these councillors don’t see that, though
they may apparently save £295 on this con-
tract, they are in reality impoverishing the
community by some £15,000; and of that sum
far more than the trifle apparently “saved”
would have gone, to Melbourne landlords in
the shape of rent, to come back to the coun-
cil in the shape of rates.
Warlike William and Peaceful Williams.
The baby-butcher’s best friends in Britain
and Germany these times are the “Interna-
tional” socialists, so-called, or Peace-as-soon-
as-Possible Party. The attitude of the
brethren in Berlin is particularly interest-
ing. What time the German herd was rush-
ing towards Paris, they threw their love of
humankind to the winds of jingoism, and
shrieked for the conquest that was going to
improve the condition of the German worker
at the expense of his neighbors. Even the
Berlin comic papers satirised their conver-
sion. But now their earnest endeavor is to
save their sausage. And this natural plead-
ing for peace by the men who have lost their
recent enthusiasm for conquest is echoed by
brother Williams, secretary of the Trans-
port Workers’ Federation in Britain. Says
he:—•
The voice of Dr. Karl Liebknecht, the German
Socialist leader is growing. If they can hear
their old friends in France and England, our sym-
pathies must go a long way towards heartening
the German Socialists in their efforts to stop
Germany in a further career of madness. Surely
anything done in this direction would be for the
good of the world. Why, then, is it that we
cannot mention peace without being dubbed un-
patriotic? Have we found war such a tremendous
blessing that we can forego the noblest sentiments
which strive for goodwill?
Brother Williams, striving for goodwill in
Britain while school children are chanting a
popular Hymn of Hate in Germany, is in
danger of being dubbed something worse than
unpatriotic. This war may be likened to a
row between two policemen in a bar-room.
The Kaiser, in shining helmet, drew his
loaded truncheon suddenly and gave his un-
prepared enemy a blow that downed him.
The enemy was able to crawl under the table
before the Kaiser could break his skull.
Since then they have exchanged blows and
parries across the obstacle. In these later
affairs the Kaiser lias been bustled all the
time, whereas his enemy has recovered his
senses and got his second wind that it might
be fulfilled which was spoken by the Prophet
Kitchener in August last. This is what
Gerhog Socialism and its brother Williams,
of Britain, would prevent. They would re-
store peace and order in the bar-room ere the
aggressor gets hurt. The German is to say
to the Allies: “If you’ve had enough you can
shake hands. If you like to call it a draw,
I’ll let you stop my madness.” And Social-
ism, winking at the Kaiser, will exclaim:
“Well, he couldn’t say fairer than that.”
Philosophers may argue in the interests of
posterity; but brother Williams and his
like look no further than the interests of the
present generation. As for brother Lieb-
knecht, he is a patriotic Socialist. His
noblest sentiments are German. The Kaiser,
knowing that, will yet make use of him and
them —if indeed he isn’t making use of them
now. He will push the figure of Socialism
between himself and his invigorated foe,
even as he pushed old men and Belgium
women ahead of him when he was advancing
on Paris.
♦
Holman’s Devotion to Cohen.
After a holiday at the seaside to re-
cover from the exhausting effects of office,
Premier Holman returned to Sydney to find
a “vast accumulation of work” awaiting
attention. He promptly threw the great
mass into the corner, closed up Parlia-
ment and rushed off with Davy Hall to
stump the Castlereagh. Having arrived on
the scene of conflict Holman proceeded to
orate with great voluminousness about every-
thing under the sun except the principles he
and his fellow apostates, were returned to
carry into effect, but which they long since
bolted from with drooping tails. He seemed
to have persuaded himself —or at anyrate pre-
tended to think —that some outrage on con-
stitutional liberty was being committed be-
cause Trefle’s old seat was not allowed to
go by default in terms of the hole-and-corner
“truce” between himself and Wade. Holman
and Wade have of course no more authority
to throttle the electors into silence than they
have to order the Australian navy to bom-
bard King O’Malley. Their absurd “truce”
was merely a device entered into by Hol-
man as likely to afford at least a temporary
excuse for continued abandonment of his
alleged policy, and by the obliging Wade as
an assistance to Holman in his flight. But
Holman didn’t say anything about this at
Castlereagh. Instead he took the tone of
one actually engaged in battle, and talked
with great pomp and circumstance about the
war. Holman has no war on hand. He
doesn’t have to buy a single horse, gun or
bayonet; nor has he to provide clothing for
even one man, or make provision for a pair
of boot laces. He isn’t held responsible for
training anyone, for shipping troops to their
destination or for arranging convoys. Every-
thing about the war or distantly related to
the war is clean out of his hands. All he
can supply is talk. This has flowed like the
Murrumbidgee in time of flood. There has
been talk about “war taxes” when the only
taxes were those necessitated by years of
muddle and profligacy; about “the war” mak-
ing it necessary for the Ministry to turn
itself into a large collective ass in connection
with the wheat crop ; about “the war” driv-
ing the State into a demented bargain with
a syndicate to build railways on commission,
when many of the railways already on hand
don’t pay and there has been a great curtail-
ment of traffic over others. On one point,
however, Holman has been painfully frank
while perambulating the Castlereagh, and
that is in his repeated confession that in the
view of a Labor Government “employment in
N. S. Wales” depends on the expenditure of
loans —that is, that in a country capable of
producing nearly everything required by man,
the people must depend for work on the pro-
ceeds of a bargain by which they burden
themselves with debt. This doctrine is the
very one the people of N. S. Wales in elect-
ing Holman and his crew believed they had
killed. Having drugged, the country ever
since with heavy doses of loan, this smart
young man with the carpet bag finally skips
forward over the ruins of the party platform
to observe that, unless the treatment is con-
tinued at the hands of Norton, Griffiths
and Co., the man who wants a job at half-
time or a calico shack at Ragtown, won’t be
able to get either. Confessedly that is where
the political ascendancy of the Labor apos-
tates in N. S. Wales, and the, capture of the
Paiiiamehtary machine by a crowd of shock-
ing humbugs, has landed us
Leaks in Victoria’s Irrigation System.
The Waranga Basin storage supplies, which
were guaranteed to save the northern areas
of Victoria from drought disaster, are at
their last ebb, and the Ballendella, Bamawn
and Nanneella irrigation patches, which have
been for several months past the show
places of a very dilapidated district, are now
suffering severely. The allegation is that
political pressure was brought to bear to
enable big landowners to shoulder past the
small settlers and get all the water avail-
able wasn’t much. The irony of the
situation lies in the fact that officials have
for months past been coaxing the small set-
ters to mortgage their souls to procure
fodder-seed to sow for the purpose of making
a fortune while the drought frizzled up the
other fellow who didn’t or couldn’t irrigate.
Now the settlers who reckoned on seeing
Fortune smile and of getting out of debt
with the Water Commission (whose officials
have reduced the dunning for money busi-
ness to a fine art), curse the Commission and
all its works. If the officials have blundered
in giving water to the people least entitled
to it, it is only fair to say that the disaster
that threatened settlers may yet prove
a blessing, since the Peacock Govern-
ment vows that it will see that the
next drought won’t catch the Irrigation De-
partment without the water to see it through.
For a start, the Waranga Basin embankment
is to be raised considerably and the much-
talked-of Sugarloaf storage scheme will be
carried out forthwith. It would, of course,
have been better if these things had been
done before; it is by no means too late to
do them now. But when the improvements
are made, what guarantee will the small
men have that the big ones, who don’t irri-
gate as a rule, will not step in and take still
more in times of future shortage? To make
such a thing impossible is an even more
urgent than an 'additional inch or two
on the Waranga embankment.
No Deposit.
The time has once more come when it is
desirable to say a few fatherly words to the
time-payment purchaser and the person who
is liable to become one. “No Deposit” is a
legend that again frequently catches the
eye in reference to the sale of places valued
at anything from £350 to £BOO. In a good
many cases the offers to sell by weekly
instalments look like the preliminaries to a
swindle. The person, for instance, who
cannot put down £5O in cash, and who can
pay £2 or over as weekly rent, is unusual.
The advertisers know this as well as any-
one ; but that doesn’t stop them. For a few
weeks or months the unfinancial buyer will
scrape together the necessary cash, and
believe that by stern self-denial he will in
the end become the owner under a Torrens
title of a valuable property. Then the
novelty begins to wear off. The house was
constructed to the best designs of Jerry and
Co., and begins to show it. The windows
run badly in their grooves; the front gate
won’t close properly; the kitchen stove
leaks smoke as a Gerhog cavalry officer
leaks arrogance. The day when a payment
is due comes round with lamentable sud-
denness, and the grocer’s account is badly
in arrears. The property is no longer desir-
able, yet the long, dreary years of pinching
and screwing stretch interminably ahead.
By-and-bye the tenant at twice the normal
rent begins to hate the house, from its stucco
gable to the cracked asphalt at the back-
door ; to hate the landlord-in-a-new-form
who will not stop the leak in the stove, yet
comes with bitter regularity for his dues;
to hate the locality in which he is doomed
to live; to long for freedom, or a moderate
rent,, or beer or any sort of relief. At last
he gives up in despair. He cannot keep up
the payments; and the owner of the property
with a great show of magnanimity offers to
release him, on condition that another victim
is found to take his place. With the “No
Deposit” clause in the agreement another
person of property-owning ambitions is not
difficult to find, and the other party to the
deal is satisfied. So the game goes merrily
on; and the landlord, posing as one who is
anxious to get rid of Jerry Lodge on any
terms because of the awful rage of the war,
is pocketing bigger returns than in the days
of prosperity and peace. Of course, none
of the tenants ever last long enough to secure
a saleable equity in the nroperty; that is
why the dodge succeeds. The whole swindle
is based on the knowledge that the man who
has no cash savings will almost invariably
undertake to nay larger weekly instalments
than he can afford, and, moreover, won’t look
too severely at the actual value of a
property that is offered on long-distance
terms.
♦
Melbourne Argus publishes an article on
the Northern Territory by one who signs
himself “White Australia.” This dotard
discovers that unless land-grant railways are
permitted and perpetual leaseholds abolished
in favor of freeholds, “Australia must pull
down her flag of White Australia and give
up her birthright to the Asiatic and Latin
races, and admit herself a wretched failure
in nation building.” Land settlement
failure, says this genius, “is in the main due
to State management of land settlement and
State railways... .and on the alternate land-
grant system scores of millions of capital
would be at once poured into Northern Aus-
tralia without costing the other Australian
States one penny.” Well, Westralia had two
land-grant railways—the Great Southern and
the Midland- —and the scores of millions of
capital that should at once have been poured
didn’t pour worth a cent. Both companies
made a shocking mess of settlement, and,
finally, under a Liberal Government, the
State took over both railways at a colossal
figure compared with the cost of State rail-
way construction, which hasn’t usually to
struggle against dear money, and hot' air,
and watered stock, and expensive and ridi-
culous British directors and plunder gener-
ally. Cheap labor can’t be any good for a
country either, because northern Territory
development developed backwards with the
cheapest labor that could be imported.
—•
“Quineecha” describes the S. Aus. end of
the wheat muddle :—-
Here in South Aus. the. wheat merchants had no
chance to do anything in the- early part of the wheat
season, because the Government would, or could, give
no inkling of its intentions. The merchants knew
the position in the State, and were aware that it
would be imperative to import. They knew also that
they could at that time land wheat in South Aus. at
about 6s. per bushel, as Maoriland did. What they
did not know was what action the Government would
take, supposing they did import. Presently the S.A.
Farmers’ Union—-a co-op. co.—was appointed sole
agent to buy wheat on behalf of the State, and
merry competition ensued with the other firms. When
a good percentage of the available wheat was in the
hands of the merchants, the Government found itself
a long, long way from having the required quantity.
So it fixed a price, and threatened to con-
fiscate any wheat bought by the ' merchants over
that price. Most farmers thought the end had then
arrived, and sold. Also the Government took over a
good deal of the Private Enterprise wheat at a good
profit to P.E. But still it failed to secure the
required quantity, and the “fixed” price was in-
creased. Last week it was again jumped up—by 6d.
this time. Now the farmer who hasn’t sold is
wondering how many more rises the Government’s
“fixed” price is to get, and consequently is hanging
like grim death to his wheat. The farmer who sold
at the first “fixed” price is doing nothing, but he’s
saying a lot. And the State is faced with the
necessity of importing a large quantity with the
price now up to Bs. lid. per bushel. Meantime
flour has been on a steady rise, and is likely to con-
tinue that way. In S. Aus., as in N. S. Wales, the
Government has, in short, made a costly failure of
the whole business.
A deputation of representatives of the
Council of Churches, several women’s
leagues and similar bodies the other day
demanded of Victorian Premier Peacock
“that the Government should take imme-
diate action to protect the moral standing
of soldiers going to the front.” But not one
of the speakers (there were over 20) had a
sensible suggestion to offer; moreover, they
would have been horrified if a really rational
proposal had been made. The early closing
of hotels was urged as the only way of
“saving our soldiers from the evil effects of
alcoholism.” If too much firewater is finding
its way down the throats of the warriors
the proper remedy is to. regulate its sale all
the time and not permit it to rage unregulated
part of the time. The only way of doing
this is by restoring the “wet” canteen, and
putting in charge of it an officer who would
be personally responsible for keeping the
troops sober. Again, the sensible way of
dealing with that other “evil” which the
deputa.tionists trembled to mention is to
recognise Lais and license her and keep her
within bounds, which, of course, would in-
volve strict periodical medical examinations.
Needless to say, the Broadmeadows camp
has been haunted by ladies of ridiculously
easy virtue ever since the troops went there ;
but, owing to the efforts of the Stigginses,
no attempt has been made to enforce the
principle desirable in this regard that clean-
liness should go hand in hand with ungodli-
ness.
♦ _ ’
“O’Do” wants to see something definite :■ —
When are the nebulosities of these town-planning
societies of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and else-
where going to crystallise into something understand-
able? The report of their meetings consists almost
wholly of the names of the individuals present and
the record of a misty discussion about something
unspecified which might possibly (hear, hear) be
realised if everyone could do something unnamed
and thus bring about a state of affairs (applause)
which the community would immediately recognise
as most advantageous (loud cheers) were the general
body of citizens not reluctant (groans) to afford
assistance to a movement which had not yet taken
definite shape. The Sydney Telegraph says the
town planners in that city “have had a busy year
and have still an enormous deal ahead of them.”
What’s the nature of the deal, and what in the name
of Moses, the boss dealer, have they been busy at?
They’ve done nothing, planned nothing, said nothing
and will apparently go on with the solemn frivolity
of their cult. According to the revolutionary Tele-
graph the first thing the planners who never plan
anything have to do is to work up a vigorous public
opinion, and (when this is sufficiently fierce) to “go
and remove the appalling statues from the beach at
Manly.” It happens that the “appalling statues” have
been removed —not by town planners at the head of
a fierce rabble, but by a man at ten bob a day, in
a dilapidated cart. The spectacle of the daily
press urging these great reformers to smite the
atmosphere with great violence makes it look as if
the alleged “movement” should at once institute an
action for libel and clear its character from the
suggestion of being a loafing fad without visible
justification for existence. The planners who plan
nothing talk wildly about checking the extension of
slums; and while they’ve been blowing off their gas,
acres of potential slums have been run up in Sydney
and the calico mia mias planted at Daceyville.
While the ’planes are going regularly to
and from their work, Germany’s elaborate
flying sausages only earn publicity when they
are shot down, or are found lost at sea or
drifting wrong end up in mid-air. It really
seems as if the futile air-raid on Norfolk
must rank as the classic Zeppelin achieve-
ment. If anything else of the kind has
been attempted by the big ships, nothing has
been accomplished; and meanwhile the
British and French ’planes have made two
excursions in force with a definite military
purpose in view, and dropped tons of ex-
plosives where they are likely to be of some
real use. The jealous care with which the
German air-commander put a match to his
stranded gasometer in West Jutland, so
that its secrets should not be discovered by
the enemy, must have made the Allies’ work-
men grin. If the cumbersome thing had
won for itself a steady job in the battle-line,
as the ’plane has, its secrets might be worth
ferreting out. But up to date it has shown
itself little more than an expensive eccen-
tricity.
It is hard to understand why troops actually
within coo-ee of passing Australian maii-
ships should not get their Australian mails
regularly, or why relatives in Australia
should not receive the eagerly-awaited let-
ters from Egypt with equal promptness.
Some discontented dependents who have
found difficulty in drawing the money due
to them have already decided in their own
minds that the unfortunate delay in the
delivery of mails is not an accident. It is a
sinister and doubtless false conclusion to
come to; but by its failure to make better
arrangements the Defence Department has
pnt itself more or less at the mercy of those
who make the damaging insinuation. So


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA*
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS—From 11/6 Day;
£3 10s. Week.
many things in connection with the Expedi-
tionary Force have been done well that it
would be a calamity if such matters as the
prompt payment of soldiers and their
dependents and the delivery of their mails
were to continue to be done ill.
In fulfilment of promise, the Iluns have duly
started the programme of blowing up any
or every merchantman their submarines can
reach. Several have been torpedoed—
British, French, Danish and Norwegian—
while a U.S.A. vessel has been hoist into the
atmosphere by a mine, and “Old Glory”
added to llie collection in Davy Jones’s
well-stocked cupboard. Frantic protests are
therefore being addressed to Berlin from
countries which a few weeks ago were doing
a thriving trade with Sauerkraut & Co. in
pickled pork and copper. Uncle Sam in
particular is said to be thinking more
furiously than ever about the situation,
finding it impossible to reconcile with sanity
the behavior of a person who, while hunger-
ing for preserved pig, also surreptitiously
throws explosives at the embalmed animal
on the high sea. Further supplies of the
quadruped which made Chicago famous are
urgently wanted in Berlin, where the
feminine population is reported to have
broken out in insurrection owing to the
scarcity of potatoes. In the intervals of
intelligence about the work performed by
submarines that have run amok, news comes
of slaughter in Prussia, Poland and Galicia,
where amidst snow and mud and ice
enormous armies are struggling for mastery.
The tide, of battle ebbs and flows with
exasperating uncertainty from day to day,
the only thing clear being that great masses
of men are being done to death and that the
Gerhog can least well spare any. The
Kaiser, is reported to have visited Prussia
and witnessed his army being whisked up
and down the strategic railways day and
night, and to have gazed with dismay upon
the havoc wrought by the invading Russians.
He is also reported to be a Kaiser with a
very sore throat and a temper of more
uncertainty than ever. Of all the figures in
Europe the War Lord is the least heroic.
The latest information about the Bear was
that, having drawn the enemy further into
the snow and mud, he had shaken the icicles
from his whiskers, inspected his ikon, pulled
his hat firmly over his frost-bitten ears,
and set to work again with the bayonet.
Bill’s task against an enemy like this, who,
after coming on and falling back, keeps on
rolling up again like a cloud, must be even
as wearing to the nerves as it is to the boots
of his infantry. On the western battle-front
five hundred, miles of Allies and Gerhogs
are still glaring at one another from winter
dug-outs and indulging in fierce hand-to-
hand struggles occasionally just to keep the
circulation going. Messages from Egypt
indicate that the Turk has bolted into the
desert. He appears to have been received
with great rudeness, and in any case the
news that British and French battleships
were in the Dardanelles bombarding the
harem would naturally account for his
anxiety to get away home.
The Inter-State Commission has, by a
majority, declared Holman’s Wheat Grab
measure invalid. The Commission —chair-
man Piddington dissenting—therefore
granted an injunction restraining N. S.
Wales from further interference with inter-
state commerce. This, of course, is
not the end of the section. Holman’s
unhappy piece of legislation will have
to be dissected by the High Court and
wrangled over afresh by a regiment of expen-
sive Wigs. The point on which the whole
business hinges is simply whether the Act
passed by the State Parliament in such a vio-
lent hurry is or is not a contravention of that
section (92) of the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion which expressly prohibits interference
with absolute freedom of trade between the
different States. In the argument before
the Inter-State Commission much stress was
placed on the right of eminent domain re-
tained by the States, and allegedly “springing
from a fundamental law of Society.” This
was obviously a nice point for the legal mind
to exercise itself upon, but it is not the
essence of the case. The question is not
whether the N. S. Wales Government has
the right to buy wheat, but whether it can
stop the owner of wheat from selling in Vic-
toria or elsewhere in Australia—whether, in
short, N. S. Wales can maintain an exclu-
sive right to the wheat grown in N. S. Wales.
Mr. Piddington in his judgment points out
that in the Acquisition Act there is no pro-
hibition of export; but, as a matter of fact,
the shipment of wheat from the Riverina to
Victoria was stopped by police on the ground
that all the wheat in N.S.W. was the pro-
perty of the Government. Will the High
Court now say that in declaring the whole
of the wheat within the State the property
of the State, and in cancelling all contracts
for sale in another State, and in seizing
wheat at the border, N. S. Wales was not
interfering with the powers vested in the
Commonwealth to be the sole authority over
inter-State trade? If the Court replies
that there was no interference, the
Federal power will be so enormously
curtailed, so far as trade is con-
cerned, as to be practically non-existent.
Under such unthinkable conditions, and with
the possibility of State-Spiters being at any
time in control of the six State Legislatures,
the things that might be done under the guise
of eminent domain are too dreadful to think
about.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “High Jinks”
Criterion “The Travelling Salesman”
Adelphi “Base Coin”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Cinderella”
Royal “Bought and Paid For”
King’s “The Village Blacksmith”
Princess’s “His Real Wife”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville Co.
Olympia & National Hoyt’s Pictures
Auditorium. . “With the Fighting Forces in Europe”
♦
Julius Knight will drop the ancient haber-
dashery of Marcus Superbus into the ward-
robe after Friday night’s show and make
ready for next evening’s plainclothes per-
formance of “The Silver King.” Julius has
now been seen in almost every kind of dress,
ancient and modern. The fur bag of Lawson
Wood’s Stone Age seems to be the only
thing lie lias missed. But perhaps the Stone
Age is one of Oscar Asche’s unworked pre-
serves.
* I’c >',<
“High Jinks” is still skipping along to
that lilting, tickling air at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney. This paper- having already pinned
a glittering assortment of. medals on the well-
developed chest of the show, further recom-
mendation is unnecessary. In any case, why
paint the tall chorus lily when the lily
desires to be merely powdered?
* * * *
Just when “The Travelling Salesman,” at
Sydney Criterion, was beginning to look like
the most stationary salesman on record, word
comes from headquarters that it is time to
collect all outstanding accounts, pack up the
samples of grease-paint and false whiskers
and move on. The exact date of the get-
away isn’t announced yet, but the boss says
soon.
sfc >;< sfc
“Cripple Creek” is this week’s flutter at
the Adelphi; and the sight of a gold mine,
going about 5000 oz. to the ton, lying idle,
while villains and heroes fight about
heroines and such trifles, affected this
paper’s Wild Cat so much that on Sunday
the worthy gentleman momentarily forgot
into which pocket he had put the spurious
sixpence he had intended for the collection,
and was consequently forced to drop a
genuine threepence on the plate. Any
bellowdrama that upsets a respectable
citizen to that extent deserves to be
suppressed. But as “Cripple Creek” has a
number of redeeming features it will be
spared. Moreover, if The Bulletin
remembers rightly, it is the first Adelphi
bellowdrama since “-The Night Side of
London” wherein the hero and co. have
finally triumphed over the villain and his
gang. As before hinted, “Cripple Creek”
will run dry to-morrow night, and on
Saturday “Base Coin” will begin to circulate.
“AT CRIPPLE CREEK,” AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
[?] outwitted by the faithful Indian.
.Chester Field, an indiarubber gentleman
who folds himself up in more ways than it
is possible to crumple even a boarding-house
tablecloth, and Violet Trevenyon—direct
from London —described as a “charming
comedienne,” are the Sydney Tivoli’s latest
acquisitions. The former gives a capital
contortionist turn, but the imported charm-
ing comedienne merely provides Webster
with an addition to his dictionary—“ Char-
ming comedienne: One who sings ragtime
through her nose.” Laura Giierite, Dooley
and Sayles and Odiva still share the top
lines, and deserve them.
He * * *
The White City (Sydney) has been in a
high carnival fever lately. To-night (Thurs-
day) the White Australia policy will go
overboard, and special concessions will be
granted at the turnstiles to anybody reason-
ably suspected of resembling Asia. The
occasion is an Oriental Carnival, and the
worship of the moon, the procession of the
sacred dragon and ma.ny other cinnamon-
flavored jim-jams will be presented. This
dissipation over, the Piebald City promises
to reform for a few days and allow its
patrons to , enjoy a quiet life amid the per-
manent thrills and features of the show.
$ $ * . * .
The Northern Rivers towns (N.S.W.) are
to have the first samples of the concert goods
in the possession of the newly-formed
McEachern-Castles co. Malcolm McEachern’s
bass voice has frequently been uplifted at
Melba concerts in Australia, and George
Castles is of the gifted family made most
notable by sister Amy. He is the tenor of
the co.; Daisy Sweet is the contralto; and
Hazel Doyle will devote herself to the piano.
$$ * $
The result of an exploration among this
week’s Sydney picture programmes:—
Crystal Palace: “Lucy’s Elopement,” concerning
a loving couple, a hopeful pa with an overdraft, a
rich neighbor, an elopement, and a disappointed pa
who still had an overdraft.
Colonial Theatre : “A Coney Island Nightmare,”
a wild dream of savages and boiled female, follow-
ing on an excessive dose of Coney Island and
supper.
Empress Theatre: “Fate and the Fugitive,”
wherein Shumway, the “Lubin” crack, works in
double harness as hero and crook. A charming
study, specially recommended to politicians.
** * *
“Through the Divorce Court” is this
week’s sermon for the simple at Melbourne
King’s. It deals with the crude design of
Mendoza, a Spaniard of the worst possible
description, to blast the fair fame of Dolores,
who is married to a preposterous Peer “once
in the Army.” The husband’s name is'Lord
Penarth, whereas it ought to have been Jqg-
gins, with emphasis on the J. He absorbs
the evil suggestions of Mendoza like a thirsty
sponge in a puddle of liquid innuendo, and
the sight of his wife exchanging adieux with
a long-lost Spanish bandit decides him to put
her through the Court of Probate and
Divorce. The lady, being herself as Spanish
as the pungent onions of the field, was merely
befriending her half-brother, the bandit, for
their dear dead mother’s sake; but owing to
the oath of silence she swore to Mendoza,
she dare not explain matters to Baron Jug-
gins, the British Peer. Moreover, dear dead
mother’s reputation is at stake, so Dolores
suffers the indignity of a decree nisi rather
than own up at once to her in-no-cence. Four
acts are required for convincing the British
peer and Dolores his spouse that they are
a well-mated pair of sublime idiots. Much
of the time is consumed by the minor machina-
tions of Lady Hilda, a former sassiety
beauty and a palpably young person who
keens her alleged son (Temple Harrison)
in Eton jackets that he may lead the comic
THE A DELPHI, SYDNEY.
“At Cripple Creek ” —
the happy ending.
Note the faithful Indian. Always reliable.
No hero should be without one.
relief party and look not so many years older
than herself. Miss Olive Wilton, Hastings,
Edwards, George Dawe and amateurish Miss
Hallin are the moving figures in the melan-
choly plot. Miss Bryer, Beaumont, Can-
nam and Miss Millet help in the comic
relief department, and Vox is an amazing
K.C. in an incredible Divorce Court. The
scenery stands for a redeeming circumstance
throughout, and the slow music is so suit-
able to the situations that the dialogue
often sounds superfluous. “The Village
Blacksmith” comes along on Saturday.
At the Melb. Royal the announcement of
last nights has given a fillip to the waning
glories of “Bought and Paid For,” and the
date of its actual final performance is
shrouded in uncertainty.
* * # *
But the fate of “Cinderella,” at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) is sealed. The panto,
comes off next week, and the Gilbert-Sulli-
van Opera Co. comes on. Admirers of the
Sisters Dewdrop, and persons desirous of
learning the Tango Crawl once again, must
hurry up before J.C.W. Limited breaks the
bond that binds Melbourne to Christmas
1914.
* * * *
“The Fighting Forces of Europe” are
marching and riding across the screen at the
Melb. Auditorium in an orderly and edu-
cational manner. Soldiers of many nations,
in their gala habits as they lived before they
went to war, make an interesting contrast
to the swarthy sons of Servia, who sport no
finery to speak of. The monotony of mar-
tial swank in various nationalities is broken
by such moving pictures as “Swearing in
Recruits at the Tower of London,” and inci-
dental slide photos of the Men of this gory
Hour. Also there are pictures of battleships,
torpedoes and other marine monsters in
motion; but the deadly submarine lying on
the ocean bed waiting for sunrise, is con-
spicuously absent. Photography thus far
can’t work under water. All the Fighting
Forces are shown in kinejnacolor, with an
effect which is most realistic when not 100
brilliant, and is rarely an exposure of the
wonderful kinemacolor trick. It gives
the process away only when the objects
move too fast; thus a flock of unclad
seamen, diving off a battleship for a sea
bath, are mere flashes of red and green as
they fall. Which saves them from the
charge of indecency, anyhow.
* * * *
In “Her Forbidden Marriage” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s this week G. Willoughby’s
hardened hero. Robert Inman, is incurring
the usual family responsibilities as a reward
for his blameless conduct. The tragedy of
Bob’s wedding, however, is that he is lum-
bered on a false charge of embezzlement
during his honeymoon and has paternity
crowded upon him while he is smashing blue-
metal in a Government institution. Bob
is, thrust into the position of convict through
the machinations of the villain and a red-
gowned lady who has played Mrs. Potiphar
to the hero at a midnight hour. Though the
noble Robert spurned the offer in his best
manner, he long remains a roue in' the eyes
of the Scarlet Female’s husband, who only
realises the folly of his suspicions on dis-
covering that Bob is his long lost son. R.
Inman finds a congenial job in the character
of the in-no-cent lag who suffers the biffs of
Fortune with Christian resignation. Miss
Enid Bowman, replacing Miss Pearl Smith
at short notice, appears as the wronged wife,
and Miss Jean Robertson plays the vermilion
temptress with a voice that never has the
AT THE SYDNEY “NASH.”
Paul Sta[?]hope as (1) a coy young th[?],
and ( 2 ) president of the Piano-Shifters' Union.
sound of luscious invitation. R. Bellairs is
the customary polished ruffian endeavoring
to rise on stepping-stones of crime to higher
things, while P. V, Scully, Miss Helmrich,
Miss Duval and some others fill sundry
minor roles without the slightest threat of
enthusiasm on the part of the audience.
Next Saturday the same co. will break fresh
ground in “His Real Wife,” a “startling
play with a purpose” that is new to Mel-
bourne.
* * *
The Follies have restored the bloom of
business to the Melb. Tivoli. The new de-
parture lends an air of novelty to those
“turns” which are familiar friends, whilst
Isabelle D’Armond, Vera Pearce, the muscu-
lar dancing man from Russia and the chorus
items are distinctly different. Also they are
refreshing changes, as a rule. A Everything
the little D’Armond comediennd deals with
has a laugh in it, for Isabelle possesses more
humor in her soul than ninety and nine just
women who merely sing and dance. The
dullest features of The Follies are a chaotic
musical allegory or something concerning
the Pyramids, and the ragtime disturbances
of Monte Wolf; and the sweetest little inci-
dent is the Dance Humoresque of beauteous
Vera, and the man whose name is almost as
muscular as his limbs.
** * ❖
Westony, who lately appeared at Mel-
bourne Tivoli, is now stroking his piano at
Melbourne Bijou, and the almost-animate
thing purrs back at its friend. Maud Fan-
ning and her trio of songandance infants are
recent arrivals; Kelly and Pollock are re-
appearing in a long and inconsequent
burlesque act; Kate Maher is paying her
devotions to Erin in two or three songs of
tinder sintiment. Other artists include
Denis Carney, Arthur Elliott, Hermann and
Shirley, and the breathless Fontenoy pair of
hurry-up vocalists.
The big features at Hoyt’s National and
Olympia, Melbourne, this week are the three-
part subject, “Man’s Enemy,” and a Western
Amurkan drama entitled “Out in the West.”
Eminent among the “comics” are “The
Shirker’s Nightmare” and “Love and Sur-
gery,” while several hundred feet of war
film afford instructive studies of Thomas
Atkins in France.
P * ❖
Adelaide Repertory Theatre and Adelaide
Royal are opehfng their autumn season
together. The Rep. is reviving Macdonald
Hastings’ tragi-comedy, “The New Sin,”
already played successfully to subscribers.
The posters have the loud pedal down on the
“Sin” note, but the play is quite harmless,
and —with its odd experiment of showing
that a long drama can be worked through
without any woman in it —ought to be a
commercial as well as an artistic success.
Strollers and Dandies and rival bands pro-
vide the open-air attractions best suited to
an Adelaide February; and Wirth’s circus,
back from a successful time in Westralia,
is doing a long round of the S.A. country
towns.
The N.S.W. Works Department having
shuffled off its job to a firm of foreign, middle-
men, it will presumably be rechristened.
Which shall it be—Shirks or Perks?
Justice Barton takes nine months’ holiday
from the High Court Bench. His health
has been very precarious during the last
year; still it is hoped that at the end of his
furlough he will be able to return to the
Bench. His next birthday is his sixty-
seventh. He is going to England.
A pathetic protest against anti-drink
rules for the protection of soldiers comes
from the Good Young Men’ who have
enlisted; also, from their Christian parents
and guardians. The G.Y.M. object to the
curtailment of soldiers’ leave of absence,
and the early closing of pubs, in town, on
the ground that such hindrances to inso-
briety would deprive them of their greatest
pleasure. They demand the right to remain
shining examples to their erring comrade in
order that their erring comrade, perchance,
may follow the light. They want the thirsty
one to be surrounded by the lures which
they steadfastly resist, so that they may
inspire him to become as like them as he is
able to be. Drastic legislation would knock
all the stuffing out of their precepts and
examples ; in the camp of the compulsorily
sober the earnest teetotallers would cut no
ice, so to speak. So their prayer is: Let
not the sinner be made sober by Act of
Parliament or military regulation, but leave
us to teach him the folly of his ways. To
do them justice, the sinners are keeping
them pretty busy.


Australians!
BE PATRIOTIC. DRINK—
The World can offer no better Natural
Mineral Water than Koomah—wh ch
conies direct from the famous Rock Flat
Springs, Cooma, N.S.W. A Natural
Mineral Water from your own country.
Sole
Agents
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD.,
Purveyors to Vice-Royalty,
Ballarat, Melbourne, Sydney, Katoomba
à
Australia’s Very
Own in Natural
Mineral Waters.
y/^
%
/a
JVA2ET/I
iTmcbhj colu cure
-mthe Little Battle. —
r
a
Y//t\ +
Wa
m
The most efficacious preparation
for the prevention and cure of
colds yet placed on the market."
A couple of drops on a handker-
chief inhaled through the nose
is all that is necessary to effect
immediate relief.
Price, 1/6 BOTTLE, fSfl.
IT’S GOOD FOR
THE CHILDREN.
The desired result can
be obtained by putting
a couple of drops on
the pillow at night.
This must appeal to all
parents.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST!
If he hasn’t got it write to
A. P. MILLER g SON,
-HOBART
TRY NAZETHA
—you won’t want any-
thing better. Its p%u-
larity is growing
rapidly. IVe can show
heaps of testimonials,
but take our word for
it.
AT POVERTY POINT.
0.K.”: The Firm now claims credit for
an “Advance Australia” policy in the cast-
ing of its drama and comic-opera shows!
Dorothy Brunton, Lizette Papkes and Enid
Bennett are instanced as three Australian
girls who are playing leading parts in,
respectively, “High Jinks,” “Sign of the X”
and “The Travelling Salesman.” Miss Ben-
net, for that matter, had a previous leading
part in “The Fortune Hunter” ; but, all the
same, it has never yet been the J.C.W.
policy to push Australian talent to the fore
for its own sake, whereas British and Ameri-
can mummers have been imported, at a
higher salary than the local girl can com-
mand, not because. they were worth it, but
because their foreigness could be featured
m the advt. If the Firm has made a local
discovery it has never proclaimed it as
loudly .as it. has announced the importation
of mediocrities from abroad. Some of these
latter have been so very mediocre that it
would have been dangerous to let them be
mistaken, for natives. There would have
been a row in the audience had the puff
paragraphist not previously over-awed local
theatre-goers with stories about the wretched
newcomer’s performances “abrawd.”
‘‘Stargazer” : Some kind friend should tell
Miss Starr about it. In one respect she
doesn’t deliver the goods. Two-tliirds of an
audience fails to connect with two-thirds of
the ideas she is supposed to fire across the
lights, because she in certain emotional
moments gabbles. It’s a cruel word, but a
true one, so I’ll repeat it—gabbles. Her
motor, bolts, arid what should be a speech'
runs into a string* of incoherencies. Swift
speech may be effective at times, but it must
be speech and not v/aste noise. Wilson Bar-
rett in rare moments displayed the sami? 1
tendency to abandon sound sense in favor of
mere sound. Once at Melbourne Princess’s
when he’d won thunders of applause for a
burst of eloquence that sounded like the
clatter. of a bolting horse, a man in the gal-
lery seized the first silence to shout: “Now.
old man, tell us what it was all about.”
, “R-” : Temple-of-Fame Harrison cursed
the galleryites who guyed his play at Mel-
bourne King’s the other night. I remember
a similar scene at the old Alexandra. It was
in Dampier’s time, I fancy. “I’ll kill him,”
hissed the villain. “He deserves to die!”
<7AT, n came the gentle voice from aloft.
Why, is he the author?”
Melb : For a matinee benefit, Barry
Eupino appears as Jacques Strop to the
Kobert Macaire of Millward, the hero, if
such he may be termed, of “Bought and Paid
produced as a serious one, in Paris, with
|l en i a i 1 tr § as Robert and Lesueur as Strop.
1. tailed. On the second night Lemaitre
turned it into the semi-burlesque which it
has always, been since, ending with swift
transition in tragedy. Harry Shine took
the idea and ended a harlequinade with the
shooting of the clown. Fechter introduced
Macaire s last terrific fall down a flight of
caricatured by Lupino in “Cinder-
ella - M lth . Stewart as Maca-ire, Jefferson
acted Strop in Australia, but it hardly fitted
his refined style. Just prior to his first trip
“ CINDERELLA ,' AT HER
MAJESTY'S, MEL-
BOURNE.
Charles Albert as the
Dancing Master.
A naiighty gown.
to America, Irving acted Macaire, with Toole
as Strop. In a revival Toole was replaced
by Weedon Grossmith. Irving fancied
Macaire, but did not catch on so well in it
as with the somewhat kindred parts of Jingle
in “Pickwick” and Jeremy Diddler in “Rais-
ing the Wind.”
of the stars who visited Australia in
1892 with the London Gaiety Co. (E. J.
Lonnen, Robt. Courtneidge, Alice Leth-
bridge and others) now sells flowers in front
of the London theatre in which she used to
glitter.
Eh? Harry Lauder has handed £lOOO to
the Duke of Argyle as a New Year’s gift to
the Prince of Wales’s Relief Fund, Argyle-
shire branch.
“Jean S.” : George Broadhurst, author of
Bought and Paid For,” now running at
Melbourne Royal, is a transplanted Eng-
lishman who has made bags of money in the
U.S. by indefatigable industry in two direc-
tions. _ In addition to being a hardened
playwright, he is a chronic pressman, and
on account of the latter complaint recently
visited the Cold Country to write up “Eng-
land in Wartime” for a syndicate of Amur-
lean papers. It is mainly due, however, to
his toil as a dramatist that he is suffering
from enlargement of the income. Five
Broadhurst productions, including “Bought
and Paid For,” were appearing simultane-
ously in Amurka at the end of last year, two
called “Innocent” and ‘“The Law of the
Land” occupying N’Yark houses. Among
the others which went on tour, one, entitled
“To-Day,” adapted from the Yiddish “Style,”
provided four companies with work. Broad-
hurst is a native of Walsall, an English
Midland village. The first things of his to
get to Australia were the farcical comedies,
‘What Happened to Jones” and “The
Wrong Mr. Wrifeht,” which Geo. Willoughby
exploited.
The best advt. any show has had this
year was scored at Dargaville (M.L.). On a
recent evening a woman went to the “pic-
tures,” tightly grasping three bundles of
bank notes, which represented the proceeds
of a property sold that day. Lured into for-
getfulness she dropped them; and, still
thinking of nothing but the beautiful heroine
of the last film, she moved homeward without
them. Sometime during the night the effect
of the heroine wore off —and she remem-
bered; ' Thep a tired theatre caretaker was
knocked out of bed by a frantic female, want-
ing to know if he had seen her cash. He
hadn’t, but he went down with her and un-
locked the door of the theatre. There they
found the notes still on the chair.
“ CINDERELLA .”
At the top of the stairs. Something from
the March of Nations. Distance lends
enhancement to the view.
“H. 0.”: J. M. Barrie in a new volume of
plays, already acted and now submitted for
reading, adopts the Shaw method of describ-
ing his scenes and characters as though they
were in a novel, instead of merely compiling
a catalogue of them. Barrie brightly de-
scribes, an interior “set,” and then tells us:
“The exterior of the cottage is probably pic-
turesque, with a thatched roof, but we shall
never know for certain, it being against the
rules of the game to stray outside and look.”
Barrie goes even further than Shaw, by ex-
plaining in parenthesis the motives sup-
posed to _ animate his characters while the
dialogue is in progress, and commenting upon
them in his own quaint way. How much
better this is than the old-fashioned style of
supplying an inventory of furniture, dresses
and whiskers, and a few telegraphic remarks
about the characters, which Pinero and others
still cling to in readers’ editions of their
plays!
“0.K.”: Thinking of bygone opera com-
panies, one wonders what has happened to
the intractable little lot of Germans whom
Musgrove imported eight years ago. There
was Greder, the stalwart basso and stage
manager; and Mokwinkel, Oeser, Riinger,
Rupp and Foller. Last, but not least, came
Studemund, a tenor so full of lager bier that
you could almost hear it swishing as he
waddled through his love scenes. Studemund
was said to be a Court tenor who had come
to Australia by special permission of some
Royal person or other. Perhaps it was the
Kaiser who had let the porpoise off the chain.
“Frank Reid” : In the Islands the moving-
picture business is booming. In Papeete
two large theatres are exclusively devoted to
films. The native brings his whole family to
the show —wife, children, sisters, cousins and
aunts; even grandfather and grandmother
decline to be left at home. Travelling around
Tahiti I found that every populous village has
its long, barn-like cino. theatre, roofed with
corrugated iron, while travelling outfits under
canvas meet the demands in the smaller vil-
lages. One wonders where all the money
comes from, until the native mentions his
vanilla crop.
. Oscar Asche and Lily Brayton are leav-
ing the theatre for the halls! Edward
Knoblauch, . the author of their biggest
“Kismet,” has written a sketch for
their d6but in variety. It is in three scenes,
and the hero of “Kismet” is its central
figure. It is “Another Night in the Life of
Hadj the Beggar,” but a shorter title will
probably be found before its first produc-
tion. As in “Kismet,” Hadj is discovered,
when the curtain rises, asleep on the steps
of the mosque, but his subsequent adven-
tures will be entirely different, and Lily
Brayton will no longer be the beggar’s
daughter.
“ CINDERELLA .”
One of the "Johns. ”
When the Russians sorted out their day’s
bag recently they found amongst the Aus-
trian prisoners Leo Fall, composer of “The
Dollar Princess,” and Franz Lehar, com-
poser of “The Merry Widow.” Both had
been serving as officers in the ancient
Francis Joseph’s army, and both, by a coin-
cidence, fell into the Great Bear’s arms on
the same afternoon.
“A.L.K.” : Again the dreary wheeze—this
time from “Masetto” (B. 4/2/T5) —of
Verdi’s debt to Wagner. Verdi was too big
a man to be swayed by any of his contem-
poraries, least of all by Wagner, his direct
antithesis. If “Masetto” compares the ad-
vanced Verdi scores, placing “Otello,” “Fal-
staff” and “Ai'da” against the Teuton’s
“Tristan,” “Mastersingers” and (say)
“Dusk of the Gods,” the essent’al differences
between Verdian and Wagn.rian opera,
should be obvious to him. Verdi’s most
powerful lyric dramas are in line of direct
development from the classic formula —the
opera of Mozart. Wagner’s work was based
upon a strictly individual and quite falla-
cious theory. As for Sgambati, he wrote
nothing more personal and exquisite than
his pianoforte music. He excelled in his
revival of antique forms and in old-world
dance measures. In these his inspiration
was from classic masters—Conperin, Bach,
Gluck, Mozart—but most of all, from Bach,
as is the case with the great Italian pianist
of to-day, Feruccio Busoni. Evidently.
“Masetto” is of the tribe which regards
Wagner as a fetish, just as another and more
Philistine set abates itself before yet another
German —Handel."
“C. Oekney”:. Some little time back
people were asking questions with regard
to the number of actors who had volunteered
for the front. By the latest English mail
comes news of a talented comedian who
enlisted two days running. Giving the name
of James Edwards, in a broad North-of-the-
Tweed accent, he first of all joined the
Scottish Rifles. He failed to turn up for
parade, and on the following morning he
was; enlisted in the Dublin Fusiliers under
the name of Alexander Donovan and an
Irish accent that you could cut. Having
received the sum of 18 pence upon attesta-
tion, the ultra-patriotic quick-change artist
was polishing up his Welsh with the idea of
offering himself as Thomas Ap-Jenkins for
enlistment in the Cambrian contingent,
when the Law pounced down. The Lam-
beth beak, remarking that it was “an easy
way of getting a living”—which is open to
question—remanded Edwards-Donovan-Ap-
Jenkins for a week, and it is just possible
the versatile artist won’t get into the army
after all/
It is reported that Sarah Bernhardt has
had a leg amputated.
“Maiden Lane”: Despite the war, the
West End of London had 17 play produc-
tions for December. This beats all previous
records. There were five pantomimes, all
revivals, including “Peter Pan,” at the Duke
of York’s; seven other revivals, including
“Charley’s Aunt ” at the Prince of Wales;
one new play—Tree in “David Copperfield”
at His Majesty’s. Tree plays Micawber.
Among other doings “War Emergency Enter-
tainments,” organised by Isidore de Lara,
and starring Asquith’s daughter in French
recitations; and H. F. Dickens, K.C., by
readings from his father’s works, has raised
£lOOO for the Red Cross.
“Haresfoot”: The successful plays of
“Under Cover” and “On Trial,” in New
York, indicate managerial freedom from
technique. Hitherto a writer, though he
might be brimful of genius, would be told
by a manager that he must learn the art
of the stage. This is being flung to the
winds in New York. In “Under Cover” the
fourth act is previous in time to the third;
and “On Trial” is still more audacious, be-
cause the whole action goes backward! Yet
it is the most popular drama in New York.
Frohman, who set the change afoot, was
broadened by the free and easy style of the
Parisian Theatre Antoine and the Grand
Guignol, which present mere episodes, with-
out plot. While the complete backward
action is ahead of everything, other novelties
may be traced —on the French principle that
the more you vary the more it is the same
thing. In London once they performed the
fourth act of “The Gamester” in mistake
for the third, but afterwards performed the
third, and nobody, it seemed, was the wiser.
“C. Ockney”: Australia’s old Variety
friend, mucli-Marie Lloyd, has a grievance
against the British military authorities, inas-
much as she volunteered to take a vaude-
ville company to the front, “to amuse the
Tommies during the holiday season” ( !) and
her idea was turned down. Marie would
not have said a word about it had not
Kitchener allowed Seymour Hicks and his
wife, Ellaline Terriss, to go. She “topped
the bill” years and years before Seymour
went into the business, and naturally she
feels a little bit hurt. I sympathise with
Marie. Clearly Ivitch. does not know her
songs. There are none in all the world so
suitable for winter weather in the trenches.
The dramatic censor is now under discus-
sion in London. He allowed Norman
McKinnell to “make up” in every respect
like the Kaiser, barring the up-turned mo.
To allow that in Barrie’s new playlet, “The
Day,” would, in the opinion of the censor,
be “objectionable verisimilitude.” The
Globe sensibly says that “to boggle at a
pair of moustaches when the Kaiser could
otherwise be unmistakably identified” is the
limit of stupidity. The Press Censor might
just as reasonably insist that all mention
of the Kaiser should be printed: “G-rm-n
Emp-r-r.” The tableau on which the cur-
tain fell during the first week of the playlet
—the Spirit of Culture handing the Kaiser
a revolver —has, by the way, been altered,
in deference to “a wish expressed from an
exalted quarter.” The pistol has disap-
peared. which makes the piece end in a lame
and inconclusive fashion. Cant and humbug !
There would have been no such pappy
interference from any “exalted quarter” if
something poetic like an asp had been
introduced for suicidal purposes.
“H. 0.”: The harlequinade, which there is
a tendency to resuscitate, has had some
grave and potent players. At Edinburgh in
1557 S’renry Irving was the bobby and had
his seat of humor tickled by the red-hot
poker of Barry Lupino’s grandfather. David
Garrick once appeared as harlequin; so
did W. S._ Gilbert, Lady Bancroft (she was
then Marie Wilton), and Wilson Barrett;
and in the long-ago Ellen Terry made a
sprightly and alluring columbine. Other
notable liarlequinactors were Kate and
Edward Terry, George and Edward Lauri
(cousins of clown Lupino of the current
Williamson harlequinade), Fred Leslie.
Nellie Farren, Teddy Lonnen (father of
Jessie), and Joseph Jefferson, the original
Rip Van Winkle.
“Cherub Aloft”: The old-style English
music-hall (B. 4/2/’l5) isn’t so very old
either. Josh Dixon, the cheery little Lan-
cashire comedian and dancer, lately in Aus-
tralia on tl\e Tivoli circuit, told me this
yarn. In his early days, after some success
in London, he accepted an offer made by
post for>an appearance at a “Grand Theatre
of Varieties” in a provincial town. On his
arrival all he could discover at the impres-
ario’s address was a very beery pub. Ask-
ing about the theatre, he was shown into a
pot-room with a sanded floor, and assured
.that that was it. Written in soap on a
mirror were elegant notices about the com-
ing comedian. Dixon gasped a bit, and then
asked, “Where’s the stage?” “Oh,” said
the entrepreneur, “the boy’s just bin scrub-
bin’ it, and he’s taken it out in the yard to
dry!” .
(Continued on page 3/f.)
THE TENOR TOOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tenor took a gulp of stout,
While from the front the plaudits rang,
Then once again he sallied out,
And like a radiant angel sang;
The music of the seraphim
Seemed to have been conferred on him:
His earlier notes were drab and dim
Compared with those he now flung out.
And as he ceased, an atmosphere
Of scent and sentiment was rife,
And many a hearer shed a tear
And vowed to lead a better life:
To promptly cut strong liquors out
And other evil ways to rout —-
Which was—there is no room for doubt—
A moral victory for stout!
N.S.W.
NORMAN LILLEY.
They say that Sarah’s lost a limb,
And with it her abandon.
Yet why lose heart? For, I avow,
We’ve actresses in plenty now
Without one leg to stand on. ,
VICTORIA.
S.


/rn
Lf4-
4/
tv.
Smart Business or Holiday Suit
MADE-TO-riEASURE =631-
Our 3-guinea Sac Suits to measure are unequalled for stylish
cut and excellence of material. Business men, professional men,
and those who require better-grade attire, will find the suits
exactly what they need. They are with skill and care
from materials of, distinctly ; good quality, and a choice may be
made from the newest summer-weight English, Scotch, Irish and
Australian Tweeds. An exact fit is guaranteed, and a cut in
accordance with the latest fashion assured. We shall be
pleased to send a selection of patterns on request.
We Pay Carriage Throughout Australia.
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
“OdD
•ddQ
SYDNEY.
(
the:
first tube:
of Pebeco you use will clearly demonstrate its merits to
the full. The taste is totally different from that of any
otner dentifrice; not flat, but quite distinctive and agree-
able, a taste remarkably clean, refreshing and purifying,
a taste which, once accustomed to, you will not willingly
miss.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the
Manufacturer.
G. ARNOLD,
(Dept. A), 6 O’Connell St., Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [1
'V
SOCIETY
THE NEW LOAN.
FIRST C ITIZEN: “Made out your Income Tax return?”
SECOND DITTO: “Yes, but I've spent the income, so I'll have to earn the tax.”
FIRST C ITIZEN: “I'll have to borrow mine!”
The S. Aus. Supreme Court has been
looking hard at a home-made will. Testator
had saved a guinea or two by doing without
a lawyer when he made it, but it is taking
five gents, one to find out what he
meant. Some of the technical points
were reserved for the Full Court, but
one was settled off-hand. The will
said: “The whole benefit set out in this
will for Mary Jane will only stand for good
as long as she remains single and conducts
herself morally good, and she must have no
relation with any man, not even with her
husband” —from whom she was “separated”
at the time. The Court thought this clause
might be disregarded, it being a covenant in
Restriction of Trade, or words to that effect.
Gordon Webber, M.L.A., a Richmond
(Melb.) councillor, was brought to book
last week for the not uncommon offence
of slandering a political opponent at
a party rally. Seeing that Webber is, or
was, Mayor of Richmond, and that he was
attacking a municipal officer in the local
town hall, the penalty of £125 damages and
costs seems not too rough. Plaintiff was one
of the numerous husbands who can’t live
happily' with their wives, and occasionally
has the desire to “lather” a cheeky off-
spring. One night when he attempted to
thrash a 15-year-old son his wife interfered,
and she either did or didn’t get an acci-
dental knock, push or biff. Whereupon the
matron sent for the police, and a lot of
contradictory evidence was given in the local
police court. Referring to this matter at
the party rally, Webber, M.L.A., said of
the plaintiff: “He was had up at the Rich-
mond Court for assaulting and ill-treating
his wife. If I had my way I would tar and
feather him and throw him into the river.”
During the hearing of the action which cost
Webber £125 and exes., it transpired that
the loose-tongued legislator had apparently
thought of his slander as a quite excusable
perversion of truth to utter from a public
platform for party purposes. He subse-
quently met the municipal officer in the
ordinary way of mayoral business and pro-
posed to “bury the hatchet and let bygones
be bygones.” The aggrieved party was will-
ing to bury the tomahawk if his wife
received the mayor’s apology for having
dragged her name into further notoriety;
but this mild proposal merely moved Webber,
M.L.A., to an indignant snort. Hence the
action for damages, which may serve the
useful purpose of keeping other party poli-
ticians’ tongues out of the personal affairs
of their opponents.
A FEELER.
HE (political enthusi-
ast): “ Don't you
really know what the
union label is?”
SHE (shyly): “Is—is
it a marriage certifi-
cate?”
A Ballarat man, observing that churches
already have mechanical preachers, has in-
vented a mechanical electrical appliance for
taking up the offertory. An electro-plate,
so to speak. The machine moves slowly
along the pews, “making a short pause
before each worshipper” as a mute appeal.
The advantages claimed for the electric
collector are silence and the fact that the
offertory can be taken up at any time with-
out breaking the continuity of the service.
At a trial held in a local church the machine
worked very satisfactorily, but the collec-
tion was small. The Bulletin’s belief, is
that the only defect in a mechanical col-
lector would be its failure to collect, the
result of an absence of direct heart-appeal.
Were it not for the cold, scornful eye of the
human plate-bearer, how many worshippers
would give even the crippled “thrum” they
now contribute so reluctantly?
“Jermyn Street” writes about the future :
Are people going l to resume their dealings with
Germans after this war is over? “Politicus” (B.
4/2/’l4) says Yes, and he may be right so far as
the German trader goes. But there is one class of
German who will not quickly resume relations with
civilisation. During the past 20 years the wealthy
cosmopolitan junkers have squandered lacs of rupees
on attempts to acquire “the art of living.” Their
studies carried them to London, Paris and Petro-
grad, and brought them into contact with a class
whose interest in the German was purely social. The
pleasure-hunters of these communities will boycott
him. The sight of him, the sound of his gutturals,
would ruin an “evening.” For a long time to
come he will be limited to Berlin. On his favorite
pastime of feeding the curtain has been rung down.
Never again in Europe will the elderly junker, at
any rate, taste the best • champagne. The entire
vintage is absorbed by three cities—the dry going
to London, the sweet to Petrograd, and a proportion
of each to Paris. The clarets of poesy may be
obtained only in France; unless fortified by alcohol
they are too delicate for travel, and if fortified their
subtlety evaporates. The world’s best acting is seen
in Paris. No Parisian of this generation will sit in
a playhouse with a junker. Germans are keen race-
goers. For 20 years they will be unthinkable at
Longchamps and Anteuil, at Ascot or at a Grand
Military at Sandown Park. Steeplechasing goes by
the board. The masters are in Ireland and in
England, and the balance in France. Most of the
best over-dog shooting in the world is in England
and in Scotland. The present generation of junkers
is done with driven grouse and partridges, and has
seen its last of pheasants coming over with a high
wind. The playground of Europe is in summer in
the North of France, and in winter in the South of
it. A junker will only visit either place on peril
of his life. Similarly both “the Shires” and Ireland
are closed to the many rich Germans who used to
come over for the hunting. With “the Shires” go
the Horse Shows at Olympia and Dublin, Cowes,
Henley and many other institutions. As Germany
has no painters nor sculptors of its own the graphic
arts have come to an end. Jack Johnson may con-
sent to leave Paris and settle in Berlin. For the
rest, the junker will have to rely for the amenities
on his dowdy females and his thin, acidulous wines.
Not long ago the irresponsible flapper
imported from England the scheme of bail-
ing up any young man in civilian attire and
presenting him with a white feather. A
few writs for libel were threatened, so an
alternative scheme was adopted—a white
feather is enclosed in an envelope and
anonymously posted to somebody who has
not, most likely for very good reasons, gone
to the front. Last week’s Australian vic-
tims of this coward’s trick included two
officers who were at the time suffering from
disappointment at Minister Pearce’s refusal
to release them from Staff duty and allow
them to go with the Expeditionary Force.
Incidentally, something unpleasant should
be done to people who encourage the often-
cruel practice. One firm in Sydney is
booming the sale of postcards upon which
the often-libellous feathers are openly borne
through the P.O. to the addressee’s place of
work or residence.
* * * *
A note from a puddle in Flanders:—
Don't under-rate the Austrians or their arms. The
Krupps, for instance, were not responsible for those
huge howitzers which the Chesterfields of Potsdam
used with such success against Lidge, Namur and
Antwerp. Both the 16.8 in. (I believe there are only
two of them) and the handier 11.2 in. howitzer were
built at the Austrian works of Skoda. Krupp’s
largest weapon in the field is an 8.4 in., hurling a
2521 b. shell 9000 yards. This piece is a mere pea-
shooter compared with the Skoda monster, which
has a forward kick seven miles long and emits
20001 b. of unfriendliness every time it barks. The
Krupp’s most original contribution to artillery is
the quaint trench mbrtar weighing 1281 b., and firing
a charge heavier than itself. But it can’t be rude
beyond 350yds.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos that “wheat grab.”
Three quarters of a century ago Governor
Gipps had an idea that wheat should be
stored in fat years in order to provide against
famine in lean ones. He accordngly had. a
number of large silos cut out of the solid
sandstone rock on the highest point of
Cockatoo Island. They were shaped like
huge bottles, and, indeed, were known in
after years', when put to another purpose,
as “The Bottles.” After being made they
were filled with maize and wheat, which was
only to be used in time of necessity. Certain
Sydney merchants, who saw their future
speculations affected, complained to the
English authorities, and the Home Secretary
directed Governor Gipps to discontinue the
stores, and not again interfere with the
course of business, robbery, etc.
MIRANDA AND THE WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Owing to the war many imported cosmetics have
gone lip in price, while others are unobtainable.
—News item.
In the bright, Australian morning, when you . start
your daily prink,
And you miss your pet peroxide and your chosen
liquid-pink,
Do not fear for my affection, for I’m really nearer
yon
When your face is out of pickle and your dye-tank’s
empty, too.
Though there’s nothing in the bottles packed along
your bathroom-shelf,
Do not sniffle, O Miranda! I adore you for yourself.
Now that Germany is busy with its swarms of
enemies,
I shall miss the scents synthetic that polluted ev’ry
breeze;
Every time you lean towards me with your whole
soul in your eyes,
Your sweet lips will not be purpled with a foreign-
made disguise;
So I will not kiss an import but two red Australian
lips—
They’ll go ungrcased now that Wilhelm’s ceased to
send us slime in ships.
Do not grizzle, little woman, for the goods you
cannot get;
Underneath, your bottled beauty there’s Australian
beauty yet.
Now you’ve lost your German pink-pots, home-made
charms begin to show,
And you’ll yet be really handsome when you let
your roses blow.
Now you’ve dropped your German eye-drops and
your talcum from the Rhine,
Dare, my dear, to wear your features where the
light of day can shine.
VICTORIA.
A PERFECT BRUTE.
VERY MUCH AT SEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With cautious steps the neutral braves
The path between two stools,
For while Britannia rules the waves,
The Kaiser waives the rules!
VICTORIA.
MERCANTILE JACK.


â
Choose a
“ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We fan satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
The (f
SWAM SAFETY
Can’t
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Catalogue free on request.
MArtlE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
A NEW STYLE —FROM PEAPES’
HT
There are many features about this hat
which distinguish it from the styles one
sees every day. The bands are deep and
of contrasting shade. The crown is of
medium height, and will adjust to any
shape, and the brim is 2jin. wide —ample
for shade. It is a light hat that will give
very satisfactory service.
Style as per illustration —but no stitch-
ing round brim, which has the popular
straight-cut edge. Bow at side or back.
Colors: SMOKE GREY, MOLE, FAWN.
Price 12/6.
Please state size. New catalogue in
colors on request.
PEAPES 8 CO., LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 g 311 George St., Sydney
Unless John Bull (published in London)
is a base deceiver, Australia has been harbor-
ing something unique in the way of candor.
The paper recently published the following
letter, dated from Sydney:—
Dear Sirs, —We are enclosing an invitation to the
approaching marriage of our junior partner, Mr.
, and, in view of our long business relations
with you, we trust you will mark the occasion by
sending along a suitable wedding gift.—Yours truly,
H. & Son, per R. McG. P.S. —Cheque preferable.
lit is hardly necessary to add that the name
given is that of an importing firm.
THOUGHTFULNESS.
WEALTHY SPINSTER (to friends): “Yes, dears , he proposed to me. He told a friend of
mine he would like to marry a rich lady , because that if he died first he would
feel that he wasn't leaving her penniless."
In connection with the Connie Waugh
case in Melbourne the other day, Conme
having fled (on the advice of her lawyer, it
was insinuated), Justice Hodges admitted:
“When I was at the bar, if I thought it
was in my client’s interests to run, I advised
him to do so.” Yet Justice Hodges, one of
the most conscientious of men, still regards
lawyers as officers of the courts; and no
doubt did the same then. It is a strange
profession, that of Costs.
An Australian cleric who returned from
Maoriland the other day told a Sydney in-
terviewer that, after 18 months’ residence
in the home of the eternal p.n., the thing
which impressed him most was “the splen-
did work done by Dr. Truby King in reduc-
ing the rate of infant mortality.” King is
one of those men who, by concentration on
a single idea and suitable equipment for the
purpose of seeing it through, manages to do
something of value. A specialist in lunacy
—he is Superintendent of the Seacliff Men-
tal Hospital—he became convinced that a
fruitful cause of mental and physical in-
capacity was the stunting of the human
organism in early life by neglect of the
simpler rules of hygiene—by bad feeding,
denial of fresh air, and so forth. Looking
at the records of infantile mortality he real-
ised that not only did many children who
survived have their future usefulness
heavily discounted, but that a large propor-
tion of those who died had been murdered
through ignorance. About 10 years ago he
started to wake up Maoriland to a sense of
what the country was losing. He delivered
lectures and wrote articles in the news-
papers, formed committees, and founded
homes of instruction. He was terribly in
earnest, and before long his words were
taken with a great seriousness. To-day
nearly every district in the Dominion has
specially-trained nurses, controlled by a
local society, whose business is to instruct
mothers in scientific methods of feeding and
generally caring for babies. This service is
given for the asking, and the results, so far
as can be gauged from the mortality tables,
are a firm encouragement to continued
effort. Not only is the infrequent baby kept
alive, but such as there is of it is being given
a better start-off than the old man had.
Truby King is one of Maoriland’s best
assets. Unfortunately, lie doesn’t come under
the heading of “permanent and reproduc-
tive,” because he hasn’t any youngsters of
his own. But he has been the saviour of
thousands.
Melbourne Argus says the reluctance of
working girls to accept domestic service is
due to snobbishness. But what action has
the Argus ever taken to improve the man-
ners of its class?
ALU'AYS A
DANGER.
STELLA : “I'm to be married next week, and
I'm terribly nervous."
ELLA: "I suppose there is a charter of the
matt yetting away up to the last minute."
According to a skipper who lately returned
from Sumatra, where he has been tranship-
ping Australian cargo from locked-up Ger-
man steamers, the officers and crews who
managed to get the Hamburg vessels into the
neutral ports of Java are not blessing their
luck. The Dutch practically confine them
to their ships, and don’t entertain the offi-
cers at the Hotel des Indes. Meanwhile, of
course, wages have stopped, and the sea-lice
and the canker of Davy Jones is eating into
the vitals of the vessels. Hans Sauerkraut
is beginning to regret that he wasn’t cap-
tured and detained comfortably in Australia,
instead of rushing into a steamy sanctuary
where he is looked upon as an unwelcome
part of an escaped Zoo.
This week’s ecclesiastical note: —
Consequent on the collapse of the copra market
the London Missionary Society will no longer main-
tain its stations in Torres Straits; and is
handing them over to the Australian Board of
Missions (Anglican). Apparently, in the view of
the L.M.S., black brudder’s soul is worth saving
only so long as his body can be used profitably in
collecting nuts. The Anglican Board of Missions has
some small stations in the Straits, but has hitherto
left the L.M.S. in undisturbed occupation of most
of the islands, as its policy is not to intrude when
other religious bodies are at work, even though that
work appears to combine profit-sharing with soul-
saving. i
Australian Anglicans are astounded that so strongly
“Protestant” a society as the L.M.S. should have
handed over its converts to the A.8.M., for though
the latter is the official missionary body of the
Anglican Church in Australia, and has all the
bishops on its executive, it is thought by many
Anglicans to be guilty of dalliance with the Scarlet
Woman. Hence the “Evangelical” Anglicans, with
nightmare visions of vestments and candles, have for
years past declined to support the Board of Missions.
They maintain in its place various Church Mission-
ary Associations, which are sworn to oppose the
errors of Rome. Mere Australian missions are not
romantic enough for these bodies, which conse-
quently send their cash and workers to assist missions
in India, China and Africa,
The fact that the copra-hunting London Mission-
ary Society has handed over stations and converts to
a society of the alleged “Catholic” brand of the
Australian Board of Missions is chiefly due to the
personal popularity of Bishop Gilbert White, of
Carpentaria. W T hite has recently been passing the
hat round Melbourne and Sydney for funds, and
will stay in the North for a further six months to
organise the new venture before going to take charge
of the recently formed diocese of Willochra (S.A.).
“Why don’t you enlist?” a big chap was
asked in a Melbourne suburban court the
other day. “Well,” he said, “it’s this way
with me. I won a case uv whisky in a
choppin’ match a few days ago, and I can’t
see me way clear till that’s finished.”
“Gordon G.”: Talking of freak statutes
(B. 4/2/T5), the one imposing stringent
penalties on maids who seduce men is not
the queerest on record. Until 1789 the
sentence on women for
husband-murder was
burning alive. In prac-
tice, however, social
heavyweights were usu-
ally beheaded, and
their sisters of lesser
tonnage were strangled
before the flames
reached them. Down
to less than a century
ago there was an Irish
Act directed against
witchcraft. Even as
late' as 1819, trial by
battle, with its oaths
denying resort to en-
chantment, sorcery or
witchcraft, “by which
the law of God might
he depressed and the
law of the Devil
exalted,” was still in
force. And down to
1836 there was an
active statute in Scot-
land compelling all in-
solvents to wear in
public a particular cap
—half brown, half
yellow. Even now, at
Common Law, “eaves-
droppers or such as
listen under walls or
windows or the eaves
of a house to hearken
after discourse, and
thereupon to frame
slanderous and mis-
chievous tales,” are
liable to fine; and a
common scold seems
still subject (after
conviction upon in-
dictment) “to be
placed in a certain engine of correction
called the trebucket or cucking-stool, or
ducking-stool, and. when placed therein, to
be plunged in water.”
Minister for Lands Butler told an Ade-
laide meeting last week, without giving
Divine authority for the prophecy, that a
water-shortage will never fall on the city
again. He merely figured it out, just like
his predecessors did. The estimated con-
sumption for the year is 6000 million gallons.
The new reservoir will hold twice that; a’nd
it should be filled without difficulty, as 10
times that much is supposed to go to waste
over the weirs—in a wet year. But there
are a couple of things Butler doesn’t know:
(1) the future rate of growth of Adelaide;
(2) the number of dry years that lie in the
future, and the degree of their dryness.
These may upset all his calculations. In
the past year the Torrens has not run at
all, and the 3500 million gallons which the
present reservoir holds have dwindled to 510
millions, of which 40 millions are being used
every week. A useful help is being got from
bores, and so far only the gardens are really
suffering much, but the shadow of famine is
unpleasantly near. One half-inch shower
has been all Adelaide has had this year so
far, and just six months have passed since
consumers were warned against using water
in their gardens.
A POSTCARD FROM EGYPT.
A woman teacher, who lately formed one
of a deputation to the N.S.W. Minister for
Education, impressed upon him that “Domes-
tic Science, as distinguished from mere
ability to cook, is a big thing.” But ability
to cook, as distinguished from mere acquaint-
ance with the scientific principles of a
mangle, counts for a mighty lot more when
the old man comes home tired at six o’clock.
WING WITH THE BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Among those accepted for service this morning
were a father and his son, both Australian-born and
country-bred, the father being a widower of 42 and
the son 18 years of age. The father explained to
the recruiting officer that his son was keen to go to
the war. If the son went, it meant he would be
left alone, so he decided to accompany his boy. As
he was a fine type of man he had no difficulty in
getting his papers, but he stipulated that neither
would go without the other. —Daily paper.
Not for me the scribbled letter
That the careless soldier writes ;
I will be no idle fretter
Cursed with aimless, lonely nights.
We must stay or go together,
And the boy’s brave heart sas's “Go!”
So we’re riding Hell-for-leather
Towards the trenches ’midst the snow.
If I fall, it will not matter ;
If he goes, I will be there
In the dust and smoke and clatter
Just to see they kill him fair,
I"
For the women sad and lonely—
They that have to stay and wait,
Fearing always, waiting only
For the postman at the gate—
For these poor souls I have pity,
War’s worst agony they know;
They must sorrow in the city
While a man can pack and go.
Not for me the dreary waiting
In the safety of the town,
Ev’ry scare edition hating,
Till my heart is beaten down.
We will ride like good mates gaily
To this contract —me and Joe—
And I thank my bright stars daily
That I’m young enough to go.
N.sav.
SERGEANT-MAJOR.


THE FEAST OF BELSHAZZAR.
The public wharf at Opunake (M.L.) was put up at auction by order of the mortgagee, and knocked down to him for the amount o f his unpa id loan, and
the tribe of hard-borrowing Australasian Treasurers has its feast interrupted by the vision of a bill-poster.


Mohammed V., Suitan of turkey, had
kent to Admiral von Tirpitz, Secretary to
the German Admiralty, and General von
Falkenhayn, Chief of the General Staff,
great gold medals as rewards for
bravery.—Cable.
Bill rrof-
-jo
j-or lwrKs ” J y
\ I (hUws Item) //'
J'rc,
Von Irrjj'i-te
Va«Hrbi+'v“WUti S s,> WmiL
4 mgd&J Excellent^;
suHin§ Envoy: =L ' Fov CoUr^^^f^ndi'y
Von T:
£nVby; The you Jp
Showed in nofyieldinp /Jlf
io oo
) out" hn<Ji destroy ifie, BntiVlt '* s ==^^»**'
fleet^e^etrdi."
‘TheTu^K-.-lm -
-Jo yoi»r
U-tfK I J***-
1 S ot t*
. The German authorities are inducing
school-children to renounce sausages
and meat for their dinner, and to take
to school only a few slices of bread. The
head boys at some schools arc supervis-
ing this self-denying ordinance. — Cable. ;
'iSfTotTvA
de*' tnea,t“?
"OJ cor s e ) f Dere Vbs
two tmljdvy batons m <der la^st’s^us^^eT
)), Mr. Peacock said: “I can scarcely
recognise In William Irvine the man
tvho, when he was Premier of the State
11 years ago, was insistent on the func-
tions of the State Governments being
maintained intact. If the views promul-
gated by Mr. Irvine were to prevail we
would gradually lose our powers as
States.”—News item.
1°
JcacocK:— How m j He Msed *fe be
So Stately."
Members of the State, Government are
annoyed with the Chief Secretary, Mr.
Murray, for publicly expressing senti-
ments that are diametrically opposed to
.their views and the declared policy of
-the Government.—Melb. paper.
Tok
lh E,r\>Yr^
("to bis ol for '. —
>(ow, you c.Ws cv7 -tie Vtm tbttie Wk of-
Ttre til V»»n. ThxFll l<eeb
Turn Quiet" when lie w^Kes."
Gentle She|>Wd * —"
" I donf" trfinK
Votc^
yj~\ -jb r W~ vOUI
SAINTS, SAUSAGES AND SINNERS.


HYGEI A
Shaving
Stick.
You
won’t
know
yourself
behind
Hygeia
oil-foam
ã
i L.r ii±
fe
m
THE
Wherever you so, the world over, leading men wear VVOUJDKOW
HATS. They are unequalled in quality, style, durahality and
comfort. ALL STORES.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS A WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney, n
RECIPE TO DARKEN
GREY HAIR.
BY A SPECIALIST.
A very satisfactory preparation which
darkens grey hair and acts as a correctn e
agent for dandruff and other diseases of the
scalp can be made at small expense and in
your own home by dissolving a small box or
Orlex Compound in seven ounces ot water
and then adding an ounce of bay rum and a
quarter ounce of glycerine. Any chemist can
furnish these ingredients. Tins is < to be
applied once a week until the hair is suffi-
ciently darkened, then every two weeks to
keep the hair soft and glossy and the scalp
in a healthy condition. It may be used wit
equal success in darkening the beard. 1 -
is a preparation that gives splendid results,
both as a hair darkener and as a remedy toi
all scalp disorders, and is well worthy ot a
trial. You will find it far superior to the
ordinary stock preparations and much less
expensive.* L
PERSONAL
ITEMS
PAPAL LEGATE CERRETTI blessing
THE BULLETIN artist.
Henry Otterson, Clerk to Maorilaiul’s
House of Representatives, resigned last
week, and proposes to flee to South
Africa, in search of peace at last.
He has held his Parliamentary job for over
44 years, and has seen 19 Parliaments and
30 Ministries, with Fox, Stafford, Water-
house, Vogel, Atkinson, Grey, Hall, Whit-
aker. Stout, Ballance, Seddon, Ward, Mac-
kenzie and Massey as Premiers. Otterson
was born at the top end of the South Island
09 years ago.
D. C. Bates, the official meteorologist in
Maoriland, formerly an Anglican clergyman
in N. S. Wales —he still acts occasionally as
pilot to the Better Land —is making a name
for himself as a weather prophet. Usually
the work of a meteorologist forms the sub-
ject matter for a national joke, but it is
taken with intense seriousness over the pool,
where the population is naturally anxious
to know when it is going to stop blowing
for half an hour. Every Wellington citizen,
for instance, looks in the morning paper
before going off to work to see what Bates
has to say. Then he knows whether to
merely fix on his hat and overcoat with
rope or lash them to his body with steel
wire. But Bates is going to be gravelled
one of these days, and that is when he is
asked to foretell the date of Massey’s deci-
sion to knock off going to the pawnshop.
That will fix him all right—and the two well-
known Sydney lawyers who are his brothers-
in-law won’t be able to help him.
“Billy” Hughes’s friend, “Bob” Anderson,
has been given the job of digging into the
matter of military expenditure and finding
out whether money is being wasted, and if
so, where. He ought to make a good explor-
ing party. He got his training with the
Bank of New Zealand ; but he wanted work
with more interests in it, so lie set out to
become town clerk of Sydney. While “Bob”
was assistant town clerk it struck Allen
Taylor, many times mayor of Sydney, that
the suave young man with a fine imagination
tempered by business habits was just the
sort to put on double harness with. They
accordingly became joint managing directors
of the Allen Taylor timber co.. and sepa-
rated only two months ago. Incidentally
"Billy” Hughes’s friend was one of the
Commissioners who made the inquiry into
the sugar business, at the time the aboli-
tion of the “white” bonus was proposed.
“OH, WHY DID I SET THIS BALL
ROLLING!”
John Thomas Marryat Hornsby, the ex-
Tasmanian journalist whose defeat of Wal-
ter Buchanan for the Wairarapa (M.L.) seat
was one of the political surprises of the
recent general election, has been contesting
the constituency for nearly 20 years. In
that time he has won on three and Buchanan
on four occasions. Hornsby is one of the
most eloquent men in the Maoriland Parlia-
ment, a finished Biblical, Shakspearian and
Burns scholar, but with a vitriolic pen
which is always getting him into trouble.
Once it very nearly produced a duel between
him and a' French naval officer over some-
thing which the journalist had writen, when
editor of the Wellington (M.L.) Times, on
the Dreyfus imbroglio. “Dick” feedaon
stopped the trouble by threatening the
Frenchman with something with boiling oil
in it.
\ Some March birthdays: Philip Fysh
' (Tas.), SO on the Ist; Justice Powers
v (High Court). 02 on 3rd; Edward Dyson,
i5O on 4th; J. Russell French, general
manager of the Bank of N. S. Wales, 08 on
sth; F. Manson Bailey, Queensland
botanist, 88 on Bth; Tom Roberts, artist, 59
on 9th ; Rupert Clarke, 50 on 10th; ex-
Senator J. T. Walker, 74 on 20tli; Fred
Johns (Notable Australians), 45 on 22nd;
Bishop Anderson (Riverina)..so on 24th ;
W. F. Massey, Maorilancl’s Prime Minister,
59" and Engineer-Captain Clarkson (Aus-
tralian Navy), 50 on 20th; Mrs. Campbell-
Praed (novelist, born in Queensland), 04
on 27th; Professor T. G. Tucker (Mel-
bourne), 50, Professor Jethro Brown (Ade-
laide), 47, and Professor Benham, F.R.S.
(Maoriland), 55 on the 29th.
The Reaper the other day behaved most
discourteously to J- R- Garland, of
fleld (N.S.W.). That old gentleman had
been looking forward eagerly to the celebra-
tion of his fiftieth year as a solicitor; but
within only four m.onths of the day the
Scythe mowed him down. He was a son of
the man who represented the Far \\ est in
the first N. S. Wales Parliament.
THE WRONG FLAG.
The opinions of Mr. Irvine regarding- the broaden-
ing of the Australian Constitution were met by an
instant repudiation’from Mr. Watt. They have filled
Mr. Peacock with surprise and amazement. —AROUS.
WILLIE WATT, A.B.: “'Ere, ’ aut down that
flag or they'll take this craft for a Labor
vessel! ”
Captain Boddam-Whetham. whose “splendid
dash” in leading the Gordon Highlanders
on to the foremost German trenches during
the British attack on Maedelskeed is singled
out by Field-Marshal French for special
commendation in a despatch cabled last
week from London, is the son of an Aus-
tralian mother. His father, after publishing
two books, one describing the ascent of a
mountain in Guiana up to that time in-
accessible, and the other recounting his
travels in certain remote parts of the Pacific,
visited Sydney and married a daughter of
James Manning, a son of that William
Manning who was once a Supreme Court
Judge of N. S. Wales. James Manning, now
dead, was a leading spirit in the old Twofold
Bay Pastoral Cos., which at one time owned
the Kamaruka Estate, now and for many
years past the property of the Tooths, of
the brewery. This James Manning subse-
quently lived at Warraguburra, near Bega
(N.S.W.), and was one of the first men to
introduce modern methods of cheese-making
to the N. S. Wales South Coast. It is not
clear from French’s despatch whether Cap-
tain Boddam-W T hetham was killed or cap-
tured. He, or a brother, was at one time
a gent, help to Gov. Le Hunte at Adelaide.
A cousin was a lieutenant on H.M.S. Chal-
lenger ; another cousin was master of a
Sydney ferry steamer.
Maoriland’s Parliamentary G.O.M. is J.
D. Ormond, Ilawkes Bay squatter and race-
horse owner, whose legislative record, com-
mencing in 1861 —16 years before disestab-
lishment of the Provincial Government
system —now extends over a period of 54
years. In that time the octogenarian —he
was born in Wallingford. England, in 1832 —
has missed only one Parliament. A member
of the Fox and Waterhouse Ministries in
1872. an associate of Atkinson and the
friend of DonaM McLean and William
Bussell —all good steel-chilled Tories, but
fine pioneers—Ormond has had an eventful
career. The most trying and troublesome
period of his life, he says, was when he had
charge of the Ilawkes Bay and Poverty Bay
districts, when Te Kooti was threatening to
raid those areas. For the manner in which
Ormond directed operations,_ he received the
thanks of Parliament. Since the Tory
debacle of 1891 the old warrior has sat in
the Council.
Defence-Minister Pearce’s heavy guns
against the parsons who want to be chap-
lains at treble the average shepherd’s salary
did not utterly rout that enemy. Armed
with convention and seven pounds weight of
the Word, -they have fought a running fight,
and last, week one of them arrived with re-
inforcements of flattery. This parson had
perpetrated a long, wild, whirling poem,
which he asked permission to dedicate to
Pearce, and in the afterpart or sternslieets
of his letter he naively suggested that his
genius should be recognised by an appoint-
ment as “chaplain on active service.
Pearce laughed satirically, and withheld
both dedication and appointment. Yet he
recognised that the poem had at least one
distinction —the exigencies of rhyme had
made the poet pronounce “Liege as
“League.”
John Cooper, younger brother of Dan. the
first baronet, died in England last week in
his 80th year. Ilis share of the original
Cooper estates was known as Thrupp’s Grant,
and lies between Neutral Bay and Middle
Harbor. Except a patch to be sold pres-
ently, this has all passed into other hands.
John Cooper, besides being a yachtsman
(he owned the famous Peri), was an en-
thusiastic rifleman and one of the founders
of the Volunteer movement in N. S. Wales.
He married a daughter of the late Obed
West, of Barcom Glen, who survives him in
England.
Alfred Donkin was well known
as a spiritualist years ago, and
even gave public addresses on
spiritualistic lines. On entering
int* politics, lie ceased to appear
as a propagandist, because jour-
nalistic enemies began to use his
spooks to cover him with deri-
sion. So people were allowed
to forget that Deakin was a
spiritualist. Hut he is faithful
to the spooks at , heart, and it
was the encouraging predictions
of a Melbourne medium which
induced him to hang on to his
American grip at a time when
his materialistc part was very
much disposed to drop out.
It is 22 years this month since
F. W. Coueybeer. -whip and songster
of the S.A. Labor party, .entered
Parliament. lie was one of the first
batch of Labor men elected in ISU2
under the leadership of the late John Abel
McPherson, and he has kept his seat ever
since. W. D. Archibald, now Home Affairs
in the Commonwealth Government, won his
place in the local Assembly at the same
time.
Died at Forster, on the N.S.W. North
Coast. Henry Miles, after 4o years’ resi-
dence there. He was one of the best-known
men on the coast in the days when the
timber traffic was conducted in' small sailing
vessels. The reputation of the Miles family
as builders of these craft might have been
turned into a national asset; and had the
politicians of the ’7o’s and ’Bo’s fostered the
industry by an adequate tariff, the Cape
Hawke district would have prospered. As it
is. Forster isn’t much bigger than it was
when Henry Miles settled there in 1809. He
was 1)4 when he died through weariness of
the flesh and lack of tariff. Lack of tariff is
the most common disease in Australia.
JOHN
MEAGHER ,
M. L. C., ready
to meet the
Papal Delegate.
Morris Fox. actuary to the State Lite In-
surance Department in Maoriland, has made
his last calculation and ruled off the page.
He was only 57 —a bright, fat, little man
who never made an enemy. Had Fox not
been an actuary of distinction he would have
been a comedian of renown. He played Jack
Point in “The Yeoman of the Guard as
well as any professional ever seen in Aus-
tralia.
A NEW JOHN BULL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Note. —A while ago The Bulletin asked for
something to take the place of the awful John Bull
we’ve had pictured for us for a hundred years or
more. I only saw anything like him once, and
that was outside a little beer house by a village
in Herefordshire. He sold “soyder,” too. lie walked
out into the middle of the road, looked at the sky
and walked back again. His sentiments on the
weather and all other things were exactly those of
old John Willets, in “Barnaby ltudge.” I looked
for the maypole, but it wasn’t there. That isn’t my
idea of John Bull. I prefer to think of him as
I’ve met him in various parts of the world.
A tall, slight, fair-faced gentleman,
With an eyeglass to his eye ;
He mostly says “Good-Bai” to.you,
. When he means to say “Good-bye”;
lie shakes, hands like a ladies’ man,
For all the world to see —
But they know, in Corners of the World,
No ladies’ man is he.
A tall, slight English gentleman,
Who hates to soil his hands ;
He takes his mother’s drawing-room
To the most outlandish lands ;
And when, through Hells we dream not of,
His battery prevails,
He cleans the grime of powder smoke
And red blood from his nails. .
He’s what our blokes in Egypt Sail
“A decent kinder cove.”
What if the Pyramids should fall ?
He’d merely say “Bai Jove!”
And if the stones should block his path
For a twelve-month, or a day,
He’d call on Sergeant Whatsisname
To clear those things away !
A quiet English gentleman,
Who dots the Empire’s rim,
Where sweating sons of ebony
Would go to Hell for him.
And if he chances to get “winged,”
Or smashed up rather worse,
lie's quite apologetic to
The doctor and the nurse.
A silent English gentleman—
Though sometimes he says “Haw.”
But if a baboon in its cage
Appealed to British Law
And Justice, to be understood,
He’d listen all polite,
And do his very best to set
The monkey grievance right.
A thoroughbred whose ancestry
Goes back to ages dim :
Vet no one when his luck is out
Need fear to speak to him.
Although he never showed a sign
Of aught save sympathy,
lie was the only gentleman
That shamed the cad in me.
K.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


:.S
8
iss
.-]
.
3^l
« *
a B
>»4
mm
>stf i
■
m
*** -i/"
P
L—«T 7 ? 1
!>
II v |N*
lyy J(
i/
13®I§
sbp
?■
ISM
w
:
■■h
HiSi
*
» s',.-'*
«s
Si
,
1
A
V
I WM
*
r
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
40C
LMN
PIPES
vmrrrw--':
m
LMN
m
S&M-
fV ery p, P e Guarai 'te e()


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pu-nps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House.
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUS CO.
Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Dine Excavators
Sole Agents-WILLIAM ADAMS (Q. COMPANY LIMITED)
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Greater J. D. Williams Amuse-
ment Co. (Sydney) :
Towards Re-
duction of
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1910.. —•—• £54,694
1911. . £33,210 174 p.c. = £23,503 £9707 44,987
Goodwill added (net), £11,523. . 56,510
1912.. 13,471 74 p.c. = 13,538 56,577
Nominal
Reserves.
Assets written up, £93,939 .. 37,362
To Re-
serves.
1913.. 12,390 5 p.c. = 9,025 3365 40,727
Assets written up, £9472 .. 50,199
1914.. 15,865 5 p.c. = 9,025 6840 57,039
The share capital is £180,506, and the co.
hasn’t got tangible assets to represent any-
thin? like that amount plus the £57,039 of
alleged reserves. There is, in fact, more
“water” in picture cos. proportionately
than in any other single group of which this
paper has any knowledge. The remarkable
early history of this co. need now be
merely mentioned. The promoter was a
Yankee showman who found making money
in Australia “too easy.” Like many more
who have that idea, he didn’t need a very big
bag to carry away all that he left with two
or three years ago. But he didn’t take
everything with him. He left, for example,
piles of bills and more piles of claims. What
the present management believes is the last
of the old trouble was lately grappled with.
It consisted of a claim made by a foreign
film co. for breach of contract, and £9356
was paid out during the past year in settle-
ment of it. That fact has to be remem-
bered in considering the past year’s profits
and the co.’s dividend prospects. If £15.865
plus £9356 represents a year’s fair net earn-
ings. shareholders may very soon expect more
than 5 p.c., since that consumes only £9025.
The whole Australian picture business has
of course changed since J. D. Williams’s day.
There is a Combine now; in fact, there are
two Combines. One, Australasian Films,
Ltd., hires out the pictures ; the other. Union
Theatres, Ltd., shows them. There were
and presumably still are 300,000 shares in
each —600,000 in the two —and the J. D.
Williams Co. holds 195,000 of them. Tait’s.
West’s and Spencer’s are the other big
holders. The two Combine cos. didn’t take
over the subsidiary cos.’ theatres: they leased
them. For such assets they paid in deben-
tures. The Combine cos.’ capital is there-
fore represented almost wholly by goodwill.
This J. D. Williams Co. has £195.000 of Com-
bine shares; but probably two-thirds of that
is hot air and water. Consequently all the
.T. D. Williams reserves for certain, and
probably a considerable quantity of the capi-
tal. being represented by these shares, is also
hot air and water. Excluding the shares
and debentures of the two Combine cos. these
are the J. D. Williams assets: —
1912. 1913. 1914.
Melba Theatre freehold _
(Melb.) £33,215 £33,215 £33,215
Cash and loans . . • • 8,041 19,378 31.050
Films and merchandise . . 39,159
Plant, furniture, etc. . . 28,182 3,353 3,296
Rook debts, etc. .. •• 17,078 1,352 j3o
Shares in other cos. .. 4,050 4,500 4.,>00
Total .. £129,725 £61,798 £72,794
Liabilities 61,912 41,708 46,545
Surplus assets as above .. £67,813 £20,030 £26,249
The films and merchandise in 1912 were no
doubt mostly transferred for debentures in
the Combines.
Assuming that the other assets are worth
as much as they were 12 months ago, then
the year’s history can perhaps be best shown
this way:—
Increase in cash and loans.. .. £11,672
Increase in debentures .. .. 10,092
Total .. •• •• ..£21,764
Less increased liabilities .. .. L' ' <
Net improvement .. ..£16,987
And that, as shown above, is after paying
£9356 in settlement of the action brought
against the co. in connection with an old con-
tract. It is a result on which somebody
deserves congratulation. Most likely the
somebody is W. B. Miller, managing director.
# * • * *
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat.
Vic.) :—«
Written
off Added
Pre- to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1907.. £4129 7 p.c. = 2975 1154 71,828
Dec., 1907.. 4007 7 „ „ 2975 1032 ,2,860
June, 1908.. 4050 7 „ „ 2975 1075 73,935
Dec., 1908.. 4079 7 „ „ 2975 1101 75,039
June, 1909.. 4103 7 „ ~2975 500 628,5.667
Dec., 1909.. 4160 74 „ „ 3187 9,3 76,640
June, 1910.. 4204 7 r „ ~3187 1017 ~.60,
Dec., 1910.. 4176 74 „ ~3187 989 ,8,646
June, 1911.. 4276 7-, „ „ 3187 1089 ,9,,3:>
Dec., 1911.. 4356 7 „ ~3187 1169 80,904
June, 1912.. 4395 7 „ ~3187 1208 82,112
Dec., 1912.. 4481 8 „ „ 3100 1081 83,19.,
June, 1913.. 4449 8 „ ~3400 1019 84,242
Dec., 1913.. 4480 8 „ „ 3400 1080 80.322
June, 1914. . 4514 8 ~ 3400 11H oS’rwn
Dec., 1914.. 4534 8 „ „ 3400 1134 8,,070
The bank is celebrating its 50tli birthday,
but there al-e no fireworks: Ballarat had its
fireworks when the bank was quite an infant..
The first gold discovery thereabouts was in
1851 and this institution was founded
in 1865, when nuggets were as plentiful in
Ballarat as suburban mayors are in Sydney.
The young bank thus got a good start, and for
some time up to 1892 paid 11 p.c. dividends.
But the boom smash, and the Victorian
policy of bloating Melbourne and starving
the country, and the fact that Ballarat had
by then dug up most of its gold, cut the divi-
dend down by half. Gradually it has got
back to 8 p.c., and that rate will take some
shifting. The bank confines itself to Bal-
larat—it is the only local banking institu-
tion of its kind in Australia—and this of
course means a small expense bill. On the
other hand, it means, in the circumstances, a
very slow growth of earnings. The profit
calculated on each £lOO of capital and re-
serves combined has moved in this way :
June, 1911.. £5 4 6 p.c. June, 1913.. £5 5 9 p.c.
Dec., 1911.. 5 5 9 „ Dec., 1913.. 5 5 9 „
June, 1912.. 5 4 10 ~ June, 1914.. 5 6 0 „
Dee., 1912.. 5 7 3 „ Dec., 1914.. 5 5 9 „
However, so long as the security is there, the
customers are not concerned about the profit.
And the security is there all right. Liabili-
ties of all descriptions (deposits, etc.)
amount to £238,642. To meet these, the
bank has (or had before the last dividend
was paid) £106,718 of cash and public
securities, with £307.895 of real property
and other assets. For every £1 of its
own money in the business it has only
£1 ss. 8d of other people’s. That means
extraordinarily good security for depositors,
and for shareholders comparatively small
profits with comparatively small risks. In
fact, the shareholder can go to sleep for seven
years, if he likes, with a lot of confidence that
nothing either good or bad will happen dur-
ing the nap.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercan-
tile Agency Co., Ltd., which is in the
pastoral-finance and agency business in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland :
Full Paid on
Interest account
on 1 st and Interest Div-
Gross 2nd Deben- on 3rd De- (lend Re-
June, Profits, tures Paid, bentures. (5 p.c.) serves.
1905 | i l2 il 95 2,/ 100 ' 65 1„./ 16 ’ 901 !■ - £104,802
| Written off .. £3548 )
1906.. 177,104 100,965 17,160 £6,423 157,358
I 180,416 98,953 17,259)
1907 ' Suspense account (£100,000) V 6,429 315,133
( added to reserves. )
1908 ' 157,703 98,953 17,259 I 429 400 195
S | Surpluses on sales, £50,000 / ’ ’
1909.. 177,747 98,953 17,259 6,370 455,360
(7 p.c.) (7£p.c.)
1910.. 180,885 98,953 26,848 10,147 500,297
/ Surpluses on sales, £50,000 ) mi 51 610293
1911 ) 195,947 98,953 26,847 f 10,151 b10,29d
miol Surpluses on sales, £50,000 ( misi 790379
1912 I 196,030 98,953 26,847 f 10,151
Cash dividends to shareholders and bonus
to 3rd debenture holders, £454,536 .. 265,836
Exes, of reconstruction, including discounts
on new debentures, underwriting, etc.,
£84,452 •• .•• 181,384
Profits on liquidation of N.Z. Land Associa-
tion, £75,866 .. .. 257,250
Dividends.
5 p.c. Written
Profits, prefs. Ordinary. Off.
1913.. £109,915 £23,336 5 p.c. =£32,718 £20,000 291,111
1914.. 114,823 24,7305 „ 41,716 339,488
Two years ago the shareholders’ interest in
the concern Was £135,350 (it had, of course,
been cruelly written down in the black days),
while the debentures amounted to £3,296,338.
As that was a good deal like Oliver Crom-
well's wart bossing Oliver Cromwell, a
rearrangement was made, and you can follow
it pretty well from the table and from this :
1912. 1914.
Preference share capital . . Nil £989,200
Ordinary share capital .. £135,350 834,314
Ist debentures 2,350,000 1,000,000
2nd debentures.. .. .. 540,765 1,000,000
3rd debentures.. .. .. 405,573 Nil
Total .. -■ £3,431,688 £3,823,514
The ordinary shares of £9 10s. were formerly
paid, as a rule, to 10s. They were reduced
to £5 10s.. and a call of £5 made them fully
paid. This call accounts for the increase
in the total capital.
Meantime the eo. has been winding-up
the N.Z. Land Association, of whose shares
it was the sole owner. The high prices
got for wool, etc., and the cheapness
of money during a run of amazingly good
years, so inflated prices that this associa-
tion has been able to realise its properties
at prices which give a profit that wasn t
dreamed of a few years back. The table
shows that £75,866 of surpluses were thus
thrown into the parent co.’s bag a couple of
years ago. Twelve months back the direc-
tors reported: ‘‘There is still a large sum,
estimated at about £120,000. to be received
from the N.Z. Land Association fin liquida-
tion). and which is not yet therefore for-
mally included in the assets.” This year it
is stated that ‘‘tin' liquidation has been prac-
tically completed by the sale, since the close
of the year, of the last of the association's
properties. The sum to be received from
this source will exceed the amount estimated
in last year's report.” This windfall comes
in very handy. Even if war and drought
knock profits about, the money to be received
from tlie N.Z. Land Association will, at any
rate, allow this co. to make the usual allow-
ances for depreciation, leaving the profits
available for dividends.
The pastoral advance business is inevit-
ably risky : but this co. is in a much better
position than most of those who are in that
line. Take these figures :
LIABILITIES.
1904. 1913. 1914.
Debentures. . .. £3,309,531 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Other debts.. .. 565,888 337,685 440,918
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 378,468 924,423 965,916
M.L. Land Associa-
tion . . - • 552,659
Co.’s debentures.. 471,461 300,000 300.000
Advances. . .. 1,981,438 2,582,027 2,744,492
Properties, stock.. 210.131 75.819 53,644
Premises . . 290,722 401,003 394,992
Other assets .. 229,619 225,093 211,321
Debts apart from debentures are thus only
£440,918. which is really less than the actual
'''•cash in hand. The co. thus can't be pushed
into a hole by a rush of creditors calling for
their money; and that is a fine thing for
borrowers whose securities are liable to
fluctuate enormously in value. ( ompared
with its resources the most solid assets aie
exceptionally large, the advances are moder-
ate. and the ‘"properties and stock item ex-
ceedingly small —the last an indication that
the co. has made good use of the very high
prices of the last few year's to get out. No
doubt, the co. might find its big debenture
debt a burden in times when money was
cheap and could earn little. But in times
like the present it is a fine thing to have the
use of so much at 4 p.c.; and it isn’t likely
to be any less fine a thing for a good many
years to come. #
The South Brisbane Gas and Light
c °. (Q.):—
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, "07.. 3208 8 p.c. = 2205 31 972 17,688
Dec., ’07..3940 8 „ ~ 2205 206 1529 19,217
June, ’08..4070 9 „ ~ 2481 1689 20,806
Dec., ’OB.. 4805 10 „ ~ 2756 19 2030 22,836
June, ’09..4627 10 „ „ 2756 658 1213 24,049
Dec., ’09..5329 10 ~ „ 2756 2573 26,622
June, ’10..5456 10 ~ „ 2756 252 2448 29,070
Dec., ’10..5666 10 „ „ 2756 2910 31,980
June, ’11..4542 10 „ „ 2756 " 1786 33,766
Dec., ’11..5854 10 „ „ 2756 3098 36,864
June. ’12..4290 10 „ „ 2756 1534 38,398
Premiums received . . 3558 41,956
Reserves capitalised, £18,221 .. 23,735
Assets written up, £14,663 .. 38,398
Dec., ’12.. 5982 10 p.c. = 2929 3053 41,451
June, ’13.. 5443 10 „ ~3344 2099 43,550
Dec., ’13..6855 10 „ ~ 4009 750 2096 45,646
June, ’14..7806 10 „ „ 5250 750 1806 47,452
Dec., ’14..7419 10 „ ~5250 250 1919 49,371
“Seeing that we have now practically a new
works,” the directors say, “it was deemed
advisable to have a valuation made of the
whole of the co.’s works and property. A
copy of this valuation is appended.” Here
is the extraordinary document: —
The plant, land, buildings, mains, meters,
services and lamps, as on July 1, 1914.. £274,000
Cost of additions since . . . . . ■ 13,709
Discount on shares it sued to shareholders
(reduced from £ 1.^622) .. .. .. 5,387
Grand total (item “Plant, buildings and
co.’s undertaking’’ as shown in the
balance-sheet) .. .. .. ..£293,096
What a gas engineer who is valuing “works
and property” has to do witli “discount on
shares issued to shareholders” this paper
doesn’t know. Let The Bulletin put
quite plainly what this engineer doesn’t,
and what the directors seem not game to do:
to the extent of £5387 the reserves are
bogus. The only excuse for issuing bonus
shares to shareholders was that there was
undivided profit available for transfer to
capital. The directors said, in effect, that
that undivided profit was in existence and
was partly represented by property in excess
of book values. On the strength of that the
bonus shares were issued. It is now reported
as ascertained (though the discovery is
smothered up) that the excess value did not
exist, and the bonus shares are to the extent
of £5387 only represented by hot air. The
wisdom of the management of this co. has
been disputed by a section of the share-
holders in the past. The present report
supplies a further reason for dissatisfaction.
For The Bulletin’s part it prefers to
put the matter iu another way. The whole
of the capital is represented by substantial
assets, but (accepting the engineer’s valua-
tions) £5387_ of the reserves only exist in
the imagination, and ought to be written
off. Instead of “Discount on shares,” etc.,
the item would then read —“Amount
improperly written up in 1912 and now
unrepresented by assets, £5387.”
The co. has a share capital of £lOO,OOO, of
which £18,221 was transferred from reserves
(real and fictitious) in 1912. The 10 p.c.
dividend is therefore equal to about 111 p.c.
on the money actually paid in by share-
holders. Besides the share capital there are
£lOO.OOO of lately-issued interminable
debentures and £50,000 due in 1934. Practi-
cally everything is in plant, and fixed property :
the net' assets apart from that were
only £11.775 at the end of the half-year.
The fact that the plant and,property are not
worth what the “undertaking” stands at in
the books shows that the writing down has
not been at all extravagant, and the.writing-
up. at any rate, was unjustified. Still,
even making fair further allowances for
depreciation, there is a big margin of profit
beyond the 10 p.c. dividend, notwithstanding
that it was doubtless cut into during
the past half-year by the fact that the new
works were not earning interest though they
were costing some.
Pearson. Law, Ltd. (Melbourne), manu-
facturers of shirts, collars and other men’s
wear, was registered at the end of Septem-
ber. 1911. but no accounts are available for
the first nine months. For that period the
7 p.c. preference dividend was paid; but
nothing has been divided among ordinaries
till now. when a 7 p.c. is declared. The co.
paid £t4oo for goodwill (apparently in
shares), and preliminary exes, account for
the rest of the deficit with which this table
starts
Dividends.
Piet'. Ordi- Written
June, Profit. 7 p.c. nary. Off. Deficit.
1912.. £945 Nil £7524
Dee.,
1912.. £1325 706 Nil £194 1099
1913.. 4494 1486 Nil 473 4564
Re-
serves.
1914.. 7874 1487 7 p.c. =£99l 567 265
It must be noted that the first line covers
nine months, during which the net profit was
apparently £990: the next term covered six
months only; and the last two lines cover
12 months each. To start with, the capital
was £30,000. or £22,000 exclusive of good-
will ; but, as stock ran into about £14.000
and the co. owned its factory, worth with
plant £lO.OOO, the money put up clearly
wasn’t enough and the co. was leaning
heavily on the bank. Of course that is
what banks are for; but Australian Customs
tariffs have hitherto been the sport of poli-
ticians, so that banks have never dared to
trust them far and therefore have given only
very limited accommodation to Australian
manufacturers. And Australian labor unions
haven't given as much stability to in-
dustry as they should have done, either; they
haven’t realised that it doesn’t so much mat-
ter what an industry has to pay so long as it
knows for certain for a year or more before-
hand what the amount is going to be.
To improve its finances this co. in 1912
issued a few r more shares and brought up its
capital to £35,400. at which it still stands.
It could still do with a bit, seeing that, in
addition to trade debts (£8436), it had an
overdraft of £4019 at the end of the year.
Not that there is anything to complain of.
In view of the enhanced turnover, which has
meant heavier stocks (£17,942) and bigger
book debts (£13,145), a lustier growth of lia-
bilities might have been excused. Fortu-
nately the co. has been able to escape thal
largely by reason of the very rapid growth
of its profits and its most commendable mod-
eration in the matter of dividends. Indeed,
so small a proportion has been drawn out of
the business that already the accumulations
exceed the “water” with which the co.
started. Hence the whole of the capital is
now represented by tangible assets. And
only £8448 of the total is plant and
machinery—usually the most doubtful assets
of all in the event of things coming to a
crisis.
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1908.. £972 15 p.c. = £750 £222 £10,361
June, 1909.. 1117 15 „ „ 750 367 10,731
Dec., 1909.. 872 15 „ „ 750 122 10,853
June, 1910.. 1090 15 „ 750 340 11,193
Dec., 1910.. 412 15 „,, 750 10,855
June, 1911.. 1081 15 „ „ 750 331 11,186
Dec., 1911.. 851 15 „ „ 750 101 11,287
June, 1912.. 1174 15 „,, 750 424 11,711
Reserves disappeared (apparently
distributed), £7982 . . •• 3,729
Dec., 1912.. 509 8 p.c. = 400 109 3,838
June, 1913.. 734 8 „ „ 400 334 4,172
Dee., 1913.. 754 8 „ „ 400 354 4.526
June, 1914.. 1139 8 „ „ 400 739 5,265
Dec., 1914.. 611 8 „ „ 400 211 5,476
The municipal electric light has been
switched on now since May. But although
that undertaking isn’t out after profits, _ it
must try to provide interest and sinking
fund. Also Nature hasn’t supplied Goul-
burn with a means of turning out very cheap
current, like Launceston, for instance. Add
to those things the usual lack of rapidity
with which country towns make big changes,
and, though the new competition isn’t going
to do it any good, the gas co. doesn’t seem in
any immediate danger of being rendered
penniless. Gas sales for the half-year were
£3686, as against £3844 in the latter half
of 1913. Even with the slightly reduced
profit, there is still a fairly substantial
margin after paying the 8 p.c. dividend.
Financially the co. is pretty well placed.
Liabilities amount to £560; against that
there are liquid and good-as-liquid assets of
£3624. including £1372 of cash. The new
competition should put any early in-
crease of divs. out of the question, because
the co. must build up its reserves and be
prepared to. spend the money on extensions
and improvements in order to hold up its
figures.
****
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co., the
big silver, lead and zinc producer
Gross Divi- Gross Divi-
Profits. dends. Profits, dends.
£ £ £ £
May, ’O6 253,473 192,000 Mav, ’lO 46,047 48.000
N0v.,’06 345,622 240,000 Nov.,’lo 124,938 48,000
May, ’O7 331,125 240,000 May, ’ll 155.967 48,000
Nov., ’O7 153,599 288,000 Nov., ’ll 239,731 96.000
May, ’OB 30,389 72.000 Mav, ’l2 203,716 120,000
Nov., ’OB 34,430 Nil Nov., ’l2 177,594 144,000
Loss. May, 'l3 132.037 120,000
May, ’O9 59,029 Nil Nov., ’l3 152,768 96,000
Profits. Mav, 'l4 165,292 113,728
N0v.,'09 55,996 Nil Nov., ’l4 144,847 59,050
For the half-year £19.236 is to be written
off against depreciation, which makes the net
profit £125.611. But that puts the position
in the least favorable light. Amongst the
miscellaneous expenditure there are these
items: —
Brokerage and commission on debentures.. £16.885
Discount on debentures . . .. .. 18,000
Debenture interest . . . . . . .. 9,747
Sinking fund .. .. .. .. .. 12,500
Total £57,132
All these charges are made in connection
with the issue during the year of £600,000
worth of 6 p.c. debentures at £97. Two of
the items —interest and sinking fund —will
recur; but the others will not. And though
the co. will have to continue paying interest
and sinking fund, it hopes to be also in the
near future earning the money, whereas
during (lie past half-year the capital, which
has been put into the still-uncompleted iron
and steel plant, has not earned a bean. At
November 30 (lie book value of this plant
was £869,800, and of the land and buildings
£35,600; and in addition to that £50,000
has been spent on the Iron Knob tramway and
jetty during the six months. To make a
fair comparison with the gross profits of
previous terms one would therefore have to
add close-on £65.000 to the £144,847 men-
tioned in the table. In spite of the war the
true profits thus appear to have been the
best for 2-i years, and to have greatly
exceeded the average of the past seven years.
It is impossible to say why the profit
has been so much better, just as six months
ago it was quite impossible to say why the
profits were so miserable. Where the money
liad gone to then was a mystery. In the
past half-year the works were running full
for the first two months. Then the lead
(concentrating) plant was kept going only
on reduced lines; but the smelters _at Port
Pirie have been very busy reducing not only
this co.’s ore. but also as much of other
Broken Hill cos. as could be stuffed into
the furnaces. There was a very fair market
for metals in the early part of (lie half-year:
then there was chaos: finally conditions


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M.L.C.
Hon. H’NRY MOSES,
M.L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0
Uncalled Capital 950,000 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 70,000 0
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0
0
0
0
0
THE LARGEST and STRONGEST TRUSTEE
COMPANY IN AUSTRALASIA
Acts as
Trustees of Wills and
Settlements.
THE CHARGES ARE LOW,
and the Management is in the hands of Experts.
A Booklet setting out its Methods and Charges will
he sent on application.
2. 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A ,T. MACKENZIE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed £8,750,000
Annual Income Exceeds ... £1,400,000
The Company is prepared to consider
applications for
MORTGAGE LOANS
on
FARMING AND GRAZING LANDS.
The sugar mills of North Queensland and Fiji;
the mining- plants of Broken 11 ill and Kalgoorlie;
the timber mills of Southern Tasmania; factories in
the Philippines and Japan provide a severe climatic
strain test for transmission belting-. And in all
these centres “Pioneer,” the all-Australian leather
belting, has been found best by actual test—its
perfect gripping and driving power remain un-
affected by climate, heavy or variable loads, etc.
Send the length of your belt drive to our nearest
office, and they will forward you prices and particu-
lars. “Pioneer” is made only by J. C. Ludowici &
Son Ltd., “Pioneer” Leather Works, 117 York Street,
Sydney (opp. Q. V. Markets). Sold in Victoria by
Geo. Russell P't’y Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne:
South Australia: J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide; Queensland: Queensland Machinery Go.
Ltd., Brisbane; West Australia: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth; Broken Hill, Geo. 0. Demp-
ster, Argent Street.*
* X- * -x-
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained.' The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney. Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth.*
* * • *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver
aged 2s. 4d„ making a total cost of 4s. 10(1. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per
cab. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. 10d.— a saving of 2s. C>d.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow ICin. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Kng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are tire
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * »
Extract from Commercial World, London, 15th
November, 1913: “Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited.—Most life offices have a certain
individuality of their own, or some special feature
which is impressed upon us whenever we look into
their affairs, and in the case of the Colonial Mutual
it would perhaps be correct to say that enterprise and
activity are the characteristics chiefly in evidence.”* [1
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is not affected by chemical
action. Tt lasts indefinitely when continuously carry-
ing fluids heavily charged with minerals or acids.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
contractors to all State Governments, 57 York Street
Sydney (Head Office).*
* * * *
The Australian Provincial Assurance Associa-
tion, Ltd. —Registered on the 23rd of March, 1912,
has made such rapid progress that it has been found
necessary to take larger and more up-to-date premises
in Denison House, 387 George Street, Sydney, three
doors from the G.P.O. The progress of this Association
has been truly remarkable, having completed during
its first financial year, business exceeding £250,000,
and in the second financial year over £325,000.
Although, as may be expected in a new Association
of this kind, the expenses have been considerable,
they are not by any means out of proportion to the
business written. The rate of progress made during
the first and second financial years is not only being-
maintained, but improved upon, and the Directors
feel confident that a satisfactory amount of business
will be written during this financial year at a con-
siderably reduced cost. It might be stated that the
cost ratio is being greatly reduced all round, which
is largely clue to the fact that the heavy expenses
incidental to the formation of a Company of this
kind have now practically ceased. This Associa-
tion has branches in Queensland, Victoria and South
Australia, where thev have deposited the sums of
£lO,OOO, £5OOO and £5OOO with the various Gov-
ernments respective] v. As the Directors of this
voung Association have determined upon a policy
of progress combined with economy, there is no
reason why it should not ultimatelv rank amongst
the leading assurance offices of Australia.*
On the Murrumbidgce at the present time lane
owners find it necessary to irrigate extensively t<
provide feed for their stock. Many up-to-date plant;
have been, or are, in the course of erection by R,
Hornsby & Sons Ltd., of 1 Barrack Street, Sydney,
and at Melbourne and Brisbane.* [2
* * * *
George D. Meudell, oil wells sharebroker, 8 Scott’s
Court, Collins Street, Melbourne, executes orders in
shares of oil wells companies on commission.*
* * * #
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Minin"*
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street”
Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
“Robey-Leplastrier” Road Building Machinery
means big saving. One Shire in N.S.W. saved last
year £4OOO. Sixty Shires equipped already. Apply
Arthur Leplastrier and Co. Head Office, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS.—-Commonwealth and Foreign Patent'
obtained. Collison k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Writ*
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assai
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling';
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun';
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, -Pure Chemicals, ai
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. II B
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Svdnev ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
settled down, and lately abnormal prices
have been got for spelter—the base metal
of which the co. has the least to sell. The
co.’s average prices for lead, after deducting
realisation charges, have been lately as
follows :
May, 1910.. £ll 17 7 Nov., 1912. . £l7 10 11
Nov., 1910.. 11 15 2 May, 1913.. 16 2 3
May, 1911.. 12 5 2 Nov., 1913.. 18 2 7
Nov., 1911.. 13 9 6 May. 1914.. 17 7 0
May, 1912.. 15 7 0 Nov., 1914.. 18 0 2
The output of lead from the co.’s own ores
was probably no more than 13,000 tons, as
against (say) 17,000 tons in the previous
half-year; so the increase in the price of
lead didn’t make all the difference. Silver
lias been weaker than for some years past,
and, until the . recent tremendous spring,
spelter has been on the down grade for three
years. Frankly, B. 11. Prop, figures are a
mystery. If you are wise you don’t take
much notice of one half-year’s results. You
run the eye over a dozen.
The future is to some extent a mystery
too. The co.’s territory can be divided into
three parts : (1) The mine. General-manager
I )elprat has had his own reasons for
splashing very little rose-color on that asset.
It should last for five or six years, and may
drag out longer. (2) The lead and zinc
plants. Some Broken Hill mines have still
a long life ahead of them, and they haven’t
got smelting plants of their own. Not only
the zinc but also most of the lead concen-
trates of the B. H. South and North B. H.
cos. have been sent to German smelters.
Australia will not stand any more of that.
This means better prospects for the Broken
Ilill Prop.’s ore-buying and smelting busi-
ness. The zinc (smelting) plant is not
large, but it is producing 100 tons a week.
It is making a splendid profit now, with
spelter at £4O, but there is nothing in the
business with spelter at under £l9. An aver-
age price is £2l. (3) The new iron and steel
business at Newcastle. The success of that
depends on the size of labor demands and
the help of the Customs tariff.
* * * *
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Co. :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. , Off. serves.
Dec., 1906.. £99,976 £60,000 £18,975 £127,017
.Tune, 1907.. 103,381 80.000 9,492 140 900
Dee., 1907.. 73,350 70,000 10,000 1 ?,4^250
June, 1908.. 15,497 20,000 491 129,262
Deo., 1908.. 51,010 Nil 10,693 169,585
.Tune, 1909.. 40,795 40,000 10,742 165,6.38
Dec., 1909.. 47,980 40,000 100,000 73,618
June, 1910.. 42,624 20,000 5,166 91 076
Dee., 1910. . 72,427 60,000 5,081 98,422
June, 1911.. 77,665 60,000 5,087 111,000
Dec., 1911.. 128,1,34 90,000 5,301 143,833
June, 1912.. 141,639 120,000 5,684 159,788
Dec., 1912.. 217 ( 776 170,000 5,809 201,755
June, 1913.. 119,936 160,000 5,698 155,993
Dec., 1913.. 177,091 140,000 5,561 187,523
June, 1914.. 146,756 140,000 5,597 188,682
Dec., 1914.. 95,082 Nil 6,116 277,648
But, if Molesworth Greene, chairman, and
I’. C. Howard, managing director, were
asked to take an oath that the past half-
year would work out just like that last line,
they would be sure to say they were too
busy. In the first place, the profit includes
£35,000 set aside out of past revenue to
provide for possible repayments in the event
of the metal markets slumping suddenly.
These Broken Hill cos. don’t get final settle-
ments for months after delivery, and mean-
time the markets may go either in their favor
or against them. It is now said that this
£35,000 isn’t wanted, so it is dropped into
profit. Whether that is anything like a fair
thing or not depends very largely upon the
valuation set on “metals unrealised and
concentrates on hand.” Six months ago this
item among the assets stood at £23,750.
Through the misconduct of one Bill of Berlin
the markets have been upset and the present
accumulation is valued at £128,000. The
directors don’t say how they arrived at that
figure; and in the absence of that informa-
tion the accounts are of hardly any value.
The first round of George Meudell’s fight
with the directors of the Commercial Bank
of Australia, was last week given : by the
referee, Justice Cussen, in favor of the direc-
tors. The referee found that the directors
could use the profits to make old losses good
if they wanted to. and needn’t pay the pref.
shareholders their maximum 4 p.c., even
though there was enough available. But
that doesn’t get rid of the main trouble,
which is that the restoration of lost capital
is in the interests, not of the pref. share-
holders, but of the ordinaries. The prefs.
undoubtedly have had a grievance, though it
isn’t being felt now that the directors have
begun *to pay them their full 4 p.c.
Still they come. The Baker Oil Syndicate
has been formed in Sydney to test a block of
five square miles near the holding of the
South Aus. Oil Wells Co. The capital is
the usual trifle—4o shares of £lO each, half
issued.
* * *
‘Mil”: The Australian Oil wells Invest-'
ment Co., of Adelaide, issues a wild and
whirling prospectus. Of a nominal capital
or £.>ooo in £5 shares the vendors take 150
paids; 2do go to the public at £5, and 200
are held in reserve. There are six directors,
and one of them is “Count Vede P. de Meeus
(Ancien Officier de S.M. le Roi des Beiges)”
—which is one for the linguist, anyhow.
After that the prospectus becomes less intel-
ligible. The report (undated) is made by
Geo. C. Fair, an American expert of high
standing. He died some years ago. After
digesting this old report, the prospectus goes
on to gravely state that it owns “3840
square acres,” by which it presumably means
that it has prospecting rights over six square
miles. Mr. F. J. Spence, “oil geological
mining engineer,” speaks of his investiga-
tions, and on the “3840 square acres” says
that “a well can be sunk to every three acres,
equal, say, 1000 wells, which, with any luck
should produce 25,000 tons of crude petro-
leum at 80s. per ton, equals a benefit for
each well, say, £50,000 net, or a gross value
for the whole concession of approximately
£5.000,000.” Which makes everything quite
clear. There is oil in the South-East of S.
Aus. all right. Whether it is in commercial
quantities is a matter for the drill. But in
any case no company that means business
can look at the proposition with less than
£lO,OOO.
* * * *
A company filled with hope has started to
bore for petroleum on the Canterbury Plains
(M.L.), which someone has suddenly dis-
covered are identical in formation with the
Philadelphian belt. So far, the bore is
down 330 ft., but the energetic promoter
doesn’t expect to strike oil above 2000 ft., and
talks of pursuing it for 6000 ft. The only
thing thusfar struck is water, but that isn’t
a payable proposition in Maoriland.
* * * *
The improved outlook in the tin market
has at last tempted the Great Britain Sluic-
ing Co., Emmaville (N.S.W.), to get a move
on, at both the Britain and Y Creek areas,
though it is not so far running to its full
power. On the latter and comparatively
new patch, it has been getting ready to start
sluicing.
•X- * * *
The Mountain Maid Co., formed to test
the old Garibaldi field, on the Upper
Clarence (N.S.W.), has done nothing to add
to the reputation gained by the district in
the early days. It would appear to have
gone under from that prevalent complaint—
lack of capital to start with.
* -X- * *
Grafton Copper (N.S.W.) shut down
promptly on the outbreak of war, and has
since shown no eagerness to start up again.
Ore reserves were low. and nothing but
energetic development underground could put
affairs on anything like the old healthy
condition.
Chaffers (W.A.) has got exemption under
the Old Offenders’ Act, and is again about
to pass round the hat. It now proposes to
raise a further £20,000 working capital on
the strength of an independent report by
Lake View and Star manager Vail. This is
to the effect that by the expenditure of fur-
ther capital and re-arrangement of newly-
erected plant, costs might be lowered. But
Vail said other things, every word of which
ought to be published before shareholders are
again asked to run risks.
* * * *
“Main’’: This Chaffers business is no good.
A little time ago a shoot 300 ft. long and 6ft.
wide, worth £5 12s. 6d. a ton, was reported.
The first crushing was under 20s. a ton.
Believing the yarns pitched to them, Ade-
laide holders bought up to 3s. 9d. The same
shares now stand at 4d., and the city holds
140,000 shares of them. Profits were esti-
mated at 335. a ton—and the estimate wasn’t
kept hidden in the cellar either. Then the
outsiders bought at shillings as aforesaid,
and the stock fell to pence with great
enthusiasm. What do you make of it all-
incompetence or plain swindle?
* * -A- *
Great Boulder (W.A.) has stopped drill-
ing from 14o0ft. in the adjoining Persever-
ance mine, and has started to bore from
2200 ft. in the same property. Two or three
of the holes drilled at 1450 ft. gave assays
ranging from 425. 6d. to 2215. per ton, but
others put in did not give any promise of
these values having much lateral extension.
* * * *
The W.A. Labor Government has answered
the cry for help from Nor’-West prospectors
by purchasing a lugger to facilitate the tran-
sport of parties to Yarnpa Sound and Col-
lier Bay. Good deposits of copper a)re
alleged to exist in those outlandish places-
but as finds in that part of the West are
generally represented to be a thousand times
bigger and better than they really are. Capi-
tal has so far held aloof. Pilbarra. situated
a little lower down the coast, produced last
year £13,969 gold and £8343 tin. Since the
war, however, tin mining on the field has
been down and out. Government restoratives
in the shape of financial assistance are now
being applied, but even the partly-recovered
price is too low to put much life into the
industry there.
* * * *
Bayley’s Co. (W.A.) is about done for.
Most of its ground has been forfeited for
failure to comply with labor conditions, and
the remainder, a reward claim of 5| acres
granted to the discoverer, the late Arthur
Bayley, isn’t up to much. A local crowd is
preparing to have a go at the forfeited area
and this paper admires its pluck. As re-
marked on more than one occasion, the
weakness about the Coolgardie shoots is their
shortness and rapid dip. which means that
what is taken out of one patch is usually
mopped up in getting on to another. The
newcomers may have the luck to strike a
rich pocket right away. It they do, they
had better stop work and run for their lives
directly they clean it out.
* * * *
The latest flutter in Edna May stocks is
appropriately named the Battler. According
to N. S. Stuckey, of the Edna May Deep,
the block is 4-i miles north-west by west from
the big mine. Still, he covered the distance
with the remark that the mine is in '‘the
same belt of gold-bearing country.” The
Battler belonged to Detheridge and Fallows,
the first men mining out Westons way. Now
it is the property of a Melbourne crowd who
rushed the float before the prospectus was
out on the strength of 2oz. stone showing.
On that Stuckey testifies: “I consider there
is in sight, or almost certain to be obtained
on the lease, about 1300 tons of ore which
should average £8 per ton. Probably a much
larger tonnage will be obtained if judicious
work is undertaken. A large quantity of
low-grade ore would also be got.” This isn’t
very hot stuff to carry through a float, the
evolution of which deserves to be recorded.
First, the vendors gave to W. H. Melvin an
option for £5500, his cash deposit being
£5OO. Fred Tricks of the Edna May next
floated a syndicate of 50 shares of £5O each,
11 shares going to Melvin. He, in thankful-
ness no doubt, remunerated Tricks for his
efforts with five shares. Third stage, a
co. of 60,000 shares of 10s. each, 28,000 con-
tributing. Water, 25,000 shares to the Tricks
syndicate. The latter used the £lBOO it
raised to refund the £5OO deposit and pay
£lOO exes., leaving £l3OO to apply for 4800
contributing shares at ss. in the issue
of 28,000 shares. W. H. Melvin on
the float gets £5OO from the co. and 2000
shares paid up to 55., while £5OOO goes to the
vendors. As the co. receives £14.000 bv the
pubic issue and pays out £5500, it has £B5OO
as working capital. Five brokers figure on
the prospectus for a commission of 3d. per
share in the easiest float seen since the Port
Sweetenham moved off. Now they can go
profit-taking on the doubling of the market
price of scrip in the boom that’s on.
* 1C- * *
Marda (W.A.), a dry and deceptive Yil-
garn centre, often boomed in the east,
induced Labor Minister for Mines Collier
to come and see it some months ago. Col-
lier watched the owners of one of the shows
—the Butcher Bird —bailing water continu-
ously from a winze. The owners expressed
the opinion that it was a pity to see such
an ample supply for treatment purposes
running to waste, and suggested that Col-
lier subsidise the installation of a mill.
Collier agreed, and a 10-head crusher was
erected. Then water suddenly began to
get scarce and now there is not enough to
drown a cat. The owners have managed
to treat 140 tons of their own stuff, but
regret they can’t crush for the public. Bed-
lam reigns at Marda as a result, and if
some miracle-worker does not blow in very
soon, the disappointed claimholders will
either choke Collier or hang the Butcher
Bird crowd.
* * * *
Marvel Loch (W.A.) is owned by a care-
ful crowd. A few months ago three tributors
were entombed in the workings for four days,
and a rescue party bogged in without a spell
until the men were got out. Two were
brought to the surface alive, but one died
soon after. That, however, was not the
fault of the rescue party. When all was
over the management sent a bill to the
Mines Department for “services rendered
and goods supplied.” Minister Collier
scrawled across it “Refuse to pay.” The
co. has Consequently declined to hand out
anything to the rescuers, who up to the
present have received nothing for their labor.
* * *
Hopes are still entertained of Commodore
(W.A.). Last half-year’s report states that
1232 ft. of rising, winzing, driving, and cross-
cutting was done, and that 4500 tons of ore
and 2340 tons of residues were treated for
bullion worth £3938. This brings the value
of the output to date to £39.514. Accumu-
lated slimes are estimated at 13,650 tons,
assaying 15s. 4d. per ton. The question of
installing a plant to treat this accumulation
is now being considered by the Board. The
accounts show a loss of £250 for the half-
year. but the mine’s barrackers reckon that
it will do well in the usual by-and-bye. It
isn’t as hopeless as many.
* * * »
Melbourne-owned Lode Hill (Q.) issues a
report showing that the co. raised £1250 and
was able to snap up the Roaring Meg claim,
thus getting a patch of ground tliat will
allow of the lower drifts being worked with
ease. It looks a bargain at the figure. The
co. started this current year with a credit
balance of £687. but of that amount £368
was represented by calls to come in. Sluicing
began in the early part of this month, so the
directors should have some tin to sell to re-
duce _ the overdraft that will have been
acquired before the clean-up can be reported.
Judging by the heap of shares that have
been shovelled out of late, no one should be
surprised to hear of a call, or that the first
clean-up was on the low side.
* * * *
In the old days of the Lyell Blocks (Tas.)
the copper-bearing clays and slippery schists
gave all the worry. Now the weary' plant is
as tired as the people that await the cutting
of the North Lyell shoots in this 20-year-old
show. But manager Carroll won’t let his
board spend a cent more on plant till he gets
a decent development. Writing last month
for the ear of his directors he said that both
levels—l2ooft. and 1300 ft.—will have to be
driven a considerable distance before the co.
can expect to get any change, but he con-
siders that “ultimately we will get the down-
ward continuation of the North Lyell ore
bodies or some of them.” lie sweetens this
with the hope which he holds out that
“ultimately” may be this year. The co. is
spending at the rate of £6OOO ner half-year,
and as it is now cutting through the Lyell
conglomerates it can with confidence look for
a call or two before even the penultimate
stage is reached. Thus far £36,000 lias gone
to development account, so the backing given
to the mine has been admirable even if
results have been nil.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 37.)


Heelings
Est. 1818.
Co
Oj 0
ennaoen
a ■«. «
heering"
PELLISSON
Gognac Brandy.
ten years old.
WENTWORTH HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
The Most Luxurious and Comfortable
Hotei in the Southern Hemisphere.
Elegantly appointed, with prompt, efficient
service and elaborate cuisine, this palatial
and perfectly-conducted modern hotel satisfac-
torily meets the most exacting demands of
the travelling public.
SPECIAL TERMS,
Until further notice, from 10/6 per day and
from £3/3/- weekly.
Garden Cafe, where luncheons or dinners are
served Table d’hSte or a la carte. Orchestra
every evening, from 7 to 10.
Booklet on request.
WENTWORTH HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
MRS. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
Caps
The
Lot
?t
\y?
12
C
.... • x
mom
i s
m
«
IgSSffi
A
WOMAN'S
LEŢER
Sydney, February 22, 1915.
My Dear Arini, —
“On Thursday we saw in the papers that
Jean had been made Chevalier de la Legion
d’ Honneur. Yesterday a telegram official
brought us the dreadful news of his death.
It is all over.” You couldn't' pack more
tragedy into four lines. “Jean” was Jean
B. Pion, very well known in Sydney, better
known in New Caledonia; the letter was
written by Mrs. Pion to the Francis 11.
Snow metal people in Sydney, who repre-
sented Mr. Pion find the interests he left be-
hind him. Before coming to Australia he
was a lieutenant in the French navy;
when the war broke out, though he had then
been but three or four days in France on a
holiday, he at once volunteered and was
given his old rank in the marines. Letters
from him to his Sydney friends, the Ham-
bridges, showed that he had been in the
dreadful butchery of Dixmude. “We have
been fighting the last seven weeks without a
night’s rest,” lie wrote. “Now we are back
in reserve. The brigade is being reorganised.
Of 80 fighting officers 78 are now out of the
list. A large part dead. Our men—oh, so
fine! For me till now lam quite well.”
Then, having passed unscathed through Dix-
mude, he entered some lesser inferno, just
after his services had been recognised by the
Republic—and “it is all over.”
Australians are taking to the aviation
business with outstanding success. Captaifi
“Ossy” Watt, of Sydney, has been covering
himself with the smoke of battle and glory
in France. The mention of one of our
own getting the Legion of Honor from
Joffre will spur other bird-men in this
continent to make similar dashes for dis-
tinction.
Herbert Cooper, a son of the Chief Justice
of Queensland, joined the British army just
before the war burst up the Hague idea that
it is beautiful to keep your guns rusty and
your powder wet. Since then young
Cooper has made such a success of aerial
navigation that he is instructor to an avia-
tion corps at Farnborougb.
It looks as if the 1915 Polo Cup week
will retire into moth-balls for a year at
least. Some of the best polo men are
shouldering arms, and there is a
general feeling that this rich man’s sport
ought not to be fussed about while Europe
is ablaze. Besides, patriotic woman is so
buckling down to stitchery that slie_ can lose
the chance of wearing her best winter hat
at Kensington in July and shed no tears
over it.
The R.C. Archbishops of Australia have
secured as a residence for Papal Delegate
Cerretti the house and grounds at North Syd-
ney formerly occupied by the late John
Hughes, M.L.C. The house, known as Rock-
leigh, occupies the site of the home of the
late Conrad Martens, the artist, who, soon
after his arrival in Sydney in 1838, selected
the then lovely, if lonely, spot for his camp
and studio. He lived there until his death
in 1878. When his daughter some years
later sold the property, Mr. Hughes became
the purchaser and rebuilt, retaining only the
studio of the artist, which is incorporated
with the new mansion.
Sydney pressmen said good-bye to genial
.T. C. Watson over a glass of wine at the
Australia. The victim has been so fed and
farewelled that he is likely to stick to ship’s
biscuit for a while —if he can escape these
shores alive. And that’s not so certain, for
at other ports other feasts are lurking.
This time Mr. Watson goes away with his
head full of Labor’s new Sydney daily-paper
enterprise. Last time he took a long trip
it was to South Africa, and then his head
was rattling with the reports of a new
goldfield to conquer. Nobody had ever really
tried dredging as a means of grubbing up
the root of all evil in Boerland, and Watson
was to be John the Baptist to some wealthy
Victorian friends who proposed to get rich
that way. For three months or more the ex-
Prime Minister dug holes. Then he came
back brown and lean, but no richer. Every-
body hopes that his scheme will turn out
better this time.
Aviators Delfosse Badgery and Marduel
are booked to drop non-explosive _ bombs
from the sky at the forthcoming Police and
Firemen’s Patriotic Carnival. Weather per-
mitting, this exhibition ought to touch the
public purse in the right place.
Miss Auriol Hay, the “well-connected”
young person who came out to Australia
during the Denmans’ time, and stayed with
them for a while, has had a big helping of
Australian hospitality since she was favored
with that Government House jump-off. She
has seen a good deal of station life, and will
be able to tell English inquirers that there
is still a lot of fat beef and mutton capering
over this Fortunate Isle. Miss Hay packed
up her experiences for England the other
day. She went off in the Ballarat, under
the wing of Mrs. Mosley—the Neutral Bay
lady whose mild oratory used to he uplifted
in the Liberal cause.
The Dickens Fellowship, which hasn't a
roof to call its own, foregathers in various
city halls for its monthly corroboree. Its
annual meeting, with Judge Backhouse in
charge, passed off, without any casualties,
in the Congregational Hall last week. The
Society leans back with a sense of some-
thing more or less practical to its credit in
11)14 ; having discovered the bones of Edward
Bulwer Lytton Dickens, Charles’s baby, in
the Anglican graveyard at Moree, it has
put up a memorial tablet in the adjacent
church. The youthful hon. secretary, Mabel
Grant Cooper, finds that two-thirds of the
volunteers who are prepared _ to recite to
the monthly parties are restricted to three
elocutionary ideas: the death of Sydney
Carton, the story of Mr. Winkle’s misadven-
ture in Bath, and Bob Cratchit’s Christmas
dinner. It’s a queer patch of Dickens to be
worn threadbare —but there it is.
One of Charles Dickens’s less-known
efforts was his “Children’s Bible.” It was
for “Ted” —he whose bones lie at Moree —
that these stories were written.
Accidents happen on the best linotypes,
but this Daily Telegraph clipping is up
to the best traditions of the composing-room:
A daughter (Polly) of the Rev. IV. G. Taylor, at a
private hospital on Saturday last, by Drs. R. E.
Woolnough and S. O’Reilly.
A much more pleasant thing than an inter-
view with two doctors at a private hospital
really happened to Miss Polly: she was
married at Lindfield to Leslie, youngest' son
of the Woodford Waterhouses —a grandson
of the late Ebenezer Vickery, one of Syd-
ney’s rich men. The Vickerys and Water-
houses and Taylors being pillars of the
Methodist Tabernacle, the proceedings were
of course surrounded by all the pomp and
circumstance which the sect could produce.
The widow of the late Canon Ivemmis,
the picturesque Anglican shepherd who once
showed the flock on Darling Point the track
to a Better World, had her 77th birthday
last week. The old lady is a daughter of
the late Archdeacon Gunther, a worthy
German who never quite conquered the
English tongue. It was a tradition amongst
the young and giggling members of his con-
gregation, in the long ago, that his “Let us
Bray” was a reasonable excuse for disre-
garding the sermon that followed.
The large and healthy-looking Innes-Noad
family are on the move to London. A
generous helping of the Howard Smith
wealth, which was made in Australia, carne
their way a while ago. So the feminine
frills will be bought for some time in the
Thames Village.
The Belgian appeal for bread —“lest they
be shot down like ravenous dogs” in their
own streets—oueht to touch some of Aus-
tralia’s wealthy men in their fat cheque-
books. The citizen who isn’t wealthy has
been shedding spare coin for months. But
the few drops that have fallen into the Bel-
gian bucket have scarcely done more than
make a noise in the battered receptacle.
Experience, however, shows that it is safer
to rely on many shillings than on a few
thousand-nound offerings; and if Mayor
Richards would open a Shilling Bread Fund
a million of the useful coins ought to roll
in with a clatter. That would amount to
I’ll ask the “Wild Cat” to help me work this
sum. Meantime, without the arithmetic, I
know that a monthly toll of this kind from
the Mother State would put loaves into the
yawning bread-locker of the Belgian Ilora-
tius, the Captain qf the Gate.
The less said about the march of the
troops who came in last week from
Papua the better. Those who like to always
think well of the khaki would have been
far happier had the men been dismissed at
the wharf. In their exuberance they might
then have cakewalked without hurting the
feelings of anybody. One thing has all
along been obvious *to what the junior
reporter describes as “the meanest intelli-
gence” —we are sending splendid raw
material away to help John Bull. But the
inexperience of the officers and non-coms,
result —well, in what we saw in Sydney
streets last week. Could Senator Pearce
be persuaded to part with a few senior
permanent officers to handle the next con-
signment of KaJngaroos that swarm up
transport gangways ?
Mrs. Flashman, wife of the well-known
Sydney doctor, has' four brothers in the
British navy. They are Dewars, of the big
Scotch whisky firm.
The Benevolent Society is celebrat-
ing its 102nd birthday with a party
in the grounds of the Royal Hospital for
Women. Governor Strickland takes the
best chair at this gathering. Also, on the
23rd, before this reaches you, Sydney Hos-
pital will have poured out its annual
statistics, and on the same afternoon Dr.
Reuter Roth will have mentioned the great
advantages of splints in case of a broken
leg to a meeting called by the Red Cross
people in the Town Hall vestibule.
Already furs fit for the Esquimau climate
are on view in our best shops. But, tor tne
present, perspiring woman is only just able to
fan herself and sink into a seat as she gazes
at these autumn models.
It’s a very bad war that blows nobody
any tourists. This time it is Spain’s turn.
Instead of the usual batches of impecunious
artists who hump their easels over Alfonso s
hillsides, wealthy ’Murkans and other plump
pigeons are offering themselves in droves to
be plucked by Mrs. Barcelona Boarding
House. The artists are mostly nearer the
firing-line, but the absence of their coppers
isn’t noticed in the presence of the gold
coin from Washington’s land.
The veteran Q. L. Deloitte is packing up
for a brisk trip through Maoriland. He
means to start in sulphurous Rotorua and
gradually drift down to the Southern lakes.
Among other things he is going to tackle the
83 miles foot track from (Hade House to
Milford Sound. Like other tourists who
have “done” Switzerland, the N.S.W. man
isn’t going to take any chances with
mountain rills. He will carry boiled water
instead of medical comforts, and get a
guide to hump his camera and other baggage
over the track.
One of the numerous Campbell clan of
this State, Gordon, has done a good many
odd jobs in soldiering. He went to South
Africa years ago with the N.S.W. Mounted
Rifles. More recently he helped to squash
a nigger rising in East Africa. Now he
is getting fitted for the big fur hat that lie
will wear as a captain attached to the 10th
Seaforth Highlanders.
Harold Garnett, the Lancashire cricketer
our sporting girls admired when he was
here with Maclaren’s team in 1001, has been
wounded at the zig-zag front.
The long, lank Father Barry, who rounds
up the faithful at Chatswood, and is almost
as popular with opposition parsons as he is
with his own flock, had a big farewell party
recently given him in the village of roses and
bowls. ' He goes off for a holiday to the
other side.
Mr. Herbert Hoover, who used to inspect
Australian mines for Bewick, Moreing and
Co., has been prominent in sending round
the hat for Belgians. Recently he and his
wife had a look at the distressful little
country to find out the most practical means
of employing the belated U.S. help. Mrs.
Hoover, by the way, must be an impressive
specimen of our sex. She collaborated with
hubby, some years ago. in translating a six-
teenth century book on mining from the
ancient Latin text. I don’t suppose the
lady felt it much, for she is a graduate in
metallurgy.
Baronet Lucas-Tooth, who passed out the
other day in London, is the ex-Sydney mil-
lionaire brewery-owner who lost two sons
in the present war. His sister, formerly
Miss Alice Tooth, married the late lawyer,
Cecil Stephen, of this town. News that
came through recently from the Tooth
family in England pointed to the end as
being in sight. The loss'of two sons within
a few weeks was a hard blow to an old man
in bad health, and he has been in the care
of doctors and nurses ever since. The name
Lucas was put in front of Tooth, as grace
before meat, by Royal License, and it gave
an extra X. so to speak, to the title, which
dates back to 1906. Only one son, Archi-
bald, survives ; he, of course, will wear the
handle, in lieu of eldest brother Selwyn,
who was killed at Ypres.
Belgian Consul Watteeuw has tempor-
arily succumbed to the natural feelings of
a man who was galloped from one patriotic
show to another for the last six months. . A
good recovery from his present indisposition
will fortify the usually-brisk Consul against
another season of patriotic music—good, bad
and worse.
For a limited number of nights Julius
Knight sees the Light in “The Sign of the
Cross.” Loud applause from the faithful
gallery greets the final “curtain,” which
leaves Julius Superbus on the threshold of
the Roman amphitheatre. The lions are not
visible, of course, but we know they are sup-
posed to snap their jaws to welcome Julius
round the corner. Lizette Parkes is a
beauteous Mercia. Clad in milk-white drapery
that never gets a speck of Roman dust on its
limp folds, Mercia’s immaculate appearance
proves that Nero kept the watercarts going.
Emma Temple, so clever in soubrette parts,
misses the early Roman ’bus. Swathed in
striped red scarves tied round a purple bolster
costume, she essays the grandeur of Empress
Poppea, who is Mrs. Nero. It’s a fine character
study of a respectable working housekeeper
with personal references. You expect
Emma Poppea to start dusting the Imperial
throne, and wish she’d give Nero a hearty
shaking for falling to bits like the untidy old
rag-bag he is.
The musical Kennedys, who were Rand-
wick people before they set out on - their
long pilgrimage, send a line of thanksgiving
for all the good things that have come to
them in the Maori Dominion. The wan-
derers, who in 1912 won the Oswald Stoll
Musical-Act Competition at the Middlesex
Theatre in London, came back this way last
year. In Maoriland they propose to clean
up any cash they may have missed by a
second tour through the North and South
Islands. This done, they meditate a cam-
paign in the United States.
Gladys Hay, the dark-eyed girl with the
large soprano, who used to sing at the
Wentworth Hotel winter garden, is wait-
ing in the Armidale district for the war
clouds to lift. At < a recent Girls’ Realm
Patriotic fete she delighted the hayseeds
with a sheaf of popular ballads.
The Artists’ War Fund promises to
develop into a fine fat cheque. All the
leading men and women are sending along
samples of their best work, so the ugly walls
of the Royal Art Society will be well covered.
Norman Lindsay has given the fund about
£5O worth of black-and-white work, and
brother Lionel has parted with many of his
best etchings. J. C. Wright, the clever
voting Scottish sculptor who clings to a
Byronic tie, forwards specimens valued at
£35 Julian Ashton, who gives some of Ins
own handiwork, has also pounced on ±o2
worth of canvas painted by Blamire Young.
The Aesthetic Young is sure to say “yes by
return mail from England, as. he has been
doing well for some time. Griiner in a big
landscape, “The Jamieson Valley,” which
was exhibited at the last Society of Artists
show; Mrs. Phillips Fox in a Salon picture ;
Ethel Stephens in a virile bit of flower-
painting, “Asters” ; Florence Rod way at her
best; and others who make a list as long as
from here to Circular Quay, are repre-
sented. The Art Union, in which there
will be no blanks, occurs shortly.
The Blue Cross fund has apparently stirred
more local interest in every brand of Horse,
including the long-suffering cab hack. Let-
ters “to the Editor” teem with suggestions
that travelling stock should get something to
wet their lips on long train journeys. Some
kind of shade for the dejected beasts that
stand on cab ranks by the hour, under a blaz-
ing sun, has been urged by Mr. Lindsay
Thompson. Sunbonnets it is suggested,
would be a good deal better than nothing.
Made of rush, like the cheap garden hats,
they could easily be taken off by cabby when
a fare came along. This is the era ot
leagues, and all kinds of associations spring
up like mushrooms in a day. A society for
the prevention of sunstroke to cab-horses is
one of the few that are not passing resolu-
tions behind a table and a water-bottle jnst
now.
F. C. Covers, of the N.S.W. Tourist office,
went to ’Frisco in the Makura .in . response
to an urgent cable from ex-politician Niel-
sen. The departed Covers is to act .as
representative of the Water Conservation
and Irrigation Commission. Deakin, Nielsen,
Quinn, Niesigli, and now Covers—it looks
as though Australia had an idea of taking
Uncle Sam by force of . arms. Thank
heavens Percy Hunter is still with us.
The officious women who dash at total
strangers in the streets, and drive or goad
them to the nearest recruiting tents, get some
nasty rebuffs now and then. One English
busybody is reported to have been given
a lot of rope by a captive she led in triumph
to the Horse Guards’ Parade. ‘ What
name?” asked the recruiting officer. “Cap-
tain Such and Such.” “Captain of what?”
“The Fusiliers.” “Wlitere are you
from?” “Just back from Ypres!” Tableau.
Souter’s war cartoons will cover the walls
of the Society of Artists’ room in Queen
Victoria Markets till February 27. The
decorative artist, who details the main
features of the uproar in Europe in 30 or
so black-and-whites, .serves up Wilhelm s
moustache with all kinds of sauce.
Captain Everard Digby, who abides here
in days of peace, is gazetted Major in the
7th Battalion of the Bedfordsliires.. A few
weeks ago they were in hard training at
Aldershot. ' ,
The concert season is taking its annual
holiday. The shoals of small musical efforts
that usually haunt this city in the wet-night
months may have to yield before the rush
for war funds. But the long-haired tribe,
which is only beginning to struggle back to
heated studios, is going to put up a good
fight for a bit of jam on its crust when the
latter days of March come this way.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
It is suggested that as a centenary memorial to
Henry Parkes the junction of the streets about the
S. M. Herald office be christened Parkes's Corner.
Why, the suggestors don’t, and cannot, say. Parkes
certainly had his toy shop in Hunter-street, in the
early ’so’s, before the Herald office was built.
Otherwise there is nothing to connect him with the
junction of that thoroughfare with Pitt-street. The
Fairfaxes, who made the corner, might establish
a better claim if the place needed a name. But there
are two other historic personages to be considered.
The first parson, Richard Johnson, had his house and
orchard on the S.W. corner of Hunter and Pitt
street, now the site of the Empire pub.; and Cap-
tain Richard Brooks, a marine trader of a century
ago, owned the corner on which the Union Bank
stands.


HARDY BROTHERS I™
VICH-REGAL
ä
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
HARDY BROS. LTD. TRAVELLING BAGS ARE OF THE BEST
ENGLISH MANUFACTURE. AND COMBINE STRENGTH
WITH SUITABLE AND HIGHLY-FINISHED FITTINGS.
THESE ARE SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR PRESENTATION
Gen 11 em a n’s
Travelling Bag
SOLID LEATHER CASE. 24in.
LONG, LEATHER LINED,
FITTED WITH SOLID SILVER
THROUGHOUT.
Pair Silver Hair
Brushes, Silver Hat
and Cloth Brushes,
Four Silver-
mo unted Bottles,
S i I v e r - m o unted
Soap Box, Mirror,
Comh, Razors anJi
Strop.
£l7lO/-
-....4U
slwsr- ■
r*v. ■
tip
h Aroy
Cl
I
VVE HAVE A LARGE VARIETY OF TRAVELLING BAGS
FITTED IN IVORY, SOLID SILVER AND EBONY, A!v D
SHALL BE PLEASED TO SEND A COPY OF CUR
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE GIVING FULL PARTICULARS
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY; 116-113 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
LONDON AGENCY:
32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET W.
MUSIC
THAT IS
INDISPENSIBLE FOR TEACHERS.
JOHNSTONE’S PIANO TUTOR
SO SIMPLE. SO RAPID. SO THOROUGH.
2/6 ; posted 2/9.
IMPORTANT
NEW MELODIOUS STUDIES
BY
JAQUES RENDANO.
A prominent teacher writes : “ Why did we not have these Studies by Rendano
years ago ? They would have saved many headaches to both Teacher and Pupil
they are just the thing.”
Rendano’s Studies come after the Tutor, and are published in 3 Volumes
Price 1/6 nett, each.
MELBA
RECOMMENDS
MORELL’S TUTOR
She says : “The advanced Student must benefit by its perusal, and the merest novice
in vocal art can readily understand its whole scheme for artistic development.”
Price 4/-; posted 4/4
å
ā
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And ADELAIDE, BENDIGO. GEELONG.
THE STEINWAY,
STECK,
STROUD,
and
FAMOUS WEBER
PIANOLA PIANOS
null]
ssw
m
•sm
THE STEINWAY,
STECK,
STROUD,
and
FAMOUS WEBER
PIANOLA PIANOS
The Greatest Piano Value in the World.
WE SAY it advisedly—the Genuine Pianola Piano is the GREATEST PIANO VALUE IN THE WORLD.
The Pianola Piano is so fine in tone, so true in scale, so responsive in action, so beautiful in architecture, and so durable withal,
that musicians of world renown enthusiastically and publicly endorse it.
When musicians of the calibre of I. J. Paderewski, Sir Henry J. Wood, Moriz Rosenthal, Maurice Moszkowski, Cecile 01iamina.de and Arthur
Nikisch set the stamp of their approval on a pianoforte, its status as a truly exceptional instrument is permanently established.
The Pianola Piano is splendid value as a piano, but this instrument is much more than a piano. The wonderful roll-playing action it
contains, and which allows everyone to play it, is the genuine Pianola action, pre-eminently the best thing of its kind in the markets of the
world. Practically every great musician alive to-day has given unqualified support to this statement.
THE PIANOLA
from 120 Guineas.
PIANO
Tin's price establishes its value as the greatest that can be obtained.
Whereas, in player quality —in the advantages it otters for roll-
playing —there is no instrument on the market to-day, irrespective
of name and price, that can approach it in simplicity, efficiency and
artistic capability.
If you are considering the purchase of any Upright Piano whatever,
avc cordially invite yon to investigate the Pianola Piano before you
make a purchase.
\ Payment of but £5 will Secure Delivery of the Stroud Pianola.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
"-h e Largest Manufacturers o/"
Musical Instruments in the World,”
384 GEORGE STREET, opp. Beard, Watson’s, SYDNEY.


Distinctive Footwear
The boot illustrated is one of the famous Geo. E.
Keith’s exclusive shapes, made expressly for Farmer’s.
Supplied in White Nubuck, Patent Coltskin Golosh,
with Mole or Grey Suede tons and all Patent Leathers;
in half-sizes and' two-fittings. Sizes 5 to 10. Prices
as follow: —
URI 4 White Nubuck Blue her and Balmoral
Boots 37/6
UR 15 Patent Coltskin Lace Boots, with Mole or
Grey Suede tops 37 / 6
URI - All Patent, in Oxford and Derby
styles • • '^• > / *
Please quote number when ordering.
FAKMEK’S,
Sydney.
Pitt, Market S George Streets.
at FARMER’S
ă
ą
Its threatened submarine villainy should
prove Germany’s own further undoing W
antagonising neutrals. Anyway such hope i»
insnired both by the spirit of justice a * nd that
of King George IV. top-notch Scotch.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, February 22, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Futurity Stakes at Caulfield attracted
a big field of society blood-stock. The
squatter folk surged along as usual, the
women all stewing bravely in their new
Autumn clothes. The vice-regal crate was
well packed with distinguished non-unionists.
The G.-G.’s lady inspected the world through
a lorgnette with dark tortoiseshell rims, ft
gave her eyes such a startling motor-goggle
look that I forgot to peer closely at her
clothes; so you will never know what she
had on. The new Genthelp's wife, Mrs.
Fane, made me think fondly of cocoanut ice
in a creamy white frock, pink sash and pink
hat. (This reads like a race-card, but 1
can’t help it.) Some man with a leaden
foot must have trodden on the lace flounces,
because when the lady promenaded later
with his Ex., several inches of tatters
snaked along after her. The G.-G. looked
happy and at his ease in a grey lounge suit.
When he got away from the birdcage, he
flattened himself against the Club box and
yarned to Mrs. Woodford, who hung herself
out above him in a Juliet attitude and a
dress made, I think, of a fine large white
bath towel.
The try-out of the new horse, Flash of
•Steel, caused the same . excitement as I' al-
kiner’s Land of Song had brewed at the
previous meeting. As you know, the animal
flashed home amid roars. It belongs to
Clive Baillieu’s future father-in-law —the
wealthy Clarke who has been for years in
England and is the partner of the share-
dealing Robinson. Miss Clarke was on hand
dressed in a cool and dainty ‘9111)” frock, and
fiance Baillieu lingered close by. All the
Baillieux loyally cheered the horse of
their future relative, but moaned in private
over the downfall of Baverstock, their own
family horse in the same race. Mrs. Willie
Robinson beamed her approval of the win
in a startling white-and-black brocade race
coat.
The afternoon tea parties were well
attended. Champagne had bubbled too
freely at lunch, for so hot a day, and (for
the time being, anyhow) everybody was keen
on the cup that doesn’t sting. Women
mopped hopelessly at flushed faces, and all
over the place foolish creatures were dab-
bling their 1 ips with rouge sticks. It seemed
to me an unnecessary painting of the
boiled lobster. Dr Joyce was out
doing duty after the disastrous jump-
ing race. Mrs. Joyce, up and about
after an illness of three months, looked
rather ghostly in white muslin and \ alen-
ciennes. The Dewar Thiels had a tea party
at which they smiled as if luck had blessed
their betting tickets. Some Unknown almost
caused a panic by doing the lawn in a huge
fashionable fur coat. It was as harrowing
as watching a severe test of strength. Mrs.
Leslie Macdonald came out in a hat made
of three square inches of hard black straw
and a wreath of baby roses. Like the wicked
pill-box of last Saturday, it was evidently
designed as an Autumn fashion for a land
of frostbite and walruses.
No more will be heard of the case for
damages in which one charmer charged the
other charmer with committing assault and
battery, whilst their joint gentleman friend
stood by to see unfair play. The case was
settled out of court. Rumor seems uncertain
as to the cash terms of settlement, but
lawyer Joe Woolf, who appeared _ for the
avenging angel, wears a broad, significant
smile.
Maggie Stirling’s daughter, Mary Riddell,
was married, on Tuesday, 16th, at St. John’s,
Toorak, to Dr. Patrick Groom. The doctor
had been so much to the altar in the capacity
of best man, that everyone knew he would
sooner or later be fired with the ambition
to play lead. Mary, who nearly always
wears a smile and two big dimples, is a
general favorite, and Mrs. Ross-Soden, of
Grong Grong, gave her a high-toned wedding
party, so that her friends could gather
round and demonstrate. Melba came to
town specially for the convulsion, and looked
impressive in severe black, with a hawser of
pearls round her priceless neck. Airs.
Lempriere was with her, also in black. The
show of presents suggested that a pawn-
shop had burst and strewed its contents over
the house. The only things missing were the
sign and the Hebrew who stands underneath
it. Bride Mary wore—but why go into details
about her? Four maids in various colors
like asters helped her to look heavenly.
Asters glowed all over the house and blew
in the garden. There were nearly a thou-
sand people treading on one another’s feet,
and some of them tasted the wine just as if
they had paid for it. Maggie Stirling
towered magnificently above most of the
guests. Mrs. Ross-Soden raised three cheers
bv putting ivory feathers above black taffeta.
Mrs. Carse (of the Falkiner clan) wore a
soft-music costume, the prescription for
which was cloth of gold under black bro-
caded chiffon, with a top dressing of jewels,
ornaments and (I think) cheque-books.
Mrs. Gerald Buckland looked like Mercia in
snowy white. And there were some beautiful
groomsmen, tall and sleek and suave, who
helped serve tea in a dreamy way, like angel-
waiters.
The G.-G. has just acquired a new Gent-
lielp—Captain Fane, a British army officer
who has been in this country hardly more
than a week. Mrs. Fane is small and fair —
one of the Dresden China type. They have
a newly-wed look about them —hut that may
merely be the effect of their extremely youth-
ful appearance. The Captain belongs to the
English family of Westmillans; hut that
hasn’t protected him or his wife from the
fierce smell -of hash that beats upon the
lodger. The spare rooms at Government
House being nearly all cluttered up with
Red Cross supplies, the illustrious pair have
had to put up at an adjacent guestery in
South Yarra.
State Governor Galway, of South Aus., is
coming across to Melbourne to visit brother
cocked-hat Stanley and nurse an injured foot.
The accident to the limb happened in the
course of a speech he made at the Urailda
Show.
The artists are doing their best for the
Belgian -and Red Cross Funds. The
Athenaeum is to be baited with a hundred
good pictures, and when the public swims in
and tries to bite, it will find that the show
is a patriotic art union in which the tickets
are a mere five-guineas each. The lucky
prize-winners will be entitled to select their
pictures—in the order of the prizes, of
course.
It is never too late to mime. Dorothy
Vane Menzies is dancing with delight, because
she is to get a chance on Her Majesty’s stage
again early in March.
Artist Longstaff has three sons at the
front drawing the enemy’s fire.
Amid cheers and fond cat-calls, the Pursey
Chirnsides left with a mountain of luggage
by the Osterley last week. They are con-
ducting son Percy (an 18-year-old adven-
turer) to the back of the front. Mother
probably hopes to be allowed to fur-line the
youngster’s bit of trench and supply him
with pearls to cast before the Germans, so
that he can shoot them comfortably while
they are rooting the treasure out of the mud.
Another youth who is travelling first
saloon to the trouble is young Ham, of Ivew.
Mrs. Hudson Marsdep, widow of the late
Government Architect, is living quietly at
Macedon. One young Australian son has
been appointed Lieutenant-Commander of the
Swiftsure —a flagship of the British fleet,
lie is in charge of three “units” on the Suez
Canal. Another son is resident surgeon in a
South of England hospital which is patching-
up soldiers broken in the wars.
The .Tunoesque widow of Sol Graupner
has become engaged to Captain Russell Jack-
son, at present in charge of the s.s. Wallaby,
now engaged taking Australian troop? to
Thibet. (If it’s not the Wallaby it may be
the Emu, and I'm not sure about the
Thibet.) The marriage—war and kindred
circumstances permitting-—will take place in
April. Before she became the wife of Solo-
mon, the lady was Kitty Boyes. She is a
sister of the blue-eyed blonde who recently
said she would to Edward Dyson.
An Australian girl, writing from England
of a much-advertised act of generosity, says :
“The American Santa Claus Ship was a
frantic sell —a mere cargo of old clothes,
some of which weren’t even clean. The
toys were of the most trumpery kind. The
Belgian refugee kiddies would have
wept aloud had not the various local mayors,
who had undertaken to distribute the
wretched -gifts, generously spent some of
their own money on presents worth having.”
Where does the United Fakes of America
keep that Great Big Heart its writers are
always blithering about?
The cabled news of cheery young
Osborne O’Hara’s death during action will
hit the clan very hard. The young man’s
relatives have idolised him ever since he
tripped down here on long leave to pay a
visit. He was the only child of Surgeon
O’Hara by his second wife —she had been
Bella Osborne —who died during the boy’s
infancy. He was then adopted by bis grand-
parents. the late Mr. and Mrs. Osborne, of
Brighton, who provided handsomely for him.
Rupert Clarke, having got one trouble off
his hands, is determined to go to the minor
affair that is disturbing Europe. He declares
that if they will not pass him because he is
only a thoughtless boy of bO or so. he will
fit out a hospital and get somewhere near
the guns, with the help of the Red Cross.
As Rupert’s income is £40.000 or so per
annum, a few beds and waggons mean
nothing much to him.
Young R, 11. Chester, of the Central Fly-
ing School at Point Cook, the other day took
to wife Lybus Caffyn, a fair young Aus-
tralian who has been an ornament to several
,T. C. Williamson opera companies, and has
done well in parts of no great magnitude.
The “I will” was said at St. Andrew’s, South
Yarra, and they are ’mooning in Adelaide.
Melbourne City Council had its little joke
the other day.. After the display of bad
oratory called the quarterly luncheon, when
the council met the Gaud Mayor had not
arrived. Thereon an ancient alderman was
forcibly installed in the chair, and he moved
the unconsciously wise proposal that the
council should adjourn for 1 L months. Out
of the mouths of aldermen cometh wisdom —
once in 10 years or so.
The Melbourne girl who made a Repertory
reputation as Lea Halinbourg, and is now
on the professional stage, has dropped the
“bonrg.” Henceforth she is Leonore Ilallin.
Pianist Eva Staer has returned from Ger-
many. She was in Leipsic when the war
started, and was detained for several weeks
until, with others, she was swapped for some
German females in England. M hen the
trouble started she was sent to Berlin, had
to report herself every three days, and was
not allowed to travel outside a three-mile
radius. A fellow-student —an indiscreet
English miss—was taken in the crime of dis-
tributing cigarettes to captured Atkinses and
got six days’ “‘solitary.”
May Worth has departed from the Muriel
Starr company, in which, so it was alleged,
she was not deliciously happy. On her last
appearance in "Bought and Paid For, ’ she
was bombarded with vegetable tributes, and
while she faced the audience, overcome with
emotion of some sort, Muriel Starr was
seized with a rush of affection to the head,
and, impulsively flinging her arms round
May’s neck, imprinted a passionate kiss on
her' dear sister’s grease-paint. May was
thereupon overcome some more, and every-
body applauded frantically, and agreed that
the rumors were Base Fabrications. Still,
May has gone.
Leaping tennis players will be interested
in this matrimonial match (doubles) Nana
Baker and Billy Daish versus Better and
Worse. Billy is Secretary for the tennis
section of the Melbourne Cricket Club,, and
Nana is the sister of sharebroker Linley
Baker, who is hon. sec. of the South Yarra
Tennis Club. •
Mrs. Tom Lorimer, of . Gisborne, has
announced, with due solemnity, the engage-
ment of daughter Marjorie Dunn (daughter
of the late Alfred Dunn, architect,. of Mel-
bourne) to Dr. Norman Lennox-Spiers. son
of the late James Spiers, of Elsternwick.
Flourish of trumpets, please! The engage-
ment of Muffle lluon of this side, to Ken
Fields, of a Tasmanian family, is formally
announced; and if the information doesn’t
make the kings of the earth sit up. it will
only be because they are too preoccupied
making war on one another. The new r s was
spread for the first time at the Toorak wed-
ding of singer Mary Stirling Riddell to Dr.
Groom. The marriage date has not yet been
fixed, but it will be early.
Sylvia Ffrench, the sweet-voiced girl who
was petted and fussed over by Melba, is in
Melbourne for the races. Her newly-acquired
husband, squatter Charlie Mills, is at her fair
elbow, and the two have been idling through
the off-davs at Coombe Cottage in the hills.
(The “off-days” are the days when no race-
horses are inciting bookmakers and backers
to use bad language by arriving in the wrong
order.)
Adelaide has been misbehaving in this wild
manner: —
Mrs. Hubbe and her daughter, who have been in
Europe for the last year, returned by the Medina.
She was for some time head-mistress of the Advanced
School for Girls—now the Girls’ High School—and
was one of its first teachers. Both her sons are
soldiering: one is in Egypt; the other is, at the
Broadmeadows Camp. Her husband, who was Cap-
tain of the first Bushmen’s Contingent to go from
here to the Boer War, was killed in S’Africa.
The Arthur Hills and Mrs. W. F. Stock left London
by the Orontes on February 12.
Vice-regal engagements at the moment are mostly
concerned either with one or other of the funds or
with the opening of country shows. Mekmvhile, Lady
Galway is making appeals for renewed efforts on the
part of Bed Cross workers, and is driving home the
fact that three weeks is the extreme limit of life
which war allows to a pair of socks.
Fate seems to have a special grudge to work off
on our Hills. It is only three years since Summer-
town, Forest Range and other fruit-growing and
dairying areas were swept bleak and bare by fire,
and now they have had another roasting - . A good
many orchards which were replanted , after the last
blaze have been wiped out, and a hard struggle was
needed to save some of the homesteads.
The last mail brought news that Lance Field, only
son of Stuart Field, had joined the Royal Engineers
and gone to the Front. He is an old Queen’s School
boy, who, after a year or so at the Adelaide School
of Mines and with the Tramways Trust, made his way
to England and the Westinghouse Co. He is a grand
nephew of Lieut. Field, R.N., who was commander
of the Buffalo —which brought our first settlers—
and a nephew of Mrs. Percival Stow, the “K. Langloh
Parker,” who wrote “Australian Legendary Tales”
and other Binghi literature.
The Osterley, on Friday, took Mrs. T. K. Hamilton
and her sister Miss Patton, Miss Mary Stirling and
Mrs. Winser; Mr. T. Roberts, for 30 years something
or other on our railways, was also a passenger. He
retired about eight years ago, and when the late
Henry Dutton took over James Martin and Co.’s
engineering works at Gawler he was appointed Con-
sulting Engineer.
The Rev. Henry Howard, whose son was in Berlin
at the outbreak of the war, and was consigned to a
concentration camp with Gordon Short, another South
Australian, has received news that both of them are
now out on parole.
News has come from Singapore of the death of
George Wald, who went there in 1904 as one of the
Eastern Extension Co.’s staff. He leaves a widow
and one child.
Passed out last week the wife of squatter
John Horsfall. Deceased was a gentle
woman who, ever since the death of her elder
daughter. Airs. Rupert Carrington, preferred
the seaside to the Toorak mansion. Mrs.
John Lippe, another daughter, was in town
during her mother’s last illness.
Mrs. William Deardon (she is authoress
Kathleen Watson in her literary hours) is
summering in Melbourne and trying to per-
suade herself that it is cooler than Banana
land. She has been lunching with the G.-G.
couple, because, you know, she and her hus-
band entertained the big chief at Quamby.
their forest cottage up north. The G.-G. is
keenly interested in forestry, and as Mr.
Deardon has interests in one of the biggest
timber reserves in the large State, they had
many long wooden conversations together.
Timber makes for good fellowship, and
there’s plenty of good gossip in even a sub-
urban woodheap.
Pine Lodge, at Richmond, once the home
of George Coppin, has been purchased by
a motor-’bus co., and is being turned into a
garage. Since the old man died the place
had been mostly used as a nurses’ home.
A woman in Wanganui (M.L.) estab-
lished the record for 1914. During the 12
months she took 377 books out of the local
library and devoured the lot. Books on
cookery? Don’t talk nonsense! Fiction,
every one.
Charlie Wallace has lately been blowing
round the edge of Tasmania in a white-
winged yacht. At present he and his wife
are located at a Collins-street hotel, and all
Mrs. Charlie’s relations —the Lrauharts, of
the Western District —have joined them
there. They put in most of their time at
race-time parties.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme recently stayed awhile
at the Herbert Symes’ private island, which
sits amongst the placid Gippsland Lakes.
But do not seek her there, for she has gone,
motor and all. to Sydney. I believe she is
now roosting high in the Hotel Australia.
But be comforted ! She will return to Mel-
bourne in time to see some horse win the
Newmarket.
1 hear that Florence Winter-Irvine and
her Turkish hubby have left Constantinople,
where the naval guns are booming, and gone
to Berlin, where they are staying with the
Winter-Irvine sister who wedded a German
baron. The baronstormer has had a few
bouquets of British shrapnel flung at him.
and was resting in hospital when last heard
of. Though he is supposed to act with a
regiment of Foot Guards, he has had three
horses shot under him. It prompts a catch
query: Whose feet do the Foot Guards
guard? The answer seems to be: Their
own —by riding.
O’Loughlin, of Warrenheip, Count of the
Holy Roman Empire, whose wealth causes
Ballarat to live in a state -of perpetual
astonishment, is going to live in Melbourne
for the future. He has paid £12,000 for
Goathlands, where Malcolm • McEacharn
lived of yore, and will presently move in
with his wife and worldly belongings. He has
enough motor-cars to transport a regiment,
and now there is even talk of a hangar being
built, and a flight of aircraft, which may or
may not include a Zeppelin. I suppose that
everv Papal count ought to learn to fly.
The John Grice matron, with her brace
(or should it be covey?) of daughters, and
Dr. Mac Mullen’s chick Betty have ferried to
the Flyspeck. They have been allowed a week’s
start by Father, who is on the scratch mark.
Leslie Macdonald was confined to his
Cliveden barracks for some recent days by a
pain in his backbone. (Leslie is no poli-
tician, you know.) The damage was done
whilst he was getting out of the bath: a
smear of soap on the glassy floor upset him,
and he fell like Rome, only faster.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
Premier Scaddan (W.A.) recently blow
into Albany, and after refreshments he
arose and breezily told his audience that
although things were far from good they
would get much worse before they im-
proved. One way and another he had
arranged to keep the pot boiling till October,
but after that it might not be possible to
even keep the utensil warm. And then the
fool audience stood up on its unsteady legs
and cheered him. It is fortunate he was
not optimistic, or they might have torn him
to pieces in their delight.
The famous Orpen picture, “Sowing New
Seed,” has quietly disappeared from Ade-
laide Art Gallery. When the Board of Gov-
ernors hung it, to see what the public would
say, the response was immediate and wide-
spread and fierce. The newspaper contro-
versy was killed by the war, but various
members of the Board never gave up oppo-
sition to the picture, and they have now
fallen back on the offer of Miss Rose
Macpherson—the S.A. painter who bought
the thing in England —to get it exchanged
for another and less earicaturish Orpen.
The N. S. Wales law dealing with men
who desert their wives, and leave their
dependents without support, has been vastly
improved by the Holman Government; but
still it works rather badly. The man who
goes to gaol for failure to make the provision
the Court orders doesn’t loaf there in idle-
ness. He is put to work which yields cash,
and some thereof is paid to the prisoner’s
dependents. But. as the payment allowed
for the work is only 19s. Gd. a week, and
as the State deducts 10s. 6d. for the
prisoner’s keep, there remains only a balance
of 9s. per week. Most women would do
without that rather than send their hus-
bands to gaol. The consequence is that,
while as a threat to deserters the law has
great usefulness, the most deserving women
are not benefited at all.
Robert Lucas Tooth, first baronet of the
name, who died in England last week, aged
71, was a Sydney native, born in 1844 in
Parramatta-street, now George-street M est.
He was the son of Edwin Tooth, the junior
partner in the then firm of R. and E.
Tooth. His father and Uncle Robert had
come from England the previous year to
take up the management of the brewery then
known as Newenham and Tooth’s. Great
success followed the gold rushes, and the
brothers provided themselves with suburban
homes. Edwin built Cranbrook —now the
State Government House —and Robert built
Brooksby, at Double Bay. The late baronet
in 1873 married his cousin, a daughter ot
Frederick Tooth. Two of their sons have
been killed in the present war. _ and a third
son. who gets the title, is also in the army-
Tn 1879 R. L. Tooth contested the Last
Sydney seat against Dr. Renwick and
beaten. He. however, won Monaro next
year and sat till 1884. Shortly after tha
he went to live in England, away from tne
smell of the beer, and splash his money.


DEWAR
MHbbi
■
: HI
>:T*
Up
: ."i:
A
mil
-
i *
- j
jam
: ; : :
§.. M
. ■
.
■
■Wall
: mm
m
H
■■■ran
I HI
:HH
|
HM
■.it im
■
■
1% i
•*/» **
• I * * I.
* ;l f
. ■
Hi
i• ■ m
W
■■■l
HiM' -
H m
m
i phsi
i||l litlli
I■
I ..
: ■
r :
m
■>*—r-w
18
: v
'
wm 1
■
HUB
■■
m
■
V
HI
1 I
IHP
■1
1
■
mmm
& S
np
gMMPMffiSS
V'"
»
Copyright ,
“FIRST AND FOREMOST”
REPRODUCED FROM THE ORIGINAL PAINTING IN THE POSSESSION OF
JOHN DEWAR & SONS, L™" scotch whisky Distillers, Perth & London


a
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
appointment
ǻ
TO
H.IWI. THE KINGL
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Kemoves Stains and Grease Spots from Clothine, Etc.
. . Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine -without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
æ
• ud
"TOP NOTCH'
<ScotdfWlia's
6<&<Au
3wlik
THE "TOP NOTCH” SCOTCH.
“KING GEORGE IV.
WHISKY.
A UNIFORM STANDARD of QUALITY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
.The old theory that, though a horse may
not allow for the width of the vehicle it draws, yet
it will always avoid an obstacle itself, has received
a blow in Adelaide, where a bolting' animal, after
getting rid of its vehicle, charged straight into a
tramcar and practically cut its silly head off.
Dear bully.
[?] South Australia there is
a spot where they sell beer [?]
the round this is [?]
[?] yours
[?]
Constant TV riter” : The noisiest watch-
dog I've ever known was a seagull. ' It patrolled a
lawn in a seaside suburb, and refused without bark-
ing and attempting to bite to allow anyone to open
the gate. The bare-kneed kiddies of the neighborhood
li\ed in terror of the bird. For the bark the gull
had copied a lively little “Sydney silky’’ terrier kept
in the same house. The rhythm was followed exactly,
but the bird’s voice-production always seemed offen-
sively raucous.
* * * *
“Bidgee Cod”: The question whether the
Burrinjuck Dam is going to be of good or evil service
to the cockies of the Lower Murrumbidgee is still
undecided. AVith a fall in the navigable river come
loud and frequent curses from the cockies that
Burrinjuck keeps back the lawful juice from the
lowet reaches. When the stream has almost gone
thankfulness is general for an occasional flush from
the weir. Hitherto the Riverina has suffered through
the absence of a dependable stream; but this latest
dry spell has proved the dam to have certain definite
virtues, apart from its value to the Yanko settle-
ment, for a trickle still saunters along via Hay or
Balranald. The pumps, by the way, are offering fine
rich soup to the growing plants, as heaps of animal
matter from the flocks and herds which give up the
ghost on the banks of the Bidgee impregnate the
river liquid.
"Hamer” : I met it tirst in the tram. Its
on]}' resemblance to a shilling was its size. The
design had worn off both sides, and a tram had run
over it at full speed. Also it had been to the war,
down in a shipwreck and through a mangle. Further,
as a distinguishing mark, it had a brand like crossed
swords cut on one side. I wanted to mention all this
to the guard who gave it to me, but he said “Change
right” and slipped away. The feeling that the
blessed thing wasn’t right haunted me; so when,
shortly after leaving the tram, I met Jones, I asked
him to drink. The barmaid took the coin and
two coppers without comment, but next time she
went to the cash register something seemed to catch
her eye. I could see she was worried. Jones
shouted and got change for his half-crown. He
protested, but the barmaid said it was a good
shilling. W hen we got outside Jones inspected the
coin and said he was sure it was bad. I could see
it worried him just as it had me and the barmaid,
and he suggested another drink. Jones assured a
suspicious barman that the shilling was good, but
the barman said it was no good to him, and, to
avoid a scene, Jones had to produce another. I
could see Jones was wild. He said he had got that
coin from a pub., and a pub. was going to get it.
The next Bung took it quietly, but wore a hunted
look two or three minutes later. Then I shouted,
and, as I had nothing less than two shillings, the
coin almost jumped back to me. When 1 objected,
Bung pointed out that he had just received the
bob from my friend. It took us three more pubs,
to get rid of the thing. Then Jones recklessly
bought a paper. The paper boy changed two shil-
lings for him, and scooted in a hurry to catch a
tram. The shilling was back on poor old Jones
again. After much difficulty we parted with it at
a Dago restaurant, but Jones since assures me he
must have got it back at a later pub. the same
night. lie passed it on to a tramguard next morn-
ing. I m keeping a stock of pennies now for
tramfares. That battered old deener seems to be
a circulating marvel, and it’s amazing how restless
everyone who gets it is to pass the burden on. I
don’t know what it cost Jones; but I know it cost
me all I’d got.
Oimai”: The hospitality of Papuans in
the matter of spare wives for visitors is, or was,
prevalent pretty well all over the Possession. Sir
William Mnegregor has left it on record that on his
first visit to the Trobriands he had to post police
sentries to shoo embarrassing generosity in this
legard off the premises. Albert Maclaren, Papua’s
first Bishop, once questioned Macgregor as to the
accuracy of the statement. “Is it true the aban-
doned wretches attempted to enter your very tent?”
“Ay, ay,” was the reply. “And that you had
no sleep all night, with having to turn them
away?” “Weel”—long pause—“l’m no prepared tae
sweer that.”
* * * *
X.P.D. ’: The adult males amongst the
Motu inhabitants of the Port Moresby (Papua)
villages are an idle crowd, but occasionally they can
be industrious potters. I've seen them lash sailing
canoes together to make gigantic rafts, put a cargo
of pots aboard, and set out to swap them for the
year’s supply of sago with the black Hebrews of
Kiwai and thereabout. These trips last a month
or two, or less. The women are in-
defatigable potters, and never allow
anything to interrupt the work except
that they may take a day or two
off to introduce baby. A really good
pot-maker can turn out vessels which,
till you examine them closely, look
to be as true as if turned on a potter’s
wheel. The special clay used hag to
be humped a good way, On delivery,
diy, it is thi'own into an old canoe
otl the beach, powdered and made into
tt stiff paste with water. When it is
like putty the women mould it into
basin-shape over the bottom of a
finished pot. IVhen the stuff has been
well whacked it is burned in an open
fire and crudely glazed while hot with
a decoction of mangrove-bark. If the
pot is to be the shape of a cannon-ball,
with a small opening at the top,’
two of the bowl-shaped things are
welded, while in the putty stage, with
their edges together, and the bottom
pulled out of one to make the mouth
of the vessel. When the women-
potters get a good go on the
pat-pat of their little flat sticks
IS like the rattle of riveters. Some white
men in the country can tell to within a few miles
where a pot comes from as easily as a collector of
o a China distinguishes wedgewood from Dresden,
lhe totemic idea, by the way, is found in pottery
the same as it is in wood-carvings.
“Quill”: Mention (B. 4/2/15)* that
women and children at Greymouth (M.L.) can earn
shmv* n Pe L ker ° Sene tin ” by catchin S whitebait
shows how the price of living is going up. I can
remember the time when sixpence would buy a
bucketful of whitebait at Greymouth, and there’s
enough in a bucket to feed at least four High Com-
missioners In those days the little fish used to
ThT Tm I river in spri "S time by the million.
Jnnht i a a h f Shmen 0f a cannir ‘£ factory has, no
doubt led to a much greater demand, and made it
arTtn J°f T 'IT* Catchin S them - Whitebait
aie to be found at the mouth of nearly every Maori-
land river in September, but there are two places
wheie the supply is prodigious—at the mouths of the
Grey and the Waikato. In a lesser degree the Mana-
watu and Wairau furnish plentiful harvests. At the
two first-named places the fish are caught in tons
fumed bait is all very well, but people who’ve
camped alongside the fresh article are never able tl
identify by taste what the tins contain. Thev have
to rely on the label. “ ave
THE WRONG BOLT.
BOSS: “Look out for that mare, Jack)', she'll bolt with you."
J ACK: "Cripe, boss, that not too bad! That fella horse I bin ride yesterdee he
bolt without me.”
“Tiaki ’ : If Henare of this generation
gets to the Front he may, possibly, demonstrate to
us the physical insensibility to pain for which his
forefathers were noted. Old Hetaraka Repa, in 1842,
was skirmishing one night, when a bullet took him
above the muscles of the back. Did he call up the
Red Cross ? Not much. He skirmished round that
pa all night, in a fearful downpour of rain, look-
ing for uto, which is revenge. Another old chap
was ramming a charge down an elderly cannon that
he had forgotten to sponge. His arm and the oar
he was using as a ramrod disappeared in the dis-
tance. He attended to his office duties as usual in
three weeks. Olice , I had a Ngapuhi girl, 17 years
old* on my hands,, with the ball of her foot torn
away. I poured arnica into the wound and ban-
daged it. She merely slatted her eyes a little
and puffed a larger cloud of smoke. Havelock Ell's,
in “The Criminal,” mentions that it was net
unusual for Henare to lop off a toe joint or so in
order to get a flash pair of boots to envelop his
pedals. In the same work on crime Ellis mentions
a Mabri who had a pike-pole thrust right through
his breast, coming out at the shoulder. In three
weeks he was as busy as ever. One aged warrior,
who had had the whole of his bottom jaw shot
away, lived for years and fed himself in seclusion
by pushing mashed 1 sustenance down his throat with
two sticks. Henare, however, has had a lot of
white man’s luxuries since then, and doesn’t repair
so rapidly.
* .* * *
“Ricardo”: About a year ago Gilruth,
Administrator of the Territory, supported an applica-
tion for a vote in aid of a sheep station at Mata-
ranka, On Bittern Creek. Treasurer Forrest said the
idea was no good and flung cold water on it. Sheep
wouldn t par- there, he said. For all that, sheep were
sent, without Government help. Now Gilruth tells
Mahon, the new Minister of External Affairs, that the
beasts have done exceedingly well, and on that Mahon
approves of a grant of £5OO for fencing. Gilruth
points out that in Westralia sheep prosper as far
north as Derby, which isn’t far south of Mataranka,
and in Queensland they are doing all right not more
than 200 miles further south. “If the pastoral in-
terest is to depend on cattle,” says he, “the holdings
must be large, and we’ll never have any people to
speak of.” Should Mataranka prove successful it will
stimulate sheep breeding, particularly along the
Roper and country which the railway will ultimately
tiaverse. And then, if southern experience is any-
thing to go by, the selector will come tailing after
the sheep. Twenty-five years ago it was said that the
idea of men living on 10,240 acres in the Far West
of N. S. Wales was quite mad. Now it wouldn’t be
hard to find 20 men who could pile up half a million
in money between them, and the start of it all was
made out of these 10,240-acre blocks.
“Retlaw”: “There’s one fine thing this
war has done,” remarked the way-back sergeant of
police. “It’s scattered the gangs of loafing half-
castes from some of the blacks’ camps. When
orders came from headquarters that volunteers for
service were to report to the local police stations, I
took a bunch of application forms and proceeded to
the camp. About 10 full-bloods were receiving
DOING IT BY PROXY.
DANIEL THE DROUGHTY: “ Kind lady, can
you gimme work? I ain't done any fer
munee aid munce! ”
LADY OF THE H OUSE: “Perhaps I could find
something for you. What could you do?"
DANIEL: “ Tank y', lady. If you could give
me some wash in' ler do I could take it
'ome to me wife."
rations, but about 30 mixed-bloods were more than
sharing them. I bailed up the shandy-gaff niggers,
produced the forms, and explained that I was ordered
to send them all along to the military camp, en
route to the war, and I’d be back next day to collect
them. They beat all track records that night.”
(Continued on page 2Jj.)
YOGA SAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the Coral Island, through the tropic night,
All the pearlers gathered, brown-skinned men and
white,
When the moon was shining on the Coral Sea
Swilled their grog, and shouted songs of revelry.
A oga San had come there, ’cross the seas from Kobe,
With her paint and powder, scarf, and ’broidered
obi;
Spray of Almond Blossom blown from far Japan,
Smiling at the pearlers, fluttering her fan.
There were breezes blowing from the Orient,
Laden with the heady frangipani scent;
There were oaths and laughter—men were drinking
free,
Weary of the diving, weary of the sea.
Yoga San was piquant, Yoga San was quaint,
Yoga San was brilliant in her scarlet paint ;
And the men were eager, each to risk his life
For the prize, and gamble with the cards or knife.
Then a young man whispered—he was blithe and
bonny,
Fresh among the islands, hailed as “Sydney Johnny.”
Johnny was a youngster with a pile of cash,
Lured by Northern glamor on adventures rash.
“I have strings of pearls, I have gold as well,
I have seven luggers gathering the shell;
Seven pearling luggers, sailing far and wide,
Back they’ll roll with treasure, for the pearler’s
bride.”
Yoga San was gracious—there was little speech
When they watched this fireflies on the languid
beach ;
There were palms and coral, and the moon was
bright,
There were joys and splendors in the tropic night.
On the Coral Island, when a week was o’er,
Peter found a body that was washed ashore.’
Deal men tell no stories. “By the powers that be,”
Said the Danish sailor, “Johnny’s drowned at sea.”
Yoga San was sorry, Yoga San was sad,
Johnnyi was a handsome and a wealthy lad ;
But that night, at sunset, with the sailor man
Yoga San was smiling, fluttering her fan.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


Oa
M 2;
tesi
V?
11111
SISK
W:<
IP
nn
;
- V'*
»* J-%
«sa>
:•/:-. J
m
SeaME
ss£*}hfsr
I
IMP
i s
gtsS
The JAEGER CO. is BRITISH
a ni under British Control.
“Jaeger” Underwear is guaranteed by 30 years'
reputation and medical recommendation.
The texture is silken soft; the workmanship shows
in such points as the perfect cut, attachment of
buttons and trimmings, and in the excellent finish
of every part.
These things give “Jaeger” distinction as the
Underwear of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen.
Being fine, pure Wool, “Jaeger” affords perfect
protection against the vagaries of the Australian
climate.
Your Draper or Mercer can supply you. Beware
of Substitutes.
Jaeger
PURE WOOL
Day and Night Wear
NELSON "Banker Carbonator
1915 Model
1:1:1
■(,1,1
Kill
'i*
ii
1:1
ill*
P
The 1915 “BANKER”
is the very latest improved
Carbonating Machine on the
market.
It’s an indispensable plant
to every live, progressive
hotelkeeper.
It’s the greatest money-
maker we know of. We call
it the “BANKER” because
of its great profit-making
abilities.
Here’s an instance: —
You pay for Soda Waters
about 1/- per doz.
The “BANKER” makes
the same quantity, finest quality, at less than 3d. per
doz. You can’t get away from facts.
DON’T BE LEFT BEHIND —make the
best out of your business —get on sound, profit-making lines. oer, a
“BANKER,” It’ll place you in the front rank, increase your busi-
ness, and give you Royal Returns. £lO down will land this plant at
your door. We supply all requirements.
Nelson's Concentrated Essences and Fruit Juices
Every Fountain-Drink Supplier who appreciates the value of retaining his patrons, and desires
to increase their number, must supply the BEST DRINKS. \ ot-rnnp-pqf rpason "hv you
you serve are your best and most effective Advertisement, that is the . S-• " ■
should use onlv NELSON’S CONCENTRATED SYRUPS. ~ C£>lvp „ Trial ordprs are
To our many customers using these Flavors the goods speak for Tnal
solicited from suppliers of Fountain Drinks who are not using them, and aie con. eque . • =■
a SO Write n to us without delay if you are interested in obtaining better results. We shall be
glad to give you the benefit of our advice.
NELSON S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Also TURBOT BUILDINGS. TURBOT STREET, BRISBANE.
SUTHERLAND & CO., 632-4 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE.
-Electric Power-
We can suit your requirements
in all
Power Generating and
Transmitting Machinery.
Prime Movers, Control Gear,
Distribution Apparatus,
Dynamos, Motors, Couplings,
Machine-cut Gears, etc.
COMPLETE PLANTS
INSTALLED.
-High - Efficiency—
Gearing.
Difficult speed problems in Power
Transmission can often be solved
by the interposition of properly
SELECTED GEARS.
WE CAN QUOTE on such
propositions with SCIENTIFI-
CALLY DESIGNED and
Soundly Constructed
Double Helical Gears.
Single and Double Reduction
Worm Gearing.
Send us your inquiries.
NOYES BROS
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence St., Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PROPRIETARY LTD., 499-501 Bourke St.. Melbourne
Selling Agents-CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
STEELE (EL BAKER, Adelaide; J. W. R. GARDAM, Pertb.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH-
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL
The Gresham
is under new management and has
been made right up to date, having all
the most modern improvements.
The Sewerage System has been in-
stalled on an elaborate scale, which
overcomes Brisbane’s greatest menace.
Proprietor,
T. M. AHERN.
ǽ
Insure in the
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fi re, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid=up ... 82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents wanted. Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
mho burn 3**s put burpurg
45'
TpIPLtV
E.MASCULATO&.
™ s “ SAFETY”
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding'.
Postage Free — 45/-
My "Hints on Castrating"
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of 3Q/. to 50
Emaseulators from
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It’s FREE ~
* * * *
“Tiaki”: Henare had been arrested for
being over the Plimsol mark. At the station, when
asked his name, he shouted at the sergeant, “Ton
Upoko.” Next morning, before the Man on Top,
the clerk droned: “Ton Unoko, you are charged
with,” etc. The up-country court was loaded with
Heaare’s friends, and their howl of joy still echoes
in my ears. “Tou Upoko” is equivalent to what
a Liverpool fireman mutters to the third engineer
behind his back.
* * * *
There was an incoherent and mixed scrap
at Auckland (M.L.) the other day over a junk of
greenstone, which had been presented to Captain
Halsey, of the battleship New Zealand, when she was
in Maoriland waters. The stone, which Weighed
1751 b., was the gift of a native girl. No sooner was
it handed over, however, than a frantic Henare
appeared and declared in a burst of eloquence that
the sacred rock belonged to him. His yarn was that
it had passed from hand to hand in the tribe, and
Mere and her father were merely its temporary cus-
todians. The tearful Mere said Henare was a (Jerinan
spy, or something nearly as bad, and Halsey persuaded
the Mayor of Auckland to hold the goods until
ownership had been proved. When the argument
came into court it was shown that Mere and her dad
had been in possession of the relic for at least 25
years. Thereabouts Herfare’s case began to weai a
worried look, and presently petered cut. The green-
stone is now on its way, with Mere’s compliments, to
Captain Halsey’s ship.
TOO LATE.
FIRST BURGLAR: “ You're back soon, Bill.
What 'ave yer got?”
SECOND BILL: “Nothin'. Were too late.
'There's a receipt from the milliner on the
tab'e! ”
“The Pariah” : This strikes me as a new
line in national defence. At Mount Warrenheip
(Vie.) a fox stole upon a flock of starving sheep
and made for a small bunch of ewes and lambs.
Promptly two rams assailed the enemy, and, rush-
ing him into a terrified horde, horned him to death.
TLe part of him that was not horned was smothered
in the disorder.
UNDER-PRICED.
GIDDY OLD BOY: “ Only three and six! Evidently written by an amateur! ”
“Billy T.”: The simplicity of the Irish
peasant is the most marked characteristic of Dinny.
Byrne. Dinny is an immigrant boy, an exile from
Erin acting as valet, rouseabout, and bottle-holder
for a young gentleman of means in Melbourne. Dinny
went with his boss and several friends of the latter
to a bush camping-out in the New Year, and was
the innocent butt of the party. One night the wise
ones put up an ancient jest on the man from Ireland.
They bad killed a 4ft. brown snake during the day.
This reptile they coiled up in the bunk of Dinny
Byrne, and impatiently awaited developments. When
the exile threw back his blanket, and discovered the
snake coiled up in the bed lie gazed at it with con-
siderable interest for a moment. Then he took a
stick, and fished it out, sliding the old serpent on to
the floor. Here Dinny turned slow eyes on the
humorists. “Did yefi see the like iv that fer a
worum ever?” said be.
* * * •*
"Knoll” : Mills didn't really want to go to
the war, but his reluctance succumbed to the pressure
of public opinion. Billy was a good horseman and a
good shot, but that is not why. He was very much
in love with Agnes Carter. Agnes i- pretty, and
Agues seemed rather to like him. That accounts for
Billy's lack of ambition to be one of the first in at
Berlin. It was Jessop, of Jessop's Stores, in the
township, who first hinted that Billy Mills was just
the man to serve his country in a French trench, lie
said as much to Cairns. Later, he gave it as his
opinion that Billy Mills was a bloke who would do
credit to Australia, sniping Herman officers at Yprcs
or rougli-ridieg over a tribe of Bavarians in Belgium.
In the most casual way Jessop spread among his
customers his great admiration for the soldierly
qualities of Billy Mills. Mills Imgan to hear things
like this: “’Elio, Billy! When're yeh goin’?”
“B’lieve yiv enlisted, Billy.” “So yen off to the
war, Billy?” The thing haunted him. He found the
eye of the country upon him. Billy enlisted. He
is in Africa now. Jessop is to marry Agnes in May.
“(’blue”: The late German possessions in
Papua are not the only places in the Pacific where
the sleeping-quarters of married indentured natives
are separated only by scant and transparent parti-
tions. In the British Solomons and in many of the
islands of the East and the West Indies belonging to
various Powers the accommodation for married
couples is very much on the open-secret plan. I have
seen barracks for married niggers where the partitions
between the beds were mere withes of vegetation, the
interstices being quite three-quarters of an inch apart.
But I must say this: after living for years amongst
many discolored people—in their aboriginal state,
even where there is nothing but atmosphere separat-
ing bedded-down men and women—modesty .and mor-
ality are on a high plane. There could not be found
on the earth women with a finer sense of delicacy and
modesty than the Malayan and the Australian aborigi-
nal women. It is only after they come within the
influence of the whites that these virtues deteriorate.
“Moana”: Here’s a Maoriland tally that.
will take some beating'. At Mangaohane station,
Hawkes Bay, 16 men recently put through 4091
sheep in eight hours. The gun’s tally was 311
and the runner-up’s 301. The stag’s was 214 and the
average per man 255.
“J.F.H.”: London Daily Mail’s special
correspondent forwards from Egypt a pyramid of
cheerful information about the Australian contingent
encamped at the base of the other Pyramids. There
are, it seems, “oceans of squatters” in the Expedi-
tionary Force. And being mostly squatters they
had of course on arrival to “delve out their own
particular mai-mais.” These, the Mail goes on to
explain, are “rectangular shelters built after the
fashion of the aborigines in Australia, with such
improvements as individual ideas suggest,” and
Australian squatters always live in them. Still, we
are not a bad lot: compared with the Pyramids we
are “small human specks, but vigorous and brave,
the newest men in the World, born in a country that
has scarcely discovered itself, all inspired with
hope, all in the foreground of life,” and all —the
Queenslanders especially—marvellous horsemen.
* * * *
The well-known South Australian snake-
charmer, Henzenroeder, lias been making himself un-
popular at Tanunda, where he lives. His neighbors
are used to his serpent enclosure, which is securely
netted ; but lately—and, to make matters worse, during
his temporary absence—the occupants have been earn-
ing the baby bonus in immense numbers, and the
fence that will keep in a six-inch snakelet is hard to
devise. So the lively and always-readv-to-fight
youngsters are all over the place. “Round my place
like a mob' of sheep,” according to one flustered
neighbor.
“Vagabond” writes from the indefinable
“Front ’: —
“Amateur Mobiliser” (B. 1/10/’l4) argues that
the latest fashion in war means a far greater waste
of horseflesh, as movements a.e carried on behind a
screen of cavalry ; also that proper care of the horse
is impossible, wherefore the noble animal is having
a rotten time. As a matter of fact, this war has
very largely eliminated Horse. Motor-transport
has dispensed with hundreds of thousands of ani-
mals. The motor displaces the moke everywhere
a road runs or pretends to run, except just over the
fence from the firing line. A “screen” of cavalry
can’t be erected a mile high, and a ’plane can over-
look anything less lofty. Only by night are move-
ments hidden, and no really big move can develop
in a night. Moreover, when the opposing trenches
are 40 to 100 yards apart, and anyone desiring a
bullet-holed war-souvenir has only to lift a cap
over the edge for 2 l-ssec. to get it, there isn’t
much room left for cavalry screens. Further, there
aren’t many yards of the opposing line uncovered by
trench, barb-wire entanglement, and other unplea-
sant obstacles. As a result, the mounted ffien whom
“Amateur Mobilise!'” sees galloping round the pic-
ture are now dismounted and acting as infantry in
the trenches, while miles in the rear their horses
are being led round a field to exercise. The
mokes have a much better time than the men.
They are on full rations of hay and oats, with a
snack of sugar-beet thrown in now and then. Their
worst —in fact, only—trouble is the cold.
T know that all these present conditions are the
result of the new phase of trench and siege fighting,
but that looks like lasting a long while now. And
even in the first retreat and the following advance,
when the mounted-wallahs did have a good whirl-in,
the horse-mortality was not as great as on an
ordinary week’s fairly-heavy marching in S’Afriea.
For my own part, I know I saw more horses cast
off, abandoned or shot in a single forced march in
the Boer trouble than I’ve seen here in any month.
The Artillery crocks had about as heavy a job as
any in the Mons-Marne scuffle; yet in the batteries
and horsed ammunition columns of my brigade and
division we have plenty of horses that saw the
trouble through and are. still going strong; and at
an advanced base remount camp, a couple of months
ago, practically all the horses were. English, the
overseas supplies having evidently not then been
drawn on.
I fancy the reason for the horses standing the hard
work of the first months, and the hard weather of
recent months, so well is (1) that “horse master-
ship” has been consistently made an essential of
the training of the British trooper and transport
worker ; (2) that officers and men have carried out,
whenever possible, the rules of the game learned in
peace; and (3) that rail and motor transport have
kept the horse fully fed day in and day out.
My section made a long march recently. I don’t
know the mileage, but we were under way from
10.30 a.m. to 4 a.m., and in that time the teams
were not unharnessed nor even the girths slacked.
Horses were fed once on the road and scantily watered
from buckets. Yet the “casualties” (which have
to be reported as a matter of routine to section
commanders immediately they occur) amounted to
one gall from breast-collar and one sore back —the
latter an old trouble revived.
There is always a strong inclination in ’Orsetra-
lia to hero-worship the pfeller who can light a pipe
whilst sitting aboard a nag in convulsions. But the
British Army people think that a man who can sit
on a moke a day and a night, and have it fit to
be sat on next day, is worth a heap more to his
section commander and his country.
So long !
AT THE OPERATING TABLE.
PROUD P APA: “ But, tell me, Emmalina, do
you medical students practise vivisection?"
E MMALINA: “ Oh, yes! Jack Barnard and I
split the kitty last night."
“Top Floor” : Minister Cann has made an
excellent move by closing the wild-duck shooting
season in N. S. Wales. The time allotted for the
slaughter hitherto stretched from February 1 to June
30 ; but the edict has cut the season down to a bare
fortnight. Of course, there is a howl; but it fades
before the fact that the embargo will give bird life
the much-needed opportunity to multiply on inland
N.S.W. rivers. The recent drought wiped out ducks
and water-fowl in thousands; and if wholesale mur-
der is added to drought, the only feathered wild-duck
you will find soon will be in the museum and will
be quite inedible.
WHEN KITTY WRITES A LETTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Kitty writes a letter —■
Well, there’s trouble in the air,
As she dances here and there.
For the ink has clean levanted,
And the pen’s not where ’twas planted—
“ What a house it is!” storms Kitty,
For the nib is crossed and gritty.
When Kitty writes a letter
You can track her everywhere,
On the table and the chair
Ink, in smudges and in streams ;
Paper, too, in sheets and reams,
Torn and inky lies around ;
Envelopes make quite a mound.
When Kitty writes a letter
Nobody must move or speak,
And the night feels like a week.
So she writes, and reads her letter,
Tears it up and writes a better ;
Spoils it with an inky blotter,
Sees me laugh, and calls me “Rotter !”
When Kitty writes a letter —
Well, she’s at it for a week ;
All the while I’m just as meek
And as docile as a mouse.
She just tears about the house
Till she finds a stamp to end it.
Then she quite forgets to send it.
VICTORIA
FRANK RADCLIFFE.
TOMATOES—SERVED THREE WAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am very fond of tomatoes and vinegar. That is
my luxury; but the law prohibits me from buying
my luxury after 6 o clock. Another man’s luxury ,is
beer, but the law allows him to enjoy his luxury
un til_ 11 p.m. That is not fair. —Baptist corporal
fighting in the S. Aus. campaign to shut pubs at six.
Wine to the foolish heart!
Beer to the weak soul!
But better is my part—-
I seek no brimming bowl;
No alcohol of rye, nor of potatoes,
But only vinegar and tomaytoes.
Beer for the laboring clod
Whose mouth is full of lime,
Won when he bore his hod
Upon his scaffold-climb ;
For me in hop-field let no farmer start iioes,
But give me vinegar and tomartoes.
Oh, ye who drink your fill
Of spirits or of malt!
No product of the still
Can cure the blind and halt
Like mine own drunkenness—ye shall not part us :
Me and my jag on acid and termarters!
SOUTH AUS.
MARTIN LUTHER.


PT LDS
The Doctor
ordered
This
< Ifp
PEHF
tovAL Reserve
'•*V
k N
;- ;
. m:
m
»
;' -
IP
-
F»
jV-no
■*


m
m
Hi
Hi
Hi
1
1 1
l
Hi
Hi
3
Hi
1
i
N
m
m
e]
m
El
m
HJ
w
Hi
Hi
Hi
m
h!
m
El
m
a
m
CJ
di
i
ft
I
I
1
1
tsS
1
1
I
ft
1
S
fr3Mi
ralra
tei rsi
mr The
f Grand Prix
Jn/erna/iona/
Jtec/ica/Gcngress • 1913.
/as 6een aWarc/ecf (o
Let Sanatogen Make You Healthier.
You will certainly be healthier,
stronger, and more vigorous, if you
take a few weeks’ course of
Sanatogen.
“Since taking Sanatogen, I am
really better —a brighter, stronger
tone altogether,” writes Lady
Muir.
Even after the first few doses—
say, for instance, the contents of
one small packet —you will notice'
a marked improvemen; in your
condition.
Your nervous system, in particu-
lar, will be wonderfully invigor-
ated. Witness this statement by
Madame Sarah Grand, the famous
authoress of “The Heavenly
Twins” and other well-known
novels: —
“1 pin my faith to Sanatogen,
because it certainly restored me to
health in the worst nervous break-
dfiwn I ever had. It is a building-
up process, but not ‘jerry-building’
—the work is (lone to last.”
in Digestive Troubles,
etc.
Yes, the good which Sanatogen
does is lasting, not only in a ner-
vous breakdown, but in various
other conditions. For example,
Mrs. Kensington, wife of Mr.
Justice Kensington, Lahore, India,
writes: “Sanatogen is the best
help for digestive troubles that I
have come across. Mr. Kensington
and I have also found it a won-
derful reviver and tonic.”
In Anaemia.
The effects of Sanatogen in
poverty of the blood are described
as follows by Dr. Ferchmin,
physician to the Czar of Russia:
“My daughter, who was very
anaemic, has been greatly benefited
by the use of Sanatogen. Her
appetite improved, her weight in-
creased, and the color of her skin
became healthier.”
Equally remarkable are the
effects of Sanatogen in the case of
weakly children of all ages. Public
Health, one of the prominent
medical papers, contains an article
by a well-known doctor who says:
“I determined to try Sanato-
gen on a child suffering from
really pitiable debility. The change
in her condition at the end of a
fortnight was truly wonderful.
Appetite was improved, diarrhoea
had stopped, the cheeks w r ere rosy,
and her weight had increased by
lib. 10oz.”
Sanatogen is of the greatest
value before and after confinement,
because nothing is so effectual for
building up and strengthening the
system. It is also strongly recom-
mended for nursing mothers to
ensure that the milk shall be
abundant and healthy.
Other uses of Sanatogen —for
example, in Neuralgia, Nervous
Headache and Insomnia, etc. —are
too numerous to mention here.
Send a post-card, men-
tioning this paper, for a
free interesting Booklet,
“ how to Live healthily.”
Address : The Sanatogen Co.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. Sanatogen is sold
by all Chemists, from 2/6
per tin.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Clara Cutar.fit”: To-day I’ve sold four
expensive well-made frocks to four expensive,
ill-made women. The frocks were well
turned-out specimens of the consistently good
work done by Australian hands in this line.
Yet each sale was preceded by the brief
dialogue: “Is it imported?” “Oh, yes,
madam!” Weary dress-builders don’t get
much time to study politics, but most of us
know that women like these retard the pro-
gress of their country and restrict the activ-
ity of men who could provide us with the
comfort of a home and bairns. Some dusty
day I’ll run mj scissors into one of these
women just to see what made her bleat “Is
it imported?” It will spoil the good fitting-
room carpet, of course, but in the interests
of political economy it should be well worth
while.
* * * *
“The Oldest”: Apropos ancient trade
signs (B. 11/2/’l5). At Milsom’s Point
(note the original spelling) there still stands
the remnant of an old stone cottage which
was “the Shore’s” pub —The Lily of St.
Leonards. The sign was an aboriginal gin
of more than usual ugliness. It was opened
by William Foster Dind, who had kept the
Clown Tavern in Pitt-street. In 1844 he
sold the Clown to George Goppin, the come-
dian, who dropped all his savings in it. The
Lily was too small for the tiade which fol-
lowed Dind, and he went further up the hill,
where he built Dind’s Family Hotel, a resort
for Bohemians, theatrical and musical folk,
and the home of a fine collection of theatri-
cal pictures. The house is still standing,
but most of the gallery has disappeared.
“Derelict”: The co. which was formed
four years ago to scrape seaweed off
the S. Aus. coast, and make it into the raw
material for little Johnny’s knickers, might
perhaps retrieve its failure by turning the
stuff into manure. Germany was the big-
potash producer of the Universe, and now
Australian applegrowers have used up the
available fertiliser and are hanging out their
shovels for more. As seaweed contains
potash, the co. should be able to extract a
few sovs from weed-ash. Values have gone
up 50 per cent., so there’s a comfy margin
to work on.
“Tito Waipiro” : The man who takes his
tipple is yelping up the wrong tree when
he blames the hotel-keeper for the increased
cost of his (the tippler’s) unnecessary com-
modity. The pub turnover is not large com-
pared with that of other businesses. Few
pubs take over £2OO a week for drinks, and
outside the big city area the greater number
do not top the £3OO mark. The Bung who
sells at the same rate as before the increase
of tariff will have to be content with any-
thing up to £lOOO a year less profit. If his
rent is high and “ingoing” large he might
have to be content with no profit at all.
For example, here’s the output of an hotel,
showing the loss that would be incurred
weekly by selling at prices current before
the war:—
10 hogsheads ale . . .. .. £6 10 0
6 36-gallon casks lager .. . . 2 14 0
£5O stock in Saloon Bar .. .. 6 5 0
6 gallons English stout in 3d. Bar . . 2 2 0
•6 gallons 3d. spirit, at say 2/6 gallon 15 0
Increase on case spirits sold in 3d. Bar. . 10 0
£lB 16 0
That’s £970-odd floating out each year. The
whole trouble is that the Federal Govern-
ment fixes duties by the gallon and pound
for liquids and solids that are sold by the
pint and ounce, making it impossible for a
retailer to pass the exact duty on to the
public. He must either make a profit or
a loss on the duty. The brewer, who is
also mostly a wine and spirit merchant, not
only will not bear any of the increased
duty, but is making 4d. a hogshead more on
his beer. He’s the man to hurl the brick at.
* * * *
A Broadford (Vic.) man has invented a
little contrivance for controlling the move-
ment of windows and doors. If applied to
railway carriages, it should cure the irritat-
ing habit which Melbourne car doors have
of slipping backward and forward when the
trains move. Pushed a bit further the in-
vention may wipe out the cumbersome bal-
ance weights, cords and pulleys of the pre-
sent day, and probably do away altogether
with the expensive window frame. Still, for
no other reason than that it is an Australian
invention, the patent will have a mighty
hard row to hoo with some Government
departments, which have an almost ineradic-
able preference for the notion of foreign
origin. In Victoria in particular it is won-
derful how convincing some departments find
the arguments of agents for foreign goods.
Some day, in fact, there will be a Premier
who will be unjust enough to suspect some-
thing.
* * * *
“Civ.”: “A.C.P.” (B. 21/1/’l5) touches
a. sore point when he mentions land-agency
sharks. It was hoped that Labor rule in
the N.S.W. Lands Department would
eradicate the pest, but it still fattens on the
land-seeker, and it doesn’t seem anybody’s
business to tell Hayseed that his forms can
be filled up free at the nearest Lands office.
At a recent ballot in this district the first
five farms were drawn by men who had not
paid good money to a private land agent,
notwithstanding the fact that about half of
the 20G0 applications were lodged by one
agent. 1 trust I’m no sweater, and yet I
wouldn’t value the agent’s services at more
than £lO, whereas he collared roughly £lOOO.
The Crown got £6, and will not see a penny
more for five years. Many unsophisticated
land-seekers imagine that the pound they
part up to the tout goes into public revenue ;
hence their aversion to the word “Treasury.”
By the way, can anyone explain why adjoin-
ing areas are thrown open at different dates?
Is it to provide extra fees for the new 'and
mostly superfluous gent one? It has that
effect, anyw r ay.
* * * *
“Klifton” : It’s quite true that Capital is
being driven out of the country. Towards
Clifton Hill (Vic.) you can see this sign on
the side of a factory:—
J. G. Blank,
Last Manufacturer.
* * * *
Inspiring advt. in Melbourne Agf,
31/1/’l5: —•
Exchange, new silk, full-length, round front
Opera Coat, cost £9, for first-class, up-to-date
Gondola Pram. , Age Office.
Brother Chinn, Kink O’Malley’s engineer-
ing friend, claims to have an invention
superior to the German “Thermit” process
for welding rails. There are other appli-
cations for suspending the German patents
on similar grounds, so Bro. Chinn has more
battles ahead of him.
“A.J.S.”: In England (and it’s the same
in France) when a man buys petrol he pays
2s. for the tin. Next time he buys he pays
only for the juice if he takes along the empty
tin. Should he desire no more petrol he
returns the tin and gets his money back.
In Australia, because the cos. are not
allowed to store the stuff in bulk, he has to
buy it in a tin similar to that in which
kerosene is sold. Now, if the cos. were
allowed to store their petrol in tanks and a
good duty were dapped ou tius, it appears
to me that the Australian workman Would
get a chance to make receptacles similar to
the English ones. Of course, that would
mean a new industry, and would be in
defiance of our grand old traditions and all
that sort of thing. Still, it would help to
populate the country and reduce the national
debt, and those considerations shouldn t be
entirely overlooked.
* * *
A hearty eater who had grappled man-
fully with the cost-of-high-living problem is
now in trouble in Sydney. His system was
to eat 3s. 9d. worth of food and tender a
ticket for Is. at the pay desk. His balloon
vest or something at last aroused the sus-
picion of a trained observer, and the police-
man who was called, on searching the
swollen one’s room, found several books of
blank tickets, similar to those in use at
various feeding-places. The ingenious soul
had been writing his own passports.
* ■* * *
“Sr” : Knobbs'-told me he had copyrighted
this trick. The driver of the brake has to
look after his own horses. Whilst he s tak-
ing them and himself along to have a drink
I suggest in my most superior manner.
“How about making up a tip to the driver >
Here’s a start with a shilling.” There are
close-on 20 tourists on a brake, as a rule,
and as only about four of them Stand out,
I collect from 15 to 10 bob. We cut it up
in the stable. I knock out four quid a week
in the season, but, mind you, I’ve got to
work all Sundays.
* * * *
The Tramp, recently blown on to the
rocks at North Head, Port Jackson, showed
what a gamble wreck-buying is. Last year
she was dismasted off the N. S. Wales coast
and blown to sea. The crew, thinking her
hopeless, deserted her; but she astonished
all hands and the cook by sailing back on
her own account, and making a haven. Then
came the accident at North Head. _ While
ashore there she was bought at auction for
£75 ; but before the speculator could get to
work, a southerly pounded the craft to
matchwood. On the other hand, three small
vessels, wrecked near Newcastle last year,
and bought at £5O each, were all refloated
and panned out enviable profits. But, taken
all round, wreck-buying is as encouraging as
backing ponies or land-balloting.
The importing lunacy collided with a new
line of trouble recently. The Christchurch
(M.L.) Tramway Board found it was short
of a steam roller, and, as usual, decided to
drag one from Europe. When the implement
was about half made the Kaiser commenced
to do his act, and John Bull’s war office,
which is a raging socialist these days,
promptly seized the engineering works where
the road-crusher was, surrounded them with
an armed guard, and said : “Get busy manu-
facturing transport.” So the Christchurch
Tramway Board’s roller is rusting at the old
address, and the date of delivery is far off
and dim, like Wilhelm’s hope of landing in
England, and Christchurch’s roads are getting
no better so fast that the extra cost of pre-
sently repairing them would almost pay for
a fleet of rollers.
A BUSINESS-LIKE OFFER TO THE CHURCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Archbishops, bishops, archdeacons and deans
All weeping and leaping and creeping together,
Nailing the curates and giving them beans,
Hunting the Fiend to the end of their tether,
Galloping after him, all hell-for-leather,
Bashing his tail with their raffle machines,
Until he asks himself peevishly whether
It’s worth while to manage Gehenna this weather,
While bishops, archbishops, archdeacons and deans
Are pounding like mad in his hated direction,
And taking and shaking an endless collection.
Gurates with twaddle and vergers with moans
Hunt him like terriers. Bishops, with groans,
Bumble about him, while archdeacons rush
And archbishops drone midst a dignified hush.
Somewhere a selfish saint, saving his soul,
Prays apart feverishly in a hole.
But rushing and blushing and gushing mild gabble,
The militant ones feather-duster about.
The Devil is hustled around by the rabble,
Although he is old and inclines to be stout,
They shove him behind for his manifold sins,
Except when they’re kicking each other’s black shins,
And calling out “Shame!” at some helper abhorred,
And bashing his hat for the love of the Lord.
In sanctity’s odor, •>
With whisky and soda
(For bishops—not curates!)
And afterr.oon-tea,
They paddle, skedaddle and addle and hog
Into cake while they’re giving off Sunday-school fog.
They splutter and mutter and flutter white hands
To the pale Devil-haters.
With tea and with gaiters
White collars and hymns, cake and raffles, the
praters,
Who think they are all on a very high level,
Combine in a cowardly hunt for the Devil.
Though the.y plague him each day with a broadside
of breath,
He has never yet kicked a pale curate to death.
If they’ll only produce him trussed up in a crate,
1 will turn up and put Two-and-Six in the plate!
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


O,
<7.
CP
&
47,
V
X
a
<2
ss
%
a
<y
%
jic
IT
Wt3\&
yf
%
<?
#
$
/ :
Cranky disposition—yellow 100k —terrible headaches —dulled
brain. All these things spell Biliousness, which is the direct result
of a liver which fails to perform its functions in a natural way.
Before you can free yourself of that bilious condition you
must get your liver in form and nothing will accomplish this so
quickly or so thoroughly as Chamberlain’s Tablets for the
stomach and liver.
This remedy possesses properties which drive it directly
to the affected parts. Former sufferers, now well and strong,
pay eloquent tribute to the efficiency and power of
CriAMBEPLAINSTABLETS
Jor- the Stomach Livep.
£
m
S
m
m
EVERY WOMAN CAN ENJOY
PULL PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT.
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the one essential that creates a perfect appear-
ance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow cheeks, and “salt-cellars” quids ly take from a woman
the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot"in so far as natural
development is concerned, but science has found a wajr to correct your deficiency. Kven though you
have never been full-bosomed, and though you have been attenuated all your life, if you suffer from
no wasting disease, your bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased to normal.
READ THE EVIDENCE OF THESE WOMEN WHO FAITHFULLY FOLLOWED OUR ADVICE.
Manager, Falliere Co. Ballarat, Vic.
Dear Sir, —Since beginning Flesh-Food I have derived
great benefit from the treatment. My bust has developed,
and my weight has increased as much as I desired, and
no further treatment will be necessary.
Yours sincerely,
N. SUIXIVAN. *
„ ... ~, „ JUST AS WE PROMISED.
lalhere Flesh-Food Co. Mt. Gambler, S.A.
v „ lt _ hl I r . s ; * a ™ verv Pleased lo tell you of the delightful results in my case, with
v. s,,len dJd treatment. If you could see me to-day. you would readily realise how
men cause I have to be more than satisfied with the results, when comparing my
appearance with what it was.
I have gained in weight, and my measurements have increased just as you said thev
would do, and my health has improved marvellously.
Many, many thanks for your kind care and attention, and your splendid remedy, and
•you can depend u«»on me to always recommend its use.
Yours very gratefully, ELDA PEARL, UNGER.
WHAT A WELL-KNOWN NURSE SAYS.
~ Gympie, Queensland,
Manager Flesh-Food Co. May 5, 1913.
Dear Sir.—As a nurse, I was very interested in your Flesh-Food treatment, and
was greatly surprised at the wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote to you I
was only skin and bone, and I have good cause to be thankful that I wrote you for a
free sample, for I feel certain now that I am one of the very best advertisements you
could possibly have, as I am developed in every way satisfactory to myself, and I have
waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in its effect, and I am now glad to say that
your splendid treatment has done all you claimed it would, my weight and measurements
being ample
I am, yours gratefully,
MRS. E. WINGROVE.
DR, FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD is totally
harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond
question, and its use is no demand upon the subject’s
time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a
week, and an increase in bust measurement up to
eight and ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers
relief and development to the thousands of chronically
thin women who have despaired of ever possessing a
presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food-
treatment that adds weight and permanent develop-
ment to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every
case accepted.
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
SAMPLE OF
“FLESH-FOOD”
We suggest that all lady readers who
see this article will do well to investi-
gate the truth of these assertions. Send
two penny stamps and we will post von
full particulars and a FREE SAMPLE OF
TREATMENT. Write to-day. Jf con-
venient, call for interview. Lady atten-
dant. Advice and consultation free.
(5803.)
FALLIERE, CO.,
1103 Ash Street, Sydney.
£
m
m


A. SAUNDERS
Sydney’s Great Watch House for
Lady’s Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless
Watch, full jewelled fiever
movement, patent adjusted
balance, £B. Extra jewelled,
£3/10/- Solid Gold, £4.
Guaranteed.
Lady’r Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled Lever movement,
compensation balance, £5. Other styles, £5/10/-,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
126
Gent.'s Nickel Open-face
Keyless Watch, jewelled, non-
magnetic, dust- and water-proof cases,
12/6, 15/- Higher Grades,
20/-, 25/-, 30/-
15/-
W atches!
W atches!
The largest variety of
first-class, reliable Time-
keepers to choose from,
personally guaranteed*
Gent.’s Extra Heavy Solid
Gold Elgin or Waltham Lever
Watch, full jewelled and adjusted
with Chronometer Balance, heavy
case, £7/10./-,.: £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
WE PAY POSTAGE
ON ALL OUR
JEWELLERY.
Hundreds of new designs
in our Jewellery Catalogue*
Write for a free copy,
and try us with an order*
Lady’s Black,
Pace Keyless
Watch, full
compensation b a
25/- Extra
30/-
Open-
Lever
jewelled,
lance,
jewelled,
Lady’s Gold-filled,
10-years’ guaranteed
Keystone case “El-
gin” Lever Watch,
£2/15/- 2 0-years’
guaranteed, extra quality,
£3/10/- Extra jew-
elled, £4. 25-years’ guar-
anteed, £5/5/-
Lady’s Solid Silver Wristlet Watch,
strong keyless works, full jewelled, accurate, set
in smart Leather Wristlet, 25/'- Higher Grade,
30/-, 35/-. Solid Gold, £2.
Gent.’s Military Keyless Wristlet Watch, Nickel or
Gunmetal Case, high-grade Lever movement, 20/- Extra
Jewelled, 25/-, 30/- Solid Silver, £2. £2/10/-, £3.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Lady’s Solid Silver
Open-faced Keyless
Watch, full jewelled, ac-
curate, .20 /-• Extra quality,
25/-,. 30/-, 40/-, 50/-
Solid Gold, 50/-, 60/-,
70/-
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, £3/10/-
Lever niovemeiit, £4, 4/10/-
30/
Gent.’s Solid Nickel Silver
Hunting Keyless Lever
Watch, non-magnetic, dust-proof
case, 30/- Higher Grade, 35/-
Extra heavy solid Silver Case, £2.
10-years’ Guaranteed Gold Cased,
£2/10/- Extra jewelled, £3,
£4/4/-, £5/5/- Solid Gold,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
351-
&
m
p Ac
°lQi
5k
IS
I
jm
\\
THE DOCTOR’S DECREE
■ tflMl
Disinfectant
is the most powerful known. The admixture of a very little Pacolol with
water makes a strong antiseptic solution in which
germs cannot live.
BRITISH MADE.
COMPARATIVE GERMICIDAL TEST
made by
The London Hospital Hedical College.
Disinfectant, Co-Efficient. Test 24hrs. culture on B. Typhosus
PACOLOL 3.18 „ „
LYSOL 2.27 „ „ »» ” ”
This conclusively proves that PACOLOL
is much more effective.
Can be obtained of all High-class Chemists and Storekeepers.
In Bottles or Drums.
ror further particulars apply to H. A. REEVES, G.P.O. Box 2499, Sydney, N.S.W.
PacoloL
M


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
mtm '
WcM^"
%%-* y
Hi
Jrvss
S«SSSeI
OjriifU^.
*os
fe* 1
‘"•vi-
V
y
V,t
i.'i I# f't^/|
£ //iISiMIU;!
. 4 /#/«# r- & '.;.| vl IH? ? WmWH
mlw 4i ft -m $i nh ft %} Uk
■r'i'U'i! ■'■ 4»t £-vi' ' : -?'is i 3 f W-
ImtMl W ;•:; , V'fl4 ? 11^
'.;•//• v 4 v ■: ■' . vT ;. •* <>. -,- 4 •V'> •• •*. '. >. >-ia;.
>/
Jasa>ffis%s
„ff»?> vv; '''
f/
TV-
\
fr ys-s '!•• ■•■' i !- y , rj.,y;£ •?-; \ - >••« s ? ;y •; .f •*%&
V£ // /:' t> m-$W <§ m
r * *' • t £-
me P-■ff'Hfw?\fi ii-tft ■»
•> <d .■ :■. mm; uhj $% i,U u 4
‘•v
ns if 9-ft if?-
M /ft f i/fife
fr'M
f f %fat
U
• /•#:. V
•;•*> -r / A
Mi!? K»
\
J / :
r>
* Jfc t.,Js
■■-4 11/nwl/j
/■•- ■ <- / ic f - :-• .v; • s^' v X
y i xi; / i:UV\S4-;
1M
JBBffc
«
prn
/ # i
* *»'•>
.*
#4 l!f
Jr prTh m&fm m $/ i
p; v‘l
sr^r
!•
:S;M
l\y :
t iy
In
/ -
"it
•r i
tff
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
By his stretcher-
Bea rers two
Now is earn eel
Back to bed
To be petted,
Nursed and fed.
To his comrades’,
“Hard luck, eh ? ’
He says “It’s
A holiday !
When I’ve lost
This little pain,
I will ‘COBRA’
Them again ! ”


WONDERFUL RECOVERY.
TWO LITTLE GIRLS RELIEVED OF
THREAD WORMS BY COMSTOCK’S
“DEAD SHOT” WORM PELLETS.
A potent proof of the thorough manner in
which'Comstock’s ‘‘Dead Shot” Worm Pel-
lets eradicate thread worms is the statement
made by Mrs. Maud Tongue, of Edward
Street, Charters Towers, Queensland. This
lady’s two little girls suffered a great deal,
and although many preparations were tried,
nothing gave any relief, until she used Com-
stock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, with a
result that seems almost incredible, yet,
nevertheless, is a fact, and, furthermore, be-
ing achieved every day by parents who are
treating their children with these pellets."
Mrs. Tongue writes :
“My two little daughters were afflicted
with thread worms. J n fact, one of the
children, Laura, was literally alive with
them. I had recourse to many remedies
without success. The distressing symptoms
of restlessness at night and peevishness for
a long period worried me considerably until
I came to try Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’
Worm Pellets, and I found them most
effective. My children have now recovered,
and enjoy their sleep and make flesh. where-
as they both previously, grew thin. I now
recommend your medicine as a sure remedy,
having derived immense benefit from its
use.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion for the eradication of worms in children
and adults. For sale by all chemists and
storekeepers, price 3s. 6d. per packet, or six
packets for 205.; or will he sent post paid at
the same price by The W. 11. Comstock Co..
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill. Sydney.*
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION-
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches-obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1- and 2 9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea.
Sulpholine is prepared bv the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can bo obtained
direct from them by post or from '
ALL CHEMISTS 'NO STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removesthe effects of Sunscorch
SOAPKO.
Surpasses
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR IN TABLETS ;
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS.
Send .Six Penny Stamps for Box containing Sample
Manager, of each kind.
SOAPKO PROPY., Box 685 G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
GOARDA BEANS
'l’lie new Kdible Vegetable wonder from the
Solomon Islands. Grows 3 tg fi feet long. One bean
sufficient for a large family meal. Now. is the time
to plant. Pull instructions given. Send for photo.
Circular free. Seeds can be obtained, 5 for 1/-.
Stamps or postal note. .J. M. MORRIS, 480 Leich-
hardt Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
A SYDNEY BOOKING OFFICE
for Queensland’s Exclusive
S
1
i 111
Hotel DANIELL,
BRISBANE,
is situated at 42 Casttereagh Street, Sydney
(directly opposite Hotel Australia).
’Phone No. City 6849 for particulars, or call, or
send your address and our representative will
call on you.
PROPRTETED BY WIN FOWLES.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Apropos Willie Holman’s contention in
the Castlereagh that it is the duty of the
people to stick to a Government in a time
of crisis. The Bulletin takes it for
granted that Holman and his bogus Labor
colleagues voted for Joe Cook at the last
general election and did their best to down
1 isher, Hughes and the whole Labor side.
These English gossip papers will be mak-
ing trouble among the Allies presently. They
ascribe to the French a feverish desire to
have Albert of Belgium as King, and if wild
press agency could do it, France would have
a revolution on hand as well as war. Even
the struggle with Germany fails to make the
English busybody alter his habit of advising
other nations how to govern, when his own
system of government is in the pot. And,
above all. the glaring impudence of advising
monarchy to a nation whose bitterest defeat
was mostly due to its last alleged Emperof!
GOING TO AN EVENING PARTY IN BERLIN.
Copenhagen states that 8,000,000 bread tickets are being printed weekly in Berlin. Everybody.'. has
to buy bread personally. Customers in restaurants have to bring their own bread, and invitations to
dinner parties contain the request, “Please bring your own bread."— Cable.
Germany now appears to have reached the
pathetic stage where it is prepared to address
a Chant of Hate to a pair of tight boots.
The other day the man who lent the cash
seized the wharf at Opunake (M.L.). and
l>ut it up to auction. The first bid was
sixpence, evidently made by a daredevil
from Dunedin, and then someone ventured
as far as £lO. There things stuck for a
time, everyone being frightened to bid lest
the thing should be knocked down to him.
Eventually the lender, who wanted either
the wharf or his money, bid £250. and the
auctioneer’s hammer fell. When the mort-
gagee begins to grab the country’s permanent
and reproductive works in this fashion, it
looks like the writing on the wall at the
feast of the wild-cat borrowers.
N.S.W. Works Minister Griffith is not hav-
ing a happy time with tiie Caucus. In fact,
the Norton Griffiths business and other
matters have annoyed so many members
that lie escaped the guillotine of censure
with difficulty. The voting is said to have
been 2.‘5 to 10: and the former number in-
cluded seven Ministers. But he doesn’t
worry, lie is “pretty well sick of things,’ -
and has plenty of feathers to fly with, should
be decide to leave on his own account.
WEIGHED IN THE BALANCE.
The Defence authorities announce that
they will quarantine all returning soldiers
suffering from contagious sex diseases.
Some of the men who are being returned
from Egypt are said to be very badly in-
fected. But why treat soldiers any more
rigidly than civilians? If uniformed
patients are to be quarantined until danger
of infection is past, why let .plainclothes
passengers by ordinary steamers loose?
The absurd business of having two expen-
sive bodies to prepare and issue State and
Federal rolls is to be discontinued in Victoria,
a conference between the two lots of elec-
toral authorities having adopted a scheme
for preparing a joint list. Tasmania has had
a joint roll for two years, and the scheme
has worked so well that it will prac-
tically be towed in bulk across the Strait,
federal electorates are to be taken as the
basis of enrolment, and electors who are
eligible to vote at either the Federal or
State elections only (they number about one
in 2001 will lie indicated by special marks on
the rolls. The small piece of common-sense
will save at least £15,000 a year.
Coincidences cause the alleged N. S. Wales
“wheat scandals’ to recall tne Lands scan-
dals of the Crick and Willis days. One is that
Mutton, like Willis, was front-named Nick:
the other is tl\at Attorney-!Jenoral Mall was
a humble clerk in the Lands Department
at the time when the Department contracted
its bad habits. These are the only coin-
cidences. however, for it seems that every-
body strenuously denies having said that
anybody could influence Hall (who was in
charge of (he Wheat Acquisition Bill instead
o): Minister of Agriculture Ashford) to do
anything that a Minister of the Crown
should not do. Among those who most
emphatically deny that anybody of his
acquaintance was under the impression that
Mail could be improperly influenced is the
enterprising solicitor who drew up an
undertaking for Nick Mutton’s signature,
which “undertaking” stipulated that the
solicitor was to be paid £lOOO for his
‘ professional services” in securing the cancel-
jation of the wheat contracts, one proviso
being that he was “not to be called upon to
explain how the amount is made up.” By
Lie way, when is the solicitor to lie given
that “opportunity,” promised by Premier
Holman,, of explaining before “some proper
tribunal” what was meant by the provision
concerning his not being called upon to
explain how the amount was “made up”?
The South Aus. Government made a mis-
take m indiscriminately offering 12 months’
giace for payment of pastoral and agricul-
tural lease rents. The North and Central
farmers' wanted the grace badly, but 11)14
was the best year scores of South-eastern
people ever had. Men who could crop an
acre for 2o bushels of wheat at Is. a bushel
or 40 bushels of barley at 55., or 30 bushels
of rye at 6s. 6d., didn’t need any let-off of
lents, and should never have been offered it.
In one case a man who paid £l6OO for 150
acres lb months ago will make the purchase
money out of his barley crop. But the most
glaring case of a man taking out his nine
seconds on the mat is that of a South-eastern
leaseholder worth thousands, who, in spite
of a good year, availed himself of the year
of grace to postpone the payment of £3’due
to the Government for rent.
Requisitions are dropping in on the Gov-
ernment in Victoria, asking it. to import-
wheat and sell it to the millers at a price
which will allow bread to be sold at Sd.
or 9d. the large loaf. The Government is
of course to stand the loss. v What the
requisitionists really mean is that the people
who eat the bread shall pay some of the
PP, lce ,, : balance shall be borrowed and
left for the next generation to pay. It is
a case of making the infant pay for the
old man’s loaf all right.
V hen asked last week to give £9OO an
ac I r ® / or l an d which 10 years ago had been
sold for £9, Carmichael, N.S.W. Minister for
Education, who wants a couple of acres for
tl } e school at Port Ivembla, made a number
ot indignant remarks about the company
which owns the dirt, and declared
that he wasn’t going p, assist j n
enhancing the value of its property.
Sound and fury, every word of it.
Carmichael, by supporting a policy
of borrow and boom, lias himself
blown the bubble on which such
demands are based.
Fx-Attorney-General Irvine has
been kicking over the party straps,
so that Kookaburra Peacock almost
weeps, declaring that he is not the
Irvine of 11 years ago. Why should
he lie i Fvery man in the National
I arhament has a tendency to be-
come National—as. for instance.
.Justice Higgins and Lyne. who had
been opponents of Federation. The
present row is because Irvine said
at Ballarat, that all the finances
must be under national control, as
course they must, if w*e are to
avoid a tremendous smash. Onlv
the Imperial Government has saved
us now. “Seven different bodies
])laying Yankee grab,” says Irvine.
And again: “The housekeeper has
he key to the storeroom, but six
housemaids have separate keys ”
So the terrible cry of “Unification-
lsf is raised > and is mouthed most by. those
who at other moments talk of the greatness
of England, forgetting that England Ims
grown great under the system thev scorn for
Australia.
How businesslike is this N. S. Wales
Government may be judged by the fact
that, though it is taking a lien on the
cockles next harvest to secure payment for
seed wheat and fodder, the cockles don’t
know what they have pledged themselves to
Pay- They get the goods: the price is a
mystery which will be revealed to them
hereafter.
From a S. Australian prophet:—
I i emiei Peake looks shaky for re-election, and his
co-representative, Bodey, is certainly gone to the
woods. Peter Reidy, ex-policeman of Mt. Gambier,
and Clarence Good, MX.A. for Stanley, are the
selected Labor men ; Reidy seems a certainty for the
top of the poll, with Good a close third if not
second. Peake, rightly or wrongly, gets the credit
of ordering Reidy's removal from the Mt. Gambier
beat, whereat the persuasive copper abandoned the
force and secured the Labor nomination. But Peake
has hurt his chances in other ways. Even the farmers
who are getting £7 a ton for chaff admit that the
Government should have seized the stuff at £6 and
wheat when it was ss. a bushel. Politically, he has
pleased neither producer, who thinks he has been
asleep, nor the consumer, who believes he has been
callous.
“X. Q. Zmee”: Reference (R. 4/2/T5)
to a gigantic turnip or some such vegetable
grown on Joe Cook’s estate near Parramatta
recalls that at last general election
Joe's barrackers went round with a
doleful tali' about their poor, struggling
orchardist, whose honorable condition was
iu sharp contrast with that of the bandit
Fisher, who had bought “a £30,000 residence
in Melbourne." Everyone will be glad to
hear 0 f Joe Cook at last getting his head
above water on those prodigious roots.
HER FOND FAREWELL.
THE GIRL: “Good luck , Charlie! If you
fight as hard as you drink, God help the
enemy! ”
Tiie present-day philosophy of Holman: —
It's all very well to talk about Labor legislation
and fixing wages by arbitration; but unless there's
heaps of loan money to spend, Labor will fall to
the European level.
As an end must obviously, come to the loan
drunk some day, the question for Labor to
consider is what it proposes to do when that
happens. It may not concern Holman, who
by that time will probably have another
job; but it does concern everybody else.
Meantime, with a Labor Premier telling the
country that a sea of debt is the price of
Labor legislation, the situation is getting
mixed.
When Health Minister Flowers (N.S.W.)
was having his talk with the Council of the
R.M.A. about his night clinic the spokesmen
for the doctors scored on one point:—
In order to secure success a patient would require
to be under observation for some time, and
anonymity was against attaining that end. As it
was, a patient might cease going to the clinic before
lie was thoroughly cured.
That is just the difficulty. It is much more
important that the disease should be stamped
out than that the blushes of either rich or
poor should be spared. There can be no
rational excuse for not asking each patient
his name and address, if only in order that
he may if necessary be forced to continue
in attendance.
THE SPRING.
“ I vonder vat dey mean ven dey say, ‘Look
out for der spri ng."
The cable announced last week that three
trawlers had left Britain for Sydney. These
are evidently the fishing vessels which the
State Government decided to import (with
borrowed money, of course), in spite of pro-
tests that the things could be made on the
spot, and that the work was wanted by Aus-
tralian engineers. Their departure from
England fell under “War News,” on the
ground, apparently, that it was an item in
the Holman Government’s campaign against
the Labor policy.
GOING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Liberalism,” said Mr. Cook, “is still a going
concern.”
Like some fast German cruiser racing death
It goes, and none its going shall regret.
Bell-toppered Fat its shape remembers yet,
But all its substance is become a breath,
A loud, dull breath that sounds from yesterday,
Till Truth’s wind blow the needless thing away.
I-at, fearing for his shekels, dare not brook
Divided counsels in such days as these,
When wide destruction stalks the lands and seas,
And longs, with patriot zeal, to muzzle Cook ;
But Joseph, lest his gilded tongue should rust,
Brays fiercely in the Parramatta dust.
The Labor party may be dark and drear,
Hot as a frying-pan with seething sin, ~
A hollow vault, a piece of sounding tin,
Dr aught that Joseph bellows in our ear,
But Joe s own show is going, going fast,
And almost any roar may be its last.
Once it is gone we shall more clearly see
The awful nature of what still remains,
And young Australia, brushing up her brains.
With one bold stroke may set the future free
By throwing lightly on the scrapheap both
The watchwords of incompetence and sloth.
x.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


Remarkable Value
Buy a Player Piano from
Paling’s. You will never
regret your purchase, the
pleasure you obtain will
astonish and delight you.
In their various grades
they are absolutely the
Very Best Value that
money can possibly buy.
Let us send you an inter-
esting Art Booklet —post
free. Write to-day.
Estey Organs
“ The World’s Standard ”
They are made in America, the homo of
reed-organ building, and are suitable for
Home use, Churches, Chapels, Mission
Halls, and Convents, etc. Our selection
includes small fold-up organs for camp
and open-air use. The model below is
Style 1232. Price £23. Easy Terms.
Others from £lO/10/-
JeL
VICTOR
Player Pianos
"
I
mm
Also VICTOR PIANOS, SAMES, ESTEY, RONISCH & LIPP PIANOS.
WRITE TO-NIGHT for CATALOGUE and PRICE LIST POST FREE.
Easy Time Payments
PALING’S,
338 George Street - - Sydney.
BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, TOOWOOMBA
Country Customers
may rely uoon obtaining
a sound and thoroughly
reliable Player Piano,
Piano and Organ, or
other Musical Instrument
when they leave the
selection to us.
Every instrument is made
of the Finest Material
and fully guaranteed by
us for Durability and
Satisfaction.
f When writing please
mention which particular
instrument you are inter-
ested in.
Estey Organs
They have no Equal
The proof of this assertion will be found
in the instruments themselves. They
are constructed of the very finest
materials, and have been specially selected
for Australia—will last a lifetime. Our
illustration shows Model 547, an artis-
tic Organ, fully guaranteed. Price
£4O. Easy Terms.
-w
of
n
Ebbb
mm
mm
3
'Deering" and ’McCormick" Chain Grain Drive
It cannot change unless YOU change it.
MERE IT IS
-—the much-talked-of Grain Sowing Device, fitted to
all this season’s 11 Deering" and " McCormick!” Drills.
It is the most simple, effective, and durable drive
ever made—so simple that it cannot get out o.t order—
so effective that it will sow the smallest quantity of
grain per acre with the utmost accuracy—so [durable
that it will last a lifetime.
Take a look at the accompanying cut andfobserve
the fewness of parts required to obtain the mqtion on
the grain shaft. The motion is obtained by means of a
powerful chain, driven from a sprocket on the main axle to a sprocket on the
countershaft, thence by chain from the countershaft to a sprocket on the square
grain shaft. Simple and ample provision* is made to enable the operator to at all
times keep the chains tight. Where a change in the quantity of grain tb be sown
is required, all that is necessary is to remove a cotter pin and replace the sprockets
on the grain and axle ends of the countershaft with the sprockets to sow the
greater or lesser quantity, as required.
It is a well-known fact that any turning movement brought about by chain belt
absorbs the least amount of power, and further, that this drive positively ei inusiates
that tendency to slip, so common on spur gear wheel drives.
These features should prove of much interest to farmers, as they provide lighter draught, and
positively prevent any stoppage of feeding through the slipping of gears.
Not only does tills new Grain Sowing Device sow the seed surely, but its simple construction still further
reduces the already tremendously low up-keep cost of " Deering" and "McCormick" Drills.
Send for post free pamphlet containing full particulars.
International Harvester Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
200 Roma St., Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545-557 Bourke St„ Melb. 18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 361-365 Murray St ,Perth. 75 Yorfs St., L’ton.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Just one taste of B.L. will prove its high quality.
BULLOCH LADE <“BL”)
Is Good Whisky, and is Good for You.
Is Obtainable Everywhere, but Equalled Nowhere.
ALWAYS SEE S.V.O. WHITE LABEL.
FLANAGAN’S HOTEL, SZSMfsS
CHARLES HERNON (late of Brisbane) has
just taken over the above Hotel.
EXCELLENT ACCOMMODATION FOR VISI-
TORS. Write or wire for rooms.
TERMS: Per day, Bs.; per week, 425.
pin
wsm
Australian Cup Visitors
There is no place so convenient as “Scott’s,’’
and to book NOW is best, so as to be sure of
accommodation.
Single Rooms, Double Rooms, or Private
•Suites.
Private attendance. 'Phones in all rooms,
and Hot and Cold Water Service in Bed-
rooms ; Roof and Hall Smoking Lounges,
Excellent Cuisine.
Music by Hotel
Orchestra.
SCOTT’S HOTEL
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Telegrams: Scott’s,
Melbourne.
’Phones: 9012-17
Central.
* ...
Ls
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The size, of the crowd at Caulfield, last
Saturday, when the ground was damp and the heat
was moister, indicated a boomsome V.R.C. Autumn
Meeting to come —if the weather gives it a chance.
Saturday was a, trying day for man and beast. The
conditions, perhaps, were unfavorable to some of
the Sydney horses that ran in the Futurity Stakes,
though they didn’t prevent the favorite, Flash of
Steel, from winning by a neck from Naxbery, who
was giving 231 b. to the English colt. Little Blaque,
with 9st. 41b. up, finished third in front of Gigan-
dra, Brattle, Land of Song and Woorak, on which
running Blaque would seem to have a great chance
of carrying Bst. 41b. to the front in the Newmarket
next Saturday. But the circular seven furlongs
course at Caulfield is a very different proposition
.from the straight six furlongs at Flemington, nor is
it always the weight that matters so much in a
sprint race.
Judged by the time and weight test, Traquette’s
victory in the Hawksburn Handicap was the best
performance of the day. The filly carried Bst. 131 b.,
and did the six furlongs in lmin. 33|sec. Miss
Meadows and Golden Wire followed her home pretty
closely, and all three of them will have lighter
burdens in the Newmarket. Nevertheless this unin-
spired prophet will pin his faith to the Futuritv
Stakes form. Taking a batch of six as the cream
of the handicap—Flash of Steel, Traquette, Herring-
bone, Saracen, Blaque and Golden Wire —he picks
FLASH OF STEEL
as the most likely one to win easily. The colt
should be much improved by the gallop last Satur-
day, when he shot away from his pursuers at the
critical moment, and oidy appeared to be tiring at
the finish. Of the old and oft-tried battlers the
writer prefers Golden Wire, who carries weight
easily, and is always worth backing for a place.
The Australian Cup, run on Tuesday, promises
at time of writing to resolve itself into the
question whether brilliant De Gama (9st. 51b.) is
a sufficiently good stayer to polish off the crowd of
second-raters to whom he will have to concede
nothing less than 141 b. nor more than 401 b. The
records of the long-distance race are against the
chance of a top-weight getting home. Wishing Cap
(7st. 91b.) is one of the best-looking and stoutest
horses in the race, and his performances of late
suggest that he will be coming on when the more
impetuous animals have had enough of the 2j miles
journey. Wishing Cap is worth backing, anvhow.
* * * *
The V.R.C. stipendiary stewards were
right over the odds the other Saturday when they
summoned owner, trainer and jockey of Mountain
Knight to explain why that respectable animal had
™n only second to Land of Song instead of winning.
Land of Song, running prominently from the start,
had beaten the Caulfield time record for nine fur-
longs. He was -Ssec. slicker than Comedy King or
Trafalgar in the same race. But because the stipes,
had expected Mountain Knight to win. the other
horse (as the betting indicated) being reckoned short
of condition, they wanted to know why their fancy
had not beaten the record-breaker. The explanation
of owner and trainer was graciously “accepted,”
whilst jockey McLaehlan was “censurecl for riding a
bad race.” His scornful comments on this vote of
(ensure remind one of the story of how the fat and
vehement Duchess of Montrose upbraided a droll man-
nikin named Huxtable for not riding according to
orders. Her Grace the sporty Duchess had dropped
a big parcel of quids over her supposed good thing,
and was boiling with wrath. “Didn’t I tell you to
come along from the start?” roared her Grace. “Did
.ver want me to come along wifout the ’orse?” asked
Huxtable. The fact was that Traquette, Jolly
Beggar and Land of Song were all going too fast for
Mountain Knight for the first mile. The English
horse kept up the pace to the finish, whilst the
A.J.C. Derby winner overhauled the other two nags
when they were tiring off. The stipes, thought the
colt was “coming too late,” whereas he was coming
as soon as he could.
* * _ * *
The first Newmarket was run in 1874, so
that next Saturday’s is the 42nd. Maid of Avenal
(7st. 81b.) won the first in lmin. 17see. Aspen
(6st. 81b. and 7st. 81b.) led the field home in ’BO
and ’Bl, the only animal to win two Newmarkets to
date. The great Malua won in ’B4 with Bst. 91b.,
and his lmin. 15:]sec. was a record for the race.
With Bst. up, Lochiel equalled the time in ’B7, and,
in the following year, Cranbrook humped Bst. 121 b.
over the course in lmin. 14Jsec. —biggest winning
weight and fastest time in the first 15 Newmarkets.
In ’9O, Boz, winner of that season’s Caulfield Cup
with 7st. 91b., carried lOst. lib. into second place
behind Churchill (Bst. 41b.). Bungebah, with 9st.
31b., aboard, landed the stakes in ’9l. Fortunatus
(7st. 71b.) was runner-up the next year to AVild
Rose (Bst. lib.), but scored with 9st! 21b. in ’93.
The beautiful Hova, with 7st. 131 b., was the next
winner, and then Laundress (7st. 91b.) shaved the
time record to lmin. 15sec. It was further reduced
in 1897 by Carlton (Bst. 31b.) to the extent of
quarter of a second. Amiable scored the following
year in lmin. 14sec. with a cargo of Bst. 121 b. In
1902 Sir Foote (Bst.) dashed past the post in lmin.
135 sec. The Maorilander, Soultline, in 1909, put
up a Newmarket winning weight record which still
stands 9st. 111 b. in lmin. 154 sec. The time record
at present belongs to Queen o’ Scots, lmin. 12Isec.,
but she carried only 7st. 91b.
*** * *
R. Lewis, who will have the mount on the
Victorian Derby winner, Carlita, in the coming
\ .R.C. St. Leger, steered AVolowa and Radnor the
last two winners of the If mile classic. The record
of wins is held by the late Tommy Hales, who
landed the race 10 times —on Richmond, Bosworth,
Grand Flaneur, Navigator, Martini-llenrv, Matchlock,
Trident, Abercorn, A’olley and Dreadnought, the
last five in succession.
At Kensington the other day there passed
over the most widely-known sportsman of the South
Coast (N.S.AV.) districts, “Bob” Sharpe, a native
of Bega, and son of the founder of the first news-
paper in that township, the Gazette. He dealt in
cattle to make a living, and in race-horse flesh to
make living tolerable.
A notable Australian sport had the clock
stopped on him when John Riley died at Sydney a
few days ago. He was born at Maitland (N.S.W.)
in 1834, and when about 14 or 3 5 years old was a
jockey with a reputation, frequently having mounts
at Sydney, Homebush, Bathurst and Mudgee. He
was later employed by Parliamentary Librarian
McEvilly when that racehorse-lover had a stable at
the back of Parliament buildings. Riley rode at
the first meeting at Randwick, in 1860. When
McEvilly separated himself from his string of
animals, Riley was found a place in the Parliament
Library and remained on the staff for 47 years. One
of the experiences of his early days that- he enjoyed
relating was of riding in a race at Bathurst in
which Ben Hall, the bushranger, took part on a
horse stolen from Kelso Station.
Victoria’s capture of the Sheffield Shield
at Adelaide this week, brings the trophy into her
possession for the seventh time: 1892-3, 1894-5,
1897-8, 1898-9, 1900-1, 1907-8, 1914-15. South
Aus. was as near as a whistle being outclassed by an
innings on Monday. As it was, a defeat by 10
wickets is sad and weary to contemplate. The ball
simply ate wood in S.A.’s first innings—lronmonger,
five wickets for 41; Armstrong, two for 11; Souter,
two for eight. Total runs, 143. Four men only hit
into double figures. The contribution from Vic. was
then taken and amounted to 379. Top scorer, J.
Ryder, 151, by steady, hard-driving play. There was
an extravagant order awaiting S.A. on her second
visits to the run-dep6ts—236 needed to make up
leeway. It was done with 22 to spare. Park and
Ryder slapped up the necessary 23 for Vic., and a
10-wicket margin decided the guardianship of the
Shield.
The three States, Vic., N.S.W. and S.A., have
each played four matches. S.A. lost the lot. Vic.
and Ma each won three and lost one, so the rule of
average was applied as per regulations. This, is how
the position figured out: —
Victoria.
Wickets. Ru’is. Average.
For .. .. 70 1810 25.85
Against .. .. 74 1550 20.94
Margin .. .. 4.91
N.S.W.
For .. , . 74 1851 25.01
Against .. .. 80 1673 20.91
Margin .. .. 4.10
In 23 years of contest for the Sheffield Shield N. S.
Wales has been 13 times the winner (from 1901-2
to and including 1906-7 consecutively), Victoria
seven times, and South Aus. three times.
In Sheffield Shield cricket this season,
Victoria and N.S.W. each brought 18 players into
the line of battle, while S. Australia called on 15.
New blood was given a much-needed chance, which
some of it promptly seized.
McLAREN , Captain of the Queensland
Cricket Team.
Ryder, the Victorian batsman, with his
score of 151 against S.A. in the last of the season’s
Sheffield Shield fixtures, raised his aggregate to over
400 runs and his average to past 80. His claim as
the most successful State batsman this year has a
powerful weight behind it. Incidentally, Ryder was
first picked upon for his bowling.
-X- * * 4f
The game—it could hardly be termed a
match —between cricket elevens representing N. S.
M ales and Queensland was concluded on Saturday at
Sydney, and mighty was the donkey-walloping the
Northerners got. The Bulletin bows its head and
announces on behalf of the coroner that the fatality
amounted to an innings and 231 runs. Still, it was
a pleasant game. Considering the unequal strength
of the contestants that is about all that could be
expected. Batting first, on Friday, the Banana-
landers, after scoring 83 runs for the loss of three
bats at lunch time, went to pieces in the afternoon,
and finished at 137 (Sheppard, 40). The devil
amongst the tailors was the colt Cullen, who
accounted for four at a cost of 20 runs. Wall also
made himself inconvenient; four more for 44 runs
was his tally. When the home team went to bat the
North made an encouraging start by bagging three
wickets for a trifle of 17 runs. Then Callaway and
Macartney transpired and monumental was the tran-
spiry thereof. Their partnership resulted in over
250 runs. The sheet read: one for one, two for 17,
three for 17, four for 58, five for 314. The
innings closed for 468. Considering all things,
McAndrews’ bowling average, five for 83, was not so
dusty. The rest "of the story belongs to N.S.W.
bowler Mailey. He knocked timber about at the
rate of five for 31, and the visiting outfit concluded
its second inings with an even 100 to its collective
name. Then everybody adjourned for reflection and
other refreshments.
Some of the Bananaland XL ought to take a week-
end off and remove the butter from their fingers.
Macartney (N.S.W.) was dropped on Friday in the
slips from the first ball sent him. His gratitude
ran to 103 runs. Callaway was let off at 41 and
two or three times subsequently. He didn’t stop to
deliver an address of thanks, but belted on (he
reached 150 in 154 minutes and 200 in 206
minutes!), until Ayers decided it might be as well
to catch him at 207.
“Hamer” : The bright innings of Callaway
caused the S. M. Herald to dub it the finest dis-
play ever given by a colt. Rabbits! The Queens-
land bowling was too easy to allow the claim. The
innings could not be compared, for instance, with
Noble’s 152 not out against the Englishmen in the
early ’9o’s, or with that bright double-event in
which, as two colts, Harry Donnan and Frank Iredale,
at Adelaide, smote 108 and 97 off the bowling of E.
Jones and Geo. Giffen.
Another schoolboy who may be just in
time to strengthen the Australian XI. when the war
is over—Albert Scanes, of Erskineville, Sydney. In
six innings this season he has scored 743 runs (three
times n. 0.), which is an average of 247.
Imported lightweights from U.S.A. were
presented for public inspection at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday evening—Frank! Jones and the Redskin
half-breed James Coffey. Jones was a tired young-
man. with a left which looked as if it possessed
possibilities, and a semi-paralysed right. Coffey
hadn’t quite made up his mind whether he was there
to box or wrestle. As he hadn’t a decent hit in the
kit it didn’t matter. In the second round raucous
suggestions came from the crowd that the perform-
ers should get busy. This they positively declined
to do. After two more rounds the scuffling youths in
the ring were alternately counted out, given the
bird and wildly applauded. Frantic cheers greeted
Jor.es whenever he managed to score a hit. Loud
and prolonged applause rewarded Coffey when he
delivered anything calculated to damage a mosquito.
Someone started “Tipperary.” A thousand throats
joined in the chorus. “Home, Sweet Home” and
“Rule Britannia” followed. All the popular patriotic
lilts of the moment were roared, with good-natured
glee what time Messrs. Coffey and Jones shuffled
round the enclosure, feebly flicking one another in
the manner of joyous housemaids armed with feather-
dusters, or, by way of change, wearily resting on
each other’s' shoulders. The dreary business lasted
the whole 20 rounds. Coffey got the decision. A
monotonous, wasted evening.
* * *
Fight referees are coming on. At a Mel-
bourne scrap, when two rather unwilling lads were
giving the preliminary, the man in charge was heard
to say: “Get to it, boys! This is no place for an
effusive display of friendship.”
* # * *
“Masetto” : With the death of Jem Mace,
most of us thought the last of the old school of
pugs had disappeared, but the Christmas dinner at
. Wandsworth (England) workhouse brought under
notice Bob Travers, who made his showing in -the
ring just 60 years ago, when fighting was no parlor
game. In one breach of the peace with .Toe Cobley
the proceedings lasted three hours and 27 minutes,
during which 110 rounds were foug-ht. Travers’s
backers thought him good enough for Mace, and the
pair "met in a curious match in 1860. The party
went down the Thames, landed on the Essex shore,
and had set the stakes for the ring when the police
arrived. The sports re-embarked, and a start was made
in Kent. When six rounds had been fought another
police visitation caused such a hurried move that
Jerry Noon, Travers’s second, had to swim to the
steamer to avoid capture. That settled business for
the day, but next day the fight was continued in
still another part of England, and Mace won, after
90-odd minutes’ battling-.
The balance-sheet of the Davis Cup
finals, and challenge match, played in America last
year, shows that the Australasia-Germany match, at
Pittsburg, brought in £1140; our men v. Canada,
at Chicago, £1.580 ; us v. British Isles, at Boston,
£1670; and the challenge match, at Forest Hills,
N’York, £11,570. There was no thriftlessness about the
management; even the used balls were traded off as
souvenirs. These side lines and the sale of pro-
grammes took the gross receipts to £16,910. Ex-
penses came to nearly £6OOO, and of the balance
the U.S.A. took £3560 and Australasia £4750.
* * *■ *
After a very brief repose in Sydney—l 2
months —the Northcote Cun, presented a few years
ago by the then G.-G. Northcote for competition
amongst six-metre yachts, goes back to its old rest-
ing place at Melbourne. The speedy Killara, the
challenging craft from St. lvilda, lifted the utensil
after two races in Port Jackson last week, and left
in-its place no room for doubt as to which is the
superior boat. On Friday the race was under the
influence of a strong nor’-east wind, and, over a
triangular course, the challenger won by 3min. 2sec.
Rawhiti showed better pace only with the wind dead
aft. On Saturday a light nor’-east wind was blowing
and Killara was never in doubt. On the windward
work she showed her heels to Rawhiti, and sailed
on a line as straight as a gun-barrel. Three yachts
have put their brands on the Cup—S.J.S., of Port
Melbourne, 1908-10 ; Killara, 1910-13 ; Rawhiti 11,,
1913-14-15. In this year’s contest Killara was sailed
bv J. A. Douglas and Rawhiti by E. E. Sayers, both
skilful and resourceful watermen.
In addition to the big race for the North-
cote Cup, yachting enthusiasts in Sydney on Satur-
day were offered good sport with the 18-footers for
the State championship. The good ship Kismet won
a keenly-contested race with 30sec. to .spare from
Arline, under the nursing of that wise yacht jockey,
IV. Dunn. But it wasn’t all skill that landed the
ham. At one stage the race looked to be Nimrod’s.
Off Clark Island, however, while leading and in
comfortable fix, an extra helping of Davy Jones’s
liquor was taken on board, which filled her to the
gunwale. By the time it had been shovelled back
to the old address Kismet had walked away into
the lead, and was able to stay there to the finish.
Nimrod was third. Australia, which was much
fancied, barely managed to scratch into sixth place.
* * -X- *
Kismet had already won the Sydney Flying
Squadron’s Championship, and, with a winning
account of about £BO, is easily the leading local
boat for 1914-5. She is one of the old-timers, hut
none of the more-recently launched craft can beat
her.
There was a remarkable sailing event at
the Auckland Anniversary Regatta the other day,
labelled the Trading Cutter Race. None of the
competing vessels was less than 50 years of age, and
one, the Tay, was 79.
The Pearce sculling family added to its
list of wins on Saturday by inducing Arthur and
Lily to contest a mixed doubles handicap on the
Parramatta. Brother and sister, who are the cham-
pion mixed double scullers of N. S. Wales, covered
tlie mile course in Smin. 40sec.
For six months Richard Arnst has been
shedding superfluous tissue on the Parramatta ; and
the whisper goes round again that when his form is
sufficiently satisfactory supporters will wrap their
coin inside a challenge to Englishman Ernest Barry
for the world’s championship and £5OO aside. Harry
Floyd, the mentor who has invariably brought
success to Arnst, has taken over the supervision of
the training camp.
Victorian swimming authorities got of!
three championship swirls on Saturday—the 220yds.
(open), the 150yds. and 100yds. (for the safety-pin
sex). L. Grieve, of Melbourne, won the first by a
few inches —after a gruelling battle with Adrian, of
Manly (N.S.W.), who recently wiped out Kahana-
moku in a ,440yds. race at Sydney—in 2min. 45
4-ssec. Grieve is an ex-Sydney boy. Lily Beaure-
paire won the other two events, the 150yds. in 2min.
lsec. and the 100yds. in lmin. 21sec. At the time
these races were going on, Brisbane, or some of it,
was cheering life into competitors at the ladies'
inter-State championship meeting. Fanny Durack
(N.S.W.) was, of course, first in the 100yds. scuttle,
but that other good swimmer, Mina Wylie (N.S.W.),
was very adjacent at the finish. L. Fevyer (N.S.W.)
was third. Time (slow for Fanny), lmin. 14scc.
The three subsequently won the 150yds. State team
championship of Australia.
* * * *
The third annual swiin-througli-Adelaido
was not so farcical this year as on a previous
occasion, but the handicappers have not yet quite
grasped the shortness of the journey and the neces-
sity of cutting down handicaps. L. E. Weir did
fastest time, 30min. lOsec. ; but there were plenty
of long-starters within three or four minutes of that,
and Weir was placed only 14th. Young Arnold
Reedman took 32min. 56see., and romped home with
a 9min. start. Competitors, 54, included one lady;
52 finished the course, which is a reputed 1 mile
300 yards, from weir to Jubilee Oval. The race was
swum up-stream, but as there is no stream in the
Torrens this year, the direction made no difference,
except the useful one of giving a wide course for the
crowded earlier stages, and a narrower one for the
finish.
•X- * *
The strongest team that “Mary Ann"
Noble has ever led into the field is the recently-
formed Sydney Athletic Sports Rifle Club. lie was
elected captain last week, and now there are aboul
450 good Australians behind him.
-x- -X- *
The Royal Sydney Golf Club had an
expenditure of £12,000 last year and showed a net
surplus of £l3OO. This year the club will exercise
its option of purchase of its site at Rose Bay, and
lias no sleepless nights regarding the necessary
£34,000. Incidentally, 43 members have gone to
drive a few balls into Hans Sausage.
-X- * -X- *
Winning Number, the hound that won the
English Waterloo Cup last week, was looked upon as
the more-than-likely winner of the event, in 1914.
There was a lot of disappointment when, owing to
the death of his then owner, W. Paterson, he was
withdrawn from the list of starters at. almost the
last minute. Sir Thomas Dewar, of the fire-water
family, now owns Winning Number.
Good all-round sports are becoming rare,
but Kiernan, who captained Vic.’s 11 against Tassy
and then had a place in the Peacock State’s Sheffield
Shield XI, proves that the species is not defunct. He
is a slashing batsman, one of the best fields in Vic-
toria, a first-class baseballer and has a No. 1 record
as a football player.
* * * *
Victorian League of Wheelmen has started
an unholy row by disqualifying for 12 months 50
riders who pedalled at an unregistered meeting. Most
of Vic.’s prominent riders came under the axe; and
the Federal Cycling Council has endorsed the dis-
oualifteations. The biffed are launching a rival con-
cern, but their chances against the League (and.
of course, the Federal Council) are dim and casual,
like the benefits of Yawn Murray’s lack of energy.
Uncle Sam’s important motor-car races
for 1915 are the Vanderbilt Cup and the Grand Prix
(Uncle $ likes to swagger in French). The former
rush will take place on a special track at the
Panama Exhibition (under the patronage of Alfred
Deakin, ex-N. S. Wales Minister for Lands Nielsen
and “Joe” Niesigh) on February 22. The distance
is 300 miles, worked out in 75 circuits. The Grand
Prix race is over a distance of 400 miles.
* * * #
Of the Dunedin Rugby Union’s players
eligible for service no less than between 60 and 70
per cent, have departed from Maoriland en route to
Potsdam.
Some S’African sports on the spoor of the
German: Abe Bailey (president Transvaal Cricket
Union), L. J. Tancred, W. Chapman, H. W. Taylor.
S. V. Samuelson, R. T. Lewis, W. Shalders, R. 11.
Hands, A. 11. C. Cooper, J. M. Blanckenberg, C.
Newberry (international cricketers), R. E. Walker
(the famous sprinter) and sufficient from the tennis,
football and general athletic fields to make up a
o^piando.
When Bagnall, of N.S.W. Assembly, rises
from his seat it is usually to ask some ques-
tion about the price of chick-wheat or other
lieu food, or to comment on the punishment
meted out to fowl stealers. Bagnall, who
went from one of the printing trades to deal
with the great question of poultry, repre-
sents St. George, where chicken-growing is
a large industry, and the fowl is more or
less sacred. The member for St. George and
the Leghorn!


Must You First Get a Beating
Before You Learn to Box?
à
á
Or are you going to do the sellable thing? Learn to defend your-
self in a convincing way.
Few know how to make the most effective and scientific use
of their natural means of attack and defence. That is just one
of the many sound reasons why YOU should be a Skilful Boxer,
and possess the advantage over your fellows.
Let me make you a Scientific, hard-hitting boxer well able
to hold your own.
1 TEACH BOXING by POST
So you’ve no excuse for remaining' crude and in-
experienced —a good target for the first “bully who
torments you.
Let me make you a cool, determined, scientific
boxer, with a substantial punch and effective guard
a manly man, well able to look after himself and
win the respect of others.
You'll find my tuition a delightful pastime—an
amusement that will enable you to thoroughly enjoy
many an otherwise dreary hour.
As well as enjoying yourself to the brim you'll be
building up your physique, for no sport approaches
boxing as a means of developing the body.
All this is in addition to perfecting your natural
methods of defending yourself as a real man should
You ought to write for my illustrated Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which gives
fuller particulars, cost of tuition. Just write your name and address on this advertisement and post
to me. I’ll know what you mean.
Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
390 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
To Cigarette
Smokers
who appreciate a really Rood and
mild cigarette, I highly recommend
W. D. & H. O. Wills’
i
Actual
iize.
AUTUMN
GOLD
Cigarettes.
They are admittedly the finest
Virginia Cigarettes made.
Packed in hermetically sealed,
vacuum tins of 50, which keep
them in perfect condition.
Plain or 22-carat Gold Tipped,
4/- per tin of 50, or 75/- per
1000.
Postage extra. 100 : N.S.W. 6d.,
Inter-State Sd.
Write for a copy of my illus-
trated catalog, “A Discriminat-
ing Smoker’s Guide.”
A M SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
“SHELL”
BENZINE
AGAIN insisted on
by
Sir Ernest Shackleton
for use in
The Imperial Antarctic
Expedition.
1915
INDIAN Motocycles
HERE.
BUILT ESPECIALLY FOR
AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS.
CALL AND INSPECT, or
Write for Catalogue D.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
HOTELKEEPERS ! HOTELKEEPERS !
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR! NO BOTTLE-WASHINO!
NO BOTTLE FILLING. - NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES! .
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
ECKERS LEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND ACENTS: Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 523-33 Quean Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
! -•
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
SYDNEY
WOOL, PRODUCE, AND CRAIN
SALESMEN
A PAIR OF RIGNEY SHOES.
à
Let the finishing touch to your apparel be
a pair of RIIJNEY SHOES. Their smart
style and neat appearance will give you
that air of distinction so earnestly sought
after by the well-dressed man.
The illustration shows a Tan Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Brown Cloth Insertion Tops,
“Non-Tread-Over” Brand.
Price - - 32/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Ww
-VR^VV!?
mm
Something
Special in
Motor Cycle
Tyres
The above illustration depicts our New
DUNLOPspkial
MOTOR CYCLE COVER
WHICH IS EASILY THE FINEST TYRE
OBTAINABLE IN THIS COUNTRY.
Careful and prolonged road tests have demonstrated that this new type
of non-slipping Cover, combining a ribbed and rubber studded pattern, is
splendidly suited for all round riding. The tread is so designed that it
ensures PLENTY OF WEAR, yet by reason of its
scientific design it excels as- a non-slipping cover on
greasy surfaces. For SPEED, RESILIENCY,
“ CORNERING ” and WEAR, we can highly =
recommend this new tyre.
STOCKED IN FOLLOWING SIZES:
Three-Ply Covers -24 in. x 2 A in., 26 x 2 A in.,
26 in. x 2Vi in. to fit 2'A in. rims, and
26in. x 2'A in.
Four-Ply Covers—26 in. x 2 A in.
to fit 2'A in. rim. 26 x 2j4in. ,
and 26 x 3 in. to fit 2 Vi in. rim.
OBTAINABLE THROUGH
ALL AGENTS.
Prolusely Illustrated Price List mailed
on application. Every Motor Cyclist
should have a copy.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Perth, Brisbane. Launceston, Wellington ar.d Christchurch
>S4
))!>
n.
z\\
m
3S
7TV.
SS\®sKKw '>i''\\vS>v
■n
“Megatherium”: James Whelan, of Mel-
bourne. a demolisher of old buildings, can
compete with Time himself as the owner of
alms for oblivion. Among Whelan’s gather-
ings from under floors and beneath founda-
tion-stones. from house and hovel, are
knuckle-dusters from the Alsatia of Little
Lon.; gas globes by the hundred from
Cliveden, once the home of Baronet IV. .1.
Clarke, now a swagger residential flat lit
bv electricitv; the snuff-box —found in a
thieves’ den—of Curtis Candler, a dead-aud-
gone coroner; the basket of one of the first
balloons to ascend in Melbourne; and coins
and tokens of all nations, let fall by diggers
of the roaring days in temples of Venus and
Bacchus. Excavations for a new drapery
warehouse in Little Bourke-street revealed
the remains of the first Melbourne stock-
yard, of which Whelan treasures selected
posts and rails: From portion of a cor-
duroy road here found. Governor Gibson
Carmichael caused handsome furniture to
be constructed. Because it made the
entrance too dark, Whelan had to remove
from the Empire Building. Collms-street,
one of the finest marble and granite stair-
cases ever imported to Victoria. It cost
thousands, and he got it for a few pounds.
The pillars are now the posts of an iron
fence outside a Sydney-road villa. Founda-
tion-stones and flagstaffs are owned by
Whelan in plenteous heaps, and from the
old Melbourne Hospital were rescued hat-
racks bearing the curved initials of now
front-rank doctors, then students anxious to
leave their finger-prints on the sands of Time.


Cod Liver oi!
may mean anything .
SCOTT’S Emulsion
means only the superfine grade
of the world’s finest cod liver
oil made pleasing to the
taste and three times as power-
ful as in the raw state.
It is not quantity, but quality
that counts. One small bottle
of SCOTT S , Emulsion is well
worth a dozen bottles of any
preparation of inferior oil.
Give SCOTT’S to the weakly
child, to the nursing mother,
to those who require a builder
up and to all who suffer from
coughs, colds, bronchitis or
throat troubles. But, be sure
it is genuine
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
with the fishman on the package.
t
u
1874
1914
TRADE
MARI<
Kpk
*
Mile-s
Cheaper
and.
Australian.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd
AH Stores 8c New
I
*
Wilea
Cheaper^
and.
Australian.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd
All States & New Zealand
*
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “1 like the Celebrated ‘AItABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y-ui. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia-
ASK TO-DAY FOR TOUR COLOUR FOLOER
s
o' Varnishes
I
WEAR WELL EVERYWHERE UNDER THE SUN.
YY/HEN you have to decide what paint is to be used
’ * to protect your House—you will be glad to know
which one has the greatest durability and the best finish.
Get colour folders and particulars of Berger’s Paints and
Varnishes to-day, and learn how much you save in
money and gain in appearance and durability by asking
your painter to use “ Berger’s.” There is a Berger
Speciality for every surface—each the best possible for
its purpose.
“ B-P ” Berger’s Paint (prepared) is guaranteed to work easier, cover
more surface, look better and wear longer than any other paint.
“ Matone is a really washable matt wall paint.
“ Enamelac ” is the highest grade of enamel-paint.
“Varnol” gives enamel finish at paint price.
Lewis Berger & Sons
(Australia). Ltd.,
18. Young Street. SYDNEY,
Makers of Paints, Colours and
Varnishes at
HOMERTON. LONDON. ENG
Sincq. 1760.
â
Get Colour Folders and
Particulars, together with
name of local Agent,
from Head Office, 18
Young Street, Sydney.
AH! IT’S A "PLUM”!
I <5
\ -
'•e
The man who shaves knows that satisfaction is assured when he uses
A “PLUM” RAZOR.
The blade of a “Plum” Razor keens a keen edge and is always ready
for a clean, comfortable shave. Never a null or a drag but an
easy shave, leaving the skin soft as silk. We know the edge
required to give best results, and therefore vou can always rely on a
“Plum.”
ORDER ONE TO-DAY—IO/6 post free.
Kept in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- d’his line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price hist.
CRAIG & AITREN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER SO YEARS.
i
Horlick's Malted Milk is the most healthful and
the most palatable Food-Drink you can take. Its
ingredients help nature to form new rich blood —and
that means that Horlick’s is a Food-Drink of
incomparable value. Depression, Exhaustion, and
Nervous ailments are conquered by Horlick’s
Malted Milk.
Get Horlick’s at the Soda Fountain.
Sample will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps by Hutchinson &
Co., 26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
HOR LICK’S
MALTED MILK
lORLICIG
KALTE^MIIK
‘° { °wii>ic ob MUJt isa*^
«n"
MJU.TCO
Tricks, Puzzles, Jokes, Novelties.
JOKER’S SNAKE CAMERAS.
An imitation of a camera, from which a large snake springs out.
Post free, 1/3. Larger sizes, 2/- and 3/6, post free.
Write for New Catalogue
—Post Free.
THE PHANTOM CARD TRICK.
Five cards are shown. Anyone
mentally selects three. The five
cards are now dropped in a hat. Per-
former picks out the two cards not
selected. Someone puts hand in hat
to bring out the three selected cards,
WIRE PUZZLES -All Kinds.
Six different Puzzles for 2/-, post free, or
12, all different, for 3/6, post, free.
but they have vanished, the hat being quite
empty. Very bewildering and easy to work.
Post free, with full instructions, 8(1.
Handkerchief can be used instead of hat. if
desired. We can supply a set of 6 different
card tricks, in addition to the above, for
3/3, post free.
Our Speciality -THE JOKER'.! NOVELTY PACKET,
containing
“The Joker’s Plate Lifter.”
“The Joker’s Love Bond.”
“ The Joker’s Squirt Camera.”
“The Joker’s E.ectric Push Button.”
These Four Good Jokes for 2/6, post free.
Our New Catalogue, which is Post Free, is a Novelty in Itself.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD. —New York Novelty Co.,
7 08-710 GEORGE STREET, HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office, Sydney.
WE SPECIALISE IN ALL KINDS OF TOYS.
“T. 0.1.”: Margaret Anglin lias been
engaged by the University of Cali-
fornia as the sole producer of Greek
drama in the University’s Open Air
Theatre during the Panama Exhibition.
Miss Anglin was horn at Ottawa in 1870.
and is Mrs. Howard Hull in private
life. She made her first appearance as a
professional at the N’Yorlt Academy of
Music in 1804, came to Australia in 1908,
and will be remembered for her Katharine
(“Taming of the Shrew”) and Viola
(“Twelfth Night”). Professor William Amies
recently visited Greece to make researches
for Miss Anglin, who also visited the scene
of the ancient legends. It was a production
of Sophocles’s “Antigone” at the Greek
Theatre, Berkeley, California, that gained
her the invitation to run the highbrow side-
show at the Panama outburst.
t “Ilaresfoot”: Belasco refers to Adelaide
Neilson as the most charming actress he
ever met, and a peerless Juliet, challenging
the memories of Miss O’Neill (Lady
Becher) and Helen Faucit. He stage-
managed at San Francisco when Adelaide
came there. Although she was then the
greatest English-speaking star, she took
away his breath by asking “What time have
I to _be on hand for rehearsal to-morrow
morning?” He never, before or since, heard
such an inquiry from a star. The great
Edmund Kean and Adelina Patti wouldn’t
rehearse with anybody. 'With them you
had just to take your chance. Adelaide
Neilson, with unprecedented and incredible
generosity, according to Belasco, spread out
the treasures of her jewellery, after her last
night, and invited members of the company
to pick what they liked. Belasco chose the
cheapest-looking thing, a little black pearl.
“Oh,” said Neilson. “anything but that!
It’s my mascot.” So he took an emerald
ring. Later, angry with herself for refusing
even her mascot, she sent him the pearl.
“Moana”: “Harrison O.” (B. 7/l/’lsj
complains that TJ.S.A. dramatists expand
ideas suitable for 15-minute sketches into
three- and four-act plays. They do; they
have to. for' even a good sketch is practically
unsaleable in Uncle Samland. Indeed, a one-
act play is just about the most difficult liter-
ary product to plant anywhere. The day of
curtain-raisers is past, and unless the one-
acter is of the slapstick variety suitable for
impolite vaudeville it is as hard to get rid
of as a turned-up nose. Four years ago in
collaboration with a well-known Bulletin
writer I hoisted out a playlet that we were
both proud of. It had three characters,
played for 25 minutes and had a big scene
in the right place. It was rushed away to
Noo Yark, where it was promptly taken up
by one of the best-known dramatic agents
and was unstintingly praised by her and by
various managers, actors and actresses. iii
fact, everyone who has read it has worked
overtime talking about its merits. But so far
no one has paid down good hard cash to try
it out. Now, after four weary years of
struggle to get it on, several well-meaning
people are suggesting that we stretch the
idea into a three-act play to occupy a whole
evening. We are assured that it is a cer-
tainty for prompt production if that is done.
So far we have turned our backs on the
temptation to spoil our best piece of work,
but one of these days, when a manager
comes along with a contract, we will throw
art overboard, pad the piece and stand from
under a shower of cash.
London papers give half a column to a
musical comedienne who was staying at
Scarborough when the Bluclier arrived.
“Pieces of shell fell in the room, and I now
have them as mementoes of the most remark-
able event in my life.” The profesli
enviously agreed that it is better to be bom-
barded nowadays than to have your jewellery
burgled.
The quarter-million derelict, the London
Opera House, has a scratch Christmas panto-
mime. Everything has been tried there—
grand opera, variety shows, society bazaars,
moving pictures, recruiting plays, Yankee
preachers, but it seems utterly unable to
settle down to anything permanent. It is
too vast and expensive, and not in the right
place. One syndicate has made an offer to
cut it in two, transforming one half into
shops and offices, and turning the other into
a theatre of manageable dimensions. Some-
thing of the sort may be the end of the New
York Jew’s ill-starred enterprise.
“M.P.A.”: Tyrone Power, who appeared
with Edith Crane under the J.C.W. banner
some years ago, and subsequently ran his
own show in Melbourne with disastrous
results, has taken to picture playing. In a
recent production of Bronson Howard’s
“Aristocracy,” produced by the Famous
Players Co. of 11.5. A. Power made his
debut as a screen star. According to the
opinion of an Australian in America his
dumb mumming is most effective.
“Norbell”: I met my old college chum
Phil, the side-showman, and asked him how
the war was affecting business. “Well,” he
said, “it looked as if things was goin’ to be
crook, but I gutter lurk wot beats three-
legged sheep ’n’ wild men ’oiler. I gotter
young tart, a cocky’s dorter, from out Gar-
gledoo way. I’m goin’ to tour ’er as a Bel-
gian refugee. I’ll dress ’er up in red, w’ite
’n’ blue sateen, V bill ’er as ‘The Victim
of German Barbarism Fresh from the Seat
of War.’ ’Er ole man’s shook on ’avin’ a
nactress in the fambly, ’n’ I’m goin’ to give
’er 80 bob ’n’ ’er keep ’n’ tra veilin’ exes.
I’m teachin’ ’er to say, ‘Kominong!’ ’n’
‘Kesker say ker Sar,’ ’n’ other simple Dago
chat. Show-times, watch ther cookies line
up! _ Bli’ me! A man oughter ’it ’em up
for ’arf-a-caser a time!”
Oscar Asclie’s “Mameena,” the wild Zulu
play which is much more of a dressless sen-
sation than a play, now goes without instru-
mental music. Instead of an overture the
play is preceded by some songs by the Zulus.
Whether this has been done in the sacred
name of Art or the reverend moniker of
expense is not explained.
It is in “Der Tag,” Barrie’s new playlet.
The Emperor announces: “Germany must
expand. That is her Divine mission. I
have it from on High.” Whereon Culture
replies acidly: “Your system of espionage
is known to be tolerably complete.”


MISSION FURNITURE at HALL’S.
THE HOME COMPLETELY FURBISHED IN SOLID 9AK for—
©
-rt -#t
m
4
m
m
m
m
*
,E»S
ft '
SSI
jj|j|| jigg •| *
,r«fj W;f '
«♦
MISSION DINING-ROOM (Photographed).
sft. Mission Oak Sideboard, “Masda,” fitted with bevelled Mirror, and pretty headlight Cupboard effective -;• * - Genuine ''
8-piece Mission Oak Dining Suite, “Kama,a,” spring seats, comprising 6 Dimng Chairs and 2 Gent, s Aimchaas, upholsteied b en 12
Brown Hide. (This Suite may also be had in Blue or Bed Hide) 4 1
4ft. Circular Mission Table, “Halifax” 1.
Mission Palmstand, “Brooklyn” TiiO 12 0
Write for Particulars of Entrance Hall, Best Bedroom. Maid’s Room, Kitchen and all Floor Covering Dn*P<;ry and Bed Linen. We shall also post on request a "
copy of our large Illustrated. Catalogue and otaer Furnishing Estimates.
IS 0, w
A. HALL ®. CO.,
The Reliable Home Furnishers
561, s&la, 563, 505, 567 George Street, Sydney
If You Were Blindfolded
and led into a room and heard someone play on, say, six
different Pianos, yon would choose the one whose tone pleased
you —and, provided that all six were of the highest guide of
manufacture —you would choose wisely.
After all, given sound construction, is it not true that the
tone sells the instiument every time?
The World of Connoisseurs has of recent years gone hack to
the English Piano as embodying what is perfectly pure
piano tone, not hard and exaggerated like most Continental
Pianos, but truly characteristic of the instrument—a beautiful
via media between Scylla of Vulgarity and the Charybdis of
Empiricism.
All this points to our favorite, the great English Instrument,
The “BROADWOOD”
~ PIANO
which, for originality of design, perfection of tone and touch,
and an ideal sympathy of Sound, will surely convert you into
a permanent patron and true amateur if you will but call and
try it. We have several models, and of course guarantee, as
is usual (though unnecessary) with all high-grade
Instruments.
CASH OR TERMS,
Handsome Catalogue Free,
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
45 York Street, Sydney (Opp. Wynyard Street).
N'
2=3
Sjfi
nr
Wind this Watch
every Sunday
Night—it’s an
Eight-day Lever
Eight
days
to
every
-winding
Forgetful men —travellers, shearers, bound-
ary riders —men who have no method of
checking the time from day to day, will find
this excellent Watch a positive boon. It
goes for eight days at one winding—and will
run nine without losing time. Keeps splen-
did time, and is made to stand the rough
usage a colonial watch gets.
SPECIFICATION
Gentleman’s 8-day
Keyless Lever.
Strong NicKel Case,
Compensation balance.
—every movement, in fact, of the ordinary
One-day high-grade watch, but with an extra-
strong, extra-long spring, which makes wind-
ing a weekly job instead of a daily.
Sold at our special, SINGLE-PROFIT
PRICE,
ONLY : : 17/6
POST FREE.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner,
412 GEORGE .STREET, SYDNEY.


rearson Law Limited.
Registered Office: GIPPS STREET RICHMOND.
DIRECTORS:
EDWARD C. DYASON, Esq., Chairman.
WtPttlVw v .TAMES K. PEARSON, Esq.
WILLIAM H. CLAIMING, Esq. JAMES L. G. LAW, Esq.
DIRECTOR ; REPORT.
.... y°«r Directors herewith submit their statement of accounts for the vear ended December ai ioia
forward* fmm* the the v - enoA 18 £787 , 4 7s * ®<?., which, together with the amount of £835 10s. Id. brought
tor waul fioni the previous year, makes a total ot £8709 17s. 6d. at the credit of Profit and Loss
Account. From this amount must be deducted the interim dividend on the preference shares of £743 8s
Aioi. r , ate 0 1 P er cent, per annum for the half- year, paid on July 21 1914 lea vine the amount of
£ i 960 9.5. 6d. available, which the Directors recommend allocating as follows:--- ’ ' R <out of
Dividend on Preference Shares for half-year at the rate of 7 per cent
per annum
Dividend for 12 months on Ordinary Shares ai
per annum .. . . ....
Write off plant and machinery..
Write off on account of goodwill
Transfer to reserve account, making amount £5OOO
Leaving a balance to be carried forward of..
the rate of 7 per cent
£743 8 0
991
566
400
3,000
2,265
ai ~r n n • £7,966 9 6
oligiite offeYs ilCCoUlanCe with thc Articles of Association, and being
election 6 AUdit ° r ’ Mr ' A ’ Capper M °° re ’ F - C PA - also retires, and being eligible offers himself for re-
.-.! M - BUCKLKY ' W. 11. CUMING, Acting Chairman.
BALANCE-SHEET PEARSON LAW LIMITED. DECEMBER 31, 1914.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital Account—
-36,000 7 per cent,
preference shares of
£1 each . . . . £36,000 0 0
L£,ooo o r d i n a ry
shares of 10s. each 24,000 0 0
— £60,000 0 0
Less unissued —•
14,760 7 per cent.
preference shares of
£1 each .. .. 14,760 0 0
19,680 o r d inary
shares of 10s. each. . 9,840 0 0
_—. 24,600 0 0
Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
Bills payable
Reserve account
Sundry creditors
Profit and Loss Accounts—
Balance Decem-
ber 31, 1913.. £835 10 1
Net profits Decem-
ber 31, 1914.. 7,874 7 5
£8,709 17 6
Less interim divi-
dend paid July
21, 1914 .. 743 8 0
35,40.0 0 0
4.018 18 1
1,962 7 9
2,000 0 0
6,474 14 10
7,966 9 6
£57,822 10 2
ASSETS.
By Building
Stock on hand at cost
Sundry debtors
Goodwill
Plant and machinery
Bills receivable
Unexpired insurance policies
stationery ..
Petty cash in hand ..
. . £10,6X3 12 9
.. 17,942 6 11
. . 13,144 12 8
7,400 0 0
8,448 7 6
15 14 6
and
250 9 11
.. 7 5 11
£57,822 10 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
T« salaries,
trading
Balance
directors’ fees and general
expenses ..
£12,656 2 3
8,709 17 6
£21,365 19 9
By balance .. .. .. .. £835 10 1
Gross profits—trading account . . 20,530 9 8
-—— —-
£21,365 19 9
■,) Ve ’ K : P«arson and J. L. G. Law, being two of the Directors of Pearson Law Limited, do hereby
certify that in our opinion the before-mentioned balance-sheet is drawn up so as to exhibit a correct
account of the company s affairs. j « PEARSON
J. L.’ G. LAW.
•xaoaan .snoxianv
I hereby report that T have audited the books and accounts of the Pearson Law Company Ltd. for
(he eai ended Decenn er 31, 1914. I hat 1 have obtained ail the information and explanations I have
required, and that, in my opinion, the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up, and exhibits a true and correct
view of the state of the Company’s affairs, according to the best of my information and the explanations
given me, and as shown by the books of the Company.
Dated at Melbourne this 29th day of January, 1915.
' ‘ A. CAPPER MOORE, F.C.P.A., Auditor.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepaved for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
TH E Best is
always the
most economical.
$8EMS
SALT
By Royal Appointment
to H.M. The King.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
HAVE YOU a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your linger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps vour knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. "S ou may have attended
hospitals and been fold your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—•
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer. Can
be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/I V* and 2/9.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St
Agents— LONDON, E.C.
ELLIOTT BROS
AV. H. SOUL.
PATTINSON k CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN k SONS.
Out of evil cometh drought. The Czar’s
war-time decree officially abolishing vodka
has been followed in France by a stopper on
the sale ,of absinthe. If things go on like
this the rabid war-makers of the future will
wear the garb of cold-water curates.
Not even war-time can cure London of all
its nonsense. Take two widely different
instances from late journals
(1) Advt.: “Hdndsbiiie Men are slight]v sunbufnt.
Suiibronze gives this tint; detection impossible.”
l> ttalldn pbet has written some verses praising
Belgium, and Wishing that Italy was doing- some-
thing more practical to help; and the Westmin-
Strk gives a prize of two guineas for Hie best trans-
lation into Greek elegiac verse.
That is, with Zeppelins in the air and war
on the doorstep, the city clerk is still thought
likely to give one of his scarce half-guineas
tor the sake of looking as if he had been to
the seaside when he hasn’t: and men of
education are urged to spend their time in
expressing a practical idea of the moment
in the form of an inferior imitation of how 7
someone might have expressed it 2000 years
ago. And because Australia scoffs at such
inanities, the German Madman saw us ready
for rebellion !
At its next meeting the Peace Society
might debate—“ Where would Servia be
now but for its universal military trainingV”
And the big landlord might consider, too,
whether under his policy Peter’s mountain-
eers would have put up so magnificent a
defence Of the 300,000 Servians in the
held—AO per cent, of the population—no less
than -40,000 are either landowners or the
sons of landowners, who are fighting not
only for their country, but in defence of then-
own few acres of it.
“Clinker” makes two suggestions
“A.C.P.” (B. 21/1/’l5) speaks much truth about
N.S.W. land agents and their connection with newly*
thfown-open farms. One of the reasons why ail
applicant employs an agent is that some Boards look
(or he fancies it looks) more favorably OH ah appli-
cation lodged through aiid Supported by an agent.
Another reason is that the agent, lodges and reclaims
all deposit fees. Aiiyhbw, no matter what the cause,
the land agent collects a lot of money from would-be
Settlers aiid d'fles hardly anything in return; and
there Should be no room for him in the scheme of
things. As a remedy I suggest that no application
be considered by the Land Board unless it is filled
in by a Crown Land Agent (who is a public officer)
at a fee of (say) 2s. 6d., and that the examination of
applicants be deferred until after the ballot. If the
winner is ineligible, no harm can result, because the
first eligible candidate in the drawing will be the
successful one. As “A.C.P.” says, the examination of
applicants before ballot is a farce. I know of a case-
where 1300 applications were considered, and the
whole job was done in three days, which is rather
swift going, especially as some were thrown out for
i easons best known to the Board, while others whom
outsiders thought had not a hope were allowed to
enter.
“H.E.P.” concerning a busted prophet:* —
There’s a story about Wroe, the founder of the
“Beardies” sect, Which few but the faithful knew,
and they never mentioned it. Wroe sprang into
notoriety by posing as Elijah in the Society of
Johanna SouthcOte. In his fiftieth year he
announced that his work of “converting Jews” would
lose in effectiveness unless seven virgins Were told off
to give assistance, and these having been enrolled, he
orated all over England. He seeiHs tb have growii
tired on one occasion, and, after giving Orders that a
basket to receive dbnatibhs should b§ pl&ebd at the
door, went to bed for a week in “a trance.”
Celuded followers flocked tb view the slumbering
prophet and help fill the basket-, fbefe Was, how-
ever, a Mrs-. Wrb'e in the offing, and this lady, who
looked OH the seven virgins with sour disfavor,
plalined a revenge. One day as the crowd waited
Outside fOi the doors to open she suddenly threw up
a window, revealing Elijah not in a trance but
vigorously performing on a beefsteak pie. But Wroe,
like all his tribe, had a dexterous tongue, and sur-
vived the pastry.
“Gordon G.”: Everything depends on the
point of view. A recent issue of the
Ballaiat Giiurch Chronicle lashed itself
into tremendous excitement over the question
ot the ad- or inadvisability of wearing hats
in the House. Says the Chronicle inter
a lot of alia :
The head-dress worn by bridesmaids at the marriage
service in church has, after various diminishing
stages, about reached vanishing point. At last, bv
speedy and easy stages, the woman has arrived with
head dishonored in the house of God. The matter
ot uncovered heads is becoming serious. The rule of
the Church is definite, and must be enforced. If
women may be present with head uncovered at anv
church service, why not at ally And if not at all,
why at any?
When two tame curates and three maiden
ladies Max warm over afternoon tea on matters
like that, little things such as the war and
the tariff become absolutely microscopic.
Ana, after all. these heart-to-soul talks
about the chance of going to Ileil because
you once didn’t wear 3in. of tulle in church
is of more importance than anything else
isn’t it?
Frederick Palmer, the U.S. war correspon-
clon{ who wrote * <r The Jjiist Shot/' nuinaged
to get a run through Germany for Every-
body's Magazine, which is publishing his
war notes. Palmer is evidently trying to be
kind to his German hosts and his German-
American readers, for his stuff hasn’t the
usual sting. But he says one interesting
tiling, i.e.. that the Prussian officer-bully
who hasn’t been killed now allows other
people to use the footnath beside himself,
and otherwise behaves more like a reason-
able human being. As the empire of Wil-
helm was based ou the bad manners of the
Prussian, this looks like approaching ruin.
“The Traveller”: The Victorian railway
people are losing valuable sleep iu a more or
less hopeless endeavor to quench the thirst of
their locomotives. In the Western district
the trouble is becoming acute. From Bal-
larat to Portland, including branch lines, only
four water depots still meet demands —Beau-
fort, Glen Thompson. Hamilton and Cole-
raine. Ararat, Branxholm, Casterton,
Condah and Portland are all drought-stricken,
and supplies elsewhere are of such a pea-
soup quality that district engiuemen arc
turning grey in the struggle to separate
steam from the stuff. Trains are in conse-
quence runnng from half an hour to half a
day late. Sometimes they don’t run at all.
Not that that always matters much, because
in plenty of places there is nothing for
them to carry, and the revenue has slumped
a solid £20,000 a week.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” tells the story :
George Adams’s Tattersall’s Hotel in Sydney
occupies the site which was filled in the dead years
by an ancient pub. known as The Mayor Inn. It was
the property of \V. H. Kerr, an old-time Sydney
lawyer, who held the post of Commissioner of Insol-
vents. About 1850 Mr. Kerr determined to end his
days in England, and offered for sale his Sydney pro-
perty. He could get tid of all but the Pitt-street
pub,. Which was in such il state Of disrepair that
nb one would buy. N'. I). Stenhouse was Mr. Kerf'S
solicitor. He had for another client R. T. Carter, a
builder. Stenhouse advised Carter to have a cut, but
the latter was not on. Kerr then made Carter a
sporting offer. If Carter would give him £2OO a
year for life, he could have the property. After
some hesitation Carter accepted, on Stenhouse’s
advice, and for some years Cartel- was paying Kerr
moi-e than he received as rent. Then a good time
came, property jumped in value, and The Mayor Inn
became a place of resort for racing men under the
name of Tattersall’s. On the death of Mr. Carter his
executor sold to George Adams, who improved and
extended it, and ran from there the “Tattersall"
consultation business, which presently made his name
a treasure to every hopeful wowser in the hemisphere.
A new brand of “special war correspond-
ent” is on the market. He is the neutral
who will undertake to journey through a
country, for which he has been granted pass-
ports, and send stories to an enemy news-
paper. London Daily Chronicle secured
the services, of one such,, and published a
series of articles on conditions in Austria up
to the middle of December. There were
several panic weeks after the declaration of
war, chiefly due to the mobilisation schemes
having been lost in the rush to reach Bel-
grade before the Serb was ready. Since then
things have got back to no great distance
from normal, except that Vienna is a vast
hospital for the sick and wounded from
Galicia. There is, the Chronicle’s neutral
says, no economic distress; in fact, there is a
shortage of labor in the capital. The anth
war riots (about Which the cables had much
tl.sfty) were, he. Alleges, mythical, and, de-
spite the severe defeats inflicted on the Aus-
trian army, Vienna isn’t yet convinced that
it is going to be eaten.
The criminal court from the gallery:—
His Honor’s dusty-looking little wig has an ominous
crack in the crown of it. Below its grey rim an
intelligent forehead; then grey brows and eyes made
indistinct by gold-rimmed spectacles; and, under all,
a grey moustache and beard. Perched in a gallery
alone, under a wooden canopy decorated with faded
royal arms, the Judge seems at most times utterly
detached from the wretched proceedings on the floor;
but a question here and an interjection there bring
him into the picture. Directly opposite him is
another man-—but this one is in a spiked dock. Iron
bars have been scrapped by the up-to-date zoos ; the
Law, not being up-to-date, retains its grilles to
terrify the imaginative animal it pursues. A tall,
gaunt detective—the actual man-catcher—is in the
witness-box. He tells his story with harrowing
deliberation, choosing his Words, answering very
slowly the questions of prisoner’s counsel. He Is like
one who makes his way across rotten ground, testing
every step before he moves. Is he trying to be scru-
pulously fair to the hunted animal—but why do yon
shudder to remember that he lives and earns his
promotion by proving others’ guilt? In such sur-
roundings What else t-ouid he do but choose the word
that convicts? Are not these archaic spikes calling
up to him iii the box: “We’ve caught him at last!
Dbri’t tiiakfi a fboi bf everybody and say the word
that Will sfet hint free!”
“ Johii Dishragge's” groan of anguisii
it’s this way. We have two babies, and the wife
han’t manage without some sort of household help.
There doesn't seem to be any decent h.h. procurable
much under £1 per w'eek, and when the h.h. works
the gas stove as if it were a battle-cruiser chasing
Germans, and reads till midnight and after, and
empties all victuals she doesn’t care for into, the
rubbish-bin, the bills soar like the world's account
against Wilhelm. What with that, and high rent,
and cough mixture, and so on, the wife and I have
had to cut down our own wages to nothing and make
the old clothes do. As we sit fretting over it at
night, we can hear the millionaire maid counting
her money till the clanking of half-crowns that were
once ours nearly drives us mad. When she decides
to go out and give some male stranger an oppor-
tunity to shout her to a picture show, she retires and
dresses herfeelf for two hours. I don’t know whether
she puts all her clothes on and takes them off 20
times, or if she just tries her hat at new angles to
sec if it makes her face look any better. It is a
face that needs a lot of help. When she is quite
ready she comes out wearing a fixed smile and looking
as much as possible like the Queen of Sheba in a
new blouse and the spectacles she keeps for the
street. (They haven’t any shafts.) Then my wife
makes some Early Victorian remark about servants
not knowing their place, adds something stinging
about the Labor party, and moodily resumes her
sewing. I must ask that girl to muffle her half-
crowns or count them in bed,
You never know your luck. While
trifling the hours away at the idyllic pas-
time of butterfly-hunting, a Sydney man last
week came across the two-months-old corpse
of a missing asylum patient and half a bottle
of rum. There is just one grain of comfort
in the incident. It proves that the tree-
murdering subdivision salesman has here
and there left enough bush for a man to die
and lie undiscovered in.
“Jean Sibi”: German press scoffs regard-
ing British degeneration are really humor-
ous to those who know Germany’s own de-
cadence. The nation can more than hold its
own with the rest of Europe in the matter
ot sexual and Sadistic crimes. Three decades
back Berlin was a comparatively homely vil-
lage, but, through the influence of its par-
venu nobility, it has become Europe’s
naughtiest city, with a large Flossie popula-
tion and an amazing collection of all-night
dance halls and cabarets. The Kaiser en-
couraged the change in the capital’s comport-
ment. Stout burghers were ordered to be
Pierrots, though they had neither the feet nor
the folly for the job. The moral
and social unworthiness so ominous in the
life of Hogmany is also curiously reflected
in the art and literature of the people. One
of the most popular forms of art in the Em-
pire is the obscene picture postcard, while
the literary person with about the largest
following is the decadent Yid dramatist,
Wedekind, whose works even Paris cannot
stomach in their entirety. Of English
writers one of the most admired is the late
O. Wilde —not Wilde, the artist and author
of “The Ballad of Reading Gaol.” but Oscar,
the homosexualist, who wrote “The Picture
of Dorian Gray.”


Petrol Unions
from 7d. each.
We Cater to Supply the Wants of
THE PETROL COMMUNITY.
No matter what Fitment you require for
THE EXPLOSIVE ENGINE we can fix you up.
OUR STOCKS COMPRISE:
Crease Cups
from 9d. each.
Petrol, Oil and Air Cocks,
Valves, Lubricators,
Grease Cups, Strainers,
etc,, etc,, etc.
Q p
Pm
All kinds of Copper, Brass,
Iron, Tin, Aluminium and
other Metallic Sheets,
Tubes and Fittings.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues—
Free.
Petrol Strainers
from 4/- each.
Priming Cocks from 1/3 each.
Sole Agents for the SCHEBLER CARBURETOR.
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Extra Air Cocks,
from 1/9 each.
Missing- Friends.
MR. F. BROOKS, who came to Australia in
the Orama, which left England on June 6, 1913,
kindly communicate with u's, Mark Mitchell &
Forsyth, Solicitors. Savings Bank Chambers, 11,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
m
Abbey Shoes
Particular men, everywhere, recog-
nise in ABBEY Shoes all the
qualities of high-grade and distinc-
tive footwear.
The illustration shows a Special
Golf Shoe, in Choice Tan Willow
Calf.
Price --- 27/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The EDISON
STORAGE
BATTERY
Dependable
and durable.
The Edison Storage Battery—which is the
result ot eight years’ patient experimenting—-
is perfectly constructed, stands severe vibra-
tion —and even concussion will not affect it.
There is no lead or acid in the construction —
it is iron and nickel in caustic potash. Its
lightness is a great feature, for it gives twice
the power for the same weight as the ordinary
battery.
State the purpose you need a storage battery
for when inquiring, and we will send full
particulars.
We are fully equipped to recharge these bat-
teries at lowest cost. Rates free on applica-
tion.
: ' ;; • t "
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD,,
3(34-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
iDENTO TOOTH-ACHE STOP
STOPS THE PAIN AND STOPS THE TOOTH
Use’
asy
' Enough to Stop 30 Tooth-Aches
| Squeeze a little of this Paste into the hollow
in the tooth and the ACHE STOPS INSTANTLY,
1 then the Paste hardens and forms an antiseptic
STOPPING FOR THE TOOTH, excluding the air and
preventing a recurrence of the agony. Guaranteed
absolutely harmless: it will not spread and burn the
,mouth. Have it ready for the next bad attack; it is
worth a guinea at two o'clock in the morning.
The Union Co.. 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office," Sydney.
Williamstown Gas Co. (Vic.) -
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dee., 1906.. 1787 9 p.c. = 1125 .350 312 6,633
June, 1907.. 1653 9 „ „ 1125 250 278 6,911
Dec., 1907.. 1894 10 „ „ 1250 350 294 7,205
June, 1908.. 1860 10 „ „ 1250 350 260 7,465
Dec., 1908.. 1923 10 „ „ 1250 250 423 7,888
June, 1909.. 2213 10 „ „ 1250 963 8,851
Dec., 1909.. 2152 10 „ „ 1250 902 9,753
June, 1910,. 2204 10 „ „ 1250 954 10,707
Dec., 1910.. 2273 10 „,, 1250 1023 11,730
June, 1911.. 2543 10 „ „ 1250 1293 13,023
Dec., 1911.. 2946 10 „ „ 1250 1696 14,719
June, 1912.. 3265 10 „ „ 1250 2015 16,734
Dec., 1912.. 3301 TO „ „ 1250 2051 18,785
June, 1913. . 3220 10 „ „ 1250 1970 20,755
Assets apparently written up, £4245. . 25,000
Transferred to capital, £25,000' ..
Dec., 1913.. 3225 6 p.c. = 1500 1725 1,725
June, 1914.. 2771 6 ~,, 1500 1271 2,996
Dec., 1914.. 2529 6 „ „ 1500 1029 4,025
Before going any further it might be as well
to explain the nature of the reserves :-r-
June,’l4. Dec.,’l4.
General renewal fund .. .. £7OO £l3OO
Meter renewal fund . . . . 1500 1500
Depreciation fund for works on
leaseholds . . . . . . 400 800
Unappropriated . . . . . . 396 425
Reserves as per table .. £2996 £4025
Those three reserves whose purpose is
admittedly to provide for depreciation and
renewals may not be real reserves, and the
amounts added to them ought perhaps to be
written off. This applies more particularly
to the “Depreciation fund for works on
leasehold land.” “Leasehold property (15
years unexpired)—plant and buildings
erected thereon to remain the property of
the co. at the termination of the lease,”
stands at £14,148. Just what the property
will be worth 15 years hence depends largely
on the landlord. A building isn’t worth
much if it stands on land whose owner won’t
lease it again. It is obvious then that the
profits as shown in the table are not true
profits: considerable amounts must be
struck off against .depreciation, etc. The
only way to judge how the co. is doing is to
run back over the period covered by the
table. It will then be seen that up to the
past year there had been a continuous and
very healthy forward movement. Since 1909
gas sales have moved from £4887 to £11,969.
During that time no money has come in from
shareholders to extend the services, although
liabilities have increased by £BOOO or so. It
is a very fine increase of revenue considering
the small increase in debt: it suggests that
the_ earnings have not only provided the
dividends, but have also paid for repairs and
renewals, and have made substantial contri-
butions to the cost of new services. In spite,
therefore, of the poorer results lately shown,
it will perhaps not be necessary to cut down
the dividend —unless, of course, things get
very much worse.
The very latest thing in the way of a
Melbourne float is the Victorian Meat Pre-
serving Co. A crowd of mining men are
behind it. The capital is £50,000 in pound
shares; the vendor (E. Graupner) takes
£l5OO cash and £5OOO in shares, and 15,000
shares are offered to the public. Less the
£l5OO cash to vendor, the working capital
will be (if the company reaches registra-
tion ) £13,500 —-less all prelim, exes. On
this in 48 weeks the promoters are assured
they can return a net profit of £10,138,
from which it is proposed to pay a dividend
of 25 p.c. to the just and the unjust alike —
that is to say, to the shareholders and to the
vendor. If this is done the co. will be the
first Australian meat preserver to beat the
world’s record, and the industry is now
pretty old. The London representative of
the co. is Jack Taverner, erstwhile General
Agent for Vic. in England.
“Outcast”: Perhaps Westralia does head
the list as the most expensive gold country
to prospect (B. 29/10/T4), but prices in
the early days of the Yodda (Papua) ran
those of Coolgardie pretty close. For one
thing, tucker of any sort at all was hard
to get, and what did arrive at the stores
was often auctioned to the highest bidder.
The route to the Yodda (MacLaughlin’s
Creek) lay over 10,000 feet ranges from
Port Moresby, and the few men that reached
the field did so with barely enough grub to
see them back again. Later on, water
carriage up the Kumusi cost anything the
launch-owners liked to charge, and trans-
port, by native porters, from the head of
navigation to the field (40 miles) was about
sixpence a pound, a direct track was
cut from the coast to the field, prices dropped
to. 365. for a 501 b. mat of rice, and 465. for
a 501 b. tin of flour. Sugar was Is. 6d. a
lb., meat Is. 6d., tea 3s. 6d., and brandy a
pound a bottle. Rice subsequently dropped
to 30s. . and butter to 2s. 6d. I remember
the time when rice was £5 a 501 b. mat,
onions 2s. a lb. (and a favor if you got any),
and eggs anything from a pennyweight of
•gold upwards. A man had to be on pretty
good gold to run to more than one square
meal a day.
Though mining at Blackwood (Vic.) has
been a snare for many a day, a sanguine
party took on the Easter Monday, and has
been repenting ever since. The country is
disturbed and the shoot of stone at 425 ft.
lacked all those things that make life easy
for the manager and secretary. Some stone
scraped out of the upper level averaged
15dwt., but it was not an elegant sufficiency.
So an attempt was made to hustle the shaft
down below 500 ft. in the hope that increased
depth would put gold into the quartz. As
a new formation was cut, it is held that it is
up to the shareholders to provide money to
determine whether this little stranger is
capable of bringing comfort, to the unhappy
home. The recommendation can be seconded,
for the district needs a bit of deep sinking.
* * * *
*M.C.”: Very rightly The Bulletin has
never been in favor of smelting Australian
ore in Britain or any other country on the
other side of the earth. Australia is the
place for the job, even if the climate is
occasionally hot. What we have to do now
is to forbid new contracts to export ore;
then, if we can’t do it with one of our own
cos., to arrange with an American or Belgian
spelter firm to run a business here on the
large quantity of ore available. We may
have to import labor, but it is better to do
that than export ore. There are hundreds
of products in the same plight as spelter;
but the silly idea has grown up that Aus-
tralia cannot manufacture such things for
export because of its stringent labor condi-
tions. Fancy a Yankee of 50 years ago with
an idea like that in his noddle ! We simply
have got to adapt labor conditions to suit
the job.
“O’Do”: That lately-quoted German
writer, J. L. Reimer, who alleges that
“Jesus had the blue eyes and roseate skin
of the Teuton,” and that “the name
Jesus means nothing more or less than Ger-
man,” seems to be the maddest Hun of them
all. No one knows anything about the color
of the Saviour’s eyes and skin. The so-
called likenesses with which the world is
now familiar merely represent the concep-
tions of artists. If Jesus meant “German,”
so, too, would Joshua, for the first word is
a form of the latter, meaning a saviour,
whereas “German” means war-man, or
destroyer. By the way, the apostate Cham-
berlain’s notion that all the greatest names
in history have been of Germanic origin
hardly accounts for Confucius, Akbar, Ma-
hommed. Buddha and Bruce Smith.
The annual conference of the Australian
Workers’ Union in Sydney debated whether
it should withdraw its support from the
N.S.W. Ministry; and although a motion to
cut away was defeated, the debate showed
that the Holman apostates have not a
thorough-going friend among the delegates to
the conference of the most powerful union
in Australia. But when it got through that
trouble the Ministry merely faced another,
for it is cleai’ly the intention of many dele-
gates to the P.L.L. Conference in April to
haul the Cabinet over the coals. Which is no
doubt why paragraphs begin to appeal-
threatening that Holman will probably
retire if he does not receive better treatment
from the 1915 P.L.L. Conference than he
did from the Conferences of 1912, 1913 and
1914.
The Madman of Potsdam makes a fresh
enemy every morning. One of his latest
is the republic of San Marino. This Italian
midget boasts only about 10,000 inhabitants,
but it can put 10 per cent, of them in the
field at a moment’s notice, and as William
lately accused it of breaking the laws of
neutrality—he is a quite unbiassed judge of
the rights of neutrals —it has informed him
that if he’s looking for trouble it can be had
on the premises. Already, for over 40
years, it has been in a “state of war” with
William’s partner, Austria, having declined
to sign the treaty of peace between Austria
and Italy, in ’7O. Possibly Austria would
have roasted these truculent individuals long
ago, had it been able to get at them without
invading Italy. But the republicans don’t
look at the matter in that light, and appear
to view the Kaiser as contemptuously as
they do the old gentleman at Vienna.
The Federal Government pays annual
rentals aggregating £13,377 for offices in
Melbourne, in spite of the fact that it gets
its Parliamentary accommodation rent free
and owns the big pile of buildings which it
erected in Treasury Place to house the staffs
of the Prime Minister, Attorney-General,
Postmaster-General, Home Affairs depart-
inent, chief electoral officer and copyright
office. . Nineteen other administrative
branches are scattered about the city. A
proposal for the erection of a building that
would enable most of these departments to
be under one roof has been before several
Cabinets, but has been turned down, generally
on the ground that its adoption would offend
Sydney by creating an impression that the
Government was in no hurry to move to the
Dryberra dustheap. As a matter of fact, no
sape Government ever was or will be.
i “Hamer”: The law relating to contracts
made by infants had some of the creases
ironed out by a decision given in a Sydney
Court the other day. Plaintiff had sold a
fish-an’-der-oyst’ business to a legal infant
for a sum in cash and an agreement to pay
further instalments out of profits. The
tveary years went by without more cash, so
the vendor sued. Defendant had by this
time overcome his infancy; nevertheless he
relied upon the point that a contract made in
his nonage was invalid. The Law, having
inspected the evidence and discovered nothing
to show that the money to be paid was
excessive, sensibly remarked that, as plain-
tiff had persevered with the business after
he came of age, he must be taken to have
endorsed the agreement, and there was no
reason why he should not part up. Some-
times the Law manages to be quite rational.
The mere existence of the powerful
British navy has put thousands of pounds
into the pockets of different persons. Here’s
an instance. In May last the then Nor-
wegian-owned steamer Akar changed hands
at £14,500. She was re-sold in August for
£18,000; again in November for £20,000, and
again in January for £25,000. The last
three vendors have possibly handed a per-
centage of their unearned increments to the
British Admiralty or some patriotic fund —
or possibly they haven’t. What would Aus-
tralian steamers have been worth in August
if we hadn’t owned the Australia or Sydney?
“Pink Tape, Jun.”: The junior ranks of
Ma’s Public Service are beginning to be
restive. A few years ago the P. S. Board
announced a scheme whereby youths, after
a stiff exam.', could enter as clerks at £5O
or cadets at £75, and climb to £2OO within a
stated time —“subject to appropriation of
funds by Parliament.” When the war broke
out the Government announced that all in-
crements were to be stopped. Nobody raised
a dhst then. But the cost of living is
increasing, and the clerklings can least
afford to meet it. Legally they can’t com-
plain, because Parliament hasn’t voted their
extra money—Holman saw to that. If the
hardship fell equally on the highest-paid
there would be less soreness; but of course
it doesn’t. It never does.
Millhoff, the manufacturer of De Reszke
cigarettes, recently sent 50,000 of those com-
forts into the trenches. De Reszke, the great
artist, was a Russian, who appealed to his
countrymen to invent a cigarette that
wouldn’t injure his precious throat; and
that’s how this special blend originated.
“Mujik”: It’s a great pity the war
correspondents are not allowed out of the
back yard. This alleged news we get from
day to day about tremendous battles being
fought in “deep snow”; about attack and
repulse in “snow up to the soldiers’ waists” ;
about riot and devastation among “deep
snow drifts” and advances over snow by
artillery and infantry in massed formation
must be Rot. No doubt fine deeds are being
done in the Carpathian passes and in Poland ;
and that makes it all the more unfortunate
that neither the conditions of the land nor
the character of the military movements are
being accurately described. It’s, frantically
absurd to suppose that troops can be main-
tained in large numbers in deep snow for
any length of time, or that they can be
moved about in such an environment. As
for soldiers advancing up to their waists in
snow, that’s physically impossible. A man
embedded in snow to that depth is as help-
less as any other animal, and must certainly
die unless quickly rescued. Over certain
kinds of hilly country, provided the snow is
not deep, and also provided it is .hard and
the tracks are well defined, troops can be
moved, and artillery, too; but a- modern
battle in deep, soft snow simply couldn’t
take place. Such collisions as may occur
on higher ground,-in the Carpathians can
only be between small bodies of infantry,
and what is taking place elsewhere must
either be over a front where the snow is not
more than a few inches deep, or (what is
even more likely) where heavy frosts have
had a firm hold on the landscape. Two feet
of snow without a heavy frost would hold up
the finest army organisation in the' world
if it lasted any time. Personal experience
in winter on high, snow-covered country
after missing sheep teaches me that exposure
for more than 24 hours disables even men
inured to privation, fatigue and cold. And
that same experience convinces me that
the descriptive adjectives which besprinkle
the war news represent the fine work of
somebody who has not had any.
Some time back a Sydney small-goods
butcher sacked five German employees. He
didn’t hand them a week’s notice, nor a
week’s pay. He just arose in the middle
of things one day and poured the square-
heads out. For this the Butchering Board
award, which happened to be passing, or
was rung up on the ’phone, insisted on the
saveloy merchant answering a charge of
breach of the Industrial Disputes Act.
Result, the brawn trader was fined. • He>
was not satisfied. He appealed to Caesar,
and Justice Heydon promptly downed him.
If the defendant, his Honor said, could
successfully plead that the German workmen
were,.outside the law, there would be nothing
to stop him or anyone else employing qheap
enemy labor, if he could get it, at low rates
of wages. But it was for the defendant to
prove that the German employees had
forfeited the protection of the law before he
took it on himself to deny it to them. This
obviously just decision might be forwarded
to Germany, where they preach the gospel lof
hatred and black injustice.


Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—•
R. A. WARDEN (President). W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 3i% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by thg Government.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. IT. DAVIES. Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £355,000.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY-
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND a r'L in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.')
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . . . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED ™ .. £1,198,679
PAID-UP (3.lst December, 1914) .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £55,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 2 King William Street, E C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 178,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new bvsiness since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ;
James Love, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa. China, the East
The Commercial Bankincr Co.
o
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,755,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,755,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Georoe J. Cohen, Esq. . . . . Chairman.
Hon. H, E. Eater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chai r man.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Auditors: F. AV. Hixson, Esq., and AV. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie. .f
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
, Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South AAhiles
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of flem Zealand.
SA'DNFA' BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING.
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000.000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000.000) Paid-
up . . . . . . . . ; . . 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New 7,ea
land, Fiji, Great ]lri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The (olonial fljutual Qife
assurance society LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas,-
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
cTiief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon.
The Hon.
Directors:
C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P. 1
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping:.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
OEVJKTO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES ,
OMRAII
• Geared Turbine 15,000 Regd. Tons.
• Triple-Screw. . 13,000
• Twin-Screw . . 12.130
12,129
12,124
12.077
12,036
9.023
8,282
n„« Fi Qr d WUh W!reless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
hof, f S | , Cabines ' de - !uxe ; Staterooms, with
’ Berth Rooms, Private Jiathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Peace, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
BOOKINGS to any part of
AMK RICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
The Finest and largest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February, 1915.
, Around Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
by Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line or via
Japan and China.
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Svdney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
PEREGRINE (3500 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Feb. 27.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 3.
Leaves Sydney March 6.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 10.
Leaves Sydney March 13.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Feb. 27.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. COOMA (4000 tons) leaves Brisbane everv Friday
at 10 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at GLAD-
STONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting at
TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports as
far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
- Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
March 13; April 10; May 8; June 5.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
MOT
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES
To Papua.
To Solomon Islands.
To the New Hebrides.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
£3,500,000
£2,500,000
£3,500,000
£9,500.000
' The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, ICt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Bjnnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Eaithfull, Esq.. M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORSWiIIiam Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepbeard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London office - 29 Threadneedie St., E.C.
347 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world.
: .T RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting: Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
limitl e ss potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney. N.S.W. A. HESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
ã
JBank-Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
in the
principal
Open
for all
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
c M)le rernltiances i>iad e to and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and collected,
betters of credit issued to any partot the world. Bills negotiated or forwar.ied for collection Banking and
exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
3%
JAMBS IvRLL.
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONA], Savings Bank Facilities
Deputy Governor. DENIS >X MILL I
R. Governor.
ä
HEAR
LATEST 8 -TONE
Mears Ear-phone
The final triumph of th» investor of the first successful multi-tone
Kar-phone. IF YOU ARE DEAF, this perfected instrument will enable
you to hear DISTINCTLY, PERFECTLY.
Eight Tones-! 8 different adjustments to suit every condi-
tion of the ear. Instantly changed by a touch of the
finger. Just as easily and as satisfactorily regulated for
the hearing as field-glasses are for the sight. Thus ensur-
ing perfect hearing in all degrees of deafness.
, . • • T „• ~ . The Mears Ear-phone is based on the microphonic sound-
reproducing principle. llighlv sensitive and self-adjusting it intensifies the faintest sounds to just
that degree required in ordinary conversation, or in the Church or Lecture Hall. Comfortably carried
in the vest pocket or pinned to the blouse. Call and test it free, or write for full particulars.
SYDNEY: A. E. Slade, Bernard’s Buildings, 387 George Street.
MELBOURNE: L. G. Callaway & Down, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Car] Zoeller Ltd., 246 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE-: Chas. Balfour, Centra] Chambers, Charles Street.
HOBART: Chas. Davis Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
AUCKLAND: Clem Bartley, 8 Ponsonby Road.
Clears Ear-plione Co. Inc., 45 West 34th St., New York, U.S.A.
Australasian
Representative—
A. E. SLADE,
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
March 13 and April 10.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
TNNAMINCKA, Feb. 27.
WOLLOWRA, March 13.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUIIX & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6JBRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST AND
FINEST VESSELS TRADING BETWEEN AUS-
TRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February, 1015.
AROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning from, San
Francisco by Union S.S. Co.’s Royal Mail Line or
via Japan and China.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STFAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
"Ulimaroa,”
"Riverina,”
“Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
T H f Nofth Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY ,AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. fid. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A, BELL, Managing Director.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,634 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155 476 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. B °- C ——
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
WAVERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED.UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :


EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF: *
From IG/- per day
AND UPWARDS,
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
I
E. BURNHAM’S
Celebrated KALOS
Toilet Preparations
Kalos Skin RejuVenator (Skin Food)
prevents wrinkles.
Kalos Fairy Fluff Face Powder, deli-
cate and adhesive.
Kalos Chin Mask reduces double chin and supports
sagging muscles.
Kalos Perfumes and Toilet Waters, “Blue Violets”,
“Lily of the Valley”, “Lilac”, etc.
Write for Free Booklet, “Beauty’s Charm”
Attractive offer to representative
dealers throughout the world.
E. BURNHAM
Established 1871
G 138-140 N. State St. Chicago, U. S. A.
V
Price 12/- and upwards ofall Station-
ers, Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet
about the Onoto Pen tree on appli-
cation to Thos. de la Rue & Co.,
Ltd., 322Bunhill Row, London, E.C.,
or the Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK
Best for all Pens,
Get the n
Pen made and warranted by the
Largest Firm of Fountain Pen
Manufacturers in Great Britain :
the Onoto. It is All-British ;
designed to last a lifetime. Fills
itself, cleans itself, and cannot
\ leak.
Onoto
Pen
The Self filling
Safely Fountain Pen.
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
A ttached to the stern, the Evinrude
Motor makes your rowboat self-
propelling — an efficient motor-boat
with a speed of 8 miles an hour.
Its weight, 50 lbs., permits easy
transportation. \
m
f-
SIZES:
1 y 2 Hp.
2 hp.
3% hp.
Nine Governments use the
Evinrude Motor on rivers
and seas the world over.
Its adaptability and dura-
bility have appealed to
25,000 users.
Driven by Petrol (gasoline) at low
up-keep cost. Steered by the Propeller
—no rudder required, but supplied if de-
sired. Reversible; battery ignition or Magneto,
and automatic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
Write for Booklet illustrating and explaining the
many uses of this wonderful little motor.
H. A. GODDARD, 404 Queen St., Brisbane; 82
Pitt St., Sydney; 88 Queen St., Melbourne;
Cliffe St., Fremantle; Remington Chambers
(opp. G.P.0.), Auckland.
as
Lw
TO-DAY
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘Allenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
4@llenburgs Foods
Da# Pamphlet on
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., Jaondon, £ng„
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
DU YOU KNOW THE SYMPTOMS OF
KIDNEY DISEASE
Everyone has heard of kidney disease —-but it is remarkable bow
very few people know the symptoms of this most deadly complaint.
Do you know? Can you tell if you have kid-
ney trouble or not ? Here are a few of the
symptoms. Aches and pains in the arms,
legs, muscles and joints, puffiness under the
eyes, cloudy urine, headaches, nasty taste in
the mouth first thing in the morning, swollen,
aching feet, general feeling of weakness and
irritability, and a drowsy, heavy feeling all
day long.
These symptoms are intended by Nature to
warn you that serious complaints such as
rheumatism, backache, gout, sciatica, lumbago,
gravel, stone and cystitis (inflammation of
the bladder) will develop if you do not act
promptly. They tell you that your kidneys
are weak and need strengthening immediately,
and that you are in deadly peril of awful
kidney disease —the forerunner of that dreaded
Bright’s Disease, from which thousands of
human beings die every year.
Now you know why delay is dangerous.
Get a box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills at once. These wonderful little pills are
prepared especially for kidney trouble, and
their success is due to the fact that they do not
just pass through the bowels, but go straight
to the kidneys and bladder, removing the
deadly poison, strengthening the kidneys, and
enabling them to carry on their work as _ they
should do when in a normal, healthy condition.
Do not be put off with ordinary kidney or
backache pills, because you don’t know —you
have no proof that they have touched the
kidneys. You cannot afford to waste your
monev, so make sure that the pills you buy do
go right to the'weak spot—the kidneys them-
selves, and do what you want them to—make you well. When, you
take De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills you have this proof within
twentv-four hours —when you see that blue-colored urine.
m
mm.
c
I
H
m
i
“That Killing
Pain in
the Back.”
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills can be obtained at any of
the branches of Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., Ltd., Sydney;
Longmore’s The Melbourne Pharmacy, Bourke
Street, Melbourne; and all leading chemists,
at 2/9 and 5/6 per large box. The 5/6 size
is two and a half times as large as the 2/9
size, and contains enough doses to last you
three weeks.
Try your nearest chemist, but if you have
any difficulty in obtaining De Witt’s Pills,
send the price of the package required to
either of the firms mentioned above, and the
goods will be sent by return/post free.
To cure Kidney Trouble of any kind
you mUst positively get rid of the
cause —the poisonous Uric Acid. Re-
member, to do this, a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the
bladder, and not through the bowels as
most Kidney Rills do. When you see
the Urine change to a muddy, bluish
color —a feature which distinguishes De
Witt’s from all others —you know be-
yond all doubt that they have put their
healing touch on the right spot —the
kidneys and the. bladder. A wonderful
pill —straight to the kidneys—that is
the reason why De Witt’s give. such
amazingly quick relief every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that blue color.
De WITT’S
Kidney
and Bladder
PILLS
Sole ProprietorsE. C. Ee WITT & Co., Ltd., London, W., England.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied bp retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South I Vales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
THE BISHOP OF BALLARAT.
AUSTRALIAN SERMONS. _ Preached
to Country Congregations by
ARTHUR VINCENT GREEN,
M.A. (Melb.), LL.D. (Syd.), Bishop
of Ballarat. Crown Bvo. 3s. 6d.
net. (4s. Gd.)
The Church Family Newspaper : “They are
all interesting and stimulating—reflecting the
vigorous life of a new, young people. The
author can speak with authority after a minis-
try of over a. third of a century in Australia.”
THE WILDS OF MAORILAND.
By JAMES MACKINTOSH BELL,
M.A., Ph.D., with 8 plates in color,
many other illustrations in black and
white, and several maps. Demy Svo.
15s.
THE NATIVE TRIBES OF THE
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF
AUSTRALIA. By VV. BALDWIN
SPENCER, C.M.G., F.R.S.. Professor
of Biology, University of Melbourne.
With 8 colored plates and numerous
illustrations. Svo. 21s. net. (255.)
THE CITY OF DANCING DER-
VISHES, and other Sketches and
Studies from the Near East. By
HARRY CHARLES LUKACII,
Author of “The Fringe of the East,”
etc. Illustrated. Svo. 7s. Gd. net.
(95.)
The Outlook: “The hook as a whole is most
readable, and is one of the .best apologies for
the Muhamadan religion, as it affects the best
elements of Islamic peoples, We have ever read.”
THE BRITISH EMPIRE. By Sir
CHARLES P. LUCAS, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G. Crown Svo. [Shortly.
*** a popular account of the gradual
expansion of England into an Empire
with Dominions overseas.
THE WAR.
THE WAR AND DEMOCRACY.
By R. W. SETON-WATSON. D.Litt.,
J. DOVER WILSON, ALFRED E.
ZIMMERN, and ARTHUR GREEN-
WOOD. With 8 Maps. Crown Svo.
2s. net. (2s. 6d.)
The Times: “The. essays are of high quality.
They go more fully and deeply into the under-
lying problems of the war than most of the
pamphlets and books which have appeared in
such profusion, they avoid the more superficial
controversies which have become wearisome,
and they are written in the spirit of dispas-
sionate inquiry.”
THE FOOT GUARDS. By the Hon.
JOHN W. FORTESCUE. Author
of “The History of the British Army.”
Svo. Sewed. 3d. net. (4d.)
THE ECONOMIC STRENGTH OF
GREAT BRITAIN. By HAROLD
COX. Svo. Sewed. Id.
W. & A. Iv. JOHNSTON’S
EUROPEAN WAR MAP, 1914.
Colored. 11th Edition revised, show-
ing Fortified Towns and Aeroplane
Stations. Size, 30 x4O inches. Is.
net. (Is. 3d.)
W. & A. Iv. JOHNSTON’S
CONTOURED MAPS OF THE WAR
AREAS. Shaded Coloring. Size,
30 x4O inches. Is. Gd. net (Is. 9d.)
each.
No. I.—Between Paris and Berlin.
No. 2.—Between Petrograd and Ber-
lin, including the whole of Austria.
TENTH EDITION, REVISED AND
ENLARGED.
FAMILIAR QUOTATIONS.. A Col-
lection of Passages, Phrases, and Pro-
verbs, traced to their Sources in
Ancient and Modern Literature. By
JOHN BARTLETT, A.M. Crown
Svo. 7s. 6n. net. (95.)
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Paper Covers; 2/6; Cloth, S/G per
Volume.
G4O THE WIFE OF SIR ISAAC
HARMAN. By H. G. WELLS,
Author of “Marriage,” etc.
Times : “This is one of Mr. Wells’s best books.
The character of Lady Harman is thoroughly
done, and she remains living and growing from
first to last.”
641 THE DEMI-GODS. By JAMES
STEPHENS, Author of “The Crock
of Gold,” etc.
642 INCREDIBLE ADVENTURES.
Five Stories by ALGERNON
BLACKWOOD, Author of “A Pris-
oner in Fairyland,” etc.
Westminster Gazette : “Mr. Blackwood has
the gift, and this latest of his books shows him
exercising it with more potency than before.
We congratulate him.”
643 THE GAME OF LIFE AND
DEATH. By LINCOLN COLCORD.
AtheNjEUm: “The stories are vivid for
tragedy or comedy, worked out to a high finish
by a writer who knows exactly what his
market requires. Mr. Colcord has, moreover,
given good merchandise to that market; all
the stories are of high merit.”
644 THE RISE OF JENNIE
CUSHING. By MARY S. WATTS,
Author of “Nathan Burke,” “Van
Cleve ” etc.
645 THE WAYS OF MISS BAR-
BARA. By AGNES and EGERTON
CASTLE, Authors of “Rose of the
World,” etc.
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


å
BLACK ■
TAN ■ • 17/6
We Pay Postage.
—get a pair of
“WALLABY
EMPERORS”
next time you buy
Riding Boots
With every pair of “Wallaby Emperors” there
is a long-service solidity, and a comfortable, easy-
fitting guarantee.
They’re made from genuine Wallaby Hide ; fitted
with elastic sides that don’t stetch out after a few
weeks’ wear.
Send for a pair on approval.
KINDLY STATE YOUR SIZE.
A copy of the new issue of our Commonwealth
Catalogue (Series 5) is free to you. Write for it.
OsS
£Q
ft .
Toowoomba
LIMITED
IS At IS .SANE.
Townsville
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute.
• beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
Result-
NO MILK GOING SOUR.
NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN
BANANA LAND
Passed out at Bowen a few days ago Atti-
cus looth, a fine old Bananalander whose
name was writ large over the early develop-
ment of the Mary district. Blacks, droughts.
Hoods—all the vicissitudes of the early
pioneer, Tooth experienced in turn, and
came up smiling after every knock-down.
Uf his 84 years 76 were spent fighting the
cursed Queensland climate, which finally
gathered him in in the most unscrupulous
fashion.
“Askeaton”: “De Oriel” (B. 2S/1/T5)
names Halifax as the most cosmopolitan
settlement in the piebald North. He could
travel further and fare worse. To Thurs-
day Island, for instance. I have worked at
laiious times at “Thirsty” with Javanese.
Malays, Siamese, Cingalese, aboriginals, and
every brand of European. I have been
frthenM by a Jap., tailored by a Chinee,
fished for by a Spaniard,- and ice-creamed
by a Frenchman. Most of the wharf-lump-
ing is done by foreigners, who get the union
late of Is. lOd. per hour. See them smile
on a Sunday when the Montoro or Mataram
swings alongside the wharf with a' few
bundles of cargo to be discharged. Because
of the fracture of the Sabbath the job means
to them 4s. 6d. an hour • while it lasts!
Four shillings and sixpence an hour for
Asiatic labor ought to be a record.
Died at Brisbane, on the 18th, .Tames S.
Kerr, who began school-teaching in Queens-
land four years after separation, and stuck
to it for 43 years. As headmaster of Bris-
bane Central School—where the attendance
averaged 600 for 32 years of his time—he
held the Queensland record for the number of
boys who passed under his stick. He was
most emphatically of the old school. Hun-
dreds of Bananalanders who have made their
mark in various occupations were first
marked by him. The only known instance
ot failure of policy on the old man’s part
was when some years ago a boy dropped an
ink-bottle on him from upstairs. He set out
to cane the whole quaking school for this,
but was compelled to knock off through
exhaustion, leaving still a few hundred un-
walloped. Mr. Kerr quitted the industry
only a few years ago. He was 79 when he
died, and out of school hours had thrice
committed matrimony.
A Queensland peer, of much Ministerial
experience, was asked on his return to Bris-
bane lately if it were true he intended to
retire from the Cabinet. “Not a word of
truth in it!” replied the warrior. “I go
when lam kicked out.” This illustrates
again the anaemia, the listlessness, which
afflict a man after a few years in the North.
1 his veteran has been 27 years in Queensland
politics, and was oyer 51 when he was first
elected.
“Paddy Melon”: It stands to the discredit
ot Australia that due attention is not paid
to the suffering of our black brothers. I
refer especially to their venereal diseases.
At least one-quarter of the Western Queens-
land and Northern Territory blacks are in a
horrible state, yet very little is done for their
relief. Naturally, instead of the diseases
decreasing, they are becoming worse each
year. The police at the "outback stations are
supposed to act as protectors, but it is little
trouble they take. I have seen gins and
bucks who were almost eaten away with
some horror, living with young blacks as yet
untouched, and no effort was made by these
so-called protectors to separate the afflicted
from the pure. The white man is mainly
responsible, and it’s up to him to make
amends.
THE DEVIL’S ANOINTED.
Germany has selected as King Albert’s successor in Belgium, Prince Alfred of Windisch-Graetz, who
is related to the Belgian royal family.— Cable.
BELGIUM: “How about these for orb and sceptre?”
A device of the short-story writer was in-
troduced to real life the other day near Bris-
bane, when a train was started prematurely
through a lady’s green veil blowing out of a
carriage window and being mistaken by the
driver for the green flag waved by officials at
departure time.
Cosmea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You affluent blossoms, how you drop your
gold,
Your pollen gold upon the wind afloat!
A P ur se full is that pallid petals fold.
The miser pixie paused awhile to gloat,
Ihen doffed the covering from his small bald
head
To fill with golden waste its peak of red....
Here one incurving and magenta bloom
Is blazoned o’er with store of yellow coins ;
The bee who made it for a space his tomb
Was resurrected gilded to the loins,
To fertilise in secret, shyer flowers —
A licensed profligate of sunny hours!
lou are not coy, but rather as a bride
v\ ho feels no shame her lawful love to
show;
1 our grooved serrated wings flaunt married
pride
Above the passionate violet crouched below,
let faint the perfume that about you clings,
Lacking the sweetness of these unwed things !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
“Bill Bowyang” : “De Obo” (B. 18/2/T5)
about locates the spot when he states that
the Yongala foundered in the vicinity of
Townsville. I know every inch of the
coastal route after steamers leave Mackay,
and taking into consideration that tlie
Yongala was sighted at 6 p.m. off Dent Island
lighthouse, she would, battling against a
storm, be off Cape Conway, near Townsville,
at 2 a.m., just about in time to butt into the
cyclonic gale. It is my opinion that the
Yongala turned turtle off the Cape, and
residents in the locality are of the same
opinion. I was one of those who saw a large
quantity of oil floating off Cape Conway
some weeks after the loss of the vessel, and
the opinion as to its source was unanimous.
Still, “Nippon” was talking through his
panama when he told the white trepang
fisherman that lie saw the vessel’s masts. If
she had had time to reach shallow water
(which she had not) much wreckage would
have been washed ashore long ere this.
“Bill Bowyang”: It is a disputed point
which is the oldest station in Queensland;
but Samson Vale and Whiteside put in
strong claims. Samson Vale occupied ' a
tract of country between the two Pine
rivers, the North and South. Whiteside
adjoined Samson Vale, to the North. It is
upwards of 65 years since Messrs. Joyner
and Mason purchased Samson Vale station
and Captain Griffin took over Whiteside;
and they were both old stations then. When
the Samson Vale yards were in course of
erection a shilling piece bearing a recent
date (1826) was placed under the founda-
tion post. I saw this post dug out, some
years back, and the coin recovered. Pew
traces are left of Whiteside. The original
homestead has passed out of sight, but the
posts of the woolslied, possibly the first in
Queensland, are still standing.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 20, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Things in the social sphere have been
somewhat dull and hollow this week but
yesterday Mrs. Ross Munro dispersed the
gloom by circulating free tea and sundries
at her pretty home at Indooroopilly in honor
of My Feez, who has made up her mind to
marry a Mr. Henry on March 4. It was a
pink tea: at least, all the decorations were
Pink, and each guest received a posy of pink
asters don’t make it oysters—bearing a
heart-shaped card with the date and the
name of the bride-elect. How much more
charming is this custom than the mere
recording of the event in the annals of the
Historical Society?
Another tea-engulphing party was
gathered together by Mrs. John Hicks, in
honor of Mrs. Edwards, who recently
returned from England. Betty Cockburn,
who also got safely back recently from
John Bull’s defiant land, was enthroned at
the piano, while the refreshments perched in
the conservatory.
Next Thursday afternoon several philan-
thropic ladies will dispense afternoon tea
and scones (I wonder how it is nobody ever
dispenses afternoon cornbeef and gin?) to
anyone who will donate linen to the Bris-
bane General Hospital. The rule of no
linen, no tucker will be strictly enforced.
The hospital requires sheets, etc., and the
hostesses—Mesdames Bertram Hethering-
ton, C. A. Macfarlane and Miss Bage—
hope to materially enlarge the institution’s
washing list.
Miss Violet Paget’s, matinee for the benefit
of dependents of soldiers was a consummate
victory or something equally satisfactory.
It is expected that £l5O or more will make
the original fund buck up and move on with
increased vigor. Ices, afternoon tea, sweets
and flowers were trafliced. The Buckler-
Paget co. performed the last act of “Fanny’s
First Play”; Victor Fitzherbert and Eileen
Robertson played a slight thing called
“Adrift,” by Kathleen Watson, and the
Tin Can Band scene from “The Fatal
Wedding” was “done” by mummers drawn
from King’s Dramatic Co. Miss Paget,
looking handsome in blue silk, made an
excellent little speech of thanks to every-
body who had helped.
. On Monday night Commander Curtis and
his. wife welcomed visitors to the new
United Service Institute. I hear it was a
delightful affair, Thargomindah, but appar-
ently the table linen and silver are not yet
marked, because well-known characters like
those on the press were not invited.
“Tom” Macleod’s aeroplane fund soared
on Wednesday night, when its own parti-
cular concert gave it a lift. The Centennial
Hall was crowded. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson,
looking as youthful and slim as usual, sang
two songs, and was decorated with the
Legion of Flowers. The second part of the
programme was under the control of a
hypnotist, and his gentle influence induced
staid and hitherto unsuspected citizens to
fish happily from the end of the stage, to
clamber over pot plants, which they in-
sinuated were apple trees, and t 0 do other
undignified things that made their wives and
families blush for them.
Mrs. Kingsbury’s address in aid of the
Belgians drew a couple of hundred people
to the Albert Hall on Thursday night. The
“silver coin” collection tallied £26—and an
average of something over half a crown a
head shows there weren’t many threepenny
packets in that congregation. The lecturer,
always a fluent speaker, seems to have im-
proved in that respect since her trio abroad.
From the Daily Standard (19/2/T5) :
Last October the British Government bought un
900,000 tons of sugar.
Among them are eight K.C.’s.
Where there’s sugar there’s generally a
Trust, and where there’s a Trust there shall
the K.C.’s be gathered together.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Buck”: Re recent discussion about brand-
ing calves with the aid of lasso and special
surcingle fixed to the saddle. Does any
Bananalander know local men that use
Mexican saddles for the game ? I have heard
they are used on some of Kidman’s stations.
Will someone familiar with both the Mexi-
can and the Australian stock saddle give his
opinion of their relative value for ordinary
station purposes?
Te Babarantiko”: Re “Lagani-Namo”
a m /M h r I)reservaldon of the bread-fruit (B.
/ 1 o). The true species has no seed, and
the tree can only be pronagated by cut-
tings. The jack-fruit, or bastard bread-
roit, is coinmon all through the Pacific isles
and Malaysia, but is in shape entirely dif-
ferent from the legitimate member of the
family, although the outside of the skin has
the same markings. The jack-fruit seeds
when roasted have a nutty flavor, but the
fruit itself as food is an inferior commodity.
Both trees are much alike in appearance and
are very valuable—so valuable that; even
where, they are most plentiful, not even bark
is stripped for tappa cloth.
“Nunawading”: As usual in bad times,
there is much talk in the cities about the
necessity of hitting out for Ye Bush.
Ticks are wanted, a la Boer. Here are the
two most remarkable that have come under
my notice. War Minister Pearce knows a
man who took his wife, family and all belong-
ings over the thousand miles of so-called
desert from Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie. And
when Sam Mauger, ex-M.H.R., accompanied
G.-G. Northcote to Darwin, they met a man
who had taken his wife, family and all
belongings, including 70 cattle and a lot of
chickens, over from North Queensland to
Pine Creek (N.T.). The adventurer pointed
to his son, only 11 years old, and said “He
had charge of the cattle.” That’s the grit
that conquers.
“A Wild Australian” threatens things:—
es, I am wild; d —d wild, if I may sa,y so.
And it’s all over this climate of ours. I am afflicted
by superior English people who curse the Australian
calendar from January to December, and speak bit-
terly to me as if it were one of our own dreadful
products thrown together anyhow by the Labor party
on a Saturday afternoon. One lady friend in par-
ticular is almost unapproachable socially during most
of the year, so annoyed is she with the Almighty’s
weather arrangements for this part of the globe.
While her husbaiifl—B. sound Liberal—is declaiming
that the North (of which he knows nothing) is only
fit for niggers (not ordinary niggers, but d—d
niggers), she is practically saying the same thing
about Brisbane and Sydney. Between them, they
hand back the whole continent to the original black
owners every time the thermometer does a little
trapeze work. And as I dine with them at their
overloaded table I notice him “nipping” steadily,
as if he wanted to keep, out the cold, while she Over-
eats herself in a ladylike way and begs me to grow
apoplectic likewise. When I politely refuse she
grows pettish; he, for his part, becomes sulky and
resentful when I decline to have “just one more.”
It would be useless to explain to them that their
habits are all wrong; but some night I will talk
plainly to these two fatuous traducers of (he land
we live in and stalk out over the ruins of a once-
valued friendship.
H. 0.” : Mint-sauce Jones’s famous “Gen-
tlemen of Ballarat and savages of Bungaree”
(B. 18/2/’l5) recalls another classic, per-
petrated by a former Victorian M.L.A., still
alive, who, more in error than in anger,
began a speech at Beechworth: “Gentlemen
of the district and ladies of the town.”


Waters of the Moon: Helidon Spa
-
I*
■
v-ffl
The Primrose Spring.
THE HELIDON SPA may be regarded as a simple
Alkaline Table Water, which may be drunk ad lib. It
depends for its properties upon the Bicarbonates of
Lithium and Sodium, and upon the Chloride of Sodium
which it contains. It is a natural Soda Water, but it
is something more, for Soda has no Lithium in it. I
do not know any mineral water in Australasia containing more
than one-sixtieth as much Lithium as the Helidon Spa; it is richer
in Lithium than the famous Buffalo Lithia Water of America,
The Helidon Spa Water
is derived from
what was a natural spring, known under
the name
“OOGARDING”
to the aboriginals and to the early settlers
by whom it was greatly esteemed for its
healing virtues. The vicinity of the Spa
is honeycombed with channels, through
which issue continually the water and
the natural gases, and the surrounding
surface of the ground is covered with the
salts left after the evaporation of the
water. It is taken in specially prepared
casks to the railway, and so to Brisbane,
where it is well bottled for distribution.
are really medicines, and it may be
regarded as a pleasant, mildly exhilarat-
ing beverage, suitable for most occa-
sions, with just such an amount of
alkaline and earthy carbonates as to
give to it the mild antacid properties so
often desired. Thus, though not medi-
cinal in the ordinary acceptation of the
term, its Lithium Carbonate, acting as a
special antilithic, is distinctly useful in
the various manifestations of chronic
gout. Here it acts as a diuretic, it dim-
inishes acidity, and, owing to the Lithium
Urates- being much more soluble than
those of Sodium and Potassium, it
favors the removal from the body of the
less soluble urinary constituents. Thus
it tends to prevent uric deposits and
V*.
-■>-
The Joyce Spring.
And I am confident that the HELIDON SPA
will assume great importance in the future.
for there are many people in Australia who would be benefited by a
“Course of the Waters,” but who cannot afford either the time
or the money to go to better-known, though not necessarily better,
spas of the old world, and to whom, therefore, the Helidon Spa
would be a welcome substitute.
and, with one or two
exceptions, it is richer
than any if the nbt-
able lithiated mineral
waters of Europe. In
addition to the re-
marks made by Mr.
Dixon in his analyti-
cal report I may say
that the Helidon Spa
may be compared in
many particulars to
the well-known Vichy,
Ivronenquelle and
Krondorf Waters, only
the comparison would
by many be considered
in favour of the Heli-
don Spa, in that the
latter has much more
Lithium and other ant-
acid salts, while it has
less Silica and no Sul-
phate. It may also be
compared to the most
popular mineral table
water of France, Saint
Calm i e r, but this
• "
'*7l’^
*5,
RR. |
m
W&.
1 m
WM
wmKmmmiimmimimm ..
m
[ .._
What more authority
would you have ex-
cept the following
analysis—
Grains
per gal.
Organic matter Traces
Oxide of Iron
and Aluminia Traces
Total solids on
evaporation 233;01
The Factory.
water has no Lithium Salts. It is compared to the Itoyal Water
of France and to the Salzbrunn Water of Silesia; the Helidon
Spa, however, has more Lithium than the latter.
.11 »i \,y:
Its freedom from Sulphates accounts for the absence
of any trace of bitterness; to the palate it is most agree-
able, and by the stomach it is easily absorbed.
THE HELIDON SPA WATER may be described as occupying
an intermediate position between, on the one hand, simple
pure water charged with Carbonic Acid Gas, such as
Salutaris Water, and on the other hand, those mineral waters that
m
>■:
BSP*
m
1
Bottling Department.
favors their resolution when already
formed. In acid forms of Dyspepsia it
acts as a direct antacid in the stomach,
and as a remote antacid in the urine,
which, of course it also dilutes.
i
IT is important to observe that the
water is a natural mineral water,
for it is not enough to analyse a water
and when an artificial solution having the
ascertained composition has been made,
to imagine that this artificial water is
the same as the natural. Why they are
different it is not known, but experience
has abundantly proved that they may be
very different—possibly because the forms
in which the ingredients occur in the
natural water have not been completely
reproduced in the artificial product.
Had the Helidon- Spa
Water been in' ancient GREECE
the followers of AESCULAPIUS
would doubtless have
erected a TEMPLE
on the spot.
Agents:
STARKEY & CO Sydney
GOILIN & C0..;,* Melbourne
AIJXD & CO Adelaide
MILNE & CO Perth
THOS. McLOUGHLIN & CO., Rockhampton.
CUMMINS & CAMPBELL Townsville
CUMMINS & CAMPBELL Charters Towers
CUMMINS & CAMPBELL, Cairns
PAXTON & CO Mackay
BLAINE & CO Bowen
MAGEE & CO. Bowen
W. H. BUCHANAN Mosman
The difference, 4.17, being carbonic acid driven off on
ignition.
This water contains more lithia than any of the European Spa
Waters, except that from the Murquelle, at Baden Baden, which
contains lithia as chloride, and it is also much richer in car-
bonate of sodium, though Birresbom, in Prussia, and Bilin, in
Bohemia, approach it.
This water would be used as an anti-acid and diuretic, the
latter effect being due to the lithia.
\jfo
Proposed Site of the Helidon Spa Sanitorium,
~ , Head Office :
HELiDON SPA WATER CO. LTD..
BRISBANE.


DON’T NEGLECT
YOUR HAIR
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer ; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair;
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Golden Colour for Fair Hair.
Sold in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name.
f
□
KITO
KITZ'S
CIDER.
OT
Mother’s
Friend.
PEDIC POMADE for the HEAD
Strikes Infesting- Vermin Dead.
EVERY SOLDIER AND NURSE should carry a
box of PEDIC POMADE. Kills Vermin on man
and horse. Ensures perfect cleanliness, heals
sores, wounds, broken knee, saddle g-alls. Prices
posted to Egypt: Small, 1/4; Large, 2/6;
Extra Large, 4/2. Sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Sydney Agents: TALBOT’S, 206 George
Street, and Washington, Soul, who will will pack
and post on receipt of amount. ———
the teeth cleaned both
easily and thoroughly
Scld by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert &■ Co..Manchester,Eng.
TAURING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle
handy. Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days come round.
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
The ...
"Fxffß” WATCHES
are the most extraordinary watches of the age.
They are f-plate Levers.
They have Brequet overcoil balance springs.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
The jewels are countersunk.
They are specially made to stand HARD RIDING
AND KNOCKING ABOUT, and go with profound
accuracy.
They are used by the Railway Commissioners for
Guards’ Timepieces.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for two years, free
of charge.
In O.F. Oxidised Steel Cases, 337-
In Sterling Silver Case, 45 /-
They are stocked in every style of case.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
% * 7
v
FAIffP
MMlMiuuuu
Gent.’s Full-sized, Open-face Oxidised Steel
“Fx & R” Fully-jewelled Lever Watch,
33/-
The Experienced Traveller
Knows the Value of a
“MOSQIEL”
RUG.
It will stand any weather and
afford Warmth and Comfort
under every circumstance.
The IDEAL TRAVELLING RUG!
Sold at all the Best Shops.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
- ■
ft
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2ijin. dia., Solid Leather Case.
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
-1
L
i warn w m
mrzi i 4
Ist
A.S.C. Repair Shop at the Front
The army service corps u the highly
important body which looks after the welfare
of the fighting "Tommy" in the firing-line.
Above photograph (taken on a French road) shows
a Portable Repair Shop attached to the British Motor
Transport. The picture is an instance of the multi-
farious duties that are needed to supply for the welfare
of an Army in being, and emphasises the yeoman
part played by Petrol in the present stupendous
campaign.
Pratt’s
Motor Spirit
is used by the British War Office and Admiralty for
haulage of big field pieces, for heavy ammunition and
food transport per motor-lorry, for reconnoitring per
armoured motor-car, for aeroplane and seaplane
reconnaissances, for despatch riding per motor-cycle,
and for Red Cross Ambulances conveying wounded
from the seat of action to the Hospitals at the base.
N.B. —Pratt’s enjoys the full confidence of the
Allies, who are using it in enormous quantities.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Necessarily Anonymous: Why “necessarily
anonymous” ? The Bulletin wasn’t ashamed to
identify itself with the re-publication. Why should
you be ashamed to identify yourself with the protest
—unless, of course, you are a German? In that
case, you have the best reason in the world for
shame... .John P.: That motor record was put up on
November 29, so your breathless par. is merely three
months late.... Tom Donohoe: Write and tell the
publication what you think of it....F.W. (N.S.W.):
Nothing in pars, submitted, but you should have
some interesting copy... .Comp: If, instead of asking
us to print the name of any Australian XI cricketer
at the front, you had told us you were on the way
to that strenuous place yourself, we would have been
interested. Incidentally, we notice you address your
cheap sarcasm from Manly. Shooting the breakers,
and letting the treaty-breakers shoot someone else.
. ...W.McK.: A curse falls automatically on the
head of every contributor who jams his typewritten
lines so close together that a sub-editor’s nib can’t
dig in between... .M.C.M.: Can’t say it at present....
Queenslander: The N.S.W. Government Tramways
returned £265,131 above working expenses during
the year ended June, 1914, or a profit of £l6BO after
allowing for interest on capital. Fares were in-
creased in April, 1914 —Id. to ljd. for travelling
on second sections only (they are all long sections),
and an extra penny for first sections travelled on
Sundays, Xmas Day and Good Friday.... Motor:
Haven’t heard of one, but will keep our eyes open
and let you know L.T.: There are about 500
aboriginal names for everything. Wuen there are not
that many there are none. .. . J.M.: Britain’s national
debt at March, 1914, was £706,154,110. We’ve
disregarded the pence, and hope you won’t mind....
A'.A.: “Who could look at a trooper mounted on a
motor-bike, minus his tight pants, shiny top boots and
clanking spurs without regarding him as a minion
of the law ?” Really we don’t know. Better catch
Jack Weary when he wakes up for refreshment and
put the problem before him as a matter of urgency.
....The Wild Un: Reference to Sydney buildings
being “grouped in untalkable nohowishness” reminds
us of their inspeakish anywhereness... .8.G.C.: The
town clerk’s agony isn’t literature. How about a heart-
cry from the nuisance-inspector ?.... Larkspur: Good
try. It has power and ends on a good note, but you
don’t know enough about the mechanical side of
verse-building... .Armis: Six lines of this one
deserves print:—
Orion: But merely walking down the street in
time to military music doesn’t constitute “a grand
display of military daring.” Plum P.: You might
be better in prose—or again you mightn’t
W.F.M.: Ag6d John seems to be no brighter than
most patriarchs C. Turner: “I do not claim to be
a writer, but I have done my best.” Good man!
You may keep your sword. Also, you may chant
“Excelsior!” as you go down the hill again
Spider: Thin humor. Why not try some descriptive
stuff? There is material by the ton lying round
you Alf P.: It falls short Ephraim A.: Passed
on to the “Red Page.” Mrs. G. H.: Good point
in the war rhyme, but the workmanship is too rough.
....Austin B.: “The Valley” is overshadowed by the
basket... .R.D’Or.: Cannot identify the verses by the
lines quoted. Book you suggest is not likely to be
issued. There is already a collection of his verses in
book form.
TO AUTISTIC I AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Killie: No use....F.G.: We don’t care for the
remark, and the lady without a face annoys us
T.R.D.: Can’t pay for that E.E. (Q.) : Subtle
beer joke and flat drawing condemned G.D.: The
jest about the silenced German instrumentalist is
worn out J.S.W.: Can only insert it in the
basket J.L. (V.): Not much in the idea as
worked out.»..Will G. (Q.) : Drawing naturally
falls under the heading of “Latest Scratchings.”....
Jack L.: Where’s the point? (P.S. —Now don’t write
and tell us!) Bruce G.: Crude diagram of no
value R.L.: You might be a good artist if only
you would learn something about drawing The
Map Cartoonist: Get back to your lessons....
William A. (V.) : It is going home, William
P.B.: Thanks, but not good enough.
THOUGHTS.
I often think as the world goes round at its fear-
fully rapid pace
Of the time to come when the bugle’s great sound
will summon the last of our race,
Now will we lie in the cold wet ground or rise to
some mansion above
With everything free there to be found, and nothing
to do but Love,
Or have to answer for untold sin and condemned with
a fearful yell
To be pricked for ever with needles and pins in a
place that is known as Hell?
... .Edmund W.: You make the majestic South Head
talk to itself like an agitated old lady who is nearly
worried to death about the set of her bonnet
L.P.L.: No, you are not going to do it again! You
are not even going to do it H.F.S.: First attempt
repulsed. But persevere. We may sit up and take
notice of your thirty-fifth try. M.P.S.: Poem starts
off with a deep rumble, but doesn’t arrive anywhere.
... .F.M. (Melb.) :We refuse to listen while you give
an imitation of the bagpipes... .Ruby G.: Verses not
publishable here. Prose sketch so scrappy that it is
hardly intelligible. Try to tell your story—don’t
yelp it.... Ankarri: It goes in with the respected
rejects... .C.C.: You blasted it out. So did we
Jack Lanyard: Don’t write any more patriotic verse.
If you must do something, practise rifle-shooting....
Rex O.: To paraphrase Shak.: The papers thou hast
and their adoption tried, grapple them to thy soul
with hoops of fly-paper Jumbo N.: Walk right in:
A SWAGMAN’S LAST SLEEP (Poetry).
No more I’ll hear the Night Birds
No more I’ll Hear Crie Birds Liz (Note: Is this
right?)
In this Cold Cold and Here I
Have got to Lie the Wattles
Sheds its Blossom on the
Mountain side and the
Stockholm on His Wild Colt
On the Station Kids and the
Turn over
Lillies in the Valley all
Wet with the morning Jew
And the Song Birds Sings
Beneath the Sky So Blue.


RE.E.P YOUNG
By using an ELECTRIC MASSAGING OUTFIT you can
counteract the effects of Overwork, Worry, Nerves and Bad Circulation.
0
SHELTON Electric M&ss&ge Outfits
are perfectly safe. Can be used by everybody. Cost very little
to operate. Full instructions for use issued with each outfit.
Can be connected to any lamp socket. Our illustration
shows only one of a variety of machines stocked with
different combinations of instruments.
SHE! TON Portable Hair Dryers
DO THEIR WORK IN A FEW MINUTES.
These hand)/, lightweight Outfits will furnish a strong blast
of cold air, or, at the turn of a switch, a hot air blast if
preferred. Think of the dreary wait while your hair
dries without this assistance.
>
CALL IN FOR DEMONSTRATION.
9
M
9
Representing THE BRITISH THOMSON-HOUSTON COY. LTD., Rugby, England; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., Schenectady, N.Y., U.S.A.
“ Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd. (W.A.), Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
- Agents—
Cor. Queen and Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
<r
It develops a smart
moustache directly—
no matter if your
nair-growth is thin
and weak, Capillar-
ine will give results.
If other preparations
have failed don’t be
discouraged try
Oapillarine.
Send for a Jar To-day—lo/6 post free
Craif£ & Aitken,
654 CEOF.CE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over 30 Years.
u
sS\p
nvu
mm
<JOH
VJ.IVW
&
%3±So*
ā
MUSIC THAT DRAWS
YOUR VERY SOUL
—have you not heard it, sometime, the
soulful melody of an old violin, the pul-
sating cadences of a famous orchestra,
the singing of some celebrated star —music
that held you enthralled and enraptured?
Did you not say to yourself. “Oh, for this
music every day”?
—And really it IS possible, with that
superb instrument,
H
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE.
Here we illustrate the gramophone par excellence —the opera-house at
Home! »■'
There is no music, however sublime, that is beyond the range of this
instrument. There is no artiste, however exalted, but is glad to have
his triumphs popularised by it.
It is the Gramola No. 1.—£60.
Made of the choicest Burr Walnut with frosted silver fittings.
Other instruments from £5/18/6 to £5O.
Instrument catalogue, record lists, and name
of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET —— SYDNEY.
I
‘H» Manat Voice'
B
&
L
wm$%
TrTTT
V» iv;^*,? \fts»o<K '•?' , \y : ;'*£v'
tfli
£@BE@S3
wm
g&imisstxi*/®
m
m
Wi
fki s»
o_<^
£3
**
&
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE. CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8,
THEA T R E. SYDNEY.
I"! VOLI
ODiyA AND HER SEALS AND SEA LIONS.
LAURA GUERITE, a World Star Comedienne.
FRANCIS DOOLEY, assisted by CORRINE SALES.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson’s.
_ Phone 9942 for Reserves.
T THEATRE, 7 MELUOIIRNE
1 EVERY EVENING. ,JOUItNE -
TIVOLI follies:
t .... including:
"JACK fm™!’ ISABELLE D’ARMOND,
ALVARmn A ppno’ p £ EEX - YAKOVLENKO,
AGVARETTO, REGO & STOPPIT, VERA PEARGF
MONTY WOLF. JOHNNy/ieLDS ° ’
11 at dens. Prices; 3/s 2/-, 1/6 and 1/-.
tv MAJESTY'S. SYD N E Y
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
Box Plan at Glen’s
H EH
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
Matinee Wednesday.
Three g Acts, ed the Musical JollityTTn
hrg ir jin ks.
PlnJc rO, I’ If n‘l by , GARRY B. BURCIIER.
gjans at -Palings. Day Sales at Callose’s.
C 111 , lii K 1 ° N th ea t r eTsydney;
' Jjehs,ee FRANK MUSGROVE.
BVERY EVENING AT 8
FRED NIBLO’S FAREWELL PRODUCTION
A Breezy American Comedv. by JAMES FORBES
entitled,
THE TRAVELLING SALESMAN
Showing Samples of Laughter from a Large Stock’
Phrnsjit Paling’s. liar Sales White Rose.
§YD N E Y FOR PLEASURE
and the
WHITE CITY
(Rushcutter Bay)
FOR THE ‘
GREATEST AMUSEMENTS.
Whenever you think of Enjoyment the
WHITE CITY
(Rushcutter’s Bay)
TOPS THE LIST.
to-night,
to-night,
to-night.
GREAT ORIENTAL CARNIVAL.
THE WHITE CITY.
Nightly: 7.30 till 11. ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
L H. ESLICK, C.E., General Manager.
AD EL PHI THEATRE, SYDNEY
n Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD
Last Two Nights of AT CRIPPLE CREEK.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEBRUARY 27.
George Willoughby Ltd.’s entirely new Dramatic Co
presents
base coin.
R m Piiecs : 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
Box Plans: White Rose Confectionery, Adelphi Buildings.
Amusements.
M cEACHERN C A S T L F
l¥l CONCERT COMPANY. T L E 8
NORTHERN RIVERS TOUR.
GRAFTON MARCH 2.
LISMORE MARCH 10.
BALLINA, BYRON BAY, MURWILLUMBAH
1 WEED HEADS to follow.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BROCK THEATRICS
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 pm
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
■HE KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager: WILLIAM ANDERSON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, FEBRUARY 27.
William Anderson presents the Popular Drama,
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH.
Plan Allan’s. Prices : 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
U EU .MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
■ * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present their Pantomime
Extravaganza,
CINDERELLA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
MURIEL STARR
in
BOUGHT AND PAID FOR,
By GEORGE BROADHURST.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. .Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, FEBRUARY 27.
Geo. Willoughby, Ltd., present the Sensational
Sensation,
HIS REAL WIFE.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Pianola.
MISS PAULINE BINDLEY,
,¥ * SOPRANO.
Late PAUL DUFAITLT CONCERT COMPANY.
Owing to the unsettled state of Europe Miss
BINDLEY is obliged to forego her visit to the Con-
tinent for the present, and has decided to take a
LIMITED NUMBER OF STUDENTS in Melbourne
and Bendigo in the Art of VOCAL DICTION and
SINGING INTERPRETATION. Also she is prepared
to accept ENGAGEMENTS at Concerts, At. Homes,
and Arrange Concert Companies.
Address:—
CONSERVATORIUM, BENDIGO, or
ALLAN’S, Wednesday and Saturday.
A UDITORIUM, Collins Street, Melbourne.
” Every Evening. Matinees: WED. & SAT.
WILLIAM J. SHEPHERD,
Sole Proprietor of the Australian Rights, presents,
direct from the Scala Theatre, London,
THE GREAT WAR PICTURE IN
KINEMACOLOR:
WITH THE FIGHTING FORCES OF EUROPE.
Showing the Vast Armies and Navies of the Nations
under war conditions in all their Natural Colors.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-. 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
BLIOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
° FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
SENOR WESTONY, HERMANN & SHIRLEY.
KELLY & POLLOCK. LOUTE DUGGAN, CARMEN
& LAWRENCE, THE FONTENOYS. ,
Prices: 2/6, 2/-. 1 /-'ft 6d. Matinees: 1/6. 1/- k 6d.
PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
THREE BIG SHOWS.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE. Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
PERTH’S NEW CONTINUOUS
* PHOTO PLAY THEATRE.
A new company has been formed in Perth, and has
taken up a place on a 19 years’ lease, right in the
heart of that city, with the object of transforming it
into an up-to-date continuous Picture Theatre. Plans
and specifications, have been prepared by T. Anthoness,
Esq., a specialist in that particular line. The con-
tract has been given to one of the most energetic
contractors of Western Australia, who has made
excellent progress up to now. It is expected to be
opened to the public on the sth of next April—
Easter Monday. It will comfortably seat 1000 people,
every modern convenience and comfort will be in-
stalled, as well as machinery of the latest type.
It will be known as the BRITANNIA CONTIN-
UOUS PICTURE THEATRE, HAY STREET, and
with the above Perth must be well supplied with
entertainments.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
The Marrying of Danny.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
great manager iv min was Mis-
| thress Cavanagh,” said Flynn. “She
managed her son Danny ez she
managed the father befure him, ’n’ the sore
consarn iv her hear-rt had t’ do wid the
fear iv some onscruplous faymale takin’ ’n’
marryin’ the poor bye agin her will ’n’ con-
sint.
“Danny himself was well grown be this,
’n’ intoirely self-supportin’, twinty-eight
years iv age, ’n’ a big man anny way yeh
tuck him, but biddable ’n’ diffydint, ’n’ wan
shy wid women, though ’twas the thrial iv
his mother’s life the way he would be
runmn’ afther the gir-rls, ’n’ him hidin’
behind a tree maybe, wishful to iscape
observation ’n’ remar-rk, did anny purty
"Tolly ’r Bridgid be annywhere handy, at all.
“Ye’ll be • knowin’ well what gir-rls are
yerself. Har-rd t’ kape frim a likely lad
they are. Andy Cavanagh, havin’ a clane
shkin ’n’ an eye iv crystal, blue ez a pansy,
n the fine, black hair goes widall iv the
good stock iv Kildare ’n’ the men of Meath,
rs wan sought afther most persistent.
Moreover, the fine far-rm iv his ’n’ the cattle
to ut, left be. his da, ’n’.Danny’s a man will
shape well at anny game ye’d mention, none
bether afther the plough, ’r swingin’ an axe
n singin’ to his wor-rk, ’r hitchin’ up a
sthring iv fencin’ wid great expedition.
“Bould enough at shport ’n’ industhry is
Danny Cavanagh, will run you a mile, ’r
jump clane across a grown cow, ’n’ never
mind at all. But, och! ’tis slow wid the
gir-rls he is, ’n’ them makin’ fine eyes at
him frim iv’ry tree ’n’ cor-rner. Whin a
sthrappin’ colleen does get him., to-herself
a min-ute, up comes his mamma, shtiff ez a
slitick, ’n’ dumps herself down har-rd be the
inthrestin’ pair, ’n’ sez she: 4 ’Tis a mor-rtal
hne afthernoon, Miss Barbara Blake,’ she
sez, V the crop’s well ’n’ shmilin’ afther
last night’s dthrop iv shweet rain.’
, ( “ ‘Thrue fer yeh, ma’am,’ sez Barbara,
n yer lookin’ well yerself.’
“ ‘ ’N’ well I am, thankin’ yeh kindly, Miss
Blake. Sorry’s me ye’v shtill them hor-rn
freckles so thick on yer poor face. Cud yeh
do. nothin’ for thim at all, nor fer the
twisht ye have be yer eye makes yeh so
plain t’ look at, lave alone yer figure ez
thick in the waist ez a tall hor-rse.’
“There’s nivir a gir-rl will stand the like
fer wan solid hour, ’n’ Misth'ress Cavanagh’s
prepared t’ kape it up the clock round if
nade be. She have the nose iv a duck hound
t’ fprrit Danny out where he’s hid wid a nice
small crather courtin’ him be the hand ’n’
wid shweet looks, ’n’ not wan cud bear up
agin her, Danny himself sittin’ hit spachless
n’ coy, twistin’ to his seat, ’n’ mentionin’
nothin’ but thrifli.n’ weather repor-rts ’r
scraps iv agriculture.
“Wan gir-rl ispecial there is finds a way
t’. be next Danny Cavanagh be moonlight,
’n’ Danny bears wid her as best he can,
though like t’ tie himself in a dangeris knot
wid the way he wriggles ’n’ sbquirms. on the
log where she’s sittin’. He’s sufferin’
mor-rtal agony, ye’ll think, but 'fpr.ail tlpit
lie’ll nivir get up ’n’* run though the whole
State iv Victoria’s open to'him. She’s wan,
Judith Cullanan, a bit iv a wee thing wid
CAUTIOUS .
H E: “It is reported around here that you and
I are engaged.”
SHE: “ Didn’t you deny it?”
HE: “No; I was afraid to without first
seeing you.”
a for-rm that shlim wan ar-rm would serve
for, two helpin’s, huggin’ her. ' Her hair’s
nay'ther red nor goold, ’n’ her eyes not blue
nor. vi’let ayther, but wan thing yer sartin
sure, she’s the grace iv Heaven thranslated.
The widdy Cavanagh will have nothin’ iv
Judith Cullanan, ’n’ no respec’ at all fer
love’s young dthrame. They’re nivir sittin’
a quarther iv the hour, side be aich, befure
me lady Hannah is on their thracks, ’n’
down she dumps her fourteen shtone
bechune the pair iv thim, her hands rolled
in the apron she’s wearin’, ’n’ a light iv
thriminjis resolution to her eye, ’n’ she sez:
‘Glad I am t’ have the friendly wor-rd wid
yeh this comfortin’ avenin’, Miss Cullanan,
’n’ is yer mild father well iv the touch iv
madness he tuck frim the sun lasht summer?
Though sore afeared I am ’tis runnin’ in
the blood, the Cullanans bein’ quare iv
behavior iver since the day whin me
gran’father was no higher than yer ca’f.
Ye’r never no thicker than a thin sthring,
Judith Cullanan. I’m sorry for yeh, I am,
wid the consumption in yeh, ’n’ yer hair
gettin’ redder. Nivir a Sunday passes I
don’t notice the vulgar carrotty tint cornin’
to ut, me poor gir-rl.’
“Afther tin min-utes iv the like iv that
Judy Cullanan will go t’ cry herself
comfortable t’ shleep, ’n’ Mrs. Cavanagh
will lade Danyill home, givin’ him
insthructions by the way consarnin’ the
injoodiciousness iv early marriage, ’n’ the
natural vindictiveness ’n’ villainy iv fair
weemin wid thim dar-rk eyes that’s shiftin’
color wid iv’ry tur-rn iv the head.
“ ’Tis hereabout that Misthress Mary
Ellen O’Connell, frim Banthry, Cor-rk away,
FAMILY PRIDE.
HE: “My father's got ammonia!"
SHE: “ Well, my mother’s got haricot brains.”
comes t’ be a neighbor iv the widdy Hannah
Cavanagh, ’n’ bein’ iv the same persuasion
-—Tim O’Connell bein’ dead a year—she
takes a kindly inthrest in Hannah, which
develops into a mor-rtal war-rm regar-rd fer
Danyill Cavanagh junyer. This Mary Ellen
O’Connell is a tight, shmart, shor-rt woman,
bould ’n’ black, wid a crowin’ eye to her, ’n’
a saucy back to the. figure would make anny
obsarvin’ mother iv grown byes careful
where she be cornin’ ’n’ goin’.
“Nade I war-rn yeh? The frindship iv
Hannah Cavanagh ’n’ Mary Ellen O’Connell
is iv short juration. But Mary Ellen
preserves her kindly inthrest in Danyill, ’n’
is very much in his vicinity be day ’n’ be
night, which, ez she have two orphans ’n’
the poorest hundtherd acres in all Bungaree,
is a mather iv consarn t’ the bye’s mamma.
’Tis the widdy O’Connell Danny is found
sittin’ wid most reg’lar thim days, ’n’ whin
his mother do be buttin’ in t’ rescue him
frim the toils, Mrs. O’Connell is not goin’
off t’ cry her fine eyes out. Lastwise not
so that ye’d notice it. She’s sittin’, firm ’n’
har-rd, ’n’ givin’ back talk most cordyill ’n’
judicious.
“Sez Mrs. Cavanagh: ‘So ’tis here y’are,
widdy O’Connell, givin’ me poor bye the
benefit iv yer insthructiff conversation. Sure
I might iv knowed it,’ sez she, ‘but ’tis not
necessary t’ hould his hand so tinder, bein’
you’re a woman iv for-rty ’n’ more, ’n’ he
scarce more’n a laygil infant in ar-rms.’
“ ‘Thrue, ma’am,’ sez Misthress O’Connell,
wid an inflection iv great shweetness, ‘ ’tis a
kind, shtill avenin’, ’n’ I was afther tellin’
Danny ’tis a poor way t’ waste the life iv a
man, bidin’ at home wid his ma, loveless ’n’
penitent.’
“ ‘Maybe ’tis waste t’ bide wid the ould
ipother,’ sez Mrs. Cavanagh, ‘but maybe
* there’d be losses more terrible ’n’ the black
soyrer,. weddin’. wid an either woman wid
s hrce limpin’, sour brats ’n’ a bit iv broad
- and will grow nothin’ but thick , burrs ’n’
histles galore t’ plague the neighborhood.’
“ ‘A good mother the bye have,’ sez Mrs.
O’Connell, ‘a good ’n’ a watchful. She’ll
nivir cease sthrivin’ t’ make a rich man iv
him, but he’ll be needin’ a wife t’ make him
happy.’/
“ ‘ ’N’ you’re the woman, is it, Mrs.
O’Conpell?’ > - . > ■.
“ ‘l’ve made wan man happy, Mrs.
Cavanagh.’
“ ‘Thrue. I dar’ say he’s well enough
where ye’v put him.’
‘ ’N’ where is it yer own good man is,
widdy Cavanagh?’
“ ’N’ so would they go on be the hour,
Dhnny contor-rtin’ himself bechune them, ’n’
sayin’ never a wor-rd at all. • -
“Most fearful iv Mary Ellen O’Connell is
Mrs. Cavanagh, fer Danny can’t be kept
away frim her at all, ’n’ the poor mother’s
neglectin’ her wor-rk shameful wid runnin’
afther him ’n’ keepin’ the two company.
The great consarn iv conscience she have
is well called fer: witness the action iv
Misthress O’Connell wan Chewsdee cornin’
upon Mrs. Cavanagh suddent whin she’s in
the nate dairy out in the hill back iv her
house, ’n’ shuttin’ ’n’ lockin’ the slab dure
on her.
“ ‘ ’N’ are yeh there, Mrs. Cavanagh ?’ sez
Mrs. O’Connell. ‘Y’are, well I know ’n’
there will yeh bide till I’m wed well ’n’
thruly wid yer son Danny.’
“ ‘Lave me out, yeh villain!’ screams
Danny’s mamma. ‘l’ll have the law on yeh
fer ’salt ’n’ batthery ’n’ onlegal imprisonin’.’
“ ‘Then ye’ll have the law on yer own
son’s own wife, ma’am, fer jue notice is
give be him, ’n’ we’re off t’ marry this day,
we are.’
“ ‘Ye’v not me consint, ’n’ apar-rt frim
that I’ll tear yeh t’ scraps ’n’ bits wid me
own two hands!’
“ ‘Not this day, mother, for where ye are
there will yeh stay till me weddin’ day is
spent. There’s milk in there fer yer
drinkin’, ’n’ ye’ll contint yerself wid it,
ma’am, for Danny has gone on, ’n’ I’m
afther goin’, ’n’ there’s divil a soul t’ hear
yer lamentations.’
} “Wid that the widdy O’Connell tur-rned
’n’ marched off, singin’ a gay chune, ’n’ all
night long the widdy Cavanagh sat in her
dairy ayten up wid meditation. ’Twas
Danny himself let her out ten o’clock in the
mor-rnin’. She looked him cold in the eye,
n’ sez she: ‘Ar'-re yeh married?’
“ ‘Yes, ma,’ sez he.
“Nothin’ more said she, but turned her
face t’ the widdy O’Connell’s, ’n’ marched
acrost the paddock, erect V har-rd like the
very imp iv mischief. She tuck up a shtick
be the way, ’n’ come on Mrs. O’Connell in
her own kitchen, ’n’ fetched her a whack
sent her spachless ’n’ winded in wan
cor-rner, ’n’: ‘lf yer me dauther,’ sez
Hannah, ‘lll be a mother to yeh, ’n’ ye’ll
be lookin’ fer a dommed severe parent in
Hannah Cavanagh.’
that the widdy Cavanagh got to the
widdy O Connell, ’n’ the batin’ iv her was
t rifhc, I’m told.
? /‘Then Hannah wint back to her far-rm,
. n confront Danny there, ’n’ sez she: ‘This
Ls. no home for you,’ she sez. ‘Go to ver
wife,’ she sez.
, “‘ Fl i not shtir a sez Danny, grown
fer the first time. ‘The far-rm’s me
own, n well yeh know ut. Here’s me home,
n here me wife is/
I.ve jist bate the life half out iv yer
wife in her own house,’ sez Hannah. ‘Go
to her.’
“‘Me wife is here, I’m tellin’ yeh,’ sez
Danny, n he shteps t’ the kitchen dure, ’n’
lades her into the light iv day. ’Tis Judith
Cullanan.
“Danny have his cuteness, it seems, or
maybe tis. Judith—annyway the widdy
O Connell is employed t’ have Misthress
Cavanagh bottled up tight while she is wed
wid Danyill, ’n’ Danyill shlips her up, ’n’
weds wid Judith. The widdy Cavanagh
pays Mary Ellen O’Connell the damages the
Coort allows _ fer breakage ’n’ shock, ’n’
Hannah is livin’ on a hen far-rm iv her own
conthnvin this day, wid a second husband,
ter thim womanly weemin like Hannah must
alwiz have some wan t’ mother wid a
hayfork, ye 11 notice.”
EDDYSON.


CAREFOR
YOUR HAIR
With
SOAP
And Cuticura Ointment.
They cleanse the scalp, re-
move dandruff, arrest falling
hair and promote hair health.
Samples Free by Mail
Cuticura Soap and Ointment sold everywhere.
Liberal sample of each, with 32-page book sent post-
free. Address ft. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
fash*s
For
marking
linen
Z
LJUIS
>2:
12
Your name is neatly woven in fast Turkey
Red on Cambric tape so that your Linen,
Clothing, Handkerchiefs, etc., are Per-
manently marked by simply sewing the
name on. Prevents articles being mislaid
at laundry. Note the cost is small: 12
dozen 7/6 ; 6 dozen 51- ; 3 dozen 3/6.
Obtainable at all drapers and outfitters or
woven samples sent free on application to
J. & J. CASH LTD.,
346-50 Flinders Lane, Melb.
ă
Always ask
for CASH’S
So simple
_3il3_
m t til
Icy-Hot
Bottles
Bottles
Keep Hot ThingsHpl 24 Hours
Or Cold Things Cold 3 Days
rjOT or cold
■“■drinks when
needed, while np-
country-hunting,
motoring, picnic-
in g; while in
town - for early
morning shaving
water, coffee, hur-
ried meals. Keep
baby’s milk at
right temperature,
or invalid’s food
hot or cold all
night, without
heat, ice or bother
of preparation.
m
Icy-Hot
Jars
ICY-HOTBottle*, for water, tea, milk, soup,
etc. Pints, 5/6 up, Quarts, 11/—up. Nickel
plated, Pints, 8/6up; Quarts, 15/—up. ICY-
HOT Carafe takes place of unsanitary water
bottle. Quarts, 22/ — up, with specially pro-
tected neck. 30/—up. ICY-HOT Jars for
hot stews, vegetables, frozen ice cream. Can
also be used for beverages. Nickel plated.
Pints,ls/ up.Quarts.2B/6up. Also ICY-HOT
Lunch Kits. Inner glass bottle within metal
casing protected against
breakage, easily sterilized
and cheaply replaced if
broken. Liquids touch only
glass—absolutely sanitary.
MADE IN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA FROM
AMERICAN MATERIALS
Look for name ICY-HOT
on bottom. If your dealer
does not stock it, we mail
direct, prepaid, on receipt
of price.
Send for Catalogue No. 159
Dealers are invited to
write for special terms.
The ‘ICY-HOT’ Bottle Co.
Factory; Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Carafe
Quart, 3-Pint,
4-Pint, 3-Quart
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
Deßeszke
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the
Zealand. »*AT LOWEST CURRENT
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; The Hon. J. T.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F.
Knox, Esq., IC.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCornrick. M.D. General Manager and
F.F.A.. F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
the Security of Government
Australian States or New
RATES OF INTEREST.
the privilege of repaying
or payment of any fine.
Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Actuary: Richard Teece, F.LA.,
H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
m*
IN Bostock shoes the feet always feel beauti-
fully light and comfortable ; • and the wearer
is ready for a garden party or any smart func-
tion. So perfect are their fitting properties that
the shoes positively feel as though they have been
made specially. Every time they are worn the
wearer experiences a sense of satisfaction, wonder-
fully like that enjoyed in a smart Parisian
gown ; and this feeling is intensified by knowing
that the shoes are exclusive in style and exquis-
itely finished.
Bostocks are the cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold.
809
v.
Vs*
/»:
mm
m
. S-
Style 589
None Genuine unless stamped “BOSTOCIv.”
Exclusive Agent
Wanted
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames and novelties
in art goods. Excellent
opportunity for any
Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is very re-
numerative. You may
charge good prices for our
_ portrait novelties. No ex-
perience required. We will send free of charge, our
book of instructions and general catalog. We furnish
bank references. 20 successful years in the export
business is our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co.
1029—D-10 W. Adams St.. Chicago, 111.. U. S. A._
iii
á
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over jo years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received from Hitnrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings sim.lar letters
to-day.
ą
ǻ
Famed for 40 Yeara
Best remedy for Asthma,
Hay Fever, Rose Cold, or
ordinary Cough.
Soiri in Tins ty all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
The O.S. Electric
Wiring System
for Private House Lighting.
Our improved system of installing Electric Light is carried out by
means of the celebrated “Stannos” Wires and Fittings.
This is the simplest, safest and most economical system now
employed, and, as handled by us, presents the following advantages:
Adaptability to all lighting and small power requirements.
Neat in appearance, and especially suitable for wiring on the surface,
being almost invisible, watertight and fireproof. Quickly and safely
installed with minimum of disturbance and no damage to premises.
We are thoroughly experienced in private installation work and
absolutely guarantee efficiency.
Write for particulars—TO-DAY.
K. WALTON & CO.
Private and Country House Lighting Experts,
Central Chambers,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 3814 City.
The Inky Way.
J. C. Watson, having seen the A.W.U.'s
annual conference through, leaves for the
United States and Europe this week, mainly
in connection with his baby, the World.
As expected, there was some trouble at the
conference over the delay in producing the
infant, but, though there are plenty who see
the mistakes that have been made, a majority
could see also that Watson and his Board
were not responsible for the war. That
commotion upset the delivery of the last of
the plant, put up the price of printing paper,
and made the job of geting advts. for a new
journal pretty hopeless. According to
present arrangements the thrice-postponed
chicken will start crowing in September.
* * * *
In N. S. Wales there are two union-
owned general newspapers. One, the
Worker, at Sydney the other day handed
out damages for a libel on the Attorney-
General. Now Arthur Griffith, another of
the Labor Ministers, has fired a writ for
£lOOO at the second union paper. Daily
Truth, at Broken Hill. Truth was until
recently published by the A.L.F., repre-
senting all the unions, but it got so much
into debt to the Miners’ Association, which
has been making advances out of the
Funeral Fund, that this one union lately
took it over. And almost the first of the
joys of proprietorship is a writ for libel
from one of its own party's Ministers.
* * * *
“Tuppence a Rhyme” : Some time ago, a
Bulletin writer derided the poet-philoso-
pher, and asked why the counsel of these
unworldly-wise jinglers should be taken at
a high value by a trustful public. The
average poet is a man who is conspicuously
unable to manage his own affairs; yet,
because he has the skill to dress his ideas in
fine language and drive them in a sort of
procession, they are accepted as gospel. Now
someone arises in the Fortnightly and
points out that the German writer Treitschke,
whose writings helped to prepare Germany
for the present explosion, was originally a
small, tinkling poet, and that a good deal of
what Germany has taken seriously in his
work is imaginative nonsense. The writer
sums up :
Treitschke began as a poet, and remained so, under
all his political and academic trappings, to the end.
If it can be proved that the Germanic
catastrophe was even in part brought about
by the blithering of a disguised poet, the
proclamation of peace might be fittingly cele-
brated by a general massacre of the tribe.
The oldest living newspaper in Uncle
Dollar’s Land, the Hartford Courant, has
just celebrated its 150th anniversary. It
started late in 1764 and has kept going ever
since'; which is the difference between it and
several predecessors. They all died. The
earliest, Public Occurrences, burst forth in
Boston, but never got beyond “Vol. 1. No.
1.” That the first number contained a joyous
promise to publish the names of all the liars
in Boston in its second issue, but the alarmed
authorities got the punch in first. The blow
was fatal, and the threatened greatest one-
day circulation in history fizzled out.
;jt * * *
“Copy Boy” : A reshuffling of work due to
holidays lately gave me three weeks of close
association with the panjandrums of union-
ism, and it made me sad when it didn’t make
me furious. Only a few union secretaries —
here in Melbourne, at any rate- —have learned
to distinguish a pressman from the policy of
the boss he works for, and many still cherish
the illusion that a clean collar proclaims a
Tory, and that a wristlet watch should make
a man an object of mistrust. The facts that
inkslingers have a union of their own, and
that many of them are socialists, do not pre-
vent Trades Hall magnates treating them
with arrogance and incivility. For consider-
ation towards the newspaper workman give
me Fat every time. For swollen-headedness
give me the* small potentate of the Trades
Halh
The Vacuum Oil Co. is going on with its
libel action against the Age. It’s many a
long day since the last 20,000-pounder was
heard in court.
* * *
“Banjo” Paterson, who departed with
Australia’s Expeditionary Force as war-
correspondent for S. M. Herald, did not
anchor in Egypt. He went on to Europe,
where the Pot of Fate is properly on the
boil. When last heard from he was fight-
ing to get near the utensil.
PROOF READERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We sit all day, mv mate and I,
With wan eyes fixed on proof and screed,
While all the world goes streaming bv,
In mad procession as we read.
With wan eyes fixed on proof and screed,
Ah, who would guess the things we see
In mad procession, as we read
Prom morn till night, unceasingly?
Ah, who would guess the things we see!
The loves and lives of all the earth,
Prom morn till night, unceasingly—
Their tragedies and dreams and mirth!
The loves and lives of all the earth,
We murmur in a lifeless drone,
Their tragedies and dreams and mirth
Are tempered to a monotone.
We murmur in a lifeless drone;
The throbbing linotypes below
Are tempered to a monotone;
The copy boys run to and fro,
The throbbing linotypes below
With us are neither sad nor gay;
The copy boys run to and fro.
My mate and I no haste display.
With us are neither sad nor gay
The deeds of men and clowns and kings;
My mate and I no haste display
Though the world laughs or weeps or sings.
The deeds of men and clowns and kings
(Through dreams and hopes and fears disproved,
Though the world laughs or weeps or sings)
We watch with weary eyes, unmoved.
Through dreams and hopes and fears disproved
We sit all day, my mate and I;
We watch with weary eyes, unmoved,
While all the world goes streaming by.
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.


The BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
4s
B.S.A. Rifle, Showing Silencer attached.
miniature rifle, no. 2 model,
--ealibrc, bolt action, self-cocking, 24in. round steel barrel;
rear siebt in on in ' ! weight, about 541 b.; screw adjusting
rear sight to 200 yards, barleycorn front sight, walnut stock, 35/-
RS A «r St /f. e^ n one Rifle > 2/3 N -S-W. ; 4/2 Inter-State.
,'' A , R OFFICE Itin.E. No. 3 MODEL, same
style as No. - Model, but improved, and fitted with target sights.
„ „ . , Delivered 57/fi
B.S.A. MINIATURE MAR OFFICE REPEATING RIFLE 00.
calibre; same description as No. 3 Model. Delivered.. 67/6
THE MAXIM SILENCER, for attaching to rifles. Improves
your marksmanship. Ensures noiseless shooting. The
marvel of the shooting world.
Silencer for 22-cal. rifles £l/57-
Silencer for all other calibre rifles £2/2/6
Postage on one Silencer, N.S.W., 9d. ; Inter-State, 1/2.
Wedging Silencer on barrel 7/6 extra
Screwing Silencer on barrel 12/6 extra
We Repair
All Kinds
of GUNS
and
RIFLES.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
mi Sporting Goods
Post Free Anywhere.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City Sports Depot: HQ King' Street,
and at 105-7 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
æ
ǽ
MAUSER CARBINE AND PISTOL COMBINED; 10 shot
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards. ’
Delivered £6/10/-
a
THE SAVAGE” Repeating Hammer-
less Rifle, 22-calibre rim fire, 24in. octagon
barrel, slide action, demountable, pistol grip,
T, d IZ^ OVt ; or long rifle cartridges ; is loaded with a
ip similar to the Military Rifle, two clips with each rifle,
each clip holds 7 cartridges; weight about 541 b. Delivered.
Extra Clips, 1/6 each.
78/83
a
REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. 6 Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel,
weight 341 b. . . . 17/6
With ladder rear sights, 21/-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.
2/8 Inter-State.
à
STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
22-cal. R.F., round barrel, 20in. chambered for long
rifle cartridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut
stock, open front and rear sights, weight, 41b., 19/6
Postage—N.S.W. 1/9; Inter-State 3/2.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O’Connell St.
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc.., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
O sizes in one tool —
® the best all-round
die-stock you can own.
O STE R
BULL-
DOG
Die-Stocks
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
FOR SALE BY LEADING
DEALERS IN ALL CITIES.
7 --
OSTER
BULLDOG
No. 104*
00 H
" to
Sizes
■The Youngsters
enjoy mowing with
DANKS’
“SHEFFIELD” MOWER
Look here, this “Sheffield” is a splendid
Mower, costing only 24/-. Made of fine
material, superbly finished, and possessing
the advantages of dearer makes without the
price. We tell you, you needn’t pay more
to get mower satisfaction. Runs like a bike,
needs the least attention. A clean short
cutter.
Other Styles from
15/- to 40/-
A
mm
C <• J -
«3
ssbS *
iillllliliili^
ms
The House
for Mowers
and
Windmills.
JOHN DANKS &SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
Sydney and Melbourne.
324 Pitt
St., near
Liverpool
St., Sydney.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
Ios6d. Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.„
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowlers Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycooks Guide, Is 6d
is
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TAIK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
iw- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &.C., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working fop. Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River., 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee's Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Dap-Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OE MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY..
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dit. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok the
Bins, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Ivey to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bknnarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife's Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Becitations and Headings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Bbpairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Sf.crets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOB CATALOGUE TO-DAY


dfgd
St
first in
Everything
First in Purity
First in Efficiency
First in Quality
First in Results
First in Economy
And there are many other reasons why
Laxo-Tonic Pills are first with the
hundreds of thousands in Australasia
who know their value and use them.
They immediately sweeten the stomach,
remove the sour, undigested and fer-
menting food and foul gases; take the
excess bile from the liver and carry off
the constipated waste matter from the
bowels. Then your stomach Trouble
is ended.
A LAXO-TONIC PILL to-night
makes you right by morning .
LaxoTonicFius
v- 2f-
mm
7/4
m
m
m
’z**!* *'/?;.. 'TV-V;.-
w -■
jgXg?,
One Taste of “Rex” Ham Pate Makes
the Whole World Grin.
There is a palate-pleasing, tongue-tickling flavor about it.
For the sandwich lunches of business folk.
“Rex” Ham Pate
<T;
am
cannot be equalled.
And when guests arrive, or when everyone is merrymaking at a
picnic, “Rex” Ham Pate wins the hostess many compliments.
“Rex” Ham Pate is made from “Rex” Ham, finely ground and
flavored with pure spices in the famous “Rex” way.
It tastes fine spread on bread and butter, or crisp biscuits with
Lettuce Leaves, Cucumber or any other salading.
Ask your Grocer for a Tin to-day—it must be “Rex” Brand.
OTHER “REX” CANNED DELICACIES ARE:—
Veal and Tongue Pate, lib. tins.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
Pigs’ Feet, in Jelly, lib. tins.
Luneli Tongues, in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues, in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in decorated
tins only.
Also Butter, in 11b. tins, especially put
up for the Queensland climate.
“REX” FRESH SMALL GOODS,
procurable at all Grocers anti
Small-goods shops and carts in
Brisbane and District and Bendigo
and District only:—
Saveloys,
Strassburg Sausage.
Veal German Sausage,
White Puddings,
Black Puddings,
Pork Sausages,
Frankfurt Sausages.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams & Bacon ; Packers of “ Rex " Pure Food Products!
Makers of “Rex” Small Goods.
Jonah: A Scriptural Shanty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JONAH was a longshoreman, the son of
Amittai,
And Jonah lived in Palestine in ages
long gone by;
Every Sabbath morning
He used to preach a warning,
For Jonah was a prophet, and lie loved to
prophesy.
Round with a will, boys! Heave, and away
with her!
Square away the tops’ls—the old girl’s
runnin’ free.
We’re homeward bound—an’ all the winds
’ll play with her,
Like they did with' Jonah on the deep, blue
sea.
The Lord said unto Jonah: “Set sail, an’
steer away;
Head vour little hooker for the port of
Ninevay.
Get the folks together
An’ prepare for heavy weather —
Tell ’em I’m a-comin’, an’ they’d better start
to pray.”
Jonah was a longshoreman—he didn’t like
the sea,
The motion of the ocean with his hold did
not agree;
He thought it pretty harshish,
And so he cleared for Tarshish,
A-prayin’: “Lord, send anyone to Ninevay
but me!”
The Lord looked out of Heaven, an’ He seen
what Jonah done.
“If that’s vour little game, my lad, there’s
going to be fun !
A nor’-east course I laid you,
And now you’ve disobeyed—you
Won’t ever get to Tarshish, leastways not
upon this run !”
There was a man at Joppa what was skipper
of a barque,
An’ Jonah goes to visit him, secretive, after
dark;
He books as supercargo,
Despite the Lord’s embargo,
And off he sails to Tarshish like as if he
owned the Ark.
She hadn’t hardly cleared the land and
turned her head for Lud,
Before the Lord, Who’s watchiu’, ses : “That
prophet’s name is Mud !
I’ll teach him to defy. Me.
And not to prophesy Me!”
And so He sends a howlin’ gale what chills
the skipper’s blood.
The sea got up most mountainous; her main-
sail fetched away ;
The rudder snapped and floated off, and help-
less there she lay ;
She started leakin’, badly,
The gale was shriekin’ madly,
So all hands and the cook turns to and does
a record pray.
But Jonah lay a-sleepin’ on the dunnage
down below ;
For prophets didn’t never care how hard
the wind might blow,
Or how the seas were risin’—
Which seems a bit surprisin’;
But being just a longshoreman, the beggar
didn’t know.
The ship seemed like to founder, when the
Old Man leaves his prayers,
And rushes like a lunatic clear down the
cuddy stairs,
And wakes up Jonah, squealin’
He’d had the tip, revealin’
That Jonah was the cause of them tumult-
uous affairs.
And Jonah’s conscience pricked him; he
owned up as how he’d flew,
A-breakin’ all his orders, so endangerin’ the
crew;
Ses he: “I am a-flyin’ it;
r There ain’t no use denyin’ it.
You’ll have to shove me overboard —and me
no swimmer, too 1”
They took and shoved him over for a hoodoo
and a nark,
And straightaway the gale blew out and left
that crippled bark !
But, though he’d been shoved over,
The prophet was in clover,
Reposin’ in the belly of a eighty-four foot
shark!
Watch, lay aft. here! Brace the mainyards
round a bit!
ITo-hol T o-ho !. . . . Belay !. .. . May the good Lord
make her gee!
We’re homeward bound —so, at least, we
may have found a bit
Of Luck—like Jonah found upon the deep,
blue sea.
n.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.
Trouble in Banana Row.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. THOMAS PERTH felt that he
looked pale as he thought of his
monstrous danger. There was still
trouble to be anticipated from the Darlington
quarter. Being quite healthy he- blamed—
himself; not finding time even to blame Miss
Darlington, whose ripe age might easily have
acquitted him. When was a 22-year-old
youth the equal in ability to escape, of a
woman of 32 in her capacity for pursuit?
It had occurred so easily—easily as lying,
adventitious as the careless blow that kills
a man and charges the striker with murder.
The first step only he had taken. The lady
had done all the rest of the journey, and
encouraged him to the first step as well.
And it is the first step that counts —the
first smoke, the first drink, the first sixpence
embezzled from the petty cash, the first
marriage and the first divorce. After that
there is no event but monotony and no energy
but ennui. Kill a man without discovery
and without remorse, and thereafter killing
is as tame as making your own cigarettes.
For this reason it is as well to think deeply
on the subject before killing your first man.
Thomas, for the first time in his life, had
had five shillings’ worth of masked ball—
total cost 12 shillings, including one and
sixpence fpr a mask and two shillings for the
hire of a black domino. It was a cheap dis-
guise, and he called himself a Spanish inqui-
sitor.
For Thomas the ball had all the newness
of Heaven, which surely palls after the first
day. Amid all these dresses which made
women the more beautiful because their
faces were hidden, Thomas was attracted by
a graceful girl in ruff and stomacher and
farthingale, made the more alluring by the
fact that immediately next her was a most
villainous, low-browed, old, white-armed
village blacksmith who looked as if he had
never struck anything harder than lard and
had struck it with a feather.
Feeling as gallant as he was nervous,
Thomas spoke to Queen Elizabeth, and she
turned and showed him of her face only a
rounded chin and eyes shining glamor, mys-
tery and seduction. The mask made him
wondrously brave for such a shy young
man as he. His eyes and his voice spoke
caresses, and the lady had been in possession
of her own eyes for so many years that every
trick possible to eyes she knew. She got his
name out of him, and when he unmasked
she, still masked, introduced him to her bro-
thers—large, horrible men, one dressed as
an executioner, and looking the part to the
life; the other as a butcher, and he seemed
not to be disguised at all. She commandeered
him, saying with an affectation of girlish-
ness that did not seem much amiss while
she remained masked : “Mr. Perth will take
me to supper.” Thomas blushed and accepted.
She laid her right hand on his left arm,
and he saw a finger like a talon. That
shocked him a little, but he still believed, for
his name was not Didymus, but Perth. lie
led this angel, who should be fed on asphodel,
to where a drink the color of an old Axmin-
ster carpet, and tasting like water that has
had table-knives washed in it, retained its
mask all the night and called itself “Claret
Cup.” The angel drank three glasses of
this red sherbet, and he brought her sand-
wiches, and asked her to pity him and
unmask.
She raised the little eye-pierced foolish-
ness of black lace and satin board, and he
saw her face, a face that would make most
men burn the topmost towers of Ilium and
launch a thousand ships to escape from her.
The eyes that had appeared so, large,
so liquid, so full of glamor in the
frame of the black satin now showed
as mean and little —the eyes of the
woman looking for a name that carries
with it board and lodging for life —-
with luck, board and lodging and a hus-
band anyhow, for a time. Under the powder
which made her look like a badly-burned
baby hurriedly treated with flour he saw,
as with the eyes of a grown man, the
withered skin beginning to yellow. And he
was so generously young that he tried to
reason himself into the belief that the un-
masking had not altered her. That reason-
ing was his _ first wrong step. His eyes
saw truly, his instinct was correct, and his
kindness refused the evidence.
She affected to be unable to find her
brothers after the last dance—although he
saw plainly enough the backs of the natural
executioner and of the butcher-by-habit, and
then she affected a terror of being alone in
the cruel city at half-past two in the morn-
ing, and Thomas chartered a cab —a wag-
gonette, luckily, which is a foe to darkness,
propinquity and tenderness—and went with
her along a weary road to dreary flat coun-
try. She dragged out of him the promise
that he would call on her next evening, and
the bewildered youth returned to his own
home in the dawn —after paying fl 7s. for
the cab. He went to bed wondering why
cabmen do not make enough money to retire
on sound investments within a year.
That evening he went, like a snail,
unwillingly to court, and was charged
with coldness by this over-mature virgin,
who was nigh winter and threatening
frosty. Before her family—including the
executioner-by-nature, and the butclier-
by-instinct—she called him “Tommy,”
captured his unwilling hand, and gave herself
the last touch of proprietorship of him by
settling his necktie and picking invisible
fluff off his coat. If a woman picks fluff off
your coat you are hers, unless you can run
faster.
As he was leaving, too, she said before
them all: “It will be all right, dear. Father
doesn’t object to me keeping company with
you—only he says we’re too young yet, and
we must wait!” Her father looked bewil-
dered at the statement that had been put
into his mouth, and opened that mouth as if
in denial, but he intercepted her quick warn-
ing glance, which plainly said : “Don’t spoil
my chances, you ridiculous old fool.” So
he shut his mouth and opened it again with-
out sound, like a fish gasping for the sea.
Tommy Perth’s spine trembled at the
suggestion that his unwilling philandering
had been accepted as playing for keeps. He
could not get out of the house fast enough,
though they detained him at the alleged
“musical evening” arranged by Miss Dar-
lington in his honor. The “music” was of
the most lugubrious of hymn tunes, for the
Darlingtons were staunch Wesleyans—
though they let the daughter of the
house ogle at a masked ball once a
year ever so shamelessly. Miss Dar-
lington’s own contribution was a cheerful
song setting forth the advantages of dying
and finding a better world than this, and her
backward lover walked quickly away from
the house, seeming still to hear her thin and
colorless treble slurring the words so that
(Continued on next page.)


p
Mi
Wfm
DOCTOR
SAID OPERATION WAS
ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY FOR HIS
AGONISING PILES.
Zam-Buk Soothed and Cured
After Other Treatments Failed,
BEFORE lie found Zam-Buk, Mr. E.
Slatter had suffered months of painful
torture, and used all sorts of remedies in
his efforts to find relief from his dreadful piles,
lelling how, when an operation seemed
unavoidable, Zam-Buk effected a splendid and
complete cure, Mrs. F. Slatter, who lives at
h ord Street, Allora, Queensland, said :—“Two
reals ago my husband suffered terrible agony
from piles. He was unable to get about and
was laid up in terrible pain. The doctor came and attended to him
I” , l <at , e< !. h , l,r ; with all sorts of medicines and ointments. When he found this
. ment tailed, the doctor said an operation was absolutely necessary, but my
husband would not consent to this.
1-,. “ather, who bad had a very bad leg healed by Zam-Buk, persuaded him to
try this balm. He acted on her advice and purchased a supply. Zam-Buk proved
>oth soothing and healing and gave him speedy relief. He had only been using it a
short tune when all pain, irritation and misery were ended, and the piles completely
cured.
ft
1
Mr. F.
Slatter.
Every Home Needs Zam-Buk
LEG POISONED AND ULCERATED.
Mrs. E. Rohan, of 5 Maclaggan Street, Dunedin, N.Z., says:—
“Fearful leg ulcers caused me 29 years of pain and suffering. The
trouble in the first instance resulted from a kick. The burning pain
and irritation set up by the sores was awful. I attended the Hospital
for seven months, but the treatment made my legs even worse. At
length I got a pot of Zam-Buk, the one remedy that was of real
service. When I started to apply regular dressings of the balm it
soon gave proof of its remarkable healing power. Zam-Buk soothed
away all the burning pain and irritation, and my perseverance was
rewarded by seeing the legs heal up perfectly.”
r amßuk
At this season
Zam-Buk is particu-
larly valuable as a
soothing healer for
sunburn, peeling
skin, burnt lips,
smarting patches,
perspiring raw sur-
faces, sore, chafed,
tender feet; and
summer skin
troubles. Zam-Buk
is also unsurpassed
for cuts, burns,
scalds, bruises, ec-
zema, bad legs, fes-
tering sores,
strained muscles,
ulcers, and inflamed
and irritable condi-
tions of the skin
generally.
Zam-Buk is obtain-
able from all Chem-
ists and Stores, at
1/6 and 3/6, or
direct (post free)
from C. E. FUL-
FORD (Austra-
lasia), Ltd., 39
Pitt St., Sydney.
or
y=
Pi
a
PL
IS
m
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
... . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
How to be Beautiful.
By RITA MOYA.
It is not every woman’s good fortune to be endowed by Nature with fine features and
a flawless complexion, but nowadays it is possible to make the plainest face attractive ana
that too in the privacy of one’s home, without recourse to beauty specialists, which usuauy
involve expensive treatments and much loss of time. I shall endeavor to show you in rue
following lines how much may be done in this direction bv any woman of ordinary intelli-
gence When facial applications are necessary, use only the pure ingredients just as rney
come'to the chemist himself. P; not allow yourself to be persuaded into buying some
cheap, ready-made preparation instead. Any chemist will gladly obtain the onginal con-
centrated ingredients for you, if you insist, and although he may not have them in stock
vou will be well advised to wait while he orders them for you. The improvement m your
appearance will be ample compensation for any trouble taken to obtain these simple and
harmless beautifiers.
Beauty in Breathing. —A great deal can be
done towards brightening the eyes by system-
atic breathing for 10 minutes each morning
and evening. Breathe slowly and deeply to
the fullest capacity of the lungs. lou should
stand erect by an open window. The corsets
should not be worn during this exercise.
About Shampooing. —Even the best shampoo
is somewhat drying, and if the hair is not
naturally oily I suggest that just before the
shampoo you apply olive oil to the scalp, rut>-
bing it into the hair roots vigorously. Then
use pure stallax for the, shampoo. Dissolve a
teaspoonful in a cup of- hot water. This will
leave the hair very clean, soft and fluffy.
An Instantaneous Beautifler. —Instead of face
powder, use a simple lotion made from one
ounce of cleminite and four teaspoonfuls of
water. This lotion will tone and clear the
skin, and acts as a protection against sun and
wind. A little applied with the finger-tips
instantly gives the skin a delightful “bloomy”
appearance. No powder is necessary, and the
result lasts all day long under the most try-
ing conditions.
To Permanently Remove Superfluous Hair.—
It is a simple matter to remove a downy
growth of hair temporarily, but too remove it
permanently is quite another matter. It is a
nity that it is not more generally known that
powdered pheminol may be used for this pur-
pose. Apply it directly to the hair. The
treatment is designed not merely
to instantly remove the hair, but also to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Any chemist
should be able to supply you with an ounce
of nlieminol, which quantity should be suffi-
cient.
The Real Cause of Most Bad Complexions.—
It is an accepted fact that no truly beautiful
complexion ever came out of jars and bottles,
and the longer one uses cosmetics the worse
the complexion becomes. Skin, to be healthy,
must breathe. It also must expel, through the
pores, its share of the body’s effete material.
Creams and powders clog the pores, in-
terfering both with elimination and breathing.
If more women understood this there would
be fewer self-ruined complexions. If they
would use ordinary mercolised wax instead of
cosmetics they ivould have natural, healthy
complexions. This remarkable substance is
not absorbed by the skin; its action is just
the opposite. The skin repels mercolised wax,
and at the same time throws off all imperfec-
tions. An exquisite new complexion peeps
out, quite free from any appearance of artih-
ciality. Apply nightly, like cold cream, for a
week or two, washing it off in the morning.
About Hair Tonics.— Each week almost one
hears of some wonderful discovery tor im-
proving the hair, and although this paragraph
may seem a little superfluous, an old-fashioneu
recipe may corrm as a welcome change, one
thing about it is that it will grow hair, anu
also prevent it falling out. From your chem-
ist get an original package of boranium, to
this add pint of bay rum, allow it to stand
30 minutes, then add sufficient water to mane
half a pint. Rub briskly Into the scalp with
the finsrer-tips and you will immediately ex-
perience that clean, tingling sensation which
is a sure sign of healthy action. 1-
any Grand Master of an Orange Lodge could
not but differ: —
Inite-lee pitch my moving tent
A d.'iy’smarch neara Rome.
Three days later, linding that Tommy
Perth was making a Mariana and a Moated
Grange of her, she called at his boarding-
house to inquire of hint, and that night Tommy
paid up and shifted his moving camp a day’s
march nearer Manly. But the removal did
not affect the bloodliound-persistepee of Miss
Darlington- She called at his place, of busi-
ness, the wholesale softgoods house in York-
street, and though he tried to dodge her
behind great stacks of blankets in the Man-
chester Department she caught him at last
and bore him triumphantly to her mother,
who waited in the “silks” on the first floor.
Miss Darlington’s mother was as like her
daughter as an irritable poodle may resemble
a determined bloodhound. She snapped at
him because she believed he didn’t want to
be her son-in-law, and when Tommy Perth,
with a sudden accession of courage, remarked
that she had guessed right at the first try,
Miss Darlington cried and threatened, and
her mother threatened and snapped, with-
drawing at last with loud statements that
the law would be invoked, and this wrecker
of happiness punished if justice could he
found in the country. Tommy sorrowfully
watched them go, and was filled with appre-
hension. He knew that in the pursuit of
their prey both the bloodhound and the
poodle would swear to anything.
The manager of the Manchester Depart-
ment also bullied him for “not keeping his
domestic affairs apart from business,” and
Tommy Perth ate his lunch seated on a roll
of matting and wished that all the eight
floors of the warehouse and the softgoods
thereof might fall on him, and cheat the
poodle and the bloodhound. The small boys
who were learning to be noble drapers and
gathering the craft and mystery of clearing
sales, job lots and of making double profits
bv selling unseasonable rubbish at exorbitant
profits regardless of cost, spread the story of
the mortifying pursuit of him about the
warehouse. And he was chaffed and in-
sulted, and advised to marry the poor little
thing, until he passed from rage to despair,
and from despair to thoughts of suicide. For
a week he wandered about the streets during
the lunch-hour, afraid to face the merciless
mirth and humor of the warehouse. And
when work was done he slunk back to his
boarding-house by lonesome streets, turning
at every corner to see if the bloodhound and
the poodle were yet on his track.
Three days after the visit to the ware-
house of mother and daughter he walk-
ing moodily back to work at the end of the
lunch-hour. He turned into York-street by
the Town Hall, rounding the corner of the
old Cential Police Station and its wall of
white-washed brick. North of the police
station were the old Central Markets of
weather-pitted galvanised iron, and a dozen
wholesale banana stores —twelve low-roofed
dark shops given to the fruit of Fiji. Small
hoys from Surry Hills and Ultimo and Pyr-
mont and the Rocks haunted the place for
bananas fallen from the great stalks. Bananas
green and yellow and rotten-ripe littered
these sidewalks and the street. A squashy
crossing led over the road to the old Flower
Pot Inn, where gardeners and fruit mer-
chants and greengrocers moistened their occu-
pations with rum.
Tommy Perth walked slowly and sadly
down Banana Row. reflecting on the mon-
strous injustice of the pursuit of unwilling
youth by edacious age, and sweated with
sudden fear as he saw Miss Darlington and
her peevish ma turn into York-street from
Market-street. He turned to flee by the way he
had come, and he saw, advancing upon him
from that direction, the brother who was an
executioner-by-liabit and the brother who was
a butcher-by-nature. In the north were the
irritable poodle and the persistent and in-
domitable virgin; to the south threatened
battle, murder and sudden death.
As a man confronted with death by burn-
ing on the top of a skyscraper he hesitated
for a moment while they quickly approached,
cutting off’ escape except to the east and to
the west. Then he desperately leaped into
the second store on Banana Row.
It was a banana world. There were
bananas by the hundreds of bunches, each
bunch holding from six to ten dozen. It
seemed to the heated fancy of Tommy Perth
that millions'of bananas were there, and that
in the scheme of Creation there was room
only for Fiji and the Darlington family.
A Chinaman, his face as blank as a brick
wall, looked at him with little eyes of
cunning.
“What you want?” he asked with growing
suspicion as Tommy Perth’s gaze wandered
indecisively from bananas to the door and
the street beyond.
“Have you any—ba—ba—bananas?”
“You see —plenty banana—what you
want?”
“Aah—er three dozen.”
“Alii! Shixsypen dozhin.” said the Asi-
atic taking a paner bag and blowing into it
that it might ooen for the reception of the
fruit. Tommy Perth lost all interest in him
as lie saw the hat and feather of Miss
Darlington and the stern bonnet of her
mother pass the door. Southward he was
saved, then. He forvot the Chinaman, whose
face was turned from him. and he forgot the
bananas, and ran out of the shop. It was
impossible to resist the desire to look around
after the retreating enemy. He sighted the
Unholy Family 100 ft. away and comparing
notes, and in that moment they saw him and
shouted at him unitedlv as dingoes give
tongue in unison when they see the quarry
weakening and know that feeding-time is
near. Then the bloodhound sister and the
poodle mother and the executioner-and-but-
cher-by-birth-and-habit gave chase. Tommy
Perth lan down Banana Row, and saw at
the market entrance Mr. Nanery—the head
of his department. He knew Mr. Nanery to
be an uncompromising wowser—of that
specially uncomfortable form of self-
righteousness wliich believes the worst of
everybody, and when it says that it hopes
for the best really means that it hopes the
worst is true.
Caught between two fires Tommy ran
into store number nine on Banana Row.
A double store it was. with stacks of
bananas serving as a partition'and dividing
the wide entrance into two. A large, black-
moustached, sloe-eyed, greasy-ringleted
Italian was in charge and he looked up
quickly as the unhappy young man entered
gasping.
“H’lo!” he said genially. “You makea
the passegiata too queek—losea the breathe.
Whatta you want?”
“Ha —ha —have you any bananas?”
“Per Dio ! the banan’! We havea the
banan’ di millione —Securo! the banan’!
How much you want?”
“Th-th-three dozen.”
The Italian began to count to 36. “Una!
due! tre! Per Cristo, the line banan’
quattro.” But he never got beyond five in
the presence of his customer, for Tommy
Perth, seeing the feathers of the Family at
the southern door, ran around the stack of
bananas, out at the northern door and on-
ward. He tore past Mr. Napery, and that
splendid and Christian gentleman scented
something naughty and pursued. Behind
Tommy rose the hues and cries of the
Family, of one Chinaman, with three dozen
bananas ordered and not paid for; of one
Italian still counting up to 36 and breathing
revenge and slaughter against practical
jokers who order bananas and leave without
the goods and make no attempt at pay-
ment. And well in the chase ran Mr.
Napery, and he cried “Stop Thief” as he
saw a policeman on the other side of Market-
street. The policeman did not hear the
cry, but the panting absconder did. Des-
perately he turned into No. 22 Banana
Bow, the biggest banana store of all, and
with its wide doorway divided into north
and south entrances like that of No. 9.
The badgered young man tore in at the
south door and rounded a banana stack.
He saw a grey-moustached, grey-bearded
man, whose whiskers were foreign and
seemed to be made of wire.
“What shall you wish?” he asked, still
eating the cold pork he had been engaged
with prior to Perth’s entrance.
“Bub —bub —bananas.”
“I sell you one-twenty-undered-thousan’
bunch. What you want?”
; “I don’t know,” stammered Perth, spar-
ring for wind, waiting for the pursuit to
pass him, or permit him to dodge it, or to
capture him. He cared not which.
‘Won don’ know,” repeated wire whiskers.
“You don’ know ! That verra funny. You
not know!”
“Never mind,” said Perth, hearing the
nearness of the pursuit, and in that moment
he dashed to the northern door as the pur-
suers entered at the southern. He ran full
into the policeman’s arms. He was quite
despairing and distracted. His hand
touched a banana as if he were a drowning
man. He gripped it and squeezed it and
then gripped another, quite unconscious of
th§ action.
Babel raged. The- Nasty Family and
the Chinaman and the Italian were all talk-
ing at once.
“Tlee dozhin,” said the Chinese. “One
shileen shicksypen. No pay.”
“Due shilleen,” said the Italian. “Due
shillen—-trente-sei banan’, due shilleen.”
“Stole the bananas, did he?” asked the
policeman.
“I never had the bananas,” said Tommy
Perth, squeezing more bananas in his cruel
nervousness.
“Well, what did you order them for?”
“I was running away from those people.”
“He calls me ‘those people,’ ” wailed Miss
Darlington.
“Pay for the bananas and get rid of that
anyhow,” said the policeman.
“I can’t!” explained the despairing Perth.
“I haven’t any money.”
“There you see,” said the policeman.
“He’s done nothing. You can’t charge him
with stealing because he never took them.”
A cry of agony arose from the wire-
whiskered Greek.
“See what he havea done! He squeeza
the poor banan’ —makea all the poor banan’
squeeza outa the skin.”
Tommy, feeling that he was awakening
from a horrible dream, dropped that last
banana he had squeezed—it was the eighth.
The cry of the wounded Greek arose again.
“Pleeceman! He shall be taked to the
yale. He notta the monna have—makea
the damagement.”
“If you can’t pay you’ve got to come with
me.” And Perth, much relieved, answered
the policeman : “Right! Take me anywhere
away from here.”
“Why did you run away in the first
place?” asked Mr. Napery.
“He was running away from me,” said
Miss Darlington, “from me and me mother
and brothers. But if there’s justice in the
land he shall marry me or pay.”
“Dear! dear!” said Mr. Napery, glad to
find that his worst fears might yet be
realised. “Poor girl! Poor, injured girl!
Deceived and abandoned.”
“Abandoned —not deceived. It would
take a real splendid man to deceive me—not
a miserable little wretch like that.”
“You’d better come along,” said the
policeman, and Tommy Perth, deafened by
the clamor of the Darlingtons and of the
Chinaman and Mr. Napery and the Italian
and the Greek was about, to crawl away
gladlv to his prison, when the petulant
PQodle who was Miss Bloodhound’s mother,
leaned over the shoulders of Mr. Napery and
struck the prisoner on the face with a
squashy and highly-fermented banana.
Then did the little draper become as Sam-
son when he bowed himself between the
middle pillars of Her Majesty’s Theatre at
Gaza, and dragged it down on top of the
Philistine melodrama.
lie saw before him, coolly, for all his
rage, a great:, top-heavy pile of bananas in
bunches, and immediately under them the
Abandoned One, and her mother who had
struck him, and the accursed vendors of
bananas, and the utterly-to-be-contemned
Mr. Napery. He sprang at the crazy stack
and heaved with his shoulder, arid the
Unholy Family, and Mr. Napery, and the
Greek, and the Italian and the Chinaman
went down in an avalanche of bananas that
were beginning to “turn.”
When they had dug themselves out of the
ferments and the filthy softness of over-ripe-
ness there were four charges against Tommy
Perth. The total costs were £3 10s.—but
Tommy thought it a cheap amusement. He
lost his billet, and the horror of Mr. Napery’s
society, and the nightmare of possible
alliance with the Family in that one lucky
heave at the waist of the banana stack.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Westinghouse - Gross
FOUR-CYCLE
Marine Oil Engines
>*>•
.. . for .. .
Fishing Boats,
Cargo Vessels,
Large Auxiliaries,
Barges, etc.,
. . . are . . .
Simply Constructed,
Effectively Controlled,
and Extremely Flexible
in Speed and Power.
BUILT IN SIZES FROM
7 to 120 H.P.
Write for Particulars
■'' - /tS'/ 1 s. So*
The Westiaghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
'I. S. Wales
f 3
A POWERFUL COMBINATION
SAW BENCH
ni PLANER
BRITISH MADE
Saw—l 6 inches.
Planing—6 inches.
Moulding and Thicknessing—-4 % in.
Double Rising and Falling Tables—
-26 x 22 and 26 x 12 inches.
Weight, about scwt,
PRICE,
INCLUDING
FENCE,
€3O
J
sfi":'-
The Austral Engineering Supply Co.
189 Clarence Street, Sydney
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
— agents for ——
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
What a Successful
Dealer says:
“I like Pemfngto/JrUMC
arms and ammunition be-
cause my greatest asset is
pleased customers. Many years of busi-
ness experience teach me that -customers
are alway pleased with Remington-UMC
Cartridges, consequently, they come to
my store for their ammunition and other
things. This gives me frequent turnovers,
fresh stocks and I enjoy the good will of
the people who patronize me by giving
them only what I know will please them.”
â
Successful Dealers Recommend
Pemineton-UMC
Remington Arms—
Union-Metallic Cartridge Co.
New Y ork London
Catalogs free
ar*
THE RIGHT STEP TO TAKE
I\
\
i\
5
\
I
X
TAKE
Beechams Pius
AND YOU WILL TAKE A STEP
IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
l/ti, 2/9 & 4/b.
Made in England.
ã
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks et
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he oough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acta like a charm In
simple
DYSENTERY.
Dinneford's)
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFOBD'S ’*
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
ä
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON'T LOOK OLD.
&
(2?
THE BEST DRINK
IN HOT WEATHER.
Large supplies have lately
arrived from London.
OF ALL STOREKEEPERS.
à


gMAN€SI*OVITEI
å
LEATHER
BELTS]
is the ALL AUSTRALIAN BELT.
In buying it you are not trading with the
enemy, nor adding to the profits of foreign
shareholders,.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor :
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, SYDNEY
(only).
superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
✓
A BUFFALO
FOR EVERY SERVICE.
VOLUME BLOWERS and EXHAUST FANS
... for ...
VENTILATING & COOLING
Shops, Factories, Engine Rooms, etc.
BLOWING _
Supplying blast to Cupolas, Forges, Fur-
naces, etc.
EXHAUSTING
Steam, Smoke, Gas, Fumes, etc., and
Refuse from Woodworking Plants.
Write for full, descriptive Buffalo Catalogue
—it fully describes the Fan best suited for
your requirements.
AGENTS—
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 GEarencs Street, SYDNEY.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
£
m
ar,
-ST
j
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole Agents—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
The
Importance
Of
Efficient
Insulation!
The importance of efficient insulation, in many cases, is not realised. Great
care is shown in the selection of a steam plant to ensure the greatest economy,
yet the insulation which is of equal importance is in many cases partly neg-
lected. If you strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of your
engine, why not malte certain that it is not wasted again through faulty in-
sulation ? The claims we make as to the exceptional efficiency of Kewall’s
Coverings are fully borne out b'y actual test, and, further, by the enormous
sales, including repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has been used once Newall’s have been tried.
The Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses are insulated throughout with
Newall’s Coverings, and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ther prove our claims. The innumerable advantages of this material over all
other forms of lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleased to mail you along with samples.
NEWALL'S
MAGNESIA SECTIONAL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
>GE 8 SINCLAIR
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
Roger;
Grinding Machinery.
a
/
T
Grinders that Grind and
Sharpeners that Sharpen.
Automatic Knife Grinders.
Automatic Knife Grinders
and Saw Sharpeners com-
bined.
Automatic Saw Sharpeners.
Trim. Neat Powerful and
Rigid Machines.
Prices quoted for immediate
delivery from stock, or for
Indent.
Catalogue sent on application.
H. P. GREGORY ® CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Nat Semi-Diesel Oil Engines
. ’ MARINE OR STATIONARY.
Works on crude Residual Oil or Kerosene.
Most simple and economical. No valves, timing gear or water spray.
Prices for Marine outfits, complete with Reverse gears, Shafts and
Propellers on application.
DELIVERIES FROM STOCK.
Sole Australian Agents
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd.,
307-309 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
i ster.
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
XT?
SOLE
. ... y
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA
6
mm
SYDNEY
MITCHELL & CO. PROPY. LTD.,
W. footscray, Melbourne,
Vic. -
■ ■
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Townsville.
SUB-AGENTS
MAUOCH BROS.,
Perth, W.A.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD.,
Hobart, Tas.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.
Brisbane, S. & C. Queensland
Inti!
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE.
THE “GUTHRIDG”
Garbage DESTRUCTOR.
SMOKELESS EFFICIENT SIMPLE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Health Department and the N.S.W. Education Department.
INVALUABLE FOR PRIVATE AND PUBLIC HOSPITALS AND PRIVATE RESIDENCES.
Manufactured by
HI
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
iwcumsiDC"
GARBAGE.
DES7«UCTOB
