

fgfdgfd
R. G. 'WATKINS &: 00-,
Machinery Merchants) 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— _ «... __ .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5 W-MONT DE PIETE D SI C? LJR
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: City 9325.
Castiereagh Street, Sydney.
West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
ImniEiiffliEinijja
s
S |I|HO»TQt PICTIPt t CTHI LIM T »
ssr
11
HH
KCOBtAHT.
■ -**S
fiadleys Orient jjotel.
Richardson’s
Wine # Spirit Stores,
259 Little Collins St„ t
MELBOURNE.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
dfgf
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
nTT^
“PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
CHUBB’S
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
J
L
U
dfgf
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
dfgf
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber=cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SSLYERTOWN RUBBER CO., Svdney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
BEHSDOBPS
dfgf
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
m
IWUC
is a reproduction of the Hardwoods
that gives a perfect panel effect
at a minimum of cost.
Particulars and Samples from
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Challis House ,
MAKERS OF MALTHOID CVAA/CV
(D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative), il/lVt f »
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
dfgf
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
MININS
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
Its use gives a delicious sense of clean freshness to the mouth.
it is genuine British, Made in Australia with Australian and British Products.
The Bulletin
V01.36.— N0. 1843. J
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
[Thursday, June 10, 1915.


MOTOR HANDBOOKS
(.Pottages shown
in parentheses.)
Motor Manual, 17th ed., illus. 2/- (2d.).
Motor Cycles, Illus. 1/3 (2d.).
Motorists’ Workshop, illus. 1/3 (2d.).
Bottone’s Ignition Devices, illus. 2/- (2d.).
Spooner’s Motors and Motoring, illus. 2/9 (3d.)
Cyclecar Manual, 2nd ed., illus. 2/- (2d.).
Motor Cycling Manual, Brd ed., illus. 2/- (2d.).
Petrol Motors Simply Explained, illus. 1/3 (2d.).
Page Motor Cycles, Side Cars, etc., illus. 7/6 (4d.)
Motor Cyclists’ Handbook, illus. 2/9 (3d.).
$ CO. PROP’T’Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET,
THE MOUTH IS THE GATEWAY FOE THE
ENTRANCE OF DISEASE.
Professor Miller has proved conclusively that
no fewer than 38 different infections may be
traced with more or less directness to the
human mouth as a focal or starting point.
The mouth being the gateway for the en-
Tance of disease, therefore it is here that the
fight must begin to keep the enemy out.
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
are the most powerful, safe, and pleasant
Germicide and Antiseptic known, being de-
structive to all forms of bacterial life. They
keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
A. The Larynx or
organ of yoice.
p. B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. The lobe of one
of the lungs.
dfg
»
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes contain
no Cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited
for old and young. For Coughs, Colds, Sore
Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza and the Pre-
vention of Consumption.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
iepers, in tins, price Is. 6d. [4
The Red page
ALSACE-LORRAINE (1870-1914).
Down beneath the despot's heel,
Bound and mocked and spat upon;
Prisoned close in walls of steel;
Ah! the days of sweetness gone,
Bare and bruised Alsatia lay.
Thus eight lustres passed away,
Village fathers turned to clay;
Village mothers mourned their dead;
Ate in tears their daily bread,
Bitter tears in silence shed.
Yet the sweet and sombre cloud
Charged with rolling thunders loud,
Shows a rift of heavenly blue,
With Hope, all radiant, shining through.
Past the village floats the cry,
Joffre’s column drawing nigh!
Message borne from man to man,
Joyous rolls the rataplan;
Up the hill and down the dale,
Past each windmill’s pausing sail.
And oh! my children, passing sweet,
The tread of marching Frenchmen’s feet;
The marching cadence of the drum,
That onward rush! They come! They
come !
And Joff re plants on Mulhouse height
In token of a well-won fight,
Where once we saw the eagle soar,
Our noble France’s tricolor!
’ Whelmed in autumn sunshine pure,
’Neath these radiant folds secure;
Bless them, Lord, and bid them soar
O’er our heads for evermore.
Thankful, here we bend the knee;
Burst the bonds of tyranny;
Pax vobiscum., children mine,
And with all beside our Rhine
Loyal in our liberty
Pax et benedicite.
George Gordon McCrae,
and Convoy.”
in “The Fleet
Pleasant verse —no \ more—but pleasant
verse from one who worthily carries on an
Australian tradition, and has given us pleas-
ant verse throughout a long lifetime, is The
Fleet and Convoy, and 0.V., by George Gor-
don McCrae (Lothian, Melb. and Syd., 2s.
6d.). Seldom does the author, in these war-
pieces, thrill his reader; his verse is scholarly,
detached, impersonal, almost cold. Occasion-
ally he breaks out: —
Wives outraged..,. .led to see their husbands shot,
Their children trampled ’neath the bloody feet
Of blear-eyed Uhlans that invade the cot
To rend and ravage; rob of all that’s sweet.
But the poetry in these verses is, frankly,
negligible. Pleasant verse that is aIL
The Ger-lllas
The Official Booh of the German Atroci-
ties, told by victims and eye-witnesses, the
complete verbatim report of the Belgian and
French Commissions of Enquiry (Pearson,
per Dymock’s Library), finally classifies the
German as a gorilla. “No story, in fiction
or fact, has ever been written which is more
terrible than this.” Every one of these thou-
sands of examples of the malignity of Ger-
man treatment of inoffensive civilians, of
rape, murder, pillage, incendiarism and other
horrors that cannot be printed, is a verified
fact, selected only after exhaustive evidence
from the victims or eye-witnesses, and re-
inforced in many cases by photographic
evidence. And it must be remem-
bered that such evidence as has been
obtainable represents only a small pro-
portion of the atrocities. In most cases
the Gerillas took good care, by murdering
their outraged victims and the eye-witnesses
of their crimes, to dispose of any testimony
to their misdeeds. And, as the Commissions
point out, many cases of rape are hidden by
the unfortunate women themselves.
There is, perhaps, a feeling prevalent in
this continent that the stories of horrors that
have been printed in the press are much
exaggerated, that the war-correspondent is
really responsible for the sensational charac-
ter of the crimes reported. This book for
ever disposes of that contention. If, officially,
the British Government professes no evidence
of mutilation of Belgian children, this report
mentions many cases just as appalling of
fiendish cruelty to children.
But, in this back-water of the warring
world, it is still difficult for us to envisage
the actual Hell that the Gerillas made of
Belgium and northern France. The only
way to bring home to us these atrocities is
to change the names of the cities in Belgium
and France, and imagine these crimes as
having taken place in or about, say, Sydney.
Then we may know what to expect if ever
the Gerillas come to Australia, what cer-
tainly we would have suffered if our geo-
graphical position had placed us in the track
of the Huns. The following paragraphs are
in every case taken verbatim from the re-
ports of the atrocities commissions, the only
alteration being in the names of the sufferers
and of the localities :
O*
“An old man of Parramatta had his arm
sliced in three longitudinal cuts; he was
then hanged head downwards and burned
alive. Young girls have been raped, and
little children outraged at Strathfield, where
several inhabitants suffered mutilations too
horrible to describe At Randwick old
men, women, children, sick people, lunatics
from the asylums, priests, nuns were brutally
driven like cattle about the roads....At
Bondi a captured soldier was held by the
arms and legs while his head was twisted
round till death followed.... The whole male
population of Hornsby was taken out by the
Germans and compelled to work at trenches.
....At Roseville, the soldiers, on the order
of their officers, picked out of the collected
males some 40 or 50 men, who were led off
and all shot Eight men belonging to the
same household were led out. Some were
Miot, the rest cut down with blows of an axe.
One tall, red-haired soldier distinguished
himself by the ferocity with which he used
an axe. At Newtown, Professor David, the
head-master of the public school, and
the Dean of Sydney were 5h0t....1n Mos-
noan a little girl of 11 was subjected for
three hours to the lubricity of a soldier. Four
soldiers threw themselves upon Miss , 21
years old, and possessed her in turn.... This
unfortunate suburb was the scene of a terri-
ble drama. When the fire broke out Mrs.
7 > whose husband is fighting, took refuge
m a cellar with a couple called , and their
four children aged respectively 11, five, four
and one and a half years. A few days after-
wards the bodies of all these people were
discovered in the midst of a pool of blood.
had been shot, Mrs. had her right
breast and arm cut off, the little girl of 11
had a foot severed, the little boy of five had
his throat cut. The woman and the
little girl appeared to have been raped... .At
Bellevue Hill the Germans gave themselves
over to revolting deeds of immorality and
brutality in a cellar w|iere several women
had taken shelter from 1 the bombardment.
These unhappy women were all odiously mal-
treated. Miss ——, aged 72, the woman ,
aged 44, her two daughters—one of 13 and
the other of eight—and Mrs. —— were all
assaulted. At Potts Point some of the
enemy entered the house of married people
named , seized the son, aged 36 years,
who_ wore a Red Cross armlet, bound his
hands behind his back, and dragged him into
the street, where they shot him ; they then
returned in search of the father, an old man
of 70 years. Mrs. then took to flight.
As she fled she saw her son stretched on the
ground. Since the unhappy son still moved
the Germans sprinkled him with petrol and
set him on fire in the present of his terrified
mother. . . .At Darling Point Miss , aged
23, was violated by nine Germans during
the night, although an officer, who was sleep-
iEJ? above the room in which this disgraceful
affair occurred, did not consider it necessary
to interfere, though he must have heard the
cries of the young girl.
“The following proclamation was posted
up in Sydney :
“Australian soldiers must be delivered as
prisoners of war before four o’clock in front
of the Central Police Station. Citizens who
do not obey will be condemned to hard labor
for life in Germany.
“A rigorous inspection of houses will com-
mence at four o’clock. Every soldier found
will be immediately shot.
. “Arms, powder and dynamite must be
given up at four o’clock. Penalty: being
shot....
“Every street will be occupied by a Ger-
man guard, who will take ten hostages from
each street....lf there is any rising in the
street the ten hostages will be shot.
“Doors may not be locked, and at night
after eight o’clock there must be lights in
three windows in every house.
“It is forbidden to be in the street after
eight o’clock . . . .
“The Commander of the Town,
“Yon Billow.”
Beside it was another notice, from the
same Gerilla, Yon Biilow: —
“The inhabitants of the town of Manly,
after having protested their peaceful inten-
tions, made a treacherous surprise attack
on dur troops. It was with my consent
that the General had the whole place burnt
down and about 100 people shot. I bring
this fact to the knowledge of the city of
Sydney, so that its inhabitants may know
the fate with which they are threatened if
they take up a similar attitude.”
&
These horrors would have happened in
Australia, as they indubitably happened in
Belgium and France. Any doubt of these
atrocities vanishes when the evidence of
German eye-witnesses is adduced. The evi-
dence called by Joseph Bbdier, professor at
the College de France, is that of German
documents. The author of German Atrocities
from German Evidence (Libraire Armand
Colin, Paris). gives in translation extracts
from 40 diaries kept by German soldiers,
confiscated from German prisoners, a seizure
authorised by the Hague Convention. The
names and rank of the writers are stated,
and the portions quoted are given in photo-
graphic reproductions. From these extracts
it is certain that if the Gerillas had come to
Sydney this is what they would have
recorded in their diaries:—
“The inhabitants fled through the suburb
of Chatswood. It was horrible. Blood was
plastered on all the houses, and as for the
faces of the dead they were hideous. They
were all buried at once, to the number of
60. Among them were many old men and
women, and one woman about to be deliv-
ered. It was a ghastly sight. There were
three children who had huddled close to one
another and had died together.
“The pretty village of Cronulla has been
burnt, although innocent of any crime, it
seemed to me. I was told a cyclist had fallen
off his machine, and that in doing so his
gun had gone off; so they fired in his direc-
tion. Thereupon the male inhabitants were
simply consigned to the flames. It is to be
hoped that such atrocities will not be re-
peated Outside in the country the sight
of the villagers who had been shot defies all
description. The volley had almost decapi-
tated some of them.
“Village of Narrabeen destroyed by the
11th Battalion of the Pioneers. Three women
hanged on trees: the first dead I have seen.
“In Darlinghurst we destroved eight houses
with their inmates. In one of them two men
with their wives and a girl of 18 were
bayoneted. The little one almost unnerved
me so innocent was her expression. But it
was impossible to check the crowd, so ex-
cited were they, for in such moments you
are no longer men, but wild beasts....At
Balmain 300 of the inhabitants were shot
and the survivors were requisitioned as
grave-diggers. You should have seen the
women at this moment. But you can’t do
otherwise.. . .
“At North Sydney one of our men entered
a sacristy that was locked, in which was the
blessed sacrament. Out of respect, a pro-
testant avoided sleeping there; he polluted
the place with his excrements. How can
there be such beings! Last night a man of
the Landwehr, a man of 35, and a married
man, tried to rape the daughter of a man
in whose, house he had been quartered; she
was a child; and as the father tried to inter-
pose he kept the point of his bayonet on
the man’s breast.
“At Haberfield we knock down or bayonet
the .wounded.. . .There was an Australian
soldier there stretched out, full length, face
down, pretending to be dead. A kick from
a strong fusilier soon taught him that we
were there. Turning round, he asked for
quarter, but.. . .he was nailed to the ground.
Close to me I heard odd cracking sounds.
They were blows from a gun on the bald
head of an Australian soldier which a pri-
vate of the 154th was dealing out vigorously;
he was wisely using an Australian gun so
as not to break his own. Tenderhearted
souls are so kind to the Australian wounded
that they finish them with a bullet, but others
give them as many thrusts and blows as they
can.... Mutilation of the wounded is the
order of the day.”
Fiction
Theodore Dreiser continues to picture for
us the essential citizen of the United States.
His hero of The Titan (Lane) is inevitably
a millionaire : there are no other heroes in
the U.S.A. Appropriately he is introduced
to us as already rich and as already having
served a term in gaol. He leaves Phila-
delphia, probably owing to its unpleasant
memories, and goes to Chicago, in order to
become richer. Already he had found out,
we are told, that “street-cars were his
natural vocation.” That doesn’t mean that
he could drive a street-car; but that he
looked upon a street-car “franchise” as the
easiest way of becoming a multi-millionaire.
“He loved the thought of street-cars and
the vast manipulative life it suggested.”
The vast manipulative life, we learn, con-
sists of bribing, brow-beating «r bluffing
Chicago editors, politicians and other un-
pleasing “grafters.” Chicago lay like a
helpless maiden waiting for this hero to
abduct her.
Cowperwood is the ideal American hero.
“He had a prison record to live down; a
.wife and two children (never afterwards
mentioned) to get rid of. I satisfy myself
was his private law, but so to do he must
assuage and control the prejudices of other
men.” Dreiser knows all the stenchful in-
tricacies of the political underworld of
Chicago, and through these noisome alley-
ways he leads the sickened and protesting
reader. Cowperwood has no shred of
morality, and the interesting point of
Dreiser’s Americanism is that the author
nowhere suggests that Cowperwood is to be
reprobated or blamed. Indeed, he has for
his hero a huge admiration: he made so
many millions, built such stupendous houses,
ruined so many other men —and women. For
the history of Cowperwood, who is intro-
duced to us with the mistress whom he sub-
sequently married, is a history of shameless
liaisons. At least 15 of his mistresses are
mentioned by name; and to these must be
added at least as many more whom the
author does not think worth naming. Dreiser
explains but does not apologise: “Truth to
say, he must always have youth, the illusion
of beauty, vanity in womanhood, the novelty
of a new, untested temperament.” He se-
duces the daughter of one old personal
friend, makes a mistress of the wife of
another, lives with his stenographer, with
several of the friends of his wife, and with
practically every woman he chooses to
approach with his millions. At least, Dreiser
mentions none who can resist him for long.
In the end we leave him still rushing after
women, an old man, enormously rich, a
satyr, “building in Dresden a palace for one
woman, in Rome a second for another, in
London a third, the lure of beauty ever in
his eye. The lives of two women wrecked,
a score of victims despoiled.” And Dreiser
has only this of him to say: “The world
is dosed with too much religion. Life is to
be learned from life, and the professional
moralist is at best but a manufacturer of
shoddy wares.”
Is it Dreiser’s purpose to expose for the
world the semi-civilisation of the United
States, with its twisted morality, its
worship of the millionaire anarchist? Evi-
dently dollars condone everything—in this
strange world, composed of people with
polyglot names like these: Disback, Silry-
hart, Dickensheets, Haeckelheimer, Dem-
mig, Tabreez, Pinski, Hoberkorn, Hvranek.
It is probably these names that make pos-
sible the sordid career of the Titan of Theo-
dore Dreiser’s instinctive admiration.
«£*
Just now, Under the Tricolor, the author-
ised translation of Pierre Mille’s Barnavaux
et Quelques Femmes (Lane), has an added
interest to its own intrinsic worth. Pierre
Mille is a French Kipling—of the days, long
over, when he wrote Soldiers Three. These
delightful stories of the French Foreign
Legion evidence the author’s knowledge of
that picturesque appenage of the army of
our Allies. Pierre Mille has been with them
in all the French colonies, and he knows,
because he loves, the souls of that cosmopolite
regiment. The first story deals with a
lady whose profession “was one condemned
by Society”—a pitiable story of a great and
loyal heart. And there are others whose
heroines are of the same profession, but they
are all human. This series of character
studies is, it may be said, an epic of heroic
souls, delightfully treated with humor and a
deep understanding, and touched with the
daintiest flick of lucid French cynicism.
*
Maurice Hewlett is hewletting again. A
Lover's Tale (Ward, Lock, per Dymock’s
Library) is The Forest Lovers over again—
without its enchantment The Forest
Lovers was written by a young man who
was in love with his lovers: A Lover's Tale
was written by a man middle-aged who
stands aloof and analyses his lovers.
Cormac was a poet of Iceland in the time
of the Vikings: “Sometimes he made verses
because he had been moved; sometimes he
was moved because he had made verses; and
often he did not know which way it had
been with him... .He had found out that he
did not greatly care to do anything unless
he could watch himself doing it, and watch
the thing done as it suffered the doing.
That’s a poet all over.” Even when Cormac
was telling Stangerd how beautiful she was,
and seeming to devote himself to making
clear to her exactly how and exactly how
much she was beautiful, he was, without
doubt, merely making it clear to himself —
as is the way of poets. “And everything
that he told her was told in- a plain, still
voice, as if he were speaking about the
weather or the crops, as indeed he thought
he was.”
Hewlett quotes the verses he was always
singing to her —from which we deduce that
the Bulletin bards have learnt something
more about poetry than was known in the
time of the Vikings. But allowance must
be made for the fact that Cormac had to
sing his poetry in the Icelandic language.
His idea of Stangerd, however, was that she
was much too beautiful to be the wife of
only one man. “His own opinion was that
she ought to be the wife of everybody.”
Which was distinctly annoying to a girl in
love with only one man.. The consequences
were that Cormac never married her, though
three other men, successively, did. Thor-
wald, the tinsmith —and a tinsmith in the
Iceland of the time of the Vikings was soci-
ally a much more important nerson than a
modern plumber, though perhaps hardly as
well paid—was her third husband ; and he
had no poetic notions about wives.
“A wife, he said, should be well found in
money and other movables, a good breeder,
and handy in the house. She must have a
pleasant nature and not be always asking
the reason of things. It might easily hap-
pen, he said, that a man did not know, or
have at call, the reason for something said
or done, or required to be done. He did
not care —nor was it convenient —that he
should have to own up to ignorance. > It
made him look foolish; moreover, it might
lead to debate, and bring endless confusion
in the household.”
And though Hewlett goes hewletting with
his old ardor, the fighting and the love-
making have not the old remembered thrill.
There are some fine character studies in
the saga—Berse, and Stangerd, and above
all that pretty girl Stanvor
aptly named; but the tale does not ring
true —probably because, as Hewlett admits,
his story is but an amplification of a literal
translation of a genuine Icelandic saga. His
Forest Lovers Hewlett found in no legend,
but in his heart, and in his heart, unlike
Cormac and Stangerd, he kept them.
«
To the hosts of rifle-club members who are
uncertain of their drill the system of dia-
grams utilised by Lieut. R. Stupart in his
pocket-book, The New Company Drill Sim-
plified (Angus and Robertson; Is. 6d.) will
appeal as a necessity.
“S.T.S.”: Will Ogilvie, in London, has
tripped over the passion of the classically-
educated Englishman for detecting a “false
quantity.” He sent in for a Westminsteb
rhymed-alphabet prize what that paper calls
a “really capital” effort, “deplores” having
to reject —and prints in full. But he began
“A’s the Allies, B the Bomb,” and that
wrecked him, with about 20 other competi-
tors. The prize went to someone who made
“allies” rhyme with “flies.” But is “allies”
really wrong? By analogy, with “imports,”
“converts,” and “adjuncts,” the accent may
properly—when the word is used as a noun
-—go on the first syllable.
[The latest dictionaries give the pronuncia-
tion with the accent on the last syllable,
distinguishing it thus from the plural of
ally, a marble. But “S.T.S.” is right in his
contention; and the genius of the language,
in forcing the accent backward where a word
is used as a noun, is universally recognised
and accepted in Australia.]


A
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
3®
•®
3®
ANTHONY NORDERNS’
FOR THE
PERFORATEP
RAZOR HONE.
The secret of Easy Shaving is proper Honing.
The PERFORATED RAZOR HONE puts into
the hands of every man the secret of Automati-
cally producing that perfect, Smooth-cutting
Edge which makes shaving a pleasure-
The regular row of holes in the Perforated Razor
Hone have an undercut effect, shearing the wire edge
smoothly off.
Why the Perforated Hone
is so Easy to Use.
As the razor-edge-gets tliin and sharp, a Wire-edge commences to form, but as the
razor is drawn slantingly forward across the regular rows of holes, their deftly-
rounded edges have a sort of undercut effect, shearing the Wire-edge smoothly
off as fast as it forms, and dropping it as fine steel dust into the holes.
Give six strokes or a hundred—you simply can’t hurt your razor if you keep it
flat on the hone, which is a specially hard but very fine stone; it lea\ es a
smooth, keen cutting edge that is a revelation even to a barber. Perforated Itazor
Hones will last a lifetime.
Price 31- By Post, 3|4
4V «i!
%r
%
.Ki
GE
Vf
& )■
m
j
Anthony Horderns’
FOR THE
GEM JUNIOR
Safety Razor.
The Man Who Uses tHe
GEM JUNIOR Safety Razor
MAKES SHAVING EASY.
GEM JUNIOR blades are as thin as an edge-holding piece of steel can possibly
be rolled. They can be sharpened time and time again, because they're tempered
to receive an edge and to hold it when they get it.
THE GEM JUNIOR FRAME has a new BAR feature which carefully
spreads the shin so that the stubble is forced out far enough to give as close
a shave as can only be secured with any other razor in the world by going over
the face twice.
THE GEM .JUNIOR SET is packed in substantial Plush-lined Box, and in
addition to the Silver-plated frame and seven blades, includes a stropping handle.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, 5/-; by Post, 5/5.
EXTRA BLADES, 2/1 per Packet of 7, Post Free.
I
I
OLD BLADES Made NEW
Save your old blades. After they have passed beyond the stage
of revival by means of the ordinary strop, the Safety Blade Expert
can renew the keen edge of the hand-ground blade with the
patent power high-speed machine snecially designed for Safety
Razors. It sharpens any Wafer Safety Razor Blade.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ PRICE -11 Doz., 7d. Haif-doz., Post Free
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
VALUE IN BOOKS
Everyman’s Library of Standard Literature.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly what its
name implies—a library for the professional man,
the business man, the young man, the student, and
all lovers of literature. There are over 700 titles
to select from in the EVERYMAN'S LIBRARY,
embracing the works of foremost authors in the
realms of Fiction, Poetry, History, Theology,
Travel. Biography and Essays of famous writers.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is under the
general editorship of Professor Ernest Rehys,
and contains the best works that have been
written in all times and tongues, from Epictetus,
Cicero and Plutarch down to Dickens, Scott,
Ruskin and the other great Literary Lights of
the Victorian Era.
Each volume in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
is uniformly bound, and printed in large, clear
type on specially made paper, and many are
illustrated.
Sectional Bookcase, to
hold 50 vols., 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Price:
Cloth, 1/-; Full Leather, 2/-
Postage 2d. volume extra. Full list of titles post free. Send Is. 2d. for a
sample volume. The value cannot be surpassed.
Handsome Oak Bookcase (as illustrated) specially designed for Every-
man’s Library, made in Fumed Oak, and fitted with novel interlocking
device, to allow for extension. Top Section, 6/-; Base Unit, 6/-; Book Section
(to hold 50 vols.) 8/6.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
Princess Mary’s Gift Book
STORIES and POEMS by the Most
Fatnous Authors.
PAINTINGS and DRAWINGS by the
Most Famous Artists.
PUBLISHED IN LONDON AT 2 6.
EVERY member of the family will find pleasure in the pages of llwlNtL> S
MARY'S GIFT BOOK. Quite apart from the object for which it is
published—the proceeds are to be devoted to the work for omens
Fund-it is a book which appeals to all, for it represents probably the most
wonderful value ever to the great public of booklovers. For the sum
of° liiilf a crown you can obtain in one beautifully-bound volume a um„ue
collection of stories and poems by the most famous authors of the day.
Nearly every page of PRINCESS MARY’S GIFT BOOK is decorated by a
line-drawing by a well-known black-and-white artist; and, in addition, the
volume is embellished by a series of new paintings, specially contributed b.v
the most famous painters of the day, beautifully reproduced in color, each plate
being separately mounted. The frontispiece is a new portrait of 1 rincess Mary,
by J. J. Shannon, R.A.
Vltogether PRINCESS MARY’S GIFT BOOK is a volume which every
household will treasure, one which, in years to come, will serve as a wortay
memento of what the Empire wrought for the women who suffered through the
ravages of the great War.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
Postage in the Commonwealth, 4d. EXTRA.
2/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brieiineldl Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


cr
Self-Loading Shotgun, 12 Gauge
The Winchester Model 1911 Self-Loader is a wild-fowl gun par excellence. The
recoil ejects the fired shell, feeds a loaded shell from the magazine into the
chamber, cocks the hammer and leaves the gun ready to be fired again. In wild-
fowl shooting, the game often comes fast and when least expected. Shoot a
Winchester Self-Loader and you can always be prepared for a series of shots; for
the loading and firing of this gun are controlled by the trigger finger. As the re-
coil of this gun is used to operate the reloading mechanism, the “kick” of heavy
loads is minimized, making the gun very pleasant to shoot. It is a hammerless,
two-part, take-down, five-shot repeater, that works well with all-standard loads.
The working parts being made of Nickel steel, make it strong and safe.
Ask your dealer to show you the Winchester that’s
LOADED BY RECOIL, CONTROLLED BY THE FINGER TRIGGER.
Bovril develops big
reserves of strength
IT MUST BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE
ill
T 5/
It was too
much for
Alexander
He cried easily. We know that his
petulance was probably caused by
faulty elimination and digestion.
People forget sometimes
that the human system to-
day is the same as it has
been for thousands of
years. Science hasn’t
changed our system. It
has merely found out more
about it. And the more
they discover, the more
clearly do doctors under-
stand why Cockle’s Pills
are best and gentlest. A
century of comparison con-
firms the supremacy of
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormon J St., London, Eng.
£l6/1716
No machinery, weight* or derricks.
No possible chance of explosion.
SOO candle-power light % d. per hour.'
The GLORIA is the Cheapest Light In Installation and
Maintenance. No smell. -p- TDIAI ft Ilf CII
No condensation. No danger. ■ IICC I Ml WC.il
Write lor Particulars and Catalogue to
Cloria Chambers, 155 a Clarence St., Sydney;
nd 152 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Exclusive Ag'ents Wanted
to Sell G asoline Engines
MARINE, STATIONARY AND
PORTABLE OUTBOARD MOTORS.
y
2-11. P. PORTABLE.
Write at once to
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
506 CAILLE STREET,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
“WORLD’S LARGEST BUILDERS OF
TWO-CYCLE MOTORS.’*
We manufacture every practical type of Gasoline
Motor. Prices Right. Quality First.
OSTER
When it comes to Threading Tubes
there is a special tool to fit your particular use
in the Oster line. 20 years of specialisation
guarantees their quality —an Oster means
clean threads quickly cut.
FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
IN ALL CITIES.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, 0., U.S.A.
i
dfg
OSTER
ON THE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
l.uo.ETi x size- Price. 21s,
NURSES
of LARGE EXPERIENCE
recommend
Clements Tonic
NURSE CATHERINE KORTING
of 176 Davis Street, Brunswick, Victoria,
One of the Oldest Certificated Nurses in Victoria,
writes as follows:
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
‘‘ln January last year, my daughter was operated upon
for appendicitis. She was eight weeks in hospital, and came
home very weak. I gave her Clements Tonic. It strengthened
her nerves; she was as well as I could wish her before long.
Years ago, as a nurse, I used it, and have recommended it
times out of number. I have seen people restored to. health
and bless the day they heard of it. It never failed to do good.”
(Signed) CATHERINE KORTING.
Never be without this medicine if run down, with Weak Nerves, Bad Digestion.
Poor Appetite: or Constipation. It puts the human system in order rapidly. It
brings health.
All Chemists and Stores Sell it Everywhere.


«Ull»
BENGER’S
is the
most easily
digested
Food
obtainable .
It is expressly
devised to be fully
nourishing when
natural digestion
J isenfeebled,whether
in child or adult.
It is prepared with fresh
new milk and forms a dainty
and delicious cream, which
fully satisfies “hunger-faint-
ness,” and soothes internal
discomfort. Benger’s is the
safe food in illness, and in
convalescence promotes
rapid recovery.
Delicate children thrive on it.
dfg
Food
For CHILDREN,
Invalids and the aged
is sold by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Benger’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids,ana the
Aged, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,Manchester, Eng:.
Branch Offices —NEW YORK (U.s.A.) 92, William Street
SYDNEY (N.s.vv.) 117, Pitt Street.
Canadian Agents— National Drug Co., Ltd., Montreal.
180 A
BEFORE. I
dfg
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(dPILLfIRINE
You will be delighted with this
snlendid preparation. It is a sure
moustache-grower, and its merit
has been proved by hundreds of
men. Try a jar yourself—send
vour order to-day.
PRICE 10/6 Jar —Post Free
CRAIG g AITKEN, 65 ‘S st -
Established Over SO Years.
HIMRODS
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough—you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOB 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
FREE TO
SMOKERS!
Mr. R. T. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes:—
“it gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, 1 do not have the least desire to
smoke; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE ol Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i.
“ON THE HOP.”— A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
BONN!
IRISH
COUCHS,
BRONCHrTISjMf
OP THC TMC*
NSS
NS
Bonnindton s
IRISH s MOSS
For Business Men
Keep a bottle of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss ’’
on your office desk, or on the mantelpiece at
home. It will quickly rid you of an annoying
COUGH or COLD, and relieve BRON-
CHITIS or INFLUENZA. Take none
but —
Beware of
Imitations
BONININGTON’S
T
3
Ml!®
w
THIN WOMEN !
Like a Well Developed
and Well Proportioned
Would You
FIGURE?
ANY WOMAN without full bust development lacks the one essential
that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow
checks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from a woman the bloom and fresh-
ness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in so far
as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct
your deficiency. Even though you have never been lull-bosomed, and have
been attenuated all your life, if you suffer front no wasting disease,'your
bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased to normal....
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-bosomed,
hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering the effects of
amentia and defective digestion, who are now for the first time in their lives
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood, as the result of a few weeks under our wonderful
DR. FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its use is
no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week, and an
increase in bust measurement up to eight or ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers relief
and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever possessing
a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food-treatment that adds weight and permanent
development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
WE HAVE HUNDREDS OF LETTERS DIKE THIS:
Manager “Flesh-Food” Co.. Ctympie, Queensland, May 5, 1913.
Dear Sir,—As a nurse, I was very interested in your Flesh-Food treatment, and was greatly
surprised at the wonderful results in my oase. When I first wrote to you I was only skin and
bone, and I have good cause to be thankful that I wrote you for a free sample, for I feel certain
now that I am one of the very best advertisements you could possibly have, as I am developed in
every way satisfactory to myself, and I have waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in
its effect, and I am now glad to say that your splendid treatment has done absolutely all you
claimed it would, my weight and measurements being ample.—l am, yours gratefully,
Mrs. E. Wingrove.
Let us Send
You a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE,
We publish an interesting book on the
subject of attenuation and development,
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you FREE OF CHARGE
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications are
treated as strictly confidential. Call if convenient. 1817
FALIIERE FLESH-l'OOI) CO.. 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
ONTHEHOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Lumbago
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgata Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why?
Why should I sigh when you have not a
care
For this my heart that here and there you’re
flinging?
In such a game, Babette,; all’s fair and
square....
Why should I sigh when you have not a
care ?
The night is gold as these rapt heights we
dare
Assail, and nerve to nerve elate is singing. ..
Why should I sigh when you have not a
care < 4
For this my heart that here and there you're
flinging?
MAOHir.A.M).
SELWYN RIDER.
The Crooked Road.
We took the crooked road when, spring was
blowing
Her shrill, sweet pipes along a merry land.
The bloomy world was lush with green and
growing
More gladness than our souls could under-
stand.
The mating birds on flirting plumes were
glancing;
A fairy dust of dreams the winds had sown
Where the long shadows, of the trees were
dancing
On careless fields with yellow stars o'er-
grown.
The straight road ran between the dusty
hedges,
Hard from the dawning to the sunset end.
With sharp stones squarely piled along the
edges,
The waggon ruts of time to patch and mend.
We started forth in joyous, laughing
weather,
Our knapsacks held so feather-light a load,
What wonder that we made the choice
together,
And left the highway for the crooked road!
The start was well, but we grew weary
after,
And often did the kindly wood-gods lend
A short cut through the fields of wine or
laughter
To ease our feet of toiling round the bend.
And sometimes angry brambles, barbed and
twisted,
Had grown from hedge to hedge across the
way,
And sometimes valley dips were greyly
misted
With pain nor song nor jest could turn to
play.
Yet we went on and saw the seasons
squander
Their lavish riches at our wayworn feet.
Content to waste the splendid hours and
wander,
The peeping starlight through blown boughs
to greet.
We knew we played with time, the fleeting
treasure ;
Duty and purpose held us in their scorn,
But straying feet may tread to sweeter
measure
Than the small music of the world-dust
born.
The trampers on the dusty road may
brighten
Their path with dreams of days that lie
before,
Of wealth-drawn wheels that gaily spin to
lighten
Some weary miles down to the sunset door.
For us, we know a sweeter, fairer dreaming
Of long light flaming through the last tall
trees.
And heedless stars that wake phi memories
gleaming
Through dusks that quiver to the sighing
breeze.
Something we asked of life. We could not
lose it,
Who followed gladly where we heard her
voice.
We chose the crooked road and still would
choose it.
Though purpose, breathing dust, should
mock our choice.
Men called to turn us. Warnings followed
after
Our careless steps when first we went
aside—■
We crossed the stile and found that
wrinkled laughter
Had wisdom’s eldest daughter for his bride.
N.s.w.
MARY McCoOMMONWEALTH.
On a L'Age De Son Coeur.
What is that they say?
That love is alone for youth?
This head has been touched with grey
A score of years, if a day ;
And I take it not for truth.
Full two score years have sped
Since first I heard the jest,
That love with a hoary head
Is dead, or better dead —
A foolish thing at best.
I have lived and have loved too well
Too long to believe it true.
I love, and I live to tell
That time has no power to quell
The fire that bright eyes renew.
It is neither false nor cold,
This love of a life awane;
Nor does the young heart hold.
For the heart of the almost old
That loves for her love, disdain.
What is this babble of age?
Its count is a thing apart.
Read, on the golden page,
The word of a lover, and sage:
“One lias but the ape of the heart.”
MAJORCA, SPAIN.
J. LINDO-WEBB.


the: “HOTPOint” iron
CUTS OUT DRUDGERY, ACHING BACKS AND GAS BILLS!
The “Hotpoint” Iron is the handiest device ever
planned for thev. housewife. It is absolutely
safe, and so very economical. Why, it will save
yon hours and hours of drudgery.
A Travelling outfit includes:—
241 b. “Hotpoint” Iron, inverting stand.
Dish with cover and handle attachment, cord
and plug,
Ooze Leather Shopping Bag,
and it all telescopes into the bag, making a
verv compact package, which weighs only
3 lb.
The Heating Element is guaranteed 10 years.
The Iron and Dish are fully Nickel-plated.
Let us send you the facts.
a
W. G. WATSON CD CO., LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything: Electrical.
279 Clarence Street: 426-430 Kent Street, Sydney
(Just rounid from the Town Hall).
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
Jf you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how Ion? standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSON S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley. Brisbane
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES W rite for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Insist on “ Sineleton s* —refuse all substitutes-
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
A/OU begin to
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyen’s
dfg
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD .
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Yo(ir Uiocb
apd TbcirS.
What is it to be?
A lunch that they
Avill eat—just because
it is there in their
hunch Cribs to be eaten
—without relish, or a
splendid, appetising,
tongue-tickling lunch of
ft. "S.WA+**''.*
...
<d
“REX”
HAM
PATE?
You can pack their Lunches at seven o'clock every morning,
feeling confident that they will enjoy every sandwich if you
have “Hex” Ham Pate. You can have your own Lunch, too, of
the self-same Pate.
It is made from Good “Hex” Ilam, ground to a fineness that
renders it practically premasticated. It is then flavored with
pure spices and cooked cn casserole. Result —The taste that
lingers.
Ask your Grocer to send you a tin to-day. Sold
everywhere. Accept no proffered substitute.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES include:
“Ilex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausage, lib. tins,
“Rex” Pork and Beans, I}£lb. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in decorated tins.
And
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones & Go. Ltd
Curers of “REX” HAMS and BACON.
Packers of “REX” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS, f
dfg
PERDRIAU OILSKINS
The “LITAZAIR ” SILK OILSKINS
illustrated herewith, are admirably named
the average-weight, being only 240/„ They
are made from pure silk, oiled throughout by a
special process, giving a semi-transparent
effect. Tailor-made and exceptionally well
finished.
In Black, Brown. Blue, Mole and Purple
shades.
PRICE (Carriage Paid) : Men’s, 45/-;
Women’s, 45/-
The “DUGONG-WATERSHED” OILSKIN
is specially designed for
BIDING, DRIVING, MOTORING, etc.
Made from finest Egyptian Cambric, double
throughout. Average weight. 41 b.
I n two shades :
BLACK 32/6
TAN (the latest color) .. 35/-
Carriage Paid.
Sample of materials from which the above
oilskins are made will be sent post free
together with our latest illustrated List.
“WATERSHED” Oilskins are obtainable
from all leading stores or direct from
dfg
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 GEORGE STREET, STDNEY.
105 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
67a CAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
507 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
dfg
When Cleaning Leather
Use Shi-noleum because, it quickly imparts a
brilliant enduring lustre. Perfect for suit cases,
Gladstone bags, school bags and tan boots.
It has no equal as a Linoleum and Furniture
Polish and gives a finish that is appreciated by
housewives and visitors. It is easy to use-
economical, too.
Insist on Shi-noleum. If n<>t in stock at your grocer's
send his name ■to The Paget Manufacturing
Co., IynX, 109 Regent Street. Sydney, and a lrei
sample tin will be sent you.
dfg
BRIGHTENS UP THE
FLOORS & FURNITURE
, ■
*
-"■' ' y : '-V :
jr
>
MZ&i
**** -\ ***»&&■**a^msasaw^..
"■wbiiiimiwiFp ~ '?■ ■■::
• jSS»----.
'■
»* HHNNBuHH
~T
44.
A WELCOME
PRIZE
:#p||;|||||g|p
iS@l«i»pi ! ii*!tei
llSSiiililßSKl*


The Bulletin
Ptegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 36.—N0. 1843.
THURSDAY, JUNE 10, 1915.
Price 6d.
THE WEREWOLF OF EUROPE.
And again some do speak of werewolves, men turned to beasts that do ravage frighted women and babes, and how they recover their shape and wits, or the
neighbors do make an end of them with a silver bullet, which alone hath power over the demon.— The Anatomy of Demons (1591).


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for tlie White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS! TO BUBRCJUBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. ver Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read. and. where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributiontt submitted, whether in the. form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects ,
itnd not exceeding two columns in length, or. say.
6000 words, are specially acceptable) , Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
tending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation nr transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous Or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
ninECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth, and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.j Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco ; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and. D Streets, San Diego.
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IV. E. Lenelian, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co..
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.— lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.—Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — lV. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz. to lOoz., Hid.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, J/oz., Id., and \d. each
additional 9-oz,
THURSDAY, JUNE 10, 1915.
THE CURSE OF THE HYBRID;
A travelling Russian said to one of the
dailies last week
I have only recently been ih the United States, and
there in every town, and in the big towns along almost
every block, is to be seen a recruiting-sergeant walking
up and down outside his office got up fit to kill, and
almost begging recruits to come in. But they do
not. You see, there are too many nationalities in
the States. They say, “Why should we fight for this
country ?” and they look wise and pass on, treating
the recruiting-sergeant’s appeals as so much hot air.
It illustrates a point on which The
Bulletin has always insisted. The cheap
immigrant is no good. The mean white —
the sort who is liable to look wise and pass
on when the country which supports him is
in danger—is of little more value, nationally
speaking, than the African nigger. Before
the war the U.S.A. were regarded by a large
number of Australians as the great exemplar
of the power which flows from large num-
bers collected by indiscriminate immigra-
tion. Australia has now seen Austria and
the U.S.A. put to the test of war. Each
has a colossal population and each stands
for an attempt by mankind to fuse the
breeding. With all their profusion of men
and money they have lost their self-
respect ; while Australia, which is poor, at
all events in the number of its men, holds
its head high because the men that it has
are clean-run, and it knows that because
of this the job it has taken on will go
through to its predetermined end. When
the last self-reproach for slackness has been
uttered, this country can still say that in
proportion to its size it has done better than
any other, and this is because it has that
unity of purpose which belongs to people
of the one breed, whilst with the two States
named there is the helpless irresolution of
the medley. “Bloody but unbowed” . the
Race will survive the wreck of all things,
whereas the other will wilt under a threat.
* * * *
More than half a century ago Dickens
wrote about “the United States,- one of the
greatest nations of the earth, which, is hon-
orably remarkable for protecting its sub-
jects, wherever they may travel, with a
dignity and determination which is a model
for England.” In the days when Dickens
wrote this the United States were still
racially pure. Since then, though the
Republic’s population has been rushing for-
ward “like one of its own giant waterfalls,”
its condition has become pitiable. During
the first decade of the century it increased
by 16 millions. The census taken in 1910
showed that over 13 millions had been born
abroad. An analysis of the composition of
this hotch-potch is like a reproduction of
the war in little. There were 3,676,105
Austro-Germans and 3,075,608 Franco-Rus-
sian-Italians. For the rest there were
Swedes, Turks, Moravians, Switzers,
Slovaks, Greeks, Croats, Ruthenians, and
so on indefinitely. Australia is in urgent
need of population, and doubtless by cash
and energy it might have secured a big pro-
portion of these emigrants. But is there
any sane Australian, strong in the pride
of race, who would wish that we had got
them at any price? A mixture such as this
can never even have an enemy. Nor can it
have friends, cohesion, a literature, tradi-
tions, or any of the essentials of national
life. It will never make the necessary
sacrifices to prepare itself for defence
because it can never know the spirit which
dreads conquest more than death. Like
that other aggregation, the limited com-
pany, it has neither a body to be kicked nor
a soul to be damned. In times of peace it
becomes the helpless victim of trusts and
every other kind of financial brigandage
because it has no common tongue and
method of thought to bind it together in
self-defence, and in times of war it is com-
pelled to concur in the murder of its so-
called nationals. The 20 millions of Ger-
man descent in the United States were
delighted at the assassination of their fellow-
citizens on the Lusitania, whilst another
20 millions of Russo-Brittanico-Italian
origin were furious; but any materialisation
of this latter emotion in the form of
national action to punish the assassin would
have led to nothing more military than
riots. This position is solely due to the
fact that the nation has forfeited its racial
integrity. Had it retained that virtue
it would have done as England did when
the Russian Fleet on its way to the
Japanese war accidentally killed a fisher-
man off the Dogger Bank. Before any
question of pourparlers arose the Russians
were surrounded by a British squadron,
which signalled its intention of escorting
them. out of Home waters. The Russian
Admiral replied that if the British didn’t
disperse he would open fire, whereupon the
British 4ffi m i ra l signalled back the words
“Fire Away.” Compton Domvitxe, the
Britisher in question, was perfectly pre-
pared to declare war off his own bat in
the full consciousness that the race would
have supported him in avenging the death
of one of the humblest of its members.
The Austrian Empire runs to 13 different
languages. Even the question of the word
of command in the army is a matter of the
bitterest dispute, and has never been satis-
factorily settled in favor of any language.
The Navy speaks Italian, but the word of
command is given in German, and the officers
are compelled to know Serbo-Croatian for
actual business purposes. The Parliament
is a madhouse collection of Germans,
Italians, Poles, Czechs, Slovenes, Croats,
Serbs, Ruthenes and Roumanians. Hardly
anybody in it understands anybody else. Its
members do not even know each other per-
sonally. It was powerless to initiate war
and equally powerless to avert it, and is now
unable to stop it, although the Czechs and
Poles have a block of 190 votes, and have
always wanted an alliance with France, and
loathe the Germans. The very title of the
Empire has been a matter of the bitterest
dispute ever since its official announcement
by Francis I. in 1804; the Magyars and
Slavs complaining that it is too German, and
the Deutschers that it is not German enough,
although during the latter half of the nine-
teenth century the Germans increased by four
millions only, while the Slavs, Magyars and
Wallachians increased by 11 millions, and
Friaulians, Ladinians, Jews, Gypsies and
Armenians became widely diffused. Taafe
said that the only way to rule the Empire
was to keep its inhabitants permanently dis-
contented, the reason being that there is no
Austrian “people,” but merely the peoples
who inhabit the Austro-Hungarian mon-
archy. Austria is, not a State but a Gov-
ernment, in which the governed cannot even
pronounce the names of their rulers, as, for
instance, Goluchowski and Kossuth, who
are indifferently described as “Goluhofsky”
and “Koshoot,” and in other manners. It
is torn by Pan-Germanism, Pan-Slavism,
Magyar Chauvinism, Italian and Roumanian
Irredentism, and by an anti-Semitic move-
ment which battles it out with the most
powerful Jewry in Europe. When the
imperial fighting day is over these clans are
too tired to throw out the Hapsburgs, who
only hold the throne because a century ago
it was feared that one of the Bonapartes
would get it. The Empire has never known
victory, because it lacks the racial instinct
of the conqueror, and it has never known
defeat because it was never worth disrupting ;
but it has never been free of crises and dead-
locks and the wastage of useless wars
because it ivas never possible to unite it
about anything.
* * * *
When the call came to Australia the Com-
monwealth found itself racially pure, some-
what as Dickens says he found America.
Its inhabitants were 96.99 per cent, of pure
British stock. The residuary 3 per cent,
was all it contained of alien blood of all
kinds, so that it was actually more British
than the British Isles themselves. No re-
flections of any sort were necessary, and all
it had to say officially could have been
written on the back of a visiting card. It
was in this matter up tp the back teeth
and going to stay there till the race came out
on top. Just because it was racially pure
the war found it in a position to look
after itself. From its flagship downwards,
the Australian Navy was just too strong
at every point for the powerful German
Pacific Squadron of Yon Spee, and it had
not to wait for the destruction of the latter
before venturing to scatter its troops across
the seas on every hand. Whilst fleets of
transports were carrying thousands of its
soldiers westward to Egypt and the Dar-
danelles, others were steaming east and north
and eliminating the last traces of German
authority in those oceans. The crowning
humiliation for the enemy lay in the fact that
many of these troops were carried in cap-
tured German merchantmen; yet he never
dared reprisal by so much aA the bombard-
ment of an Australian coastal city. The
physique and spirit of the men who carried
the heights at Gallipoli, without waiting to
load their rifles ; the solid patriotism which
found Australia ready for national service,
for the sacrifices involved in the inaugura-
tion and maintenance of a navy; and finally
for its share in Armageddon—these are the
priceless rewards of a nation which looks to
the breed.
THE NATIONAL COCKY AND HIS SEA
OF TROUBLES.
Ground between the upper and the nether
millstones of drought and price-fixing, vic-
tims of an agrarian system which too often
makes land-owning more profitable than
land-using, frequently burdened with the
incubus of inflated values, sometimes unin-
telligent and often improvident, the work-
ing farmers in Australia have reason to
remember with bitterness the season just
passed. They have seen the results of their
labor in many cases reduced to ruin ; have
had the delightful experience of observing
their produce grabbed to feed at a cheap
rate the inhabitants of bloated cities;
have witnessed foreign farmers receive at
the hands of Australian Governments more
generous consideration than was extended
to the men who till Australian soil and
stand the racket of local droughts, commis-
sion agents and congestion policies. The
man with the hoe is not the entire back-
bone of the country, by any means; but to
a nation plunged up to the neck in debt
he is an asset of considerable value when, it
comes to settling up with Cohen and Go.
The foreign bond holder is apt to become
suspicious of a client who can’t be depended
on to send along a regular supply of bread
and chops and butter. Therefore Cocky’s
condition generally is worth having a look at.
A bad season does not altogether explain
the plight the aggregate hayseed finds him-
self in from time to time. In parts of
Australia the recent absence of moisture
has undoubtedly been ruinous ; but the yells
from districts where the rainfall has been
generous and the growth of feed normal
are just as insistent as the wails from the
places where there was neither moisture
nor crop. The North Coast cocky in N. S.
Wales, for example, has squeaked as loudly
as his brother in Riverina. There is a
paradox in this, and how one side shall
be reconciled with the other seems to be a
proposition calling for prolonged thought
in. a cool atmosphere. The cow-fancier,
being a suspicious-looking character who
hunts his kids out of bed before sun-up, calls
for first consideration. In many instances
he farms on a system under which the land-
owner finds the stock and plant and soil,
and takes two-thirds of what the family
extracts from the herd ; in other cases they
whack the proceeds, half and half. Even in
the best of seasons men working on this
basis, are in a mighty tight corner and have
to toil like galley slaves at the oar to keep
their life-insurance policies afloat. If a dry
piiich arrives, then that kind of cocky goes
to bed with misery and gets up with woe.
Should he have gone without sleep
or if he has paid labor to cultivate
fodder, he may find the season such
a good one that the additional food
is not required and cannot be given
away; or he may discover that the only
person who benefits by the expenditure of
sweat and wages is the sleeping partner.
Taken altogether, cow cockydom on the share
basis looks like a trap for the unwary
except on never-failing pasture. Then
there is the frequent cocky who has bought
land at fabulous price and has a monkey
on the property which eats up most of the
produce. He, too, is in very much the same
position as the share-farmer, the only dif-
ference being that the appetite of the
monkey is a fixed thing, while that of the
partner in the share enterprise varies, since
the greater the yield from her Majesty the
Cow the more hungry does he become.
Wheat-growing proceeds upon somewhat
similar lines. Both are gambling with
nature.
* * * *
The trofibles that afflict an increasing
number of cockies appear, therefore, to
arise from these causes: they are conduct-
ing their business without allowing suffi-
cient margin for the eccentricities of the
weather; they base their calculations of
income on the experience of good years; and
farming throughout Australia is an over-
capitalised industry, from which the return
to the actual workers is too low. Boiled
down, this means that the great majority
of cockies have either paid too high a price
for their land or have been in the habit of
entering into reckless bargains relating to
shares. In a good season and with good
prices ruling they do fairly well, on the
average: some very well. A succession of
seasons fair to favorable shows at the end
a balance on the right side. It is when the
bad years; con4e—when an old-man drought
parches the earth and dries up the creeks —
that the pinch of the high-priced acres and
of the thirds and halves is felt, for then the
return of the outraged soil to the laborer
is a mockery of his toil. His bad bargain,
and it may be one only recently made, jeers
at him morning, noon and night. Too many
Australian farmers have this year found
themselves in this position. Too many
have reaped a harvest of ashes from the
inflated values given to land, by the public
borrowing iniquity and the private reckless-
ness inseparable from boom. Farmers using
land acquired at a reasonable figure are
able to stand these temporary reverses of
fortune, mainly by making fodder reserves
each year against the possibility of rain
not arriving to schedule time. The drought
lately experienced is a solemn warning to
the cocky in embryo against putting his neck
in a noose —to the cocky of experience
against forgetting all he has learned and
thinking that droughts may be regarded as
curiosities of history. That in the midst of
a drought, with crops reduced to dust and
dairy herds insisting upon giving their
anatomy a holiday, politicians should take
the harassed cocky by the throat
makes ' even more" solemn the warning
against assessing the value of land on the
basis of good, soaking showers every Sun-
day, with markets at top, prices all the time.
“Ginger Mick.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Remember Ginger Mick? ’E’s done a
break—
Gone to the flamin’ war to stousli the foe.
Was it fer glory, or a woman’s sake?
Oh, arst me somethin’ easy! I dunno.
’ls khaki clobber set ’im off a treat.
That’s all I know; ’is motive’s got me beat.
Ole Ginger Mick ’e’s in the trenches now ;
And all the cops in Spadger’s-lane is sad.
They miss ’is music in the midnight row
Wot time the pushes mix it good an’ glad.
Fer ’e was one o’ them, you understand.
Wot “soils the social life of this fair land.”
A peb was Mick ; a leery bloke was ’e,
Low down, an’ given to the brimmin’ cup ;
The sorter chap that coves like you an’ me
Don’t mix wif, ’count of our strick bring-
in’s-up.
An’ ’e wus sich becos unseein’ Fate
Lobbed ’im in life a ’undred years too late.
In olden days ’e would ’a’ been a ‘‘blade,”
A “gallant,” as they used to call a crook ;
’E would ’a’ fought a juel fer some fair maid,
An’ ’ad ’is moniker shoved in a book.
But now, since peaceful manners make the
man,
Ole Ginger’s down among the “also ran.”
But Ginger Mick, ’e is jist Ginger Mick—
Coarse wif ’is speech an’ in ’is manner
low,
Slick wif ’is ’ands, an* ’andy wif a brick
When bricks is needful to defeat a foe.
An’ now ’e’s gone an’ mizzled to the war,
An’ some blokes ’as the nerve to arst “wot
for?”
Wot for ! Gorstrooth ! ’E wus no patriot
That sits an’ brays advice in days of
strife;
’E never flapped no flags nor sich-like rot;
’E never sung “Gorsave” in all ’is life.
’E wus despised by them that make sich
noise:
But now—oh, strike! ’E’s “one of our brave
boys”!
’E’s one of our brave boys all right, all right.
’ls early trainin’ down in Spadger’s-lane
Done ’im no ’arm fer this ’ere all-in fight:
’ls loss o’ culcher is ’is country’s gain.
’lm wif ’is carst-ir’n chiv an’ leery ways—
An’ swell tarts ’eavin’ ’im sweet words o’
praise!
Why did ’e go? ’E ’ad a steady job ;
’ls tart an’ ’im wus ’ittin’ it all right.
Why does a wild bull fight to guard the mob ?
Why does a bloomin’ bull-ant look fer
fight?
Why does a rooster scrap an’ flap an’ crow?
’Ee went becos ’e dam’ well ’ad to go.
’E never spouted no ’igh-soundin’ stuff
About stern jooty an’ ’is country’s call;
But, in ’is way, ’e ’eard it right enough
A-callin’ like the shout of “On the ball!”
Wot time the footer brings the clicks great
joy,
An’ Saints or Carlton roughs it up wif ’Roy,
The call wot came to cave men in the days
When rocks was stylish in the scrappin’
line;
The call wot knights ’eard in the minstrel’s
lays,
That sent ’em in tin soots to Palestine;
The call wot draws all fighters to the fray
It come to Mick, an’ Mick ’e must obey.
The Call of Stoush!.. . . It’s older than the
hills.
Lovin’ an’ fightin’—there’s no more to
tell
Concernin’ men. An’ when that feelin’
thrills
The blood of them ’oo’s fathers mixed it
well,
They ’ave to ’eed it—bein’ ’ow they’re
built —
As traders ’ave to ’eed the clink of gilt.
An’ them whose gilt ’as stuffed ’em stiff wif
pride
An’ ’aughty scorn of blokes like Ginger
Mick,
I ses to them : “Put sich crook thorts aside,
An’ don’t lay on the culcher stunt too
thick.”
All men is brothers when it comes to lash
An’ ’aughty scorn an’ culcher does their
dash.
War ain’t no giddy garden fait—it’s war,
Vulger an’ violint, an’ easy both ;
An’ them that shudders at the sight o’ gore.
An’ shrinks to ’ear a drunken soldier’s
oath,
Must ’ide be’ind the men wot ’eave the
bricks, \
An’ thank their Gawd who sends ’em Ginger
Micks.
Becos ’e never ’ad the chance to'find
The glory o’ the world by land an’ sea,
Becos the beauty ’iflin’ in ’is mind
Was not writ plain fer blokes like you an’
me,
They calls ’im crook; but in ’im I ’ave
found
Wot makes a man a man the world around.
Be’ind that dile of ’is, as ’ard as sin,
Was strange, soft thorts that never yet
showed out.;
An’ down in Spadger’s Lane, in dirt an’ din,
’E dreamed sich dreams as poits. sung
about.
’E’s ’ad ’is visions of the Bonzer Tart; ■
An’ stoushed some coot- to ease ’is swellin’
’eart. !
Lovin’ an’ fightin’ when the tale is j told,
That’s all there is to it; an’ in their way,
Them brave an’ noble ’ero blokes of old
Was Ginger Micks—the crook ’uns of
their , day.
Jist let the, Call of Stoush give ’im ’is chance
An’ Ginger Mick’s the ’ero of romance.*
* * *, *
So Ginger Mick ’as mizzled to the war,.
Joy in ’is ’eart, an’ wild dreams in ’is
brain ;
Gawd ’elp ]the foe that ’e goes gunnin’ for
If tales is true they tell in Spadger’s
Lane-
Wild tales that fairly froze the gentle ’earts
Of them ’oo knit ’is socks, the Culchered
Tarts.
VICTORIA.
The Sentimental Bloke.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hot Air as an Encouragement to
Slumber.
In any daily paper an Australian may care
to lopk at these times the chances are a
hundred to one he will find a collection of
obiter dicta to this effect: That when the
war is over Germany will be so exhausted
that she will not be able to recover her
foreign trade—that her resources will be
too depleted for the resumption of commer-
cial rivalry. This sort of prophetic heavy-
weight-lifting has about it a specious attrac-
tiveness dear to the Cobden soul, and the
particular use made of it just now is to
suggest that nothing should be done in a
hurry except to pass patriotic resolutions,
and sign pledges to abstain for five years
from acquiring German pianos, and to for-
swear the Teutonic sewing-machine until
after the next rains. The assumptions on
which this doctrine rest are wholly falla-
cious. The termination of the war may pos-
sibly see Germany a shattered wreck in the
military and financial sense —her public sav-
ings dissipated, part of her manhood broken,
her other material resources, seriously crip-
pled. But the spirit, the national genius for
organisation, the technical skill and the
economic resolution of the Germanic race
will still be there, sharpened possibly by
defeat. Sixty millions of people like the
Huns are not reduced to the position of a
similar number of niggers by defeat in
battle. They don’t go back to caves and
hunt for grub with clubs and attire them-
selves in the skins of wolves. They take up
life again at the point they deserted Peace.
It has been so in the past; it must be so
again. No justification exists for supposing
that the recovery of industrial Germany
from the war of to-day will be any less rapid
than the recovery of France from the
Napoleonic wars or from the disastrous
burden heaped upon her . at Sedan.
At any rate, countries which sit down
in comfortable expectation of Germany
emerging from Armageddon to be a
wood-and-water joey are going to find
the hot air of anti-war resolutions a mighty
poor barrier against the twin factors of com-
merce—enterprise and greed. To-day the
tide of German exports is dammed up at its
source; but Germany is not idle. The men
who are not fighting or making munitions of
war are in the factories. The women are
at work, too. Mountains of goods are being
produced, for Germany has been looking for-
ward to victory and to the trade possi-
bilities that would open before her when the
back of the opposition to her armies had been
broken. Preparations in that direction had
been made with the completeness that charac-
terised the organisation for battle. In defeat
she may possibly, with this reserve, be as
ready to encounter the conditions of peace as
the Allies were unready to turn aside the
first blow of her mailed fist. In any event,
she will be more ready than Belgium, one of
the workshops of the world ; perhaps even
more prepared than Britain or France. The
problem for the last two named countries is
their own. Our problem is: What is Aus-
tralia going to do about it—Australia which
before the war had allowed the whole of
one of her great industries to pass into the
absolute control of German houses? Is she
going to remain drugged by the noxious gases
of Freetrade resolutions framed in the lan-
guage of patriotism? Or is she going to
guard herself with something more substan-
tial than avowals of hate, which, under the
influence of commercial competition, would
evaporate in a single day? The doctrine
that there is no cause for immediate action
in this matter wears a sinister look. The
need for enlightened activity is immediate
and pressing, for industries are not created
in a day, nor are old-fashioned methods
changed in a night. So far from it being true
that Germany will be negligible after the
war, there is the contingency that she may
be commercially more dangerous than ever.
This should be the basis of our national
policy. Nor should it be lost sight of that
the economic follies into which the Com-
monwealth allowed itself to drift in relation
to nations it is now at war with may quite
easily be repeated in future with respect to
other countries. Our fatuous dependence
on Germany for many things is not made
any more idiotic because of the war. It
would have remained just as insane if the
Norddeutscher Lloyd and the “Black Ger-
man” fleet were still peacefully dragging our
metals and wool away in shiploads and drag-
ging shiploads of manufactured metals and
sheeps’ coats back again.
♦- ;
Another National Debt.
About 2000 sick and wounded Australians
are due to arrive in the Commonwealth
within the next few months. Perhaps many
more ; certainly not less. What provision is
their grateful country making for them? A
Sydney paper has suggested securing them
jobs in lifts. Someone is getting up a bridge-
party in Melbourne to provide them with
comforts. A few private citizens in Adelaide
and Sydney have patriotically offered their
homes as hospitals. But of organised effort
on an Australian scale there is no sign any-
where. The community is so busy subscrib-
ing for the Belgians that it has forgotten the
needs of its own. Yet they have their advo-
cates. The Bishop of Newcastle put the case
for them the other day:—
We watch our young fellows pass out to the frozen
trenches to face bullet and shell and poisonous
fumes for our safety. They take our lives and
property in trust and go out and die cheerfully
for the idea of national security. What claims have
I on them that they have not on me? Can I ever
again sit down idly and forget the obligations I
have contracted ?
Obviously not, and neither can any other self- '
respecting individual. Washington Irving
summed up an immemorial British character-
istic a quarter of a century ago when he
wrote: “John Bull fights with great
courage and determination until he has
defeated his foe, and then he is so pleased
with himself that he shakes hand, with his
foe, and is apt to quite forget the claims
of those who have fought for him.”
tralia must do something to remove that
aspersion. The Belgians and other unfor-
tunates have had gold poured out on their
behalf. Henceforward any spare cash which
the affluent have to dispose of might well
be allocated to invalided Australians. Many
of them will need it. The average wage
earned by the Expeditionaries before they
left has been estimated at between 455. and
50s. per week. The weekly pension for inca-
pacitated soldiers with families is a little
over a sovereign. A disabled, or even
partially disabled, man with a family is not
going to lead a happy life on £65 per annum.
Yet, as the Newcastle bishop remarked, the
community has assumed the obligation of
seeing that the soldiers shall not suffer
because they have risked'their lives for us
and lost or diminished their earning powers.
Those who are hopelessly incapacitated have
a right to expect that they and their wives
and families shall be supported in comfort.
Provision must be made, too, for the men
who, though they are able to work, will
never again be the workers they were.. And
then there is the business of providing for
those who can work but lack jobs. It will
be no good to anybody but the publicans to
have them pervading the great cities. They
will do better in the country. It would be a
great thing for the States, a great thing
for the returned soldiers, and a great thing,
ultimately, for immigration, if the different
Governments got to work, instituted farms
where these men could learn something about
life on the land, and put the whole outfit at
the disposal of the men to whom the Com-
monwealth is indebted.
«
“Follow the Kins?!”
King Albert of Belgium was interviewed
the other day by the New York World. He
was asked his opinion of the behavior of the
Germans in Belgium. “Fearful things have
been done, particularly during the invasion,”
he said, weighing his words carefully, “but it
would be unfair to condemn the whole Ger-
man Army. Some regiments have been most
humane; but others behaved very badly.”
There spoke the sovereign whose kingdom has
been ravaged, without cause or even reason-
able excuse, and whose people are still fight-
ing gallantly for their national life. He has
suffered tremendous wrongs, witnessed un-
thinkable cruelties and infamies, yet he can
“weigh his words carefully” when he discusses
his enemy. Speaking with the roar of battle
in his ears, this brave man is not a
thousandth part as excitable as many a
parish patriot who would not go to Flanders
to save an empire. It recalls a well-known
passage written a quarter of a century ago
by P. G. llamerton :
The idea of patriotic duty has usually, in i the
past, been confounded with the passion of hatred.
An Englishman who did not hate the French was
considered to be unpatriotic... .The objects of a
patriotic mind alter with the degree of its enlighten-
ment. In rude and ignorant natures patriotism is hatred
of the foreigner... .When vulgar patriotism blusters
and is quarrelsome, intelligent patriotism keeps a
cool head and cleverly steers the ship. The passion
of hatred ought to be kept out of international
affairs, as a lawyer keeps it out of legal business,
looking only to the interests of his client. The vul-
gar French are childish enough to hate the English;
if the English do not hate them in return the
advantage will be all their own.
The Germans are sufficiently ridiculous now
to hate the British with the foaming, vocifer-
ous hate of fifth-rate bellow-drama. The
longer the hate lasts, and the more furious it
gets, the better. An enemy is never so
harmless as when he has been so worked up
that he screams and spits his detestation.
The wordy frenzy of Hans is therefore a
cause for gratification. It shows that he is
frightened—explosive, yelling hatred never
did go with confidence —and it keeps him
busy at an activity which doesn’t hurt us.
But it is important that we should not fol-
low his absurd example. The danger cer-
tainly exists. You do not find it among
the fighting men. Their attitude is the
attitude of that king among fighting men,
Albert of Belgium—that the German
should be given whatever credit he merits,
and for the rest be exterminated with
methodical resolution. The cult of Hate,
which might equally be termed the cult of
Blither, flourishes for the most part among
harmless, nervous citizens who would swoon
with terror if they were faced by the
bayonets of an infuriated foe. The first
and greatest objection to the Hate busi-
ness is that it is ludicrous —ludicrous in
individuals and ludicrous in nations. It
disappoints the friends of those who indulge
in it, and it delights their enemies—even
though the latter may be tainted with it
themselves. It interferes with recruiting,
since many get the idea that it is just as
patriotic to stay behind and hate as it is to
go away and fight. Already some of Aus-
tralia’s greatest patriots, theoretically, are
merely windy, useless Haters. For those
who desire to cut sensational figures in bars
and the like, the Hatred business is no
doubt indispensable. But as a means of
baffling the unspeakable foe. the spiritual
weapons of Albert of Belgium are the
best —especially that reserve which has
recognition for the good and the strong
and contempt for the base and the weak.
And with that reserve its natural comple-
ment. a calm determination to win.
The Consul for Austria.
Randolph Bedford speaks of a friend
Most people take for granted the alleged fact of the
mutual affection of the Allies—Austria for Germany;
Russia for France, England and Servia; France for
Russia, England and Servia; and the other triangles
as you may juggle them. But, broadly speaking,
there are only four peoples fighting—sometimes with
the common enemy, sometimes with each other.
There are Tartar and Slav, Latin and Teuton —which
are' the oil and water that shall never mix.
Great Britain kept Russia from its just and natural
outlet to the-Mediterranean, and at the same time con-
firmed the Turk' in’his beastly occupation of the Sea
of Marmora, so that to-dav the Russian has to help'
us fight that mistake right, .and Australian - soldiers
lose their lives) for the grotesque and ancient error.
Great Britain' pi ft back the clock of-the world 100
years by coalescing {with - the. Prussians at Waterloo,
and the then enemy, F-rahCe, has to blefed and suffer
to-correct that monstrous foolishness.
And this war might go on until the patties thereto
die gasping at each ■ other's throats wore it not- for
ancient feuds', old hatreds and revenges for-iiffiiries
practically forgotten coming to give pause to hos-
tilities as soon as the complicated vendettas have let
sufficient blood. Hungary, hating the Prussian splen-
didly, stays in the field because it hates the Russian
brilliantly. Italy, except for a sentiment of Latin
brotherhood to the French, would be almost tolerant
of the Austrian if the stolen lands of Italia Irredenta
were ceded. And the Slav hates the German on
general principles, the Croat and Dalmatian being so
un-German that their official language is but a cor-
ruption of Italian.
These considerations come to me when my good
friend, the ex-Consul for Austria in Westralia (he
resigned on the declaration of war), told me of some
of the conditions of his job, which had begun in the
bad empire of Austria owing to good Australian
money, and had ended in the crude and indignant
patriots of Perth destroying the consular escutcheon
with bricks and road metal. My friend the Consul
did not mind the destruction of the escutcheon, as
it is the only thing in Westralia the Austrian Empire
ever paid for. The House of Hapsburg owes its ex-
Consul much money for stamps and telegrams ex-
tending over two years. The account has been sent
to Franz Joseph many times, and either the Austrian
Empire is no gentleman or the Wilkins Micawbers
who run the Treasury at Vienna have suppressed the
account.
The Westralian consulate used to look after 2000 to
3000 Austrians—-legally Austrians, though almost all
Dalmatians or Croats. When the war was imminent
they were notified to register for service. Only 25 or
so responded, and these registered to participate in
the amnesty for deserters. But not one of them left
for the war; all pleaded poverty. Apparently they
knew their Government; Austria wouldn’t pay their
fares, and they are still in Australia.
The names of the relations to whom these men remit
Australian gold read like the explanations to the
battle-front in Galicia by the Argus military expert:
“Upraviteljstov Viske Opcine,
Lissa, Dalmatia.”
The Dalmatian cannot understand the Croat; and
Croatian is such a bad language that two Croats
cannot understand each other without feeling insulted.
It sounds like a Turk learning German.
Austria may excuse the injustice of her taxation by
her disgust of the languages of the conquered. This,
anyway, is certain—-a Croat landing in Trieste witli
£5OO, money saved in Australia, was charged 10
per cent, import duty, while the capital of a returned
German entered free. This is too much to charge for
a language, even though a chapter from the “begat”
section of the Bible in Croatian sounds like a fight
among the Tongs in Canton.
It is the madness of language that keeps peoples
apart, maintains little E-flat kings on little E-flat
thrones, delays the arrival of sanity in universal re-
publicanism, makes misunderstandings and wars.
There are a dozen or more languages in Europe which
are merely noises and havd no literature, and the
end of war should see them scrapped for keeps. Un-
fortunately, at the end of a war civilisation foolishly
begins to rebuild itself under the supervision of sol-
diers, whereas the tremendous job of rehabilitation
demands the best constructive brains left on the dust-
heap of the ruined world —the best literary, artistic,
architectural and industrial ability surviving.
For the rest, my friend the ex-Consul for Austria
had much interesting correspondence (item) from a
baron with long whiskers asking for postage stamps;
(item) circulars from Viennese tailors vainly offering
brilliant consular uniforms at the cost of a bishop’s
- salary. Also to his office in Perth certain deadbeat
Austrians blew in at intervals; indigent blokes going
round the world for a bet without digging, and not
ashamed to beg; and weird whiskered priests who had
made vows of poverty but not of non-borrowing.
The war happened opportunely for that ex-Consul.
By this time the unpaid postage bill had grown to
an altitude simply ruinous.
Australian Wives and German Husbands.
“Garnishor” expounds the position:—
A Divorce case tried recently shows that doubt is felt
about the position of those Australian women married
unhappily to Germans. The husband sued was “a
native of Germany, unnaturalised and at present
interned.” Petitioner Was an Australian. His
Honor amongst his other uncertainties questioned
whether the military authorities would ■ allow respon-
dent to attend court.
The law is that the wife of an alien loses- her
nationality and takes that of her husband. T*he
jurisdiction of the Divorce Court is not, however,
based on nationality but on domicile, so that under
ordinary circumstances a German or any other
alien, would be in as good a position Th this
court as the best Australian so long as he could
show domicile. “Domicile” ,is a quaint bird. It
involves the intention of the party who claims it
of lAaking Australia his permanent, home. Proof of
it lies with him, and he may acquire it within 10
seconds of setting foot in Australia and he may fail
to acquire it in 10 years.
Any Australian woman at all, then, may present
a petition to the Court; and the Court has decided
that it has the power to divorce a husband who has
abandoned his domicile and bolted to a foreign
country. But, it will not try a petition by a wife
whose husband has never been domiciled, even though
she is permanently resident in Australia when the
desertion commences.
When difficulties arise over this question of domicile
they are usually surmounted: by hard swearing. The
wife makes oath that her respondent loyed Aus-
tralia and always swore it was home to him, and as
the husband is back by this time in Portugal or
Silesia or Minneapolis no contradiction is possible,
and the suit runs through.
But the case first mentioned suggests that the
jurisdiction which accommodates itself so reasonably
to the matter of domicile, is going to break down
altogether on the appearance before it of a German
subject—which of' course is ~what these unfortunate
Australian women who have married unnaturalised
Germans have become. The whole matter was covered
last January in the case of Porter v. Frenndenbf.rg,
when eight of the most distinguished judges of Eng-
land sat in banco, with the Lord” Chief Jfistice' pre-
siding. The general effect of ’their judgment was that'
enemy subjects who are here “under the protection
and by permission of the .Crown” retain the necessary .
rights. The L.C.j. said that “an alien and the
subject of an enemy State is entitled to sue in the
Hingis Courts. Such an alien is resident here by
tacit permission of the Crown: -He has by registra-'
tion informed the Executive of his presence in this
country and has been allowed thereafter to remain
here. He is sub protectione domini regis.” Speaking
generally, then, these women are not in any worse
position than other Australian women who want
divorces. -
The fear that the internment camp authorities
might refuse to give up their prisoner is groundless.
This country is not under martial law, and conse-
quently tlie ordinary rule obtains—which is that the
military are subject to the fordinary law of the land,
and if necessary would be bound to deliver up the
respondent'
It Moves!
The Federal Executive Council approved last
week of quarantine regulations making
venereal diseases notifiable. In future trav-
ellers suffering from these complaints will
be isolated on arrival at any of the Com-
monwealth ports, and their clothing disin-
fected, nor will they be released till they
are cured, or at least rendered incapable of
polluting others. The effect will be bene-
ficial in several ways. It will prevent the
overseas syphilitic from spreading his awful
affliction in Australia. The population of
the Commonwealth being confined largely to
the great coastal cities, a vast import busi-
ness in venereal disease was prevalent under
the old free-plaeue arrangement. This is
a feature of all seaport towns, of course ;
but Melbourne and Sydney have been notori-
ous for years as particularly bad cases. A
British Admiral in charge here proclaimed
that Sydney was the most venereal-smitten
city for its size that the fleet was in the
habit of visiting; and Dr. Findlay, while
Attorney-General of Maoriland, stated that
he had it from medical men that 60 per
cent, of those who attended the Dominion’s
hospitals either were suffering, or had
suffered from, venereal complaints. Taking
that as a guide, Findlay raised the ques-
tion whether a similar percentage of the
entire population was affected. Notifica-
tion should bring the average of vene-
real subjects down by almost one-half,
if only by the work it does in checking infec-
tion from outside. It must also help by
putting an embargo on the inter-State ex-
change of syphilitics. In the past, when
the West got too hot to hold sufferers, they
have gone east or north or to Tasmania, and
vice versa. If the new regulations are firmly
administered it will be no more possible, in
future, for a Perth venereal subject to
afflict, say, Brisbane with his polluting
presence than it would be for him to pass
the Health authorities there while suffering
from small-pox or the plague. If the State
Governments would now follow the lead of
the Federal Government, and make venereal
disease notifiable wherever detected within
their borders, the path would be clear to an
effective attack, so far at least as the Com-
monwealth is concerned, upon one of the
greatest misery-bringers that the world has
known. When are the State Governments
going to summon up the courage to act?
“T.H.”: First of all, there was the fable
that the British worker was refusing to take
up arms, and even when figures were pro-
duced to show that as many as 50 per cent,
of the miners of military age were under
arms the shriekers wouldn’t be subdued. They
then invented the alarming fiction that the
naval shipyards and niunition factories were
not working full time. Inquiry showed that
in the latter the average working week was
68 hours per man, whilst the naval dock-
yard hands were doing seven shifts a week
of 12 hours each. In the merchant shipping
dockyards there certainly was a slackening,
due chiefly to a shortage of materials, but
partly to the absence of skilled workmen in
the puddles of Flanders. The union officials
contributed this bomb :
There are sufficient men of all trades to man every
job on every warship, men who can be depended!
upon to work till they fall down from sheer ex-
haustion. The shipbuilding employers have had
assurances from the union that no men will be
allowed wantonly to lose time and go unpunished,
and a scheme to secure this has been agreed upon
between the federation and the union. In a few cases
'we have found the men guilty, and have heavily
fined them for their neglect... .One firm sent a
report to the Admiralty that all riveters had struck
work on important warship work. This telegram
was published in the London press, but when it was
found that there bad been no strike or stoppage of
any kind, neither an explanation nor apology was
offered by the firm that had thus slandered its
employees.
Other myths having been exploded, over-
indulgence in drink is now the reason given
w’hy an army of 1,000,000 cannot be equipped
by an outfit designed to meet the requirements
of a few thousands. Meantime a coronial
inquiry has been held into the death of a
s workman at the Enfield Small Arms Fac-
tory, who was declared to have “died of
overstrain caused by prolonged exertion.”
He had worked for 80 hours a week for
eight months; and probably he wasn’t an
exception in that factory. Another case for
the coroner was that of a girl who had
worked continuously for 25 hours and then
fallen exhausted into the machine she was
operating. Granted that the British work-
man is an unequal lot, and that some of
him drinks far too much. Yet the fact that
remains is that somebody has to be taken
away and crucified for Britain’s national
sins of omission—especially its dependence
on “volunteers” —and the British workman
happens to be the person most convenient for
nailing to the Cross.
♦
The Federal Labor Conference sitting at
Adelaide struck a bright idea last week. It
passed a resolution recommending as an addi-
tion to the party objective the “prevention
of war” by a tribunal “clothed with power
sufficient to enforce its award.” Beautiful
bathos! What sort of an affair this hypo-
thetical tribunal should be, from whom it
would derive authority, and by whom it
would be vested with the powers of universal
despotism—these things have been conveni-
ently left to the imagination of the democracy.
Not many years ago Belgium realised in a
way the objective spoken about at Adelaide.
Her shocking plight to-day is evidence of the
pitiful reliance she placed on a tribunal
“clothed with power sufficient to enforce its
award.” One of the Judges came down off
the bench and broke her back, to start
with. But 1 apart from that, what conceiv-
able tribunal could have prevented the Huns
making their bid for foothold on the Atlan-
tic 'and for mastery from the Baltic to the
Indian Ocean? There are only two ways of
checking war: to be ready to hit the enemy
so hard that he won’t take the risk of an
attack; or, as an alternative, to disband all
armies, sink all navies, blow up all munition
factbries and destroy all art and literature
relating to war. Yet even then the ambi-
tions and impulses which lead men to battle
would still remhin a heritage of humanity ;
and as there would probably be some road-
metal and sandbags available, fight could
develop just as 1 readily-Hinder the new condi-
tions as the bid. s ” ,


GAELIC WHISKY
the old smuggler
dfg
w.
B
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
• in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
f ’ i ‘ t*
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
That the Russian defeat may be converted
into a triumph for the Allies, by helping to
bring in the Balkan States, is the devout hope
.inspired by that wise spirit. King George
■ IV. top-notch Scotch.*
“evc-rythimg m ritigs* strip for cur special ring catalogue
U'MK**', CHOICE OIXMOmds MOUKTED 1M SOLID f&<* i-C'.r, * ' ’/$
m
fg
dfg
dfg
dg
csss
mm
SSafeigy -
6/
V
MAKERS
SATIS FAC 1 lOW D SB
OF RiMCiS m WHICH THE STOKES
The Fleeting Glimpses of a Distant Fray.
A week of digging-in and rooting-out, of
titanic battles, of death, mutilation and
woe. A week of little comfort to anyone.
The official .communiques grow more nebu-
lous; the censored reports are scarcely
worth attention, except so far as they may
be taken as forecasts of sanguinary days to
come. In the eastern theatre the occasional
lifting of the curtain discloses our own Aus-
tralian lads fighting with enduring fortitude
against an enemy who is standing to his
ground with stubborn courage. How the
struggle is going can only be dimly
imagined, but if it be true that the Turks
are frantically preparing the Chatalja line
against attack there is good reason for
expecting them to soon yield against the
pressure on Gallipoli. That the attacking
troops must hew their way through to the
Bosphorus at whatever cost has been im-
pressively shown by the Russian reverse in
Galicih, due in a large measure to shortage
of ammunition, and not at all improbably
to lack also of arms. With the Allies astride
of Turkey the way would be open to sup-
plies of material for the enormous reserves
of men the Czar has yet to fall back on.
Further west the Italian campaign is lost
in obscurity, but is likely to be considerably
affected by the achievements of the enemy
'beyond the Carpathians. Meanwhile John
Bull is struggling manfully to overcome
the embarrassment created by lack of shells ;
and as the world is beginning to hear less
about beer and loafing and more about effi-
cient organisation and the co-ordination of
national and individual effort, it seems
likely that the difficulties are being over-
come. So far the supply of men is said to
be equal to the supply of equipment, but it
can hardly be doubted that before very long
the call for soldiers will be made in an
entirely different tone. In Australia men
are being more, insistently urged to enlist.
The regulation height has been dropped an
inch. This gives the frequent bantam a
chance. But the Government could stimu-
late enlistment very materially if it cut
itself free from entanglements, and supplied
a more vivid, human account of what Aus-
tralian soldiers are doing. This absurd
semi-secrecy about the departure of troop-
ships, and this still more fatuous reticence
about the daily life and exploits of the
plucky boys, are so damaging that they
must seem to an outsider like part of an
official conspiracy to damp enthusiasm and
restrict recruiting. A war waged in the
dark may appeal to the military mind, but
to no other —least of all to those who are
expected to come along and keep the pot
boiling.
A hitch has occurred in the movement,
started in N. S. Wales, towards One Big
Union. The conference of Railway
Workers decided in favor of amalgamation
with the A.W.U., and a referendum was
taken in order to give the change legal
sanction. Of 7001 members who voted 5203
said yes; but the total membership is 17,451,
and the Registrar of Friendly Societies has
pointed an icy figure at the rule that two-
thirds of the members must vote for amal-
gamation before it can be carried out. So
another referendum will have to be taken
on the chance of getting 12,000 members to
vote, and officers begin to realise that the
Big Union move will require more shoving
from behind than had been thought of.
S. Aus. Ministers have invited the
gentleman who has been lecturing through-
out Australia on town-planning to prepare
a Rill for them, and the results should be
worth watching. Hitherto the town-plan-
ning movement or campaign, or whatever it
is, has been merely, wind —some of it raised
by people rushing wildly after a cheap
advertisement. Over in Maoriland a Min-
istry produced a Town Planning Bill three
or four years ago ; but as the only thing it
contained that the existing law didn’t deal
with was a curious device for raising loans
on the sly, the measure was promptly
throttled. Since then The Bulletin ha's
been wearily awaiting the production of
something concrete; wherefore it now
wishes Vaughan luck.
The Joint Committee of Public Accounts,
a cumbersome body consisting of three Sena-
tors and six M’s.H.R., set out in February
to inquire into “the general financial posi-
tion of the Commonwealth Small Arms Fac-
tory.” After holding 30 meetings and
examining 22 witnesses, it has dropped in
with a report which a business man
would have prepared in as few weeks. The
cost of producing rifles under normal condi-
tions is £6 17s. 8d. each, which is almost
twice the original estimate. Since the war
began overtime charges have increased the
figure to £7 12s. 10d., though the abolition
of overtime and the introduction of a second
shift will reduce it again, besides increasing
the output. The normal cost is about £2
12s. 6d. in excess of the price previously
paid to the War Office; but, in the light of
recent happenings, the establishment of the
factory in 1912 was one of the finest things
the Commonwealth has done, if only because
it saved a continent from the calamity of
having to beg for arms at the War Office
before adjusting its puttees.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ■ “Ma Mie Rosette”
Royal “On Our Selection”
Criterion “Undercover”
Palace “A Scrape o’ the Pen”
Lyceum “With the Fighting Forces of Europe”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Marriage Market”
Royal “The Man Who Stayed at Home”
Princess’s . “The Soldier’s Wedding”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating
All but the very youug know “Ma Mie
Rosette,” and all but the blase and the cyni-
cal love, its charming music and its idyllic
little story. It was revived at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) on Saturday night by the co.
which has confined itself hitherto to Gilbert
and Sullivan. “Ma Mie” is an opera re-
quiring emotional acting of a fairly high
order, and that sort of acting is not the line
of the people who are interpreting it at the
time of writing. Edward McKeown, the
lover, is a capable tenor, but he suffers, from
self-consciousness. He is better aware of his
own surpassing beauty than most young
actors, which is saying a lot. G. Yilliers
Arnold, who plays the king, does not present
the sort of king that one expects to see on
the stage in a show of this sort. There is
no forcefulness about him. He might be a
solicitor, or an importer of hardware, or a
retired cleric, so mildly conventional is he.
In fact, he is like an average king. It is
disconcerting to be given an average king
when one expects the stage article. His sing-
ing is. of course, equal to that of any king,
and better than the melody of most. Gladys
Moncrieff plays Rosette in a gentle and tak-
ing manner, and sings her beautiful numbers
well. Pearl Ladd is Corisande, the infuri-
ated Court favorite, and Charles Walenn is
himself in the role of Bouillon. Connie
Milne, Katie May and Albert Ivavanagh are
all sound, without being sensational. Miss
Minnie Everett produced the opera, which
will be played till further notice.
* 5k Sk
As far as The Bulletin is concerned there
is nothing new to say about “On Our Selec-
tion,” except that it is, now being played, at
the Royal. This is its fouKth visit to Sydney,
and each time it has had a;,long run to good
business; yet it is packing the theatre again
with hilarious audiences as in its early days.
Few plays have made so many friends in Aus-
tralia. The only newcomer to the cast since
its last is. Miss Pearl Smith, who
plays Kate Rudd with a better conception
of the part than others who have struggled
with it. Bad, Mum, Dave, Joe, Sarah,
Sandy—all are played by the old crowd, and
if the warmth of their reception is any cri-
terion, they’ll do for this town.
* * * sk
The Freetrade v. Protection controversy
at Sydney Criterion still continues. Whether
the United States should increase or remove
the tariff on pearl necklaces furnishes the
subject-matter for considerable forcible argu-
ment between Lincoln Plumer and Charles
Millward, though both speakers have got
into the unforgivable habit of repeating
themselves every night and at every matinee.
“MA MIE ROSETTE," AT HER
MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Colonel Albert Kavanagh declares that his
love is as strong as an onion.
“A Scrape o’ the Pen” is earning itself a'
new; “bunnet” and a bit over at Sydney
Palace. The wild rejoicings of the villagers
when the bridesmaid bobs up through the
thatch and triumphantly waves the bride’s
stocking at the wedding party are still
amazing staid Sydneysiders, who never
imagined Scotland could be sae gay.
** * *
Let Sousa’s band loose in a penny tele-
phone bureau and you would get some idea
of what Robert Parker is like at the Tivoli,
His wonderful voice needs a hall three times
as big to get the full value out of it. The
Follies, like the measles, the mumps and
the Russians, have recurred, and the recur-
rence is so much like the first outbreak that
The Bulletin is not moved to enthusiasm.
Jack Cannot is there in unnecessary quan-
tity ; and so are Isabelle D’Armond and Vera
Pearce. But the popular local production,
“Gick” Watson, has now no more limelight
than would a thrippence, and her name
has gone from the programme. There are
two bright spots—there might be three were
“Gick” given a chance —and these are Alfredo
the violinist and the entire absence of Monty
Wolff. The Randell Jackson Co. still hangs
out its sign, and there isn’t a turn in Sydney
that can come level with it.
* * :\i
. The first of the Sydney Repertory So-
ciety’s monthly meetings was held last
Tuesday at the Society’s rehearsal rooms,
Penzance. Chambers, Elizabeth-street. Upon
the miniature, but well-equipped, stage
Stanley Houghton’s one-act comedy, “Fancy
Free,” was brilliantly produced by the direc-
tor, Frederick Ward ; and a discussion upon
the definition of a repertory play left the
question much where it was. These monthly
meetings are in addition to the public pro-
ductions of the Society, and will enable the
local dramatist to get a hearing under ideal
conditions.
* * * *
Imperial Salon de Luxe, Sydney—Sup.
rm. dancing; single, mar. c’ples ; sit., smoke
rms.; e. eonv.; w. furn.; attend’ce; tel.;
t. stops d.; Wm-s.
** * *
“The Man Who Stayed at Home,” as was
remarked when that artless drama came to
light at Sydney Royal recently, presents a
group of German spies in an English seaside
boarding-house, under circumstances which
suggest grave - doubts as to the sanity of
everybody concerned. To speak quite can-
didly, the play that came to Melbourne
Royal on Saturday is a crude, unconvincing
thing, even as topical plays go. It is poor
by comparison with the late Major Du
Maurier’s “An Englishman’s Home,” which
“MA MIE ROSETTE,” AT HER
MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
McKeown volunteers for active service, and
is presented with a sword by King Villiers
Arnold.
had its original .climax butchered to make
room for “Rule Britannia.” But the
current elementary moral lesson strikes
the iron of reasonable public suspicion
while it is hot, and gets the swmpa-
thies of every pro-British observer all
the time, whereas Du Maurier’s warn-
ing struck before the iron was heated,
and made no concessions to John Bull’s
natural vanity. The earlier play tried to
show John what a careless fool he was, and
only partially succeeded. The up-to-date
story has a fully-established scare to go
upon, and it appeals to the popular taste
“wherever the English language is spoken”
—except to such as mouth it with a German
accent. By. the way, the four spies in this
case can’t raise a color of genuine German
accent among Them; but two of their num-
ber —Miss Malyon and Leslie Victor —have;
weird methods of utterance that any thought-
ful British bulldog would cock his ears at.
There are six sorts of compound foreign
accent that sound wicked, and those two
spies ring the changes on ’em. They never
speak without giving their guilt away.
Frank Harvey, as the Man Who Stayed at
Home, is the bogus Gussie of the hash-house
—-a lineal descendant of the Scarlet Pim-
pernal exquisite, rather than a first cousin
to Sherlock Holmes. He giggles and chuckles
himself unexpectedly into the company of
the Spies when they are talking business,
and he pries into secrets on the pretence of
looking for his pipe—eh, what? He has
white flannel pants and an eye for deductive
evidence, the optic being carefully monocled.
Every time he notes the palpable perturba-
tion of a foolish German spy, or stares hard
through his window-pane at the denseness of
his fellow-Britishers, he reminds one of the
proverb that in the Kingdom of the Blind a
one-eyed man is king. Aided and abetted
by Miss Violet Paget as a charming widow,
Frank Harvey thwarts the schemes of the
imbecile aliens in a jaunty Piccadilly man-
nah —or an orthodox stage imitation of it.
He always looks a winner save at the moment
when he recklessly enters the enemy’s dark-
ened camp in his pyjamas and betrays his
policy to Cyril Mackay, the .treacherous Carl
of the proceedings, who has crept into am-
bush behind an armchair. Miss, Emni'a.
Temple is the very Anglicised German
mother who predicts that Carl will get the
Iron Cross for his brilliant incapacity ; and
Miss Parkes is the tender, guileless girl who
loves the Spycatcher and becomes very agi-
tated when Miss Gumming presents him with
a white feather—which lie uses as a pipe-
cleaner. One scene suffices for all the
strange action of the drama; and the explo-
sive diction of Cornell, as a noisy British
father, supplies the extra-comic relief.
“ON OUR SELECTION.” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
NED DUGGAN (to “Dad” Bailey): "It's glad
I am after this long while to shake hands
with your old face.”
“The Marriage Market” continues to give
moderate satisfaction to large audiences at
Melb. Her Majesty’s, and it is still in need of
medical attention. The English lord and his
valet—Leslie Holland and Phil Smith —could
do with a dose of anti-“fat.” They have
rather too much to say. Apart from the
overfed comedians the entertainment drags
in places, and though never irritating the
effect is sometimes soporific.
»!' 'l' *!'
This week Melbourne Princess’s resounds
to the tread ■of the dauntless Nick Carter
in pursuit of Captain Nero and his criminal
gang. In his man-hunt Nicholas butts into
every obvious trap prepared by the Cap-
tain’s unbarbered supporters. At least three
times on Saturday his recklessness ought
to have called for an undertaker; but usu-
ally the comic relief saved him. Impartially
judged, Nero is the better of the two in the
battle of wits; but he has to be finally lum-
bered, after planning a fine railway em-
bezzlement, in order to satisfy sundry
alleged dukes whom the blighter had plun-
dered. The ’tec is much relieved by the
removal of Nero, inasmuch as the miscreant
is Mrs. Carter’s first husband, the lady hav-
ing married the sleuth in the belief that
her previous calamity was dead. When the
dreaded Nero achieves a resurrection she
feels virtuously obliged to desert her blood-
hound., She should have been then stunned
by the discovery that Nero was already
married when she joined him at the altar;,
but, instead of leaving her position as equi-
vocal as before, this fact is alleged to re-
store her moral character and enable her to
resume the status quo ante in the Carter
household. Miss Remee plays the diverting
Mrs. Carter; Cross almost bursts into flame
in the heat of his anger as the detective;
and liiley (Captain Nero) conspires to pre-
sent crime on the affluent plane, and drags
his tailor into the plot. Of the others,
Kirby is a mass of fat, good-natured levity
as Dave Crowley; and Miss Ilellmrich
(Mrs. Timmins) varies her usual conduct
by employing a large sham nose. On
Saturday next “The Soldier’s Wedding” will
be reproduced.
* * sfc *
Nella Webb is back at Melbourne Tivoli
with her moderate voice and her immode-
rate popularity. Still, in spite of her taking
way, on her reappearance at the Saturday
matinee Nella didn’t arouse unbounded en-
thusiasm, and at the end of the turn she
had to practically ask herself for an extra
encore. Christine Nielsen is the nicest
songstress on the bill at present, and it
shows 1.5 a, sad sense of disproportion to call
the lady for a song merely when her part-
ner’s trivial patter is pausing for breath.
Included in the noises also heard are the
lengthy cross-talk of Desmond and Dalton
and the hard contralto, of Ida Barr. General
Pisano also adds considerably to the com-
motion. The General is a notable sharp-
shooter, and people can guess from his elo-
quence and his swank that he is a great
Amurkan apd a national institoosh’n.
* * * *
Bollinger and Reynolds, the most cbn-
spicuous of the new arrivals at Melbourne
Bijou, are two wirewalkers who give con-
vincing displays of their skill in several
humorous directions. The Quealys pretend
to enjoy a restless few minutes in an emaci-
ated sketch, “On the Stage” ; and Williams
and Warner reappear to strike divers weird
instruments with great fury. Tozart and
Ted Stanley are other revivals, and the
Bletsoes are firmly entrenched in the' first
part as before.


'<r
RED
*mn utnwfOßDS
Scotch M’hiskV
STAR
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
•Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
The Steele Paynes, at the Melbourne
Auditorium, will ring their bells and shake
and beat their other musical instruments for
the last time on Friday. On Saturday the
Audi, will have a screen in front of the plat-
form seats, and Europe’s Fighting Forces will
flit across it in kinemacolor as before.
** * *
Of a silent Melbourne show: —
W. B. Mclnnes, recently back from an Old World
jaunt, reveals entertaining varieties of style in his
picture exhibition at the Athenaeum. In his Eng-
lish sketches, particularly those picturing Holywell,
he furnishes some delicate renderings of indefinite
skies and hazy trees, perhaps over-stressing the
Corotesquerie of his subjects here and there. Some
bits' of secluded Cornish scenery are reproduced with
the usual refined enthusiasm, while Barnard Castle
and the grey charm of a Scawtch winter receive
feeling treatment in several yards of canvas. The
artist is more vigorous and masculine in his Aus-
tralian and Moroccan efforts. The virile life of our
great gums, suggesting Heysen in one case, and the
mysterious enchantment of a bush twilight, are
represented in bursts of fine painting that are quite
athletic. Similarly when Mclnnes plants his easel
in Tangier and notes the pictures in bare brown
limbs and flowing burnous, we get a set of hurried
but convincing studies that are as rousing as the
“THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING
EARNESTAT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Miss ,Fairfax
of the Piece
(the name
“Ernest”
had an
irresistible
attraction for
her).
Nicholas
Joy, the
young
twicer.
The Pilot
Cove.
rataplan of a drum. In consideration of the moderate
values he set on his mostly-charming little pictures,
Mclnnes had a rush of sales —two or three dozen on
the first day. The odd thing was that nobody rushed
in with 10 guineas for the Oriental subject, with a
mule in the middle foreground, which hangs close
to the doorway and is one of the strongest things in
the collection. Art is in a bad way when its
enthusiastic patrons can’t go as high as 10 guineas
for a full-blooded picture of so much merit.
A week of “High Jinks” at Adelaide
Royal leaves a usually unentliusiastic critic
bubbling with enthusiasm. The waltz and
the scent motive, coming in again and again,
are highly eiiective; the dancing of the joy-
ous young Australian chorus has a careless
swing that captivates; and the acting is
simply brilliant, without the buffoonery
generally “starred” in musical comedy.
Workman has been ill, but a young Wotton
took his place neatly. Rawlins is an artist.
Field Fisher one would like to see in a
Grossmitli part. And then Plunket and
Frith and Maguire brisk up the show when-
ever they come in. Dorothy Brunton has
now fully “arrived.” Florence Vie and
Mafie Eaton came in for this play, leaving
a 16t of clever girls to small parts. Busi-
ness has been big, and is likely to remain
so for Nellie. Stewart, strongly supported,
in “Du Barry.” The Tivoli is dashing into
melodrama, Brandon Cremer having got
together a good co. for “Woman v. Woman.”
This leaves the King’s with a pleasing
monopoly of Variety-—the Ibsons, Carlton
Chase, Mann and Franks, and a good mixed
bag. At the Town Hall the Pierrots are
just like every other Costume Co., strong
vocally, funny in streaks, clever and popular
in a mild way.
Horace Plummer, after living for 18
months with a broken back and a dislocated
neck, died at Malebo, near Wagga (N.S.W.),
the other day. Diving into the river, his
head had struck the bottom. Wonder that
he should be living gave way to an idea that
he might be cured, and the Sydney surgeons
only abandoned hope after four months of
struggle. But Plummer still persisted in
living and his injuries did not make him
uncheerful. His case will go into the text
books as an illustration of extraordinary
tenacity to life.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Star”: I received a circular from the
Fred Niblo Admiration Association, urging
me to send a telegram of appreciation to the
great actor on the occasion of his farewell
appearance in Melbourne. “It has been
decided,” said the circular, “that apprecia-
tion should come from all parts of Aus-
tralia.” The document was headed “Theatre
Royal.” I admit there was no penalty for
non-compliance, but something was expected
of me, so I sent a note expressing my sincere
admiration of Mr. Niblo’s qualities as an
auctioneer. Judge my disgust on finding it
was not read with the rest.
“Giovanni” : I remember “Taree, the Aus-
tralian Musical Bushman” (B. 27/5/T5)
now appearing at the English music-halls.
Some years ago he used to hit Melbourne
every now and then, and play for what he
could catch. Between whiles he would eke
out a living around shearing sheds—working,
if necessary. Carlton, the long-headed
comedy magician, then appearing on the
Harry Rickards circuit, realised the possibili-
ties of Taree as a hit in Hqld Hingland, and
carried him off under contract. Six years
ago I met Taree at the Palace of Varieties,
Southampton (Eng.), and held converse with
him. He was then out of Carlton’s hands
and was booked up till 1915. At least he
said so.
German film-fakers have a deep, well-
grounded faith in the world’s credulity, judg-
ing by what the Copenhagen correspondent of
the Berliner Tageblatt told his journal
respecting picture shows in the Danish capi-
tal. The Danes, he said, are in the habit of
bursting into nautical song when a British
Dreadnought appears on the screen, which
happens at least twice a night. “When the
screen shows a tiny German submarine
attacking one of the British giants,” says the
Tageblatt’s reporter, “the public sits still;
but the impression is strong and lasting. We
are respected.” The question is, Do the
Danes really suppose that German submar-
ines attack Dreadnoughts in the presence of
snecially-engaged cinematographers, or does
the audience sit silent, appalled by the
audacity of the fake?
“THE IMPORTANCE
OF BEING
EARNEST .” AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
H. Wardale
Greenwood , as
Worthing.
“J.F.H.”: The London Church of Eng-
land papers, in their appreciations of Bishop
Moorhouse, noted that he “greatly delighted
in good acting, and the theatre was his
chief relaxation.” Each bishop has to take
chaplain duty in turn in the House of Lords
and read the prayers; but Moorhouse always
cleared out like a shot when he got through
the dreary formality, and made a bee-line
for his favorite; theatre.
“Extra Turn”: An unmistakable vaude-
ville artist cheerfully presented his card to
the manager on duty at the front of a Syd-
ney variety-show the other afternoon and
claimed admission “on the nod” —the pro-
fession’s custom. “Nothing doing,” said the
manager; “I don’t know you.” “Don’t know
me!” said the astonished comedian. “Don’t
know me! Bli’me, I wonder if you’ve ever
heard of Julius Knight!”
“C. Ockney”; “Potash and Perlmutter,”
shortly to be put on by a full Hebrew com-
pany at Melbourne Royal, has just com-
pleted its “first year” at the Queen’s in
Shaftesbury Avenue; and goodness knows
how many wandering Jews are engaged in
playing the comedy up and down the Jew-
nited States. It only recently leaked out
that the dramatisation was the work of
Charles Klein, who went down with the
Lusitania. Klein made a pile of money out
of “The Lion and the Mouse” and “The
Third Degree,” and was busy over another
adaptation of the “Potash and Perlmutter”
stories at the time of his death.
Australia’s Beatrice Day is playing a part
in The War. The other day her son, Robin
Wall, who recently passed out of Clifton
College, England, was handed a commission
in the 3rd Lincolnshire Regiment.
“Norbell” : I know it’s rude to speak out
of my turn, but whilst “Harrison O.” and
“Private Boxer” are . trying- to decide
whether Barrie and Pshaw are right in “de-
scribing scenes and characters in a chatty
and amusing manner when a play is printed
to be read,” I want to say that the habit
is mighty irritating to the mummer. For
“What Every Woman Knows” the parts
have pages of weary directions. Here is
one: “He frequently jingles his money in his
pockets, and has other Scotch habits” —other
habits not specified. In my own part I
was instructed that “the pleasant sound of
a lawn-mower is now heard.” The best
worst at this sort of footle is Belasco. I
have been in three of his breaches of the
peace, and his fireworks make a part of a
dozen lines seem as long as a novel. This is
his style: “You enter L.U.E. very slowly
and thoughtfully, and cross down to L. of
C. and stand there in gloomy silence. At
the cue: ‘At his mercy,’ you start sud-
denly. You are now at white heat, and
exclaim loudly; ‘Ha!’ ” and that’s only the
beginning of it.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Among German troops at
one of the Fronts is comedian Otto Reutter,
who, before the riot started, earned his three
thousand marks per week. Reutter stood in
Germany for what Lauder does in Britain,
although most of his songs dealt with poli-
tical matters. I heard him at Hamburg scor-
ing heavily at the expense of J. Bull. But
he was not always at one with Willie, so
his songs were rigorously searched for lese-
majestie; and his impromptus on several
occasions landed him in trouble.
Sweet-voiced Maud Milton, who visited
Australia with the “Midsummer Night’s
Dream” Co. which Musgrove imported, is
now a picture-play actress in America. She
should be all right as a dumb-show artist —
she was an effective Maria in “Twelfth
Night”—yet her greatest charm was her
elocution. Her blank-verse speeches were
prose to the understanding and music to the
ear.
“H. 0.”: Harry Pilcer, who was dancing
partner of Gaby Deslys until the two got
tired of squabbling, is helping “Teddie”
Gerard supply a sketch, “The Temptation,”
at London Pav. A feature is the luring to. de-
struction of a satyr-like male by the Spirit of
Gambling, represented by Miss Gei;ard,
dressed to convey the impression that she
has nothing to conceal. After a great deal
of amorous squirm the temptress rushes from
the stage and is chased round the stalls by
the satyr. Just as she regained the foot-
lights on the first night her pursuer clutched
at her diaphanous robe, which came away in
his hand, revealing a living model of a
Teddie bare —or thereabouts. Even hard-
ened British hallites gasped. Pilcer was
later induced to send an order to the nearest
chiffon shop, so that his partner now wears
the regulation neck-to-nothing costume fav-
ored by less-audacious mixed dancers.
“S.S.”: There was an alarm of fire at a
Ballarat theatre when the late Harry Rick-
ards was showing with a variety co. A wisp
of smoke was curling up from the wings, and
the yell of a girl in the gallery caused some-
thing of a rush. Then Harry appeared. He
was quite composed behind his grease-paint.
“Gentlemen!” he said in a voice of command.
“Gentlemen!” (more reproachfully). “Gen-
tlemen, for God’s sake, be calm. Keep your
seats. Look at me. /am calm. Be brave
in this moment of trial. The smoke that you
see is produced by a stage hand who has lit
a cigarette in the wings. Excuse me a
moment while I kick him.” Then Harry
went off, while the house yelled.
“Harrison O.” : “Private Boxer” takes me
to task (B. 20/5/’l5) because I bestowed
a few words of encouragement on J. M.
Barrie for having made his latest volume of
plays (issued to be read) unusually readable,
by getting away from the stereotyped style
in describing his scenes and characters; “Pri-
vate Boxer” proclaims that he has not read
the volume by practically accusing Barrie
of “loading his text with long, minute
descriptions of the scenery,” which is pre-
cisely what he has not done. Realising that
his published plays are intended to enter-
tain readers, not to give stage dii .ctions to
actors, Barrie does not follow Pinero in
supplying a catalogue of furniture and a
geometrical description of each “set,” but
mentions that a certain room is the sort that
would be found in “a picturesque cottage
with a thatched roof.” In contrast to this,
consider the two-and-a-half pages of cata-
logue with which Pinero introduces us to the
manicurist’s parlor in “The Gay Lord Quex.”
If. as “Private Boxer” complains, the inci-
dental remarks of Barrie and Shaw take his
mind off the dialogue, he need not read them
—they are in italics, and can easily be
skipped. The discriminating reader, though,
will not do this, for, as William Archer puts
it in his book, “Playmaking”: “Shaw’s stage
directions are so brilliant that someone,
some day, will assuredly have them spoken
by a lecturer in the orchestra.” The objec-
tion that Shakspeare “managed to get along
without such assistance” merely emphasises
“Private Boxer’s” hard shelled conservatism.
In his stage directions Shakspeare certainly
never employed the method of the Pinero
school; he did not detail the positions of
windows and doors (of which Pinero pro-
vides about half a dozen for each room),
chairs, tables, sofas and so forth. Shak-
speare’s descriptions and comments put into
the mouth of Chorus in “Henry V.,” f’rin-
stance, approximate more nearly to the
method of Shaw and Barrie than to that of
Pinero. Still, I don’t expect these facts to
be appreciated by a paragraphist with such
a penchant for talented mediocrity that he
seriously suggests that Shaw —the only mod-
ern British dramatist with a Continental re-
putation ; a writer treated as an equal by 1
Anatole France, probably the world’s great-
est living man of letters —“is far from being
a Pinero, and is quite aware of it.”
(Continued on page 38.)
Australia took up new responsibilities last
week. The first war pension of fl a week
for the widow of a soldier then commenced
to run.
Audley Coote, who died near Sydney last
week, was the aforetime ancient mariner
on whose ship Lola Montez made her fam-
ous escape from Australian creditors oy
stripping herself in a cabin and daring the
process-servers to take her ashore like that!
Before the Queensland general election
the Ryan party knew all about how to fix
prices, and thoroughly understood the nosi-
tion relating to wheat supplies. They
explained what should be done. Being
handed the job, they have appointed a
Commission (Judge Macnaughton) to go
into the matter. It’s astonishing how many
outlaws you can ride—as long as you are
on top of the stockyard fence.
Lord Rothschild cut off his elder son Lionel
with a shilling. Anyway, with a beggarly
£5OOO a year. The whole of the vast estate,
except a few family legacies, goes to Lionel’s
younger brother Nathaniel. The only daugh-
ter’s legacy of £200,000 was cut down to
£150,000, “in view of the state of affairs
owing to the war” —queer economy in an
estate which can’t be worth a farthing less
than three millions sterling. The war must
be making things awkward in other ways for
the family. The mother of Lionel and
Nathaniel was pure German. They were
both educated in Germany, and Nathaniel
married a lady named von Wertheimstein —
an Austrian. If they lived in Australia and
owned only a hundred or two the brothers
would certainly be turned out of the local
bowling club as disloyalists.
One Victorian at least has discovered a
way of avoiding the excitement and turmoil
of war; also of climbing over the high cost
of living difficulty. He pleaded guilty to
passing valueless cheques at Maryborough,
and asked for a long sentence to “tide him
over the war.” They accommodated him
with 18 months. And. if the State had any
sense it would put him and his fellow
prisoners to some of the simpler forms of
munition making and keep him toiling
strenuously—a proceeding which would
discourage intending confinees as well as
possible enemies. By the way, Victoria’s'
chief penal establishment at Pentridge had
one profitable industry—that of wire-netting
manufacture. But even that has now been
closed down. Wire and spelter are the
principal ingredients, and though there is
plenty of spelter there is no wire. The
prison authorities always prided them-
selves on the fact that only British wire
was used, but they have now ascertained
that the British wire was really German.
The madness of it!
Australia’s Prime Minister and half the
State Premiers were manual laborers to begin
with. “Andy” Fisher was a miner, at Gym-
pie. Holman was a cabinet-maker. Jack
Scaddan worked as a miner at Eagleliawk.
John Earle, of Tasmania, as a lad did farm
work, was apprenticed to mechanical engin-
eering, and afterwards took to mining and
prospecting. Crawford Vaughan (SLA..),
described as a “journalist,” and Thomas
Ryan, Queensland’s scholarly Premier, both
escaped hard manual toil. After graduating
in arts and law at Melbouren, Ryan became
at.; Grammar School master and stuck to
teaching until he was called to the Banana-
land Bar. Peacock, the only non-Labot
Premier in Australia, was a school teacher]
too, until he heard the oof bird calling from
the Mining Exchange.
Cleland, K.C., of Adelaide, who has lately
parted company with Josiah Symop, is con-
stantly engaged on the opposite side; and
there are smart encounters of tongue. Mostly;
the growls come from the older man. Once,
however, when Symon was '-remarking in
court on the unwarmed condition of the
counsel’s retiring-room, from which he had
personally suffered much inconvenience,
Cleland unexpectedly chipped in with: “Yes,
when a counsel has a bad case he, is apt to
get cold feet.” And Symon was' so taken
aback that he could Only reply: “That is
my' learned friend’s position”—which is
exactly the “You’re another.!” retort that a
clever man is supposed never to use.
A RAGTIME RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“These German devils drive me wild,”
Said Jonathan to John;
“I cannot keep my temper mild
When I reflect upon
The things I swore to do
If any ship of mine were sunk
And one Yank sailor lost his bunk;
But now I'm in the sort of funk
That ribald boys call ‘blue,’
Because the outrage has occurred,
And I am up against my word.
One does not like to look absurd,”
Said Jonathan to John.
“Your case has gone beyond a joke,”
Said John to Jonathan/f
“You must be sorry that you spoke
Before you knew your man.
How futile was your threat
To give the German Kaiser ‘jip’
If he should sink a Yankee ship!
The blighter merely curls his lip,
And makes you very ‘wet.’
Your ships and men beneath the wave
Will go, no matter how you rave.
Just say, ‘The situation’s grave,’ ”
Said John to Jonathan.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


Orient Motor Goats
ThgSe fine, warm “Orient” Tweed Coats are specially made
for motoring, and will keep the motorist warm and comfortable
in the coldest weather.
They are made from specially-selected heavy-weight Irish Tweed,
and are cut with full skirt, with long vent at back, to allow
freedom when moving about the car.
In Dark Brown and Dark Green mixtures, with Fleece lining.
PRICES
70/-, 84/-, £6/10/-
Also Dark Grey Irish Tweed, lined with Leather.
PRICE
Better Quality, with detachable Leather lining.
95/-
PRICES
£9/9/-, £ll/11/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
David Jones Ltd.,
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
wg
4
Avoid
Constipation
by taking
One of the many good effects of Angier’s
Emulsion is its soothing, lubricating effect
in the intestines, by which it promotes
normal healthy functional activity, thus
making the use of pills and purgatives
unnecessary. Angier’s Emulsion does
much more than this. It allays irritation,
inflammation, catarrh, ulceration. It
restores tone to all the functions of the
digestive organs. Angier’s Emulsion has
proved its value in constipation and in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders.
FREE TRIAL.
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney,
SOCIETY
“Jimmo”: I swear this is right. The Vic.
Public Service Commissioner recently adver-
tised for a taxidermist. Next day an appli-
cant presented himself at the office. He
reckoned he, had a good chance, too, for he
said he’d “been drivin’ one for four years.”
* * * *
The Labor Fedei'ation in Perth is worry-
ing, about Sunday funerals, and wants the
Government to enact that no dust shall
return to dust or ashes to ashes on that
day. It is the Undertakers’ Assistants’
A PATRIOTIC GERMAN INDULGING IN THE DAILY HATE.
For France
Russia
England
Italy
But if America is added To his job!!!
Union that feels the strain of these things
and objects to doing overtime on the body
of John Smith merely to give a more public
exhibition of his widow’s tears. The
modern funeral is strange business, anyhow.
The esteem in which the corpse is held is
supposed to be shown by the number of bored
persons standing about the grave; and as
Sunday offers the best opportunities for
drawing a crowd, burials are purposely post-
poned until that day. Parsons in Maori-
land and other States have protested against
the overwork entailed by Sabbath interments
and in some villages won’t have them at
any price. The remedy would seem to lie
in_ a revival of the ancient idea that the
spirit can’t rest until the body is well out
of sight. This might be rough on the spirit
which loosed its hold on Saturday, but it
would satisfy the demands of Trade Union-
ists and the general wish of curates.
“Callan Park”: The case of the man
Scrimshaw (B. 28/5/T5) is fairly common.
I have already had several applications for
help from soldiers invalided home through
no fault of their own. In every instance they
have lost their jobs and are as yet unable
to get fresh ones, and there is no fund or
society for them to appeal to. I have been
thrilled for many months by the Recruiting
columns of the Sydney morning papers. They
must have done a lot of good. The time is
now iipe for the logical extension of the idea.
For example:—
BEGGING FOR WORK;
A Brisk Morning.
Business Men Apply.
The first applicant at Headquarters yesterday
morning was a Russian, speaking seven languages
fluently, and having a special knowledge of road-
making, crochet work, Halma and Euclid up to and
including the Fourth Book. He went to Egypt with
one of the Light Horse regiments, but got measles
between Colombo and Aden, and pneumonia super-
vened. He asked for work, or, alternatively, money
or some food.
His place was taken by an ex-architect, the wreck
of a fine figure of a man. He had given up an
extensive business to follow the Flag. With him
was a native of Genoa, who could speak Chinese,
Annamese and Cream of Tartar, also on his fingers,
and who admitted to being a finer buck-jump rider
than Billy Waite. They were both pneumonia sub-
jects, and wanted financial help for themselves and
their families.
Mr. Marmaduke Brimme, formerly of the Railway
Department, arrived back from Egypt yesterday with
a leg broken in four places, the" result of a kick
from a horse. His first move was in the direction
of the headquarters of the Imperial Patriots’ Fund.
He was informed that his case was outside the scope
of the Fund’s activities. It was suggested to him
that he should disguise himself as a Polish refugee,
and apply again. Or he might pawn the wristlet-
watch which was presented to him on his departure
by his admiring colleagues. Mr. Brimme left in a
thoughtful mood. He was being threatened with a
vagrancy charge when last heard of.
It was a very interesting-crowd that took part in
what the. Fund authorities have got to know as the-
Middav Rush. A couple of commercial travellers
came first, followed by a horse-trainer, a Plymouth
brother, a jeweller, a station overseer, 14 policemen,
and a countryman of the famous Kossuth, who before
the war was Strathfield’s leading judge of Aylesbury
ducks. A single purpose animated them—they
wanted . help. The authorities were courtesy itself.
But, as thej r explained, they were bound by their
rules. There was plenty of money available for
ruined Montenegrins and devastated Servians, but no
one seemed to have thought about hard-up invalided
Australians.
Answers to Correspondents.
Cold Feet: You have little hope of securing regi-
mental comforts if you belong to the Australian
regiment. Practically all Australia’s output of socks
Balaklava helmets and cholera belts goes to England,
though, as you say, out boys in Turkey are in for
some freezing weather as soon as the European
winter returns.
Algernon: It is your own fault for joining in Aus-
tralia. You will now have to fight whether you like
1^i 0r ?°! : - Yc ! u should have gone to London with the
alleged intention of enlisting there, and upon arrival
explained to officious cross-questioners that it was
your intention to return presently to Australia and
take over the command of a colonial brigade. Many
of our young men are finding this manoeuvre highly
successful.
'* * * *
N. S. Wales Marine Department gives
notice that on and after September 1 the
welhkhown Macquarie Light, at the en-
trance to Port Jackson, will be changed
from a steady flash once a minute to four
quick flashes to the minute, thus: flash
4sec.; eclipse, llsec. The eastern suburbs
will get a free fireworks show every night,
but it is open to argument whether the
mariner will benefit. Apparently the Fed-
eral Government has taken the advice of its
imported expert Brewis, who decided that
the stately Macquarie beacon was behind
the times. With all the principal coastal
lights flickering spots of brilliancy, the
harassed sailor making a landfall was
always certain of slow old Macquarie, how-
ever dirty the night. But modern ideas of
coast illumination demand lights of the now-
you-see-it-and-now-you-don’t (mostly you
don’t) order, so the old storm eye which has
shown ;the way to Sydney’s front gate for
30 years is gouged out.
* * * *
“Full Astern”: Another of Sydney Har-
bor’s frequent collisions occurred on May
31, when a crowded ferry-boat ran down
and sank a naval tender. It is a common
thing for these naval pinnaces to get in the
way of traffic in Port Jackson, either be-
cause the men in charge are not educated
WRONG, ANYHOW.
FAT PARTY: “I suppose Nora walks home every day — she’s too mean to pay fares.”
B RIDGET: “Oh, no, she always rides.”
FAT PARTY: “The laziness of her!”
in the traffic rules, or because they think
that, being on naval service, they are lords
of the waterway, and mere ferry-boats must
give them a clear run. The worst offenders
are the common working launches ; but one
day a Personage will be bumped, and when
the Admiral sees what the ferry-boat’s pro-
peller has done to his flag-sergeant’s cocked
hat another Blue Book will be issued and
the. Harbor Trust will be bombarded with
ultimatums. The crew of two in the above-
mentioned tender were rescued by the skin
of their teeth and the slack of their pants.
* * * *
“Te Pana”: When &‘e prize crew from
the Encounter took charge of the German
schooner Elfriede, at Nukualofa, the lieu-
tenant of the party laid his sword on the
cabin-top to ease the strain of things and
allow his left hand to manipulate a fly
whisk. Just then a Solomon Islhnd boy,
the official tin-opener and soup spoiler
aboard the craft, happened along. His pink,
wobbly eyes stared at the masthead where
the white ensign floated over the Gerhog’s
colors; then he glanced at the sword,
saluted, and remarked: “Knife belongum
new feller marster. More better I throw
away knife belong bad-feller marster before.”
Whereupon. he dived into the cabin and
returned with the German skipper’s safety
razor and promptly tbssed it into the sea.
Such is the loyalty of our newly-acquired
brothers!
* * * *
Europe is beginning to stir uneasily before
the menace of a new horror. Over battle-
fronts measuring thousands of miles vast
armies have been contending now ror neany
a year. During all that time millions of
human beings have been living under insani-
tary conditions. Thousands of them have
been dying; also their horses and their oxen.
Sometimes the corpses have been buried in
the perfunctory way that prevails on the
battlefield. Sometimes the exigencies of
the situation have forced the combatants to
leave their dead where they fe11, 40 disappear
by the slow and awful process of decay.
With the makings of one vast cholera-belt
stretching from the Channel to the Adriatic,
and with another extending practically from
the Baltic to the Black Sea, the health pros-
pects of Europe are gloomy. Australia
should be popular, if only as a sanitarium,
for a decade or so after the great trouble
ends.
Some weeks ago The Bulletin printed
a complaint from an Australian at the
Front with British troops that he hadn’t
heard a decent swear since he had been in
the trenches. “Every swear had been the
same disreputable old swear,” he wailed,
“one adjective and one noun, the adjective
the most brutally overworked of the two.”
Chaplain Stacy Waddy, who plays cricket
with sinful proficiency and is headmaster
of The King’s School, Parramatta, hopes
to effect an improvement. He too finds a
dull monotony in Australian swearing. Here
is what he said the other day in a sermon
to the warriors in camp at Liverpool:—
You only have about three words, and two of
them stink. It’s the same thing- over and over.
When it comes to real abuse you simply don’t know
enough to express yourselves. In old English days
the language was wonderfully rich in words of abuse
—words that meant something, and good solid
smashing words that hit like a hammer. And what
has happened? We’ve forgotten them all! Your
Anglo-Saxon forefathers'; would blush with shame at
you trying to be angry, spluttering out half a dozen
wore I ’, over and over again, and hardly a meaning in
one of them. If it comes to real abuse I would
undertake to beat you easily myself. If your soldiers
ask me whether it is wrong to swear I am not pre-
pared to answer ; but, anyhow, if you must talk, call
a man a slip-gibbet scratchback, or a blabtale swill-
pot, or something that means something.
Waddy ended by proposing a language com-
petition. Rules: (1) No man to repeat
himself; (2) every word to have a meaning
and some kind of bearing on the situation;
(3) no “language of the latrine”; (4) no
language “showing a degraded attitude
towards the sex God meant to inspire and
ennoble us” ; (5) no blasphemy; (6) merely
filthy language to be allowed, but the user
to pay a penny per word, proceeds to go in
purchase of footballs, or else to have his
teeth forcibly cleaned. Private Bill and
Trooper Jim reckon the rules are a bit
hard ; but the tip about old English swear
words has caused a run on booksellers’
stocks of Chaucer and Rabelais, and any
day in the future we may expect to hear of
a charge of Queensland infantry accom-
panied by yells of “Gadzooks” and “Odds
Bodkins.”
BACCHUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Bacchus sate within his grove,
Where lilting pipes no more were heard.
He meditated much, and ran
His fingers through his scraggy beard,
Where, in the red wine’s darker dye,
A bloodshot purple richly blends.
But then he laughed: “Red wine shall flow,
For Bacchus still has got his friends!’’
The jolly god with sorrow heard
The many edicts made by man ;
He grieved to think that liquor gay
Had fallen underneath a ban.
“I wonder now will men despise
The treasure that the good earth sends !
No, by my beard, the wine shall flow,
For Bacchus still has got his friends.”
And looking out upon the world
He visioned revels on the earth ;
Gay worshippers whose jests and song
Rose up in rich, abandoned mirth.
He saw me dancing with three moons,
A dozen stars, and odds and ends,
And roared his greeting: “Wine will flow,
For Bacchus still has got his friends.”
“The breweries may cease to brew;
The wineshops all may disappear;
The world, grown sober in its age,
May. frown upon the froth of beer;
Though Jones the King now follows, and
No more on crooked home-paths wends,
Yet merrily the wine shall flow;
For Bacchus still has got his friends!”
Old Bacchus sits within his grove,
Which echoes many a merry laugh ;
The gay pipes shrill; with gurgling flow
Wine fills the beaker that we quaff;
The stars, are dancing as of yore.
Until this world its mad course ends
The many things called “wine” will flow ;
For Bacchus still has got his friends.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


arnotts
New Delicacies
FOR
Afternoon Tea
“ CRISS-CROSS-” “ KIDDIES ”
“ ORANGE SLICE ”
& “ROYAL CROWN” BISCUITS
Baked by Arnottl
Sure to be good!
LUXURIA
0
TRADE
MARK.
Eau de Cologne.
A Toilet Luxury of Great Merit.
MADE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Send One Penny Stamp for Free Sample to
PARVIOLA PERFUMERY CO.,
Box 239, C.P.0., Melbourne.
Economy in Tailoring.
Without departing from good style in dress, and without selecting
inferior materials, you can still economise in Tailoring. The House
of Peapes, in its Economic Tailoring, incorporates good materials,
good workmanship and distinctive style at the moderate prices of
63/- and up to 84/-. The betterment of style, the shape-retention,
and the service of the spits result from careful construction entirely
carried out on our premises.
Write for a range of the new Winter patterns—specifying Economic
Tailoring. We also make riding garments to order in this depart-
ment.
Patterns, self-measurement form, and catalogue on request.
PEAPES a? CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
dg
“H.S.L.”; “Vagabond,” the well-known
Bulletin writer, has been shaking up Eng-
land by a relation of some truths about the
conditions of the fighting in France and Bel-
gium. One epistle from this _ artillery ex-
pert recently made a commotion in Fleet-
street, and the Evening News, which pub-
lished it, has been shelled with suggestions
that the matter should be “reprinted and
distributed through the width and breadth
of the land.” Someone in the Royal IS avy
asks that the gist of it should be put up as
a poster; and someone else desires that it be
“printed in leaflets and handed round
the workshops.” “Vagabond’s” fiercest bomb
exploded like this :
If we are mopped up, the hardest and blackest
and bitterest thought in our minds will be that we
weren’t beaten by the Germans, but that our own
people had failed us—that we counted for less than
pots of beer, that we weren’t given a chance to win,
that our backers had sold us.
“Vagabond” is a rover, whose passage is
never long booked in advance; but, if he
gets through, he is going south, after the
war, he told a friend lately .
7 *. * * *
The Octagon, which has been offered for
the use of wounded soldiers, has been built
on to the oldest house at “Mrs. Darling’s
’Point,” as this swell Sydney locality was
known in the early days. The dwelling is so
called by reason of the shape of the original
' part. In its beginnings it was a guard-
house —“round houses,” they were called.
When it was no longer required for that
purpose it was purchased by Henry Gilbert
Smith, who added to it ; and when it came
into . the possession of Thomas Whistler
Smith the wings were built. T. S. Mort
subsequently became the owner, and Mr. H.
S. Holt now puts it at the disposal of the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
Even in this age of high explosives, when
the warrior lies flat on his stomach, old
custom and prejudice still make height the
first consideration when soldiers are being
selected ; though England, where they lately
fixed sft. 2in. as the minimum for Kit-
chener’s newest army of 300,000, has been
forced to recognise that there are good
fighting men not much taller than the old-
fashioned rifles. Instead of being so anxious
to know how high a man stands in his
socks, a soldier-buying nation should first
want to know how high he stands in his
thoughts. The ideal leader for modern war
would be a squat, bow-legged, irresistible
chunk of humanity about 3ft. high, with
the speed of a swallow, the tenacity of a
bulldog and the. faculty of tall thinking. It
doesn’t matter how many bullets punch
through an officer’s thoughts so long as his
head isn’t surrounding them at the time.
When the figures are available, the inde-
fatigable G. H. Ivnibbs might render a valu-
able service to the Commonwealth by sifting
them and finding out the percentage of
casualties in proportion to height—more
especially, amongst the officers. The result
•may help Australia —the triumphant
breaker ■of precedents —to pioneer yet
another reform.
THE WRETCH.
THE O NE: “Oh, she’s fearfully annoyed
about it!"
THE O THER: “Why, didn’t he catch the like-
ness?"
THE O NE: “Yes, that’s what he did —the
wretch!"
A BIT PARTICULAR.
S HE: “Well, if you're tired of Australia
why don’t you go and fight the Ger-
mans?"
H E: “I would, y’know, but I don’t think I’d
get on with the boundalis.”
Almost two months ago the cables reported
that the Miners’ Federation of Britain had
traitorously demanded, under threat of a
strike, a “war bonus,” representing a 20 per
cent, increase in wages. The truth arrives
in the Commonwealth about six weeks later,
and the truth is rarely published when it
does arrive. As long as four months ago,
D. A. Thomas, one of J. Bull’s largest coal-
owners, admitted that “the men were fully
entitled to share in the increased prosperity
of the coal trade, and that it was idle to deny
that the majority of 'the collieries in South
Wales were in such a prosperous condition
as to justify an increase.” For two months
the miners made no demand whatever for an
increase; and when at last they did move,
the owners declared that, even though the
miners might be entitled to an increase, it
was a matter for the 22 District Conciliation
Boards to fix. The delay of two months had
already added over a million to the owners’
profits, and every week’s delay added tens
of thousands more. By the time the 22
Conciliation Boards had separately conducted
their inquiries and decided on 22 independent
awards, the coal-owners had hoped to add
another million to their profits. It was
only when the miners saw through this piece
of strategy that they made their grievance
public, and suggested that it was about time
a few hypocritical owners were hanged and
Government control substituted.
“The Eighteenth”: The job of teaching
the Australian volunteer the first steps to
discipline is by no means an easy one. The
material of which fighters are made is un-
doubtedly here, but the average Australian
bloke takes to discipline of the military pat-
tern just about as kindly as he does to being
robbed of his beer. He’s a trier, though,
and he’s cheerful all through the business;
but when anything happens to divert his
thoughts from the job of learning to be part
of a machine, you get a little touch of real
Australian that makes your heart glad. The
other day at Liverpool the Officer Command-
ing Company had occasion to roar out:
“What’s that man talking on parade for?”
The offender answered : “Well, this cow
’ere ’e jambed ’is —— rifle on my foot, and
I was tellin’ the” — But here the speech
was interrupted by the O.C.
“0.K.” : It’s a very
hollow attempt that
Scottish whisky
drinkers —quite apart
from English beer'
guzzlers making
to explain away the
alleged deficiency in
mill and workshop
outputs despite ur-
gent war demands.
One excuse is that
extra hours of labor
have overtaxed the
men’s strength and
staled them. But
that is too thin. On
May 29 last, when a
new Scottish Temper-
ance Act kept the
pubs closed until 10
a.m., a crowd of
workers protested that
a morning nip was a
necessary of life; and
in Glasgow several
hundred men refused
to resume work until
the whuskey shops had
opened their doors.
There was no war
then and no excessive
demands on the
worker s’ energies.
Germany drew its own
conclusions: it was
confirmed in its belief
that “decadent” Brit-
ain couldn’t go to
war. The Czar and
the French Govern-
ment evidently drew
their own conclusions,
too : they decided that
when the war came
they would strike
against intemperance.
And they did: vodka
in Russia, and ab-
sinthe in France were struck off the national
bill of fare.
The old Royal Hotel in George-street, Syd-
ney, belongs to the Savings Bank, whose Com-
missioners have handed it over, rent free, for
the purposes of a Soldiers’ Club. One yarn
printed about the roomy old place is that it
was erected in 1829, on the ruins of a
building erected in 1796. There was no
building there in 1796; as a matter of fact,
the original Royal, which had a theatre
attached, was licensed by Governor Bourke
in the first ’3o’s. It was burned down on
St. Patrick’s Night, 1840. Then John Terry
Hughes rebuilt it —and that’s the house as
it stands to-day. It has had many notable
licensees, including C, C. Skarratt, who died a
millionaire or thereabouts, Mount Morgan
being mainly responsible for the insult.
The hotel at Tom Ugly’s Point,. on the
southern outskirts of Sydney, which now
passes to a new licensee, has made as much
money out of its ancient bird as_ out of its
best ‘brands. The parrot —or it may be
cockatoo —not only
drew many a visitor
to the pub, but gave
a pretext for hanging
about the premises.
Gov-General North-
cote has visited the
Sea Breeze, and Gov-
ernors Chelmsford and
Rawson frequently
dropped in to see the
ancient bird. Cocky
used to live in Phillip-
street, Sydney, when
Mrs. Bennett, his
owner, kept a pub
there, and he was then
reputed to be some-
thing over 100 years
old. Before he became
her property in 1891
the bird had visited
most of the South Sea
Islands with an old
skipper of wandering
habits, who main-
tained he had had the
bird for 78 years, and
that it was no chicken
when he acquired it.
In the Phillip-street
pub where the pine
tree grew through the roof, cocky
divided the honor as a curio with the
tree. At Tom Ugly’s Point he had
the field to himself and enjoyed it.
A truly enterprising young woman has
come to light at Elsternwick (Vic.). She is
engaged to be married to three soldiers who
have gone to the Front. She became engaged
to them after they went into camp. She did
it because she was sick of being a servant,
and found she could live very well on the
allowances pf pay allotted to her by her three
intendeds. Had the powers not intervened
the poor, simple girl might have done even
better for herself.
The eternal loophole ! A Victorian police-
man, noticing a beery individual emerge
from a pub and proceed to wind up a waiting
car, preparatory to falling into the contrap-
tion, lumbered him off on a charge of being-
full while driving a motor. The Law, how-
ever, found that, while it provides a penalty
for being soused while in charge of a cart,
punishment can only be inflicted on a
sozzled citizen with a motor-car if he is
actually “driving.” It held that winding
up a car was not driving, and when the bewil-
dered police carried an appeal to Judge Cus-
sen they were told that the judgment was as
wise as Solomon’s, and would not be dis-
turbed. And the Law was once more justi-
fied as a thing of unrivalled beauty about
the ears.
* * *
In a case in which a tramdriver and his
wife sued a milk-vendor for £ 100 each for
damages done to the woman by a bjplting
horse and vehicle, a Sydney Court has |ust
paid the lady the compliment of saying that
a woman is of much more value to her hus-
band than she is to herself. At any rate,
the husband was mollified with £.45 18s.,
while all the wife got was £l5.
SUDDEN.
“His marriage was most unexpected, I
believe?"
“ Rather! —especially to him!"
LA GLOIRE DE LA GUERRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A trench,
A stench,
Some scraps of French,
Some horrible German vapors;
A shell,
A yell—
No more to tell,
Bar a paragraph in the papers!
N.S.W.
E. N. M.
THE GINGERBEER HERO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Remember, it is not necessary to be a soldier to
serve at a time like this. You can help by setting a
good example, by abstaining from strong drink, and
by fighting your hardest against this, the most
powerful ally Germany has to-day.
• —Rechabite manifesto.
I am not going to the war, i.-
And yet I am a patriot.
The gun and bayonet I abhor;
I have objection strong to shot.
To serve my country and my King,
I tell you I’d do anything
But go and have my ribs blown in—
And so I have abstained from gin.
I am a patriot, I say,
And lemonade I hold most dear.
I’m serving in my simple way
By drinking kegs of gingerbeer.
A regiment of us there are;
We loudly scorn the public bar,
And, quaffing soft-tack daily, we
Display our splendid loyaltee.
All men have heard the King has done
With whisky and the kindred brew.
It’s well to serve with sword and gun—
We’re fighting for the Empire, too ;
And when I’ve drunk a tank of pop
And tubs of juice and other slop
I feel a hero on the strand,
For I have strengthened England’s hand.
Milk-shakes will win me my V.O.
When Kitchener this honor pegs
On men whose high sobriety
Has kept the Empire on its legs;
On foes Ido not seek to trample—
I’ll stay and set a good example.
They’ll surely prize above the dead
The patriot who kept his head!
VICTORIA.
S. S.


TIME’S UP!
“The time for conscription has not yet arrived.” —English statesman,
1st VOLUNTEER: “Hold up, Bill! The time for conscription hasn’t come yet.”
2nd VOLUNTEER: “Looks as if it would be here in about half a minute, though!”


Miss Ad,la Tankhurst says the time will come when they will have women on Juries.
ClUrk oi(W:''Udies 4*{ d
gentlemen o| "the
tiavc
greed opori yo\j<~
J Verdici" }
j fore<u»rv, Nlo.&tr
Clerk :
yoo be
locked vb a,rl
7H£
Aa official message issued at Berlin
fstates: “Captured Russians, east of
Jaroslav, were equipped with rifles an
'j iron clubs.” I
ss&* m<
Oj VAW uR /
vjntil yoo do
vo. -Wiank yo«J . r
,cW»
are
iVem.er ?eac<xk ' t
Latent « ff <*&.
of lilts ammal V la
i< I
\r *» da 2T ro X' *1
b«att" »*s WarmksS, a f,
you
w o?mr\oi,
The drinking hoars in Victoria are to
be from 0 a.m. to 0.30 p.m.
Jack iVlurray.
'■there orte vw«K do
far -the
the Attetidarflr
* SoT* fathre
oberavTions
| u)i\( be
tlece6i»ar^.'
After a debate, in which members
deprecated the spirit of hate in regard
to the enemy in the present * war, the
I'resb.vteri.-m General Assembly decided '
that a pastoral letter on the subject be:"
read in the churches in Victoria.
£vfdient(y *th'e Run s
2vre onlv
J ' scooters
poison 90s
«g*'
There was a large attendance
at the Vic. Peace Society’s annual
demonstration to mark the anni-
versary of the holding of the first
Hague Peace Conference.
Ifeace-fol T&r>on •
Well ,brother, mayij
dei-
PEACE, PRESBYTERIANS, PEACOCK, ETC.


/£ are Born to
J'£tß BCNUin.
Insure in
T 1“ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid-up ... 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State
Write for particulars
W It. CAVE. General Manager,
263 Georare Street. Sydney.
SOAPKO.
It Surpasses
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR IN TABLETS;
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS.
Send Six Penny Stamps for Box containing Sample
Manager, eat- h kind.
SOAPKO PROPY., Box 685 G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
r °H.M
The
rr . r.,o' he r^ ner JOU £'°» tlie world over, leading men wear VvoouadW
“mfort. SiroJT"" 1 in quality ’ stvle ' du,ol>al!,r 0,1(1
z
Va
0.
f/
l
55
A
r J.
9.
*
Si
Shaving;
Stick.
leveß
You
won’t
know
yourself
behind
Hygeia
oil-foam.
Mother’s
Friend—
PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on. live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic. —1/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb. 6d. extra.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Harry Bell, Iv. C.. who holds up Massey’s
end of the argument in Maoriland’s Upper
House, had been long a-waiting for the ribbon
and star which came his way last week. He
is a lucky man and an able one, who, starting
with the ball at his foot, has kept it there.
Ilis father was that Francis Dillon Bell who
sat in the first Parliament at Wellington, and
afterwards went to London as Agent-General
and became a knight. The son stayed behind,
married a daughter of one of the heavily-
gilded wool kings of Canterbury, and. with a
now-dead partner, Hugh Gully, built up a
big legal practice. Bell has dabbled in poli-
tics most of his life, but for a long time
pottered round on the outskirts, soured and
angry. Ilis worst experience was a defeat
by “Billy” McLean, many years ago, for Wel-
lington. He is now 65, with an appetite
for costs unimpaired, a florid face, and a
kindly, pompous manner.
Died a few days back Charles 11. Caswell,
of N.SAV. Works Department. The original
Caswell, so far as Australia is concerned,
was a lieutenant who. on retiring from the
navy, settled at Baliekera, near Port
Stephens. He had served through the
Napoleonic wars, and was wounded at the
bombardment of Algiers. The lately-
deceased public servant was this man’s
grandson, born 55 years ago at Moruya
(N.SAV.), where his father was police
magistrate. During his 35 years in the
Works Department, Caswell’s responsibili-
ties included the surveys for the Graftou-
Twecd railway, and the designing and
carrying out of sewerage systems for many
of the inland towns of the State, his last
job being at Lithgow. He was an
enthusiast in town planning, and collabo-
rated with three other professional men—
an architect, a railway engineer and a
surveyor—in what experts recognise as the
best design for the Australian capital at
Yassberra, though as its authors had the
disadvantage of being mere Australians it
was passed over with barren commendation
in favor of Chicago architect Griffin’s
scheme. Caswell was also author of a
scheme for a Sydney city railway, giving
communication with North Sydney by a
system of under-harbor tunnels. A stroke
of partial paralysis 18 months ago was a
warning that death would come suddenly.
It did—while he was taking an afternoon
stroll with some friends at Athol Gardens.
H. E. Campbell, Burns-Philp’s London
manager, who has died at the age of 49, was
a fine, capable member of a clan which in-
cluded politicians I’hilp and Forsyth. Be-
ginning as an architect, he drifted into com-
merce, and made his mark as a shipping
manager; hence his translation to London.
Evidently the vital stock of the Campbells
is not what it was. Old James Campbell
was past 80 when he died, and his widow
is now in her 84th year, whereas of nine
children left by the old Queensland pion-
eering couple only four remain.
After Kitchener the most interesting
Birthday-Honors man cabled about is
Rabindranath Tagore, who may be
described as the Black Knight. Tagore is
the Chidley of Chelsea. The unsuccessful
among the innumerable artists of that vil-
lage—Chelsea is a self-contained village—
wear costumes strange enough to beat the
band; and Tagore, the poet, beats the
artists. Any sunny morning brings a
strange swarm out on to the Chelsea
Embankment —gentlemen in petticoats and
sandals, velvet coats, and flowing cloaks;
and prominent through the swim floats
Tagore, Orientally clad as to his upper half,
but with baggy Occidental pants, and the
wild eye of the true poet.
A FRIENDLY GAME.
When the boys at the Front have spell-oh from
the trenches their favorite recreation is football.
’A RRY: “Blimey, Alf! The Turks didn’t
half make a mess of you!”
ALE: “Turks be Mowed! I done this play-
ing football with the Gentle Annies.”
Two notable Victorian ancients died last
week. The first was Tom Judd, of Mel-
bourne, an Englishman who landed at
Hobart with his father 73 years ago. Judd,
senior, brought letters of introduction to
Lady Franklin, and son Tom went into Gov-
ernment service as a matter of course. In
1852 he came to Melbourne as clerk in
Governor La Trobe’s Office, passing thence
to the Customs department, and so on to the
pension list. A decent, unremarkable
identity was xhomas Judd, a collector of
butterflies and a purchaser of land in the
genteel suburb of Ivew at a time when the
blacks used to corrobcree thereon. He
died in his 94th year. The other ancient
was Ben Miller, of Colac, born in
England of French refugee parents a year
earlier than Judd. Ben arrived in Australia
only 65 years ago, became a policeman for
want of something better to do, w T as
appointed “watch-house keeper” at Colac
before a watchhouse was built, and vege-
tated in the district for the rest of his life.
Moral of the two long-drawn-out lives:
Emigrate to a new country, and go slow.
Private “Jack” Reynolds and Corporal
Norman Roberts, well-known Manly life-
savers, have been dropped by rhe Turks
lately. By thousands who have patronised
the Manly surf during the last live years
Reynolds’s lithe form will be remembered,
and dozens of people in all parts of the
S ate owe their lives to his skill and pluck.
He never hesitated to face the ugliest sea
when a life was in jeopardy. Roberts, a
fine human specimen, ran Reynolds close
for good work on the beach during his shorter
term of service. Two other life-savers who
have been employed by the Manly Council —
Victor IJarcourt and Dave Fitzgerald—are
fighting in Gallipoli; while Albert Rein, the
last of the bunch, has shown his determina-
tion to follow his comrades in a remarkable
manner. Rein, who is only 19 years of age,
found himself a few weeks ago disqualified
from enlistment through having an overlap-
ping toe. He auickly went to a hospital
and had the offender cut off. Recov-
ering, he presented himself and was enrolled.
A Sydney paper says Napoleon -was a man
of taste. As a matter of fact, he wasn’t, in
respect to either girls or grub. He was a
man of war—of haste, of waste. And very
fond of onions.
The last of the old W. K. Simms brewery
family, of Adelaide, is dead. Harry Simms
was a genial, loud-voiced “sport” on the
Adelaide Stock Exchange during the Broken
Hill and Kalgoorlie booms, but about 20
years ago he moved to London, where he was
accepted as an Australian mining magnate.
His son, H. L. Simms, has been prominent
as a Sussex county amateur cricketer for
some seasons past.
By most people the late Lord Jersey is
remembered in Sydney, where he gover-
nored, on account of his weeping whiskers
and the red end of his nose, which
resembled a low comedian’s “make-up.” But
he is rather bitterly remembered by a few
people as the magnate of an English wool-
spinning company who opposed the starting
of branch mills in Australia “on account
of the labor conditions.” Jersey’s old Tory
whiskers were out of sympathy with
•advanced Labor conditions, though his nose
might have been owned by the worst sort of
“worker” in war-time.
From “N’importe” :—-
“Martin Luther” in his Hymn to the Prophets (15.
3/6/’l5) is unfortunate in his reference to Digges 1
Touche, late Reverend and now Lieutenant, especi-
ally in the stanza, “And from his cool, sequestered
place we hear no more his bray,” which may be a
poetic, but is hardly a correct, description of Liver-
pool at the present time. The last time I saw
Digges he was endeavoring to bleach the crimson
strain in the flow of oratory of one of his tent mates.
He was among the first to throw away the surplice
for the haversack, but illhealtli supervened, and he
had to take a sea-trip. Returning revivified, and
the scrap in Europe being still on, he got into khaki
once more. If Digges is as ready to prod a protes-
tant Prussian in the solar plexus as he was willing-
in the past to assault a Nationalist with his tongue,
we can reckon the Prussian as dead meat.
Lieut. William Rhodes Mooi'kouse, the
bird-man to whom a posthumous V.C. was
awarded the other day for particular dar-
ing, was a nephew of Robert Rhodes, M a Mid-
land's Postmaster-General. Moorhouse was
a lively youngster. In Christchurch some
seven or eight years ago lie used to per-
form along the roads in a car with 70-h.p.
concealed in its innards, and one day while
he was practising for a speed test
or Kingdom Come at New Brighton,
a little boy toddled across the line
of action. Moorhouse was acquitted
of manslaughter after a sensational trial,
and went back to Britain. There he had
another speed-trial, and more death resulted.
Aviation then took his attention as being less
risky, and when lie married, a year or so
back, lie went on the first aerial honeymoon,
Hying off from the wedding with his bride
and a London reporter. They finished up
with a smash. On the outbreak of war lie
put his luck and daring at the disposal of
Kitchener and Co., and this time had the
worst of the gamble, though the Reaper’s
hook couldn’t get him until he liad made all
Flanders sit up and take notice. He bombed
the German railway trains at Courtrai. and,
mortally wounded, flew back 35 miles to
report on what lie had seen out yonder. He
had a drop of the Maori in him, and rever-
sionary interest in a heavily-gilded Welling-
ton estate.
ZIG-ZAGGING.
THE LADY: “The captain doesn't appear to
be able to keep a straight course.”
THE SAILOR: “He has to dodge so many tor-
pedoes, Miss, that sig-sagging's got to
be a ’abit with him.”
Ex-Canon Nash has just been formally
handed the keys of Prakran Congregational
Church —the oldest synagogue in the suburb,
having begun, in a small way, in Chapel-
street, long before Graham Berry ran his
little corner grocery there, and very long
before Rieciotti Garibaldi kept his neighbor-
ing tuck-shop.
A Maoriland Judge has lost a son, too.
Justice Chapman’s lieutenant boy, George,
of the Army Medical Corps, was killed in
France. Before the war he was house sur-
geon at a London hospital.
Baroness Vaughan, friend of the late
Leopold of Belgium, has achieved a further
spasm of publicity by damaging herself with
a toy pistol. Since her royal protector’s
death she has mostly inhabited his favorite
villa at Cap Ferrat in the Riviera, and has
tried to reduce her large income by furious
play at the tables.
She is an unmitigated
gambler, and still
hunts for heart-throbs,
as numerous escorts
bear frequent witness.
One of her “aflinities”
for a long time was
Comte de Losseps, son
of the Suez Canal eon-
structor, and
more recently
she “adopted”
young Jean Gui-
try, brother of
Sacha, the not-
able actor-au-
thor of Paris.
“V og a n,” as
they call her in
French, is now acquir-
ii>2: tho linos of a bag
of spuds. Which is
more or loss appropri-
ate. considering that
the lady was vending
tubers in the Faris
markets when she first
caught a royal eye.
J. S. HORSFALL,
an Australian
Squattocrat.
John Madden, C.J., wrote a very kindly
letter to the Argus the other day re the pub-
lication of the new book of verses by
George Gordon McCrae, the poet of four
score years and two. His birthday was
imminent, and Madden suggested that all
who had got pleasure from the ancient bard
should celebrate the occasion by purchasing a
copy of his book. The advertisement, so
graceful and timely, must have pushed a good
few copies into circulation.
Thomas Hughes, of Sydney, has just been
given the knighthood he was expected to get
years ago. lie is an Irishman, and proud
of it, and a good Catholic, even as the Church
understands the term ; yet no word to make
trouble has ever come from him concerning
the opposition party. From the day he re-
turned from Stonyhuist, where he was edu-
cated, and plunged into law, he has been dili-
gent and useful. The plague was banished
from Sydney during his term as Mayor.
Later, he built Cranbrook Cottage, and went
to live there, possibly to be on hand when it
became necessary to remind the Governor
that there was the material for a splendid
knight in the vicinity. As a Liberal M.L.C.
he has been consistently reasonable and
benign. Of course, that makes him a hope-
less politician. The man-of-the-world, who
can see both sides of every controversial
question, is better out of a State Legislature.
Hughes has sat on a number of Commissions,
is a company director in a biggish way, is
52. married, and has two sons to call him
dad.
Charles Henry Goode, Adelaide’s
oldest merchant, has just walked
briskly into his 89th year. The
veteran still goes to business, and
a slight defect in hearing is his
only physical infirmity. He is a
never-wearying benevolent worker.
The Industrial School for the
Blind, which has been his con-
stant care for many years, has
been described by experts as the
best-equipped blind school in the
Southern Hemisphere. Adelaide’s
other splendid philanthropist, Ban-
Smith. who has put his mansion,
Torrens Park, at the Commonwealth’s dis-
posal as a soldiers’ hospital, is 92.
The Garter which Palmerston was glad
to accept since it involved “no d—d ques-
tion of merit” has gone to Kitchener. It is
losing its old lustre. Such men of action
as Roberts. Kitchener and Grey—the last
the only commoner who ever became a K.G.
—have been given it in recent years. Most
of the Knights are royalties, but the Order
also comprises all the respectable Dukes and
Marquises, and half a dozen of the richest
Earls. The best way to appreciate what
the Garter has been in the past is to reckon
up the mighty list of great men—writers,
artists, philanthropists and statesmen —who
could no more have hoped for it in return
for their services than they could have anti-
cipated instant translation to Paradise. As
things are going the famous Blue Ribbon
will soon be within the reach of a mere
Shakspeare.
THE FOOTSTEPS COMING TO THE GATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The footsteps coming- to the gate,
The sharp knock at the door —
Only we mothers know who wait
The agony of war.
It’s easy for his dad to shut
The thoughts of him away ;
He's busy in his office, but
I worry all the day.
All day I cook and sew and clean ;
From memories 1 shrink —
We women in our dull routine
Have too much time to think.
I make the beds —his bed is made,
Ilis room so tidy set—
And wonder if my son is laid
Beneath what coverlet?
The telegram to tell the worst!
Will it arrive to-day?
By my weak woman's heart accursed,
Sometimes for it I pray !
I tremble when the door-bell rings....
No ; it’s some mother come
To talk with me of trivial thing
She dare not stay at home.
His dad is worried, too, I see;
His laugh does not ring true ;
And gentler lie has grown to me—
It’s all that he can do.
We talk of his return. Pretence t .
It’s hard to chatter so ;
For deep beneath our confidence
We know, we know, we know !
And down the street I hear the noise
Of feet that hurrying go;
Ah. mothers who have sent your boys—-
It's only we who know !
Wo fear it always, early, late,
In these dread days of war —-
Tlie footstep coming to the gate,
The sharp knock at the door.
N.SAV.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


- .
m
m
mw n
N
mi
.
■
\
■by
.
■■■
w
a
■
ESOi
H
Mm
.
r
■
H
illli 11
/
:
•<0
,1\:
■
■
« f ;
'■.X
HI
H
lllill
:
'V Vi '
J'
1
!
V>K.
1 II
m
t' : r\
r
■: - ’- ■ ■ '
; i
■ ■
HU
*
»iste m
■■§
mm h
mm
■
mk:
SMH
I: : ::
ill
111 l I!
liji fM h;=i
•T
ii it H ill
If I 111 Wm :
11# ' iiiLi
mm
■
a
1..1* n
115
} |f S f | f
m
■ p%V
K\hi &
MU ■
IB!
THE EAST WORD
up-to-date tailoring is represented above. Study the picture, read the description, and note
how it retains the style without losing any of the manliness.
THIS SAC SUIT MODEL is the very latest style, and is being- worn by the
best-dressed men in England and the Continent. It possesses several
orio-inal features, and its general neat and refined appearance will make it a
favorite with Australian gentlemen. The coat is cut slightly shorter, the sleeves
are a trifle narrower than formerly, and the collar and vest are higher also. The lapels
are cut with a neat smart sweep, and the outside breast pocket is again m vogue. . The
coat is made without a vent at the back, and with or without a seam down the middle.
The trousers are medium width, either plain or gauntlet bottoms. Made in Vicars’
Pure “All Wool” Marriekville Tweeds or Best Imported British Materials: 63/=,
70/=, 75/=. Hand-made: 84/=, 90/=, 95/=, 105/=, 110/=, 115/=, 126/=. Send for
Seif-measurement Forms and Pattern Books post free. Also Catalog of other styles.
484 to 490 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Pioneer Distributors Goods
3 to 17 Royal Arcade
SYDNEY.


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
dfg
The Reliable
Swedish
Detachable ROW-BOAT MOTOR
WITH THE VERY LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
MAGNETO IGNITION, also for Astern Drive.
AUTOMATIC SELF-LOCKING STEERING DEVICE.
Propeller turns with the rudder. Rudder protects
propeller. Submersible parts rust-proof! Smallest
petrol consumption! If von want a perfectly
reliable Out-board Motor, write for particulars and
testimonials to Swedish Australian Trading 1 Company,
Chamber of Commerce Buildings. Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales :
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Sept.,’o7 .£'42,960 10 p.c. =£1X0,635 £32,331 £1,501,645
Mar.,’oB.. 150,742 10 „ „ 124,309 32,343 1,593,988
Sept.,’oB.. 107,928 10 „ ~ 125,000 42,928 1,636,916
Mar.,’ 09.. .170,420 10 ~ ~ 125,000 51,420 1.688,342
Sept.,’o9.. 182,302 10 ~ ~ 125,000 57,362 1,745,704
Mar.,’lo.'. 178,939 10 „ ~ 125,000 53,939 1,799,643
Premiums on new shares.. 50,720 1,850,303
Sept.,’lo.. 184,689 10 p.c.= 133,709 50,980 1,907,343
Premiums on new shares.. 40,735 1,954,078
Mar.,’ll.. 201,492 10 p.c. = 143,457' 58,035 2,012,113
Premiums on new shares.. 21,545 2,033,658
Sept.,’ll.. 222,043 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,043 2,105,701
Mar.,’l2.. 215,115 10 „ „ 150,000 65,115 2,170,816
Sept.,’l2.. 214,023 10 „ ~ 150,000 64,023 2,234,839
Mar., ’13.. 259,004 10 „ ~ 150,339 102,665 2,337,504
Sept.,’l3.. 260,101 10 ~ „ 168,946 81,155 2,418,659
Mar.,’l4.. 275,746 10 „ ~ 175,000 100,740 2,519,405
Sept.,’l4.. 246,324 10 „ ~ 175,000 71,324 2,590,729
Mar.,’ls.. 239,407 10 „ ~ 175,000 64,407 2,655,136
A traveller turned up iu Sydney the other
day irom overseas, and settled down at the
Australia. After a couple of days he lay
back in his chair as though he was really
enjoying it. “It’s beautiful,” he said, “to
again strike a city that doesn’t seem short
of money.” This plentifulness of money
is surprising thousands of local people, too.
They expected their own businesses to
shrivel up under the combined influences of
drought and war. But their businesses
refuse to shrivel to any extent worth men-
tioning. What is the explanation of the
mystery? To The Bulletin it seems
almost certain that things would have been
worse had there been no war. Cohen of
London had begun to look coldly on us.
We had been going the pace too fast alto-
gether. The war gave us an excuse
for continuing the spree by offering
interest which Governments would have
been stoned for paying under peace condi-
tions. Now the States, which through the
war have thus been able to continue their
loan drunk, have not had to bear an ounce
of the war load. The training and
despatch and maintenance of the troops is
a Commonwealth matter ; and the Common-
wealth is merely undertaking to pay to-
morrow or the next day. In other words,
we are to-day spending millions which we
will have to pay to-morrow. Nearly every-
body has come across a similar case in some
back street. The shiftless family has just
about exhausted its credit. Then something
serious happens in the family: say a couple
of the children are run over by an infuri-
ated road-roller. Immediately rules are
relaxed, and for a month, maybe, the
family’s credit is restored. Any sympathiser
who calls in can have cake and ale. It is
beautiful, says the visitor in this period, to
lind these people so well off. He doesn’t
know that they are getting further into
trouble than ever.
It seems to this paper that that is very
much the position in Australia —in N. S.
Wales especially. Whether the getting out
of the trouble is going to be a painful pro-
cess depends very much upon future seasons
and the expansion of Australian manufac-
tures. If these things are satisfactory we
shall bear the extra burden without much
discomfort, perhaps. If they are not. the
heap of taxation that we shall have to carry
is going to be a serious matter. Possibly
we may be helped by the payment of an
indemnity. But though the speculator may
gamble on that, the investor won’t.
The conclusion of the whole matter, then,
is that there are very definite reasons why
we should appear to be more prosperous
during the war than we may be after the
war.
But the banks may and probably will be
more prosperous during those years of pay-
ing-the-bill than the bulk of the community.
It has been said so often that it needn’t
be said again that the Australian banks
were iu a wonderfully good position to meet
the war crisis. As a matter of fact, they
are in a wonderfully good position to meet
any trouble. Against a sudden slump in
values they can’t defend themselves. But
there is so much cohesion among them that
they can adjust their charges to maintain
their profits under almost any conditions.
And that is of course all the easier because,
apart from the Commonwealth Bank, no
competitor has come among them for very
nearly 80 years, although available business
has grown out of all knowledge during that
period.
After what has been said above these
next figures, showing the 12 months’ move-
ments of the 8.N.5.W.. may not seem so
astonishing:—
Mar., ’O4. Mar., 'l5.
Votes .. .. £277,874 £370,918 Inc. £93,044
Bills, etc. .. 0,739,870 7,007.533 Inc. 267,057
Deposits ..30,699.816 38,778,055 Inc. 2,078,239
Liquid assets. .24,215,065 25,872,970 Inc. 1,057.905
Advances ..24.829,400 25,720,173 Inc. 896,767
Premises . . 780,000 800.000 Inc. 20,000
However, no matter how it was brought
about, it was a fine thing that this bank,
instead of having to call in money, was able
during the year to actually give its country
clients the additional assistance many of
them needed to tide them over a drought
which has kept tens of thousands of
country people on bread and dripping while
the city has been furiously arguing whether
it ought to pay another ha’penny or so for
butter.
*** * .
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
OitniNAßv Dkrartaies t.
Provided Added
for to In-
Ex- Depreci- suranee
Income. Claims, penses. ation. Fund.
Dec-, £ £ £ £ iC
. 1901 .. 412,51C'220,783 79,577 100,450
1902 . . 429,263 226,512 81,002 121,749
1903 . . 438,825 236,874 87,731 114,220
1904 .. 454,758 248,313 95,175 111,270
1905 . . 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1906 . . 466,326 335,946 104,564 25,816
1907 .. 483,486 273,080 107,141 103,265
1908 .. 488,932 321,453 98,4'3 69 006
1909 . . 482,038 307,035 86,915 50,000 38,088
Standard Life business secured.
1910 . . 557,103 333,339 115,970 107,758
1911 . . 622,924 316,776 167,165 200 138,783
1912 . . 649,677 337,357 193,116 32,483 56,721
1913 . . 627,143 284,568 158,571 10,143 173,861
1914 .. 628,243 327,210 125,362 11,182 164,489
It’s a hard fight. The office somehow got
out of the stream and drifted into a billa-
bong, and in that sluggish water it made
very little progress, and what it did make it
made at heavy cost. Success never grows
a bigger crop of success than when it is
planted in a life insurance office. The
A.M.P. or the M.L.C. doesn’t have to prove
to every probable insurer that it is better
than this or that little office which started
the oilier (lay and may or may not pull
through. All it has to do, as a rule, is to
persuade the man that he needs more insur-
ance and can afford it. At the worst, the
canvasser for the successful office has only
to show that his proposition is as good
as one or perhaps two other big concerns
can offer. But the concern which has lost
mana or never had it has to fight every step
of the way. It can’t possibly show that its
results are as good; so it has to put up
twice as hard a battle in order to convince
the sceptic that somehow or other they are
in the future going to be better than the.
best.
The Colonial Mutual was making a
struggle to get out of this billabong. And
then, when it was pushing on very well, it
ran into a snag. Ex-employees made various
charges against it; and they kept on whirl-
ing around until the Victorian Government
appointed inspectors, who reported that the
society was solvent, its investments sound,
and its management honest and capable—
or, at any rate, that tile charges against it
of dishonesty and incapacity were “wholly
unfounded.” It was a comprehensive certi-
ficate; yet it probably had more effect in re-
assuring those who were already policy-
holders than in persuading anybody to come
in. The Government inspectors 'were not
canvassers. They did their job when they
found that the public could safely insure
with this office. That still left it for the
office’s own agents to show that it was not
only safe but also lucrative.
In telling policy-holders that they were
safe, the inspectors did good service in an-
other way. They gave the management
courage to write down the assets at the ex-
pense of current bonuses. Says James Pul-
lar, manager and actuary:—
Tlie experiences during the triennium were so
unusual that the Board decided to strengthen its posi-
tion by applying a considerable portion of the sur-
plus funds to writing-down securities, and to Carry
the balance forward 1 recommend that 1911, 1912
and 1913 be considered non-bonus years for these
reasons.
A reversionary bonus of 1 p.c. of the sum
assured is, however, declared for last year.
No doubt it is a struggle to get business for
an office which isn’t distributing bonuses;
still it is highly probable that it would -pay
the office to hold off bonuses for two or three
years more. The more profit it can bank
up the bigger the rush of profit there will be
presently—and in that rush the Colonial
Mutual might be taken out of the billabong.
Policy-holders would put' up with it all right
if it was made clear' to them that they
weren’t losing anything by deferring the
division of profits.
The expense rate is still not wliat it ought
to be, or what it probably will be when the
co. can show the results of the reorganisa-
tion which it put in hand as soon as ever
the Government inspectors’ report gave it
sanction to go ahead. Recent figures:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1904 .. £2O 18 7 p.c. I 1910 .. £2O 16 4 p.c.
1905 .. 21 17 10 „ | 1911 .. 26 16 8 „
1906 .. 22 8 8 „ I 1912 .. 29 14 5 „
1907 .. 22 3 2 „ 1913 .. 25 5 8
1908 .. 20 210 ~ ! 1914 .. 19 19 3
1909 ..18 0 7,,!
And there is no great flow of new business
to acount for that high rate either. If old
(renewal) business costs 7 p.c. and the
amount paid for purchase of annuities 3
p.c., then the balance of exes., representing
cost of new business, is equal to 153 p.c. of
first-year premiums. There is nothing
attractive about those figures. The best
feature is that the rate is moving the right
way.
The advantage of using surpluses to write
down assets instead of absorbing them in
bonuses is shown in the next table, which
gives the average earnings of the mean
funds
1905 .. £3 17 11 p.c. 1 1910 . . £4 .•> jo,j c
1906 .. 3IS 1 ~ 1911 .. 45 9
1907 . . 316 9 ~ 1912 . . 4 511 ”
1908 .. 4 1 1., 1913 .. iso”
1909 . . 4 3 3 „ 1911 19 4
That is as good a little table as can be dug
out of the aeounts of any insurance office in
Australia. It means that, other tilings being
equal, the bonuses for the future are going
to be greater than they have been in the
past. And other things look as though they
will be not only equal but better. The ex-
pense rate, for instance. That is improving,
and is almost bound to improve still more
as the society’s profits grow, and it becomes
consequently easier to persuade people to
come in.
This comparison, setting out the disposi-
tion of the funds, shows a lot of improve-
ment. too:
1904. 1914.
Cash and , A ~ , a ,
deposits ..£185,091 5.7 p.c. £213,966 5.5 p.c.
Public securities 312,344 9.5 ~ 874,300 22.7 ~
Mortgages . . 1,278,282 39.2 „ 1,441,303 37.3 ~
Freeholds, etc. 779,517 23.8 ~ 844,500 21.9 ..
Other assets . . 714,320 21.8 „ 483,766 12.6 ..
It isn’t an ideal distribution; but the rate
of interest now earned suggests that I here
can’t be much if any over-valuation.
Ik dost tei a l I4kpa rtmen t.
Accumu-
lated
Income. Claims. Expenses. ; Funds."
1909 .. £3,451 £39 £3,298 £144
Deficit.
Paid for Standard business, £22,000 21,856
Funds.
1910 .. 54,908 3,483 21,971 7,598
1911 .. 60,484 6,254 45,398 16,430
1912 .. 77,516 7,710 57,855 28,381
1913 . . 86,155 9,356 49,356 55,824
1914 . . 97,036 15,476 49,623 87,761
"Exclusive of extension of organisation account.
Usually an extension of organisation account
consists of money spent on setting up and
establishing agencies to get business. It is
so in this case also; but it is something more
than that. Doing the honest thing, this
office debits itself with the liability which
has accumulated on its policies; and it shows
that it has still £100,494 leeway to make up
before it overhauls that present deficit. Last
year, according to the actuary, the income
paid claims and exes., provided for the neces-
sary lay-by towards meeting the policies,
and left £OOOO over. The latter amount
was therefore available for reducing the de-
ficit ; and if the lapse and claims rates keep
reasonable each year should see a greater
amount available for the purpose. The tide
lias turned, anyway.
AC CI DENT DE PA RT SIE NT.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1910 .. £6,460 £679 £2202 £3579
1911 . . 13,166 3839 3910 5417
1912 .. 13,777 4872 5151 3754
1913 .. 11,875 5748 4320 1807
1914 .. 10,517 3103 4546 2868
That makes total funds of £17,425, of which
the actuary calculates that £12,878 is accu-
mulated profit; the balance is necessary to
cover unexpired risks, etc. Out of the accu-
mulated profit a bonus of £2548 is paid;
this will provide an addition of 2 p.c. to the
policy benefits.
* * * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land
and Building Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Oct.. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1902.. £5,261 7 p.c. =£2,537 £2,724 £26,401
1903.. 5,900 7$ „ „ 2,762 3,138 29,539
1904.. 6,591 9 „ „ 3,855 3,236 32,775
1905.. 7,639 10 „„ 3,792 3,847 36,622
1906.. 8,952 12J „ „ 4,742 4,210 40,832
1907.. 9,249 10 „„ 4,126 5,123 45,955
1908.. 9,535 12-J „ „ 5,659 3,876 49,831
1909.. 12,018 12% „ „ 5,836 6,182 56,013
1910.. 13,691 10 ~ ~ 5,190 8,501 64,514
Transferred to capital, £5807 .. 58,707
1911.. 24,624 10 p.c. = 6,301 18,323 77,030
Transferred to capital, £9670 .. 67,360
1912.. 33,737 16 p.c. = 12,760 20,977 88,337
Transferred to capital, £9308 .. 79,029
1913.. 35,351 121 p.e.= 1.1,209 24,142 103,171
Transferred to capital, £39,774 .. 63,397
Cash bonus distributed, £145 . . 63,252
1914.. 30,263 8 p.c. = 10,482 19,781 83,033
April,
1915.. 14,167 9 „ „ 5,895 8,272 91,305
This phenomenally successful co. has had a
great harvest in the field of land-subdivision,
etc.; but the chances are that there are drier
years ahead. It is in a good position,
though, to meet the change in its fortunes.
Many another co. in the old boom days
thought it had been doing splendidly, too •
but it woke up to find that it had put hun-
dreds of thousands of other people’s money
into unproductive property bought at bubble
prices and into building loans made on the
same, basis. This co. has very carefully
abstained from loading itself up with
estates. Six months ago its freeholds were
valued at #53,646. They have since been
reduced to £45,091; and as that includes
very substantial city office property, what-
ever remnants it may have of unsold
estates must stand in the books at very
little. By far the largest asset consists of
borrowers’ and purchasers’ balances,
£214,026.. There may be some losses in
that; still, as whatever shrinkage may
occur in values is-not likely to be sudden,
it is highly probfible that the payment of
instalments will outpace the depreciation,
and this will keep the co. on the safe side.
In any case, even if worse tilings happened
than are at all likely to happen, the co.
couldn’t get into very serious trouble. In
concerns of this kind that always results
from heavy borrowings: and, bearing that
in mind, the Intercolonial has kept itself so
free that it owed on all accounts only
£44.080 on April .‘>o, and it had then about
£15,000 of cash, etc., in hand. Considering
the profits that have been made, the risks
shareholders have been asked to run have
been astonishingly small. In fact, if ever
a management deserved three cheers from
tlie shareholders, it is this one—always
assuming the advances included in tile
before-mentioned £214,026 are of the same
quality as those which have been made and
liquidated during the past <rolden 10 years.
The New York Life Insurance Co.:
The war is the first set-back this and the
other big Yankee offices have had since
their own people gave them such a raking,
mostly for political purposes. They
deserved a certain amount of raking, no
doubt; anyway, some of them did. But
their enemies were better to them than
their friends ; for there is no doubt that the
offices have been tremendously improved
by the law prohibiting the old mad rush for
business-,a t-any-cost. Despite that law.
v liich limits the expense rate, this office is
able to show a steadily increasing revenue.
Not always, certainly, an increase in new
business: last year, for instance, only
£1,861,999 came in by way of new pro-
miums, as against £1.910,403 in 1913. Still,
taking into account all tlie wild, disturbing
tilings that happened last year, even that
was astonishingly good.
The total income, which includes renewal
premiums and the interest on the steadily-
mounting pyramid of investments, has
moved this way :
Income.
1907 . ~ . £20,861,878
190 S .. 21,008,853
1909 . . 21,401,462
1910 . . 22,099,262
1911 .. £ 23,152,124
1912 . . 24,449,797
1913 . . 25,529,031
1914 . . 25,893,272
This £25,893.272 is exclusive of an item
shown in the accounts —“Increase by
adjustment in book value of assets,
£52,803.” There is a valuation of securities
every year, and the accounts show on one
side the aggregate growth and on the other
the aggregate shrinkage of values.
Naturally there was more shrinkage than
growth last year. This shows the move-
ments for some time past:—-
Shrinkages.' ■ Increments.
1907 .. ..£4,730,327
1908 .. .. 49,760 £40,300
1909 . . . . 892,413 1,412,746
1910 . . . . 247,613 90,513
1911 . . . . 178,277 159,670
1912 . . . . 405,539 53,104
1913 .. .. 68,317 57,405
1914 .. .. 350,286 •> '"W52,803 .
Apparently the figures for 1914 are based
on market values as at June 30. The
enormous shrinkage caused by the war is
therefore additional to the £350,280 shown
above.
Being an international . the
N’York Life is of course affected by the
war. But these big American offices are
not nearly so cosmopolitan as they were
once represented to be. “We have about a
million policy-holders in all the world,” tin-
president of this office says*. “Eighty p.c.
of the total live in the United States and
Canada. The remainder, 20 p.c., are
scattered over the rest of the . world.” Just
here one discovers another of the great
services rendered by those who attacked
the Yankee offices a few years ago. The
expense rate being limited, business was
curtailed in foreign countries ; and that no
doubt explains why the average age of the
200,000 or so of foreign policy-holders
is as much as 47 years, which is beyond the
age liable to heavy mortality through war.
Further, in Russia, Servia and Japan ordi-
nary policies don’t cover war risks, and in
Italy the State a while ago took over life
insurance bodily; so that practically of the
million policies there are under 20,000 held
by people who are very liable on account of
their age to be killed in this war, and whose
risks are coveted by their policies. How
the investments will come out is a different
matter. But the amounts at risk with the
belligerent countries are not colossal. The
total assets are £102.526,538. Of that lot
only £21,704.516 is represented by Govern-
ment and municipal securities of all sorts ;
and spread that lot over the earth-over
Argentina and Brazil and Mexico and
Denmark and Indo-China and Switzerland
and Spain—as well as over Britain, France.
Japan, Germany, Austria apd the British
colonies, and the amount in any one
country must be comparatively small.
Austria appears to have been about the
largest borrower from the N’York Life, and
its debt to the co. amounts to only
£2,000,000. The vast bulk of the securities
are U.S. railway and other bonds and
mortgages. The Yankee offices encourage
rather than discourage borrowing on
policies. No less than £28.378,847 was
loaned on that security in 1913. By tin-
end of 1914 the total was up to £31.516,535.
This was about 19 p.c. of the total assets.
The Australian figures are better than that,
but not much better. The A.M.P. has 17
p.c. of its assets in policy loans —which
is discreditable seeing that in Australia the
general teaching is that the worst use you
can put an insurance policy to is to borrow
on it. n\
The N’York's year’s business panned out
like this
Income .. .. .. ..£25,893,272
Outlay:—“
Claims .. ' ... .. £14,859.573
expenses .. 3,135,705
\et shrinkage .hi:value of
Assets.. .. .. 297,483
18,292,761
Available for funds .. .. £7,600,511
The expense rate was thus about
£l2 2s. lOd. p.c. of total income—as against
the A.M.P.’s £8 15s. sd. Much as they
have pared them down, the American figures
don’t yet compare well with the best
Australian. And this applies also to tin-
cost of new business. Assuming that old
(renewal) business cost 7 p.c. and annuity
business 3 p.c.. then the N’York’s new
business last year cost 106-1 p.c. of the new
premiums. The corresponding figures for
tin- M.L.C.. of Australia, last year were
80.8 p.c. This, of course, must militate
against high American bonuses, since low
costs are one of the three main sources of
insurance profits.
llkibox & Smith, Ltd. —This co. was
formed a year back to take over, amongst
others, the businesses carried on in N. 8
Wales and Queensland by Heiron and Smith
and Alcot-k’s. both of whom made and sol'd
billiard tables and billiard-room accessories.
The capital is £113.664, of which £60,000
is represented by ordinary and the balance
by 6 p.c. pref. shares. Of this total capital
£60,000 was paid for the various goodwills,
trade marks, etc.; and apparently the whole
of the shares were issued to the companies
and firms that were bought out. The first
year’s trading has been highly satisfactory.
A net profit of £12,289 is shown, out of
which the profs. get their 6 p.c., and when
ordinaries have been fed with 8 p.c.
(=£4800) there will still remain £4269
towards wiping out the serious loading with
which the co. starts. Considering the lam-


The Personnel of an
EXECUTOR
and TRUSTEE
is-a very serious matter for a Testator’s Widow
and Children if the best selection is not made.
The wisest course is to appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
(The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia),
which, having had twenty-eight years’ experience,
and employing an Expert Staff, is much to be
preferred to any private Trustees, no matter
how trustworthy.
A Booklet giving full particulars as to
the Company’s Methods and Charges
will be sent on application.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed £8,750,000
Annual Income Exceeds ... £1,400,000
The Company is prepared to consider
applications for
MORTGAGE LOANS
on
FARMING AND GRAZING LANDS.
“Facts are stubborn things,’’ said George Eliot,
and there is no getting away from the fact that
“Pioneer” leather belting is the best. For 57 years
it has transmitted the maximum of power at the
minimum of expense. It is a wonderful profit-/n-
-ereaser for the plant owner. It is made from flawless
Australian ox hide, and holds a record reputation
for strength and endurance. Let’s send you a trial
length to-day. Sold only bv J. C. Ludowici & Son,
Ltd., “Pioneer Leather Works,” 117 York Street.
Sydney. Inter-State offices:—Victoria: Geo. Russell
P’t’y Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; South Aus-
tralia: .1. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide;
Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd., Bris-
bane; West Australia: Horace Summers, Howard
Street, Perth; Broken Hill: Geo. n
Argent Street.*
C. Dempster,
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid' cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per" cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d„ making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside , and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. —a saving of 2s. 3d.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * .
Extract from The Policy-Holdeh, London, Novem-
ber 26, 1913, re the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Ltd. .-—“Then, too, in another way it
makes a wider appeal than many mutual assurance
societies, its programme of operations including, in
addition to life assurance and annuities, life policies
which include sickness and accident benefits and per-
sonal accident and sickness insurance on the usual
lines, while it also has a young industrial branch-
established about four years ago—in which the usual
activity and push have been manifested, as may be
gathered from the fact that already a business has
been built up represented (in 1912) by an issue of
nearly 40,000 policies for sums assuring over a
million and a quarter sterling.”* [2
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has, of all pressure pipes,
the greatest carrying capacity which does not decrease
with age, wood pipe being free from corrosion and
incrustation. Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe
Co. Ltd., contractors to all State Governments, 57
7 ork Street, Sydney (head office).*
* * * -X-
Australian Provincial Assurance Association
Limited.— The second six months of the present
financial year, which commenced on the Ist Alai- has
started auspiciously in all departments. A fine
volume of new business has already been written, and
the Accident Department is down to business in
earnest. Air. O. 11. Boughton, late Resident Secre-
tary at the Queensland Branch, has been entrusted
with the management of the Accident Department
for Australia, and with his long experience and able
guidance, the Accident Department will certainly
make gieat pi ogress. The returns to date are emin-
ently satisfactory.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and llassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Casilereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Alining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories, lleari
office: Hinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * %
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’' Iron-
work of every description.*
The Port Kembla works of the Electrolytic
Refining Company are freely buying ores containing
copper, silver, gold from all parts of the Common-
wealth. The Ore Purchase Department is at
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.*
“Robey’s” latest steam combination—-Self-Con-
tained Superheated Compound Engine and Boiler
powers from 30 to 400 b.h.p. Not built to sell, built
to last. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co
Head Office, Sydney.*
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Alel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, AVeights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydnev;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Chailis House,Sydney
amount of paper capital, and considering
also that eight months of the past 12 have
been tilled with incidents which don’t usually
impel people to go out and buy billiard-
tables, the figures are astonishingly good.
Two things are no doubt mainly respon-
sible: (1) the fact that the co. does much
of its business on time payment; (2) the
extension of the furniture-making business
at a time when people see more clearly than
usual the national importance of buying
home-made goods. Time-payment in this
line, while no doubt very remunerative,
should not be particularly risky. In fact,
since the t.p. billiard-table usually earns
revenue, while the t.p. piano usually doesn’t
and the t.p. furniture ouly does' so occasion-
ally, there looks to be least risk of all about
the billiard-table. The co. has £39,004 on
the books; and it is satisfactory that it can
give that much rope to customers without
itself going into debt for more than about
£7500.
•X- -If tC- ‘ *
The 11. 11. Prop.’s steel works at New-
castle, formally opened last week, can turn
out 150,000 tons a year; and Australia has
been importing 400,000 tons in one form and
another. How much of this 400,000 tons
will be produced in the Commonwealth de-
pends chiefly upon the size of the Protection
given to iron and steel manufactures. Labor,
which has been a lot talked about, is of
secondary importance: so far as the manu-
facturers, at any rate, are concerned, it
doesn’t matter how high the wages are so
long as the Customs tariff more than balances
the difference between Australian and the
lowest foreign costs.
The Newcastle works are the latest develop-
ment in the activities of a co. which, albeit
for many vears fat and unprogressive, has
done good service to Australia. Though
not the first: co. to build a smelter on the
Barrier, it was the first to smelt at Broken
Hill. Starting quarter of a century ago,
for some years it had its furnaces on the
mine. For the greater part of that time
they were under the direction of 11. 11.
Schlapp, the first of the big United States
imports. When he retired from the busi-
ness he settled in Melbourne, and is still
there. The local supplies of ironstone were
soon exhausted; and that and the high
freight charges on coke sent the co. off to
Port Pirie, where larger furnaces were built.
Meantime the late W. It. Wilson, one of the
first directors, and brother of the first
general manager, was sent off to Asia to open
up a direct trade in silver and lead, and a
refinery was put up to separate the bullion.
To cheapen the iron-flux supplies, the Iron
Knob, on the western side of Spencer’s
Gulf, was acquired; and the stuff has ever
since been punted across —700,000 tons of
it altogether. Seven years ago G. I). Del-
prat, the present general manager, who had
come in as assistant to Alexander Stewart,
set out to establish the spelter industry, the
Sulphide Corporation having given it up as
a bad job at Cockle Greek (Newcastle). If
zinc smelting had been a huge success the
iron and steel business would probably not
have been tackled. But it wasn’t; and that
is why, though the Broken Hill cos.’ lead
mills can be kept going at least half-time
notwithstanding the war, only a few
hundred tons of zinc concentrates can be
smelted per week in Australia. The B. H.
Prop, mine could be worked out in five years
if the ore were belted out of it at the old
rate. Looking around for something to
prolong its life, and unable to find it in auy
mine in the district, the B. 11. Prop, fell
back on its Iron Knob flux property. Gen-
eral-manager Delprat went travelling with
that iron ore in his mind and bundles of
analyses in his pocket; and the works to
which the G.-G. gave his blessing last week
are the result.
Incidentally the Broken Hill mines estab-
lished the coke industry in Australia. Dur-
ing their first seven years none but foreign
—mostly German —coke was used in the
B. H. Prop.’s furnaces; and it was alleged,
as usual, that it must always be so, because
Australia couldn’t make smelting-coke—it
was dirty and too weak to stand the weight
of a furnace charge, and had all the other
bad points that a coke could possibly have.
Fortunately the price of the German goods
got so stiff that a trial of the Australian
rubbish was made. No foreign coke is used
in Australia now, and N. S. Wales alone
produces about 300,000 toils a year—mostly
using small coal that had hardly any value
previously. The B. 11. Prop, has for many
years past had its own coke works at Bel-
lambi, and it has been landing the fuel at
Port Pirie for less than one-half the cost of
the German coke formerly delivered at
Broken Hill.
* * * *
The remarks made last week as to the
bore, etc., at Ardlethan referred of course
to the Wild Cherry, not the White Crystal
—obvious enough, since only the Cherry has
a bore. Not that it matters a great deal.
One is a bit more respectable than the other;
that is all. Also the Cherry is in 150,000
£1 shares, while the Crystal is in only
120,000. And neither should be in more
than 25,000.
From a man who lately examined the lot:
The Edna May freak (W.A.) will probably carry
pay ore to big depths, though the big depths may
not be in the Edna May itself. The belt is
a large one; and though generally the reefs are
low-grade enough when true to the normal strike of
the country, there are a few good company proposi-
tions and a dozen shows outside the Edna May group
which look like being fine propositions for a few
mates, while appearing very disproportionate to the
£30,000 capital which is fashionable. The coun-
try is covered with cement and alluvium, and most of
the outside reefs have been found by blind stabbing
15ft. or 20ft. The May has about 6000 tons unstoped
above the 75ft., and not more than 60,000 tons
standing between the 75ft. and the 225 ft. It is
morally certain to cut the ore body in the next
crosscut, and, as usual, it will be poorer—and not
richer, as the local enthusiasts would have it. The
ore is poorer at 225 ft. than it was at 150 ft., and in
the end of the drive at the 225 ft. it seems to be
thinning and the country hardening. But the work
of a day may have altered all that again. The
make of granite recently cut through in the shaft at
300 ft. may presage another enrichment, but the
probabilities are of at least slightly-reduced values.
Basing it all on the present 90s. grade of ore, the
Edna May has 22 months’ work to the 225 ft. level,
or £3 6s. a share, and the next level will give it
another 335. ; or £5 a share in all. The greenstone
showing as a footwall in the open cut is apparently
the southerly limit of ore. Everything goes N.E.,
and that will mean that the Central is an Edna May
at /lepth. The Edna was really discovered from
developments near the surface in the Central, and it
is a pity that the Edna, Central and Deeps are not
all in the one co.
The schoolboy rivalry of the two mines is funny.
The Edna barrackers passionately deny the possi-
bility of the Central getting the ore bodies at all.
Practically they say that if the Central does get ore
they won’t play and “won’t go he,” and “won’t do
nothing.” The Central “has no chance,” but the
Golden Point, a probable eat to the east of the Cen-
tral “has a big chance of the southern leg of the
Edna lode” —whatever that may mean. The Central
and the Deeps should both have the extension ; the
Central more, the Deeps much less. The Deeps at
203 ft. cut 2ft. of clean mineralised stone worth
7dwt., and has some low-grade bodies in other shafts
which it is not developing. But it has a long way
to go before it can talk of the Edna or any other
body yet known at shallower levels, and there are
calls ahead to the limit. Also, it must go for its life
at sinking, and that means that it will get all the
water of the field. The Central has much 4dwt. and
sdwt. ore to be mined and treated by the cheapest
practice on the field, and this will pay for develop-
ment and leave a profit during the six months that
must elapse before the deeper and better ore can be
opened up. The Edna shoot already extends into the
Central, and the Central must bulk largely in any
future the field has. At the 75ft. the mines are
connected in ore, and at the 150 ft. (underlay in the
Central, vertical in the Edna) there is 12ft. of
stone worked almost to both boundaries. In a winze
now 60ft. below the 150 ft. in the Central a fine body
of stone has been carried, worth lOdwt. half-way
down the winze and 27dwt. at 50ft. below the level.
The deepening of this in the last fortnight lifted
values to 3oz. Bdwt. for the limits of the winze; it
looks like a big body of over-ounce ore, and means
a new mine. Meantime the co. can go on with the
stuff which has been so low grade that its manage-
ment has had to be a good boy or close down. Cheap
and easy mining and milling conditions are present,
and the country is A 1 for timber. The new plan of
the Edna is to bring treatment tonnage up to 5000
a month, and within six months the Central should
join it as a big and profitable producer.
The Deeps plant is only headgear and engine, but
these are apparently caught by the prevailing patriot-
ism, and threaten to leave the lease and go to the
Front. The probable cats are numerous. The Junc-
tion, which includes the old and abandoned South,
is very naughty indeed. The Consolidated is sinking
a new shaft, and has a fair body of low-grade ore,
but all it can find in a big way is yet ahead of it.
Hans Irvine threw down his option on Edna Queen,
and the language used by the disappointed optionees
was bad. The fashionable nominal capital is £30,000
in 10s. shares. The good looks of some of these
blind reefs run the imagination into 60,000 shares,
although many of them haven’t a grain of gold to the
ton. Westonia Prospecting Co. has no right to be a
co. at all.
The best-looking shows outside the belt are at the
Battlers, but these shouldn’t be in companies of
£30,000. The Battler is said to have two shafts to
80ft. and a foot of high-grade ore, and the manage-
ment doesn’t like visitors. The Great Battler has
won from sinking and driving 100 tons alleged to be
worth 30z., and looking that way. If this and the
Battler Deep and the Hill End, which has 3ft. of
irony quartz worth 11 oz., were thrown together, it
would stand a bigger chance than any of the single
and over-capitalised leases.
A big chief of one of the little syndicates about
Westonia sent a few rock specimens to Perth Geologi-
cal Dept., and when the descriptions came back he
hurled his own translation at the syndicate: “Black
and grey amferbole, secondary silica and iron pirates
on the foliated planes of a gneissic schist rock. And
I think, friends, on such a fine report as that we’ll
offer the lease for £5OOO cash in three days and
20,000 shares.” So all the country is pegged for six
miles, and the cats in the land are very many. Pro-
bable cats, that is, as the alluvium may cover a
mine anywhere.
Frank Rae’s Star of Asia, Murchison
(W.A.), starts production with a Lane mill
on the strength of the excellent work done by
the Lane on Chunderloo ore. The gold of
the Chunderloo at Yulgoginda is flour and
float, and the ore carries 3 p.c. of copper car-
bonate. In the two parcels treated 94 and
99 p.c. of the gold contents were saved inside
the mill, and the slimes were worth only
ldwt. I sgr.
Burbanks Main Lode (W.A.) has decided
to give it up. There was some talk a few
months ago of raising more capital, but
apparently the war has knocked this on the
head, and the plant and mine are now for
sale.
.Edna May has started crosscutting at
i\o. 4 level and is tipped to reach the reef
about the third week in June.
Thirty-five tons of ore broken out of the
British Flag’s shaft at Laverton (W.A.)
just before the show was optioned to Alec
Peacock and others yielded £2950, nearly
half of which was dollied. Re-turns from
residues are expected to produce £250 more.
But the locality is very tricky, and all you
know when you’ve taken out a patch is that
there’s one less to take out.
Speakman’s Gold Mines (W.A.) could get
any sort of assay from three ’weights to
three ounces. Shares rose and fell like Zep-
pelins. One day the Board would meet and
smile; the next it would meet and gnash.
The assay notes never did things by halves;
they were good or bad, but never indifferent.
The crowd talked about an Bft. reef in a
channel 50ft. wide worth 325. a ton all
through. Now the battery gives the lie to
the cupel and the balance and the Melbourne
sidewalk tipsters. Practically all the gold
has vanished from the stone, the liabilities
of the co. have materialised to the extent
of £l2OO, and the assets are elusive and
uncertain. But hope springs eternal in the
shareholders’ breasts, so they adjourned for
a week to get a strayed letter of explanation
from the mine manager.
* * -x- *
When Mount Cuthbert (Q.) annexed W.
H. Corbould as engineer, it made a good
stroke. It reaps the benefit now; for just
when its appeal for £70.000 of 7 p.c. deben-
tures fell flat, it was able to paste up the
news that it was in smelting touch with
Corbould’s own Mount Elliott. It is
arranged that Elliott, takes 150 tons daily
from Cuthbert and smelts for bare cost,
plus a rental intended tq cover depreciation
and wear and tear. Per contra, when
Elliott is shifting plant, then Cuthbert will
let it use its smelter to treat 150 tons daily
of Elliott stuff. It is a good deal for both
parties. Presuming Cuthbert breaks 10 p.c.
stuff and gets 8 p.c. out, it should mean from
£BOOO to £lO,OOO profit monthly as long as
the metal market holds. Elliott, too, can
use up the balance of its high-grade ore by
fluxing it with Cuthbert ore. Seeing how
Elliott and Hampden are situated, the sur-
prise is that Johnny Wharton didn’t freeze
on to Elliott on Hampden’s behalf.
* * * *
Since E. Yisick left Poseidon Alluvial,
Tarnagulla (Vic.), the vigorous hunt after
pay dirt which usually marks a change of
management was sufficiently successful to
keep the wolf from the door. Still the last
clean-up went perilously close to the non-
pay mark, and it looks too as if the battle
to get the mine going has to be fought over
again. Anyway, no more wash is to come
out till the point raised by Yisick as to the
movements of the gutter is cleared up.
Manager Moore declares that it bends to
the north and will be got out that way. If
he cuts into decent wash Poseidon will have
another run; but the stable doesn’t seem
brimful of hope.
Sea, Bendigo, has some profit locked up.
and the punter asks for a div. to stiffen up
the market. The co. gets its best stone
from the spurs on the east leg of a reef
which is being developed at the 2160 ft,
level. Of two legs out east Hie outer one
was not very profitable in the South Garden
Gully next door; but the idea is that there
is better gold inside the Sea fencfe. Any-
way, the gamble lies in that assumption,
together with the chance of better stone
making at 1540 ft.
In reply to a question in the Senate, it
was said that Dr. Wade, the Federal petro-
leum expert, now in Papua, had an engage-
ment for two years from April 1, 1915, at
£l4OO a year, with an option by the Com-
monwealth Government over his services
for another 12 months. If Whaley strikes
oil at Kingston next month it is unlikely
Dr. Wade will be wanted beyond the two
years.
* * * *
Rutile, from which titanic acid is
obtained, has been found in a creek at
Westwood, near Ulverstone (Tas.). By the
prospectors it was mistaken for tin, but has
been identified by two metallurgists as the
valuable steel-hardening mineral, worth at
latest report £5OO a ton.
* * * *
The Australian people interested in the
Austral Malay-Kamunting group of dredging
shows haven’t been worrying about values:
they knew the tin was there all right. What
hadn’t been proved was whether the first
dredges were suitable for their job. Natur-
ally, there were adjustments to make; but
the machines are clearly the right type. Dur-
ing May Kampong Kamunting' handled
67.100 yards in 579 hours, and recovered
£3754 worth of tin at a cost (including
office exes.) of £745; and the Kamunting ate
97.000 yards in 634 hours for 67 tons tin,
worth (say) £6400, at a cost of about
£lOBO.
Mr. A. J. Mackenzie, who has been mana-
ger of the big Perpetual Trustee Co. (Syd-
ney) for 25 years, has retired on account of
ill -health ; and Mr. R. C. Lethbridge, acting-
manager for some time past, has been nailed
down in the chair. As he was assistant-
manager before lie was acting-manager, it is
safe to say things will go on in just the
same old satisfactory way.
* * . * *
Adelaide is reported to have its eyes on a
new gold deposit close to Yungari, a rail-
way siding between Coolgardie and Kal-
goorlie. The prospectors broke a few rich
specimens out of a pot hole and then filled
it up pending negotiations for sale, A good
deal of mystery surrounds developments at
Gibraltar, on the other side of Coolgardie.
where the Bulla Bulling Co. believes it has
something good. Old timers who profess to
know the locality a good deal better than
the co. think little of its chances.


'Charles
lleidsieckS
VmEage 1906
dm®
HE PLUS OLTRfI
-'f.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
GAS IN THE STOMACH IS
DANGEROUS.
PHYSICIANS RECOMMEND THE USE
OF MAGNESIA.
Sufferers from indigestion or dyspepsia
should remember that the presence of gas or
wind in the stomach invariably indicates that
the stomach is troubled by excessive acidity.
This acid causes the food to ferment, and
the fermenting food in turn gives rise to
noxious gases which distend the stomach,
hamper the normal functions of vital internal
organs, cause acute headaches, interfere with
the action of the heart, and charge the blood
stream with deadly poisons, which in time
must ruin the health. Physicians say that
to quickly dispel a dangerous accumulation
of wind in the stomach and.to stop the food
fermentation which creates the gas, the acid
in the stomach must be neutralised, and that
for this purpose there is nothing quite so
good as half a teaspoonful of pure limrated
magnesia taken in a little water immediately
after meals. This instantly neutralises the
acid, thus -stopping fermentation and the
formation of gas.'and enables the inflamed,
distended stomach to proceed with its Work
under natural conditions. Bisurated mag-
nesia is obtainable im powder or tablet form
from any chemist; but as there are many
different forms of magnesia it is important
that the hisurated which the physicians pre-
scribe should be distinctly asked for.*
COGNAC
BRAN DV
OTARD
15 YEARS OLD
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, Jihs t e 7, 1915.
My Dear Arini, —
When the just-dead Lord Jersey reigned
in old Government House he gave various
parties to his special friends, the Boys’
Brigade. At the tea which brought forth the
memorable "Pass the pickles, Jersey,” he
hand-fed the newsboys on their favorite fare
—cold meat and unlimited condiments. Jersey
was on official duty at Middle Head when
the mine-layers’ boat blew up and made a
tragedy. He rushed down the heavily-
tvooded harborside to find out the damage.
After him dashed a young artillery officer,
ncting-A.D.C. to the popular Jersey. His
Ex. took a short-cut, and the next thing he
was hanging in the scrub by the plumes of
his Commander-in-Ohief millinery. “Cut me
down, like a good chap.” wailed a smothered
voice from the wrecked cocked hat. So the
youngster unsheathed his new sword and
hacked the Governor and the remains of his
headgear out of the ti-tree. Jersey’s whim-
sical comment, “I must look like a moulting
parrot,” was about right.
The Town Hall was crowded with the
finery of our most expensive chalets when
Melba’s Polish concert started the other
night. The Highland Society’s pipers skirled
their loudest as the long vice-regal proces-
sion wormed its way up the packed hall.
When the pipes set the time a G.-G. and a
Fairguson walks alone. Hence his Ex.
marched afoor his tall lady, whose neat
head was tied up in diamonds. She, too,
stepped out in solitary splendor. Then
came the Stricklands —papa and daughter
Mary—the Ellison-Mac-artneys, the Cullens.
Helps Fane and Foxton, soldier Finn and
iiis little lot, and a long tail of municipal
big-wigs.
The excitement having calmed down, and
Government House having got its feet
settled on its Axminster, Melba came for-
ward. In spite of the kind of cold that
gives an ordinary woman a red and angry
nose, the songbird looked in the pink of
condition. A frock of black shimmer, with
a corsage cut. I imagine, from a thin black
cloud, was the background to a display of
diamonds that would illuminate a cab-rank.
She lifted her voice in the National
Anthem, and the audience, to the best of
its ability, bawled its wish to “Send him
victorious!”
The concert programme was almost sub-
sidiary to the auctioning of bunting and the
sale of Paderewski’s picture. Still, in re-
turn for the £63XO. we had Melba singing her
sweetest —a bad cold having scarcely touched
her lower notes —and Parker opening his
mouth till it resembled a cave, from which
proceeded majestic, music. John Lennnone,
after toiling at the business end of the con-
cert for weeks, stepped forward to pipe his
lay his magic flute. 11 is own composi-
tion, "The Elves,” a tricky piece of melody,
full of frills, was a delightful performance.
In the audience, the foreign Consuls were
interpolated with our Best People. When
the bidding lagged, the voice of Arthur Allen
rose from the body of the hall to give it a
fresh sprint. Not far away Eaditli Walker
made a sporting offer of £125 for the Bussian
flag. The Australian flag went as a bar-
gain-counter remnant at a mere £5O. Per-
sonally, I felt a wild desire to stand up and
offer £2OOO for my own glad rag, but the
Alpine cost of mere bread and butter
squashed this frenzy of a moment. Miss
Czaykowska—who is as Polish as her name—
had painted the lone white eagle of Poland
on the national background of red. This
emblem brought £l5O.
Lady Helen Ferguson will, “if possible,”
hand out the prizes at the Girls’ Grammar
School on June 17. This looks as though
the G.-G.’s may make another descent on the
town before June’s trenches are stormed by
old conqueror Time.
The very large Rajah of Pudukota is again
on view in select society circles, where he is
being rather more successfully stalked than
in the first months of his long stay in these
parts.
. Governor Macartney, of Tasmania, wears
his hair very thin on toil. In this and other
respects he looks like the average worried
citizen who has a daily life-and-death struggle
with the new Lavender Bay railway station.
Lady Macartney, a dark-haired sister of the
late Antarctic hero Scott, is also built on the
law of averages. The couple had all manner
of subdued entertainments provided for them
during their short stay in the vice-regal halls.
The Polish concert was about the most excit-
ing. From this they proceeded to a thrilling-
inspection of the Mint.
The bridge party for which Farmer’s gave
up their roof-garden the other afternoon,
brought in a round sum for Ited Cross pur-
poses. The committee intently watched the
lift that was to disgorge an Excellency or
two at 4 pan. Then their hawks’ eyes wan-
dered away for a minute; and in that minute
a horrible accident happened. The elect
arrived ! Lady Helen Ferguson, in black,
with a high toque of jetty sparkle on her
head; Sir Gerald Strickland; and the Cullen
lady, searching the horizon for the commit-
tee, simply drifted out of the cage. The
ladies in charge dashed forward, and the
heavens didn’t angrily hurl themselves down,
after all. Melba, in apple-green silk, with a
small white hat perched on her dark locks,
was husky after her efforts on the previous
night, but looked very fresh, all the same.
The bridge enthusiasts got down into their
cards, so to speak, and merely lifted an eye-
brow when they were rashly approached by
non-players. Mrs. Brunton and Mrs. A. E.
Hughes stuck to business at one table in the
crowded card-room. Aide Fane peered over
his hand. Emma Temple glided (this is a
good word for a plump lady pressing through
a crush) and joined the table presided over
by Lottie Gilbert, in ermine and other winter
wrapping. Mrs. G. Earp, in one of the
new black frocks that have a whisk of white
fur below the waist-line, helped the general
arrangements. And one or two jack-in-the-
box ladies dashed up and down the outskirts
of the party, apparently on a sprinting tour
to Nowhere.
The Bell of Maoriland who will hence-
forth be “Sir Harry” to his cronies, belongs
to one of the oldest families in the wintry
islands, and is connected by marriage with
others. His sister married “Scobie” Mac-
kenzie, a cheerful Scot who for many years
before his death was the finest public
speaker in all Maoriland. Bell himself
wedded a daughter of “Ready-Money” Rob-
inson, a once famous sportsman and wealthy
squatter, owner of Cheviot station until the
State tore it away from the family for
closer-settlement. The address of their
eldest surviving son is the Front. The
first-born died while a pupil at Wellington
College, and the fine swimming bath in
which the young collegians of to-day disport
themselves is his monument, given to the
school by the parents. A daughter was
claimed by one of the Johnstons, of Wel-
lington, a family with many matrimonial
ramifications, warehouses and browsing
sheep and a passion for golf and race-
horses.
A line from .Tames Edmond, who is hunt-
ing health in S’Afriqa
This place is all Table Mountain. The natives on
the steamboat drag you out at dawn when you are due
at port in order that you may see Table Mountain.
They tell you that it is never the same. With the
mists upon it in the early morning- it suggests the
glory of Youth and the bright frills of Hope. When
the mists clear away and the mountain is a great
square hunk of brown rock about 3800 ft. high it
represents Strong Endeavor and High Resolve. When
the afternoon haze grows around it it stands for Peace
and Holy Calm. And in the evening, with the moon
rising like a bright sixpence at the back of it, Table
Mountain is the emblem of Purity. It was once a
tall peak like Mount Wellington; but the hot-air of
the inhabitants blew the top off it. Still, the acci-
dent didn’t spoil the place; it left Capetown a very
pretty little cit}'.
1 and another person of dubious respectability
raised £35 for the Belgian Fund by an auction sale
on the ship. About £7O was raised altogether, but
the auction was my special effort—mine and the
other scoundrel’s. Edmund Barton’s autograph went
for £2 10s. after I had delivered an impassioned
address on Federation. I sold my own cheque for
£l, with the endorsement of 10 passengers, for
£2; and an odd copy of “The Journalist and Two
Bears ’ brought 10s. A young lady did pencil
sketches of all the worst-looking passengers, and the
lot brought £9. A bottle of cheap rum which I
bought from the barman for 3s. fetched Bs. as an
infallible hair-restorer. To finish with, I sold the
ship’s cat for half a sovereign. Barton didn’t quite
realise what was coming when he gave me his auto-
graph. AVhen lie heard it explained at length to
the audience that he was the most wonderful man
on earth, inasmuch as he was the first Prime Minister
of a whole continent, and there had been nobody like
him in all history, he badly wanted to retire out of
sight.
George Earp, M.L.C., two Horderns and
Hugh Mclntosh gave £5O apiece for the en-
gaging bullpup that wriggled in Melba’s
arms at the Relish concert. This made up
the £2OO extra which the songstress asked
for after auctioning the bunting. The bid-
ders then, with one voice, presented the
beast, which was beautiful in the bulldog
manner, to the lady auctioneer, who assured
them it would have a happy and peaceful
home. The difficulties of a bullpup as a
travelling companion began when Melba
wanted to take her pet by sea to Melbourne.
However, I believe the darling journeyed by
rail, and was none the worse for his adven-
tures.
While North Sydney people have been
using Old Testament language about their
new railway station at Milson’s Point, Chief
Commissioner Harper has surprised himself
by being a sick man. The white-haired chief
was due for a spell early last year; but he
didn’t take it. Then the Kaiser started his
rudeness, and drought looked in, and the
railways, getting down to hard economy,
suspended officers’ leave. The Chief, seeing
that others couldn’t have any, declined to
take any himself. Then influenza had its
say, left some bad after-effects, and drives
him to North Queensland at the end of the
week—if he is fit to travel. It was poor
economy, after all.
Bridge afternoons for collecting cash for
patriotic efforts are catching on in our Best
Suburbs. At these entertainments non-
players may address each other only in whis-
pers; but that must be borne with fortitude
as a sacrifice to the Cause. Mrs. llolds-
worth’s big bridge party at Camira, Double
Bay, starts at two o’clock on June 25.
Tickets ss. On the following day a tennis
tournament at the same address is expected
to. glean any cash the bridge ladies escaped
with. The proceeds of both raids go
towards the fund to bind the wounds of
Tommy Kangaroo.
“The Mikado” blew in and out of Her
Majesty’s so quickly that its best-known
melodies didn’t stay long enough to seriously
disturb “Tipperary.” Edward McKeqwn,
as Nanki Poo, made a hit in the well-known
“Wandering Minstrel” lay. This ditty was
young when the Ilairbows at last week’s
matinee were cutting their first teeth. Like
other Gilbert and Sullivan efforts, it sweetens
with time. The exigencies of a Jap. play
required Nanki, though lightly clad about
the legs in pink tights, to add to the draughts
of a chilly afternoon with the inevitable
hand-punkah.
M. J. Body, of Bundemar station, is now
a lieutenant in an English infantry regiment.
Another fine bushman, R. L. Macdonald, of
Wallabadah, in the Quirindi district, has a
commission in the Scots Guards.
I>r. Nigel Boulton, of Sydney, has been
a busy man since war sent the Peace
Society into a long recess. After eight or
nine months in Dover Military Hospital, he
has been moved on to an elusive address —-
“somewhere in the Mediterranean.”
While infuriated Europe is banging away
outside the snow-heaps of Switzerland, Aus-
tralia’s representative there, Dr. Carroll, is
peacefully forwarding the interests of any
belated travellers from this side. He paused
recently to rejoice over the brilliant pass
of his only son at Zurich ’Varsity. Young
Carroll intends to specialise in chemistry.
The Spencer Brunton family is going to
England in July, unless some unforeseen
bomb drops in to keep them here.
Mayor Richards and his Mayoress gave a
farewell at the Town Hall to Lobby Hor-
dern and his wife the other evening. Lebby
goes, as you know, to offer his services to a
Flying Corps, and Mrs. Lebby will wait on
the British shore to see him set out to do
things aloft. Mrs. Richards was a Miss
Booth, and is a sister of Felix Booth,
who watches the investment side of the
Hordern millions. Mrs. Sam, sen., belonged
to that family.
Marie Narelle, who is Mrs. Currie to the
baker and the man who brings the breakfast
chops, has been singing in Canada with satis-
factory results, and her U.S.A. concert-
booking hasn’t suffered from the war. Marie’s
home is on Long Island, where hubby has a
country house. The Narellan native drives
her own car thereabouts in the “off” season,
and potters round a vegetable patch, stand-
ing no nonsense from slugs and other nuis-
ances. Daughter Kathleen, the girl who won
the Emmeline Woolley scholarship here, and
a bagful of Royal Academy trophies after-
wards, plays at most of mother’s public ap-
pearances. The other daughter is also under
mamma’s wing, and the boy is climbing up
to a useful career in business. So the
world goes .very well with the handsome
N.S.W. singer.
The pretty Mrs. Tom Dixson, who a while
ago lived at Redleaf, the Lassetters’ old
home, is still in England with her youngsters.
They are waiting for daddy to do dreadful
things to the enemy if he gets his hoped-for
chance to go to the Front.
Mrs. Richards, back in the Mayoress’s par-
lor again, handed over a cheque for £B3O to
the Rev. Mother in charge of St. Vincent’s
Hospital the other afternoon. This fruit,
plucked from a concert in the midst of war’s
alarms, is another proof that the Australian
purse has elastic sides.
The G.-G. opened the Soldiers’ Club on a
fine afternoon last week. The rooms form
part of the old Royal Hotel in George-street;
one of the city’s most ancient taverns, to
disappear presently and be replaced by a
Savings Bank. Dr. Mary Booth, the hon.
secretary, who has worked for months to get
the club going, was handed a bouquet and a
special vote of thanks. The recreation hall,
where the opening ceremony took place, was
quite two sizes too small for the company,
so part of it looked like chilled beef after
snending the afternoon in a very icy passage.
The rooms are furnished with conveniences
and comforts ranging from a fine billiard
table to a refreshment buffet.
Mary Conly was the star at the Scottish
concert on Saturday nicht. Faulkner Smith,
who is steering a series of national concerts
here, had reason to smile at the size of the
audience on the first night. Soprano Mary
sings as sweetly as of yore, and looks as if
music agreed with her.
The doctors’ wives who foregathered in
the Town Hall vestibule the other morning
got to Australia Day business in a most
gentlemanly manner. The Anderson Stuart
dame, under the brim of a black velvet hat,
presided over the meeting, supported at the
right elbow by Mrs. Sydney Jamieson and
Mrs. E. Binnie. Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax and
Mrs. George Lane Mullins were made care-
takers of the cash. A suggestion that a con-
cert should be organised to bring grist to the
mill for our wounded heroes was politely
stamped on. A minimum of one guinea
from every doctor’s wife in N.S.W. was
agreed to by an overwhelming majority of
kid gloves that waved above this season’s
tartlet millinery. As one speaker pointed
out, most of the doctors’ ladies have been
working hard for various funds ever since
the war started, and are, in consequence,
not feeling quite so fresh as they did ; where-
fore the plan of robbing hubby of a guinea
(or as much more as lie will part with)
commended itself to the meeting.
Aggie Thorn, who gave up the stage for
matrimony a few years ago, is returning to
her first love. She left for the U.S. under
the kindly wing of Mrs. Fred Niblo, who is
going to give the Australian an influential
push in Wilson’s big selection. Aggie does
not intend to resume housekeeping under the
Stars and Stripes.
Another young doctor has put the usual
question to another pretty young woman, and
this young woman’s name is Etta Norris. She
is the youngest daughter of the late IL A.
Norris, a one-time manager of the A.J.S.
Bank. Dr. Nicholas Larkins, of Marrick-
ville, is the lucky man who got the right
answer.
Instead of leaving by the Ventura last
week, Hugh Ward altered his plans and is
staying on to see the Australia Day rally
to a glad finish on July 29.
Ex-Mayor Tom Hughes got the first public
taste of his be-knighting at the Polish con-
cert, when Melba rallied him as he dropped
in bids for a bit of Irish bunting. His wife
will be one of the most-imposing-looking of
Sydney’s “Ladies.” As Mayoress a few
years ago she had a tactful way whenever the
peace was threatened.
Amy Castles gives the first of throe con-
certs in the Town Hall on June 19. Tenor
Goldspink comes from Melbourne to back
her up.
One of the dailies last week reported that “the
old home of the Blaxland family, Veteran
Hall, on the Prospect Reservoir Reserve,” is
to be offered for a convalescent hospital.
This is all right, except in its reference to
the Blaxlands, Their old home was New-
ington, on the Parramatta River, now an
asylum for aged women. Veteran Hall
was the home of Lieutenant Lawson, he who
crossed the Blue Mountains with Blaxland
and Wentworth.
“Pretoria Night” w r as celebrated in Syd-
ney last Friday evening—the anniversary of
the thrilling occasion when the Australian
Mounted Bides rode up to Uncle Paul’s capi-
tal and demanded the keys to the castle-keep
and moated grange. There were only four
to swap tales of old adventures —Hubert
Murray (now Australia’s rep. in Papua) and
Lenehan and Grace and Legge,- all Colonels or
thereabouts, and every one of them repre-
sented at the Front by at least one son.
“Sketch” (who camps in London) keeps
track of two wandering Australians :
Eva Benson, the only Westralian dabbling in
the plastic art, is among the 24 Australians repre-
sented at the Royal Academy. She is a modest little
artist, quite unelated by the fact that she is the
first to enter from the Cinderella State, and thus
make it possible to have all six parts represented
this year. Little Tasmania has Charles E. Ritchie,
and Bananaland Bessie Gibson and Rowland Wheel-
wright.
One of the best portraits at the Academy is
Lambert’s study of Florence Schmidt, the singer who
is the wife of Derwent Wood, A,.R.A., the well-
known sculptor, There is always a touch of the
bizarre in Lambert’s work and he seems to have
gone out of his way to be extraordinary in the
manner in which he has arranged the hands of his
sitter. In spite of this the portrait is one of the
few that really grips. Longstaff, who is also on the
line, has a strong portrait of Reid Dick, the sculptor
who modelled “Femina Yictrix” in the Sydney
Gallery.
Dolores is coming from Melbourne to sing
at Mrs. Alex. Gordon’s concert for our boys
in splints.
The lady Bobby has arrived as an experi-
ment. There are two of her. Chief-Secre-
tary Black is moving warily in this matter
—the most startling revolution the Law has
known since Portia got a verdict with costs
against Shy lock, and had the good luck not
to have to face Chief Justice Griffith in the
higher Appeal Court.
Have you noticed the tendency to hang
furbelows down the back? Hats have the
early Victorian tag of ribbon dangling down
behind. The posy that once formed part of
the ancient streamer is not much ip evi-
dence on the revivals. There are old ladies
who remember these little tails as the “fol-
low-me-lads” millinery that went with
corkscrew ringlets and sandals. A cascade
of lace at the back of the neck is a frothy
finish to the high liumped-up collars ; but it
is only suited to the swan-like throat of
Annie Laurie.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War,
■X
w
Tj
'm
m
I
SSS
£?s
af
Us
!&as
7§P
§»!
’4?
\
i>%v
\
<^'’i
■iS
Wh
m
frArt)
W%m
■<*c<
Wi
M
m
m
rM
M'S
m
%
l
iTs
iW\
M i
T 1 §
? M
\'
s
<p£)
fe
T-? a
*»*ta
'**>>**
/ ( A" 1
f 7 V^* , Tr
«<**
r~\i
it
s2*
’gKmvzL
f "jf
!\ ; :w-< A;
'X
m^io^r
w3S}P*n
! ,\
A
S
tr (
4M
/Pi*
7 /#*£/ /•</?,*• Ivv f[! k.sm y <aA
/MlpSj
fe®S^a||^^gs
m
"fj&sr*
c
~—«-AI ,/ \
// Arp
/ //
r im**** 9*C p .
V . .. ' ;
***£^23
.y^yrtSM*
X-
r
C*
iO>
*£
itr
> fea
S&jS
osjF?
<t?
s.
/
o
<2
«J>
¥
k eg
/./
**j>j
4
Cobra,” Sfte Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Saves the harem
Ladies who
H eard the Allies’
Big guns boom,
Telling Turkey
Of her doom.
Now it’s time
To pack and fly ;
“COBRA” troops
Marching by,
And the road
To safety’s clear.
They think Chund
“ Such a dear ! ”


Sac Suits to Order
in Harris Tweed Suitings
===== From 4L6 : 6:0 =====
Harris Tweeds are produced under the most primitive conditions,
the whole series of processes —scouring, carding, dyeing, spinning and
weaving—are done by hand, the dye used being obtained from herbs
and plants. A peculiarity of Harris Tweed is that the natural fat
is not extracted from the wool, but, instead, is retained to give rain-
repelling powers. Its presence accounts for the peculiar way wet
will collect in beads on the surface of this Tweed, and will drop
off when shaken.
We are making Sac Suits to order in Harris Suitings, at the
moderate price of £6/6/-, and, as our stock of this exclusive fabric
is limited, we advise sending for patterns as early as possible.
FARMER’S SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS.
dg
Kara
-v gv;
$
■ A
(um
“No more
Cold
Feet! ’ ’
HOT-WATER
* BAGS’
Why have Cold Feet ?
Buy a “Dunlop”Hot Waier Bag!
It will only cost you a few
shillings, but it will give you
comfort worth many times the
Cost. Be sure and get a
’* Dunlop,” because they are
newly made and free from
perish, incidental to importing
this class of Rubber Goods, and
WILL LAST YOU SEVERAL
WINTERS. BUY ONE NOW,
and get the benefit during the
coming winter months.
If your Chemist or Storekeeper does not
stock Dunlop ” Bags order direct from us
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane
Wellington and Christchurch. N.Z.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
For
Quality
Wear
and
Comfort
%
ALL
LEADING
BOOTSHOPS
Dunlop Rubber Co
All States & N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, June 7, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Our Mayoress—our boss Mayoress—is
back from Sydney with all her children.
Her slave and master walked her round
Melbourne the next morning as an antidote.
Taking up a vantage-point from which she
could see the whole city and the splendor
thereof, he removed his hat, flung back his
shoulders, and held forth as follows: “Look,
my love, at these clean, almost dustless,
streets. Consider the Collins-street per-
spective, how there are no telegraph-tele-
phone posts to spoil the view. I have had
the wires put underground and the posts
pulled down. Observe the pleasing fact
that there are no overhead entanglements
of tram-workings; they also are under-
ground. Sydney may be fair to view, my
love ; but remember the new Lavender Bay
station, remember the dust and the local
burgher’s habit of spitting 27 times per
day on the pavements, and then, then, I
say, look ye to your own well-administered
and healthy Melbourne.” Mayors always
talk like this to their wives when the latter
return from a sojourn in an enemy city.
Mrs. Orme Masson lias written a book
on “How to Knit a Standard Sock.” A
thousand copies are for sale at this very
moment at the Town Hall at a penny per
copy.
Sergeant-Major Brown, of the Broad-
meadows stadium, had a shocking experi-
ence last week. He was motoring to the
camp on business, when a woman started
to cross the street, stopped, ran, stopped
again, was caught by the car and killed.
She was neither a naturalised German nor
a Turkish citizeness —just one more Aus-
tralian victim of the war.
Lady Doris got her motor-driving license
last week. She went through the full tests
exactly the same as plain Miss Oil or Mrs.
Petrol. Policeman Peveril, of Russell-
street, sat beside her, his face pale but reso-
lute, while she showed how she could work
the controls in the city traffic. Our police-
men may not be much good at catching
criminals —it somehow doesn’t seem to be
their line —but at that cool, steely, three-
o’cloek-in-the-morning courage which Napo-
leon so admired, there are few to beat them.
Amy Castles wore a magnificent train at
her concert on Thursday night. It trailed
from her shoulders to the earth below, giv-
ing her figure a suggestion of height, an
illusion which the heaped-up masses of her
dark hair increased. The dress was a
straight tube or tunnel of white brocade,
and a splash of black, with a black bar
attached, made her look as though she had
a violin tucked under her left arm. She
sang her best. One of her “Butterfly” num-
bers was encored four or five times, or it
might have been eight or 10 times—l lost
count in the end. She sang some ballads
with delicate little trills that were very
artistic. Harold Whittle did fine work at
the piano. His hair is growing longer and
longer, and as he played it waved violently
in the breeze of his exertions, and was tossed
freely about in the blizzard of his emotions.
Goldspink sang in the yearning, troubled
tones native to the tenor. Why do tenors
always yearn? As well ask why the bass
sings so persistently about Drink. These
things are beyond the scope even of the-
astutest musical critic.
The balcony was crowded with convent
girls uniformed like soldiers in scarlet and
cream. They made an unholy row after
every Castles item, the white bows on their
flowing pigtails rising and falling madly in
the adoration of youth. Father Robinson,
tall, silver-haired, handsome, bland,
rounded up people in the lounge and en-
joyed quite a reception-paifly before the
concert. He it was, of course, who first
discovered Amy. Bryce Carter was gloomy
and poured forth his lugubrious soul in
bitter ’cello wails, as is his mournful way.
I sometimes find myself wishing that some-
one would devise something to cheer Bryce
up.
There was a Lion at the Steads’ party
at Oxford Chambers on Friday. They
always try to get at least one of these inter-
esting little animals for their entertain-
ments. This one was a Belgian, with a
lovely name most difficult to spell, a lively
manner and an artistic air. He is a pianist,
and he comes to us straight from the
trenches, having found them .unsuited to the
exercise of his Art. He was lying in Ant-
werp—wounded—when that city fell, and
all round has had a thrilling time of it.
Despite the perils through which he has
passed, his hands are quite uninjured, and
so is his hair; hence his forthcoming tour
of Australia and M.L. should be a success.
His name, so far as I could make out,, is
Bourguignon.
Sweet young things sandwiched in songs,
recitations and violin work, while the Rep.
Club members knitted furiously. Mrs. Ellis
(who was ITansen-Knarhoi in public) gave a
professional touch with some violin opera
music. Mrs. Downes, of N’York, with a
red camellia under her ear, and a fine fur
coat over her shoulders, discussed the Eter-
nal Problem, in a guarded manner. Dolores
came in late, all dimples and smiles. Mrs.
Marsh played soft music and Miss Reidy
carried tea and cake about. Mrs. Oswald
Syme was there, and sister Lucy Rowe and
Trade Commissioner Manson of Maoriland,
and heaps more. Mrs. Royston Davey,
knitting feverishly, looked thin and pale.
She is still an invalid, having had a nervous
breakdown from too much knitting and Red
Cross work. Lawyer Marshall Lyle, artist
McCubbin, Gregan McMahon and Flemming
Thompson were among the men. Mrs. Hall
brought a smart girl, the daughter of Colonel
Molloy, an “exchange” military man who is
chafing to get back to England and the
Front. Miss Molloy says she is getting-
ready to nurse people. Captain Hall was
another who joined in the moan about not
being allowed to go away and fight. To all
these eager warriors the same word of com-
fort was spoken. “Don’t worry. You will
all get a chance to be killed.” The hostess
talked war and politics from the sheath of a
divine gown —dull gold embroidery veiled in
black chiffon.
The band blared for the first time this
season at the Glaciarium on Thursday even-
ing. The profits of the place promise to be
big. You see, dances are off, on account of
the war, and the girls simply must have
somewhere to flirt. Already more than half
of the Very Best parts of Toorak and St.
Ivilda-road have sent in for season tickets,
and further applications are expected as
the fashionableness of the diversion becomes
more obvious. There were not many men,
however. A few grey-liaired ancients who
had passed the war age-limit had a gorgeous
time—an Indian summer, as it were. Lads
of from 18 to 15 were there in great num-
bers, and so desperate was the position that
they could mostly choose such partners as
they desired. But there were exceptions.
Two haughty young Sassiety flappers skated
together all night in frigid dreariness—
clasping each other’s hands after the man-
ner of partners in woe. They had tried
their best to liven things up in other re-
spects. One wore a clierry-pink silk knitted
coat over her white dress; the other was
clad from peaked cap to toe in brilliant
paddy-green wool.
Bobby Jackson —the darling of stage-
struck girls in the long-dead “Merry
Widow” days—'has come back to us as chief
exponent of new skating figures. He always
'was a skater —and he is better than ever
now, having spent many months practising
in the ice-lands of the Old World. Hal
Jones is still teaching; also a beautiful
young man named Cedric or Cecil or Alaric.
Le'sly Madden is skating again, and so
are the Frank Madden girls. But the bird-
like Hammond Cleggs have flowp; one is
waiting in London for news off her fighting-
husband. and the other is helping her to
wait, and incidentally farewelling her own
husband, who is bent on motor-ambulancing.
Nicholas Jov and a co. of “distinguished
amateurs” (Maud Jolliffe among them),
gave a patriotic theatrical show at the
Theatre Royal on Friday night, bagging a
“date” between Niblo’s stormy farewell and
the arrival of the Saturday drama. The
theatre was comfortably packed—enough,
anyhow, to keep it from rattling. Governor
Stanley occupied a box. He seems to have
got thinner. An examination of him gave
me an idea of a thesis on “Do Governors
Shrink?” I must set about it one of these
days. His wife was muffled in a martial
cloak, something after the style of the gar-
ment in which they buried Sir John Moore at
dead of night, she having a touch of the
’flu’. She looked very nice all the same. I
believe she would look nice if she was
clothed in bagging. John Madden, sitting
with them, glowed like some healthy and
well-nourished cherub child. There is no
shrinkage about him, anyhow.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Major David Fulton, who has been wounded, went
to Egypt as second in command of the 3rd Regiment
of the Ist Light Horse. His first wife was a daughter
of the Aldgate Melroses, and he married subsequently
Miss Beatrice Atkinson. He is a nephew by marriage
of John Downer, his mother being- one of the Hen-
derson clan.
In October there will he a big fete at Government
House in aid of the Red Cross and Belgian Funds,
and a preliminary entertainment is billed for June
19 at Austral Gardens. Mrs. Lendon, Mrs. H. P.
Gill, Mrs. W. G. Thomas, Mrs. Herbert Rymill, Mrs.
Colley and Miss Peacock are running the affair.
Mrs. Hiram Varlev leaves by the Egypt on June
17 with her two sohs, who are going to the Front.
The Government has purchased Grange Farm from
the Mortlock estate. Ministers mean to establish a model
town there as soon as the. necessary Bill goes-through
Parliament. The, property comprises a 300-acre block,
which is the site of the present military encampment
between the Goodwood-road and the Clapham rail-
way station, and the purchase has cost something
over £20,000. No details as to disposal of the
blocks, etc., are fixed yet, but the scheme will pro-
bably be on the tenants’ co-partnership system, which
seems to be booming in England.
Five motor-ambulances were handed over to Lady
Galway to-day, one by Mrs. J. F. Young, on behalf
of the women of the State, and the others by W. J.
Sowden, from the Wattle Day League. All the ambu-
lances are 35-h.p., with space for four stretchers.
The Galways turned up at the A.R.G. meeting on
Saturday with Miss Macaulay; likewise the Allan
MacFarlanes, the Richard Hawkers, the Stanley Mur-
rays, the Ansteys and the Croziers. Murillo Bud
brought a £24 dividend to backers. Nothing else of
a thrilling nature occurred.
Adelaide’s flourishing Poetry Recital Society had a
joke against Josiah Symon, K.C., last week. He
and Lady Galway were announced to give addresses
on Patriotic poetry, and president Uffindell inciden-
tally offered a prize for the best selection of 12
poems of that kind in the language. There was
plenty of competition among members, and Symon
adjudicated—names of competitors, of course, being
withheld. When the real name of the successful one
was looked up, it was found that he had awarded
the prize to a highly literary lady, his own wife.
Mrs. Johanna Moore, of Narracoorte, is proud
of being related to the Cardens of Tipperary. Sir
Henry Carden fought in the Crimea with her brother,
Grenadier Wm. Kennedy, and now the eldest son,
Admiral Carden, is hard at work somewhere in the
Dardanelles. Another son, Lionel Carden, was
formerly British Ambassador to Mexico. Mrs. Moore,
by the way, when at Mt. Gambler,' had a proposal of
marriage from Adam Lindsay Gordon. Gordon was
an irrepressible proposer, by all accounts.
Gordon Lowe, known to tennis enthusi-
asts as one of the English quartette that
wrested the Davis Cup from Australasia
some time back, blew into Melbourne last
week by the Demosthenes. Besides tennis
racquets, he brings with him a wife. While
he was away he shed his side whiskers, but
still retains an eager expression and a rosy-
tinted complexion.
Doctor It van’s daughter Ethel is engaged
to Captain Iloy Watson, of Bendigo, lie is
with the A.M.C. in—but ,no, 1 might annoy
the Censor. ■
Charlie Gavan Duffy, the Judge’s son and
heir, has engaged himself to Madge Back
since he signed on to defend the Empire. She
is a pretty girl, who usually appears with
her sisters under the wing of Mrs. Norman
Bayles or the Lauchie Mackinnon matron,
her own mother being an invalid.
From “Itosna,” in London :
The sewing fever still rages here. The War Office
asked recently for respirators of cotton wool and
elastic to protect the men in the trenches from the
effect of Kaiser Bill’s poison bombs. In 24 hours
500,000 had been made and delivered, and so many
more were pouring in that the War Office had to go
down on its hands and knees and beg Sister Susan
to stop.
Lady Honor Ward, the Dudleys’ tall and lovely
girl, has caught her mother’s nursing craze. She
has become a probationer at the London Hospital.
Nursing, by the way, in some' of the houses lent by
the local peerage and disappeerage is quite a
pleasant picnic. A pretty Maoriland girl, Pops
Laing, daughter of Sargood’s managing-director in
London, has been first-aiding at one where there
are 21 maids to tend the ministering angels. Each
angel has her own suite of rooms, including a jewel
of a private bathroom. There are also hordes of
motors, and a French chef to sustain their work-
worn frames.
Which reminds me that the wounded British sol-
dier, directly he is out of bed, is handed a butcher-
blue garb, after the workhouse pattern, and' told
that he’ll be discharged from the army or smacked,
or something, if he doesn't put it on. He mostly
hates it.
Ivy Wigmore, the young Westralian violinst and
singer, has been married to Frank Hammond Whar-
ton, of Kensington. He is a B.A. and LL.B. of Cam-
bridge, and at present holds a commission in the
Royal North Lancashire Regiment.
Harley George, a son of the grand old
chiffon house, is off to the war. He is
engaged to an Adelaide girl named Eileen
Dowling, but they are not t<> be married
until he returns.
Gumming Campbell, a fang-smith with
considerable honor in his own alley—-
which is Collins-street —has become engaged
to Christina Sutherland. She springs “fra
Glasgie,” as the Bunties would say.
Mrs. Henry Cornish has been ill for many
months. She is just off to Honolulu to
recuperate.
Francis de Bourguignon, the Belgian
whom we met at the Steads’, gave his first
concert on Saturday night. He was Court
pianist to his heroic queen before the war.
Now there is no Court to support a pianist,
and he can’t fight, having been seriously
wounded, so he is touring Australia.
A big audience listened critically at first,
in the Melbourne way, but it became enthu-
siastic before the recital was half-way
through. The Belgian responded gratefully
and played his best, which, as regards tech-
nique, at any rate, is very good indeed.
One item was a composition of his Own,
written for the left hand. A technical
masterpiece it was—it sounded like a
whole orchestra. Toorak came in its best
motor and applauded loud and long when-
ever possible, for it has been entertaining
the interesting young man, and has a kindly
feeling for him on account of his past asso-
ciation wdth royalty. The concert occurred
in the Assembly Hall, none other being
available.
King’s Birthday race meeting spread
over Saturday and Monday at Flemington.
The proceeds went to the War Funds, and
importunate armies of Scoutlets dashed
about demanding coin at the points of tin
money-boxes. Also, subscriptions w’ere in-
vited in forcible language from monster
placards on the flat, the hill, and near the
stewards’ club-rooms. In the paddock a
placard urged wdnners to part with a cheque
or two. I w’onder what the owner of Malt-
guard gave? Maltguard took the Royal
Handicap at eight-to-one.
There was no one from Government
House to help in the presentation of the
Hunt Club Cup, which reposed in its case
on a pink stand, garnished with a dash of
patriotic bunting.
However, a smart crowd turned up, par-
ticularly on Saturday. The Gaudy Mayor’s
high hat shone splendidly in the promenade,
and the red hair of Eugenie Duggan blazed
warmly on the stand. Furs were every-
where, the day being cold, and many
of them wrnre worn in the New Way,
the skin flung casually across the
shoulders with the paws and head
langling towards the ground. One tall,
slim girl caused a sensation by appear-
ing in the complete skin of a snow leo-
pard. The long fur stood up round her
face, and the large paws clasped Little
Mary. It was a sensational spectacle, so
much so that her male escort looked as man
does when he wishes that the limelight
would switch off him for a bit. Plush
(alas, that I should have to say it!) was
absolutely epidemic. One woman wore it
bagging round her and strapped into the
hips, like an Early Victorian sofa. She
was one of the most fashionably-clad
females on the lawn. I didn’t know who she
was and I was too breathless to find out.
Another Unknown (you may identify her
when 1 tell you that she had a sallow com-
plexion) wore a yellow-green plush hat.
We girls fairly writhed with envy. The
match-box hat was distressingly frequent.
Mostly it was worn by the possessor of a
large head and a countenance to match.
Mrs. McEvoy wore yards and yards of skirts
around ankles that looked too slim to
carry such a mass of softgoods. Mrs.
Manifold was in plush. I fled past too
quickly to note either (lie make or color.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme looked smart in brown
velvet. There were others, mostly in plush,
but I lost my tablets at an early stage, and
have forgotten their names,’ and in any
event I don’t suppose it matters.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—Still going strong.
\V-
re
IUSf
uSfli
/mm
rr ■/'
n
L
H
■
nn - ill
CIO
/ •
& e
SBB
fvrlj&p-j?,
w
.
n
Mli I'* t mi
■
■■■■■■
M RHI
i S£SS
1&J&
-
2 3 c j
\
x
/
v-
Eo
O R
& tiQV
Johnnie IValker : “ Why this martial attitude ? ”
Old Gentleman: “ I have just paid my income-tax. lam in
the first battalion of the We-find-the-money Brigade.”
JOHN WALKER & SOlttS, Ltd., Scotch Whisk v Distillers, KILMARNOCK.


NO MORE FAT PEOPLE.
Most fat people seem to think that the
only way to take off fat is to use dangerous
drugs, follow a starvation diet or take
strenuous exercise. But all this is nonsense,
and, thanks to the recent discovery of an
eminent scientist, thousands of men and
women are taking off several pounds of
useless fat a week, by simply rubbing on to
the fat part —hips, arms, chin or abdomen
—a simple lotion made by pouring a cup
of hot water over a dram of quassia chips;
let it stand for a minute, then strain
through a cloth and add 3 ounces of Cirola
Bark Extract. Pour the mixture into a
bottle and anply night and morning, rubbing
it in with the hands for about 10 minutes,
using a circular motion, and the fat will
almost seem to melt away before your very
eyes. The ingredients, which are inexpen-
sive. may be had of any chemist, and the
results to be obtained are really remarkable.*
WALES.
NEW SOUTH
PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE.
STATE GUARANTEE.
The Public Trustee can Act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY OR AGENT.
Reduced Charges—Lowest in Australasia.
MONEYS TO LEND on Approved Security Town and Country Lands.
For full particulars apply:—•
Public Trust Office, Culwulla Chambers, Sydney. T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
TELESCOPES
A good Telescope affords a view of delight-
ful experiences, and makes each outing highly
instructive, as well as intensely interesting.
The “RANGER” is made of solid brass,
three draw tubes, cap for object glass, and
revolving disc for eye-piece, to keep out dust.
Good definition, and magnifies over eight
diameters, with splendid range.
The ‘‘Ranger” Telescope
Post Free, 12/6.
Only obtainable from
A. P. Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.,
189-191 George Street. BRISBANE.
’Tween Drinks.
THE SENTIMENTAL CROOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“TBI idea that the crook lends himself
to a definite description, with age,
weight, complexion, birth-marks,
finger-prints and all points of identi-
fication identical, is a vulgar error,” said Pat
Mackaboy. “And, by the way, Mr. Stayly,
you have paid me for three drinks with a
corrupt half-crown of the kind made in the
distant suburbs out of gas-piping and other
base metals, at an initial cost of 2d. a
gross.”
Stayly took his half-crown back, ex-
amined it critically, bent it, bit it, smelt it.
“1 believe it is bad,” he said.
"lon’ll find it responds willingly, nay
gladly, to all the known tests. You may
utilise it to write your impressions in uie
visitors book, but you can’t buy whisky
with it here. With careful usage, however,
it will make an excellent fish-sinker. I meet
so many men who can swear to a human
crook on sight who can’t tell a pewter half-
dollar from a legitimate minted bit.
“Pact is, crooks go all colors, and hunt in
so great a variety of shapes that without in-
timate knowledge or bitter experience you
couldn’t pick a winner if a dozen of them
were mixed up with twelve assorted apostles
of respectability.
One of the most successful crooks I ever
knew had mutton-chop whiskers, pale blue
glasses, and a lisp. He ran a small, sub-
urban drapery store, and modestly bar-
gained with the domineering local female
over bob-tailed articles of lingerie, blue rib-
bons and babyware for eight hours a day.
He had a wife and five, and sometimes he
pushed little Willie’s go-cart round and
round the lily pond in the public park, and
it is my private, confidential opinion that
his short, fat Amelia had a way of hitting
him with a fish skillet if for a moment he
forgot his inferior position at No. 74 Regal-
street.
“M hen this man put off his blue specs,
brushed his side-boards out of sight behind
his ears, and overcame his lisp by a great
effort of will, he could do more with a pack
of cards than any other living thing. His
method of extracting three aces from a new
bunch just torn from its swaddling clothes
did more to convince me of the existence of
inexplicable forces in nature than all the
works of all the spiritualistic mediums from
here to West Richmond.
“At night he went a-roving. He got into
the hottest shops, and there wasn’t a blood
house within the ten-mile radius that was
not on to 20 per cent, of Edwin’s winnings.
Yet the mild John with the lank side-boards
and the genteel lisp was the natural man.
One night at Reekie’s wineshop I saw him
sit in a corner and cry his eyes up because
two ugly Greeks had caught him spiriting
cards through a deal table an inch and a
half thick, and wanted to feel his ribs with
a long, lean bacon-knife.
“This brings me to Archibald Aikin.
Archie lived with his mother in a little
cemented non-committal brick cottage in
South Yarra. The cottage had a trim lawn
and two neat flower-beds, and on occasions
Archibald Aikin might have been seen
patiently grubbing the sorrel and other dis-
figuring and disparaging weeds out of his
grass plot. How does that chip in
with your few ear-marked ideas of a crook,
Stayly?
“Archibald was good to his mother, and
was a plump, clean, amiable lad of thirty,
with a blue eye as sweet as an aquamarine,
and a skin like a biscuit. Our hero was
ostensibly a book-keeper, and supervised the
accounts of two small butchers and one hay-
and-corn store. This was sufficient to pre-
vent the curiosity of the adjacent police
being unduly excited, yet left Archibald time
for the due indulgence of his natural bent.
“Mr. Aikin was a book-keeper by compul-
sion. He was a confidence man by instinct.
He never worked his own district. He was
careful in his choice of subjects, and he
rarely ran double, holding that it isn’t good
science to multiply your risks in order to
divide your profits.
“Archie’s heart was in the game. He was
in the position of an actor-manager who is
his own playwright. The plot was artfully
woven, then carefully staged and cleverly
played. The actor-dramatist lacked noth-
ing but an audience. I think it was the
artist’s natural yearning for a packed house
and loud applause induced Aikin to repose
certain confidences in me —among the rest
the diverting history of the attack on little
Miss Lee.
“He saw her first in one of the big public
gardens, a place he took in occasionally in
the course of his round, because such city
attractions are much frequented by callow
ones who come out of the country with
packets of old notes to see sights. She was
small, her neat shape was disguised in a
lot of cold-storage clothes, and she had two
curls like miniature spiral staircases, worn
ferninst the ear, after the manner of dear
old grandmother Ann in early editions of
the family album. There was that air of
uncertainty about her which distinguishes
the visitor from Boobyallock in the public
library, the picture gallery, the museum,
or any such place where the attendants are
likely to bite one. She went grudgingly, as
if she rather fancied walking on me gravel
paths was strictly prohibited.
“Archie Aikin had the photographic eye.
One glance produced a definite print with
all the detail, a print he could turn up and
refer to seven years later. Archie’s brain
print of little Miss Lee was inscribed
‘Sophie. Old maidish, new to Melbourne,
well left, soft snap.’ He was wrong in one
detail. Miss Lee’s name was not Sophie.
“It is a mistake in tactics to follow your
prey. Note the point to which the quarry
is making, and line it from another angle.
In this way Archie came upon Miss Lee
five times in the course of an hour’s per-
ambulations before he found her entangled
in a bramble. Nothing further was called
for. Mr. Aikin offered his services. On
one knee he liberated the lady with due
deliberation, allowing time for some little
conversational by-play. Then he detained
her a moment to discuss the victoria regia.
After affording some useful information con-
cerning this aquatic vegetable he drew
her particular attention to the view from
the top lawn, and assured her that of all
the cities he had visited during the last two
years none had impressed him more than
this spacious Melbourne.
“For the special benefit of little Miss Lee
Archibald’s name was John Lucian Sweet-
hill, who was a young English gentleman
of leisure, slowly sojourning through the
world, making himself acquainted with men
and matters before settling down to a liter-
ary career.
“ ‘Travel,’ said John Lucian Sweethill,
‘has many charms, but it afflicts one with a
great loneliness.’
“‘Oh, yes, it does, does it not?’ said Miss
Lee in sincere sympathy.
“ ‘The streams of people pass you as the
great waters pass one in a speeding ship.
You are one apart, and if you are kindly
disposed towards your fellow creatures and
are naturally sociable it hurts rather.’
“ ‘lndeed it does,’ said Miss Lee. She
was parted from her dear sister for the first
CENSORED.
HE: “You said you could read me like a book. "
SHE: “Yes; but I didn't finish —it wasn't fit for perusal.”
time, and alone in this great Melbourne, and,
really, would you believe it, she was ready
to cry at times, it was all so desolate.
Didn’t he think the red rose was the queen
of flowers?
“His opinions concerning roses were
identical with her own, which seemed a
great comfort to her, and inspired her with
absolute confidence. If one could not trust
a man who had such beautiful thoughts
about flowers, whom could one trust? She
permitted him to show her through the hot-
houses, and as it happened they took the
same tram, and before they parted it was
settled that she too would be visiting the
public gallery at three on the following after-
noon.
“Having seen many of the great galleries
of the world. Lal-Lal, Teddywaddy. Gobung,
Nip-and-Tuck, Bin Bin and Traralgon,
John Lucian Sweetliill was able to correct
Miss Lee’s views on art with some autho-
rity.
“On the third night they went to the
theatre. She wouldn’t have him see her to
the gate of Mrs. Ramsden’s select establish-
ment where she was staying, because of the
unpleasant habits of Mrs. Ramsden’s
picked guests, who flattened their noses
against pains to acquaint themselves with
the character of every home-coming.
So Archie kissed her under Whellan’s pep-
per-tree, and found that it was good.
“By this time A. Aikin was in possession
of the facts. Her name was Winifred Lee.
Those who loved her called her Winnie. She
and her sister Susan kept a small but lucra-
tive young ladies’ seminary in a north-east-
ern town. Dear papa, when he died, left
them a farm which had been let for years ;
but + hey bad decided to sell, and \Vinnie
was in town to sign documents and take
delivery of eight hundred and eighty-five
pounds.
“ ‘And, oh, I have to be so careful.’ said
little Miss Lee. ‘Everybody warned me
about wicked people, and it would be so
dreadful if I were to lose the money, because
of the gold mine.’
“‘The gold mine?’ he asked, with polite
interest.
“ ‘Yes, papa’s gold mine. He said we
were never, never to part with that, but
some day when we had sufficient money
we are to have something put to it —a
pump, I think, or a cistern, and have it
drained dry, because there is a terrible lot
of gold in it. We are going to pay a thou-
sand pounds, and Uncle George is going to
pay a thousand pounds, and we snail all
be very rich wh'u the water is poured out
of papa’s mine.’
“If Archibald could be of any service to
her in the matter of guarding her money
from the insidious villains infesting these
large cities, he would be most happy. And
if she would permit him to invest some
little of his superfluous wealth in papa’s
mine at Jillabig he would accept it as an
assurance that he had won her confidence
and esteem. For the moment he was a
trifle short of ready money, drafts to the
amount of £750 he had expected by the
previous mail not having come to hand, but
no doubt the remittance would presentlv be
available. Then he trusted she would inter-
cede with Uncle George to admit him to a
minor partnership in their venture.
“It was surprising how Winnie had
bucked up during these few days. The
acquisition of an admirer had infused her
with many happy little vanities. Because he
had expressed in a casual way a liking for
the fashionable method of doing the hair
Miss Lee abandoned the tonsorial customs
of a.d. 1850. and was dishing her coiffure
a la mode. Then Archie said there was no
hair in sight of such exquisite texture and
lovely color, and she lay awake all night
being glad about it. He discovered a saucy
Paris model in a Collins-street window that
an all-wise Providence had designed to deck
just such a small, shapely head as hers.
She bought it, and seven years fell from
her the moment she put it on. She got into
a smart little French mustard cheesecloth
costume too, because he thought the color
would suit her.
“Winifred Lee was transformed. Her
old-fashioned sweetness and simplicity re-
mained, but now she was noticeable on the
Block for her chic appearance and her
pretty face. Yet these attributes were not
wholly divorced from a certain Quakerish
demureness that Archibald Aikin found
most fascinating.
“The land sale was completed, and the
money was in Miss Lee’s possession. Archi-
bald knew it was his any time he cared to
ask, and his trifling £750 remittance was
being unaccountably delayed to provide an
excuse for an expected forthcoming appeal
to her sweet, womanly faith in him.
“ ‘I shall be quite in a corner if my money
does not come to hand presently. You
see, I had mapped out my tour with great
precision, and arranged for sums of money
to meet me at various places, and for the
first time the scheme has failed me. Either
my London banker has mixed up his in-
structions or the draft has gone astray en
route. In the latter case the cover draft
should reach me next week. It is all very
awkward —at such a moment too.’
“She looked really troubled. 'I have a
few pounds of my own. John,’ she said
shyly, ‘which I should be glad to —to’
“He pressed her little hand. ‘No, no.
dear,’ he said. ‘I couldn’t think of it. I
shall have to be much more closely pinched
before dreaming of imposing upon the kind-
ness of my friends. What concerns me
most is that I may not be in a position to
find the money for that mining investment
in time to satisfy your uncle.’
“ ‘Uncle George must wait,’ she said. ‘I
shall insist upon it. I will feel ever so
much more confident if you are in with us.’
“The way she said that, the shy uplift of
her brown eyes that went with it, the flutter
of her moth-like hands upon his arm, com-
bined to work up a thrill in the core of Archi-
bald’s being such as he had never previously
experienced. For the first time in his life
there arose in Archie a furtive sort of feel-
ing that it would be good and consonant to
take himself out by the neck, and kick him-
self three laps round the yard.
“In fact, neither party seemed at this
point at all anxious to bring the incident
to a close. Archie was enjoying Winifred’s
friendship, and Winnie was too simple to
disguise for one moment the fact that Mr.
Sweethill’s good looks, his manly bearing
and nice manner had made a deep impres-
sion upon her virgin heart.
“He discovered an enormous gratification
in the influence he had over her. A word
from him could bring a cloud to her brow
and an anxious shadow into her brown
eyes. A word from him could clear the
horizon and restore the summer effects.
“Archibald would have scoffed at any
worldling who had told him of such ingenu-
ousness, such naive innocence in a 25-year-
old girl of our day and generation, but
Winifred Fee’s trust was as gracious and
unstinted as that of a child. She was a
lone: delight to him.
“The parting had to come. ‘Susan is
very anarry with me,’ Winifred said. ‘She
writes that if I do not return at once she
will come for me. I have overstayed my
time a week.’
“He found it hard to let her go. He
went to see her off. She entrusted to him
the bag in which her money was stowed,
and he gave it to her intact when she was
comfortably seated. Archibald had dis-
covered a conscience. His professional in-
stinct had been killed by a damburst of
sentiment.
“ ‘Are you quite sure you won’t let me
help you till your money comes ?’ she whis
pered. ‘I should be —oh, so proud if I
might.’
“He thanked her warmly. ‘lt is all
right,’ lie said. ‘The draft has come to
hand. Don’t forget, will you, that I am
to be a shareholder in your mine?’
“ ‘I will write,’ she promised.
“They kissed at parting, and there was a
tear on her cheek.
“Our faithful narrative skips seven
months. Archibald, who found in criminal
trials a finer interest than the average cit
discovers in bad drama, had dropped in to
watch the pr-'gress of the Crown’s case
against Mrs. Margaret Paget, a woman who
had been carrying on an elaborate system
of fraud for some years, and whose remark-
able cleverness had failed her in an unfor-
tunate moment when the Law happened to
be unusually alert.
“Archibald sat wonder-struck. The lady
in the dock was identical with his own sweet
little Winifred Lee. Moreover, a favorite
device of Mrs. Paget’s for deceiving mere
simpletons was based on a hypothetical
gold-mine at Jillabig, and a wholly supposi-
tions Uncle George.
“She was permitted bail, and Archie con-
trived to see her. ‘Well, old boy,’ she said.
‘l’ve put my pot on this trip. It’s two
years in the pickle jar for Margie, nothing
surer. I saw you in court and watched the
working of your mind. Shocked, weren’t
you? Yes, all that time I was oiling you
up, intending to cooper the sweet seA 7 en hun-
dred and a half you had ordered from Home.
But you were so innocent, so pitifully un-
suspicious, and so nice, and gave such a
good. big-brother-Bill’s high old time to
Winnie that in the end she hadn’t the heart.
She couldn’t have done you for a bone stud
So she made a get away. Straight wire, I
got more than a bit muggy about you to-
wards the finish.’
“He threw a line. ‘But of course you’ve
got over all that sticky stuff.’
“ ‘No,’ said she. ‘Gier n ar° fond memories.’
“ ‘And what of Mr. Paget?’
“ ‘There is none such. Mrs. Paget is a
professional subterfuge.’
“He was holding her hand oretty tight
by this. ‘That is as it should be,’ he said,
‘because when you resume publication after
doing whatever comes of this lot, whether
it’s ten months or ten years, there’s going to
be someone waiting at the gate, someone so
like me you won’t be able to tell the differ-
ence.’
“She got two years, and Archie is waiting.
He tells me that by the time she is free he
expects to. have made enough to eschew all
forms of illegal dishonesty, and marry and
be happy ever after.”
EDWARD DYSON.


dfg
A
ri
MTSS MARIE E A' G LI IS II (I‘lioto. by Maofarlane).
Read what Miss English says:
"Hamilton.” Ridge St.,
Moore I’ark, Nov. R 5, RH4.
Mr. JOHN GRAVEN-BURLEIGH,
1-02 Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, — I must say that your True Ilair Grower is a wonderful preparation. I
heard such good reports about it that I was induced to give it a trial, and although 1
naturally have a good head of hair, still lately it was causing me a good deal of trouble,
as it was falling out in handfuls, and I was greatly troubled with Dandruff. Since using
your preparation for three months, my hair has completely stopped falling, and there is
not a sign of dandruff in my hair, and it has grown longer and thicker. You can rest
assured that 1 will do what I can towards inducing my friends to try your wonderful
preparation.
1 1 Yours truly, M. ENGLISH.
P.S. — I am sending you herewith a couple of my photographs, and if you care to
use them you are at perfect liberty to do so.
dfg
QUICKLY REMOVES DANDRUFF, STOPS
FALLING HAIR and GROWS NEW HAIR.
I¥len and Women in all parts of Australia use and recommend this preparation.
10,000 TRIAL BOXES (SIVEN AWAY FREE.
Hail* troubles, like many other diseases, have been wrongly diagnosed and altogether misunderstood. The hair itself is not the thing to be treated,
for Hie reason that it is simply a product of the scalp, and wholly dependent upon its action. The scalp is the very soil in which the hair is produced,
nurtured and grown, and it alone should receive the attention if results are to he expected. It would do no earthly good to treat the stem of a plant
with a view of making it grow and become more beautiful —the soil in which the plant grows must he attended to. Therefore, the scalp, in which the
hair grows, must receive the attention if you are to expect it to grow and become more beautiful.
Loss of hair is caused by the scalp drying up, or losing its supply of moisture or nutriment; when baldness occurs the scalp has simply lost all its
nourishment, leaving nothing for the hair to feed upon (a plant, or even a tree, would die under similar conditions).
The natural thing to do in either case is to feed and replenish the soil or scalp, as the case may be, and your crop will grow and multiply as nature
intended it should.
My True Hair Grower has a most wonderful effect upon the hair glands and tissues of the scalp. It is the only remedy for the hair ever
discovered that is similar to the natural foods or liquids of the scalp.
It penetrates the pores quickly, and the hair soon shows the effects of its wonderful exhilarating and life-giving qualifies.
Besides being a True Hair Grower, my preparation quickly removes DANDRUFF and stops FALLING HAIR and ITCHING. It-is known the world
over, and I have in my consulting rooms upwards of 3000 letters from grateful men and women who have derived so much benefit from the use of my
True Hair Grower as to compel them to write and thank me. Now, I do not wish you to accept my word for any statement l make, but want you to
prove the matter for yourself in your own home.
These are the class of Letters that I am daily receiving
STOPPED FALLING HAIR.
Dunorlan. Tas.
Mr. Jolm Craven-Burleigli.
Dear Sir. — I received your True Hair Grower some
time ago, and used it as the directions said, and found
it a wonderful, cure. It stopped my hair from coming
out. I gave it a good test, and found it a sure cure,
for I still have a good head of hair to-day. Thanking
you very much for the cure.
(Sighed 1 I\ SIIBBIUFF.
Mt. Larcombe. <>.
Dear Sir. — I received your letter. Sir, I must say
that 1 do not need any more. Two years ago. when I
was working in the mine, my brother in mistake hit
me on the head with a hammer, and knocked a piece
of skin the size of a sixpence off my head. My hair
did not grow there, and it looked nasty when I was in
company ; but I tried your grand remedy and now there
is hair on my head as lopg as the other, and I am
glad I saw your advertisement in the paper. Sir. 1
will be pleased if you will put this in the paper so
my friends will see it. Sir, I thank you a thousand
times over. I could not credit it to see the splendid
hair growing. It is a wonder, no doubt. Please
publish this. Tours faithfully,
(Signed) C. It. PIDGWAY.
HAIR QUITE THICK.
Manaia, N.Z.
Dear Sir. — I had a supply of your hair grower some
time hack and I used it all. and for some time I could
see no difference in the growth of m.v hair. But 1 find
now that it is beginning to grow and get quite thick;
and would you reply to this note as soon as possible,
and let me know what you will supply me with another
supply for, and I will send you the money by return
post.
L. HARFORD.
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, Etc.
Cut out this Coupon, send it with three stamps to cover postage, etc., and I w ill immediately post a trial box of my True Hair Cromer. A OTK. —Only o.\ E sample
will he supplied to each applicant.
Xante
Address Stare
JOHN CRAVEN-BUR LEIGH, Dept. 7A, Macdonnell House, 321 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Also Dept. 7 A, 41 QUEEN STREET, AUCKLAND, N.Z.


CROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Jjook, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish liver
and bowels.
Mother! Your child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy,” with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act natur-
ally, or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, re-
member, a gentle liver and bowel cleansing
should always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals “California Syrup of Figs”
for children’s ills; give a teaspoonful. and
in a few hours all the waste matter, sour bile
and fermenting food clogged in the bowels
Pass out of the system, an 1 you have a
healthy and playful child again. All chil-
dren love this harmless, delicious “fruit laxa-
tive,” and it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.” Directions for babies,
children of all ages and grown-ups are plainly
on the bottle. J
. Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a bottle of “California Syrup of Figs,” then
look and see that it is made by the “Cali-
fornia lig Syrup Company.” Counterfeits
are being sold here. Refuse substitutes.
AH leading chemists sell “California Syruu
of I lgs,” 1/1 i and 1/9 per bottle.
A
SPLENDID HAT VALUE
’Want to Add to Our Reputation
for FASHION, QUALITY & VALUE
As tlie result of a speeially-keen purchase
we are able to offer A Hat that is right
in the front rank for style, being made in
good-quality rough fur. Dark slate
color -just the hat for hard country
wear. Will retain its shape right through.
12/6
POST FREE TO ANY
PART OF THE STATES.
12/6
Would be great value if you paid 15 6
M362.-A Marvel of Value;-can be
supplied with back or side bows.
Our Mall Order
Catalogue is brim-
ful of smart styles
and values. AVrite
for it.
CHAS. LANE,
& CO. PTY. LTD.-
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE
“THE RELIABLE MAIL ORDER HOUSE.”
Your confidence is
our sole aim. Orders
by post receive
Expert Supervision.
Satisfaction Guaran-
teed.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
ODE TO A LOBSTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
USEFUL EXPERIENGE.
THE FARMER: “Well, if them boys of mine
gets plenty of trench-diggin’ they’ll be
in good nick for rootin’ out the rabbits
when they get back."
“Homo”: Let me dispel “Masetto’s”
anxiety (B. 13/5/’l5). He wants to know about a
ponderous stout fish “with leather-like skin, powerful
jaws, eyes full and ball-shaped, and ears large and
flabby.” I thought anybody would know Australia’s
great Stinking Fish when he saw it.
In the Territory and North
Queensland the natives have a very strong aversion
to a most innocent bird, the black fantail fly-
catcher, most commonly called Willy Wagtail. They
attempt to kill it on every opportunity. On inquiry
I found they charge it with being a common in-
former. “Him sit along tree and talkec talkee—-
tcllum pleeceman alonga blackfellow watchem black-
fellow and lubra watchem all night.” The fact is
the little bird has a habit of chirruping all through
a moonlight night, and always watches with the
rye of a wowser the movements of anybody that
may be handy.
“Physic” : Goitre, mentioned by “Outcast”
((I. 29/4/’lo), is not a pleasant subject, but it Inis
its importance. Decidedly, it is peculiar to moun-
tainous districts, or, rather, to certain altitudes.
In Victoria I know of two places where the disease
is very common—Toora, in South Gippsland, and
Doncaster, about 14 miles out of Melbourne. Tn
these districts dozens of women are affected. An
intestinal germ, taken in water, is, some think, the
cause of the trouble. The microbe can live only at
a certain height above sea level. Switzerland pro-
vides a good illustration of this. “Goitre Town,”
situated on the side of the mountains, got its name
oil account of the disease being so prevalent there,
while in Lausanne, a little lower down, it is very
rare. In “Goitre Town” every man and woman
suffers from it; I have seen the growth as large as
a leg of mutton. Tt makes its appearance on the
children when they are about 16, but the constant
use of iodine retards the growth. It doesn't seem
to injure their general health. One slip of a boy
aged 97 told me that lie had had it all his life.
* * *
“Wodji”: “Boronia” or his friends ever
tasted cobbler? If not,’ they ought to. Let me
speak of the Westralian variety. The meat of the
reptile only requires to be separated from the thick
outer skin, and the person in charge of the firtf can
pick any way of serving the dish. All equally tasty.
In fact, the cobbler is a source of income lo the
small boy, as all the urchin can catch will be pur-
chased by hospitals. I have known a lad lose his
leg through treading on the sting of a many-davs’-
defunct cobbler. About five years ago, when fresh
water worked a passage down the Swan ltiver nearly
to the sea, killing the fish in thousands, notices
were issued warning people of the danger of poison
from deceased cobblers. The IV.A. variety abounds
in the rivers. I’ve only seen an odd one in the sea.
“J-G.” : Do any of the Tite Barnacles in
the I ictorian Forestry Department know what a
forest fire is? There should be some inquiry on the
point. The State forest nearest to Collins-street is
at Mt. Disappointment, about 30 miles away. From
this area millions of tons of hardwood have been
iaken and immense supplies should yet be available.
But every summer thousands of acres arc swept by
fire, with the result that the forest is in many parts
studded with the grey skeletons of what were once
tine timber trees. In the tracks of the lire there
flourishes a luxuriant growth of bracken and scrub,
and as this rubbish grows it provides splendid material
for more fire. It burns like the flames of Tophet, and
any seedlings that may have sprung up since the last
fire perish in the heat. Also, the forest is well pro-
vided with big, recumbent logs, which, after catching
tire, stay alight for weeks. Lately the Department
came to the conclusion that the time was ripe to set
about protecting this valuable national asset. But
instead of clearing out the dead stuff which keeps fires
going and leaving only the green timber, gangs of
men have been put on to hack a multitude of tracks
half a mile wide and miles in length. These swathes
are called fire-breaks; but that doesn't prevent the
local inhabitants scoffing at the Dept., for they know
that men are really cutting a series of funnels along
which big currents of air will provide the fires of
summer with the very thing they want. Thousands
of saplings are being hewn down along the tracks;
but as all the dead trees are being left in the tracks,
and as the trees on each side stand about 200 ft. in the
atmosphere, the next fire that happens along will find
nice convenient places to run up and use as spring-
boards for the purpose of achieving wider devastation.
I urthrr, as the saplings and rubbish cleared off the
tunnels are being piled up on each side, it looks as
if the demented Dept, was preparing for a vast
illumination or a bullock-roasting shivoo.
“McNortli” : A small green snake was the
cause of a divil of a row in the vicinity of my
North Queensland humpy the other day. A kooka-
burra, hunting alone, captured the wriggler and car-
ried it with loud bursts of laughter to a limb near
the top of a tree. Then, according to custom, lie
proceeded to drop his prey and catch it again before
it reached the ground. All would have been well
had the jackass been less joyful about it. As it was,
a dozen or so of his countrymen heard the applause
and called to we what was up. Greetings were
boisterously exchanged, and the crowd joined in the
fun. Then one bloke played a dirty trick. He caught
the snake near the ground, and cleared out. The in-
furiated crowd chased the thief, and cornered him
in a Moreton Bay fig-tree, lie said lie was only jok-
ing, and that if the crowd would only keep silent for
a moment he would explain the whole thing. But
tlie combined uproar drowned his defence, and one
bold gigglei snatched the snake away with the remark
that it was bad manners to talk with your mouth full.
Then he hooked it. That’s two days ago, and I pre-
sume they are still at it. P’or every now and then
tlie silence of the bush is fractured (in a different
place each time) by a babel of accusing, protesting
shrieks intermingled with harsh demoniacal laughter.
Probably every one of those feathered reprobates has
had a turn at embezzling the snake, and, apparently,
the matter won’t be settled so long as the reptile will
stand the strain.
"THERE IS A DESTINY THAT SHAPES OLE ENDS.”
The new caps provided for the Sydney police give them quite a military appearance.—News item.
No. 1: “Yes. I adore soldiers.”
No. 2: "You wretch-you're only a yoliceman! Look at your feet!”
“Brad” : “T.F.M.V par (B. 13/5/’l5) re-
lating to the wholesale arsenical massacre of Binghi
in the early clays, recalls an episode which happened
at Macarthur, western \ ictoria. Near this hamlet
' here is a spot known locally as Murderer's Flat, and
this is how it received its moniker. A tribe of
blacks, which was in the habit of making periodical
c isits to the station, was on each trip presented with
a barrel of flour by the squattocrat in charge. As
these visits were becoming rather too frequent, a,
barrel of meal mijted with arsenic was one day rolled
out to unsuspecting Black Brother, with the result
that the whole tribe was rushed off to glory.
At the eastern extremity of the
Louisiade Archipelago, the great group of reefs and
cays of the Territory of Papua, lies the island of
llossel, tlie scene-of many massacres and cannibalistic
soirees. The peculiar trait of these, once fierce mur-
derers is their hatred of shedding blood. Murder is a
fine art with the knut of Rossel. He hates to create
a mess when despatching his victims, so he has hit
upon the cleanly method of smothering those that
annoy him. Man-hunting, also, is enjoyed by the
sporting members of the tribe, and such is the keen
delight that they take in this pleasing form of sport
Unit half the pursuers never really know when thev
are going to become the quarry of the other half.
Superstition is the principal worry of the tribes, and
magic and murder go hand in hand. Nobody dies
naturally, according to the citizen of Rossel. ' Some
enemy is always blamed for the death, and his life
is the price he pays. When a man dies his friends
and relatives all begin to wonder whom they can
safely put the item down to. Little groups of men
and women gather together and discuss the reason for
the “killing” of their friend, and gradually the most
unpopular man or woman in the tribe is suspected,
h rom suspicion they go to open accusation, and the
accused is not given much chance to defend himself.
The leaders of the dead man’s party inform the sus-
pect that he has until next sunset to make himself
scarce, and he always takes the hint. Usually he
has been the hunter in many hunts in past and more
popular years; now he becomes the game, and with
much philosophic unconcern lie takes to the moun-
tains and hides himself in the jungle. Then the
tribesmen reach for their weapons and get ready for
the chase. Sometimes the “run” takes several da vs
it all depends on the woodcraft and cunning of the
hunted. But the smothering is generally successfully
accomplished inside a week.
“Tiaki": IJenare is an abnormal glutton,
and it is rot unusual for him to consume
the entire limb of a pig or sheep. But he is settling'
down to the pakeha s order of things. The other day
a portly brown brother presented himself at court
and gravely applied for a prohibition order against
his son, not to prevent him from drinking, but to
restrain him from eating. The old trait had appeared
in Hone, and ho specialised in large quantities of
spuds and shark. After a debauch of kai he would
take a couple of days to sleep it oil. Henare seemed
quite surprised when he found that the Court had no
power over a man who made a beast of himself on
spuds.
COULDN'T PULL HENRY'S LEG.
PARSON (surprising young Sabbath-breaker):
Really, Henry Morgan. I'm astonished
to see you fishing here.”
H. M.: "Gam, you can't kid me you know
a better place!”
Joe Iroubark” : To prevent much unneces-
sary inflamed language let me beg of you, brethren,
to tell Satan (lie signed himself “Hare” in 13.
1/4/ 15) to get behind you with his damper receipt.
Do not knead the paste for half an hour; do not
knead it at all. Thoroughly mix the ingredients and
bake the dough slowly. After that you can knead it
us much as you like with your teeth.
(Continued on page 26.)
Hail, crimson beauty, symbol of wet gladness,
The thought of thee no dolor doth impart;
The morning steak-and-onions stand for sadness,
While midday mutton makes the teardrops start;
But many merry midnights and their madness
Thou eonjur’st up, magician that thou art!
Alas, alas, how drab the days and dreary,
These present days of water-waggon woe!
At home from work each night, with footsteps weary,
I push the new lawn-mower to and fro,
Put out the milkjug, bring in the canary,
And talk of such-and-such with so-and-so.
And this is Life —this torpid, dull existence,
This gramophone-cwm-picture-show-cuTO-wife. .
By Neptune and his Trident, in the distance
Thou ever lurest on to fuller life;
Thy crimson nippers beckon with persistence
To Dago joints where merriment is rife.
Yea, Undine of glad waters, crimson Naiad,
Bed roysterous lobster, unto thee be praise I
Let him who will whine out his jeremiad
Against the world and all its wicked ways;
With thee I’d dare to brave a wedded Pleiad,
And smile benignly ’neath her Gorgon gaze.
Gerard de Nerval, scoffed at for his fancy,
Held thee beloved of olden days in France;
To him, as now to me, your necromancy
Flung open wide the portals of Romance,
And whispered sweet sea-secrets, or of Nancy,
Recalled glad nights of frolic, love and dance.
Mud-sidling crabs, although they claim relation,
Compared to thee, or boiled or mayonnaised,
Were never aught than feeble imitation;
And as for prawns, who favors them is crazed ;
But thou, O crimson lobster, with elation
My muse exclaims, “Be thou for ever praised!’’
Ah, yes, indeed, the old delights incauting,
How lovingly I’d crush each crimson claw,
And suck the white meat hidden there, transplanting
Ihv juicy, luscious morsels to my maw.
Then, moved to song, I’d set my throttle chanting
A festive paean without choral flaw.
And ere thine ancient fishlike flavor faded,
Some stout I would with gusto swallow down ;
Then musing on some coral cavern, gladed
And deep remote from this infernal town,
I'd dream a mermaid, with green hair unbraided,
Leaned oer my lips and bade me softly drown.
Acs, drown anel let the world slip by unwot of,
Sink back with pleasant gurgle in the* ooze,
W hile this sea maiden whispered me a lot of
The things I’d have her whisper could I choose,
As we reclined together ’neath a plot of
Sea cypress hung with lobsters and free booze.
Crustacean dainty, symbol of wet gladness,
A hanker for thee teases at my heart;
Oh, what (as Shelley wrote) melodious madness
I would into this masterpiece impart,
Had I but half a crown to banish sadness,
And buy thee (with some stout) where’er thou art.
MAORI LAND.
KUSCOBIN.


for the Up-to-date Living Room— Solid Oak
Correct Furniture
A COPY OF OCR
FARCE
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
AND FURNISHING
ESTIMATES WILL
BE MAILED FREE
ON REQUEST.
£B/17/6
The “SHIPWAY”
Oak Suite of 8 pieces, comprising 6 dining and 2 arm chairs, spring seats,
upholstered in Fabrakoid, Brown, Red, Green, Blue or Grey.
AT„K GOODS ARK
MARKED IN
PLAIN
NET
CASH
PRICES.
r i
* J • ■!-«..
-:r
mm m
j r .*>
iSI V/3
m
t ;
;• (
I—. < v .<~.
j j
A A 1 '■
'fW—
*i ■ ' _
<
f\A t
r, &11
iUMyHHSrai
m
1 \ ii { Jm
■ |i £|f Mflil Efii 1 I 111 ■> ' ' ■■ '■ :.. . ■ -
it,l3/10/-
The “SHIPWAY” Sideboard, sft. wide.
Inspect
our
Magnificent
Display of
Mission
Furniture.
42in.
48in.
The “SHIPWAY”
circular
circular
dining table.
*3/5/-
*3 15-
A. HALL & CO.,
Complete House Furnishers,
561, 561 a, 565, 565, 567 George Street, Sydney.
Self-
respect
is mostly all a man starts life with. Clothes are only a
part, but they are important, because good dressing is a
help to keep self-respect at the “high-water level.
A man should not regard clothes as the end and aim of
life, but he certainly should give them fair and just
consideration.
Quality wedded to price makes a strong combination, and
we venture to say that
MURDOCH’S
Suits-to-Measure,
will help you to keep that reputation for good taste you
have acquired.
In materials you have your choice of beautiful Tweeds
and Worsteds in new weights and colorings direct from
the best Australian, English, Scotch and Irish Mills.
Colors include the new Snuff. Onion and warm Dark
Browns. New Greys, Greens, Smart Broken Checks in
firm and rough finish effects.
ft
e y
£
, Mil*
y 5
a. t 0 the Ta iior work—you take no risk whatever. Our guarantee protects you
in every way. “If'the Suit isn’t ABSOLUTELY satisfactory (and you t are the
judge) then'we’ll refund your money or make you a new Suit. Let us send jo
the patterns to-day. -■
MURDOCH’S IN PARK STREET LTD. SIDNEY.
DESK R.
Please send patterns of your new oof- to-measure Suitings.
NAME
ADDRESS ...
MURDOCH’S
STREET LTD., SYDNEY*
“Australia’s Mammoth -Men’s Wear Store.”
Music is a Necessary Influence
In Every Home Is it in Yours?
dfg
As a developer of the finer feelings, as
a soother after one long day’s work, as
a medium through which you can obtain
infinite pleasure, Music plays a unique
part in our lives.
Is your Instrument capable of fully and
truly expressing your emotions? Winter
is the season of evening entertainment
and, let us ask, is YOUR Piano going to
see you through?
THE
BRITISH PIANOFORTE DEPOT
LTD*
offer the “ALLISON” & “BROADWOOD” PIANOS whose
full, rich tones help every performer. Only the word
“Perfection” can adequately describe then- beauty o
tone and construction. They represent two of the most
marvellous Piano values of the day.
The “Apollo” Player=Piano
is another feature of our stocks. It is the finest Play
on the market, being scientific, simple m consti uction,
beautifully made, and wonderfully musical.
Our Player Library Fees
are remarkably low. We receive new Rolls by every
mail for 58-, 65- and 88-note music—shall we send jou
the facts?
String and Brass Musical Instruments
of every description, Try the best makers, are here also
in great variety. You would find an inspection satis-
factory.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Wynyard Street).


Marlin’:
Pattinson
lie sure
signature,
s Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul.
& Co. Ladies recommend them!
you get the genuine with the
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
IDEAS
•FOUNDED- 1888-
PHILLIPS * ORMONDE «kO>
Consu/r/np Fnffmccrs , S?//br-ncyS I
oncf SJpcnte ■ I7QUEEN St|
- MELBOURNE
dg
British
Wool
Made from Australasian
and British Branded
, stockings & Socks
R r for Men ’ Women and Children,
wearing you not only support the industry of the “Old Country ”
qUa,Uy ’ bCtler dCSignS ’ *- Se d ‘ C 3^.
own goods. There’s a'deS maker ’ S faith in his
m d i t Tb C l k e s And every
# ft* family remember Jagm, are
jt«*k and“?esZery refuse U lny D o!her r . " ° U ‘ fitter SUPP ‘ y VOU ’
Aas2 S ° /e Man “ fadur ' rs - "The Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
V
IL
Sa,-/
&
a:
i
Do you know the Best
Sheep-Shearing Machinery ?
// is the famous FALKINER Electric
Equipment with these special advantages:
Easy to erect
f bsence of troublesome line shafting
Independent motor for each man
Any hand piece may be used
Silent running—no vibration
Electricity is the safest, cheapest and
cleanest power for shearing
Write for details electric lighting shearing sheds.
FALKINER ELECTRIC CO.,
103-5 William Street, Melbourne
Somerset House, 5 Moore Street, Sydney
“G.J.11.” : “Barbwire” (B. 29/4/M5)
omits to mention the distance of Dynovor Downs,
where he saw the sails, from the coast. Seagulls
are a common sight on the Murray at Swan Dili
(\ie.) —when there is a Murray—and the salt lakes
40 to 50 miles north of Swan llill can always boas*
a dense population of gulls which, unlike' “Barb-
wire s” lot, have their rookeries there and comport
themselves in all respects like their sea-going
brethren.
i( * . * * *
Hamer : I started to walk from the rail-
way, and was following what looked like the main
road all the time. Thinking 1 had got fairly over
Ihe estimated distance I inquired from a man I passed
how far it was to the place I wanted. “ ’Bout ’arfer-
""! e >” lie SiUll - 1 walked on for quarter of an hour,
ami met another person. If is estimate was “a mile
or more,” but 1 noticed he looked after me in a dazed
sort of way as 1 left him. The next man said: “Well
1 reckon it's two miles.” That staggered me. “Does
this road go there?” I asked. “Yairs,” he drawled;
hut von re goin’ the '-wrong* wav.”
“Outcast”: A few weeks ago a noted old
Papuan fighting chief passed out of this world of
, aml short commons. iris sorrowing relatives
planted lnm on a grid in the village square over a
slow fire and jabbed their spear points in him to let
out the juicy parts, lie was then'massaged with hot
•stones and the finally shrivelled-up nuunmv was
deposited m a neighboring tree. Which reminds me
ol a lapuan police officer, who must have been born
in I‘ranee, giving evidence before a local beak-
T pr ceded to the shpot, yer Washup, and found two
dead caipses buried up a tree.”
“Zamia”: The blossom of the full-grown
paw-paw tree gives off a perfume that is unequalled
by any other flower. The seeds of the fruit, which
cm.mi a fair amount of pepsin, restore dvspeptic
persons to perfect health. A piece of tough steak
"m>g up for a few hours from its shady branches,’
will become very tender. Its leaves, boiled with
, t Wlll give the beef a better flavor, and,
°’ sotteu lt: - Also, it is said that if you tie a
horse under the tree for a night, the animal will
bo dead in the morning. I don’t know anv of its
other virtues.
A LONG WAY BETWEEN DRINKS.
THE SUNDOWNER: "Gripes! My thirst!—
and his speed!”
linki : Awful . things were done during
tlio Maori war. On one occasion a ITau Him was
rapt 11 ml by two “loyal” natives. A short consul-
tation took place within the hearing- of their rap-
ine, in which they decided that their prisoner had
something in his possession which they coveted very
much and which they were quite sure lie would
not give up without a struggle. This proved to he
correct, for, with a howl, he made a frantic spring
?/■ . lIS ™ptors. After several insertions of the
f-iendh bayonets, however, lie calmed down sufli-
ciently to enable the inserters to take what they
wanted, which happened to lie his head. After
amputating this they gouged out an eye and went
gleefully off to Wanganui, to claim the £2OO re-
ward for the top-piece of Titokowaru. The features
in the hag were a “dead l-ing" for that gentleman.
There was only one thing wrong about it—they
had gouged out the wrong eye.
BLIGHTED AFFECTIONS.
DISMAL PERSON: “Three pennyworth of your most deadly poison.”
De Oriel’: The Western Queensland
squatter, to oblige a friend, agreed to give young
Manchester a start. Manchester was doing-in, in
Brisbane, the last of his stern parent’s final hand-
out, and the squatter wired him to get a move on.
Commence immediately,” concluded the telegram •
“lambing next month.” This is what he received
m reply: “Sorry unable come at present, Suggest
postpone lambing for time.— Fitzmaukick Man-
chester.”
Itan : A\ ho is the weightiest man in
Australia? The Cold Country’s heaviest died the
other day Thomas Ecclestone, a publican, of Brigh-
ton, 36st. °
* * * *
“Wal”: The mention of tin-openers by
“McNorth” (B. 18/8/-16) brings to recollection the
case of \ aluone, a food-miner who, when I last saw
urn, was fleeing madly towards the peaks of
Scratch ley (Papua). My store was full of various
forms of canned food, meat, fish, fruit, vegetables
etc., and to Valuone I gave the key. A week later
'1 opened the store and was almost slain by an
odor that, was like a thousand month-dead whales,
•irmly grasping my face I forced my wav through
the smell and found that the wretched vouth had
operated on nearly all the cans with a tin-opener,
and left them. I asked “Whaffor?” Said Valuone:
00 much I hard work, so I openem altogether
one time.” I wore a pair of hoots out on him
betcre we broke off diplomatic relations.
"Xym": Brer ’possum, having carried out
the Biblical injunction to increase and multiply, is
proving- an unmitigated curse to Cockydom whose
holdings are in the vicinity of timbered land in
northern Vic., where the irrigation channels are
beginning (o wind, ’Possum is a whale for wheat,
ami hags of seed left in the paddocks over-night
are . rai,le<l ky the marauders. Vegetable patches,
fruit patches, any green spot is the particular lure,
since there is no grass for the foragers. The Protec-
tion Act prevents ’possums being killed and skinned,
so in desperation sufferers shoot at sight and leave
the carcases, fully clothed, to rot. Even if permis-
sion is given to orchardists. to thin out the thieves
the skins have to be handed to the police.
* If *
“Cleveland”: Plow is this for the lonely
(loath competition? Some years ago an eccentric
old man named Martin, a well-known figure in
lownsville (N.Q.), contrived to get u
passage to Rattlesnake Island, about 20
miles from lownsville, and on arrival
flatly refused to leave, even though he
was advised that the island had no water
on it during the dry season. In addi-
tion to a deaf ear he added a gun to
the argument, so he was left in solitary
possession of his kingdom with a handful
of flour. About 18 months later his
withered body was found on the beach
of the mainland, about five miles from
his island. Tracing the tragedy per
medium of a diary.- that Martin left
behind, it transpired that lie had been
on the verge of starvation for about six
months, during which time he subsisted
on oysters. One of the entries in the
diary read: “What fools we are, with our
likes and dislikes, when three frogs that
I would have once despised can bring rue
such unalloyed satisfaction.” He was
seized with the desire to escape about
four months before (lie last entry in the
diary, and set about building a boat in
winch to ferry across to the mainland. This
boat he christened the Great Eastern, and in it his
corpse was found.
‘■(x.j.ll.": Either “Bad Australian” (B.
29/4/15) hasn’t done much shooting- with an auto-
matic pistol or else he used one of the cheap and
nasty variety. 1 have used an “F.N.” for years
one of the early models which lacks the improve-
ments of the up-to-date pattern, and have never had
the slightest difficulty through jambing. As .to
range, an auto, throws a nickel-cased bullet 1000
yards, and 1 have yet to meet the Colt that will
do the same. Again, the average Colt kicks like
a he-goal and lias a tendency to throw up, whereas
the auto can be fired from between chalked lines,
without moving over one.
ilie Reefer ; Sandy's cookie boy was
f.iiily covered with the skin disease neculiar io the
South Sea natives; and, as he was a useful sort, his
boss decided to try and cure him. He used one
thing after another, but the boy, instead of getting
better, became more scaly than ever. One day a
new-chum Englishman was sent to the plantation
to relieve Sanely for a week, and, ore dc-
pa i ting, the latter told the new man to
be stny and paint the cook boy every morn-
ing v. nil the iodine. 1 happened along next
day when he was doing it. The boy stood there
in the altogether, while another nigger, under the
Englishman’s supervision, swabbed him from head to
loot with the drug. I noticed an imea>y look gradu-
ally gathering in (lie victim’s eyes; ami presently he
began fidgeting with his hands and feet and his big
? - ves dilated as though they were going to pop out
of their sockets. Then, with frantic yells, he leapt
.me a maniac about the verandah screaming; “idol
Ho! "oh! Oh, by Cris. Eire, fire. Taubada, taubada :
! ;lHa ' s:n,lc Oh : Oil!” With that he leapt
tmm the verandah, and bolted screaming to a big
dam, a couple of hundred yards away. When we
got there he was Hinging and springing and splashin--
about like a madman. 1 had applied iodine neat
•n.vselt, but it hadn’t ever done anything like that.
I asked to be shown the stuff that had been
u.-ed. The label around the tin said “Caustic
Soda” That explained it. The other nigger saw
. 11 ' In when he was pouring the iodine
hot he thought it was all the same sugar, and
.chdn t trouble emptying it. The cookie boy was in
oiled blankets and off duty for three weeks—but lie
"as cured of the ringworms.
Minderino’ ; The boobook-owl can be a
oc .''"' a " whe » jt Hkes. At such times it makes a
laid on the nests of small birds and slaughters the
1,1 , s - Occasionally the small birds form into
sqmms and battalions and retaliate bv a davlight
•' uek on the enemy’s camp. The owl, being then
•ill blind, usually comes out of the scrap with fewer
catliers The tawny frogmouth or podargus, often
con 11 i.l with the hoobook, is the champion uglv
bird ol Australia. Like the owl it is nocturnal; in
the daytime it imitates a hit of dead gum tree to
peifectjon. Both these birds are called rnopokes, but
the frogmouth usually makes a sound like the cooing
, f dove ’ on, - v ' 'coper and fuller. The call of the
boobook-owl will stand a varied interpretation, just
accoiding to the imagination of the listener.
“I)u.v“: This came to me from Ilcnare:—
~, , Koriiidi, to-dav.
missus he ,Ti li aSC se "‘ ,ne tl,ose medicin for'the
vou not feel °i , 80n ' tl "' oat those 4 days I hope
this f i ba< °! for llut renting the mtmnv
so-nes ? SeMt 1110 2 box of ««es powder it
soapcs assmted as you say herald 3 for missus a
bain and l dogs get dozen box of wax match
hone g vnn et '- , st ” sent hil » with mediein
fl ieni/ii,. g ?r od hei:ltlls - Go °dby. Yours trulV
mend, JJe.yahk Ijto.
Rol,\ at : The coach left Aramac at five
o’clock Sunday morning as usual, and, some miles
out, the box-seats passengers were startled at hearing-
tipsy laughter from the roof, if proceeded from a
drunk who had been tied there for safety. When his
cackling was more or less coherent we made this
out: “Ila !ha 1 ha ! Just woke up, and thought I was
m bed at the Loyal, and 1 dropped me boots over-
board. ITe! he! he!”
SHEER PRESUMPTTON.
"Thee not some Irouble with thy barrow.
Bill-shall I come flown an’ fix un up
for ’ee?”
"Thee fix un up! Wha’s thee know ’bout
machinery?"
tHE COVETED EXIHBIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
}\e l>ave secured a magnificent drunkard's heart,
ami would like a brain and a few more exhibits like
'.nose spoken of by Professor Compton. Nothing so
ausalh impresses the so-called temperate drinker.
—A ltecliabite lecturer in Melbourne.
Bill Bolliver was caving in ;
The end, it seemed, was near.
liis breaking-up was due to gin,
'J'o whisky and to beer.
Bui never while he had the sum
Did Bill disdain a tot of rum.
■Twas at this stage that Brother Herd
<>u his conversion started;
He lectured Bill about “the Word,”
And seemed so tender-hearted
That Bolliver was touched, though he
Declined, when pressed, to “come to tea.”
No good,’ said Bill. “To drop my glass
Would mean a sudden break-up.”
Said Brother Herd: “We’ll let that pass.
The c’lection now we’ll take up.
Hh, Milliam, be a cheerful giver—
Bequeath to us your lovely liver!”
VICTOniA.
EDDYSON.
THE UNEMPLOYED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'W° il'e lm-wics and distilleries, and untold
thousands will be thrown out of employment. Then
'Vill follow a problem of the unemployed almost as
senous as the problem of the V ar itself.— -Press item.
He stood there in the public view,
A pewter in his hand,
Philosophy expounding to
An ever-thirsting band
That lifted pints ail day—-a drear
And long monotony of beer.
•‘They fork,” he said in ireful strains,
_ “Of shutting pubs; but, sav,
the beggars ain t got any brains—
Just let cm have their way,
And ’fore you know what you’re about
The bloomin’ Empire’s down and out.
“>ou stop the breweries, and plain
Will shine our evil star;
i lie beer is cut off at the main,
And closed is every bar—■
M hat happens blokes like me and vou
With nothin' let’ for us to do?”
Vi ( TORI A.
SILAS SMELL.


ARDATH TOBACCO CO., Ltd., LONDON
HIGH CLASS CIGARETTES AT MODERATE PRICES
SBSTE(j{PR|SS
CIGARETTES
NEW N° 333 10 (or 6° NEW
THE RED PACKING
QWING to the repeated requests from
smokers throughout the Common-
wealth of Australia for a really high class
Virginian Cigarette at the popular price
of 10 for 6d., we have decided to place
on the market our new RED PACKING
STATE EXPRESS No. 333.
These are manufactured from the
purest natural Virginian Tobacco, in
Britain’s greatest and most hygienic fac-
tories, and possess the distinctive qualities
of all the famous State Express productions.
We confidently ask all connoisseurs to give
the State Express No- 333 a thorough trial,
knowing that as far as quality, fragrance
and flavour are concerned, only the com-
pletest satisfaction can result.
State Express Cigarettes are obtainable of all High Cla
Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
lllllllllli
rs
m
m
I
«e
-y
vs
<s
m
m
vP
O
>s*
C
OR
-cr
s£s^
g OC
d&
05
"O
2. C
CP
<#,!f
>sVP
05
Drt
S*2
B-o
-m
.o
m
'//
OTHER STATE EXPRESS PRODUCTIONS
STATE EXPRESS Virginia Xo. 555 10 for Qd.
„ „ „ De Luxe 25 for 2/3
, 5 „ „ ITis Majesty 25 for 2/9
» ,y „ Astorias 10 for 1/.
STATE EXPRESS Virginia My Darling 10 for 9d.
„ „ „ No. 999 10 for 1/-
„ „ Turkish H.R.TI. 20 for 2/9
No. 1 10 for 1/-


%
n
M
IBlEllßlrßlEllßllßllßlfßl
Jfg][BlfmiEJfglig3[aJ(afgJEiraEj[gJr^l
Wr The
T Grand Prix
International
jflecfical Gongress ■ IJiy
Has Seen awarded to
Let Sanatogen Make You Healthier.
You will certainly be healthier,
stronger, and more Vigorous, if you
take a few weeks’ course of
Sanatogen.
“Since taking Sanatogen, I am
really better—a brighter, stronger
tone altogether,” writes Lady
Muir.
Even after the first few doses —
say, for instance, the contents of
one small packet—you will notice
a marked improvement in your
condition.
Your nervous system, in particu-
lar, will be wonderfully invigor-
ated. Witness this statement by
Madame Sarah Grand, the famous
authoress of “The Heavenly
Twins” and other well-known
novels: —
“I pin my faith to Sanatogen,
because it certainly restored me to
health in the worst nervous break-
down I ever had. It is a building-
up process, but not ‘jerry-building’
—the work is done to last.”
In Digestive Troubles,
etc.
Yes, the good which Sanatogen
does is lasting, not only in a ner-
vous breakdown, but in various
other conditions. For example,
Mrs. Kensington, wife of Mr.
Justice Kensington, Lahore, India,
writes: “Sanatogen is the best
help for digestive troubles that I
have come across. Mr. Kensington
and I have also found it a won-
derful reviver and tonic.”
In Anaemia.
The effects of Sanatogen in
poverty of the blood are described
as follows by Dr. Ferchmin,
physician to the Czar of Russia:
‘‘My daughter, who was very
anaunic, has been greatly benefited
by the use of Sanatogen. Her
appetite improved, her weight in-
creased, and the color of her skin
became healthier.”
Equally remarkable are the
effects of Sanatogen in the case of
weakly children of all ages. Public
Health, one of the prominent
medical papers, contains an article
by a well-known doctor who says:
“I determined to try Sanato-
gen on a child suffering from
really pitiable debility. The change
in her condition at the end of a
fortnight was truly wonderful.
Appetite was improved, diarrhoea
had stopped, the cheeks were rosy,
and her weight had increased by
lib. lOoz.”
Sanatogen is of the greatest
value before and after confinement,
because nothing is so effectual for
building up and strengthening the
system. It is also strongly recom-
mended for nursing mothers to
ensure that the milk shall be
abundant and healthy.
Other uses of Sanatogen —for
example, in Neuralgia, Nervous
Headache and Insomnia, etc. —are
too numerous to mention here.
Send a post=card, men=
tioning this paper, for a
free interesting Booklet,
“ How to Live Healthily.”
Address : The Sanatogen Co.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. Sanatogen is sold
by all Chemists, from 2/6
per tin.
SANATOGEN IS BRITISH MADE
JUST A BILL. I SUPPOSE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Just a hill, I suppose!”
Said my wife in my ear,
And she turned up her nose,
While the document drear
Lay unopened. 1 chose,
When she turned up her nose,
Not to draw the thing near.
(“Just a bill, I suppose!”)
“Just a bill, I suppose i
How the little gibe stung!
From the table 1 rose ;
From the villa 1 flung.
Now a moral hurt grows
When it’s nursed, and I chose
To be hurt by her tongue.
(“Just a bill, I suppose!”)
“Just a bill, I suppose!”
As I passed out of range,
From its snowv-white clothes
The demand for small change
That each small debtor knows
1 withdrew; and with oil’s,
I said softly, “How strange!”
(Just a bill, you suppose!)
Life is full of such slips. As I walked down the
street
I thrust deep in my pocket the grocer’s receipt.
x.s.w.
FINAL NOTICE.
Business, Bobbery, etc,
“G..T.11.”: The sons of Israel have
adopted a new method of fleecing the Gen-
tile. One Southern money-lender now adver-
tises in large print, “Post-dated cheques
cashed.” To the lay mind this may not
convey anything sinister, hut the real in-
tention is to use the criminal law as a debt-
collector, since a person who cashes a cheque
which is not met on presentation is liable
to imprisonment. It will be interesting to
hear what the Judge says when the first
prosecution comes before him. Meantime
it’s up to the State Parliament to legislate
immediately against such a gross misuse of
the Crimes Act.
* * * *
“Snell” : My young friend Frill lost his father
the other day. Frill is 50, but still detestably
juvenile, with a marked distaste for any of
the ordinary methods of earning a living. It
is Frill’s opinion that his father’s great mis-
take was in arranging that he should be born
poor and then taking no steps to rectify the
blunder. When I met Frill on Monday he
told me of his bereavement, and explained
that he was going to the monumental mason.
“You know,” he said, “in the early days my
father owned nearly three acres of city land.
I have got his epitaph written out: ‘Here
lies John William Frill, aged 94. The ass
who sold half this town for £3o.’ ”
* * * *
Westralian dairying as an industry moves
not at all, perhaps because the Westerner is
not low grade enough to be a cow-cocky and
doom children to the slavery of the milking-
shed. So the State advertises in England
that it has 10 million acres of first-class
mixed farming and dairying land in the great
South-West. Yet that region was settled
in the early days, and has had the markets of
the world nearer its doors by a week than
the Eastern States. So far from reaching
those markets, it has never exported a pound
of butter or a side of bacon even to the
goldfields. It eats 3000 cases of butter a
week, and produces not one-hundredth
of it. Either the land or the man is howl-
ingly wrong, and it is time Westralia set to
work to make sure it isn’t the man.
The selling agents for a well-known patent
medicine were fined £lO by a Sydney magis-
trate a few days ago, and the proprietor got
about £lOOO worth of advt. out of the pro-
ceedings. Oue witness stated that the mix-
ture had cured him of dyspepsia, pleurisy and
Bright’s disease. A doctor had told him
that he was full of hydatid tumors, that
nothing could cure him. and that he couldn’t
live longer than three months. He tried
the medicine, “many buckets of hydatids and
slime came away,” and he was cured. He would
“produce the tumors if permitted.” Other
witnesses testified that they had been healed
of all sorts of ailments, from toothache to
cancer, and the Bench found as above-men-
tioned. The people who take patent medi-
cines belong to the class which believes what-
ever it sees in print, and the only effect of a
law case involving the sale of a quack drug
is to give them the chance to read pages of
sworn evidence in its favor. A more effec-
tive punishment would he an order compel-
ling the proprietor to paste a record of the
fine on the bottle.
* * * *
The Book of Tasmania according to the
prophet “G.D.M.”: —
For the best part of its history Tasmania lias
been pitting Hobart against Launceston in rivalry
for trade. The Government tried to drag all pro-
duce and business to one of other of these two
towns. Hence the Railway Department didn’t do
what it ought to have done and built the
Burnie-Strahan and the Deloraine-Devonport-M.valla
lines; but instead left the work to Pri-
vate Enterprise. Now Nature lias taken a hand
passively in the development of the North-West
coast. Devonport lias a really good harbor, and the
trade and importance of the town and district are
steadily growing. Some day the traveller from
Launceston to Devonport will never lose sight of
houses, and the district will present an object-lesson
in intense culture to the rest of Australia. Mean-
time, there are other activities. The Broken Hill
Prop. Go. has arranged with the Devonport Marine
Board to construct a special wharf for its lime
export business. The eo. has agreed to pay Is. a
ton wharfage, and expects to ship 100,000 tons of
lime yearly. It is said the lucky owner of the lime
quarry, which is a huge deposit of the best quality,
will get a royalty of one penny a ton. This stuff
is to help in the eo.’s iron and steel business. An-
other fine harbor is being created at Burnie, or Emu
Bay. Already £BO,OOO has been spent, and a fur-
ther outlay of £137,000 is contemplated. When
finished, a breakwater 4000 ft. long will enclose a
water area of 300 acres, whereof at least 100 acres
will have a depth of 40ft. at low water, spring tides.
I have seen all the notable harbors of the world,
and I plump for Hobart as the finest. As zenith to
nadir, so is Galway harbor in Ireland to Hobart; and
some day or other when Ireland gets a stiff protec-
tive tariff I predict a big' trade will be developed
between Galway am! Hobart in deep-sea steamers as
big as the Aquitania. There are other useful harbors
on the Tasmanian coast sure to be used in the
coming years, and the greatest of these is Port
Davey.
“Gordon G.”: A few weeks ago a Bulle-
tin par. remarked that lawyers, as usual,
were actually benefiting by the prevailing ill
wind, whereat someone called the writer
a liar and observed that lawyers were
having a more rotten time than any-
body else. The truth is that soli-
citors are worse off than formerly, not
only as a result of the war and depres-
sion, but because they are toiling under
scales of costs which are much lower than
they were half a generation back. Barris-
ters. on the other hand, whilst experiencing
a big decline in the number of pleadings and
briefs, are in the mass charging higher than
ever—except in very big cases. Thus the
man at the Bar is coming out about square,
while his little but more numerous brother-
in-law is losing flesh. As for the Judge, he
charges his Government at the usual old
rates, and works about one-fifth as hard as
he did. Said a recent President of the Vic.
Law Institute: “In the early days Chamber
business began at 0 a.m., and the number of
cases daily disposed of was about 16.” And
now !
* * * *
From .T. M. Jefferson, jun., secretary of
the Associated Sawmillers of N. S. Wales: —
“Rum’s” letter (B. 13/5/’l5) is a difficult one to
answer, being so full of glaring inaccuracies. It is
true an appeal was made to users of timber to use
as much as possible of the locally-produced timbers
in preference to the imported article. The price of
the size mentioned (3 x 2) is Os., not 10s. as “Ruru”
says. This is equal to 18s. per 100 ft. super. The
price of the same size in Oregon is 19s. per 100 ft.
super, or Is. more than our hardwood. These prices are
for delivery anywhere in Sydney and suburbs. So it
will be seen that “Ruru's” statements and arguments
are all froth and a libel on the citizens who main-
tain local industry and help to keep the wolf from
the national door. In the present state of things we
are asking the community to help itself by helping
ns to keep the wolf from our door ; hence the appeal
mentioned above.
“Z.A.N.”: “Rum” (B. 13/5/T5) is right.
That architects specify Oregon even with
hardwood at a higher price can only be
accounted for by their anti-Australian blind-
ness. Hardwood is retailed on the mainland
at 20s. per 100 super, while it is offering
from Tasmania at 11s. c.i.f. Of course the
horrible understanding between merchants
and millers is responsible for the mainland
extortion, and to keep matters snug the
merchants decry the island article. But
the merchants know that if the Common-
wealth in a fit of sanity fastens a reason-
able duty on the foreign stuff, the Australian
millers will supply clients direct. More
durable houses will then be built at less
cost.
“Boronia”: Now that the supply of pot-
ash from Germany is out off at the metei.
what’s wrong with experimenting to nntl
out what amount of this valuable fertiliser
lurks in some of our Australian timbers.
Before the rich deposits were discovered
in the Kaiser’s land Uncle Sham utilised
his waste woods in the vast U.S.A. in the
production of potash salts, and there is no
reason why the waste of Australian nanlis
shouldn’t be similarly exploited. 1 11 e
Westralian red-gum is certainly worth test-
ing ; for where a log is burned off, all varie-
ties of vegetables and fruit trees nourish,
and the rich green of their foliage is a cer-
tain indication of the presence of an abund-
ance of potash. Many cockies collect the
fine white ash of the red-gum after a hre,
and use it with good results.
“Silas Snell”: Burrow tells me this
story. Burrow went with two friends to a
Victorian seaside resort which is slowly
winning its way to public recognition. It
was Christmas time, and the programme of
Burrow and his companions included fishing,
swimming and flirtation. It was found
that the fish in the vicinity were biting
badly, and the scarce females were even
more shy. Fortunately the weather was
warm, and unlimited bathing remained. One
bright afternoon, when Burrow and co.
had been in soak an hour, they returned to
the improvised dressing-room among the
rocks to find their clothes gone. Not a
stitch was left, and as bathing costumes had
not been considered necessary the situation
was extremely difficult. Clad in a news-
paper, Burrow eventually found his way to
a hut past the sand dunes, where he opened
negotiations with a lone hatter. The hatter
happened to have a “best suit” of his own ;
likewise a suit of his brother’s, lie was
willing to sell the two for seven pounds.
Burrow, dressed in the hatter’s “best.” went
for the money and for cover for Jackson
After that one man of the party sat on the
company’s clothes while the other bathed,
and there were no further losses. One night
recently Burrow came upon a lad in a city
bar wearing a suit so like his stolen clobber
that he was moved to butt in. The stranger
was not offended. “You’re right,” he said,
“they’re not my clothes. That is to .say.
they weren’t originally.” “They’re mine.”
said Burrow; “I could swear to them.”
“Well,” said the stranger, “I bought them.
My duds were pinched when I was in swim-
ming at Pilot Bay towards the end of last
January.” “But where did you get these?” “I
was mother-naked, and I gave four pounds
for them to an old bloke living in a hut
near the beach,” said the stranger. Burrow
and his friends took a special trip to Pilot
Bay to interview the lone hatter, but they
found his hut empty. Residents are rare
thereabout, but Burrow dug out one who
explained about the lone hatter: “Oh, he
on’y comes here for a spell over Chrismis.”
Burrow is convinced the solitary dweller on
the outskirts lives for the rest of the year
on his commerce in second-hand clothes.


Beale Player-Pianos
ARE MADE IN AUSTRALIA
■
1111
m
ESM
8888
mm
m
HBS
U
m
T
MEY therefore merit your consideration, but your custom is not sought
for “ Patriotic Reasons” but because we conscientiously believe the
BEALE PLAYER-PIANO superior to any imported Player-Piano.
We have many times been urged by our customers, agents and travellers to add a Player-Piano to our
lists, but we have always declined until now we can offer the first perfect Player mechanism, an instrument
upon which any kind of music can be played by any person with any degree of tone colour or expression,
and the durability of which in our extreme climate is beyond doubt. *
The Beale Player-Piano is manufactured on an unique principle from non-corrosive metal instead of wood.
The efficiency of a Player-Piano depending absolutely upon its remaining air-tight, the use of metal —■
mainly aluminium —instead of porous wood, will be appreciated, but the full advantage of its application
on the Beale Player-Piano principle can only be fully realised by your personal comparison of the Beale
Player-Piano with any high-grade imported instrument. Such comparison must convince you of the
superiority of the Beale Player-Piano as a beautiful musical instrument and a reliable and durable
specimen of the finest art of the piano maker.
Cost of workmanship and materials has never entered into our manufacturing calculations. The beautiful
rich mellow tone of the piano, and the extreme sensitiveness, expressiveness and ease of operation of the
Player are an inspiration to the artist and amateur alike.
BEALE & CO. LIMITED
Head Office & Factories,4l -47 TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY
Showrooms - - - 136 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY
And at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga, Lismore, Broken Hill, Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns, Mackay, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.


Lady’s Solid Silver
Double Case Hunting
Keyless Watch, full jew-
elled, 25/-; extra jewelled,
30/-; 10 years’ guaranteed,
Gold-filled Keystone Case Elgin
Lever, £2/15/-; Solid Gold,
£3/10/-, £4.
9ct. Gold Links,
25/-; 15ct. Gold,
UißßilKiiStßft
aiiMiaaaiiMiiilrgi
Oct. Gold Three-bar Brooch,
Garnet in centre, 17/0.
f wm/m
aa
9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Heart
and Ivy Leaf, anv name engraved,
7/0.
Oct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Pearls and
Amethysts or lied
Stones, 22/6.
9ct. Gold
Necklace, set
I’earls and Aqua-
marines or Tour-
malines, £2.
m
Oct. Gold, Half-round Bracelet, richly
chased, £2. loot. Gold, £3.
Oct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 10/-;
loot. Gold, 15/-
18ct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 40/-
loot. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 25/-
iBct. Gold, 30/-
»et. Gold Wed-
dlng Ring, 20/-;
15ct. Gold, 40/-
Lady s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, £3/10/-
I.evrv Movement, £4.
Gold Spray Brooch, set
Pearls and Turquoise, 8/6.
15ct. Gold Brooch, set pure
double-cut Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £4/10/-
All Diamonds, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £B/10/-
AU Diamonds,
£lO.
9et. Gold Sou-
venir Pendant,
8/0.
AV it h Enain e 1
Shield, 12/0.
20'-
25/-
/
tV°V.*V
Tody's Solid Silver
Open-face Keyless
Wafcll. fill! jewelled, a«u-
ri ,te, 20/-; . extra quality,
25/-, 20/-,'40/-, 50/-;
Solid (told, 50/-, 00/-,
9ct. Gold Thinks,
<2,T> richly c n_
graved. ISct.Gold,
40/-
20/-
25/-
Gent's Nickel Open-face
Keyless Lever Watch, jew-
elled, patent adjusted balance, non-
magnetic, dust-proof cases, 20/-;
extra quality, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-
18ct. Gold
King, set 3
Diamonds,
£lO.
18ct. Gold
Ring set 3
Diamonds,
£lO.
18ct. Gold
Rill g, set
Diamonds.
£l2/10/-
18ct. Gold
Rill g, set
Diamond,
£2/10/-
1 Set. Gold
Half Hoop
King, set 5
Diamonds,
£5.
18ct. Gold
Diamond
Cluster
Ring,
£7/10/-
Oct. Gold Brooch, set Pear
and Red or Green Stones, 25/
Oct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and Aqn
marines, 25/-
15ct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Aquamarines or
Tourmalines, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS,
807-817 George Street,
SYDNEY.
30/-
35/-
(lent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Watch, jewelled, com-
pensation balance, nonmagnetic,
30/-; higher grade, 35/-; 10
years’ guaranteed Gold Case, EJgin
Lever Keystone Watch, £2/10/-;
Solid Gold, £7/10/-, £B. £lO.
MONtserraT
SAUCE
Jade from the
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
ea
gwk
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
I’imples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear bv applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1 - and 2 9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Pedness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf"
ficrtc
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pkpper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., ar.d can be obtained
direct from them by post or from
\U. ('ll EM I STS AND STOKES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch
‘ON THE HOP.” —V superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
The New Reinforced Breech
AUSTRALIA, more than any other country in the World, requiies a gun strong
in the breech, because our varying temperatures generate such high pres-
sures in Explosives. Having a long experience of sporting conditions here, we
have all our Guns made to suit these requirements, and the latest addition to
Specially Made Models is the Long Distance Reinforced Breech
Single Barrelled Gun. It has full choke, finely-bored 34-in. steel barrel, snap
fore-end, top lever, automatic ejector, half pistol grip. Weight, 71b. 6oz.
Price. 45/- Postage 4/- all over Australia.
Alcock & Fierce, 318 Little Collins St., Melb.
o
THIS FARMER KNOWS
the value of Solomon Solution. Like thousand* of ' thern,
he has found it invaluable. All live stock are table to ail-
ments, many of them simple enough _if attended to, but
serious if neglected. Solomon Solution is an untai ing
remedy, curing even sores and strains, etc., of long standing.
SOLOMON SOLUTION
r* an
?Bos WOll
MOWC
cjl
MJIHi
Write fur
particulars to
“DROTT’
Swedish
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
for all purposes on
MARINE.
HARM, STATION, COUNTRY HOUSE OR MOTOR=BOAT
WOOD AND CHAFF CUTTING, DUMPING, ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
Crude oil is; cheaper than kerosene and safer. Power costs only
one=tbird that of a petrol engine with our system of water injection.
Our Marine type, for Fishing Boats and small Tugs, a Speciality.
Swedish Drott Motors,
C. HILDEBRAND, Agent,
306 Kent Street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 2097.
J
It--:*
7^v\s£*?r£ *
?.§§£
I fe?Ml
.'"y
S 1
a*
u</
is
/
7,\r>
'P
“(Oil
iti£
mss@&
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
.KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
7dfg
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis" Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive yeti. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2 6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


HEARNE'S Bronchitis Cure
THOSE who have had occasion to take HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE are astonished
at its WONDERFUL HEALING-POWER. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Pain or Soreness in the Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness, Asthma,
experience delightful and rapid relief. This medicine is particularly valuable to those who
are subject to Colds on the Chest, as it STRENGTHENS THE LUNGS, and renders them
less susceptible. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice; and for this reason is thoroughly appreciated by Clergymen,
Public Speakers and Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become Chronic, and in
this respect is ABSOLUTELY INDISPENSABLE in preventing a Cold from
developing into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy or Consumption. No
house should be without a bottle of this WONDERFUL REMEDY, as taken
at the first indication of a cold, a dose or two is generally sufficient.
A Cold should always be “ nipped in the bud,” or serious illness
may follow.
“An Excellent Preparation/ 1
*v
Uf
%
\^r
V
ttiiiuilj
Absolutely THE Finest
Remedy in the World
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST,
WEAK LUNGS,
DELICATE CHESTS
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (Double Size)
The BEST is invariably the CHEAPEST in the
long run.
This Remedy is obtainable from all RELIABLE
Chemists and Stores.
If you have any difficulty in getting HEARNE’S
send direct to
W. G. HEARNE & CO. LTD.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branches at SYDNEY, N.S.W., and WELLINGTON, N.Z.
VJ
V v\\
s=/
©
<£*?/
rr
m
v
e#
**
r
Xt
1
m
1
i
l
S
m
x
$$
m
16
;
Seated on an Austrian chair, on a Brus-
sels carpet in a German club transformed
into a hospital, the Australian soldier with
a Turkish bullet in him will at least be
aide to appreciate the symmetrical beauties
of the foreign-trade doctrine.
“Finglas” : I wonder how the youngest of
the “Eureka” Lalors will show up —the boy
Captain Joe left behind when he fell at Gal-
lipoli ? There ought to be a lot of fight m
him, anyhow. The youngster’s grandmother
is still living at Richmond (Melb.). _ fehe
was a niece of the lately-dead Monsignoi
O’Brien, of St. John’s College, Sydney. Joe s
only sister espoused the Church, and is now
a Loretto nun at Ballarat. There’s a
brother, the medical officer at Duntroon.
Seventy the other day, A. B. Moncrieff,
Railways Commissioner of South Aus., and
also —to the dissatisfaction of some —chair-
man of the Adelaide Tramways Trust, which
necessarily has to compete against the rail-
ways for some of the suburban traffic. He
came from Ireland 40 years ago, and has
built forts, waterworks and harbors, as well
as rail-tracks. Engineering seems to run in
the Moncrieff blood. A brother, J. C. 8., is
chief engineer of the State’s railways.
“Spasmode”: “Groper” (B. 20/5/’l5)
declares that Bishop Moorhouse was sorry
lie left Melbourne for Manchester. I didn’t
believe it once, but do now. A man in hos-
pital once said: “I was well. I wanted to be
better, and here I am. Unit would be
about the case with Moorhouse. He could
not waste his prime of life in such a misei-
able Antipodes as this. The Englishman
always comes to an Australian billet with
his eyes in the back of his head. Before
Premier Salisbury’s telegram came, ofteiing
the see of Manchester, Moorhouse told Ins
Church Assembly, almost with weeps, that
health would not allow him to take another
bishopric. Then he went to Lome, where
the telegram followed him. He took it like
a bird. His Victorian people had subscribed
£4OO for his library. Says he: “I regret
having to apply this money to the expenses
of my transit.” And he did.
According to gossip in the camps, yon
Hiudenburg, the hero of the Mazunan
Lakes, was Hanover’s leading drunk till
quite recently. He “was steadily drinking
himself to death when the call to replace
von Prittwitz and Gaffron saved him.”
His favorite drink is “Ostpreussische Boole”
—a cup made of porter, Burgundy, German
champagne and brandy.
The astonishing parson Spurr, who was
imported for a Melbourne Baptist Taber-
nacle and put up with the heathendom of
Australia for three years, continues to give
valuable information about these parts. His
latest contribution to London daily-paper
literature is to the effect that he_ is “inclined
to attribute to the laughing-jackass the
merriness and light-heartedness which char-
acterise the children of the Commonwealth.”
If Spurr had stayed a few months longer he
might have noticed that the children as they
grow older take on a melancholy which is
clearly traceable to bunyip.
“S.T.S.”: Why can’t war writers make
clear just how a beaten-back attack becomes
successful at last? Of course, correspondents
and fictionists can describe a day’s fighting
in detail; but when they try to sum up it is
mostly as in Ashmead Bartlett’s last: —
The French lines wavered and broke, and the men
were swept down the slope under an unbearable fire.
Their reserves gallantly counter-attacked and re-
occupied the abandoned trenches.
What happened in the meantime to make the
“unbearable” bearable? Enemy’s line searched
by our shrapnel, probably; but it would be
easy to say so. The novel-writers nearly
all have the same fault. The gallant
attackers are swept away by a pitiless hail
of lead. After which they charge again,
“heedless of bullets,” and get right home.
Perhaps Bean’s logical mind will be able to
make clear the missing steps by which the
impossible becomes not only possible but an
accomplished fact.
“Home-Breaker” : When Frederick Palmer
wrote recently of a battered town in North-
ern Prance, “The inhabitants used to look
out the windows every morning to see which
army was in town,” I winked at myself and
guessed he was working off a stock gag col-
lected in Mexico or some other region where
revolutions are frequent. But- I begin to
think he was in earnest. When the offi-
cial “Eye-Witness” tells of children playing
in the streets just beyond effective range of
the guns, and girls lace-making where a
chance shell may throw iron confetti at
them,, the idiotic incongruities of modern
war are brought home. Apparently ordin-
ary life persists close up behind and even
between the guns, so that, the minute the
armies are done breaking things, the civilian
may be on hand to re-make them. Person-
ally I would prefer to dispose of my ances-
tral ruin at a sacrifice and get out early. I
have moved before for less than a hostile
army.
The scaremonger in Maoriland has been
faring rather badly. The first to fall under
the eye of the police was a storekeeper, who
spread “news” of disaster in the North Sea.
When asked to verify the story he said of
course that he got it from Brown, who
heai’d it from Jones. He went down for
something and costs. The next case was
of a kind-hearted old city lady who under-
took to break any important news to coun-
try friends, and wired them that 700
Maorilanders had been killed in one batch.
The Censor met the news half-way, and the
Law said it would cost the old lady fl. But
any lie on a newspaper board can still
be safely passed round —if it happens to be
the right sort of lie.


Model 80
5-Passenger Touring Car,
£.395
dfg
Model 81
5-Passenger Touring Car,
*345
<L
TH E Overland is peculiarly and
distinctly the car of economy.
Its price is less than the prices
of other cars of equal quality, size
and specifications because we are the
largest makers in the world of auto-
mobiles of this type, and our produc-
tion costs are less.
The Overland comes to you com-
pletely equipped. You need buy no
extras.
The Overland is built to travel
the worst roads without injury.
Practically every part is made in the
huge Overland factories—made to
last. . It is sturdy, lasts long under
hard usage and does not impose
frequent repair costs.
It is light, and its large tyres last
unusually long.
To investigate all these savings,
you must see the Overland at the
local show rooms.
SPECIFICATIONS—MODEL 80
Silent, powerful motor
Instrument board on cowl dash
Individual front seats, high backs
Tonneau, long and wide
Genuine leather upholstery, deep & soft
Windshield, rain-vision, ventilating type,
built in
Crowned fenders
Electric starter—Electric lights
High-tension. magneto
Thermo-syphon cooling
Five-bearing crankshaft
Rear axle, floating type
Springs, rear, % elliptic, extra long,
underslung
Wheelbase 114 inches (289.56 c.m.)
Large tyres, 35 x 4J4 inches
Beautiful dark-green body finish, with
ivory striping; nickel and aluminium
trimmings
Demountable, detachable rims—one
extra
Right-hand drive
Electric engine starter and generator;
electric head, side, dash and tail
lamps; storage battery; mohair top
and top boot; top curtain box; wind-
shield; speedometer; electric horn;
robe rail; foot rest; tyre-carrier in
rear; full set of tools; tyre-repair kit,
jack and pump.
AUSTRALIA :
E. G. EAGER <& SON LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
THE CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., 45 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne .
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., 60 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WITT MAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., 1056 Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
NEW ZEALAND:
HATRICK & CO., Wellington and Wanganui.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OP . ASSOCIATION, Christchurch.
MODEL 80
ie Willys-Overland Company,
Manufacturers of the famous Overland Delivery Cars.
Ohio, u.s
Full information on request.


i
As fast as any; plate ever made —and a
great deal faster than any plate approaching'
it in quality--the “Sun” plate will yield
good negatives where ordinary - plates fail.
The “Sun Plate, used to make the nega-
tive, reproduction of which is shown here,
got an exposure of 1-1000th of a second,
all four feet of the horse being caught
clear of the ground, yet with this very short
exposure the "Sun” Plate was fully exposed
even in the deepest shadows. This is the
plate you need for winter work, whether
in the studio or out in the field.
Try “Sun” Plates now try them in your
hand camera if you are a hand-camera
worker, try them in your “Graflex,” try
them in anv plate camera you use. They
will satisfy your every requirement.
Ask the nearest Kodak Branch for a free sample.
“SUN” PIRATES—made in Australia
-always fresh and dependable.
KODAK ,Au ' ,rsijs “ i LTD.,
Incorporating Baker 8 Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street. MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
HOBART: 45 Elizabeth Street.
BRISBANE: 250-353 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denlmm Street.
BROKEN 34« Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 70 Stuart Street.
dfg
mmm
" mm
m
mm
w
*
m
The Seal that makes
you certain
o
yo
v
Buy the bottle or package that bears this
seal, and von know the chemicals are right.
'VW’HEN Decorating,
™ Remodeling or
Building, be assured of
SANITARY as well
as Beautiful 'Walls and
Ceilings use
BEAVER
BOARD
You need hygienic walls, not only
in sleeping rooms but in every
room in the house.
Beaver Board takes the place of lath, plaster
and wall paper. Better, stronger and more
sanitary walls and ceilings are quickly and
easily built with Beaver Board.
Beaver Board is made of Pure
VFood Fibre. It beautifies and
brightens the home. It won’t crack,
and will last a lifetime.
Beaver Board is especially recommended for
residences, offices, schools, shops, hospitals,
and churches. It assures well designed, well
built walls and ceilings that give greater
satisfaction, freedom from cracks and repair
expense, and permanent satisfaction.
MADE IN CANADA
Your architect will tell you all about Beaver
Board. Booklets, designs and free samples
are obtainable from any Beaver Board stockist.
VPARNING: All wall hoards are not
Beaver Board. 'There are imitations. Be
sure to get the genuine with name and
trade mark on hack of every fanel.
Solid Comfort!
No torn or dingy wall paper in
this room. No cracked plaster.
The walls and ceilings are
made of Beaver Board.
Easily put up at any season
of the year without mess or
bother. Lasts without repairs
as long as the house. Resists
heat, cold and sound.
Treated on both sides to pre'
vent absorption of moisture,
and to protect against changes
of weather. Is scrupulously
clean and makes any room
more cheerful and inviting.
Make a spare room out of the
attic. Use Beaver Board for
partitions. Use it to brighten up
the living room or dining room.
Supplied ready for nailing to
joists or studding or over old
walls. Panels about A" thick,
36" and 48" wide and in even
foot lengths up to 16 feet.
Tlie Beaver Board Companies
Ottawa, Canada
4 Southampton*Row, London, W. C. England
REPRESENTATIVES:
0. D. Gordon, G. P. 0, 1893, Sydney R. S. Ward, 40 William Street. Melbourne
STOCKISTS:
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide
Cowell Bros. & Co., Adelaide
Gunnersen & Crockett,
879 Kent St., Sydney
James Hardie & Co., Melbourne
G. Gunnersen & Co., Melbourne
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd.. Perth
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Brisbane
James Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane
BEAVER
BOARD
PURE WOOD FIBRE
CAILLE PERFECTION ENGINES.
8 H.P. Unit Plant.
Single-Cylinder “ Perfection "
with Igniter and Plug Cover.
Photograph of Actual Test.
This shows that the “Perfection” igniter is abso-
lutely waterproof. We challenge any engine manu-
facturer in the world to produce an engine with an
ignition system that will stand a similar test.
Every part of ignition system was submerged in water
and engine continued to run and showed the same
power and speed as when running perfectly dry, thus
proving our claim—-AN ABSOLUTELY AVATER-
PROOF IGNITION SYSTEM.
“Perfection” Special Gasoline and Kerosene Engines are the greatest value ever placed oh the
market.
MARINE ENGINES, suitable for Canoes, Tenders and Fishermen.
WATERPROOF IGNITION SYSTEM.
NO COIRS, NO BATTERIES, NO TIMER, NO DANGER OF YOUR ENGINE
STOPPING IF CAUGHT IN A STORM, as the IGNITION SYSTEM
cannot be touched by water.
CAIULE PERFECTION ENGINES
are the height of simplicity. Any member of the family, can run them. All parts are completely
enclosed, except the fly-wheel. No oil can splash out—no water ean splash in.
We are the Sole Agents, and carry these engines in stock, so just step in and see one working.
We will be glad to see you.
We are also SOLE AGENTS for the
Scripps Motor Company’s 4-Cycle Engines
This is the Engine which propelled the 35=footer “ Detroit ”
from Detroit, Michigan, to St. Petersburg, Russia —6503 miles.
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED
(CITY 4143).
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY. 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.


THE SINCEREST eulogy Zanetie ink paper re-
ceives is the constant effort to produce something as
good. Safety, satisfaction and economy ensured by
insisting on the original article, which produces per-
manent, dense pen-copies. Free samples if stamped
envelope sent to Zanetie Works, Leicester, England.*
A Good Corn
Remover.
Those who suffer from corns and hard skin
on the soles of the feet w'll find it a great
boon to apply a little Atla Resin to the corn,
which, when applied to the corn or hard skin,
and a little covering of cotton wool on the
the top to prevent it sticking to the stocking,
will remove the corn in a day or two. The
Atla Resin seems to act by getting thor-
oughly into complete contact with the corn,
and thus being able to penetrate it, and not
to act on the surface only. It is certainly
the latest cure for these troublesome and
painful structures, and, according to all re-
ports by those who have used it, one of the
best.* [2
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks, Novelties
Write for our New Novelty Catalog. It’s FREE.
1
i
2
3
4
The four puzzles illustrated are the latest out. They are strongly made and nickel-plated, and are
real teasers. Post Free, with full directions, 6(1. each, or the four-for 1/6.
SPECIAL.—A box of Seven Puzzles (different from the above)
sent Post Free, with full instructions, for 2/3.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.—New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
STOPS FALLING HAIR.
This Home-made Mixture Stops Dan-
druff and Falling Hair and Aids Its
Growth.
To a half-pint of water add:—
Bay Rum l o z.
Orlex Compound A small box.
Glycerine -|oz.
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used. A
half-pint should be enough to rid the head of
dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. It
stops the hair from falling out, relieves itch-
ing and all scalp troubles.
Although it is not a dye it acts upon the
hair roots and will darken streaked, faded
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
soft and glossy.* [3
PILITICAL
POINTS
The Peacock Government has decided that
the Maffra beet-sugar mill shall be kept going
for another year at least. Eighteen months
ago Willy Watt, urged on by the Abgus,
which was looking after the interests of the
C.S.R. Co., resolved to close the mill; but.
although Willy made threatening gestures
with his jaw, the Cabinet determined to
allow the Socialistic venture another year’s
grace, and the year has been the most suc-
cessful since the concern started. Roughly
8800 tons of beet have been treated, and
about .1056 tons of sugar obtained —a yield
much in advance of anj’ previously recorded.
Ilampson, the new M.11.R. for Bendigo,
was taken up into a high place the other
day, and tempted. He later described the
experience to his constituents :
In this inside inner chamber of this nation’s
money-house is stored the sovereigns held against
Australia’s enormous note issue. Ten millions of
golden coin snugly packed in bags, or rather nets —
like frozen mutton ready for export. Adjacent are
stacks of notes. One little bundle, about 6in. square,
contains 1000 notes, and each note worth £lOOO
was handed to me, and for about OOsec. I had
£1,000,000 in my possession.
So the Devil lures the newcomer to splash
things.. What the new member really needs
most is. to be taken into a room plastered
over with the nation’s lOU’s, and given a
photograph, or a dozen photographs, of it
to hang on his bedpost and nail in his hat.
DWARFED.
THE DEVIL: “It's not fair, Willy; you male
me feel quite' small.”
“George Hooligan”: Any special reason
why Universal Trainees should be usually
referred to as “Compulsory Boys” ? So far
as I know, there is no more “compulsion”
about the Defence Act than there is about
the Early Closing Act, or any other legisla-
tion. It seems to me it would further popu-
larise the scheme if the lads were designated
properly as Universal Trainees. We should
get wisdom, and cut out the reference to
compulsion, for this Universal Training
scheme of ours is a mighty thing.
N.S.W. “ordinary” revenue for May was
£54,550 better than the previous May’s, mak-
ing a total improvement of £243,510 for 11
months. The new taxation, of course; yet
the crowd of muddlers in charge of this mag-
nificent income of over seven millions a year
are unable to manage without p.n’s and
Norton Griffiths and all the other trap-
pings of misery and woe. Even the business
undertakings that can be spoken about in
public are £93,873 to the good. Meanwhile
Victoria, infinitely more unfortunate in its
harvest, is looking sadly forward to a deficit
of half a million, and recalls that Holman
and Hall denied it a loaf of bread.
There is great chortling over a Victorian
decision that the Denton Hat Mills must pay
for Easter holidays; in other words, that
when a minimum wage is fixed it is fixed not
for those weeks with six full working days
in them, but for each and every one of tiie
52 weeks, in the year. This taking of techni-
cal “points” is a depressing business,
under an Arbitration system, wages,
etc., are supposed to be fixed on a strictly
equitable basis; wherefore when a dispute
arises like this over payment for holidays,
the only right thing to do is to remit the case
to the Board or Court which made the award
in the first place, and ask: “In fixing the
wages, did you mean that holidays were to
be paid for. whether the men worked on
them or not?” Nobody else can do the matter
justice. For obviously a Court may decide
that direct payment must be made for work
for which the Wages Board or whatever it
may be has already provided indirect pay-
ment.
FRIGHTFUL BILL ANSWERS THE
U.S.A.
F.B.: “That for your note, Woodrow!
Now do yon want me to say ‘God
punish America’?”
Calico shacks for workers’ families;
that catch no fish, because the
Chief fisherman wants to work them on the
one-slnft system; high prices paid to
fS£ nts for meat purchased for the War
Ufhce; low prices paid to N.S.W. farmers
tor local wheat, and 50 per cent, higher
prices given to Argentine farmers for foreign
chick-feed; Northern cockies stopped from
selling cream to their neighbors in Queens-
land and Southern hayseeds stopped from
disposing of wheat to their neighbors in Vic-
toria, and both ordered to sell at low prices
to the gorged capital; higher interest paid
to Cohen for loans; substantial rake-off
guaranteed to a foreign syndicate on money
raised for the State—these are a few of the
incidents which explode the old idea that a
Gabor Government is concerned with the
interests of only one class, the workers.
From George Black, the sweetly-philoso-
phical Chief Fisherman of N. S. Wales:
The paragraph (B. 27/5/’l5) concerning the trawl-
ers, their capacity as fish-catchers, and the wages
and hours thereon, is as grossly inaccurate as the
one concerning the cost of meat purchased by the
Government on behalf of the Imperial authorities.
The statement is especially inaccurate that I “fiercely
remarked that eight hours for deck hands and fire-
men was ridiculous.” What I object to doing is to
carrying three crews aboard of vessels only built to
hold one crew, which will be afloat at most from
90 to 96 hours during each week. Which is to say,
that I do not object to eight hours daily or to 48
hours weekly for the trawlers’ crews, but I most cer-
tainly object to throwing away the country’s funds
in order to pay men the higher wages which are paid
on seagoing vessels along the Australian coast, for
hours which at the most will be from 30 to 34 per
week. My objection is to paying the eight-hour price,
at the higher rate, for a five-hours day.
George Black didn’t object to an eight-hours
day. He merely insisted on carrying only
one shift to do the work that turned up in
2-1 hours. Exactly what either Black
himself in his occasional calm moments,
or Black’s colleagues, thought of his
“objection to paying the eight-hour price
at the higher rate” may best be judged
by the fact that last week, after Black’s
letter was written, the Government agreed
to give the men a rise of 25 per cent.!
There is, it seems, sound sense in consign-
ing Australian Freetraders to Timbuctoo.
In Joffre’s “My March to Timbuctoo” it is
mentioned that the first thing the French
generalissimo did when he occupied the
place in the ’nineties was to erect a tariff
wall. Since then the previously worthless
country has become a valuable possession
which simply yearns to give Bruce Smith
and Millen a few hints in common sense.
A deputation of chocolate sellers recently
went to the Federal Government and asked
for Freetrade in “sweets.” The Minister gave
the usual reply—that Parliament would con-
sider the matter. Now, why couldn’t Frank
Tudor have said straight out that lollies are
among the articles which ought not to be
imported at all, and that he would see the
deputation in Canberra before he would
lower the duty? If lollies cooked in Aus-
tralia are in any way interior to the best
made in England, France or America they
are at least a long way better than some of
the inferior productions of those countries,
and there is no sound reason why, with
adequate Protection, they shouldn’t be just
as good as Australians are willing to pay
for. Anyhow, the things are not a vital
necessity, and Australia has no right to
develop a more discriminating palate than
its own resources can satisfy. There are
people who would have their beef cooked in
England and imported hot if somebody
alleged that gum logs wouldn’t roast it.
“Don Q.” knows of something to give
three cheers about-
Thanks to a healthy Protective tariff Canada is
not only able to supply her soldiers with one of the
best military rifles the world knows, but has built
up a fine industry with the sporting arm. Did the
advocates of High Protection for Canada hide their
heads in shame when it was announced that the
Dominion had sent her first expeditionary force to
Flanders equipped right through with made-in-
Canada goods? They hid nothing. “Canadian down
to the last button,” said the Defence Minister. Uni-
form, rifles, bayonets, machine guns, artillery, motor-
transport—an army corps absolutely complete in
itself. When Canada offered her little lot the War
Office said: “Oh, send them along; and to save confu-
sion we will supply them with our standard arms.”
“We can save you the trouble,” the country of High
Protection answered, and as a little side-line took
on the manufacture of 20 submarines for the
astounded British Admiralty. This leaves us with
three questions to answer: (1) Are Australians, such
as we sent to Gallipoli the other day, a poorer lot
than the Canadian? (2) Js Australia a poorer coun-
try than Canada? (3) If it’s neither one nor two,
what else can it be except that Canada’s settled and
determined policy of High Protection is better than
Australia’s hesitating policy of Hybrid Protection?
A GHASTLY PROBABILITY.
“Why don’t you come along and enlist, old
chappie?”
“My deah fellah, I wouldn’t think of going
to the bally tear —one is liable to meet
so many of those beastly Germans.”
N.S.W.. Attorney-General Hall orates about
the iniquity of asking the woman whose
husband is fighting in the trenches, and the
worker who earns only a living wage, to pay
tuppence a pound more for butter. Curi-
ously enough, there was no sign of Hall’s
bowels of compassion being greatly disturbed
last year when he and his Government forced
wage-earners to buy duty stamps on pay day.
Nor has the community been able to detect
any of that vast supply of “cheap fish” that
was coming along when the imported trawlers
materialised. An Attorney-General who, in
the midst of drought, blithers about high
prices of food stuffs, but keeps his imported
trawlers tied up for weeks may be either a
brilliant lawyer or a commercial comedian.
Sydney Eight Hours Committee holds its
sixtieth celebration this year, and is going
to make a special display. And as it will
be a very angry committee if it can’t re-
iTl(ie over a legalised eight hours day, the
Holman Government, which has long pro-
mised the thing, will be spurred on to re-
move the Bill from the cupboard where
most of its promises are kept, and make it
law before October.
BIG GAME.
Brisbane’s more-or-less Labor daily is
advising Ryan to raise and spend loans at “a
much greater rate than before.” The old
gags about necessary development and the
claims of the unemployed are made to do
duty once again. How much easier to
“touch” Cohen and splash up the proceeds in
a gorgeous boom, with everyone jolly and fat,
than to clean up the mess left by a long
succession of other borrowers and dodgers!
The old motto of the Queensland Labor
party was “Socialism in our time.” The
pioneers of the party wanted the people to
be able to say “We own all.” The more-or-
less Labor paper wants to change that to
“We owe all.”
That was slick of the N.S.W. Ministry
to think better of its first impulse to fight
George Beeby for Armidale, vacant through
the death of Braund. Armidale is a Liberal
seat. On a contest Labor would have been
beaten; but, by standing off, the Govern-
ment left Beeby to struggle with the Liberal
machine and the Sydney newspapers which
declined to have anything but a dyed-in-the-
wool party hack. So, in spite of Wade, the
unfortunate Beeby was informed that if he
stood a true Liberal would go up against
him. Therefore he wisely backed his cart.
Good old party—the great national joss!
Why should men with critical capacity be
. allowed in Parliament? The innovation is
not to be tolerated. Otherwise what would
become ol the multitudinous Tite Barnacles
and their gang of obedient heelers?
Foreseeing what will happen when the
war is over, Victorian fellmongers and their
employees lately asked Acting-Customs
Minister Russell for an export duty of Id.
per lb. on sheepskins. Russell didn’t seem
enthusiastic. They mentioned that before
the war foreign skin-buyers had ruined the
fellmongery industry; that it had since gone
ahead by leaps and bounds; that they were
capable of handling all Australia’s skins,
and were at present doing so; that they can
dispose of all their products; and that,
judging Jby the absence of any lamentation,
nobody is being hurt through the foreigner
being shut out. In fact, the position is so
plain that it is difficult to see how the Fed-
eral Government can refuse the request. If
it does it simply means that when ante-war
conditions are resumed the Australian fell-
monger will shut up shop again; his em-
ployees will be dismissed and Germans and
other foreigners will get the work instead.
And when the Germans have put their
affairs in order after the final settlement
they will want work and the profits there-
of so badly that they will cut the Austra-
lian workman’s throat more enthusiastically
even than they have done hitherto.
THE LIBERATORS.
[For The Bulletin.]
We boast the civilisation of the age
And all the wealth and luxury it brings;
Our lives are measured by material things,
And merit ranks according to our wage,
Or to the zeal wherewith we do engage
In the pursuit of gold that taketh wings,
Starving our souls to ape the Money Kings
Misgotten of Mammon's dull, ignoble rage
Upon a chimera! Yet, not all, not all
Thy sons, my Country, drossward turn their eyes,
Or clutch with Midas-hand at all they see.
Thy best, thy bravest, hear a higher call,
And in a nobler, purer Cause arise
To die to set their baser brethren free.
n.s.w. EDWARD NEWTON MacCULLOCH.
THEIR OWN METHODS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tiie months go by, and still the battle sways
From east to west. Upon the war-god’s brow
A frown like that he wore in earlier days
When hate burnt red as it is burning now.
“We shall be victors yet,” we cry—but how?
How shall we drive this foe who sets his foot
So grimly firm on France’s ravished soil?
How stay the plunderer whose dreams of loot
Would make all continents and seas his spoil ?
How with plain deeds his lawless courage foil ?
The problem presses on the world’s hot heart,
And slowly with sharp pain we learn and know
That war is war, and truth must tear apart
The figment mercy to a ruthless foe—
He who will own no law, no law should know!
Men hold not honor with the angry snake
That rears itself fang-bare to work them pain.
The cold hate-venom of our foes must make
The truth that war is war forever plain—
Let war be war until we breathe again!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


SPORTING NOVELS.
The Australians’ keen interest in all sports has created a big
demand for the sporting novel. So some of the best and most
popular stories in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books
are those that have been designed to meet this demand.
ARTHUR
WRIGHT
WHMS*
Apart from their fictional interest all
the novels mentioned below have been
written by men who have a complete
inside knowledge of the sports with which
they deal. Some of the stories possess
the added value of being true to actual
happenings, and the exposure of some of
the swindles that have been attempted in
Australian sporting circles —especially on
the turf, provides the most exciting read-
ing possible.
EROS!
ROS , Wl
. °y ”' , „
FAGAR
1/- each —All One Price
1/1 Posted
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers in Commonwealth.
IN THE LAST STRIDE” (by Arthur
Wright) deals with incidents in several
sports—football, boxing and horseracing—
and an all-ronnd athlete is the hero of the
story. In addition to the sporting interest,
there are several exciting episodes (includ-
ing an opium-smuggling adventure), and
there is a strong love interest.
EROS! EROS WINS!” (by F. Agar)
proves quite as exciting as its title indicates.
It is a brightly-written story which suc-
cessfully exposes much turf villainy.
RUNG IN” (by Arthur Wright) carries a
sub-title which, to a certain extent, explains
the book: “A Taste of the Turf, Interwoven
with a Murder Mystery and a Love Story.”
It is a sparkling novel, possessing great
dramatic strength.
A ROGUE’S LUCK” (by Arthur Wright)
does not require any further recommendation
than that it is by the Australian author
whom both press and public acclaim as a
serious rival of Nat Gould. In this book
Mr. Arthur Wright has provided an excep-
tionallv strong and clever story which has
proved one of the most popular of his books.
“WOLAROI’S CUP” (by Ambrose Pratt)
presents a picture of a Melbourne Cup-
winner in the making, and a splendid de-
scriptive account of the methods adopted by
owners, trainers and jockeys is given. The
story possesses a strong love interest, and is
a clever handling of an entirely new plot.
“GAMBLERS’ GOLD” (by Arthur Wright)
is a good, thrilling, sensational story in
which the course of true love is impeded by
the effects of an old-time tragedy, but which
is again set on its happy way by means of
some fine sporting incidents.
“IN RACING SILK” (by Gerald R. Bald-
win) is an interesting tale of the turf, inter-
mingled with an absorbing love story. An
exposition of the shady ways of an unscrupu-
lous bookmaker is a feature of the book.
“THE MARE WITH THE SILVER
HOOF” (by Bob Allen) is, of course, a
story of the turf —a story with an exceed-
ingly clever and interesting plot, by a
writer whose turf technique is perfect.
“Easily the best racing novel that has come
under our notice,” says the Stock and
. Station Journal.
Write for Complete Catalogue of Eighty Splendid Australian Novels.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m m
mm
ngp
This safety razor shaves you smoothly
because it keeps its blades sharp.
It is the only safety razor that strops itself. It takes
only 12 seconds to strop the blade— you simply slip
the strop through the razor and move the razor to and
fro —that’s all —no skill required. It is equally easy to
clean —just a rinse and a wipe with the towel nothing
to unscrew or take apart.
STANDARD SET (No. 1).
In handsome velvet-lined leather-covered case as illustrated. Contains
heavily silver-plated self-stropping razor, one dozen blades, and first quality
horsehide strop complete.
Price in Australia - - 22/6
Price in New Zealand - 25/-
Ohtainahle Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agents for Australasia —
PARTRIDGE, ABERCROMBY, LTD., York Chambers, Market Street, SYDNEY.
Auto'Strop
k s l F z ET oR
Fox’s Serge plus
Leviathan Tailoring
dgfgf
EVERYONE knows Fox's l’ndigo Serge
—and how it wears.
Well, we have chosen a solid Winter
Weight for a special
S4C SUIT
to ORDER
Tfftl
I U|"
Fox’s Indigo Serge lias a double guar-
antee—the maker’s and ours—that it
will wear well and give satisfaction.
Every inch is all wool. Every yard
positively fadeless.
Good M ate rial needs
Good Tailoring .
You have already heard about the skill
of Leviathan Cutters—hut our already
capable staff has been augmented by Mr.
READ—perhaps the most successful
Men’s Order Cutter in Melbourne.
Realise what Leviathan
Tailoring means.
Materials, Cutting and Making of recog-
nised high quality. In short, satisfac-
tion from the customer’s viewpoint, or
money back on return.
Send Coupon for Patterns
Name
Address
B’T'if. 10/6/’lo.
15he Leviathan
Corner Swanston 8 Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
i
The British
I
Electric & Manufacturing C? L 1?,
MOTOR STARTERS.
rcircn f
nnm
* "v ■ ■
D.C. Liiquid starter
LIQUID STARTERS
A..C. and D.C.
Made in Sizes tip to 6000 B.H.P.
Maximum Voltage 3300.
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84 William Street, Melbourne.
New Zealand Agents: TURNBULL & JONES, Wellington, Auckland,
Australian AGENTS: Christchurch, Dunedin.
WORKS—MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
L,eg-al Notice."
mO HENRY ARTHUR KEARNEY, for-
J- merly of Tasmania, but last beard of
at Dubbo or Sydney, and to all persons claim-
ing by through or under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of the
Honorable Frederick R. Chapman, a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand under
Section 25 of the Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act, 1913, you are hereby called upon
to send in to the undersigned on or before
the Ist day of July, 1915, your claim to
part of the estate of MABEL BEATRICE
KEARNEY, late of WELLINGTON, Spin-
ster, deceased, who died on the 16th day of
May, 1906. intestate, failing which such
estate will be distributed among the per-
sons entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 31st day of
March, 1915.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Note. —lnformation as to the whereabouts
of the above-named HENRY ARTHUR
KEARNEY, or as to whether he was ever
married, is desired.
grinding the teeth while
ASLEEP.
STRONG INDICATION OF WORMS.
One of the most pronounced symptoms of
«nT,£!Y n < l hll ß ren is g ri “d™g the teeth and
suddenly starting up out of sleep. There
are many symptoms of this most distressing
dfgf
, complaint from which
not only children suffer,
but adults also. When
there is a tendency to
pick the nose and the
bowels are irregular,
sometimes constipated,
and other times relaxed,
the appetite variable, a
copious flow of saliva,
and a swelling of the
upper lip. there is a
strong evidence of the
presence of worms. The best proof of worms
is worms, and if their presence is suspected
immediate steps should be taken to posi-
tively establish the fact, and when once
established Comstock’s ‘’Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets should be administered according to
directions. Worms require a specific medi-
cine, and there is no remedy so effective as
these pellets. They kill the worms, destroy
their eggs, and dislodge their nests.
Comstock’s ‘‘Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers. price 3s. 6d. per packet, or
six packets for 205.; or will be sent
post paid at the same price by The
W. 11. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street.
Church Ilill, Sydney.*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The A.J.C. meeting at Randwick on
Saturday and Monday was about the rottenest
experience for backers within human memory. Not
a single favorite brought home the bacon for the
benefit of the faithful asses who go to racing to make
money out of the men who live on the game.
There were a couple of jumping races on each
day, and the winners of both the First Hurdle and
the First Steeple came from Paddy Nolan’s stable.
M hat this trainer doesn’t know about getting horses
ready to surmount fences is valueless. He has
ridden in every Melbourne and Sydney steeple and
hurdle race of note, amongst his feats being that
of piloting Ditto to victory in the Caulfield Grand
National with 12st. 71b. up. He smashed his pelvis
bone to pieces, ultimately, and had to abandon
riding.
\\ ell Dressed, the rankest of outsiders (he was on
offer at 25 to one), took the chief race of the day.
He is a handsome little colt by the imported horse
Miner.
The public’s money was fairly piled on Royal
Laddie in the Flying Handicap on Monday, despite
the fact that he had miserably failed on Saturday.
It was argued in his favor that he had been inter-
fered with in the .Tune Stakes. However, he failed
once more, the winner turning up in Lady Denman.
'Hu's fatal animal, by the way, was again sent out
for the last race of the day, again heavily backed,
and again well beaten. It was the sort of meeting to
make men resolve to Follow the Wowser and chuck
the turf for ever.
S. Hordern seems to have something good in Chat,
which won the profitable Novice Handicap without
difficulty from a big field. Chat cost a trifle over
r'soo in England, and has already paid for himself
and a bit over. He started at 20 to one.
* * * *
What a blessed thing is the tote for the
t'outer who makes a specialty of backing seconds!
From Randwick or Flemington he goes home pitying
himself He wears the dejected visag’e of the bloke
with whom Fate has been trifling mischievously. He
has “backed nothing but seconds,” and two of them
were narrow shaves. He complains of the crueltv
of his bloomin’ luck. Coming home from Randwick
last Saturday he bemoaned his lot, for two or three
of the finishes were very tight. And at Flemington
the rank outsider Bal Blair was only beaten a head
by the much-improved Defence. But how different
at Adelaide, where the tote is! The punter who
hacked nothing hut seconds was happy enough. Take
the tote returns for £1 on the first four races:—
lst .div. 2nd div.
Welter Race—
Enigmatical £12,11/- Admirable £5/2/-
Old Course Trial
Beauty Spot £3 Sunny King £5
Birthday Cup—
Juan Fernandez £3/11/- Sylvanmore£l/14/-
Gang Forward Stakes—
Pistol Prince £22/3/- One £1
Only 13 starters in this last-named flutter ; but the
winner started at 21 to 1, and the backers of the
hot favorite saved their money. Moreover, the
S.A. charities had a nice win on each race.
* * * *
The “first Monday in June” brought out
the annual nominations for the big racing events of
the Spring. All the important handicaps have been
filled up much as usual. Melbourne Cup shows a
slight falling off from last year—2so as against 263
but Caulfield Cup, with 246 nominations, has the
same number as in 1914, and the A.J.C. events have
been patronised just as well. Give us this day our
daily prad!
Along with entries for the Spring
handicaps in October and November came the entries
for the V.R.C. Grand Nationals, which happen rather
earlier than usual this year---July 3 and 10. In
spite of the same old war and the perennial scarcity
of jumping horses the Hurdle Race has 62 candi-
dates (nine more than last year), and the Steeple
has the same number as before. B.v the way, Win-
garara is entered again for the Hurdle, although one-
eyed horses are understood to be, or about to be, dis-
qualified for racing at registered meetings. Perhaps
there is a good time coming when one-eyed politi-
cians will be debarred from competing in Parlia-
mentary election matches.
Uncle Sam, the Caulfield Cup twicer, who
appeared to have broken down beyond repair in last
Melbourne Cup, has been entered again for the
annual events, as though he were likely to stand
another preparation. The big chestnut doesn’t need
a lot of hard work to make him fit, anyhow.
* * * ' *
The City Handicap, Adelaide Racing
Club’s £750 sprint, went to Dr. Bennett, one of the
sporting professional men in Adelaide who have a
horse or two in training just for the love of the
game. He bought Bob Soult, the winner, as a
week-old youngster with his dam Clochette in Maori-
land. Alan McFarlane’s lownit, greatly fancied,'
was a bad second, but late in the day won the weiglit-
for-age Parkside Stakes from Sylvanmore and Orvieto.
Lesbos, Pistol King and others also ran. lownit now
goes to the stud. His best showing was in the New-
market Handicap—second this season, and first last
season.
* * * *
Rue Victoria, which won Brisbane Cup,
was purchased a few years ago for £8 Bs. by a New
England (N.S.W.) sportsman named F. S. O’Don-
nell. The race was a triumph for N.S.W. The
first and third prads are owned in that State- and
three of Ma’s jockeys were on the three placed
animals. Rue Victoria threw the two miles behind
in 3min. 27fscc., a Queensland record; and those
who hacked the beast on the tote received a dividend
of £ll 14s. Those who dealt with Ikey Mo. did so
at eight to one.
* * ; * *
“Jimmy” McGill, owner, trainer and
breeder of the Queensland St. Leger Stakes winner
Olive Garde, is the “old man” of horse-racing up
North. McGill’s previous successes in the St. Leger
were in 1887 and 1904, while the Brisbane Clip has
been his five times.
* * * *
Just-deceased Albert Miller, of Victoria,
reckoned The Indian the most consistent animal he
and his brother ever owned. The most brilliant was
Redleap. Another money-maker was Preston, with
which the stable won the V.R.C. St. Leger.
Balboa, one of the best nags last season
in Maoriland, and the winner of the M.L. Derby and
St. Leger, was bought by his owner as a yearling
for £3O.
Recently at Epsom (Eng.) the extraor-
dinary spectacle was seen of naval recruiters bawl-
ing against “the ring”—one lot calling the odds
on the horses; the other, the odds on life and death.
The bookmakers, of course, carried the bag as their
sign and totem, and Lieutenant-Commander Barrett,
who headed the opposition, carried the white ensign.
Although it is not generally known, the
tote is maintaining a battle-cruiser in the North Sea.
All patriotic wowsers who favor Isaac MeShortodds
and the bag method of betting are exhorted to con-
sider this fact. In 1909 the Government tax on tote
receipts in Maoriland was It per cent., but in that
year, when louseph Ward rushed Father Bull with
the gift Dreadnought, the tax was increased to 24
per cent., and a special tax of 24 per cent, was put
on all racecourse receipts, such as gate-money, privi-
leges and race-cards. In 1909 the Government got
only £29,645 from the clubs, but by 1914 the income
front this source had risen to £107,813, owing
chiefly to the increased taxation designed to meet
the cost of Ward’s famous present. The sum realised
in 1914 was sufficient to pay 31 per cent, interest
on the cost of the ship ( £1,701,000), and to estab-
lish a sinking fund capable of defraying the entire
sum inside 24 years. Now, will brother McSniffle
address the congregation ?
The main attraction of the N. S. Wales
Rugby League for the season —the Bananaland team’s
visit —has proved the record fizzle. Well heralded,
the Northerners were expected to give the thousands
of keen followers of the game in Sydney the idea-
sure of seeing the pick of the home players tried
out; and if the Queensland machine had shown itself
equal, or, better still, superior to that of the South
all hands and the bottle-washer would have arisen
and said: “This is the good business for the game!'”
Instead of anything like that happening the team
from the North, in two matches —one on Saturday
and a second on King’s birthday—was biffed into the
novice class.
Saturday’s match drew about 20,000 people to
the Agricultural Ground, and it was a shame to take
their money. A two-round fizzle at the Stadium is
bad enough, but it has the advantage of being soon
over. This fizzle was so long drawn-out that it
grew whiskers which tangled up its feet. The
details need not be paraded; the naked totals are
harrowing enough—N.S.W., 53 points; Queensland,
9 points. On Monday, at the Cricket: Ground, only
a little over 10,000 people took the risk of seeing
an improvement in the play of the Bananalanders,
and although there was a betterment, it was brief
and fragmentary. The scores at half-time were:
N.S.W., 7 points; Queensland, 3 points. After that,
the downfall; and, when the band addressed Provi-
dence on behalf of George V., the teams filed off'
with 39 points to the credit of N.S.W. and 6 points
to the discredit of Queensland. Clearly, League
football in Bananaland, allowing for players who
have gone scalp-hunting at the Dardanelles, is not
what it was cracked up to be.
There was a good deal of “dealing”
in the match, but the ordering off of Mclvoi- (Q.), in
a mix-up in the fading light, was over the fence.
In the earlier part of the game, Burge, Watkins and
other N.S.W. players offended flagrantly and more
aggressively; and it took referee T. J. Black too
long to decide that fighting was not football. When
he did, he fell on the neck of the Bananalander. The
crowd recognised this harsh treatment, and while it
cheered the penalised player wildly as a set-off to the
referee’s judgment, howled advice to Black to
“send orf” the defaulters on the Ma State side.
Just when Mclvor left Bolewski broke a collarbone,
so Bananaland finished the debacle with 11 players.
Harold I-lorder, the tricky N.S.W. Rugby
League vying three-quarter, is a glutton in the
scoring line. In four Sydney first-grade matches
this season he has scored 41 points ; against Northern
District (Newcastle) he piled on another 17 ; against
Bananaland on Saturday he was responsible for 31
out of 53; and against Bananaland on Monday he
collected 29 out of the total of 39. Horder’s chief
assets are a corkscrew dodge and more than average
fleetness. He is probably the fastest runner playing
Rugby League football in Australasia.
* * * *
Ilodgins, captain of the Queensland
Rugby Leaguers, is an ex-N.S.W. Rugby Union
player. In 1910 he helped Newtown, unbeaten that
season, to gather the Sydney first-grade premier-
ship. About that time he filled out a jersey for
N.S.W. against M.L.’s All Blacks. More recentlv
he played Union and League football in Queensland.
He is the possessor of seven honor caps.
The Rugby Union is in for an uninterest-
ing season in Maoriland. The annual North v.
South fixture has been dropped for the first time for
many years, all the inter-provincial rep. matches are
off, and most of the topnotch players are also off—
to the Dardanelles. The whistle' has blown “half-
time” on the national game.
* * * *
Rugby enthusiasts in Christchurch (M.L.)
got together the other day to say a few words to
G. 11. Mason, who for five years, from 1909, was
president of the Canterbury Rugby Union, and who
this year is president of the M.L. Union. He has
been 25 years associated with the game in the Loardy
Iste, and deserved all he got from the deputation
that waited on him. It was he who managed the
M.L. team that made such a wreck of the Rubgy
tearns of California a couple of seasons ago.
*" * *
N.S.W. Rugby Union is close up to mark-
ing ‘looo’ on its roll of recruits for the Great Red
Game. The cricket list is also stretching out.
Amongst the latest to sign on to bat the two Lbi-
speakables to leg is C. Kellewav.
Harold George, killed in the scrum with
the Turks, was one of the finest Rugby Union for-
wards the Ma _ State has possessed for many years.
He donned his representative cap in 1910,' and
played with the Australian XV in America and
Maoriland, and against the Maorilanders in N. S.
M ales. He was a fine athlete who played- a clean
game in the front row.
One of the N. S. Wales war-parties about
to take to the track has a Rugby Union flavor
Major “Jim” McManamey is in command, and
other ex-rep. players include F. C. Coen R. G.'
Heath, S. A. Middleton, 11. Wallaeh, A. Buckley
and R. B. Hill.
* * * *
Three prominent footballers of Christ-
chuicli (M.L.) joined the Canterbury Infantry in a
bunch, and were dubbed “the Three Musketeers.”
They were Buttle, Sapsford and Parson. The first
week of scrap in the Dardanelles saw them all outed-
Buttle, wounded; Sapsford, killed ; Parson, wounded
and missing. The toll on three popular players saw
an immediate increase in offers of service from the
muddied oafs left in the Flat City. So the Mus-
keteers wounded and killed go on recruiting.
“M.P.A.”: It’s long since there was a
greater farce under the title of a championship con-
test than the catch-as-eatch-can scramble at Adel-
aide Exhibition Building between Clarence Weber
and Dave Smith, a 14st. local’heavy. Clarence went
for his man like lightning and had him on the
mat in 25sec. The second bout saw David again on
the felt in Usee. On picking himself up Smith ex-
pressed dissatisfaction with the referee’s judgment, so
Weber, with a keen sense of the humor of the situa-
tion, decided to give his opponent another oppor-
tunity. So the pair set to wrestle again, and for the
third time the tall and agile Clarence heaved Smith
to the floor in 26sec. That gluttonous partv, how-
ever, was still unconvinced, wherefore the accommo-
dating Weber took him on once more, and dumped
him in 16see. The four falls occupied VSsec., and
Clarence hadn’t turned a hair. Years ago when
eber first took to the grappling game he met an
Italian wrestler from Geelong at the Prahran (Melb.)
Town Hall, and served up a similar doing. Writer
refereed the contest, and the son of Garibaldi hit the
mat four times at an average speed of some ssee
per fall. Weber has fully demonstrated his superi-
ority as the best Australian ever on the mat.
Maoriland Rugby League has blurted it
out—no team will be sent to eastern Australia this
season. that is as this paper anticipated. The
FRANK
BEAUREPAIRE.
Champion swimmer,
going to the Front
to teach the Turks
the crawl stroke.
management commit-
tee is a most de-
jected-looking fowl.
First it laid its plans
and clucked with
satisfaction while the
big N.S.W. rooster
crowed on the roof.
Then a scandalised
editor threw a Union
Jack at the plans,
and the M.L. fowl
ran three ways at
once squawking “yes-
no” at the top of its
voice. The noise
brought out another
disturbed editor or
two, and they
poured a bucket of
water on the agi-
tated fowl. That
settled it. The other
day it came in out
of the wet and ex-
plained that it had
swallowed the plans.
Fred Dyer and Fritz Holland—welters
both met at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night.
Dyer is a muscular youth, with a countenance which
may be either Yiddish or Gaelic, and a mass of
hair like inked seaweed. He boxes in accordance
with no known rules, leaving himself wide open every
time he uses his right and usually when he employs
his left. He avoids annihilation by quickness of
foot and by clever headmoving. On the aggressive
side he has a fast and accurate straight left. He
beat Holland all the way by cleverness and speed.
'I hough the difference in their weights was but
quarter of a pound in the Yankee’s favor, the latter
produced the impression all through that one fair
punch from him would cause the smiling, hirsute
enemy to crumble. For round after round Fritz
padded doggedly in pursuit of the elusive Welshman,
his right held menacingly in position to land the one
convincing biff that the situation required. But
the Welshman was never there, and at the end of a
skilful and willing scrap referee Harald Baker did
the obvious thing in placing his lily-white hand
upon the raven locks of Dyer. Holland was the
first to congratulate the winner. What a good
sportsman this fine boxer is, by the way!
Ilughie Mehegan and Clime put up a sen-
sational scrap at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night. Tn the fifth round Clune dropped Mehegan
with a loft to the jaw; and, as fight patrons are
aware, Mehegan takes considerable dropping. lie
stayed down till eight. The round was but in its
infancy and for the minutes which ensued Clune tried
hard to complete the downfall of the foe. After
much hard walloping he got home with another left
to point and Mehegan collapsed, locking all out.
However, at the call of nine, he managed somehow to
struggle to his feet. Clune took a chance. Aiming
a hit which would have been an undoubted convincer
had it landed, he left himself wide open, and was
hooked with such severity that he sank back on the
ropes in a helpless condition. Amid blithering- excite-
ment the gong went. In the eighth round Mehegan
twice had Clune down for nine seconds, but he
failed to put that game and shifty youth out. The
contest went the full route in the end; and the
decision^ was for the old champion.
The cable has got us tangled about Bom-
bardier Wells. Firstly, he was said to have
enlisted in a regiment bound for the Front: then
the news came that he had knocked out Dick Smith
in the ninth round for a purse of £7OO.
* * * *
In the U.S.A. they’re still heatedly
arguing whether the Willard-Johnson stoush was on
the level. No less an authority than Tom Andrews
sums up that the fight was “square,” and that the
white man put it all over the sinful son of Ham.
Says he: “To the best of my judgment, and of prac-
tically every critic at Havana the dav of the battle
the contest was fought on its merits, and the best
man won, that man being Jess Willard.” He goes on
to say: “The real damage to Johnson was done in
the eighth round, when Jess sent a terrific right-
hander to the body, just under the heart. It made
Jack gasp, but he was clever enough to hide the
efteet of the blow from Willard. It was evident
Willard did not realise the damage he had done, for
afterwards he told me that he first became aware of
Johnson s weakness in the tenth round. He said he
telt then that he could win sure, but he had planned
ij a sa^e and sure battle, and for that reason
would take no unnecessary chances. It was in the
eighth, too, that Jess really outpointed Jack; in
tact, there were several rounds in which Willard
held his own at boxing, or had the better of the
exchanges. He also blocked many of Johnson’s leads,
and did not receive the force of the blows, as many
supposed. \\ illard was not marked up, either, as
many reports stated. He had a bruise on his left
an| J his right ear was cut a bit, but outside
oi that and a slight scratch on his right cheek he
bore little evidence of the encounter. Had a deci-
sion been given at the end of the twentieth round
it would have been a good draw, although
many claimed Johnson would have received the ver-
dict. I asked referee Welch what his decision would
have been at the end of the twentieth, and he said
that while Johnson might have had a shade on
points it was not enough to warrant a decision, and
lie would have had to call it a draw.”
* w '■* *
According to Willard, liis swag from the
Wlth Johnson was L2GOO and the latter's
it 6000.
There’s only one man who knows how
hard Willard, the giant, can punch, but, unfortu-
nately he has gone to that burn from which no
traveller returns, as “Henry Horsecollar” put it.
Ills name was “Bull” Young, and in the seventh
round of his battle with Willard in a Californian
ring the big- fellow upper-cut him a frightful smash.
\\ lien they picked him up his neck was dislocated.
Willard was discharged on trial, but he long suf-
fered from the shock.
* * * *
Jim Corbett’s young brother Tom, the
constant pal of “Pompadour's” fighting days, died
lecently, of pleurisy, at San Francisco. Age, 37.
On 1 eceipt of the news Jim cut his Australian tour
short and sailed for home by the Ventura on Satur-
day. He hinted that he might be back/“maybe with
J oni Gowler as heavy-weight champion of the world.”
Particulars from U.S.A. concerning the
death of Floyd McFarland show that, as the general
manager of the Velodrome .at Newark, New Jersey,
lie got into holts with a side-stall keeper, and emerged
with a brain pierced by a screw-driver. McFarland
!!' u s.ls years of hard pedalling won something
“ k ! 000 ra ° eS ’ ahd is Eaid to have died worth
*’ * * *
Lieutenant Egglestone, of the Maori-
ianders,-reported missing at the Dardanelles, was one
ot the most promising amateur peds. Otago ever pro-
dueed. A few seasons back he burst suddenly into
the athletic arena in the Scawtch metropolis, won
the sprint championships of Otago, and then bagged
the M.L. 100yds. championship at Invercargill, bv
defeating. Ronald Opie. Later on, he easilv defeated
troupe, the Victorian sprinter, at Dunedin. Then
an illness fell on him, and he dropped out as sud-
denly as he had appeared. Had he been able to go
on he would, without doubt, have made a great and
enduring name. He got his health back eventuallv,
and was one of the first 'to volunteer for service.
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association
fast week , applied the official stamp to the 1060yds.
record of 2min. 15 4-ssec., put up by middle-distance
champion Arthur Thorpe at the Ma State’s carnival
a couple of months back.
* * * *
Miss Meets, of Mudgee (N.S.W.)', wrote
"? me i *7. book recently by winning the State’s
100yds. ladies’ running championship in 11 4-sscc.,
w “ cl ‘ is alleged to be a world’s record. Illness pre-
vented Miss Eacott from defending her claim on the
title. Money in bucketsful, is alleged to be available
honor PPOlt lhe Klea that Miss Meers can hold the
**. * - *
There was disappointment at the Water
Carnival on the Parramatta in aid of the Belgians
on Kings Birthday when Bill Beach did not turn
out tor the veterans’ race. He had nominated, and
the nomination had been used as a drawing card bv
the management; so when Peter Kemp, Jim Stan-
tnnd Ehas , Laycoek faced the starter without
!vl?\n he ■ Cl '. owd had the edge taken off its enthusiasm
“‘ji e unique event. Kemp, who was on scratch,
” a str enuous three-quarters of a mile race
with Stanbury who had a 3sec. liandicap. Peter won
vn„, b ? U * hal , a - le ugth. haycock left it to the
youngsters early in the race. 1„ the Men’s Double
Sculls Handicap L. Bell and J. Riddle (20see.) bait
bi e ° r ?mi al \ d ni ? an T?'7 ns UOsec.), and H. Picker-
i- (13sec.) in that order. Felton
£ £2-o h n llle T TOWl m vVho are to row a side matcli for
£250 on June 26, met in the Scullers’ Handicap
but were unable t, l reach the long-handicap rowers.
J. Lihs ((msec.) was first; R. J. Short (23sec )
!®°° ,ld .; S T vd hemp (6sec.), third. Miss F. Kemp
won the Lady Professional Scullers’ race, and Lilv
Double? a,:d ’ rother Arthuv « ot awa 3’ with the Mixed
_ * * *
Jolia Foryslli, who died at Svdnev lnet
irPISsT h"h n C t| leilt record at howls' Beginning
club mr I! 6 ' the championship of City bowling
club toi seien years, won two N. S. Wales chamoion-
the P Pa ndwielr CaP n first champion rink, won
tne Land wick championship, and had to his credit
a lengthy array of first-class perform nces Ho w-
a genial sport, and in the ’9o’s his association with
games' in ol “f t: °otbail did much to aid those
games in \anous hours of necessity.
By 19 votes to seven N.S.W. Baseball
Assocmtmn demde l ! that Leichhardt, for refusing to
keep a giound engagement recently, should suffer
tned n ear t S i dl ?9« alifl cation. The‘biffing was in-
weio-ht The d C ' lllb ’ 3t feU with unexpected
an endeavor tn d i squal i flcatlon vvill 110 doubt Lad to
an endeavor to launch an opposing body.


Taddy’s GRAPNEL Mixture
HIGHEST-GRADE TOBACCO.
•*-*-*“**
SggBSW
-
Baaaßpp»^s^
ra
HKK3
wm*
wmm
ml
&
t ;
Ill'll
;:k<£wfi§l
«
mm
; ;
all
S-iS
m
Lii
iSS
i*Sta
|jp;#
» 4il* ;
y«!
mm
BP
II
: ft
li
========
ft*#;
Manufactured by
James Taddy
and Co.,
LONDON.
Established 150 Years.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
1/6
PER 2oz. TIN.
Sole Agents for New South
Wales and Queensland
Scott, Henderson O. Co.,
lO LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY.
c
■S2
gypsy
itHI
173
MY GYPSY TOBACCO
is T. C. Williams’ latest production. It is
certainly a fine tobacco, but you must try it
before you can realise what an excellent smoke
it is. It is perfection in aroma, flavor and
coolness. Put up in three strengths —Mild,
Medium and Full.
Mild:
12in. Bars, 2/6 per har.
Cut, 4oz. Tins, 2/2. Boz. Tins, 4/3.
Per lb., 8/3.
Medium:
Jib. Bars, 2/-
Pocket Pieces, 7 ’a,l/2. Per lb., 8/-
Blocks, 4 J to the lb., 1/9 each.
lOoz. Lumps, 8/-
Cut: 4oz. Tins, 2/2. Boz. Tins, 4/3.
Per lb., 8/3.
Full Strength:
16oz. Lumps, 7/6.
Pocket Pieces, 7’s, 1/-
Cut: 4oz. Tins, 2/- Boz., 4/- Pe l '
lb., 7/6.
Postage on lib.: N.S.W., 9d.
Other States, 1/2.
My Catalog of Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco,
Pipes, etc., will be mailed free on request.
A. M. SOLOMON J EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SHELL
'irnvu
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on
SHELL'
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD.
Don’t be a Trailer
Ride an
INDIAN
Two years in succession we
“scooped the pool” at Qoulburn,
and with the same stock model,
T.T. INDIANS. Can you beat it?
Write for Catalogue “ D.”
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109-111-115 Russell Street, Melbourne.
RIGNEY SHOES ARE SO POPULAR
dfg
because every pair satisfies the wearer fully
and completely. The more particular you
are about the style, fit aud appearance of
your footwear, the more you will appreciate
RIGNEY SHOES.
The illustration shows a Tan Willow Calf
Three-Button Shoe, Smart American Shape,
Brown Cloth Insertion Tops, “Non-Tread-
Over” Brand. Best English Manufacture.
Price - 32(6
Also in Patent Leather, 32/6 and 357-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,"
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
kt
(■■■■■lll
n
\
!!■■■■!!
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus il
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Its Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
'JZ.
5^
.V *
M '
.•., . ' ,
A DAMP-PROOF BOOT
Tills Wearite” Model is something unique, by reason of
its Exclusive Feature—“ Rubber-Packing.” This consists
of a Fine Sheet of Rubber inserted between the Welt and
the sole, through which no moisture can penetrate, and
which renders the Boot absolutely Damp-Proof. But apart
from thjs feature, the Boot represents really out-of-the-
ordinarv value. It would be
PROPERLY PRICED AT 22/6
he beautiful quality of the Fine, Soft Stout, Fully Matured
Box-Calf in which it is made and the perfection ol its
manufacture meriting this amount which would be further
iustified by present market rates. We can qhote 18/6
because the line is part of an immense purchase
made before Ihe Recent Rises in Leather
The “Rubber-Packed Wearite” is Leather-Lined from Tag
to Toe-has Welted Double Soles—is stocked in Full
Round Toe as shewn and in J> sizes.
POST YOUR ORDER.
We Pay Freight. We Guarantee Satisfaction.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
244-254 Flinders Street : MELBOURNE.
IfieThin Sheet
of Rubber between
Wei band Sole
k
w
&S£%*


IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Hough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 3/-tube every-
where. Post free 1/8. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOM PS ITT & CO., Melbourne.
HOW TO GET RID OF YOUR
GREY HilG
A Simple, Sure, Harmless Treatment
which can be used at home with
complete success. Ag-e no obstacle.
COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS
FREE
I AM A WOMAN who belongs to a prematurely
grey haired family. My father was grey before he
was 3'», and two of my brothers as well as my sister
became grey early in life. Before the age of 25 I
developed grey hairs, which became quite embar-
rassing to me -socially, and also in business I
LOST THREE GOOD POSITIONS for no other reason
than my lading hair. Ihe groyness increased with
alarming rapidity, and at 28 I LOOKED LIKF a
WOMAN OF 45. One day I was seriously thinkin"
ol buying one of the many Grey Hair Restorers
that are extensively advertised, when I casual I v
mentioned the subject to an acquaintance-a scien-
dfg
tific man, and, aslafter-
Wcards learnt, a great
student of the Che-
raistry 0 f the Hair,
strongly ad-
vised me to have
nothing what-
ever to do with
these concoc-
tions. He poin-
ted out that
SUCH PREPAR-
ATIONS EVENT-
UALLY RUINED
THE HAIR, and
in the meantime
rarely deceived
even the casual
observer. He sug-
gested that I trv a
'ormu'a that he had
perfect d after a con-
siderable time, which,
by a certain chemical
acaon on the pigmentary colouring cells restored
the hair to its normal colour, in repN to rav en
quines he assured me that the formula was not
only absolutely harmless, but would develnn a
STRONG AND BEAUTIFUL GROWTH OF HAIR My
inend wrote out Ins prescription, which I had made
" ;lref " !ly following the instructions for
a tew days, l was surprised and delighted to find mv
hair becoming richer and darker in tone The re
colouring process continued until after some few
weeks my hair actually once again possessed the
nahiral shade of my girlish davs. Since then I HAVF
SEEN INUNDATED WITH ENQUIRES from Mends
and also persons unknown to me, who came to i»„
of this wonderful preparation. Haviug hecome con
ORDINARY MERIT Ve REMEDY OF EXTRA-
URDINARY MERIT, and winch is quite harmless I
have resolved to offer it for sale, as I am certain
from my own experience that it will proye an ines"
tunable boon to any man or woman who finds grev
rt U is nP, n e B+nie, 8 + nie , s « rious handicap it was to me
it is a Guaranteed Genuine Prena ration ■
OFF E R A REWARD OF £lOO if it wfl? not
Grey Hair to Original, Natural Shade.
.. y° u are interested in this wonderful prepa-
ration I am willing to send you COMPLETE IN-
STRUCTIONS FREE
fueler plain sealed
cover. Simply write
your name and full ad-
FREE
dress plainly and enclose 2 stamps for postage and I
will write you by return pos\ or if convenient call!
Mrs. MARY K. CHAPMAM
Suite sg Linden Courl. S/DNEY
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
VVb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HART,, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering .over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
M'OY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of S
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
“ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over .500 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
WHY GUESS
—What causes that loss
account on your books?
—About the honesty, ability
and efficiency of yonr
assistants ?
—Whether or not the proper
record is made of each
sale ?
—Bach day at the amount of
accounts receivable and
payable ?
—At the amount of money
you should have in the
cash drawer at the close
of the day’s business?
VK3f.
WMMmm
V : '■'£
Si?,*
—At the amount of mistakes and who made them ?
—Whether or not charge sales are forgotten in your store?
—At the amount of the losses you actually have in your
store ?
—That you receive all the money that comes over your
counter in exchange for goods?
WITH A NATIONAL CASH REGISTER YOU WILL KNOW.
The National Cash Register Company
of Australasia Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE—II 9 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN ALL THE PRINCIPAL CITIES.
SIEMENS
Machine &. Switchgear WorKs: Stafford, England.
Incandescent Lamp WorKs: Dais ‘ on, London.
“Association”
CABLES
and Flexible Wires
Manufactured at
Woolwich, England.
When ordering Electric Wires and Cables
always specify SIEMENS Cable Makers’
Association Wire. You can then rely
upon a first=class installation, and one
that will last.
Write us for our Latest Revised Price Sheet -
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
WorKs Limited
Head Office—London.
Australian Offices:
59 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
42 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Mclb” : The biggest piece of humbug per-
petrated here for a long time was the notifi-
cation given to the entrepreneurs of the last
Orchestral Concert by a number of
people, that they would not go if
any German items were included. Under-
taking a ticklish enterprise the pro-
moters were justified in withdrawing
a German piece from rehearsal and hastily
substituting an inferior one. Yet what are
the facts as to the German composers of the
first class? Wagner was a revolutionary ex-
ile. Beethoven composed his “Eroica” march
not in honor of Frederic the Great, but for
Bonaparte. Meyerbeer (real name Beer) de-
serted Berlin for Paris. So, in a way, did
Offenbach. Weber preferred to introduce
“Oberon” first in London. Mendelssohn gave
Bis masterpiece. “Elijah,” first in Birming-
ham. Haydn liked London best as an arena.
Handel deserted Germany for England, after
giving Germany and Italy only his tripe.
Consistently, these ignorant Melbourne ob-
jectors must go on to demand the squelching
of Goethe. Schiller and Heine, (he ferocious
enemy of Prussia!
“0.K.” : April 15 last was the jubilee of
Lady Bancroft’s start in management at the
Prince of Wales’s Theatre, London, where
the lucky series of Robertson comedies came
to light. In 1805 the little house—redecor-
ated and refitted—was already 55 years old.
It had been a ban spec, under half a dozen
different titles. When Marie Wilton (the
Lady Bancroft of nowadays) took charge,
in partnership with 11. .1. Byron, she was
still in the burlesque stage of her career.
Byron wrote a travesty of “La Sonnam-
bula,” and Marie Wilton's character was the
Merry Swiss Boy. Business was getting
pretty sick when Tom Robertson, a sorely
battered journalist, persuaded the cute little
woman to stage his crude comedy, “Society,”
and from that time the manageress never
looked back. 11. J. Byron dropped out of
the running, Miss Wilton bought the lease of
the theatre, married Bancroft two years
later, and was so wealthy when she took her
husband into private life with her that lie
naturally came into a knighthood in due
course.
“Melb.” : What is “The Marriage Market”
but our dear old friend the opera of “Mar-
tha”? Decidedly a cut above “High Jinks”
and “The Girl in the Taxi.” Instead of
Richmond Fair there is California ; instead
of Lady Harriet and Nancy being hired as
servants by Lionel and Plunket, they are
mock-married, with some borrowing again
from the “Marriage of Kitty,” “Little Mini-
ster” and “Duke of Killiecrankie.” So the
rags, jags and tags are wrought up.
“Martha” was developed from a ballet. For
it we were first indebted to Lyster, I think,
with Lucy Escott, Georgia Hodson, Squires
and Farquliarson.
“Hamer”: About the best property any
travelling show can carry with it is
a fight. I was once with a galaxy of
dramatic talent which met the frost night
after night. The mismanagement finally got
to grips with a stout, meaty individual, who
obviously knew his way about and under-
took to supply cash. I lis only stipulation
was that there should be a fight in each of
the pieces. We were playing “The Colleen
Bawn,” “Caste,” and “East Lynne.” The
main billing and dodging was about the “big
fight scenes” in each of these plays. Scraps
between Myles Xa Coppaleen and Corrigan,
D’Alroy and the excitable mechanic in
“Caste,” and Francis Levison and Constable
Bullock were more improbable than most
things, and seriously damaged the action of
the pieces; but they drew the enthusiastic
audiences and we received our money with
amazing frequency. But at the first "oppor-
tunity the co. “cut” its bulky savior and
got down on its uppers again—all for the
sake of Art. Some people are never satis-
fied.
THE TANGO WITH THE STARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlie hoar had grown amazing late,
And Jones had gone to bed,
And, leaning on my garden gate,
I on a crayfish fed.
My soul was full of gladness got
From many merry bars ;
I watched from my cool, earthly spot
The dancing of the stars.
Gay music, breathing in the air
In concert to the fun,
Beat to the Ileav’nly ballroom where
The giddy planets spun.
I watched how Venus skipped with Mars
In careless revelry,
The dizzy jigs of many stars
Not introduced to me.
And as I gazed the old Earth stirred
(It had before been quiet) ;
Up to the heights of Heaven we whirred,
And mingled in the riot.
Moons, planets, meteors and suns
Swept hv in one long gleam.
As in the glow of evening runs
A sunset-lighted stream.
We whirled around, and up and down
As through the dance we sped :
For gone were laws of old renown,
And gravity was dead.
Wo met strange stars, and others chased
Whose eyes enticing shofie ;
Then with an arm around a waist
In mirth we tangoed on.
But, reckless in our joy's glad spell,
And trusting to the wings
That raised us where we willed, we fell
Beyond the edge of things.
I hurtled, laughing still, through space
That of all stars seemed bare :
For years and years 1 flew apace,
And reached not anywhere.
At muddy clothes my wife may snort,
And talk of “filthy bars”;
What knows she of the splendid sport
Of tangoes with the stars?
dfg
HAMER.


Enjoyable Books.
BOOKS appeal at all times and are always ready to take their readers into a land of delight.
One of the most honorable parts of any man’s house is his Library, and his life is often
bound up in the books he has gathered together. Every house should have its books,
and nothing else will give it so quickly that warm air of being livable as well-filled book shelves.
Thev radiate warmth and cheerfulness, and will bring a reader quicker into a happy temper than
any other means.
The books set forth upon this page are those which will develop and satisfy the best of
readers. They are all attractively finished books, and are all supplied upon our well-known
Standard Way.
Any person interested will receive full particulars of the work or works they are interested
in if they will forward us the coupon from the bottom of the right-hand column. Not only will
our illustrated prospectus be sent to them post free, but our System will be described whereby these
works may be obtained for cash or by the first payment of half-a-crown or so, the balance being
payable by small instalments for a few months. The complete set is delivered free on receipt of
the deposit, so that the whole work is being enjoyed from the start of the subscription.
By using the coupon it is of course definitely understood that there is no obligation what-
ever to purchase. To buy or not to buy is entirely in your own free hands, but we shall appreciate
the opportunity to place the full particulars of these useful and fine books clearly beioie you.
The Federal Edition of the Complete
Works of Charles Dickens.
If there is one author whose great reputation
entitles him to a place in your library shelves that
author is Charles Dickens.
His works are more read and better understood
to-day than they were 50 years ago, when they were
first appearing. It is a remarkable fact that the
two finest editions of his works have only recently
been published, and are now obtainable by sub-
scribers on our well-known Standard Terms.
Certainly the most popular edition of the day, and
one which, judging by his own letters, would have
greatly satisfied Dickens himself, is our Federal
Edition.
This Edition contains all the Novels, as well as
Edwin Drood, and is delightfully illustrated by
modern artists, in color and black and white.
it is, of course, no secret that Dickens was often
disappointed with the illustrations which are now
associated in our memories with his novels. The
pictures which are now included in The Federal
Dickens are executed in great spirit, with sincerity,
and in sympathy with the characters and greatest
incidents of the book.
These modern illustrations are one of the many
features which will make modern readers unsatisfied
with any other edition than The Federal Dickens.
Another of the most interesting characteristics of
The Federal Dickens is the successful and attractive
introductions which the publishers have secured front
all the best writers and novelists of the day.
David Copperfield, introduction by Hall Caine.
Bleak House, introduction: by. John .Galsworthy.
Martin Chuzzlewit, introduction Jn Max Pemberton,
Pickwick Papers, introduction by Andrew Dang.
Our Mutual Friend, introduction by William de
Morgan.
A Christmas Carol, introduction by 0. K. Ches-
terton.
Dontbey and Son, introduction by Lucas Malct.
Little Dorrit, introduction by Baroness Orczy.
Nicholas Nicklebv, introduction by E. F. Benson.
Edwin Drood, introduction by H. A. Vachell.
Oliver Twist, introduction by A. C. Benson.
Great Expectations, introduction by John Oxenham.
Hard Times and No Thoroughfare, introduction by
G. Bernard Shaw.
American Notes, and Pictures from Italy, introduc-
tion by IV. B. Maxwell.
The Uncommercial Traveller, introduction by W.
Pett Ridge.
The illustrations are one of the special features
in The Federal Dickens.
Each one of the great novels is prefaced by a
charming and illuminative essay upon the book.
These reveal to the ordinary reader those charms
and delights which the greatest literary men of the
day have found in their acknowledged Master, Charles
Dickens. These fascinating papers are only secured
by readers of The Federal Dickens.
There is no Edition to compare with The Federal
Dickens (except the Gadshill Edition, particulars of
which we will send you if you wish). There is no other
edition into which so many attractive features are
gathered.
An illustrated booklet, describing ALL the many
and various attractions and merits of The Federal
Dickens, has been prepared, and on receipt of the
attached coupon we will send, post Free, a copy to
those interested. Of course, absolutely no obligation
to buy is incurred.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
Dictionary of Banking.
Bankers, Bank Managers, Bank Officials, Bank
Clerks, Cashiers and all having dealings with banks
should obtain this volume.
It forms a complete work of reference to all Bank-
ing transactions. Over 1500 subjects are treated in
this volume. It is available for use at a moment's
notice because it is thumb-indexed. No time is
wasted in putting your finger upon the desired in-
formation.
It is THE indispensable work for the table of
every country Bank Manager. Handsomely bound in
full scarlet morocco leather.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
Gustave Flaubert.
Here is a definitive edition in Ten Volumes of one
of the greatest of French writers, one of the greatest
masters of language who has ever lived.
George W. Saintsburv, Professor of French Litera-
ture, writes: —-
“Among the Second Empire novelists I laubert
stands out first among his equals. His incompar-
able powers of description, and his mastery of the
tvpes of character he presents, added to an imagin-
ation of extraordinary power, assure him his place
in the affection of those who judge literature as
literature.” .
(Please Write for Particulars.)
A Modern Commentary.
EACH VOLUME EDITED BY" A LEADING
SCHOLAR.
Brilliantly successful Excavations in Egypt, Pales-
tine, and Mesopotamia have greatly enriched our
knowledge. The discovery and interpretation of
Ancient Documents, have shed invaluable light upon
the History of Antiquity. The careful work done
by thoroughly-equipped students in the Geography,
Climatic Conditions and Natural History of Bible
Lands enables us to realise the actual surroundings
of ancient life; while the application of Scientific
Historical methods to the study of the Literature
has brought into bolder relief the exhaust less trea-
sures of the Holy Scriptures.
These books bring the results of the latest scholarly
research within easy reach of all who are interested
in the Bible.
The Century Bible is an ambitious undertaking.
It comprises a full and entirely new Commentary on
every book of the Bible. Every text and reference in
the Bible will here be found explained.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
The Gadshill Edition of Dickens.
DELIVERED FOR A FIRST PAYMENT OF 10/-
To possess Tiie Gadshill Edition has been the ambi-
tion of hundreds of Dickens’ lovers. They know it
is The Best.
It is the recognised Edition. There is nothing
finer, more authoritative or better edition published.
Containing the Complete Novels, Essays, Plays,
Poems and all other writings, The Gadshill Edition
is without rival, nor could the most reverent ad-
mirer demand more. It completely satisfies the most
scrupulous book man.
Edited by Andrew Lang, each volume contains a
familiar essay that enriches this most excellent
edition.
Now is the Book Lover able to realise his oft-
expressed desire for “the best Edition.”
Large print that can be read by the weakest
eyes, reproductions printed from new plates of all
the old friendly illustrations. This edition is now
obtainable by our well-known “Standard way.”
(Please Write for Particulars.)
An Encyclopaedia that is a Bargain.
EVERYBODY'S PRACTICAL ENCYCLOPAEDIA is
to all other encyclopaedias as the motor-car is to the
bullock-team.
Two handy attractive volumes bound in flexible
leather and containing over 8500 separate subjects,
printed on thin Bible paper makes this Encyclopaedia
a book than can be used quickly, without confusion
or delay. The fact you want is there, and it’s the
work of a moment to “look it up.” The plum goes
to the man who knows.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
English Poets.
Twelve poets in this Series, viz., Spencer, Whittier,
Scott, Coleridge, Longfellow, Herrick, Tennyson,
Keats, Shelley, Wordsworth, Browning and Byron are
edited by such authorities as Yeats, Dowden, Symons,
Birrell, Saintsbury, Whibley, etc.
The volumes are issued in a form combining
beauty with utility. They are of a particularly
handy size. Each volume is enriched by portrait
frontispiece and eight illustrations in color by such
artists as Jessie King, Charles Pears, Sullivan,
Forrest, etc.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
A New Edition of Shakspeare.
The present edition is edited by Sir Sidney Lee,
whose introduction and other essays sets a standard
of efficiency throughout these volumes.
No bookman or Shakspearian can obtain a better
edition than this, nor will they be able in any other
way to secure such a magnificent body of criticism
and learning.
The whole work is a beautiful and attractive edi-
tion, clearJv printed on fine white paper. It is the
best edition because it is the most complete.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
Gardening Dovers.
A sumptuous and comprehensive volume for those
who have learned more fully the enduring happiness
that love of a garden can bestow.
The aim is practical and the work in the garden
is considered .from the very beginning.
The 600 pages are illustrated with over 600 beauti-
ful photographs, and the whole book will appeal to
the Garden lover as well as to the lover of Garden-
ing. Only a few copies are left in stock.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
A Genial Author.
A complete edition of the works of Mark 'twain
has long been asked for, and this edition was pre-
pared by the author just before his death. Some
few posthumous pieces discovered after printing this
edition are not included, but what a rare treat there
is for the business man who wants distraction from
his worries, for the man who enjoys a laugh and can
appreciate a well-told story. Twenty-five handsome
volumes.
This edition of Mark Twain will brighten the
whole house and warm you all with wholesome jollity.
We have not many sets of this authorised edition
left, and the price must go up on all future
supplies.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
The Popular Encyclopaedia.
Twenty-four handy volumes written by many of
the World's authorities in clear and attractive manner.
These volumes enable you to place your finger upon
the latest information at a moment’s notice.
These books are not cumbrous, ill-looking volumes,
but such as will enliven any bookman's shelves.
They are an absolute necessity where children are.
Give him the opportunity to satisfy his curiosity by
means of this carefully written, attractively illus-
trated Encyclopaedia, and he Won’t forget the infor-
mation. Most important of all, he learns completely
about a subject, and is not given erroneous ideas by
scrappy writings.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
Eight Australians.
FIRST INSTALMENT ONLY 2/C.
The Standard Set of Australian Authors is a publi-
cation which has delighted hundreds of bookmen who
wanted the works of representative Australians in
attractive and uniform binding.
This special set oi volumes has been selected
with care, and contains much work which can only be
obtained in these books. They are entertaining,
bright books, and are always ready to please readers.
They certainly should be in your Library.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
Balzac.
The works of Balzac are now for the first time
translated into English from the Edition Definitive,
and printed for Subscribers only.
In these fifty-three volumes, all superbly illustrated
by the best modern French artists, are to be found
that glorious mountain range of writings which
resembles the work of our own Shakspeare or Scott
in their majesty and fecundity of creation.
This new edition will appeal to all those book-
men who are desirous of having an absolutely trust-
worthy, complete and unexpurgated edition.
No fact in the literary history of the time is at
once so arresting or more encouraging than the grow-
ing demand amongst English readers for the works
of Balzac. This widening of literary horizons will
give English readers many a great book to read, but
it is doubtful whether in all their wanderings they
will have a greater surprise than that which awaits
them on their first reading of Balzac.
The history of fiction has nothing to show that
can compare with his marvellous series of novels.
Balzac never idealised. He drew men and women as
they are. For this reason alone his novels are for
the strong and for those who demand full sincerity
in literature.
Do not waste further time among the lesser writers.
Get your copy of Balzac —either the complete edition
in 53 volumes, or the selected edition of his best
books in 14 volumes. But make his acquaintance
without delay.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
The Book of Decorative Furniture.
In this work the author has realised the many-
sided and fascinating story of interior decorative
woodwork. Owing to our great resources, we have
been able to make use of the latest and best of
modern printing processes, and also to publish the
work at a price that would have previously been
impossible.
In this work are no less than 100 full-page color
plates, besides one thousand illustrations in black
and white. This work appeals to every intelligent
man or woman. Although covering the ground «4n an
authoritative manner so that the specialist may con-
sult it with confidence, this volume offers a vast
fund of interesting reading, not only to the con-
noisseurs, but to all interested in furniture. Only a
few copies remain.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
Nine Wonderful Volumes for Children.
THE CHILDREN’S HOUR aims at supplying the
best Literature for children. All ages find here those
stories, poems and pictures which attract and which
are always loved.
From the earliest years, the child is interested m
the best writings, and unconsciously grows to prefer
the best.
The selection in these books is edited by an expert,
who is thus able to pick out from the literature of
many different languages the very best stories for
children.
Every mother and father has the feeling that they
must give their children as many possible of the very
best stories. The Children’s Hour is a solution of
parents’ difficulties, and this large and fascinating
collection of beautiful stories will be appreciated by
•ill J..
It is as much a duty of parents to see that the
minds of their children are suitably and properly
fed, as it is to see that they are properly clad.
Fathers and mothers, too, will lead The Children’s
Hour with as much pleasure as the children them-
selves, and the stories will be all the better enjoyed
by all.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
Guy tie Maupassant.
All the honors of being the supreme master of-the
short story belong to do Maupassant.
No other writer has at once the graphic power that
this author forces through his stories.
Ilis short stories are brilliant in their dissection
of human beings, and will be appreciated by all who
wish for a series of writings which will amuse for
half an hour and yet possess strength and genius.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
History of Painting.
For the first time in history, it is possible to
obtain a publication in which the art criticism will
be made really useful by the illustrations being in
color. Over two hundred plates in full color are
included in this work, which has a preface by Frank
Brangwyn and is written by Haldane Macfall. No
jargon of the studio is used, but art is interpreted to
plain men. He explains with whole heart what the
artists tried to express in their masterpieces, and
this is a live book by a live man.
The eight volumes cover the ground thoroughly
from the Renaissance to modern time —-from Raphael
to Brangwyn.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
Our Method.
Our method of doing business is to treat you as
we would wish you to treat us, if we were the buyers
and you were the sellers.
If any books purchased from us do not give you
complete satisfaction, in three days from arrival,
you can send them back at our expense. All our
books arc sent Carriage Paid right to you.
Our new catalogue of Standard Books and complete
editions is now ready, and will be sent to all, post
free on application.
If any of these works interest you, do not
hesitate to send the Coupon below for full particu-
lars. It costs you nothing, and implies no obligation
whatever.
(Please Write for Particulars.)
FREE INQUIRY FORM.
TO THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY.
LTD.,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
19 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Please send me, free of charge, and without
any obligation on my part, full particulars of
(Fill in name of work or work? required.)
and of your special offer concerning it.
Name
(Send this form or a postcard mcntionini/ The
Bulletin 1065.)
Address


Strengthen
the lungs
is good, advice to young and
old. The man, woman or child
whose lungs have been lbrt i-
hed by SCOTT'S Emulsion, is
doubly strengthened to resist
coughs, colds, influenza, bron-
chitis, pneumonia or con-
sumption.
Children with weak throats or
chests need SCOTT'S Emul-
sion every day.
Growing boys and girls, par-
ticularly liable to lung trouble,
need regular courses of SCOTT’S.
Men and women, subject to
colds a,nd bron-
chitis, should take
SCOTT'S regular-
ly during winter
months.
But only SCOTT'S
Emulsion as re-
commended by
doctors for over
forty years. Insist
on genuine
TRADE MARK
on every package.
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
IMITATED BECAUSE SO GOOD.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
if so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen. ..the joints-being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease, -
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Piils
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Stoic.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
British Prices, 1/1 U and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, etc. •
Dr B. Allen’s (U SA)
mx\Qm ™
WALNUT hair.
ondon’s Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty Experts Writing for
the English Press. Simple and Effective Methods.
-f ;
By OLGA AMSDELL, Special Correspondent. London. Eng.
Why Have Grey Hair?
Few people know that grey liair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days. It
is only necessary to get from the chemist an
ounce of concentrate of tammalite and miix it
with four ounces of bay rum. Apply this
simple lotion to the hair for a few nights with
a small sponge, and you will soon have the
pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy, and has given perfect satis-
faction for many generations to those in pos-
session of the secret.
Blackheads, Oily Pores, etc.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment rids
the skin of blackheads, oiliness and enlarged
pores almost instantly. It is perfectly harm-
less, pleasant and immediately effective. All
you have to do is to drop a stymol tablet,
obtained from the chemist’s, in a glass of hot
water, and, after the resulting effervescence
has subsided, dab the affected portions of the
face freely with the liquid. When you dry the
face you will And that the blackheads come
right off on the towel, the large pores contract
and efface themselves and the greasiness is all
gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft and cool.
This treatment should be repeated a few times
at intervals of several days, in order to make
sure that the result shall be permanent.
The Magnetism of Beautiful Hair.
Beautiful hair adds immensely to the per-
sonal magnetism of both men and women.
Actresses' and smart women are ever on the
look-out for any harmless thing that will
increase the natural beauty of their hair. The
latest method is to use pure stallax as a sham-
poo, on account of the peculiarly glossy, fluffy
and wavy effect, which it leaves. As stallax
has never been used much for this purpose it
conies to the-chemist only in 11b. sealed orig
inal packages, enough for twenty-five or thirty
shampoos. A teaspoonful of the fragrant
stallax granules, dissolved in a cup of hot
water, is more than sufficient for each sham-
poo. It is very beneficial and stimulating to
the hair, apart from its beautifying effect.
; How to Remove a Bad Complexion.
Cosmetics can never really help a poor com-
piexion; often they are positively harmful,
fhe sensible, rational wa.v is to actually re-
move the thin veil of stilling', half-dead scarf-
skin from the face, and give the fresh, vigor-
ous and beautiful young skin underneath a
chance to show itself and to breathe.
ibis is best done in a very simple way-, by
merely applying mercolised wax at night, like
cold cream, and washing it off in the morning.
«iood mercolised wax can be obtained from
any well-stocked chemist. It absorbs the dis-
figuring cuticle gradually and harmlessly,
leaving a _ brilliant natural complexion. Of
course, this also takes with it all such facial
blemishes as red blotches, tan, moth patches,
sallowness, liver spots, pimples, etc. As a
freckle remover and general complexion beau-
tiner this old-fashioned remedy is unequalled.
The Powder Puff Passes.
Cvery normal woman is always interested in
any plan by which she call quickly enhance
iter beauty, provided the plan is perfectly safe
and simple. Ever since the discovery that
ordinary cleminite, such as any chemist can
supply, is an instantaneous and harmless beau
titter, iliere has been a growing demand for it
from smart women everywhere. They usually
get about an ounce and add just enough water
to dissolve it. A little of this perfectly harm-
less lotion gives a beautiful complexion to any
face instantly. It renders face powder quite
unnecessary. Moreover, its use cannot be
detected. The skin is instantly beautified but
appears perfectly natural under the closest
scrutiny.
Falling Hair.
flow often .one hears the.lament, “I .have
tried everything on the market, and my . hair
comes out in handfuls.” Not so surprising
either when you come lo think it over. Hair
tonics to be effective must be fresh, and there
is no earthly reason why every woman should
not make lieu own lotion at home. The finest
vegetable tonic obtainable is made by mixing
a packet of boraniuin with -j-pint of bay >rum
and adding sufficient water to (ill a haif-pint
bottle. This lotion rubbed briskly into' the
scalp sets the hair roots tingling with new
life, and will, if persevered with, give you back
your “crowning glory.” [2
dfgf
Shave Yourself.
You, Sir, hating the discomfort
of your old-fashioned shave more
every day, should take to heart the
experience of the Gillette users you
know. Get a Gillette Safety Razor
and Gillette Blades. British made.
Gillette Standard Sets. One Guinea.-
-Sold Everywhere.
Mention this paper.
Write for illustrated and descriptive booklet.
o AG e N ts for AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD,, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
long as you pay the insurance
premiums you are covered
against loss by fire, and while you
keep your property well painted
you are secure against loss by decay.
The best paint gives best protection,
so get colour folders from the
Berger Agent, and ask your painter
to use Beiger’s Paints and
Varnishes.
Ber
“ B-P Burger's Paint (pre-
pared) fo; painting buildings inside
and outside is guaranteed to work
easier, cover more surface, look
better and wear longer than any
other paint made. Colour folder of
52 standard shades free on request.
Berger’s
1 Paints
, Varnishes
Get Colour Folders and Particulars,
together with name of local
Agent, from Head Office:
18 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
Ask to = dap
fory o u r
colour folder.
*
WEAR WELL EVERYWHERE |
UNDER THE SUN. |
Lewis Berger & Sons
(Australia), Ltd..
18, Young St., Sydney,
Makers of Paints, Colours ami
Varnishes at
HOMERTON. LONDON/ENG.
Since 1760.
Tho fact that the N.S.W. Government is
paying wheat growers of the Argentine 2s. 6d.
a bushel more for chick-wheat than X. S.
B ales farmers were handed for prime mill-
ing suggests that Australian agriculturists
have been pampered far too much in the
past. But this little differentiation in favor
o: the foreigner will show the wretched local
hayseed that the immutable principles of
Kigbt and Justice are being maintained at
last.
On this question of the suitableness or
otherwise of Broad meadows, the Victorian
camp, figures supplied by the Minister of
Defence recently show that, even if, as
lie asserts, the average number of deaths
among the soldiers has not been unnaturally
numerous since August, yet the number dur-
ln& -last four weeks was three times
greater than the average, anyhow—4o since
August, and 13 of them since April 30.
1 hat’s all about if.
Sergeant Laseron, hurt at the Darda-
nelles, is son of that Rev. David Laseron
who was wounded in a Sydney railway car-
riage by Tommy Walker, now Attorney-
General of V estralia. Tommy was tried,
defended by the late Paddy Crick, sympa-
thetically spoken of by the wounded parson.
cUicl acquitted. ISut it all gave him such a
scare that he was, fortunately, never the
same old Tommy again. Nor was Laseron
the same Laseron. He never fully- recov-
ered, and died a few years ago.
The two. luckiest politicians in Banana-
land, J. W. Blair and Tom O’Sullivan, pass
out. Blair came into the Assembly in 1902,
and has been a Minister from 1903 to .19:15
with a slight break. O’Sullivan’s Minis-
terial record runs from 1903 to 1915 a
blessful period passed mainly in the Coun-
cil, away from the dust of vulgar conflict,
except for one brief 12 months’ spell in the
Assembly. . Tom is about the most peace-
able politician in Bananaland, as liis father,
faddy, was about the most pugnacious!
iMature will have her compensations.
Encue : Certainly neither chemist nor
doctor should be allowed to prescribe for
venereal diseases by post. Actually the
i expectable qualified practitioner never does.
He at least wants to see his patient first.
The chemist, on the other hand, prescribes
and supplies medicines on receipt of a
written description of symptoms with money
order. One has only to look at the adver-
tisements of the “Consulting Chemists” in
the daily and weekly papers to learn this.
Unit such a system brings dire results most
doctors and many victims know. Two cases
amongst many within my knowledge will
serve as examples. xY chemist who had
never seen his patient treated a young man
tor months tor gonorrhoea. The patient
swallowed innumerable capsules, balsams and
mixtures. Then a doctor saw him and found a
case of syphilis that not all the balsams in
Bern would cure. The other case was a
man treated by post with mixtures and oint-
ments for syphilis. The treatment would
not have been bad if the patient had bad
thcit disease, but lie hadn’t. Cancer was
his particular trouble.
Random Reflections of a Mutinous Hus-
band :
Yesterday I made one of a misfire picnic which
ended inanely with afternoon-tea in a sunless garden
because the roads were too bad for motoring', you
know.” It was arranged by women. Most stupid
things—including weddings—are arranged by women.
This is the best of all possible proofs that the squaw
is the inferior sex.
I would never think of sitting - hatless and perfectly
still in my own backyard on a chill winter’s after-
noon drinking lukewarm tea. But when one is
socially “pocketed” anything is possible.
our married man is a miserable worm who is
made more miserable by the knowledge that he
cannot turn in company.
lhat the earth may be replenished men must marrr
and beget children. But they should not be dragged
at the tail of the go-cart for doing their duty to
ihe nation.
Women will ask any man to meet any man. The
wives must match; the husbands don’t matter.
In any little house, on any fine Sunday, you can see
a scratch collection of husbands trying to play
amicably together.
A wife selects a new man-friend for her husband
as casually as she selects a new playmate for her little
son.. And, she thinks all is well so long as she
doesn’t see the men throttling each other on the
lawn.
The boy who is La ought up amongst women doesn’t
have a fair chance. He gets the woman’s point of
view—which is the slave’s point of view—and is
taught that his chief mission in life is to make things
easy for women.
Our suburban Sundays are mostly arranged by our
women. That is why, as 1 grow older, I thank
Heaven for Monday morning.
- Every wife loves to see her husband pottering
about the house occasionally. It satisfies some suvagj
instinct in her. Every woman has a library of
-savage instincts.
Every husband in whom the instinct for freedom
still survives feels at times that he is not so much a
helpmeet as an assigned servant.
Tiie average wife won’t, write off her failures. Our
pantry is full of uninteresting jam. hut the wif ■
won’t throw it out. Instead she blames me for not
eating it.
/Two wives will start calling - each other “dear”
before their husbands have found out each
other’s opinion of the war. Wives get on together
so well and so quickly because their range of ideas
is so limited. They all belong to the same herd, and
make the same noises.
The babies, God bless them!. When relations arc-
strained, one can always pick up a child and spank
it.
The wife who isn’t pretty should at least be charm-
ing. She needs to have some visible asset when her
husband sits amazed at her stupidity;
Mother, sister, sweetheart, girl-chuin, woman
acquaintance, wife—l never yet parted from one of
them without experiencing the feeling that I was
due for a rest.
I can’t understand the type of man who likes to
fuss about on committees with women. Cut I can
understand the good-natured contempt of the women.
It is the wifely boast of the moment that “John
would love to go to the war!” The proud implica-
tion is that John can’t because he has somethin - *
even more precious than Freedom to look after.


D
m
It is commonly accepted that electricity will be the
power of the future. Progressive Manufacturers, how-
ever, are realising more and more fully that electricity is
the power of the present, and that as a means of
applying this power /C\
MADE
dfg
B.T.H. Electric Motors enable machines to be driven at their highest productive
speeds, while extensions are being carried out in the minimum of time and
without interrupting the operation of existing-plant.
They are compact, reliable and safe ; can be easily controlled by inexperienced
nprcnnt; Write for Bulletin.
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co., Rtd. (W.A.), Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Etd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
- Agents —
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National "Electrical * Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tulloch & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Macquarie Street, Hobart.
I
T
W a ENDURING "
as becomes Britishers
A TREAD of the toughest and most resilient rubber
ever “ cured,” and a more generous depth of it than
is to be found in most tyres —
Fabric walls of sturdy strength, woven from finest
Egyptian yarn and proofed with pure Para —
Super-strong beads fitting snugly and distributing
strain with scientific nicety—
These are some of the reasons why British AVON
TYRES achieve comfort and safety in the highest degree,
endurance to the furthest limit, economy that motorists
can definitely trace in “ pounds, shillings and pence.
m
w
ft?
23
STOCKISTS & AGENTS:
N. J. Howes & Co., 212 Clarence Street,
Sydney; H. C. Pannifex, 26 Market
Street, Melbourne; E. H. Fothergill, Ltd.,
Fremantle; Guinness & Le Gen, Timaru,
N.Z., etc.
AVON GOLF BALLS.—Longest drive,
sweetest feel, easiest control. Agent:
Norman Allwood, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
-MAKE MOTORING
CHEAPER - SAFER -
MORE COMFORTABLE
PATRIOTIC SONGS
AND STIRRING MILITARY MARCHES
r THE RECORD THE PUBLIC WILL HAVE j
"a, mi - t ■ r "'
You can always look to The
British Zonophone Company for
the very latest! Even the great
recruiting songs, featured
throughout England by famous
artists, are available on Zono-
phone records. We feature here
a few of the most popular—
every record double-sided, giving
TWO masterpieces at the price
of one,:— ' :
10-INCH
—3/-;
1407-
, Descriptive
Recruiting .
i Godfrey King (Recitation)
| England’s Honor
r Black Diamonds Band
1367
Fighting for Liberty
I Introducing: “The
I Grenadiers,” “A Life
Ocean Wave.”
I The Marseillaise
British
on the
1398
Sydney Coltham, with Piano
Fall In! _, - .
Harry Fay, with Orchestra
The Flag: that Never Comes
Down
1370-
Miss Bessie Jones, with Piano
Your King and Country Want
You
Madame Deering, with Or-
chestra
There’s a Band
1396
' ' Black Diamonds Band
j Private Tommy Atkins March
(The Tads in Navy Blue March
1402
Harry Fay. with Orchestra
Are We Downhearted? No-o-o!
W VPI .
3066
r Mr. Stanley . Kirkhy, with
I Orchestra.
J Sons of Australia
| Orpheus Quartette, with Or-
I chestra
'Advance, Australia Fair
1371
Landing of the British Troops
in France (descriptive) .. .
Introducing: The Chorus of
the World-famous Marching
Song, “It’s a Long, Long
Way to Tipperary”;: The
“Marseillaise,” whistled, etc.
Zono Concert Quartette, with
Organ
. The Marseillaise
Complete lists, instrument catalogue, and name of nearest accredited
dealer on request,
THE BRITISH ZONOPHONE CO. LTD., 165 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.


anting. r„l,l£ Compares.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office : 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
r a Commissioners—
• • WARDEN (Present WW. H. O’M. WOOD,
SKS satisfactory
FARMERS
Agencies? throughout the
thfs Bank ,f ” e " 0t now Agencies for
By Order, of the Commissioners'
• H. DAVIES, Secretary.
thf.
Bank of North Queensland
limited.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £7nn nnn
D U IRECTORS- C li pital q and ReSe ™ es - £385 000.
directors. Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY-
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, M.L. A •
Hon. .A. J. THYNNE, ML C
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
on ne ° ff,ce: 41 Q ueen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches and in NEW
TRANSACTS rS ATT IR nQo?T ™ E WORLD.
TKAJ\ SAGES ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
~ THE "
Australian Bank of Commerce
. , LIMITED.
AUTHORTs e ED 19 cipiTAL 000V00
SUBSCRIBED £ii2«222
T PAID-UP (31st December, 1914) .. £1’195 , 5Qi
RESERVE FUND .. .. £55000
OFFICE: Geor sre&King Streets, Sydney.
DIRECTORS O^ ICE: f J hreadneetlle Street, E.C.
Esa 0RG Q J » SLT * LL - D - ; Mark Sheldon,
-t<sq. , Arthur S. Barton, Esq. : Frank NT
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght Eso •
. George F. Todman, Esq. HT ’ Esq - ’
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth
Aew Zealand, and all the principal towns fk.
world. C. M. C. SHANNON. General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30 1921
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . .?.> . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. 178,000 0 0
interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since ISOS specially protected.
Directors Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L C •
James Love, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq. ' ’
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (o.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
..£2,000,000 0 0
.. 1,755,600 0 0
.. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,755,000 0 0
„ „ DIRECTORS:
George J Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon H Mo«t4 TE M T M r L ’ C ir V De P l, ty-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L C
T. F. Ivnox, Esq.
Auditors: F W Hixson, Esq./and W. L. Docker, Esq.-
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs 1
Assistant General Manager and Chief inspector-
H. IT. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY
LQndon Office: 18 Birchin Lane." ,
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
... Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
■By-jar
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .. .. 500 000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
TT up „ •• . 500,000
Uncalled Capital 600.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial Mutual pie
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; , also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chi&f Office for New South 'Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping. &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN E>.
. .Geared Turbine
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO ,
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES .
OMR AH
oJ M £Z ith Wi J, e i e ? s Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
Q 3 ' , °al>ines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
K ,I £ om ' Pri,a,e B * u —•
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
TTSANFRANCiSCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
TROUGH B °°K IN GS to any part of
W “A or .EUROPE, in connection
R*»ww U “ es and c “" adl “"
“ MARAMA,”
6500 tons Agister, 10,500 tons displacement.
Q S ? St ’ fine , sfc and newest Steamer trading
between Sydney and San Francisco.
Sails 12 o’clock (noon), SATURDAY, JUNE 19.
Following Sailings: JULY 17, AUG. 14, SEPT. 11.
Francisco? Pacifie Rxhibition now open at San
Around Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
Japan a a n nd ,a Chfn U a? tralaSian R ° yal MaH Line or ™
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Pai ticnlars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND LTD
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting/:
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
for
this and other
Queensland ports).>
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 12.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 16.
Leaves Sydney June 19.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 23.
Leaves Sydney June 26.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 19.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. Peregrine (3500 tons) leaves Brisbane every
Friday at 8 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at
GLADSTONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting
at TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ptfrts
as far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED. Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
fke Great 1915 Trip.
! 7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii :
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
July 3; July 31; August 28; Sept. 25.
AppIy— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
rabaui
'
:%\
/ «*
BRISBANE
,4
NORFOLK
lORD
YDN
Howe
Holiday
guises
i!a va.Singapore
&Pac/f/c Isles.
Burns Phi lp& c?L r .°
Send fop Pamphlet*
dfg
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker. '
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
aassa* „, E c
*" z “ 1 " d ' Fyi -' papn * ■“ p »"<>»"-'
~ , ? a „ ble , remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nee-nL
ted and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world”
1 J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Q
U EE N iSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Eiberal Land Laws
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
_ .. T - C - TROEDSON, Director,
ranch Office: IX6 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Commomvealtl'Jßaitk»Hiistralia
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY
General Banking 1 Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Open
for a. 11
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreian bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world S
Banking and Ejcchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth
« •»» deposits' l
Saving's Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Oenosit
1/-
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at ,
per annum <
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy governor. j une , 1915 DENIS >N MILLER, Governor
a
mi
Spfeodid Wiijter ToOrs
TO THE
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
FIJI
Quaint Customs,
Rugged Scenery.
TONGA
Palm-fringed
Coral Islands.
SAMOA
The Gem of the Pacific.
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION FROM
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND, LTD
Shipping. ,
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to ail North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (800 C
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
July 3 and July 3i.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengdrfe.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
WOLLOWRA, June 12.
MORI ALTA, June 19,
INNAMINCKA, June 26
the‘fi\°Kt n pnJl SSa f Se J id > e t s are interchangeable after
nn ail f ca i ] . vvlth other Inter-State Companies
„cpprt‘n'n^^ subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIliLi & CO., LTD.,
Agents,-6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU,
V
accelerated service. «
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M
LINE. '
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Pailway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
pmffST Ti: vicQPto LAIiGEST . newest and
I nfAT T a S S „ U ; „ TRADING ; BETWEEN AUS-
IRALIA AND IHE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
Leave
Auckland.
June, ]5
July 13
•i n ,7 wi.ca.iuci, mieu witn uaoins de luxe en
™ eds * ead Nonnas, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift. Wireless, t Twin-Screw Steamer. Wireless.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN. !
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
ssSMiiif" at ,he " w p»«w
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.'.*
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
, ■ All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
, Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH '& ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables. <-
HUD PART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, i
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To arid from Queensland Ports, Melbourne
Adelaide, jWest Australia and >Fijfc ’
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
r.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N:., Line, as this Company’s steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first*port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies,- also
with the Union S.S. Co. s steamers in the Fiji Trade *
particulars on application. For dates of sailing sec
Daily Papers. 8
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade rea-u-
-larlv to:—- s
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY * fiAND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON-- BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA. b
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
he _N S. WALES and QUEENSLAND •'railways
to • include first- ,or second-class rail to BRISBANE’
-thence -to Tweed to Mufwillumbah!
rail to.- Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there • with one of the-Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or iice-ver-sa. / P
ROUND TICKETS.—First cldss rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs.. 6d. : second-class-rail and'-steerage
on steamer, £4;2s. 6d. ,
For Guide anci all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE 'ST., SIDNEY
The. Royal IBank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up >. . -i.; ‘ ‘
Reserve Liability 4 of Sha:
holders
,£545,p60 0 0
Reserve Pbind O ' 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. — 1,611 ' ~ °
:Gen Man. t-Etlwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews
London Office; 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, i-ontion
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND E.C ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout tyie World.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid up . . .. .. .. £lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits .. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trustee,
Administrator or Attorney under Power for absentees,
and is the only Trustee Company empowered by Act
of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACItELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL. Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq
R. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR. Manager.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne,
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/- pet* day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGIIT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Savoy Hotel, Perth
(The Latest and Most Palatial Hotel in
the West.)
G. D. PORTUS, Proprietor.
100 Luxurious Apartments,
Bach opening to the outer air.*
Ball, Banquet, Reception and Afternoon
Tea Rooms.
English Grill Room
(Chop House System).
American Bar.
Visitors will find at the Savoy all the
leading- features of the best English and
Continental Hotels.
Wire “SAVOY, PERTH
99
The Edison
Storage
Batter y,
built to meet
practical requirements.
Its cost is a sound investment, not a mere
running expense.
The Edison Storage Battery is rugged
and dependable, and will withstand severe
vibration, even concussion will not affect
it. Being composed entirely of nickel,
iron, oxide and steel, submerged in a solu-
tion of potash, it will give unlimited
service.
Constant expert attention is not necessary,
and in every way it represents sound busi-
ness economy and real satisfaction.
Write for particulars, and please mention
wha: batteries are needed for.
Our up-to-date, plant enables us to recharge
these batteries at low cost.
Rates mailed post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent St., Sydney.
2s>et’s Walk of Wyres.
r O
rnr
What is the best tyre for the roads of I his country?
It is the tyre which best combines the qualities : adaptability, durability,
reliability.
The Michelin Motor Tyre is adaptable—i.e., fully suited tQ the varying
circumstances under which it is used.
It is durable, and effectually resists the roughness of the roads.
It is reliable, so that the automobilist always possesses that feeling of
security on which his pleasure so largely depends.
That’s why the
Motor Tyre
is the tyre for the roads of this country. Try it.
MICHELIN TYRES AND ACCESSORIES
can be obtained from all the leading Agents.
(Michelin Tyres are made In France).
MALTED
— MlL, s—
MALTED BARLEY—WHEAT & MILK
Are the constituents of Horlick’s Malted Milk. These nutritive elements help nature
to build up the human frame and bring back health, strength and energy. After
a cup of Horlick’s, an increase of mental and physical power is at once noticeable.
There is nothing to equal Horlick’s as a Delicious Food-Drink.
GET HORLICK’S AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN.
I
TS INVM-
S^ANOfRAVtg|
° OOI «*CORMIU«S
u-
Um ni
M* 1 *
MAiTCO
ss
?uck*
Stewart
Light
Delivery
Motor Van
Solves the Parcel Delivery Problem .
TEWART Light Delivery Van means much to the merchant and tradesman
Prompt and better service.
Lower delivery service costs.
Four times more delivery mileage.
Access to more customers.
One Stewart will do the work of three or four horse-waggons. It means an
all seasons of the year The Stewart is simple to drive and take care of—is handsome reflecting good taste
and quality —costs far less per mile than ordinary touring car—carries extra loads’ with eLe Pet ol
consumptwn is low; automatic lubrication tor motor; has long working life. Pays tor itself several tiSS
devoted"* ° ne ohassis Blze - of 15001 - t 0 whlch our entire energy and accumulated experience have been
Used in no less than 85 different kinds of business, by many of the foremost firms in the world.
IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT GUARANTEED.
Write for catalogues and full information. Special
care taken in assembling and packing for export.
Dealers are invited to write for Special Informa-
tion. Representatives wanted in Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart (Tasmania).
Stewart Motor Corporation
Buffalo, New York, U.S.A.
Terms, F. 0.8. New York. Cable Address: STEWART, BufTalo.
dfg


m
mi
W>MP
fi-SSJt
:;.v,-..,
Mi
FINNEY:
Longfellows
(Actual size as
illustrated)
A Long Smoke
and
A Good Smoke
Touches the tongue like
velvet—does not bite.
Burns evenly with a clear
white ash, and diffuses a
pleasant, pleasing aroma.
Made from imported
especially selected Man-
ila leaf, which accounts
for their goodness.
Price 3d. each
Box of 100,24 6
Sample Bundle of 10, 2/6.
Finney, Isles 8 CiLtt
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE.
ts&
TOTTEHsis, iSiISON, N
WHEN in
&
*
Missing Friends.
MELLON, JAMES, grandson of late
James Bourke, of McKillop Street,
Geelong, last heard of in Queensland, or
anyone acquainted with him or his where-
abouts, please communicate with National
Tiustees Company, 113 Queen St., Melbourne.
Griffiths, george HUGii.-wiii
George Hugh Griffiths, sometime known
as George Hughes, last heard of near Perth,
West Australia, where he was carrying on a
Poultry h aim, but formerly of Melbourne,
Chemist, or any person knowing his where-
abouts or able to give any information con-
cerning him. please communicate immediately
with The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited. 412 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
T\UFFELL.— Wire your address immedi-
* " ately. Milton Terrace. Very, very ill.
Urgent. Love.
DEAR HEART.
W B 'V ? FI WALKER, of Yackandandah,
\ letoria, last heard of in Kalg-oorlie, West
Australia, is requested to communicate with the
h ® wiU hear som ething to his
E. J. T. LYNE, Solicitor, Talla/igatta, Victoria.
IN
BANANA LAND
When Anderson Dawson formed his
Sudden Ministry the Coukier refused to
give the Labor men the customary “Honor-
able.” To-day it accepts the inevitable and
meekly hands over the “Honorable” along
with the other perks.
Queensland immigrants have a thrill now-
adays to start their voyage with. The Lim-
erick, just arrived in Brisbane, tells of how
she had to thread her way through mine-
fields. and how she was then informed by
wireless that a submarine was dogging her.
Still she was permitted to escape—probably
because she had no babies aboard.
“Askealon’s” eulogy:—
It was among the rugged and lonely hills around
Mount Oxide that I first met and worked with Cap-
tain Douglas Freeman. He was a kindly, generous'
soul, a fine type of the daring, gritty Australian, a
man ever ready with a kind and cheerful word. His
death at the Dardanelles , calls to memory the sad
gathering of a half dozen of us at Oxide on a bleak
and melancholy winter afternoon a few years ago.
It was the burial of a child, in the first grave dug
at Oxide. Freeman, through tears, read the last
service, he being the only one who had' a prayer-book.
There was something noble and sympathetic about
the man that day which I never forgot. An Aus-
tralian more brave, chivalrous or true never bade a
last farewell to. the shores of. his. native land. ,
"Keewex”: Ryan’s Cabinet is all upside
down. Things took the wrong turn when
Hardacre was elected to a portfolio, and
thus shut from the Speakership, for which
he was most suited. Lennon, the only man
in the party qualified by experience for the
Treasurership, has been sent to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture—the department which
Labor has insistently declared to be in need
of a galvanic battery. Mr. Lennon is three
score years and six, an age when a man gal-
vanises nothing. Apparently because he
was deputy leader, Theodore has been given
charge of the overdraft. He is infinitely
more fitted for the Home Office and Mines.
Putting aside the Speakership, then Hard-
acre was eminently the man for the Lands
Dept.; he is shovelled into the Education
basket, while Bowman’s indifferent health
will be severely strained in the most ardu-
ous post of all, the Home Secretaryship.
MAKIN’ A START.
RYAN: “Well, which is it to he, Dave? Downhill’s easiest!”
BOWMAN: "Yes, it’s easiest, Tom— till you get to the bottom.”
T. S. Sword, one time chairman of the
J.' ai| d Court, has just had a funeral—his
fust. Sword was capable, and a just man
according to his iignts, but his decisions
rnf ie unpalatable to “the Crown.”
.The worries, of the billet and the anxieties
of the pension ( plus the climate) got him
down in his 80th year.
In age Bananaland’s new Ministers run
trom Lennon (50 to Ryan 39. Ryan has
been teacher, and barrister; Lennon banker
and commercial man ; Hardacre butcher and
Georgian apostle ; Hunter is a Roma store-
keeper, Adamson has been a Methodist
clergyman; Hamilton a shearer and miner,
and Bowman a shoemaker and Labor
organiser. McCormack (Speaker-elect) has
been a , m i n ? r and A.W.U. secretary.
Ihe South claims two Ministers ; the Centre
three and the North two. The South is
paralysed at the outrage.
Hick” : Goold-Adams, Bananaland’s
excellency, owned some good nags when he
was at Bloemfontein, and was a regular
patron of all the local meetings. He stuck
to die old-fashioned hobby of driving him-
self and party, out in a drag behind four
horses, with an advance guard of grub
valets and Basutos. His prads had some
great tussles. with mokes from the O.R.C.
Stud I arm, in charge of Col. Bvron, for-
merly of Australia. His Ex. used to send
a good ’un to Jewhannesburg now and
then. I remember backing Wrought Iron
and collecting £35 4s. for each quid on the
tote.
The Tracks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
League upon long league, shining bright to the
stars as they swing above us,
_Lhe tracks lead out, lead out in the night
from the arms of those who love us,
Lunng us out from the hearthfire glow, from
the silken bonds that bind us,
Out, far out, in the loom of the Hills with
the homelight far behind us.
Deep through the ferns of the purple range
where the bellbird’s note is ringing,
l-p through the aisles of the giant gums where
the bright steel axe is swinging,
er the ghostly flats where the ringbarked
gums gleam white in the pallid dawning,
And the smoky veils from the burning logs
hang loose like a misty awning.
By the wind-whipt lip of the seaward cliff
where cow ering ti-trees sway,
And the south wind croons o’er the sandy
dunes in some blue, forgotten bay;
Where the black swans sweep through the
opal dusk as the mangrove meets the
tide,
And the egrets swing with a snowv wins to
the reeds of the river side.
Through the far-off west where the great
plains run and the fleecy woolpacks roll,
Last and west in a vast unrest through the
curve of the azure bowl;
Where the nine tops mesh on the sandy ridge
in the diamond dust of stars,
And the sluggish rivers seaward glide through
the dusk of the dark belars.
On and out, with a heavy heart or a song
that shall cheer the way.
We must trend the tnicks in the cold night
rain or the burning beat of day,
Till the last lure calls and the last 'light dies
in the closing gloom behind us.
Out, far out, on the tracks of time where no
love or mate shall find us.
QUEENSLAND.
JACK SOMMERS.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 5, 1913.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
I bear from a more or less unreliable
source that the reason why the Goold-
Adamses did not show up at the military
march-past last Saturday was because they
were pursuing deer across Cressbrook pad-
docks. From the same information bureau
it is whispered that the vice regal pair
plucked dry whiskers from the face of the
earth for their own shake-downs, and generally
comported themselves as old and seasoned
hunters. His Ex. had the bad luck to stam-
pede a mob of cows, which effectually scat-
tered any wild deer that might have been
around on the first day. But there was
venison for dinner next day—-at least they
say so. But, as you have frequently re-
marked in your righteous indignation, my
dear, they say anything.
Hats off to a good Australian—Black, of
Myall Downs! He is one of the richest of
ihe squattocracy, is married, and owns a
couple: of sturdy young Australians. But,
refusing to accept these facts as an excuse
to stay at home, he has enlisted, and is now
a private in one of the Expeditionary forces.
In addition to offering himself, he passed up
a hne motor-car to the military authorities
tor use with the Army Service Corps.
Some other good Australians who have
ciossed the last ditch, and whose names
shine in recent casualty lists : Edward Gra-
ham Wareham, only son of E. B. Wareham,
manager of the Adelaide Steamship Co. in
Queensland ; Roy M. Bernays, second son of
Charles Bernays, Clerk Assistant of the
Assembly; and Gordon Graham, son of Lock-
wood Graham, of Toowoomba. The two
former were old pupils of the Brisbane Boys’
Grammar School. Major Graham enlisted
m C Squadron of the 2nd Light Horse, and
when he found that the infantry was in the
game, ahead of the mounted men, he was
among the first to volunteer to hobble his
brumby in Egypt and hoof it with the boys
m Turkey. '
Turkish bullet found a conspicuously
brilliant boy when it killed Keith Watson.
He was a State Scholar who won the
Lilley medal at the Grammar School, and
subsequently garnered all kinds of honors.
As an athlete, tqo, he was well known both
north and south. Only 26.
Archbishop Donaldson fed about 800 folks
at Bishopsbourne this afternoon, as a com-
pliment to members of Synod and their less-
talkative halves. Music was dispensed from
the upstairs balcony and tea from tables upon
the lawn. The day was quite summery, and
over all was the spirit of Holy Calm.
This has been a week of patriotic effort.
Captain Svensen’s children and little May
Schroder began the work on Monday night
with an illuminated concert at the South
Brisbane City Hall. For so youthful a
band, the youngsters showed a wonderfully
keen commercial instinct. On Tuesday night
the South Brisbane Patriotic Committee
held a concert at the Mowbray Park pie-
ture palace, for the further relief of dis-
tressed Belgians. On Wednesday, the Bed
Cross sympathisers at Coorparoo played
euchre to raise more money for Cross pur-
poses. On Friday, the Old Girls of Girls’
Grammar held an entertainment at the
school for the benefit of our own wounded
soldiers; and, to-night, two concerts are
happening. One, at Indooroopilly, is to buy
comforts for wounded Australians; and the
other, at the Albert Hall, is to make sure of
socks and singlets for those who are trading
metals with the Turk.
Brisbane Cup Day at Eagle Farm drew
about 10,000 punters. Most of the women
on the lawii wore tailored suits of navy blue
Amongst the exceptions was Lady Goold-
Adams, who was surrounded by a frock of
silver-grey crdpe de chine, with a pleated
skirt, and bolero bodice with fitch fur.
The bolero was wonderfully embroidered in
silver thread, and opened over a blouse of
ninon. Her black hat carried two fine
white ostrich feathers. Pretty Miss Cory
of Toowoomba, who is a guest at the vice-
regal shelter, wore a navy-blue coat and
skirt, and a little black velvet military hat
His Ex. entertained Premier Ryan and the
members of the racing committee at luncheon,
and at 4 n.m. enlarged the party for tea’
Dr. and Mrs. Jack Thomson, Mr. and Mrs-
Isaac Moore, the O’Sheas, and Mr. D. Wein-
holt also’ gave away rations to affluent out-
of-works.
Saturday’s races were pretty well attended
and, spread the glad tidings, lots of people
seemed to be getting back what they lost
a week ago and on Cup Day. His Ex. did
not show up, and rumor hath it that he is
sneezing. On the other hand, it may only
be that he had “done in” all his spare cash.
Lady Goold-Adams appeared for a while, and
then left for the Anglican garden-party at
Bishopsbourne.
Nina Stodart, who wields a masterly paint
brush, and who studied in Paris and Eng-
land, will open a show of her work next
Friday.
Next Saturday the doll fete, in aid of the
funds for a motor ambulance for Tommy at
the Front, will occur at the Social Service
Institute.
Mrs. J. S. Badger is also arranging a f§te
for next Saturday. The lady dwells at
Northam, Paddington, which was Dr. Sut-
ton’s home until he hurried into uniform and
went off as the Lt.-Colouel of the 3rd Field
Ambulance Brigade. The present occupant
is raising the slogan to her friends and
acquaintances for a coin tea and garden fete,
in aid of wounded soldiers.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Archbishop Donaldson, of Brisbane, is a
strong temperance advocate; yet even he
admitted, in a speech pleading for total
abstinence, that when he had recently taken
whisky under medical orders he had had
“the time of his life.” Now the Archbisb.
can’t move down the street without some
good brother asking him the name and
address of his doctor.
Gone beyond the sunset, J. F. Fitzgerald,
aged 58. Nearly 50 years ago his father, T.
11. Fitzgerald, was Colonial Treasurer in the
old Lilley Ministry. The son made a
specialty of land laws and industrial legis-
lation, and his fame as an expert in these
lines was not confined to his own State. He
had a big practice and a heart to match it.
Hamilton, Minister without portfolio, was
one of the strike prisoners who served a
term in St. Helena after the ’9l “rebellion.”
Hamilton’s mate in those days was Westra-
s, “Mulga” Taylor, known in
the 90’s all over West Queensland as “Flash
George.” Both men served their term cheer-
fully, and Hamilton always spoke well of the
prison regime and management. The ’9l
strike was the seed-bed whence sprouted the
present powerful Queensland Labor party.
The Ryan Government has started to play
up the money. It has restored to public
servants the automatic increases which the
Denham Government had withheld for th»
current financial year. This means £46,000
tor ; the 12 months. The railway men are
also to get an extra Is. ner day. and that
will swamp another £60,000 per annum. The
question whether the revenue can stand the
racket seems to have been regarded as too
dull to be considered.
“The Understudy’s” certificate of
character:—*
“Bill” Hamilton, who may presently represent the
Ryan Government in the Council, and meanwhile is
a .Minister without portfolio, has been returned for
20-odd years by the squatters and shearers of that
part of the. Wild West which has its jamboree at
Longreach. He was responsible as a private member
for-the Shearers’ Accommodation Act, a much-needed
and appreciated measure. During last session he
mercilessly tore John White’s Diseases in Stock Bill
to ribbons, so much so that Philp and Donald Gunn
promptly urged that discomfited Minister to
withdraw the thing and say no more about it. For
a change, he is as much trusted at the homestead as
in the hut, beihg the personification of Justice.


Residence at Roseville (N.S.W.)
Harold Mead, Architect; George Laird
Builder.
Bungalow at Landfieid (N.S.W.) ; E. R.
Orchard, Architect; G. Brewer,
Builder. The white Malthoid on this
residence has been colored red, and
looks fine.
Bungalow at Leura (N.S.W.) : Donald
Esplin. Architect; McLean and Pattie,
Builders.
White
JfL
Roofs
H
AVE you seen these White Roofs ? They're all Asbestos-coated Malthoid, which is the old, tried and proved
Malthoid with a coating or skin of Asbestos* It is the ideal roofing, for it has ALL the points of a perfect
roofing* It will not crack, nor rust, nor leak, nor blow off in a gale* It is proof against extremes of
temperature* It lends itself to artistic treatment —it gives Hhc architect a chance to exp* ess his ideas*
If you are building, let us send you samples and a portfolio of illustrations*
Abel’s Factory at Marrickville
(N.S.W.) ; D. Eaplin.
Architect; , W. S. Baker
and Sons, Builders.
Miss Eadith Walker’s Bungalow
at Itushcutter’s Bay
(N.S.W.) ; .T. Charles-
worth, Builder.
A charming Bungalow in Adelaide.
'AVA
mu.
HIM* I 1
If 1
■■■tears?''. ~• .-*«»*■
*»«'.■ mnmmmm .as* *at*«4tt<*a
f warn
\ Bungalow situated right opposite Sydney Heads, where it will get
the full force of everv gale. White Malthoid used for that reason;
Copeman & Lamont” Architects; Sandell & Gadd. Builders.
Residential Flats, Musgrave Street
Wharf. Mosrnan. Sydney: R.
Louat. Architect; D. P. Hall and
Son's, Builders.
Residence at Bellevue Hill
(NS.W.) ; E. R. Orchard,
Architectß, S. Messent.
Builder.
m
imj&rn
Mr. Jackman's Bungalow, The
Broadway, Glenelg, Adel-
aide
Mr. Barnett’s Residence,
wee (N.S.W.) ;
Prevost, Architect;
Jackson, Builder.
Warra-
R. A.
H. C.
North Harbor (Manly,
N.S.W.) Home ; R. Louat.
Architect; Frank Tolliurst,
Builder.
AUSTRAL AS 5 ASM AGENTS
NFW SOUTH WALES Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.; Keylock Lathing,. Ltd.; James Sandy & Co., Ltd.; Sorby & Co., Newcastle.
OUFFNSL AND • New Zealand Loan &M. A. Co., Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville.
VICTORIA*—E L Yencken & Co. Pty., Ltd.; Janies McEwan & Co.; McLean Bros. & Rigg Pty., Ltd.; Briscoe & Co., Ltd.; Bane Taylor & Co.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:— CoIton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd; Walter Sully & Co. Pty., Ltd., Broken Hill.
WEST AUSTRALIA:— MiIIars’ Timber & Trading Co., Ltd.; Wm. Sandover & Co.
TASMANIA— CharIes Davis, Ltd., Hobart; J. & T. Gunn, Ltd., Launceston.
r/uir sviv John Burns & Co., Ltd., Auckland; Gualter Dykes & Co., Smith & Smith, Ltd., Wellington; Henry Williams & Sons, Ltd.,
'Napier* Donald Stuart. Ltd.. Dunedin: Priest & Holdgate. Timaru: Ashby, Bergh & Co., Ltd., Christchurch: Briscoe and Co.. Ltd.. Invercargill.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Challis House, SYDNEY.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
D. S. EVANS, Manager for Australasia.


r
&
Do You Like to Draw ?
If you are anxious to
develop your talent for
drawing so you can
make money, send us
a copy of this sketch
and let us explain.
Black and white artists
make big incomes.
The Australian School of
Sketching, Bond St., Sydney
dgf
Interstate Agents.—SYDNEY: Tucker & Co.;
BRISBANE : Burns, Philp & Co. ; ADELAIDE :
W. P. Auld & Co.; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co. ; GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co. ;
HOBART: J. Ferguson & Co. ; LAUNCESTON:
,T. McKenzie & Co.; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M.
Heddrick & Co.
dfg
BARNET CIASS
WATERPROOr OCOATS
Made in
Australia
for
Australians.
Barnet Glass
Motor=cycle Suits
Waterproof Raincoats
for Gentlemen
Waterproof Raincoats
for Ladies
are unsurpassed for Style, Quality and
Durability,
BASNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
AH States and N.Z,
BIG GAME
dfg
dgf
• 280 Galibro
High. Velocity *•
sometimes turns
Big game sometimes turns,
and then life hangs on the speed,
the accuracy, the power of one’s
rifle. THE ROSS .280
RIFLE does not fail.
Five aimed shots have
been fired from it in
2 2-5 seconds and the
.280 Ross sporting cart-
ridge with copper tube
expanding bullet
(patented) delivers a
smashing blow which
fells the largest game.
Not only for the sake
of bringing home the
game you go after, but
just a little for your
own sake take a Ross
.280 with you on your
next trip.
Rossßifles
Full illustrated catalogue on request.
Ross Rifle Co.,Quebec,Canada.
——— _ 32
“HERSELF AND CHILDREN.”
“ The mixture I make from Hean’s
Essence has proved the best and
cheapest cough and cold medicine I
have ever tried. Myself and children
have all been cured with it from heavy
colds.’’—Mrs. Thompson, Nelson’s
Eay, N.SW.
Mrs. j Thompson’s experience will be
repeated in your home whenever you try
Hean’s Essence, the great money-saving
cough,, cold and sore throat remedy. One
bottle makes a pint and saves io/- for your
pocket. ; , At chemists or stores, or post free
on receipt of price, 2/-, from G. W. Ilean,
Chemist, 178 CasHereagh Street. Sydney.
Be sure you get H-E-A-N-’S. 4-15
WHEN YOUR INVITATION TO A
FANCY-DRESS BALL
comes along, don’t puzzle over what you will
go as, but call on
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO.,
and they will suggest for you from a wonder-
land of fancy dresses and costumes. For
years The Buttonhole Co., 1.0.0. F. Temple,
Elizabeth Street (opp. Mark Foy’s), Sydney,
has won all the first prizes at carnivals and
displays. Wigs made and sold.
Special attention given to the dressing
of operas, children’s plays & fancy sets.
AN/EMIA
(Poorness of Blood)
f
Loss of
Appetite
Pallor
Depression
Exhaustion
Be sure you take Iron ‘Jelloids’ when Anaemic.
In Anaemia the whole body suffers, because the rich red blood
upon which the well-being of the whole body depends is lacking.
The system then becomes weakened and debilitated, the nerves
are starved, the heart is overworked. The result is Lack of Energy,
Depression, Paleness of Lips and Cheeks, Breathlessness and
Exhaustion after slight Exertion. To remove these symptoms the
blood must be enriched and strengthened—and the simplest, most
pleasant and economical way to do this is to take Iron ‘Jelloids.’
Iron Jelloids
enrich the blood—renew vitality
(( The Revd. A. J. Waldron, Vicar of Brixton, says :“I have heard
(( about your Iron ‘Jelloids’ froma Doctor, and have recently had occasion
;;t° take them. lam strongly of the opinion that if the public realised the
“fact that they have at hand at such, a small cost such a pleasant and efficient
for Anaemia, and such a splendid tonic for Nerve-strain, etc.,
many a home would be happier and many a life made brighter.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine),
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at l/l£ and 2/9, per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Manufactured only by The ‘Jelloip’ Co., 205, City Rd., London, England.
TReDistingmshmg Mark
dfg
of the genuine
REMINGTON-UMC
.22 calibre Cartridges is the
“U” stamped on the head.
TL . C<| T» is a guarantee of accuracy
1 Dal U and uniform quality.
Remjnpon,
Short, Long and Long Rifle .22 Calibre Cartridges are
noted for their great accuracy and penetrative powers. The next
time you buy .22’s ask for the REMINGTON-UMC brand. Also
ask your dealer) to show you the REMINGTON-UMC .22 calibre
Repeating Rifle. Its many exclusive features will surprise and delight you.
We shall be pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When writing, send us the name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
Australian Representative:
H. W. WARDE, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
dgf
Scores Ordered
and Sold.
No wonder! They are such
phenomenal value. They are extra
heavy and strongly made, speci-
ally to last a lifetime. Our
Managing Director happened, when
in London, to be ordering largely
from one of England’s Largest
Manufacturers of Solid Silver
Goods, and asked for a quotation
of hundreds of a line of Manicure
Sets, to be niade in slack times.
Result, he got bedrock quotation,
and the goods are here again.
The set we sell at 21/- is really
worth 40/-
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures—Strictly Cash.
Heavy, Solid Silver MANICURE SET, with All-Steel
Scissors, in Case 26/3
Less 20 per cent, discount 5/3
21/.
The “PLUM” for Satisfaction.
dfg
The man who wants to enjoy easy shaving should use this splendid
razor.
Efte “PLUM” RAZOR
is far ahead of the ordinary razor, and ensures an easy shave every
time. The blade of a “Plum” has a keen edge, which makes shaving
a pleasure. Try one yourself—send for a “Plum” to-day.
PRICE 10/6 —Post Free.
We are practical tradesmen, and know the edge required to give best
results.
M e also keep it in perfect order for two years free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case. 21 /-
Single Razor. Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All tlie Above Post Free.
This line makes a handsome present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 OF.ORGE STREET, SYDNEY.,
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
E.H.K.C.: Morant wasn’t shot for killing
a German priest. He was tried for shooting one
Heese, a German missionary, after representations had
been made by Berlin, and on that charge was
acquitted. The alleged crime for which he suffered
was that of shooting Boer prisoners. He considered
that the men whom he shot had treacherously slain
some of his fellow-officers.... Homo: Printed too
often already... .Val Nalty: Well, “Bad Australian”
argued in much the same way concerning the indi-
vidual. Then he punched the country for allowing
the brains to leak out of it.... Te Babar: Can’t
use the name, and without it the par. is valueless.
.... Didums: Don’t know whether you complain of
the price or because there was a price. Did your
friend expect the flag for nothing t.... Deloise: Cut
out pars, published, give date and forward to
accountant... .Kamouta: That was an experience of
your own, was it? What a rare lot of reminiscences
you must have about Noah and the boys! Send some
a10ng.... George B.: It’s a difficulty, whichever way
you look at it. Reserves with schools on them seem
the best solution. Tbe blacks shouldn’t be in the
towns, anyhow.... Dusty: Don’t remember it;
thanks for replica.... George, Brown: Thanks for
clipping... .W.G.W.: Yes; maybe it wasn’t cabled,
but clipped and printed as cabled news....Curiora:
No; Pelorus Jack is definitely out of the business.
M.G.IC.: Thanks; but we’ve no room for anything
but original matter... .W.W.R.: Effect is monot-
onous. Idea isn’t quite big enough... .Helen G.:
Fairly well written, but the ending is weak, and,
anyhow, it isn’t quite what we want.... Scallywag:
Note from your poem that “The great grey ocean is
filled with fiends.” We’ll tell George Black about it;
He wants to popularise the less well-known varieties
of fish.... Oliver 0.: Yell received. Lie down....
C. : Nursery heroics... .A.J.W.: Como and take
your romance away. It awaits you in the Inquiry
Dept, (first floor back) E.R.S.: Not enough
vitriol John R. (Q.) : Feeble Hugo K.: Sing
the requiem of two cheerless poems... .Albert T.:
Sorry we can’t print your modest tribute to your idol.
Unkind people might say that you got your informa-
tion from him.. .8.E.8.: Afraid it wouldn’t cheer
the mourners... .E.M.M.: The poem really doesn’t
matter... .Mena S.: Nice, copybook sentiment in jog-
trot verse.... Shore: Patriotic poem repulsed with
heavy 1055... .K.A.H.: It starts off like a catalogue.
. ...T.8.W.: We will put nothing but the basket
underneath it... .H.J.E.: Splendid sentiments badly
canned... .W.J.D.: No, thanks.,. . .Chas. A. A.: We
couldn’t use them up at any price... .D.H.M.:
Market is overstocked with higher-grade goods of the
same kind.... Raymond T,: Story wanders all qver
the place... .M.A.T.: Your pathetic poem about
undressed trees asking for new spring costumes has
gone insolvent... .Stan. E.: Don’t care for Weeks —
he annoys us... .Bildee: The moon has been full
before.... Helmsman: Verses unseaworthy... .Will
W.: Can’t make room for it... .D.S.O’C.: Refuse
to grant you a poet’s license. .Thos. M.: Why not
enlist and read it to the first German prisoner you
take?.. . .H.C.G.: After reading your patriotic verses
we reply bitterly:—■
Ah, theirs is not the noblest part who fight to force
the gate;
The heroes are the men who stay
And judge, through many a pulseless day,
The home-made Chants of Hate.
... .M.E.McG.: Thanks, but there’s nothing in it....
Gert P.: Yes; always glad to receive, and pay for,
picture suggestions. Thanks for clipping, but that’s
not the sort of thing that can be used again. What
kind of story do we want? The kind we print, and
all the other kinds that are better.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.W.-: There is humor and observation in the
little rough drawings, but the subject is too techni-
cal for general interest. Try them on a paper which
specialises in music M.G.: joke is not apparent,
and you have everything to learn about drawing....
D. : Picture would be a puzzle without explanatory
letterpress. .. .8.M.H.: We don’t, like the boiled
Devil. A V . •
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
Apropos Colonel Irving, the new Chief-of-Staff in
Australia (B. 3/6/’l5). His father, Professor of
Logic, etc., in Melbourne University/, was Captain
of the North Melbourne Corps of Volunteers in the
early ’6o’s. I was in the Carlton Corps, and the
one parade ground frequently served us both. When
Irving drilled his lot no circus drew a larger crowd.
The language of the commanding officer was blind-
ing ; yet when the drill was over he was again the
mildest-mannered of professors. A different stamp
of captain was Redmond Barry, the Beau Brummel
of the Bench, who commanded the Fitzroy Corps.
He gave no orders; all his were entreaties. His
corps was not a success. Little Radcliffe, a whole-
sale grocer, who commanded the Carltons, was a
good “drill,” but the Collingwoods, under Captain
J. S. Sprent, of the Customs, were the best of the
lot. The next on the line was the East Collingwood,
captained by Francis Murphy, Speaker of the Assem-
bly, whose brogue kept the parade ground jovial.
From these corps Colonel Pitt made a great haul of
recruits to fight the Maoris, good pay and a 30-acre
grant being the inducement. Amongst the full pri-
vates of those days was George Higinbotham, after-
wards Chief Justice. Each member of the corps, by
the way, then paid a weekly subscription towards its
upkeep.
A soldierly-looking old man, erect and
lithe, stepped into the drill-hall at Wan-
ganui (M.L.) the other day and said he
wanted to join the National Reserve, or, if
necessary, go to Europe. It was Captain
Edward McDonnell, now 80, one of two
brothers who carved their names deep in the
fighting history of Maoriland. This McDon-
nell was the right-hand man of von Tempsky,
and it was he who had most to do with
extricating the shattered remnant of men
wh" were with the Pole in his memorable
attack on Ngutu-o-te-Manu. McDonnell
took some swift and terrible revenges for
that exnerience. Jim Hamhlyn, one of the
men who were with him during that des-
perate bush fight with Titokuwaru which
followed Te Ngutu, died the other day in
Taranaki. There were some hardy war-
riors among those old-time soldier-farmers,
and nearly all survived the furious
argument with Ilenare lived a long time
afterwards. Among the bravest of them
were the McDonnells.


AGONY OF RHEUMATISM
DRIVEN AWAY AS IF BY MAGIC.
HOW TO PROVE IT.
Rheumatism is caused by a curious poisonous
acid in the blood. This acid settles in the
joints and muscles, and causes that awful
agonising pain of backache, rheumatism,
gout, gravel, inflammation of the bladder,
etc. Weakened kidneys are at the bottom of
it all.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
strengthen the kidneys and drive the poison-
ous pain-causing acid right out of the
system. Every suffering reader of this
paper can prove for himself, with one or
two doses, that these pills do really touch
the weak spot—the kidneys and bladder.
When you see the “blue” you know it’s true.
To cure kidney trouble of any kind you
must positively get rid of the cause—the
poisonous uric acid. Remember, to do this,
a real remedy must pass through the kidneys
and the bladder, and not through the bowels,
as. most kidney pills do. When you see the
urine change to a muddy bluish color —a
feature which distinguishes De Witt’s Pills
from all others; —you know beyond all doubt
that they have put their hea,ling touch; on
the right spot—the kidneys and the bladder.
A wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys
—that is the reason why De Witt’s give
such amazingly quick relief —every time. A
permanent cure follows in almost every case.
DE WITT’S KIDNEY and BLADDER PILLS
can be obtained at any, of the branches of
Washington H. Soul Pattinson & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney : Longmore’s The Melbourne Phar-
macy, Bourke Street. Melbourne; and all
leading chemists at 2/9 and 5/6 per large
box. The 5/6 size is two and a half times
as large as the 2/9, and contains enough
doses to last you three week's.
Try_ your nearest chemist,'but if you have
any difficulty in obtaining De Witt’s Pills,
send the price of the package required to
either of the firms mentioned above, and the
.'goods will be sent by return, post free.
Try the 2/9 size if : you like—but start at
once, and you will then understand why
thousands upon thousands of sufferers, in
all parts of the world., praise De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills. But you must
be sure you get De ‘ Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, in large blue and gold boxes.*
m
S 3
No.l
This isTfhe* famous Liniment' that has
been used ar the' well-known Willows
Hospital with unfailing success for nearly
sixty years in all cases ’of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago, Stiff Joints, Fluid on
the. Knee, etc.
Athletes and Sportsmen will find it
an ideal Embrocation tor training purposes,
it being very soothing, invigorating, and
penetrating.
S©LD EVERYWHERE RT
Fr/ce -2'6. Per 8011/e.
PREPARED ONLY BY
W H. SCHQL2 & SON,
WILLOWS HOSPITAL,
NURIOOTPA. S.A.
Wholesale at all Warehouses*
British “PRINCESS”
CREAM SEPARATORS,
dfg
The Cre a m
Separator that
has stood the
test of time.
The best is the
cheapest in the
long run.
Spare parts
stocked.
agents—
JOHN BANKS & SON PTY., Ltd., Melbourne.
W. HART & SONS, Launceston.
W. BUCKLEY, Barlow Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
VK. A. PRESTON & CO., Brisbane.
Made
Watson, Laidlaw 8 Co.,
Engineers
Glasgow.
Don’t let ill-health
cloud your life.
Here is an offer of new health and new
life to all who are
•fv
Weak, Anaemic,
“Nervy,” “Run-down.”
Get well the “Winearnis” “way
—the quick, sure and safe' way
to new and vigorous health.
The Quick way—because the
benefit begins from the first
wineglassful, and increases
with every additional wine-
glassful. The Sure way—he-
-•••S, ■ > # »'y - i
cause it has given new health
and new life to countless
thousands of sufferers. ,Ahd
because it is recommended by
Over 10,000 Doctors." The Safe
way—because it is the . only
Wine Tonic of'*any repute "tihat
does not contain drugs.
The first effect of “Wincarnis”
is an immediate stimulation
and invigoration of the whole
system. This is followed by
an actual up-building of bodily
vigor-—-an up-building that you
can feel— and which gives you
more strength and vitality
than yaw had before. And
each succeeding wineglassful
of “Wincarnis” - creates still
more strength, and pfill more
vitality, until soon your whole
body thrills with new health
SLnd'new life.
Then you can stop taking
“Wincarnis.”
But you still erljoy to the full-the glorious
new health it has given y oil. That is where
A AAAAiiYi
r
rTf
rTTTTTTTTTT
ffff
■proves itself of enormous ad-
vantage over drugs and
drugged wines. Drugs stimu-
late, it is true; but 'itis- false
stimulation. And drugsrrnalce
you feel worse afterwarMs, .be-
cause the)'’ ’ 'depress tji^ l ' heart.
■ " , . ‘ 4 • "’il I.
Read what Mr. Edmunds says:
“Dear Sirs, I am delighted
with the ne\t health your
world-famed.' ‘Wincarnis’ has
given me.. I have had'such a
busy season that I got /<r run
down.’ I was intensely weak
and quickly got exhausted. I
.was induced, to take a wine
tonic, which unfortunately
made me feel worse than ever.
I discovered afterwards that it
contained drugs. So I quickly
gave it up and tried ‘Win-
carnis’instead. And it is won-
derful how speedily" f Win-
carnis’ has made me feel a dif-
ferent being. It seemed to ptit
new life into me. I should
never have believed that any-
thing could do me so much
good, or do it as’ quickly as
‘Wincarnis’ has done. I only
wish I had tried it before.
—Yours faithfully, A. S.
Edmunds, 8113 Selwyn Road,
r Cliftonville.” So you see that
the health that “Wincariiis”
gives is real and lasting health.
That is the health you want if
you suffer from Anaemia,
Weakness, IsTerves, Sleepless-
ness, Exhaustion, Indigestion
or if you are “Run down.”
And it is real and lasting health
that “Wincarnis” offers' you.
Will you.try just one bottle?
Begin to get well TO-DAY.
“Wincarnis” is niade in England by COLEMAN & CO., LTD.,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich. You can buy “Wincarnis” from
any Wine Merchant, Licensed Chemist or Grocer, but if yon
experience any difficulty in obtaining it, write direct to the
Sole Distributing Agents, Eassett & Johnson, 5-7 Barrack
Street, Sydney.
[3
dfg
ABBEY
SHOES.
A great feature about ABBEY
SHOES is that they never become
shabby. True, they wear out in
drive'. but they “grow old grace-
fully.”
The illustration shows our very
latest mod^l —a Choice, All-Patent
Dei’by Bal. v
Price - - 35 b
Also in highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf,, 32/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for Our New Catalog.
4 BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street, /
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
POWER, STRENGTH
ANb DURABILITY
in every part of a Kermath Engine.
KERMATH
Marine Engines
built in 4 iycle, 4 cylinder types only.
12 to 20 h.p.
Medium Duty ; Medium Speed for
boats 20 to 35 feet.
No better Motor made at any price.
Prices
£36 to £72
-1 ■
Depending on
Equipments.
Exclusive dealers
solicited.
KERMATH
MFG. CO.
„ , (Dept. 41),
Detroit, Michigan,
U.S.A.
1*
| i“A GRAND REMEDY.” J
“ The cough mixture I make from
H'ean’s Essence is a grand remedy for
colds. It would be difficult to obtain,
abetter preparation,, while its cheap-
ness appeals to the pocket.” —Mrs. E.
R 1 Monro, Berrico, Gloucester, N.S.W.
This Mean’s Essence mixture is so easy to
make in .your own home, is. so- good and
saves such''a' lot'of rnoney—io/- on a pint—
that it is popular in thousands of Australian
homes. Try it in yours. At chemists and
stores, or post free on receipt of price, 2/-,
from G. W. Mean. Chemist, 178 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. Read the circular. 1-15
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian. Gel. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and..cable news from Aus-
tralia. and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices. 115 High Iloi-
born. London, WTX, where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain informatioh without
charge.


7 Amusements.
TIVOLI THEATRE.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Litd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JI VOII THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE FAMOUS
TIVOLI FOLLIES.
AUSTRALIA’S BIGGEST FUN SHOW.
-p I VOIjJ THEATRE. AIELIiOU KNE.
NELLA WEBB. .
The Incomparable Diseuse.
GENERAL PISANO,
the World's Foremost Sensational Sharpshooter, pre-
senting; Bombarding Tripoli by the Italian Fleet.
THE TYRELLS. IDA BARR.
JIVOLI THEATRE, BRISBANE.
SATURDAY, JUNE 5.
GEORGE MOZART,
the Master Mimic, in a series of Thumbnail Sketches.
JACK STKRZELLY and his very human Dog LUCKY.
WILF CONNOLLY. ROSA HAMEL.
Etc., etc.
H K K -M A ,1 E > T V ’ S>. S Y D N E V.
* ■ Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT EIGHT.
The Glories of COMIC OPERA at its richest and
best revived.
The Brightest Jewel of them all,
MA MJE ROSETTE.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose's.
o HITK K I ° N THKA T RE, ~SYI>N~KY~
v Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEE WEDNESDAY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Roi Cooper
Megrue’s Drama of Love, Thrills and Mystery
UNDER; COVE R,
Brilliant Cast, headed by MURIEL STARR.
Plans at Paling’s. Dav Sales White Rose
M HIBOCENE glaciaricm.
REAL IC E SKAT IN G.
AFTERNOONS, 3 to 5.
EVENINGS, 7.45 to 10.
RICCO’S ORCHESTRA.
Business Announcements.
X/
nt
“I am carried
everywhere * *
"even up to the clouds by the
airmen. For lam Onoto—the
fen that makes writing easy
everywhere. ”
The Onoto simplifies writing
because (j) a turn of the “ head "
to the left regulates the irik-
flow—fast or slow to suit the
handwriting.; (?) a turn to the
right shuts off the ink so that
the Onoto becomes a sealed
tube in the pocket; (3) because
it is the one really satis-
factory self-filling pen.
i’he Onoto fills itself instantly
Vom any ink supply, and cleans
itself in filling.
Price 12/- and upwards of
all Stationers. Jewellers, and
Stores. Booklet about the
Onoto Pen free on application
to Thos. de i.a Rue & Co.,
Ltd., 194 Bunhill Row, London,
E.C., or the Australasian Re-
presentatives, Not man Baker
nd Longhurst, 50 York Street,
Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK
—Best for all pens.
THE NEW
EXCELSIOR
SOLAR TELESCOPE
and Microscope Combined, with Special Eye Piece for
dg
viewing Eclipses of the Sun and observing the mysterious Sun
Spots. Five powerful lenses Sight range 3to 10 miles. Five
sections extending to nearly 4 Feet. A Book of Telescope Talk
with each instrument. Complete packed in a box and carriage
paid for only 8/6 The Union Company,
299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
dfg
CRAMPS ob COLD FEET
Electric Insoles Keep the Feet Warm, pro-
mote circulation, relieve nervous troubles, dispel
rheumatic pains, prevent Cramps, overcome
sleeplessness, and ward off colds and chills. Fit
comfortably into any boots or shoes. Alternate
plates of copper and zinc generate a mild form of
eleoitric energy and warm the feet by increasing the
circulation Warm feet mean no doctor’s bills.
Try a pair; you will be pleased. Delivered anywhere
lor 3/6 _per pair. State size of boot when ordering.
dg
The Union Co.. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
“ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing; over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Jliilletin” Office, Sydney.
Amusements.
Til KAT It K It «VA L. SYI)X E Y.
Lessees: Messrs. J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Sub-Lessees: Directors of the BERT BAILEY CO.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BERT BAILEY COMBINATION
in STEELE RUDD’S
ON OUR SHLIiCTION.
Plans at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Direction E. J. CARROLL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
'Matinees : Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.30.
:(! MR. and MRS. GRAHAM MOFFAT
in
A SC HAP ft O’ THIS PEN.
A Scottish Comedy in three acts.
’ Box Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE ISLOCK THEATRES.
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing-
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
« YCE U M THEATRE. SYDNEY,
TWICE DAILY—2.3O & 8.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
(by arrangement with Mr. W. J. SHEPHARD)
present,
DIRECT FROM SCALA THEATRE, LONDON,
WITH THE FIGHTING FORCES OF
EUROPE,
IN KINEMACOLOR,
Vividly portraying the armies and navies of the
warring nations in beautiful natural colors.
Til KAT R E KO Y A 1., MELBOURNE’
1 Direction J.- C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY . EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
the Great Spy Play,
THE MAN WHO STAYED AT
HOME.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; 'Gallery, 2/ ; . Plan at Allan’s. '
Amusements.
U Kit MA.MCSTY’S 111 EATIt E. M KI.IIOI It NR.
■ ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. O. Williamson Ltd. present the Trans-Atlantic
Musical Comedy Success,
THE MAIMM AGE MAEKET.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and I/-.
KIN CESS'S THEATRE, Al ELBOt KN E.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 12.
George Willoughby Ltd, present the Great London
Drama,
THE SOLDIER’S WEDDING.
Prices: 2/-, l/-‘and 6d. Plan at Pianola.
B 1 J O t T H E A T It E. M ELKO U It N E.
FULLER HRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON. 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
BOLLINGER & REYNOLDS, THE QUEALYS,
HERMANN & SHIRLEY, THE BLETSOES CO.,
WILLIAMS & WARNER, TED STANLEY & TOZART.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, & 6d. Matinfiees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, ribxt Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F, RUSSELL.
BIRCH CARROLL
“ (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal eenties (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.:
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing' in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland forj the General Film
Conijianv of Australasia Ltd. ;
Hfai; Offick: ROTHWEI.L CHAMBERS. BRISBANE
INNEFORDS
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
. Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
v IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
dfg
“Australian to
the backbone.”
Stewart Dawson’s Australian'
Souvenirs are made in Australia
for j patriotip Australians. The
GENUINE EMU EGGS are beauti-
fully ‘ hand-carved in various typi-
cal Australian designs—-and are
mounted upon solid Ebony pedes-
tals. The Silver Mount!? are
designed to represent Australian
Fauna and Flora —the Souvenirs
being planned to reflect aj| that
is typical of the Sunny Land of
.the South-
7
Out '' Mail Order Catalogue
shows other designs in Souvenirs
—Serviette Rings, etc.
for a copy now.
ISS
25/- STEWART DAWSON S 25/-
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney.
THE GIES REVERSE GEAR
dfg
The GIES is built in three sizes of the enclosed and open type, so that it
is the best-fitted reverse gear for the greatest number of power boats. It is
the simplest reversing mechanism made. The few parts it has are all inter-
changeable, as they are jig made to accuracy. High-grade materials and first-
class workmanship, combined with fight design, make the GIES the most depend-
able reversing device on the mark'ec. j
GIES Gears are not an experiment, they are the result of
10 vears’ experience'; in building reverse gears, exclusively. Over
30,000 satisfied customers are our best recommendations.
ijEALERS: We wish to secur responsible dealers wherever
we have no representation. We feel certain that reliable
importers will want to represen‘ the GIES line, once they have
investigated its merits. The GIES offers any dealer a com-
plete ; line of reverse 1 gears to fit any make of engine. Rightly
priced and widely advertised, th; > GIES wall be a quick-selling,
money-making line to handle. Write for our special dealers’
proposition to-day. Cable Address :
GIES GEAR CO., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
GIESGEAR
DETROIT.
zfc
sdf
mM
Pastilles
sdf
THESE wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a
formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act Tike a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes • “i tnank you for
the boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which 1 find excellent and
efficacious."
Sole Manufacturers :
EVANS SONS LESCHER, ft WEBB, Ltd., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS” Pastilles and see you get them.
sdf
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
10 YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARAN TEE
Packed& Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, May 27, 1915.
Entry of Apprentices at H.M.A. Naval
Dockyards and Establishments,
Sydney, N.S.W.
A COMPETITIVE Examination for ad-
mission as Apprentices to the follow-
ing trades at His Majesty’s Australian Naval
Dockyards and Establishments, Sydney,
N.S.W., will shortly be held in the capital
cities of the various States: —
Blacksmith, Boilermaker (Engineer, Steel-
shipbuilder), Coppersmith, Electrical Fitter,
Engine Fitter and Turner, Moulder and
Founder (Brass, Iron), Painter, Pattern-
maker, Plumber, Sheet Ironworker and Tin-
smith, Shipwright, Ship’s Carpenter and
Joiner, Shipyard Fitter.
Candidates must not be less than 14 nor
more than 17 years of age on October 1,
1915, and must be of pure European descent,
and sons of natural-born or naturalised
British subjects.
Applications must be forwarded to the
Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne,
not later than July 1, 1915.
Full particulars are published in the
Commonwealth Gazette of May 22, 1915.
Printed forms of application, general con-
ditions governing terms of apprenticeship
.and particulars relative to syllabus of exam-
ination. etc., may be obtained from :—-
Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne;
Captain in Charge, H.M.A. Naval Estab-
lishments, Garden Island ;
General Manager, Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island ;
District Naval Officer, Sydney, Port Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.). Fre-.
mantle and Hobart.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, May 29, 1915.
Tenders for Charter of Interned German
Sailing-vessel “Suzanne Vinnen.”
SEALED Tenders, endorsed as above, ad-
dressed to the Naval Secretary, Navy
Office, Melbourne (if by post, prepaid), are
invited up to 12 noon on June 12 for the
Charter for a period of six months (or until
completion of voyage the vessel may be then
engaged upon) of the above vessel now lying
at the Port of Newcastle, viz..
Four-masted Barque Suzanne Vinnen, ap-
proximate tonnage, 2739 tons.
Intending charterers to state in their
tenders: —
The rate of hire per month (taking oyer
vessel as she now lies, and arrange docking
and necessary repairs, if any, to obtain sea-
going certificate).
Insure vessel (under W.A. Policy) at val-
uation to be mutually arranged.
Provide efficient Master, Officers and Crew,
and all requisite stores.
All stores, as per inventory, at present
on board to be taken over by the charterers,
and stores of equal value to be delivered with
the ship on expiration of charter.
The vessel to be re-delivered on expira-
tion of charter in seagoing condition.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Permits to inspect the vessel can be ob-
tained on application to the District Naval
Officer at Newcastle.
The vessel- has 4098 tons of coal now on
board, and intending charterers would re-
quire to make satisfactory arrangements with
the owners of same in regard to taking over
with the ship or for discharging.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
Accounts Due by the Government of the
Commonwealth.
ALL persons who have claims against the
Government of the Commonwealth are
requested to apply to the Department which
incurred the liability on or before Tuesday,
29th June, so as to avoid inconvenience to
themselves and the Department.
No accounts will be paid on Wednesday,
the 30th of June, after One p.m.
ANDREW FISHER,
Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 29th May, 1915,
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for Mild Steel Sections.
{
TENDERS are invited, subject to the
conditions of tendering, until noon on
Monday, 2Sth June, 1915, for the supply
and delivery of Mild Steel Sections to the
Commonwealth Naval Dockyard, Sydney.
Delivery to be f.o.b. Cockatoo Island, Syd-
ney.
Tenders are to be in all cases on the
printed form, which can be obtained at the
office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
N'ayy Office, Melbourne, and at the Naval
Staff Office, Edgecliff (Sydney), Brisbane,
Largs Bay (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
Mild Steel Sections’’ on top left-hand corner
of envelope, and addressed (if by post pre-
paid) to the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; or the Director of
Navy Contracts, care Naval Staff Office,
Edgecliff (Sydney), Brisbane. Largs Bay
(S.A.), Fremantle or Hobart, as the case,
may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.


Irritating and Sore. Nearly Tore
Her Head to Pieces. Hair Fell
Out. Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
cura Ointment Healed.
55 Campbell St., Glebe, Aust. —“My lit-
tle girl’s head broke all out in a rash, which
was very irritating and sore, and on account
of the irritation she nearly tore her. head to
pieces. Through her constant scratching
it broke out into sores and her hair fell out
and got very thin. I tried everything I
could think of to cure her but in vain.
“ She suffered like this for about three
mohths until a friend told me how good the
Cuticura Remedies were for skin and scalp
troubles and the great benefit her husband
gained by them. She brought me a tin of
the Cuticura Ointment to use on my child s
head, which we applied as directed and
washed her head with the Cuticura Soap,
when all the sores were healed and the rash
disappeared and now her head is as clean
as can bo, thanks to the great Cuticura
Soap and Cuticura Ointment.” (Signed)
Mrs. Lizzie Brown, May 2S, 1914.
Samples Free by Post
“ Why should I use Cuticura Soap? There
is nothing the matter with my skin and I
thought Cuticura Soap was only for skin
troubles.” True, it is for skin troubles, bub
its great mission is to prevent skin troubles.
For more than a generation its delicate,
emollient and prophylactic properties have
rendered it the standard for this purpose,
while its extreme purity and refreshing fra-
grance give to it all the advantages of the
best of toilet soaps. Cuticura Soap and
Ointment are sold everywhere. Liberal
sample of each mailed free, with 32-p.
Skin Book. Address R. Towns & Co., Syd-
ney, N. S. W.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
If our teeth could talk —they
would say something like this:- —
“Yes, we are thankful for our
friends—the millions of Tooth
Brushes. They do a splendid
work —so far as they go. We
are grateful for the hundreds of
dentifrices. They in turn do a
splendid work- —so far as they go.
But both together fall far short of
protecting our enamel —our only
weapon of tooth protection. Is
there no escape from these
‘MOUTH AClDS’—these ever-
present mouth fluids which, un-
seen, unbidden, are working day
and night to break down our
armor plate—and then make the
soft inside tooth structure easy
prey to decay-germs?’’
We answer:
“There IS escape from ‘Acid
Mouth.’ Pebeco Tooth Paste is
the one dentifrice to-day which
prevents ‘Acid Mouth’ —the direct
cause of 95 % of all tooth-decay.”
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
Made in Australia by
G. ARNOLD,
C> O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [4
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
onlv COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
° AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
fus in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The Pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Australian Mutual Provident
Established 1849. For Fife Assurance on the jMi
Society.
nil Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on I the Security ® f
debentures, inscribed Stock or Treasw
u %"70 S» KSwfSorS or® pa'mienf of aTO ~
DIRFCTORS-Tho lon W Meekf M.L.C.r Chairman : The Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman: lie
Zrjtmof BurnsNbLcV; The lion. It. J. Black, AI.L.C,; The Hon. F. E Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adv.an
K„ov, Esq, K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Jeeco, F.1.A..
F.F.A., F S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SVDN'EY. IT. IV. APPEItLY. Secretary.
0
7
m
Try
this!
Lift the outer walls of the nostrils as shown above. Then inhale vigorously through the
nostrils. Afterwards exhale, also throuah the nostrils. Do both, of course , while hold nq the
nostrils wide open. The result will be nothing less than a surprising revelation of how the nasal
air-passages can be enabled to convey an increased supply of oxygen to the respiratory organs.
HAVE YOU GOT
CATARRH ?
If you have & dropping; of phlegm Into the throat.
If your nose is stopped up,
If crusts form in your nose,
If you are easily susceptible to colds,
If you suffer from frontal headaches,
If you have noises in the head,
If your hearing is affected,
If you have to clear your throat and expectorate often.
If a change in the weather affects you,
If you are a victim to shortness of breath,
If you sneeze frequently,
If your sense of smell is affected,
If you have a heavy, tired feeling on awaking,
If you suffer from a husky throat,
If you are affected with any of the above symptoms,
the chances are that you are suffering from
Catarrh. It is an exceedingly dangerous com-
plaint, and is so insidious that the sufferer hardly
realises how serious is his or her condition until
matters have reached an almost chronic stage.
Catarrh often begins with a cold in the head, but it never stops there.
The simple cold becomes a protracted one, while the discharge from the
nose grows more profuse and uncomfortable.
The inflammation extends to the throat and bronchial tubes, causing
hoarseness, a tickling sensation, and an aggravating cough, lhe matter
that is continually dropping hack into the throat finds its way into the
stomach, resulting in a distressing form of dyspepsia, nausea, and loss ol
appetite and strength.
The catarrhal poisons are absorbed into the blood, and all the membranes
of the bodv become infected. What was supposed to he a purely local
disease has become constitutional, deep-seated, and chronic and may
eventually result in Deafness, Bronchitis, Asthma, Neuritis, Catarrh of
the Stomach, or that dread scourge of the human race, Consumption.
A Sample Bottle of “KAT-AR-AH” INHALANT
FREE to SUFFERERS.
“Kat ar-ah” Treatment for Catarrh is based on scientific principles,
and aims at the curing of the trouble on an entrrely new and logical
basis. I know it is right by personal expenence—the b *st Catarrh
Remedy in existence, and I am ready to prove it to you. Hundreds
acknowledge its worth. No matter how many remedies you may. have
tried do not consider your case hopeless until you have tried Kat-ar-ah
Tieatment.
In order that you may prove the value of this Treatment to your own
satisfaction I will supply you with a trial bottle of kat-ar-ah ‘ ‘ ,
TREE OF CHARGE. It will give immediate relief to the inflamed
membranes, clear the head, convey health-giving, purifying and germ-
destroying medicated air to the affected parts, and cleanse the nasal
passages of the accumulated mucous. I will also send you a copy o
new and interesting booklet —“Catarrh its Cause, Symptoms
Treatment.” Be sure to nwntion this paper when writing, give your
full name and address, and enclose 3d. in stamps to cover cost of
Send to-day. The trial bottle will be sent you by return mail. rIKKBERI
HERDER, Daking House, Sydney,
There is never any question about a dress made of
LOUIS VELVETEEN. Fresh charm, dainty
grace, style and dignity characterise every length of
this beautiful material. For your protection see that
every yard is marked with the letters L-O-U-LS.
it t
r
m
Velveteen
sdf
The Inky Way.
I low some of these sport writers do enthuse !
One, in his story of a North Queen slain I
football match last week, burst forth with
the statement that “Sharkness kicked a god
goal.”
Poet Alfred Noyes thinks Armageddon will
benefit his business. “While the war has
absolutely killed the erotic novel, the pub-
lishers are selling twice as much poetry as
ever -before,” he says, “because poetry has
kept closer to the big vital things than
fiction has.”
Apropos the appearance of another ha’-
penny evening paper in London, somebody
digs up the fact that there used to be farthing
news-sheets. In 1745 there was a London
farthing paper called All Alive and
M ei;kv ; ok the London Daily Port —a
small folio half-sheet with three columns on
b< th sides. There is a copy of it in the
British Museum.
“Der Snag”: If the Argus report
(20/5/M5) is reliable, there need be no
ground for complaint that Australia is being
too lenient to German sympathisers. Appar-
ently she buries them —whether alive or not
is not clear. Says the Argus : “A
discussion of war made in a Melbourne
street” (the Argus means that a discussion
took place in the street on the subject of
the fighting in Europe) “recently led to the
utterance of opinions by a naturalised Ger-
man that have resulted in his interment.”
tt * -X- *
“Flag” : On Saturday, May 2.0, Melbourne
Herald discarded for good its motto of
“Impartial—Not Neutral,” a piece of Dog-
berryism which has occupied a line of type
on its leader page ever since the paper was
founded. No new motto will take its place,
and it is a safe bet that the omission was not
noticed by many, if any, of the thousands
who bought the paper on the day the change
was made. The Age manages to struggle
along without any slogan. The Argus still
sticks to its extract from one of John Knox’s
sermons: —
I am in the place where I am demanded of con-
science to speak the truth, and therefore the truth I
speak, impugn it whoso list.
But that’s only another of the Argus’s
rumors.
-X- * * #
“Gus Gosh” : The young men who look
after the photographic, sections of the papers
have the idea that the subscribers are bone-
heads. A naval vessel has been sunk
or otherwise slaughtered, or has per-
formed some deed of valor or infamy.
Very often the picture given is of another
vessel altogether, maybe of the same type
or class, maybe not. It all depends on the
naval knowledge of the aforesaid young men.
Recently I compared two published photo-
graphs of the Dresden and the Emden. If
the same camera didn’t do the work, and do
it at one sitting, I’ll eat the hat the missus
wears in the garden. An Adelaide paper the
other dav reproduced a photo, of one of
the English battleships that participated in
the Dardanelles entanglement. But the
genius responsible for the reproduction had
picked on a ship flying an admiral’s pen-
nant, whereas the vessel he dealt with was
never a flagship. Why are these drearv
things forced on us? They are seldom first-
hand photographs, and, to the average
reader, one battleship is just like another,
especially when poor-class paper makes a
hopeless blur of any linos of beauty the craft
may possess.
AVENGED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sat, the Grisly Editor,
And, with liis pencil blue,
He scratched the screeds that lay befoie
With markings through and thioug .
And some were songs of gentle love,
And some were tales of fight,
And some were sweet as Heav’n above;
But this remorseless wight
With scoff and grin and cruel glee
He rent a poet tender,
And tossed a “Tale of A ready
Unopened to the sender.
Around his chair there grew a pile
Of slaughtered sonnets eerie ;
Upon his desk there waxed the while
A mangled hoop and dreary
Of leaders strong and leaderettes
That never started leading ;
Of stories short and novelettes
For me;'cy ever pleading.
He sat, the Grisly Editor ;
The war was jigging gaily—
A frown was spread his forehead o or,
A frown that gathered daily.
He gazed upon a lovely screed.
11 is own! One half was blotted,
The rest so scored you couldn’t read
The strictures ho had jotted.
And o'er his desk a shadow leaned
That murmured: “Gome now, stop itl
I am the Supervising Fiend,
And I shall make you drop it!
“You said that Joffre's plan was poor
.Just write you couldn't mend it;
You feared the war would long endure -
Put down: ‘A month will end it.’
“You called the Cossack ‘Murdering Dog,’
The Serb a Son of Ravage ;
Write down, instead, ‘The Potsdam llog
Is pigging with the Savage.’ ”
And, as he wrote, that editor,
His office roof and rafter
Hid ring with many a hearty roar
Of wild, unearthly laughter.
For all the ghosts of slaughtered scribes
His office grim that haunted,
Came out and flung their wicked gibes
Unhindered and undaunted.
Yes! As he wrote the laughter grew
Each moment dense and denser ;
Oh, weird it was' to hear that crew
A-cheering on the Censor!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


GUN 5
of Quality
and Stability
S* •• ..
ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action. 30in. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks,
snap fore-end, chambered for 2jm. cartridges, weight from 7 Jib. to <olo. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders, half-p stol grip, walnut stock.
DELIVERED,
£6 17s. 6d
DELIVERED,
Same Gun, with •>-in. barrels
£7/7/-
38S
m
r -
m
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12 or IG-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar looks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about 7+ll
Greener cross-bolt.
).; of 16-gauge, about 6ilh, ;
DELIVERED,
£4 17s. 6d.
GUN REPAIRS
a Speciality.
sdf
Send for
our Price
List of
Guns,
Rifles,
Revolvers
and all
Sporting
Goods,
Post Free
to any
address.
Boswell s High-grade D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun “The Reliable,”
V~ i g f aU 1 G ’ lever, Anson and Deeley action, barrels both choke, side clips, Greener X
>oir. chambered for -i cartridges, nitro proved, pistol grip, elaborately engraved ; weight
about ,Ib. soz Delivered £l7 10s.
sf
DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71b., patent fore-end. POST FREE,
£4 8,
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
THE BEST HOUSE FOR A LX
SHOOTING REQUISITES.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
City Sports Depot : 119 King Street, Sydney ; and at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Information for the Housewife
CLARK’S
CAST- IRON
SAUCEPANS,
BOILERS, KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as ihe lightest Enamelled Ware, and will last
a lifetime instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust. Handles that will not slip in the hand.
Please note the
Hygienic Sha p e
and the Patent,
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
SECTION.
■
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S hollow-ware IS THE BEST
Australasian Agent : A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
— Zx'frVuna —
CURES ECZEMA
And all Irritations of the Skin.
From the very first application the skin becomes healthy and clean
again, and every disfiguring pimple or rash completely disappears.
The Greatest Skin Cure of the Age.
Exzerma is a household remedy, and no home should be without it.
Compounded from Australian herbs and roots.
Large Bottle,
51-
Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
None genuine without the signature
S. FIELDER.
Small Bottle.
A US
“AustreJievn Made
sdf
Combs,
2/= each.
Cutters,
6d.each.
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, Sydney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARINC CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Building's, George Street, Sydney.
Iff
m
m
m
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over SO en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s (id posted. Mkrrib
England, 6d. How to Getßich, lsposted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition. 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, •Ts 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/0.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions vvithCards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Rlatcn-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, ls6d. French Polishing
»nd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. ausikalian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d
m
m
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I*- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gam blurs’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldrring, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is '2d. Electricity Made Simplk (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDocgall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your casii. gST'Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
HE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
• ♦
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife's Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/ti. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. (id. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersolls Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chbvasse's Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster's Large Un.
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, las post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2ti. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com!
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA V.


WHEN BABY IS ILL
All -the Household Suffers I
Hushed voices and anxious faces replace the happy home life; all else
seems -unimportant until baby smiles again. The best mother is she who
prevents this dreaded time by keeping baby well and healthy. Babies are
great sufferers from little colds, which quickly turn to bad attacks o
Croup, Bronchitis and Pneumonia. Treat baby’s cold at first symptoms
with tiny doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery; see that lie be properly
clothed and fed, and such ailments need never be feared.
Baby will go on growing all winter, impervious to winter’s ills, and set
an example of health and hilarity to the entire family.
What Do You Give Baby for his Cold ?
ms
Foolish mothers close then-
babies with home-made concoc-
tions or something recommended
by a neighbor, and perhaps upset
tiie little stomach and make the
baby cross and uncomfortable by
this mistaken economy. Wise
mothers do not experiment with
untried nostrums, but depend on a
remedy which has been compiled
from the scientific prescription ot
a famous physician, and is designed
to cure the cold without upsetting
the digestive organs. Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery is this remedy, and
mothers may give it to then-
babies, secure in the knowledge
that coughs and colds will no
longer rack the little bodies. lor
Croup, it has the most wonderful
results. Whooping Cough is cut
short by the use of Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. For all the family
ills resulting from throat, chest or
lung complaint, the mother s
resource is Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the quickest, salest
and best-known remedy for Coughs, Colds, l leurisy,
Bronchitis, and all Throat and Chest Troubles. It is a
remedy that can always be relied upon. Obtainable every-
Avhere at 1/6 and 3/-
Best for Children and
Grown Folk, too.
D« Sheldons
New Discovery
'«'*»• mat ™ ews
'M
; oiHgcr; wmc>r~ i gT£ j|M
jBHSEENK
trn
__ - „ _
some TondiUons. or for'dejection, iiTd lY'imrhe- yoca j] y rc i axec | i phosferine immediately restores
diately renews the strength of my nerves, and rcsonance an d brightness to the voice, banishes
exercises a stimulating effect en the whole of lassitude, and generally tones up the system.
•—* —•' —63, Havcrstock Mill, London, England. *
the nervous
honored
6Y
IRQYAL
COMMAND
E
WEHLEN. the talented and charming
Nvl have used Phosferine with really
RNt general health. The unusual exertions
jMKVaIs make one nervously anxious and
much 'induces dull
effectually
itt’djlfc. ,i\ tonic for
Miss EM)
Actress, w
and ex!^H
lOtes the
V sure it
\s one's
s
firsf
f>fy miracu-
d to lose al|
Lst
a§®ia
' S SS
iMmm
illllllSi
Fhosferine
any invalia
mother anc
will find it
if-164.. High Rd..
B. C. HUCK.S (the
Inglishman to "Loop th§,
r illy must express my ap
btnc back I felt myself in : __
brought on, no doubt, by the
under all sorts of weather co
tour last summer. I had an
becoming shaken. I was advised
quite astonished at the beneficial
the first few doses. 1 am now feel
and ready to start upon a season s flying promises »
tonsiderablc more arduous than the lasp -U6.
London. England
In all
fr) there
her j
»ng dreary
[»7 weather.
order, and
Essay as my
indon, Eng.
At the hands of any Chemist this is what you should obtain
PHOSFERINE is a World-wide Remedy for
Indigestion
Anaemia
Insomnia
Lassitude
Debility
Neuralgia
Loss of Appetite
All Nerve Troubles
Juit 5 io 10 drops of this golden remedy in
The original and Genuine PHOSFERINE iibuff'l
notice that it is spelt P-H-O-S-F -E-K-l-N t. rr _
culty in obtaining supplies send Postal Note to Ashton
a wineglass of water.
lackages, and be particular to
, 2 6&4/6. If you find any diffi-
& Parsons, 408 Collins St. Melo.
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
buy
the Old Country Produces
HORROCKSES'
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 1
Auld Meg.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AND when the parlor lamp is lit,
And cows are in the byre.
With shawl and mutch will Auld Meg
sit.
Nid-nodding by the five.
Her shanty stands by Brandy Creek,
Lone in the forest far.
But scattered miners, night and week,
Make merry in the bar.
The euchre cards are dealt out slow,
And yarns come in between
Of roaring days of long ago
That Auld Meg, too, has seen.
-‘Ah, week yon’s o’er, these fifty year
IleartSome were we, an hale,
An’ noo 1 canna' drap a tear,
It’s but an auld wife’s tale.
“My children’s children come to me,
Nor think the road too lang.
1 like the bairns.aboot my knee
To hear an auld Scotch sang.
“My guidman, he has ta’en his rest,
Like leaves we’re blawn an' bil led ;
But there was ane I loo’d the best,
Loo’d best in a’ the world.
“An’ gin ye live as lang, mebbe,
Some things ye’d fain forget;
Ye will na’ think it shame o’ me,
I mind young Colin yet.
“Oh, Colin was the lively lad
To mak’ the diggings ring
Wi’ feats o’ strength, wi’ capers mod,
The lad to dance an’ sing!
“In 11a ane spot c’u’d Colin bide.
An’, swag a hint his back,
A simmer’s nicht, though sail- I cried.
He drifted doun the track.
“An’ noo a family I hae reared,
A mither’s pride an’ care ;
I’m fu’ content. The mists are cleared,
But he cam’ back nae mair.”
Colin is gone, and gone the rush,
The luck aye changes hands ;
But still, in the deserted bush.
The quaint old shanty stands.
And when the parlor lamp is lit,
And cows are in the byre,
With shawl and mutch will Auld Meg sit
Nid-nodding by the fire.
VICTORIA.
LAUIS ESSON.
After the War.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was 30 years after the War. At
least, it was 30 years after the AN ai
had begun. Whether the War had
actually finished or not was, in Australia,
among those who still took any interest in
it, a matter of doubt. For Australia
had no means of knowing what was
really going on in the world. Not that tlu
Australians cared ; they had too many othei
important things to think about.
Before the Federal Parliament adjourned
sine die, a series of questions was put by
the Leader of the Opposition. He asked:
(1) What armies, if any, were still fighting;
(2) where, if anywhere, such armies were
still fighting; and (3) what, if anything,
said armies, if any, were fighting about ? 1 h<
Prime Minister, in an empty House —he and
the Leader of the Opposition were the only
members left —replied (1) that he. didn t
know; (2) that he hadn't any means of
ascertaining; (3) that if he did know,
reasons of State prevented him from dis-
closing O) the source, if any, of his infor-
mation, and (b) the facts, if any, in his
possession, and (.4) that he didn t think it
mattered, anyway.
The bleak fact was that, long before this,
Australia had been completely isolated from
the rest of the world. Similarly every other
country had been isolated. The tremendous
destructive powers of modern weapons had,
during those years of universal warfare,
thoroughly justified themselves. Each nation
had continued to kill off the soldiers and
civilians of its opponent and to destroy its
property. Meanwhile, of course, its own
soldiers and civilians and property were
being destroyed at approximately an equal
rate. The combatants ended, or didn’t end,
in practically starving or killing each other
out; and during the process they managed to
do the same to the nearest neutrals. How-
ever, after a few years of this wholesale
destruction, there weren’t any neutrals left.
It wasn’t safe to be neutral for long. At
any moment they were liable to be hit by an
ultimatum. The result was that, by an ex
penditure reckoned at well within £3,000,000
per day, the inhabitants of the globe had
succeeded in destroying everything of value
or use, and of killing off or mangling each
other so that there were only cripples or
starving men left. Statisticians, in their
intervals of starving, proudly announced that
the work done was cheap at the price.
Early in 1015 the world had discovered
that armies were of no use, except to be
exterminated. The Germans were the first
to conceive the idea that an invincible aimy
was quite a useful thing to have. M as
soon as they started to demonstrate the
value of an invincible army, the ot act-
uations discovered the same truth. ■ -
found that every nation could manufacture
or grow an equally invincible army. J-
first rush of the Germans had landed them
in Belgium, and when they had got over
their first disconcerting feeling ot its uttei
unlikeness to Paris they decided to stay
there. Their invincible army was invincible
enough, but so were the invincible armies ot
their foes. Neither could be conquered ; hence,
logically, neither could defeat the otliei.
Occasionally they butted each other back-
wards and forwards. Their line bent and
sagged; but that was all. On the eastern
frontier this ebbing and flowing occurred
on a larger scale: but in the end it re-
sembled the dying vibration of a violin string
coming to rest.
The explanation was simple. .Modern de-
fence is stronger than modern attack. Tins
is not due to modern weapons ot' offence, but
to the fact that human beings possess
nerves. One army attacks its foe, wins a
few miles or inches of territory, and
loses so many men. and uses up so
much nervous energy in the attack
that when counter-attacked by the
fresher defeated men it cannot hold
the ground won. But the other army. 111 its
counter-attack, has used up so many men
and so much nervous tissue that before it has
advanced a few miles, or inches, into the
enemy’s territory, it is incapable of resisting
tlie new reserves of the enemy. The only
practical result of this manoeuvre is that it
uses up so much nervous tissue, so many
lives, so many miles of barbed wire, so much
ammunition, soldiers’ clothing, and sundries.
And each army, remember, is invincible. Ail
countries can'produce armies of this sort,
and keep them going till they wear out. when
they grow or manufacture new invincible
armies. If ever there is a civilisation again
and, as will be seen. John Robinson and
Mrs. John Robinson, at present residing in
a cave at Cremorne Point, hold out hopes
that such a civilisation will ultimately arise
—this obvious fact of the utter uselessness
of invincible armies will, in that new civilisa-
tion. mean the end of warfare. No mattei
how invincible an army is it cannot win a
battle against another invincible army It
can’t get round it. or over-run it, or fall on
top of it. or smash it. All it can do is to
dent it here and there, and then have to allow
the enemy to straighten out the dents again.
In that new John-Robinson civilisation,
therefore, no nation will bother about keep-
ing an invincible army. And whether the rest
of the world had already come to that con-
clusion. Australia had. in her isolation, no
possible means of knowing.
The war had been going on so long at the
rate of £.‘>.000,000 per day, and the destruc-
tion of material had been proceeding satis-
factorily at the same rate, that ultimately
there were no ships, cables, wireless sta-
tions, railways and post-offices left. At the
date of this faithful chronicle it had been
five years since a mail had reached Aus-
tralia. Every ship on the seas had been
sunk bv submarines or the floating mines
that had been set free in every ocean of the
globe. All the warring nations had scattered
mines. So had the neutrals in self-defence ;
and Australia followed suit when all her
navy had been blown up and it was learnt
that some of the enemy’s pirates, or neutral
pirates, were still skulking around hei
coasts.
All the wireless stations and cable sta-
tions had been destroyed, some by the
enemv, others by exasperated neutrals. Thus
the isolation of Australia was complete.
The various fleets had also exterminated
each other, not. however, before smashing
up all the workshops and shipbuilding yards
in the world. The fleets had gradually elim-
inated each other by means of mines and
torpedoes. The last news that reached Aus-
tralia (per medium of the last steam-trawler
dredge ordered by the Government, which
reported no periscopes during tlie whole voy-
age) was that the last British submarine,
tiie sole survivor of the British fleet —sub-
marine Aefghijk 18—was indomitably and
doggedly pursuing the last German sub-
marine.' T-J8957G32G, all over the ocean bot-
toms of the globe. "When last heard of the
Aefghiik 18 was near St. Helena, and the
U8957G32G was off Easter Island, fleeing
for her life on the mud. The pursuit was
being sternly pressed; but the difficulties
of discovering an enemy submarine at the
bottom of some ocean (unspecified), by
another submarine among the seaweed of
another ocean (name withheld by censor),
were surely never adequately considered by
Mahon when he wrote his epoch-making
volume on “The Influence of Sea-power upon
History.” . . , ..
Usually the submarines remained under
water. Occasionally, however, they came up
to get the crew’s beards trimmed, and to give
a naval funeral to the members of the
crew that, from time to time, died of senile
decay. The commander was always careful
to take the naval precaution of not dropping
the corpse of the old gentleman upon a float-
ing mine.
This was long after the Great Repudiation.
Every nation had got so unfathomably deep
in debt over tbe War that when the War
began to peter out the crash came. There
was no money left to carry on the wholesale
destruction necessary at the rate of
£.‘>.000.000 per day/ Economies were prac-
tised. Some weeks the expenditure dropped
to only £2.700.000 per day. though, of course,
the destruction correspondingly suffered. But
the grave fact at last confronted mankind
that, no matter how it pinched and saved,
the slackening of the rate of smashing up
civilisation was dropping at an appalling
rate. Norman Angell triumphantly pointed
to this, fact as a proof of his theory of the
economics of modern warfare —and was
found a week later starved to death. Whether
this was a further proof of -liis theories
nobody knew ; and being occupied them-
selves in starving to death, the rest of human-
ity unfortunately had little interest in the
important matter.
In this awful contingency the nations took
the only wise course. They individually
went bankrupt. Germany started it, and
with astonishing rapidity all the other nations
filed their schedules. The assets were seldom
(Continued on next page.)


DANGER!
BacKache, Rheumatic Twinges, Achina
Depression point to Kidney WeaKness-and
Limbs, Urinary Troubles, Gravel, Nervous
may lead to serious complications if neglected,
For the overworked house-
wife and tired-out man Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills area
blessing*. They quickly heal
and regulate the Kidneys,
helping them to filter from
the blood the poisons and
impurities which all too often
cause disease. Their o'ood
effect is often felt immediately,
and a fresh and invigorated
action of the kidnevs brines
back to men and women the
strength their work demands.
D oan’s Pills do not act on
the bowels. They do one
thing—they cleanse and heal
the kidneys, and they do that
well. They are equally good
for men and women, and a
safe medicine for children.
“ Every picture tells a story.’*
me*
m
rrriyrrf*
m
run
m
m
The aching hack warns you—
The rheumatic twinges—the lumbago pains—
That tired, drowsy, irritable feeling.
CURED TO STAY CURED.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
2 YEARS CURED.
Mr. Robert Larcombe, Monumental Mason, JLid-
coinbe, says : —“Off and on for years 1 suffered agony
from backache and kidney trouble. I would go to bed
feeling fairly well, but on rising in the morning my
back would ache terribly. The pains were sharp and
shooting, and often so bad that I used to scream out.
I always had great difficulty in stooping, and it was
agony for me to straighten up again, if I had been in
one position for any length of time. The kidney
secretions were also much affected. I was advised to
try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and 1 sent for some
at once. After using the first couple of bottles 1
felt better, and five bottles completely cured me. I
can recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to all
sufferers from kidney trouble, and feel sure they will
benefit by taking them.’’
Two years later Mi-. Larcombe says:—“ll is over
two years since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
me of kidney trouble, and I have had no return of the
complaint all that time.”
13 YEARS CURED.
Mrs. Chris. Kerrigan, b Gould Street, Sydney, says:
"My husband has been simply plagued with rheuma-
tism for the past ten years. This malady attacked
him in the joints, and it was almost impossible for
him to work. On one occasion he was laid up for
twelve weeks, lie tried a number of liniments, but
they afforded him no relief; then he used blood reme-
dies. but the result was no better. I got Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and after taking less than
half a bottle of this remedy he said lie felt better
than he had felt for ten years. Gradually the pains
lessened, until he was quite cured. He attributes
liis cure solely to the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and he swears by them.”
Thirteen years later. Mrs. Kerrigan confirms the
above: —"I am pleased to be able to say that my
husband has been quite free of rheumatism ever since
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him thirteen
years ago. liis lasting cure is proof positive that
Doan’s Backache Kidnev Pills are thoroughly
genuine.”
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PIUS
At all Chemists and Stores , 2j9 per
bottle, or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
much more than a halfpenny in the £, but
there were no policemen left to collect it,
and no official assignee living to receive it
even unofficially. And, anyhow, the assets
were incapable of collection, unless with a
dynamite charge and a cart.
Australia gladly followed suit. The Labor
Prime Minister of that day, in the last inter-
view published in the last issue of the last
great morning daily, triumphantly pointed
out that the borrowing policy had thus
justified itself despite the calumniations of
its opponents. if Australia had had
no public debt, no loans to pay, what good
could she have got out of Repudiation? In-
deed, he went further —and would have gone
further still if the ink for the printing of
this last issue had not run out half-way
down the column —and said that Australia,
owing the largest amount of money, had the
greatest benefit of any nation in repudiating.
With no money to pay wages, the stop-
page of all public works, no machinery to
make things, no railways running, no ex-
ports and no imports, owing to the lack of
ships, Australia, like the other countries of
the world, followed Belgium into starvation.
The wheels of industry clogged and stopped.
Saturday-afternoon auctions of choice lots
found no bidders. The receipts for Tatter-
sail's sweep fell off so rapidly that the.
winner of the Melbourne Cup received only
14s. Nd. At the Randwick meeting 19 book-
makers perished of starvation. Arbitration
Judges ceased to earn their salaries, because
(1) there were no unionists or employers
left to dispute, and (2) there were no Judges'
salaries left. The annual dinner of ihe Mil-
lions Club was attended by only one-millionth
of its members, and even he got no dinner.
The press ceased publication. The last name
mentioned in the Daily Telegraph’s last
issue was Carmichael. The Bulletin
survived four months, coming, out occasion-
ally. a two-page rag containing the Woman's
Letter and Answers to Correspondents.
“Bellerive” ceased contributing. The Bul-
letin treasurer absconded—not with any
cash, because there wasn’t any left, but with
a bundle of original MSS. of “Bellerive’s”
poems. AY hen last seen he was making for
the lautana scrub in the neighborhood of what
had once been the Central Railway Station.
The J.C.AV. firm had to close its theatres,
because there were no more United States
comedies to import. As a matter of fact,
there were no more United States. Five
thousand actors and actresses positively
made their last appearance on any stage.
This world catastrophe was partly due to
the great Prohibition movement, which, start-
ing in Russia and France, had rapidly spread
throughout the world. The last bottle of
whisky, an unrefillable one, had been stolen
from the last museum some years before;
and the name of the last man to have the
last morning-after headache in the world
had not even been preserved for posterity—
if there was going to be any posteritv.
Millions of people committed suicide, be-
cause there was nothing else to live for.
The whole tribe of poets was thus wiped
out.
Among other things women’s fashions
deteriorated. Hats were no longer worn,
because, all the hats available had been
worn out. A costume of rabbit-skins and
gum-bark marked the year of this story.
Any style could be worn. A number of
society leaders appeared during that sum-
mer in airy confections of freckles and gum-
leaves —more freckles than gum-leaves.
So the great continent relapsed into a
state of Nature. The few inhabitants who
had survived seldom came to Sydney. There
the grass grew in Martin Place; the wattle
flowered over the ruins of Anthony Hor-
dern’s ; rabbits ran wild through the
deserted Buj.i.etin offices; the dingoes
howled in Paling’s buildings in Ash-street;
and the wombat reared its cubs in Parlia-
ment House.
Tbe few inhabitants of Sydney that
Jiadn t starved to death lived a precarious
sort of existence in caves around Cremorne
Point, gaining, with primitive weapons like
boomerangs and spears, a scanty livelihood,
fishing, and hunting the wild animals that
roamed through the ruins of self-contained
Hats and palatial boarding-houses. For, in
the general smash-up of civilisation, tbe
animals in the new Zoo bad escaped. Lions
and tigers and elephants roamed the bush :
new varieties of snakes propagated their
kind in dismantled garages: walrus and sea-
lion infested the waters of Mosman Bay.
The Cremorneites had strongly fortified flic
Point against these enemies and the blacks,
whose numbers and ferocity were continu-
ally increasing. And in one of the caves
lived John Robinson.
( Ibis is really where lliis story begins.)
Before the war John Robinson had been
a journalistic free-lance. He was still a
free-lance: with the other free-lancers of
the Cremorne tribe, he speared fish and wild
animals for food. From one of the adjoin-
ing caves he had one day carried off Mrs.
Peter Brown-Smith, incidentally disposing
of Peter Brown-Smith by a heavy rock. That
night Mrs. Brown-Smith became Mrs. John
Robinson; and though for a few days she
found herself calling her husband ‘ Peter
(who was dead) instead of John, with a
woman’s adaptability and tact she soon
learned to like John as much as she had
liked Peter, who was by then rather too
dead to be neighborly.
One day John Robinson decided to ex-
plore the ruins of Sydney. As it was a
long journey round by land through- the
heavy bush he told liis wife not to wait up
for him. She didn’t; nor though he re-
mained away for several weeks did she find
his absence long. For one day she had picked
up a curious object. She dimly remem-
bered having heard of things like that when
she was a child. It was a liand-mirror. As
►soon as Mrs. John Robinson looked into it
she discovered that she was beautiful. Her
morning neglige costume of a string of
dried gum-leaves around her waist, hitherto
held to be ample in the way of warmth
during the summer, somehow displeased
her. She worried about it for some days,
tul another chance discovery put her on
the right track. This was the finding of a
tattered and crumpled Fashion Magazine.
Of course Mrs. John Robinson couldn’t
iead ? but she studied the diagrams of ante-
helium fashions, and one day illumination
came to her. She discovered that these
incredibly quaint-looking figures were evi-
dently meant to be women.
"I low beautiful!” she cried. “Oh.
wouldn't I love to look like that! And
wouldn't John just love me in this sort of
sack affair trimmed with seaweed and with
that ducky-looking thing on my head !”
Mrs. John Robinson didn’t miss John.
-All her spare time now between spearing
fish and eating them was given up to the
fashions. With deft fingers she was con-
structing a hobble skirt of eucalyptus bark,
and with a cunning affair of pliant boughs
and fish-bones she was building something
almost as uncomfortable as a corset.
So when John Robinson returned at
length from bis explorations, she was too
busy trying to discover how she bad done
her back hair to notice a new flush on his
face and a slight tangle in his legs.
“How beau’ful you’re lookin’!” he said,
with some difficulty. And when he kissed
his wife she noticed a now. almost civilised,
smell in his breath.
Somewhat incoherently he told her of his
wonderful discovery. He took her out to
the front porch of the cave and showed her
a. curious thing made of a coil of metal
tubing. By an epoch-ma king discovery,
similar to that achieved in prehistoric times
by some bright youth when he invented the
wheel. John Robinson had found out how
to work this curious machine. He had re-
discovered the art of ma king whisky !
Indeed, he had brought home a large
gourd full of the curious stuff.
And whether it was the whisky, or
whether it was bis wife’s new costume.
John Robinson felt a perfectly happy hus-
band. Mrs. John Robinson wouldn’t drink
tbe stuff; she was too busy lacing her fish-
bone corset, which, with the immemorial
cleverness of her sex, she had built so that
it fastened behind.
, I bus it was that in this obscure corner
ot forgotten Australia civilisation indomit-
ably started out again on its slow up-grade.
Arthur 11. Adams.
The Fuses of Hell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was at a silver-lead show up in the
Gulf Country. At 4 p.m. the day-
shift were hauled up. and the after-
noon-shift, consisting of six hammer-and-
drill men, for the stopes, and a machine man
and myself, to start a new level from “the
sink.’’ were lowered away on the big bucket.
The level we were to drive was some 75
feet below the one above, and, as the Mining
Act lays down, there should have been a lad-
der from the “sump” to the higher level.
But prospecting shows don’t spread them-
selves more than they can help on unproduc-
tive works, so we had no ladder.
Presently the bucket grated on the rough
bottom, and before long we had the heavy
Ingersoll boring machine rigged. Then we
gave the seven jerks on the knocker line
(which hammers on a sheet of iron on top)
and the compressed air came thudding
through the hose connected with the
machine. Sparks and dust flew from the
dolomite, as the great steel drill ate into it,
and to hear each other we had to lay our
heads together and shout.
The hump into which we were boring ex-
tended evenly right across the face, and we
were able to bore the round of seven holes,
with but two re-riggings of the machine. By
11 p.m. we had dismantled and sent her up
and had an hour left in which to charge the
holes and fire them before we were hauled
off shift. When all was ready the ends of
the seven fuses, each slit and primed with
a slip of gelignite, hung out stiffly across the
face. The bucket stood lop-sidedly on the
rough boulders, waiting.
“Knock five!’’ ordered my mate.
As T did so the bucket was jerked upright,
lifted a few feet, and slowly lowered. The
engine-driver now knew that we were light-
ing the fuses: we knew that he had his hand
< n i he throttle and brake, just waiting for
us to pull the knocker once and be hauled
up.
My mate was to light four fuses, while I
lit three. Presently the seven of them were
hissing, and we got into the bucket. I held
the cable with one hand and snatched for
the knockert with the other. 11 wasn't there!
The flares threw light all around the walls,
but no knocker line could we see. My heart
crowded into my throat as I clambered out.
of the bucket and clawed at vacancy in a
frenzied search for the line. Then I tripped,
or my knees turned to water, and I fell—on
to the knocker line. It had broken from
above and lay coiled in a tangle.
The fuses hissed like devil-serpents. They
laughed, and spat; their molten tonemes
licked at the hells behind them. The reek of
their breath fouled the throat and nostril.
Paralysed, we glared at each other; it
seemed through aeons. The sharpening of
instinct that comes with the numbing of
reason told us that some of the devil-fuses
bad reached their limit. They had ceased
hissing. Like demented animals we rushed
to the corners of the shaft, tearing away
finger-nails in an endeavor to climb some-
where—anywhere. We fell flat behind
boulders and scratched like dogs to go down
into the earth. I heard my mate scream
and saw him leap headlong into the bucket.
How I followed him I never knew. My
recollection is of a madman threshing the
cable by which the bucket was raised and
lowered.
And then. Christ sure us. T felt the cable
tauten! TFe were going tig!
I don't know where the bucket was when
the end of the world crashed, but when the
Resurrection came I couldn’t tell the dif-
ference between Heaven and what had been
the Earth. All I was certain of was that
we had escaped Hell. Men told me I was
still on the Earth, and perhaps they were
right.
Anyhow, the whiskv they were slowly giv-
ing me had the old flavor.
RAG.


An Economical Portable Outfit
CONSISTING OP
A WESTINGHOUSE “CROSS” OIL ENGINE
!
MOUNTED ON A
STEEL GIRDER
UNDERCARRIAGE.
The Engine has NO
delicate Mechanism to
get out of order, and con-
sumes the MINIMUM
amount of kerosene
per B.H.P.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8.0.5 to—
The Westiaghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Queensland Agents: Holmes
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Concord West, N.5.W.
A POWERFUL COMBINATION.
SAW BENCH
and PLANER
BRITISH MADE
Saw — l 6 inches.
Planing—-6 inches.
Moulding and Thicknessing—4 54 in.
Double Rising and Falling Tables —
26 x 22 and 26 x 12 inches.
Weight, about scwt.
PRICE, INCLUDING
ADJUSTABLE FENCE,
£3O
vsw '
A
m
y
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney a
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
Fount ainPen
Making History!
More history for the silent Sphinx—and
our own brave fellows are making it.
They could send many stirring tales to
home and friends. Have they all got
Waterman's Ideals?
Safety Type is best for Active Service.
4 Types —Regular, Safety,
Self-Filling, Pump-Filling.
sdf
s
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L» G. SLOAN, ®j}* <£ort«r, London, England.
AUSTRALIA— 3- c 0 George Street, Sydney.
HE
A superb library volume, handsomely
and bound; containing upwards of
hundred of u Hop s” best
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
printed
Three
Full
SMITH’S
PERFECT SPEEDOMETERS
CHEAPEST AND BEST.
FOR
MOTOR CYCLES
MOTOR CARS
MOTOR LORRIES
© ® ©
®@Jd © ®45
Prices
from
£3/1 0 /-
REPAIRS PROMPTLY EXECUTED.
“BRITISH” TYRES. MASCOTS. PUMPS.
Managing Agents:
ERIC BOULT LTD., 79-81 Pitt Street, Sydney,
And Elizabeth House, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Telephone— City 2401.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
mav be taken with a perfect sense of security because they are entirely
free from any injurious substance and compounded only from the
purest ingredients ofvegetable origin. Beecham’s Pills are accordingly
nuite safe for everyone. This fact should be clearly understood,
because it is of great importance that you should have confidence in the
medicine you use. Proof of the valuable properties of this popular
preparation is supplied by an immense body of opinion, for Beecham s
Pills have been in use for years in many thousands of homes, not only
in England but across the seas. At home and abroad they are esteemed
as the best Family Medicine to keep at hand for those common ailments,
so prevalent in these days, arisingfrom disordered action of the stomach,
liver & kidneys. Beecham ’s Pills have a long and honourable record and
ARE A SEVENTY YEARS’ SUCCESS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/14 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
OXY-AGETYLENE WELDING GO.
The Metals we Weld—Oast Iron and Wrought Iron, Steel and Aluminium,
and oth r AUoys. Send along your Broken and Worn Parts and we will
“all “or you as good as ever. Cutting an, th.ckn.ss Portable
Plants sent to all parts. First-class Workmanship Guaranteed.
Under the Personal Supervision of
j. w. McPherson, The Welding Expert,
Address : Head Office—so Day Street, off Erskine Street, 8 Opp. A.U.S.N. Co., Sydney.
rJ . R 066 Works: Jones Street, Pyrmont.
Telephone—City 8966.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Canuina
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/11,2/9* 4/6.
sf
Checks Fever
ishness, »”<•
effectually
cuts short all
attacks •>
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medloine fer
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
•he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Made in England.
Act a like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray's English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
o t Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamen
: ■
The Seal
of Safety.
Ams Automatic
Double Seamers.
The Trade Standard.
Progressive Seamers for
Progressive Canners.
Make Your Cans with Ams Machinery
We furnish machines for mak-
ing tin cans of every descrip-
tion, for Sardines, Peas, fruit,
all Food Products, Spices, Teas,
Coffee, Tobacco, Paint and Oil
Cans.
. and are fitted with Cover
These machines are automat very complete and service-
Feed, Can Straightener and P un& ’ construction, complete lubricating
able Double Seamer. They are and will do the
workout "out a for SSTlfc pan stands still during the seaming operation
and boy or girl can run these double seamers.
Takes all standard sizes including No. S B Out^
g&TJS »= te wSSeS 6 in this
K/°c|SSefSn-mato S equipments.
Write to us about your • I^ t < f ntl ??Deriment if you
business to answer questions. Experiment y
like, but come to Ams for standard. .
Send us a sample of what you want to ma • _
estimates in every
MAX AMS MACHINE COMPANY,
MOUNT VERNON, N.Y„ U.S.A.
CHARLES M. AMS, President.
Address us direct or through any EXPOR
COMMISSION HOUSE.
r^=SXP
law
oCcet
m?.


MANGR
LEATHER
LTI
has been awarded the Gov-
ernment Contracts for 1915-
1916.
It is All-Australian—-from
Australian Hides, tanned
and manufactured by Aus-
tralian Workmen.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
TO CHECK COLDS
Bardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT. ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
w
HOT
WITH
Lemon
AT
BEDTIME
o\s&
Vf
* .ji* rt i''
<•• Z*’’.'**
V
TANGYE Portable Lampless Oil Engine.
Tangye “Special” Steam Pump.
Blgr Stocks of Pumps—all types.
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, Sydney
AGENCIES—
TANCYE’S Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants,
■ Pumps of all descriptions, Irrigation Plants.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam Engines and
Tractors.
CANE Milking Machines. WQLSELEY Shearing Machines.
NICHOLSON & MORROW Drills, Harvesters, Ploughs, eto.
MUNRO Chaffcutters,
I
TANCYI
Suction Cas Engine and Producer Plant.
m
Clayton and Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
SEE THE I 915
W#ws
fcUEV
SHE E P
SHEARING MACHINES.
•tAiin exfittirp
gL
i
WSSiS
■ ■
s*
c :
IN THE4E DAYS of
KEEN COMPETITION
Quick Changes of Feeds and Threads mean so much to the Shop
or Factory interested in Speed and the Reduction of Costs.
Can you afford to be without Modern i
High-speed Machine-Shop Equipment?
Call and inspecS, or write for Catalogue of our HIGH-SPEED
LATHES. They have new and distinctive features designed
to show definite saving's on your work.
PARKE LACY CO. LTD
•9
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
BRUCE PEEBLES CO. LTD.
Motor Converters. Alternators.
D.C. Generators and Motors.
Mining Motors and Switchgear
a Specialty. Cables Transformers.
NftllthrifltiO I tfl Equitable Buildings, Sydney
■ vUllll lUSC LIU. Church Lane, Melbourne
m? Mm
1800/2200 K.W. MOTOR CONVERTER.
■M*
