

?'r
I
t
3?
" I
R. G. &Z> OO.J
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5-W- MONT
ii
PIEIE D SI C? Lip
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Aaiphltheatt
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
Telephone: City 9325.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanstott Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
ECOBA.R.X.
** astss
fjadleys Orient fjotel.
piCHARDSQN’S
Wine 8 Spirit
Stores,
68 Market St.,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE.
B
&
Bottle, Case or Ca I lona t Wholesale Price,
"fake it back.
I must have
» “
Pine Apple Brand
J*
• Zm.
ANTI BLOWPIPE
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
1Z132M3351
L
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
8
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
A Now Year Resolution! To make your home look be; ? ! If
funds are limited, start on one room—panel it with Ann -d, say,
in Weathered Oak. The improvement will amaze you. nd the
small cost of \the job will be equally pleasing. Ret us ad you
booklets and samples showing the reproductions of the various
timbers and methods of using them.
e
Q
SKI
a
m
3
THF PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Challis House, Sydney
Manufacturers of Malthoid. (D. S. EWANS, Australasian Manager).
I
f
§
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
KBfflCM
lEI
N SPA
44 It is a dream of the Physician realised/' so says a medical
man of Hekdon Spa* HELIDON SPA is Nature's Eliminant.
STARKEYS LTD.,
Phillip St., -ytjnoy, and
The Bulletin
V01.36.—N0. 1821.]
[Thursday, January 7, 1915.
Registered at the General Post OiEee, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HOLIDAY READING.
Wells' The Wife of Sir Isaac Harman.
Cohan and Marshall’s Broadway Jones.
Meloney’s Girl of the Golden Gate.
Lynde’s The Hon. Senator Sage-brush.
McCall’s Ariadne of Allan Water.
Connor’s The Patrol of the Sun Dance Trail.
Chambers’ Hidden Children.
Bassett’s Midsummer’s Wooing.
Wright’s Eyes of the World.
Burnett’s T. Tembarom.
Barclay’s Wall of Partition.
Rice’s The Honorable Pereival.
GiTlraore’fi Opal Pin,
Bell’s The Whalers.
Bowers’ Uphill Climb. **
Moore’s Stop Thief.
Corelli’s Innocent.
Farad's The Hon Mr. Tawnish,
All at 3/6 per vol. Posted 3/9.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T'Y LTD., 238 PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
MUSTDIE
NON POISONOUS POWDER.
THE fflUjft INSECT DESTkSiB(.
t* 9.
N'
The Red Page
[?] [?]nary Wells
H. G. Wells has written An Ordinary
Novel. The Wife of Sir Isaao Harman
(Macmillan), except for its paragraphed
subsections, is merly modern fiction—but
modern fiction at its best. Wells could not
help being Wells; but here he has drawn a
heroine that is? a real woman. The wife of
Sir Isaac is the most charming and most
alive woman in all Wells’s long gallery of
feminine portraits. She is so real that she
looks like an inspired photograph.
§l.
And Wells is moving up. Once he wrote
of Kipps , draper’s assistant, and Mr.
Lewisham and Mr. Polly and Tono-Bungay's
plebeian inventor; but into The Passionate
Friends the aristocracy flooded; and now
Wells’s heroine has a title and titled friends.
True the title is merely bought, but Lady
Harnan is instinctively an aristocrat. The
next Wells novel, unless the war has inter-
rupted bis social progress, will probably be
titled, His Grace’s Second Duchess.
The girl who becomes Lady Harman, a
leughtful, graceful, feminine creature, is
narried off to the Napoleon of the catering
nd bread-baking trade, in the casual old
English way, and has four annual and
mnctual children before she awakes to the
act that she is grown up. Sir Isaac is the
successful business-man, the successful hus-
nd.
Sir Isaac was one of those men whom
uodem England delights to honor, a man of
mpretentious acquisitiveness, devoted to busi-
ness and distracted by no aesthetic or intel-
ectual interests.... He went about, a little
>ent and peaky, calculating and planning and
hissing through his teeth, and feeling not
mly that he was getting on, but that be was
getting on in the most exemplary way. Mani-
festly, anybody in his line of business who
planted to be leisurely, or to be generous, who
Possessed any broader interests than the shop,
i‘/ho troubled to think about the nation or
lie race or any of the deeper mysteries of
life, was bound to go down before him....
And this being the quality of Sir Isaac’s
mind, it followed that bis interpretations of
the relationship of marriage were simple and
Strict. A woman, be knew, ‘bad to be wooed
to be won, but when she was won, she was
won. He did not understand wooing after
that was settled. There was the bargain and
'her surrender. He on his side had to keep
her, dress her, be kind to her, give her the
appearance of pride and authority, and in
return he had his rights and his privileges
and undefined powers of control. That, you
know, by the existing rules is the reality
of marriage where there are no settlements
and no private property of the wife’s. That
is to say, it is the reality of marriage in 99
eases out of 100. And it would have shocked
Sir Isaac extremely for anyone to suggest the
slightest revision of so entirely advan-
tageous an arrangement. He was confi-
dent of bis good intentions, and resolved to
the best of his ability to make his wife the
happiest of living creatures, subject only to
reasonable aequiescences and general good
behavior.... His solicitude for her was so
great that she found i-t difficult even to see
her cjoctor except in his presence. And he
bought her a pearl necklace that cost £6OO.
He was, in fact, one of those complete hus-
bands who grow rare in these decadent days.
§2.
But* after the stoppage, by the advice of
her physician, of the annual arrival of
baby-girls, Lady Harman has time to dis-
cover t hat she possesses an individuality.
“There were times now when she saw her
husband with an extreme distinctness.” She
meets Brumley, the successful novelist —
Brumley, who looks like a slightly malicious
portrait, malicious perhaps simply because
Brumley may be one of the many sides of
Wells himself.
tie tvas one of those very natural-
minded men with active imaginations, who
find women the most interesting things in a
full and interesting universe. He was an
entirely good man and almost professionally
on the side of goodness, his pen was a pillar
of the home and he was hostile to all those
influences that would undermine and change
—anything; but he did find women attrac-
tive.
Brumley wrote the popular “Euphemia
books” —Euphemia was his wife, but she had
died. There would be no more Euphemia.
And he sells Lady Harman his Euphemia
house, and promptly falls in love with her.
Lady Harman revolts from her husband’s
captivity of her. She wants to meet
people, other people, and Sir Isaac naturally
objects. She persists. Sir Isaac becomes
Petruchio and shuts her up in her country
house. She escapes to a prominent suf-
fragette. The suffragette naturally asks
her about The Other Man. Lady Harman,
shocked, explains that there is no other man.
Whereupon the suffragette tells her to go
home to her children. Lady Harman picks
up the suffragette’s poker and, almost
absent-mindedly, smashes a post-office win-
dow. One month. Then she returns to
her husband and they strike a new bargain.
Brumley is amazed.
The only path of escape he could conceive
as yet for Lady Harman lay through the
chivalry of some other man. That a woman
could possibly rebel against one man with-
out the sympathy and moral maintenance of
another was still outside the range of Mr.
Brumley’s understanding. It is still out-
side the range of most men’s understandings
—and of a great many women’s.
§3.
Here we reach the pith of the novel.
Wells is intent to show that if. is not love
for The Other Man, but a motive entirely
unromantic that is at the bottom of the
modern wife’s unrest. She wants herself,
not The Other Bloke. Lady Harman,
instead of flying to Mr. Brumley’s chambers,
flies to a spinsterette; instead of breaking
the conventions she breaks a window. Natu-
rally Mr. Brumley feels that this self-
reliance, this direct dealing with the world,
is “unwomanly.”
She wanted to be free. It wasn’t Mr.
Brumley she wanted.... The person she
wanted, the person she had always
wanted —was herself. Could Mr. Brumley
give her that? Would Mr. Brumley give
her that? Was it conceivable he would
carry to such a pitch as that?
So the tale goes on to its bitter end. Sir
Isaac’s health begins to take command of
Sir Isaac; he becomes a hateful, malicious
beast. The contract between him and his
wife was a verbal one. He breaks it. The
wife, having made up her mind that her duty
kept her with her invalid husband and her
children, has no weapon of defence. But,
at length, he dies. So—freedom! But free-
dom uncomplicated by Brumley.
“Before I had been a widow 24 hours I
began to realise that I was an escaped
woman. It wasn’t the particular marriage.
It was marriage. All we women are
tied. Most of us are willing to be tied per-
haps, but only as people are willing to be
tied to lifebelts in a wreck —from fear of
drowning.”
And, though Brumley, rather ludicrously,
still pleads and even gets his kiss, though,
alack, it is a ridiculous kiss, the book ends
in Nora slamming the door of the modern
Doll’s House —marriage. Bnt, by-and-bye,
it is safe to prophesy, some large muscuiar
man wili capture the perfect widow.
§4.
The story is engrossingly told ; the minor
characters are etched with all Wells’s clear
sense of humor. Almost a Shavian character
is Snagsby, the ideal English butler of old
England:—
Like all well-trained English servants,
Snagsby always dropped as many h’s as he
could when conversing with his superiors.
He did this as a mark of respect and to
prevent social confusion, just as he was
always careful to wear a slightly misfitting
dress coat and fold his trousers so that they
creased at the sides and bad a wide flat
effect in front;.
§5.
'MM there is the remarkable Edgar
Wnkins, the novelist, with his engaging ex-
planation of the inevitable rottenness of
literary men.
“The very qualities that make literature
entertaining, vigorous, inspiring, revealing,
wonderful, beautiful and—all that sort of
thing, make its producers rotters. Sensitive
nervous tissue, quick responsiveness to stimu-
lus ; a vivid, almost uncontrollable, expres-
siveness ; that’s what you want in your
literary man. Can you suppose that these
things Conduct to self-control, to reserve to
consistency, to any of the qualities of a trust-
worthy man ! Qf course you cau’t. And so
we aren't trustworthy, we aren't consistent
Our virtues are our vices. My life won’t
bear examination. But that’s by the way
It need not concern us now I f eo l so
strongly about this, about the natural and
necessary disreputableness of everybody who
produces reputable writing—and for the mat-
ter of that, art generally—that. I set my face
steadily against all these attempts that keep
on cropping up to make Figures of us. We
aren’t Figures; it isn’t our line. Of all the
detestable aspects of the Victorian period
surely that disposition to make Figures of
its artists and literary men was the most
detestable. Respectable Figures— Examples
to the young. The suppressions, the cover-
ings up that had to go on, the white-washing
of Dickens—who was more than a bit of a
rip, you know, the concealment of Thack-
eray’s mistresses. Did you know lie had
mistresses ? Oh, rather !.... Oh, great things
come out of us, no doubt, our arts are the
vehicle of wonder and hope, the world is
dead without these things we produce, but
that’s no reason why—why the mushroom-
bed should follow the mushrooms into the
soup, is it? Perfectly fair image.... And
you see even if our temperaments didn’t lead
inevitably to our—dipping 4 rather, we should
still have to — dip ....
“It doesn’t follow that because a man is
a bad character he’s not to be trusted in
matters where character doesn’t come in.
These sensitives, these —would you mind if
I were to call myself an ilDolian Harp?
these GEolian Harps; they can’t help re-
sponding to the winds of Heaven. Well—
listen . to them. Don’t follow them, don’t
worship them, don’t even honor them, but
listen to them.... Listen to the noise they
make, watch the stuff they produce, amj pre-
sently you will find certain things among
the multitude of things that are said and
shown and put out and published, something
-—light in your darkness—a writer for you,
something for you. Nobody can have a
greater contempt for artists and writers and
poets and philosophers than I, oh! a squalid
crew they are, mean, jealous, pugnacious,
disgraceful in love, disgraceful —but out of
lt aIL comes the greatest, serenes: thing, the
mind of the world, Literature. Kasty little
midges, yes—but fireflies—carryin? light for
the darkness....
§6
An ordinary novel, yes; but an .xtraordi-
ary ordinary novel. And, in sptndinj so
much space over characters that arj so well
worth it, we have no room left f>r what,
sociologically, is the theme of the book —
hostels for the girl employees of big London
businesses. This novel is a brilliait text-
book of the management, and difficulties and
ideals of this modern system of a communal
life. And it is the initiation of sich a
scheme that makes Lady Harlan a woman.
Sociologically, the book is a pleasant little
sermon for foolish little philanthropists.
The Shavian White Paper
Every State now engaged in the General
European Unpleasantness has justified its
entry by the publication of a colored or
uncolored Paper, with the exception of
Montenegro and Shavia. Montenegro evi-
dently didn’t need an official explanation:
the bantam kingdom butted on general
Irish principles of being willing whenever
there was a fight handy; but there has been
something uncanny about the prolonged
silence of Bernard the First, of Shavia. The
spell is now happily broken. The Shavian
White Paper, Common Sense about the War,
is issued as a supplement to the sixpenny
New Statesman, Nov. 14.
It is a cheerful and extraordinary extra.
To Shaw this is not a war against Prussian
militarism by nations determined to end
militarism for ever. It is a war waged by
British militarism against the Prussian
variety.
I see the people of England united in a
fierce detestation and defiance of the views
and acts of Prussian Junkerisin. And I
see the German people stirred to the depths
by a similftr antipathy to English Junkerisin,
and anger at the apparent treachery and
duplicity of the attack made on them by us
in their extremest peril from France and
Russia And i see the Junkers and Mili-
tarists of England and Germany jumping at
the chance they have longed for in vain for
many ;• years of. smashing one another and
establishing their own oligarchy as the dom-
inant military power in the world.
J*
He advocates the heroic remedy that both
armies should shoot their officers and go
home to gather in the harvests in their
villages and make a revolution in the towns.
He pr diets, however, that the war will be
ended by a Congress of all the Powers sum-
moned, on the defeat of Germany, to settle
Europe- He asks u s not to present our-
selves to that Congress in the character of
Injured Innocence. “We shall hot be
accepted in that character. Such a Con-
gress will most certainly regard us as being,
next to the Prussians (if it makes even that
exception), the most quarrelsome people in
the universe.” For the Junker is not pecu-
liar to Prussia: in England he is “all over
the shop-” He quotes a number of militarist
publications, especially The Battle of Dor-
king, to show that England can produce
Bernhardiau literature, too. But he fails
to note the excessive disproportion between
the German and the British war-propaganda,
and the official character of the former. But
he asks n s > au <3 with honesty, not to have
any more nonsense about the Prussian Wolf
and the British Lamb. “We cannot shout
for years that we are boys of the bulldog
breed, and then suddenly pose as gazelles.”
The Congi‘ ess of Peace “will have to con-
sider how these tw 0 incorrigibly pugnacious
and inveterately snobbish peoples, who have
snarled at each other for 40 years with
bristling hair and grinning fangs, and are
now rolling over with their teeth in one
another’s throats, are to be tamed into trusty
watchdogs of the peace of the w0r1d....
I do think that the Iforeign Office was as
deliberately an d consciously bent on a
long deferred Militarist war with Germany
as the Admiralty was; and that is saying a
good’deal.” s o why all this hypocritical
pretence about “our love of peace and our
respect for treaties.”
We were perfectly ready to knock the
Kaiser’s head off just to teach him that if
he thought he was going to ride rough-shod
over Europe, including our new friends the
French, and the plucky little Belgians, he
was reckoning without old England. And in
this pugnacious but perfectly straightforward
and human attitude the nation needed no
excuses because the nation honestly did not
know that we were taking the: Kaiser at a
disadvantage, or that the Franco-Russian
alliance had been just as much a menace to
peace as the Austro-German 0ne....1t was
Mr. H. G, Wells who at the critical moment
spoke with tie nation’s voice. When he
uttered his electric outburst of wrath against
this ‘drilling, sampling foolery in the heart
of Europe,’ he gave expression to the pent-
up exasperation of years of smouldering
revolt against , wank and domineer, guff and
bugaboo, calling itself blood and iron, and
mailed fist, and God and conscience and any-
thing else that sounded superb We were
rasped beyond ndurance by Prussian mili-
tarism and it contempt for us and for
human happiness and common sense; and
we just rose at t and went for it. We have
set out to smasl the Kaiser exactly as we set
out to smash t e Mahdi. Mr. Wells never
mentioned at; uty. He said, in effect:
‘There stands the monster all freedom-loving
men hate; and 1 1 last we are going to fight
it.’ And the public, bored by the diploma-
tists, said: ‘Now you’re talking!’... .We
simply want to put an end to Potsdamnation,
both at home and abroad.”
Shaw makes an interesting suggestion,
too late, however, for the Kaiser. He sub-
jits that Germany should hr
Russia, if that State attacked h<
her western frontier defenceless. &
She should have entrusted the
her western frontier to the public '
the west of Europe and to Ame
only would it (then) have been im 1’
England to have attacked Gern ;
such circumstances; but if Franc ,
so England could not have assist :
might even have been compelled
opinion to intervene by way of s
test from England and America,
arms, on her behalf.
Shaw insists that we must ha
army in Europe. It is not enoi
Allies to win. “We and not I?
be the decisive factor in the
Germany will not be fairly beat
shall be only the rescued protege ■ '
instead of the saviors of Wester
The Shavian suggestion is that
must be trades-unionised. The
soldier must be abolished ; for h
substituted “a trained combatan
civil rights, receiving the trade
of wages proper to a skilled w ; ;
dangerous trade,” such wage 1
until he obtains civil employment on sta»‘
dard terms at the conclusion of the vf* 1.
And, of course, there must be trade-unioj>
secretaries in the trenches. “It will shock
our colonels; but I know of no bodies o'
men for whom repeated and violent shocking
is more needed and more likely to prof®
salutary than the regimental messes of tW
British army.” A delightful idea, full 0
pleasant possibilities! What if the trade-
unionist army should strike, as, possessing
full civil privileges, they would have a leg 9 *
right to do? And one can picture the trade-
union secretary creeping heroically through
the shrapnel to the foremost trench to i D *
spent its sanitary arrangements, and poi»*'
ing out dispassionately to the commanding-
officer that time-and-a-half should be pai®
for all overtime worked in bayoneting Ge r '
mans during the night. However, in fab"
ness to Shaw, he does not intend tradcs-
unionising the army during the preset
shrapnel season. He thinks it would k e
wiser to get that business over first.
&
At the conclusion of peace there can l®
no question of vindicative damages. Tber®
is only one way, Shaw points out, to “ble®®
Germany white.” That is “to kill, say, w
per cent, pf all the women in Germany
under 60.” There is no other way to stnasl 5
a nation; and as that method is hard]?
likely to be considered, Germany will remain
Germany after the war. The new map °*
Europe must be settled, not by conquest)
but by the consent of the people immediately
concerned.
Germany' has now learned —and the less<Uj
was apparently needed, obvious as it woU J ®
have been to a sanely-governed nation-
when it comes to shoving and shooting, G e K
many instantly loses all the
her high civilisation, because France aIJ
England, cultured or uncultured, can sh<A.
and shoot as well or better than she. win l ®
as to slashing and stabbing, their half bW
barons Turco and Ghoorka slaves can cu
the Prussian Guard to bits, in spite of th
unquestionable superiority of Wagner’s musk
to theirs.
There will be no disarmament after th e
war. When the Pacifist'goes out to mak®
peace he won’t forget his gun. The Leag lie
of Peace must have a first-rate armament, ° r
the League of War i will very soon mak®
mincemeat of it. “Our business is not to
disable ourselves or anyone else, but _ to
organise a balance of military power again st
war, whether made by ourselves or any other
Power; and this can be done only by a coi»'
bination of armed and fanatical Pacifist®
of all nations, not by a crowd of non-coro'
batants wielding deprecations, remonstrant
and Christmas cards.” Evidently th e
Peace Society, at present silent, will be stffi
out of Work at the conclusion of the war.
The White Paper of Bernard Shaw i g ’
on the whole, a brilliant exposition of th®
fundamental basis of this war, lightened a a< :
made ludicrous at intervals by Shaw’s
paradoxes, and biased by his incuram®
Shavian prejudices. Portions of this gosp®j
will please the Kaiser, but he will get sink* 1
joy out of it if he reads it through.


m
a
Be Wise! Pop Your Orders in the Post and Reap the Full Benefit of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES
The A.H.&S. Special Briar Pipe
The A. H. and S. Special Briar, at 3/9 (Posted, 3/11) is a Pipe that will suit the
most exacting. It is a Magnificent, Cool-smoking Pipe, made from Picked Briar, with Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, Sterling Silver Band, and Push Stem. There are ten Popular Shapes, as illustrated.
A. H. and S.
Special,
Post
Free,
3/11
A. H. and S. Special,
3/9
Post Free,
3/11
24
25
22 20
26
27
21
20
&
Write for Price List of Tobacco and Cigars, Post Free,
The A. H. & S. Briar Pipe.
The A. H. and S. Bl'iar at 2/6 (Posted, 2/8) is the equal of Pipes often sold at double
the price. It is First Quality Briar, Vulcanite Mouthpiece, Sterling Silver Band, Push Stem,
shapes as illustrated
Selected Briar,
Silver Band,
2/6
Post
Free.
2/8
Push Stems,
Any Shape,
2/6
Post Free.
2/8
K 3
Order by Number.
ARDATH
Cabinet Cigars.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are justly
popular, for the reason that they are beautifully mild
and aromatic, filled with a delicious blend of selected
tobacco, uniform in quality, and contain only a
minimum of nicotine.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are dis
tinctly in the first rank of medium-pruitd cigars.
They are made under perfect conditions, and combine
every point of excellence demanded, by the cigar
connoisseur.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS, No.
444 and No. 6G6, can onlv be obtained at the
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, and are cigars
that will be smoked with appreciation by the most
critical. We recommend these cigars with confidence.
ARDATH CIGARS are packed in artist ically-
prepared cabinets, fitted with a spring catch, and
make an ideal. present for any man. Our un : que
system of spot cash trading enables us to sell these
high-grade cigars at prices which offer absolutely the
best value in the land.
Box of 25 50 100
No. 444 - 7/6 14/6 28 6
No. 666 - 10/- 19/6 33/6
Postage—Box of 25, N.S.W., 6d.:
other States, Bd. extra. Box of 50.
N=S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2 extra.
The King Cigars are put up by the makers of the renowned Ardath Cabinet Cigars, to
meet the demands of the connoisseur.
The King is the highest-grade Cigar made at the Ardath Works, of the finest quality
selected Havana leaf.
The King is packed in-a well-made cedar cabinet to hold 50 or 100 cigars, and consti-
tutes a gift that will be appreciated by Cigar Smokers, offering value that is without
parallel.
L’he King is a heavy-weight Cigar of fine flavor and delicate aroma, is made in an
English Factory under perfect conditions, and carries our unqualified recommendation.
Price 35/-, Box of 50 ; Box of 100, 67/6.
Postage: N.S.W. —50, 1/-; 100, 1/3. Other States—so, 1/8;
100, 2/2.
The Gem Junior
Safety Razor.
THE GEM JUNIOR solves the Shaving
Problem for the man with a tender skin or
Strong beard. It is unequalled for easy and
luxurious shaving.
There is no risk if you buy a GEM JUNIOR
Safety Razor; it makes every mail an expert
barber, and is the apex of Razor perfection.
Easy, velvet-like strokes — never a pull, never
a scratch, are features of the GEM JUNIOR,
which assures a clean, safe shave.
THE GEM JUNIOR is always ready for
use, with a fresh blade for every day of the week.
It is so simple that a novice can use it.
GEM JUNIOR BLADES are as thin as
an edge-holding piece of steel can possibly be rolled.
They can be sharpened time and time again, be-
cause they’re tempered to receive an -edge and
to hold it when thev get it.
THE GEM JUNIOR FRAME has a new
har feature, which carefully spread? the skin, so
that the stubble is forced out far enough to give
as close a shave as can be secured by going over
the face twice with anv other razor.
THE GEM JUNIOR SAFETY RAZOR
is made and finished in the best style, of the
finest materials, and the Highest Skilled labor.
It comprises Nickel Plated Frame, Extra Handle for
Stropping Blades, and SEVEN Keen-edged Blades.
Complete in neat Leatherette Case.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
POST FREE, 5/3.
51-
EXTRA BLADES, 2/1 per packet of 7. post free
OLD SAFETY BLADES SHARPENED.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ TRIUMPH PIPES
The Triumph Briar is the finest pipe made, and guaranteed to be' of the best materials. It is London-made, Sterling Silver-mounted, with Hand-cut Vulcanite Push Mouthpiece,
and will not crack or burn. Shapes as illustrated.
4/6 TRIUMPH EXTRA BRIAR PIPE
Silver-mounted
4/6
By post,
4/8
Lion don made,
41 6
By post,
4/8
43
44
4a’
gttg
42
47
London-made, Silver-mounted, Hand-cut Vulcanite Stems.
5/6 TRIUMPH EXTRA BRIAR PIPE
Finest Briars.
Shapes—
Nos. 30 to 39,
5(6
By
post,
5/8
Hand-Cut Vulcanite Stems.
Shapes—
Nos„ 30 to 39,
56
By
post,
5 8
34
35
37
39
30/
Shapes SI cl
34 and 35
have Silver
Push Stem.
Write for Price List of Tobacco and Cigars, Post Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


W(. '
'3:..
WINCHESTER
20, 16 AND 12 GAUGE
Lightweight Hammerless
Repeating Shotguns
The Winchester Model 1912 is the strongest, safest and
most perfect repeating shotgun ever made. In either of the
three gauges in which it is made, it is lighter, better
balanced and more correctly proportioned than any other
repeater. Its Nickel steel construction, solid breech,
and its cross-bolt trigger lock make it strong and safe.
This gun has a smooth and easy action, a simple
take-down system, and its shooting qualities are not
excelled by the highest priced double guns. The 20
gauge weighs about 5 3 /i pounds, the 16 gauge about
6 pounds, and the 12 gauge about 7}i pounds.
If in the market for a shotgun, don’t fail to
Look Over a, Winchester
Model 1912 at Your Dealer’s
When You Don’t Feel Well.
If you are not feeling well; if you are run down ;
out-of-sorts, have a sickly taste in your mouth,
a sallow skin, headache, no appetite and no
energy, you know there is something wrong with
your system, yet perhaps you hardly feel ill
enough to call in the Doctor. But certainly
something must be done to correct the sluggish-
ness of your liver and tone up your digestion,
and for this purpose vou will find an excellent
remedy in Cockle’s Antibilious Pills.
Cockle’s Pills
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
Cockle’s Pills are of purely a vegetable character. They
act pleasantly and painlessly, giving a splendid tone to the
liver and digestive apparatus, and make you feel in the
pink of health. Prescribed
originally by a Doctor for
his patients, they have now
a world-wide sale.
“Bobbie
Peeler.”
When Sir Robert Peel introduced the police
service in 1829 his name became a house-
hold word, for policemen have been called
“Bobbies” ever v since. Similarly, when
Dr. Cockle introduced his Antibilious Pills
over a century ago, his name, too, became a
household word, for Cockle’s Pills are
to-day famous the whole world over.
COCKLE’S PILLS
of Chemists through -
out the World.
Prices in England,
l/ll 2/9 « £<ur.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
_lj
m
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
o. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
lnsiot on “Singleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
I f you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and gtirelv with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON,Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop's” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
✓
*0 65J
w
pp
patrons
VITADATIO
C *tAT
fop
CHt5
OISEA 5£
s'e
' VY
'^•WEBBE^
Only the
“shadow of 3
a man,” but
I can cure
you, says Mr.
S. A. Palmer
When sickness is sapping your life’s strength
and troublesome ailments defy remedy, the
life-giving VI TADA T I O under Mr S. A.
PALMER’S advice will restore and revital-
ise with astonishing rapidity.
SEND AT ONCE FOR FREE SAMPLE
AND ADVICE, FILLING IN THE COUPON
S. A. PALMER, Esq., 439 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Please send me large sample trial bottle of VITADATIO, for
. which 1 enclose 12 penny stamps.
Name
Address
Sold Everywhere. All Chemists and Stores—3/6, 5/6 bottle.
BROOKS 8170
Motor Cycle Saddle,
with the Patent Compound
Springs. Also smaller and
lighter models —8180 and 8190-
Whatever your requirements—
cyclist or motor cyclist —you will find among
the wide BROOKS range a saddle that will
suit you exactly.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
HEAR
LATEST 8-TONE
Mears Ear-phone
reproducing
that degree
in the vest
The final triumph of the inventor ot the first successful multi-tone
liar-phone. IF YOU ARE DEAF, this perfected instrument will enable
you to hear DISTINCTLY, PERFECTLY.
Eight Tones 1 8 different adjustments to suit every condi-
tion of the ear. Instantly changed by a touch of the
finger. Just as easily and as satisfactorily regulated for
the hearing as field-glasses are for the sight. Thus ensur-
ing perfect hearing in all degrees of deafness.
' The Mears Ear-phone is based on the microphonic sound-
principle. Highly sensitive and self-adjusting it intensifies the faintest sounds to just
required in ordinary conversation, or in the Church or Lecture Hall. Comfortably carried
pocket or pinned to the blouse. Call and test it free, or write for full particulars.
Australasian
Representative—
A. E. SLADE,
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street,
SYDNEY.
SYDNEY: A. E. Slade, Bernard’s Buildings, 387 George . Street.
MELBOURNE: L. G. Callaway & Down, Tuckett Chambers,' 361 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Carl Zoeller Ltd., 246 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Balfour, Central Chambers, Charles Street.
HOBART: Chas. Davis Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
AUCKLAND: Clem Bartley, 8 Ponsonby Road.
Mears Ear-phone Co. Ine., 45 West 34t.h St., New York, U.S.A.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney


Food
When you prepare Benger’s
Food with fresh new milk, it
forms a dainty and delicious
cream. In this form, all the
nutritive elements in both the
milk and the Food itself are
made soluble, ready for bodily
nutrition.
Consequently Benger’s is
assimilated with ease, even
in illness, when other food
UK?
I
LA
178 A
causes pain
and distress.
Bengfer’s Booklet-A little
work of authority on the
special feeding of Children,
Invalids, and tne Aged, will
be sent post free on appli-
cation to
BENGER’3 FOOD, Ltd.
MANCHESTER, Eng.
Branc'i Offices —
New York (u.s.a.)
92, William Street.
SYDNEY (N.S.W.),
117, Pitt Street*
Canadian Agents —
National Drug and
Chemical Co. Ltd.,
34, St. Gabriel Street,
Montreal,and branches
throughout Canada.
BengeFs Food is sold
by Druggists , etc,,
'*•> everywhere ,
«I «30/V\Od
|[ I 81
■'r KHwm
J H
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty-
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Willi ams Go.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
Williams’
exquisite Silver-
pi a ted Vanity
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
‘ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
v/j
DO YOD WANT
A FAT PAY
ENVELOPE?
Is Where
Our Training
Aiiects You
Are you satis-
fied with your
present position
and salary ?
Trained Men
receive Big Pay.
The I.C.S. can give you a
thorough training in your
own home and in your spare
time at reasonable cost. I.C.S
courses have been raising salaries
for over 20 years, and can help you
to raise yours. 200 courses to
choose from. Write for free prospectus.
INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOLS
(COLONIAL) LTD.,
Dept. 8.Y.,
26=30 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I require information concerning your method of
teaching: —■
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING,
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING,
BOOK-KEEPING,
SALESMANSHIP,
ARCHITECTURE,
FARMING.
Name
Address
li
B 1
—
e
remeiM
d
■
II
I
HI
m
Mir«M
&
V
$
THIN WOMEN!
Would You
Like a Well Developed
and Well Proportioned
FIGURE?
ANY WOMAN without full bust development lacks the one essential
that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow
cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from a woman the bloom and fresh-
ness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in so far
as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct
your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and have
been attenuated all your life, if you suffer from no wasting disease, your
bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased to normal....
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-bosomed,
hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering the effects of
anaemia and defective digestion, who are now for the first time in their lives
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood, as the result of a few weeks under our wonderful
DR. FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its use is
no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week, and an
increase in bust measurement up to eight or ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers relief
and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever possessing
a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food-treatment that adds weight and permanent
development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
WE HAVE HUNDREDS OF LETTERS DIKE THIS:
Manager “Flesh-Food” Co.. Cymple, Queensland, May 5, 1913.
Dear Sir,—As a nurse, I was very interested in your Fle3h-Food treatment, and was greatly
surprised at the wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote to you I was only skin and
bone and I have good cause to be thankful that I wrote you for a free sample, for I feel certain
now that 1 am one of the very best advertisements you could possibly have, as 1 am developed in
every way satisfactory to myself, and I have waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in
its effect, and I am now glad to say that your splendid treatment has done absolutely all you
claimed It would, my weight and measurements being ample.—l am, yours gratefully,
Mrs. E. Wingrove.
Let us Send
You a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE,
We publish an interesting book on the
subject of attenuation and development,
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you FREE OF CHARGE
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications are
treated as strictly confidential. Call if convenient. 1817
FAEMERE FLESH-I'OOD CO.. 1102 ASII STREET. SYDNEY.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
;
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH: McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
TOBACCO KILLS!
3
tv
■JA
?
Face to Face with Death /
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure fof
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith , of Park Farm. Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I %vas a hard smoker for 30
years, hut since takinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific / have never had a smoke.”
M. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
&
<
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
“AP” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
“ Angling Department,”
ALCOCE & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins St. Melbourne
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering’ over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- ner box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for move?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women Sc children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO., 4
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
VARIOS VERSE
FOR THE BULLETIN.
The Sacrifice.
Alone we did the fearful deed —
Jones, Robinson and I
With not another s>:ul to heed
That last despairing cry
That came from Smith, who paid the price
When we made him our sacrifice.
I do not know just how me met,
Or why or when or where ;
But we, while drinks were long and wet,
Undoubtedly were there ;
But Mirth was not. Outside the door
It hid from Smith’s oppressive snore!
We ever tried to lure it in,
But failed. When Jones would say:
“Well, what is it?” and ask for gin,
And each his liquor gay
Would name. It might have come, but Smith
A nasal choking answered with.
“The gods are angry,” murmured Jones;
And savagely he drank,
And then made plain in dreadful tones
A plan from which we shrank ;
“That sotted Smith who yonder nods
We needs must offer to the gods.”
We bore, him far, by hazy means,
And on a cold, white stone
That some dark, shaded portal screens,
We stretched Smith, all alone.
And Robinson then rang a bell,
And then we all three ran like Hell.
Jones says he’s safely with his wife,
Who may, perchance, he dead !
I never saw her in my life,
Perhaps Smith isn't wed.
I only know he’s not a myth.
I wonder what we did to Smith?
N.S.W.
HAMER.
The Disagreeable Musician.
’E wouldn’t play the flute ; the sulky cow.
An’, after all the trouble that we took
To try an’ cheer ’is spirits up some’ow,
’E jes’ sat there an’ slung a glarsy look
To orl the crowd. The diserbligin’ coot!
’E wouldn’t play the flute.
After we'd done our gilt in on the spread—-
Fish from the Dago joint, an’ bottled beer,
An’ froot, an’ ’am, an’ saverloys an’ bread—
’E wouldn’t gat. Jes’ shook ’is silly ’ead.
An’ though we begged ’im for some choonful
------ toot,
’E wouldn’t play the flute.
I puts it to yeli: Wuz we actin’ fair?
Wot more could neighbors do to cheer a
bloke?
We knoo thet ’e ’ad troubles fer to bear.
An’ jes called in to ’ave a friendly joke.
An’, though we tempted ’im with -am an’
froot,
’E wouldn’t play the flute.
There wuz; Flash Liz, an’ me, an’ Ginger
Mick.
An’ Mother Gumphy frum the corner
store,
An’ Bill the Rabbit-o, an’ Dirty Dick,
An’ Nan the Nark, an’ ’arf a dozzing more.
But strike ! It seemed the comp’ny didn’t
soot!
’E wouldn’t play the flute.
I want yer dead straight griffen. Wuz we
right ?
Wuz it unneighborly to look ’im up
An’ ’ave a little beano on the quite?. . ..
Fer Grief an’ ’im wuz cobbers on that
night.
But there ’e sat, like ’s if ’e’d taken root,
An’ wouldn't play the flute.
We sung a song er two to give ’im ’eart.
An’, jes’ to show yell wot a nark ’e wuz.
’E wouldn’t sing. ’E wouldn’t take no part.
'E wouldn’t eat no matter wot we does.
’E wouldn’t drink, ’e wouldn’t touch the
froot,
Or play ’is flamin’ flute.
A blimed wet blankit at our little feast,
Tliet’s wot ’e wuz. ’E jes sat there an’
stared
Straight out afore ’im. Wouldn’t take the
least
Account o’ wot we did. ’E’d never cared
If we wuz rooned wif buyin’ fish an’ froot.
'E wouldn't play the flute.
Aw, it wuz crook ! I swear I never seen
So mean a coot. An’ ’e could play a
treat—
Play like a blinded angel, for ’e’d been
A star pufformer—played afore the Queen !
An’, though ’e knoo we knoo of ’is repute,
’E wouldn’t play the flute.
We knoo ’e’d been a bonzer in ’is day
Afore ’e struck the slum in Scrooge’s Lane.
I’ve orfen ’eard it said ’e useter play
In some swell orchestrer fer fancy pay.
An’ there ’e sat, in ’is ole shabby soot,
An’ wouldn’t play the flute.
We knoo ’e’d struck tough luck an’ drifted
down —
’lm an’ ’is missus—till they come to live
On ’arf o’ notliink in our part o’ town.
It weren’t no fault of ours that they wuz
driv
Frum bad to worse, till they wuz destichoot.
’E wouldn’t play the flute.
’E wouldn’t play. Jes shook ’is silly ’ead.
We done our best to cheer ’im, fer we knoo
’ls wife wuz lyin’ in the nex’ room. dead.
Died ’cause of sooicide. the neighbors said.
But, spite of all we done, the selfish brute,
’E wouldn’t play the flute.
VICTORIA.
C. J. DENNIS.


Electric Light
for Y-O-U-R Home
AV-O-N
Here’s a Complete Home
Electric Light Plant,
£7O
It comprises Engine, Dynamo, Switchboard and Battery, and the price, £7O is for
good% ; ttfn'o-: V %r ™ “r' P i ant a "J State and wire the premises’ with'plain yet
goo i rittings, ioi £.lOO plus freight and mechanic’s fare.
This “WATSON” Electric Set is Most Economical
ScS'S’s £ It SLJ'i.'SS
Uv hand, and carries our guarantee for SIX MONTHS against fair wear and tear
the p’ilniHS "“ rkel - » ot *“ the P-rtiool.™ »l»nt
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything: Electrical, '
279 Clarence Street; 428-430 Kent Street, Sydney
Melbourne : G. S. Morison, Collins House. <JUBt round from the Town HaH)
Snap the Switch, and this Plant Makes
Electric Light Itself,
generating the Current automatically and in sufficient quantity to
light your home, do your cooking and house heating, light your store
and run power
machines, etc.
These
LISTER-
BRUSTON
SETS
occupy a 9ft. x
4 ft. floor space
and are deliv-
ered ready for
work. May we
send you fuller
particulars ?
AGENTS:
N.S.W.—W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence St.,
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders St., Melbourr
OUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek St.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
Sydney.
ie.'
, Brisbane
HI M ROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
URING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a: few dijops of
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a : bottle
handy. Get it how, and don’t he without
it when the hot. fatiguing days come round.
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
StSSiJoffftsja.
as
Life is said to be
just One Peculiar
Event After Another
And to many the Holiday Season is apt to appear as
just one Picnic after another.
Take a Picnic suggestion or two from us. There
are plenty of
Good Picnic Things
Sold under the “Rex”
Brand.
REX ” HAM PATE FOR A STARTER.
REX ” LUNCHEON CHEESE FOR ANOTHER.
RFX ” VEAL and TONGUE PATE FOR A THIRD.
You could tuck a tin or two of any of these into your hamper
and spring a pleasant surprise on the picnic party. With bread
and butter or on almost any kind of biscuit they’re a real picnic
treat.
Other “Rex” Brand products for Picnic or Camp include: —
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
Flinch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Slieep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
’
Also Butter, in lib. tins, especially put up
by us for Campers in Queensland. Pro-
curable from all Grocers.
“REX” FRESH SMALL GOODSProcurable at all
grocers and small goods shops and carts in Brisbane and
district and Bendigo and district only.
Saveloys.
Strasslmrg Sausage.
Veal German Sausage.
White Puddings.
lilaek Pudding's.
Pork Sausages.
Frankfurt Sausages.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products,
Makers of “Rex” Small Goods.
REX
i i
WATERSHED” Red Rubber Garden Hose
N.
£ is
fTYs,
w
“ ’Tis ths
Hose that
makes the
Difference.”
One of the greatest features of “WATERSHED” HOSE is that, it is .. AUSTRALIAN
MADE. Only the very best materials are used, which enables us to guarantee it free from any
fault in manufacture that would be likely to cause it to burst, split, peel or kink.
In 60ft. coils, but cut to any length.
fin. x 3-ply l/-ft.; or 30ft., complete with fittings...... 327-
Hose List and Samples Post Free on request. Carriage extra.
“WATERSHED” HOSE is obtainable from all leading Storekeepers or direct from the Makers,
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
Australian Manufacturers
of all Rubber Goods,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Also Melbourne, Ad (aide, Brisbane.
Successful
Tooth Cleaning
Sohi by local
Druggists dr Stores.
Mads by
F.C. Calvert & Co
Manchester, I ng.
should be more than a mere
phrase, —it becomes actual
fact for the people who use
■ft
a
IhoMi P@wiif
m
1
‘s3 s
: ■
: a
US
m
US
■ 1
#WK Softwir
m
>•- ;
*fcS XXWfTffy
I W
IsO'i.mW J.
#;
.*5
•.
* t<*V v
:
Men who appreciate a thoroughly reliable spirit
find Thorne's indispensable* Its quality never
varies and every bottle enhances its reputation as
“ INCOMPARABLE”
a
X
2S


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 36.—N0. 1821.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 1915.
Trick 6d.
A LULL IN THE FINANCIAL STORM.
The State Treasurer got a surprise yesterday. Amongst the letters received by him was one containing the sum of £65 in bank notes. This communication read: —
“Sir,—I have the honor to forward you, as Treasurer for N. S. Wales, the sum of £65, being the per capita amount (or approximately) of the public debt for this State.”
—Sydney daily paper.
N.S.W. TREASURER (to Chief Office Boy): “Glory be! We needn’t float any more loans for five minutes. Run away and tell the press!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. ver Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby - ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
icithout stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.- — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Ivong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
.Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
JOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
■packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bsoz. to 10oz., 2%d.;
10oz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, hoz., Id., and id. each
hadditional 2oz.
JjfcT&zzlZetztii.
SYDNEY, JANUARY 7, 1915.
THE FALL OF FISHER.
So Prime Minister Fisher has become a
convert to the doctrine of pawn, and wants
the Australian Parliament to take the easy,
downhill road to Moses’s den —at the gate
whereof there are many footprints of people
who went in and few of folk who came out.
Fisher is chief of the Federal Labor party —
the one party which has professed to hold
up the anti-borrowing theory during a
period of so many years that the memory of
man or woman or dog runneth not to the
contrary. Unfortunately the position wasn’t
favorable. The Commonwealth had to take
over a lot of State works, and two railways,
and one Territory and the debts attached,
so it acquired a big liability very early.
Then the war came upon the community at
a moment’s notice, like Lucifer falling from
a clear sky, and war is so sudden and costly
that money must be raised almost anyhow
od at almost any price, and at short notice.
Still, it was possible for the Commonwealth
to remain honest by: (1) Providing a sink-
ing fund for the debts which it had to take
over from the States : (2) providing a sink-
ing fund for the new war debt; and (3) pay-
ing for its own new works out of revenue.
But apparently Andrew Fisher has grown
weary of well-doing, and the other day he
repudiated his own alleged policy in these
words:—
This broad, general idea of settling the whole
affairs of the world in one glorious sweep, leads, in
my experience, both public and private, to blunders,
confusion, loss and danger. I need say no more
than to repeat that this Government will not pay
interest on loan out of loan, but will raise the
necessary revenue for the purpose. I should like to
say just one word more. Although I have been a
large-hearted supporter, largely because of prejudice,
of what are called sinking funds for permanent or
reproductive loans, I have always considered them a
great absurdity in a new country. In my opinion,
it is only a child-like proposal to put something
in a hank in case we spend it too recklessly.
A borrowing State collects from itself to pay
interest and sinking fund, and then proceeds to
borrow out of sinking fund and out of credit else-
where.
I can understand a sinking fund for a work that
is going to depreciate and decay, and will have to
be renewed at the end of the specified term; but in
the case of railways and other works, which increase
in value in a developing country as time goes on,
sinking funds are a comparative waste, unless
there is surplus money that cannot otherwise be
utilised. I desire honorable members to draw a
clear line between statements I have made on other
occasions, and this expression of my own individual
opinion, Some people think that, having provided
a sinking fund and contributed to it in a spasmodic
way for one or two years, they have done a most
exemplary thing, and their conscience is quite easy,
although a needy Treasurer may subsequently come
along and “mop it up.” I can speak quite freely
on this matter, because a Government of which I
had charge passed the Act which makes it man-
datory, until the law is altered, to provide for
interest, and sinking fund.
I am not proposing to alter the law, but merely
expressing my personal opinion.
* * * *
It is pathetic to find a man of Fisher’s
calibre—or what was supposed to be Fisher’s
calibre —drawing “a clear line” between what
he really believes and what he has professed
to believe because it is a feature of the
party programme. In a moment of wild can-
dor he asks that “statements I have made
on other occasions” shall not be used as evi-
dence against'“this expression of my own
individual opinion.” Apparently there is a
bogus and politically honest Fisher who
stands for the party, and a real and politi-
cally dishonest Fisher who stands for him-
self. They have become mixed, and a sort
of intermediate Fisher rises to disentangle
them or him or himself. The explanation,
unless this paper has misjudged the case, is
that the bogus Fisher advocated sound
finance to please his party, or for the sake
of office, or something; and the real Fisher
grew so tired of the bogus Fisher that he
had to repudiate him —-“without prejudice,”
as the legal term goes—in order to relieve
his feelings. In the process of disentangle-
ment it was necessary for one Fisher to
declare, in effect, that an Act which the other
Fisher helped to pass was a darned ass of
a statute.
The ancient gags reappear so cheerfully
and joyously in Fisher’s new confession of
faith that it is difficult to remember that he
once led —in fact, still leads—the non-bor-
rowing party of Australia. He considers
that a consistent effort to wipe off debts is
“a great absurdity in a. new country.” Geo-
logically Australia is a very old country.
Politically it is new. That is to say, it
started quite recently with no war-debts, no
ravenous old nobility to live on the pro-
ducer, no royal tyrants, no burden of vener-
able tradition, and no dangerous enemies
close at hand. It inherited nearly 3,000,000
square miles of land —much of it rich land —
which cost its people practically nothing.
It owned, during many years, the richest
goldfields on earth. For the best part of a
century it paid nothing worth mentioning
for defence purposes. And when it set up in
business as a new country without roads
and railways it was in no worse condition
than the rest of the world, which also had
no railways in our early days, and only
muddy tracks to serve as roads. The aver-
age politician considers Australia in two
aspects. When he is full of wine and beer
and cigars at a Gaud Mayor’s banquet it is
a great, rich, fresh country which offers hos-
pitality and affluence to every decent white
man who will come this way. And when he
is a grumpy person hunting for another loan
Australia is a poor, miserable dog of a
place which can’t be expected to build even
a drain except with assistance from England
—though he often discourses about the pov-
erty of the masses in England. The trouble
of Australia is that, for many years, its
grand old pioneers refused to pay land-tax,
income-tax, stamp duties, probate duties and
beer-tax. They even objected to paying cus-
toms duties, or local rates. Their idea was
that the bulk of current expenses should be
covered by the proceeds of land sales; that
public works and a whole lot of other things
should be paid for by loans; that Britain
should pay for defence; and that we should
scoff at to-day and gamble on to-morrow.
* * * *
Thus arose the fiction of the “permanent
and reproductive works,” which are sup-
posed to require no provision for repayment
of the loan money because they are so per-
manent that they will last for ever. It is
unfortunate that the old Sydney railway
station is dead; that an urgent neces-
sity has already arisen for the recon-
struction of the whole railway system
in order to get away from the dis-
advantage of the many different gauges; that
quite a number of costly bits of line, like
N.S.W.’s great Zig-Zag, are being scrapped
because the old engineers didn’t know their
business ; that the mono-rail may obliterate
the entire arrangement; that an improved
air-service may wipe out the mono-rail; that
“wireless” promises to make the telegraphs
a back number; and that any number of
harbors on which much money was spent in
the days when a sailing-ship of 1000 tons
was the last word in navigation, have ceased
to be of much account. Also, it may be
added that many miles of road, built with
loan money, are now merely ruts and
thistles. As an obvious matter of fact, there
are no premanent works and very few works
which are as reproductive to-day as they
were a few years ago. And it is a low-down
business for a community to enhance the
value of a bit of public land by means of a
railway which is charged to posterity, and
then sell the land and treat the proceeds as
revenue.
* * * *
To put the matter shortly, Australia is the
one place on earth which should have no
foreign debt whatsoever. Seeing that it pos-
sesses a really magnificent debt, it is
a fair thing to provide a sinking fund
for repayment. The sinking fund is
a matter of mere honesty. This
country floats its loans for a fixed period—
generally 30 or 40 or 50 years. It solemnly
promises, as an honest bloke, to refund the
money when it falls due. If, by means of a
sinking fund, it provides for the refund, then
it knows that it can meet its obligations,
and not be a liar. If there is no sinking
fund, and the, repayment of the loan of 1880
depends entirelv on the luck of the foreign
loan market in 1920 or 1930, then foreign
Private Enterprise decides whether Australia
will ultimately be a bankrupt, a fraud and a
trickster. The sinking fund represents at
least some shred of honesty towards the
infant, inasmuch as he isn’t left to pay the
whole bill for his bloated parent’s mis-
directed railways and ill-selected harbors.
And if the bloated parent has to pay 1 or
14 or 2 per cent, towards the liquidation of
his own debt it tends to ballast him a little,
and to make him less wild in ljis borrowing. •
It may seem absurd to raise the wind with
one hand in the morning and to pay off part
of the liability with the other hand in the
afternoon, but it isn’t so absurd as raising
the wind with both hands twice a day and
paying off nothing. It is certainly true, as
Fisher remarks, that a “needy Treasurer”
may repudiate the sinking-fund liability and
“mop up” the accumulation. That can’t be
helped. A needy Treasurer may even repu-
diate the whole public debt. But a Govern-
ment should be honest to-day even
though another Government may be dis-
honest to-morrow. Andrew Fisher’s resig-
nation is due. He has explained so clearly
that he doesn’t really approve of his party’s
financial programme that his position must
be embarrassing. He shouldn’t be driven to
outrage his political conscience for a mere
salary.
WHEAT AND CONGESTION—
PRINCIPALLY CONGESTION.
Some people—there always are some people
in this world —are so disrespectful as to won-
der whether the N.S.W. Government’s com-
pulsory wheat purchase scheme is all based
on a desire for good Socialism, and a craving
to put the boot into the stomach of
Monopoly, and to supply the people with
cheap food. Or if it is 25 per cent, hatred of
the Federal authority, and 25 per cent, deep-
rooted parochial objection to the other
States, and 25 per cent, a manifestation of
the old idea that Sydney is all N.S.W., and
25 per cent, unblotted patriotism. The
Bulletin doesn’t insist on these exact per-
centages, but the idea remains that there
are four sentiments, and unblotted patriotism
is only one of the' four. In the first place,
it is well known that N.S.W. has a surplus
of wheat this year, and there is no visible
reason to suppose that the demand will be
greater than usual except in Victoria, which
has a scarcity. Certainly Belgium, Ger-
many and Austria all want grain. But
this country can’t supply Belgium, because
an enemy with a spiked helmet is imagining
vain things over most of that luckless coun-
try ; and trade with Germany and Austria
is “off.” The unfortunate Belgian has to
live anyhow he can, and the enemies will
have to subsist on their stock of hogs when
loaves and fishes give out. The other great
wheat-growing countries are raising their
crops very much as usual. Australia seems,
by reason of the war, to have lost three
customers. So it is hard to see that there
is any more reason —barring the Victorian
scarcity—for llolman and Co. to dash into
the breach with disorder and boisterousness
this year than any other year in its political
life.
* * * *
If the Government had the honest and
single-minded inspiration to supply the
people with cheap food, it is strange that it
didn’t tackle flour as well as wheat. Wheat
makes flour, and flour makes bread, but if
the Government rushes madly into wheat,
and doesn’t rush madly into flour, it may
only be furnishing extra profits for the
millers by giving them cheap raw material
at the farmer’s exoense. So the price of
the loaf may go up all the same. In fact,
to the wild astonishment of the community,
it has gone up, which isn’t much of a New
Year’s present to the poor old community.
Again, if the whole purpose of the movement
is to supply cheap food, it has been asked
why a beginning wasn’t made with meat
instead of wheat. This isn’t a dry bread
nation ; it is a beef and mutton and gravy
nation ; so meat might reasonably have been
considered first. And something strenuous
might have been done about potatoes, which
rank immediately after meat and bread as
an article of diet. As a side issue—if the
intention was to eliminate the middleman,
it is unfortunate that some of the richest
wheat-speculators in Australia should have
been hired, at an absurdly liberal remunera-
tion, to act as middlemen between the
farmers and the Government. Some base
miscreants, who obviously should be shoved
head-downwards into a hot spring, have pro-
pounded the idea that wheat is one of the
great products of Riverina, and that Riverina
is the one province in N.S.W. which finds its
natural outlet in Melbourne. The degraded
character of this insinuation fills all right-
minded Geebungs with loathing, also despair.
* * * *
The excuses which are advanced in
support of the low-minded insinuation,
herein faintly adumbrated, are these: (1)
The present Government at Sydney has
always been regarded as an upholder of the
commercial monopoly of Sydney; (2) it
has always been regarded as an upholder
of the old John Robertson doctrine that
N.S.W. should view the other States with
hostility and contempt; (3) it has always
been looked upon as anti-Federal; (4)
though it is, on paper, a decentralisation
Government (just as it is, on paper, an
anti-borrowing and pro-sinking-fund Govern-
ment), it has dodged all schemes of
decentralisation in a most determined
fashion. It lias built no railways to
Twofold Bay or Jervis Bay; and it is taking
the North Coast line around in a wide,
expensive curve or semi-circle which will
prevent it touching on the splendid harbor
of Port Stephens. As for the sawed-off
railways of Riverina, which only require a
few miles of cheap extension to connect
with the corresponding Victorian lines, there
has been much conversation but no
extension. Still Melbourne is so much
handier to Riverina than Sydney that large
quantities of N.S.W. wheat have been
bullock-drayed to the Victorian lines since
the Commonwealth abolished all border
restrictions. The Riverina farmer could
hardly live in dry, hungry, seasons if he had
to pay freight on his scrap of produce over
400 miles of line to Sydney.
So the Holman folk—by accident or
design or a little of both —play four aces at
once. By seizing the local output of wheat
and prohibiting export they cut off part of
the food supply of Victoria —a place which
the genuine Geebung always objects to.
They force to Sydney a lot of trade which
used to find a natural outlet at Melbourne.
They forcibly secure for N.S.W. a
lot of milling work which might
otherwise go to Victoria. And they
manufacture a feasible excuse to challenge
that clause in the Australian Constitution
which says that all inter-State trade must
be free and untrammelled, by pointing out
that all wheat in N.S.W. is the Govern-
ment’s own compulsory wheat, and that the
owner of the goods can trade where and
how he likes. And on this principle it
appears that Holman may compulsorily
purchase every year, at his own price, all
the local output of meat, wheat, potatoes,
oats, maize, fruit, metals and sundries, and
prohibit all foreign trade except via Sydney.
It is a notable fact that the Ministry
declared itself willing to accommodate
Maoriland (outside the Commonwealth)
with a _ considerable quantity of wheat,
though it tried to shut off business with
Victoria (inside the Commonwealth). Pos-
sibly the fact that Maoriland is outside the
Commonwealth counted for something.
Possibly the fact that Maoriland trade goes
via Sydney counted for something. Possibly
it was all mere accident and nothing counted
for anything.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Press Censorship.
A suspicion begins to drift around on two
cold local feet that the press censorship is
overdone in Australia. It seems to be based,
in a measure, on an exaggerated idea
of our own importance, or our own conceal-
ment, or something. There is no gain, for
instance, in hiding from the enemy the good,
or bad or middling condition of our railways
as means of defence; or the details of our
diverse guages ; or the area of Australia which
isn’t railwayed at all, and which is, in con-
sequence, quite incapable of land defence.
All these facts can be found in a handy Com-
monwealth publication which is sold for
3s. 6d. with a green cover. The same pub-
lication, or a similar one, tells about our
cadet army, and our fleet, and our scanti-
ness of population, and our public debts,
and our deficits, and the size of every war-
ship we possess, and the dimensions of every
warship that is in course of construction.
The capacity of every harbor is published ;
and it has been the polite and courteous
habit of the Australian Governments to show
foreign naval and military visitors around
the harbor defences, so that they may know
everything concerning them. The size of
the army which Australia is sending to the
war is no secret, for the subject has been
clamored about in Parliament until it is
stale. The size of the loan which Aus-
tralia is raising, with the assistance of the
John Bull Government, to pay for its
share of the war is also widely understood.
The German fleet south of the line being
practically extirpated, and the German
colonies having been seized, and the German
wireless stations having been obliterated, it
looks like a case of enlarged self-applause
to imagine that any scanty remarks that an
Australian paper can make on subjects akin
to the above may give the enemy valuable
information. And even if an Australian
paper says something unkind about an ally
or possible ally, it may be excess of self-
esteem to suppose that the ally or possible
ally will thereupon go mad and proceed to
break things. Supposing the Cooma
(N.S.W.) Express printed brutish innuen-
does re the friendly kingdom of Persia, there
is always a hope that Darius Hystaspes
doesn’t buy the Cooma Express regularly,
so he may not see the denunciation, and may
abstain from calling out the Immortal Band
and slaying Shoreditch in cold blood. The
censorship flatters the Australian people,
through its press, with the idea that it is
a devil of a fellow, and that if its Watch-
man or Presbyterian Magazine breaks
loose it may disclose official mysteries which
will enable Kaiser William to capture
Moscow, or make such aspersions that
Switzerland may fly off the handle, and pro-
ceed to disembowel all and sundry. This is
wrong. As a general thing the Australian
papers only publish acres of rather belated
cablegrams, which have already appeared in
London, and all the prompt and early com-
ments they can make aren’t calculated to
make anybody turn in his grave.
The Full Court Goes on Strike.
The protest of “Quill” :
It is owing, perhaps, to the war news and the
attenuation of their sheets that the daily papers
allowed to pass practically unnoticed one of the
most momentous decisions of the High Court of
Australia since the creation of that tribunal. By
a majority of five to one, and that one passionately
protesting, the Judges decided to go on strike in
respect to an important part of what has hitherto
been accepted as part of their duty.
The peg on which the decision hung was an appeal
by one Eat her, formerly an employee at a suburban
picture show, against conviction and sentence to im-
prisonment on a charge of assault upon a child.
The case, an unsavory one, first came before Judge
Hamilton and a jury at Sydney Quarter
Sessions; and the question then arose whether
the evidence relied upon by the Crown to corroborate
the unsworn testimony of the child fulfilled the
statutory requirements of the Crimes Act. That
statute, in order to protect children, stretches very
considerably the ordinary rules of common law ; but
to protect accused persons it provides that there
shall be no conviction unless there is corroboration
by testimony which “in some material respect im-
plicates the accused.” The Crown evidence relied
upon to corroborate the infant and implicate the
accused in the Eather case was purely medical.
The defence argued that this did not implicate the
prisoner, since it was no corroboration of the child’s
story; that the same evidence would equally impli-
cate scores of other people. Judge Hamilton, how-
ever, told the jury that the corroboration required
by the Crimes Act was provided. Conviction of
course followed, and 15 months imprisonment
came in its wake. Eather appealed to the Full
court of N. S. Wales. Three Judges heard the
appeal. Cullen and Gordon supported Hamilton ;
Bring strongly dissented. By two to one the con-
viction was sustained. Eather then approached
the High Court for special leave to appeal in that
quarter against this finding, on the ground that it
was erroneous in law. Consent was given and the
appeal duly prosecuted.
Four months ago the High Court, consisting of
Griffith, Barton, Isaacs and Duffy, heard counsel
for the prisoner and the Crown on the meaning
of the particular section of the Crimes Act involved.
It was clear that the Bench was greatly divided as
to whether there had at the trial been legal corrobora-
tion. The upshot of it all was that the Crown
changed its attitude and, instead of testing the
actual merits of the Full Court’s pronouncement,
fell back upon an application that the leave given
to appeal should be rescinded. The Court decided
tfiat this was a point for determination by the Full


Bench, and ordered re-argument in Sydney, when two
additional Judges, Powers and Rich, came to help
their learned brothers. The appeal on which de-
cision was finally asked became, therefore, a double-
barrelled one. The prisoner asked the Court to say
that his conviction was based on a wrongful inter-
pretation of the Crimes Act; counsel for the Gov-
ernment of N. S. Wales asked the Court to keep
quiet about that aspect of the matter, and say that
it wouldn’t hear the appeal at all! Things were
thus mixed and the argument wandered for the
most part into entirely new ground, the final result
being this: that the Bench, which had twice heard
the appeal, said it wouldn’t hear it, and rescinded
the leave it originally gave the prisoner to have
his case reviewed. Justice Isaacs, who dissented,
said there had been a misinterpretation of the law
by the lower Courts so grave as to lift the case
far beyond the region of mere legal error.
The effect of the five-to-one verdict is twofold ; it
has a significance purely local to N. S. Wales, and
at the same time it is of national consequence.
What the Court has really decided is that it will
follow in respect to criminal appeals the practice
of the Privy Council, which in plain language
means that it has shut the door hard and fast
against persons who may seek a review of decisions
on law given by the Courts of criminal appeal in
the several States. So far as the Bather case is
concerned, there is to be no interpretation of the lopg-
wrangled-over section in the Crimes Act, and what
may be a rotten decision in law —as Justice Isaacs
says this one is—now becomes the guiding principle
for all future trials in cases of a similar character.
Important though it may be to have the law re-
lating to evidence under the Crimes Act made clear
beyond possibility of doubt, the more pressing ques-
tion now rises' for consideration whether this strike
by the High 'Court in respect to criminal appeals is
to be allowed. The Court was created to be a
Court of Civil and Criminal appeal; and though
it was given power to make “exceptions” and “regu-
lations” for its own government, it is wildly absurd
to suppose that anyone ever contemplated that the
Court would make a regulation practically severing
itself from its Constitution. Yet this is what has
just been done, and against it Justice Isaacs has
recorded a violent protest, he, at any rate, being
“unable to believe that the Parliament of Australia
intended the High Court to give greater protection
to money than to liberty and life; that the Court
would defend a man’s rights to property but refuse
to protect him from unauthorised imprisonment and
disgrace as a criminal.” The Attorney-General is
bound to notice such an utterance from the Bench.
It is surely a monstrous thing that a litigant con-
cerned in a dispute affecting a matter of £3OO
should have the right of appeal to the High Court,
but that insuperable obstacles should be placed in
the way of a man having a conviction reviewed, not,
it must be remembered, in regard to the facts, but
only in relation to the interpretation placed by
the Court which tried him upon the law. Smith,
under a contract to sell pigs, may have his bond
given a certain legal construction by the Full
Court, and is at liberty to ask the High Court if
this is correct. Jones, charged with an odious
crime, may be illegally convicted; but if a weak
Full Court of the State says he’s not, then he has
reached the end of the section because the High
Court of- Australia has apparently adopted the
attitude of “We don’t want to be bothered with
these things.”
A Party Politician’s Budget.
“J.” : What is the fearsomeness of the wow-
ser that all parties should so truckle to
him? The Fisher Government’s War Bud-
get represents a step in the old direction.
The only opponents of a duty of 3d. on the
tea which is the favorite tipple of Aus-
tralians would be the wowser party, which
is already unduly shielded from taxation.
Seeing that each Australian is responsible
for the consumption of about Sib. of tea per
annum, a duty of 3d. would give about
£500,000 alone. In Great Britain the duty
is now Bd., at which rate Australia could
collect about £1,300,000. The recent tem-
porary confusion in the mind of Finlayson,
M.P., as to the prophet Job may be attri-
buted to the enei-gy with which the temper-
ance advocates are stated to have opposed
the duty in Caucus, where tea and
oil are understood to have led to
animated debate. Apart, however, from
shying off the lead of Lloyd George
on the subject of Tea, while content to fol-
low meekly on the kindred item of Beer, it
comes as a shock to find that the labors of
Messrs. Piddington, Swinburne and Lock-
yer go for nothing. For purely war taxa-
tion (following the precedent of the
insurance cos. with their 5 to 20 per cent,
war risks) the obvious course was to levy
a surcharge of 5 or 10 per cent, on existing
tariff and excise, and for a scientific tariff,
to rely on the Commissioners later
on. The only possible conclusion is that
Fisher has put the new taxes on to stop,
and will allow the ordinary expenditure to
creep up to the maximum revenue obtain-
able. Compare the following :
Fisher’s Budget. A War Budget.
New customs. . £BOO,OOO New duties on
Death super free goods:—
duties ..1,000,000 Tea.. ..£500,000
Land taxation (?) 500,000 Kerosene .. 300,000
War surcharge
on existing tariff
excise, 10% .. 1,550,000
Total £2,300,000 Total £2,350,000
Had he adopted a genuine war budget Fisher
would have retained the special ground which
he has now broken for another and perhaps
more necessitous season.
♦
The Costly Bird of Freedom.
All sorts and conditions of wealthy men
are bursting into the daily papers with cries
of indignation because the Commonwealth
hasn’t yet sent 100,000 men to the front.
The press is backing them up for all it is
worth. But all parties are agreed upon one
reservation: There must be no sacrifice
of “Freedom.” Why this insistence on
Freedom? Apparently our letter-writing
patriots agree that, in the recent
words of one of the politicians, “this great
war involves tremendous exertions, immense
sacrifices —sacrifices of wealth, with all that
means.” But they have no wish to see
business injured by the introduction of a
Compulsory Service Bill aimed at adults.
The mdney and political influence of the
class which is now opposed to universal
service for men of a fighting age did a lot,
half a dozen years ago, to confine universal
training to the children. The idea was that,
if men were taken away, the shops and
warehouses would suffer. And so it is now.
Our well-to-do citizens want their property
insured, but at the lowest possible premium.
Hence the cant about Freedom from men
and newspapers who would rather see Free-
dom drowned than sacrifice a proportion of
their yearly dividends to it. If the people
who are talking about the blessings of Free-
dom are in earnest on the subject they can
prove it, to a somewhat sceptical public, in
the most convincing of all ways—namely,
by paying for it. If Australia is to de-
spatch a force of 100,000 men, it needs to
produce more than recruits, as any book of
reference will show. It must provide scores
of articles which the Commonwealth advo-
cates of Freedom have caused to be im-
ported from abroad in the past. So the first
duty of those who want the Empire to be
efficiently defended is to support such a
protective tariff as will encourage the imme-
diate manufacture of all the necessaries of
war. Further, it is an axiom in all volun-
tary-service countries, where the armed
enemy isn’t actually peering over the
nation’s back gate, that the right sort of
men won’t roll up unless it is made worth
their while. Even during the Napoleonic
wars, when England was menaced as never
before, the authorities had to have recourse
to the press-gang, and to even more strenu-
ous measures. There is no reluctance to
go to the war on the part of young Aus-
tralians. On the contrary. There is not
one healthy young man in a hundred who
would stay away, if he could be sure that
neither his family nor he would be preju-
diced financially by his departure. This is
where the opportunity of the resolute stay-
at-home of means comes in. The possibly
indigent young man is willing to risk his
health, perhaps his life, in the cause of Em-
pire. Let the wealthy citizen who isn’t in
a position to cL that, or who frankly doesn’t
want to. make it up financially to those who
feel differently. If all the rich men who
have no intention of approaching the front
would drop writing futile letters to the
papers, and, instead, call a meeting and in-
dividually pledge themselves to assist, accord-
ing to the size of their incomes, the wives,
children, parents and other dependents of
the soldiers, the recruiting returns would go
up with a bound. If our rich men don’t
think the Bird of Freedom is worth the
money, it would be a graceful act on their
part to drop blithering about the fowl and
silently accept an effective measure of com-
pulsory service.
• ♦
The German Landlord.
Senator Millen, who doesn’t say wise
things very often, but who has occasional
signs of information, has remarked that
Australia isn’t doing all that it might do in
the present war. Herein Millen is right.
Australia hasn’t yet realised that it is
fighting for its life. It has rather considered
the disturbance as a picnic ; as an excuse
for borrowing a little extra money; as a
reason why the men who are building war
vessels at Cockatoo Dock, Sydney, should
demand treble wages for work done in the
Christmas holiday season; and as a bright
item of intelligence in the newspapers. Yet
the German has intimated plainly and
frankly, in books written by responsible
military officers —and nobody, is more frank
than a German when he gets really going,
save a girl or a cat —what his aims are. He
looks for the ownership of Holland, Bel-
gium, Denmark and Switzerland, and for
the position of overlord or suzerain as
regards Britain and France and all their
foreign possessions. And one of his propo-
sitions is that, in these subject countries,
nobody save a German shall be pennitted to
own land. Everybody else’s Torrens title
is simply to be cancelled. The ownership
of land is the sign or trade mark
of the superior race, and the German
proposes to be the superior race.
Other people may toil in factories, or do
any other humble jobs, but they must
always be tenants and servitors. In this
war the British race is fighting for the
possession of the sheep-station, and the
cattle-station, and the and the park;
for the front garden, and the back garden,
and the back yard, and the humble allotment
on which the wooden cottage is located, and
the pint of earth in the flower-pot; also
for the dust-heap and the right of the' infant
to climb on the back fence which is the old
man’s freehold. The war is a scrap of ex-
termination and a disagreement to the bitter
end. And it isn’t decided yet—not by a long
way. Things are going pretty well with the
Allies, but it is still a long way to Berlin.
Those wild folk at Broken Hill who shoved
a firestick into the German Club possibly *
thought they were doing something to re-
cover Brussels and Antwerp, or to protect
Calais and London and Paris and Warsaw,
but they were really doing nothing more
than a silly riot. They didn’t make Aus-
tralia any safer, nor did they show the
slightest ability to realise that Australia is
still in danger, and that it is up to this
country to make sacrifices —not loans and
strikes and the wholesale importation of
foreign chiffons, but real sacrifices —to main-
tain its existence among the nations.
The Loafing “Worker.”
Dear Bulletin, —I would like your advice.
I have a gang of carpenters on a three years’
engagement. They stated, when I took them
on, that they would put up certain named
buildings during the first year, so many more
in the second and others in the third. They
are under a foreman, who practically runs the
show. They work with great deliberation,
and much that they do has to be altered after-
wards ; and they spend far too much time
talking over what they are going to do. But
my chief grievance is the foreman. He fixes
the hours of work and the hours of rest —and
the latter are many. Just before Christmas
he decided that all hands should have a holi-
day ; but, instead of coming back after the
New Year, and bogging-in something extra,
he proposes to renew toil in March or April.
This, notwithstanding that the work is all
behindhand, and that a particular plank that
I wanted nailed up last year—which work he
promised should be done—has not yet been
started. The joyous part of the business
(for them) is that all these employees are
paid yearly wages, so that they draw their
cheques every month regularly, whether they
toil or cease from toiling. My brother, over
in New South Wales, tells me that he is in
a similar mess; only his case is worse,
because his foreman has been using his
name to borrow money right and left, and
has run him into debt something outrageous.
Other relatives in other States tell me that
they have similar troubles with their men,
especially the foremen. It would not be
much use sacking these chaps, because the
only others available give no promise of
doing any better; so we really don’t know
what to do. I may mention that my fore-
man’s name is Peacock. Do you know
him? —F. Croson.
♦
“Solomon Malaprop” : For the first time
in many years the people of Maoriland have
drifted back towards the old, dissipated
ways. Ever since a certain awful night at
Balclutha, when two naked and intoxicated
citizens ran a race by moonlight in the prin-
cipal street, and dreary Balclutha repented
and became “dry,” Prohibition has been
spreading in Joseph Ward’s islands. The
vote against the rum that perisheth and the
shandygaff which biteth like a serpent and
stingeth like an adder has grown larger at
every election. A time came when an abso-
lutely dry Dominion was in sight, and people
abroad looked on the experiment with inter-
est and wonder. If a little State which
is separated by 1200 miles of sea from any-
where, and is thus almost proof against
smuggling, chose to swear off, then Prohibi-
tion would have the chance of its life. Even
the- hardest drinkers in adjacent communi-
ties —people who consumed whisky before
breakfast unless there happened to be some
brandy in the house —-trusted that the
scheme would come off, so that they might
watch the consequences from a distance.
Now their hopes are blighted. In former
days the Maorilander was asked to vote, at
the general election, as to whether public-
houses, in his own electorate, should be
maintained, or reduced, or abolished. Very
often he voted that they should be abolished,
because he relied on buying a keg in the
next electorate and keeping it in the house.
Thus he had the keg and the glory at the
same time. But the Prohibition leaders
took their victories too seriously. They put
a new issue before the electors —the abolition
of the importation, manufacture and sale of
drink all the way from the Three Kings to
Stewart Island. The dryness was to be a
real drought. The man who voted for Pro-
hibition in his own electorate was no longer
to be able to buy a keg in the next elec-
torate. For a change the community
was offered the genuine article. And the
community side-stepped so violently that
60,000 voters shifted from water to heer. and
Prohibition suffered its first great set-back.
♦
Unless the Victorian Parliament passes a
Greater Melbourne Council Bill early next
session, matters are likely to be very much
mixed when the cable tramway system re-
verts to the municipalities in 1916. What
the citizens want, of course, is a body that
will take over, not only the cable trams, but
the extensive electric lines in various
suburbs —some municipally, some privately
owned—and run them as one comprehensive
system. Moreover, it must have means and
power to build new lines wherever required.
As there isn’t any lively hope of any such
body being in existence by next year, the
Tramway Trust —composed of delegates
from the 11 inner councils which guaran-
teed the £1,650,000 borrowed to build the
cable lines—lately decided to ask the Tram-
way Co. what it would take for its rolling
stock and other appurtenances necessary for
carrying on the outfit. So far the co. hasn’t
responded to this invitation and thrown
down its trump card; but the Trust’s
sensible decision moved the Age to an out-
burst of merriment and a hint that the
Government has a better right to the system
than the councils. Certainly the Trust
doesn’t represent the metropolis, by any
means. In fact, many of the later-built
electric lines don’t enter the Trust’s terri-
tory at all. Also unless it can get further
legislative powers the Trust couldn’t raise
the price of one ticket-punch, let alone the
whole rolling stock. Still it is well that
somebody should make a move —it may gal-
vanise Peacock into doing something. Mean-
while it is significant that, though the com-
pany says nothing, its chiefs are in no way
concerned, and unofficially remark that “the
company will continue to run the trams, at
any rate for a few years.” Now, what is
the game?
From Federal Hansard (19/12/’l4) :
Mr. McGrath : I know an area officer who never
went near his unit for nearly two months. He took
up the position of secretary to the Liberal candidate,
and for two months before the election he never
went near his duties, but I suppose that he drew
his salary just the same. After the elections he
resigned his position. The Department immediately
appointed him to another position in the Army. To
show that social influence is at work, let me mention
that prior to that he had occupied another position.
He resigned, and it was found that £239 worth of
stores in his possession had disappeared. The
Department has not got them yet, but that did not
prevent the man from getting another position. After
he resigned as an area officer it was found again that
stores had disappeared, and a Military Board sat for
a month inquiring into the matter. It reported that
the officer was responsible, and called upon him to
refund the amount.
Mr. Laird Smith : Do you mind saying who was
the Minister ?
Mr. McGrath : I have gone to the trouble to get
the flies, and I know that my information is correct.
According to the report the shortage on the second
occasion was only £3 10s. or £4, but the Minister,
Senator Millen, wrote this minute, “Charge it up
to the public account.” After the last election,
when this gentleman again was secretary of a mem-
ber of the Liberal party—who believed not in prefer-
ence to unionists —and while the Liberals were still
in power, he was appointed embarkation officer at
225. 6d. a day, and I believe he still occupies the
position.
Australian war-contract supervision got a
fine advertisement the other day from Mel-
bourne Argus. Some delighted Freetrader
wrote to say that the Australian soldier
could not be as well booted as the English
Tommy because the Australian boots cost
only 10s. lid. a pair as against 14s. lid. paid
for the British army boot, lie insisted on
the inferiority of the Australian article on
the evidence of the price and the higher
Australian, wage. Then Senator Pearce
arose to state that the Australian army
office had a sample of the British boot, and
that the Australian was as good. The facts
are that Australia, by running its own
equipment factories, has discovered the
usually-ruinous profits of Private Enterprise
in its most noisily patriotic moments; and
if it must let a contract it cuts the contrac-
tors’ profits down to about 5 per cent., which
is good enough on jobs running into hundreds
of thousands of pounds when the customer’s
credit is beyond question. Those patriotic
contractors who, at the time of the S’African
war, sold to an Australian contingent brown-
paper saddles which became mush in the
rain of the first route march, taught Aus-
tralian military authorities a lot of things,
and the Contracts Examination Board grew
out of the experience. It is a supervisor
utterly separate from the Contracts Depart-
ment, and its methods in looking for bad
goods in army supplies and equipment are
the methods of Sherlock Holmes at his
best. The Contracts Department, too, is held
above suspcicion; and between them they
are saving Australia from those exorbitant
prices on which British army contractors
and middlemen are fattening in this time of
war.
—
The Melbourne Argus declares that it didn’t
apologise to Senator Pearce or the censor or
anybody else. Its exposition of the case is
that Senator Pearce announced in Parlia-
ment that certain transports, laden with Aus-
tralian troops, were within 100 miles of the
Cocos Islands when the Sydney argued the
point thereabouts with the Emden; that the
Argus printed the statement; that, later, the
same news came from London; that the
Argus reprinted it; that the Argus was
invited at this crisis in its career to explain
why it had rushed into print in such a.
fashion, contrary to the Censorship and the
Articles of War and the Ten Commandments:
and the Athanasian Creed; that it said it:
had merely republished the Defence Minis-
ter’s item of information ; that it was told’,
after some delay, that its explanation was
accepted ; that it declared at the top of its
voice that the thing wasn’t an explanation
but a plain statement of fact; and that it
repudiated all suggestion of apology on its
part. And thereupon, apparently, both
parties said “Damn” and the subject
dropped, and fell down a great height, and
broke its neck.
Others besides “Bill” Holman’s Labor
supporters have a slice of the pie when
William sets out to give his men a good
time. With £10,000,000 or so more than the
State has earned available to boost things,
the immediate effect is just the same as if
the State reaped an extra 60,000,000 bushels
of wheat, which is more than the whole Com-
monwealth ever harvested, except in three
phenomenal years. The first result of the
utterly bogus prosperity thus created is to
make almost the whole community see pink;
and in that frame of mind every second little
seamstress buys a time-payment “suburban”
block 50 miles or so from the city, or half
an acre of precipice on the Hawkesbury,
in the sure and certain hope that somebody
will purchase it from her for 10 times the
money. In 1012 it was reckoned that Syd-
ney property agents collected commission on
£3,125.000 of sales, which meant at least
£10,000,000 put into the pockets of speculat-
ing parasites. Next year, when Cohen
started to tell Australia to go and get work,
the total was less. But in the first half of
1914, when Holman and Griffith let
themselves go and undertook to let them-
selves go more than ever if they could find
a way to do it, all previous records were
beaten. The war of course pricked the-
bubble, and one firm’s transactions fell from-
about £50,000 a month to £3OOO. Neverthe-
less Holman, the friend of the worker, was
so much the friend of the land shark that
the year’s total Sydney and suburban sales
came to within a handspring of £2,500,000.
-+
An influential Gerliog, Heventlow to wit,,
is reported as having announced that his;
country has now got its back up, and will!
denude itself of all scruples. It will shed'
the last fragment of the garment of righteous-
ness, and paint itself black all over, and sky
the towel of humanity, and throw its hat into-
the ring, and chuck the cloak of courtesy
overboard, and go bald-headed for victory..
So, presumably, the Gerhog is going to eat
his enemies after this. That is the only
thing he hasn’t done so far.
The Act of God.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The company will not be responsible for....the
Act of God.— Tremendous notification on back of bills
of lading, etc.
The child that dwelt in someone’s slum goes
down into the grave
Because a grasping landloi’d wished his
bank account to save;
The stricken parents put on black, and never
think it odd,
But advertise the fact that they have been
bereaved by God.
“Whom God hath joined”—some vain
saint’s words reecho in the church ;
But presently there comes a smash —he’s
left her in the lurch !
Unto the other each has been a serpent and
a rod.
Where is the fault? Not his!—not hers!
It is the Act of God !
“The God of Battles!” “Lord of Hosts!”
Hear chaplains plead and pray
To Him, the silent Judge, to help both
armies win the day!
For Him to guide the bayonet thrust and
stain His own clean sod
With His own creatures’ blood! They’d
make that crime “the Act of God” !
Oh, if He bides beyond the grave, how scorn-
ful are His lips
Who hears the blood-crazed holy men and
sees the frail drowned ships!
And will saints creep to Hell and leave His
heavenly ways untrod
Who win to grace but dare not face the
frightful Scorn of God?
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


Pro*K» tl Sto/Uad
GAELIC WHISKY
THE OLD SMUGGLER
w
m
B
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
&
YC
BOORO&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
.Swift & Company Ltd., Anstralasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Australia’s 126th New Year.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Which is it to be, earner ados, this glad New
Year —
Australia’s 126th New Year, and the Planet’s
1,472,974,216 th New Year (or there-
abouts) —
Our annus mirabilisf
Or another wearisome, undistinguished and
stodgy repetition of ghostlike and for-
gotten New Years?
Shall it be a year of deepening depression
and dull diatribe —
A year of preposterous promise and micro-
scopic performance —
A year of pretence, palliation, trifling, ran-
dom excogitation and feeble efforts.
A year of posings, delays, platitudes, talk,
squabble and recrimination —
A year to exasperate and hinder and dis-
courage our much-harassed people —
A year of stupid, inconsistent, dishonest and
ignorant “rulers,” sent by the Seven
Gods of Bad Luck to curse Australia in
her cradle!
Ah, camerados, now, more than ever before,
can you in one single year influence the
destinies of your country !
Realise that with the passing of 1914 the
old things—the old security, the old
prosperity, the old isolation which meant
comfort and peace —are passed away.
By the Four Thousand Sayings of Confu-
cius, by the Vedas, by the Sibylline
Books, and by the Breeches Bible, I do
not sermonise—
I simply state a Mighty Truth and implore
you to consider it in all its bearings.
On second thoughts, I do not implore—l
warn you!
Away with false ideals and fools’ paradises!
Hence with idle dreams, rainbow-chasing
schemes and infantile illusions !
Fate is a full-grown god; there are no
illusions about Events!
Camerados, answer me this question: How
shall we make the Nation?
We shall not make it by talk, nor by dreams,
nor by wishes, nor by much eating, nor
by strong language, nor by raising loans
abroad, nor by public doles, nor by
foreign imports, nor by perfunctory
tasks,, nor by manifold feasts and holi-
days, nor by oratory, nor by fortune-
telling, nor by foolish imaginings!
The vanished New Years were filled with
these inept and hopeless things—
We rioted like children among the garish
flowers of cheap and easy pleasures, and
threw garlands at ourselves while the
very clouds rained oil and wine upon
us —
Until 191J t !
At the first stroke of the Brazen Gong of
War the flowers drooped and faded, and
our beautiful, vari-colored illusions
shivered into fragments!
The oil and wine of fatness fell no longer
from the kindly heavens !
4t the clang of that Gong, the fields of Illu-
sion opened, and a great gulf yawned
before us.
We very nearly fell in.
Now we face the Order of New Things!
Their aspect is grey, repellent, stern, diffi-
cult and enormous.
The 126th New Year of Australia looms for-
biddingly.
Will it discourage us, camerados?
Never!
Away with Shams! To Avernus with soft
words and soporific promises!
Our task is to make the Nation —
By work, and by work alone, shall we
MAKE THE NATION !
Action! I call you to action, camerados!
Let us get work—plain, honest, straightfor-
ward, hard work,
Soul-satisfying and profit-bringing work!
Australia’s 126th New Year must differ from
all the dead 125 New Years, wherein we
only gave an imitation of a country at
work.
We cannot always remain a Nation of
dilettanti.
We cannot have the noble cake we have
eaten. We have got to bake another
cake !
Incidentally I may remind you of the fact
that the cake we have eaten is not paid
for yet.
Let us no more be dawdlers, shirkers, Avaiters-
on-Providence, slackers, skrimshankers,
simulacra of what we can be—what we
ought to be —what we must be, if Aus-
tralia is to become Australia !
Perish the easy job, the Government Stroke,
the go-slow game, the ca’ canny system,
and all the rotten habits that, barnacle-
like, have grown upon the Ship of State !
We have —and will demand —our rights ; but
let us not forget our duties.
We have the right to good pay, for instance ;
but it is our duty to give good service
for it!
EveryAvhere are voices clamoring for rights,
and more rights; some, insolent and
edacious, also claim privileges!
Privileges at whose expense, camerados? At
yours; at mine?
I listen in vain for indignant voices insist-
ing upon the claims of Duty; my ears
are not deafened by a roar of “No
privileges in a free Commonwealth!”
Australia’s 126th New Year has arrived,
but the nation has not arrived. His-
tory proves that no nation ever arrived
while its people dozed, dreamed or
played cats’-cradle!
Thought, Effort, Work, Sacrifice are the
four walls of nationhood, and their roof
is i)atriotism.
I have said, camerados.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
Our Old Friend, the War.
It is bitterly cold in Northern and Central
Europe these days. Rivers and canals are
frozen, and great hunks of ice float about
the sea, and 10,000,000 soldiers breathe on
their hands to avert frost-bite. Britain has
lost one ship during the week —the Formid-
able, a 15,000-ton vessel, aged 16 years, and
consequently of small value. It was blown
up by parties who are still at large, and
700 good Britons are missing. On the
Franco-Belgian border the process of dig-
ging out the enemy still continues. The
dogged character of this war of entrench-
ments may be judged by the fact that
General Joffre proudly announced that the
enemy had been shoved back about 200yds.,
after a fight that would probably make
Waterloo look a back number. It is
reckoned that things will look up in the
spring, but though Britain hopes to have
something like 2.000,000 men under arms
this year, there is much plain talk in Lon-
don about the need for compulsory service,
in order to raise another million. In France
the new crop of recruits —the boys of 20
years, who have just come to the age of
service, though there is a suspicion that
infants of 19 and 18 are being accepted
these days—is being assiduously trained,
so that there will presently be an extra army
of a sort available. The Belgian is as hungry
as ever, and the Gerhog is said to have aban-
doned his scheme of making the ruined
kingdom contribute £19,000,000 to the Gerhog
treasury, the reason being that he isn’t sure
there is 19s. left in what, six months ago,
was the most prosperous land in Europe,
Servia, the bravest little country of them all,
is trying, by the services of women and chil-
dren and old grandfathers, to plant a new
crop and repair some of the damage. The
fact that one-third of the population is
starving is a mere detail in the general
horror. The Russian still shoves the Ger-
man back, and keeps the dispirited Austrian
on the run, and scares the Turk out of his
miserable boots. Of all the seven nations
that are at war none has made a more
pathetic show of itself than the Unspeakable
Turk. The Kaiser, who is a very sick man
these days, has apparently ceased to give
orders that P.aris and Calais and London are
to be captured regardless of cost, but he still
sits up occasionally and eats soup, and
commands that Warsaw must be taken, even
if the Bear who is in the road covers the
whole landscape as far as the horizon. But
one more great rush for the Polish capital
has failed, and Warsaw now feels fairly
comfortable. In South Africa, Prime
Minister Botha has issued the call that used
to rouse England—or to partly rouse it —in
the Saxon days : “Let every man who is not
mean and a nothing: leave his house and
come.” The Boer proposes to try a fall with
the German garrisons in South-West Africa.
Some futile parsons have been praying for
peace with the usual collection, but perhaps
Botha’s method is the better of the two.
Italy has sent a small force to Albania,
where William of Wied had his temporary
kingdom, by way of making a little cheap
profit out of the general ruction. And the
United States has anounced that it objects
to Britain objecting to Uncle Sam supply-
ing Germany with goods that are useful in
war. Incidentally, it is mentioned that as
many as 300 German ships are now laid up
and eating their heads off in New York Har-
bor. A time may come when 300 captains
will have to sell their ships in order to buy
food, and then Sam will get a fleet cheap.
“Ham” : A definite move in the direction
of electrifying Sydney’s suburban railway
service will be made when the big power-
station at White Bay is completed. That
station, by the way, is going to eat about
three-quarters of a million of Bull-Cohen’s
money, but the reduced cost of running
should make the mortgage pay for itself.
It is first intended to convert the North
Shore section, Milson’s Point to Hornsby.
If that proves a success, other suburban
lines, and pdfesibly the line to Newcastle, will
be given over to current. If it does not
prove a success the White Bay power-
station will look a less cheerful monument
of debt. Yet it is quite on the cards that
the first experiment may be a failure.
Twenty-two years ago the first venture with
electric trams in Sydney was made on a
short section connecting Randwick and
Waverley, and the thing was such a failure
that the line was not only closed but
nothing further was heard about electric
trams for. some years.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl on the Film”
Criterion “Broadway Jones”
Adelphi “The Babes in the Wood”
/(Afternoon) “Seven Little Australians”
1 alace .. (Evening) “Who’s the Lady”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Cinderella”
Royal “Bought and Paid For”
King’s “Sinbad the Sailor”
Princess’s “The Night Side of London”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Olympia & National Hoyt’s Pictures
♦
No improvement in the behavior of
“Broadway Jones” is reported at Sydney
Criterion. He still arrives home in the
a.m. part of the night in a beastly state of
drink and uncertainty as to the identity of
his own butler.
“The Girl on the Film” continues to do
well at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Miss Doro-
thy Brunton’s Recruiting Song is still a
feature, though it has the disadvantage of
shaming all but soldiers in uniform and
ancient baldheads away from the theatre.
It is an embarrassment for a healthy young
man to have to sit still while a beautiful girl
tells him publicly that he oughtn’t to be there.
Clarence Blakiston knighted in “Dorothy o'
the Hall," at Sydney Royal.
“Dorothy o’ the Hall” is still, raging pros-
perously at Sydney Royal, and Nellie Stew-
art, in the name-part; throws the dinner
through the window every evening with
unerring aim. Evidently Dorothy had some
of the lower instincts of the beach-picnicker,
who, when he has gorged himself, lets out a
joyous yell and aims the left-over sane* ich
at a passing dog, or his neighbor’s ehr, and
leaves the scraps to fry in the summer sun
till the gale comes in like a drunken charlady
to clean up with wind-broom and rain.
Beaumont Smith, now double-billing at
Sydney Palace with “Who’s the Lady?” (even-
ing) and “Seven Little Australians” (after-
noon), is cooing like the lost Dove of Peace
about the results. Still, though handsome,
they are no more than a just reward for the
young man’s virtue of enterprise.
** * *
Work this out. “The Babes in the
Wood” panto, started at Sydney Adelphi on
December 22 and led a sober life until the
26th. Then it decided to have two razzles
a day, and it has kept that up ever since.
On Monday, January 4, , the house-full
notice was still up, and hadn’t thus far
missed a night. Assuming that the popula-
tion of Sydney is 730,000 and the Adelphi
holds 2800, how many people are there who
haven’t seen Daisy Jerome, or Gassman’s
piccaninnies, or had a laugh at Bert Le
Blanc, or seen the Kaiser out-manoeuvred
in every other act by the good fairy, or
turned their heads away during the leg-
shows? Answer to George Willoughby; he
wants to hunt up tim defaulters.
** * *
Jack Cannot, who has been in dry dock
for a week or so, has once more entrenched
himself behind the orchestra, and the Sydney
Tivoli Follies are thus again at their full
fighting strength. Fatima and the Aerial Les-
ters are at the head of the second division of
the army with which General Mclntosh out-
flanks the box-office twice daily.
The White City, the amusement park at
Rushcutter’s Bay, Sydney, has fallen a vic-
tim to the war fever. It proposes to hold an
Allies’ costume carnival on Thursday
(Jan. 14), and competitors'are invited to
consider the advertised details, which are
numerous and interesting.
When an aspiring lady, having money to
burn, boosts herself as a theatrical star,
she is ordinarily expected to make some sort
of noise on the stage as well as in the advts.
Yestelle, who started a nondescript enter-
tainment at Melbourne Athenamm Hall last
week, neither sings nor monologues. She plays
not the sackbut, harp, dulcimer, nor any other
kind of music. She doesn’t shake even one
leg at the audience Her pretensions as a
“fascinating artist” are limited to a dumb
show in an alleged mystic Asiatic romance,
which amounts to a descriptive ballet story,
with the dancing and the scenery left out.
The absurd thing lasts only a few minutes,
during which time Yestelle wears three airy
costumes, a head-dress of peacocks’ feathers,
and an uneasy consciousness of her fascinat-
ing artistry. Among a limited number of
other people doomed to strike attitudes and
wear strange garments are Robert White,
in the uncongenial character of a barbaric
prince; and Derek Hudson, who breaks the
silence with a song. Previous to the few
minutes of Yestelle and co. there is an in-
congruous musical introduction, comprising
ballads and orchestral efforts (mostly pain-
ful), followed by a vague, uncertain revue.
The heat and burden of the revue are borne
by six chorus girls and Tom Dawson, dis-
guised as a waiter. Thomas sings the ditties
he sang of old at the Tivoli, and makes fre-
quent appeals to his fellow-rev ueans for the
loan of a pin to support his pants.
Entertainments of this sort are an infliction
on those who have to endure them free of
charge, and a cruel injustice to all guileless
persons who take ihe advts. seriously and
pay good money to go in. But such shows
are, of course, always open to extensive
alterations.
The foregoing .rhymed remarks have no
direct application to the American drama
at Melbourne Royal, which has got the
lames talking. Millward, as the honorable,
wealthy and upright husband who never for-
gets to apologise humbly in the morning for
having been drunk and amorous over-night,
is neither sentimental before marriage nor
giddy afterwards. He merely lapses into the
liquor habit for the dramatic purpose of being
deserted by Muriel Starr, whose drastic
method accomplishes his immediate reform.
No previous occasional inebriate in drama
was ever so promptlv dealt with or so easily
converted. But, then, none of them have
knocked a hole in the wife’s bedroom-door
with a drawing-room fireiron because the
lady begged to be left alone. Probably Mill-
ward would not bash the panel in if it were
not a palpably vulnerable spot in the door
and very easily replaced. It seems made for
destruction, even as the drama seems in-
tended to raise false hopes in the breast of
every maiden battling for a living wage. If
she could only marrv a tall and shapely capi-
talist who indulged in a gentlemanly cham-
pagne drunk once a week, and proposed to
buy her endearments with a lOOOdol. neck-
let ! Or if her sister could marry such a
man, who would take his brother-in-law
into the office and raise his salary another
£5 a week every three months ! The husband
that Millward plays, and Muriel Starr runs
away from, is something more than a mere
creature of fancy. He’s a dream. He’s a
maiden’s prayer.
“DOROTHY O' THE HALL," AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
The beginnings of the window-smashing
and hunger-strike female , as demonstrated
by Dorothy (Nellie Stewart).
This is the time of the sear when the
panto, at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) can be
left to speak for itself. The local world goes
to see it, as a matter of course and a duty to
the children. “Cinderella” is running two
matinees a week, and when the band begins
to play, night or afternoon, the theatre is
always full. Australia is engaged in war
and suffering from drought, not to mention
the “iniquitous taxation” whereof the Argus
complains. But to look at the pilgrims flock-
ing to the panto, you would think that Woe
was as dead as Lot’s wife.
BOUGHT AND PAID FOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Oh, love me and the world is mine,”
Sings Midas to the maiden.
Her kiss is as a draught of wine
With scent of roses laden.
But when the dearest thing in life
Which Midas sought and prayed for
Becomes at last his lawful wife —
The girl is Bought and Paid For.
The goods are his. He counts the cost
And views his lot with pleasure;
He thinks the liberty he lost
Was worth his household treasure.
Then, later on, some goddess strange
Seems just the sort he’s made for,
And Midas wishes he could change
The spouse he Bought and Paid For.
O vision of fulfilled desire
( See Omar Khayyam’s verses) !
O men who wallow in the mire,
Transformed to swine by Circes!
O victims in the marriage game,
Though cash, or love, you played for,
The contract binds you just the same —
The fair young bride, the wrinkled
dame,
The dream of bliss, the chance of shame,
The faithful slave,'the husband’s name
Are duly Bought and Paid For.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


fcaCRAWFORDS
Scotch
S/'/
CKjte
%
<r
RED
STAR
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
As much may be said of “Sinbad t’ o
Sailor,” at Melbourne King’s, where frivolity
is more furious and prices are 35., 2s. and Is.
Last week’s Bulletin referred once to the
Andersonian outbreak as “Aladdin.” As a
matter of fact, it calls itself “Sinbad” and
sometimes behaves accordingly. At other
THE BAD UNCLES’ BATTLE IN THE
“BABES” PANTO.
Uncle Stanley ends hostilities by seriously
wounding uncle de Blanc I trousers.
limes it might as well be “Dick Whitting-
ton” or “The Babes and the Beanstalk.” The
hero (Olive Marston) is a gentle mariner
who fills up the Old Man of the Sea with
beer, and owes his immense success in life to
a Good Fairy. When a panto, fairy is look-
ing for a protege she invariably selects the
undeserving, only son of a terrible mother,
and follows him around with a magic wand.
The principal boy is, in short, the spoilt child
of fiction.
“The Woman Pays,” revived at Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday, is mainly
remarkable for the numerous misdeeds of
Rutland Beckett in the mouldy garb of the
villain-in-chief. Rutland gets the local
policeman busy by laying out the village
postman and separating the hero from his
blue-eyed Madge. Also be buys the help
of a beery derelict in wrecking the hero’s
fishing boat, and furnishes bed and board in
a lunatic asylum for the dilapidated damsel
who is the. muvver of his cheild. Beckett
pursues this varied course of conduct on
account of a sudden hankering for the fisher-
man’s bride, who is related to an imposing
bank account. However, the swindler’s loud
art never wins the fair lady, while two
homicidal schemes remain unrealised, and
other wicked intentions come to naught.
Beckett, wears all the pile off his velvet
tongue in his long course of crime, but even
his frayed eloquence deserves a better tailor.
Incidentally, Madge’s heavy parent (Jack
Kirby) is also not clothed according to the
high station to which it has pleased the man-
agement to call him, but he talks like a
person of circumstance, and swanks like 17
Prussian dukes. The only other mummer
who need be mentioned is C. R. Stanford,
who, as the drunken papa of Beckett’s err-
ing donah, occasionally pitches his voice to
piccolo heights, ■ but is otherwise a rather
soothing example of discretion over-ridden by
thirst. “The Night Side of London” will
be dealt with next Saturday.
# # Hs H:
Odiva in the Sea Lions’ Den continues to
be the longest item on Melbourne Tivoli bill.
Odiva, who looks no older than Annette
Kellermann did when she appeared the
same age, is a neat little tank artist,
but she does nothing that needs a
flow of oratory from the “announcer and
manager.” This functionary talks about the
little water nymph as though she were a sur-
prising novelty, whereas the performing sea
lions are really more amazing than the mer-
maid. The loquacious announcer has evi-
dently got them by the ear. One old flapper
stops to listen whilst his trainer talks, and
he does what he is told in the way of fin lift-
ing. Also he carries out instructions when
he. is under water—-and can’t hear them
being uttered. The turn is interesting,
though over long. Laura Guerite infuses new
and jovial spirit into old vaudeville busi-
ness ; Chester Kingston folds himself up into
parcels as before ; and Wright and Dietrich,
the Ascots and the Eclairs are reappearing
until further notice.
** * *
Professor Bristol’s monkey and elephant
are still heading the programme at Mel-
bourne Bijou, where the Grafters are con-
tinuing their nonsense in the nearly-musical
revue, “This is the Life.” The blended
voices of a male quartette are the strong
point of this part of the bill, but the humor
is. somewhat weak, and recalls the cheerful
raillery of a colored minstrel show. The
Milton pair of skaters are, however, wel-
come newcomers, and Irve Hayman and
Co.’s “Eternal Triangle” is an improvement
on their previous perpetration.
Providence evidently approved of
Adelaide’s theatrical revival, for simultane-
ously with it came cold, blustering weather,
which made theatres a welcome refuge in
the evening, and discouraged the open-air
shows. Graham Moffatt and Ella Young
and the rest bring out the flavor of “Bunty’s”
quaint humor; and Scotch patrons are care-
fully mollified with the assurance : “Of course
you aren’t like that now; and half a century
ago doesn’t matter.” But one regrets the
touch or two of sheer melodrama that have
been introduced into the gentle village. The
Tivoli season —why so brief? —shows a
strong Mclntosh bill, Rickaby being one of
the plums, and Violet Trevenyon another.
The musical Hedley is funny as well. At
the King’s is a neat variety programme,
with the Randell- Jackson concert-crowd
providing a large part of it; also the Miltons!
skate and Sam La Mert whistles. Wirths’
Circus season also is too short. Strollers
and Dandies continue in the open as before,
and there was the usual crop of Christmas
concerts, more or less suitable to the season.
“Jermyn Street” on a London show-place:
London, among the myriad other bric-it-brac which
has accumulated during a thousand strenuous years,
has certain curious seals. Once a man is stamped,
he stands acknowledged as super-eminent. Election
to the Bachelors’ Club closes all discussion as to the
social status of males. “Leading” for a big railway
company in a House of Lords Appeal connotes the
headship of the Bar. The Garter places the recipient
above all human criticism, and “leading” for George
“BOUGHT AND PAID FOR. ”
No. I. -How the wife looked when she married
the rich bloke.
No. 3. —And ho[?]v she looked when she left
him and went back to work.
Edwardes in musical comedy of course puts upon the
girl who holds the job the imprimatur of stainless
purity. The seal is placed upon the fame of the Black-
and-white artist when he exhibits at the Leicester Gal-
leries. There are other galleries, such as the Dore,
the Fine Arts and similar places, in Bond-street
and its environs, where Black and White artists
exhibit; but it is only the Leicester Galleries which
may bestow the cachet of London’s final approval.
An exhibition of Will Dyson’s work was opened
there a few days ago. The galleries in question
are just off Leicester Square, and as an institution
they constitute the London equivalent of Carteret’s,
the Paris bookseller’s, the little shop which is the
resort at about 11 every morning of half the famous
men who happen to be passing through Paris, and who
come to look over rare editions, bindings, type and
hand-made paper, and to chat with Carteret and
each other. The Leicester is run by “Leicester
Galleries Brown,” an odd and seemingly quite dull
fellow whose main interest is' that he is the only
art dealer in London at all tolerated by artists in a
social sense. Not that Brown is tolerated much,
because there seems to be always a kind of uneasy
feeling that a tiger has got into the tea-party, but
still to some extent he is tolerated. The last
Black-and-white' exhibition held at the Leicester
was of Max’s work. This was about two years ago.
Before that, and after his death, there was an exhibi-
tion of the works of Phil May.
An Australian cleric has been given the
job of deaning at Newcastle (N.S.W.). This
is Henry Archdall, son of Canon Archdall,
who canons at Drummoyne, Sydney. The new
dean, who is only 28, is reckoned one of the
most brilliant theological students turned out
at St. Paul’s College, Sydney ’Varsity. He is
at present dean of Corpus Christi College,
Cambridge ’Varsity. The young man is
married to a Madden, of Victoria, a
fact which may or may not have
helped in the extraordinary choice of an
Australian for the vacant Australian billet.
It’s mostly when a bottle-oh is wanted that
the Australian is hurriedly summoned.
In war time one compulsorily-trained man
is worth a heap of volunteers. Thus
Britain is improvising an army after the war
has started, and Private Henry Slump is
learning the goose-step when he is badly
wanted at the front. On the other hand,
Prime Minister Botha, of South Africa,
simply intimates to the burghers that the
time is ripe for a final argument with the
adjacent German provinces, and calls them
out. And as these hard-bitten men learned
the goose-step in infancy, there is no more
delay than is involved in catching the horse
and getting the rifle loaded.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Haresfoot”: Belasco writes a shocking
account of brilliant actresses who have de-
scended to abject poverty; and I could sup-
plement him with as many other cases from
my own knowledge. But (thank God!)
here in Melbourne we have Coppin’s Mel-
bourne Homes, where at least three worthy
actresses of my acquaintance are housed in
their old age. The U.S.A. have a
really noble institution, too, founded by
Edwin Forrest. When last I heard of it its
inmates it was sheltering, among many
others, Mr. and Mrs. John Jack, two stars
who visited Sydney and Melbourne, but later
got on their uppers. Belasco relates that
he once produced “The Hunchback” with
two splendid women, then in the front rank,
Olga Brandon and Adele Waters. Jones
wrote his play of “Judah” for Olga. Yet she
perished wretchedly in England. Adele’s
fate was horrible. Belasco encountered her
in a New York street, as a grey-haired, pre-
maturely-old woman, begging with a tin for
money!
“L.H.P.”: “The Babes in the Wood,”
revived in Sydney after a sleep of many
years, was last done at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) in 1897-8, with Bert Gilbert as
the Baron, Acta Reeve as Robin Hood and
Alice Leamar as Maid Marion. Carrie
Moore and Lily Titheradge were the babes
and Geo. De Lara the Dame. The robbers
were Johnny Coleman and John Burke.
The scenery was by the Gordons, father and
son, and Goatcher; and the final scene, “The
Wedding Breakfast,” was an eye-opener at
the time.
: Old melodramas like “The Silver
King and “Lights o’ London” are remark-
able nowadays for their independence of the
phone. In “The Silver KiDg,” to be sure, the
detective sends a telegram, but it is done
without any visible introduction of ways and
means. Modem dramas owe so much to the
phone and the wire that you forget the
time when there was no ringing-up or send-
ing messages. Why, in “The Whip” the
comedy widow played her principal scene
with her mouth to the funnel and her ear to
“BOUGHT AND PAID FOB," AT MEL-
BOURNE ROYAL.
James Gilley.
Robert Stafford takes his
wife to his bosom.
the receiver. The up-to-date police officer,
or heroic criminal, depends on conversation
with distant individuals for the most thrilling
effects. Julius Knight once produced a
French domestic tragedy in . two scenes,
which was called “At the Telephone,” and
had ho horrors apart from the apparatus. In
the latest play at Melbourne Royal—-“ Bought
and Paid For” —a meeting between husband
and wife is essential to a happy ending, so
their brother-in-law ’phones the husband to
come along and be forgiven.
“Harrison O.” : It seems to be an aim of
U.S. dramatists to make what might be
snappy 15-minutes sketches into three- or
four-act plays. In Melbourne lately we
have had “The Yellow Ticket,” “The Chorus
Lady” and “Bought and Paid For,” all of
which contain material for excellent curtain-
raisers, but have been stretched, padded,
draped with slang and offered as whole-even-
ing entertainments. The first two started
ar a quarter-past eight and finished shortly
after ten, most of the intervening time being
taken up by intervals; but “Bought and
Paid For,” with the assistance of three
breaks, keeps going for nearly three hours,
with debilitating results. The whole of the
dramatic interest is contained in the second
act, and even that could be improved by the
use of a lawn-mower on it. Yankee story-
writers have always been more successful
with the short story than with the novel, and
if U.S. stage craftsmen would but learn that
prolixity is not the soul of playmaking, they
might meet with similar success.
“li.R.”: Talking about Harlequin, W. S.
Gilbert had a fancy for playing the part,
chiefly in private theatricals, but sometimes
in public. One occasion was in a “Forty
Thieves” pantomime, which he and three
others —H. J. Byron, F. C. Burnand and
Robert Reece—wrote for a charity matinee
at London Gaiety. Gilbert, then aged 42,
donned the orthodox diamond patches, and
jumped through windows in workmanlike
style. The cast of the panto, included both
amateurs and professionals. Lydia Thomp-
son, sister of Mrs. Henry Bracy, was Mor-
giana.
“G.J.H.”: One of the features of “Cinder-
ella” in Melbourne is an “animated song
sheet,” which is alleged to be the invention
of the panto producer. Fourteen years ago
this or a very similar idea was used effec-
tively by the second World’s Entertainers at
the Bijou (Melb.). Nothing like the rub-
bish heap of the Past for original ideas.
None of the girls who have followed Maud
Allan in the bare-footed dancing line of busi-
ness have cultivated their sinuous arm move-
ments like the original Salome. From the
waist upwards she is a beautiful exponent of
physical culture, and, as an artist in facial
expression is qualified to teach a class of
leading English actresses. But public criti-
cism of a danseuse mostly disregards her
arms. Her popularity with the fleshly-
minded crowd stands on her legs, or doesn’t
stand at all.
“Record Room”: Some desperate efforts
have been made to ring the changes on "he
name of Cinderella. Fred Leslie and Nellie
Farren presented “Cinder Ellen Up Too
Late” at a Melbourne matinee, on their final
visit to Australia in 1890-1. It did not reach
London till later. Under his pseudonym of
“A. C. Torr (ac-tor-r), Leslie collaborated
in the book with W. T. Vincent. A feature
was the usual plenteous punning of the
period. Besides an innumerable host of
Cinderellas “straight,” there have been pan-
tomimes, burlesques, or other thistledown
shows, called “Cinder Nelly,” “Done-to-a-
Cinderella,” “Little Cinderella,” “Miss Cin-
derella,” and “Our Cinderella,” as well as
“Cinderella the First.” “Cinderella the
Second,” and “Cinderella the Younger.”
F. R. Benson, the English actor who
plays hardly anything but Shakspeare, has
set a good example to some others. He has
been playing Romeo for over 30 years, and
suddenly woke up to the fact that he no
longer quite looks the character. So he
promoted a romantic-looking youngster of
his well-trained co., and himself took the
small part of the Friar.
“S.S.” : “Sinbad,” at Melbourie King’s, is
an easy winner on the voices, and is several
laps ahead on its legs too. Ralston is an
exceptionally good warbler for pantomime;
the fairy queen has a sweet young voice; and
Eugene Ossipoff, a Russian basso, would
be the best Demon King seen here for many
years if the localiser had given him more
than a bare half-chance to demonstrate his
exceptional dramatic talent, and if the
stage-manager had made a little more use
of his extraordinary vocal organs.
“Melb” : Belasco recalls an interesting
character. He and Salmi Morse, he says,
got up the interdicted performance of the
Passion Play in San Francisco and N’York
over 30 years ago. This Salmi Morse had
been landlord of the Criterion Hotel, Collins-
street, Melbourne, and he, it appears, was
author of the play—infinitely superior to
the Ober-Ammergau doggerel, although
based upon it. “Luckv” Baldwin was the
financier. He might have been lucky in
this too, but for the authorities stopping
the play. To give authority another chance
to prove it wasn’t entirely an ass, the per-
formance was transferred to New York ; but
it was nipped there in the bud, too, al-
though by all accounts it was immeasur-
ably better than the biograph “Life of
Christ” tolerated in Australia and else-
where.
MELBOURNE
SHOWS-
DURING THE
RESTIVE
SEASON.
It’s 51 years since “The Merry Widow”
was first produced in London. But not the
lady of the waltz and the hat. “The Merry
Widow” of 1863 was a play by Leicester
Silk Buckingham. Some of his other titles
of the same period sound quite modern. For
instance, revues of to-day might easily bear
such names as “Do Shake Hands,” “Don’t
Lend Your Umbrella,” and “Take That
Girl Away.”
W. S. Percy, the vest-pocket comedian, is
acting as a special constable in London.
Percy as a real policeman should be a
humorous feature of London life; but it is
to be hoped that no ordinary citizen will step
on him inadvertently, and that no wicked
female German spy will smother him in her
muff.
(Continued on page 38.)


The NEW BOSTOCK BOOT
We illustrate one of the smart new shapes chosen from our new
arrivals of Bostock footwear. These boots and shoes are all
English hand-made, and have that fine' appearance and finish
which so distinguish the productions of this famous firm.
BLACK GLACE KID LACE BOOTS.
Patent Toe Caps. Light, welted soles. Smart last.
Price *. 357-
Same price in Box Calf Lace Boot.
Similar style in All Patent Lace Boot 37/6
Shoes, 32/6.
BLACK and TAN CALF LACE BROGUE SHOES.
Welted soles. Full round toes ‘. 30 /-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
7A
V ,
Y
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp.
G.P.0.,
Sydney
HOW TO KEEP COOL!
in the hot weather is a question we can easily
solve for you by the aid of our noted
“VENTILACE”
UNDERWEAR
It is important that your next-to-the-skin garments
should be cool, absorbent and durable. These are
the features of the Ventilace Underwear, which is
made in strong, open mesh, permitting ventilation
and the maximum of comfort.
Here’s Good Value for You!
SINGLETS OR
KNICKERS ...
29
POST FREE TO
ANY ADDRESS.
Write for our Fine 3 Complete Men’s Wear Catalogue.
CHAS, LANE & CO.
PTY.,
LTD.,
“ The Mail-Order
House for Men,”
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne*
)V
I
□
Once
Worn
Always
Worn
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
“Snell” : Re the query about the abound-
ing fatness of Victorian military officers (B.
24/12/T4). It is deliberate, a matter of
tactics. They have heard of Napoleon’s
saying that a soldier travels on his stomach.
THE LOST DRINK.
MRS. FLANNIGAN : “Ah, Dennis, I didn't main to hurt ye quite so much. It's sorry
I am."
FLANNIGAN : “I kin forgive ye the twisting ye gave me, Norah, but ye’ve made me sober
all over agin, na! THAT'S a very different matther."
For nine years now the Yic. National
Gallery travelling scholarship has been
carried off by girls. This year a girl takes
the cake, and a second secures the biscuit—
a consolation prize of £5O cash given at
the discretion of the judges. But in these
nine years the lady artist has not shown
any other indication of going up top in
Victorian art. The fact seems to be that
girls have a certain technical precocity that
serves them well in the early stages. The
boys come later and stay longer. Looked
at in this light the scholarships are of
dubious use, the prizes being for sprinters
only, whereas in art the race is not to the
swift but to the strong. Art is long, whereas
art scholarships are to the sudden.
* * * *
“The Old Soldier” holds forth :—-
“From September 15 to November 30,” a Paris
message says, “the French Army Medical Service
dealt with 489,733 wounded. Over half of these
have already returned to the Front.” This is signi-
ficant of the high efficiency of that branch of the
army, and contrasts cheerfully with the horrible
disclosures of the Balkan wars. The figures for the
wars of 50 or 60 years ago offer a still more re-
markable contrast. Just 60 years ago the Crimean
disagreement was at its top, and the percentage of
recoveries from what were classed as “severe,” and
“serious” wounds was then very small, and that
a man who had received a temporarily disabling
wound should be back in the ranks in three months
was unheard-of. A severe compound fracture of leg
or arm, especially by gunshot, was held to necessi-
tate amputation, and only two patients out of three
recovered from amputation in a field hospital. There
are many reasons for the changed conditions. The
modern small-bore, long-range rifle, terrifying as its
performances seem, makes much less painful and
dangerous wounds than the old muzzle-loading
Enfield. And then there is antiseptic surgery, which
has saved thousands of limbs from amputation. There
is also the improvement in hospital and ambulance
organisation. In the Crimea there was no ambulance.
Before the Battle of the Alma Sir Colin Campbell
laid down the law in an order for the Highland
Brigade: “If a man falls wounded let him lie till a
bandsman comes to attend to him. If any man falls
out on pretence of helping the wounded, I will have
his name posted on the door of his parish church.”
The bandsmen were the bearers in those days; and
for long after the hospital was a purely regimental
affair, controlled by the regimental surgeon, who
was a fixture. In war time, when base hospitals
had to be formed, they were manned with half-pay
and unattached surgeons, under inspectors-general.
The whole thing was a manifest absurdity, which no
one but a War-office clerk could have ever expected
to work out in practice. Anyway, the wars of the
last 40 years have shown that regimental hospitals
are useless —an elastic medical service, capable of
being suited to an infinite variety of circumstances,
being essential to efficiency. The French seem to
have reached a point of perfection, though it .must be
remembered that they have the advantage of operat-
ing in their own country, in the midst of their own
resources, and close to the vast medical means to be
found in Paris arid its hospitals.
No. I.—VOI'NO PERSON’: »> Do you fcoow, 1 have
neve** Seyn the i Whole it Hke ?
SOCIETY EXRKRT: “ Well, you Mil* hotd of the
r| nearest you, catch as catch can
No. 2. “ And you just wipe tlie tioor with her,
like this, here ! ”
What may be called an affair of outposts
happened in a Melbourne suburb between
rhricUm-v* end th P Now Year Tt annears
Christmas and the New Year. It appears
according to one side of the story, that
Elliott, an immigrant, having spent Boxing
Day at the seaside with some friends, among
whom were a Mr. and Mrs. Mace, became
enamored of the lady, and, on calling to
spend the next evening at their house, pro-
posed that Mace should abrogate all right
and title in his wife and transfer her to him,
Elliott, thenceforth and until death should
them part. Mrs. Mace was surprised, not
to say shocked; as for Mace, failing to per-
ceive the humor of the proposition, he
turned Elliott out. The gentleman didn’t
go, however, until he had assured the couple
that he would put a bullet into each of them
and then one into himself. There is a sus-
picion that he began to be as good as his
word, too; for about midnight the Maces
heard someone prowling round, and presently
a charge of shot came through the window.
Having no weapons, the pair crawled into
the kitchen, Mace carrying his little son,
and they assumed a more or less entrenched
position behind the stove. Then a couple of
shots raked the spare room adjoining, and
bombardment ceased, the com-
th< T adv^ r -
t ? V irfr m ?bed that part of his
? n ut ,l lott_f was
seems to have overlooked the rest ot
his contract; for, when he was arrested
in the afternoon, in a hansom and an
exhilarated frame of mind, there was
no bullet in him. He didn’t seem to
see that anything abnormal had hap-
pened, though he mentioned casually that
he ‘‘loved Mrs. Mace and had intended
to kill her and himself.” There is a want
Of logic about the excuse; but there’s no
logic about love, anyway.
*.’**»
“Mil”: Re the first appeal made to Aus-
£ t-. ... , £ . .
tialia for soldiers for British foreign service,
and the stipulation by British recruiting
officers that only “men of the highest charac-
ter” would be accepted. Any pressed or
crimped men were good enough to fight the
-kt i ,
h rench at sea in Napoleon s days ; and the
requisition for angelic cut-throats to fight
the battles of John Company in India must
have been dictated by a desire to keep any
possible loot for John Company aforesaid,
The British have never regarded a private
soldier or a non-com. with much respect
during peace; and in war they have usually
treated him to a half-patronising cajolery.
The only way to make the calling of a sol-
dier entirely respectable is compulsory
service. Everybody participates and enlist-
ment is an involuntary duty. But even
tlus war hasn ’t s 0 far been sharp enough to
ierce the hi(Je of English conse rvatism.
* * * *
The recent appointment of a much-needed
fourth Judge to the S. Aus. Supreme Court
has led to an odd position alreadw the
Bench being equally divided in an appeal
case. Appealing has hitherto been almost
useless, as the Judge who was against you
before would presumably be so still, and
both the others had to be convinced that he
was wrong if you were to succeed ; but now
there is a sporting chance. In this case,
Judge Buchanan had ruled that the family
of a driver, fatally hurt by tipping over a
projecting rail on a Port Adelaide wharf,
~,., ~ . ,
had no claim for compensation, because he
kne w of the slight danger that existed. On
the appeal Murray upheld that view, but
Chief Justice Way and Gordon were both
inst it . An old English ru i e was dug
, , ~ s • . .. ~
U P the case ; on a tie, it seems, the
“junior” Judge withdraws ; and that meant
Buchanan. So it was two to one for the
bereaved family. But of course the wharf-
owrdng company, encouraged by the original
tie, promised to take yet another chance—
in High Court. Law is great fun if you
don’t have to bother about ixpense.
~ * *, , _ , * *
b rom The Oldest Inhabitant :
0f the ancient homes of Sydney (B. 17/12/’l4)
Va.ucluse, the Wentworths’ old place, is in the
hands of a Government caretaker. The room where
the state Constitution was framed is to be the office
of a board of management when a use has been
found for the house - Greycliffe, where another
generation of Wentworths lived, is now an Infants’
Convalescent Home. Carrara, John Hoskings’ old
place, is a Convalescent Home for Women. Toxteth
! ark (««>rge Allen’s) is a R.C. convent and school.
Avona (A. H. C. Macafee’s) and Strathmore (G.
Wigram Allen > s) are c of E Refuge Hom \, s .
Elswick (James Norton’s) and Cleveland House
(Mayor Cleveland’s) are R.C. institutoins. Lyndhurst
*- Dr ; Bowman’s) is a Salvation Army home; and
' Ha T !? h B R b Co ° per s ) a hc, ™ e for state
children. John Ryan Brenan’s home, Garryowen, is
now part of Callan Park Lunatic Asylum. Ultimo
House, built a hundred years ago by surgeon John
Harris, is in the occupation of the Technical
College. Old Government House, Parramatta, the
home of the Governors up to Fitzroy’s time, is part
of King’s School. Tarmons, Victoria-street, where
Maurice O’Connell died, and which later on was
the home of Charles Nicholson, is a part of St.
Vincent’s Convent, and was the first St. Vincent’s
Hospital. And Flinton, Glenmore-road, auctioneer
Dean’s old home, is part of the Women’s Hospital.
A SPRING SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Things will be dull in Belgium till the spring.
—Daily paper.
Oh, Winter is a dull and dreary time;
We cannot pot the foeman on the hill;
The snow conceals a lot o’ battle grime,
And sometimes there’s a sniff o’ “Peace-be-still.”
The weary ones can get a spell o’ rest,
And when the winter day is growing dim,
From trenches that are breeding up a pest
There sometimes comes the chanting of a hymn.
But cheer, boys, cheer,
For the change o’ the year,
When the shrapnel will be singing on the wing;
There’ll be shooting,
’Stead o’ fluting,
And a glorious burst of carnage with the coming o’
the Spring.
We cannot do our duty as we should,
When half the world is hidden in the snow;
We cannot shoot as gaily as we could
When frozen into stillness is the foe;
We just were getting handy at the game,
And ran our little Maxims without hitch,
When down the meddling Frost in fury came,
And pinned us tight and peaceful in the ditch.
The violets will be blooming in the dell,
The daisies will be dancing in the grass,
The primrose will be peeping out to spell
The message that the Winter has to pass;
And we shall limber up the jolly gun,
To save the land that’s nibbled by the sea,
And paint the budding plain a bitter dun,
And drive the mad marauder to the Spree.
But cheer, boys, cheer,
For the change o’ the year,
When the shrapnel will be singing on the wing;
There’ll be shooting,
’Stead o’ fluting,
And a glorious burst o’ carnage at the coming o’
the Spring.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


Recipe to STOP DANDRUFF
This Home-made Mixture Stops Dandruff
and Falling: Hair and Aids Its
Growth.
To a half-pint of water add :
Bay Rum . . . . . . .. 1 oz.
Orlex Compound . . • . a small box
Glycerine . . • ■ • • - . i oz.
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used. A
half-pint should be enough to rid the head of
dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. It
stops the hair from falling out, relieves itch-
ing and scalp diseases- • 1
Although it is not a dye, it acts upon the
hair roots and will darken streaked, faded,
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh has’- 5 ’-
soft and glossy.* ' .[5
COOLNESS FOR THE FEET
the Lightest Make in Socks.
For coolness and comfort, during summer we recom-
mend our latest importation of light cotton half-
hose. This is a dependable line of good cotton
texture, reinforced at the toes and heels.
It is lighter in weight than any other line previously
introduced —lighter and cooler —and the strengthen-
ing of- the toes and heels ensures good service. We
recommend these socks for general wear during the
next few months.
In Black, Tan, Grey, Navy and White.
1/6 pair; 17/6 dozen pairs.
Please state boot size.
New Catalogue, in colors, on request.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.
Men’s
Outfitters,
509 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Racketty Broken Hill harvested some of
the crop of its own sowing on New Year’s
Day, and promptly sowed some more. When
it gets into trouble the big isolated mining
town’s instant idea is to claw its own way
out—as, for instance, when, not having got
all the Government relief work it asked for,
it held up all the Government trams for
one hour, for a start; or as when, the water
having been turned off from certain houses
for non-payment of rates, a mass meeting
called for volunteers, who, armed with picks
and shovels, opened up the streets and
simply turned it on again. Breathing that
sort of air, a couple of Turks, who had been
prosecuted for slaughtering without a license,
clawed back in the local manner —with
trimmings. Nailing the flag of the Un-
speakable to their ice-cream cart, they
dropped into a trench dug alongside the
railway line for a water-main, and with a
couple of rifles poured bullets into a crowded
picnic train that was running to Silverton.
Incidentally they picked off a man who
happened to be passing on a bicycle. When
the train had got out of range they retired
round the hilly outskirts of the town, and
put up a willing defence against police and
civilians from behind a clump of rocks.
When the Red Cross had picked up the,
pieces the ice-cream insurrection was found
to have left behind it five corpses, including
one of the Turks, and seven more or less
badly wounded, including the other Unspeak-
able. By the time the casualties had been
tallied Broken Hill was a very mad town
again, and ready to knock the head off
anybody who couldn’t swear he had no
foreign blood in him. For a start it burned
down the German club while it howled
“Rule Britannia,” and was only headed off
an attack on a so-called Afghan settlement
—known as the Camel Camp-—with great
difficulty. Then it wiped the dust out of
its eyes, cut its crib, and went to the Trades
Hall to talk about the universality of Labor
and the brotherhood of man.
AT THE THEATRE.
SHE: “Oh, isn’t he lovely! Awfully talented,
I think.”
HE : “Well, of course, every actor's got talent,
but very few of them can prove it.”
Melbourne’s licensing law was responsible
for another death a couple of Sundays ago.
Anybody in Melbourne can get all the Sun-
day liquor he doesn’t need by travelling the
10 miles to Brighton Beach, Hampton or
Sandringham—Brighton Beach preferred,
because by that route the tanglefoot is met
the sooner. So the Sunday night trains re-
turning to Melbourne make noises like a
pigsty eating with both feet in the trough.
The most recent accident happened to a
well-filled soldier, who failed to board a
Melbourne-bound train, and was killed under
the wheels. Brighton is the very wowser
district which returns Orange Snowball to
Parliament; but wowserdom doesn’t say
much about the Sunday invasion of drunks,
because the Sunday liquor-trade is a vested
interest and a valuable local industry.
“W.D.”: The efforts of T. E. Brown to
prove his sanity illustrate a familiar vagary
of the criminal lunatic. Though the
proof in this case was clear as day,
Brown probably has a rooted belief
that a properly-conducted defence would have
secured his acquittal, and that the menial
issue should never have been raised. The
individual who has probably saved more
criminal lives than any other living being
is Dr. Dyer, the chief alienist of the British
Government. All the alleged murderers of
London and its environs pass through his
hands if they can be caught. From the
moment of committal he is with them con-
stantly. Friendly chat is the method em-
ployed for ascertaining their mental
condition; and, as lie regards his job
from a purely subjective point of view, he
is just as likely to give his evidence in the
interests of the prisoner as against him. This
being so he has very frequently given evi-
dence which has caused the jury to return
that verdict of “guilty, but insane” which is
followed by an order for internment in Broad-
moor “during the King’s Dleasure.” Broad-
moor is the asylum for homicidal lunatics.
Dyer is responsible for a very large propor-
tion of its inmates, and he once told me that
there is not one among them but would kill
him on opportunity. Each of them thinks
that the raising of the insanity issue in his
particular case was a fatal error, and that if
the matter had been fought out a verdict of
not guilty must have resulted. It is a queer
psychological fact that in about 80 per cent,
of cases the optimism of the accused is in
inverse ratio to the clearness of the proof.
Dyer’s pleasantest patient and his most un-
pleasant, so far, have both been well-known
men. Crippen was the pleasant one ; Dyer
describes him as a man of charming manners.
The other was Seddon, the man who tortured
his victim for 14 days with arsenic.
* * * *
“C.E.” : The largest contract so far let in
connection with the electrification of Mel-
bourne railroads is with the General Electric
Co. of New York. These people are to get
£676,180 for equipping 400 motor “coaches”
and 400 trailer
“coaches.” A first
consignment of 90
electric motors is just
to hand, with the
company’s representa-
tive, who will proceed
to fit them into the
carriages, of which a
first lot of 120 are
being built at the
Newport (Vic.) work-
shops. A number of
existing carriages will
be transformed for
motor use. Power to
drive all these will be
generated at the im-
mense new station,
close to the Yarra,
between Footscray and
Williamstown. It will
be transmitted as al-
ternating current, at
a voltage of 2QJOOO, to
the sub-stations, where
it will be reduced to
1500 volts, and trans-
formed into direct
current, which will be
gathered from over-
head contact wire. The
Westinghouse brake,
now worked by pump
fixed to the locomotive,
will be worked under
the new system in
conjunction with the
electrical apparatus,
as in the tram services
familiar in other
cities. Hitherto most
of the work in con-
nection with the
change - over from
steam to current has
been done in work-
shops, and hidden
from the public eve.
Now. however, Mel-
bourne watches two
big and ugly brick
buildings grow east of i'rince’s Bridge : apd
these are but the beginning of much visible
industry.
* * * *
An unusual marine circumstance was
noted off the N. S. Wales South Coast last
week when the new cargo steamer Bodalla
picked up a hawser and threw out of busi-
ness both of her propellers during a howling
gale. The skipper hoisted a sail and man-
aged to claw off the land until the Captain
Cook, the Sydney pilot-steamer, tore to the
rescue and cleverly floated a lifebuoy with a
line attached down to the cripple, Then a
wire rope was dragged through the foaming
whiskers of Davy Jones apd the, pilot-
steamer towed the dead-beat into harbor. It
was a dangerous job, but that’s a detail to
the Captain Cook and her crew.
!]! * * *
“Jean Sibi”: The pictures for the Mel-
bourne Gallery Scholarship, which was re-
cently won by Miss Ethel Bishop, show the
same old enthusiasm for polite genre effects.
The winning canvas is merely a plain view
of three unattractive females inspecting a
collection of crockery alleged to have been
ejected from a trunk near by. The.subject
has no title, but Inasmuch as the artist has
painted more brealffibles than the portman-
teau could possibly hol’d., the effort might be
labelled “A Bu.ll in a China Shop.” The
second prize-winner, Marjorie Withers,
a daughter of the late landscape-painter, sup-
plies a likeable piece of serio-comic relief —
flappers in an abandopiutpvt of giggle over a
letter. The work is not imposing, hut the
figures are more na.tjttiat;ari , l convincing than
Miss Bishop’s careless characters. Anatomy,
ope would say, is not Miss'Bishop’s strong
point. Qf.the remaining competitors—both
males, iby the : way—G. Punstan has a
struggle with a studio interior embellished
by a nude and two other damsels, and loses
gracefully on points. The other trier, A.
E. Newbury; ndishandles the countenances
of a musically-inclined party mobilised aboiffi
a table. The color scheme and general
layout are good enough, but two of the faces
belong to people who have plainly died by
drowning.
It has taken the best part of twc years
to decide whether Thomas Brown, oj. Gor-
don (N.S.W.), is sane or not; and Ju„dce
Harvey, who has finally decided that he
isn’t, is probably wondering whether, on the
evidence, 50,000 other .citizens of N. S.
Wales wouldn’t have to be declared insane
likewise, supposing they had the bad luck
to have their con-
dition investigated.
Judging by Brown’s
actions, liis appear-
ance and his demeanor
in court, Justice
Harvey considered him
of normal mind and
more intelligent than
most, and a good deal
of medical evidence
supported the view.
Most of the experts,
however, declared him
to be a hopeless victim
to systematised illu-
sions. Paranoia, his;
disease, is alleged to
be incurable, and
Justice Harvey, in
siding with the experts
—plainly with re-
luctance condemned
Brown to return to
the asylum. Public
opinion, formed on
the lucid- clever way
in which the man
fought for his liberty,
is more or less uneasy
about his fate. But
two facts cannot be
overlooked; (1) That
Brown served writs
for over £20,000
against leading public
officers, from the
Judges of the Supreme
Court downwards, accusing them of
malice and spite against him; (2)
That in proceedings arising therefrom a
police-sergeant was killed in Brown’s house.
Considering these things in connection with
the medical evidence, it isn’t surprising that
Justice Harvey could not reconcile himself
to the responsibility of giving the man his
liberty.
The Victorian Government celebrated the
New Year by abolishing that ancient custom
or institution, Black Maria, and substituting
a new and ornate Motor Gwendolyn. The
new vehicle doesn’t, bold so many as the old,
two-horse ’bus. but it travels twice as fast.
The poor old Federal fish-catcher En-
deavor is apparently lost or adrift in the
south seas. It was a small vessel intended
for the purpose of digging up Jonah’s
prawn from the bottom of all moist things.
Nobody remembered to plenish it with the
wireless telegraph, yet it was despatched on
a mission which took it into cold, rough
waters far away from the paths of : trade.
Time, that great roller, rolled on, afid the
belated trawler became many days overdue.
If it has broken down it may drift around
the homeless waters till the Day : of Judg-
ment and not be found. Steamers are being
rushed out at great expense to hunt for it,
but the wet country is very wide, and for
want of a few pounds’ worth of mechanism
the Endeavor, supposing it to be afloat,; can’t
explain its position. So £lOO,OOO wofth of
ship may search over £2,000,000 worth of
the great deep, and not find a trace. It is
a curious circumstance that a Government
which passed the present strenuous Naviga-
tion Act should send its own ship prowling
round the bleak Macquaries in such an un-
furnished condition. i
BRUTAL SPORT AND GENTLE
WARFARE.
The brutal and debasing sport of prize-lighting still
flourishes. —Wowser comment.
STIGGINS : “A brutal and. debasing sport,
friend. Why are they not fighting their
country’s battles?”
SARCASTIC SPORT: “My dear sir, it wouldn’t
be safe. Their methods might result in
some poor German getting hurt.”
THE LADY OF THE MOTOR-CAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lady of the Motor-car she stareth straight
ahead;
Her face is like the stone, my friend, her face, is
like the dead ;
Her, face is like the stone, my friend,, because she is
“well bred” —-
Because her heart is dead, my friend, as all her life
was dead.
The Lady of the Motor-car she speaketh like a man,
Because her girlhood never was, nor womanhood began.
She says,. “To the Aus-traliah, John!” and “Home”
when she hath been.
And to the husband at her side she says, “Whhat doo
you mean?”
The Lady of the Motor-car her very soul is dead,
Because she never helped herself nor had to work
for bread.;, ■'
The Lady of the Motor-car sits in her sitting-room,
Her stony face has never changed though all the
land is gloom.
Her motor-car hath gone to hell —-the hell that man
hath made ;
She sitteth in her sitting-room, and she is not afraid ;
Nor fear of life or death, or worse could change her
well-bred .mien ;
She knits - socks in a stony way, and says, “Whhat
doo they mean?”
The lady in her'carriage sits, with cushions turning
green —
And once it was a mourning-coach, and once it held
a queen.
Behind a coachman and a horse too old to go to
war,
She driveth to her “four o’clocks” and to her sick and
poor.
And when the enemy bombards and walls begin to
fall,
The Lady of the Motor-car shall stand above you
all;
Amongst the strong and silent brave, and those who
pray or shriek,
She’ll nurse the wounded from the grave and pacify
the weak.
And if the enemy prevails, with death, on, every side,
The Lady of the Car shall die as heroines have died.
But . if the victory remains, she’ll be what she hath
; been,
And, sitting in her motor-car, shall say: “Whhat doo
you mean?”
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
sj/ \v\y al fus) ?
I fKe adie-j a 5 k
\v\yal + \is silly .4
\ om
dst into a
Bal -roorM
aJ:_
yon ll see rrvvic \ •
more \
TIB
N.S.W.


THE GO-SLOW SYSTEM.
In m ost trades there is one fixed, uniform rater for the finished journeyman, whether his be exceptional, of the average, or indifferent. The strongest, quickest, most
highly-skilled operative has little incentive to give the best that is in him; on the other hand, if he lay, say, 1000 bricks while the slowcoach at his side is laying 500, he runs the
risk of losing caste amongst his fellows as one who is not above "beating a comrade out of a job."-Melbourne AGE.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: “My word! You’re making a lon a job of it!"
THE PROFESSOR: “That’s the test. The stronger the body, the slower the up-put?”


Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
IIDB^S
•FOUNDED-1888
PHILLIPS - ORMONDE&O
Consu/A/np Engineer's, PerfenA EFA/brncyS
one/ 7Aac/e AlcirA A7pcn/3 • 17QUEEN S T
MELBOURNE
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
MEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . *
effected on all classes of
Building's, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
In preparing your Motor Car for
Summer Travelling don’t forget a
“HOSGIEL”
TWIN=COLOR
MOTOR RUG.
Made in Color=tones to match the
Car! Superbly Beautiful and
Luxuriously Comfortable.
Sold at all
the Best Shops.
[2
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS. ,
r^>
r
V/W t
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Tiaki” : Maoriland is stiifon the simmer,
and is quivering and shaking like a great blanc-
mange. The land o' quakes lias probably never had
such a number of jerks in such a short time since
Maui fished it out of the Pacific. There have been
over 50 shakes during the last month, and one is
just starting another rumble-jumble as I write this.
Thousands of bottles of “frisk” have been broken in
the pubberies, and Bung is now fencing his glass-
ware in with wirework. A shiver which occurred
on a recent Sunday night provided much excitement
in holy edifices. One parson knelt in the aisle and
prayed for a cessation of the quivers. The response
was so prompt that, the shake ended before the
pilot got to his Amen.
*'' * * *
“Sour Grapes”: Summer seems to bring
out all the futile and unnecessary things that lie
dormant during the chilly months. Right in the
forefront of the cohorts of summer march the shc-
ancl he-flappers in all their finery; then come the
shapeless people who balloon into the surf in broad
daylight instead of staying decently clothed until
nightfall, and then hurling themselves anonymously
into seas of ink. A Minister for Grace and Elegance
would banish them from a sunlight world ; but, in
the present state of Australian finances, the portfolio
and department cannot be thought of. I don’t
know whether summer produces the unnecessary
people, animals and insects with which it is infested,
or Whether the hot weather merely makes them
obvious. The mosquito, for instance, is a sort of
damnable impromptu of summer; but the he- and
she-fiappers and the fat people are not hatched out in
stray puddles by one day of heat. They must hibernate
in ordinary clothes all about us until the time comes
for them to throw off their disguises, spread their
wings or bathing suits, and flutter out into the
world. I don’t know which is worse —the crowd you
meet on the ocean beach at night or the ridiculous
things that arrive through the open window when
you go home in disgust (or a tram) and light the
evening lamp. Somebody—Providence, I suspect.—-
must have spent a lot of time designing these low
comedians of the air. They couldn’t have happened
accidentally, because they are so complete and so
cleverly fitted together. A thing with 20 green legs
that I couldn’t make in a year has just suicided
casually down the glass chimney of my lamp and
made the flame splutter. 1 don’t know why it should
suicide; perhaps its steering gear went wrong. At
any rate, it seems a sinful waste of time and trouble
on somebody’s part. Just as I sat down to read, 1
was much annoyed by seeing a note of exclamation
hurrying from the decree nisi of a divorce court
report towards the black heading: “SOCIETY
SENSATION.” I made a chance snap at the thing
with my scissors, and nipped the head off a small
black insect that is a perfect stranger to me. In-
stead of having some manners and dying at once,
the severed head, which had rushed forwards after
the accident on a pair of legs it happened to have in
reserve, stopped, turned round and looked at the
hindquarters, which were hurrying round in aimless
circles quite half an inch away. “Come on, Willie!”
screamed the head, and, throwing itself on its hair,
beckoned madly with the two legs. I did not
hesitate a moment; taking up a matchbox, I placed
it over the scene of the absurd incident and pressed
hard. There were two smudges on the paper when I
lifted the box. Do you think this summer is likely
to be a long one?
* * * *
“Moana”: A curious bird that inhabits
the islands to the south of Maoriland is the narrow-
billed dove petrel. Like the mutton-bird it breeds
mostly on the tiny outlying specks surrounding
Stewart Island, and it has the same habit of digging
a hole in the ground to lay its egg in. It makes a
burrow about four feet long in the peaty soil under
What are known as the mutton-bird trees, and in.
this it deposits one egg and hatches out the baby,
which it usually feeds at night. The queer bird
seems able to adapt itself to special circumstances,
for, on the barren Bounty Islands, where it breeds
in thousands, it lays its egg under large flat
boulders, there being neither soft earth to dig a hole
in nor grass to line a nest with.
QUALITY MINUS QUANTITY.
BUNG : Nothin wrong with the beer, is
there?"
THE CLIENT : “ Quality's all right , but I
think I’ll leave, it till the tide comes up."
“H.S.M.” : I met a man out back the other
day who had- lost bis pipe and had substituted the
sliankbone of a sheep, which he had hollowed out for
the tobacyo. He was puffing away quite contentedly.
I also Anew a man who lost his pipe away down the
Queen, Charlotte Sounds (M.L.). He moulded clay
around an ordinary cardboard matchbox, bored a
hole, shoved in a bit of reed for a stem, and he, too,
puffed contentedly. I know this because I was the
man.
HIS PANACEA.
MR. GABBIT : " The doctor told me I needed rest, and to keep away from the office for a
month.”
MRS. GABBIT: “ Ridiculous!”
MR. GABBIT : “ Certainly. I told him' that was the only rest I had."
“Gerald Barker”: “U. 8.,” in a recent
Bulletin, is quite right in booking a. niche fur Big-
john Forrest. His trip in ’69 was a wonderful piece
of exploring, and there is not a man in W.A. to-day
who would undertake it with horses now that we
know what the country is like. When the rush came
in ’92 many parties had a rough time of it there-
abouts, even with camels. Well knowing the country
along the route taken by Bigjohn, I dare swear that
he must have struck a particularly favorable season
as regards feed. The great trouble in that part of
Australia is that there are no regular seasons. I.
lived within cooee of Mount Weld for 10 years, and
at one period we had Sin. of rain in 18 months
(which meant no surface water anywhere), and at
another time 6in. in 14 days. Just recently all
records were broken at Laverton (20 odd miles from
Mount Weld), when they had Bin. in 10 days. It.
was between Leonora and Mount Weld that Bigjohn
and the other four members of his party nearly lost
their lives. They were just about done for water
when Windich, an aboriginal, struck a large creek
which runs into the northern end of Lake Carey.
Bigjohn called it Windich Brook. From there they
went to Mount Weld, a distance of 17 miles, and
erected a cairn of stones on the summit of the
northern face, said cairn still being there. But this
was not his farthest east. He penetrated nine miles
farther, and aptly named a large hill at the spot
where he retraced his steps, Mount East. At this
same Mount East he came to the edge of The Great
Victoria Desert, commonly called the Spinifex, and
showed his judgment when he: decided to turn back.
Had he proceeded it is a million to one that he
would have been posted as missing.
* * * *
The man who makes a wild wager in the
hope that it won’t be taken up fell in badly at
coaly Westport (M.L.) recently. The town council
there is carrying out a drainage scheme, and an
infuriated' opponent of the thing arose and said it
was a rotten job, and no man should have to toil in
the kind of trench that was being dug. He men-
tioned one exceptionally narrow trench and stated
that none of the councillors could work in it for half
an hour. Then his courage waxed, and he offered
to give “ten quid” to the Belgium Relief Fund if
so much as one of the councillors would toil a day-
shift and a night shift in that trench as an ordinary
working man. The “ten quid” was attractive, so
an energetic Mayor and a councillor took up the
challenge and the wild person has had to say good-
bye to his tenner. The Belgium Fund benefited to
the extent of £l2, as the Mayor and his mate
handed over their wages as well.
... * * *
“L.N.”: Anyone visiting Good, enough
Island, south-east Papua, will notice that most
of the natives are minus one finger-joint
and frequently- more than one. The mutilation is
voluntarily undertaken to show affection for a
defunct relative or honor to some equally-deceased
chief. On the death of a chief the next-of-kin carves
the first joint of his left thumb ; a mother’s death is
denoted b.v the divorce of the first joint of the third
finger on the left hand. When you belong to a large
family, the majority of whom predecease you, the
pruning is apt to become a nuisance.
“Mil”: The trouble at Broome (W.A.)
between Japs and Koepangers gives Australians an
idea of the Hell a brindled place can be when mixed
aliens get loose. Five hundred Japs and 200 Koe-
pang boys make more than a riot when they fight
each other on concerted plans, and the fact that the
white authorities stopped the trouble is no proof that
it won’t start again. Within a week or two the
usual er.d-of-the-season arrives, and 2000 colored
hands will come ashore. Half this number should be
shipped to Singapore; but the Nor’-West fleets are
THE ABSURDITY OF IT.
CRITIC: “Holy smoke , old boy , when I look
at one of your paintings I sit and
wonder”-
SPLODGER : "How I do it?"
CRITIC: “No; WHY you do it."
£lOO,OOO behind, owing to sales of shell being sus-
pended, and the masters won’t be able to ship them.
There is no reasonableness in a colored man in
matters of money, and an unpaid bill of 12s. 7d. will
make Black and Tan run amok on very short notice.
The Westralian Government is trying- to handle the
nasty job, and so far is doing very well. >
THE NEW YEAR AND A BLOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thom New Year resoloosliins! Strike me fat,
A man’s a: mug - wot takes on makin’ vows,
Beeos a New Year starts. Why, wot uv that?
A year's a year, an’ nothin’ else. Ther cows
Is all ther same- —a
Uv toil. At any rate, that's wot Eye found.
Now, tell me this: \av many coves keeps true
To all ther vows they makes on New Year’s Eve?
Does any uv ver cobbers, or do you ?
We’re twisters, all uv us —I don’t believe
Ther bloke’s alive wot’s not (uv course apart
From them that’s done their dash on some square
tart).
It’s diff’rent when a skirt comes on ther scene
An’ chats a bloke ter lead a better life —
A tom on which a bloke is shook, I mean —-
Ther one ’e’s arst ter be ’is feweher wife.
It’s only right that ’e should make a break
From ’is ole ways—“-it's fer ’is diner’s sake.
I’m pretty crook. Me book uv -life’s a book
Wiv pitchers in it which yer couldn’t frame,
An’ pages inter which I dursn’t look
Fer fear I’d whip ther eat. But all the same
I got a feelin’ that a decent tart
Deserves a pledge er two on ’er bloke’s part.
Them tarts. There's no. mistake they got us wet.
We do our block on one, an’ at ’er word
We change our wicked ways at once. An’ yet
(It’s strange: in fact, it seems a bit absurd
But still it’s true). We’d quick an’ lively, do
Ther trip ter ’Ell if she should bid us to.
F’rinstance, look at Doc Maguire. Now, Doc’s
Me cobber, an’ a decent sorter bloke,
But ’e was one uv them that lorst their blocks
About ther midnight hour, an’ run amoke
Larst New Year’s Eve. I dunno wot possessed
Ther cow —I’ve wondered, but I’ve give it best.
’Twas jist near; twelve o’clock when Doc an’ me
Stood torlcin’ at ther end uv Gubbins-street
Wiv ’arf a dozen, uv ther mob that we,
In knockin’ round ther pubs ’ad charnced ter meet.
They ’ad some beer, an’ arst us if we’d take
A little drop wiv them fer ole time’s sake.
We says, “Righto,” an’ when we’d ’ad a swill
We squatted on ther kerb wiv them an’ torked,
.list like a lot us cobbers always will
When ’arf a dozen uv ther best’s uncorked.
But, though ’e’d ’ad a lot uv booze that night
I’ll bet me life that Doc was then orl right.
AMT then ther clock began ter chime ther hour!
We ’eld our gab ter listen fer a spell,
An’ as we sat we ’eard from some, church tower
A peal uv chimes an’ then a solemn bell :
While somewhere far away a siren’s ’opt
Tried ’ard ter drown a near-by moter’s toot.
An’ then we ’ad another drink! I passed
Ther bottle on ter Doc. ’E shook ’is ‘ead.
“No good ter me,” ’e says, “I’ve ’ad me larst;
I’m on ther waggon, an’ I’m orf ter bed.”
Wiv that ’e gits up on ’is pins: “From now,”
’E says, “I’m changed. I’ve made a solium vow.”
’E rocked a bit. Becos uv that we thort
That p’raps it was ther beer ’e’d tanked that
talked.
But no. “Good night,” ’e says ter me, “ole sport,
I’ve turned it up fer good.” An’ orf ’e walked,
An’ left us starin’ after ’im quite ’urt,
Fer, struth, ’is way of shootin’ orf seemed dirt.
Nex’ day I runs acrost ’im. “Doc,” says I,
“Wot’s up? Yer shot orf pretty quick larst night.”
“Yes, so I did,” ’e says. Says I, “Well, why?
Yer’d ’ad a few, but still yer wasn’t tight.
Yer wasn’t any bloomin’ worse than me” —
“Sh-sh,” ’e says, “Don’t swear, I beg uv thee.”
I screws ’im orf. “Oh, spare me blessed days.
Wot’s up?” I arsts. ’E looks annoyed. “Abstain
From oaths,” ’e says, “give up yer swearin’ ways,
An’ speak refined like me. It gives me pain
Ter ’ear young chaps defile their mouths like that.”
I stares some more, an’ whispers: “Strike me fat!”
An’ then I arsts: “I s’pose yer ain’t seen Sis?”
(I knew that Sis- ’d blow ’im up a treat
Ther moment that she saw ’im act like this.)
’E pulled a virchuous face: “I’ll never meet
That brazen girl agen,” ’e says. “Me war's
Is changed.” I murmurs: “Spare me holy days.”
“Now, wot’s ther game?” I adds. I felt quite sore,
An’ said ther joke ’ad travelled far enuff.
“We’ll ’ave a wet,” I says. Says ’c, “No more
AVill I waste ’ealth an’ substance on that stuff;
It’s bin ther rooin uv far too many men.”
I would ’ave sworn, but “Sh,” ’e says agen.
“This ain’t no. game,” ’e says wiv dignity,
“I mean ther lot uv wot I’m tellin’ you.
Fer years I’ve lived in base iniquity,
An’ so ’ave you an’ all our cobbers, too.
But now I’m changed, beeos I’ve took a vow”—
“Yer are.” I sadly says, an’ left ther cow.
’E kept away from all ther joints a week.
Then in lobs Sis one day wiv ’im in tow,
Wivout ’is Christian dial. ’E wouldn’t speak
Beryond a low an’ ’arf-ashamed “’Ullo,”
But we all knew, 1 wivout ’is tellin’, ’ow
’Twas Sis ’oo’d put ther kybosh on ther voW.
Them tarts. Ther’s no mistake they got us wet.
They got us snouted either way we go.
It’s them that says we must, or no—an’ vet—
An’ yet—well, strike me ginger, I dunno ;
Although we’re ring-’oled through ther flamin’ nose,
We’d soon go crook if things was changed, I s’pose.
N.S.W.
LIN FORSTER.


We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
Deßeszke
v.'tccrat / (j&rfWt-i
3
SULPKOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Hash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Eczema disappear bv applying
SU LPHOLIN E
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
For 42 Years-
SULPHOLINE
■Has been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists—
J. PEPPER & CO., LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng,
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscorch.
'D. : The papers announce proudly that
a consignment of snakes has arrived for the Sydney
Zoo. They are needed. In fact, any sort of animal,
bird or reptile is needed. Considering the size and
wealth of Sydney, its Zoo amounts to a disgrace. It
has none of the rarer animals—hippos, giraffes, etc.
The monkey-house is absurdly inadequate; and one
can see almost as good a collection of birds in any
bird-shop. Even assuming that there is some
excuse for the dearth of African and Indian
exhibits (which there isn’t, in point of fact), there
is none for the lack of Australian birds, beasts,
reptiles and fishes. An Australian aquarium, such
as one can see in a modified form at the State hatch-
ery at Port Hacking, would be of tremendous in-
terest. A reptile house, confined to Australian
snakes, adders, lizards and crocodiles, could be
stocked fairly cheaply, and would be a great draw.
So would a section for native Australian animals.
Perhaps all these details are to be attended to when
the Zoo is shifted to Bradley’s Head. But even if
a fairly complete Australian section is provided, it
will not absolve the authorities from the obligation
of providing a decent exhibition in other respects.
A good Zoo is more educational than many news-
papers. It is even more educational than a Euro-
pean war.
* * * *
"Klifton” : When I opened the door to the
gentle ring I was confronted with the mildest and
meekest looking canvasser I had ever met. “Want
any art pictures, sir, to adorn your walls ?” he asked
timidly, extracting from his bulky parcel a ga udy-
colored litho. entitled “Moses in the Bulrushes.”
“Now, there’s a beautiful picture, sir; a picture
that must appeal to every Christian.” “No, thanks,”
I said. “Another fine production,” went on the
wan little man, warming to his job and producing
a cheap print depicting the Prophet on the wallaby
to Jerusalem. I shook my head. Undeterred, he
pulled out a number of texts, such as “Love thy
Neighbor,” “The Meek Shall Inherit the Earth,” etc.
“No, I don’t want any,” I said decisively. “What!”
exclaimed the bald and lowly canvasser. “You don’t
want any ! Haven’t you a spark of religion in
you at all to turn the Wrath away from your
house ? What sort of a are yo u, e j, ? A man
tries, his d —est to earn a honest livin’ sellin’ a few
pictures, and a mean like you won’t
listen to him! I didn’t wait to bear anything
further. I reckoned it was time to get out the hose.
A JUST VERDICT.
The increased duties on liquor may be regarded
in the light of a war ta x.—News item.
OFFICER: “The prisoner, your Worship, was
speechless drunk, and he pleads that he was
helping' his country in time of need.”
J.P.: “A very fine loyal sentiment, officer, and
I disntiss him without er stain on ’is
character.”
“Lagani-Namo”: Every now and again
some enterprising person conies hurrying down from
Alligator Creek (N.T.), or thereabouts, with an
outsize in crocodiles for exhibition in the Southern
cities. These speculators usually go back again,
poorer but wiser men, for they cannot get the
water gohanna to eat in captivity, and in a month
or so their spec, “snuffs out.” I believe if the
ungainly brutes were given flesh food in advanced
decomposition, instead of fresh meat, they’d be
much more likely to live, and earn dividends for
their owners. Of course, the rotting meat could
not be kept in the exhibition room. It would have
to be kept under the bed at the pub.
DEAD BROKE.
BOSS : “ How's that colt, Bill? I hope he’s well broke.”
BILL THE BREAKER (tearfully): “By cripes, Boss, he’s broke proper. He’s just kicked
me in the ribs, bolted with all his gear and bucked over the bank outer the rocks.
His bloomin back’s broke, his four legs is broke, his crimson neck’s broke. Oh,
e’s BROKE.”
"Boronia” : When the graphite rush broke
out 30 miles from the nearest township in the Don-
nelly (W.A.) country, nearly 12 years ago, it be-
came necessary to span a fair-sized river, so the best
site available for a bridge was selected and a giant
karri tree growing on the bank was marked down
for doom. Two good men, armed with axes, bogged
in, and after 10 hours’ solid toil the vegetable tum-
bled across the moisture with a mighty boom. The
unwanted head of the prostrate stick was sawn off
and hauled away, and after the top of the trunk had
been squared slightly, cross pieces were spiked down
and slabs used as planking. Approaches were made,
hand-rails erected, and the whole job thoroughly
completed. The bridge measured 90ft. long and 12ft.
wide, and although scores of heavily-laden bullock-
drays were hauled over it never budged an inch.
The graphite mines were closed down for lack of
nourishment or funds, or something, and to-day a
worthy example of the ingenuity of bushmen is rot-
ting in the solitude of the immense karri forests.
* * * *
“Tiaki”; “Te Pana” in his par (B.
12/11/T4) mentioned only a few of the methods of
Ilenare as a fisherman. The titiwha-paua is a
popular device to catch kahawai
and kingfish. It is operated with
a section of the pana shell about
three inches by one inch in size.
To this is bound a hook, and the
contraption trailed over the stern
of the canoe or boat. Nanao
tuna, or eel-groping, is a differ-
ent business altogether. Henare
(and Meri, too) take off their
raiment and plunge into the
muddy drains which are the tidal
rivers at low water. They then
investigate, with bare arms, the
likely places for the tuna. Some-
times a “nest” is found and each
resident is drawn out. Then, his
head having been bitten (this to
induce death), he is strung on
flax. Sometimes Henare gets too
far down stream and finds a
ngoiro, or conger, at the marine
address. On such occasions he
generally takes his fingers ashore
for repairs, surrounded by a per-
fect maelstrom of maledictions
against congers and all their
immediate relatives. “Te Pana”
will find a number of ladies and
gents in Raratonga who have been similarly treated
by the mangaa, only more so.
* * * *
Elcho Island and English Company’s
Islands (Northern Territory), once numerously popu-
lated, have now only a few natives left on them.
The decimation has been caused by raids of a power-
ful mainland tribe uiider the leadership of a notori-
ous bad-man abo., known as Chokee. Practically all
the manhood on the islands has been wiped out, and
the remnants, old men, women and children, were
at latest camped beside a white man’s place at
Arnheim Bay for protection. Chokee is the party
responsible for the murder of Rodney Spencer, tre-
panger, about 12 years ago, and he has been spread-
ing his brand of culture more or less ever since.
Also, he was distributing it before that, and, so far,
has issued no information as to when he proposes to
put the peg in.
* * * *
A definition of “wowser,” for the English
market, by Anglican parson Matthews, who used to
be prominent in the Bush Brotherhood in the back-
blocks of N. S. Wales:—
Like most real bushmen Bill had small acquaint-
ance with parsons. Indeed, he told me once that he
never remembered speaking to a parson in his life
before he spoke to me. In Bill’s mind parsons were
probably classified as the worst kind of wowser, in
the manner of Australia’s unique illustrated paper,
so popular in the Bush as to be nicknamed the
Bushman’s Bible —the Sydney Bulletin. A wowser
is a kind of professional noser-out of other people’s
sins, a Pharisee, a Chadband, and a creature to be
studiously avoided. But somehow or other Bill
never looked upon me as a wowser.
* * * *
The Australian horse in India, from a
new book on pigsticking, by Major Wardrop, author-
ity on the game:—
The sporting magazines up to 1860, and later,
had strong views as to the impossibility of the
Waler ever holding his own with the Arab after pig.
Now the pendulum has swung the other way, and
you will find few to disparage the Australian horse.
Walers are now, for obvious reasons, as superior to
the Arab as the Arab was superior to the then
Waler, especially in the case of men riding - 12st.
or over I consider that the 15.1 is the most suit-
able, though a good country-bred is a useful addi-
tion to one’s stud, especially in May and June, when
the heat is really appalling, and the Waler is likely
to get fever. Mr. Kiddle, Australian Field Artillery,
brought over last season two very nice horses which
he had bred himself in New South Wales. But he
did not realise the power of the Indian sun. He
hunted them hard within a couple of months of
landing, and they both nearly died of biliary fever.
I do not think a Waler should ever be taken out
until he has been at least a year in the country. ...
I dislike a Waler with a bump between the eyes
intensely; he is always a ruffian. I have only owned
one. He bucked me on to my back on mv sword,
and he bucked me on to the top of a pig The first
time he went pigsticking. He did little else, and I
sold him very cheap. Each man has his fads. I
personally never ride a brown or black, nor have I
ever owned a mare. I think you will find bright
bays and golden chestnuts the hardest and best horses
in India. .. . The modern high-class Waler is a beau-
tiful animal, inferior neither in quality nor shape to
a well-bred English horse. ... Baden Powell loves
the Arab, but, on the whole, gives preference to the
Waler.
“Te Babarantiko”: There is hardly any
end to the varieties ot' South Sea island landcrabs, but
there is but one cocoanut crab. Not that he is really
a crab. He is more of a lobster, but even more of
a spider, particularly as regards his afterpart, which
is curiously unprotected considering how heavily
armored his prow is. He grows to nightmare sizes,
and with his formidable pincers I have seen him leave
dents in iron rods and cut fair-sized bits of wood
dean through. As tucker he goes best when roasted
on embers, although, I must admit, I never tried him
raw.
“Rosna” : The fame of the great Austra-
lian adjective (though I don’t think it is really any
more Australian than English) has reached even the
London typiste. A man who had just come across
“Den’s” shot at an “Australaise” handed it over to
have some typewritten copies made. “Shall I put
the dashes in red?” the lady asked as though she
knew something more than a curate’s sister should.
It’s not generally known —in fact, hardly
anybody knows —that most of the trepang fishing up
in Northern Territory waters is conducted by Maoris.
Their abo. brothers do practically all the work, but
the Maoris treat them very kindly (kindness is a
strong weakness of Henare), and generously (Timi’s
generosity is stupendous; he would give you his
grandmother on the slightest provocation). There
are nine Maori camps in the North, and the boss
of one, Jimmy Kanhio, spends the whole of his profits
on food and other luxuries for the mob of abos. he
has around him.
THE PROBLEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
neli2r?! a " , litle thrown back.’,’ “Germans com
L ok „ 'et'eat. ... “Whole’German front pushed
‘■l?, r. ' • Compelled to evacuate trenches.”... .
in full letreat. .... “Gentian ” i^treat.”
Extracts from two days’ cables.
Since first the German forces came
To snatch at Paris, this has been
The story of the battle game;
And with the eye of faith we’ve seen
The woeful foemen out to beat
All records i n a hot retreat —
The Germans running like the wind,
And towing tons of goods behind.
The story on the other side
Is much the same, for Russia’s best
Have dug them out, and far and wide
The Prussian hordes are scooting west.
Forced | back from every Polish spot
They keep a wearing, endless trot;
I heir fearful progress Seems to be
The longest run in history.
I’ve measured these retreats, and get
Quaint hints of how the foe is placed.
Those from the west fight in Thibet,
Those from the icy eastern waste
Are in the fierce Atlantic swell,
Still fighting with the Czar like Hell.
M hat bothers me is how this smother
Of fighting devils passed each other!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
McShane’s Stolen Home.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WAS there niver thaves, ’n’ spirits, V
brigan’s in all It’ly 'n' the
wide wor-rld beside t’ aquil
thim iv Simpson’s Ford,” said McShane
sadly. “I was resident et Simpson’s
Wan year ’n’ tin monts, no more, ’n’
jurin’ that time wan man shtole me wife
Norah, another shtole me hor-rse on me, ’n’
others w r as foriver shtealin’ me cows, or pur-r-
-loinin’ me hens ’r me ducks ’r the little ca’f ’r
two ’r three.
“But ’twas Avan iv the name iv Ragan
shtole me long pickit fince the Avhile I was
havin’ a thrifle iv dthrink over Sunday be the
toAvn iv Ball’rat. ’Tis aisy doin’ shtealin’ a
fince in aecor-rdance wid the law, mind yeh.
This Ragan was me neighbor-r on the right,
’n’ the fince befure mintioned ran ’tween me
gar-rden ’n’ his ground, ’n’ the bla’guard tuck
’n’ tore the pickits off his side iv the rails, ’n’
nailed thim be my side iv the rails ; be which
act, I’m give t’ undershtand on the authority
iv gr-reat men, the fince becume his in the
eye iv the law. I thried tearin’ the pickits
off agin, ’n‘ nailin’ thim his side, but ’twas
whoile doin’ the like I lost me woife be the
act iv a robber-r, ’n’ me cow too, so I darned
it well t’ lave the fince t’ Ragan ’n’ save
me other bits ’n’ shticks.
“But would yeh bilave it all me care
’n’ dishcression wint for nothin’, seein’ they
shtole me house on me in the ind?
“Yeh may well tur-rn on me wid a look
iv po-lite increjulity, for ’tis a strange thing
’n’ a wicked t’ shtale a man’s house over his
head. I bot the house wid twinty-wan-tin iv
me own good money off a gintleman iv the
name of Carew was goin’ dar-r aAvay beyant
Injia ’n’ the Canary Islands, he said. Then
come another iv the name iv Meagher, ’n’, sez
he: ‘ ’Tis me house yer livin’ in,’ he sez.
‘ ’N’ I’m requirin’ it ilsewhere fer me own
immejit uses,’ he sez. ‘Yer a liar,’ sez I,
wid perfect courtesy. ‘ ’Tis me own house
bot ’n’ paid fer.’ ‘Have yeh a title?’ sez he.
‘I have no title,’ sez I, ’n’ ’twas thrue enough,
fer niver was a McShane anythin’ but a
plain McShane frirn the days iv Brian Boru,
which is now dead, God rest him.
“Be rayson iv me havin’ no title me house
was OAvned be Meagher accor-rdin’ t' the
law ‘n’ the statoots ez set forth in the great
books. But be this time me tinnier was riz,
’n’ me soul was furious agin the wickedness
’n’ depredations iv Simpson’s Ford, ’n’ sez
I : ‘The man t’ have me house will come
’n’ take it, ’n’ his blood be on his own head.’
I tuck up the wood axe V I sat widin’ the
dure, ’n’ there i shtuck.
“The man Meagher give shmall heed to
me sittin’ there at all, for he brought the big
jinker, ’n’ the fine hor-rses ’n’ the tall min,
’n’ hoist up me house frum under wid thim
jacks would lift a mountain clane frim its
roots, ’n’ he dthrew the jinker beneath ’n’
drove off ’n’ away wid me house wid me,
twilve roarin’ bay hor-rses pullin’, ’n’ five
fine min singin’ behind.
“ ’Twas not t’ be bor-rne be a man iv
ord’nary shpirit, lave alone a McShane, ’n’
whin we come t’ the brow iv the big hill
over agin Tom Dwyer’s, I tuck me bir-rd
gun frum the wall, ’n’ I troo up the front
Avindy, ’n’ sez I: ‘Hill t’ the soul iv him
would rob a grass-widdy man iv his poor
house!’ ’n’ I fired ’n’ freckled the rare ind
iv four good hor-rses wid sparrer shot.
‘Whooroo for the McShane!’ sez I. ‘ ’n’ per-
dition to his inimies !’ sez I, ’n’ wid that I
shot annother tow iv hor-rses.
“Already was a terrible commotion bruek
out among the bastes, but wid the second
shot they was buckin’ ’n’ shnortin’ cross
the breast iv the hill, ’n’ bolted, ’n’ they tore
the jinker agin a great tree, ’n’ the house
slithered clane frim its ropes ’n’ holdin’s,
’n’ come vi-lently t’ the road, ind on. ’n’
takin’ two leaps ’n’ bounds come t’ rist on
its own flure inside Tom Dwyer’s grass
paddock, wid me trown vi’lently on me neck
somewhere in the kitchen, onsenseless ’n’
clane brack in hal’f almost.
“The gintleman in the hospital minded
me so ye’d har-rdly notice. Then, bein’ well
agin, I wint t’ me home, on’y t’ find Tom
Dwyer standin’ at the dure. ‘lf it’s your
house, McShane,’ sez he, ‘me char-rge is
thirty pounds fer ground rint, ’n’ tin fer
damages, t’ say nothin’ iv indemnity fer
threspass.’ ’N’ there me house is shtandin’
to this day.”
“Did you get no satisfaction at all?” I
asked McShane. Mack sighed. “I lave it
to yerself.” he said. “They guv me tree
monts fer what I done t’ the head iv Tom
Dwyer wid a shmall twig iv a slitiek.”
EDDYSON.


C OLD STEEL COMFORT.
PETROGRAD, Friday.-A communique states: "The Russians towards Mlawa are vigorously pursuing the defeated Germans, a large number of whom have crossed the Prussian frontier."
BERLIN, Thursday.-A communique states that the Germans are pursuing the Russians in the whole of Poland.
FIRST FLYING BLUTWURST: “Ach! ve vos beaten. Dey vos after us!"
SECOND FLYING BLUTWURST (hysterically): “Not o-fficially! VE vos after DEM in the Berlin papers!"


QJcxniOibmi
boaters
Your Hat
Should be correct as to Style, Shape, Weight
and Price. WOODROWS’ HATS fill the
bill and meet all requirements.
When you ask for a WOODROW HAT/
there is a sense of satisfaction in knowing
that you are buying an article which repre-
sents full value, and maintains its wearing
qualities to the end.
YOUR Hatter Stocks WOODROWS’.
1
a
fiJWw
V •/!
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Though there was no war-blood in the
family, if purser John Windeyer, of lI.M.
Navy, be excepted, the sons and grandsons
of the late N.S.W. Judge Windeyer, are at
fever-heat just now. The unjudicial Win-
deyer himself was one of the early pro-
moters of the Sydney Volunteer movement,
and was a captain. He was also a good
rifle shot, who scored well in inter-State
matches. His youngest son is a Major, and
four grandchildren of the late Judge—Win-
deyers or Ralstons or Traills —are either at
the Front or on the way there.
Ralph Halls, the oldest merchant in Gren-
fell (N.S.W.), is dead. Mostly he was a
purely local potentate; he was the first
mayor of the town, which in those days
was as often called Emu Creek as by
its newer name. It got the name of
Grenfell from the Government Commissioner
who was killed by bushrangers at Narro-
mine.) Once, however, he burst into wider
fame by going to Blayney and giving a poli-
tical meeting the facts which led to the Mil-
burn Creek scandal —the bad smell over a
mining lease which led to the expulsion of
Ezekiel Baker, M.L.A. and ex-Minister, and
the narrow escape of another.
Dr. .T. II. MacFarland, master of Ormond
College since its foundation in 1881. has
retired after 33 years of splendid work for
tl }° C ollege and the Melbourne University,
ot which he has been Vice-Chancellor for so
long that the Oldest Inhabitant’s memory
hardly runs back to any other.
Concerning a pleasant Ilohenzollern habit
(from the letter of one of the guard) :—
Some of the Emden wounded went ashore at
Colombo, but we, as the flagship, received 47 of
the A.B.’s, the captain and three lieutenants. One
of the lieutenants is his Highness Prince Francis
•Joseph, a relative of the Kaiser. He is making
rather a nuisance of himself. As none would give
their parole they are confined to their cabins, and
allowed out for exercise once a day. If he’s long on
board the Prince will meet with an accident if he
doesn’t mend his manners. He spat in his sentry’s
face once.
One of Hobart’s oldest inhabitants
(.Hobart consists almost exclusively of old-
est inhabitants) has just died —A. G. Web-
ster, of the firm of A. G. Webster and Sons.
He left London in 1839 as a child, set-
tled m Van Diemen’s Land, and at 14 went
behind a shop counter and stayed there till
lie was a prosperous merchant, with two
sons as partners. For many years he was
United States Consul at Hobart; and he
was a member of a dozen or so public bodies.
1 urther, he was a good sort and a useful
man, and no one can have a finer epitaph.
Turkey is a land where any old thing may
happen—a land of rags and dreams and incon-
sequence, in which the ghosts of the Arabian
Nights still wander loose. Thus it was
reported last week that the wonderful hero
Enver Bey took command of an army for the
first time—apparently he had never before
been anything save a phantom general. He
had a wild idea that he was cutting the
Lussian army in two, whereas the Bussians
were really surrounding him. Realising his
mistake, he handed over the command to a
German, and left for home in a state of great
depression. It is also stated that Djemal
Pasha arrived at Jerusalem with 5000 sol-
diers in hunger and tatters, with a view to
the invasion of Egypt and the demolition of
the British Empire. Djemal was found
dead in his bedroom next morning. Whether
Jerusalem killed him; or whether the
tatters killed him; or whether he com-
mitted suicide to get away from Jerusalem
and the tatters; or whether he was mur-
dered by order of the Government, lest he
should tell about Jerusalem and the tatters,
no one can tell.
CROWN PROSECUTOR WOINARSKI,
of Melbourne , slumps a witness.
By way of a coincidence it was an Aus-
tralian of German parentage who was
called on by the police to organise the mili-
tary help that was necessary when the Turks
started the ice-cream insurrection at Broken
Hill on New Year’s Day. Lieut. Resch,
officer commanding the Barrier’s company of
mounted infantry, is one of the innumerable
brewery Resches —a son of the man who
wets the parched throat of Riverina.
“Jermyn Street”:—
The Garter which belonged to the Kaiser has been
given to Lord Chesterfield. Mentally the two are
equals, but Chesterfield has better manners. For one
brief day he held the eye of London. The venue
was the Law Courts, where he brought an action
against an art dealer named Harding. The action
was for a declaration that a contract entered into by
Chesterfield with Harding was void by reason of
fraudulent misrepresentation. Harding had told him
a suit of armor was worth £3OOO. Chesterfield
immediately afterwards found that it was really worth
£25,000. Very artlessly the peer (who, by the way,
won the ease) described how the contract was
brought about. He and Harding were in one room
discussing terms. In another, unknown to Harding,
were Lady Chesterfield and her mother, both of
whom Chesterfield truthfully described as “very
capable women.” Each time a crucial point was
reached in the discussion with Harding, Chesterfield
excused himself and went to consult the two ladies.
After a couple of hours Chesterfield became bored
with so much walking and decided a crucial point
off his own bat, and his “Yes” was the cause of all
the trouble. That night he sat in the Peers’ Gal-
lery of the House of Commons. It was the biggest
of the big debates on the Parliament Bill, and as
Chesterfield sat there he heard Arthur Balfour apply
the analogy of his suit of armor to the case of the
House of Lords. Asquith, of course, was the dealer
and Balfour himself was Chesterfield. The new Iv.G.
js admirably fitted to adorn a procession.
THE AGENT OF THE LORD.
Archbishop Carr the war is the Almighty's punishment of the nations for their infidelity.
ARCHBISH: "Excellent . Hit her again; it's good for her morals."
Professor James Gbw Black, I).Sc., for
about 40 years Professor of Chemistry at
Otago (M.L.) University, who has just
passed out, aged 79, was the original of
John Ross, the Australian professor in lan
Maclaren’s more or less famous book, “The
Days of Auld Dang .Syne.”
A Sydney newspaper spread some remark-
able information the other day in its report
of the loss of the French submarine Curie:
The Curie was built at Toulon in 1912, and was
named in honor of Madame Curie, the celebrated lady
chemist who discovered radium. She was 167.3 ft. in
length, with a beam of 16.3 ft., and a displacement
above and below of 392 tons. Her speed
But that’s libellous.
Hogben (Ho-ben, please), head of Maori-
land’s Education Department, who has just
been authorised to write C.M.G. after his
name, if he wishes to advertise the leanness
of his “honor,” is best known as a seismolo-
gist. He has earthquakes for breakfast
and hot springs for tea, and to the literature
bearing on sudden alarms he has contributed
many wise articles, which have made his
name familiar at all the universities of
Europe and North America. Hogben married
a daughter of Julius Von Haast, the real
founder of Canterbury Museum. Person-
ally he is a garrulous little man with a lisp.
Adelaide kept its 78th birthday on Decem-
ber 28, and the old gum-tree near the beach
at Glenelg was the scene of the usual pil-
grimage, followed by the usual lunch, at
which Governor Galway, Premier Peake and
Josiah Symon provided most of the elo-
quence. There was also a speech about the
beginning of things from James Chittle-
borough, who came from England in the
Buffalo, which carried Governor Hindmarsh.
The “roll-call” for 19i4 was signed by nearly
70 veterans who arrived in S.A. by ship or
otherwise, before 1840. The corps included
an old lady who was on the Buffalo, too,
and another who arrived in the Tam
O’Shanter even a few weeks before that.
For, though South Aus. didn’t officially exist
before 28/12/’36, as a matter of fact there
were a few people, mostly whalers, on Kan-
garoo Island, before Hindmarsh came.
Mostly about a man who is to be heard
of again:—
The British Government has appointed a committee
to inquire into the whole question of German out-
rages, and Sir Edward Clarke is the big man among
the Commissioners. For many years Clarke disputed
with Charles Russell the headship of the English Bar
at Nisi Prius. Though always a very nervous man
in court, he was a small bull-ant of a fighter. He
once thought it his duty in the interests of a client
to attack Edward VII., then Prince. He did it
remorselessly. People thought he was ruined. There
were leaders in the Times and so forth. Yet Clarke
won through. At the time of the Boer War any-
thing in the gift of the Tories was his; but he turned
office and party down because he thought the war
wrong. Later the office of Master of the Rolls was
pressed upon him. This office means the Presidency
of the Court of Appeal and £6OOO a year; but he
wouldn’t take it from the party which had w'aged
the war, although it was his own party. On his
retirement from the Bar, about the beginning of the
century, nearly all of the fortune he had got together
was invested with the Law' Guarantee and Trust Co.
Grantham, Lord Alverstone and many other famous
lawyers were fellow-shareholders. The Law Guar-
antee collapsed, Clarke lost nearly all his money,
and in his old age had to return to the Bar. He
pluckily stood to it, though other men were now at
the head. If he presides over this German Out-
rages Inquiry Committee, as he no doubt will, the
reliability of its findings will be beyond dispute,
whatever they may be.
Since .June,. 1912, when the Ministry of
A. E. Solomon took office in Tasmania,
three of the live Ministers have died—
Solomon himself, Premier and Attorney-
General ; Dr. Butler, the Chief Secretary,
who went the other day; and now “Charlie”
Russen, who was an honorary member of
the Cabinet. Russen, when he came from
England in the long ago, tried his luck in
Melbourne ; then he went to the Scottsdale
district in Tasmania, where he did some
mining. Throwing up the pick and shovel
after a while, he in 1874 went to Launees-
ton and set to work making biscuits and
confectionery, and kept at that for the rest
of his days. He delivered up a good, genial
soul when he died.
SHORT,
editor of the
Ale. boutne
LEADER.
When he isn’t there to attend to things
himself, the Kaiser is still willing to allow
that God gives the Germans their successes.
“I am full of gratitude to God, who bestowed
victory on you,” he wired to General Von
Mackensen after the Lowicz engagement.
As an afterthought he added: “I promote
you Colonel-General,” in case Mack, should
be misled by the wire into forgetting the
really important partner in the business.
Von Ivluck, for his part, doesn't seem likely
to forget. In a recent Army Order he re-
ferred to William the Butcher three times as
“the all-highest” and once as “the Supreme
War Lord”; and no monomaniac could
reasonably expect more than that in three
short paragraphs.
THE DISSOLUTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Notice is hereby given that the partnership
which has for some time past been carried on by the
undersigned, George Lock Lee, Jack Ting, Wong
Ghut, Go Wood, Peter Go Say and Go Ho Duck
dong, under the firm of Go Bo Brothers, at Sydney, in
the State of New South Wales, in the trade'or busi-
ness of furniture manufacturers, has been dissolved.
— Advt.
One moment, brethren, while we mourn
The fate, relentless and forlorn,
Which now afflicts some others—
A fate which any cheerless day
Might crush us ’neath its gloomy sway—
The fate of Go Bo Brothers.
Time holds no record that I know
Of any Go, or any Bo,
Or any of his kidney ;
But, by the Herald, you may see
Go Ho Duck Tong and George Lock Lee
Made visible to Sydney.
And also in that holy sheet
Which sanctifies half Hunter-street,
Quite plainly it is hinted
That Go and Bo do not exist.
Don’t take my word, hut read the list
Of names already printed.
Jack Ting, Wong Chut, Go Wood, el al.
Each one a partner and a pal
Whose memory shall not perish—-
Whose fame we celebrate in song,
With George Lock Lee and Ho Duck Tong
(His is a name to cherish).
Oh, cluster of high terms ! But, stay—-
How about Peter, called Go Say ?
I almost left out Peter!
The loss of him would be a crime—
(I just remembered him in time
To make this rhyme look neater).
We mourn, ’tis true —and pity ’tis—
The dissolution of a biz
That antedates our mothers ;
Ah, who shall read this mystic rune
Of sweet names jangled out of tune?
What parted Go Bo Brothers?
Oli, was it woman, wine or song
That came between Go Ho Duck Tong,
Lee, Ting, Chut, Wood and Go Say ?
Was it religion, racing, cards
That separated these old pards ?
If any of you knew, say !
In vain we seek to know why Bo—
Who never was—and likewise Go,
No longer are united ;
The awful breach cannot be healed
The cause will never be revealed,
The wrong will ne’er be righted.
Go Ho Duck Tong alone will weep,
And George Lock Lee will lose some sleep,
While Peter Go Say smothers
His grief, with Jack Ting and Wong Chut,
While Go Wood keeps his mouth close shut
Concerning Go Bo Brothers.
Yet, mourn in hope! The day may come
When, in some happy, city slum,
Not cursed with much inspection,
The dear, departed firm may rise
Amid loud pseans and “0, Cli’s!”
To joyful resurrection !
And —wondrous metamorphosis ! —
Who knows? They’ll carry on the biz,
To vast proportions growin’,
Not in the sad, sweet names of yore,
But as the Monster Modern Store
Of Rosenstamm and Cohen!
rf.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.


Mt
: : M
m
ill
r:
m
i
m
i
vv«
J
W.
B
. «as ...
22
>
r
>5
sfy~
(G
A
THINK!
l ln igig / have got to help Australia by being Australian.
I have got to be right in my dress without injury to my pocket!
To anyone thinking like this we sav, “ Come to Gowing’s.” We are the Pioneer
JOJ 7 o
Distributors for Australian Manufacturers of Woollens, Hats, Shirts, Collars, Boots and
Underwear. We unhesitatingly guarantee satisfaction in these to every man who, while being
well dressed, wants to be Australian.
Our Austral Suits in 1915 will be as always —unequalled in cut, quality and wear.
We quote Austral Suits to Measure —63/=, 70/=, 75/=; 84/=, 90/=, 95/=, 105/=, 115/= and 126/=
GOWING BROS.,
** PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,"
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; & 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney,


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY:
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Kodak (Australasia), Ltd., formerly
Australian Kodak. Ltd., which began as from
June, 1908. with a small deficit representing
preliminary expenses:—
W ritten
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
1908 .. £478
Mar., Reserves.
1909 ..£22,038 9 p.c. = £11,250 £596 £9,714
Sept.,
1909 .. 12,984 10 „ „ 7,500 358 14,840
1910 . . 25,273 10 „ „ 15,000 3869 21,244
1911 . . 24,346 10 ~ „ 15,000 3067 27,523
1912 . . 3fi,227 12* _,, 18,750 5219 39,781
1913 . . 3(3,890 12* „ „ 18.750 5238 52,683
1914 .. 40,640 12* „ „ 18,750 6240 68,343
On a capital of £150,060 you might expect a
net profit of from £30,000 to £35,000 if (I)
the co. was risking a lot of public money,
which it had undertaken to repay in full,
and (2) all its own and the public’s
money was in assets liable to serious and
sudden depreciation. But the liabilities of
Kodak (Australasia), Ltd., total only
£33,434; and book debts and cash amount
to more than that. Further, no less than
£93,275 has been put into land and build-
ings, and a part of the liabilities is a mort-
gage debt which somehow has strayed on to
one of the co.’s premises. Moreover, though
the net profit for last year was £34,400,
according to the table and the accounts, the
figure is probably understated, owing to
vigorous writing-down. This is the one co.
in two score which marks down even its city
buildings, setting aside annually out of
profits a regular 2 p.c. of their cost.
In past years it seemed possible that cur-
rent profits might have been inflated by the
inclusion of large surpluses realised on the
sale of Eastman Kodak and other shares;
but, though profit certainly has been made in
that way, there have been no sales during
the past year, and still the profits are a
record. And the outlook is very pleasant,
too. To a great extent, kodaking is a
luxury and an extra, and therefore among
the early things to be cut out when the
domestic income starts to dry up. On the
other hand, while this fact will temporarily
affect this co.’s trade and profit for the next
few years, the present whooping-up of Aus-
tralian goods is going to be a permanent
benefit. Finally, the stock, which runs to
£94,448, isn’t likely to be any the less valu-
able on account of the war and the new
tariff. On the contrary, there is probably
a hidden reserve here of a few thousands,
representing the increased value of the goods.
The £150.000 of capital is all that was
authorised until the other day, when the co.
acquired the right to send another £lOO,OOO
to market. There will be an issue of £30,000
of this straight away. It certainly isn’t
because the co. needs money that new
shares are being born. The co. is, in fact,
quite as much in need of an outlet as of an
inflow.
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of
Tasmania (Launceston, Tasmania) :
Net Dividends and Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. serves.
1902 ..£4541 7 p.c. =£2756 £1785 £24,108
1903 . . 5894 8 „ „ 3150 2744 26,852
1904 . . 5474 8 „ 3150 2324 29,176
1905 . . 3876 8 „ „ 3150 726 29,902
1906 . . 3781 8 „ „ 3150 631 30,533
1907 . . 5697 8 „ „ 3150 2547 33,080
1908 . . 4968 9 „,, 3544 1424 34,504
1909 . . 5520 10 ~ ~ 3937 1583 36,087
1910 .. 4531 10 „ „ 3984 547 36,634
1911 .. 4423 10 ~ „ 3937 486 37,120
1912 . . 4 (>95 10 ~ ~ 3937 758 37,878
1913 .. 4003 10 „ „ 3937 66 3L044
1914 .. 4473 10 „ „ 3937 536 38,480
The times haven’t suited Tasmania. After
the big boom smashed 21 years ago the
Devil was sick and the Devil a saint would
be. The mad rush for wealth was no good,
he said; and that man was happiest who
had most content. 80 people went out
on to the land and foreswore the vanities
of the city. But soon they found that “the
land” had its drawbacks. The second-best,
they discovered, was always good enough
for the country. You weren't ever expected
to be able to afford such good clothes or
such good food as in the city. Any old
train, you found, was good enough for you
out there. If any Department had a fool
who wasn’t “up” to city form he was sent
to the baekblocks. The country worked hard
all the year. Then the city agent did a
10-minute job and took for it 5 per
cent, of the year’s harvest. Naturally the
country man gets tired of this sort of thing
in time, and comes to the city where the
easy money is made and the good things
are on tap. During the past few years the
movement that way has been most marked ;
and as Tasmania, for practical purposes, is
all country, it lias had a poor time. Be-
tween 1900 and 1918 its male population
has increased by only 12,000. That is less
than 1000 a year—-a dreadful record for a
fertile little island, full of natural beauty,
and all right as to climate. Tasmania is
stagnating, and if you carved up its land
into parcels and handed the country around
that way, it would probably be only a shade
less stagnant in a few years than it is
now. A new breed of people, or new ideals
in the old breed of people, will be required
before Tasmania makes much progress.
The table printed on top of these mourn-
ful remarks shows that in the matter of
profits the co. has made no progress worth
mentioning in the past 12 years. The next
table shows that of late the premiums have
been a little larger; but the expense rate
has been higher— partly, no doubt, because
this and every other Tasmanian employer
has been driven to offer more inducements
to his employees to remain in the island
* >re ' Loss Expense
-i nan miums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate,
100- •• *f£B6 £1774 £2143 37.1 p.c. 44.8 p.cC
1900 . . 5844 2959 2248 50.6 38 4
1910 .. 6220 2206 2576 35.4 „ 4l‘l
1911 .. 6135 2267 2989 36.9 „ 48
1912 . . 6359 1967 3206 30.9 , 51 3
1913 .. /00S 1461 4930 20.8 „ 70 5 ,
1914 .. 6773 1491 4098 22.0 „ 60.5
The loss rate is uneven; but that is in-
evitable where the policy risks are so few,
and three or four fires more or less make all
the difference. However, the business has
ror many years paid the dividend and
left a bit over; and it will probably go
on doing that, as an average. But improve-
ment will almost for certain be slow ; and
as the average margin of profit over and
above the 10 p.c. dividend is very small, the
chances are that shareholders will, at best,
have to be content with their present 10
p.c. for a good many years to come.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, etc. (Sydney) : n
Reserves
(including
, To Re- Insurance
, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserve).
Nov., 07.. £3579 10p.c. = £3OOO £579 £2,155
May, 08.. 3367 10 „ „ 3000 367 2,522
Nov., 08.. 3185 10 „„ 3000 185 2 707
May, ’09.. 6389 10 „„ 3750 2639 5,346
Premiums on new shares 1875 7,221
Nov., ’09.. 5029 10 p.c. = 3750 1279 8.500
May, 10.. 5377 10 „ „ 3795 1582 10,082
Premiums on new shares 3125 13,207
N<sv., ’lO.. 6605 10 p.c. = 4614 1991 15,198
May, ’ll.. 6306 10 „ „ 5000 1306 16.504
Nov., 11.. 6522 10 „ „ 5000 1522 18.026
Premiums on new shares 3125 21,151
May, ’12.. 6561 10 p.c. = 6054 507 21,658
Nov., '12.. 7743 10 „ ~ 6250 1493 23 151
May, ’l3. . 7484 10 „ „ 6250 1234 “>4 385
Nov., ’IS. . 8318 10 „ „ 6250 2068 26,453
May, ’14.. 8776 10 „ „ 6771 2005 28,458
Nov., T 4. . 9729 10 ~ ~ 7500 2229 30,687
"We have large contracts in hand,” the
directors say; and the immediate future
looks good. The retail timber trade is suf-
fering already. But Allen Taylor’s don’t
specialise in that direction: their line is
chiefly big hardwood —the sort of stuff the
engineer calls for rather than the architect.
Now, the architect is paid mostly' by private
persons, whereas in this country the engi-
neer is employed chiefly by the State ; and
it happens that the State is borrowing and
spending more prodigally than ever, osten-
sibly because other people have to cut down
their expenditure. This means that yyhen
other people's markets are suffering, cos.
like Allen Taylor’s continue to have a rat-
tling good time on the community’s lOU.
However, there is a limit even to the
community’s IOU; and when the pendu-
lum swings back public works will be
starved instead of having money poured out
on them recklessly. In 1901-4 N. S. Wales
had a wild burst of extravagance under the
Owe'Sullivan. Other States racketted more
or less; for this sort of thing seems to be
contagious. Then the pendulum swung the
other way, and in the three years from
June. 1904. to June, 1907, the total loan
expenditure of the six States was only
£10,876.252. For the past three years it has
been :
1912 £16,325,177
1913 18,429,274
1914 21,137,983
Total.. ..£55,892,434
During the last couple of years the Com-
monwealth has also spent over 24 millions
of loan money; but, disregarding that, you
have the fact that in the 1904-7 three years
the borrowed and spent only
£10,87.6,252, whereas in the past three years
they have borrowed and spent £55,892.434.
From this you can get some idea of the
abnormal amount of money which has lat-
terly- been spent on such goods as this co.
supplies. Whether the co. could have shown
much larger profits than it has shown this
paper doesn’t know. If it made them and
wanted to stuff them away it could easily
do so. If it hasn’t made them and stuffed
them away the time will come and isn’t far
off when there will be such a shrinkage that
the 10 p.c. div. won’t be possible.
Though falling trade will later on cut
down profits, the capital and reserves appear
to be very well secured: —
Liabilities.
Nov., May, Nov., May, Nov.,
1906. 1913. 1913. 1914. 1914.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital .. 60,000 125,000 125,000 150,000 150,000
Debts .. 9,597 31,773 35,651 37,386 32,482
Assets.
Country mills 3,825 24,310 24,777 35,590 38,792
Pyrmont
wharves,
mill, etc. 15,900 4,000 3,750 6,000 6,250
Vessels . . 18,050 27,201 27,401 31,183 31,627
Book debts,
etc. .. 25,517 56,187 63,916 62,018 56,182
Cash, etc... 1,010 15,987 13,411 24,520 29,233
Stocks . . 9,502 40,731 39,500 41,504 35,086
For a business like this the liabilities are
very small; so there will be no burden of
interest even if things crumnle up and the co.
can’t quit its stocks. These latter, on paper,
are also small. The co. doesn’t cut and wait
for a big buyer: it gets the big buyer and
then cuts —though of course it isn’t possible
to carry the policy out to the bitter end.
From the very nature of the trade the book
debts, though fairly large, ought to be and
no doubt are exceptionally good. And on
top of the exceptionally good book-debts and
the cash mentioned above, together £85,415,
the co. has £23,500 of reserve fund invest-
ments —nearly all liquid (deposits, etc.).
Down to 1906 the co. consisted practically
of Allen Taylor and Robert Murray
McCheyne Anderson, who were the man-
aging and sole directors. Last year F. A.
Sargeant, who had been secretary since the
co. was registered, joined the Board; and
soon afterwards it began to be whispered
tlial; “Boh” Anderson was going out. This
change is now definitely announced ; he goes
oft the Board this month.
V
11. McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants,
etc. (Sydney) :
Dividends.
, A
T> ,^ ref - . To Re- Re-
Front. 10 p.c. Ordinary, serves, serves.
A/ i. <££/£,
Mar., ’OB.. 7,499 2000 7 p.c. =2029 3,470 11,823
Sept., 08. . 7,472 Nil 7 472 19 290
w” ’no" Nil 20i057
Sept., 09.. 6,0.>9 Nil 6,539 33,196
Mar., 10.. 8,8,3 2000 7 p.c. =2029 4,844 38,040
Sept., ’10..10,248 8000 14 „ „ 4088 36 200
Mar -’ ; 11 -- 1 (M37 2000 10 „ „ 2899 11,538 47,’738
Deterred Ordinary dividend. .8117 39 621
Sept.., ’11..16,857 2000 10 p.e. =2899 11,958 5U579
Mar., ’12.. 12,910 2000 10 ~ „ 2899 8,011 59,590
C Deferred Ordinary div. 7176 - 52,414
Sept., ’l2-J jVUjhares.
114,409 10 p.e. = 4899 9,510 61,924
Premiums on new shares. . 252 62,176
Mar., ’13.. 13,577 10 pc. = 6500 7.077 69,253
Sept.,' 13..11,369 10 ~ ~ 6500 4,869 74,122
Mar., ’14.. 6,594 Nil 6,594 80,716
S e P-., 14.. 7,737 Nil 7,737 88,453
At the end of 3913 the Board recommended
a div. at the rate of 30 n.c., and the share-
holders formally approved. But on think-
ing it over—probably after a heart-to-heart
talk with the bank—it was decided to defer
the div. for a while; and one thing after
another has happened to defer it ever since.
Naturally, while the 1913 div. isn’t paid, no
other div. is declared. Yet, to quote the
directors’ report, “notwithstanding the non-
payment of dividends, due solely to the fact
that all available cash is required in the
business, the co. is in a strong financial posi-
tion.” It is not easy to say what is meant
by “a strong financial position.” If sol-
vency is meant, there can be no question
about that. The co. owes £96,918, and its
assets are valued at £321,871. If the book
debts and shares in other cos. were worth
nothing whatever, and if all the buildings
and mills and machinery were worth not
one farthing, and if the stocks (including
advances to cutters) were worth only one-
half their book value, there would still be
ample to pay all creditors. So the creditors
may make themselves quite easy in mind re-
garding their security.
The directors say that the non-payment of
dividends is “due solely to the fact that all
available cash is required in the business” ;
and this raises an important and interesting
question: If a co. can pay dividends, are
directors justified in withholding them in
order to provide further capital for the
business? No doubt a large discretion must
be allowed to directors in such matters ; at
the same time it ought to be said plainly
that it is a practice which can easily be car-
ried too far. This is not a case in which
losses have been made and profits are being-
used to replace lost capital. It is admit-
tedly a case in which shareholders are being
forced to contribute fresh capital in a limited
liability co. whose shares are fully paid. The
practice is open to obvious objection. The
directors are pretty certain to realise that
fact as well as anyone. But they must
make the best of an unpleasant job. The
alternative would be to say something like
this: “We are once more unable to pay a
dividend. We have been guilty of over-
trading. Our stocks alone (including ad-
vances to cutters) run into £200.285, and as
our capital is only £130.000. and our reserves
(apart from depreciation fund) are no more
than £52,000. you will see that we have
put too big a load on our shoulders. Unfor-
tunately there isn’t much hope of getting
the stocks off quickly ; and as they are not
earning anything while they are waiting in
the yards or the forests, we are reluctantly
comnelled to ask you to do without a divi-
dend again.”
The co.’s debts have moved up this way:—
Mar., 1910 . . £45,606 Sept., 1912 . . £72,276
Sept., 1910 .. 45,112 Mar., 1913 .. 55,836
Mar., 1911 . . 32,468 Sept., 1913 . . 70,958
Sept., 1911 . . 38,768 Mar., 1914 . . 83.414
Mar., 1912 . . 46,796 Sept., 1914 . . 96,918
For that, increase, in spite of the issue of
new capital and the accumulation of
profits, the extraordinary growth of stocks is
mainly responsible:—
Sept., ’ll. Sept.,’ 14.
Advances to cutters.. ..£23,617 £60,441
Stocks in hand and transit . . 61,510 139,848
Total.. ..£85,127 £200,289
Tiie Bulletin confesses that it does not
understand this policy. It would no doubt
be a good one if labor had recently been cheap
and if the prospects were that big sticks
would be dearer during the next few years,
while the market for timber would continue
brisk. But the outlook doesn’t seem to be
like that at all. On the contrary, labor costs
have probably reached their top; and the
market for timber is likely to be a good deal
w r eaker.
The Intercolonial Investment, Land
and Building Co. (Sydney) :
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserve*.
1902 .. £5,261 7 p.c.= £ 2,537 £2,724 £26,401
1903 . . 5,900 74 „,. 2,762 3,138 29,539
1904 .. 6,591 9 „ „ 3,355 3,236 32,775
1905 .. 7,639 10 „ „ 3,792 3,847 36,622
1906 . . 8,952 124 „ „ 4,742 4,210 40,832
1907 .. 9,249 10 „ „ 4.126 5,123 45,955
1908 . . 9,535 124 „ „ 5,659 3.876 49,831
1909 .. 12,018 124,,,, 5,836 6,182 56,013
1910 .. 13,691 10 „ 5,190 8,501 64,514
Transferred to capital. £5807 .. 58,707
1911 .. 24,624 10 p.c. = 6.301 18,323 77,030
Transferred to capital. £9670 .. 67.360
1912 .. 33,737 16 p.e. = 12,760 20,977 88,337
Transferred to capital, £9308 .. 79,029
1913 . . 35.351 124 p.c.= 11,209 24,142 103,171
Transferred to capital, £39,774 .. 63,397
Cash bonus distributed. £145 . . 63,252
1914 . . 30,263 8 p.c. =10,482 19,781 83,033
Of the year’s profit £14,382 is credited to
the first and £15,881 to the second half.
Apparently the co. wasn’t thrown into any
confusion by the sudden war. The long run
of good seasons stood to N. S. Wales in
this crisis. The State had been doing so well
that it went on comfortably living on its
own fat. Then, to maintain a fictitious
prosperity in the midst of generally ad-
verse conditions, the Government fixed up
its big loan through the Commonwealth
Government. The more we borrow —and
especially the more we borrow to spend in
the extravagant fashion of this bogus Labor
Government of N. S. Wales —the greater
our troubles will be presently. Meantime,
however, it is all right for time-payment
merchants and vendors. It means that this
co., for instance, will have comparatively
few unpaid instalments of purchase money
to worry about; and by the time things get
worse, the purchasers will have paid so
much that, if the securities are thrown on
to the co.’s hands, they will be taken over
at a comparatively low and safe price. A
co. with £214,231 on its books in borrowers’
and purchasers’ balances could lose a lot
through a sudden sharp slump in property
values, accompanied by a dearth of employ-
ment and wages. But a slump in
values brings little trouble so long as work
is plentiful and pay good; and, largely
through the State giving unlimited lOC's,
work in Sydney still is plentiful and pay
is good. By the time things change, the
slump won’t matter to this co., however
awkward it may be for the unfortunate
borrowers or purchasers who have to throw
in the towel.
Therefore The Bulletin doesn’t expect
that this co. will make any big loss of capi-
tal or reserves, though, since new sales will
be few, profits are likely to ease off consid-
erably. The margin between profit and
dividend is, however, so very wide that 8
p.c. on the much-watered capital isn’t in
any danger—unless something quite unex-
pected happens. The co. is unusually well
placed to meet a lifeless property market,
since all its freeholds are valued at only
£53,646, and that includes a valuable city
office property. This means that practically
all of its own capital and reserves, as weil
as its £56,434 of money borrowed from or
owing to the public, is in interest-bearing
or profit-earning use. This, of course, will
make it much easier to pay dividends than
if the co. had a vast sum in unsold estates
and allotments fetching in nothing but rate
notices and tax papers.
* * * *
The Young Co-operative Flour Milling
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Loss. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£, £>£££,
1903.. 801 10 p.c.= 1500 417 18,408
Profit.
1904.. 2,845 15 „ „ 2250 503 92 18,500
Loss.
1905.. 63 7} „ „ 1125 391 16,921
Profit.
1906.. 2,032 10 „ ~1500 371 161 17,082
1907.. 6.771 25 „ „ 3750 362 2.659 19.741
1908.. 8,877 20 „ ~ 3000 349. 528 20.269
1909.. 11,687 30 „ „ 4500 675 6,512 26,781
£15,000 transferred to capital .. 11,781
Loss.
1910.. 2,308 5 p.c.= 1500 644 7,329
1911.. 629 5 „ „ 1500 313 4,887
Profit.
1912.. 5,651 7f „ „ 2250 481 2,920 7,807
1913.. 2,333 7| „ „ 2250 408 7,432
1914.. 5,263 7* „ „ 2250 871 2,142 9,574
Or you can add £250 to the profits and the
same to the amount written off, that sum
having been put to the credit of a bad debts
reserve. This business isn’t one for a
widow of small means or a man with the
worrying habit. There is oftener a profit
than a loss ; but there is oftener a loss than
there is in most businesses. Sometimes the
miller thinks it; advisable to get in early (the
country miller generally has to do that, lest
he should find the local wheat all taken by
some outside buyer), and then it is a gamble
whether the market will rise or fall. There
are plenty poor devils delivering their bit of
N.S.W. wheat this year to millers and others
at from 3s. 6d. to 45., while just over the
border, in Victoria, it is 6s. 6d.; and the
statutory price in N. S. Wales is ss. A
miller who bought much at 3s. 6d. or 4s.
would be in clover. Of course there isn’t
often such a jump as there has been lately ;
but the market is never quite steady. Hence
the mixed character of the first column. For
the current year the co. will probably make
a fair profit. It certainly isn’t likely to
have bought at more than 55., the fixed price,
while it may have made forward purchases
at a good deal less; and flour will continue
to be officially “controlled” at a price calcu-
lated to give a fair profit to the miller who
buys wheat at the standard figure. On
Nov. 30 the co. had £24,113 in liquid and
more or less liquid assets, while its liabili-
ties were only £906. In addition to the assets
mentioned above, premises and plant, which
appear to be kept very well written down,
are valued at £19.095. Altogether a good,
sound position with which to begin another
year’s trading.
* * * *
The market bolted early last year; so a
comparison of prices at the end of 1913 and
1914 doesn’t show the slump that came with
the war —especially as there has been a par-
tial recovery lately. In 60 leading invest
ments quoted in Sydney there was an aggre-
gate shrinkage of only about £250,000. As
their total value is about £54.000.000. the
shrinkage is equal to (say) -J per cent. But
this next comparison (taken from Palmer’s
circular) shows things more fairly:—
Dee. 19, July 20, End of
1913. 1914. Year.
Bank of Australasia.. ~ £ll7 £1271 £lll
Commercial of Sydney ..£25/6/3 £2B,j £25
Bank of New South Wales. . £404 £454 £4l
City Bank (old) .. .. £5/12/6 £64
Union Bank £574 £62:4 £521
Union Steam .. .. 24/3 24/6 21/8
New Zealand Insurance ..£5/14/- £6J £6
United Insurance . . . . £6/2/6 £7# £64
Australian Gas, “A” . . £9f £lof £Bf
Burns, Pliilp . . .. 29/6 30/6 25/9
Colonial Sugar .. .. £43 £494 £4s|
Dalgetv £6f £7f £64
Goldsbrough, Mort . . . . 43/6 43/6 32/3
Henry Jones . . .. 24/- 26/3 24/10
Howard Smith . . . . 57/- 90/- £5-J
The recent rise in Howard Smiths was, of
course, due to the disclosure of reserves


So
nv
NV
dOH
VIIVW
0
W3±<&
A weak spot in the producing end of your business
heaps up worry and trouble. In a power plant
transmission belting is often a big trouble maker,
but the “Pioneer” people in building ‘ Pioneer
leather belting have solved the power transmission
problem, bet “Pioneer” work for your profit—just
as it does for Australia’s largest power plants. Our
nearest office can give you proof in your own plant
of “Pioneer” savings. Ask to-day. “Pioneer” is
made only by J. 0. Ludowici & Son Ltd., “Pioneer’
Works 117 York Street, Sydney. Sold in Victoria
by Geo. Russell P’t’y Ltd., Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne ; South Australia, by J. Mclvell. Timpson
Street. Port Adelaide; Queensland: Queensland
Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane; W. Australia: Horace
Summers, Howard Street. Perth; Broken Hill; Geo.
0. Dempster, Argent Street.*
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-Tvne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are alreadv running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is "shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of” Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other are
now running. Sole agents. V illiam Atlanis and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane and
Perth.* #
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mill.- have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; thev have installed 64 of them, and sav
“the Ilardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we hare get gotten hold of. ' Tf
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
Extract from Commercial World, London, 15th
November, 1913: “Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited. —Most life offices have a certain
individuality of their own, or some special feature
which is impressed upon us whenever we look into
their affairs, and in the case of the Colonial Mutual
it would perhaps be correct to say that enterprise and
activity are the characteristics chiefly in evidence.”* [1
PIONEER WOOD PIPE carries mineral solutions
or acid liquids, hot or cold, without corrosion or
consumption. Electrolysis, also, cannot harm it.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
contractors to all State Governments, 57 York Street,
Sydney (Head Office).*
* * * *
Mine managers interested in simple economical
power should communicate with R. Hornsby & Sons
Ltd., of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, who have
already installed a large number of their Suction Gas
Engines in various mines, which have obtained re-
sults exceeding all expectations, in some instances as
much as 20 h.p. has been developed at a cost of Id.
per hour for fuel.* [3
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratteu Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * » *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grim wade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyanibo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
“Robey’s” latest steam combination —Self-Con-
tained Superheated Compound Engine and Boiler-
powers from 30 to 400 b.h.p. Not built to sell,
built to last. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier &
Co. Head Office, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boileis, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
efiriifed in foi'inei* times, The Worst trouble
iiefel the Broken Hill group. At the end ot
1913 this lot was worth £9,250,000 in the
market, Bv the end of 1914, notwithstand-
ing the substantial recovery in November
and December, the total market valuation
was about £1,000,000 less than that.
Italy is now taking four times its usual
supply of copper from the United btates;
Sweden suddenly needs three times more
than it used to; Norway eight times more;
and Holland 12 times more. It is curious
that these countries should all simultaneously
take such a fancy to copper ornaments and
pots, and should require so much more
copper wire than usual for their home re-
quirements, But the idea that these coun-
tries are merely taking copper in at the
bung, so to speak, and letting it leak out into
a German mug at the spigot, is not to- be
harbored for an instant. In fact, the mere
suggestion gives Uncle ham great pam. He
Can’t see anything surprising in the fact that
Holland, Germany's neighbor, should be tak-
ing 12 times more American copper than
usual, and doesn’t think anybody else should
see anything surprising in it eltheE
“M.C.”: For many years past Australia
has been paying away more money for im-
ported galvanised goods than it has received
for its colossal export of zinc concentrates.
And the demand for the abrogation
of zinc contracts with Germany would
certainly not prevent the dumping ot
German galvanised goods on to our market.
Nothing but a stiff Protective duty will do
that. But that’s not the only trouble.
When the last ton of our zinc concentrate
has been exported to Europe, Australia will
awake to the fact that it is short of this
cheap ore to produce spelter for itself. We
certainly don’t require 500,000 tons of zinc
concentrates a year for our own use; but
the end of the supply is within sight it we
continue to export on that scale. The zinc
cos. at Broken Hill, therefore, all figure on
a short life, and some of the mines can see
their end too. Unrestricted export of cheap
lead and zinc ore is absolutely against the
national interest; in fact, a country with so
much coal and unrivalled facilities tor
smelting is mad to allow ore to be exported
at all.
* * * *
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.) •
Gross
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
Mav 1908 . . £911,723 £648,360 £263,363
Mav 1909 .. 901,838 673,622 228,216
May! 1910 .. 1,079,914 721,722 358,192
Nov., 1910 .. 484,755 408,450 /6,305
May 1911 • • 468,538 350,867 117,671
Nov 1911 •• 452,336 381,730 70,606
May 1912 . , 537,378 349,985 187,393
Nov 1912 .. 640,712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913 . . 499,317 351,314 148,003
Nov 1913 . . 496,936 351,973 144,960
Mav” 1914 .. 459,606 328,217 131,389
Nov.. 1914 .. 502,382 438,546 63,836
That doesn’t look too cheerful. Still there
is this to be said —the average gross price
obtained for electrolytic copper Jast_ half-
year was £57 12s. 7d., as against £<2 los.. od.
In the corresponding half of the jirevious
year; and on an output of over 4500 tons
this means upwards of £67.500. The copper
on hand on November 29 was valued at
£55; and it has since been sold for more
than that. What quantity was on hand
isn’t mentioned; judging, however, by the
value of “blister copper in transit” —which
apparently includes all stocks -the quantity
was not much more than usual. Six months
ago the item stood at £282.092 (the metal
was valued then at £6O per ton) ; now, it is
valued at, £260.174 (taken at £55 per ton).
Add £67,500 to the half-year’s profit to
represent the loss through the fall in the
copper market, and you get £131,336 as the
profit the co. would have made at the
former price. So we get this rough com-
parison :
Nov., ’l3. Nov., ’l4.
Ore smelted, tons .. • • 148,924
Ore concentrated, tons.. .. Nil t
Copper tons •• •• • • 4,304 4,590
Profits (taking copper at £72) . . 144,963 131,336
“Purchased ore and miscellaneous” is in-
cluded in each case. In the earlier half-
year it accounted for 165 tons copper from
3147 tons material; in the latter half for
578 tons copper from 13,040 tons material.
Apparently this last includes the concen-
trates produced from the new flotation plant.
If so the smelter losses must have been
pretty considerable, as the copper obtained
from the 13,040 tons “miscellaneous
averaged 4.43 p.c., whereas the concentrates
tbemselves (9019 tons) were worth 6.86 p.c.
It is, in fact, admitted that “the handling
of flotation concentrates on account of then-
fineness has been a source of trouble ; but
the general manager says he is beating the
difficulties.
In any case, the rough comparison given
above does not leave a pleasant taste in the
mouth. Even cutting out the 31,274 tons
of milling ore, it is seen that in the past
half-year it took more other ore to make a
smaller profit, allowing that the same price
had been got for copper in both terms. In
the earlier half-year it was explained that
things at the mine were anyhow, owing to
the remodelling of the plant. Yet the
financial results last half-year, quite apart
from the metal market, appear to have been
several shades worse. _ Costs certainly are
better, though they still amount to over
475. 3d. per ton; but the value of the smelt-
ing ore was only 2.67 p.c. copper and
7.75dwt. gold, as against 3.125 p.c. copper
and B.sdwt. gold in the corresponding half
of the previous year—a loss of about 15 p.c.
of the copper value and 9 p.c. of the gold
value. There has to be a serious cut in costs
to make up for that.
Another change has lately been made at
Mount Morgan, which now has a “general
superintendent” as well as a “general mana-
ger.” A. A. Boyd, who used to be under-
ground boss at the Broken. Hill Prop.,
and is a first-rate man for a mining job, has
been appointed superintendent. Also, by the
way. there are a couple of changes of some
importance in the form of the co.’s accounts.
The directors’ report shows that on Nov. 29
there were liquid assets £400,721 in excess
of the liabilities, whereas six months the
report showed a surplus of only £314,024
The remarkable swelling is due to the liquid
assets having now swallowed, “stores, fuel
and ore mined.” These are said to be worth
£109,317. Cut them out. and then, though
only one dividend (£50.000) has been paid
during the half-year, the surplus of liquid
assets has shrunk from £314.024 to £291.404.
The surplus revenue of £63.836 for the half-
year is also shown after deduction of ‘ ex-
penditure charged to profit and loss, includ-
ing development and depreciation.” The
directors don’t thus need to say what
development and depreciation amounted
to. The explanation may be that,
whereas in the previous half-year the
two items called for £52.590, for the
past half-year only £38,595 was pro-
vided for these purposes. Thus, had
the same provision been made for depre-
ciation. etc., as in the previous half-year,
the poor profits would have been about
£14.000 poorer. There was a time when
Mount Morgan didn’t care what impression
its half-yearly story made. But a struggle
to put tiie very best possible face on things
is visible at a dozen points in the latest
document.
* * * *
Last year the Scottish Gympie, one of the
1 owest-grade gold mines in Queensland, paid
away more in dividends and wages than any
other quartz mine in the State. It also raised
and treated most stone, for it has been send-
ing 8300 tons to the mill per month. The
recovered value has recently averaged 225.
per ton, which was good enough in the last
quarter of 1914 to provide two dividends of
lid. each, a total of £8250.
* * * *
Charters Towers gave only one Christmas
box: Papuan Brilliant and Victoria handed
out 3d. a share on the last day of 1914. Its
final crushing of 270 tons returned £lo<o
from the battery, £702 from tailings, and
£1485 from sale of concentrates. I 1
return, £3557; average, over £l3 per ton. The
Papuan has purchased an adjoining lease,
and intends to push on with development.
A remarkable feature of the recent return
was that £lO2 14s. per ton was obtained for
concentrates. This is said to be a record.
To date Bendigo has supplied the world
with £79,500,000 of gold. The bulk of this
has come out of three or four main saddle
formations, leaving a dozen side-lines for the
future to draw on. The latter reefs were
depended on more than ever last year; in
fact, mines on the Nell Gwynne and
Sheepshead lines ran the Pyke and Moon
group close for first place on the dividend
list. There wasn’t much of a falling-off ih
the whole output for the year, as can be seen
from these figures :
Gold. Calls! Dividends.
1912 .. 174,9010 z. £154,482 £114,008
1913 . . 168,5790 z. 90,349 135,116
1914 .. 160,6010 z. 62,160 125,848
The working profit of the field for the year
was thus over £63,000, against £44,765 in
1913 and nothing in 1912. The increase
might be taken as a sign of progress. It
isn’t. The Bendigonian knows that calls
have to keep up or yields will go down. In
the late ’9o’s calls ran into £200,000 yearly.
The draw was the big dividends coming from
the mines on the Moon and other leading
lines. If another giant or two like the South
Moon and the New Moon could be created,
legal managers wouldn’t have to chase up
call-oayers as has to be done to-day. Little
rockets of the Golden Pyke and the New
Chum Goldfield type really do more harm
than good in the long run, for they lure folk
into the market at prices which make them
sorry they ever saw Bendigo. Anyhow, the
dividend list for 1914 was a small affair.
New Chum Goldfields, for long a rank out-
sider, led the way simply by getting on to a
rich shoot; yet it paid only £20,809. The
runner-up was Great Extended Hustlers,
with a mere £16.150. South New Moon was
third with £12,800. In all, 28 mines dis-
bursed profits, but • only three got into five
figures. It is such facts that keep capital
from moving to the field. You must have the
prospect of a big prize to lure people into
liberal support of mining.
* * * *
If there is one show at Ararat (Vic.)
that the State ought to help, supposing
shareholders to be too hard hit to pay up
heavy calls, it is Catlicart Victory. Near-
est to the rich shallow runs that made the
district the joy of the white man and the
foraging ground of hordes of Cantonese
there ought to be more than an off-chance
for the block. Yet even the new shaft is
stopped, though only 60ft. has to be sunk
to get under the level of the gutter. Luck
in getting on gold in the lead would help
miles of leases below the Victory ground.
Most of the claims in that part wait on
their neighbors, and workers starve because
Private Enterprise is so unenterprising. A
lot of boring has been done by Government
stroke round this district, but what is needed
most is to push out deliberate idlers. Drys-
dale Brown, having lectured Bendigo for
dismissing men, might now offer a Tnt of
help to a crowd like the Victory. Then if
its folk won’t assist and pay up calls the
Minister might give them the kick—with a
promise to the fat men lower down the
gutter that they will get the order of the
boot, too, if they don’t make a move.
Stamp, of Outtrim-Howitt Coal, Gipps-
land, ought to have been promoted by his
ally W. L. Baillieu into the realms of higher
finance long ago. What an ideal chairman
he makes when things are blue, as was the
case for so long with the Outtrim, and what
an expansive, smiling waistcoat he shows
when the corner is even half-turned. W hen
ex-Mines Minister Peter Mcßride decided
to mop up all State coal land, he apparently
doomed the Outtrim, with its narrowing
seam. But that Ministerial ukase was in
due time withdrawn; and perhaps Stamp
knows something about it. Anyway, the Out-
trim was thus able to secure land at Kil-
cunda, where it is opening out on a bO-inch
seam. The narrowness of it doesn't worry
Stamp, for, according to him, the coal pos-
sesses a "very dense character,” and the de-
posit “compares favorably as a working
seam with a thicker one of a more friable
nature.”
* * * *
,T. L. Reilly was Santa (’laus to the Oath-
cart Central, Ararat, in its liard-up days,
and is now doing the same service to the
upper Langi Logan. He lends the co.
£l5OO, to be returned at the end of Dio.
On £5OO he takes no interest, but collects 8
p.c. on the balance, and he gets the right to
lift 8900 forfeited shares at Is. 3d. phis any
calls made up to the exercise of the option.
This isn’t a bad Christmas present for the
co., as confidence begets confidence, and with
so many mining blue-ducks around someone
is wanted to give a lead. The co.’s little
programme of work includes putting up
puddlers: but to build them before the lead
is driven under is paradoxical. With
Reilly’s backing, and with crosscuts under
the gutter giving good boring results, the co.
won t be left short of cash for the puddlers.
•* *• * *
The Wild Cherry’s new battery at Ard-
lethan (N.S.W.) is at work. That is to
say it is more or less at work. As it seems
a pity that shareholders shouldn’t be in the
joke, or whatever it is, the directors ought to
invite some plainspoken person like Blake-
more or Newman to report on it.
Gordon Lyon's Adelong Creek Dredging
Co. was belted badly by the war, as the
buyer of a parcel of reserved scrip cried oft
the deal. This was hard luck, as the co.
wants a wider share-holding, to say nothing
of the need of wiping out the debenture debt.
By selling some of the Adelong Estate scrip
while that stock is fashionable, the way to
cut out the nasty liability would be made
much easier. The co. got its No. 2 dredge
started in August, but so far hasn t profited
much thereby. Low-grade ground and pea-
soupy water kept yields down; but bores
ahead are in better ground, so the chase
after profits will be easier. No. 2 dredge is
an ex-Tewkesbury plant, and was built to
handle 10,000 to ' 12,000 cub. yards weekly ;
so if it can emulate No. 1 dredge by getting
into 3 jdwt. dirt, another fashionable stock
will rank alongside Adelong Estates and
Cock’s Pioneer. With one dredge the co.
would have been merely an interest-payer;
with two and luck, it: may produce very
pleasant dividends.
The future of Yuauini I W.A.) is not as
bright as it might be. One of its mines,
Oroya-Black Range, at Sandstone, is on its
deathbed, while the other, at Yuanmi, looks
sickly. Twelve months ago the reserves in
the latter show were estimated at 71,391 tons
of a gross value of £138.129. Since then
39 094 tons, yielding £93,460, have been
treated : and. despite a fairly large sum spent
on development in the interim, the ore now
in sight is reckoned to be only 38,870 tons,
worth £74.338 gross. These figures speak for
themselves; and, as the chairman pointed out
at the shareholders’ meeting, until the next
(No. 5) level is opened up it will be imposs-
ible to say what is going to happen. Arsenic,
antimony or some other refractory sub-
stance is also worrying the co. at depth, so
that, with one misfortune and another, its
cup of trouble is in danger of slopping over.
Unobtrusive London-owned Meuzies Con-
solidated (W.A.) produced £62.225 for the
year ended Julv 31 last, which was just about
£20,000 more than it turned out in the pre-
vious 12 months. An increased tonnage and
a rise of 7s. 4d. in the value of the ore
crushed explains the improvement. A reef
of “larger dimensions and increased value” is
now being worked in the bottom of the mine,
and in view of this and the fact that there is
a big credit balance in the bank, the Board
has loosed £5600 in order to pay a sixpenny
dividend.
The London and Australian Exploration
Co. is still losing money. Last year it
dropped £30,000. mostly in depreciation of
Burma mines, Plymouth Consolidated and
other boomed investments. As regards
Burma Mines, the same old story of “satis-
factory developments and highly payable
values” is told. While the Plymouth Con-
solidated is now reckoned to be earning sub-
stantial profits, the other ventures in which
the co. is interested are stated to be showing-
payable results. Probably, if the truth
were known, it would be found that the co.’s
garden is not so free of weeds as is repre-
sented.
f) * * * *
Ida H. (W.A.) made a profit of £9274 for
the financial year; and as the amount left
over from the previous year increased this to
£11,415. the Board has declared a dividend.
Developments during the past few months
have, it is stated, been highly satisfactory;
and in view of this the directors, acting on
the advice of the management, have sanc-
tioned the continuation of the internal in-
clined shaft from the 500 ft. level to the
surface. This job will take about eight
months, and will considerably lessen wDik-
ing exes. Ore reserves were on June dU
estimated to be about a year ahead ot the
mill; but recent developments are reckoned
to have given them a bigger lead.
Edna Mav Deeps is getting ready to lay
out its £12,000 of subscribed Melbourne capi-
tal in sinking for the underlay ot the Edna
Mav reef. The manager now estimates tuat
he 'will get it at 500 ft., but other experts
still say 700 ft. #
Mount Lyell has caught on with the
market again, and shares quickly recovered
from 17s. to 235. when the returns com-
menced to look profitable. For 12 weeks *<>
December 22 Lyell smelted 82,010 tons ore,
including 31,(508 tons from North Lyell, and
the blister contained 1803 tons >dppor and
22770 z. gold. With copper at £6O the value ot
these metals is £129,180, equal to 31s. per
ton of ore, which supplies a substantial
profit. The copper market, of course, isn t
insatiable; but sales of up to 1000 tons in
a line have lately been made by Australian
producers.
* * *
In the matter of dividends Charters Towers
has once more to play second fiddle to
Gympie, which but a few years ago it treated
with smiling disdain.
p.j. : (l) Quite reputable; but there are
others which will probably pay iiiggei
bonuses; (2) No. .. .A.G.8.: You’ll find the
scheme of reconstruction in B. 01/12/ 14.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 30.)


Under
Royal
V/arranf
To H.M.
Kin^
George V L
CHAMPAGNE {
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
'**•*, (Qj)'«***'
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
APPENDICITIS FREQUENT.
NUMBERLESS SOCIETY PATIENTS.
[From Our Special Representative.]
London, Wednesday, 11.10 p.m
Operations for appendicitis are becoming' common
amongst society folk. The latest case is that of Sir
Charles Oust, equerry to the King, who accompanied
him on his Australian tour when Duke of York.
Appendicitis during recent years has become very
ordinary throughout the civilised world, and it is
held in many professional centres that before appen-
dicitis was correctly diagnosed numberless deaths
resulted, the physicians being at that time under the
impression the cause of death was peritonitis or in-
flammation of the bowels. Medical men, with the
educated finger-touch that comes with active prac-
tice, readily diagnose the complaint to-day, aided by
symptoms only too easily recognised.
Medical science of to-day has reduced this opera-
tion to an almost painless nature, but prolonged
weakness often ensues, as is shown in the case of Mr.
P. R. Miles, who was operated on in Melbourne last
year. In an appendicitis sense, his case was similar
to that of thousands of others, but the weakness that
ensued baffled all attempts to cure, and as he repre-
sented one of the largest commercial firms resident
in Australasia, his life was a very valuable one.
Prescriptions and medicines were alike useless to him
until he, as a last resource, took Clements Tonic,
the great nerve and brain medicine, and in a mirac-
ulously short time his strength and health were re-
stored. Ilis nerves are now as sound as steel; he says
he is completely cured. As all chemists and stores
sell this medicine, it would be wise for all weak-
nerved people to get it and get well.*
Otard Brandy
15 YEARS OLD
IS A TRUE COGNAC BRANDY.
Otard Brandy is the pure distillation of the grape,
matured for years in the famous historic Chateau de
Cognac, where Francois 1., King of France, was born.
This Chateau now forms the cellars and premises of
THE MAISON OTARD-DUPUY. For sickness or
health, as a liqueur or as a beverage, there is no spirit
to equal.
OTARD (15 Year) BRANDY
y/’vv
K'l
©
«*>«.. r.'tm
)«
p to
Duct OF TRAM®
A
WOMEN’S
LETTERS
Sydney, January 4, 1915.
My Dear Akini, —
The G.-G. and Lady Helen came to Sydney
tor the rear part of the holidays, and stayed
again with their brither Scot, Colonel James
Lurns. And being here in his hands, that
very worthy person, as a matter of course,
interested them in his domestic hobby. Most
acquisitive Scotchmen collect only coins.
Mr. Burns is as keen on that as anybody,
but to coins he adds native curios and Aus-
tralian orphans. One after the other three
cottage homes have gone up to house the
orphans, and the G.-G. spent an hour or so
of his vis.t to Gowan Brae in starting a
fourth, which is to be paid for by squatter
McCaughey. Who paid for the others I
don’t know, but Mr. Burns’s banker could
probably tell a good deal about it. The
idea seems to be that when this rich man can
get his rich friends to help his orphans he
does, and when he can’t he helps them him-
self.
The Burnside homes are homes, and not
barracks. Built near Parramatta, they
sprawl on the slope which you climb to reach
Gowan Brae and the finest plantations of
golden wattle within many miles of Sydney
—in September a field of gold. It is a
district of orchards and infirmaries and egg
farms and convents and cheap living and
hospitals, and the 120 youngsters fare just
about as well as the G.-G. himself on‘the
a year which is the average cost of a
Burnside orphan.
The daily papers report that “Homebush
cattle market is excited.” Which means
that Mrs. Suburbs will be excited presently,
when she will be called on to squeeze out of
her housekeeping money another penny or so
per pound for beef.
The appeal made by Lady Edeline
Strickland has put new life into the lan-
guishing Belgian fund. There has been a
rush of hundred pound patriots to tot up the
£lOOO asked for by an anonymous donor who
sent his tithe along as a sign of good faith.
Ihe N. S. Wales Government, moreover,
announces that a pound for pound State
subsidy will be given on contributions made
to the Belgian cause during January. In
February the Government will lie in wait
to collect an income tax —still, let us eat,
drink lemonade, and be as merry as possible
till the collector’s shadow falls.
This is the time when the ghosts of annual
reports do walk like banshees on the top of
Lie Sea of Galilee; and committees bombard
the patient and entrenched public with
statistics. The N.S.W. Institution for the
Deaf and Dumb and Blind sends along a
voluminous account of its Good Works for
the ending September, 1914. This is
its 53rd annual explanation of the financial
position.
The N.S.W. Division of the Red Cross
Society has brought forth a little journal
called the Red Cross Record. It contains
everything expected of it, from contributions
laden with whiffs of “a soft, caressing breeze”
to the detailed accounts of a kitten’s purr
(while the lady of the house knitted socks
for Tommy Kangaroo) and the right way to
make tomato soup. With a few gentle
feminine wails there is a supply of solid
facts. There is, for instance, mention of a
Aorth Sydney committee of chemists’ wives.
(1 or the purpose of this committee North
Sydney extends from Mosman to Wahroon-
gah. Ihese ladies have banded together, as
one woman, to help in time of sickness the
dependents of men at the tremendous Front.
Frank Brennan, eldest son of solicitor
\\ . F. Brennan, has gone on the land at
Bexley, with Mrs. Frank and the makings
of a poultry farm. They’re giving up the
more or less boresome luxury of living in a
l otts Point flat to get into the open with
' hanticleer and his seraglio. They might
get into more hostile company these days, for
the chook is a friendly creature, and doesn’t
shout in tho front ranks of war.
Mr. Bob Fotheringhame, formerly of
Dunedin (ML.), has left Capetown to make
himself unpleasant in Europe. lie nowa-
days owns a property in the Transvaal. The
Maonlander, who is 6ft. of imposing brawn
and muscle, was in an Imperial regiment
as a youngster, and saw service in the
South African trouble. He joins the Scot-
tish Horse as Major.
Red ( loss ladies take the camera man
very seriously, and plunge into bales of
calico or stare steadfastly at a pyramid of
pyjamas while he presses the button. But
they are apt to let their feet lie around
rather carelessly. Thus an otherwise good
Photo taken on the verandah of Mrs
Gocdhart s house at Broken Hill, shows
that, while feet are useful accessories, not
every woman is born to toe the mark in No
- shoes.
Doesn't it read like something in “Alice
through the Looking Glass” or “At the Back
ot the North Wind in Wonderland” to note
the cables’ curt allusion to High Commis-
sioner Iteid on the heels of Australian troops
in the shadow of the Pyramids? Egypt
just now is more or less rushed by Society
and is only less popular than France as a
health-resort for robust duchesses in search
ot sensation. But it is more than one
expected to find Australia’s expansive
George Reid panting round among the ghosts
ot innumerable Pharaohs to have a look at
Pommy Kangaroo.
Herbert Maitland, the dark-eyed, alert-
looking surgeon who caught a New Year’s
bauble in the shape of a knighthood, is all-
Australian. He is a Sydney Uni. graduate
a native of the Ma State, and one of the
tew doctors who have a civil word to say
of the Labor party.
The only scientist amongst Australia’s
iecent visitors to get away with a “highly
commended,” or something, is Dr. Dyson
Astronomer Royal. He is as retiring as
the usual absent-minded man who lives
amongst the stars, and will have to he
called a good many times before he learns
to answer to the brand new “Sir Frank.”
A C.B was a trivial gaud for gallant
skipper Glossop, of the warship Sydney
His skill in getting off with so little damage
to ship and crew has been vociferously
praised by the men who were with him in
the chase of the Emden.
A jarring note, by the way, conws from a
New England sheep-farmer named Ogilvie
lor some reason or other the pastoralist,
who owes everything to Australia, is
usually a fierce opponent of anything so
national as an Australian fleet. After
handing over £lOO in response to Lady
Adeline’s special appeal for the Belgians,
Farmer Ogilvie first belittles the Sydney’s
exploit, declaring it hardly worthy of notice
it it had occurred in an ordinary naval
engagement between a British cruiser and
the enemy, and then adds that victory,
such as it was, was gained by British
officers. No good_ thing, you see, can come
out of Australia! Admiral King-Hall
had many tough jobs; but lie reckoned the
toughest he ever tackled was the extraction
of £lO from the late pastoralist A. A.
Dangar for the funds of the local Navy
League. A. A. was, of course, opposed to
anything so racy of his Australian seas.
The damp beginning of the New Year
was hard luck for the holiday hat, which
was mostly white. Long ostrich feathers
that gaily flung their fluff over tulle and
other frivolous trimmings on the morn of
January 1 looked very wan and draggled
when the misty rain had flattened out their
alluring curls. The all-white hat has been
one of the minor obsessions of the present
summer. It is an inexpensive form of
witchery, on the whole, for the Australian
girl can do wonders with ss. worth of tulle.
Really-white millinery grapes, as distin-
guished from the pale-green-with-black-spots
variety sold by the olive-skinned person
who doesn t understand English excepting
when he handles money, are equally dear
to the feminine heart. They generally
stand up straight in front of the crown, and
have a lovely, downy bloom that most shop
grapes leave behind in the vineyard. Alto-
gether, this summer’s millinery, which has
been shorn of its former riotous prices, has
certainly helped Woman to bear up against
the European crisis.
The Hielan’ gathering on January 1, at
the Agricultural Ground, was heavily
trimmed with tartan and heather. Some of
the male knees on view were more patriotic
than beautiful. The kilt is a scanty garment
when all is said and done, but it has a
less mixed effect than that of the person
who hangs on to himself a modern sac suit,
with long tags of tartan ribbon, and sneezes
behind a plaid handkerchief. Highland
Society officials, with that lofty air towards
the press which befits tetrarehs of one day’s
brief authority a year, waved aside news-
paper women who honed to get the usual
courtesy of entry to the half-full sub-regal
stand. Hon. sec, Stewart grudgingly threw
the poor wet dogs this bone: “Oh, ye can
go into the gran’ stand!” The alleged
“grand” stand being as full as a pod of
peas, the presswomen wandered off into the
rain and saw nothing of consequence from
behind a wall of umbrellas.
G.-G. Ferguson, shadowed by the
usual official tribe, fed in some state at
midday, with James Burns. M.L.C., presi-
dent of the Highland Society, in the chair.
The Allies’ Consuls added their remarks to
the menu. The sports were not up to the
1913 standard, though one or two new
features forced their way to the front. Actor
Walter Bentley, in tropic attire and with a
khaki helmet on his brow, rode round on a
sturdy-looking pony, and stage-managed the
crowning of a Queen of Sports. A tall girl
with a beauliful seat in the saddle steered a
highly-educated horse in and out flagged
’ a ,s, d . waLzed her steed to suitable
lls ilu ? Y as one of tlle best items
noted through the crush. The patriotic pro-
cession was a draggled, odd-man-out kind
0.. item. And the Knights’ Tourney ought
to have been postponed indefinitely. Most
h • lo i * uin & on to their helmets with
their bridle hand, and whacked the air with
a foil while they sat their steeds with hacks
.ape " f a crescent moon. The Roman
, race, put a spark of life into (he
„eneially-drah proceedings. Driver Cooper
i*l>erbus won this event.
. thorough is the Hebrew! The
richest of (he rich, the poorest of the poor;
lie 1 oriest of Tories, the fiercest of revo-
lutionaries. He had his Judas Maccabeus
i’estival the other day, and there hasn’t
been another military service in Sydney
more impressive. Thorough again, the
•lew could muster no less than 100 soldiers
practically all Expeditionaries—for the
parade at the Groat Synagogue; and every-
body said Rabbi Cohen’s dissertation on the
war was masterly.
Airs. W. Burrowes, a recent bride, who
used to be Ena Dulhunty, of Bathurst, can
talk early N.S.W. history, when other topics
of conversation, including the war, grow
ic tc * s a of the
Dr. Dulhunty who, in the ’2o’s, had the
usual generous helping of grants of land,
notably Cullen Bullen. The old-time
doctor married a daughter of Colonel Gibbes,
once Collector of Customs in N.S.W.
Seven Little Australians,” at the Palace
Iheatre, is a delightful, breezy performance,
v? 1L m red 'headed. “Miss Bobby” (another
Turner heroine) is assimilated by
the dramatist. Vera Spaull in this part is
so attractive and so unlike the usual child-
prodigy or trained automaton that I hope
her next-of-kin won’t let her be spoilt by
reading her press notices.
Sinna St. Clair, the stout lady who takes
the part of working housekeeper at a daily
matinee of “Seven Little Australians,” has
a strenuous life. Every evening, in “Who’s
the Lady ?” she polishes brasswork as often
ns the plot permits, being then the stage
wife of Augustin Trieointe, the French mag-
istrate who married his cook. The plot
thickens round the fascinations and Paris
gown of the comedy actress Gobette—other-
wise Ethel Dane. In a Dresden china
frock of pale blue and white, with a wicked
little hat tilted at 70 degrees on her flaxen
locks, Gobette completes her conquest of the
Minister for Justice, Cyprien Gaudet —and
no one is surprised. In the same gay Palace
trifle Angeline (Alice Hamilton), the fiery-
tempered charmer from Marseilles, is so
decked out in puffs and silk humps or
panniers that she looks like a wrathful
young camel as she stamps round in search
of faithless Gaudet.
The programme for the Highland Society’s
concert was of fearsome length. But New
Year’s Night comes only once a year—
thanks be! The big drum-major led the bag-
pipes procession up the centre of a packed
Town Hall, by way of opening the uproar.
Frantic applause from everyone with a dash
of tartan about their person greeted this
outbreak.
Amongst, the best items by the High-
land Society’s Choir, with conductor
Arundel Orchard in charge, was a clever
arrangement of “Caller’ Herrin’.” George
Castles breathed heavily in “My ain Dear
Nell,” but .improved in the management of
his wind-pipes in succeeding events. The
Castles family all lurk on the threshold of a
notable career, but somehow they don’t force
the door of Destiny hard enough. A large,
comfortable-looking lady, in a yellow dress,
Miss Lilian Gibson, obliged the company with
Scotch songs. John Lemmone chased
“Jock o’ Hazeldean” through the flute, with
melodious variations. A sonsie lass, Miss
Bessie Fraser, with a suggestion of the bag-
pipes in her top notes, was about to take an
encore, when an agonised Caledonian accent
from the adjacent door implored the singer
to “Wait a bit, leddie.” The pipes shrieked,
and Alunro Ferguson and Lady Helen, with
a long official tail behind them, were safely
landed on the Axminster. As the programme
was about one mile and three-quarters long,
the Scot .who recognised his own front door
before midnight must have gone home in a
swift taxi.
Airs. Charlie Regan and a daughter, of
Tamworth. are putting in the surfing season
at the Pacific, Alanly. The season is a fine
healthy one from the local boarding-house
point of view. The lucky owner of even a
few weatherboard rooms, more or less
hastily gummed together, can dictate terms
with the hauteur of Napoleon in his rosiest
hours.
A few weeks ago Benno Scherek, the
musician with the (esthetic white thatch
that used to be well known in Australian
cities, was conducting the orchestra at the
Royalty, in the Thames village. That
rather tepid play, “Milestones,” was indus-
triously plodding to the front, with Scherek
goading the musical end of the display.
Dr. P. J. Kellv. a son of Air. Tom Kelly,
of Wellington (ALL.), was married to the
Randwick girl of his choice, Irene AlcDer-
iKott, on December 29. The Sacred Heart
Church was trimmed with heather and water-
lilies for the event. The bridal plumage was
a film of white tulle and cobweb lace over
blush-pink drapery, and garlanded with trails
of lily of the valley—the flower King Edward
loved to wear in his best coat. Dr. Norman
Gibson and Mr. Vincent Fallen piloted the
groom to the altar. The bridesmaidens were
Grade McDermott and a cousin, Annie, of
the same name, who came from Lismore.
The kindly habit of scattering good wishes
among acquaintances in December will pos-
sibly last till the millennium. But the
foolish one of making hideous noises at mid-
night on i\ew Year’s Eve might be sup-
pressed without diminishing the gaiety of
nations. (The nations are not very hilari-
ous just now i but hilarity will revive when
the Allies have squared matters.) One or
two usually normal suburbs went on a wild
bell-ringing burst the other eve. Men armed
with dinner gongs or clarions, or raucous
whistles, banged and howled in the streets
till the belated cat crept home across the
tiles. If able-bodied policemen were sighted
in the offing, a sudden silence struck the lis-
tening earth. When the Law ambled out of
ear-shot, the uproar got into its stride again.
There doesn’t seem to be any particular rea-
son why usually ordinary people, some of
whom are too ordinary in a ireneral way to
be worth mentioning, should hit a kerosene
tin, because the new year has peeped over the
horizon for the billionth time.
A December wedding at Penrith had, by
chance, the novelty of having the feast and
the speeches before the ceremony. The
bridal party left Macleay-street by motor
to meet the groom, E. B. I’usey, at the
threshold of St. Stephen’s (Penrith) ; but
various punctures intervening, a secijmd
chaise was hired to speed them on their
way.. The groom and his friends had
acquired a fine healthy appetite by the time
the lady, Miss Lilian Ryan, was able to
explain the long delay. So the party
munched the festive meal befort the knot-
tying, and went to the altar rails supported
by a substantial buttress of plum-cake. The
groom, by the way, hails from the Berkshire
family that produced Dr. Pusey, the man
who made such a stir with High Church
millinery in the Oxford movement.
Noting a headline in the daily
Rousing Speech by Mr. Cook,” I venture to
remark that you can rouse other things
besides enthusiasm. On the authority of a
leading Liberal woman-voter, what Joseph
is just now most successful in rousing is
indignation among the more intelligent in
his party. The quiet, able Pearce, at whom
he is continually thrusting, is recognised*' by
the Permanent Artillery and its sisters and
its cousins and its mothers-in-law as the
best man the billet has seen. Yet in a time
of. uncommon stress, the Minister is pin-
pricked, and has to fritter away valuable
time replying to unjust insinuations from the
Opposition shop. In addition, he has to
try to soothe the injured feeling of regular
soldiers, officers and men, who are chained
to the dull but necessary dutv of manning
the coast defences. “Can’t be spared” is
the cold official ultimatum, when reams of
paper are filled with Red Stripe’s special
pleading to have a chance of thumping the
enemy .on the other side of the globe. At
such times Senator Pearce aoplies healing
ointments and soothing draughts—and they
are needed; for the . everlasting prattle of
some of the swaggerimr gentry who praise
their own alleged “military” knowledge in
columns of interviews, is getting on the
nerves of the Permanent men.
Mrs. Francis Anderson has reprinted in
pamphlet form some of her appeals in the
press for more playgrounds. A sturdy cham-
pion of the child of mean streets, and one
of the founders of the Sydney Free Kinder-
gartens, the ’Varsity professor’s wife ham-
mers persistently at her main theme. Of
the small nomad of back lanes, Mrs. Ander-
sen says : “Still he plays! And he has u>
do it where he can. He throws stones at
our windows and we say that he is always in
mischief. He uses our paddock for a cricket
pitch and one of our palings for a bat, and
we call him a trespasser. Little he cafes!
Nature, the wise old mother, has taught him
that by throwing and running and jumping
he shall train hand and eye and limb.”
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
James Glenny Wilson the only Maori-
land knight in the list of New Year “honors,”
gets his just reward for being for many years
chief underground engineer and wirepuller
for the Conservative's. It was Wilson who
founded the Farmers’ Union, and so astutely
managed it that few people realised at first
how powerful a political weapon was being
fashioned for the assistance of Fat. Wilson
is long, thin and grey. His wife is a well-
known writer, and their sons have done great
things on the polo field. One of them
married a daughter of lately-deceased Wil-
liam Russell —he who fought old Dick
Seddon with so fine a hauteur and such irre-
proachable manners. There’s much money
in the family and old-man Wilson is verra
canny.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
m . 4
*Z£s>;
■ '
m
:■ -"j
me
m
J HQtr:
m
v
-. \
7
//
/
/A
mm
■
&
\ .....
K »
Y
y
\~r
Sfl
rvs
28
3Kg
/
m, .
/
m
v
444
£T,«i
as
•w^V/v.
- ■^•*•'4
Wc
mi
*$XyJ- -Jy&y ~
y7
If?
SESS
■-•:■
«SS
;,y..
(T
l
m
v
m&m
W-
zt&ss
*3*
m
ws.
m
>■
sygs
SSrR
Ifl*^
K/-
---
X??'
zar r .
r4i
. '-
-r^ v
mCr,.
r,;-'
2w
i-*«5
—-
3%
*«■
Si®
£§&&?£
r*^
((
Cobra,” Boot Polish
O
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Captures Super-
Zeppelins too.
H ere he comes,
With Dog and Bear,
With a cruiser
Of the air.
Now he’s clearin
Up the sky
Nothing can
O
Escape his eye.
Hostile Zepps
That are too rash
Chunder “COBRA’
Like a flash.


FARMER'S GREAT SUMMER
CASH BONUS SALE
DURATION
OF SALE
From Jan. 4
to Jan. 23.
Saves 2/- in the £ on every Cash Purchase
in addition to Generous Reductions*
Farmer’s Cash Bonus Sale is a Genuine Clearance Sale of
Dependable Summer Goods and Surplus Stocks at Reduced
Prices. During the Sale, the whole of our Stock (a few pro-
prietary lines alone excepted) is subject to the Bonus of 10 per
cent. (2/- in the £) for Cash, in addition to Sweeping
Reductions.
FARMER’S SALE CATALOGUE is now ready for
distribution. It contains many unique offers and countless
money-saving opportunities. Country Residents wishing to
receive a copy should write for it without delay. We send it
Post Free.
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
I • t' ** tv
*
\
The
Right
T yres
to fit to any Car that
has to withstand
heavy driving, are
DUNLOP
MOTOR'
TYRES'
They have the
STRENGTH, the
QUALITY, and
ample thickness of
high - grade rubber
wearing tread to en-
sure you thousands
of miles of running.
YOU CAN RELY
on satisfaction if you use
the latest “Dunlops.”
Try them—NOW!
OBTAINABLE
ALLGARAGES
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO
ALL
STATES
AND N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 4, 1915.
My Dear Yariue, —
The crowd at Flemington on New Year’s
Day had a Hogmanayish look. Do you
know it? It is achieved by people who stay
up till cockcrow drinking cocktails —or even
beer will do. A number had seen 1915 in at
the Savoy, and greetings also ascended from
tlie depths of the Francatelli. The dressing
was sensational in spots. Two Western
District damsels, who motored up to the
terrace steps after lunch, were in irreproach-
ably-tailored Futurist dresses. One was
white and the other dull fawn. Black flat
hats, worn a la wowser, finished the effect.
Fan Dango Mackay wore khaki (or some-
thing that resembled it), tailored with mili-
tary precision, and made in overskirt and
trousered underskirt. Also white spats and
•> hat with a flat metal flower shining like a
helmet. Mrs. Thompson, Empress—l mean
Mayoress—of Malvern was with her.
A feature of the course was the gleaming
silk hat of the newly-ennobled Hennessy.
It was a great—l had almost said a perfect
—hat. The Hennessy lady stayed at home.
Folks said that she was reluctant to dim
the glory of her husband’s headgear by con-
trasting herself with it. Leslie Stuart was
another who came without his wife. She
is with her children at Sorrento. Mrs.
Captain Hall had Mrs. Wheatley under her
wing. Byron Moore carried a wonderful
pair of bright new yellow gloves in his hand.
He wore other clothes, but the gloves im-
pressed me most. Maggie Jarvis affected
blue waving hat-ribbons —at least I think
they were blue. I was so thrilled by the
spectacle of the plump and lovely little
lady’s new husband that I dropped my
costume-inventory, just as I was beginning
under the heading Hats “J” [Jarvis] and
stood petrified. His name is Reynolds, and
he wore a grey suit. This much I noted,
and then the happy pair faded away. Mrs.
Billy Williams looked “cute” with a rose
in her motor bonnet. A few women
tried the lawn, but gave the wind best.
One smart frocker in black crgpe de chine
flimsies had to be rescued by her husband
with a motor cloak, and wflien she reached
the south slope the effect was terrible.
Creswick, the big squatter, wandered alone,
looking blue and drought-bitten, for he
doesn’t squat in the rainy places this season.
There was not a Governor on the
premises. The M.F.’s were in Sydney and
the Stanleys at Macedon —in the vicinity of
the Hanging Rock Races.
Young Eric Conran, who has been awarded
the new decoration —the King’s medal —is a
beautiful youth. He was here a year ago,
and all the girls became enamored of him
und his income, which is considerable. An
atmosphere of romance enveloped him even
then. He had just been given a commission
in the Royal Flying Corps, and that is the
most desirable thing to get into in the ser-
vice. The family comes from S. Aus., and
the fortunate young man also has relatives
in Queensland.
Lieutenant Eardley Wilmot. R.N.. who has
just become engaged to Miss Dorothy Little,
of Sydney, is well and favorablv known to
us over here. Tall, slim, dark, and the
possessor of a soulful pair of eves, he is one
of the most taking “raggers” that Govern-
ment House has seen for many a long night.
Through her mother she is related to the
Maddens and to the handsome local girl who
married a Hordern, and she used to be a
frequent visitor here before War slew Gaiety.
I am assured by a friend, who should
know, that there is very little in nursing as
a path to matrimony. In the first place, a
lamentably large number of officers are
either married or engaged already. The ones
who aren’t are besieged by sisters and girl-
friends from the moment they are well
enough to take notice. The nurse is re-
garded by these selfish women as a Danger—
unless she is middle-aged and hideous. The
Tommies, who are in a majority of about 50
to one, are dear, good souls, but they are
obviously no good to the husband-seeker of
luxurious habits. Many hapless girls have
bad to fall back in despair on doctors. It
is a horrible anti-climax to aim at a Life
Guardsman and bring down a suburban
medico.
A curious house greeted the profusely-
advertised Yestelle at the Athenaeum Hall.
The women came to see the clothes: the
men, possibly, the hoped-for lack of them.
Yestelle (pronounced Estelle, the Y being
merely swank) is Ida Watson Cooper, one
of old J. B. Watson’s grand-children. (You
will remember that J.B. struck it rich at
Bendigo in the early days.) Her clothes
are sensational, and she is supposed to be
surrounded by £3OOO worth of “props.”
Revue advertisements lead up to her big
scene. Girls’ legs appear, dangling from
milliners’ hat boxes Girls, clad in little
more than chiffon muffs, dance in the
genteel manner which is fashionable in
revues. Other girls parade in bare feet
and enormous hats. They clothe their
partial nakedness on the stage, while Mrs.
Wowser deplores their conduct in the
auditorium. Their stockings, shoes and
other things are drawn in a crumpled state
from the brims of their hats. It is all very
ingenious and naughty and dull.
A dozen or so of these turns lead up to
Yestelle, the last being provided by Gladys
Cooper and Derek Hudson, the fine-voiced
baritone of “Gipsy Love.” Then comes
Yestelle.
Yestelle’s costuming reminds one of
charades—good, old-fashioned charades,
made at home and dressed from mamma’s
most precious clothes-chests. One dress is
skirted with peacock blue pleated chiffon
(any clever charadist can manage that),
and the meagre bodice is made of gold
dragons cut from a Japanese embroidered
screen and appliqued on to pink chiffon.
Two Paradise birds are worn on the head.
(Charadists have only to slip down to the
fowl-house to get a few Birds of Paradise.)
Another dress is made of two Egyptian
shawls, the kind with a beaten-silver pat-
tern that one out of every 10 girls wears
to the theatre. There are black satin tube-
trousers with this, a few beads over the
shoulder-straps and bare feet. Yestelle
can get effects out of her feet. They
are long and supple, and she poses them
like hands.
The greatest dress is made of the remains
of three slaughtered peacocks. Yestelle
huddles on a fret-work couch in such a way
that two of the birds are nearly hidden. The
third forms a casque and plume. A tiring maid
removes this out-door hat and replaces it by
a sort of dressing-gown-indoor bonnet made
of 50 ospreys. Her Persian lover wears
ospreys too, but they are made of straw and
gilded. He is an actor, however, so the
make-shift is forgiven.
There is a classic orchestra on the stage.
A girl with a lovely face of Cleopatra shape
plays a Pan’s flute or oboe. The effect is
rather let down, unfortunately, by the pres-
ence of a lady in glittering bombazine, who
plays a fiddle. A ’cellist wears a tenth-
century robe and a nineteenth-century hair
coiffure, while a decidedly Mid-Victorian
personage, who is half hidden in the tapestry,
operates upon the piano.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The J. H. Gordons have taken a house-party to
Kangaroo Island, and the “Dr.” Morgans are there
too. The Kyffin Thomas lady and her daughter left
for Bowral (N.S.tV.) early in the week.
Artist Bessie Davidson, who should be in Paris
by this, wrote from Suez of a voyage that she
apparently found more interesting than the average.
In the Red Sea she passed .37 troop-ships, all full
of Indians, and she learned at Aden that 135
“troopers” had called there since the declaration of
war. Cheery for the Germans, isn’t it ?
Glenelg is deliberately proposing to beautify
itself. As a first move, the extraordinary galvanised-
iron structures which now posture as bathing sheds
are to be swept away. I don’t quite know what is
to be put in their place, but it is bound to be less
horrible than they are.
The Australian Christian Commonwealth has
been wowsing again. The estimable Methody sheet
is in anguish because the Governor lias confessed
that he had a bet on the last Melbourne Cup. The
A.C.C'. (alls this “vice-regal encouragement of gam-
bling,” and reckons that it constitutes the Beginning
of the End, morally speaking.
A girl friend of mine who is just back
from England says that, after London, life
here "is one long, splendid holiday.” The
streets and parks there are stretches of mud
and slush with the interminable tramping
of troops. The gorgeous bright beds of
flowers that used to be in Hyde Park are
gone (as they usually are in mid-winter),
and the streets are full of wounded soldiers
convalescent enough to hobble about.
Reginald Franklyn, who has done some
of the lyrics for the pantomime, is really
Reginald Franklyn Peterson, son of the
departed Conservatorium Prof. He chucked
law for journalism some time ago, and now
he is plotting a couple of dramas.
For Maud Allan purposes the Auditorium
platform is better than a theatre stage. It
provides a moss-green carpet for her bare
feet, and a 12ft. wall of moss-green circular
hangings encloses her as in a tower room.
She has dispensed with quite a number of
the petticoats that she wore to appease
Mrs. Wowser, and the effect is good. She
wears, amongst other airy nothings, a kilt
of white chiffon, and her limbs are as bare
as those of a Hielander. Maud’s great
beauty is in her arms. Her nether limbs
are too much inclined to show up the strong
tendons. They need “fleshings” to help
soften the outline. The white draperies are
covered with a purple ninon dressing-gown
for the “Funeral March.” She binds her
hair with berries for the Spring Song, and
then lets all her hair loose for a freakish
dance to one of Schubert’s Moments
Musicales. Maud (inside) and heavy rain
(outside) had drawn a full house to the
Auditorium the other Wednesday, when I
looked in.
The three Chernies are the whole
orchestra, but they play on the stage, and
the acoustics of the Auditorium and the
higher intelligence of the audiences give a
chance that the King’s refused. The
Kultur of the King’s was rather too Teuton
in its quality for these young, men. They
never felt sure that one of their classical
items might not be interrupted by a brick.
The bark of an infuriated correspondent:
The Greater Melbourne Council cannot arrive too
quickly in the interests of city parks and gardens.
Snowden Gardens, on the south bank of the Yarra,
has arisen from a rubbish-tip to a place of beauty;
and now the Council is being worried into spoiling
it with a sort of pie-stall, so that city men may
audibly take soup among the trees. The average
city councillor would eat pork in the Elysian fields
and throw 12 basketsful of the fragments on the
shore of the Jasper Sea.
Amongst the New Year’s gifts to our
troops is a motor-ambulance from the Aus-
tralian Women’s National League. The
Women haven’t quite enough money yet for
its outfit, so if you feel like being patriotic
you have only to step forward with a cheque.
Francis Syme (the one son of David who
is on the land) has presented one of these
useful vehicles off his own clieque-book, so
to speak, and the V.R.C. gave £l2O towards
a fund for two travelling kitchens and a
Tucker Box that Miss Rennie has been
building by subscription. The two kitchens
are marked with brass boomerangs in the
hope that those who use them will return —
boomerang-like—to their own country.
Leonie Peterson-Mackwortli has left
London for Egypt. Mrs. Peterson is find-
ing it hard work to keep trace of her
married daughter’s doings. The young-
person left Melbourne and her musical
parent addressed to Lady Mackworth’s
country house; but she changed her mind
after three days in London, and went to
Egypt with a girl pal. The pal is wife of
another military man who is employed at
one or other of the innumerable fronts.
The Women’s Hospital has just put up a
brass tablet to record the good works of
Mrs. J. Gahan, and there was a tea party
last week to commemorate the unveiling.
She it was who organised a shilling- fund to
build quarters for the nurses. Before that
they were crowded into tents and dog-
kennels and rat-holes, and so on, as the
rest of the accommodation was required by
the patients.
Miss Fredrika Meyer, who is a sister of
Dr. Meyer and pianist Menk Meyer, makes
regular descents upon her native town and
recites to it. In holiday week she recited to
help the Patriotic Fund. The Gaud
Mayor and his lady looked in for a time at
St. Paul’s Chapter House. Miss Meyer, in
droopy, artistic white clothes, which showed
up effectively against a bunting back-
ground. recited Edmund Finn’s “A Scrap of
Paper” and Archibald Strong’s “Unity” and
“Nelson.” Miss Ethel Peterson sang “Land
of Hope and Glory,” and J. Eldred Royle
rendered patriotic songs till many of the
audience felt inclined to volunteer on the
spot.
Mr. Alf Marks died in London last week
of pneumonia, contracted while serving as a
special constable. He was here with his wife
and extremely pretty daughter Marjorie for
several of our big race-meetings last year,
and he looked well enough then to live for
decades. He was a half-brother of Theo
Marks and the beautiful Mrs. George
Vivers. both very well known in Melbourne.
His widow was Claire Leighton—one of the
prettiest members of the famous Gaiety
Company which visited Australia 20 years
ago.
General Maria Gordon is in England
looking assiduously for a military job of
some sort. He is conducting his researches
in the neighborhood of the W. 0.. where
jobs are fairly common. His daughter
Eileen is still with us.
The Mackwortli who lias just been killed
in battle is not the young man known to
Melbournites as military secretary to a
recent Governor. He has five soldier
brothers, and it is one of them. Melbourne’s
friend had his Christmas dinner peaceably
with his young Australian bride at Cairo.
By the way, the wives of two other young-
military men (Mrs. Marsh and Mrs. Clop-
ton) are living with Mrs. Mackwortli in
Egypt. They were both here when their
husbands were in Australia on exchange
work.
Pretty Mrs. Dicky Ranken died on Box-
ing Day at her husband’s station on the
Darling Downs. She was Dorothy Lyon,
a Gippsland girl, and was only married a
couple of years ago. Young Ranken is one
of the Blackwood-Landale clan on liis
mother’s side.
Charles Franklin, who was originally
imported from Cambridge by the North
Shore Grammar School, and who subse-
quently became head of Manifold House, at
Geelong, has been appointed to the Naval
College at Jervis Bay. 1 suppose he will
teach mathematics. An elder brother, a
banker, is in Egypt as Lieutenant of Light
Horse. Still another brother is second in
command at North Shore Grammar School.
Mrs. Bryant has let her Toorak house
whilst her husband is serving under the
Red Cross. She will stay with her two
daughters at Mordialloc until March, and
then go to London.
Arthur Malmffy, at one time prominent in
the Chancelleries of the Pacific, has been
appointed Adm'nistrator of Dominica, in
the Lesser Antilles. An administrator is
nearly a Governor —though not quite. He
married Enid Boyd, whose people were of
the very creme de la clotte of the local
nobility.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
“0.K.” : A serious and new objection to the
antiquated underground-cable tram service
in Melbourne is that it invites motor-’bus
competition: and motor-’bus competition
means fatal accidents and funerals. A huge
motor-vehicle, travelling on a tram track is
indeed more than dangerous: it is also an
anomaly. The tramway service should not
permit of payable competition. The cars
should be frequent enough to carry all the
people who want a cheap ride, and fast
enough to meet all requirements. The two-
decker locomotives are not numerous on the
road as yet; but they will come along in
rapid succession unless the market is sup-
plied by an electric-tram service. The
ordinary motor-car is a harmless, consider-
ate thing in comparison with the public
conveyance that picks you up or knocks you
down, as the' case may be. Clearly this is
a danger which arises from the inadequacy
of Melbourne’s tramway system, and any
person who favors a continuance of the
same system on slightly improved lines is
open to the suspicion of being in league
with the undertakers.
The Bulletin learns that when it alluded
in last issue to Sir John Brunner —partner
of Sir Alfred Moritz Mond, the two being
very large manufacturers of chemicals in
England—as an Anglo-German it did him an
injustice. In these times the German has
put up such an awful reputation that to
describe a man as even half-German when he
isn’t anything of the sort is doing him a
wrong. Which is something for the German
to think over. Mond is of Belgian descent,
and Brunner comes of a Swiss family. They
were both born in England, and they neither
know the Kaiser nor want to know him.
Brunner and Mond are a long way off, and'
probably The Bulletin’s remark did them
no harm, but this paper wouldn’t wilfully
describe a Swiss or a Belgium as German
even if he was much farther away than
England.


BY TO
w*-- —*■*- —i
mmmmmm wm »•>**■ * - ;
I i.W '*«*
&
H
/«
w
i»l
Jfl
as® &■• l
m
mMm
«
4M£;
sf.i
i i SB9!
5
i ' . »1
IS. X ‘
£ / ,
'■ A« B Vj
:; /,
n
V
■
ss«?« ■ i
MF/5
iii
f
■ft...®
*
IM
i SkW,#
• V
■
\ '%
Cfi
&
\ '
I
Vi • 1
')
V -1
t T
I V
k
m
*♦*»»
A>*P
n
'
r ‘iH
.. i.
a.i
■ *
*
SI
m
f U
e-
CHVyr
c
pp
m
5S
SARTO
THe New DrinK, bottled by SCHWEPPES
LIMITED. Sarto is a most refreshing drink,
and contains most excellent tonic properties.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.


ECONOMICAL COPYING in perfection sums up
the virtues of the Zanetic system. Two sheets for 2d.
stamps will enable you to test its permanency and
efficiency. Zanetic Works, Leicester. England.*
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
A Simple Recipe for Clearing
the Complexion.
Exposure to hot winds and sun makes the
nerves and muscles of the face tired and life-;
less, and the skin shrivelled, wrinkled and
unhealthy.
If anyone with a sallow, blotchy, wrinkled
or pimply complexion will only take a little
trouble in following the directions here given
they will find a marvellous improvement in
their complexion. Get some Puritol Wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply at
night, washing off in the morning with warm
water and soap. Then lap a little cold
water 10 times upon the face with the hands,
allowing it to get thoroughly round the
closed eyes. The treatment should be fol-
lowed out in every detail to ensure success,
and undoubtedly accounts for many of the
clear complexions so much admired by those
who do not yet know the secret. See that
you get the right kind, it will not injure the
most delicate complexion.*
CIXTY YEARS of History
w have proved the
HOWARD Watch.
In more than one hundred and fifty highly-
specialised occupations, Howard Time is a ruling
factor.
Call and see the Watch or send for the lllus.-
trated Booklet.
PROUDS LTD., Jewellers,
Sole Representatives, 187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE BURDEN.
In 1908-9 the total talk bill of the Commonwealth
was £559,592 ; next year it rose to £684,391 ;
and for the 12 months ending December last it
reached £765,145.' These are startling increases,
and there is nothing to show that high-water mark
has yet been reached.' As they stand, however, the
figures hold up Australia as a shocking example of
talk-drunkenness to the civilised world. To legislate
for a community of less than 5,000,000 people we
have 14 Houses of Parliament, most of them paid,
seven separate Ministries, each with all the poinp
and circumstance of responsible Governments, and
seven Governors to play the part of Royalty.
—Sydney Telegraph.
The loan disease has got hold of Australia
in a wonderful fashion. Thus Prime Min-
ister Fisher, who is leader of the only pro-
fessed anti-borrowing party in the country,
has suddenly discovered that it isn’t worth
while to leave off borrowing, or even to pro-
vide a sinking fund for the redemption of old
debts, because some future Treasurer may
annex the fund. Certainly some future
thief may steal the fund. But on the same
line of reasoning it isn’t worth while for
Fisher to carry out any single item of his
alleged policy, because some future Prime
Minister may reverse it. In these circum-
stances what is the use of Fisher?
"As an act of patriotism” a N. S. Wales
man has-just-sen t the Treasurer a cheque for-
H)5, being approximately his proportion of
the State’s public debt. The chances are
that the patriot has a wife and four children.
But he doesn’t mention anything about the
mi s apiece °wed by the missus and kids.
I hough he has spent the money himself he
evidently reckons the kids should pay the
bill. In this country the kid always has to
pay the bill.
In spite of war and drought, N. S. Wales
continues to drop more into its Government
Savings Bank than it draws out. The ex-,
cess of deposits in November was £368,583,
making the total on deposit £80,633,726!
But there would be more to be joyful about
if N. S. Wales was earning the money in-
stead of merely borrowing it.
The United States Government has
issued a protest because Britain and France
attempt to prevent goods that will serve
the_ purposes of the enemy creeping by
devious ways into German and Austrian
ports. The position is one of some difficulty.
Holland and Denmark and Norway and
Italy are at peace with our enemies, and
all manner of warlike munitions can go from
their territories to Germany and Austria
barring accidents. But when these four
countries develop an insatiable hunger for
contraband goods from the United States,
and their imports of copper increase 1200
per cent., a suspicion arises that the U.S.
is using them as its agents. An Alliance
which commands the Atlantic hates to be
taken in by such a thin device.
A big war always produces complications
of this sort, and Uncle Sam’s dollar hunger
makes, him especially mad in the present
instance.
FORGOTTEN.
To cope with present unemployment and
the worse that may come, the Peacock
Government propounded a scheme for im-
proving the Upper Yarra, the Maribyrnong
river and the road from Melbourne to Gee-
long, at a total expenditure of £BO,OOO. It
found £30,000 itself and invited the in-
terested municipal councils to help find the
balance. About half a dozen agreed; the
rest curtly intimated that they wouldn’t
spend a penny on work outside their own
municipal boundaries. And, as there is no
Greater Melbourne Council, it doesn’t look
as if anything of permanent value will be
done. But there is some compensation in
the fact that it supplies another argument
for the Greater Melbourne Council Bill,
which Peacock has promised to bring in
early.
“Bloggs”: The barracker for Australian-
made goods gets little encouragement from
the Australian manufacturer. In the felt-
hatters’ case the other day, the employers
had the nerve to ask for a reduction of
wages “on account of the war.” As the
Arbitration Judge pointed out, the war has
not stopped people wearing hats. But it
has put a prohibitive tariff on all hats of
German and Austrian origin, to the great
benefit of the Australian manufacturer.
For years I have been drinking an x\us-
tralian dinner-ale. When my friends
cursed it, saying in their unpatriotism that
it was inferior to the imported article, I
defended it. The other day a duty was put
on imported beers. There is already a slump
in German lager. It is just the time, one
would think, for the local brewer to behave
generously to his public and so secure a
lasting trade at a fair figure. ITet last
week, when I ordered my usual supply of
Australian-made ale, I was told that it had
gone up a penny a bottle “owing to the new
duties.” This sort of swindle strains a
man’s loyalty to the “Made in Australia”
propaganda.
“Shovel” reports the interview: —
She was a regular customer and wanted a packet
of maizena.
“Made from the best Australian maize,” I said.
“An advantage—you’ll find it fresh.”
“Oh, but that’s not the brand I want. I’ve always
had American before. They must know how to make
it better.”
I gave her the American.
“Now a dozen matches.”
I tried again, and explained that this lot were
made in Australia —guaranteed number in each box,
and so on. No use. “Oh, I know those things—
they’re made in Richmond,” and she would have a
Swedish brand—at a penny more.
“And a bottle of Worcestershire sauce.”
1 offered her a Sydney-made article, and said the
manufacturers went so far as to offer to return every
penny of the money if the customer wasn’t satisfied
with it. I asked what better guarantee could one
have.
No good! “I think I’ll stick to the English
sauce,” she said. Finally: “Now you’ll book these
things for me, won’t you? We’re finding it terribly
hard to get money in!”
Curse you, you blind snob!
Circumstances have put a first-rate adver-
tising, scheme in. the way qf the,.Common-
wealth Government. Lilms of Australian
life are now being shown at the military
camps in England. The Kaiser opened a
very practical British-Empire agency when
lie started this war.
Donald Macdonald, in Melb. Argus,
quotes the experiences of an Australian
scientist in Berlin
“Not once,’’ says my friend, “but a hundred times,
in the free conversation of the cafe,, was Australia
mentioned as the great prize of German conquest.
‘Give us Australia,’ said the German, ‘and it’s all
we ask. What might not our practical science do
with that undeveloped and practically unoccupied
continent!’ Over and over again I discussed that
point with Professor Lindner, who took it as an
ethical question coldly, and without passion, as
scientific men in time of peace, at least, are accus-
tomed to do. ‘Morally,’ he said, ‘we need no
defence. If you were using Australia fully and to its
limit we have no justification for wanting it or taking
it ; but you are not using it, and we need it. We
are growing, but German territory is not growing.
You, like France, are becoming affected with race-
suicide. Because of our need, we must take it!’ ”
The form of application for seed wheat
now being issued to N. S. Wales farmers is ‘
the usual astonishing official document. The
cocky who wants assistance has first to sweat
through 80 questions, the Department requir-
ing to know, among other things, how many
boys and girls he has, though Heaven knows
what that has to do with this purely busi-
ness transaction. After that he has to
solemnly swear that it’s all true, and that
he will give a lien on his crop and on his
chattels also if he can, and will pay the
Government any old thing it likes to ask.
The price isn’t mentioned, nor the charges,
nor the rate of interest; cocky is just re-
quired to sign a blank cheque, and trust to
luck for the rest.
Melbourne Argus is bursting into
loud wails over the cost of the Aus-
tralian Parliament. The discovery
that the families of Federal mem-
bers are carried at Federal cost to
or from the seat of government
once (and no more) during a ses-
sion reduces it to despair. “If a
member has 12 in a family he can
carry them at public cost,” says
the ancient battler whose con-
science demands that it shall speak
the truth as the truth appears to
the Melbourne Club. The Argus
was once regarded as a moral
force, standing against the wicked
Socialists for the sanctity of
the marriage tie, and the purity
of the home, and a clean-swept fire-
side, and all that sort of thing.
But now its conscience demands of
it that the Federal legislator shall
leave his wife in Queensland or
W estraiia for half a year or more!
When this allowance was attacked
in Parliament years ago, plain old
Bill Lyne, then Federal Treasurer,
muzzled all the members for Purity
and the Marriage Tie with a
phrase: “It is right to pay this,”
he said. “It has many defences,
but there is one undebatable. The
travelling allowance for the wives
of members I defend on the grounds
of morality.” And all the social
purists retired from the discus-
sion.
A bitter Yankee, “the Adjutant-General
ot the Central Department of the United
States Army,” lias been speaking plain
Uncle Sam language to his Government.
What lie says is that the whole blessed army
(about 90,000 strong on paper) isn’t suffici-
ent to man the batteries of New York in a
time of war. This suggests, once more,
that the Monroe Doctrine is mostly bluff.
By reason of money, and meat trusts, and
oil trusts, and population, and assurance,
and a great output of pork and beans and
cotton, the Washington Government lias
contrived to pose as a Great Power. Yet
there is a suspicion that it is only a Great
Shell.
AT THE DOOR OF THE MOSQUE
The Kaiser has persuaded a number of
Mohammedans that he has become a follower
of the Prophet. This doesn’t help Turkiy
much but it is an advertisement of a sort.
THE PROVIDENTIAL LADDER.
Mr. Holman is a very tired Premier.
-Melbourne paper.
W. A. HOLAN: “ Now for the psychologica!
moment .”
Tlie most disappointed
politician in Maoriland is
11. M. Campbell, of Hawkes
Bay. On election night the
returning-officer gave him a
majority of 191 over Dr.
McNab, the Opposition can-
didate. and as there were
only a few absent voters’
permits to come in. the busi-
ness seemed settled. But a
recount the following day
revealed that a stack of 100
votes for McNab had been
credited to Campbell; and
when these were torn from
the latter and presented to
McNab. it gave the ex-
Minister for Lands a lead of
nine votes. It wasn’t much,
but it was enough to make
Campbell a very sad man.
The resounding King O’Malley a few
nights ago referred to Australia’s Parlia-
ment as “the headquarters of the Lord’s
Army.” Judging by the pace with . which
the tariff wall is being raised to protect
Australia he made a mistake. He should
have said “dead-quarters.”
AVUNCULAR AFFECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Say, look a-here!” remarked the Yankee commer-
cial magnate,
Head of the Woodham .Trust,
'•’Thisyere Yuropean war’s causin’ biz for to stag-
nate—
Somethin’ ’ll hev to bust!
An’ it’s up to you, Bryan,
For to prod things right hard,
An’ to twist the tail of the British Lion who’s got
our exports barred — . , rtr
My, but it’s fierce! Why, dollars are skeercer’n jobs
in the Navy Yard!”
■ *■.. k t- ri* ■■ *
Willum J. Bryan he up and answered, very mildly:
“Wal, ye-es, I s’pose youjre right.! . .
But you quit hollerin’, an’ cavortin’, ah’ prancin’
wildly, •.•••••'
An’ leave me an’ Wilson-to fight.
You go right ahead a-exportin’,
But be keerful what shows on the bill.
We don’t want Johnny Bull round a-snortin’ an’ all
het up fit to kill, 9
Jest over shells, or somethin’ else, in the pork
bar'ls you fill.
f “Mebbe it’s cereals you’re sendin’ to Yurope, per
nootral bottom—■
Mebbe it’s only ile;
As fer copper ingots an’ cartridges, why, you ain’t
got ’em —-
Wal, I should sure smile!
You give your word of honor,
Which Hail Columbia takes,
An’ we see it’s incumbent upon her to pass along
the cakes.
If they make a search, the Eagle’s'off’n his perch in
about a couple o’ shakes.”
“Talk’s cheap, William J. !” observed the great
j man, sneering—
“ Our last bunch was seized ;
Bull’s gotten a fleet, an’ it’s always interfering—
I tell you, we ain’t pleased!
Bull ain’t slow when he collars
Other folks’ goods doorin’ war ;
If the ship’d. got through it meant dollars —big stacks
; • > of ’em- —for sure !
Say, what are you goin’ for to do, so as that Lion
will roar?”
“Seems to 2 me,” returned William J., “a strong
- • “remonstrance is needed,
•And same made in your name . . *k
For you are our Public opinion, an’ got to be
heeded ;
Tail-twistin’s the game!
Old Uncle Sam’s sure some at' bluffin’—
We’ll kid that our pair is a fu11,.. *
M threaten to knock out the stuffin’ of sleepy old
Johnny Bull. t
John’s neck-deep, in war —he don’t want no more,
; an’ that gives us the pull! ”
N.S.W.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.
THE SHORTER CATECHISM OF THE WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Q.: What keeps the scribbling man-of-war
From dashing bravely to the fore?
A.: He has to linger here and foam
Because his neighbors stay at home.
Q.: The thing he cheers —“the trumpet call’’—
Does he not hear that sound at all?
A.: So loud he shouts of Freedom dear
That trumpet calls he cannot hear.
Q.: What keeps him roaring at the rear?
Surely to Heaven it isn’t fear?
.4.: He’d sue you if you said it! No!
He has a wife —he cannot go!
Q.: But other men have wives and cares,
And little homes and greying hairs?
A.: Of course, thev have ! The chief noint is
They do not count—they are not his!
Q.: His courage, high as any star—
And rich enough to keep a car ?
.4..' I see your point; but, no —no —no!
He is too rich—too rich to go !
Q.: Why does he urge the jobless wight
To hurry up and seek the fight ?
.4.: His riches give to him release —
They are too poor to live at peace.
Q.: But he has things to fight for! They,
With naught, from war should stay away?
A.: They have the Country—which he owns.
Then- —war’s a job, though strewn with bones.
Q.: He has no use for plain jobs, then?
Are such reserved for working-men?
A.: They mostly are. In crises grave,
If out of work, you should be brave.
Q.: And if you’re rich? Must you, then, stay
From nation-saving wars away?
A : v~- r’-'-Pt! and take each chance you see
Of being brave by deputy.
Q.: But this fine spirit must, I think,
Be all on fire the foe to sink ?
A.: ’Tis thought polite to reason so.
Let’s say, “He is too brave to go!”
N.S.W.
THE LETTER-WRITING RECRUITER


New Blue
Amberol Records
for January
There are twenty-nine Blue Amberol regular records to choose Bj
from this month —there is variety of delightful music, beautiful
vocal selections and entertaining humor among them.
“Itev. 21: 21 to 25 and the Gate Ajar for Me” (Rev. Madison
C. refers and Edison Mixed Quartet) is a charming break from the ordinary.
Among the others that will delight many audiences this month are: “The Irish
Emigrant” (Stanley Kirkby) ; “The Bedouin Love Song” (David Brazell) :
“Hiram Tucker” (Ada Jones and Byron G. Harlan) ; “Sit Down, You’re Hock-
ing the Boat’’—The Pleasure Seekers—(Billy Murray) ; “The Dear Old Songs”
(Will Oakland and Chorus).
Make your selections early this month and enjoy them straight away.
Blue Amberol Regular Records
2114—-Southern Dream Patrol—
New York Military Band.
2127 —Old Black Joe —With Variations—Piano.
Andre Benoist.
2138 —When the Corn is Waving—Male voices,
orch. acc. Knickerbocker Quartet.
2215 — Favorite Airs from The Pirates of
Penzance — Edison Light Opera Co.
2216 — Sit Down, You’re Rocking tlie Boat —
The Pleasure Seekers —Billy Murray.
2217 — Cavalleria Rusticana —Siciliana and In-
termezzo —- American Standard Orchestra.
2219—Rev. 21: 21 to 25 and the Gate Ajar
for Me —Scripture Reading with Hymn,
orch. acc. Rev. Madison C, Peters, D.D.,
and Edison Mixed Quartet.
2225—The Junk Man Rag Medley (Banjo)—
Orch. acc. Fred Van Eps.
2228 — Love is so Fickle—Waltz Hesitation—
For dancing. National Promenade Band.
2229 — Bells —-Burlesque—Male voices, orch.
acc. Peerless Quartet.
2230 I’m Crazy ’Bout a Ragtime Minstrel
Band—Coon Song, orch. acc.
Edward Meeker.
2232 : —Ragtime Dream —Coon Duet, orch. acc.
Collins and Harlan.
2235 — (a), In de Hornin’, ( b ) Jes’ Gib’ Him
One Ob Mine —Reading.
Edward Sterling Wright.
2236 The Dear Old Songs—-Tenor and chorus,
orch. acc. Will Oakland and Chorus.
2253 —You’re Here and I'm Here —The Laugh-
ing Husband—Soprano and Tenor,, orch.
acc. Kathleen Kingston & Billy Murray.
2258—1 Miss You Most of All—Tenor, orch.
ace. Manuel Romain.
2260 Won’t You Come and Waltz With Me
—The Girl on the Film —Soprano and
tenor, orch. acc.
Mary Carson and Harvey Hindermeyer.
2261 Sons of the Mill —The Girl on the Film
-—Soprano and chorus, orch. acc.
Elizabeth Spencer and Chorus.
2263 —Peg o’ My Heart—Violin, harp acc.
Charles D’Almaine.
2265—Softly and Tenderly—Sacred, orch. acc.
Edison Mixed Quartet.
2270—Rebecca of Sunny Brook Farm—-Tenor
duet, orch. acc. Campbell and Gillette.
2272--An Afternoon in .June —Singing and
Whistling, orch. acc.
Billy Murray and .Toe Belmont,
2274—Hiram Tucker —Rube Duet, orch. acc.
Ada .Jones and Byron G. Harlan.
2276—A1l for the Girlies One-Step—For
dancing. National Promenade Band.
23165 —The Rosary—Cornet, acc. by National
Military Band. Sergeant G. Jjeggett.
23168 —A Broken Heart —First and Second
Violins, viola and ’cello.
National String Quartet.
23169 —The Irish Emigrant—Baritone, orch.
acc. Stanley Kirkby.
23170—Selection from “The Gondoliers” —
National Military Band.
23171 —The Bedouin JjOve Song—Baritone,
orch. acc'. David Brazell.
THOMAS A. EDISON, Ltd. (Wholesale Only), 804-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
A
■ S
the iOh.p. INVINCIBLE Engine installed in m3' motor-boat, the “Advance,” has travelled 0000
miles, and has not given any trouble whatsoever, and I can get 5’ hours’ running at full speed with
one tin of benzine. (Sgd.) R. A. NEALE, Rockhampton (Q.).
"
■ " ■
ligll
Si - :< -'-
.
*
The 3-4h.p. (Model R) INVINCIBLE Engine with which the boat is-equipped has been running
continuously for 19 months. A week or two ago I took the engine to pieces to give it a thorough
cleaning, and was very much surprised to find that there is not an atom of wear in any one part. An
engineer examined engine and he verifies my statement also.
(Sgd.) A. G. REED,' Cowell (S.A.).
Write for Publication 147, containing Hundreds of similar Testimonials.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.
WORKS : WOOLWICH, N.S.W.
Showrooms—3s Pitt Street, Sydney; and at 529 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Holiday Sports Suits
YOU don't, as a role, associate a good
Sports Soit with so low a price as
39 6. But there are exceptions in Clothes
as in other thing’s.
The one great exception is
Leviathan
Sports Suits
READY TO WEAR.
3916
(Two garments.) Truly the best Clothes
Value we ever offered.
Made in British Sporting Tweeds —two shades
—Grey or Fawn. A stylish English cut, showing
full, free lines —perfect in fit —every stitch sound.
COATS.
Two ample patch pockets with flaps to button.
Unlined backs with half-belt and deep vents.
Inside breast pocket. Leather buttons.
TROUSERS.
Wide thighs, patent side straps, cuff buttons,
side pockets.
SIZES.
34in. to 40in. chests.
Price 39/6
Freight
Paid.
Order a Suit by post. Send Chest (over vest),
Waist (over trousers) and Inside Leg Measures.
We guarantee satisfaction, or money back by
return.
The
JwicLtfuvn
™ FOLLVALUE-IN-HALE.* ATTIRE*
Corner
Swanston and
Bourke Streets,
Melbourne.
wm
m
mumm
■■ i
ill!
■
■
■
mmmmm
li
1
The British Westinghouse Electrical & Manufacturing Go., Ltd.,
have installed two sets of 5000-kw. turbo-generators for the
LONDON COUNTY COUNCIL
England. You will always find Westinghouse
turbines installed where power has to be pro-
duced economically and efficiently.
The huge number of Westinghouse turbines
giving satisfactory service all over the world is
sufficient guarantee, if any be needed, of their re-
liability and ability to stand up to real hard work.
We shall be glad to answer all enquiries or
send you full particulars.
The British
Westinghouse
Electrical and Manufacturing Co., Limited,
Queensland Bldgs., 84, William Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS:
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd.,
77, King Street, Sydney.
Elder, Smith & Co.,
27 —31, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder, Shenton & Co.,
Williams Street, Perth.
Elders Metal and Mercantile Propy.,
84—88, William Street, Melbourne.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOOHLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
FLANAGAN’S HOTEL,
Opposite Hyde Park,
Oxford Street, Sydney
CHARLES HERNON (late of Brisbane) has
just taken over the above Hotel.
EXCELLENT ACCOMMODATION FOR VISI-
TORS. Write or wire for rooms.
TERMS: Per ciav, Bs. : per week, 425.
BOTANY NURSE
WHO IS FREQUENTLY RECOMMEND-
ING Dll. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
AS A FAMILY MEDICINE,
There is no person who comes so inti-
mately into the life of the sick as the nurse.
She stands next to the doctor, watching and
noting the effect of treatments and medicine,
and becomes only second to him as an author-
ity. Therefore, the following letter received
from Nurse Arthur should be interesting-
“l can state that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a very useful medicine for relief
from constipation and as a general laxative.”
writes • Ntfifse Hannah Arthur, of Edeghill
Street. Botany. “I have frequently recom-
mended these pills to friends in my
capacity of general nurse, and I have never
heard a complaint as to their efficacy. They
are our family medicine, and I am very
rarely without them in my house. You may
use this testimony if desired for publication.
I have l*>en a resident of this suburb during
the past 4(> years; and nursing 14 years.”* 1
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The annual Melbourne-Sydney motor-
cycle trial is admittedly one of the most severe held
in any part of the world, and this year’s fixture
wasn’t made any easier by the several inches of rain
that had turned the road from Picton into a bog.
Still, of a field of 43 starters 28 reached Sydney
G.P.0., and of these 19 gained first-class gold medals
—full points for arrival at controls and not less than
five lost for condition of machine. Of the 19, half a
dozen came through with absolutely clean sheets.
The six were Berry (N.S.W.), 6h.p. A.J.S. and side-
car; Roberts (N.S.W.), 6 Harley Davidson; 1.500 th
(Vic.), 7 Indian; Reynolds (*LS.W.), 34 8.5. A.;
Delandro (N.S.W.), Douglas; and King (Vic;),
4 Indian. /Four other riders lost under 100 points
apiece, and''scored a second-class medal. The teams’
prize wentyto N. S. Wales and tire 2f Douglas, which
lost only ,four points (Delandro 0, E. Meller 1 and
F. Meller 3). The Indian team from Vic. (Tyler,
Booth and King) lost 21 points and took second
place.
*, . * * *
The 48 (actually 454) hours’ wheel race,
concluded on Saturday evening at Sydney, had
unpleasant weather; nevertheless it was a stirring
upheaval. Owing to a gale the race was late in start-
ing, but once the men got going they settled down to
hard plugging, although once the wind was so wild
they had to spell-oh for a couple of hours. A smart
pair of country riders, A. Mcßeatli, of Cessuock
(N.S.W.), and .1. G. Atkins, of Hockley (N.S.W.),
were the winners, and they displayed some track
skill that was whoop-raising, especially when after
25 minutes’ hell-dash they lapped the field at tile
end of 4,24 hours’ riding. In the 454 hours’ journey
these two covered 75 5f miles. Second place was
sained by E. A. Priestly and R. J. Hazelton (7554
miles), and third by L. J. Orchard and R. Niven
(7554 miles—one lap behind).
The new N.S.W. motor tax got in its
punch on Monday, and owners of cars will now be
invited to contribute towards paying interest on
Holman’s lOU’s as follow’s: Cars under 12h.p., £2
per annum ; 12-16hyp-, £3 ;. 16-26h.p., £4; 26-33h.p.,
£7; 33-40h.p., £10; 4'o-60h.p., £l5; over GO,
£2O. Taxis and motor-cycles will cost £l. Doc-
tors’ cars and commercial, lorries, half-price.
•* * * *
Saturday at the Domain (Sydney)
Baths was mostly Duke K&hanamoku. He won the
100yds. Championship and the Relay Race (the only
two events for which he entered) with the ease of
a master. He was responsible for the light comedy
of the carnival, the crowd finding much that was
mirthful in the megaphonist’s futile efforts to pro-
nounce his surname. When not otherwise featured
he tore up and down the baths in a skiff. His turn
lasted, practically, from 3 to 5 p.m.
The remarkable feature of Kahanamoku’s swim-
ming is its effortlessness. His long arms plough the
water, and there is no splash ; his vast feet revolve
beneath the surface and leave it almost unmoved.
One realises his speed only when it is noticed that
world-famed performers are being easily out-dis-
tanced. The only way to give the general public
lan idea of this swimmer’s quality would be to
match him against a batch of second- or third-raters
and make him give them long starts.
G. Lyons won the schoolboys’ long-distance race by
<~ver half the lencrth of the baths, and W. Long-
worth won the Half-mile Championship from T.
Adrian after a good race. In brief, all the best
men won, barring those ruled out by bad handi-
capping. It is astonishing how favorites win when
there is no money at stake and no betting on the
result. The mile championship, on Monday, brought
out only two starters—Adrian, of Manly, and
Thomas, of Sydney. Longworth was sick. So was
Thomas when Adrian had done with him. Adrian’s
time was 25min. 54 4-ssec. from the dive.
The Public Schools’ 880yds. race brought out a
lion-hearted bov of 13 or so. Fie soon fell behind the
powerful youths who were opposed to him. Half-
wav through the race his only hope lay in the whole
of the opposition beiiw accidentally drowned. The
i -lVmr snlrit which is understood to characterise
the Island Race was stro’g in him. however, and lie
hung on. lie finished ultimately a lan behind the
winner, amid the admiring cheers of the multitude.
* * * *
Sydney, December 2(5. —A Communique
says that the force <\D d'■“•witched south recently,
and which was last heard from after defeating the
enemy at Adelaide, got in touch with a similar force
at Melbourne to-day about noon. A lucky chance
enabled Commandant Bardsley to choose his ground,
and, bringing up the big guir Minnett, he attacked
and played havoc with the enemy.
Melbourne. December 26.—A Communique says;
The northern invading force (Xi) were engaged by a
strong defending force here to-day. They were
beaten off at nightfall without difficulty. We lost
10 men, but gained 142 points of advantage.
Melbourne, December 26 (7 p.m.).—A significant
message to the press from the battlefield is that the
Victorians were entirely wiped out. all of them,
except two, by the Minnett gun. The northerners
on the day lost only four men.
Svdnev. December 27 7 5 n rn.). —Headnnarters Gas
posted the following dispatch from Commandant
Bardslev, dated 27th ; “Enemy dispersed after captur-
ing 142 points of advantage. We lost four men,
captured 125 points. Fighting resumes morning.”
Sydney, December 28.—An official Communique
states that at 1 p.m. the northern force had captured
200 poirts and lost nine men. Some progress has
been made.
Melbourne, December 28. —An official Communique
announces that there are good prospects that the
invading force from the North will be defeated. The
situation is not acute.
Sydney, December 28. —The following Communique
has been issued: Southern force severely handled.
Our force got 212. Enemy wiped out second time —
124. At one period of the battle six Victorian
units had fallen for 45, the Kelleway arm having
accounted for three. Total gains—two days’ fighting
for them —266. Our force was bombarded again, but
entirely routed the enemy with six men held in
reserve.
Melbourne, December 29.—The latest Communique
admits a repulse after two days’ battle, and states
that the Victorian force will be consolidated and
reinforced before moving north to meet the enemy
on the new front. Otherwise the situation remains
unchanged.
W. Carkeelc’s wicket-keeping was the
feature of the Vic. v. N.S.W. struggle at Melbourne.
The crack Australian stumper caught four batsmen
and took away the breath of J. M. Taylor when, like
lightning, he whipped that young man’s bails. Vic-
toria has it all over the other States in the matter
of stumping adventurous batsmen and keeping Sun-
dries in order.
Last week in Sydney, during the Colts*
(N.S.W. v. Vic.) match delegates from N.S.W., Vic-
toria, Queensland and South Aus, launched a Junior
Board of Control to put ginger into the younger
players and add interest to their place in the game.
It Was a sensibly-spent wet day, and should benefit
cricket generally. The Board will be composed of
three reps, from N.S.W., two each from Vic. and
Queensland, and one from South Aus. But each
State will have equal voting power regardless of the
number of delegates.
One of the first questions the newly-formed Board
should tackle is the unsatisfactory and useless “un-
finished” match. Seven times Ma's colts have met
those from the Vic. stable, and only twice have the
games being completed. Three days doesn’t seem
to be sufficient for these extra-careful young men,
This last match at Sydney ended in a draw (N.S.W.,
339 and 0 for 12; Vic., 222), and, although play
had to be abandoned on one day owing to rain, the
solemn and deliberate batting of the visitors Was
simply rusting out time.
* X- * *
Warwick Armstrong, who skippered Vic-
toria against N.S.W, in the recent match, is the
veteran of Australian cricket nowadays. The Vic-
torian giant went in 1902, 1905 and 1909 with Aus-
tralian Xl’s to England, and has marked a career
in first-class cricket with scores of 335 v. Southland
(M.L.) in 1906; 303 not out v. Somersetshire
("Eng.) in 1905; 24S not out v. Gents of
(Eng.) in 1905; and 200 v. Queensland in 1904.
His 62 in the first innings last Week against N.S.W.
was the highest of the match. His howling arm also
gathered five wickets for 34—the best aggregate
average of the match.
“Jack” Worrall. who fathered the Vic-
torian “Colts” in Sydney, at the year-end has had an
active time in big cricket. He was in the Australian
Xl’s of 1838 and 1899 : also he has a performance
of 59 innings in inter-State cricket- —only two less
than the record ol Tom Garrett (N.S.W.). Worrall’s
heartiest smite was 417 not out for Carlton v. Mel-
bourne University in 1896-—fourth on the list of
highest scores in Australia.
North Sydney’s team is leading the pro-
cession in N.SXV. First-grade Cricket Competition.
Waverley is second, and University, Western Suburbs
and Gordon are in a bunch, third. Middle Harbor
can be seen with a powerful field-glass.
The unfortunate Middle Harbor team did some
queer things in its match against Gordon. It
scored 181 in its first innings, of which 140 were
contributed by three bats and 19 by Sundries. Four
men made blobs. One of them was really absent, so
he didn’t even blob except in theory. In the second
innings the team made 116. Of these, two men made
80 and old Sundries got 11. Five men blobbed, in-
cluding the absentee. In cricket Pompey and Julius
Caesar and Pharaoh and Tubal Cain always score badly
because they aren’t there. Something similar hap-
pened in the Balmain-Redfern match. In the second
innings of the former the XI scored 115, and one
batter made 70 of them. He was the only man (Sundries
included) to get double figures. Redferii in its first
possession of the creases knocked up 60. Two bats-
men were responsible for 25. Again, in the match
between North Sydney and Central Cumberland the
latter scored 61 in its first innings, of which two
bats made 45. Also, in Western Suburbs’ second
innings against Waverley three of the team secured
90 out of a total of 113. It’s a queer set of coinci-
dences.
W. LONGWORIH , swimming champion.
Canterbury (M.L.) cricketers retain the
Pluuket Shield as the champion province. Last
week Otago made an onslaught on the holders, but
was ©rushed by an innings and 16 runs. It was
a sair day for the wee bit team frae the South.
Canterbury was subsequently tackled by Auckland,
but it was all the same to Canterbury.
That energetic party Sundries excelled
himself in a match at Wanganui (M.L.) the other
day. The game was Wanganui v. South Taranaki
for possession of the Hawke Cup, and in Wanganui’s
first, innings, which yielded 398, Extras (alias Sun-
dries) scored 75. He got within six of the best
batsmen on the side. One of these days he will
make a century not out.
The \ ,R.C. handicappet’, ill his Weights
for the New Year’s Day meeting* gaVe fin intferesting
estimate Of the difference between a htirdler and a
fiat racer. ClOntaft, with I'M-. 121 b., headed the
list for tile IlUrdle Race, and Was reckoned a 3st. 121 b.
better horse than the bottom weights. But in the
Bagot Handicap, a 12-furlong race on the flat, the
same Clontaft was placed on the fist. 131 b. mark,
371 b. below De Gaina, the top weight.
Bullawarra, the champion Alisttelidn
’chaser of two seasons ago, Was. at ifiteSt dfitfis get-
ting along nicely in his pfepfifation fbl’ tiiO, tiiveipOoi
(Eng.) Grand National ijlebplOchfispi Width bogies
due next March. Opinions val\v Widely as to Whether
Bullawarra is jhst the type Of finimal fbr the. lOng*
rugged journey at Liverpool. PrObably hb ife the
fastest Of the entrants, and he proved hilitself a Sale
jumper ill the trying VHt.C-. National tekt befOte
winning the 4-miles Steeplechase at Caul field. But
there have been many Australia!! topiiOtchers tfifit
jumped with less effort than the big fellow* arid ovof
the Liverpool course it is the labOr-saVing action
which mostly counts-.
BARRY , of N.S.W.
Port Adelaide —the only suburban meeting
of a city which has no trotting and no “ponies”—
gave a £lOOO Cup and a £lOO weight-for-age this
Christmas—not too bad for a club whose chief race
was worth only £l5O within the present century.
It is the totalisator that makes such progress easy.
At this (comparatively) small meeting £§l*B7l
went through the machine in Uvo day's-. Invest-
ors get it all back except £3187, of which the
Government collars one-fourth, and the rest goes
towards stakes. The locally-trained Bangonie won
the Cup, paying the nice price of £8 195.; but
those who picked the improbable second, Borassus,
got £lO Bs.
An Adelaide magistrate lias dismissed the
information of Paris Nesbit charging two officials of
the Adelaide Piumpton with cruelty to animals, said
animals being the hares chased by greyhounds in
the enclosed grounds of the coursing club. The
S.M. held that defendants had not been guilty of
any particular cruelty to the hares, apart from the
necessary cruelty of coursing, and as the “sport’’
was not illegal they could not be held ;tb bmftifh
This decision is, maybe, sound; but Colh'sillg is not
“legal” any more than it is “iliSgal.” That is, it
has not the benefit of any Royal Charter. The deci-
sion of the Adelaide Court will give the business a
standing which hitherto it did not possess, instead
of Which the “sport,” like the “pastime” of pigeon-
shooting, really needs sudden and definite legisla-
tion. But beasts and birds that are butchered to
make a gambler’s holiday have no votes. So they
don’t matter.
) •’* * * *!*
A close decision in the Carrington Stakes*
run at Randwick (N.S.W.) on December 80* his”re-
vived the question of invoking the aid Of the camera
in judging finishes. Press photography is allowed by
the A.J.C. Committee, but the cameras are put delib-
erately in such a position that they don’t show the
instant of finishing. In the Carrington the favorite,
Portrusb. was beaten, according to the judge, by
Malt Mark ; according to. the punters who lost their
money, their nag just beat the Malt animal. Photo-
graphs of the finish show Portrusb leading, but it is
explained to the irate backers that the cameras are
at such an angle that the apparatus does what it is
claimed it ‘can’t do—it lies. The mystified punter
naturally wants to know why the photographers are
not placed in such a position that the negatives will
record results bevond doubt. The mechanical starting-
gate has eliminated as far as possible the human
factor in starting, Whv not the camera in judging?
Barlow, winner of Sydney Tatt.’s Club
Ci-'-' Ml mile) on New Year’s Day, is a six-year-old
gelding bv Fortunatus (sire of many good ’uns) from
Elvo, who was by the Melb. Cup winner, Malvolio,
from Treason (by Trenton). As a racer Barlow is
only five years old, for like many other hardy and
useful veterans, he was not started once as a two-yeat’-
old. He has scored in big events at Northern Rivers
f N.S.W.) meetings, as well as around Sydney. In
December, 1913. he won the A.J.C. Summer Clip.
Now that he has also taken Tatt.’s Cup he has
avenged the defeat of his ma, Elvo, who in the
1904-5 summer ran second in the Summer Cup and
third in Tatt.’s Cup and, 12 months later, was third
in the Summer Cup and second in Tatt.’s Cup.
Sydney Tattersall’s six-furlong Carrington
Stakes, won last week (Dec. 30, 1914) by the well-
performed Queenslander, Malt Mark, allegedly by a
short head from the, Epsom winner, Portrush, is an
event in which several mokes of renown on turf
and at stud have figured prominently. Among these
are Trieste, winner in 1891 ; Vanitas, in 1894 ; True
Plue. in 1895: Loch Marie, in 1897: Coralie, in
1899: Fulminate, in 1900 : Pendant, in 1902 and
1903; Athenic, in 1913; Air Motor, second in 1902;
Handsome, third in 1903 : Virtu, third in 1908.
Hundreds of punters were cocksure last week that
Portrush had beaten Malt Mark, but at Randwick
not a living soul, save the judge, can tell which nag
has scored in a close finish,. At Flemington a big
crtnVd in the resel've ahd on the hill can view the
finish in a straight line over the judge’s box and
name the winner (or a dead-heat) tight off.
Starland perfbrnied like a ehampibn in the Juven-
ile Stakes. She ran secdnd to Ardrossan (7st: 31b.)
in a field of about a dozen, carrying the tremfendoqs
burden of fist. 718. The public . shbwed what. it
thought bf the Gimcrack Stakes winner by backing
hfer dbWn tb 2 to ,i, which Was glad business fbr
Mbsfes .Q’Rafferty, the idctoi'ibus cblt being amongst
thb spiff, gboas;. bt refuse, of the betting market;
Afabthfer butsider, bf the mbtc ot less rank class
namely Malt Matk—setjuM the affluent, Carrington
Stakes. Thebe \tere 24. starters, arid the suffering
pWet, in this ds in the event Which followed .it,
made a , fairly warm favorite bf the animal width
plodded .hbme second: .
Nbt a single favorite won at Randwiek all ddjn
Thb amateur steeplechase rider is a nii'iti?
in N. S. Wales for a lot of reasons. In the first
blafce there are so few jumping races that it is hardly
worth a man’s while to train horses or keep in cpn-
ditibn fob theiii: Also, the absence bf a Hunt Club
dbqs a lot- tb keep thb supply of ci'pss-ebuntfy horses
and riders at a low ebb. Melbourne and even Adel-
aide are in a better position in this respect. Young
Ken Austin, who rode Rajah in the Hurdles at. Rand-
wick on Saturday, is easily the best amateur that
X. S. wales has produced. In fact, few professionals
are in bis class. He learnt his race-riding up-
country at picnic events, and his experience on the
fiat makes him better than most of those whom he
contends against, after the last fence has been
crossed.
Backers had a better time at Canterbury
Park (N.S.W.) on Saturday. A hot favorite won the first
race, a well-backed second favorite took the next,
tthd the. first find, second favorites were, respectively,
first ahd second iii the Weltet Mile. A little bit Of
sug*ai ; fbr tiife dead bird:
* * *# *
Writes: 1 1 HE BULLETIN says
(21/i2/’l4) : “it is a .mystery why the A.J.C, does
ti’ot provide mole juiiiping. faces.” Where is the mys-
tery? All thrbugn the winter seas On. the A.J.C, pfo-
yideS one rack (gferientlly Iwbj for jltriiperk bii eafcti
day’s prbgt-anliiie, while a similar race b'f a. Certain
stake is cbmplilsoi-y on subutbafi courses at the saiiic
time of the year. what is the result? A pdltty
dozen of cat’s-meat mokes are entered, anil abbot
half that number of starters, whilst for ages race-
goers have endured the spectacle of half of the
starters falling or refusing, so that already low
jumps have been made easier, with very little im-
provement to either entries or contest.
This is precisely what depresses The Bulletin. A
couple of steeplechases, perhaps three hurdle races to
each of the big cool-weather meetings, and an occa-
sional scramble over low hurdles on suburban
courses, can produce nothing but the cat’s-meat class
of jumper, In England, Ireland and Prance they
manage things differently, in those Countries all the
winter racing, both On metropolitan and other
courses, is over the. sticks. At Kettlpton, Sundown,
Autueil, Bois-Coiombes, , Puiiehestowil and The Cur*
ragh there are uSuallV six events to.eafch afternoon’s
sport, and. f6uT of theiii. ate steeplechases and the
dthbr two hurdle-races. Every country toWn Of ail?
importance in England, and most country towns iii
Ireland, have several steeplechase meetings every year.
The result is, when the National events come off,
racegoers are not offered the spectacle of “cat’s-meat
mokes entered, and about liaif of them falling or
revising.” Australia, and move particularly N. S.
Wales, produces poor jumpers, for the simple reason
that no one in authority attempts seriously to catei
for jumpers:
* * # #
t)oiiar Dictator’s success in I’ertli (W.A.)
Cup last week was another cheerful advt. for the
totalisator. A few days before the race the winner
was quoted at 14 to one bv McNoses, but on the day
of the race the odds lengthened till Mo was offering
to ruin himself at the rate of 20 to one. This
generosity, however, shrank to insignificance when
the Tote (after cutting off slices for division with
the second and third prads) paid investors a dividend
of £lB for each 10g. invested —-35 to one.
Wes.traiia.ii Tttt-f.Oi.tib btts taken the bit in
its tfeeth oVer thb. “ringing*, iii*/ Mii.ch Mfc thnwl
for a long time in Groperiand. Licensed trainers
will henceforth be compelled to forward to iii' 5
W.T.C. particulars as to color, brands, pedigree, etc.,
of all mokes, and the mere existence of such a list
will, it is hoped, work a miracle. It takes a lot to
extinguish hope even in these pessimistic days.
Glenelg. Adelaide’s principal watering-
place, was called Holdfast Buy by the early settlers,
hut itv is in reality an open roadstead, and yachts
bump ashore in even the mild gales which reach the
Gulf Waters, It has long been promised a break-
water, and Premier Pcakf* last week made public the
details bf the Wall decided upum Its length is to
be 1400 ft., of reinforced concrete, 3(K)yds. fibril t lit'
end of the jetty. There being no bottom hut sarid
the anchoring of the caissons will be the chief
trouble. The structure is to rise 31ft. above the
sand, which means about 10ft. above high-water
mark, with a minimum depth of 14ft. inside at the
lowest tides. The contract is for £32,000, and the
job is to be finished before the end of 1916.
* » * •*
Great sports, the Yanks! Walter Cam)),
the baseball authority, Writes in the Century that a’
player who didn’t browbeat the umpire would be
sacked by his club! If “no player gave evidence
that; a decision, rendered adversely to him or his
side, was disagreeable to him, the spectators would
show signs of the effect Upon their confidence, and
there would be clmfgte of sold games. It Would be
hard to bhlieVfe that a man unjustly called out Would
fcfv’e lio indication of his feelings unless he were
Willing to have the decision made.” An accompany-
ing picture gives a sketch of an “argument” with
the umpire, who stands with folded arms and stonyj
face while three other hard-faces gesticulate with
their hands and seemingly only just come short of]
actual stoushi And if, they didn’t do this the bar-’
racket's Would believe they had “sold” the match!
& -x *
Jack Donaldson streaked into prominence
again last week at the Powderhall Grounds, Edin-
burgh. when, from scratch, he won the big sprint
and the 300yds. handicap. According to the cable-
gram the “big sprint” carries with it £lOO, but if it
is the big- sprint, then the purse is £l3O and the
distance 130yds.' The Marathon, in which the Scots-
man Mcßae beat the holder of the challenge cup,
W. liolehmainen, of Finland, is 26 miles 385yds.
The cash for first place is £75. liolehmainen first
won the cup and the quids in 1912.
(Continued on page 40.)


Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 29th December, 1914.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Appointment of Ship Draughtsmen at
Cockatoo Island Naval Dockyard,
Sydney.
A PPLICATIONS will be received for the
following appointments of Ship
Draughtsmen; warship experience is essen-
tial ; engagement to be for five years:—
1. To be thoroughly qualified in all work in
connection with the construction and
fitting out of both modern warship and
merchant vessels; also some theoretical
knowledge, and must at least have been in
charge of vessels in the drawing office.
Commencing salary. £2BB per annum as
Assistant Chief Draughtsman.
2. A Draughtsman having knowledge of both
modern warship and merchant practice,
and with experience in the ordering of
stores and fittings for the various types
of vessels. Commencing salary, £240 per
annum.
8. One to have special knowledge of work
in connection with pumping, flooding,
draining and ventilation arrangements.
Commencing salary, £240 per annum.
4. A similar appointment to three, with the
proviso that special knowing in connection
with fitting out is required. Commencing
salary, £240 per annum.
5. A good Ship Draughtsman, with general
experience of warship work. Commencing
salary, £240 per annum.
6. A Draughtsman having general knowledge
of both warship and merchant practice,
and with thorough designing-office experi-
ence. Commencing salary, £216 per
annum.
7. Applicants for above positions to state
age.
Applications should be addressed to
General Manager. Cockatoo Island. Sydney.
to reach him not later than 25th January,
1915. T. TRUMRLE,
Acting Secretary.
Business Notices.
LLOYD’S (London)
Briar Pipes.
ALL ONE PRICE.
48 DIFFERENT SHAPES.
These Pipes are exceptional value.
The mounts are of hall-marked silver
and each pipe is guaranteed not to
crack or burn within a reasonable
time.
No. 4
No. 9
No. 10
No. 3
ANY SHAPE, 4/6 POST FREE.
A great variety of LLOYD’S (London) Pipes
are illustrated in my Catalog, entitled “A
Discriminating Smoker’s Guide,” a copy of
which will be mailed free on request.
A. Ml. SOLOMON,
“Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
No. 84 of 1914.
DIVORCE AND MATRIMONIAL
CAUSES.
Between
HARRY MANNING, Petitioner
And
EVELENA MANNING, Respondent.
IN THE MATTER of a PETITION of
Harry Manning for dissolution of marriage.
To Mrs. EVELENA MANNING, formerly
of 15 Alma Road. St. Kilda, in the
State of Victoria, and Jerilderie, in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the 21st day of December 1914 has been
issued out of the Central Office of our
Supreme Court for you to appear and
answer the Petition of Harry Manning of
Mount Magnet in the State of Western
Australia Miner praying for a dissolution
of his marriage with you on the ground
that you in or about the month of October
1909 deserted him and have since con-
tinuously deserted him AND in default of
your appearing the Court will proceed to
hear the terms of the said charge and you
will not be allowed to address the said
Court THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE
that for the purposes aforesaid you are
within 45 days from the date of this adver-
tisement to attend in person or by your
Solicitor at the Central Office of our said
Court and there to enter an appearance
either in person or by your Proctor Solicitor
or Agent.
Dated this 22nd day of December 1914.
By the Court
(Sd.) F. A. MOSELEY.
Registrar.
Arthur F. Abbott,
42 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Business Notices.
“SHELL”
BENZINE
AGAIN insisted on
by
Sir Ernest Shackieton
for use in
The Imperial Antarctic
Expedition.
oxo*»
des
CQ
hend:
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog D.
Comfort Pius Good Appearance
RIGNEY SHOES fit the feet perfectly,
which means COMFORT. They are made
from the best materials, and retain their
smart shape until worn out, hence RIGNEY
SHOES give you COMFORT PLUS GOOD
APPEARANCE.
The illustration shows a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe,, latest perforations. A high-grade,
made-to-order style.
Price : : 27|6
Also in Ton and Black Velour Calf.
25/- and 27/6.
Postage, 9d. extra. .
Write for a Copy of our Catalog. £
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA.
©cl!) fflutml,
Calcutta. 1883,
I/PIICE'Q
FLUID MAGNESIA
»n mm m us u* m»m u mm
.WttXUOA.V«.W\V 'vVW'AV AWWXWA'WAa
\\.WV« \W» V.V v'.VWWWW? VOBi <V« ««A&#
XVV XX\'*\N\'.\’\\X XAXVA.W' vVWVASA** "VA.V
vA.W'.V VWW'AV.V WVO.WA.V VVW' «»i* >'»
>k gmmr \vf» am# umvmi
•»l*«v' MANv'.'W'v' XV4.WM.W CAVA A \V«AVO
FELTON. CRimorno: ME
j
The Australian Remedy for
Indigestion,
Biliousness and
Acidity of the
Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR
OLD AND YOUNG.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS DUE TO
VACCINATION AND TEETHING. A COOL-
ING MEDICINE FOR SPRING AND SUMMER.
Sold
by Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
\
m
■
.
m
m
n
Sensible Suits
for
Summer Wear
The Two Models illustrated here are Tailored
with the Greatest Thoroughness in a Complete
Range of Finely-Graded Sizes. They are made
in Light-weight Materials of Splendid Quality
that will Wash and Wear to your entire satisfac-
tion. They are designed specially for hot-
Weather Wear, and their Combination of Style,
Suitability and Comfort is such that they could
not be improved on for use during the Summer
months.
Tailor-made Sports Suit, 38/6
In Dark and Light Grey English Flannels. Coat
with Step Collar, Seam and Vent and Strap at
Back; Patch Pockets with Buttoning-over Flaps.
Trousers with Side and Foh Pockets, Belt Loops,
Hip Strap and Cuff Bottoms.
Tailor-made "P a t ro l Suit, 17/6
In White Drill of exceptional Quality Coat with
Patrol Back, Military Collar, 3-Patch Pockets
and Detachable Shank Buttons. Trousers with
Side Pockets and Cuff Bottoms. This Suit can
be worn without Underwear other than a Light
Singlet.
The Materials in these Suits are guaranteed
against Shrinkage. Altogether at the Prices
charged they represent a Standard of Value that
is not often offered.
POST YOUR ORDER
and we’ll send what you want by return —POST
FREE.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd
“ Tailors and Outfitters,”
244=254 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


Colds and
influenza
can be prevented by keeping
the body well nourished with
SCOTT’S Emulsion. Anyone
who is susceptible to chills,
coughs, colds or who suf-
fers from weakness, wasting
and poor health cannot
do better than take a course
of SCOTT’S Emulsion now,
and in this way gain the
health and strength that re-
sist and overcome weakness
and disease. You will avoid
worry and save time and
money, by insisting on genuine
1874
TRADE
fk
Wi
1914
MARK
scorns
Emulsion
with the fishman trade mark
on the package.
1,
05
a*
(P |vV
e^Sr
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
if you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN $ <u.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, diver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
The JTagic Art of Beauty Culture.
SOME HOME RECIPES.
By RITA MOYA.
A co*"niexion that appears clear, fresh aud natural is as necessary to woman
as a modish gown. More attention should be given to keeping the skin “fit” than to the
details of dress. The face, constantly exposed to wind, dust, fatigue and strain, requires
regular and watchful care. One great cause of complexion troubles is the frequent use of
greasy, inactive preparations which clog the pores and prevent the natural throwing off
of waste matter. My repeated advice is to avoid made-up cosmetics, and to use only P ure
ingredients. The various aids to beauty which I recommend are simple, and if not already
at hand, can be procured from any reliable chemist. If he has not what you require, e
can easily obtain it for you from his wholesaler. Only let me advise you to insist on av-
ing the original ingredients, and not to accept some made-up preparation instead.
About Shampoos. —To quote an eminent
London beauty specialist: “The slimy egg
cannot dissolve the scalp impurities, but only
adds to the trouble by completely choking the
pores with animal matter.” The substance
sticks and decomposes, thereby causing the
hair to assume a dead, “dull color.” 1 heart-
ily endorse every word. Avoid eggs (and
soap, too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful of
stallax in a cup of hot. water. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in your hair, will
clear and prevent dandruff, and leave that
tine, fluffy effect so much sought after. It
also removes excess oil or greasiness.
Complexion Secrets of an Actress. —ln a re-
cently issued volume bearing the above title
the author says: “Continual use of grease
paints, rouge and the like, has ruined my
remnlexipn. My skin was colorless, wrinkled,
coarse and punctured with large pores. In
America I heard of the virtues of mercolised
wax; my first experience with this marvellous
substance convinced me it was more valuable
than all the cosmetics combined. Now, when-
ever my complexion begins to go wrong, I get
a small quantity of mercolised wax at the
chemist’s, spread on a thin layer of it before
retiring, washing it off in the morning. The
wax, after a few such applications, seems
literally to absorb the worn-out cuticle, when
a brighter, healthier, younger looking skin
appears.
Face Fuzz. —Many women know how to re-
move superfluous hair temporarily, but to
banish it for ever is quite another matter. As
regards depilatories. I must say that there are
very few good ones. They nearly all irritate
the skin, and even then only give temporary
relief. Powdered plieininol acts in a wonder-
ful manner, and the recommended treatment
is designed not only to immediately remove
the ugly hairs, but to also permanently des-
troy the roots.
Scanty Eyebrows and Lashes. —What a
wealth of expression can be given to an other-
wise plain face by fine arching eyebrows end
long curling lashes! Much care should be
exercised, however, in choosing a pomade for
promoting the growth of either, as tUs mac
tic-ally impossible to keep the lids tighUy closed
when treating the lashes. Meimaline has the
advantage of being perfectly harmless, and at
the same rime a healthy stimulant to the a
follicles. Its use tends to darken the ntvv
growth, which presumably is nhat most
women desire.
Is Powder Necessary? —l say emphatically
No! There is a simple lotion which can be
easily and cheaply made at home, and it is
at the same time botli effective and beneficial
to the complexion. Cleminite is a splendid
substitute for face powder, which is at the
bottom of many complexion troubles. riot
about an ounce from the chemist’s and dis-
solve in four tablespoonsfnl of water. lhe
result is a fine clear liquid, which instantly
gives the face, neck or arms that peach-like
bloom of perfect health. There is nothing to
oqual it for greasy skins, and the result lasts
all day long under the most trying conditions.
Try it for the next dance.
Palling Hair.—How often one hears the
lament: “I have tried everything on the
market, and my hair comes out in handfuls. ’
Not so surprising either yhen yon come to
think it over. Hair tonics to he effective must
l>e fresh, and there is no earthly reason why
every woman should not make her own lotion
at home. The finest vegetable tonic I know
of is made by mixing a packet of boranium
with 1-pint of bay rum and adding sufficient
water to fill a half-pint bottle. This lotion
rubbed briskly into the scalp sets the hair
roots tingling with new life, and will, if per-
severed with, give you back your “crowning
glory.”
For Pale Faces. —Some folks are naturally
pale, and I see no harm whatever in adding a
little color to the cheeks if so desired. Rouge,
however, is always obvious, and to people of
refinement somewhat vulgar. There is a sub-
stance, however, known as powdered colli-
andum. which gives a perfectly natural color,
and at the same time defies detection. Apply
a little with the finger tips. You will be
pleased with the result I feel sure. [4
Mr. H. GRIN DELL MATTHEWS (the Inventor Mr. ROBERT RADFORD (the well-known
of Wireless Tclenhonv > suffered from Bass Singer! writes have derived the greatest
fat)
y ,rr vS Awi®Bl I d
some conditions, or for dejectJoiT tFumme- Stores
dlately renews the strength of my nerves, and rcsonance and brightness to the voice, banishes
exercises a stimulating effect #u the whole of lassitude, and generally tones up the system/*
the nervous
J-
— 63, Havcrstock Hill, London, England.
Miss the talented and charming
Actress, have used Phosferine with really
/ general health. The unusual exertions
Ssals make one nervously anxious and
i much 'induces dull
effectually
[ tonic for
HONORED
"f^OYAL
lOtes the
COMMAND
excel
and
-.v-tV
§§
:• i ■>.
Qt.CS,''.A?
ted
f In all
r) therr
hosfcrinc
will find it
—164, High Rd.,
any inval
mother
Mr. B. C. HUCKS (the
Englishman to "Loop the;,;
■eally must express my ap
Aqie back I felt myself
brought On, no doubt, by
under all sorts of weather
lour last summer. I had
■ccoming shaken. I was advised
(juite astonished at the beneficial
first few doses. I am now feelii
and ready to start upon a season's flyinfpfKat promises to
considerable more arduous than the lasj.” 116, Piccadill
London, finglodd
ig dreary
weather.
order t and
Bssity as any
ndon, Eng.
At the hands of any Chemist this is what you should obtain
PHOSFERINE is a World-wide Remedy for
Indigestion
Anaemia
Insomnia
Lassitude
Debility
Neuralgia
Lo*» of Appetite
All Nerve Troubles
Just 5 to 10 drops of this golden remedy in a wineglass of water.
The original and Genuine PHOSFERINE is in buff packages, and be particular to
notice that it is spelt P-H-O-S-F-E-R-l-N-E. Price-1/, 2/6 & 4/6. If you find any diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies send Postal Note to Ash ton &: Parsons. 408 Collins St. Melb.
L
O
H
MALT
E
CK’
MIL
xu>
For dispelling that tired feeling—for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies—take Horlick’s. Horlick’s
Malted Milk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
TRY IT AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN
I
©
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing,
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
'/2
The Inky Way.
“T. 0.1.”: The necessary plant for young
Australian goldfields’ papers has arrived in all
sorts of ways.—on pack-horses, bullock-wag-
gons and (in Westralia) on camels. I suppose
the only case in which a team of Chows did
the carrying was on the outbreak of the
Iviandra goldfields, up in the Snowy country.
Ah Sin carried about lcwt., dividing the
load and slinging it to the two ends of a
hickory pole.
“Bookware”: Said Massina, nublisher of
the Australian journal, for which Marcus
Clarke wrote “His Natural Life” : “After
the worry I had in getting the copy from
Clarke, I determined never more to have
any dealings with a genius.” And he
never did. Bearing in mind how inspira-
tion came to such as Dickens, Hugo, Scott
and Dumas, urging them on, so that the
pen could not fly quickly enough, it is re-
markable that Clarke ground out his novel
as a piece of laborious drudgery. When
the expenses had been paid for his jaunt
to Port Arthur, and he had accumulated
such a unique mass of precious material,
he seemed to regard it as an insult when
asked to begin, or to continue. He thought
he ought to be doing something better
—something greater. But he never
attempted the greater thing. Instead,
he audaciously strung out the yarn for
which he was being paid, even taking
his characters to the Eureka Stockade, and
introducing Lalor and the other rebels. On
Duffy’s advice lie cut out all this—one-
third of the whole —before republication.
In one way that was good for the Aus-
tralian Journal, for it has excused the
publication of the whole straggling yarn,
with Carrington’s original illustrations, no
less than four times in the Journal —an
unparalleled record.
Easily the best issue of Australia To-
day (the Christmas number of The Aus-
tralasian Traveller) is that for 1014—
the tenth. Its commendable object is to
recruit immigrants for this continent’s empty
spaces, and if it doesn’t make a fine im-
pression it has a dull audience.
* * * *
The war correspondent's job doesn’t seem
to be a particularly profitable alley of the
Inky Way. The will of Bennett Burleigh,
who brilliantly represented the London
Daily Telegraph in all the campaigns of
the last 30 years, shows that £640 was all
he had to leave his wife and daughter.
*•*•**
From foreign parts: Here’s a tattered
remnant of a paper written and produced
in the trenches. One of the French colonial
regiments has the honor of it. Le Petit
Colonial is, of course, type-written, and
only runs to ordinary note-paper; hut it
contains most of the official military news
of the day, accounts of individual exploits,
topical allusions and a cartoon. In default
of the real thing there are spoof ads., as
for instance: “Wanted a young man of good
appearance and strong voice to announce
the arrival of German shells in our lines.
Applications requested from soldiers who
have served as waiters, ushers in courts,
and other kindred occupations.”
“Black Swan”: The Perth link in the
“chain of Labor dailies which is to encircle
Australia,” is not to be forged yet awhile.
The unions that put up the £15,000 which
was to bo the starting capital have met and
passed a resolution that the time is still
green. With war cables costing a lot of
money and advertisers cutting down their
space, and the cost of printing paper
up 20 per cent., a capital of £15,000, out of
which plant has to come, does seem lather
meagre.
* * *
London Times strikes a new and ingeni-
ous line: for £l5 cash down it offers you
an annual four-line In Memoriam notice
for ever and ever. Suppose it gets only 3
per cent, on the £l5, the four lines will bring
iu 95., so the pav is better than it looks.
OBITUARIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One after another they go beyond,
The enemy grim and the comrade fond;
They reach the skyline, and then some day
They’re over the hills and far away;
And I write them a par, or sing them a verse,
And a few* of their principal feats rehearse,
For my paper is small and I must keep room
For the butter and cheese and bacon boom.
I never let personal feeling's stir
My realisation of character.
Indeed, I have no feeling at ail
But to popularise the Paspalcm Call.
(Three town subscribers came on last week,
And five from the settlement over the creek!)
De mortnis nil nisi bonnm is
In a paper like mine most excellent biz.
For instance, when Grayson passed away
Some thought of the biting things I might say,
For everyone knew that a month before
He had stopped my account at his grocery store.
Weren’t they surprised when they found that I
Exalted his virtues to the sky,
Without a suspicion of reason or gall
For his rudeness to the Paspalum Call?
If I were asked where my talent lies,
I’d answer: It’s in my obituaries.
Of course the dead don’t know' what I say,
They’re over the hills and far away.
But the living- jjdb; it’s for them I write,
And they dearly ’ove a blatherskite.
Who they know will not give others to see
That their high professions were trickery.
And so in each death that occurs I see
A vision of coming prosperity ;
I fill up my pipe and, puffing, say:
“Our worthy townsman has passed away.”
Or: “Were it decreed liy the lips of Fate
He would have adorned the halls of State.”
(Three town subscribers came on last week,
And five from the settlement over the creek!)
N.S.W.
EDITOR OF THE “PASPALUM CALL.”


i ' M
iS .
r
II
i w
m
m
* *
_/
/
&i
«
m
-y ••,■„■
ST:
w
wmm
x»r
1
Ni
' - :
V
ft
I ?%
S
■
mm
y
LAUNCH OF H.M.A.S. “DERWENT.”
THE FIRST WARSHIP BUILT ENTIRELY IN AUSTRALIA ,
&
BEALE PIANOS are Made
in Australia.
Purchasers o f Beale Pianos and Player Pianos
do not contribute to the equipment of
German Dreadnoughts, but directly Keep
in employment over 500 good Australians.
Beale Pianos are worthy of your consideration.
Over 20,000 satisfied purchasers testify
to their quality.
BEALE <& COY. LTD.
Head Office & Factories: 41=47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale, N.S.W.
*»
Showrooms: 136 Liverpool Street, Sydney
George Street, Bathurst
Fitzmaurice Street, Wagga
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane
Flinders Street, Townsville
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Argent Street, Broken Hill
Summer Street, Orange
Lismore
Kent Street, Maryborough, Q’land
William Street, Rockhampton
Sydney Street, Mackay
Cairns, Q’land.


Try
this
s
rz
7
Lift the outer walls of the nostrils ai shown above. Then inhale vigorously through the
nostrils. Afterwards exhale, also through the nostrils. Do both, of course, while hold ng the
nostrils wide open. The result will be nothing less than a surprising revelation of how the nasal
air-passages can be enabled to convey an increased supply of oxygen to the respiratory organs.
HAVE YOU GOT
CATARRH ?
If you have a dropping of phlegm into the throat,
If your nose is stopped up,
If crusts form in your nose,
If you are easily susceptible to colds,
If you suffer from frontal* headaches,
If you have noises in the head,
If your hearing is affected,
If you have to clear your throat and expectorate often,
If a change in the weather affects you,
If you are a victim to shortness of breath,
If you sneeze frequently,
If your sense of smell is affected,
If you have a heavy, tired feeling on awaking,
If you suffer from a husky throat,
If you are affected with any of the above symptoms,
the chances are that you are suffering from
Catarrh. It is an exceedingly dangerous com-
plaint, and is so insidious that the sufferer hardly
realises how serious is his or her condition until
matters have reached an almost chronic stage.
Catarrh often begins with a cold in the head, but it never stops there.
The simple cold becomes a protracted one, while the discharge from the
nose grows more profuse and uncomfortable.
The inflammation extends to the throat and bronchial tubes, causing
hoarseness, a tickling sensation, and an aggravating cough. The matter
that is continually dropping back into the throat finds its way into the
stomach, resulting in a distressing form of dyspepsia, nausea, and loss of
appetite and strength.
The catarrhal poisons are absorbed into the blood, and all the membranes
of the body become infected. What was supposed to be a purely local
disease has become constitutional, deep-seated, and chronic, and may
eventually result in Deafness, Bronchitis, Asthma, Neuritis, Catarrh of
the Stomach, or that dread scourge of the human race, Consumption.
A Sample Bottle of “KAT-AR-AH” INHALANT
FREE to SUFFERERS.
“Kat-ar-ah” Treatment for Catarrh is based on scientific principles,
and aims at the curing of the trouble on an entirely new and logical
basis. I know it is right by personal experience—the best Catarrh
Remedy in existence, and lam ready to prove it to you. Hundreds
acknowledge its worth. No matter how many remedies you may have
tried do not consider your case hopeless until you have tried “Kat-ar-ah ”
Treatment.
In order that you may prove the value of this Treatment to your own
satisfaction I will supply you with a trial bottle of “Kat-ar-ah ” Inhalant
FREE OF CHARGE. It will give immediate relief to the inflamed
membranes, clear the head, convey health-giving, purifying and germ-
destroying medicated air to the affected parts, and cleanse the nasal
passages of the accumulated mucous. I will also send you a copy of my
new and interesting booklet—“ Catarrh—itsh —its Cause, Symptoms and
Treatment.” Be sure to mention this paper when writing, give your
full name and address, and enclose 3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage.
Send to-day. The trial bottle will be sent you by return mail. HERBERT
HERDER, Daking House, Sydney.
r
'7
r /i v >1
“I’m Clad It’s a Plum!’’
The man who shaves gives an exclamation of
delight when he uses the
“PLUM” RAZOR.
The keen-edged blade of a “Plum” glides over
the face and leaves the skin soft and silky.
You can always depend on a comfortable shave
when you use this famous razor. No dragging
or tearing—no irritation of the skin, but shav-
ing satisfaction every day in the year.
TRY ONE YOURSELF.
Send your order to-day— lo/6 post free.
We keep it in perfect onder for two years, free
of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, I'tory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Fnee.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 130 YF/ARS.
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan
and Deposit Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Oct., 1905.. £863 Sp.c.= £516 £347 £3789
Apl., 1906.. 986 8„ „ 516 470 4259
Oct., 1906.. 950 8„ „ 516 434 4693
Apl., 1907.. 1014 10 „ „ 645 369 5062
Oct., 1907.. 655 10 „ „ 646 9 5071
Apl., 1908.. 664 10 „ „ 646 18 5089
Oct., 1908.. 757 10 „ „ 646 111 5200
Apl., 1909.. 696 10 „ „ 646 50 5250
Loss.
Oct., 1909.. 276 S„ „ 516 4458
Profit.
Apl., 1910.. 647 8„ „ 516 131 4589
Oct.. 1910.. 614 8„ „ 516 98 4687
Apl., 1911.. 1003 10 „ „ 646 357 5044
Oct., 1911.. 935 10 ~ „ 646 289 5333
Oct., 1912.. 1333 10 „ „ 1292 41 5374
Oct., 1913.. 1698 10 „ „ 1292 ' 406 5780
Oct., 1914.. 2289 10 „ „ 1292 907 6687
“The figures,” the directors say, “are the
more satisfactory when it is noted that for
the last three months of the period the war
has been in progress.” What really would
be interesting is a statement of the business
done during each three months of the year.
The chances are that this would show
that some of the extra profit has been made
not in spite of the war, but on account of
the war and the sudden dislocation of many
people’s finances. For the same reason satis-
factory figures may be expected for this
current year and for a year or two to come.
Shareholders’ risks shouldn’t keep them
awake; yet, as a matter of fact, effective
supervision is so difficult that not very long
ago the co. was so badly swindled that it
lost half its capital. However, matters have
been proceeding very nicely of late, so far
as one can judge; for, besides the profits
shown in the table, considerable amounts
have been made and paid for the goodwill
of small businesses which have been picked
up. Besides its share capital (written
down to £12,911) and its reserves, the co.
has £20,615 of deposits, etc., and practically
the whole of the resources are lent out on
pledges or are in stock and furniture and a
few sundries.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1907 .. £714 8 p.c. =£42o £294 £6,009
Sept., 1907 . 827 8 „ „ 420 407 6,416
Mar., 1908 . . 841 8 „ „ 420 421 6,837
Sept., 1908 .. 863 9 ~ ~ 472 391 7,228
Mar., 1909 . . 666 9 „ ~ 472 194 7,422
Sept.. 1909 . . 605 9 „ „ 472 133 7,555
Mar., 1910 . . 648 9 „ „ 478 170 7,725
Sept., 1910 . . 968 9 „ „ 472 496 8,221
Mar., 1911 . . 950 9 „ „ 472 478 8,699
Sept.. 1911 . . 1009 9 „ „ 472 537 9,236
Mar., 1912 . . 1071 9 ~ ~ 472 599 9,835
Sept., 1912 . . 1014 10 „ „ 561 453 10,288
Mar., 1913 .. 996 10 „ „ 550 446 10,734
iqt? / 902 10 „ 545 357 11,091
sept., raid •• \ Written off, £5OO .. 10,591
Mar., 1914 .. 1015 10 p.c. = 551 464 11,055
c . ' ion ) 927 10 „ „ 550 377 11,432
Sept., 1914 •• written off, £5OO .. 10,932
For the first time the co. discloses the value
of trust estates in hand and the disposition
of the money. From this you can see that
it has a very nice little business; the total
value of the trusts is £757,014. Assuming
that these estates paid the whole of the co.’s
commission earnings last half-year, it will be
found that the total charge amounted to
7s. 7d. p.c. p.a. of the canital value —a frac-
tion over one-third p.c. There are not many
people who do more work for so little money.
The paid capital is £lO,OOO. and shareholders
are liable for another £40,000 if, anything
goes wrong. This is a bit of extra comfort
for beneficiaries; but, in view of the .sub-
stantial reserves, the liability probably
doesn’t worry shareholders very much. The
profits in excess of the 10 p.c. div. are very
substantial. They are not really affected by
the recent writings-off, which don’t mean
that bad debts have been made or things
have been overvalued. This is the explana-
tion : the old Commercial Bank premises in
Launceston were bought two or three years
ago, and the co. is preparing to pay the bill
out of surplus profits, and write the asset
down. If equal prudence has been shown
in taking the mortgages in which practically
all the reserves are invested (£11,481), there
are no specks at all on this apple.
So far Edna May Central (W.A.) has
been a disappointment. Its admirers still
believe that the mine will crush up to
expectations later on, and to assist it.some
work is about to be started at 134 ft. west
towards the Edna May and east towards the
Central main shaft. It is also proposed to
deepen No. 1 winze from 150 ft. to 225 ft.,
and at this depth do the same work as at
134 ft. These operations are expected to
give the desired milling grade and put the
mine on its feet.
* * * *
The Melbourne-owned Emu Bay Railway
Co. (Tas.), which has never paid a divi-
dend since it was born 17 years ago, is in
trouble. It owes £200,000 on debentures,
and. it is dependent for some of its track on
the Emu Bay and Mount Bisehoff Railway
Co., whose line from Burnie to Waratah it
leases for £lO.OOO a year. Through the seri-
ous effect of tlie war on West Coast mines it
finds it can’t pay debenture interest and
rent; and it has called its creditors together
to ask what they will do about it.
* * * *
Geo. Meudell’s hard work as a pioneer of
oil-prospecting in South Aus. will have its
chance early in the year. To get money for
such a thing as drilling for oil in Australia
eight months ago called for the patience of
Job and the persistence of a bloodhound.
Meudell had the rare qualities necessary,
so the S.A. Oil Wells Co. will begin drilling
in the second week in January. Appar-
ently if oil is to be got in Australia, the
south-east of South Aus. gives bigger hopes
than any part of any other State.
* * * *
The Victorian State mine from July 1 to
November 25 had an output of 263,351 tons
of coal, of which the Railway Department
took 160,000 tons, presumably on the basis
of 11s. per ton. The proportion of slack is
big at Wonthaggi, but the public bought
07 500 tons during the period. It took 010
miners, 97 wheelers and 568 laborers to get
out the coal, so it doesn’t seem as if the
manual efficiency is anything to brag about.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of comm,unications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamfis accompany.
Core Box: You say the new tariff will
help the local industry and, having quoted the amount
of increased handicap on the foreigner, declare
that it is a doubtful help to the Australian manu-
facturer. Will you explain it, or shall we toss up
for it?.... J.R.H.: The Bank of France holds more
gold than the Bank of England. .. .P.S.: “The
Peacemaker” is solid fact, but it is the sort of
inspiration which makes good thick soles for boots.
Tiaki: Copy will not be published this year....
W.H.G.: Poem limps all the way... .Harry N.: In-
distinguished verse.... Rene M.: One verse of “A
Soldier’s Farewell”:—
A gallant young captain lay dying
In a ward filled with wounded and dead ;
A nurse standing near him was crying
As he struggled for breath —then he said:
He said exactly six verses, so the chances are he
was only pretending to struggle for breath in order
to make the nurse cry. And we don’t think much
of the nurse. Any nurse who stood by and wept
while dead bodies were lessening the chances of her
living patients ought to get into serious trouble
ICS.: Respectable, middle-aged poem. It has strong
views, wears elastic-sided boots, and carries a baggy
umbrella. ■ Also, its hat is an outrage Florence
A. H.: You may do better later on i.f you work
hard.... Rose M.: Very small item. Don’t know
where you could place it at present. .. .John Roy-
croft: It is a cheerful production, and you evidently
have the confidence of your advertisers. We like
Murphy’s boot advt. best:—-
“Our own make” upon a ticket
Is but very seldom seen,
The result —you stand to purchase
. Boots that are not worth a bean.
So, then, come along to Murphy
For a solid leather pair;
Leather insoles —for he wouldn’t
Think of cardboard, wouldn’t dare!
M.S.D.: But hold on ! Are you “the ever-gay, ever-
nonchalant, the easy and popular hero of many
drawing-rooms in England”? If you are, then you
are tod magnificent to entertain here... .F.H.R.:
Too slight! for a sketch. . . .Suffragette: Sincere work
on one of the oldest themes. The trouble is that
you say nothing new.... ICeridon: Good try....
Andrew S:: Don’t try to impose on us ; you are not
the Devil.. . .Ishmael: It’s for worse !.... W.S.P.:
Duke is tiresome. Try us with an earl. . . .Y.: Don’t
care for New Year item.. . .R.C.G.: Too many jolts.
. ...J.G. (8.H.): Low-grade.,, .John A.: Too late
for such shouts.... J.M. (M.L.) : It isn’t as humor-
ous as it thinks it is... .Effess: Postage on Bulletin
to Egypt is still 21 d. per single copy. The paper’s
agent there is Ig'nace Horn, Port Said. . . .D.R.D.: No
harm done. Same to you!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.K. (Q.) : Obvious sort of joke, and there is no
humor in your “line.”. . . .E.S. (V.): Very wooden
. ...S.W.P.: Would you mind pointing out the jest?
. ...W.M. (N.S.W.) : Tortured sort of thing....
A.L. (V.) : You can’t put a new twist in that old
gag. . . .H.F.: Nothing worth while in the batch. .. .
A.G.R. : Chestnut. .. .M.D. : Sort of thing that
should have been fired off ten years ago. Perhaps it
was. .. .R.W.J.: No use... . J.J.C. (V.): Same idea
recently arrived in a set of verses.... Roy H. (V.) :
Missed. You’ve got to hurry to catch this war....
Wannoos: No. If you don’t hear anything you may
assume that the worst has happened.... Harry II.:
Too crude as a drawing; too bald as an idea....
Como: Too obvious. .. . J.W.C.: Depressing.
Nobody supposes for a moment that the
Melbourne Tory press puts poison in the
soup of Federal Labor members, still they
die very fast. Inside a year and a half
there passed out Frazer, Roberts, McGregor,
Arthur and Jolley. Arthur was a new
member and a new Minister who didn’t live
long enough to fulfil any Ministerial duties.
He got his job and died. Jolley—a Victorian
like Arthur, and a lawyer, the same as
Arthur —aged only 40, came into Parlia-
ment at the last election, and lasted long
enough to make one notable appearance in
the House. Then he collapsed, and last
week he died. Yet, as already mentioned,
no one accuses the Tory press of putting
poison in the soup. It is simply a run of
ill-luck or a miserable coincidence.
“Piston”: The Admiralty, by promoting
Wheatley Coleman, Lieutenant-Engineer of
H.M.A.S. Sydney, to be Commander-Engineer,
shows its recognition of the generally-over-
looked part played by the engine-room in a
modern sea-fight. In her battle with the
Emden it was the speed of the Australian
ship which enabled her to pound the Ger-
man to smithereens. Had the foreigner been
allowed to get close in, the losses on the
Sydney would have been considerable, even
if the result had not been altered. Coleman
put up the great record of getting more pace
out of his vessel than on her steam trials,
eloquent testimony to the care and skill
bestowed on her machinery. The men in
engine-room and stokehold can see nothing
of the fight. All they can do is to work like
devils to get up every ounce of steam, and
take a dog’s chance in the worst position in
the ship if disaster happens. The recogni-
tion of the Sydney’s engine-room in the
ladling out of promotions is therefore wel-
come news to the engineer side of the Aus-
tralian Navy.
Had the bare-majority vote prevailed at
the recent liquor polls in Maoriland, as
clamored for by the Cold Tea party, four
of the 12 districts now under No-license
would have turned down the dry fraud.
These were Ohinemurh Masterton, Welling-
ton South and the celebrated Ashburton.
On the other hand, eight districts would
have closed the hotels and opened the bottle
on the shelf. These are all, except one, in
the Auckland province. The rest of
Maoriland plumped for continuance of
license and restoration where license does
not exist. Ashburton has been returning
majorities against the secret-grog system
since it adopted it in 1902. If the last
Parliament had passed the 55 per cent,
majority Bill, the big Southern electorate
would 'have escaped. Masterton would
have done the same thing, and only one of
the eight districts that are referred to
above would have carried No-license. Alto-
gether the Watercart seems to have struck
a snag and capsized.


Wl
/
&
:::
!l»j
: IlBli
r*
ft
a
m
&**
m
ir
X
4
ft.
ii
&
::::
i^i;
!!!;!!!!!!!!l
I ?
;;s:£igjj:§||gj
y/YCPm
o,
Irritability
Irritability, like Headache, is indisputable evidence of some
disorder of the body—generally of the nervous system. In the
majority of cases it arises from either Indigestion or Constipation.
Tonics and other treatment will be of little value unless the
cause is removed.
To accomplish this, take a course of Chamberlain’s Tablets—
they have a marvellous effect on the stomach, liver and bowels.
Try them next time you feel irritable.
To stimulate the digestive organs, cleanse and invigorate the
stomach, and induce a regular habit of the bowels, nothing equals
CIIAMBEBLAINSTABLEIS
Jor the Stomaci-i Livep.
*. 4 ••■-11l- ——VII ,
1 iHJll'nlvV
»r. • v*t s‘ •*.
fc'*' -ii ■ V hi i ill “ i itinirT" * ri
iMAI
K
£s#
QGick-actiQg, Safe Remedy
for HEADACHES ai>d
NERVE PAINS.
The best, surest, safest and most reliable remedy for pain ever known to science is KEPHALDOL. It
quickly and permanently relieves the worst nervous headaches , neuralgia , neuritis, rheumatism , sciatica ,
365 days out of the year. It is a boon to women.
KEPHAEDOL is the doctors’ remedy. It was discovered by a noted doctor —is used by doctors
prescribed by doctors —and most enthusiastically endorsed by doctors.
It does not affect the heart action. It can be safely taken in large doses for
exceptionally bad cases, and it is warranted to be totally and wholly
harmless. It cannot produce evil results, and its use does not disap-
point. Experience has taught us that, once used, no other remedy
has a chance of substituting it. (manufactured in AUSTRALIA.)
KEPHALDOL IS GUARANTEED UNDER PURE FOOD LAWS OF N.S.W.
Kephaldol is safe to take ill large or small
(loses. It does not depress the heart nor affect
it in any injurious manner. It is used
h.v all the leading Continental and British
Hospitals. Remember it cannot injure those
who use it.
K E I'HA LI) Ok is sold by all Chemists
and Storekeepers in Tubes —1/6 and 3/6.
If any difficulty is experienced in procuring
a supply locally, send postal note or stamps
to value of tube desired and same will be sent
by return post prepaid. (SOOT-A)
What the BRITISH DOCTORS say about it:
“I have tried three tablets of Kephaldol in a
troublesome ease of Lumbago and got relief
very soon after.” —Dr. F. Foley, Youglml.
“I have pleasure in stating that Kephaldol
was tried in a case of Lumbago with a rapidly
beneficial result.”—Dr. J. Johnson, Stoke-on-
Trent.
“I beg to report most brilliant results in case
of (l) Sciatica, and (2) Lumbago, from
Kephaldol.”—Dr. R. Ruttle, Accrington.
HEPHALDOL CO., 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
3>
h
Cl
"fc
O-
-12
I
11
u
2
10
Jr
3
9
4
i
8
5
7
n*
qomitTtt
&
5S
sSC^aw&S
?v


20 1-
25/-
Lady’s Solid Silver
Open-face Keyless
Watch, full jewelled,
accurate, 20/- Extra
quality, 25/-, 30/-
Solid Gold, 50/-, 60/-
18ct. Gold
Ring, set pure
double-cut Dia-
monds, £lO.
18ct. Gold
Ring, set 4 Dia-
monds and Bed or
Blue Stones, £2.
Oct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Peridot, Amethyst or Turquoise,
50/-
35/-
sess
-
mwM.
mm
m
sss
2%
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever Watch, non mag
netic, full jewelled, patent time spring,
compensation balance, 30 / - Extra
jewelled, 35/-, 40/- Gold Cased,
84/-. Solid Cold, £7/10/-
15ct. Gold Brooch, set pure double-
cut Diamonds, £B/10/-
Oct. Gold Links,
richly engraved, 20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
18ct. Gold
Ring, set Dia-
monds, £3/10/-
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2/10/-
9ct. Gold iNecklace, set
Aquamarines, Tourmalines or
Peridots, 25/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
Oct. Gold Sover-
eign Purse, richly
engraved, £2/12/6.
Cs 4
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, £4.
15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
New Jewellery
We have such a delightful selection in our
Catalog and Gift Book. Send for copies.
ISIS
s
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
9ct. Gold, Half-round Plain Padlock
Bracelet, Safety Chain attached, 40/-
15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
Gent.’s Military wristlet Watch, Nickel or
Gunmetal Case, high-grade Lever movement, 20/-,
25/-, 30/-. Silver, 40/-, 50/- 20 years
guaranteed Rolled Gold Case, £3/10/-
15ct. Gold Brooch, set
and Rubies, £7/10/'
Diamonds
18ct. Gold
Diamond
Cluster
Ring, £lO.
9ct. Gold JLlnks,
an initials engraved,
20/-
9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Garnets
or Amethysts, 22/6.
9ct. Gold
Locket richly
engraved, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS,
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
251-
30/-
Lady’s Solid Silver
Huntin g Keyless
Watch, 5-plate, full
jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, 25/- : IE xt r a
jewelled, 30/-, 40/-
Solid Gold, £3/10/-,
£4.
18ct. Gold
Gipsy Ring,
set Diamonds,
£5/10/-
18ct. Gold
Cluster Ring,
set pure double-cut
Diamonds,
£22/10/-
9ct. Gold Spray Brooch,
set Pearls and Turquoise, 8/6.
20|-
25 1-
Gent.’s Nickel Non-mag-
netic Keyless Lever, full
jewelled, patent balance, noh-mag-
netie time spring, ' dust- and water-
proof cases, 20/- Higher grades,
25/-, 30/-. Our Special, 12/6,
15/-
*TO|pi
r
»• 7 f 7 /^n')
L
■v
*sr
/
f
II
THE HYGIENE OF THE HOME !
Despite all modern safeguards; commonsense is often set at
naught* The careful housewife who studies the security of
her Home should see that
Hycol
Disinfectant
is used throughout it regularly.
Hycol breathes purity and cleanliness—for no
disease germs can possibly live in its influence. The
floors, the sinks, the drains, lavatories and waste-
pipes should be constantly flushed with Hycol—the
most potent preventive of disease.
During the hot weather afsw drops of Hycol mixed
with water for flushing and cleansing makes an
excellent deodorant.
Directions for «se on every package.
Hycol is NON-POISQNOUS, NON-IRRITANT,
and is TWENTY TIMES STRONGER as a
germ -killer than Carbolic Acid.
Of all High-Class Chemists and Storekeepers, in Bottles or Drums.
For further particulars apply to H. A. REEVES,
Q.P.O. Box 2499, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
a
NON-POISONOUS
NON-IRRITANT..
IpE
A POWERFUL
DJSINFECTA
ODO
ISEPTXC
DaRD CO-EFF'C'tN^
HvrpW BT)^w-
-18-20
l5-ELM STREE]
LONDON
KTisfrncColO HU
. , BRANCHES
"<<■4sls (Austna),
rcSS' 15
UltotM, C‘f< T ° „
Dor bar. q (n « CLss<>'* H 4, ?
Si!Mna«ab.ir<» and Paris • :


'
m
You cannot forget a Holiday
spent with a KODAK.
During your holiday your mind absorbs every delightful happening. But once back home, all
these holiday memories are driven from your mind, fade from recollection and are lost.
Fortunately very little is needed to save these precious memories.
Why not a Kodak picture-record ? Surely it is worth while to remember the happiest times of
your life—your holidays? A holiday spent with a Kodak will never fade from your
memory —it is yours in picture form to recall whenever you wish. But a holiday without a
Kodak is a holiday wasted.
DON’T WASTE YOUR HOLIDAYS
THIS YEAR: TAKE A KODAK!
Remember, you can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour. No dark-room required from first
to last. There are Kodaks at all prices from 30/- up to £l5/2/- Here are two: —-
Nos. 1 and la FOLDING POCKET KODAKS.
Extreme light weight and compactness, combined with simplicity of operation in the highest degree, make
these little Kodaks extremely popular.
No. \ takes pictures 2%’m. x meniscus achromatic lens. Price 42-
No. ta takes pictures x 4Ti n *> meniscus achromatic lens. Price 50/-
Get the latest Kodak Catalogue.
Subscribe to the “Australasian Photo-Review,” price 4/6, post free. Gives
invaluable points to photographers.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE “The Block.” 284 Collins Street-
ADELAIDE 37 Randle Street.
BRISBANE. — 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON Den Ham Street.
BROKEN HILL 346 Arg'ent Street.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.) Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND (N.Z.)—3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN (N.Z.) 76 Stuart Street.
=o.s. Wiring System
for Private House Lighting.
Our improved system of installing Electric Light is carried out by
means of the celebrated “Stannos” Wires and Fittings.
This is the Simplest, Safest and most Economical system now em-
ployed, and, as handled by us, presents the following advantages:
Adaptability to all lighting and small power requirements. Neat
in appearance, and especially suitable for wiring on the surface,
being almost invisible. Watertight and Fireproof. Quickly and
safely installed with minimum of disturbance and no damage to
premises.
We are thoroughly experienced in private installation work, and
absolutely guarantee efficiency.
Write for particulars—TO-DAY.
K. WALTON & CO.
Private and Country House Lighting Experts,
Central Chambers,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 3814 City.
YOUR ENCYCLOPEDIA.
A Handy, Up=to=date Work in Two Volumes. 2700 Pages.
Strongly and Handsomely Bound in the Best Flexible Morocco.
Delivered Free for a First Payment of 3/-
THE STANDARD PRACTI-
CAL ENCYCLOPEDIA is not
a reprint, revision, nor exten-
sion of any former publica-
tion, but it is an absolutely
new, fresh, authoritative and
up-to-date survey of the entire
field of human interest.
Among the subjects treated
are Geography, History, Econ-
omics, Law, Theology, Medi-
cine, Hygiene, Mythology, the
Fine Arts, Philosophy, Lan-
guages, Mechanical Arts,
Orthography, Religions, Litera-
ture, etc., arranged in alpha-
betical order so that the reader
can readily find the complete
and full information desired
on the subject in question.
Repetitions have been care-
fully avoided, general subjects
are treated fully, while there are thousands of short articles giving the reader the full information
desired.
It is modern in thought and essence, and the finest work of its kind now obtainable. It includes
every phase of discovery and invention, covers all epochs of literature, all forms of government, all
systems of religion—all the glorious achievements that have made history luminous and civilisation
possible. It is Reliable and Up-to-Date. ,
Comprehensive articles on Australia, England, Egypt, France, Germany, India, Italy, New Zealand,
Japan, the Chinese Empire, etc., are presented; also separate articles on their capitals, principal
cities, rivers and mountains, as well as their history, government and other interesting topics.
In all, over 8500 different subjects are treated, and there are over 850 illustrations.
The entire work, comprising twenty-six hundred large double-column pages, is set up from
especially-cast type, and printed from new platef,, from which impressions have never been previously
taken, thus making each page a beautiful example of the printing art.
.The work is> printed upon Bible paper, very thin and opaque; each volume contains 1300 pages, of
not over one and three-eighths inches in thickness. The work is bound in Seal Grain American Morocco
with round corners, sewn with fine linen Thread, colored edges, heavy end sheets, side title and back-
bone embossed in gold, and bound perfectly flexible, so
that the volume can be' taken between thumb and fingers
and the covers bent clear back without the risk of
injury, thus making it convenient and easy to handle
witljout tiring. Works of this character containing no
more pages than this are usually bound in five or six
volumes, weighing from 25 to 30 pounds, whereas the
entire weight of “Everybody’s Practical Encyclopaedia”
is less than five pounds.
Each set is enclosed in a neat, tight-fitting Container,
insuring the delivery, of the books in perfect condition.
Every family and every individual has, need of a work •
of this kind, but price has been the obstacle; we are,
therefore, pleased to be able to place this splendid En-
cyclopaedia on the market at a price within the reach of
everv person of moderate meins.
If you would earn more, you must learn more.
The publishers have now ready a finely illustrated
prospectus dealing with this special Encyclopaedia. It
will be sent post free to earl’ applicants who fill in the
application slip underneath.!
Apply for this Booklet To-day.
0^
to
Increase Your
SALARY
By
Increasing Your
KNOWLEDGE
“Look It Up” in
Everybody's
Practical Encyclopedia
Bound so flexible that it can
be opened flat clear back or
rolled like a music roll
To THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY. LTD.,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Please send me, free of charge, and without any
obligation on my part, full particulars of your
Standard Practical Encyclopaedia, and yOur offer
to deliver the complete work for a first payment
of 3s.
Name
(Please send this form, or a postcard, mentioning
Bulletin 7115.)
Address


Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—■
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 31% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
■ (Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1911) .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £45,000
HEAD OFFICE: George&King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton. Esq. ; Frank N.
Yaryvood, Esq. ; Herdert R. Lysagiit, Esq.
Branches throughout NeYV South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up -Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 166,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
j UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors,' —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. ‘ Munro, Eg"q. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ;
James Love, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the Hast.
The Commercial Bankina Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,730,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,730,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen,* Esq. . . .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. KAter, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager : F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the \yorld.
Bank of fleui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock ... .. .. £l,ooojooo
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
UP •• •• .. 500.000
Uncalled Capita! , . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia,
land, Fiji, 1
tain and Ireland, and other' places.
N eiv
Great
Zea-
13ri-
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Bankin;
at ■ Interest • for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Colonial H)utual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without ..Mutual Liability ; - also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance. •
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,446,Q00.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible. '
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal. Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY,
Directors :
The IHoh. .C. .J.. Roberts,. C.M.G.,. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hoh. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A- ROSS MILLER, Resident Seeretary,
Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
. Geared Turbine
• Triple-Screw.
• Twin-Screw .
ORMONDE
ORAM A
OR VIETO .
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA .
ORON'J’ES .
OMRAII
Fitted with Wireless
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12,130
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
„, lt: 0 . Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
i Steamers. . Cahmes-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads- Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
foi 'tnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARA-
TONGA and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
a- BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
Around Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
by Oanadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line or via
Japan and China.
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars apd pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances, permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 9.
PEREGRINE (§5OO Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Jan. 13.
Leaves Sydney Jan. 16.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Jan. 20.
Leaves Sydney Jan. 23.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
PEREGRINE 13500 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 9.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. COOMA (4000 tons) leaves Brisbane every Friday
at 10 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at GLAD-
STONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting at
TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports as
far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
SONOMA .
VENTURA
• • I -lan. 16 | Mar. 13 | May 8 I'July 3
I Feb. 13 f April 10 | June 5 j July 31
The San Francisco Panama Exposition is open.
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by any Suez Line.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney. ’
HOLIDAY CRUISES
f.
m
: \
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES.
To Papua.
To Solomon Islands.
To the New Hebrides.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK
OF NFW SOUTH WAFFS.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
£3,500.000
£2,500.000
£3,500,000
£9,500 000
The Hon. Sir,.Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.
President.
Richatd Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel 'Faith full, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Heari A Offi^°i {S^:^ l 2- n L* Ha o in s ton Palmer ’ Es q- ' Shepheard Edgeclifl Laidley, Esq.
V u ° St : Sydney. London Office 29 Threadneedle St., E C
s "“' New Ze,l " ,d - p * p “ “ <i L «» d “ :
j rernittgiices made to, and drafts drawn on, Jforeign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
ed and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world
J RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Thinking' of the Holidays?
NEW ZEALAND offers Special Attractions to the Holiday
Seeker at this time of the year
if
SAFE TRAVELLING WITHIN THE SIGHT OF HOME
GLORIOUS MOUNTAIN, LAKE AND RIVER SCENERY
COOL CLIMATE—BRACING BREEZES.
CHEAP RAILWAY EXCURSION TICKETS.
(All Lines.)
£lO Available both Islands for Seven Weeks. £lO
£6 „ North Island for Four Weeks. £6
£6 „ South Island for Four Weeks. £@
All Information How to Get There,. The Time It Takes, The Sights To See and the Cost
at the
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT OFFICES:
Bull's Chambers 14 Moore Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 59 William Street, Melbourne Vic
Tours Arranged. Tours Booked No Charge for Services. ’
Write for particulars and illustrated literature.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
.With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial develoDineut Oneens-
■sa u# *• mt&STßt&gv,
For Descriptive Pamphlet's and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
\ C. TKOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street. Sydney, N.S.W. A. SIESTON, Local Director.
head office
Jsanfe« Australia
i
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
in the
principal
Deposits
from
1/" *° £3OO 2000
Post Offices
I in Australia,
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
3%
JAMES
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
KELL, Deputy Governor.
DENIS >N MILLER,
Governor.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
I EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Jan. 16 and Feb. 13.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
WOLLOWRA, Jan. 16.
INNAMINOKA, Jan. 30.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILX & CO., LTI).,
I Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
I in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST AND
FINEST VESSELS TRADING BETWEEN ADS
TRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February, 1915.
AROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning • from San
Francisco by Union S.S. Co.’s Royal Mail Line or
via Japan and China.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with AVireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services Jietween .
COMxMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Hates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports,
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
T.SS. “ KANOWNA”
T.S.S. “KYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
13,000 tons
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery 'should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;,
particulars on application. For dates of. sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING:
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. Od. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£545,634 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 155,476 10‘ 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 0 0
„ £780,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. g~ii
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Day Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews,
London Office; 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND." c.C. "
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.


■
IF YOU ARE NOT
already wearing ABBEY SHOES
1915 would be a good time to start.
They are the most stylish, comfort-
able and serviceable shoes made.
The hoot illustrated is a Patent
Golosh Bal., Dull Calf Leg, Per-
forated Golosh. Price, 27/6 and
30/-.
Also in Tan Willow Calf, 22/6,
25/- and 27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Hotels, &e.
Ti;
George hotel,
I St. Kiida, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/* per day
and upwards.
The Hotel is iinely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The GRAND HOTEL
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
WELLINGTON’S LEADING HOTEL.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
TARIFF FROM 12/6 PER DAY.
E. L. CHAFFEY, Proprietor.
\
What
do
for?
I stand for
Quality,
Simplicity,
Durability—■
in other words, I stand fo
Tyres.
(The famous French make)
MICHELIN TYRES AND ACCESSORIES
can dc obtained from ail the leading Agents.
G. (,
“ON THE HOP!
59
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
your teeth should look
better than they do
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert &■ Co. , Manchester, Eng.
THE youth of a
Nation is its
strength. The
strength comes
from the Food.
provides the sub-
stance for Bone,
Brain and Nerve.
The “Fx 8 R” Watches
“Are the Most Extraordinary Watches
of the Age.”
They are ij-plate Levers.
They have Brequet overcoil balance springs.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers. TTIT ,„
They are especially made to stand HARD RIDiJNU
AND KNOCKING ABOUT, and go with pro-
found accuracy. . .
They are used by the Railway Commissioners for
Guards’ Timepieces. , , . ,
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in ordei
(breakages excepted) for two years free of
charge.
In O.F. Oxidised Steel Cases 33/-
In Sterling Silver Cases 45/-
+.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.
The Oldest* Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street,
Gent.’s Full-sized. Ouen-faced Oxidised
Steel, Fully-,jewelled Fx & R Lever Watch,
33/-
CARTRIDGES
KYNOCH
"SWI FT’
SMOKELESS
THE
STANDARD OF QUALITY.
BRITISH
fIADE THROUGHOUT.
m
X
m
m
Mi


n-
fl
-N
Draw Your Wife’s
Attention to these —
The “Betty” Cotton Tunics, in Navy, Light
Blue and Brown. Fastening down side. Turned-
down Collars. Sizes 18, 20, 22 inches 1/9
The “Billy” Magyar Tunic, in Navy and
Wedgewood, Blue and Brown. Piped with red and
trimmed with red Buttons. Red Leather Belts
attached—
18in. 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in. 28in.
4/- 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/6
The “Kiddy” Cqtton Romper, in Striped
Materials, square neck, trimmed galons, long sleeves.
1 18in. 20in. 22in. 24in.
3/- 3/3 J 3/6 3/9
Finney, Isles 8 Co. Limited,
The Big Block Brisbane, Q.
onu
MMSmBbIHHM immediate relief.
LEMOLAC FOR PILES -tops nil irriLv
iHKJKBIM»i<m at, »)]'■('. Reduces %>i■ 11 i.c-
Cures. NOT ONE FAILURE. Money
Rack if not effective. 3/6 at all Chemists, or post free from
THE LEMOLAC CO., 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
That 1915 may bring triumph to the
Allies and to Right, and see the inauguration
of Everlasting Peace is the New Year wish
inspired by that gallant spirit of wisdom,
King George IV. topnotch Scotch.*
BRISBANE'S LEADING HOTEL
The Gresham
is. under new management and has
been made right up to date, having all
the most modern improvements.
The Sewerage System has been in-
stalled on an elaborate scale, whicS
overcomes Brisbane’s greatest menace.
Proprietor,
T. M. AHERN.
IN BANANA LAND
From Mr. W. Schoch, Consul for
Switzerland in Queensland :
My eye caught The Bulletin paragraph alleging
that one German centre in South Queensland is
sending away money “for the use and benefit of the
Swiss poor,” and adding: “Curiously, the heart of
this community only began to bleed for Swiss poor
in Aiigust. I wish to state the facts, otherwise I
shall appear in a false light. At the beginning of
the wai I sent circulars to all Swiss residents
known to me in this State, asking them to form “a
Swiss relief fund.” Swiss papers stated that at the
outbreak of hostilities thousands of Germans and
Austrians were called to their respective armies, and
their families left behind in Switzerland. In Basle
alone, according to the Emminthaler Zeitung, there
are 1500 families with from 5000 to 6000 children
dependent upon the Government and public charity,
as well as 5000 Belgium children, mostly orphans.
A German pastor whom I have known for years
generously offered to make a collection among his
countrymen, and the combined contributions were
forwarded by me to the Swiss Embassy in London,
as Switzerland was not “open” then. These are the
true facts of the case.
DISHED.
" Your Majesty! The Allies have got our range.”
“ Curse the hick I Now, how can the cook get dinner?"
It is estimated that Railways Minister
Paget has received about three dozen silver
shovels as mementoes of the opening cere-
monies of various new lines under his regime.
The other day, when Paget had turned a cer-
tain first sod, he was offered a silver jam
dish by way of variety, and nearly fainted
with astonishment. But the locals didn’t
turn a hair. They knew well enough what a
Minister, travelling round a country, is
expected to ladle out.
“J.C.M_” : Some time ago a correspondent
wrote that there was a sinful waste of
tropical fruit in North Queensland. Just
, now the demand is much greater than the
supply. Paw-paws this year are bringing
as high as 6s. per doz.; mangoes 3s. 6d. per
orange case; and bananas, pineapples, etc.,
are heavily in demand, bananas bringing
255. per 100 dozen wholesale. There is one
great industry still practically unexploited
in Queensland, and that is cocoanut raising
- —a fine thing waiting for enterprising men
with a little capital. But we badly need a
Planters’ Association to take the monopoly
of the fruit trade out of the hands of the
Chinamen. In Townsville the Celestial has
a complete hold on the retail business.
The Liberal Ass. of Queensland, which re-
cently expired, has been resurrected. But
Labor’s old friend, Osborn J. Fenwick, is no
longer at the wheel. He has been replaced
by the energetic .Shaw, who was previously
the Darling Downs traveller for Liberalism.
Fenwick will probably be led into the Leg.
Council. Nothing could be more fitting.
The sad state of Charters Towers can be
summed up from the fact that the local
Stock Exchange couldn’t beat up for all
last year sales to the extent of quite £12,500.
The dullness is only relieved by a story or
two. Here is one of them. As might be
expected seats on the C. T. Exchange can be
got for about fourpence a dozen. If a man
came on to the Towers with £5OO to burn,
he would probably be presented with a seat
for_ every member of his family. Now, a
while ago some Queenslanders went down
to Sydney with sheep and cattle money, and
needing a hard investment they approached
Willie Holman’s Treasury and offered a
loan. Willie Holman’s Treasury jumped at
the money Then the Northerners began
to ask the eager Micawbers for concessions.
"Oh, no, we only allow concessions of
brokerage to members of recognised Stock
Exchanges,” said Willie, or his plenipoten-
tiary. “Oh, is that the trouble?” said the
Northerners; and presently walked in duly
accredited as members of—well, a North
Queensland Stock Exchange. And long-
suffering N. S. Wales paid them their
brokerage.
Brisbane Worker (31/12/’l4) has dis-
covered that: —
In N. S. Wales the Government is pursuing a
steady course of gradual Nationalisation, including
irrigation of large areas, encouragement of the iron
industry, wheat growing, brick making, and in other
directions. It has, much to the disappointment of
Capitalism, been able to do these things and still
show a surplus on the year’s doings, thus cutting
the ground under the feet of the enemies of the
people.
Presumably the Worker wants facts —and
here they are. The “irrigation of large
areas” last year gave the following results,
so far as a surplus or otherwise is con-
cerned : Murrumbidgee, deficit £88,135; Hay,
deficit £451; Wentworth, deficit £2628. The
“encouragement of the iron industry,” which
is alleged to be “gradual nationalisation,” con-
sisted of the granting of favorable terms to
the Broken Hill Prop., a vast private con-
cern, which had just previously closed down
its mine for two years rather than pay wage
rates under an Arbitration award made by
Justice Higgins. No surplus has been
made from wheat-growing, because no State
wheat has yet been grown. From brick-
making, the one other thing mentioned, a
surplus is alleged to have been made. As a
matter of fact there are two State brick-
works, and the net result of the two was a
loss last year of £3354. Brisbane Worker
is cordially encouraged to go ahead in its
campaign for. gradual nationalisation ; but
if it knows its business it won’t mention the
N. S. Wales experiments itself, and will talk
hard about something else when its adver-
saries mention them.
“The average earnings of contract miners
stoping has been 16s. 7d., and on develop-
ment work 245. sd. per shift,” says the
general manager of Mount Morgan in his
half-yearly report. Well, anyhow, if men
can’t live in the North, they ought to be
able to afford a highly respectable funeral.
Robert Philp has taken the brand at last.
He might have had it years ago, when he was
pawning Queensland and pouring part of
the proceeds into the Pacific to make an
impossible harbor for faithful Townsville;
but his own financial luck was then none
too good, so he put the temptation away on
the shelf. Meantime he had backed his own
incurable optimism for all he was worth and
more, and plunged into back-country land
specs at a time when stock was cheap and
tick were bad and prospects blue. Then
the cattle beat the tick, and the meat ring
beat the public, and the seasons beat the
drought; and to-day Philp is probably as rich
as he would have been had he stuck to the
Burns-Philp firm he helped to found. In
his case K.C.M.G. means Kept Cows and
Made Good.
The Australian Troops in Egypt.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dust is the mighty Khufu, and his tomb
Sets free the warrior spirit. He may roam
On ancient battlefields of Magarah,
Or dawdle through a sunset by the Nile,
Dreaming old dreams of purple lotus flowers,
Or flat green leaves that smell of butterflies
And lovers such as snared the Manetho.
Then, slipping back through trailing mists
of morn,
Past the thin creaking of the water wheel,
Or some dark, shrouded woman grinding
corn,
He views the work of many thousand slaves
Driven by tyrant hands to pile that tomb,
Lashing their labors through ten bitter
years
Whose meagre date is blurred by fogs of
Time
And lost in clashings of fierce centuries.
It was his Vanity, this master tomb,
And story tells he sacrificed for it
The honor of a daughter, pure and fair,
A jewelled baldric folding in her gown
That spread toward her small pale jewelled
feet,
And her reproachful eyes for ever fast
On the stark selfness of a father’s face.
In huddled cycles Truth may go astray,
Old legends float line bat wings round the
tomb,
The very dust motes lend themselves to lies
Woven with sunshine like a changing dream.
There must be dust to make the sun motes
shine,
And gay Romance loves her embroideries.
Her needle rusts, she powders it with fact,
Then polishes with cloth of phantasy.
And if great Cheons wanders here to-day
How he must hate the sudden moth-white
tents,
Bringing their modern fact to his retreat!
How he must hate the clipped Australian
speech,
The quick Australian laugh, the fearless
eye,.
With little reverence for these mouldy
kings,
Prodding the blackness of his classic state,
Reining their horses where the shadow falls
Of that peaked sepulchre on noon-white
sands.
Wagering each other on its height and
breadth,
And swearing it looks to them something
less
Than its four hundred-fifty feet of stone f>
Against the vastness of the gleaming plain
(Where small dry winds sift sand grains as
they blow)
Planned by an architect more sure than he.
The clash of cans. The ripeness of an oath
The speaker learned by jolting bullock drays
On dusty, backblocks roads. The picket
ropes
Cracking at night on restless, kicking heels.
Here is a stocky chap . from New South
Wales,
A champion wrestler, closing with his man,
Watched by an Arab in a striped burnous
And half a score of naked, copper lads !
This one who knows the Murrumbidgee well,
Or some months back went surfing Manly
way,
May strip ere long for waters of Old Nile,
The tides that yet remember Antony
And made a mirror for his Serpent’s face,
Between the tents they strew white pebbles
down,
And each man co his fancy model makes.
Here is an anchor, there a waratah,
And someone has essayed a kangaroo
Too thin of rail and rather skew of leg,
But vivid tribute to a memory
Of yapping dogs and hurry over logs,
And some wild run between the pallid gums
To bail the “old man” up against a tree,
And carry home the trophy of his tail.
They’re on their way to Europe, now, to get
A Prussian trophy for the folks at home;
Perhaps to win a little metal cross
The pawnbrokers would value at some pence,
But which a man will set against a life.
O Shadow shape! that wanders o’er the
sands
(Those sands where there is never morning
dew
To cool the feet of sneaking pariah dogs
Or miinic the slow sweats of cactus stems),
Pondering old honors in old arrogance;
Look not askance at our Australian men.
O Cheops Khufu ! these be warriors, too.
Queensland.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, January 2, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindah.—
Those who were so busy weaving gossip
about the Premier’s daughter being engaged
to an officer in, the enemy’s camp have been
silent since the announcement of her engage-
ment and marriage to an officer in the
Canadian forces. He is Major the Rev.
Richard Stacey. The new Governor of
'Queensland (Sir Hamilton Goold-Adams)
and Lady Goold-Adams, ex-Governor Mac-
gregor and Lady Macgregor, and Agent-
General Robinson and his wife were present
at the wedding.
Hugh Buckler and Violet Paget enter-
tained local Society on New Year’s Eve at
the Palace Gardens Theatre. The Mayor, or
maybe it was the serang in charge of the
waiters, carved the cake, and the speeches
breathed that spirit of geniality without
which no such function would be complete.
Hugh Buckler stated, incidentally, that the
co. is making a financial success of its season
in the Palace Gardens Theatre. So it would
seem there are occasions when the deserving
really find their reward.
One of the soldiers in camp at Enoggera
unburdened his souL'of a tale of woe last
week, by complaining publicly that no Christ-
mas extras, not even butter, were included
in the cafrip bill of fare. A, remorseful and
indignant public thereupon bustled around
to see that the lads in khaki did not start
the year 1915 in such dismal fashion, and
an avalanche of edibles rolled into the En-
campment on the last day of the old year.
Those who took a prominent part in organ-
ising the avalanche included Mr. and Mrs.
James Ferguson (who are old campaigners at
the helping-hand business) and Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Forrest.
Among the Queenslanders who have re-
cently hurried into khaki is Captain Frank
Newton, who, when Lord Chelmsford was
at Government House, handled the corres-
pondence. Of recent years he has been
sheep-raising somewhere in Central Queens-
land. Mrs. Frank Newton (who was for-
merly Miss Verney, a sister of one-time
A.D.C. Verney), with her two chubby little
Queenslanders, will spend part of the vigil
in England, I understand.
Writing of the Newton family reminds me
that Miss Dixie Newton, the only unmar-
ried member of the popular family, is en-
gaged in England in the work of angling for
capable Mary Anns for those manv Queens-
land women who have almost forgotten what
a cook or a laundress looks like. Miss Dixie
has made a study of the servant problem,
and now that she has her finger in the Eng-
lish immigration pie, hope , has once more
bounded in the local missus’s breast.
By the time this is printed a popular
Toowong girl, Miss Jean Tait, is expected
to be Mrs. Dudley McNab. He is a son of
Mr. and Mrs. Alex. McNab, but that is a
mere detail compared with his other qualifi-
cations.
The Q.T.C. held race-meetings on Boxing
Day and New Year’s Day, The first instal-
ment passed amicably enough (save that
there seemed to be a furious contest among
punters to lose the most cash) ; but on New
Year’s Day, after a gorgeous morning, the
clouds suddenly formed up and burst simul-
taneously. Many new frocks were ruined.
In a laudable attempt to sool off depression,
a number of tea-parties were given during
the afternoon, but even ices and cream cakes
do not compensate for draggled frocks and
sodden hats. Mrs. Arthur Whittingham,
Mrs. E. K. Tully, Dr. Glynn Connolly’s
bride, Mrs. R. McNab, and Miss Ross-Munro
were among those whose tenders for special
mention of dainty frocking are hereby
accepted.
Our shopkeepers announce gleefully that
Christmas of 1914 was a record one. One
prominent firm has actually found out that
the past six months was the best in its his-
tory. Theatres also are booming, and at
least four new amusement-resorts have been
opened .this summer, while several new
theatres are in course of construction. For
the present, fears of unemployment are dis-
persed. So may be all our other foes,
including Hoggenheimer, bubonic plague,
drought and the Devil!
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE
Facey, the boxer, who met his death the
other day at Hughenden as the result of a
blow from an Italian, one Fernandez, had
been in the Bananaland Police, and had left
because Commissioner Cahill would not
allow him to compete for the amateur heavy-
weight championship.
Charles Porter, of Brisbane, who had
joined the Tropical Expeditionary Force, and
had been discharged in Sydney as unfit, took
his disappointment so much to heart that he
swallowed a bottle of lysol with fatal results.
In these days of war talk it isn’t so easy to
keep sane views on the subject of patriotism.
Misguided Porter, for instance, had com-
pletely lost sight of the fact that a man who
grows spuds for the Empire may be just as
useful as the other fellow who pots Prussians.


Special Cuvee
I % (
• * %£m'.
\
i
rntf'" £5
u
v JOL
■ ,
rs
nr
1 *
V. -v,ST
rflk
s*g«!sr -. ■
e If 1908
i a i
»
V,
* M
V*
>1
**
i
si
£3
? «
Sis
.
gl f :
E :, V, v ‘i> 1 “UHW*/' •
sms
t : | |gs •*s%
iiSP
is
:
* i s g
■_'..
I
iKKMg
< :.s
ffS
.. .
-
( c<*
'fc’W/.
% ,
*
SSm-
ras?
r i
%
PI easant
Penfold & Co.
Proprietors.


m
m
. M
/i.
4 N
m
M
m
*_r*J
J
The Return of
Tulle to Fashion.
tj Tulle is so soft, so delicate, so
dainty, so feminme in its loveliness—it imparts
such youth'fill appearance to the wearer —that
nothing could stem the tide of its return to
popularity.
When buying Tidle do not be content merely
to ask for "Rainproof Tulle” say "‘Dy-
namo Rainproof Tulle, please,” and look for
the name on the card on which the Tulle is wound.
*1 This is important, betause even a mist will
ruin the most expensive ordinary
Ttllle; but ‘‘Dynamo’’ is
Waterproof. When wet jou
simply shake it until dry. It
immediately regains the appear-
ance it had when new.
*1 "Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle does not stick
to the fingers when handled. Its fresh crispness,
its lustre and beauty of colouring are not
impaired by exposure to the strongest sunlight,
and it never becomes tender or limp.
Dvn'ank) :
REPROOF Tulle
36 ins. wide. In Black, White
aiid all fashionable shades.
9ct, 10id., 1/-, 1/3 and 1/6
per yard upwards.
JE, All the best Milliners use ‘Dynamo** Rai iproof
Tulle. All the b’est Stores sell it by the yard, tut
be sure you get the genuine. The name is on the end
of the card on which the Tulle is wound. If any
difficulty in obtaining locally, send direct to address
below stating co'biir, quantity and price per and
we will see that you are immediately supplied.
"DYNAMO” ENQUIRY DEPT.,
Carlton House, York Street, Sydney.
Fisher's Advertising Agency.
v TYRES
Miles
Cheaper
and «
Australian
t
Barnet Glass Rubber (p Ltd
All States & New Zealand.
Start the New
Year well !
6
To those young men and maids who contemplate taking
the matrimonial step early in 1915 —take heed.
If the bond is sealed .with a “Treasure House” Wedding
Ring, there’s a long life of happiness ahead of you.
Stewart Dawson’s
Happy Wedding Rings
have been linking couples for many years. They are
fashioned from solid 18ct. gold and are made in various
widths and weights to suit various fancies. The quality
is guaranteed full standard in every ring and we have
a size to fit every finger.
No. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
21/- 25/- 30/- 40/- 50/- 60/-each.
We mail our special Exact Fit Ring Card on request to
any address and can guarantee a perfect fit by mail if
the instructions are adhered to.
Write for Ring Card.
WRITE FOR OUR
MAIL ORDER CATALOGUE.
Buy your Jewellery and Gifts by Mail and ensure getting
solid value for your money. We buy direct from the
makers and only ask a single profit on our goods. Mail
Order Book FREE.
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER,
412 George Street Sydney.
As a NEW YEAR’S GIFT
it would be extremely difficult to find a
more welcome article than a Piano and
amongst Pianos there is always one that
sets the standard of quality for the others.
If, then, you can afford to give a Piano,
let it be the British-built
roadwood
which since its inception, over 200 years ago,
has been the model for the world to imitate.
“It has the 'Broadwood' tone”; or, again:
“It is for all the world like a * Broad wood/”
you often here from a salesman who is
at his wits' end to find adjectives strong
enough to praise his instrument.
Of course, it is great praise, but it is really
absurd; for no other piano is like the
Broadwood either in tone or touch.
Call and let us show you our Latest
Models, or send your Address and
we will post Cata!ogue.
Cash or Easy Terns to suit you.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
Temporary Address- ~38 Market Street Sydney
(OPPOSITE HENRY BULL’S).
Spasmode”: With Barry Lupino a
pleasant monopolist in “Cinderella,” think
ot the Barrys we have had in Melbourne
theatres, h irst, far back, there was Tom
liarry, imported from Astley’s, by G. B.
VV. Lewis, to show early Melbourne what a
clown should be. Next I just mention
Barry Sullivan. C. W. Barry eaine---frpm
Little Shiel Barry acted
Sullivan as Irish comedian. An old' bill
shows him in four pieces on one night. His
rival was Billy O’Neil, husband of Anna
Maiia Quinn. O’Neil was drunk as Ragged
wi 1 ’- ;Lt l the R ?y al » in “Ireland As It Was.”
W hen the audience hooted he came forward,
laid his hand upon his heart, and said,
La-a-dms and jintlemin, I will confess.
Confession is good for the sowl. Drink is
the cause of it.” In that generation Emmet
was drunk when Governor Bowen attended
the theatre, and he gave the Vice-regal
party tits. _ The business had been bad;
after that it was good for a long season.
Hut Williamson rather took the edge off
Emmet beforehand by appropriating his
_l®“ ~^ a / so or “Struck Oil.” Barry
O Neill (to get back to the Barrys). was a
comnpie at the old Varieties. Last, but not
least, Dan. He was the natural son of a
remarkably staid old Equity barrister
named Atkins, and the Bar was astounded
when Dan’s mother sued that gent, for
maintenance. Dan was magnificently gen-
erous to his mother, like the heroes in
Dumas’ “Fils Naturel,” and Barrett’s
Lucky Durham.” Dan went 6n the Mel-
bourne press with the name of Atkins.
In a Sunday paper called Gossip, he
made a rise by describing the caving-in of
Ballarat, with only ''4oo people entombed.
Then he gave an'account, in an Adelaide
paper, of the Russians bombarding Hobart,
ret again, in the Hobart Citizen, he
worked off the Russians bombarding Bris-
bane ! By this time Melbourne pressmen
said, “ Ullo, Atkins again !” Too imagina-
tive for the press, he went on the Theatre
Royal stage, in humble parts, as Barry, and
soon was in partnership with George Ire-
land, Harrie’s dad. They planned country
tours, with young Harrie as star. After-
wards he partnered with one Byrne, but
oftener worked as a hatter.
“C. Ockney” : all the London West-
end managers are" staging cheap revivals to
few profits. Here is a list of old plays put
on recently: Aldwych, “The Earl and the
Girl,” in succession to “The Belle of New
York” ; Apollo, “Never Say Die,” succeeding
“Seven Keys to Baldpnte”: Jlnly’s “The
Country Girl” ; Duke of York’s,' “The Little
Minister”; His Majesty’s, “Drake”; New,
“When Knights Were Bold”; Prince of
V ales’s, “Miss Hook of Holland” ; Prince’s,
“Cheer, Boys, Cheer”; Royalty, “Mile-
stones”; St. James’s, “His House in Order”;
and Strand, “The Glad Eye.” following “The
Silver King.” All these are playing at re-
duced prices. It’s all most of them are
worth.
“Masetto”: Recently suicided, at 56,
Gustav Wied, who turned out about a score
of plays and books in his 15 years of author-
ship. Starting his working life as a book-
seller’s apprentice, he ran away, and
became, in turn, a solicitor’s clerk and a
teacher at Copenhagen University. His
best-known work was “Twice Two Makes
Five,” which has been translated into every
European language.
“Norbell” : Our star on that tour was pes-
tered everywhere by adoring flappers armed
with autograph albums. She was always
gracious, and smiling, and sweet, and oblig-
ing, and the flappers hugged themselves with
delight to think that their idol was so kind
and amiable. The precious autographs are
still reverently exhibited to admiring friends,
no doubt: but I wonder sometimes if they
would value the few lines of affectionate
verse and the dashing signature quite so
much if they had heard the explosive lady
as she raged at her dresser for being so shnv
with the curling of “that d—d wig,” and the
patient Clara as she meekly answered : “I’m
sorry, but I had nearly three dozen auto-
graphs to do since tea!”
“0.K.”: The saddest items in the new
Williamson panto, are a couple of doggerel
rhymes about the Kaiser. One of them is
an inane parody of the “Tipperary” chorus
• —“lt’s a long way to St. Helena,” etc.
Apart from the inanity of the thing—
If you don’t know the way to St. Helena
You jolly soon will
is an insult to the ghost of a famous French
identity.
“Parisine”: Veteran French actors are in
clover, for the stage has been swept of men
under 40. A popular revival is Dumas the
Elder’s “Chevalier du Maison Rouge.” It
ends with the famous last supper of the
Girondins, in prison, the night before their
execution. Here they joined in a chorus:
“To die for our country is the most beauti-
ful fate, most worthy of envy.” Next morn-
ing 20 of them went to the guillotine. On
the platform they sang the chorus, amid the
rattle of Santerre’s drums and the roaring
of the croivd. The chorus was kept up till
the very last man went. Pinioned, he laid
his head under the knife. An awful still-
ness broken only by the hoarse song of the
victim: “To die for our country is the
most” Thud!
HIS DEBT TO BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I came upon old Brown to-day.
He stood beside the pave ;
His face was wreathed in wrinkles gay,
Though usually grave.
A three-inch smile he turned on me,
And rubbed his hands in unctuous glee.
The posted news was bad that day:
The Germans with their shell
Had battered towns, then sped away—
Some hundred English fell.
I felt so wildly mad with Brown
I had a mind to knock him down.
Brown’s in the moving-picture game,
And bigger far than me,
So said I merely: “Fie! For shame!
Pro-German you must .be!” 1
“No, no!” he said; “but we will get
Some boshter films from this, I bet.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


GENERAL ELECTRIC REVIEW
The Leading; Electrical Monthly.
FOR OPINIONS WE REFER YOU TO THE FOREMOST ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS.
I '
<
Each month it contains 80 or 90 pages of valuable material comprising authoritative articles by Engineer Specialists on
research, recent discovery, manufacture and practice, submitted by the greatest staff of notable and expert contributors
of any electrical paper*
THE “GENERAL ELECTRIC REVIEW’S” BONUS OFFER.
Tn order to introduce the “General Electric Review” to new friends we are offering, as a subscription bonus, a copy of the revised and enlarged
edition of “Commercial Electrical Testing,” by Mr. E. F. Collins, Technical Superintendent of the Schenectady Works of the General Electnc
Company.
Mr. Collins is the active superintendent of matters electrical of the world’s largest electrical factory—a factory employing 17,000 men, and
testing many thousand pieces of various electrical apparatus every week. Collins’ “Commercial Electrical Testing” is an authentic live handbook
on how to test electrical machinery; its author is exceptionally well qualified to undertake such a task; it is a library ,n itselt on testing, and is the
only book of its kind published. You will need this book some day. Get it now while the opportunity is open. The edition is limited.
CONTENTS OF “ COMMERCIAL ELECTRICAL TESTING
Please glance through the following table of contents and see if you do not
need this information :
APPARATUS AND GENERAL TESTS —Standards. Wheatstone and Slide-
Wire Bridge, Low and High Resistance Measurements, Insulation Resist-
ance, Voltage Current and Power Measurements.
MINOR CIRCUIT TESTS —Testing for Grounds, Testing for Open Circuits,
Testing for Short Circuits, Polarity.
STANDARD TESTS OF ELECTRICAL MACHINES—Air-Gap Measure-
ments, Generator Saturation, Motor Saturation, Ballistic Saturation- lest,
Core Loss Test, Deceleration Test, Field Compounding.
HEATING TESTS FOR ELECTRICAL MACHINERY —Actual Load Test,
Equivalent Load Test, Pump-Back Test, Phase-Shifting Test.
REGULATION —Regulation Test for Generators, Regulation Test for Motors.
DIRECT CURRENT GENERATORS AND MOTORS —Preliminary Test,
Test of Commutating Poles, Location of Electrical Neutral, Standard
Efficiency Test.
ROTARY CONVERTERS —Preliminary Test, Phase Characteristics, Core
Loss, Starting Test from A-C. End, Starting Test from D-C. End, Com-
pounding Test with Reactance, Efficiency Test, Heating Test, JJ-L.
Circulating Current, Test Using A-C. Loks Supply.
A-C. GENERATORS—Saturation Test, Synchronous Impedance, Heating lest,
Regulation. ,
SYNCHRONOUS MOTORS.—Starting Test* Core Loss, Saturation, Synchro-
nous Impedance, Phase Characteristics, Wave Form.
INDUCTION MOTORS —Slip Test, Excitation, Calculation of Core Loss,
Impedance, Torque, Efficiency.
ELECTRIC FANS—Pilot Tube, Use of Air Table, Pressure and Horse Power
Curves, Cone Method, Box Method.
TRANSFORMERS —Resistance, Polarity, Ratio, Impedance, Core Loss,
Exciting Current. Parallel Run, Insulation, Heat Runs, Efficiency, Regula-
tion, Series Transformers. . n
SINGLE PHASE AND THREE-PHASE REGULATORS—Resistance, Boost
and Lower, Core Loss. Impedance, Heat Runs, Insulation, Operating Test.
STARTING COMPENSATORS —Ratio of Taps, Exciting Current, Heat Runs,
Impedance, Insulation.
Only one book like this has ever been published—that was the first edition.
The Annual Subscription for the “Q. E. Review” is 10/- post free, and may be sent to the
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY,
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd. (W.A.), Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
— Agents —
Cor. Queen and Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd,, 100 Gurrie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
SI
This is the Machine
for me!
“'TO tell you the truth
1 I would never have
believed a machine
could correctly reproduce
the voices of Caruso,
McCormack and the many
other celebrities —but
now I’ve heard “His Mas-
ter’s Voice” instruments,
and I KNOW!”
The opinion of that one man may be yours also. Do what HE
did —go to the nearest accredited dealer and HEAR
“His Master’s Voice”
Gramophones
—hear the golden-voiced Caruso singing just as you would hear
him at the San Carlo or the Opera House —hear Kubelik at his
wizardry of the violin —hear the Famous Fighting Coldstream
Guards and their stirring martial music—hear the host of other
entertainers, and you too will KNOW and believe!
The Instrument illustrated is
the famous Monarch Senior,
{l2
Instrument catalogue, record lists and
name of nearest accredited dealer on
request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 George Street SYDNEY.
His Masters Voice
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
wmmm
The Seal
of Safety.
Ams Automatic
Double Seamers.
The Trade Standard.
Progressive Seamers for
Progressive Canners.
Make Your Cans with Ams Machinery
We furnish machines for mak-
ing tin cans of every descrip-
tion, for Sardines, Peas, Fruit,
all Food Products, Spices, Teas,
Coffee, Tobacco, Paint and Oil
Cans.
These machines are automatic throughout, and are fitted with Cover
Feed, Can Straightener and Plunger, and make a very complete and service-
able Double Seamer. They are rigid in construction, complete lubricating
system, ease and convenience in operating, plenty of speed, and will do the
work cut out for them. The cajrr stands still during the seaming operation
and boy or girl can run these double seamers.
Takes all standard sizes including No. 3’s. Out-
put over 50 per minute. The 088 for gallon cans
from 40' per minute. We 'are specialists in this i
line. It is not a side issue.
We build complete can-making equipments. v
Write to us about your intentions. We are in
business to answer questions. Experiment if you
like, but come to Ams for standard.
Send us a sample of what you want to make.
CORRESPONDENCE AND ESTIMATES IN EVERY
LANGUAGE.
MAX AMS MACHINE COMPANY,
MOUNT VERNON, N.Y., U.S.A,
CHARLES M. AMS, President.
Address us direct or through any EXPORT
COMMISSION HOUSE.
ea(t


PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
“I simply can’t account for this
trouble with my teeth —and I’ve
been so particular to keep them
immaculately clean always.” This
is the complaint of thousands.
It’s just this way, Madam.
You ve ■ spent your time watching
the highwaymen robbers of tooth-
health—Decay Germs—and for-
got all about their sly, insidious
accomplice, “Acid Mouth.” Acids
are constantly forming in the
mouth. They are constantly
working.” But . they work
incognito.”
And here lies the danger.
These mouth-acids,, unmolested,
unsuspected, gradually dissolve,
and break down the enamel. The
tooth then becomes easy prey to
decay germs.
Look out for “acid mouth,”
that filcher and falcon of healthy
tooth life. Pebeco Tooth Paste
users have a good chance to keep
their teeth for life.
Send 3d. Stamps for • sample
tube and interesting test of Acid
Mouth.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
PEBECO is Made in Australia bv
G. ARNOLD,
b O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE- ONLY.), [6,
99
THE ‘^TRIUMPHATOR
BUBO
tint
mu
CALCULATING MACHINE
is the greatest TIME-SAVING, BRAIN-SAVING
and MONEY-SAVING device that has ever been
introduced to the Office World.
The only machine that always shows you the
actual figures you are working with.
Illustrated Catalogue on application.
A. P, Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.
189 George St.,
BRISBANE.
7
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive v»u. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia"
Amusements’.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Rtd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
T I I ° 11 THEATRE, SYDNEY.
, mTT Z HE TIVOLI FOLLIES. ALFREDO.
M t . Su FATIMA - FRED READE. EILEEN WATSON.
j ACK CANNOT. FOUR AERIAL LESTERS.
MONTGOMERY WOLF. VERA PEARCE.
ALVARETTO, REGO AND STOPPIT.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson’s.
’Phone 9942 for Reserves.
r T IV <>EI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ODIVA.
MOONEY & HOLBEIN. TREVENYON.
THE ASCOTS.
ECLAIR BROS. CHESTER KINGSTON.
WRIGHT & DIETRICH. .
_ LAURA GUERITE.
Box Plan at Glen’s. PRICES: 4/-, 3/-. 2/-, 1/-.
H E * A J K s T Y ’ SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY,
In the lively, Laughing, Lilting Success,
THE GIRL ON TEE FILM.
Direct from the London Gaiety.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
QRITERION SYDNEY
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
And J. C. Williamson's Popular Comedy Players
m another George M. Cohan Comedy ’
BROADWAY JONES.
Day Sales White Rose.
Plans at Paling’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ Lessee BEAUMONT SMITH
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
The funniest of all French comedies,
WHO’S THE LADY?
rm. EVERY AFTERNOON AT 2.15
the First Real Australian Children’s' Play
SEVEN LITTLE AUSTRALIANS'.
tr^ian r Children»« n <st f Ethel Turner ’ s delightful Aus-
tralian Children’s Story. Plan at Paling > S-
EVERY EVENING, 7.30 TO 11 O’CLOCK.
T HE WHi t E CITY, SYDNEY.
One Round of Enjoyment.
MAGNIFICENT BALLROOM.
. Dancing Every Evening.
PROMENADE CONCERTS.
Rozelle District No. 1 Band.
FREE ATTRACTIONS.
The AERIAL BARTLETTS on the High Trapeze
NEW FEATURES.
Entertainments, Amusements and Side Shows.
PRELIMINARY. NOTICE.
GRAND ALLIES’ COSTUME CARNIVAL
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
?• F- ESLIOK, C.E., General Manager.
A D P HI THEATRE, SYDNEY
Directmn GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD '
n Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE BABES IN THE WOOD
Musical 11 Com“r StaT " Aggregation of Pantomime
musical Comedy. Revue and Vaudeville Talent
, pantomime twice daily
r, , at 2 and at 7.45.
Popular Pantomime Prices: 4/- a/, or t, -i /
Plan at Nicholson’s.’ ' V ‘
U ha^’ t , seen Sydney’until you’ve visited
THE picture block. THEATRE
In GEORGE STREET.
HIYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRES
Flct,lre Theatres in Australasia, showi
select piogiams of the world’s best films
Continuous Performances, 11 a . m . to 11 p‘ m
, PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
’REATER j. d. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO LT
w. Barrington Miller. General Manager.
Amusements.
T?? KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVENINGS AT 7.45. Matinees Wed. & Sat. at 1.30.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Gorgeous and Mirth-Provoking Pantomime
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
MAGGIE MOORE as .... MRS. SINBAD.
Plan Allan’s. Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
H
Elt MAJESTV’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present their Pantomime
Extravaganza,
CINDERELLA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6s„ 45., 2s. and Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
MURIEL STARR
in
BOUGHT AND PAID FOR,
By GEORGE BROADHURST.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’, LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 9.
Geo. Willoughby, • Ltd., present the Sensational
Drama,
THE NIGHT SIDE OF LONDON.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Pianola.
RIJOIi THEA T R E,
“ FULLER-BRENNAN
Governing Director
M E I, B <) U R N E.
VAUDEVILLE.
. BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
“LITTLE HIP” AND NAPOLEON -THE GREAT,
THE RHODESBURYS; GOULD BROS.; MILTON
BROS. ; also the GRAFTERS CO. in the Musical
Revue, “THIS IS THE LIFE.”
Prices: 2/6, 2/-. 1/- & 6d. Matin6es: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
|-| OYT ’ S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
THREE BIG SHOWS.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE, Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
D I R C H & CARROLL
r* (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
GOARDA BEANS
The new Edible Vegetable wonder from the
Solomon Islands. Grows 3 to'6 feet long. One bean
sufficient for a large family iheal. Now is the time
to plant. Full instructions given. Send for photo.
Circular free. Seeds can be obtained, 5 for 1/-.
Stamps or postal note, .1. M. Morris, 485 Leichhardt
Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Missing Friends.
CAREY. —Relatives of Miss Margaret
Carey, late of 2 Ferrie Street, Fitzroy,
near Melbourne, who died on July 19, 1914,
or anyone acquainted with them, are re-
quested to communicate at once with
National Trustees Company, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
DRUIDS’ PATRIOTIC FUND ART UNION
Under the Patronage of the Hon. R. W. RICHARDS, Lord Mayor of Sydney.
total value of prizes, ZICOO.
I'IRST PRIZE, VALUE £6OO. SECOND PRIZE, VALUE £lOO.
NLn PROCEEDS IN AID OF THE LORD MAYOR'S PATRIOTIC FUND.
to any" address i ? n Australia? 16 ' P ° St ° ffiCe order ’' or stam P s for 1/■> the Secretary will forward Ticket
satisfeSS’S
The Art Union .will be drawn in PublTe on SATrißna v * assi ? ted a ®>ble cause!
on 13th, 14th and .15th FEBRUARY URDAI, FEBRUARY 13, and results advertised
TICKETS, ONE SHILLING.
FROM ALL AGENTS, OR DIRECT FROM
TT J . T numtioy V ) £V U 1
Head Office: 715 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
B. A. BARRY, Grand Secretary.
Tricks, Puzzles, Jokes, Novelties.
Write for New Catalogue
—Post Free.
JOKER’S SNAKE CAMERAS.
I\Ur"ivoo' °i from . w,licll a large snake springs out.
l OSt tree, 1/3. Larger sizes, 2/- and 3/6, post free.
THE PHANTOM CARD TRICK.
Five cards are shown. Anyone
mentally selects three. The five
cards are now dropped in a hat. Per-
former picks out the two cards not
selected. Someone puts hand in hat
to bring- out the three selected cards,
ILJ
PUZZLES—AII Kinds.
?? p «^ les for 2/-, post free, or
12, all different, .for 3/6, post free.
!irnJ hey V ave , Val 'V S i lcd ’ the hat be ing quite
empty. Very bewildering and easy to work.
Post free, with full instructions, Bd.
Handkerchief can be used instead of hat, if
pnr\ le +'- L We ?an sup pty a set of 6 different
card tricks, in addition to the above, for
3/3, post free.
Our Speciality —THE JOKER’S NOVELTY PACKET,
containing
.“The Joker’s Plate Lifter.”
‘The Joker’s Love Bond.”
Joker’s Squirt Camera.”
I he Joker’s Electric Push Button.”
These Four Good Jokes for 2/6, post free.
° ur New Catalogue, which is Post Free, is a Novelty in Itself
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD. —New York Novelty Co.
708-710 GEORGE STREET. HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office, Sydney.
WE SPECIALISE IN ALL KINDS OF TOYS. V
: if ? on ’. t think you will find that
in * Blng S h (o l word6 t 0 *-hat effect) concerned
ln . a recent serious Vic. trouble has anything to -do
t le 4 w ? nderful old Indian wrestler. ‘ Buttan, the
his P f r u° Ved h l'" S! ‘? f ec l ual t 0 any wrestler of
his Wel ?W, lr } world, is, to my personal know-
ge ’ , Stlll i, n WA - Th e notable old man of
dcdng well Settled down as a hawker, and is
* * * *
Mabel Hamilton, Perth, is anxious to
jiu-jitsu any other girl in Australia. It will cost a
deposit of £25 to speak.
* * * *
Even if there were any Davis Cup contest
it Xt n y i ea / (whltdl 1S q uite unlikely) McLoughlin,
, e Cah ornmn Comet, as the U.S.A. sport scribes
£f™. du S )ed him would not trip to Australia in
pursuit of the trophy. He has given so much time
to tennis that he reckons a little hard graft would
be a pleasant rest. For which the Cup will sojourn
the longer in Australia. J
* * * *
The Western Suburbs (Sydney) Tennis
Championship has gone to Lindsay Todd for 12
months Jimmy Anderson was runner-up. The
°uble brought a new name into the championship
limelight. Marsh and Dr. Plomley, after beating
!!■ ® lC< ? and Dr - Pockley, 5-7, 6-0, 13-11, took
the final from Jordan and Youdale, 6-4, 7-5. Fox
and J. O. Anderson are the new country doubles
champions.
* * * *
sculling match is a new
tiy-on to catch the fleeting “gate.” For many
vears some sporty folk have howled that their support
has been withheld because the matches have clashed
with the Saturday horse-racing business; and the
scullers finding that the public which takes its best
girl to see the event from the river bank on week-ends
do ® sa f: P a y a cent—have fixed the race for February
1 (.Monday). It’s now up to the howlers to be as
good as their noise. The winner of this tussle is
expected to rush for the scalp of Australian cham-
pion James Paddon.
* * * *
The Towns-Kemp tussle for the N.S.W
sculling championship on Saturday was a test of
watermanship. To the mile beacon the river was
smooth, and Kemp showed much- ability ; - afterwards
(espemaily m the-lumpy water between Cabarita and
Abbotsford) the skill of Towns made the challenger
look second-rate, and he paddled right away to win
easily by four lengths. Towns now takes perma-
nently the Angus and Coote challenge shield for three
consecutive wins in the championship.
* * * *
Arthur Pearce (holder) and Ben
Ihoroughgood have patched up their squabble bv
agreeing that 20ft. boats shall be used in .the pull
tor the heavy-boat championship of N.S.W. The
race is set down for January 23 on the Middle Har-
-01 (Svdnev) course, arid, besides a side-wager
1 orey Marks’s 50-guinea trophy will accompany the
FRED BAKER refereeing preliminaries
at Sydney Stadium.
A brief though thrilling engagerneijt'
occurred at Sydney on Friday night. The battle
was between Jimmy Fitton, of the U.S., and Billy 1
ehiabb, a redheaded lad of Irish descent from
Heston (N.S.W.). Immediately upon the declara-
tion pf war almpst, in fact, before the Embassies
had been handed their passports—McNabb bounded
frpm his entrenched position in the N.W. corner of
the. battlefield and fell with the utmost fury upon
the enemy. Fitton retreated. Had he stayed ‘where
he was the. Hand of Death would have fallen upon his
head and the Finger of Doom would have attacked
him in the stomach. The proceedings of the' next
few seconds did much to dispel the popular notion
that the Yank is a poor hand at a rearguard action.
[Long and thrilling word-picture of the battle elim-
inated here for fear of providing information |hat
may be of use to the Kaiser.] And so the combatants
arrived in the western area of operations, oyer
against the seats which are occupied by Harry
Nathan, Hugh D. Mclntosh and Dr. Bullock. At
this stage McNabb displayed the skill, speed and
decision which are the hallmarks of the ring-general. 1
At one and the same moment he launched upon ihe
horrified U.S. citizen a battery of artillery, a regi-
ment of cavalry, several submarines, a torpedo and
the contents of a siege gun. In the, crude language
ot the ring he hit Fitton under the left ear. The
owner of the ear went down, and, to the relief of
every humanitarian, omitted to get up again. The
whole earth-shaking contest had lasted but a few
seconds over two minutes. McNabb is to be matched
next with Fred Dyer, but the real tornado should
iranspire when he encounters Frank Loughrey the
welterweight conqueror of Pat Bradlev ’
* * * - - *
The Kay-McCoy fight at Sydney Stadium
was disappointing. It was marked by two
outstanding features. Kay was anxious not
to get hit. McCoy was anxious to hit, but
couldn’t shoot straight. Pile-driving punches
went crashing through the air, missing Kay’s head
F lme , s literally by feet. So it was with the
hitting by Kay himself. He kept on trying to use
ms long and powerful right, but he never succeeded
in getting anywhere near his mark. As an exposi-
tion of the art of missing the contest would be diffi-
cult to parallel, though perhaps the men themselves
would put it that it was a masterly expose of side-
stepping. McCoy established from the start a
moral dominance over Kay; and yet, strangely
enough, McCoy could not keep himself from fighting
foul. In the second round —in the course of which
Kay took a count of eight—McCoy hit him while he
was sitting on the ground. Harald Baker, who
refereed, wisely overlooked it, as it was only a tap
and was clearly caused by over-eagerness. As much
could not be said of McCoy’s foul hit in the third
round. In the writer’s opinion he should have been
disqualified. However, Baker contented himself with
giving McCoy a severe warning. It was all to no
purpose, as tilings turned out, for the fight dragged
along till thp seventh round, when" McCoy put in
another hit of the same sort, though not quite as bad
as the earlier one, and the verdict was given to
Kay.
S
L T £ e public is a chuckle-headed
lot. When the Kay-McCoy fight at Sydney Stadium
closed in the seventh round thousands united in
groanmg. And they did the same when the McNabb-
b»d f -fP eSt . finished in one r ound. They
had failed to get the full 20 rounds for
Baker • Poi v, the P eo P le who, like “Snowy”
Baker, are keeping boxing clean, it must be irritat-
mg that in the sehlenter entertainment, where teeth
and hair fly, the 20 rounds is always guaranteed. It is
only in the straight-run fight that matters often come
to an end in the first few rounds, and this by reason
?ust as V lL y hl Pat ? nt faCt U,at , the knock-out blow is
twentieth! 1 t 0 PaSS mhe firSt round as the
* * * *
Frank Loughrey is to meet Mick King at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. If Kina’ stavs
in the ring 20 rounds he should win. But his con!
tract is a tough one.
* * * *
bB'ht at Mount Gambier (S.A.)
saw Adelaide’s leading football umpire, Carter, in
he ring for the first time. He hit very hard, but
showed a fatal inability to protect his throat. In
the second round he took the full count, with an evi-
dent intention of getting up at “Ten.” But there
wasn’t any 10 It was “Eight; Nine; Out”-and
then a suddenly active Carter and a fierce house
yelling for more stoush. They haven’t any Bakers
m S.A., and the referee, after a little heart-to-heart
alking, accepted the wish of both men to continue.
However, in the fourth Carter was down again for
Bsee. throughi another of those fatal jolts to the
throat. At the end of the round his towel was
thrown in, and the man who was pronounced the
winner before was pronounced the winner again.
* * * *
Gmke and Sullivan (both of them just
under 9st.) met at the Brisbane Stadium on Satur-
‘‘, ay "Igbt. Geike’s punch won the fight for him in
the 19th round, when the ceremony was terminated
by the referee. Sullivan was well beaten at an
eailier stage. , Only his dauntless courage and that
of the referee kept him on deck.
*
Mrs. Rumor may be what she likes, but
+C aC A d 1 P v by strong evidence when she asserts
that the Australian Bowling Council has played it
somewhat low down on N. S. Wales in inviting S.A
to undertake the carnival at Easter. The Bowling
Association of N.S.W., on account of war trouble,
refused to hold the big gathering, explaining that
when - the clouds rolled by would be time enough to
have a jubilation muster of trundlers. The action of
the governing body (or perhaps one official who may
have delegated to , himself the authority of the whole
CouccH) Will give a big lift to the anti-Council party
in N S. Wales To the credit of the S.A. Associa-
tion, it promptly turned down the invitation


5
AND PEELED
Constantly Itching, Burned When
Put in Water. Would Rub and
Scratch Until Hand Raw. Used
Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
Now Quite Recovered.
“Coo-ee,” Chirnsido St., Footscray, Yic.
—“The affection from which I suffered is,
thanks to Cuticura, quite cured. It first
appeared around my knuckles and finger
joints. I first noticed it by my hands con-
stantly itching. On putting my hands in
water the burning feeling would nearly send
mo distracted. Tho palms of my hands
were all cracked and tho skin completely
peeled off them, and on awakening during
the night the continual itching would keep
mo awake for hours. I wo >: rub and
scratch them until the backs /f my hands
would look like raw flesh. I determined to
try the Cuticura Remedies, and having Cu-
ticura Ointment in the house, I bathed my
hands with Cuticura Soap and then applied
Cuticura Ointment. I suffered with this
dreadful affliction for six weeks, but perse-
vered with Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment and am now quite recovered. I
always use Cuticura Soap as a toilet soap
and would not be without tho Cuticura
Ointment.” (Signed) Miss C. Florence
Daley, October, 1912.
The regular use of Cuticura Soap for toilet
and bath not only tends to preserve, purify
and beautify the skin, scalp, hair and hands,
but assists in preventing inflammation, irri-
tation and clogging of the pores, the common
cause of pimples, blackheads, and other un-
wholesome conditions of tho skin. Cuticura
Soap and Cuticura Ointment are sold
throughout tho world. Liberal sample of
each mailed free, with 32-p. Skin Book.
Address R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
1
Washable
Tubular
Ties
for Cash’s
Seamless
Poplin
Ties
As\ for Cash’s
““end-PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic. —1/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb, fid, extra.
Icy-Hot
Bottles
ICY-HOT
Bottles
Keep Hot Things Hot 24 Honrs
g. Or Cold Things Cold 3 Days
UOT or cold
drinks when
needed, while up-
country-hunting,
motoring, picnic-
ing; while in
town - for early
morning shaving
water, coffee, hur-
ried meals. Keep
baby’s milk at
right temperature,
or invalid’s food
hot 01 cold all
night, without
heat, ice or bother
of preparation.
Icy-Hot
Jars
ICY-HOTBottle*. for water, tea. milk, soup,
etc. Pints, 5/6 up, Quarts, 11/ —up. Nickel
plated, Pints, 8/6 up; Quarts, 15/—up. ICY-
HOT Carafe takes place of unsanitary water
bottle. Quarts, 22/ — up, with specially pro-
tected neck. 30/ up. Jar* for
hot stews, vegetables, frozen ice cream. Can
also be used for beverages. Nickel plated,
Pints, 15/—up,Quarts,2B/6 up. Also ICY-HOT
Lunch Kits. Inner glass bottle within metal
casing protected against
breakage, easily sterilized
and cheaply replaced if
broken. Liquids touch only
glass —absolutely sanitary.
MADE IN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA FROM
AMERICAN MATERIALS
Look for name ICY-HOT
on bottom. If your dealer
does not stock it, we mail
direct, prepaid, on receipt
of price.
Send for Catalogue No. 159
Dealers are invited to
write for special terms.
The ‘ICY-HOT’ Bottle Co.
Factory: Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Carafe
Quart, 3-Pint,
4-Pint, 3-Quart
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the .Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures Inscribed Stock or Treasury Pills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand ST AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkc
Hon.
Kr
F.
AN/EMIA
and Debility
fF you are run-down, easily exhausted and out
* of breath —if you feel slack, depressed, or
“out-of-sorts,” start a Course of Iron
‘Jelloids’ at once. Iron ‘ Jelloids’ are the
finest and most reliable tonic for all cases of
Anaemia or Debility. They quickly restore
vitality, and produce the rich healthy blood so
essential to good health and vigour. Iron
‘Jelloids’ are a perfectly safe remedy under
all conditions —pleasant, inexpensive, do not
harm the teeth, and are non-constipating.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote: —
“ It can be definitely stated that Iron ‘Jelloids’
constitute the most effective and desirable
treatment for the cure of that common com-
plaint, that insidious and weakening condition,
no matter from what cause arising, known
as Anaemia or Poorness of Blood.”
X fortnight's trial (Price 1/6) will convince you
Iron Jefloids'
enrich the blood - renew vitality
Special Tonic for Men, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. 2A (containing Quinine). For
Women, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. 2. For Children, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. i.
IRON JRLLOIDS are sold by all Chemists in Australia.
Manufactured only by The Jelloid Co., 205, City Road, London, England.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
11^
ASK for Bostock featherweights, the most lux-
urious of shoes. Lightness is their distinc-
tive feature and quality their charm. They
are the cream of imported shoes. True to their
description, they are as light as a feather on the
feet, and exactly meet the growing, but in this
climate perfectly reasonable, desire for dainty,
pliant shoes.
Bostock featherweights are always interesting,
whether on the foot or in the hand. The skilful
work, conspicuous in every pair, never fails to
command one's admiration.
Beautifully made from the choicest of leathers,
they are obtainable from the leading shoe stores.
Special shipments have recently arrived, and
ladies should call before the choicest styles are
sold.
Mj
XU
"XJ
Style 587
802
=Kenrick’s Cast Iron
ft
sfi
BRITISH MADE
BY BRITISH
WORKMEN
POTS and PANS in
your kitchen mean
Pounds in yonr PurS6!
because they outlive enamel
and all other ware; because
they come to the boil quicker and never chip,
rust, leak, or rub into holes.
KENRICK’S Cast Iron Saucepans and Kettles have
been known to give good service for over two
score years, with hard daily wear, and are good
cookers and quick boilers right to the end.
See that they are
KENRICK’S Cast Iron
Made by Archibald
Kenrick & Sons Ltd., Eng.
On Sale at all
IRONMONGERS,
STORES, Etc.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
Up till a fortnight back Britain still
owned the champion litigant. This was the
highwayman Everett, who petitioned the
Courts to divide up his bushranging profits
with Williams, his partner. After holding
the belt for two centuries, Britain now
hands it to the captain of the Osnabruck —
a captured German ship—who applied be-
fore the Registrar in Prize for a lien on the
ship and cargo, and asked that the cargo
should not be delivered to the British con-
signees in Sydney until all freights and load-
ing charges had been paid. In the matter of
judgments, Britain still maintains an
easy lead, for in Everett v. Williams both
suitors were ordered to be hanged, whereas
in the Osnabruck business the Registrar
merely smiled in a fatigued manner and
passed to the next case.
* * * »
“T. 0.1.”: The first South Australian
newspaper, the Gazette and Colonial
Register, was printed in London. “The
second will be issued in the City of the
Wilderness, the site of which is not known,”
added a Westralian newspaper of November
19, 1836. Westralia’s own first newspaper
was in MS. .T. C. Byrne, in his “Twelve
Years’ Wanderings” (1835-47), wrote:
“x\lthough so limited in number, the West
Australians can boast of ho less than three
newspapers, exclusive of the Government
Gazette.” A writer in a Calcutta paper
(1830) thus alluded to his visit to the
Swan River Settlement: “The town at pre-
sent consists of about a dozen wooden cot-
tages, as many grass huts, one or two stone
buildings, two hotels, several stores and
shops, an auction mart, a butcher’s shop,
where once a week fresh meat may be
bought; and a baker’s shop, kept by a China-
man, where unleavened bread is sometimes
to be had. A newspaper, called The Fre-
mantle Journal, in manuscript, is pub-
lished weekly, which, like everything else,
bears a very remunerating price. It ia
issued only to subscribers' at 10 guineas
yearly suoscription and three shillings a
copy on delivery. It is a MS. of one fools-
cap" sheet.” Finally, the subscribers at 10
guineas a piece dwindled to, it is said, a
couple; and in 1832 that Archimedian lever
ceased to move the world. *
“Banker” (North Queensland) : Stray
correspondents have given prominence nearly
every week to the Commonwealth 10s. note,
and have been pecking at bank tellers for
wearing surprised looks when the paper is
asked for. These correspondents evidently
take instances in the capitals only. Now,
the capitals are not the Commonwealth. Up
here in North Queensland the 10s. note is
very largely used—more so, in fact than the
half-sovereign. But cases have occurred
where it can’t be furnished to customers by
the banks, because the banks can’t get an
adequate amount to meet the demand. Only
the other day a certain bank applied to the
authorities for a supply, and was informed
there were none to be had.
TEA AND CAMELS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rajah of Sirmur has given 2500 bags of tea,
and the Rajah of Lahore 200 camels. — Cable.
Will the tea be pressed in packages of paper thick
and shiny,
Such as I remember in the storeroom when a child ?
Bringing whiffs all hot and steamy from the ridges
dry and piney,
Where we used to boil the billy with a background
of the Wild,
There were spiders in the storeroom, there were
currants black and sticky,
There were peppermints in tins, if such a flavor you
prefer,
And the sugar matt for filching hands had edges
sharp and pricky,
But the Rajah s tea—l wonder how he packs it
from Sirmur ?
With his brown face and his jewels, and his heart
that is so loyal.
Will he beg the use of camels front the Rajah of
Lahore ?
Send a messenger with satin bag in manner strictly
royal
(A turban fringe that streams behind, a mighty
beard before) :
“May thy two hundred camels take the burden of
my tea,
Saluting thee, my brother, in thy majesty and
state?’’
Can’t you see the black salaam until he crumples at
the knee?
Can't you hear the camels squealing as they quarrel
at the Gate?
Can't you feel the city stirring in the lilac of the
morn ?
Can’t you guess a dark-eyed woman hid behind a
lattice-fret,
With a wonder where they journey, when the sound
of bells is borne
Past the small, squat native houses and the slender
minaret,
With hibiscus in the garden, all ablaze to greet the
day?
The “Pride of India” lifts its rose, to prove itself
more fair,
Though the fountains of the harem, in a radiant
shower-play,
Only dream of dropping jewels on her long and
perfumed hair.
Hear the taut ropes thin complaining, and the
curses of the men
While you breathe the reek of camels and the
fragrant dust of tea,
In the hollow of the mountains, by the fakir’s
squalid den.
Can’t you hear the drivers singing in the dusk melo-
diously ?
Can't you see them swinging to the plain across a
blood-red sun ?
Can’t you hear them in the compound, ’mid the
snore of camel-sleep ?
Can’t you see the strip of carpet when the burning
day is done
And the Moslem sows the prayer-seed in the field
he hopes to reap?
I am sure the Rajah of Sirmur will question of
Lf. re,
I am f ■ the Rajah of Lahore will write on satin
tag:
“You will find my camels waiting for your tea beside
the door,
To the glory of the Empire, we are one beneath the
flag 1”
QU KENS LAND.
M. FORREST.


Recognised Leading House for
all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
I
G
H
5 <JZ'B
*****
*2*
o
zi q\v
G
R
A
D
£
.N.L. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior band-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
AU sha P es 3/- each (post free)
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural lilock
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PRODUCED.
PIPES EVER
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/0, 10/G, 12/6, 14/G, 16/G, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/G, 14/6, 16/G, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS.
QUALITE
DE LUXE
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
Jhree Witches
VIRGINIA
(CARETTES 1
v- '"tsL
jr
r WW.S
' &sonsL t «>
UJNDOA e
TOBACCOS.
‘Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In nliio’ or
cut, c/- per lb. (post free). *
“IjOIIUS” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches
H
A
N
D
Y
vw
SZJ.&i-'k
%
Hi
mm
mm
c
0
m
p
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
» ~ Real Morocco . . 3/6 „
>, ~ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 »
>, Gazelle 5/- »
>• Velvet Calf .... 6/6 „
m
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
T
H
I
N
Q
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 13.15.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap—•
18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
Q
u
A
L
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle •••• 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches: CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
Reducing the Cost of Pipe Threading
For quick work and clean-cut threads use an OSTBR.
OSTER Machines
BEET & MOTOR-DRIVEN
Note these features —automatic die
release, automatic oil pump, quick-
opening dies, simple, convenient
die-liead.
THE OSIER MEG. CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.
For Sale by Leading Dealers in
all Cities.
Threads,
Tubes,
Nipples
or Bolts.
Built
in 3
Sizes.
[8
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
WRITING to the agent
entrusted with the
purchasing of the
stores for the forthcoming
Imperial Trans-Antarctic
Expedition Sir Ernest
Shackleton uses these
words: —
“The question
of the concen-
trated beef sup-
ply is most im-
portant—
it must be
Bovril.”
Men who trust
their lives 10
their food take
no risks, and Sir
Erntst Shackle-
ton, planning
this expedition
with as intimate
a knowledge of
stores as of ice
and snow, has
recognised the
scien t i f i cally
proved value of
Bovril.
(fIPILLARINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
!
Try this splendid
preparation—it never
fails to give good
results. Not a quack
-—but a sure hair
grower. Apply at
night before retiring
—the result will
surprise you.
Cet a Jar To-day—lo/6 post free.
Craig & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 6d. llow to Gkt Rich, 1 sposted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friknd, Is 6d. Nkd Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to YVrkstlk, Is. Moll
Flandhiis, a rare book by De Foe, 1 s posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiik
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. l/G.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Callßook, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Bkajuty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. A ust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. N'ot Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, (id. Britain fop. tiik
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
’s 3d. Theory of Value, ls6d. French Polishing
4nd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
m
■
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Panes.
IT IS FREE FBOM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young’ and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv.edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this srreat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -~ms
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gambi.krs’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Tiik White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator., Is. Tiie Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. .Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster.
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
tiie Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine DrivePv’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SWT’Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONIiY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
liE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How ro Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New 'Ericks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of tiik
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Crevasse's Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. N krvousness and
Its Curb, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


It Makes You Shudder
No matter how dainty food may be, or how carefully prepared, it is simply
repugnant to you if your stomach is out of order. That dull pain in your stomach
causes you to simply loathe the sight of food—you cannot eat, and yet you want
something and don’t know what. When you do eat you suffer tortures afterwards.
Do you realise what will happen to you if you continue in this way? Your body
will become depleted, and any sickness is apt to take hold of you. You posi-
tively can avoid all these troubles by taking
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tahules.
The reason why any wholesome food is not properly digested is because the
stomach lacks some important element of digestion. Some stomachs lack peptone,
others are deficient in gastric juice or hydrochloric acid. The one thing necessary
in any case of poor digestion is to supply those digestive elements which the
stomach lacks, and nothing does this so thoroughly and safely as DR. SHELDON’S
DIGESTIVE TABUDES. They digest what you eat, thus giving the stomach
a rest and assistance until it is restored to its normal action and vigor.
One of these Tabules will digest 1500 grains of meat, eggs and other whole-
some food. They are a genuine tonic, because they bring about in the only natural
way a restoration of nerve power, a building up of lost tissue and appetite, by the
digestion and assimilation of wholesome food.
%
I
r
r
\
b
1
d)
A
lb
ws
5X
Or. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules
1/6 and
2/6
(SHEAR WITH THE FAMOUS
FAIKINER ELECTRIC - EQUIPMENT
\
Invented by a practical Australian Pastoralist, it will be found (he
FALKINER ELE.CTRIC SHEEP SHEARING Machine combines
many striking advantages, of which the following are a few
(1) II is easy to erect.
(2) Entire absence of trouble-
some line shafting.
(3) Independent motor for each
man.
(4) Electric power available for
shed lighting.
C 5) The patent universal joint
enables the shearer to
wcrk with ease and com-
fort.
(6) Any hand piece may be
used.
(7) Silent running and practi-
cally no v.bration.
(8) No special type of shed
necessary—the Fa!k!ner
Electric Machine will fit
any shed, old or new.
(9) Electricity is the safest.
cheapest and cleanest
power!
This machine, which has been patented all over
the world, stands unique in design, simple ir con-
struction, and unequalled in small consumption of
power. Sheep are shorn at the minimum of cost
and the maximum of efficiency.
Write for full details, also for our illustrated leaflet
dealing with the Electric Lighting of Shearing Sheds.
FAL RINER
ELECTRIC COY.
103-5 William St., Melbourne, and Somerset House, 5 Moore St., Sydney
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
FOVNTPEN.
Catalogue Free on Bequest.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorge St., Sydney
Sold by all
Stationers.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price. 21s.
On the Recent Remarkable
Happenings in Asgardh and
Aidenn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
wild Valkyries’ union struck,
I Downed tools and to the Normas said :
“By Grey Yggdrasil’s mossy boughs,
By Odin’s beard and Freya’s cows,
We will not bear the German dead.
The stairway up the sky is steep,
And no wharf-laborers are we
To lump the load of tangled souls
Out of their trenches, swamps and holes
The Allies’ batteries set free.
“Our arms are aching with our toil,
Our job gets ever more and more ;
And waltzing up the steps of air, ■
Dragging pale spirits by the hair,
Makes our immortal ankles sore.
“A gross or so in either hand
We whirl above the winter mist, _
And grimly dodge some aircraft s wings
From which a goggled hero flings
Bombs like a first-class anarchist.
The Normas, by their well, looked grave,
Such words were never heard before ;
They called for Odin, and he came
Roaring in wind with beard of flame
To high Valhalla’s gilded door. ,
The lofty god was out of breath.
“By Muninn’s wings, great dames, he cried,
“Find me some quiet place to. fly.
By Mirmir’s well or Midhogg’s sty,
From this confounded mob inside.
They come so fast the seats are full,
And each brags louder than the last;
Their patronage I cannot bear,
I have not known so much hot air
In all our windy Eddie past.
“My godly job I here resign ;
Let him be king of souls who will!
Oh, grave, sweet ladies, find a bloke
A sheltered place where he can smoke
And drain a horn in comfort still.”
The Normas looked with troubled eyes.
Above the storm clouds driving fleet,
Thor, rugged and unkempt, arose,
The lightnings playing round his nose,
And flung his hammer at their feet.
“I give the whole red business best,”
He shouted in a broken tone.
“I will not own this game as mine!
Let their guns rust, the murdering swine ;
Henceforward Bill can go alone !”
The Normas’ cheeks grew wan and pale,
And Loki raised his flaming cap
Above his red-hot furnace lid.
His crooked nose ten fingers hid
Twiddling across Ginnunagap.
Cold fear came down on earth and sky,
And through the growing murk of doom,
Far in the glowing Asian land.
A flag of truce held in his hand,
Mahomet rose from out the tomb.
He cried across the wasted world :
“Oh, gods and queens whose feet are cold,
Whose hands begin to fail and tire,
I come to meet your heart’s desire:
Give, me these Teuton spirits bold.
“In Aidenn there are liouris fair
With ankles white and lips to win.
Pour out Valhalla on the mat,
Sort out the souls, and by my hat
I’ll take the whole assemblage in.”
A glad shout shook the wintry north.
Wildly both Thor and Odin yelled.
They raised Valhalla’s end on high
On shoulders broad, and down the sky
They emptied everything it held.
Harold Ilardrada, Olaf, Sweyn,
I’enda and Hengist all were there;
Saxons, Bavarians, Goths and Jutes,
The tumult of their falling boots
Thrilled through the leagues of upper air.
They sorted out themselves with skill
What time they touched the solid earth.
For Odin’s ancient heroes gave
The German warriors stout and brave
The very widest kind of berth.
Mahomet blew his judgment horn,
And rank on rank behind him prest
The Prussian Guard and other corps,
Keen to discover that bright door
Which led to Aidenn’s place of rest.
Caliph and Rajah through the calm
Of death’s wide palace heard the rout.
Saladin sprang with looks of dread
From slumber on a poppied bed,
And Abdul yowled to be let out.
But in they came, and on they came:
The houris" looked and screamed and fled.
The Seljuk Turks in speed arose,
Pushed their red slippers on their toes,
And stood to arms among the dead.
llaroun Alraschid’s voice was heard:
“The Holy Prophet has a rat
To bring the infidel in shoals
To vex the quiet, resting souls
In Allah’s heavenly Caliphat.”
“Out on the cows,” Ben Adhem cried.
“Now someone hoist that rag of green!
Exceeding peace has made me bold,
And by this scimitar I hold
I’ll show the pork-fed what I mean.”
The Prophet did a holy smile.
“That flag is old and handsome, but
When it was recently unrolled
All Islam’s faithful merely told
The Turk to get his whiskers cut.”
“Bats,” said the Caliphs, “also prawns!
Put your bald occiput on ice!
We will not have that mob in here,
With garlic sausages and beer,
Lolling on rugs of Paradise.”
The argument became intense :
The ancient faithful charged the door.
Hoching the Kaiser long and hard,
The spirits of the Prussian Guard
The shock of battle bravely bore.
The Prophet could not hold liis crowd.
With grim resistance long and stout
Among the arabesques and tiles
The disembodied German lilos.
Sternly refused to be put out.
The strife went on bv night and day,
All Paradise grew loud with sin,
And when success their charges crowned,
The Prussians held the vantage ground
And dug themselves securely in.
And thus the matter stands just now,
While up and down the shining floor
Mahomet dances like a bear,
Pulling his beard out hair by hair,
And Uhlan spooks patrol the door.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
War in the Domain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SYDNEY Domain on Sundays is asphalt
broken by the quiet and irresistible
strength of Moreton Bay fig roots;
many sharp, harsh yellow leaves of ihe same
going before the wind and scraping the
asphalt with the hardness of boards; the
brown beauty of the National Gallery seen
through magnolia-green leaves; a great saucer
of lawn-; and many, many cranks airing all
the speculations and grievances and supersti-
tions of the world—advocating and denoun-
cing with such vigor that they tread the
grass into the dust and patch the lawn like to
the stamping places of buffalo. _ .
On days other than the Sabbath it is a
place of quiet. A few people pass through
it to the Botanic Gardens ; a few automobiles
flash through to Mrs- Macquarie’s Chair, to
look upon one of the most beautiful scenes
on earth ; a few pass through from Woolloo-
mooloo to town —the few who like walking
and the lesser few who save the penny car-
fare. So it belongs for five days at least to
the real owners —who have no fee simple hut
a charter which is absolute. And the Gov-
ernors under the charter are Speewaa, who
has a reputation for bushcraft because he
once trained to Bourke on a rabbiter’s pass
in 1885, and Billy the Bull, who is a devil
of a man and addicted to slaying policemen
by word of mouth.
' The moon was faltering to its morning
death behind the Mitchell Library when Billy
the Bull awoke and looked out from his liter-
ary couch of Saturday newspapers under the
big shelf of sandstone, with a fig-tree root
making a handy cave which Billy the Bull
used as a toilet table, spreading thereon his
jewellery, to wit, one pipe, four cigar butts
and seven gingernuts, these last ravished
from a counter-lunch during a barmaid’s
flirtation with a bookmaker.
Billy the Bull looked out on Woolloomooloo
Bay, in the warring lights of moonset and
daybreak, silvered as a herring’s belly and
crinkling to the wind of dawn; he put a
dirty fist in each grubby eye-pit, hoisted the
fists and thus forcibly awoke himself. lie
made out the ghastly, gigantic gallows-shape
of the sheerlegs on Garden Island, and a
slate-colored warship that seemed a smudge
on the sea; and he yawned, for there was no
beauty in the world.
The clean sea lay below him, lipping the
runnels of the sandstone and kissing the
green slimeweed ; but Billy the Bull, ignor-
ing it all, leaned back into the cave and
carefully selected the cigar-butt he had
picked up outside the Civic Club, leaving the
superior butts retrieved from the Union Club
gutter for the after-dinner smoke, lie lighted
the butt, and the smell of all the glue fac-
tories in Botany smote the cleanliness of
dawn.
The lights of the anchored ships which
had been purple in the haze of that August
morning moved to red and then to paleness.
Out of the Pacific came beams fanwise for
the daily miracle; a sight lost upon Billy
the Bull, who cared not though—
the green dawn blossom
Into the golden king flower of the sun
< Across the golden sea.
Ferries with paling lights glided like stage
ships across and down the harbor; ships
held outside the port all night began to
heave anchor, though Billy the Bull neither
knew nor cared for that.
And then —“BOOM 1” ; with a crack to
the end of it. as if a child struck a 400-
gallon tank with a cricket ball.
Billy the Bull, with his numerous whis-
kers and plenteous hair standing on end.
jumped to his feet, for the concussion
seemed to have hapnened at his ears. He
rubbed his little, red, beerful nose —the
only feature not quite concealed by oakum
whiskers —and said quaveringly to himself
—and looking accusingly towards South
Head, “Shootin’! Shootin’ an’ never mindin’
a bloke’s nerfs.” lie had not a soldier’s
heart; though brave enough in attacking the
Scotch with a chaser after it; when he
charged a brewery, that brewery hoisted the
white flag—that is if it had any sense.
“BOOM !” Another concussion ; South
Head telling a tramp to stay outside the
line till he got the signal to enter. But
Billy the Bull didn’t know.,:
He leaned over to something that looked
like a heap of leaves and shook it, and
Speewaa, the other Babe in the Wood,
turned over, groaned, fisted his own eyes,
and sat up. He was a beer tree, and leaves
fell from him as if it were -May instead of
August, -as 1 he showed himself in his news-
paper pyjamas—a long-nosed, vulture-
necked larrikin, with a chin cut off short
like an Eton jacket.
“Wassup, Bill V”
“Guns ! —lissen !”
( BOOM !)
“They been goin’ whack —jus’ like that!
Them blokes don’t think o’ me nerfs. Not
them, th’ blighters!”
(BOOM!)
“Wassup. Bull? Wot they practisin 1 for?”
“They ain’t practisin’, mate! Sense me?”
Billy the Bull and Speewaa looked to
the right; the first beam of the sun to come
over the cliffs south of Hornsby showed them
a champagne-shouldered, wizened, white-
whiskered, blue-eyed little man with brown
teeth and the suavity of the doctor who
knows nothing of medicine, but has a fine
bedside manner for the accouchement of
duchesses.
The leaves fell from him as he bowed and
exposed his counterpane. Apparently he
(Continued on next page.)


DANGER!
BacKache, Rheumatic Twinges, Aching' Limbs, Urinary Troubles, Gravel, Nervous
Depression point to Kidney Weakness-and may lead to serious complications if neglected.
For the over-worked house-
wife and tired-out man Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are a
blessing. They quickly heal
and regulate the kidneys,
helping them to filter from
the blood the poisons and
impurities which all too often
cause disease. Their good
effect is often felt immediately,
and a fresh and invigorated
# O
action of the kidneys brings
back to men and women the
strength their work demands.
Doan s Pills do not act on
the bowels. They do one
thing—they cleanse and heal
the kidneys, and they do that
well. They are equally good
for men and women, and a
safe medicine for children.
“ Every picture tells a story.”
[US
m
rrnn
rrs«x
{trrtj
f3~H
iircrrtrr.
r-furf
m
itti
M
ms
M
The aching back warns you—-
The rheumatic twinges—the lumbago pains-
That tired, drowsy, irritable feeling.
CURED TO STAY CURED,
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
10 YEARS CURED. |
Mr. Lewis Williams, corner Wilson Street and Botany
Road, Botany, says : “I was a great sufferer with my
back, and the pain was, at times, so bad that I have
had to leave my work and go home. I also had to
walk about in a bent position, as I could not straighten
without increased suffering. I used various prepara-
tions, but only got slight temporary relief. Reading
of cures effected by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I
decided to try them. One bottle eased the pain, and
the second completed my cure. This did not happen
yesterday, but about seven years ago, and I have had
no sign of backache all that time, so it is not mere
temporary relief, but a perfect cure. I am always
advising my friends to use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and take this opportunity to publicly recommend
them.”
Three years later Mr. Williams says: “I am still
well, and have been free of backache since Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cured me ten years ago.”
~ 5 YEARS CURED. |
Mrs. A. Higgins, 17 Terry Street, Surry Hills,
Sydney, says: “My husband suffered from urinary
trouble and backache for some time. The secretions
were seriously disordered, being thick and cloudy and
difficult to pass. His back was always aching, and
made every movement a torture. Sometimes he
\vould scream out, the pain was so severe. He tried
all sorts of remedies, but all to no purpose. He was
advised to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills by a
man who had been cured of serious trouble by this
remedy. He sent off for some, and after taking two
bottles felt so much better than he went on with them.
Six bottles cured him. He has no backache now, and
the secretions are clear and regular. In fact, he is a
different man in health and spirits, thanks to Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills.”
Five years later Mrs. Higgins says: “I am pleased
to be able to state my husband has been perfectly well
ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him
five years ago.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
A t all Chemists and Stores, 2/9 per
bottle, or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
had no sectarian bigotry, for his bed clothing
was made up of the Catholic Press and
the Protestant Standard —though that
might have been merely the truce of a loyal-
isc in time of war.
“’Sense me,” he said, “that’s not practis-
in’ ! That’s war!”
“War?” said Billy the Bull. “What
war ?”
“Inglan’, Germany, Proosher, Roosher,
Hand, Scotian’, Wales, Paris, Balkans an’
Turkey!”
“Arrh! don’ tell me lies! War in yer
dippy mind!”
The suave old man became suddenly ener-
getic and rose to his feet to the accompani-
ment of a shower of leaves. “I tell yer it’s
true!” he said. "It’s war, an’ th’ Koyser’s
goin’ inter Beljum ter whop tli’ French! —
an’ Inglan’ beat seventy-nine German
Dreadnoughts in th’ North Sea —-sunk ’em
like what’s o’clock.”
“How long’s that been goin’ on?” de-
manded Billy the Bull suspiciously. “I arsk
yer—’ow long?”
“About a fortnight.”
"I’ll soon see if yer stuffin’ me! Jus’ a
minit till I read me bed !” He held up a
sheet of his blankets and incredulity turned
to belief.
“Be cripes, he’s right, Bull! ’Ere it is—
‘WAR! Two hundred thousan’ Germans
killed—British drummer-boy’s nose bleeds
a t Hantwerp!’ ”
“It’s been turrible!” said the polite old
man eagerly, now that his reputation was
established. “Did’er see tli’ warships go
away? An’ there’s more ships goin’ an’
twenty thousan’ men ter take China an’
Ameriky. Where have yous fellers been
this larst fortnight?”
Speewaa read on very quickly to avoid
explanation of the fact that the first seven
days had been a week of beer and three of
the days thereafter of recovery in a nasty
clean whitewashed cell. “This yere war is
a-goin’ ter cost millyuns o’ thousands a
day!”
Billy the Bull agreed. “Hundreds o’ mill-
yuns o’ thousan’s,” he said, and bettered the
nonchalant treatment of great sums bv
throwing away the inferior cigar butt and
lighting that retrieved from the gutter of the
Union Club.
“Here’s a’ article,” continued Speewaa,
“on what them countries spends on noo wars
an’ hintrest on hold wars.”
“Read it, Spee.”
“It’s too long. Readin’ a lot makes me
toneme like a chip. Got any beer, mate?”
The suave old man disclaimed it—said that
he had two apples. Speewaa replied scorn-
fully that he wasn’t a kid, and returned
to the study of war literature.
"It costs It’ly fifty millyun a year for war-
ships an’ sogers; an’ sixty millyun for in-
t’rest on old ones. By ’Ell! An’ it costs
France about th’ same, an’ Englan’ too, an’
Germany likewise, an’ Roosher an’ all of ’em
—costs ’em millyuns er thousan’s f’r sogers
f’r noo wars, an’ hundreds o’ millyuns o’
thousan’s f’r sogers f’r old wars—payin’ for
’em ’undreds o’ years after th’ wars; diggin’
up ground f’r wheat, an’ givin’ a lot of th’
wheat ter pav for th’ battle wot was fought
on that paddick in Napoleon’s time. Buyin’
that i™ f ° r manure at the Price of gold,
“What men fight for—that’s what I want
to know.' Why should a bloke shoot any
other bloke—except lie’s a pleecemun. eh?
'V bat s battles for —arnswer me that?”
"It’s all over money—an’ land. Now take
us we d never go to war over bits of land.
L don care ow many blokes camp in this ’ere
Dermain, do I? No! Live an’ let live, I
says!”
Neither do I. Enybody can have all tlier
Herman fr me—s’ longs they don' come
near this ere cave. ’
"That’s right,” said Speewaa. “I didn’t
put th cave in, o’ corse. If I caught any-
body sleepin m my cover—well, be cripes, ’e
wouldnt wake up no more!”
( “ r^ hat > ps ht enuf,” said Billy the Bull.
But this hglitm f’r land’s diff’runt—it’s all
wrong kilim’ blokes in wars an’ spending
money firm orf guns when there’s people in
th world without beer.”
W ar ain’t a bad thing—not altogether,”
said the polite man, opposing them with
much mildness. “War’s like roy’lty, an’
bubonic plague, an’ fires —it cirklates
munuey. It does somebody good. Corerna-
tion time I sold hundreds er pitchers, ‘The
King,’ at a penny a time.”
They did not interrupt him ; but Billy the
Bull and Speewaa looked at the polite man
with a new interest, which he mistook for
defeience. Then the Allies, with one swift
look of understanding, rolled towards the
buffer state—never rising even to their knees,
but dragging themselves along the ground
as do infants whose legs are yet too weak to
bear their weight. Laziness had even given
them the facility of a cripple in this progress
from the hips ; the insanitary Billy the Bull,
as Russia, and Speewaa as France, moved
towards a highly polite Berlin as he con-
tinued : “War brings trade ; I bought a dozen
flags lars’ night for a shillin’, and sold them
for thrippence each.” Then he looked at
them, saw the danger and faltered : “I mean
I know a chap that did that!” Then he
jumped, as Speewaa. snarling “G-r-r-h!’’
rolled to him and Billy the Bull, with the
last leaf of autumn in his oakum whiskers,
lumbered to his feet. But the polite old man
was wiry, and terror gave him speed. He
turned, slipped on the polished fig-leaves, re-
covered himself, and ran down the asphalt
path—Germany saving the chancellery. They
shouted insults after him; adjurations to
come back like a man (meaning thereby that
he should return to be robbed like a gentle-
man). and, as his rapid little footfalls on the
asphalt dwindled to silence, they exhausted
their curses and began to search the aban-
doned territory of the enemy.
Among the leaves which had been the
salon-lit of the polite man they found a little
flag of printed calico with six stars on a
blue field and a jack in the corner.
“The dirty dog!” said Speewaa bitterly.
“Th’ dirty, deceivin’, sneakin’ ’ound ! He
must ’ave ’ad three shillin’s! Be cripes, he
might ’ave ’ad six !”
“There’ll be a curse on ’is dirty money
eny’ow,” said Billy the Bull in a' tone of
deepest piety. “He’ll never do no good with
it. Let’s go an’ sell th’ dam’ rotten little
flag th ‘Labor-in-Vain’ ’ull be open in arf
an our.”
Speewaa growling assent, they departed
down the Woolloomooloo track —two obscene
birds of night seeking the early maltworm.
It was unfortunate that while two patriots,
festooned with leaves and breathing sulpliu-
rously, should offer to one wharf-laborer to
barter one flag—so proving that the British
Umpire had not yet been knocked down on
the football ground, and also that the two
patriots aforesaid desired threepence—that
the flag merchant should return with a
policeman and charge the two patriots with
robbery and attempted assault.
War, ’ said Billy the Bull, as the police-
man took himself and Speewaa very gingerly
by a corner of their suspicious clothing—
"war never did no good to nobody.”
(t ‘Never mind war,” said the policeman.
, “ all over before you’re out again.
111 r 'vag you both.”
r f” with the war,” said Speewaa.
Somebody else ’ull cop me cave. If they do
I I! stiffen ’em w’en I come out.”
Next morning the polite flag-merchant
found himself curled up in the Allies’ cave.
Alone he listened to the boom of the morning
guns; and then he sat up and read on his
blankets of how Germany had again taken
Alsace and Lorraine.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Hors de Combat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FROM the title you might perhaps
think that this story would be chiefly
concerned with the adventures of a
horse either in the Melbourne Cup or some
other race meeting. In that case the mis-
take would be entirely yours. I do not
know anything at all about racing matters,
and all that I know about horses is that
they seem to manage very well between the
shafts of a baker’s or a butcher’s cart. The
energy, for instance, of our milkman’s horse
is almost feverish, yet all that he gets to eat
is one dipperful of chaff with three grains of
corn in it a day. It seems to me that horses
are not nearly so intelligent as some people
try to convince you that they are. If I
was our milkman’s horse I should wait one
morning with a pleased smile until the milk-
man came well within range, and would
then remember suddenly all the insulting
things he had said to me the night before.
After which I would kick him several times
in the stomach, and, having upset the cart
and drunk all the milk, I would be seen
galloping with terrific speed towards the
wheat crops in the Far West. As I said
before, however, this is not a story about
horses. It is a narrative relating to the mis-
fortune of a friend. The name of that
friend is Percy Dilwater.
Percy had theoretic warfare very badly
on the brain. This would not have mat-
tered only that he was always arguing
about it, and therein lies the cause of his
downfall.
In the evening Percy used to come over
to my place, and after a few preliminary
drinks and a cigarette, during the consump-
tion of which I always tried hard to con-
fine the conversation to dogs, geranium cul-
ture and Christmas presents, Percy would
ultimately circumvent me and revert to his
favorite topic, the war. Being a friend of
his I did not interfere. I just sat back and
smoked and thought of dogs, geranium cul-
ture and Christmas presents, while Percy
talked convincingly to himself about forced
marches, army corps, feu-de-joies and mat-
ters of a similar nature connected with the
movements, intentions and mistakes of the
opposing forces at the front, particularly
their mistakes. According to Percy, nearly
all the generals had a mistaken way of
doing everything, and the mistakes which
caused the fearful carnage, or the fearful
carnage which caused the mistakes to occur,
is beyond comprehension. I have often told
Percy that I have no comprehension at all,
and indeed I really believe that he suspects
it, but he still goes on talking—at least, he
did go on talking until the misfortune
occurred. It was caused by pride. Percy
is proud of his pronunciation of foreign
words, and managed fairly well as far as the
French towns and villages are concerned.
He could also speak incorrect Belgian quite
fluently. But when he moved to the “East-
ern Front” and commenced to describe the
movements of Russian armies in Poland
and Galicia, with the name of each village
and tram stop in each different diocese as
he went along, he got into difficulties.
On the evening of the catastrophe, the
fighting seemed to have happened in country
chiefly remarkable for the excessive sizzlea-
bility of its nomenclature.
“Supposing that they entrenched at Szcze-
brzeszyn,’ spluttered Percy, “what would
happen then?”
“I do not know.” I said. “Where is
that?”
“Szczebrzeszyn,” said Percy, impatiently,
is a conditional stopping place near Zizzle-
zenonabrack on the Buzzaforsgavink-Spitz-
gobinskagin railway line.”
Things reached a climax later on that
evening, when 50,000,000 Russians, with
77,000 machine guns and tape measures (I
am trying to give you the exact details as
Percy gave them to me) crossed the oscil-
lating river bed of Sozzyzaninstopoff and cut
off the German retreat on the quicksands of
Hhhwhooshbeerdeviloff.
“Yes,” I said when he had finished, “but
whv?”
“Why!” shouted Percy. “Why, you fool!
Don’t —can’t you see the strategenometric
importance of reaching Zigzagazonski, when
Zigzagazonski is the first step towards ob-
taining the magnificent view of the entire
German fortifications to be had from the
hills round Strykowzgiery-Scholektricspring-
str”
“Where?” I said.
“Strykowzgiery-Scholek”— repeated Percy,
but could not get any further. He had
reached the lingual terminus. He has never
spoken to me since. In fact, he hasn’t
spoken to anybody since.
“Lockjaw,” said the surgeon.
LES ROBINSON.


Westinghouse Pumping Set
Direct Coupled "Westinghouse” Cross Oil Engine
and Centrifugal Pump.
A SELF-CONTAINED UNIT SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR—
pr-
-
m
t
IRRIGATION
and other work.
The Engine operates without
CARBURETTER or
VAPORISER, has no delicate
mechanism to get out of order,
and is automatically governed
and lubricated.
Write for Particulars to
rake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike. Wellington.
■ ■ ■
Concord West, N. S. Wales
. f 2
BOUNDERS No. 20 PLANER S MOULDER.
—
Unequalled Value. Stridly Moderate Price.
PLANES, 12in. x 4in.
Double Row Ball Bear=
ings to all Spindles.
Feed Rollers all Gear
Driven and of Large
Diameter.
Vertical and Horizontal
Adjustment to Side
Heads.
Can be supplied with
Plain or Ball=bearing
Counter Shaft.
s&&***&
' % «ll§
' ■
Descriptive Leaflet and Price from SOLE AGENTS
THE AUSTRAL ENGINEERING SUPPLY CO. Limited,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dinneford’sl
Magnesia j
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious .
What a Boy Says :
“I like Remington-UMC arms and am-
munition because my Father has always
encouraged me to become a good shot
He says it improves my health by keep-
ing me out in the open; that it makes me
alert and keen of eye, steadies my
nerves and teaches me self control. I
can shoot as well as any boy in my town
and better than many of the older people.
My .22 repeater is a beauty —light,
splendidly balanced and may be easily
taken apart for cleaning and carrying.’*
Wide-awake Boys Everywhere Use
Pemfnston-UMC
Remington Arms—
Union-Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
Catalogs free
IT IS TIME
which is the test of all things —including proprietary medicines. The enormous
and ever-increasing popularity of Beecham’s Pills which, after a service of
seventy years, still hold their own against all rivals, is the most genuine proof of
the sterling worth of this excellent preparation. It must of necessity be a really
good thing to withstand the tremendous pressure of modern competition and
maintain a superiority so distinct and indisputable. With the flight of years
Beecham’s Pills have become known far and wide as the best medicine
TO TAKE
for those numerous ailments arising from a disturbed digestive system. For
biliousness, constipation, dizziness, flatulence, heartburn, headache, loss of
appetite and sluggish action of liver and kidneys, there is nothing to beat
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price ///| {56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
l/li, 2/9 & 4/b.
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION. I
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
COLGATE’S
snfiumc stick
If Men Knew How To
Lather r
They Would Shave With
More Comfort.
BUSS
Si-Si
The action of the lather on the beard is to remove the oily
covering on each hair. Then the water can get at the hair
to soften it. So the one logical place to mix the lather is on
the face, where every motion of the brush not only works the
lather up but works it in. This Colgate Way —without
the cup makes SOII> EVERYWHERE -If you wish a trial size-
unnecessary the enough for a month’s use— use the Coupon.
“mussy” rubbing-
in with the fingers
COUPON.
Chipman, Ltd.,
54 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S. W.
Please send me a trial size of Colgate's
Shaving Stick, in a handsome nickelled box.
I enclose 2d. in stamps to defray cost of
packing and postage.
Name
Address
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness's) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
V°U begin to
x look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con*
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.


MANGROVITE*
LEATHER
P-TI
is the ALL AUSTRALIAN BELT.
In buying it jou are not trading with the
enemy, nor adding to the profits of foreign
shareholders.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:—
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, SYDNEY
(only).
Telephones: City 2898, 8406.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
FOR
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAIMES NARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
A
: 4
w
c sj*
v BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY—and at Melbourne, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth.
TANCYE
LAMPLESS OIL ENGINE.
A marked improvement
in Kerosene Oil Engines.
Engine started immedi-
ately from cold. No
lamp required.
The best for Shearing,
Pumping, Chaffcutting,
Irrigating, etc.
TANCYE
SUCTION CAS PLANTS.
These Well-known and
Reliable Plants, gene-
rate power for Mills,
Factories, Mines, etc.,
at remarkably Low Cost.
Write us about them.
& C<?
rs.— • 2k
DALCETY&
=-AGENTS
i 8 D
CLAYTON & SHUTTIEWORTH
STEAM and OIL TRACTORS.
Specially adapted for Plough"
ing Large Areas. Most gratify-
ing results have been obtained
in New South Wales with the
new “ Clayton ” Oil Tractor. It
works on ordinary kerosene.
NICHOLSON & MORROW
“ UNION ” FARM IMPLEMENTS.
“Union” Harvesters, Drills,
Cultivators and Ploughs are
Wonderfully popular with
Australian Farmers. Their
extra strong construction is
a notable feature.
o
i;-;' ;■")
*WiLi
TANG YE Winches, Chain Blocks, Lifting Jacks, Steam Engines and Boilers, Pumps, etc
GANE Milking Machines.
WOLSELEY Crutching Plants.
POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT—
DODGE SPLIT IRON PULLEYS.
We want you to become acquainted witb the excellent mechanical
features of these Pulleys, which cost you no more than other
types of metal pulleys.
They are not ordinary “StocK” Pulleys—their construction repre-
sents the greatest merit attained in the pulley art, and for
GENERAL ALL-ROUND ENGINEERING and FACTORY WORK
appeal to the most discriminating of power uses.
Call and allow us to explain its special features, or permit us to
send you one for trial purposes.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING
AGENTS
Engineers O. Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASSIST AUSTRALIA BY MAKING GOOD ROADS.
ROCK BREAKERS (as supplied to Northern Territory, Principal British
Councils, Government Departments, Quarries, etc ).
WHEELED SCRAPERS, DRAG SCRAPERS, PLOWS, GRADER and
DITCHER, EXCAVATORS, CONCRETE niXERS.
EVERY MACHINE GUARANTEED of the Highest Class Material and Workmanship.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY TO
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.. Sydney and Melbourne.
