

eteran o
les
R. Gr. WATKINS £& CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent) Street), Syc3Lney»
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes
•'' '
BILLS
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5 W MONT DE PIETE D SI C? L T -P
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
And at
Telephone: City 9?
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
7 Swanston
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
IiLUI
:c:ii
S 3
11
m
is
Elt*.
:c_.
mu
1531
i-P
K'd}.y
Etc
o
Ijgjl
tiM
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
NOTICE TO READERS.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
TTuTZßzclleCzn.
214 George Street, Sydney.
JTTQM
UMUM
“PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
CHUBB'S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
' : . \
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA N S E N’S
■
m
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Entirely BRITISH,
-
and the World’s BEST!
PALMER CORD
TYRES.
Interesting Catalogue free from
The Silvertown Rubber Co.,
279 George Street* Sydney.
mm
mm
m
mm
Royal
Dutch
Sffia
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
IWII
n
Q
s
is a reproduction of the Hardwoods
that gives a perfect panel effect
at a minimum of cost.
Particulars and Samptes from
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Challls House,
MAKERS OF MALTHOiD
(D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative)
m
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
m
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S V. o.
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Rowers.
m
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Y01.36—N0. 1867.]
[Thursday, November 25, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


w
(All at 1/8 per vol.,
post free.
Beach's The Barrier, Chambers’ Fighting Chance, Conrad’* Lord Jim, Campbell’s Private Spud
Tamson, Gallon's Tatterley, Hay’s Pip, Hay’s Right Stuff, Hay’s Safety Match, Locke’s Glory of
Clementina Wing, Lyons’ Kitchener Chaps, Porter's Freckles, Trent’s The Vow, Westcott’s David
Hamm, Wilde’s De Profundis, Wilde’s Importance of Being Earnest, White's Riverman, Balfour’s Life
of R. L. Stevenson, and Stevenson’s Vailima Letters.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER,
DEATH TO FLIES.
THE NEW NON-POISONOUS
POWDER,
“MUSTDIE.”
The Great Insect
Destroyer.
Price
9d. per tin.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
Fleas, Flies,
Mosquitoes, Ants,
Cockroaches, Moths.
r < v'"'-
Nv •>'
Ss&Ksf v »
%v
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H, Box
1520, G.P.0., Sydney, and a trial tin
will be sent post free, or forward 9d. in
stamps for a fnH-size tin.
The Red Page
Russian Literature
The flood of Russian translation, rapidly
rising, has now reached Scdogub. Sologub is
not the name of a baekblocks Russian town*
ship; it is the pen-name of a Russian writer
of genius. Two selections from the work of
this prolific and popular author have already
been published— The Old House (Seeker)
and The Sivcet-Scented Name (Constable,
both per Dymock's Liorary). According to
the estimate of Stephen Graham, Fedor
Sologub ranks in Russian literature with
Tchekoff. He has published many volumes
of short-stories, some, such as his tale of
“The Little Stick," being nothing more than
a paragraph:—
“There is upon the earth a very wonder-
ful little stick which will cause all things to
disappear and turn your life into a dream if
you touch your head with it.
“If you don't like your life, just take the
little stick and put it to one of your temples
—and suddenly all you didn't like will be-
come a dream, and you will start something
quite new.
“Of that sort is the wonderful little stick.’*
In modern Russian literature the long
novel is not very popular, despite the ex-
ample of Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy, It is
Tchekoff, with his 20 volumes of short stories,
who is responsible for the fact that since his
death more than 80 per cent, of the fiction
published have been collections of little tales.
The translators of these two volumes, pub-
lished almost simultaneously, have in several
instances chosen the same tales. The reader
will discover the difficulties of translation
from the Russian by the extraordinarily
wide divergences between the two transla-
tors’ work. Hardly a sentence is similar.
Sologub has an extreme range of subjects
but his chief preoccupations are the fantas-
tic, the morbid, the eerie and the horrible.
He is an admirable writer of fairy-tales;
for he depicts fairies in a manner naively
matter-of-fact. All great writers of fairy-
stories take the existence of fairies for
granted ; for to an imaginative child a fairy
is much more real than a solicitor; in fact,
suddenly confronted by a fairy princess and,
say, an official assignee, a child would natur-
ally and righty regard the latter as the more
fantastic of the two, while an indent-agent
or a sub-editor would be frankly incredible.
Sologub does not regard it as necessary to
prove the existence of fairyland. His child-
reader is already a resident there, and is on
much more intimate terms with its delightful
inhabitants than he is with the looming and
inconveniently massive human beings over
whose feet he is constantly falling.
But Sologub is more than a writer of
fairy-stories. He can tell, in “Lohengrin,”
a romantic story gracefully; and in “The
Herald of the Beast," which appears in both
volumes, he can explore the regions of the
lorrible and at the same time write a mor-
dant allegory. “On the Other Side of the
River Mairure" is both a vivid re-creation
°. f savage life and a biting satire upon re-
ligious beliefs. “The Lady in Fetters’’ is an
essay in sheer hoi'ror. Sologub possesses one
certain atti’ibute of genius: he can communi-
cate to his reader an inescapable shivey.
And in “The Kiss of the Unborn” he proves
himself a master of simple pathos.
His longest story gives its name to the
other volume. “The Old House” has a com-
xelling interest; it is the saddest story of a
lousehold whose members —a grandmother, a
mother and a sister —patiently and confidently
await the return of a youth who has been
xanged. Their minds were unable to take in
:he fact of his dreadful death, and all their
lives are keyed up to the hourly expectation
of his home-coming. The beauty of the de-
scriptions of the countryside, and the calm-
ness of the placid narrative, makes only the
more poignant this story of hopeless pathos.
“The White Dog” and “Light and
Shadows” are almost painful studies of in-
cipient insanity. The former is merely
horrible ; the latter is just an account of
an imaginative schoolboy who becomes fasci-
nated by shadows, until he and his mother,
similai-ly infected, are haunted into madness
by their inability to keep their minds from
seeing nothing but shadows. Yet this story
clutches the imagination of the reader with
an insistent fear. He’s hardly a pleasant
author, Sologub.
JX
In the collection of stories entitled The
Millionaire (Seeker, per Dymock’s Library)
Michael Artzibashef reveals some outlines of
his autobiography. Artzibashef is a Tartar.
His early inclinations were towards pictorial
art; but his bitter poverty prevented him
becoming an artist. He turned to writing
“for all kinds of cheap papers” for a bare
living. Qxxite by chance he wrote his first
story in 1901, but the publication of this
tale, an exposure of the conditions in Rus-
sian schools, was prohibited by the Censor for
several years. It was in 1903 that he wrote
his notorious novel, Sanine, already noticed
by this page. Its publication, too, was
delayed by. the authorities for five years.
Artzibashef complains bitterly against this
delay. “At the time of its appearance litera-
ture had been flooded by streams of porno-
graphic and even homo-sexual works, and
my novel was liable to be judged with these.”
Already, however, he had achieved fame by
the publication of The Death of Ivan Lande,
a short novel included in the volume under
review. Artzibashef confesses that he has
never read Nietzsche; Max Stirner is to him
much nearer and more comprehensible.
In The Millionaire Artzibashef dramatic-
ally states and proves the thesis that a mil-
lionaire is either a public nuisance or a pal-
pable absurdity. “Either the millionaire, if
he takes the path that suits his position,
must feed upon his fellows, destroying life
by battening thereon like a bloated maggot
in manure, or he must remain that which he
is already, an insignificant appendage to his
millions.”
•n? ■ ®- s^s one of his friends, “cannot a
millionaire be himself a man of talent—a
poet, a painter, a sculptor?”
Certainly lie can. But in order that
such talent may develop and bear fruit, he
must know wliat it is to struggle and to
endure. What can a man know of suffering
vvhen, without the least effort, he can attain
the choicest pleasures of life? The thing’s
absurd!” s
,^. u t th® novel Is no cold analysis of the
millionaire s soul: the story moves like a
resplendent procession across a gorgeous
tapestry of barbaric and glowing colors. The
author is as interested in his beautiful
descriptions of nature as in the passions and
a I sts , horrors that occupy his foreground.
At the beginning you see the young million-
aire tiring of the love of his beautiful mis-
tress, pained by the suspicion that her
charms, like everything else that is his, have
only been bought. In choosing his hero the
author has not made the mistake of selecting
a debased or degenerate type. Without his
millions this young man might have been a
man ; but his good qualities, his sensitiveness,
his delicacy of soul, his remorse, his inerad-
icable yearnings to do good, are inevitably
the agents that lead io his self-destruction,
xet there is in liis character, as in nearly
every character depicted in Russian litera-
ture, extremes of degradation alternating
with heights of altruism. The storv is
wrought with a curiously compelling power;
and in the most violent scenes of lust and
horror there is always some compensating
beauty—some glimpse of sea or stars, some
sense of serener things. The Russian novel-
ist does not deliberately introduce his hor-
rors: he takes them as merely part of the
psychology of the Russian soul.
J*
The Death of Ivan Lande proves the truth
or this theory. Here the hero is a modern
Chnst—•-and Artzibashef is as interested in
the. delineation of the self-sacrificing soul of
Ivan Lande as he is in that of the morbid
millionaire. Lande is a young man who
gives all his money to the poor and attempts
to live the life, in modern Russia, lived by
Jesus. Naturally he is misunderstood: he
affronts his mother, the girl who loves him,
the men he befriends. And he perishes just
as sordidly as does the millionaire. But this
story is written with a tenderness, an under-
standing of the Russian soul, that proves
that the literate class of Russia, in award-
ing the author immediate fame, is a better
judge of literature than the corresponding
class of any other nation. There is one
scene, where Lande, a sick man, is watched
at night by two women who love him, which'
with a marvellous economy of words, probes
intolerably deep into the psychology of
women.
The concluding story, Nina, shows another
and highly unpleasant aspect of Artzibashef.
This is merely a sickening piece of sordid
realism—the debauching and murder of an
innocent girl by a gang of drunken Russian
officials, the subsequent hushing up by the
officials of their crime, the revolt of the
villagers and their brutal butchery by the
soldiers.
&
, Oblomov, by Ivan Goncharov (now pub-
lished in translation by Allen and Unwin),
is a Russian classic; and like most classics
it is. somewhat dull. A book becomes a
classic only when its influence has perme-
ated the literature of its country, and by
that time the ideas in the book itself have
lost their freshness. However, Oblomov
was worth translating. It is a study of a
type evidently peculiarly Russian, a man
who, possessing fine instincts, lacks will-
power, and thus relapses at last into apathy
and a living death. Yet the type had been
rather thoroughly investigated by William
Shakespeare, in Hamlet; and W. B. Max-
well, in his novel, In Cotton Wool, has
shown that the type existed in ante-bellum
England.
Oblomov had no concentration, no ambi-
tion, no wish except to be left alone. Un-
fortunately for himself, he was not com-
pelled, by lack of income, to work. He
spent most of his time in bed, or, clad in
an old dressing-gown, on a sofa in his rooms.
Yet he was intellectual and refined. The
Australian reader will have small patience
with such a hero, and refuse to credit such a
slovenly and hopeless type with any possible
virtues. And the Australian reader will
note again the chief defect of Russian liter-
ature ; Russian literature never tabes a
bath. After a long course of the reading
of Russian novels there is, in the recollec-
tion of this page, no character who ever
takes, a bath, while a bath or bathroom is
mentioned only once—in Artzibashef s The
Millionaire, where his mistress is depicted
revelling in a sumptuous bathroom, provided
for her by her lover. People in Russian
novels are always going to bed or dressing,
or, as in the case of Oblomov, being dressed
by a valet, but never is there a mention
of anybody turning on the shower.
But something almost as stimulating as
a cold shower wakes Oblomov to action. He
falls in love. But this phase does not last
long. The nice girl loves him. stimulates
him, but is unable to keep him from drop-
ping off into his mental sleep; and Oblomov,
unable to make up his mind to marry, sends
the sensible girl out of his life. His subse-
quent relapse i»*o corpulency, ennui and ill-
health. pampered by the landlady who had
married , him,, is inevitable. The name “Ob-
lomov” is said to have passed into the Rus-
sian tongue as the label of a characteristic
peculiarly Russian. But the motif of the
book is too far away from Australian condi-
tions to promise readers here much interest.
Another selection of Tehekoff’s works,
entitled Stories of Russian Life (Duckworth,
per Sydney Book Club), has not the rather
theatrical interest of Artzibaslief. There is
less realism and more wit in these slight and
often humorous stories, but Tchekoff has a
lighter, more sophisticated touch. The extra-
ordinary latitude of subjects that a Russian
author is allowed gives him an advantage,
in interest, over the novelists of our conven-
tional civilisation. One bit of malice deals
with a community of monks of the fifteenth
century. On the advice of a traveller the
old prior leaves the monastery, to investigate
the wickedness of the city, of which the
monks had known nothing. He felt that it was
his duty to discover that wickedness in order
to save the citizens’ souls. He came back
weeping. To the shocked monks he described
the seductions of city life:—
“He spoke eloquently, sonorously, with
inspiration; and the stupefied monks eagerly
hung on his words and panted with ecstasy.
Having described all the charms of the Devil,
the beauty of wickedness and the enchanting
grace of the infamous female form, the old
man cursed Satan, turned on his heel and
vanished behind his door.
“When he came out of his cell next morn-
ing not a monk remained in the monastery.
They were all on their way to the city.”
J*
It is a horrible picture of life that Maxim
Gorki draws in the first instalment of his
autobiography, My Childhood (Laurie, per
Dymock’s Library). It was “an intense,
varied, inexpressibly strange life. It re-
minded me of a crude -story, well told by a
good-natured but irritatingly truthful genius
....But truth is stronger than pity, and
besides, I am writing not about myself but
about that narrow, stifling environment of
unpleasant impressions in which lived —aye,
and to this day lives —the average Russian
of this class.” On the death of his father,
the child of four was taken to live with his
grandfather, whose house “simply seethed
with mutual hostility.” The children were
always being brutally flogged—in the class
to which Gorki belonged flogging was con-
sidered a vital part of their education.
Gorki’s father flogged him till he lost con-
sciousness ; and yet the old man could show
kindness to the forlorn child- “Here people
seldom laughed, and when they did it was
not always easy to guess wfyat they were
laughing at. They often raged at one
another, and secretly muttered threats
against each other in the corners. The
children were subdued and neglected; beaten
down to earth like the dust by the rain.”
The grandfather used also to beat his wife-
all day, stopping now and then to get his
breath.
But worse things than beating went on
in that den of wild beasts. There were
fierce quarrels and deliberately attempted
murders. Gorki’s mother, who after his
father’s death, even shocked her father by
her immorality, married again, and one day
the child found her new husband kicking
her in the breast. Gorki seized a knife, but
did not manage to kill the brute. And as
the child grew up he took naturally to
organised thieving with the gang of village
children. “Theft was not counted as a
crime in our village; it had become a cus-
tom, and was practically the only means
the half-starved natives had of getting a
livelihood.... The grown-up people used to
boast of their successes, and the youngsters
listened and learned.”
And Gorki notes quite naively (fiat one
of the children believed that to steal was
a sin. But, of course, to steal wood, planks
and poles was not accounted a sin.
“As I remember these oppressive horrors
of our wild Russian life,” Gorki says, “I
ask myself often whether it is worth while
to speak of them. And then, with restored
confidence, I answer myself: It is worth
while because it is actual, vile fact, which
has not died out, even in these days—a fact
which must be traced to its origin, and
pulled up from the memories, the souls of
the people, and from our narrow, sordid
lives. And there is another and more im-
portant reason impelling me to describe
these horrors. Although they are so dis-
gusting, although they oppress us and crush
many beautiful souls to death, yet the Rus-
sian is still so healthy and young in heart
that he can and does rise above them. For
ia this amazing life of ours not only does
the animal side of our nature flourish and
grow fat, but with this animalism there has
grown up, triumphant in spite of it, bright,
healthful and creative —a type of humanity
which inspires us to look forward to our
regeneration, to the time when we shall all
live peacefully and humanely.”
j*
Against this horrible background the por-
traits of kindly characters, or, more fre-
quently, kindly characteristics in degraded
characters, stand out the more vividly. The
autobiography is not a record of mere beast-
lines*. The clouded souls of these Russians
are lit by strange gentlenesses, the glow of
noble ideals, the fire of splendid renuncia-
tions. And Gorki etches these people with
a virile hand. The grandfather, with all his
meannesses and brutalities, stands out as a
fine man, an enduring type of masterfulness
and capacity. And Gorki’s mother is drawn
not only with a writer’s aloofness but with
a son’s pitying love. As an example of
Gorki’s power, take his picture of the dried-
up old woman in green:—
“She was green all over: her dress, and
hat, and her face, which had warts under
the eyes: even the tufts of hair on the
warts were like grass. Letting her lower
lip droop, she raised the upper one and
looked at me with her green teeth, covering
her eyes with a hand in a black thread
mitten.
“ ‘What is that? I asked, suddenly grow-
ing timid.
“Grandfather answered in a disagreeable
voice: ‘That’s another grandmother for
y0u.’....
“At dinner.., .the old woman eften ap-
peared—looking just like a rotten paling in
an old fence. The eyes seemed t > bo sewn
on her face with invisible threads, and
looked as if they would easily roll out of
their bony sockets, as she turned them
rapidly in every direction, seeing and taking
notes of everything.... Her eyebrows looked
exactly as if they had been cut out of pieces
and stuck on. Her large, protruding teeth
noiselessly chewed whatever she put in her
mouth; while the bones about her ears
moved like little round balls, and the green
hairs on her warts went up and down as if
they Were creeping along her yellow,
wrinkled, disgustingly clean skin. She was
always so very clean, and it was unpleasant
to go near her. The first day she put her
dead hand against my lips it smelled
strongly of yellow soap and incense, and I
turned away and ran off.”
How naive is the child’s repugnance to
cleanliness!
This book is necessary to every reader of
Russian fiction: it shows the manure from
which that literature has so gloriously blos-
somed.
♦
“Masetto’s” counter-point:—
A brief rejoinder to Louis Stone’s torrent
of abuse in B. 28/10/T5. The next occa-
sion I read a work of his I will take moi’e
time, and will not make such an error as
taking sound-bar for sound-post as a railway
journey perusal of the novel made me. Had
I carefully read of the glue I should not have
made the blunder, and saved an unneeded
lecturette on the parts of a violin. But on
the two other points lam still firm. Sup-
pose ‘‘Betty was not a Paderewski and that
Ricordi had coached her in this particular
concerto.” Her technique is referred to as
brilliant, and she had been rehearsing the
number quite long enough to play it as any
good student does play equally good con-
certos, i.c., without hanging on the conduc-
tor’s beat. A quarter of a century of assorted
music ought to make this clear to our
author. In the third reply Stone plays an
unfair game by using a different quotation
from his novel to the one I used; and his
endeavor to shift the mistake to me is no
proof of his assertion being correct. I never
suggested that a violin bow, whether expen-
sive or cheap, was used for violent assaults
on music-stands, as he infers. And music-
stands are not ahvays made of iron. How-
ever, concert-goers can settle the point, and,
as to malice, Bulletin readers can compare
the language of us twain and give their
verdict
You can now get The Ansicer (S. D.
Smith, Sydney), by W. J. Chidley, for 7s. 6d.
This, is an enlarged edition, with an intro-
duction by Francis Anderson, Professor of
Philosophy, Sydney; and its sub-title is
“The World as Joy,, an Essay in Philosophy.”
The “complete edition” consists of three
parts: “Ancient Philosophy,” “The Middle
Ages,” and “The Answer,” which is practi-
cally the old volume with a few extra illus-
trations, including that of the Kaiser. But
The Answer takes -up only one quarter of
the volume. The new matter is an elaborate
discussion of philosophy, ancient and mod-
ern, from “the first philosopher,” Thales of
Miletus, who lived in the time of Croesus, to
Schopenhauer. This task shows the author
to be a. man of wide reading in philosophy
and ethics; but he has treated his subject
with such a confusing mass of detail that
this page has utterly failed to grasp either
his argument or its conclusion. The fault,
doubtless, is not in his matter—though the
subject is one only for W. J. Clr'dley’s fel-
low-philosophers—but in his inability to keep
distinct the main threads of his theme; while
the distinctly Chidleian contribution to the
development of philosophy is modestly lack-
ing—unless that is found in the concluding
pages of The Answer. Then, at least, he is
clear enough.
Does poetry pay? In The Sentimental
Blolce, by C. J. Dennis, Angus and Robert-
son have evidently struck a winner of the
calibre of Paterson’s The Man from Snowy
River. Within two weeks of first publica-
tion a second edition has been called for;
and already the author has had a substantial
cheque for royalties.
The November Triad (6d.) has Its usual
hotch-potch in its bulging string-bag—music,
pictures, eisteddfods, fiction, reviews, verse,
dramatic and musical criticisms. But this
month elocution has been reduced to some-
thing like its proper proportion, and in its
place there is criticism of the Post Office,
the Balkan business and Australia Day
administration.


a
No. C2s.—■Ladies’ Patent Colt
Court Shoes, medium toes, pump
soles, smart Louis heels 21/6, 25/-
I
No. C3o.—Ladies’ Patent Colt
Court Shoes, medium toes, smart
celluloid covered Cuban heels, pump
soles .. 19/9, 21/-, 23/6
No. C32.—Ladies’ Patent Colt
1-bar Walking 1 Shoes, pump
soles, leather Cuban heels, latest
French last 22/9
No. C27.—Ladies’ Glace Kid
Court Shoes, patent collar,
medium toes, leather Cuban heels,
welted soles 14/9
Similar styles in pump soles —
9/11, 13/9
No. C34.—Ladies’ Patent
Whole Goloshed Button
Boots, Navy Blue and Black Cloth
legs, extended last, welted soles,
leather Cuban heels ... 25/6
Also similar styles in colored Suede legs,
18/9, 21/-
... Fashion and Economy combine in ...
Anthony Horderns' Famous Low Prices
.
5%
UN.
7- : 7J7j7:M
203
No. 203.—Dainty Bonnet of Satin Straw,
trimmed Guipure Lace and Ribbon Streamers,
suitable for Child 3 to 4 years 13/6
No. 55. —Pretty Hat of Fancy Crinoline
Straw, trimmed accordcon-pleated Ribbon on
brim, and strappings of Ribbon round crown;
suit Girl 10 to 12 years 10/0
I wr
Tm **
1
nfp
■a
Berne
Queen)e
Cl
S’-'#®,
*. •°\" "• * *•/• *'
3.W
JJfe'
"-ft.
■if- *
wii
tMi
DSOS©
'J&L.L
Gladys
Tlie Bertie.—Boy’s Tunic Coat, in good-
quality Crash, fitting child from 2 to 5 years—•
18in., 2/6; 20in„ 2/6; 22in„ 2/6
The Queenie. — Child’s Frock, in ivory
Japanese Silk; fitting Child from 2 to 5 years—
isin., 10/11; 20in., 10/11; 22in., 11/6
■■
TM
av»
201
- V
No. 201.—Satin Straw Bonnet, shaped
Ilat, brim edged with Crepe-de-Chine, and
trimmed with Crepe-de-Chine and small posies
of Flowers, suit Child 6to 8 years.... 15/6
The Dot.—-Child’s Frock, in White Hailstone;
for Child from 2 to 6 years—
Sizes 18in. 20in. 22in. 24in.
7/11 7/11 8/6 8/6
The Gladys.—Child’s Frock, in Pink-
spotted Poplin; fitting child from 4 to 10
years—
-22in., 5/©; 24in., 5/6; 27in., 5/11;
30in., 5/11.
&
ar.
/:
735
r
X
\
No. 735. —-Girl’s Smart Glace Silk Hat,
trimmed Moire Ribbon, suit Girl 16 to 18
years 13/11
The Present Problem.
Anthony Horderns' Xmas Price Lists will
solve the present problem. Write for copies,
posted free on request ; they bring selections from the wondrous assortment we
offer at the command of everyone in Australia.
Ladies’ Glace Kid
Oxford Lace Hlioes, welted soles,
patent toe caps, leather Cuban heels,
made on latest French last.. 16/9
No. C36.—Ladies’ Patent Colt
Whole Goloshed Oxford Lace
Shoes,* extended last, welted soles,
leather Cuban heels 19/9
Also in Tan Calf 13/9, 17/6
No. C26.—-Ladies’ Patent Colt
Court Shoes, medium toes, with
tongue and buckle, pump soles, Cuban
Louis heels, best American make,
25/-
No. C2B. —Ladies’ Glace Kid
Fancy 3-bar Shoes, patent toe
caps, medium toes, pump soles, leather
Cuban heels 15/6
No. CSS.—Ladies’ Patent Colt
Goloshed Oxford Shoes, dull
Kid tops, extended last, welted soles,
smart Cuban heels, Bostock’s best
English make 25 /6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Winchester.
Cartridges
Shoot Straight
and Hit Hard
These two cardinal points
of a good cartridge, and
also that of reliability, are
always found in Win-
chester ammunition. No
matter what caliber cart-
ridges you want or whether
they are for use in a rifle,
revolver or pistol you will
get the best results by using
Winchester make. They
are sold everywhere.
Accept no substitute,
insist upon having
THE
BRAND
Bovril develops big
reserves of strength
IT MUST BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE
\ 'll//////,
//////
. w
7'A
Raineses’
gloomy
mornings
Your own gloomy mornings
are due to the same cause
as his. The ages have made no
change in the human system.
His liver, his bile, his
digestion, his elimination —
his whole system —acted
in the same way as yours.
If he had only had
Cockle’s Pills he could have
been as cheerful every
morning as you can be.
Since their discovery, the
principal advance in medi-
cine has been that doctors
know better and better
the reasons why Cockle’s
Pills are unequalled in
their gentle power to
help nature help herself.
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond St., London, Eng.
TEM
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
ER THAN All.
m
m
m
C
m
■ :
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott 8 Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye 8 Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram 8 Son
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Works : 269 Toorak Road,
Melbourne.
m
mm
BROOKS 890 Patent Road Saddle. Made in several sizes.
Our confidence in BROOKS Saddles is based upon the fact that for
over thirty-five years they have carried in comfort the great majority of cyclists,
•and to-day their pre-eminence is more striking than ever before. That must
mean satisfaction.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
m
If any illustration appearing in T::e
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, jvho will quote you price for it.
§g|§
MISS ADDINGTON.
Modern Miracles
—The beautiful daughter of—
Mrs, R. A. Addington, Argent St„
Broken Hill, is declared to have
been cured of St. Vitus* Dance by
CLEMENTS TONIC.
RECENTLY in France a peasant woman whose little girl had
been bedridden with paralysis for years, had occasion to
visit a churchyard which contained the statue of a well-
known saint. Some of the mould from the tomb adhered to her
handkerchief, which, upon touching her child, cured her. This
fact is vouched for upon reliable authority.
Miracles are not all confined to the older countries, for we have
heard also of similar remarkable incidents in newer countries,
and very often in Australia. A few years ago,a certain section
of Broken Hill was electrified by the recovery from apparently
incurable St. Vitus’ Dance of the daughter of Mrs. R. A. Adding-
ton, of Argent Street. It was on the 10th October, 1911, when
first the mysterious cure was reported. The mother, being seen
by a special interviewer, and, overcome by gratitude that her
daughter was healthy again, told the facts at once. She said
that the disorder occurred through her daughter falling from a
tram. This gave her a great shock, and so affected her nervous
system that eventually St. Vitus’ Dance ensued. She became so
bad that it was impossible to hold a knife and fork, and going out
of the house was out of the question. This remarkable condition
continued for some time, medical skill being useless, Mrs.
Addington declared, WHEN SUDDENLY, AS THE RESULT OF
USING CLEMENTS TONIC, a wonderful change took place. She
gradually improved, and soon regained her normal condition.
Nearly two years have elapsed since her complete recovery, and
all that time she has enjoyed the best of health. “I have great
faith in Clements Tonic, and always recommend it,” ; added the
mother “and vou can make what use you wish of this.”
ALL stores and chemists sell it everywhere.
vou set the Original Hedicine. Do not accept any “just as good’
' remedy. There is only one real Clements Tonic.


RHEUMATISM
Its Cause—and Cure.
Rheumatism is caused by a curious,
poisonous acid in the blood. This acid, just
like tiny pieces of broken glass with rough
edges, settles in the joints and muscles and
causes that awful agonising pain of back-
ache, rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the
bladder, etc.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
strengthen the kidneys and drive the
poisonous pain-causing acid right out of the
system.
k
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid
of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change to
a muddy bluish color—a feature which dis-
tinguishes J)e Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that \they r _bave put their healing
touch on tll4f right spot—the kidneys and
the bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to
the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s pills
give such amazingly quick relief —every
time. A permanent cure follow's in almost
every case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or how badly
you have suffered.
Dewitts
Kidneysßladder Pills
Nature’s Safest Remedy .
CKCA
&
£
£
<
3
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
“AP 99 celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
“ Angling Department,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE.
318 Little Collins St. Melbourne
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. ,T. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes:—•
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
.your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i
Bonnino ton’s
IRISH 6 moss
JNHINGTON
CARRACCI?
w
f£*N
IRISH M
CHS.fOtOS
RIHMiIMIMMI M «M.. I
U«||MIMW
iLkIUIMMI)
(EO&£
HBgSftay
For Baby
Every child is prone to ailments of the chest
and lungs, COUGHS, COLDS, WHOOPING
COUGH, etc. The wise mother will at once
fly to “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss,’’ the safest and
most RELIABLE household remedy. The
SAFEST for baby is—
Avoid all
Imitations.
BONNINGTON’S
m
builds strong
bodies and
sturdy limbs.
Where breast milk is not available
give baby M.ellin’s Food mixed
with fresh cow’s milk. The fresh
milk is absolutely necessary be-
cause of its vital properties.
Mellin’s Food makes it as nearly
as possible like human milk.
PROOF FROM EXPERIENCE
“The doctor, when prescribing your Food three days after my
daughter was born, never expected her to live, being such a weak,
puny little thing. She is now, at two years of age, as fine and
sturdy a child as one could wish to see; Mellin’s Food undoubtedly
saved her life."—W. A. Johnnes, Elm Grove, Armadale, Melbourne.
A Sample Bottle of Mellin’s Food, together with a useful Handbook
for Mothers, "The Care of Infants in Australia," sent Free. Write:
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., SYDNEY.
mm
Lumbago
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
63, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gallipoli.
The sun it laughs into my face,
The world makes mock at me ;
I gave my man ; and now he lies
Dead, at Gallipoli.
It’s only six moons since we wed,
My splendid man and me,
And now he lies, with bloodied lips,
Dead, at Gallipoli.
And life goes on and on and on,
Flaunting and gay and free.
How can the Spring come here, with him
Dead, at Gallipoli?
n.s.w.
KISMET.
Time Scorn.
O ye makers of the song,
Was it early, was it late
That the foe was at the gate
And the arrow on the thong?
Was it only yesterday,
Or a thousand years ago.
That ye set your cups allow
At the darkening of the day?
Were her lips so coral red,
Was the bloom upon her cheek
On the Friday of last week
Or in ages past and dead?
Did she speak the word of scorn
When this morning’s sun uprose,
Or at some red evening’s close
Ere the elder gods were born?
Do. her word of scorn is young
And her lips are coral red.
Though the mouth she kissed is dead
As the roses Nero flung.
Lo, the bloom is on her cheek
Though the grass be o’er her head,
She is living and was dead
On the noon of Friday week.
Was it early, was it late
That we set our cups aflow?
Have a glass before you go,
For the foe is at the gate.
We, the makers of the song,
Throw the gage of living rhyme
In the bitter beard of Time.
With his arrow on the thong.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Mother Song.
O fragrant rose
Of love-delight!
O light that glows
Through day and night!
O hope fulfilled !
O dream come true!
O honey spilled
From out the blue!
O faith grown strong!
0 ecstasy!
O sense made song
And sent to me !
O God with us
That hide your wings!
O rapturous
Sweet lord of things!
O pearl demure!
O pain made bliss!
O little, pure,
Incarnate kiss!
O fair and wise!
O flower of joy
From Paradise!
0 baby boy!
N.S.W.
SELWYN RIDER.
A Harbor Fantasy.
The ferry glided from the quay.
And with its prow it pierced the night;
We floated on a silver sea,
The city burning on our sight.
A smoke-wisp from our funnel hung
Was like the veils some maidens wear ;
With cheek pressed to my sleeve, there clung
To me a girl with purple hair.
A crescent moon above us shone,
And, from her throne in argent state,
Cast countless silver coins upon
The harbor’s broad collection plate.
I wondered would her small change last;
And while she sprinkled thus the sea,
The steam-drops on my whiskers cast
Drew my Brown Girl quite near to me.
And there were other gems on view:
Great stars gleamed forth, remotely white,
Chaste diamonds seeming, fastened to
The sable jacket of the night.
All nature was so rich that there
Was pathos in our poverty!
Could we Selene’s bounty share
Love’s happiness we’d hold in fee.
I longed to steal Night’s sables and
Some of her gems—which I would pawn—
And then to filch with greedy hand
The golden wonder of the dawn.
While Dora nestled close to me
Such thoughts coursed madly through mj
head.
With half those coins strewn on the sea
We two would long ago have wed !
Give us, I mused, that wealth misspent!
Give it at once —and give it here!
And we would go, in sweet content,
And buy nine quarts of elder beer.
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


i# 5 *
I| ;.'l
mm.
Utlliiiii,
gas
m
GuapanWd
spnd Fop Prico
List
lililllm:
J-'
v
liiiiini'i
Sydnoy
Mcdboupno
Adelaide
Brisbane
P<?pfh
Xvsaqbt @a(vnmrc6 .OEeefe
jftolsn, S£brvcted, anil/ le. /cleatec/ -u/icm
ex/i/iltccctctyrtj a. feee, co/vy. Clbe / rubup
cvrvd edcli&n. 't/beZ# " l&
(E'lste^y*(Oumew' er^
IffibU &aoA c*m/cusn6
<xyyn/uled -ctfAid twill le. 101/i
CLc/ul 8 tss S^yxln£^
SUPPLIED TO THE NAVAL AND MILITARY AUTHORITIES IN
GREAT BRITAIN AND AUSTRALIA lEHMM
See how it improves
linoleum and oilcloth!
Beautifies and preserves floorcloths,
furniture, wood floors and leather goods.
It is a firm paste —and cannot spill or
waste as “creams” do —and does away
with all drudgery.
Shi-noleum enables you to keep a home
always bright. Get a tin to-day.
Sample free on request. The Paget Manufacturing Co.
Ltd., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
r
For cool delights
On Summer nights
The Jolly wells seek
Roof Garden’s heights.
Quite free from care
This happy pair
Enjoy the music
And the air.
And all the time
They feel so prime
By eating “Rex
The Cheese sublime.
Tke Joilvwells
That is “a classic” which is so well
done as to Defy Competition.
llomer sang epics which the world has agreed are
the best ever.
Shakespeare’s tragedies are classics, because the
immortal William knew human nature.
Rut classics are not confined to literature; there are classics in
Furniture, known as “Period” Furniture —and here in
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE
we have something so well made as-to have no real rivals. Whether
you call it a classic is a matter of taste.
In “Ilex” Luncheon Cheese you find the flavor of your.favorite foreign
Cheese SURPASSED FOR ONCE.
rou find the valuable properties of perfectly-matured, Full-Cream
Cheese, in an easy-to-spread consistency (“Consistency, thou art a
jewel”) which enables you to spread it on crackers without cracking
or otherwise damaging them until you are ready.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese also permits you to dispense with the butter,
if Economy is the order of the day.
You will have no difficulty in discovering the “whey” to eat “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese.
Get a tin or jar from your Grocer to-day. Try it.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are:
“Ilex” Ham Tate.
“Ilex” Veal and Tongue Tate.
“Ilex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Hex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Ilex” Pork and Beans, 11)1*. tins.
“Rex”- Camp Pie, in tins.
“Hex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, 11b. tins.
“Hex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Ilex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Brand Bard, l’or cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon ;
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
oc
E
X
BR»ty»
“ I i\c omp cxrc^tale"


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vot. 36.—N0. 1867.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1915.
Price Gd.
THE GAMBLE.
Mr. Winston Churchill said he regarded the Dardanelles campaign as a gamble.— Cable.
AUSTRALIA: “Buck up, Bad! Even if you did lose the trick, we’re willing to see the game out!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleoi), of
Musgravc and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received arc those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., L/ Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IV. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
20th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co ,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.— -Ignacy Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lT'. G..-P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai.
x Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji? British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., kd.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 160. z.,
Id. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — othenvise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id. ;
lpoz, tq .120 z., 3d.; elsewhere > J 05., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY; NOVEMBER 25, 1915.
LET US HAVE A SLEEP, ANYHOW.
Prime Minister Hughes laid down the law
once more to the Protectionist Association
at Melbourne last week
We must diminish, our consumption of imports
and maintain our exports upon an increased scale.
And not only this, 'lmt -we must buy solely from our
Allies. Every penny that we pay to another nation
is money wasted, t.
And then Hughes went on to suggest that
if the people
restrict their consumption of sugar they will
save the Commonwealth "a : great deal of money. It
will also conserve the national wealth of Australia
.considerably, as every penny paid outside for sugar
is lost. Before the new Queensland crop is avail-
able we shall have paid millions of pounds for
foreign sugar, and the money goes for ever, so far as
its benefit to Australia is concerned. If the com-
munity can see its way clear to exercise a wise
moderation in the consumption of this well-known
article of diet it will do great and lasting service to
the Commonwealth.
This is the gospel of salvation. But it
does not apply only to the luxury of suck-
ing the imported lolly and sitting in the
foreign armchair. Between foreign sugar
and foreign feathers to stick in a hat and
cliewing-g'um and pianolas and razors there
is no point of economic difference. To a
debtor country like Australia imports from
Allies.' or neutrals or enemies are sources of
two things only—impoverishment and waste.
* -* * *
But it. is np use Hughes merely talking
about the matter and promising to* see to it
later on and making fierce remarks about
keeping enemy goods out of Australia. There
is nothing novel about the situation. It was
on hand long before the war started. Aus-
tralia has been importing foreign sugar in
large quantities every year: indenting ship-
loads of saucepans and scented soap and
petticoats and timber and fish and all the
rest of it; meeting drafts on demand from
Chicago and Yokohama and Hamburg and
Manchester; exporting raw wool and getting-
back the finished product; and generally-
behaving in a demented fashion. And the
wild-eyed lunacy is going on to-day and will
be going on to-morrow. Now what is to be
done? Words are no substitute for action.
Hughes knows well that his invitation to
the Australian citizen to put hi c noon into
the sugar-basin less frequently a futility.
No one will use any less sugar; and if they
can be bought in the shops and warehouses,
there are not many who will purchase fewer
foreign made socks or cigars or mouth-
organs. Hughes knows that every trans-
action of the kind is as calamitous as if
a bushel of wheat were dropped into the sea.
Further, he is seized of the fact that the
tariff has been huddled indefinitely out of
sight: that Parliament has shut up and gone
off for a holiday; that he himself is off to
London—and that nothing Iras been done or
is going to be done in the immediate future
to arrest a course of public policy which has
led to the nation being bled year after year.
Why are these politicians staying their
hands from the task? What excuse have
they for calmly watching Australia lose
millions for ever, and, while garrulously
lamenting the dreadful facts, doing nothing
but wring nerveless hands in public places?
Australia could never afford the drain of
millions. She can afford it less now, weak-
ened as she is by the loss of men, a fearful
pile of debt and a burden of taxation that
will require all her strength to carry. The
supine attitude of Parliament in this matter
calls for the hearty curse of every patriotic
Australian who would see his country stand
on its own feet. Vague talk about the elim-
ination of German trade is just so much
waste of breath. German trade is coming
to Australia now in plentiful quantities.
Hughes knows it. He says so. Long ago
The Bulletin said that his Bills for
the prevention of this trade were worthless,
and events have proved them so. Before
the war German goods Avere actually
getting preferential treatment at the Cus-
toms, and if betting were thoroughly respect-
able this paper would risk a shilling at short
odds that something of the kind is going on
now. The address of Von Bluds and Ikon-
stein is not .always at Cologne or Ham-
burg. Hughes’s job is to look after Aus-
tralian trade. Up to the present other
people have shown what they can do in that
direction. All the politicians have done is
to say what they ought to do and then not
do it.
It is not Germany’s fault that this country
has been pouring cash down a sink. It is
not the result of conspiracy between the Hun
and the Turk that Australians have been
hard at work dragging boxes from the interior
of over-sea ship* and filling up the orifice
with material to keep foreign factories work-
ing and feed foreign workmen. These deeds
have been of Australia’s own invention. And
even now the continent is infested with indi-
viduals who, if the war terminated on Sun-
day, would cable to Berlin on Monday for a
thousand gross of sausages and a shipload of
penwipers. It will not be Germany’s fault
if Australia at the end of this year or next
year,, or of 17 subsequent years, finds her
politicians fumbling about with phrases
instead of possessing a tariff that will kill
the importing disease. Australia will alone
be to blame. And judging by the volume
of hot air flying around, more unlikely things
may happen than that she may have to go on
carrying the blame. Here is the report of
a speech delivered the other dav in New
York :
The market which this country [America] should
plan to develop is Australia and Maoriland, where
standards of living- and cost of production are on a
par with the standard of -this country. While the
United States sells, much to Australia, most of its
shipping is done in foreign bottoms, and most of
the American goods bought by Australia came in
tramp freighters which left Australia and went to
Europe by the Suez Canal. The result is that, while
Australia buys heavily from the United States, it
sells back only about one-fifth as much. The way
to increase the growth of trade with the United
States is to establish direct lines between Australia
and the eastern seaboard. The principal reason that
I am in New York is to try to induce American
shipping men to establish a direct line to Australia.
The States can supply Australia with practically
everything which was formerly supplied by Germany.
The speech of a drummer for Private Enter-
prise? No! It is part of a speech by the
Trade Commissioner for N. S. Wales, who
has “taken offices in Vanderbilt Avenue,” and
explains that he has been sent there for the
express.purpose of increasing trade between
Australia and the U.S.A. Apparently his
idea is to incite the Yank to get in on the
Australian market quick and lively—to fill
up more ships, to “capture German trade,”
to do all those things which Hughes says
ought not to be done, and which, if they are
done, are abominations.. Here is a ludicrous
anomaly, public money actually being ex-
pended to secure' results which the Prime
Minister rightly says mean national damna-
tion. A little while ago Australia heard
frequent yells about “capturing Germany’s
trade.” Since then she has seen a fair
amount of it captured by Japan, and has
noticed that the local capturing mainly con-
sists of talk. Now she sees that Uncle
Sam is being pressed to hurry up and capture
the remainder.
THE CURSE OF WAR PROFITS.
The failure of the German Socialist to make
good any of his peace propaganda at the out-
break of the present war is not proof that the
tiger is clawless, but is merely evidence that
a lot of the alleged Socialism which was
lately roaring on this planet was rather a
phonograph in tiger’s clothing than the
genuine beast. A few years ago the Kaiser
astonished the world by coming down from
the steps of his imperial throne to fondle
Sosh as it crouched for what looked like a
dangerous spring. Now everybody knows
exactly what the Kaiseri-knew. The Marxian
article wasn’t even an independent-minded
cat; and the moment Wilhelm asked it to
wear a spiked hat it,marched off to Belgium,
blood and rapine as readily as if it had never
cursed wage-slavery~or asserted the rights of
man to an equal share of potatoes and
sausage. In the meantime Sosh, striped to
the last ring on its tail, had by force of cir-
cumstances risen in England, and the oldest
and crustiest Tory combined with the maiden
lady in spectacles to stroke and admire the
brute. Nobody called it by its objectionable
name, but that it was the same dreaded
man-eater was beyond all doubt. The lesson
to be derived from the failure of German
Sosh at the very moment when England’s
hoariest) institutions turn instinctively to
Sosh, is mainly that the animal in times
of peace turns its claws in the wrong direc-
tion, and has never learned the importance of
scratching first things first.
According to latest reports, Iyrupp’s made
a profit of £4,320,000 last year. Private
Enterprise, working overtime in the great
factory at Essen, was actually turning the
blood spilled in Flanders, Poland and else-
where into dividends to be paid to share-
holders. Yet the Essen factory grew up
under the patronage of the Kaiser and his
intimate friends in a country which polled
an overwhelming vote for Sosh at the elec-
tions. Sosh, or the phonograph which wore
its clothing, was busy in quite a number of
directions, threatening a scratch here, a bite
there, and a regular mauling somewhere else ;
but it never seemed to suggest itself to the
animal that before its own propaganda could
have the slightest force, Private Enterprise
in the making of war material must be taken
and clawed to death. The efforts of Sosh —
not the phonographic Marxian animal made
in Germany, but the live thing from the
jungle of civilisation—to get to the Millen-
nium must, in short, be directed with some
amount of common-sense if they are ever to
amount to much. The first aim must be to
tear down all bars which make its own pro-
gress impossible. Nobody—unless it might
be an American millionaire in strike time—
has ever thought of a Private Enterprise
army, yet a munitions factory with its crowds
of workers and highly-intelligent machinery
is in fact a kind of army. Victory, as has
been frequently pointed out, is more often
to be won in the workshop and foundry than
in the field; and Kbupp’s smoky divisions
are in reality the mainstay of all the
Kaiser’s campaigns.. Yet allegedly Socialis-
tic Germany, with its propaganda based on
the theory that peace would be maintained,
allowed Private Enterprise to go on prepar-
ing not only for war but also for the distribu-
tion of those war profits which were bound to
follow a rupture of the calm of Europe. All
the machinery of war should be in the hands
of the people. War or no war, it is the only
safe course. While the pendulum and bal-
ance exist and culture rubs shoulders with
kultur or barbarism or greed of possession
there is always a chance of war. The most
complete system of Socialism extending over
a portion of the earth could never eliminate
that chance. Universal Socialism would re-
quire for long years a police force which
would be in fact a mammoth army made up of
many nationalities and liable to split into
sections and fight. National Socialism, which
is probably the only safe basis on which any
international Socialism could ever be built,
is just as liable to be forced to draw the sword
as democracy or imperialism. .Evidently, then,
the munitions factory is a permanent feature,
and the citizen army and citizen-owned
arsenal must remain side by side. That
arsenal represents national sacrifice—work
diverted from more peasant and profitable
channels to the creation of an insurance
against defeat and greater loss. Under
threat of war the sacrifice becomes larger;
in the actual storm and stress of battle it
reaches its maximum. The people who as a
\vhole own it know well that there are no
dividends to be drawn from it, and that
very knowledge has a tendency to make for
peace.
* * * *
But the Private Enterprise munitions fac-
tory is an animal of another shape and a
blacker color. It is to the direct interest' of
the few influential people who oavii its. shares
to have the peace broken. It is a perpetual
menace. The duty of every nation, whether
in other matters Socialistic or not, is to see
that nobody has any private interest to serve
by provoking war. While it may seem almost
inconceivable that men should desire to see
blood and carnage and pain and death because
it increases their bank accounts, it must be
remembered that one of war’s peculiarities is
that nobody ever does see it in its true horror
until the game has gone too far to be stopped.
Hags and uniforms and iron crosses and'talk
of glory throw a rose mist round the whole
bitter business, and the person whose eye is
keenest for dividends readily persuades him-
self that by putting his money into fireworks
he has been the savior of his nation in her
hour of peril. It is for the people themselves
to remove any temptation to look at matters
in such a light. The first business of Social-
ism, if it is sincere, is to see that the defence
of the country rests as an even burden upon
all shoulders. There is no surer guarantee of
peace than the arming and calling to service
of the whole people and placing upon the
people thus armed the onus of making war.
Regarding the munition factory as part and
parcel of that system which involves sacri- ■
fice on the part of the nation, it too ceases to
be a menace, and makes for sober thought
and deliberate judgment. Australia just now
is getting ready to pour munitions into the
general stream from any and every workshop
where anything hurtful to the enemy can be
made, and there is some shadow of danger
that from the special circumstances of the
moment a dividend-paying Kkupp’s of our
own may be evolved. It is our business to
see that not one penny of prospective profit
to a shareholder can ever enter into consider-
ations of peace or war on this continent.
BLITHERING ABOUT THE WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“You can take it from me,” said he, “there
will never be any more war:
“No, sir—not between civilised nations.
“It was different before men learned to
read and think for themselves.
“It was different when nobody had any-
thing, and one was just as comfortable dead
as alive.
“But now—now’ we’ve all -got something,
even if it’s only a vote.
“Don’t let this talk about Notes, Replies
and Ultimatums worry you—it is only the
International Walking Delegate earning his
screw.
“You can take it from me straight: there
will never be any more war. War has taken
the count, and is down and out for good.
“What outed it? I’ll tell you. Vested
Interests ! The most powerful organisation
on earth.
“Fire off a gun in Paris, and you hit an
investor in every city on the footstool. You
knock 10, 20, 50 per cent, off his dividends.
And you don’t think the white-vested in-
vestor is going to stand that, do you?
“TFe are the investors —you and I and
the other fellow’s. Whether it’s quids or
threepenny-bits—we are It.
“I’ve got a house on the Shore, and the
wife has a few shares in a building society.
So, maybe, have you, or a couple of hundred
quid in a local factory that pays you seven
and a half per cent. That’s where you come
in.
“Then there’s the hands who draw their
screws regular, every week. Are they going
to shut that factory up? Don’t you believe
it.
“Is the boss going to, who has got all his
brass sunk in it? I don’t think so.
“So if he isn’t, and you aren't, and the
hands aren’t, who’s going to fire that gun?
“Don’t be foolish. There will never be
any more war. For this reason —there’s
nobody left to make it!
“There are no professional soldiers any
more. At least, not enough to write home
to mother about.
“As a matter of fact, though it’s only the
smart-Alecs who’ve noticed it, you and I are
the soldiers! Yes, indeed. Everybody who
isn’t a physical cripple or a mental wreck
is a soldier now. The chap who drives the
bread-cart is in the militia ! The man next
door to me is a Reservist. My boy, 17 next
birthday, is in the cadets. And you and I
wrnuld have to give a hand if there was any-
thing doing. It’s the same all over the
world. And do you mean to tell me that we
are going to stand up and be shot at? Get
our arms and legs blown off, or maybe killed
altogether because one political boss lias been
snubbed by another? Not much; and these
Kings, Kaisers and Prime Ministers know
better than ask us to!
“It was a smart move on somebody’s part
—somebody who hated or feared war as
much as you or I do —to make us all
soldiers. We don’t know who he was. He’s
been mislaid in the shuffle. But one of these
days we’ll put a bonzer statue up to him: —
‘The Man Who Made an End of War.’
“Now, you are an average citizen, same as
me, and I’ll ask you this: Do you think yon
could kill a man?
“No, of course, you couldn’t, any more
than I could.
“Why, I don’t even like killing fowls, and
when my old dog got the mange I had to give
the chemist boy five bob to poison him.
“Kill a man !
“This is the twentieth century ; we are not
barbarians any more. Soldiering is just one
of those swagger jobs like the parsons’ used
to be. This making of guns and battleships
is a war of emulative industry, and the only
sort, of. war you and I will ever see. The
bigger the gun we make and the more power-
ful the explosive the less likely is the other
man to provoke us to try it on him.
“When a shell can travel 15 miles and
lob on the ace of hearts every time, you can
see yourself what a mug’s game it would be
for us to have any more war.”
Just here the wardsman came along and,
beckoning me away, said I ought to have
more sense.
“You silly ass,” said he, “that bloke got a
D.C.M. at Lonesome Pine and a crack on
the nut that sent him dippy. And now you
buzz along, and bump his temperature up a
million, gettin’ him to blither about the war.
Get out o’ this!”
I got.
D. H. SOUTER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lion in Australia’s Path.
This year Australia will reap her record
harvest. The official estimate is 150,000,000
bushels. There is great jubilation over that.
But the Canadian harvest was 308,830,000
bushels, the increase over that of the previous
year being nearly equal to the whole yield in
Australia. Australia could grow more
wheat —a lot more —and more fat lamb and
bullock and dairy cow; and because of our
rapidly-increasing interest bill a grave neces-
sity exists why she sliould be doing it. We
simply must produce something to pay our
creditors with. But can we look forward con-
fidently to a steady increase in cultivation,
to a continuous growth of the population
engaged in farming, to a greater and always
greater volume of exports of produce? And
if we can’t look forward to those things con-
fidently, why can’t we? It is time our in-
‘ numerable politicians began to seriously
think upon the relation of land values to
those industries which mean so much to
Australia. Surely they have dodged this
question long enough, and borrowed enough,
to recognise that the time has come for Aus-
tralians to start out and use the soil of
Australia instead of allowing it to continue
indefinitely the preserve of monopolists and
speculators. Stewart, of Bananaland,
speaking in the Senate . the other day, once
more pleaded for recognition of what land
monopoly means to us ,
We must have more people to help us develop this
country, to assist us carry this load of taxation ; but
above and beyond everything else we want a large
population to put us in a condition of independence.
We can only get that by encouraging and protecting
our industries both in town and country.... Before
this war terminates 200,000 of our best workmen
will probably have been taken away. What a tre-
mendous drain that will be! How are the gaps to
be filled ? How other than by making the lands of
the country available to those who will settle them?
Stewart is profoundly right; and it is only
with the key of taxation on land values that
rural Australia will be unlocked and kept
unlocked to the population we so badly need,
aiid to the industry of the children of Aus-
tralian men and women. The value of land
in/the Commonwealth now is a terrible han-
dicap to the nation’s growth ; the toll of the
rent-monger and the mortgagee upon the
Iffbor of the people in town and country is an
almost insupportable burden. For some in-
comprehensible reason the democracy of
Australia lias been steadfastly fighting the
battle of the greatest monopoly the world
knows,' that of land ; tying round its neck
an immense load of debt which has mainly
been employed in forcing land values up-
wards; letting this great reservoir of wealth
rcmaifi almost untouched, while access to the
soil grows more difficult every day. This
war is going to change many things, but
unless it changes the attitude of labor to-
wards a problem which is vital to this con-
tinent, then Labor will be as blind as a bat.
To monopolists and speculators a country
with cheap labor and dear land is a para-


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
The Christmas Edition
of THE BULLETIN, 1915,
will be Published on
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1915.
EXTRA AND SPECIAL ISSUE.
The Ordinary issue of The Bulletin
will be published on the usual date.
dise. To the toiling mass of men it is a hell
in the making. And Australia has only been
dodging cheap labor so far by borrowing and
leaving the next generation with a debt to
pay, and with swollen land values to climb
over whether one wants to rent a slum or
milk a cow.
-
The Prophet Who Came to Bless anti
Whose Blessing Remains to Curse.
It is recorded on more or less doubtful
authority that there was once a prophet m
a good way of business who got a job to
go and curse the Twelve Tribes, wholesale,
retail, and by the square mile, as it were.
Instead of carrying out his urgent, clear and
specific instructions, the prophet renegged
at the last moment and bestowed a hearty
if entirely unnecessary and ineffective
blessing on the Israelites, who were the Huns
of their day and generation. In quite other
times and places, the deplorable llolman-
Griffitii Government has imitated or dupli-
cated the extraordinary performance of Ihe
long-dead Balaam by reversing what was
intended to prove a blessing into a curse of
the healthiest and most active kind. Among
the ideals of Labor the day-labor system
occupies a conspicuous place: it is believed
to have been even “put upon” the Labor
platform-—not, of course, that that means
anything to the unblushing renegades of the
Ma State Labor party. A gang of shifty
promisers which joyously breaks No. 1 and
No. 2 planks in the party’s platform
wouldn’t boggle at shattering or jettisoning
any minor board or scantling. Five solid
years ago McGowen was coaxed from his
happy little rent-collecting hobby, and
Griffith left off his goat-farming experi-
ments, and Holman generously abandoned
his own private dreams, in order to bring
in. conduct, and generally superintend a
day-labor system which was to have almost
millennial consequences for the worker and
“lighten the cost,” “reduce the burden,”
“give greater satisfaction” of, for and to the
taxpayers and the entire State. At last
the system was to have a proper trial under
ideal conditions. And so on. Looking back
over the five years of McGowen-Holman-
Griffitii misrule, the mental eye perceives
a vast welter of waste, extravagance, strikes,
loans, doles, public bribes, uncompleted works,
lack of control, hopeless failures, more loans
and horrible mistakes. Can anybody
—even Griffith, its whilom champion—say
that the day-labor principle has been, or is
being, properly, sanely and fairly carried
out under Government auspices in N. S.
Wales? The iniquities known as the North
Coast Railway and the Government’s “in-
dustrial enterprises” shriek their contradic-
tion. The original estimate for the North
Coast Railway was something like £2,400,000.
After revising the estimate the N.S.W. Par-
liament assented to the amount of
£2,600,000 being spent upon this work,
which was to have been completed by Janu-
ary, 1915. At' the present moment it is
authoritatively said that the North Coast
Railway has cost double the money, and only
the Lord and Norton Griffiths can say
when it will be finished. Railway deviations
and duplications in other parts of the State
have been completed only after scandalous
delays and at costs ranging from 50 to 100
per cent, above the original estimates. The
new Education office in Sydney, into which
the Department crept stealthily a week or
two ago, instead of “opening” with bands,
flags, speeches and dry Monopole, has cost
the country £250,000 or so. The original
estimate was less than half of that.
Further, the job was 18 months over-
due. Before the Commonwealth “acquired”
the lamentable Cockatoo Dock, the State
Government solemnly undertook to build
and deliver the Brisbane and three
destroyers before January, 1913. The
lot were to cost £750,000 —a sum already
exceeded by the uncompleted Brisbane and
Swan. The whole system has indeed been
administered in such a way that it has pro-
duced the most expensive, dilatory and in-
defensible results in all the chequered his-
tory of.'N: S. Wales ; and the people who
have worked under it and ought to have done
their utmost to make it a success have
equally laid themselves out to secure its
condemnation by—in plain language—loafing
upon it. So a system which in theory has
everything > to recommend it has been but-
chered in the house of those who were its
professed friends.
National Waste.
From an. engineer with an international
reputation:—-
I was greatly interested in the remarks of Mr.’
Wm. Corin on the subject so aptly named “National
Waste” (B. 11/11/’is), and I would like to confirm
ano supplement his observations on this important
subject.
On referring to the last Annual Report of the
Department of Mines (N.S.W.) I learn that over
300,000 tons of coke were produced in that State
in the 12 months. This represents a consumption,
roughly, of 450,000 tons of coal, the by-products
from which, if recovered, would exceed in value
£200,000. This wealth is annually lost to the
State. The sulphate of ammonia alone is worth
£60,000; the balance is benzol, carbolic acid, creo-
sote, naphtha, pitch, etc.
For sulphate of ammonia there is little demand in
the Commonwealth, but there is a large and con-
stant export trade to be done with Java, Japan,
Mauritius, etc. These countries would readily .absorb
all that could be produced in Australia.
Benzol is in great demand. As a motor fuel it
has been demonstrated beyond doubt to be fully 25
per cent, more efficient than petrol. It is very -
extensively used in the rubber industry as a solvent.
And from it we derive all the most important ingre-
dients in the manufacture of high explosives. Recently
the cablegrams stated the German authorities had
commandeered the whole of their country’s produc-
tion.
Carbolic acid is the base of all disinfectants, sheep
dips, etc., whilst creosote is the best-known preserva-
tive for timber used in the construction of jetties
and wharves, and for railway sleepers, telegraph
poles, etc. The residue of tar and pitch finds a
ready sale for road-making, asphalting, etc. All these
products and those derived from them, with the
exception of crude tar and sulphate of ammonia, are
largely imported into the Commonwealth.
It has been alleged by some so-called experts that
Australian coal is no good for by-products. There
is undoubted testimony available which entirely
refutes this statement. Australian coal not only
yields by-products equal in quantity and quality to
the best English practice, as may be seen by refer-
ence to the balance-sheets of the leading gas com-
panies of Australia, but Australian coal, if car-
bonised under modern conditions, will produce a coke
of exceptional quality. The almost entire absence of
sulphur makes it specially valuable for all smelting-
purposes.
If things could be arranged on a co-operative sys-
tem, whereby all the coke could be manufactured at
one large central works, there would be a sufficient
yield of gas to supply all the fuel for heating the
ovens, and still leave a surplus sufficient to generate
all the electrical energy, at a cost, of about ltd. per
unit, to supply all the power required at
the collieries, for winding and haulage, coal cutting,
diiving fans, pumps, all the machinery at the coke
works, power at local wharves or piers for loading
or discharging, and enough to supply light and power
to the towns and villages in the neighborhood, and
possibly local tramways as well. This is not pro-
blematical ; it is ascertained fact. There are hun-
dreds of such installations in operation in Europe
and America. The well-known Powell-Dyffvn group
of coal mines in Wales scrapped SOOO h.p. of boilers,
steam engines, pumps, etc., and substituted electrical
power produced in the manner above indicated by
the surplus waste-gases from the coke ovens.
In the year 1885 Japan imported five tons of
sulphate of ammonia from Australia as an experiment
for fertilising purposes. In 1913 the value of her
import of fertilisers exceeded 13 millio>s sterling,
and it is anticipated this amount will be doubled in
a few years.
Two firms alone erected 25,000 ovens in Germany
between the years 1881 and 1909. Now, as each
oven will produce on an average 1500 tons of coke
per annum, it gives an annual production of 40
million tons; and as there are six or eight large
firms building coke-oven plants, it is fair to assume
that the annual production of coke in Germany in
the years 1909 and 1910 would not be less than
100 million tons. Added to this is the enormous
yield of by-products and the revenue from them. Is
it to be wondered that that country has been able
to export coke to all'parts of the world —Australia,
China and Japan, New Caledonia, Chili, Mexico and
Peru ? Most of these could and should be supplied from
Australia. The two firms above referred to built
3430 coke ovens in Great Britain between 1897 and
1906. For some reason English firms were slow to
adept the modern type of coke oven and recovery
of the by-products. For one thing, a strong pre-
judice had to be overcome that the coke so made
was unequal to that produced in the old-fashioned
Beehive oven. It took many years to introduce the
modern by-product oven, and it ;is really only in the
past 20 years that progress has been made.
Whether it is ignorance, conservatism, or apathy,
or all combined, it at any rate has to be reluctantly
admitted that as a nation. we do not display the
enterprise that is so strikingly manifested in those
industries in Belgium, Germany, France and Russia.
In a report by A. A. Atkinson, Chief Inspector of
Coal Mines, N.S.W., and recorded in the Annual
Report of the Department of Mines, 1910, it is said:
The question of the erection of coke-ovens of a
type which, in addition to making a good coke, would
also permit of the recovery of the by-products and of
the utilisation of the waste gases, is one that requires
more attention from colliery owners in N. S. Wales
than it appears to be receiving. Great advances have
been made in Great Britain, Germany and the
United States in this direction, and the results have
been financially successful. Without doubt many
of the coals are eminently suited for the recovery of
by-products, and it is hoped that before long we
may see at least one large installation of by-product
coke ovens in operation.
As far as I can ascertain, with the exception of the
plant recently installed at the Broken Hill steel
works, Newcastle, no material advance has been
made.
A few years ago I had occasion to visit a coke
works on the South Coast (N.S.W.) in the com-
pany of the managing director. They were just
laying the foundations for additional coke ovens.
On my suggesting he should erect modern by-
product recovery ovens he replied that he knew
nothing about by-products, but he did know how to
make and sell coke. With that he was quite satis-
fied. It may be inferred that this is the general
attitude.
In the past great wealth has been lost to
us and diverted into German pockets, not only by
our apathy and indifference to the value of this
important industry of coke-making and the indus-
tries allied to it, but also in the treatment of
minerals and ores sent from this country. It
is encouraging to see a better spirit growing and to
feel that in the near future a very large part of
the smelting of ores will be done in this country.
The time is opportune to wrest from Germany a large
portion of this trade, and secure for our products
those markets in relation to which we are geographi-
cally better situated. We have natural resources
second to none in the world. We need only energy
and enterprise to establish valuable and important
industries out of materials now entirely wasted.
Democracy and a Dictator.
There is no rule in this business; but when,
speaking at Melbourne the other day, Prime
Minister llugiies said that the war would
“only be won by the rule of the few” and not
by the clamor of a multitude of wrangling
Parliamentarians, be crystallised a great
truth, of which the meaning is that Demo-
cracy when at war must have faith and con-
fidence in itself. It is impossible to conceive
a war carried on by Parliamentary divisions,
of military movements being determined by
resolutions of a popular assembly, of Minis-
ters having to be sure of a majority before
a certain siege is permitted or a fleet de-
spatched to bombard a particular spot. Such
things would be grotesque. The function of
a Parliament in time of war is to bring to
the direction of the national undertaking the
best available brains, irrespective of politics
or any other consideration, and to give to
them the widest; authority, without surren-
dering its right to information or criticism or
judgment or final jurisdiction. If Smith
and Brown have an idea that they could
run things better than Jones and Robert-
son, and raise wild outcries on the subject:
and if other people arise and howl about
something else ; and if the land is tilled with
roars and bellowings from a multitude of
throats, then the Democracy is threatened
by its most dangerous enemy—itself. This
does not mean that popular government
should be extinguished by war. or that the
ultimate rights of Democracy should be cur-
tailed. What it does mean is tliht between
war and peace there is a vast difference, and
that academic notions about forms of gov-
ernment must, w’hen a violent disturbance is
going on, be considered in relation to the
special requirements of the hour. And as the
special requirements of war are prompt deci-
sion, secret movement, and quick action, a
democracy must in times like the present
learn to commit itself to something peril-
ously near a dictatorship. It shows not
weakness hut confidence in its own strength
by doing so.
♦
Bloat.
Melbourne Age had a dismal column or
so the other day about the city bloat and
the vacant country. And though they have
been wailed over many times before, the
facts justify more wail. During the last
quarter-century millions have been spent on
railway construction, on irrigation, on roads
and schools and telegraphs, and other millions
have been frittered away on schemes of close
settlement, on agricultural schools, reduced
freights and immigration. And the result
of it all has been that there were last year
about 10,000 fewer people engaged in what
are called “primary industries” in Victoria
than there were 15 years ago; that the popu-
lation of Melbourne has been going up, while
the inhabitants of rural Victoria have been
growing scarcer ; that 572.000 people occupy
Melbourne, Ballarat, Geelong and Bendigo,
and 540,119 have the remaining 85,000 square
miles south of the Murray. Other inci-
dental features are that less than a seventh
of Victoria is under cultivation, and loud
yells are heard about the cost of living. Of
course there are half a dozen or more causes
contributing to this c-lamitous condition
public borrowing, centralisation, the con-
firmed habit of assuming that any old thing
is good enough for the country and nothing
quite good enough for the city, the lure of
the pavement, and so on —but the most
potent of all is the high price of land, main-
tained by a public policy of boost and by
failure to levy a larger part of taxation on
these monopoly-created values. The Ma
State is in the same mess for the same rea-
sons. Melbourne and Sydney are bloats,
wens, tumors —great national sponges for
sucking up borrowed cash. Both States
with their mouldering country towns and
sparsely-peopled acres wilt haggardly for
settlement; yet perhaps the _ Age may have
noticed that when the question is raised of
putting some of our returned soldiers on the
land, the fertility of resource among the
politicians exhausts itself in producing a
half-baked scheme of buying up land so that
men may get a chance to work it. Just so
long as all this madness has a hearing, just
so long will the Age have its depressing
statistics to weep over, and the Sydney dailies
he able to turn hand-springs of joy over “the
splendid progress maintained in our city.” It
is mostly a progress of slum and the jerry-
built suburb and picture shows and cold-
drink shops, but that doesn’t matter. It is
also the kind of progress that leads to the
economic enslavement of the toiling mob
and abnormally high cost of living. But
that doesn’t matter either —so long as we
can borrow enough to adjust our finances.
A New Conquest and Two Old Statues.
In the Guildhall, London, stand the two
famous decorated statues of Gog and Magog,
twin mythical giants referred to in quite
unkind terms by the ancient and unwashed
prophet Ezekiel. Gog and Magog have
looked down upon more Lord Mayors,
sheriffs, champagne, potentates, princes,
pate de foie gras, politicians, peers, generals,
admirals and pomp and show and expensive
foods than any statues since the time when
the degenerate Caesars feasted round the
clock in ancient Rome —and tlieir statues
were in the altogether, whereas Gog and
Magog are gorgeously clad, or seem to be.
T{ie excitable Ezekiel, or one of his-editors,.
really meant by his references to Gqg and
Magog the idolatrohs kipgdoms of Persia
and Mesopotamia, which used to give the
Israelitish kingdoms no end of trouble—about
050 b.c. In a.d, 1915 Gog and Magog are
practically divided between the colossal
Empires of Britain qnd Russia.; and Magog
(as recent cables show) is the scene of the
most brilliant and successful “little war” of
the war. A composite force of British and
Indian troops, with a Naval Brigade- and
some “specialist” corps of airmen and artil-
lery, the whole under General Nixon, has
been operating against Abdul Fez and the
Ilun and his Arab friends with paralysing
celerity and success. General Nixon, by
latest accounts, is within striking distance of
Bagdad ; and if he can get that famous city
of the Caliphate in his grasp it wall mean
that J. Bull hgs at last entered uppn his
long-promised inheritance as the 1915 repre-
sentative of the Ten Lost Tribes. The blow
to Abdul will be a painful one, while the
Hun will find about £30,000,000 of railway
and other property in the hands of the un-
strufen Englander—which will be very annoy-
ing. In fact, if General Nixon is not
stopped soon —and the enemy’s chance of
stopping him looks mighty poor— Bull will
own Asshur, and Babel, and the Plains of
Shinar, and pretty well the whole of Magog
(as well as part of Og), and ancient Baby-
lon. Those two old statues in the London
Guildhall may yet receive semi-divine honors,
and, anyway, their presence there has already
proved more than prophetic.
Pbemiek Ryan, of Queensland, has his coat
off, and when last seen had one sleeve rolled
up and was getting ready on the other. It
is going to be hot work, because Houses of
Dodder are not like the walls of Jericho.
When the Old Men threw out the Meatworks
Bill and the Insurance Bill they invited the
long-threatened axe. Ryan, in reply, pro-
duced a Council Abolition Bill. The ancients?
countered by flinging out the measure
embodying the Referenda compromise, and set
about rubbing their muscles up to hurl the
Council Abolition Bill into Servia. Of course
Ryan, by again passing his legislation
concerning slaughter-houses and insurance
through the Assembly, can refer the Bills to
the constituencies, and if they record an
affirmative vote the measures will become
law. It is clear also that his Surrender of
Powers (Referenda) Bill could be dealt with
similarly. But the Bill for abolishing the
Chamber of Fossils is another sort of nag
altogether, and it looks as if Ryan may get
himself tied up in a knot before he is through
with that. It involves' inviting the British
House of Commons and the House of Lords
to handle the situation, and J. Bull is little
inclined just now to meddle with con-
stitutional problems. Anyhow, it will
take a long time to wipe the floor
with Dodder, and in the interval the
calamitous institution can go on with
impunity playing pitch and toss with
Ryan’s Bills, and sticking its head out of its
entrenchments after each dull thud and ask-
ing him how he likes it. It is all very con-
fused and horrible. From the tactical point
of view no more disastrous moment for try-
ing to smite the Superfluous Chamber has
ever arisen; which is very hard luck for
Ryan.
-♦
When Bill Smith, toiler (10s. a day), gets
into a uniform, his mates on the job put
their hands in their pockets and buy him
some beer and an extra pair of socks or
something. When members of the N. S.
AVales Pledgislative Assembly (£lO a week
and pickings) want to farewell one of their
mates, they order the liquor and the souvenir
all right, but they dip their paws into the
public cashbox for the money to pay the
bill. The patriots! They sponge on the
Treasury to get “expenses” for making
recruiting speeches, and even surreptitiously
cadge from the taxpayers the cost of drink-
ing the health of a mate who is going to
fight. The N. S. Wales Auditor-General’s
report is the proof of the shame of this
gang: it declares that not only was the cost
of the presentations to Messrs. Larkin and
Braund paid out of Consolidated Revenue
(£23 7s. Gd.), but actually the cost of the
entertainment as well (£G os. Bd.). It
may be doubted wffiether ever in history a
Legislature sank to equal depths of mean-
ness and rose to equal heights of fee-grab-
bing as the body now presided over by Mr.
R. D. Meagher in N.,S. AVales.
At the moment when Winston Churchill’s
speech was being fiercely debated in the
threepenny bar and furious patriots were de-
nouncing the descendant of Marlborough
for his frank statement of national
failure, there was a sudden revival of re-
cruiting in England. The Balkan situa-
tion was at its blackest, and the people
knew it. The Russian cloud of defeat had
only lifted a very little at the top and
bottom corners. The last partial success in
France was being made the subject of a
public inquiry, the outcome of certain blun-
ders on the part of those in charge of the
operations. The Dardanelles campaign stood
like a blood-red elephant bellowing in pain
of the military incapacity of those in high
places. In plain fact, things were about as
dark as they well, could be, and for the first
time in the history of the war the man-in-
_ the-bowler-hat; was able to form some slight
idea of the mess Britain was really in.
Then, to the shame of that censorship which
had misled the nation so long, Bill and
’Arry and Percy rushed as on one boot to
the recruiting-office. It was exactly the old
spirit manifesting itself. All bur 'national
history pointed one way; but Teutonised
had gone on the assumption
that Britain had somehow changed,-and that
the keep-it dark policy was the only possible
one. ’Arky and Bill and Percy are indeed
very much what they were in the days of
Harry A t . Tell them the game is going well
and our team is winning, and they say “All
right! Play it to a finish, and ;good luck to
you!” Tell them we are -going down, that,
we are getting 17 different softs of holl, that
the enemy is wiping his boots on otfr hair,
and they say “Gawd! I must be in this!” or
“Bai Jove, it’s up to me! AA r hat?” Let
Britons know the worst if you want to wake
them up and fire their patriotism!
Showing the Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a dramatic development at noon, when
the emigrants were assembled at the landing' stage.
A number of the crew walked ashore and told the
Cunard officials that they refused to sail with mili-
tary eligibles. The firemen declared, “We don’t see
why we should stoke up while slackers are allowed to
run away.” The Cunard Company forthwith decided
not to take the emigrants.— Cable.
The elder statesmen played with war as
though it were old men’s sport,
Mouthing their smooth, vainglorious boasts
over the sleepy port;
And the marching beast of Blood and Iron
went steadily on its track,
Welding a IvRUPP-steel rod of pain for every
English back;
So the old men droned for a full red year
while their fighting tradesmen died,
Fearing and waiting, as old men will, and
doubting our English pride;
And their vulgar posters begged and prayed
for heroes in every street
Because they were old, too old to hear
the heart of true England beat.
We who have lived by the fires of Hate and
done Hell’s work for a wage.
Speak for the spirit of England now —now
while the Teutons rage.
Mates of the Lusitania’s dead, we strengthen
the statesman’s hand.
Holding the ebbing man-tide back for sake
of our hard-pressed land:
England that barely gave us bread and
fouled with cheap scum the seas —
England shall yet bow grateful head and
give ns thanks on her knees,
Kissing our cruelly blistered hands as though
they held jewelled swords,
Because we climbed from our fires to show
the way to Commons and Lords.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


GAELIC WHISKY
the old smuggler
rV
B
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
tvO
&
pOORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
LSwift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St. f Sydney,
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
INSURANCES EFFECTED FOR—
Fire, Personal, Accident, Hailstone, Live Stock,
Workmen’s Compensation, Plate Glass, etc., at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: Corner Pitt and King Streets, Sydney. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager,
The Rumors About a War.
Of course it is impossible to form any intelli-
gent opinion of the progress of events in the
Balkans from the dregs and rinsings of news
which come to us. The vaguely-described nego-
tiations that are in progress may be leading
somewhere or other, but even that is doubt-
ful. It does seem fairly plain, however, that
the enemy has practically taken charge of
Servia, is now in direct communication with
Turkey, and is able to get daily reports of
the Franeo-British preparations at Salonica.
Beyond that everything is obscure. Our own
troops are no doubt at the same place, but
nothing more is known, except that the job
of getting to Constantinople via Gallipoli has
not been wearing a more cheerful look lately.
Apparently Hamilton’s successor in com-
mand has recommended that John Bull
should change his address thereabouts. But
as that would free large quantities of Turk
to make mischief somewhere else —and.
besides, withdrawal would most likely be a
horribly bloodstained enterprise—the recom-
mendation is being given the prolonged con-
sideration it is entitled to. Winston
Churchill, who has now gone to serve at
the Front with his regiment, lately de-
scribed the operations around the Dar-
danelles as “a gamble.” That expresses
the undertaking as well as any other
two words. If it had come off the con-
sequences would have been tremendous. But
it didn’t; and it must be a matter for per-
manent regret that the execution of so big
an idea was fumbled so thoroughly. Of the
war in the eastern and western theatres the
stock of information boils itself down to
this—that General Snow and Field-Marshal
Frost are in command, and the dreary
miseries of a year ago are to be repeated.
Whispers of peace are said to have been
again detected coming from various holes
and corners ; but the chances are a thousand
to one against these being heard with any
distinctness for a long time yet.
. Jack Scaddan, having lost his majority,
is very much afraid that so far as Westralia
is concerned there is no particular reason
to get busy with the Surrender of Powers
(Referenda) Bill. Bananaland Leg. Coun-
cil has flung the Bill into the dustbin. The
Tasmanian Second Chamber is standing by
with a club. The Vic. Council has a dose
of poison ready. And the old men in N. S.
Wales are confidently expected to fall on it.
Meanwhile no one has heard that anything
particular is going to happen as a result of
all this riotous behavior, nor has anyone
arisen to take oath that it was not all fore-
seen during the funeral at which Hughes
and the State Premiers solemnly acted as
pall-bearers.
“Rab Cilbup”: I begin to think that
Minister for the Navy Jensen must have
been too dull to stay in the rabbit-’awkin’
business. For example, he chooses the
moment when the news of the torpedoing of
the Australian transport Southland is re-
leased, after being held up for eight weeks
by the military authorities, to mention
“rumors that transports have been wrecked
off the Australian coasts,” and to warn the
public against believing them. He adds his
opinion that these rumors are the work of
unknown enemy agents in Australia. But
he doesn’t know how such rumors have been
set on foot, “since they are not confined to
one State, and do not refer to one particular
transport alone.” Now, vague stories of the
torpedoing of the Southland have been told
in a thousand letters delivered in Australia,
but the truth about it has been forbidden
publication by the Censor. Naturally the
stories became distorted when thus unoffi-
cially spread; and the long official silence
gave every wild yarn every opportunity to
gain a footing. Truly an enemy is respon-
sible for the disquieting stories that Jensen
refers to. But it is not a German enemy.
The Drury statue of C. C. Kingston has
reached Adelaide, but its erection has been
delayed by a storm-in-a-teacup over the
pedestal. Owen Smyth, Superintendent of
Public Buildings, started building it of white
marble over red granite steps and base.
Chief Justice Way, backed more or less by
Advertiser Bonython, said this was con-
trary to the canons of art. The matter
might have been settled at a conference, but
Way and Smyth started exchanging letters.
Each side got the support of local expert
opinion; each side claimed to have the sup-
port of statues all over the world. The
.correspondence wandered into all sorts of
side issues. Finally Way called the pedestal
a “fantastic piebald variation of Mr. Drury’s
.design”; and Owen Smyth was advised that
.by this remark the C.J. “made himself liable
for an action at law for a defamatory state-
ment injurious to my reputation as 5.P.8.”
'Then a cable to Drury brought the reply:
“Should be uniform ; grey granite preferable,
mnpolished.” ‘Bonython offered £5O towards
the cost of the alteration; but just then
Public-Works Jackson pronounced for a com-
promise approved by local architects, and
that ends it. It won’t be satisfactory; but
the cost of doing the whole thing over again
seems prohibitive.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Paul Jones”
Criterion “Ivick-in”
Royal “The Wavbacks”
Tivoli .. Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Garden . The Dandies
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
METBOPHNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “High Jinks”
Royal “A Pair of Sixes”
Princess’s “Bunty Pulls the Strings”
KfNo’s “The Bold Sojer Boy”
BiJOU Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh > \ andeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Athenaeum Hall Melb. Repertory Theatre
It takes an effort of the imagination to
see Florence successfully imposing on the
Admiralty and obtaining a job as lieutenant
of an auxiliary cruiser, which is the modern
equivalent of the job she gets in good old
“Paul Jones,” now managing a revival at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Her earliest sing-
ing contemporaries have long since vanished
from the footlights, and middle age has defi-
nitely gripped at least two of her present
colleagues ; but she still carols gaily in the
lead and radiates youthful good humor as
she skips away to sea in high-heeled shoes
with a stick and a bundle containing face-
cream and a few extra hairpins for use
when the wind is high. The dialogue is a
little dusty, and the painstaking straighten-
ing-out of complications tends to weary a
1915 audience; but the well-remembered
music sounds as good as ever, and one or
two prize items, such as “He Looked at My
Sabots,” haven’t lost a scrap of their charm.
* * * *
Chubby Phil Smith (Bouillabaisse) and
Charles Albert (“the Insect”) don’t do any
violence to the memories of their predeces-
sors, and Leslie Holland, as the agile old
Don Trocadero, raises an impressive perspi-
ration on hot nights. Minnie Love makes
a dainty and vivacious Chopinette, and
Ethel Cadman is quite satisfactory as
Yvonne. Derek Hudson (Kit Kestrel)
swaggers like a magazine pirate with rings
in his ears and pistols in his belt; Reg
Roberts (Rufino) refuses to get over-
excited about his love affairs; and the
statuesque Ethel Morrison (Malaguena)
poses nicely in her own hair.
* * * *
Muriel Starr begins a Sydney Royal fare-
well season on Saturday, December 4, in
“Nobody’s Widow.”
* * *
“Kick-In” is successfully shaking its U.S.
fetters and carrying the burglar’s corpse
downstairs to the ash-barrel at Sydney Cri-
terion. Any student of the United States
language who wants to know what a “har-
ness bull” is and why “rocks” are so valu-
able in New York can find out by attending
any evening after 8.
“PAUL JONES,” IN SYDNEY.
Paul Jones (Florence Young) sighs for love,
and Bouillabaisse (Phil Smith) sighs
for liquid refreshment.
In the Mid-Victorian era, when it was a
long time between wars, the plain-clothes
drawing-room baritone used to tunefully beg
to be allowed to “fall” and declare that his
breast was “expanding for the ball.” With
the introduction of the nickel-coated conical
bullet and high explosives all civilised armies
threw themselves flat on their faces and the
expanding hero became obsolete. Private
Pearce, late of the Dardanelles trenches, and
now singing pleasantly at Sydney Tivoli, is
the modern vocal soldier who has fallen and
got up again. But he is the real article, and
doesn’t make a noise about it. Terry and
Lambert are frisking through a return
season on a bill which is now headed by
Ella Caspers. Other notable vaudevillians
are the pattering Harkins pair, juggler
Nolan, Coy De Trickey and the Ilarrison-
Jones partners. The Tivoli Follies start
work again on Saturday. December 4. and
the managerial advertisement is already ter-
ribly excited about it.
* * * *
Philip Lytton announces the “last nights”
of “The Waybacks” at the Royal (Sydney).
Maybe he means it. If so, there's apparently
nothing further doing in extended leases.
* * *
The Violet Dandies have got their march-
ing orders for Melbourne, and will say a
merry and bright farewell at Branscombe’s
Gax-den Theatre (Sydney) to-night. To-
morrow' night the stand in Bayswater-road
will be occupied by another company of
Dandies, who bring a reputation of having
a little more “ginger” in their show.
“PAUL JONES," AT HEN MAJESTY’S.
Privateer Hudson engages the Insect
(Charles Albert) as a member of his crew.
At Sydney picture-theatres this week: —
Empress: “The Vanishing Jewels” and “The
Frozen Safe,” two more “Clutching Hand” thrillers
in which safes are crumpled as easily as egg-shells,
and thick steel boilers punctured with puffs from a
bicycle pump.
Colonial: “Mysterious Man of the Jungle,” a
blood-curdling romance amongst lions and niggers
In S’Africa ; and “Printing Stamps,” an instructive
industrial film.
Crystal Palace: “The Wild Olive”—not a film
about suburban gardening, but an exciting murder
mystery in which an innocent college youth escapes
the gallows by inches and takes to the wilds, where
he leads the simple life in company with a barbaric
amazon; with the inevitable registry-office finale.
*!* '*■
At Melbourne Royal “A Pair of Sixes”
continues to be a weak display of impossible
situations and machine-made Yankee mirth.
Tom Shelford is the principal offender, and
his hurried chatter, which frequently sounds
like a mere mutter in Morse, never helps the
joke which John Webster is endeavoring to
keep alive by the sheer physical extrava-
gance of inventing absurd gestures and
pulling his mouth out of shape.
* * * *
Allen Doone is reappearing as the untidy
victim of English injustice and Irish
treachery in “Sweet County Kerry” at
Melbourne King’s. In this pathriotic story
of ’9B Allen treads the hard path of some
other transgressor and becomes the tempo-
rary inhabitant of an English gaol. Yet
though the redcoats harry him and stone
walls surround him, his spirit remains
serene and victorious, and his warble is
never reluctant to publish the thoughts
that reside in the moind of a thrue-hearted
gintleman. When Tiie Bulletin took a
glance at him on Saturday he was even
postponing his escape from prison to render
“Those Endearing Young Charms” to as
pretty a piece of Irish muslin as Miss Edna
Iveeley ever endowed with a dimple
and an American brogue. Doone is
generally singing, and is the bright
and breezy darlint of the counthry-
side, except at the approach of the
wicked Valentine Hay, when his voice
assumes a menacing tone and a threatening
frown puckers his noble brow. And Hay
is worthy of the hero’s heaviest scowl, for
he is quite a remarkable villain. He has a
black heart, a green coat, a red nose and a
blue temperament, and having also a yellow
streak he is altogether a human rain-
bow. But unlike rainbows he is never a
portent of better weather. Whenever he
transpires and wags his dirthy tongue in the
hearing of the local gentry, the atmospnere
gets thundery and the heroine’s eyes begin
to shower. “Sweet County Kerry” is on
view for six nights. Commencing next
Saturday “The Bold Sojer Boy” will march
to a fresh lot of Hibernian airs.
* * * *
The heavy perfume of “High Jinks” is
again producing a feeling of indecorous
elation among a mixed crowd of frivollers
at Melbourne Majesty’s. As before, C. H.
Workman, as an alleged explorer, brings
the aroma of giddiness in a bottle to Dr.
Field Fisher, who apparently only needs a
whiff to lose liis professional frigidity and
pursue sweet ladies with Turkish attentions.
Workman wears the same old flannels and
negligent lid that suggest the M.G. at a
river picnic; and Fisher arranges his coun-
tenance into the two or three expressions
suitable to a connoisseur of secret pleasures.
Miss Brunton, as the Folies Bergeres per-
former, Sylvia Dale, remains the pretty but
rather unsatisfying bundle of artlessness
and baby ribbons. Florence Vie is the
naughty lady who reinforces her income
with lOU’s. Florence’s ready wink and
after-midnight smile are the visible symp-
toms of the champagne thirst and discreet
polygamy that distinguish the character she
is supposed to portray. W. H. Rawlins is
almost more than the clothes of an Amurkan
lumber king can carry; but if he is heavy
in figure he is hearty in manner. He is at
his loudest in the third act when he delivers
a speech with the utmost rigor of the jaw,
and represents much of the din in the dinner
that follows. Alfred Frith as Colonel
Slaughter bubbles again with a mirth rather
young for the Colonel’s years; Marie Eaton
turns Mrs. Marion Thorne into a Dago pic-
ture tragedienne; and Daisy Yates is little
more than a flash of pink stocking in the
brief and athletic Danse du Cabaret. The
orchestra does good work as usual.
* * * *
Mattha and Leezie Inglis are still haeing
regular bickers in “A Scrape o’ th’ Pen” at
Melbourne Princess’s, and Beenie Scott con-
tinues to make a bustle of Family Herald
literature for the wedding festeevities.
Which reminds this paper that a new bride-
groom, A. G. Bannerman, took the place of
Abie Barker at the altar last week, and
showed an almost equally droll submission
to Beenie’s commanding attitude when that
formerly easy-going damsel desired to be
boss o’ th’ hoose. Beenie’s married life,
however, is drawing to a close, and she will
only have to put up with the muddy hoofs
of her ploughman until Friday night. On
Saturday the young lady (Miss Jean Clyde)
will Pull the Strings for six nights as Bunty
Biggar.
** * ❖
The appearance of three violinists and two
baritones at Melbourne Tivoli is giving an
air of sameness to a programme which was
previously strong in variety. Both the
singers—Goossens, the Belgian, and Peter
Dawson, the Australian—are, however, very
well worth hearing; and the different styles
and personalities of the fiddlers —Mary Law,
M. Hoogstoel, and Morris Golden —make
them interesting. Hoogstoel is the most
accomplished of the three, Mary is confident
and cultivated, and Golden is eccentric and
often entertaining. Among the other artists
are the muscular Payolas and the trapezist
Jack La Vier, who prattles while he makes
some ingenious attempts to break his neck.
* * * *
At Melbourne Bijou this week the pro-
ceedings are a bit happier for the presence
of baritone Whitehead and the Teodorwicz
acrobats. Mabel aDd Malfe, described as
the “Dainty Little Girl and the Big Clumsy
Page,” are regarded by the audience with
approval, and there is a firm feeling in
favor of Frank, Lank and Alice, the club-
spinners, and May Erne and He, the
musical specialists. The Harrington Rey-
nolds Co. appears in “The Best Man,” a
poor little sketch with no bite in it.
* * *
The Melbourne Repertory amateurs
appear in “The Price of Thomas Scott” at
the Athenmum Hall next Saturday night.
The comedy is the work of Elizabeth Baker,
the somewhat celebrated authoress of
“Chains.”
“Bought and Paid For,” advance reports
of which had startled Adelaide a little,
proves, as played at the Royal, to be comedy
rather than intense drama. Millward is
the husband who smashes the lady’s door;
and Muriel Starr, Dorothy Davies and
Cavenaugh complete the small cast. It is
a comfort to have a Yankee play acted by
players who can make Yankee noises. “The
Third Degree,” at the Tivoli, suffers by com-
parison in that respect. Still Julius Knight
is at his best as the lawyer, Beatrice Hollo-
way in the Katherine Grey part shows steady
advance, and the remarkably versatile Fitz-
herbert is strong in the unlikely part of the
bullving policeman. The Tivoli is now on
a three two-one price-list. At the King’s,
King and Brown use their one leg each in a
clever athletic partnership, Laurance John-
son does his best to make ventriloquism
“sro” in an original style. Lumley and
Rhodes do the same for Hebrew patter, and
the musical side of the programme is strong.
Tdeals and Dandies continue their open-air
career as before, and the weather is helping
to bring things their way.
#* * *
From an Adelaide critic: —
The 18th “Federal” art exhibition in Adelaide is
mostly a local show, Miss Peters (Geelong) and
Harley Griffiths being the only outsiders. Sowden gave
the artists a tip when opening the exhibition. Why
don’t they paint something to last, something of
historical value? There is not (for instance) either
a man in khaki or a kangaroo in the whole show.
As it happens, there is some attempt this time to
get away from the unending round of landscapes and
flowers and single figures. James F. Scott, a
Maorilander settled in Adelaide, actually shows a
seven-figure composition, a rehearsal at the Reper-
tory Theatre, in which the ladies are all six feet high
and as ugly as Poverty. The same strange inability
Flo Young stands on the limelit deck
Whence all but she have fled,
With snowy ham-frills round her neck
And short curls on her head.


A OELIGhjTFUL ST 1M U LAN!
TJaniel (rawfords
RED STAR WHISKY
TASMANIA
* ;
53 ' 1
SsSSFmSI
a
a,.
.... _ '
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
Proprietors:
Trustees Estate of the late George Adams.
The Summer Resort
of Tourists.
Hig'hfield
—The Latest in Hotels.
Remodelled & Refurnished
New Winter Garden
Spacious Dining Rooms
Cuisine —highest class
Entirely New Management.
Tariff—o 3- to 75/-
All Correspondence to be directed
to the Manager,
to depict a pretty woman is in evidence all over the
walls. It is one of the most striking features of
Australian art —why? Hans Heyserfs gumtrees are
not seen this year, but there are plenty of good imi-
tations by the “school” which he is unconsciously
founding. The latter remark applies also to Will
Ashton’s white breakers. The Art Gallery buys one
of his, and, having already as many of his can-
vases as rules allow, will exchange an earlier work
lor it. The Board has selected also a powerful head
by the veteran Collins, a still-life child’s mask by
Griffiths (a remarkable piece of shadow-relief), and
a Sorrento painting, old work by H. P. Gill, who,
broken in health, goes to London after many years
spent in the cause of Art in Adelaide.
The oldest Methodist minister in Austral-
asia, and probably in the world, William A.
Quick, passed on last week, aged 95. He
put on the white tie of the old Methody par-
son 75 years ago, his first station being
Liskeard, in Cornwall. Coming to Australia
in 1850 lie became rector of Horton College,
in Tasmania, and President of the Australian
Methodist Conference. He had been on the
supernumerary shelf over a quarter of a
century.
The often-piteous complaints about the
Australian mail service to and from the
Front are making the Maoriland Post Office
wear feathers in its hat. A soldier landed
in the Loanly place the other day after
three months in Egypt and over three
months in the trenches at Gallipoli,
and stated that, as far as he knew, he had
received every parcel sent to him by his
friends, and they had averaged a good many
per month. Other soldiers who have been
heard from on the subject state that they
get their letters promptly, and their own
messages from the trenches reach Ngarna-
warihia and Paikakarike with the regularity
of the gas-bill. But then Maoriland sent a
squad of postal officials to Egypt at the
beginnings of things. Australia sent piles of
correspondence and just heaved them ashore.
R. Barr Smith, dead in Adelaide at the
great age of 91, was noted for three things—
a sound business head, great wealth, and
philanthropy. The first led to the second,
nearly half a century ago, and made possible
the third, which has lasted ever since. He
founded the firm of Elder and Smith (now a
public co.), and was deep in the pastoral
industry in the times when it was most
profitable. This year he was the biggest
private subscriber in all Australia to the
new Commonwealth loan. After the Adel-
aide manner he stuck to business to the last.
Two things he would not touch —“public”
life and any sort of “title.” Of knighthood he
had at least two offers. He gave handsome
help to the building of the Trades Hall in
Adelaide, and privately encouraged young
men, irrespective of party, till awestruck
whispers would arise as to whether he was
quite “sound” in politics. Probably he was;
but nothing could check his stream of well-
doing. In short, he was a gentleman in
every possible sense of the word. He had a
large family. The only surviving son, Tom
Barr Smith, is a director of the co. and a
popular sportsman.
“A PAIR OF SIXES,” AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Coddles, the Maid.
Tom Shelford.
The biography of a sky-pilot:—
They live to a. ripe age in the diocese of Goulburn
(N.S.W.). Witness Rev. Gualter Soares, still taking
Sunday duty after 55 years’ service in the Church,
or Archdeacon Spencer, representing the diocese on
various bodies in Sydney within two years of his
vacerdotal jubilee. By the death of Canon Leigh,
however, the clergy-list of the diocese loses the only
name that was there when Bishop Thomas came out
in ’64 as the first bishop. Richard Leigh had been
57 years in Orders, and was 86 when he died. The
pioneering work that he will be best remembered by
he performed while curate at Goulburn from ’5B to
'64. He used to recall that when the troops marched
from Sydney to Lambing Flat they camped at Goul-
burn, and he conducted service for them. Leigh’s
caution on one occasion prompted him to conceal a
good fat wedding fee in his socks. It was well he
did so, for on the return journey he was bailed up
by bushrangers. On another journey he did the
bailing up of the bushrangers and tried to dissuade
them from the life they were leading. I think they
afterwards became archbishops. The district he used
to cover is now divided into five parishes, with about
nine clergy, who even in these days of motor-cycles
and cars have a difficulty in getting round. Yet the
churches he built still stand, and in the remoter
parts of the Lake Bathurst and Binda district ser-
vices are not much more frequent than when he
was there. Years of untiring service endeared Parson
Leigh to many, and scores of old-time bushmen will
regret the passing of the kindly Irishman.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“J.F.H.”: I sorrow for George Edwardes
as a friend whose virtues were of a rare and
precious quality. With an English-sound-
ing name he was in reality an Irish Catholic,
and he displayed his Hibernian origin in his
open-handed, reckless generosity. A whole
army of pensioners will have their supplies
cut off by his death. Once at a rehearsal
he noticed a chorus girl looking ill. He sent
her off to a West End doctor, who advised
a long sea voyage to save her life. Edwardes
told her she must leave at once for Australia
and he would pay all her expenses. “It’s
very good of you, Mr. Edwardes,” she replied,
“but I cannot leave my mother.” “Oh,
there’s no difficulty about that. She can
go with you.” And he booked the passages
of both for Melbourne. It was he who
started the system of paying enormous salar-
ies to his leading ladies. But he was
recouped by constantly-crowded houses,
although he was fond of declaring that he
regarded London merely as a workshop for
the manufacture of certain goods which he
was able to dispose of advantageously in
America, Australia and elsewhere. He and
the late J. C. Williamson were great friends.
His chief lieutenant, J. A. E. Malone, also
acted as J.C.W.’s London representative and
secured the Australian rights of all the
Edwardes London successes.
“Van Eck” : For the first time in its his-
tory J.C.W., Ltd., is going to be faced with
the competition of an erstwhile star at cut
prices. Modern Amusements, Ltd., a new
firm which learnt to crawl in Adelaide some
six months back, has taken on Julius Knight
and is offering him in popular plays at
reduced rates. Knight got a kick-off in
Adelaide during the month in “The Silver
King,” and followed it up with “Raffles,”
“The Third Degree” and “Paid In Full.” In
the holy city he ran up against Muriel Starr
playing “Bought and Paid For.” This is
the first time attractions of this class have
clashed at Adelaide, and the new manage-
ment had no reason to worry. Julius will be
produced at Melbourne on December 11.
“W.J.S.”: “R.F.” (B. 18/11/T5) is mis-
taken. I do not barrack for the High pitch.
No one who loves serious music can offer
any solid reason or excuse for it. My con-
tention is that raising the pitch does not
raise the key, and this “R.F.” ought to
know. In fact, he ought not to give him-
self away by telling us of his ignorance on
tin matter. Any work on the scientific side
of music will enlighten him. The standard
text-book is Helmholtz’s “Sensations of
Tone.” By the time he has absorbed the
gist of this monumental work he will be
better able to appreciate the arguments of
“E.N.M.,” though he will not cotton to.
them. Sir H. J. Wood is right and wrong.
Quite likely he never studied as suggested
above. Few professionals do.
“E.N.M.”: The flood of ancient informa-
tion and the list of names of dead celebri-
ties and “authorities” “R.F.” sends' along
(B. 18/11/T5) are of quite imposing vol-
ume, but they don’t advance the debate one
inch. Let’s get back to the old original
starting point. I heard the two “pitches”
contrasted on the same occasion, and their
exponents were about on a parity for merit.
But to the ear of the listener there was
a tremendous difference in the respective
performances. I maintain—despite “R.F.”
and his legion of ghosts—that the old “Phil-
harmonic” pitch for effect is miles ahead of
the “Continental” for effect and brilliant
color. Therefore, it is advisable to retain
it for our bands and orchestras. (N.B. —
The nations that also use the Continental
pitch include Yarmany, Turkey, Bulgaria
and —Sheol; in fact, the “Continental pitch”
of Sheol is of a dreadful viscidity and dole-
fulness. )
“H.” : “Betty” is at the top of the London
music-hall paysheet at the moment. She is
a chimpanzee who gives a complete conjuring
entertainment. She presents all the familiar
tricks. She borrows watches from the audi-
ence, smashes them up, puts the fragments
into a gun, fires them off, and then returns
the chronometers intact to their owners.
Also, she lifts a silk hat from somebody in
the stalls, takes it to the stage, and extracts
rabbits, pigeons, water-bowls, and all the
other things out of it. And if she has not
yet introduced the vanishing lady it is pro-
bably because no young woman cares to be
vanished out of the sight of an audience by a
female monkey. “Betty” will be a gold-mine
to her owner and trainer, Captain Jensen.
According to her press agent she lives with
the Captain precisely as a member of the
family, and “possesses a bedroom of her
own.” That little circumstance might have
been taken for granted ; but press agents are
very fond of these domestic touches.
“A PAIR OF SIXES,” AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
John Webster as
T. Boggs Johns.
Tom MacLarnie as
the lawyer.
The war has driven many dancers to Noo
Yark- Pavlova, whom the Yank could not
tempt to leave London some two years ago,
has been tripping through pantomime in
Boston, while Ruth St. Dennis, another idol
of Fogtown, is appearing in ’Frisco. Also,
Maud Allan was the other day waiting at
the stage-door for someone game enough to
pay her 5000 American dollars a week.
“Van Eck” : “Sealed Orders,” produced in
New York as “Stolen Orders,” collapsed
after 19 performances. The producers reckon
that the cinemo has killed all chances of
spectacular drama having a run of any
length in the U.S.A., and predict that this
will be‘ the last big production of its kind to
be tried out.
London Alhambra, which seldom shuts
down, has been closed to rehearse a new
revue, “Now’s the Time.” As the result of
ructions, the principal comic man, Robert
Hale, threw up his role and seceded, and
George Mozart, who was lately showing in
Australia, took his place.
'“Mujik” : My neighbor Macphairson comes
fra Aberdeen, ye ken, and a dour auld hunks
he is. Early the other morning I was
wakened out of a dream by the children
rushing into the bedroom with the startling
announcement that Mister Macphairson was
laughing behind a tree. As I sprang out
of b.ed with confused thoughts of calling for
the police, a loud noise leaped through the
window. “Oh,” I said, “it’s all right. He
is only mending the fowlhouse.” “No, he’s
laughing!” persisted Young Australia.
“Gome and see.” They were right. Peep-
ing over the fence I saw Macphairson in
the act, and, as he seemed in pain, I called
out to know if he thought some whusky would
be any good. “Eh, mon, mon,” he said,
wiping his eyes, “I think it would. But,
laddie, laddie!” After having a wee drap
Mac explained that three nights before he
had been to a lecture in Sydney on
“Awread airean Bearraddirean agus Leth
Ghleogairean Goldhalach,” given by a par-
son fra Warwick (Q.). It transpired that
this had been a discourse on “Hielan’ wit,”
and Mac had just woke up to another of the
jokes. After dropping several specimens of
wut over the fence, Mac tore himself away
to have some porridge and tell the family
about it. Next evening a laugh burst the
silent atmosphere of the street into frag-
ments. It was Mrs. Mac’s arrival at the
jok’ her man had cracked the morning before.
Since then seven Scots have been noticed by
the police to suddenly stop in city streets
and break their faces, so it looks as if the
quips and cranks o’ yon laddie fra’ Banana-
land are having a disturbing effect.
Three weeks ago the Prime Minister
announced that the Referendum was “off” ;
nevertheless, pamphlets containing the
“arguments for and against” are still being
sent out from town and country post-offices,
and postmen are being paid overtime for
delivering them. The official explanation of
this wicked waste is that the Electoral De-
partment has no power fco instruct the Post
Office to cease delivering matter after
it has been posted. So the country is sad-
dled with the cost of distributing thousands
of worse-than-useless papers, and the Post
Office goes ahead gaily losing £lO.OOO a
week.
N.S.W. Premier Holman, finding the pack
after him, produced a nice red-herring on
Monday, and dragged it across the trail.
Things in the eastern theatre of war were
dreadfully black, and there wasn’t anything
now to stop the Germans pouring down into
Gallipoli in one direction and to Baghdad
and Mesopotamia in the other :
I do not wish to strike any alarming note, but it
does appear to me to be quite reasonable to suppose,
firstly, that the enemy is on the verge of the greatest
local success it has achieved since the Germans
reached the gates of Paris; and, secondly, the
developments of the next few weeks must be fraught
with serious possibilities to the Allied troops in
Gallipoli, including our own.
And what is Holman going to do to help
the Empire? Presumably the same as he
has been doing all along—he will reduce its
resources by borrowing every penny he can.
not to spend on the war, but to provide his
political supporters with easy jobs all over
the country.
As was predicted when he was appointed
Commissioner to inquire into the Yanco
irrigation business, Carmichael has been
selected as manager of the settlement at a
salary of not less than £l2OO and “perks”
and a £6OOO house to live in. This billet
acts as an effective poultice to draw a
troublesome thorn out of the side of the
Helmanites in the N. S. Wales Labor party.
Carmichael’s fate will serve as a terrible
warning to other members who feel inclined
to be censorious.
“S.Y.”: The query of “S.T.S.” as to the
meaning of “ging” (B. 11/11/’l5) is best
answered in the words of IlalliweH’s Dic-
tionary of Archaic and Provincial Words.
Here it is: “Ging: Excrementum
(Northern) .” No wonder Macarthur
wanted gore.
A palpable hit was scored in the Vic-
torian Assembly by Hogan, of Warrenheip,
during the recent discussion on the Budget.
Hogan complained that Peacockery had not
yet made any adequate attempt to attend to
the teeth of school-children; and he declared
that, if there had been such attention in past
years, “half the volunteers rejected in Vic-
toria through bad teeth would have been
accepted.” The Government, however, took
little notice of Hogan, merely pulling its
coat-collar more closely about its capacious
ears and going on with its slumbers. Why
trouble about the European war-situation,
anyway, so long as one’s own battle for the
right—the right salary, with perks, six
months’ holiday per annum and motor-cars
laid on throughout the Government offices —
continues to develop on favorable lines?
Kennedy Smith, the Liberal member for
Dundas in the Vic. State Parliament, who
some time ago went to Britain to help keep
Germany at bay, has taken off his coat as a
man-of-all-jobs in a convalescent hospital in
the Cold Country.
THE ARCHITECTURAL MIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Madame Sarah Bernhardt, in the rSle of Strasbourg
Cathedral, was tremendously applauded.
—Daily paper cable.
Farewell the staging of the past, the old back-cloth,
the canvas column,
The boscage where the limelight cast its ray in
moments gay or solemn!
The swaying rustic bridge, the furniture, the brush-
work decorations,
Ml, all are lost, or gone before —replaced by “stars”
of all gradations.
Yon fat and tubby man who scowls so grimly,
R.U.E., in silence,
Portends the heroine’s Home for Fowls, wherein is
done the deed of violence;
And that nice girl who smiles and nods and winks
her eye with bright abandon
Towards the high, approving gods —she represents
a bridge to stand on!
That red-nosed chap’s the village inn, the red-haired
party’s a thermometer,
And this one with the wagging chin is (rightly) cast
for a gasometer ;
That mournful-looking, whiskered wight, who leans
so close against the lady,
Just represents the River Skite that runs through
her, a woodland shady.
And now, again, this flapper, clad in garments so
sun-bright they hurt you,
Proclaims that here’s the Hall of Vice, or (if you’d
rather) Doubtful Virtue;
This priest-like party, looking glum, who wears his
hat like a phylactery
And owns a quite protuberant turn, is actually a soft-
soap factory 1
Well, wonders never cease, they say; what now is
fair game for my banter
May be the mode some early day—remember, tem-
pora mutantur.
The stage has changed, is changing fast, and just
now suffers from revuery ;
The leading Actor in the cast will yet be glad to
play A Brewery !
N.S.W.
E. N. MAcCULLOCH.
STRANDED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A German showman, with a pen of trained pigs,
an educated goose, and a butting rain, has applied
to the Federal authorities to be interned with his
company. General feeling is so strong against him
that he is, he says, in danger of starvation.
No more the vulgar fancy turns
To educated pigs, for, see,
In bitterness the public learns
The awful animals may be
From Wilhelm’s university;
And so, oh very learned swine,
You starve unheeded —pork, you pine!
The butting ram has not a friend;
His antics on our feelings jar
Since we observed his wicked trend
At patriotic speech to ‘"Bah 1”
And guttural his accents are.
’Tis plain to all observers lie’s
Absorbed pro-German sympathies.
The learned goose with jutting bill
And step so stiff and eye obtuse
A likeness shows to Kaiser Will —
’Twould damn a much more gifted goose.
But I will offer no abuse,
So many actors bad I meet
Where these at least are good to eat!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Two-Piece Summer Suit
The suit consists of jacket and trousers only, thereby dispensing
with the unnecessary vest for summer. The back of jacket
is pleated into half band, thus retaining- the smart shape.
Equally suitable for business, holiday walking- or motoring-.
Being made to measure assures perfect comfort and distinctive
appearance. Very light in weight, the materials used being:
Tennis Flannels, in the popular Lovat and all Grey shades,
also Fancy Tweeds 75/-
)VE P4F CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp.
Q.P.0.,
Sydney
m
n 9 m
ONE-SEVEN-NIN
LUXURiA
Cologne .
British made and
of rare hixu 1 ia n ce .
rt The Refreshing '
\ Toilet Dainty /'
Sample Botlie id. post free.
Parviola Perfumery Co.
Box 239 Q.P.O. Melbourne.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“S.S.”: A fussy little club in Melbourne
held a sort of tea-meeting the other day and
night for the purpose of collecting money to
add to one or two patriotic funds. There
were sandwiches and singing, and tenors and
trifle, likewise raffles and pretty girls who sold
small superfluities at big prices. Among the
guests were several returned soldiers whose
crippled condition and pathetic bandages
were expected to excite the generous emo-
tions of the visitors. Presently a fluffy sim-
perer came to one of these battered exhibits
in khaki. The depressed warrior had one
empty coat-sleeve and his head was in a
pack. “Won’t you take a packet of cigar-
ettes?” said the darling. The maimed one
took a packet, and thanked her kindly. “A
shilling, please,” replied the young lady in
hard, commercial tones. “A shilling!” said
the victim. “Why, these are 3d. cigarettes.”
“Oh, that’s nothing,” said the damsel. “It’s
to help our poor wounded soldiers, you
know.”
* * * *
“R. Sunya” : The ability to turn off the
flow when worth-while conversation flags is
not to be despised. For years I had been
very deaf. For months almost stone-deaf.
But with the break
of the recent
drought something
seemed to melt in
my ears, and now —
Gehenna! the world
is full of hideous
noises! I can even
hear the insect
walking on the
ceiling. From the
wild-birds’ warbles,
which I once wrote
about as the music
of the gods, protect
me! Motors are
anathema; motor-
bikes a torture.
Friends yell at me
w henever they
speak. At night
the mice make revel
overhead like mam-
moths gambolling in
a river bed. May-
be the blind may find
joy in m ein tally
visualising the pic-
tures of life, and
certainly I want to
lie deaf again to live in peace and quiet.
One never knows the blessings of an afflic-
tion till it melts.
The Federal Government has missed a
chance of more or less reviving an institu-
tion now many years defunct. Old Bulletin
readers will recollect the Soudan donkey, the
vvil]i ; un li( ‘ (le
Dailey s N. S. Wales contingent to Egypt.
When the Ministerial liiggs was asked in
the House the other night if the Government
would take steps to secure Murphy, the cele-
brated Gallipoli donkey, who carried so many
Australian wounded out of the firing-line,
Higgs replied that there were already asses
enough in Australia. It wasn’t as though
Murphy would be likely to enter into compe-
tition with any of our reigning politicians,
either. He was desired simply as a straight-
forward, superannuated ass who had been a
hero in his own way; and for what he had
done he would have been worth his feed in
any zoo in Australia.
“Carfax”: “How much for this, how
much?” The seller had an elevated foothold
under the electric light at a city corner.
Someone said a shilling. Then there was a
bid of two, and so it ran to three, four, five,
amid the suppressed giggles of many flappers
and loud guffaws from the sex that goes to
war. “What will you do with it, Charlie?”
shrilled a girlish voice. “Oh, he’ll take it to
the Front,” explained a smirking bystander.
Loud applause, and the auctioneer got
another bid of sixpence, and three cheers
were given for the maiden who offered the
higher price. Somebody got the goods at
the finish, and, sticking them under his
arm, wandered off into the crowd to exhibit
the bargain, and with squeaks of anticipa-
tory delight the mob pressed for a closer
view of what was going to be offered next.
Heaven only knows what it was; but the
wild yell I heard from thereabouts as I
left suggested that something fairly intimate
was on view. Sydney was raising
money to help Servia, bloodstained, ban-
daged, hungry, and wretched Servia, fighting
at that moment desperately for its life!
*• -X- * *
The last U.S. note to England, complain-
ing of unjustifiable interference with Uncle
Sam’s commerce, arose largely from the fact
that «T. Bull had seized several shipments of
Chicago lard intended for Germany. Insist-
ing on the neutrality of Grease, so to speak.
* * *• *
“Trot”: Jensen, Minister for the Navy,
boasts that he started out in life hawking
rabbits, and that “the Governor was greatly
astonished when I told him !” Not bad that
for Jensen, because his Ex. might have
thought he graduated at Oxford. You never
can tell what these cocked hats are think-
ing of. I never knew a Minister who had
served his time ’awkin’ bunnies, but I knew
one who had been a scullion in a pub. I
fed with him in many an expensive eatery,
and a good chap he was, too. But he never
got out of the habit of carefully wiping his
knife and fork before he tackled the grub,
and once when he did this while dining with
a person much more exalted than a mere
G.-G., and in answer to jocular inquiry
explained that he qualified for public life by
washing table implements, the aforesaid
potentate was so astonished that he got a
fish bone stuck in his throat. Also he later
on asked, confidentially, for full particulars
with a view to installing mechanical appli-
ances in the —(hush) —palace. And he did
instal them too! I have been wondering if
Jensen told the G.-G. where to look when
Billo calls round with a pair and says they
are new-laid !
“FATE CANNOT HARM ME; I HAVE
DINED TO-DAY .”
“ Didn't mother say she’d send you to bed
without any dinner if she caught you
teasing Barney again?”
“That’s all right — I’ve just had me dinner.
See!”
“Billy T.”: “What can we women do?”
is a question often asked in the press and on
the platform by dames professedly anxious
to serve their country in her hour of need,
I this week heard the question answered
most satisfactorily by a spinster of 25 whom
I first knew as housemaid. She was pushing
a pram containing a new-comer. “My second
since the war,” she said. “I’m doing my
little bit.”
Poland is having a taste of the kultur
which devastated Louvain and Reims and
carried off the art treasures of Belgium to
enrich Berlin museums. Above the altar of
the chapel of a monastery in Czenstochova,
150 miles from Warsaw, there hung for cen-
turies a painting of the Virgin and Child,
traditionally said to be the work of St. Luke,
and claimed to be the oldest picture in the
world. Luke is best known for his labors
on the Inky Way; he wrote a Gospel and
acted as publicity agent for the Paul-Bar-
nabas Missionary and Revival Tour, his
pars being subsequently collected from files
of the Sunday editions of the leading papers
A LIMITED CONFESSION.
SHE: “And note T suppose you tell her everything.”
HE: “Yes, everything there's any danger of her finding out.”
of Greece and Asia Minor and published
under the title of “Acts of the Apostles”—
a work which has run through many edi-
tions. But before he took up journalism he
tried many other callings, among them medi-
cine and portrait painting; and there is
evidence —no worse than most of the evi-
dence alleged in favor of other church tradi-
tions—that he painted a portrait of the
Madonna. Whether the picture at Czen-
stochova is the original is disputed. It is
only a poor little square thing, black and
battered ; but under the dirt of ages, in spite
of scars and scratches dating back to Tartar
raids in the twelfth century, can still be
traced what are alleged to be the features
of Santa Maria. Whether genuine or not,
the repute of the picture was enough to
bring 400,000 pilgrims annually to visit it.
A few months ago Kaiser Bill announced
that the Virgin and Child had appeared to
him in a vision, and with tears had im-
plored him, as Heaven’s white-headed boy,
to rescue the shrine from the sacrilegious
Russians. But Ozenstochova being then
beyond his reach, he could only send a mes-
sage offering the monks another altar-piece
if they would let him have their famous pic-
ture. Of course the monks wouldn’t. When
Von Hindenburg and his Huns at last
reached the town, the venerable picture was
wrenched from its frame, under special in-
structions from Wilhelm, and was sent to
Berlin, its place above the altar being taken
bv an enlarged photograph of Bill the Blood-
stained in full uniform. The usual lights
were placed on the altar before the new
decoration, the Gerhog idea apparently
being that the chapel ought to be glad to
have an authentic portrait of a full partner
in the firm of Wilhelm und Gott instead of
a dubious likeness of a mere relative.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: H. G. Wells, in his new book,
half novel, half treatise, “The Research Mag-
nificent,” unexpectedly hands a nasty one to
Orpen and Co. The hero was a rich young
Londoner:—
This Art had an air of saying something, but
when one came to grips with it what had it to say ?
Unless it was Yah!
That is precisely the objection to Orpen’s
picture, which lately made such a sensation
when hung in the Adelaide Art Gallery.
Its strange anatomy could be accepted. So
could its mingling of the clothed and the
nude. Its one outstanding defect was that
it had nothing whatever to say except
“Yah !” and it said that only to a certain
section of the people in Ireland. One does
not want to buy pictures at £7OO to bear
them say “Yah !” in a purely local squabble
on the other side of the world.
* * * *
“San”: How dismal are the posters we
have stuck all over the place! All full of
dead men, and men with bandages over
their eyes, and nurses pouring castor-oil
into fellows on stretchers. We know these
things are; but we don't want them stuck
in the front row. And no one ever
heard a cheerful recruiting speech. One
after another the dismal company sing in
the minor key, all the time calling on young
chaps to go and be killed. Why, in a “fare-
well” I was at the other week, a silly ass
got up and remarked, before the mothers
and sisters of the lads, that he knew one
half of them would be slain and the other
half wounded. This of course to encourage
the. laggards ! And the newspapers—in all
their appeals they sound the note of despair.
Now, young chaps don’t like despair. They
like cheerfulness, even if they have to face
death. There must be hope, hope, always
hope. No pessimist ever did any good yet,
and never will. Does the prizefighter get
hold of the megaphone and bellow out his
fears when he measures his opponent in the
first round? Of course he doesn’t. He
slogs away with as wide a smile as he can
raise, in the certain knowledge that that
grin will work upon his supporters and react
upon himself to his advantage ; certain also
that it will have the very opposite moral
effect upon the other fellow.
* * * *
“Greasy Gus”: William Osborne, pro-
fessor of physiology and histology at Mel-
bourne University, has expressed the opinion
that, during the winter now coming down
upon Germany, “an unhappy frame of mind
and a low physical condition” will be devel-
oped, owing to a shortage of fat. The war
may be settled, in short, by that nation
which is able to hold the breach with the
biggest supply of grease. Yet it is worth
acting that, after a very long period of
intermittent war-activity, a half-starved, lean,
shrunk-shanked country like Servia, full of
misery, dirt and vermin, is still refusing to
lie still and be trodden into the mud. The
safest prophet to follow these times seems
to be the one who said that Britain’s “extra
million” of trained troops would settle the
matter. It’s what we’ve got, or will have,
not what the other fellow hasn’t got, that
will put the German Governor of Belgium
back in liis beloved Fatherland with a nasty,
green feeling in the pit of his stomach.
HOT SUMMER NIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hot summer nights ! Hot summer nights !
The beach —a splash ; soft tarts in tights;
A glow of distant city lights;
Ti-tree in silhouette; a white pearl sky;
Oceans of lovers, lovers passing by;
Soft, shaded grass; pale, shining sands;
Romantic sighs, holding of hands;
White tracks, with stealing shades of trees;
Sweet scents of earth; a gentle breeze,
A glimpse of white; a sigh, a sneeze;
Full lips of red, a kiss, a squeeze;
A stealthy voice, a laugh, a rustling skirt,
A world of whispers, and the world a-flirt.
My oath, hot nights!
Hot tarts in tights !
Hot views, hot sights—
Real hot, my oath! Hot summer nights!
VICTORIA.
HAL GYE.


for INFLUENZA use
Hean’s Essence
The Great Money-Saving Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, CATARRH
Costs 2/ Makes I pint Saves io/-
27-13
Once you
tSmoße
C>
vM'
Tobacco
nothing else will do.
2o x. Tins, lOd.
“NO-VESTE” Sports Suits
Hot weather, the near approach of Christmas, and the impending-
shortage of woollens are three potent reasons why holiday clothes
should be ordered NOW.
The “No-veste” (Regd.) Sports Suit is ideal for mountain, beach
or country wear.
We quote a smart, cool style in Brown and Grey Tweed, of Donegal
effect, cut free for outdoor and golf wear. Coat has half-band sewn
on at waist, long vent,' two outside patch pockets, with flaps to
button and leather buttons.
Trousers: Side and Hip Pockets and Cuff Bottoms.
Please state chest, waist and inside-leg- measurements.
New catalogue—Jubilee issue—on request.
35/-
Peapes (&L Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 <a 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
mi £ ll
V\
vmm
mk-H
mm
yjji
m
m
Blood and black hair flew at the
Hobart Sailors’ Rest the other day when
36 mild Chinamen started to discuss the
right method of cooking rice. They were
mariners from the wrecked steamer Nord,
and the seamen came from Canton, while
the firemen were from Fu-Chow. Now, the
Cantonese have their rice seasoned and the
Fu-Chow men have it plain, and at break-
fast one morning they began to thresh out
the merits of the case, plates and bottles
CONSOLATION.
DISMAL JIMMY: “ I’ve took the pledge, Bill. Em never goin’ to touch another drop as
long as I live.”
BILL: “Well, cheer up. Perhaps yer ain’t goin’ to live long.”
being among the weightier arguments used.
The Fu-Chow men made a special effort to
convert the cook; but, instead of listening
to their reasons, he took a header through
a window with a 14-feet drop on the other
side of it. There was hardly a sound scalp
left amongst the 36 by the time they had
finished, and four had to be sent to hospital
to have the holes stitched up. But the right
way to cook rice was still unsettled.
- “Montalex” : So a British expedition is at
Baghdad. In the famous days of Aaron the
Just —better known as Haroun-al-Raschid
—the city’s population totalled a million and
a half, represented, when present deponent
was there, by a poor 50,000 or so. The whole
place smells, not to say stinks, of the imme-
morial and unsliiftable Orient. Built of
30-century-old bricks from the ruins of the
ancient Cities of the Plain, the houses, win-
dowless in front, are blank-walled to the
filthy and paveless streets, not Bft. wide in
places, that wind in and out in hopeless
labyrinth. And the heat! Coming up the
Gulf I thought Bushire was an easy first
with the fiendish shade-figure of 116°, but
Baghdad beat that by seven degrees. And
they told me it wasn’t a record. Add to
this that the only water-supply is carried on
ass-back from the Tigris. Still, there are
about a couple of hundred mosques, so all is
well from the True Believer’s point of view.
The man who went to his funeral is back
again—a Maorilander who travelled home
on a steamer loaded with detention and
tainted cases. The newspapers published
the names of the staff of the vessel so that
they might be free from hard glances, and
J. Kauri was not there. Down he went
to the military authorities to show his papers
proving that J. Kauri was an orderly and
not a patient or delinquent. Officialdom
sternly asked for his name. Out it came
with the regimental number. A burrowing
through grimy papers, and officialdom routed
its attacker: “Trooper Jim Kauri, 6 bar
187922 —killed in action May 8.” When
the corpse was able to think again he weakly
murmured: “Well, how the blazes have I
been drawing my pay since then?” The
military, having no answer, referred the mat-
ter to the Department for Dodging Difficul-
ties.
* * * *
“Hamer” : The alteration in the business
hours of the N.S.W. beer pump threatens
to give an impetus to a neglected industry
—the coffee stall. The few stalls that Syd-
ney possesses are mainly devoted to mid-
night and early-hour trade, in the course of
which they supply belated drunks and morn-
ing-newspaper editors with the grub that
sustains a drooping spirit. The hotels
usually deal with the need for that early-
morning refreshment which is not so early
as to be in the nature of a midnight lunch.
The way some of the water-front pubs fill
THE COLOR LINE.
SHE: “Why does the Major always wear red neckties?”
HE: “ I suppose to match the color of the whites of his eyes."
when they open at 6 a.m. is marvellous.
Rum is the most requisitioned drink. Ex-
perienced night roamers who finish their
roaming at an hour which makes going home
seem a foolishness gravitate toward these
early water-front houses to seize that first
and last drink. Now the Government has
suggested to the Harbor Trust Commis-
sioners and City Council that they should get
busy, in view of the proposed new liquor
regulations, and provide coffee stalls for the
convenience of the old rum guzzlers. But
what member of the Ministry can it be who
has been out gathering all this knowledge of
early-morning necessities?
“Vagabond”: I daresay the air will be
overcrowded with yarns about the dreadful
effect of the gas used by the British at Loos,
so I get in early with my own opinion of it
and of its results. I was in a front seat of
the orchestra stalls for the whole programme,
being nicely placed about 150 yards behind
our forward fire-trench, and high enough up
to overlook Loos and some miles of the
enemy lines. That was my job—l was in an
artillery observing station. There was a poor
wind for this first test of the new ally. It
hadn’t strength to hustle the gas along pro-
perly, and it was on such a slant that it only
blew along and sideways over the front
German trenches. But apparently the first
whiff of it was enough for the Hun. He saw
too much of the horrible effects of his own
concoction at Ypres and elsewhere to be
anyways anxious to get loaded up with our
lot, and he was up and off in considerable
bulk when the gas began to arrive. I made
an extensive tour through the depth of the
captured ground, several times traversing all
the taken trenches at different points. I saw
many dead Huns but not one that had been
killed by gas alone. All bore visible and
messy marks of shell or bayonet wounds. I
also saw whole sections of their front-line
trench with less than one corpse to the 100
yards, and in front of these portions were
very few of our dead. On the other hand,
where a bit of trench held a decent bunch of
done-in Huns, there was always a big swathe
of our lot lying dead in front. I also saw
many hundreds of prisoners, and not more
than a dozen suffering from gas-poison, and
these so slightly that most were able to hoof
it. The conclusion I reached was that where
a handful of Huns held out and stuck it in
the face of the gas, they were able to live
until the bayonets arrived. The long
stretches of comparatively empty trenches
were those that had been hurriedly evacuated
when the gas began to waft in.
“The Wanderer”: For antiquity St.
Thomas’s Church at Port Macquarie
(N.S.W.) is well in the running with St.
Matthew’s at Windsor. The foundation-
stone was laid by Lieut. Carmac on Decem-
ber 8, 1524, and the place was first used for
service on February 28, 1828. It was on
December 4, 1827, that news came to Port
Macquarie of the appointment of a per-
manent chaplain, John Cross, his appoint-
ment being made by Governor Ralph Dar-
ling. The church is capable of seating 700
people, and, like its sister at Windsor, was
built in tears and blood. Convict labor did
it, and did it weighted with legirons. The first
musical instrument used in the Port church
was a “seraphim,” afterwards sold for £37,
which went towards buying the present
organ at a cost of £126 in London in 1856.
The freight on this box o’ whustles from
London to Sydney was £ll 4s. 3d.; from
Sydney to Port Macquarie, £lO 15s. 6d.
* * * *
“Billy Blue”: Church services have been
held in all sorts of places in Australia, but
how many sky pilots could nowadays be
induced to. rebuke Sin and pass the plate
round in a brewery? This, however, was
done in 1837 in Sydney, and with Bishop
Broughton’s sanction. The morning paper
informed its readers that “Mr. J. Terry
has most liberally fitted up a wing of his
splendid building, the Albion Brewery, as
a place of worship for the accommodation
of the inhabitants of the far-southern parts
of Sydney. Pews, seats, pulpits, etc., have
been provided. The Bishop of Australia
performed Divine Service there on Sunday
week, when a numerous and respectable con-
gregation of the inhabitants of the neigh-
borhood were present.” Toohey’s nowadays
own the Albion Brewery, or, rather, the
brewery that succeeded it; but Archdeacon
Boyce, who is the Anglican cleric of those
parts, rarely drops in to hold a service.
* * * *
In a Melbourne suburban court the other
day a Mrs. Scott sued James Jackson for
assault and disagreeable conduct. James had
beaten complainant; he had thrown tea over
her. On one occasion he nearly threw a billy
of beer over her, but changed liis mind. “But
why don’t you get rid of the fellow?” asked
the Bench. “I can’t,” said complainant “he’s
me lodger.” “But that doesn’t prevent you
turning him out of the house,” retorted the
Bench. Mrs. Scott grew confidential. “You
see, your Worships, it’s this way,” she said,
“Me husband’s away at the war, and I ain’t
too sure of him cornin’ back. My word if I
was, I’d send Jackson packin’ to-morrer.”
CALM AT THE DARDANELLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The position at the Dardanelles was calm.
Attempts to approach our trenches by means of
mines were stopped by counter-mines. The Turkish
artillery was active but ineffective, thanks to the
superiority of our battery. Our aircraft daily
bombed the enemy. —Official communique.
The days were calm at the Dardanelles,
Except for a jolt or two,
When our trenches were blown into minor hells
As the Turkish mines burst through,
Or when an occasional hole we made
Under holes that they dug at night
Went up with a roar when a flame was laid
To a bushel of dynamite.
The days were calm at the Dardanelles
In the drift of the acrid smoke
That rose through the scream and hiss of the
shells
That still on our trenches broke;
We had nothing at all to do but dig
And grumble and wait and swear ;
As, hot from the cannon’s throat, our big
Death messengers tore the air.
The days were calm at the Dardanelles.
Our aircraft swept the sky
And dropped their merry bombs by spells
On the foe as they hurried by ;
And we marked how the tufted smoke would
rise—•
Oh, we knew where the hot stuff struck
There were prayers to Allah and smothered
cries
If.our boys of the air had luck!
The days were calm at the Dardanelles.
We read it in cold, black ink,
A cabled word on the page that tells
Far more than the censors think.
For out of the lull of our peaceful days
The death roll swelled and grew,
And they sent it through with the words of praise
From the midst of the “calm” we knew.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


NONE OF HIS BUSINESS.
Our Government is not lighting for the freedom of the working class, but for the freedom of the capitalist class. —Report of Socialist meeting in Melbourne.
THE READER: “No. I refuse to take action of any sort. This is entirely the other fellow’s affair.”


“THE LEAGUE OF MONARCHS”
THE PURSE-THICK MAN: “Now, gentlemen, I have put my IOU in the purse. Who will give me a Crown for it?”


•/! areßqrnto
•'EM BENEFITS-
Insure in
m 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ... ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid=up 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
J 1 ranches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE. General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Wanted Lady Home Workers
£1 weekly and upwards may be
earned in spare time at home. Dainty,
fascinating work. No teacher required.
Suitable town or country. Send 3d. (in
stamps) for BOOKLET and particulars Of our
offer.
TORCHON LACE CO.,
229 b Collins -Street,
MELBOURNE.
m
World-Famed
for their Unequalled
Excellence in Style,
Quality, Comfort & Value.
m
s*
J
rrCT
%SjC
i
3@s
1v
7
25
V /
\ 7 /<?6/8 ;s*>;
a
V.
&unc
HYGEIA
Shaving
Stick.
XO'X
You
won’t
know
yourself
behind
Hygeia
oil-foam.
Martin's Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul.
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
KOBAN
KING OF
ROWBOAT
MOTORS.
Runs Excellently Without Vibration.
PRITCHARD BROTHERS LTD.,
Engineers, Launch
and Boat Builders,
North Sydney, N.S.W.
TO DON SPANIARD, WITH THANKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Many of the new Australian possessions in the
Pacific were acquired by Germany mostly by pur-
chase from Spain, which was the discoverer.
Lift your hats to the dead gallants of old Castile and
Seville,
The men who for us found the spicy islands by the
Line ;
Who. braved the seas, and held a blessed candle to
the Devil— "
Those excellent adventurers of palm, and reef, and
pine,
"Whose diplomacy was force, and whose strength
their only craft,
Stark men of Valladolid, off Navarre and Aragon!
In the calm Pacific beauty; by the storm and light-
ning shaft,
From peril they snatched Empire, for the glory of
the Don!
They were bred out from old Carthage, and from old
Phoenice, and Rome;
Their Arab blood had passion for the distances of
earth;
The Celt, Iberian and the Moor made all the world
their home,
And the lust of finding out was theirs —their glory
and their worth:
Magellan, he whose keels furrowed first the tide-rips
of the Horn;
And Mendana, seeking always for the mines of Solo-
mon ;
And Villalabos, in his pride of victory in the morn
That he found the Ladrone Islands for the glory of
the Don!
Three years of storm and battle and of manhood's
brave essay,
And a rotten bark that was the first to girdle round
the world ;
With twenty tons of spices rolling up to Cadiz Bay,
And the ghosts of men who landed when the perished
sails were furled—
Sd Sebastian del Caro, kneeling humbly on the sand,
Thanked God for his safe land-fall with his trove of
cinnamon,
Of sandal, and of spices, from the scented southern
land,
And the spoil of perfumed islands for the glory of
the Don 1
The lone Pacific waiting for the furrows of the keel,
Of the Rio de la Plata, and the ships of Magellan;
And the rolling hoys of Holland, following fast to
reive and steal
All the spoil of the discoverer, the hardy Spaniard
man.
Plateships of Acapulco, and the pirates and the
thieves
Who stole the loot of caravel and of high galleon :
Sword dangers; sorrow of the sea; sails blown like
autumn leaves—
New perils ever waiting for the courage of the Don.
Their great beamed ships of little length, shaped like
a crescent moon,
With high fore and hind castles, and gun-bristling
decks of four; V
And the one great mast with the bellying mainsail
set by night and noon,
And the trade wind in 'the skysail that the laden
galleon bore;
Two million pesos under hatch, as the off shore wind
did blow;
Te Deums in the churches, and upon the galleon;
When the high, Manila plate ships put forth from
Mexico
To carry to the Philippines the glory of the Don.
The fate of battle and of age has come in stress and
pain—
The deathbed of an Empire, strong until its work
was done,
For the land that Spain discovered made at last an
end of Spain,
And the newest people hold the spoil the splendid
Spaniard won.
The German gold that bought the lands they could
not keep with steel
Failed to hold with many ships the spoil of one great
galleon ;
They have lost it to the newest land that launched
the newest keel,
And Australia is the heir to that old Empire of the
Don.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Charlie Solomon, who passed out at
Cooma (N.S.W.) last week, at 84, was the
old man of the south-east corner of N. S.
W ales. He filled all the “great” positions
from first mayor of the town upwards—
and had for 51 years occupied the one busi-
ness dug-out. In pre-eivilised days Solo-
mon trekked cattle over the borders to Vic-
toria, joining in the chase for the miners’
gold that started the fortunes of “Big”
Clarke and Jimmy Tyson.
Frederick Dodd, just dead at Adelaide,
was another who evaded the doctor all his
life, and then had no need of him. After nearly
a century’s freedom from sickness, during
which time he bumped against many of life's
nasty corners, he was stricken while peace-
fully feeding the family pony. He was an
early hand on Bendigo, having travelled
overland from South Aus. with a. load of
flour drawn by GO bullocks. Flour was £OO
a ton on the fields, so results were fairly sat-
isfactory. He was an expert horseman, rode
in several early Hunt Club Cups, and at 85
was still good enough to take a' hand at
“cutting out” in the Adelaide caTfldmar-
kets.
“Fa’a-Samoa’s” send-off:—
Tamatese, Samoan high chief, lately tangl’d to
rest under the palms of Matafele, was not an old
man, but ho had seen much life. The elder Tamatese
"as the man that the history-writers called the
German “puppet,” but the younger Tamatese had
no time for the squareheads. In the war-days of
1898-99 he was the boss fighting-man of the Malietoa
party, and lie took the field with four or five hundred
of his tattooed young bucks against old Mataafa, the
Germans’ champion and tool. Those were the days
when Lieut, Oii3 r Gaunt, of 11.M.5. Porpoise, drilled
a whole regiment of Malietoa men and led them in
bush skirmishes. Tamatese was his chief of stair,
and, incidentally, was .no slouch with a rifie or a
head-lcnife. Physically he was an A 1 sample.
I assisted at a war-time kava-drinking, a
real .topside big-chief kava’ in the King’s
house in Mulinuu Point, with sundry admirals
and other such fry, and I remember the contrast at
that kava between Tamatese and boy-king Tanu
Malietoa. The mild young monarch, when the
flowing cocoanut-shell came round to him, just
touched it with his finger and passed. lie was a
Malua Institution missionary boy, ver-rv ,gopd, no
drinkum naughty.-kava. Put- Tamatese Spiled it
like a'warrior, with the right twist of the wrist
and a glint of the eye, and- he sent it spinning back
across the mat like any cheery old heathen. Mali-
etoa, who was very much under the., missionary
thumb those days, may have taken to kava and the
singing-girls since. 1 hope so.
STANIFORTH SMITH, of Papua.
Charles Pleasance, just dead in Melbourne,
age 65, was the third Gaud Mayor of Mel-
bourne, but was better known to the citizens
as a member of the Collins-street firm of
Martin and Pleasance, the chief vendors of
homoeopathic medicines. It was in 1904 that
Charles Pleasance wore the gauds of office,
and if for nothing else he should be remem-
bered as an earnest, advocate for the creation
of a Greater Melbourne. During his term
& practical start was made by the amalgama-
tion of the municipalities of North Mel-
bourne, Fleinington and Kensington with
the city.
THE REALISATION.
SHE: “I had no idea you were in love with
me.”
HE: “Neither had T till I proposed and you
refused me.”
One of the old-time Maoriland railway
men whoTnnired in C. A. Jeffries’s “By Bail
and Semaphore” yarns, passed out at Wel-
lington last month, at the age of 84 years.
He was William Johnston Bowles, who
hailed from Dover, England, but spent half
his life in Maoriland, chiefly as a -loco.-driver.
He was a pioneer of the “fast” service
between ’ Christchurch and Dunedin.
A suicide that drew attention dramati-
cally to two things occurred at the Coast
Hospital. Sydney, on November 11. Dr.
Aron Bosnian, a Pole, went to the institu-
tion on the Gib, after declaring that if his
ailment proved to be cancer lie would take
his life. It did prove to lie cancer; and the
verdict of the inquest was just plain
suicide. This man. who knew what cancer
meant, drew attention to another matter by
bequeathing all he possessed—about £7oo—
the purpose of building, or assisting to
build, a crematorium, and thus the agita-
tion for the establishment of a hygienic sys-
tem of . disposing of the remains of the de-
parted gets a much-needed push forward.
Adelaide University and St. Peter’s Col-
lege, near by, get some more reflected glory
fro in the Nobel award for distinction in
physics. W. H. Bragg was a very young
Profess >r when he was appointed in 1886,
fresh from a wranglership at Cambridge. He
had a big hand in working the little univer-
sity up to what it has now become, and his
own private hobby was radium, at a time
when hardly ’anything was known about it.
Cradually lie became recognised as one of
the world’s authorities on that subject, and
after 20 years' he moved to Leeds—and since
to London—to be in touch with investiga-
tors in Europe; lie married one of the
Todd family in Adelaide, and'had two sons.
The younger was killed in Flanders this
year. The elder.shares liis father’s genius.
Sir Oliver Lodge, when here, spoke of him
highly, and within a few months father and
son have been jointly recognised in an
American Barnard medal award, and now in
the Nobel prize. Dr. Nobel did the thing
handsomely; lie left nearly two millions
sterling to endow his five prizes, and a fifth
of the income on that makes Bliodes
scholarships and the like look foolish.
. “Veritas” takes a stroll in the cemetery:
I think it will be found that Bennett, elected to
the N.SAV. Assembly for Liverpool Plains in ’72.
was not the first paid member in Australia. When
the appeal to the country was made in 1860 on free
selection before survey, David Buchanan was living
at Morpeth, and it was decided to run him against
Sam Cohen, and pay him. Buchanan was elected
and was paid. The law that gave the State man-
hood suffrage gave a member to each of the gold-
field areas—-North, South and West —and the miners
decided to elect one of their own class and keep
him in funds. ; The-North „elected James Hoskins, the*.
AVest Robert Wisdom,. and, the South Dr. AA'ilson. I
think AA’ilson was Bennett’s immediate predecessor
for Liverpool Plains. Bennett was really nominated
in jest, but there were many starters and the out-
sider won. ' The reason he held the seat so long
was that the, contlitT between squatter and selector
was acute, and £l?h: selectors dared not nominate any-
one else, as ffic ffdlt would have given (he squatters
the seat. Theretoi'c. being an yapproaeliyhle. sort of
chap, he secured a -large following. /
“Karee” : Re service records. Out of nine
Tournouers, Australians of 12 years’ stand-
ing, all the male members have answered
the call. One brother is a trooper and the
other a sergeant in the Australian Forces
at the Front; another, a “75” corporal, is
missing; another is a lieutenant in the
French Infantry. The eldest, a Zouave
sergeant, has been wounded three times,
mentioned four times in dispatches, and was
a recipient of the War Cross. He was killed
last June. A sister is a Red Cross nurse, and
the other two female members arc engaged
in Red Cross work. Out of the remaining
five non-Australian members of the name,
the father (aged 62, wounded once, in 1870.
and once in this campaign) is a major in
the French Chasseurs; his brother is a pilot-
aviator, two cousins have commissions
in tlie Russian Guards, and another is a
trooper in the French cavalry, while three
out of their five women folk are Red Crojss
nurses. The ages of those in the figliting-
line range from 10 to 02.
George Wilkins, the Australian who is
commanding a section of St.efansson’s Arctic
Expedition,'is 27 years young. After leaving
Adelaide he went through the Balkan War
for the Gaiunont Cinematograph-Co. War-
correspondent Philip. Gibbs mentioned his
resourcefulness in his “Adventure of War
with _ Cross and Crescent.” and Gibbs's
eulogium carried weight, seeing that young
Wilkins accompanied the newspaper min
into some of the bloodiest corners when
Abdul was seeking to annihilate the Bulgar
whom he has since embraced.
Francisco Parer, of Melbourne, the
Spaniard who commenced to garner a solid
competence, over half a century ago. by pro-
viding big-value meals for the multitude, is
dead at SO. From time immemorial the fee
for dinner at Parer’s place in Bourke-stre’et
has been “a boh, with a bottle o’ wine.” The
old man knew how, to cook, how to buy food
and how to employ. He was particular, too :
lie has been known to pay off a new carver
because the latter, saving time,- dealt out
roast beef by placing one hand on the top
of (he round, while with the other he sliced
the cow. The Parer tribe nowadays is con-
siderable in number and always has sinqjl-
c,liange in more than one pocket. When
Francisco retired some years ago it wag to
a “nice, little place” at Box Mill, in .the
midst of Melbourne's nearest fruit-suppL-yjflg
district, -and Estevan took charge of the
Bourke-street “ranch.”
LAWYER
MORLEY
(Tic.), Counsel
for the Defence
Department in
the Perry
Inquiry.
Away back a quarter of a century ago
William Morris, a bootmaker, tried to rjjn
A If. Deakin out of politics, but didn’t man-
age it and got tangled up in a libel action
against the Age instead, He came in second
in that, too. Then he went back to boots
and Maoriland, where he came from, and
had a shot or two against Joe Ward, ihr
Awarua, and a struggle for Invercargill with
Joe Hannah, now Minister for Education.
He was a pretty sure loser. But he g<j>t
home in the Consolation Stakes the other
day. The documents said he was 72.


m
m
m
m
SAXOXE STYLE 195, as illustrated above, is a
big-h-grade. White Calf Shoe, with Derby front,
and an extra light English Oak Tanned Leather
Sole, welted.. The perfect-fitting Saxone last is
built on straight lines, in keeping with, present-
day fashion tendencies, and may be had in all
regular and half-sizes and several fittings.
Price 50)- per pair.
SAXOXE STYLE 121 is a White Calf Lace Boot,
similar in every respect to Shoe Style 195,'and
stocked in the same range of sizes and fittings.
Price 32/6 per pair.
SAXOXE STYLE 725, as illustrated below, is an
exceptionally fine-quality Patent Colt Derby-
fronted Lace Shoe,.with lightweight English Oak
Tanned Leather Soles, welted. Toe Cap and
Upper are smartly punched, and the shaped'eyelets
not only permit the use of wide Shoe Laces, but
keep. them, in shape. The fit, as in every other
Saxone Model, is perfect. There is smartness in
the swing of the Last and the slightly raised toe,
and the Suede lining' and snug-fitting ankle
absolutely prevent the Shoe from either slipping
or rubbing. All regular sizes'stocked.
Price 32/6 per pair.
SAXOXE STYLE 181. is a high-grade .Glace Kid
Shoe, built on the same last.
Price 30/- per pair.
SAXOXE STYLE 19.2, a particularly fine Tan
Willow Call Shoe, is also available in the same
Model.
Price 32/6 per pair.
m
NOTHING could give us greater
satisfaction than the introduction
to Australia of the Saxone Shoe
for Men
British built, the Saxone Shoe expresses
British Workmanship at its best, a standard
thoroughly appreciated by every man who
estimates QUALITY in Footwear at ITS
TRUE VALUE
The Popularity of the Saxone Shoe is
further augmented by its exclusive style
features and the perfect-fitting lasts, which
ensure not onlv certain comlort but the
j
retention of the original shape of Boot or
Shoe throughout all stages of wear.
You are cordially invited to inspect the
Saxone Shoe Styles in our Boot Depart-
ment at any time . . anv dav, and remember
there is no obligation to purchase . . .
unless you wish to
If you find it inconvenient to call we would
be glad to send you the VES I POCKE T
STYLE BOOK of Saxone Shoes just
now ready for issue
This little Style Book does not pretend to feature all the
Saxone Styles from which your choice may be made. Its
object merely is to introduce this best British-built Shoe.
But one thing remains to add . . your closer acquaint-
ance with Saxone Shoes will of a lead to per-
manent friendship ’
CARRIAGE PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
484*490 George Street,
'.T - - SYDNEY.
Pioi leer Distributors Goods
3-17 Royal Arcade.
SYDNEY.


IRRIGATION.
We carry Urge Stocks of
Power-driven Reciprocating
Steam- and
Pumps.
Cash or Terms.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pufhps suitable for Irrigation Work.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St„ Sydney
New Zealand Insurance Company Limited
PREMIER COLONIAL COMPANY.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Sickness, Workmen's Compensation and General
Insurance, 79-Si PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Insurance Company of
New Zealand:—•
Written To Rc- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1903.. 27,022 15 p.c. = 15,000 12,622 175,746
1004.. 38,414 15 ~ „ 15,000 23,414 199,160
1905.. 26,009 15 „ ~ 15,000 552 10,457 209,617
1906.. 43,626 15 „ „ 15,000 28,626 238,243
1907.. 26,096 15 „ „ 15,000 11,096 249,339
1908.. 30,591 15 „ ~ 15,000 15,591 264,930
1909.. 33,666 15 „ ~ 15,000 3234 15,432 280,362
1910.. 40,036 174 „ „ 17,500 22,536 302,898
1911.. 38,390 20 ~ „ 20,000 15,390 321,288
1912.. 43,412 25 ~ „ 25,000 18,412 339,700
1913.. 52,209 25 „ „ 25,000 27,209 366,909
1914.. 35,664 25 „ „ 25,000 —• 10,664 377.573
1915.. 42,347 25 „ „ 25,000 17,347 394,920
Twelve months ago the management didn’t
know as well as it knows now what the
Navy could do. Consequently it no doubt
did what most other marine underwriters
did—put a bit up its sleeve in case Jellicoe
couldn’t altogether hold the seas and it
had to pay very heavy marine claims.
In those early days of the war few people
could have hoped in their wildest moments
that the German “Grand" Fleet would be-
have so entirely like a whipped cur before
even taking the whipping. All that Ger-
many has been capable of on the sea lias
been- a few tricks that it might have learned
from the sharks; it has cast the most dread-
ful reflection on itself by matching itself
not against the armed vessels of Britain and
the Allies, but against their fishing smacks
and other peaceful craft. When we think
of what was promised last Spring in France
we feel pretty small. But what must Ger-
many feel like when it remembers “The
Day’’ it toasted and thinks of its “Grand
Fleet” gathering barnacles behind the skirts
of the Kiel Canal? And so the National,
like most of the insurance cos., is able to
show a fine profit for the year. It backed
a navy that was ready; and the navy won
—as our army would pretty certainly have
also won long before this had it been as
ready.
Details of the progress in regard to
underwriting are shown next:—•
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £82,935 £49,052 £26,560 59.2 p.c. 32.0 p.c.
1900.. 102,264 54,991 99,950 53.8 „ 29.4 „
1905.. 107,648 58,996 36,402 54.8 „ 33.8 „
1910.. 126,602 60,682 44,157 47.8 „ 34.9 „
1913.. 151,454 66,345 53,168 43.7 „ 35.1 „
1914.. 148,242 78,496 55,709 52.9 „ 37.5 ,
1915.. 153,598 78,262 55,934 50.9 „ 36.4 „
The loss-rate is high and the expense-rate
low, and that is generally the way with
cos. that do a lot of marine underwriting.
As the interest earnings are almost suffici-
ent to pay the dividend, the whole of the
underwriting profit, less about £lOOO. is put
bv to strengthen the reserves and thus give
the co.’s clients increased security. In a
general way this security depends on (1)
the care with which risks are accepted:
(2) the proportion of funds to risks as
measured by premiums; (3) the invest-
ment of those funds. As to (1), the past
success of the co. is the best evidence of
cautious administration—if any evidence is
wanted further than the fact that the co.’s
head office is at Dunedin. (2) Premium in-
come last year was £153.598. Funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined) amount to
£494,920. From this point of view the
strength of the co. is thus about twice as
great as the average strength of the leading
40 British cos. Allowing that the net in-
come this year will be the same as last year,
the co. Could during the current year pay
claims equal to the total claims of the past
five years, and still have twice the amount
of its capital in hand. (3) The manage-
ment’s policy is to invest funds largely in
mortgages, and this paper is not in love with
such securities for insurance offices. The
money can’t as a rule be lifted quickly
enough. And then there is the risk of
shrinkage, not to mention the expense
of administration. Mortgages represent
£371.365 of the total of £532,686 of assets.
Another item, unsatisfactory for its vague-
ness, is “Debentures, £49,000.” However,
there is still about £92,000 in the bank and
with agencies, so there is no likelihood that
the. co. will have to realise any of its securi-
ties in a hurry.
St. Joseph’s Investment and Building
Society (Sydney) :
Profit Divi- Writ- Nomi-
Business on dend ten nal Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. (5 p.c.). Off. serves.
1905 .. £3,601 £3500 £219
1906 . . 3,575 3500 294
Assets written up, £28,588, which amount
was transferred to capital.
1907 .. 3,978 4000 272
1908 .. 4,438 £6654 £2809 8,555
1909 .. 5,071 1420 2858 12,188
1910 .. .5,015 367 2858 14,712
1911 . . 6,485 1220 2858 - 19,559
Reserves transferred to capital. £9529.. 10,030
1912 . . 6,885 1056 ‘ 3335 -- 14,636
Assets written up, £6OOO .. .. 20,636
1913 . . 9,134 571 3335 27.006
Reserves transferred to capital, £ 9529.. 17,477
1914 .. 10,114 2091 3812 25,870
191.5 . . 9,721 824 3812 32,603
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529. . 23,074
With this transfer of reserves to capital the
sI) a res will be paid up to £9. When the burst
happened after the last borrowing boom the
shares were paid to £lO. After the awful
smash of property values it was found neces-
sary on a revaluation of assets to write off
A« per share. Slowly values began to
recover, under the influence partly of in-
creased national production, but still more
under the unhealthy influence of a borrow-
ing boom. The old boom values thus
returned, and the eo. sold properties at so
much in excess of their written-down values
that all but £1 per share of the old capital
has been restored.
A his would be a magnificent recordHf the
recovery were due to hard work and in-
creased output. Unfortunately, as mentioned
above, it is mostly due to that very same
ruinous policy which produced the previous
bloat, followed by a burst. In a mere 3 0
years the N. S. Wales -public debt has
increased from £82,000,000 to £125,000.000.
In other words, in a single decade the State
has borrowed just half as much as it: did
m all the previous 100-odd years, including
the boom-period of the late 'eighties. Con-
ditions thus produced have been utterly
fictitious, including wages, rents and capital
values. This co. lias done the proper thing
from a business point of view in using the
bogus prosperity to unload some of its pro-
perties ; but £70,534 is still represented by
foreclosures; and this paper will be amazed
it the co. doesn’t feel sorry during the next
tew years that it missed the ehance to un-
load a great deal more, especially as it still
owes over £52,500 borrowed on deposit. That
the tide has already turned may be judged
by the fact that, whereas year after year
properties in possession have been steadily
diminishing, in the past 12 months there has
been a jump. This means that more pro-
perties have been thrown on the co.’s hands
than it has got rid of. And if that happened
during the past year, what are things likely
to be when the present boom in war-expendi-
ture is over? Let there be no mistake what-
ever about it; we are on top of a bubble,
and so far the war has merely inflated our
bubble more. St. Joseph’s Society has not
put itself in as good a position to meet
the inevitable collapse as it should have
done.
* * * *
The Brisbane Permanent Building
and Banking Co:—•
Writ-
i „ Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
4P.c. =£476.3 £394 —£18,606
" 3.1 , 3899 284 £44 18,650
1900., 2867 Nil 16,322 5.195
1906 . . 1353 Nil 542 811 6,006
£24,393 capital written off and added to
reserves .. . . . . .. 30 399
£22,874 written off properties .. 7 525
1907.. 1970 2 p.c. = 1746 1,181 6 568
1908 . . 2633 2 „ „ 1746 1 632 5 sea
IQIO ' ■ ?” ” 2620 828 352 6 -!75
IQll” loir ” 3495 2221 8,396
joH-- 4 f „ » 3,14 550 1693 10,089
IQI a' * t' 1 ” ” 4151 ~ 3219 13.308
l oia ‘ ‘ on?r -” ” 4369 ~ 3455 16,763
1914 . . 9915 o „ „ 4369 5546 22 309
191:, .. 8899 6 ~ „ 5308 3591 25’900
The year’s disclosed profits are a bit less
than those for the previous 12 months : but
the management likes the look of things
well enough to put up the dividend a point.
.ven then there is a very comfortable mar-
gm. Still, it was not until 1010 that any-
thing like enough was made to pay 6 pc.
on the capital. What right, then, has an
investor to assume that the past half-dozen
years have been normal? Why shouldn’t
he rather assume that these have been ex-
ceptional and the previous half-dozen nor-
™al • B «t the figures probably don’t tell
bait the (ale—which is a way company’s
published figures have, and those of Queens-
land especially. The fact is this co., like
so many others, was left nursing the baby
after the last boom. It wrote off some
capital, but not enough; and the deficit,
since it wasn’t provided for by writing off
capital, had necessarily to be made good by
absorbing current profit. In practice this
meant that as properties were sold for less
than they cost and for less than they stood
at in the books, the shortage was made up
out of current business profits. It is cer-
tain that this affected the disclosed profits
down to 1910, but to what extent is un-
known. Therefore the position is as follows.
Ihe profits for the past half-dozen years
are excellent; but these years have been years
of State borrow and boom, and the profits
of a co. like this have undoubtedly been
bloated. It is, however, doubtful whether
the bloat has been really anything like as
great as the.table shows, because it is prac-
tically certain that the actual current pro-
fits prior to 1910 were greater than the table
shows.
As mentioned above,_ the co. was left with
a lot of property on its hands on which it
had advanced too much. What are the
chances of this being repeated? The co.
isn’t as well placed in one respect as the
common or cabbage-garden variety of build-
ing society. That sort, though it often lends
too much, gradually reduces its risks by col-
lecting instalments. This concern lends on
ordinary mortgage, and for repayments de-
pends a good deal on the sale of properties
bv people who have been financed to pur-
chase. Naturally during the past year there
have not been many purchases, and there-
fore new advances have not been numerous;
on the other hand, sales have of course been
equally few, and the advances outstanding
have therefore been reduced onlv from
£252,970 to £246.772. Properties in hand
are now negligible—under £lOOO. For-
tunately, because the co. may before very long
have to take other properties over. It all de*
Pends on the coldness with which the values of
the past few years have been viewed. But
while lower values for property are pro-
bable—as well as desirable, especially so far
as farming property is' concerned—this co.'s
creditors need have no trepidation about
their security. The co.’s deposits and other
debts not represented by liquid assets amount
to £130.000; and there are no less tlpm
£258.000 of non-liquid assets fcliieflv
advances secured by mortgage) to represent
the. debt.
The Castlemaine Brewery and Wood
BeOS. axd Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.) :
Written To Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1004.. 13,022 4 p.e. = 10,000 3000 22 57,730
1905.. 13,000 4 ~ „ 10,000 3000 57 730
1906.. 15,019 4 „ ~ 10,000 3000 2,019 55.711
1907.. 15,522 4 „ „ 10,000 3500 2,022 53,689
1908.. 14,754 4 „ 10,000 2500 2,254 51,435
1909.. 13,767 4„ „ 10,000 3000 767 50,668
1910.. 13,387 4 ~ „ 10,000 2250 1,137 49,531
1911.. 10,346 4 ~ „ 10,000 —• 346 49,185
1912.. 15,551 44 „ „ 11,250 4,301 44,884
Assets revalued and written up 88,000 6,884
1913.. 15,803 5 p.e. = 12,500 —' 3,303 3,581
Reserves.
1914.. 27,676 5 „ „ 12,500 2000 13.176 9,595
1915.. 27,130 5 „ ~ 12,500 2000 12,630 22,225
Now that’s a respectable table for the first
time. Hitherto goodwill has always been
mixed up with freeholds and plant, and no-
body but the man inside knew what was.
what or could get within coo-ee of the true
position or the co.’s real movements—which
explains, of course, why at times there was
so much competition for places behind the
counter. It was a deplorable business,
though, and the outsider had a pretty poor
chance. The law ought to have something
to say on this question of goodwill: so long
as it is allowable for a Board to lump it
with other assets, balance-sheets can be made
a delusion and profit and loss accounts a
snare.
To begin with, a dozen years ago, when
the table starts, the co. had. it now seems,
£lOO,OOO of its capital of £250.000 repre-
sented by goodwill. At that time the pub-
lished accounts showed reserves of £42,270;
so the real deficit, or amount of capital not
represented by tangible assets, was £57,730.
Subsequently assets were revalued and
written up £38,000; and this and £12,W0
—together £so,ooo—was written off the
goodwill, and another £lO,OOO subsequently.
According to the published accounts there is
thus still £40,000 of goodwill, with £62,225
of reserves. Deducting from the reserves
the intangible goodwill item you get the
£22,225 of real reserves shown in the table.
In the last 12 years the accounts show
that net profit of £79.977 in excess of the
dividend has been made. But £38.000 of it
represents value written on to the assets,
and that is doubtful profit. On the other hand,
undisclosed profit may have been made and
employed to make good old assets that had
turned out bad. For instance, in 1901 the
book debts were nearly £BO,OOO. Ten years
later they had been reduced to under
£38,000. The chances are that a good deal
of that old debt was bad and had to be
written off. That might account for the
smallness of the profits a few years ago com-
pared with those of the last two or three
years. Certainly if recent profits are normal
the shareholders are on a remarkably good
wicket—especially those who bought in quite
lately at 14s. or so. According to the pub-
lished figures there is nearly 225. worth of
tangible assets per share, and the net pro-
fits in the last two years have been more
than 10 p.e. p.a. on the capital. But this
paper declines to offer any opinion as to
whether recent profits have been normal.
Also it declines to commit itself to the
opinion that the hotel assets, worth (book
value) over £75,000, would fetch that much
if the people voted for six o’clock pubs as
they did lately in S. Aus., and as they
would be almost certain to do also in N. S.
Wales if they were given the chance.
One other comparison may be dropped in
here:—
1901. 1911. 1914. 1915.
£ £ £ £
Liabilities to public 68,307 69,855 101,744 101,970
Properties,
plant, etc. }-
Goodwill
215 o°2 2400 225,582
20u,400 50 00Q 40 00Q
Freeholds (special
account) . . 41,848 48,528 74,031 75,812
Sundry debtors .. 77,348 37,361 46,290 43,883
Bills, cash, etc. . . 6,826 6,205 5,319 4,048
Stock .. .. 26,346 20,177 31,634 33,118
Keceipts .. . . 61,716 46,231 90,858 107,874
Expenses, including 1
provision for bad
debts .. . . 48,623 35,885 63,183 80,743
The last couple of lines are interesting. The
“Receipts” one in particular doesn’t seem
to suggest that Newcastle and district have
followed the King close enough to be a nuis-
ance.
The Adelaide Co-operative Society:—
Divi- Writ-
Pro- dend Bonus on ten Re-
fits. (4p.c.). Purchases. Off. serves.
Aug., ’07.. £3989 £877 41 p.c. = £1955 £573 £2675
Feb., ’OB.. 4138 935 5 „ „ 2385 610 2883
Aug., ’OB.. 4737 1007 5 „ „ 2790 581 3242
Feb., ’09.. 4255 1052 5 „ ~ 3003 344 309 S
Aug., ’09.. 4994 1103 5 „ „ 3182 632 3175
Feb., ’lO.. 4483 1179 5 „ „ 3253 294 2932
Aug., ’lO. . 5877 1284 5 „ „ 3658 464 3403
Feb., ’ll.. 6225 1425 5 „ „ 3872 539 3792
Aug., ’ll.. 4287 1537 35 ~ „ 3129 522 2891
Feb., ’12.. 6743 1616 5 „ ~ 4372 524 3122
Aug., ’12.. 8091 1652 5 „ „ 4744 865 3952
Feb.‘, ’13.. 6568 1733 5 „ „ 4765 510 3512
Aug., T 3.. 8266 1768 5 „ ~ 4954 569 4487
Feb., ’14.. 8150 1789 5 „ „ 4945 600 5303
Aug., ’14.. 8218 1830 5 „ „ 4909 629 6153
Feb., ’15.. 7339 1898 5 „ .. 4726 623 6245
Aug., ’15.. 7330 1870 5 „ „ 4750 743 6212
The Bulletin won’t guarantee the accu-
racy of the figures in that last line. With
capital a variable quantity, and nothing-
more than the mere rates of dividend and
bonus announced in the directors’ report,
actual results for the past half-year cannot
be ascertained until the next P. and L.
account arrives. But if the directors are
not explicit in stating the amount to be paid
out in divs. and bonuses they are definite on
two or three other points: (1) that share
capital has shrunk during the past six
months; (2) that loans (subscribed on the
same basis as capital) have also decreased ;
ap<J (3) that the immediate raising of the
interest rate from 4 p.c. to 44 p.c. p.a. is
urgently necessary to prevent further with-
drawals, This Adelaide society works on
the absurd principle of allowing sharehold-
ers to withdraw their invested cdsh at
alipost a moment’s notice. That principle
is mischievous enough in normal times, for
besides restricting the growth of the co.,
owing to the necessity of keeping consider-
able liquid assets, there is always the danger
ot a domestic disturbance causing disloyal
shareholders to withdraw their cash, and
thus wrecking the interests of loyal share-
holders. The Bulletin has pointed out
again and again that when dear-money times
came there would be many shareholders who
would not be content with 4 p.c., and would
call for their money. This is precisely what
has happened to a small extent ; and it- is
liable to happen to such a large extent and
with such serious consequences that this
paper again urges the directors to alter the
constitution. It is much too good a concern
to be liable to be shipwrecked so easily.
Compared with similar co-operative concerns
in the Commonwealth it has a splendid turn-
over. Sydney Civil Service cash receipts for
the last half-year totalled £176,818, and this
Adelaide co. is not very far behind with
£116,368 —or, rather, it is a good deal in
advance considering the relative extent of
the fields in which the societies operate.
Broken Hill Junction North Silver
Mining Co., now the Junction North Broken
Ilill Mines:—
Written
Profit. Dividend. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1908.. £12,418 Nil £7,203 £630
Reserves.
Mar., 1909.. 11,024 Nil 3,618 6,770
Sept., 1909.. 16,821 Nil 7,589 16,002
Mar., 1910.. 20,357 Nil 7,840 28,519
Sept., 1910.. 7,620 £9,000 8,09 S 19,041
Mar., 1911.. 34,094 18,000 7,987 27448
Sept.. 1911.. 37,174 18,000 12.308 34.014
Mar., 1912.. 16,391 9,000 5,281. 36,124
Reserves wiped out; new co. formed.
Sept., 1912.. 36,828 Nil 22,254 14,574
Loss. ;
Mar., 1913.. 5,744 Nil 2,92 S 5,902
Profit.
Sept., 1913.. 22,114 Nil 6,338 21,678
Mar., 1914.. 6,121 Nil 3,578 24,221
Sept., 1914.. 7,633 Nil 3,839 28,615
Loss.
Mar., 1915.. 18,120 Nil 9,895
Sept., 1915.. 7,602 Nil 2,293
The mine and plant are still idle, and likely
to continue so for some time. When the
directors saw that the bottom was out of the
mine—there are only three or four years’
supplies, and those cannot be cheaply worked
—they were prevailed upon to go into ore-
purchase and treatment. But, being cleverer
than everybody else, they had to buy some-
thing that nobody else would look at. They
therefore plunged in slimes, on the strength
of the “selective” process which had been
evolved out of the flotation method. No
doubt they did know a lot about the new
process: Owen, who was their metallurgist
at the time, had made perhaps the most
important discoveries in connection with it.
Then the war came, and two things hap-
pened—first, the market for the zinc pro-
duct practically disappeared: second, the
market for the silver-lead product was so
restricted that the buyers wouldn’t look at
the inferior concentrates derived from
slimes. So the Junction North was flattened
right out; and having no say in the Associ-
ated Smelters, it can’t command a market
even for the bit of lead concentrates it could
produce from its own raw ores. All the time
it has about £132,000 locked up in purchased
slimes and unsaleable concentrates; and over
£40,000 of this is money borrowed or owed ;
and heavy interest has to be paid ; and the
mill has to be kept in repair, and the mine,
though it receives some attention, is getting
no better to work, and it never was extra-
good.
As for the future, who knows? A great
deal depends on the zinc market; or, rather,
on the market for zinc concentrates.
And. though you can read of the triumphs
of Prime Minister. Hughes in connection
with the metal business, absolutely nothing
has thus far been done with regard to zinc.
The handling of all the lead and copper in
Australia is quite an easy matter, and
always has been. There has very rarely
been more than a shilling or two a ton
between Australian and foreign lead smel-
ters and copper refiners. Cobar used to
refine in Australia; Mount Morgan and
Mount Lyell and Wallaroo —the three big-
gest producers—have done it for years. The
Bi’oken Hill Prop, has always preferred '.to
smelt its silver-lead in Australia, and gen-
erally it has been able to compete with
foreign buyers for other mines’ output. But
zinc is the difficulty; and Hughes hasn’t
made the smallest impression on that niit.
Germany and German-owned or -controlled
works in Belgium and elsewhere have taken
practically all these concentrates. Aus-
tralia has smelted a mere pocketful. Eng-
land has done very little more, though for
many years the Sulphide Corporation has
been subsidising works at Seaton Carew.
George Blakemore, general manager of the
Great Cobar in the days when it was pro-
sperous, and an enthusiastic Australian—
in his day Cobar refined its copper at Lith-
gow—is at present in England. Last week
the cable gave his views, after he had made
inquiries into the question of smelting zinc
in Britain. He says exactly what The
Bulletin lias been saying ever since the
question was raised 15 months ago:—
The principal difficulties in the production of
spelter in England are the higher wages, the in-
creased prices of coal and coke, the freight difficulty,
and the difficulty of inducing English workmen to
undertake dirty and unhealthy work. It has been
suggested, said Mr. Blakemore, that they should
import Belgians, but the Belgian Government objected
owing to the need of men to resuscitate the industry
there after the war. Hritain could not hope to compete
unth' Germany and Belgium, after the war, unless the
British Government either granted a bonus to pro-
ducers or gave tariff protection to local industry.
The British metallurgical methods, apart from the
steel manufactures, were out of date compared with
Australian.
Govett, of the Zinc Corporation, came to the
same conclusion —with this addition, that
British investors showed the utmost disin-
clination to go into the business.
_ That is the plain position with regard to
zinc concentrates. Their future is gravely


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
BOOKLET ON APPLICATION.
K. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed £9,300,000
Annual Income Exceeds £1,400,000
The Company is distinguished for
FINANCIAL STRENGTH
and
ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
When you know you have been using' a good
article, and probably using it for years, you are not
easily persuaded into trying something else. This
accounts for the success of “Pioneer” Australian
Leather Belting-. Engineers and Mining men have
us'ed it so long and with so much satisfaction that
(hey will not bother experimenting with other makes.
“Pioneer” is reliable. Try it and see. Made only
by J. 0. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York Street
(opp. Q.V. Markets), Sydney. Sold in the other
States by Horace Summers, Perth, W.A.; Queensland
Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane, Q’land; 0. Bussell
Pt.v. Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.; J.
McKell, Timpson Street, Pt. Adelaide, S.A.— Advt.
ALUMINOFKRRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams k Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.— Advt.
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. Od. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to (is. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of .is. (id.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x Din. Patent Stonecrusher, and tin 1
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Extract from Tub Citizen, London, 15th Septem-
ber, 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Oliice.—lt is a
distinct pleasure to receive and review the annual
report and actuarial investigation of this excellently-
managed, world-wide mutual life oftiee. Apart from
the pubely technical aspect of its operations, there is
the admirable work which it is doing in knitting-
together the English-speaking peoples in various
parts of the great British Empire. The Society is
mutual in the purest sense of the word, and the
manifest advantages of life assurance upon the
.mutual principle are admirably portrayed in its
records. The society has no shareholders, and all
its profits are divided amongst its members.”— Advt.
*■* * *
PIONEER. WOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine,
vinegar, acids, oil. cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 100,000 gallons.
They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
and State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office.) — Advt.
* *. * *
The Australian Provincial Assurance Associa-
tion, Ltd.—This Association is making solid progress
in all departments, and the progressive policy
adopted by the management has been instrumental in
the completion of a very fine volume of new business
in both the Life and Accident Departments.— -£ovt.
* # *• *r-
Have Yoti an Idea worth patenting ? If so, write
to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and C'o., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
The Electrolytic Refining, and Smelting Com-
pany of Australia, Limited. —By mutual consent
Mr. Francis 11. Snow has retired from the above com-
pany, and the Ore Purchase Department at Bridge St.,
Sydney, has been closed. Sellers of ore should now com-
municate direct with the Works, Port Kembla. — Advt.
* * * *
The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte
Street, Brisbane, are Specialists in Road Buildin-
and Shire and Municipal Machinery, also “National”
Gas and Oil Engines, and “Robey” Steam Engines.
—Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading-
mines in Australia. — Advt.
IDEAS.-—-Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, -Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg k Co., Ltd., S O’Connell Street; Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,660 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,451 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 80,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ~~~-- U - ° °
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street. London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E,C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the Wofld.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
uncertain. If the Continental market is shut
t > Australian producers, it is almost certain
that no other market will be available for
the total output of Australian mines.
Whether the Germans would be able to make
contracts as favorable as they formerly made
is also very doubtful, even if we would trade
with them. In the opinion of men who ought
to know, it was certain that some of the
buyers would not have been able to continue
their contracts had the latter not been de-
clared void. The immediate future for the
Australian zinc producer is therefore made
up” of about equal parts of uncertainty and
gloom.
'“Quidam”: The value of sulphur as a
slaughterer of vegetation is well illustrated
at the site of the old Black Bullock mine,
near Oberon (N.S.W.), where all around
the trees are as dead as if ringbarked 20
years ago. This show, which is one of the
very few in the district with a substantial
ciedit balance to its name, comprised a solid
body of sulphide ore, carrying a fair amount
of gold ; and Tom Buckland, once of Char-
ters Towers (Q.), is said to have made a
gcqd many thousands out of the stub, which
was kiln-roasted on the ground to desulphur-
ise it, and then sold to the smelters. When
the ore cut out (it is locally alleged to have
been a deposit of the shape of a boat) the
mine was shut down, and has lain idle ever
sipce. Its very high percentage of sulphur
and low percentage of arsenic, together with
its gold contents, would make it a profit-
able proposition now for super-phosphates
and similar chemical purposes, could the
ore be picked up again, or a similar body
found, and very little in the way of explo-
ration appears to have been done. It was,
moreover, an ore which yielded an unusu-
ally high percentage of its sulphur con-
tents with great readiness. In a district of
auriferous shreds and patches, blest with
an astounding number of squibs which never
were and never will be any good, it is re-
markable that so much good money has been
spent on hopeless duffers, while the one
show with a really profitable past has re-
ceived no attention at all.
* * * *
There is nothing immodest about the way
in which George Buchanail announces his
Tuinut (N.S.W.) float. It is only a 00,000
share go, with £6OOO cash put to the credit
of working account, to take over the Tumut
Prospecting and Tumut Bombowlie syndi-
cates’ sections. George Buchanan, no doubt,
had to part up something for rights, but up
to date what he gave and what promoters
pouch are facts with which The Bulletin
is unacquainted. The area embraces an
ironstone outcrop SOft. wide looking on to
Bombowlie Creek. Prospecting represents
a shaft down 50ft. in the ironstone. A
crosscut east for 35ft. carries “all crushing
dirt.” Assays from surface down range
from 4dwt. at the top to 43dwt. at 47ft. It
stems just as well that a halt was called
then, for if values had progressed at the
same rate this paper would soon have run
out of figures. Ballarat was the home of
the float.
* * * *
Mount David (N.S.W.) again provides its
periodical halfpenny flutter on Sydney
Stock Exchange. The manager reports pay-
able prospects in a large formation near the
surface, but whether or not it is likely to
lead to anything permanent is not quite
clear. One part of the report states that
the lode lias been picked up south of a fault
on which it was lost, and another part says
it is expected that old workings will
soon be broken into. The co. can be hon-
estly wished the best of luck ; its career has
been one of unexampled patience and perse-
verance. May it have such a turn in the
tide of its fortunes as to relieve the daily
press of the monotony of reporting that
Mount David had a “sharp rise of Id.”
* * * *
If. ever the documents relating to the
acquisition by the N.S.W. Government of
£30,000 worth of 6 p.e. “receivers’ deben-
tures in the Great Cobar mine are published,
they will be equally interesting and instruc-
tive. Report has it that responsible offi-
cials of the Mines Department departed from
their usual Yes-No attitude and were un-
sparing in their condemnation of the pro-
posal on practical and financial grounds.
Further, it is stall'd that the business was
engineered by a well-known city man whose
name was prominently associated with a big
contract scheme. The chance of the Gov-
ernment getting any direct returns on the
£30,000 speculation within the three-years’
time-limit would seem to be very remote. Of
course an attempt will be made to justify it
as “public policy,” on the ground that if
the mine is worked on anything like the old
scale, the railways will earn more than
£30,000 from it within three years.
* * * *
Shareholders in lodide (N.S.W.) are not
likely to derive much comfort from the “re-
assuring” circular just issued, because the
document clearly indicates that its days
arc numbered. Thousands of feet of driv-
ing below 100 ft. has failed to disclose any
downward continuation of the rich bunch of
ore on which the mine was floated. All
exploratory work has been stopped, and the
co. is now gouging out the remainder of the
surface deposit. This carries high values,
but the quantity is limited. A small con-
centrating plant is being erected to deal with
seconds. The best that the directors can
promise from these operations is that share-
holders will not have to pay any more calls
for the present. On the stated facts the
wisest policy would seem to be to acknow-
ledge failure from a company point of view,
make the working-men a present of the show,
and let it revert to its original name of
Mineral Hill. “lodide” is not a word to
conjure with; it is too sad a reminder to
many hundreds of people who almost broke
their_ necks in their rush to get into the
acclaimed “second Broken Hill.”
* * * *
, “Oof Bird” (W.A.) : Let me first put
“S.X.” right and then drive a few more
nails into Fraser’s coffin. It was Central
and not Fraser’s that I said was pockety.
The continuance of ore at depth in the
latter mine lias never been questioned; but
!>., M. & Co.’s sampling and results from
borehole prospecting conclusively proved
that values do not go down. As regards the
Yilgarn men “who have no doubt of the
show’s value when re-opened,” some of those
mentioned formerly worked it on tribute
and gave up because there were no induce-
ments to continue on. The prospectus is
brim-full of—well, give it your own name.
It declares that very little ore was taken
from below 150 ft. Wrong! Three main
shafts were sunk on Fraser’s down to 300 ft.,
'Old in reality more ore was taken out from
below than above 350 ft. It is further stated
that the battery was frequently hung up
because of inadequate pumping plant to
deal with the mine water. Wrong again!
The battery ran for years and was never
once shut down for the reason alleged. Aii
ole! mill which was working on the property
before 1896 used to stop for want of water,
although it was erected in the bed of a
lake. Again, costs are stated to have been
equivalent to an ounce per ton. Thev were
not. In fact, the average was about 355.
I repeat that the venture is worthless.
*■ * #• #•
A Bulletin man writes: Edna May has
improved a bit lately. Fresh bodies of ore
have been exposed at the 75ft. level, and,
although mill supplies have been continually
drawn from that source since crushing
began, there seems to be as much as ever
in sight. The hanging-wall reef at No. 5
level has now been driven on 00ft. and
assays 15dwt. over Bft. It will probably be
the new year before anything worth men-
tioning is done at No. 4 level.
* * * #
Gt. Fingall (W.A.) is devoting all its
time and money to sinking the internal shaft
and doing other development. This work is
expected to take about six months, and will,
it is anticipated, enable the show to be
worked much more cheaply. But share-
holders are not likely to get much more,
* * * *
Whim Well Copper Co. (W.A.) lias got
debenture holders, unsecured creditors and
shareholders to agree to its scheme of recon-
struction, and is now making preparations
to have another go. Sleeman, the former
manager, is on the mine, and the shipment
of copper ore will probably be resumed as
soon as bottoms can be obtained to cany it
away.
* * * *
“Mining Engineer” (W.A.) : Re the argu-
ment as to whether Westralian Government
geologists protect the public. Six months
age a crowd of Westonia prospectors who
know as much about beer as about mining
reported that they had found a “second
Kalgoorlie” 100 miles south of Southern
Cross. State Geologist Blatcliford was
immediately sent to inspect, and he stated
that, while the country warranted a small
amount of capital being spent in prospect-
ing, the public should be guarded against
the boom reports that were being circulated
about the discovery. Blatcliford Avas
promptly voted a blanky coav by the boom-
sters, but his early opinion has been justi-
fied. The find has since fizzled out and is
now not Avorth tAvo bob. Mclntyre’s pro-
specting expedition only found traces of
gold in the vicinity, and at present its
members are more concerned about finding
Avater than anything else. Writer would
have invested £2OO in the so-called new find
but for Blatcliford, and there are others
Avho would have gone in also.
Chaffers (W.A.) does not appear to have
had any luck in its efforts lo make a fresh
start. A day or so before the last mail left
London one Sidney Kennedy and the
Westralian Syndicate hit upon a novel plan
to raise the co. from the dead. They in-
vited each shareholder to send along Is.
per share, and promised that if the show
Avas not bought when put up for auction or
the attempts Avhich they proposed to make
to square the creditors failed, the money
subscribed Avould be returned less out-of-
pocket expenses and a com. of 24 per cent.
The Board repudiated the scheme.
Passed out at Southern Cross (W.A.)
last month Harry Burbridge, one of the
working owners of the (Jreat Victoria
mine. He had a strenuous 17 years bat- 1
tling on the Yilgarn field, and went under
when fortune was turning his way.
Besides his interest in the Great Victoria
h' had a quarter-share in Lenneberg’s new
find at Marvel Loch, which is expected to
crush .100 tons for IOOOoz. at Christmas.
Bowes Kelly Loongana’d to Launceston
last week. Next day the world knew that
the Mount Lyell had fixed up its option with
the Tasmanian Copper : Hereules-Primrose
crowd. Thus ended the first chapter. The
next is whether the dotation process will
permit of a proper recovery from the zinc-
lead-copper ores of the field. The Lyell
report, which must have been in print when
Bowes Kelly crossed over Bass Strait, lets
out that “it has been demonstrated that the
ore is amenable to treatment bv flotation.”
If. so. why has the Broken Hill Prop,
“kindly undertaken to conduct exhaustive
tests on a commercial scale at Broken
Hill,” and why is Klug’s staff at the Zinc
Corporation also to be put on the job? Is
that Lumsden’s Scotch caution, or is it
only Colin Templeton’s nerves?
#• * * *
A second concern, the Tasmanian Oil
Boring Co., has been formed to look for oil
in Tasmania, and proposes to acquire 320
acres at Port Davey and 1100 on Bruni
Island. Its capital is 80,000 shares of ss.
each, but of these 30,000 fully paid up
are to go to the vendor and 20,000 are to
be held in reserve, so that the co. is liable
to be drowned in water before it has a
chance to splash in oil.
* * ;. * ‘ *
If 3d. per cub. yard had been averaged
last half-year, the Maori Queen, Freeburg
(Vic.), wouldn’t have done badly. In-
stead of that its dredge had to spend a
dreary 19 weeks scraping up 2d. dirt. With
renewals and repairs going on and with
supplies costly, profits were not possible.
Lately better ground has been dug into, and
as the Bright district has before helped a
worse show than the Maori Queen out, Tom
Husband’s office didn’t rush to buy a call
ledger. Yet, if the ground ahead isn’t poor
stuff, what rotten policy it is not to call up
cash from the partners so as to get No. 2
plant on the job! The excuse is that the
No. 1 is to provide the needful out of
profits. And lose interest on the gold that’s
waiting in the ground !
* * *
At Wallialla (Vic.) Cohen's Long Tunnel
has come to life. It is sandwiched in be-
tween the old South Tunnel and the Long
Tunnel vertical shafts, and intends to work
1500 ft. of ground that Pearson’s crowd
when running the Big Tunnel mine
wouldn’t spare a thrum to test. Harry
Hartrick tried more than once to arrange
a float, but had to retire before the greed v
demands of the fat directors. When they
burst up the Long Tunnel, Cohen’s Long-
Tunnel Co. swam into existence and has
tunnelled 100 ft. north of the South Tunnel
shaft. Forgotten workings showed up, and
the co. looked a goner. Cash was, however,
got to drive north and south along Cohen’s
reef. North so far a big reef is opening up.
The hope is that’ samples from shallow
shafts overhead meaji that a shoot of pav
stone pitches north. If so this will make a
mine and revive Walhalla. There is at
present a flutter because stone worth over
an ounce was run into when the south drive
got out of the range of the old workings.
The length of any shoot that way will be
limited by the South Long Tunnel workings,
with the additional risk that broken country
at this end of the line of the reef may affect
tlie continuity of the shoot. Still, gold is
showing; and Hartrick swears he hears the
old giants of Walhalla waking up.
**. * *
“D.F.”: Why someone neglects to get
into the business of making cement in Tas-
mania it’s hard to say. The raw material
is plentiful and of the finest quality. A Syd-
ney co. has a show at Southport, with lime,
coal, timber and everything else right on the
spot, and praised in the highest terms by
Geologist Twelvetrees. The owners were
just going to get busy when war started,
and since then have been mostly watching
the Kaiser. Meantime the Hobart Corpora-
tion has been dragging cement from, the ends
of the earth for its big Ridgeway reservoir
job, though the upsetting effect's of the war
have now made it fall back on mere Aus-
tralian cement made at Geelong (Vic.). The
Burnie Marine Board was getting the
cement for its harbor works from Germany,
and it, too, has been forced to use the Aus-
tralian article.
* * - * *
After a disappointing career extending
over 12 years Marvel Loch (W.A.) has sold
its assets, lock, stock and barrel. The mine
at the outset looked good enough, and its
failure is attributed to many things, but
rarely to. the right thing. In the first place
Miss Newport was appointed legal manager,
and the lady could show the smartest of legal
managers quite a lot. Well, pass that satl
experience. Affairs settled down a bit, and
a scrap-iron plant, was erected, with the
usual result. Later, when a decent plant
was installed, shares rose, but the yields from
the new plant were disappointing, arid a
number of mine officials took trips to Eng-
land after the rise- Tom Williams was next
appointed manager, and, although he made a
good try, he could not get a decent run on
payable ore. However, he made a bit out
of tributes, public crushing and selling water
to the Mountain Queen. For the past three
or four years’ the co. has endured a hand-to-
mouth existence, and during this period the
Comet lease was acquired. This turned out
to be a good thing—for the sellers, who
pocketed £3OOO out of the deal. iMo doubt,
when the Marvel Loch is finally abandoned,
tributors will go in to the workings and rooi
out some payable ore; but taking one thing
with another, it was about time the co. put
up the shutters.
“Adit”: Re this question of tin-smelting
in Australia. Before we think of an export
duty which would shut out the export buyer,
we ought to insist on the local buyers satis-
fying us that they will buy “dirty” ores. At
present they won’t; they persistently refuse
to touch concentrates which export buyers
will accept subject to a small fine.
(‘‘Wild Gat" continued on page 3d/.)


IIEIDSIECK'S
Vintage 1906
CfWflfWIE
HE PLUS ULTRA
m
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A Good Corn
Remover.
Those who suffer from corns and hard skin
on the soles of the feet w'll find it a great
boon to apply a little Atla Resin to the corn,
which, when applied to the corn or hard skin,
and a little covering of cotton wool on the
the top to prevent it sticking to the stocking,
will remove the corn in a day or two. The
Atla Resin seems to act by getting thor-
oughly into complete contact with the corn,
and thus being able to penetrate it, and not
to act on the surface only. It is certainly
.the latest cure for these troublesome and
painful-structures, and, according to all're-
ports by those who have used it, one of the
best.* [2
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <& CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
1906.
FESQ (St CO. LIMITED, Sydney,
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 22, 1915.
My Dear Akim, —
Shortly after the war started there was a
rush from Australia to join King Edward's
llorse, which was supposed to be something
extra-swagger, and made up mostly of the
legion that never was listed. One of ’em
tells me about it:—
. . . .My stay in London seems so far off that I’ll not
talk of it. The present, the present is all we have,
and stables, stables, stables, morning, noon and night.
The railway station for Ourragh is three miles off,
and I drove out in a jaunting-car, sitting at a fearful
angle and being rained on. We had a run through
two miles of Irish lanes and then out into
open, rising ground, and the Curragh Camp stretched
along flic top of the rise in front of us. But it
wasn’t the jolly-looking canvas volunteer affair I’d
expected. Good Lord, the look of it gave me cold
feet! I began to put hasty questions to the driver—
and al] I learned was that it was a regular camp,
been there for ages, and before the war always held
about 17,000 cavalry. We drove through long streets,
through squares, passed buildings branded “Bcres-
ford Barracks,” “I’onsonby Barracks.” “Officers’
Mess ’ and other things, till we found the King’
Edward’s llorse camp over at the back of Hare Park,
otherwise known as “tin town,” as all the buildings
are made of iron of the barn kind.
The K.E.11. was a volunteer corps before the war,
comprised mainly of Colonials in home Universities,
who joined for so many years and came to camp
;very year for a fortnight, bringing their servants
with them—the troopers, I mean. When war broke
out. hundreds of the troopers were transferred to
other regiments, getting commissions. Then the 2nd
K E.H. was raised and went out as infantry; they
hi've nothing to do with us. In this reserve camp
there are about 200 in training, who feed the regi-
ment. They are a different class to the original lot,
not so swagger, but much more interesting. They
come from everywhere, been everything, done every-
thing, seen everything ; some of them are good, some no
good, some their own enemies, some the best chaps
mi earth. The Australians are really the least extra-
ordinary in the show, but all the real thing, thank
goodness. I'm now permanently in No. 2 Troop,
luxton, next to me, is a Melbourne man (director of
several big firms, I’m told ; anyway a perfect gentle-
man). A ext to him is a fellow named Pizer. Pizer
:s suffering from a kick, and lias been laid up for
weeks. 1 his morning I heard him telling someone
else of being - in Portugal while the last revolution
was on, and I’ve ascertained that he is a .lew, bails
from the Argentine, and speaks four languages. Some-
one spoke of bis great trip across Africa in one of
those bullock affairs. He’s a splendid fellow, and
we’ve many Pizers.
As for the Australians, Major McDonald is one;
our Lieutenant, Thomson (Dugald Thomson’s
nephew), is another. McDonald was a Lance-cor-
poral when war broke out, and Thomson onlv ceased
being a trooper about four months ago. All the
officers were troopers once. Moffitt and Fleming in
our hut hail from Mosman. I haven’t met many
others yet.
We’re cavalry. That means that when we’re trained
i i their satisfaction we re horsemen, grooms, infan-
trymen, swordsmen, shots and many other tilings.
Reveille goes at 6.45; we rise and shiver, are on
parade in 10 minutes, do physical exercise and
doubling; then stables. The “first rides” do cavalry
work during the morning; the others sword and
bayonet drill; then an hour or an hour and a half
more stables, dinner, riding school or something like
that; more stables, and tea.
And you know I d never been on a liorse in mv
life! Oh, the early terrors of the riding school
where we had to go over the hurdles, with no stirrups,
and arms folded behind our backs. Fellows who’ve
beer horsemen all their lives tell me it was a night-
mare to them. But now I haven’t a thought beyond
stables.
J thought these honest towns-
folk of mine were taking their Queen
ot the Allies seriously, or that the
Queen was taking herself seriously, or
that Neville Mayman was taking - him-
self seriously, I would burn an album of
British patriotic airs (arranged for the
pianoforte), haul down the Union Jack that
noats proudly over my boarding-house, and
become a soured revolutionary. I was at
the Town Hall coronation on Wednesday
night. Seen from the roof of my Vienna
chair (we all leaped on our chairs when
her Majesty Mrs. Black appeared) it was a
strange mixture of High Mass, lolanthe and
fire-brigade demonstration ; yet the only per-
formers who giggled like human beings were
one of the dummy trumpeters and the
gentleman who was playing the Indian
hawker. Neville Mayman, in the Little
Lord Fauntleroy costume of the herald,
moaned the proclamations, and was just as
seriously actor-like as professional Winter
Hall, who arch-bished in a cardboard mitre,
and with awful solemnity pressed the pro-
perty crown on the hair of the unsmiling
Queen —probably the first serious queen in
history who lias publicly worn the honest
prefix “Mrs.” The elaborate absurdity really
needed a carnival setting, not a sober, stolid.
Vienna-chaired audience in heavy boots and
dusty duds.
As the mock-turtle coronation would
not have been sufficient to keep sane citizens
from their beds, there was a concert of which
Ella Caspers was the star. Another lady,
Vera Tasma, sang in a SAveet little voice as
if she had learnt from a shy bird in a small
way of business, Lawrence Campbell several
times pushed his threatening eyebrows to the
edge of the platform and intoned some
rhymed patriotism. The audience liked it.
and incited him to do it again in the usual
manner. Cheerful Malcolm McEachern
baritoned pleasantly, Henri Staell sawed off
some violin-melody, and Ernest Truman un-
corked the organ-thunder.
Allies’ Day pageant was like all other
street pageants, inasmuch as it led off with
a body of- mounted police-gentlemen and
ended with a trail of the general public. But
in between it differed. Richard of the Lion
Heart brought some of his Crusaders; Joan
of Arc had for a side partner a turbaned
Parsee; and blue Hussars, Cossacks, Ser-
vians and a mixed collection of European
nations formed part of the show. There
were soldier girls astride horseflesh in all the
horsey shades. The Waybacks filled the
family char-a-banc, Mum Wayback with a
live ’possum on her sunburnt neck. The
Darktown Fire Brigade was not far off. and
Sairey Gamp was present in case of accident.
John Bull was in his familiar tailorings, and
Baby Jumbo wore a safe deposit for coin
tied at the back of his waist.
In a white cockle-shell affair sat Britannia
with her family in all their gladdest rags.
She was giving the lion and the Too a lift.
A double-lorry arrangement supported a
haystack, with some harvesters and pigeons.
There were sundry cars more or less deco-
rated, a special one in blue and white, and
another hidden behind a field of wheat. And
soldiers and sailors and nurses. Early in
the procession the Black Queen rode in a
six-liorse and postillion landau, four pages
in attendance; and in proper order followed
the Court —or a section of it, in the persons
of. Mesdames Joynton Smith, Sargent and
Hicks, and Demoiselles Dorothy Cumming,
Roberts and Mary Kinsella.
Evidently some of the police suspected
some of the onlooking mothers and babes of
grinning, for at one point they shoved and
dammed up the crowd so that several women
fainted, and a lot more were badly crushed
and scared. I’m told these bulky and enthu-
siastic champions expect to be ‘knighted for
their roughness. It might be a good money-
making idea to have rolled-gold baronets
compiling the jury-lists and directing the
traffic. Madder ideas than that are now
regarded as valuable.
Mrs. Black’s really excellent display of
electro-plated royalty must have been rather
disturbing to the Stricklands, who were just
about settling down in their new vice-regal
quarters overlooking Farm Cove. I confess
I trembled for the Stricklands when the
Prince George Consort drove down the
streets with liis Queen beside him and pos-
tillions steering the fine horses. It seemed
as if they could pull up fittingly at only one
door in N. S. Wales.
Round town interest centred in Martin-
place, turned into a fairing square for the
day. On both sides were ranged the shops
of the Allies, with the Queen o’ the Day’s
special pavilion at the upper end. Under
the banner of Poland Mrs. G. Earp and her
adjutant, Miss Czaykowska, with some bril-
liantly-clothed peasants, sold ices and toys.
Belgium was in the same line of business ;
but Belgium (Mrs. Adrian Knox and co.)
and her neighbor opposite, Servia (Mrs. C.
D. Paterson) were reduced to the clothes
of the Australian peasantry, their national
wardrobe having been left behind in the
flight from Kultur. Servia’s only furnishing
was a Union Jack, upon which you were
permitted to throw spare piastres. British
Empire Leaguers looked after the welfare
of England. Mrs. Joynton Smith and her
helpers did the same for the Indian section.
In France the bows of the Alsatian helpers
hit the eye: likewise the Breton and Nor-
man headgears and trappings of the peasant
helpers. Mrs. Playoust had a big say there.
The hockey girls took Montenegro under
their wing; the tennis girleens saw to it
that Portugal’s light wasn’t hidden under a
bushel, nor their expert palmist either. He
was merely behind a screen. The Jap.
Consul’s wife in national array presided
over a wisteria-covered bower. Next door
Scotland specialised in shortbread and
heather. It also sold our Pie-Commis-
sic-ner’s effigy for twelvepence. Canada’s
strong point was goods of the ham-shop line,
sold you by snow maidens and a French
brand of peasant.
Inside a barn-roofed shelter with Norman
Lindsay’s pets viewing things from the roof,
the Black Queen descended from her throne
to do business in groceries. She was aided
and abetted by cornstalk maidens in white
and blue. Italy, of course, sold fruit and
vegetables and ice-creams, but it had a side
line as well and disposed of Neapolitan
novelties at a good profit. • Auctions were
here, there and everywhere, and the rattle
of collecting-boxes was heard in the land;
but the spirit of giving didn't overflow as oh
Her Australia Tag.
The State having evicted the Common-
wealth, Lady Edeline Strickland had a
house-warming on Thursday and invited the
members of the executive of the Red Cross
Society to afternoon tea at “old’’ .Govern-
ment House. It was like better times to go
there instead of to Cranbrook. The hostess
gave Mrs. John Barlow, who is grieving for
the loss of her only son at the Front, a speci-
ally warm greeting and much of her atten-
tion. Lieutenant Hughes had his first prac-
tice in announcing guests. The tremendous
job was done as one might expect from a
Boy of the Bulldog Breed. His mother
looked on with pleased and approving eyes,
and was, as usual, one of the best-dressed
women present.
Miss Ruth Beale is an epoch-maker. A
few months ago she, by dint of enthusiasm,
entreaty, tactful nagging and the all round
labor that is said to be the equivalent of
prayer, brought out of chaos the W.C.P.A.:
The principal objects of the Women’s Common-
wealth Patriotic Association are “to foster the
growth of all Australian industries, and to encourage
competition and co-operation in the same; to foster
a demand for all goods made in the British Empire,
and especially in Australia.”
Tr-day 20G persons, mostly woman, gathered
in Sargents’ ballroom and ate of a large
variety of foods of Australian growth or
manufacture: olives and their oil (in
salads) : fruits, fresh and dried ; bread and
cakes of our flour; hams of our own ham-
ming, wine of our own vintage, cider of our ,
own pressing. It was a successful effort
of the young association to prove its Ego.
Sir Gerald Strickland and his eldest
Monde hope were there. • So were" the
Judicial Cullens. President Mrs. Mackin-
non, at the right arm of the C.J., spoke a
piece of explanation, which brought an
undertoned comment from one of the sparse
scattering of males: “Well, that’s far ahead
of the average alderman’s effort.” Governor
and C-T. gave a few well-chosen bleats, and
amidst a tremendous noise of approval Miss
Ruth Beale, the young mother of the
W.C.P.A., got up and urged the claims of
her patriotic and anti-German offspring. She
is a capital speaker, and the company said
th - offspring was fortunate. Miss Golding-
said something suitable, and then everyone
went away determined to be for the future
an ironclad W.C.P. Associate.
“A Blasted Britisher” sends this :
I should like to make the acquaintance of the Master
of Ceremonies on Allies Day so that I might enjoy ti-e
privilege of punching him or pulling his nose or
otherwise subjecting him to indignity. As far as
the women-folk were concerned the pageant was a
distinct success. The Queen was attired in splendor
and acted her part well; her maids-in-waiting were
appropriately apparelled and were faultless in their
obsequious genuflections. But where were the
knightly attendants, the men of comely grace in
silken hose, knee-breeches, brocaded vests, cut-away
coats and hats a la mode Napoleon, who should have
been at the dais to receive the proud Josephine and
her entourage? It was an outrageous incongruity to
see her Royal Mightiness offered ungloved hands by
men clad in sac-suits and wearing straw-boaters.
One in particular had a headpiece that seemed much
too small, and suggested the alleged humorous get-
up of a vaudeville artist.
Sydney is being invaded, too. Drought
hangs on to the north and nor’-east of the
State, and over thousands of square miles of
parched country the bath is so dim a memory
that distressed wool-queens have been
packed off south by the dozen. From a
few miles north of Tamworth right up to the
Queensland border, there isn’t enough mois-
ture on the railway track to let even a
famished engine wet its lips. On this dole-
ful stretch of usually well-watered highlands
the trains have to haul their own refresh-
ments 160 miles.
Mrs. Gordon Wesche, who recently had
occasion to repudiate the report of an
alleged “interview” which put her in the
light of a German sympathiser, has decided
on a trip to Egypt. To show that her de-
parture is not in the nature of a confession
that she said what the reporter said
she said, both the G.-G. and the State
Governor have entertained her, and the
newspapers have duly and pointedly recorded
the fact. The last time Government House
came to the rescue was to combat a dread-
ful rumor that the G.-G. of the period was
eloping with a politician’s wife. It. was
found politic to advertise the fact that the
politician and his wife were honored guests
or the G.-G. and his wife.
Manly lost its oldest identity last week —
Mrs. Mary Wilson Kilminster, who had been
in “the Village” for half a century. She
was born at Braidwood 74 years ago. Her
father, Farquhar Aberdeen, was almost the
first landscape-gardener in Australia.
Neutral Bay is going to put up a memorial
tablet to the Rev. R. H. Pittendrigh, who
enlisted as a private, gained a corporal’s
stripe, and was one of the heroic stretcher-
bearers killed in the early days of Gallipoli.
Pittendrigh, who was at newspaper work
before he joined the Church, was married the
week before he left for the Front. _ Another
parson turned stretcher-bearer, Ellison, was
killed at the same time.
Mr. and Mrs. Henry French finished their
50th year of having breakfast together on
November 21. The lady is connected with
one of the oldest Australian families I—the 1 —the
Iredales —and Mr. French is . probably the
patriarch among sharebrokers in Sydney.
The Iredales established the business which
developed into Lassetter’s.
- Oliver Ilogue, alias “Trooper Bluegum.”
whose war notes make interesting reading', is
down with enteric. A London hospital
shelters him in the convalescent stage. When
he is at work Oliver is adjutant to Brig.-
General Ryrie. He’s a son of “Jimmy”
Ilogue, ex-M.L.A., one-time editor of Sydney
Evening News.
On Saturday afternoon the G.-G. unveiled
a memorial tablet which has been erected
on the front of the Darlington Town Hall
in memory of a late resident of that suburb
—Captain Alfred J. Shout. Y.C. The widow
was present—a frail little woman whose
sad eyes seemed to have looked far into
the depths of sorrow. The G.-G. was a
very human cocked-hat as lie talked to her,
and asked her to drop in and see him and
Lady Helen at Admiralty House.
Linda, the senior daughter of the T. 11.
Barlow's, of North Sydney, is being grasped
by the hand in appreciation of the fact
that she has promised to make, toast for
one of the Mudgee Loneragans, who owns
some wool over the Bananaiand border. The
squatter man is booked through to Gallipoli,
and was doing a visit to his home town
when lie fell captive to the alderman’s
daughter.
The Cyril Monks are now a musical trio,
a vocalist having been added to the family
per medium of the stork not so many days
ago. The liew mother, who used to be
Isabel Varney Peterson, will be able to put
her composing talent to good use, and write
some new lullabies for Cyril junior.
There was a smart wedding the other
day at St. Philip’s: Dr. Cecil Beresford
Hewse, of Orange, to Marjorie Bowman,
youngest daughter of Mr. W. C. Bowman,
of Cudal. The marriage united two of the
best-known families of the Western dis-
trict. Dr. Ilowse has two brothers at the
Front, Dr. Oswald and Dr. Neville Ilowse.
V.C. Also present: the Daltons from
Orange, the Rankins from Bathurst, Mr.
and Mrs. Walter Reid from Clidal, the Alli-
sons from Quirindi, Mr. J. Rutherford
(Bathurst), Mr. R. O’Mally and many
more wool people. The reception was at
Petty’s.
In a race to promote a courteous officer I
beat the Gazette the other day. The lady
who is mothering the 20-odd khaki convales-
cents at Rose Hall is Mrs. Sherwood, but
her husband isn’t the superintendent whom
Sydney knows so well. His wife couldn’t
be doing better work, though, and her hus- •
band couldn’t be prouder of it, even if he
wore the Inspector-General’s cap, instead of
a sergeant’s crown.
The other day an upstanding young man
faced the recruiting officers in Sydney and
told them that God had intimated that he
ought to be in khaki. The officers looked at
the long hair caught up and bound on his
head where a hat usually rests and, at his
untamed beard; and, recognising an adher-
ent of a sect with peculiar views about the
use of scissors, told him he could join the
forces, but his hair couldn’t. So a sorrow.ful
and dejected figure passed out. But it only
went as far as the nearest barber’s. Before
the depot closed the shearing was over and a
new recruit had passed the tests.
Talking about presentations to departing
soldiers. At a. little country town the
admirers of two young fellows handed to one
a pair of serviette rings, and to the other a
clock. If they had merely given them a hall-
stand and a set of afternoon teaspoons the
boys would have had something really useful
in the dug-out.
A lot of metal rubbish was poured out of
the collection-boxes after Allies Day was
over and done with. Mean people dropped in
metal rings, worthless coins, tin tags—any-
thing that would fob off a woman or soldier
collector. As most givers were awarded a
smile it practically amounted to getting-
credit under false pretences. A charity tax
wouldn’t pick up any rubbish at all. While
it took all Sydney all day to scrape £9OOO .off
its miles of crowded streets the Canterbury
racing and trotting carnival in Maoriland
automatically turned in £14,700 war tax in
seven days. Multiply that by the amount
of sport we have in Australia, and then sit
back and fan yourself thoughtfully.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


‘ CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME.
—At the War.
-V
- ..y v N /V:
.y kf.M
3*»
'
i! i
Wm si
a :
v •'J* ** v
:>"i
/
>»'«<W|M|t WfljP «
SS®
\ . \\ \
1. ,:
\xv
Jflw
%SjS
£
V
cru a*
V** 1
* r ->
- ,T
■ s/#
>s
>■' / ■&:;{s
y -j;i^'~'\jt''tc,■‘teiiVi’£’•'/? '
Mm/
e\r * > '* J S
BSSr^
wmm
•s V \*N^
•
iippSlip‘F 1
awls*! •■; ?*• frd&.titez-jr \
%
few
0///
Sr ?
l\ \'i
&? ”0
111 \
sMw£4sS*2*
fc*
o
Fliii®
25T?
■J?
>
K l\tirjjir ™
O
£/
/ *
v -^VVy*
»:A«as*s
r.c.
pHj
W -_<s
.e
.
SE I
WMy,
c^ £>
n
=ogto^
K»
I A '!il t
Kc^^WEcKKi-
rySSili
.7
H
Kg^^sgPsagSKi^HHa
n
.? i ■
<drnmmskm
A
A /
f JAAAA u.
.- sift M f
/m M i
rjm I v
f«* ff!
Mi
'3>>aS
-.y-
WSwpdp&i
Pi4?^/^
s ■&■■/?■£-"
i ■
I hI
a?®:
7;
- A
> y
H. •
/ ? tfMwjrrv ■/ /'■ y .#» y i
•.•v-
-'■>
rs
,^ f
il
raw
r-^
P
Wi
f #*
A%?
/<L
$ r«* av
£_ojO e:^
///
l
Cobra,” Sfre Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Oi Akim Foo,
Knows a warlike
Trick or two.
When the snipers’
Bullets sing
Chancier soon can
Stop the thing.
Shadow-like, they
Flit along,
And just when he’
Coino- strong
<5 o
There’s a stealthy
j
“COBRA” rush..
Where’s the sniper
Gone to ? —Hush !


, Vi
■*'
mmt
ills
No. RR42.
Price, 7/0 each.
3 for 21/9.
The ..
Newest Neglige Shirt
Quite the latest style for beach promenade or
smart lounge wear is shown here.
Made of specially-selected White Matt, with side
pocket and stylish, double cuffs. Has open neck
effect and latest wide-cut “joy” collar attached,
which rolls back over blazer or coat.
Men seeking up to tiie minute style, combined
with complete comfort, will find this garment ful-
fils all demands.
Prices: 7/6 each; or 3 for 21/9
CARRIAGE FREE.
FARMER’S
Pitt, Market &
P George Sts.,
SYDNEY
k
DUNIOP
GARDEN HOSE
St
IS
n
will give
Years of
Service
in your
Garden.
Its fine Quality,
Great Strength, and freedom
from Kinking and Bursting ensures
satisfaction to every user. It's no
dearer than other Hoses - the differ-
ence is in THE EXTRA SERVICE
IT GIVES YOU. Made in all
standard sizes in three brands'
‘Dunlop," "Oceanic,” and “Federal."
LIST ON APPLICATION
Slocked by all Leading Stares, £
but ensure satisfaction by look-
ing for the Brand. It Pays! f
DUNLOP RUBBER CO ALL STATES &N Z.
Wringer
Rollers
Re-
Rubbered
From
<5 eac/i
pg
/wfj a
ft Ift n
jh/
...THE ...
Dunlop Rubber Co.
make a speciality of this
Repair Work, and guaran-
tee their Roller Rubbers to
give better results than the
original ones.
REPAIRS EXECUTED
WITHOUT DELAY.
jr * jr *
PRICES RANGE from 51- ea.
AND UPWARDS , ACCORDING TO SIZE
LIST ON APPLICATION.
m
m
PUNLOP
RUBBER
CO.
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
PERTH
BRISBANE
WELLINGTON
CHRISTCHURCH
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, November 22. 1915.
My Dear Yarrie,—
t \ clutch of vice-regalities, including the
C ; -C., will enrich the annual meeting of St.
Vincent’s Hospital on November 29 in the
l-’own Hall. There will be music, of course.
Things like this wouldn’t be bearable with-
out music.
Mrs. Rogers Thomson accomplished a money-
gathering fete for the Red Cross, and. at
the end of the day, had £4OO in purse. The
Creswicks lent the grounds of Yarrien—
their Toorak house —for the orgy, and Mrs.
Henry Noyes helped the good cause with
that instrument of the Devil known to all
policemen as a spinning-jenny. Mrs. Cres-
wick labored in a cake stall with the Apple-
ton girls to help. Mrs. Hodges and Mrs.
Herbert Power held up the wandering vic-
tims with flowers. W. J. T. Clarke, of
Mount Schank, personally collected and
counted the money like a mere bank-teller,
while his wife and a decorative daughter
fussed at their shopkeeping. Mrs. Alawa
Buchanan peddled vegetables with extreme
brilliancy, and I swear that better asparagus
was never sold by mortal Chinaman. Every-
body was wishing that she kept a per-
manent greengrocery near by. Mrs. McKin-
ley retailed baskets so that buyers could
carry home their merchandise. John Mad-
den was the presiding genius. He made a
speech full of flowers, fresli-gathered from
the dictionary, and cheerfully predicted the
certain finish of the war in a few weeks —
or a few hours, I forget which. Anyway, it
doesn’t matter, because he doesn’t know.
The Oriental Hotel has worked up its
cafes eliantant to the pitch when people
might as well be dead as miss them. The
next convulsion will spread over and utterly
blot out the afternoon and evening of Tues-
day, December 7. There will be music and
food, ancl the Very Best People will put
aside their family pride and go round with
things for sale—nice things that don’t weigh
much and have a pleasant smell. No per-
son who is looking for dog-soap or plumber’s
supplies need attend.
The Sam Mackays are having a jolly old
time at Buckland, their Westralian place at
Northam. Mrs. Fan-Dango Mackay asserts
that country shows and rustic revels with
an occasional dash to the hectic gaiety of
Perth make the clock go fast enough. The
charitable Sam gave a swollen patriotic fete
ar Buckland and promised to defray all costs
up to £2OO. The enterprise pretty well
doubled that sum in profits. One of the
appropriate novelties was a high jump com-
petition for horses—or perhaps it was for
mining wild cats. The shearing shed was
set with tea, and Fan arranged a couple of
concerts in her music-room. Bigjohn For-
rest opened the show, and the Forrest dame
helped. The local orchestra, a neighboring-
brass band' and a distant piper provided the
necessary pandemonium. There' was a quad-
rille ridden on horseback by girls and men
in scarlet caps and long royal blue riding
coats.
Mrs. Bates, the plump young matron who
was one of the Balwyn Reid girls, and who
is.famous locally for her opals, has a patri-
otic scheme of her own in view. It is a
Christmas fete, and John Madden will un-
cork it at her home, Lafino, on the White
Horse-road,’ on November 20 —or is it
December 20? I think it must be December
20, because they’re going to sell poultry,
and the average purchaser doesn’t want to
feed live Christmas dinners or cold-store
dead ones; for five weeks. All sorts of
Christmas unnecessaries will be on sale, in-
cluding many things that only moths can eat.
There will be a stall for children’s clothes,
Christmas cigars, smoking caps, cursing
boots and striped vestments for playing ten-
nis in. The profits go to Lady Stanley’s
Fund.
Mrs. John Sanderson, who is about the
handsomest matron in local shipping circles,
is arranging a series of concerts to help the
Lady Stanley appeal. Mrs. Sanderson has a
singing voice of her own and a stage presence
and a day at home, and a lawnmower —all
sorts of beautiful things like that. It is
already too- late to go to the first concert;
but you will have a second chance on Novem-
ber 29 in the Town Hall, and a third on
December 6in the same place. But don’t
expect to see the lawnmower or the day at
home.
One of the busiest motorists at Mount
Macedon this summer will be Robert Harper’s
wife, who is a member of some 16 or 17 Mel-
bourne committees engaged in charitable or
anti-German effort. Therefore, though she
will sleep mostly at Macedon. the hours
between are to be filled in by spurts for the
city or homeward whirls up the lovely moun-
tain side.
Amy Castles gave her second concert in
the Town Hall on Saturday night, and a
paddy-green audience rolled up to hear and
encore. God bless Ireland! If I were a
singer or an actress or a tight-rope walker
instead of a literary bud, I would represent
myself as a colleen, in the sure and certain
hope that I would never be deserted. Amy
on this occasion was clad in smiles and
dimples and oyster-grey satin, with a big
black velvet obi clamped on. Amadio blew
some limpid melody out of bis flute, Glad-
stone Bell leant over and tickled his ’cello
almost to death, and Harold Whittle bad a
word or two with the piano.
Listen to Adelaide now:—
The Mount Lofty Flower Show (with the proceeds
earmarked for the Wounded Soldiers’ Fund) was
opened in the Stirling West Institute by Dr. E. C.
Stirling, who tried to look as vice-regal as possible.
The flowers didn’t seem to notice the difference.
Khododendrons were the crack exhibits. The South
Australian Carnation and Sweet Pea Society threw
some tendrils round the public on the same day.
The cheerful Father Le Maitre, who was recently-
given a chaplaincy for the voyage only, has been
appointed to the A.I.F. for service at the Front.
Dr. J. A. G. Hamilton, who has been away for some
months as troopship medico, will resume business
behind his brass plate and red lamp this week.
The Y.M.C.A. is extending its useful work in the
military area. Its latest idea is to establish club-
houses at the seaside for the benefit of sick and
wounded soldiers. A building is being hammered
together at Henley Beach. It will cost about £lOOO,
exclusive of furnishings.
As the result of the Government House fete £BOOO
stands to the credit of the patriotic committee. On
the closing night the crowd was something to
remember —and it will take the grounds some time
to recover. A big crowd has many feet.
The estate of the late Frank Rymill, of Mitcham,
has been lodged for probate at £198,000 odd. When
I see such heaps of it, money—other people’s money
—makes me feel tired.
Professor Ivelleway, who has been Professor Wat-
son’s locum tenens at the University during the
latter’s absence in Egypt, has gone east.
News has come from London of the death of Mrs.
Fowler, who was a daughter of the William Morgans,
and whose husband is one of the heads of the firm
of D. and J. Fowler.
Francis Birtles has arrived here after a short trip
to the Cooper’s Creek district to pick up data in
regard to the Burke and AVills expedition and cino.
records. Birtles goes past so often that he makes
me dizzy.
Adelaide’s brilliant 11. C., Paris Nesbit, has been
extra-brilliant again, and that always means trouble.
One outcome is the issue of a writ against a hotel
co. for “false imprisonment.’’ He was before a
Judge the other day over a matter in which he was
personally much concerned, and almost swept the
Court away with his performance. He and his son
R.G. have been in partnership. The father now goes
out and declines to be known any more as a barrister
and, solicitor (the professions are amalgamated here).
He will in future practise only as a barrister.
Colonel Grimwade, who goes off with a
Field Artillery crowd, had a most gorgeous
send-off from the Felton-Grimwade people.
A couple of hundred members of the staff
assembled at the warehouse and presented the
departing gun-chief with a stop-watch and a
stop-anything automatic pistol. There was
a scene of tremendous enthusiasm, and aged
members of the staff, who had known “Mister
Harold” since his boyhood, wept over all the
chemicals that wouldn’t be depreciated
thereby.
Lieut. Stanley Fox Pollard —“Polstan” to
Bulletin readers —was, according to a
recent casualty list, in hospital at Gibral-
tar; and a later cable to his wife gives his
newest address as a cot in London. What’s
the matter this time isn’t mentioned. Early
in the proceedings he had trouble in Egypt
with the ballet end of a horse.
Charlie Black, of the Western District
family, left the P. and O. sea service after
marrying the youngest daughter of the late
lawyer Purves. Now the war has called him
back to the ocean, and he is Lieutenant
Black, R.N.
“Moppie” MeCubbiu, lately returned
damaged to London from the Dardanelles,
has been taken about by the leading English
stage people. Ellen Terry has been viewing
the best plays with him from advantageous
boxes, and taking him behind the scenes to
yarn with H. B. Irving, the Beerbohm Trees
and others who entertain pleasant memories
of the kindly artistic McCubbin couple.
Commander Vivian Price, dead at the Dar-
danelles, was the second of the late Colonel
Tom’s trio of sons, all of whom are fighting.
Soon after his marriage with one of Toorak
squatter Mills’s daughters, ill-health com-
pelled him to quit the Indian Marine Service
and take a land billet in Africa. When war
broke out, the Admiralty gave him a trans-
port job at Gallipoli. I’lis widow, with a
two-months-old daughter, is in England.
“Tuppy” Long, nephew of Mrs. “Jack”
O’Brien, has been decorated with the French
Military Cross. The hero, who is the 18-
year-old only hope of Brigadier-General Long,
“the man who feeds the British Army,” is
one of the British airmen in France.
Please don’t—this is no laughing matter.
J. Wren, corporal, went on a 26-mile march
the other day, and now he has varicose
veins or a bad ear or something,
and won’t be able to get to Gallipoli,
so they say. Still, Wren provided an excel-
lent example—while he lasted.
Napoleon Boffard has lent his name and
circumference to a big entertainment to
occur in the Melbourne Town Hall on
December 16. Proceeds will be in aid of
the French Red Cross, and the popular tenor
hopes that the gilded inhabitants will roll
up and shed as much of the veneer as he
can comfortably carry away. Tickets and
other information can be had at Allan’s.
Artist David Low made an appearance
as a warbler at Broadmeadows Camp one
evening last week. The young man showed
just cause for his private repute as a savant
iu ragtime, and further obliged with “A Wee
Deocli an’ Doris,” which was loudly sup-
ported by a khaki chorus.
There is a terrible pocket crisis in .Mal-
vern’s highest altitudes over the resignation
of their Red Cross secretary, Mrs. Morley.
Mrs. Morley worked splendidly at the job
for a whole year and seemed chained to it
heart and soul. Now she is gone like a bird
from a bough, and Malvern’s belted she-earls
are swooning in all directions and asking
“Why?” Echo replies as usual.
The shipping oflices had their flags at half-
mast last week for Mrs. D. York Syme, sis-
ter of High Commissioner Reid. She was
shopping in town with her usual cheerfulness
only three days before her death. Pneu-
monia was the enemy.
Mrs. Roystone Davey, secretary to the
Wimmen’s League iu Toorak. has just been
assisted off the sick list, and is being con-
voyed to the seaside to pull herself together
before she resumes the battle with all the
things the League hates.
The Goldhursts and Panksteins, with all
the rest of the peaceful sisterhood which
helps the Women’s Political Association to
remain calm in war-time, are feeling the
need for an uplift of spirit after 15 months
of disappointing effort in the direction of
national stoush-suppression. Wherefore —
and partly, too, to help the cause with'cash
—they have decided to give a dance, and a
fancy-dresser at that. It is to happen on
Saturday and should be quite a merry
affair, since presumably none of those pre-
sent will be worried about absent pals who
are fighting at Gallipoli.
Maie Butler, daughter of the Edmond
Butlers of Bendoe, Waubra, was married
to Lieutenant lloban, of Molesworth, last
Thursday. Both ceremony and health-drink-
ing were at the Grand Hotel, and the bride
appeared in smart travelling duds, ready
for the bolt to Healesville. Premier Pea-
cock, who is related to the leading lady, could
not find time to attend, but sent his blessings
and presents by a brother.
Iu these perilous times you’ve got to
hurry to the altar if you want to wear your
soldier’s name; so the social calendar fre-
quently reads this way: “The engagement is
announced of Miss Knitter to Lieut.
Platoon. Marriage next Thursday.” Mrs.
Grundy, who used to be horrified at any-
thing less than six months between the two
announcements, has apparently gone out of
business. Some people say she is dead.
A deep sigh-mark would precede this an-
nouncement if I knew the right symbol
for it. The Directors of the Con-
servatorium are inviting folk to the One
Hundred and Thirty-eighth Students’ Con-
cert. The Town Hall will contain it on
Wednesday evening, December S, and there
will be trainloads of loyal relations and
friends with garden spoil—just as there were
at each of the one-liundred-and-thirty-seven
concerts now sunk and silent in oblivion.
The Repertory Theatre is footlighting it
again. The Twentieth Season begins on
Saturday, 27th, with “The Price of Thomas
Scott.” followed on Saturday, December 4,
by “What the Public Wants.” Cartoonist
Low will disguise himself as Simon Mac-
quoid, dramatic critic in the Arnold Bennett
play. The Athenaeum Hall will shelter the
shows; but the ambitious Reps, are rejoicing-
in the thought that 1916 will see them in a
snug, properly-appointed playhouse of their
own.
Maude Fane, the pretty girl ringleader of
the Court Cards, now at the Auditorium,
has a powerful voice, which she knows how
to use, and a good sense of humor. She
came to the playing pack from Warwick’s
Burlesquers and the Tivoli circuit, and, I
think , steps into the part of principal girl
in the coming J.C.W. panto. The Cards,
girls and men, are dressed as far as possible
like the impossibly angular kings and queens
we shuffle so freely. The colors are striking
—black, red and yellow; but the joker, who
is prune-and-pink, makes a color mistake in
not being black from cap to foot. Two girl
dancers are billed together without distinc-
tion as Sisters Winifred and Helene Junelle,
so I am not sure which is which. I would
like to be, because one of them is a very fine
dancer, and the other is just a dancer. And
one of them has wonderful arms, which ripple
like Maud Allan’s, only more so.
May Yale (Mrs. Gilfillan) has been toiling
for months on a new line of Australian
paintings and enamels, and now she plans a
Centreway exhibition, commencing on Friday
morning. Some inducement to the public to
attend the show may be found in the fact
that there will be no Governor on the
premises for “opening” purposes.
At Point Lonsdale two of the summer-
cottagers, whose families are good pals on
the material plane, are professing spiritual-
ists. The better-known is Alfred Deakin;
but the other—John Bannister, the main
works of an old Geelong carrying firm —has
the better claim to be regarded as some-
body in the spooky circle, because his place
has its own ghost, according to local goggle-
eyed talk. An old lady once rented the Point
cottage for a holiday, it seems, and died
shortly afterwards. But she liked the place
so much that she still lives there, though I
believe every effort to collect rent has been
a pronounced failure.
Skipton, a Western District townlet set
in the midst of a region mostly devoted to
the raising of sheep and squatters—Austins,
Chirnsides, Fairbairns and sich—is trying
something new. The little place is 70 miles
from the sea ; but on Mount Emu creek —a
long, rambling, often-beautiful stream which
flows through many historic squattages—
bathing-boxes are being built by the joint-
efforts of the two councils interested in local
affairs. The best of the Emu swimming-
holes. unfortunately,, are on private pro-
perty.
An attempt is to be made soon to auction
Valentines, the immense Davies mansion at
Malvern East. There are now only seven
acres of land around the pretentious mass
of boom-time stucco, a large tract having
been cut off and sold for villa-sites. The place
belonged to John Davies, president of the
Legislative Council and a brother of Matthew
Henry, of unhappy memory; but he never
lived there on the grand scale. For years
he and his colossal family inhabited a few
rooms and a kitchen or so, with an occa-
sional trip once a month to the great glassed
observatory up aloft; but about four years
ago old John grew tired of being a lurker
in the back premises of a faded glory, built
himself a handy villa on a half-acre next
door and moved thither to spend the rest of
his days in a less rabbit-like manner.
The very latest thing in footwear is the
tall boot which laces up on the inside of the
leg. Convenience for the well-fed is the
main argument in favor of its use. Stout,
lovely woman, breathlessly encased in an
outfit of the newest contour-adjusting cor-
sets, slips her feet into a couple of the side-
lacers, sits down in a comfortable chair,
places one dimpled ankle over the opposite
dumpled knee, and proceeds to lace up that
boot with a certain degree of comfort. Then
she reverses the position and does up the
other. The old-fashioned front-lacing has
always been a most distressing experience.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


A
vNJ
/~s
m.
9*
St
\K
Kf
\
cs*
«
4
K
n
r*
O
t>
/
m,
\»*
/:i
95/
teso
'VO
Johnnie Walker'. “You’ve heard what the War Minister
says about you ! eh ? ”
Aviator (R.F.C.) : “Yes! He describes us as your friends
describe you.”
Johnnie Walker : “How’s that?”
Aviator (R.F.C.): “The finest in the world.”
]O H N WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Wiii s k v Distillers, KILMARNOCK,


S~'/
THE INVISIBLE
NECK REINFORCEMENT
MEANS DOUBLE WEAR.
THIS TAB
SLEEVE
LIFT MEANS
COMFORT.
WILL YOU WRITE FOR OUR
NEW MEN’S WEAR CATALOG?
Shirt Economy.
It is hard to say how many shirts men
discard through the neckband breaking away
and worn cuff edges, but if you become a
wearer of the
DOUBLE-LIFE SHIRT
you will get more shirt satisfaction than
ever before. We have specialised to make a
Shirt to give the utmost possible service.
The Re-inforced Neckband and patent sleeve-
lift ensures double life and added comfort;
and, above all, the long-wearing properties
mean true economy.
These shirts are perfectly cut and made in
our new Cot-Taffeta, cream ground with
fine black or blue woven stripes—a material
which represents the utmost in style and
quality.
Write for our special Folder of Patterns.
4 6
Here’s Marvellous Value.
Post Free to Any State.
4/6
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PTY,
LTD.
The Mai! Order
House for Men,
Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
m
m
Ensure protection against
contrasts of temperature by wearing
the British made ___
Si
Underwear
Jason Garments give safety in all
weathers —never clammy, always com-
fortable and soft as silk.
New ** Olympic” Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co„, Leicester, Eng.
Ab 70 <J>
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
PRESCIENT.
“I told him it would give me joy to
share his grief and sorrows.”
“But he hasn't got any.”
"No; hut he will have when he
marries me."
“Devilfish”: The sphagnum moss which
grows in damp places in Tasmania, mostly in tea-
tree scrubs and such spots, is much used by the
growers of orchids and other exotics, and also by
florists for packing purposes. When compressed, even
if kept wet, it neither heats nor decays. One Overall,
of Sulphur Creek, on the North-West Coast, who does
a big business in it, recently had an order for 500
bags from England. I don’t know what it is worth
now, but it used to fetch 10s. per bag, and down
south, at the Snug, a man with a horse and cart
used to be able to make rattling good money at the
game of collecting it. But that was before a bush
fire came along and burnt out the best of it.
<( “Montales”: A shot in defence of
against “Bad Australian” (B. 21/10/’l5).
I have used pretty well every brand of revolver
and automatic, and I haven't found the latter any
more liable to. “stuck” cartridge-shell than the
former; while in every other point the auto, is
an easy first. Take the action of the auto. By pull-
ing back the slide you compress the recoil-spring,
cock the striker, and open the magazine; then the
slide, released, flies forward and carries a cartridge
into the barrel. When the pistol is fired the recoil
drives back the slide, opens the breech, ejects the
shell, clocks the striker, loads again, and closes the
breech; so that nothing but the trigger need be
touched again until the magazine is empty. So
much for rapidity. As for strength and accu-
racy of shooting (and I am known as a good revolver-
shot) the cylinder-gun simply isn’t in it. I can
(or could my eye is now in its 72nd year) put
the six shots from a .38 Colt into a fin. disc at 30
yards, but with the auto. I refer to I have often
put the eight shots into a Sin. circle at the same
distance. Also, the muzzle-energy of this auto.
(.32) is 3441 b., as against the Colt’s 1251 b. ; which
means thrice the penetration at equal range, or
equal penetration at thrice the range.
: “Ino” (B. 14/10/’l5) is wrong
in imagining that the quandong tree is about
exlmct. They are very plentiful in the vicinity of
Ivanlioe (N.S.W.), and are also to be found along
the Ivanhoe-Wilcannia road for a distance of 60
miles. The fruit is much sought after by the in-
habitants, black and white. There are two varieties
of it, red and white, the white being the choicer of
the two. Strangely enough, the fruit is more plenti-
ful and of a better quality during a droughty period.
Last year, at the finish up of a three years’ drought,
there was a splendid crop. Dried in the sun the
fruit will retain its value for years.
*'* * *
B.”: Binghi’s beliefs in tlie origin of
children are various. A common idea is that a kind
of spirit-child enters the mother in the form of a
curlew if it be a girl, and in the form of a snake
if it be a boy. The wail of a curlew at night is
held to be prophetic. But a Queensland observer has
it. that the Tully River blacks hold that children
lesult from the following causes: (1) A woman sits
over a fire on which she has roasted a piece of fish
that has been given to her by her husband ; (2) she
goes out hunting and catches a special bull-frog;
(3) some man tells her to have a child; (4) she
dreams that a child has entered her. A tribe of
Western Australian blacks believe that for a birth
to bo in order the child must first be “dreamed” by
its father. That is to say, if a man’s wife gives
birth to a child and he has not “dreamed” it he
will not own it. On the other hand, if a man is
separated from his wife and she gives birth to a
child that he has “dreamed,” he fathers it, irrespec-
tive of any other considerations. Which is occasion-
ally a very friendly thing to do.
* * * *
“O’Phimerty” : The bush has taken to the
piano, and in a paling home, far back, I have
heard Mendelssohn and the lighter parts of Chopin
played by a girl who could cut down trees. With
the box of ivories has come the flying music-
teacher, and Outback youngsters become more-or-less
expert under his tuition. Only a few years ago the
musical instrument of the bush was the melodeon
or the concertina. Every township and many a
lonely place right back in the wilds had its melo-
deouist. Sometimes he acted in place of a church
organ, but his most valued service at the
darnce.” I knew one place where a piano was bought
for the public hall, and it was decided to celebrate its
coming in the usual way. There being no local performer
a pianist was brought from the city. After a couple
of dances a deputation approached him: “We can’t
get round properly to this thing,” said the spokes-
man. “D’you mind if Jim Brown has a go on his
concertiner ?” I remember meeting only one banjo-
ist in the real bush, but there were a few people
who aspired to the mandolin. The autoliarp had a
big vogue for a while, but it didn’t last. The violin
never took to the bush much, but mouth-organs
and all grades of whistles have always been popu-
lar. But the piano is going to put even them
out of business. I’ve seen the time-payment instru-
ment in places 60 miles from anywhere. Alas,
the bush is merely a suburb nowadays.
A SHREWD MOVE.
IKEY: "Veil, Moses, how's der pizness?”
MOSES: "Rotten-rotten. I'm movin' ner' week to more convenient premises."
IKEY : “Dis hlace aind't suidable, eh?”
MOSES: "Suidahle! Vhat, vid a Fire Prig ado right ner' door to me!”
Regnis”: My hat is in the ring for the
Queensland beech as the most useful timber. It is
used all over the North, having great strength for
beam work and a lightness that recommends it for
most uses. It works up easily into joinery or cabinet
jobbery; it seasons without much warping, and the
grain dries evenly. But don’t try it as firewood,
and keep it from white ants. If it’s firewood you
want, get on to ironbark. I’ve had 30 years of
experience, and the best steaming I ever got was
from that vegetable.
* * * *
“Merrigal”: ‘Toon Boon’s” bush natu-
ralist (B. 23/9/’l5) will be a welcome recruit in
the army of bushmen who defend the argument that
the young of the marsupial is born on the teat. But
a word in his shell-like car. At Buttabone station,
where I’ve seen 2000 ’roos secured in a day’s drive,
the manager opened 1000 gin kangas, and in every
case of impregnation found the embryos in the
breeding bag. Some of them were only as long as
three peas in a row. The operator forwarded three
of the best specimens to the late Richard Hill, then
owner of the place mentioned, who presented them
to the Museum. That ends the argument. Amen.
**■*■*
“Australian”: In N.S.W. the weather is
being stood on its head, and stock from the usually
moist Upper Clarence is being sent to the usually
dry Riverina for agistment. Thirteen hundred in
two mobs were recently droved to Tenterfield, fed
on hay en route, and trucked through Sydney to
their destination. The first mob of 401 went right
through without any loss, and the second instalment
was almost as fortunate, which speaks well for both
drovers and railway authorities. The losses of
cattle during the current drought are unprecedented
in the Clarence district since the disastrous dry
spells in the early ’Bo's, when several large
owners were ruined. To those interested in
weather cycles it may be interesting to note
that on the Clarence a drought comes every
tenth year, ’B5, ’95, ’O5, ’l5 being instances.
Old hands say ’65 and ’75 were also very severe.
Even in 1902 more rain fell during the autumn,
winter and spring months tnan in the years men-
tioned. In 1895 no rain fell between March 3 and
the end of September, and frosts played havoc with
the cane crops. The Nvmboida River is down to
1902 level, and according to the official gauge has
been falling for some time past at the rate of half
an inch per day. If rain is not turned on within a
few weeks Grafton will suffer from a water famine.
For miles along the river oak is being felled to save
stock, and lucky are those who have grazing lands
provided with such a standby.
“Merrigal”: Fencing posts? Pine, every
time. At Dick’s camp, Trangie district (N.S.W.), a
pine post which had helped to keep up a stockyard
for upwards of 40 years was removed, and as it ex-
hibited no signs of decay was used in a similar
capacity elsewhere. At Trangie recently I saw a
shearers’ shanty being built with some pine slabs
that had done duty at Cowplain run, adjoining, for
Robert Smith, son of the personage known to Rolf
Boldrewood’s readers as “Dusty Bob from Yalcog-
run.” They were thoroughly sound though they
had sheltered Dusty, junior, as far back as 1876.
WELL RECOMMENDED.
THE HEROINE: “ Villain. I have found you
out! You have a wife living.”
THE VILLAIN : “And a damned good wife
she is. dear girl.”
“S.S.S.” : When a Papuan native particu-
larly admires a white man he calls his children
after him. The belle of Hula village, a charmingly
coy young damsel, signs herself “Mr. Michael
O’Malley”—at least, she would if her education
hadn’t been so sadly neglected that she can’t write.
(Continued on page 24J
RAIN IN THE MALLEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hie rain is failing freely (Oh, the crops are growing
green)
Am! the pessimists are croaking: “There is sure to
he .a flood.”
But it's good to see the faces and the independent
mien
Of the big, broad-shouldered cockies as they flounder
through the mud.
Now the little stores are busy, giving credit ail the
time;
And if they never once forget “to see about the
lien,”
They’re graciousness embodied, and their trust is
quite sublime
When the rain is failing, falling, and the crops are
growing green.
“Twenty coils of roofing iron” (Oh, the crops are
growing green),
“A thousand feet of pickled pork.” “Yes, palings” ;
“fencing wire.”
But the clerk gets all the orders sifted-out from in
between
Queer scraps of conversation, and the packers soon
perspire.
But the harvest time is coming and the little store is
gay,
As it “charges up” the orders on the pages fresh and
clean,
For it knows “the house” will carry it along till
settling daj'—
Oil, no one needs to worry when the crops are growing
green.
There’s a wedding in the township (Oh, the crops
are growing green),
And a drive of twenty miles has put the parson to
tlie proof,
But his smile is quite angelic, and his countenance
serene,
Though his words are blurred and broken by the
rain beat on the roof.
But no one covets sunshine, or a sky of azure blue,
They’d rather driving hazes or the clouds of sombre
sheen,
W bile they help to start the waggon that as yet
contains but two,
1' o? muddy tracks won’t bog it when the crops are
growing green.
How they hail the mud and water (Oh, the crops
are growing green),
And the drought is but a memory of patience and
of pain,
And they’re confident and happy, and high courage
makes them keen,
For the wine of hope has sharpened up their faculties
again.
Oil, I don’t go much on wishing, but this one is
from my heart:
May nothing unpropitious now or ever intervene
.To cloud the smiling faces or bitterness impart
1 o the honest hopes a-glowing when the crops are
growing green.
VICTORIA.
BEN SUN.


-
The “Little Giant” Pumping Plant
——i—— a MinfflWWß
The Greatest Combination Ever Produced.
Built Especially for Australian Requirements.
Pumps 275 to 1200 Gallons per hour.
Price, Complete as Described, £35
A Good Practical Outfit consisting of a Strong, High-grade, 2-brake Horse-
power Engine. A Substantial, Back-geared, All-metal Pump Jack, with White Metal
Bearings, Oilers, etc. A 17in. x 27in. Heavy Metal Base for holding both Jack and
Engine. The Outfit clamps right to your piping, and we include Stuffing Box, Eod anc
Complete Eod Guide as shown.
Engine runs 8 hours on 4 quarts of Benzine. The 10-gallon Water-cooling Tank prevents
any chance of overheating. Has automatic o iling system, and can be started up and lefl
alone all day. Engine is fitted with 6in. Pulley, and, after pumping, can be instantlj
removed from pump base and placed elsewher e for other work.
Write us whether water is from creek, dam or well, vertical height of lift and discharge,
and we will submit full particulars.
CAN SHIP PROMPTLY.
Here are Other Machines you can attach to
your “LITTLE GIANT” Engine at any time:
For £25 we can supply 2 complete Machines, with Grinder, all ready for Shearing oi
Crutching. They can be attached to the Engine in a few minutes, for work in the shed
or paddock.
For £ lO we can ship you a Tilting Saw Bench, with 20in. Saw which will cut firewood
up to 6in. in diameter.
For £5 we can supply you with a 7fin. Bentall Chaffcutter, or E.M. Eeed Mill, both oi
which are very handy on a farm.
Kou can get the 2-h.p. Engine separate for £25
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
m
Sole Agents for Australia—
THE BRITISH GENERAL
ELECTRIC CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY 257 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE 590 Bourke Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.... 8 Willeston Street.
BRISBANE ... Sole Agents for Queensland—
Norman Bell & Co., 83 Eagle Street.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
INSIST ON "REGALE.”
THIS MONTH'S NEW RECORDS NOW ON SALE.
SUPPLEMENT No. 13.
All the very latest Song=Hits, including London’s Most Successful Revues
"PASSING SHOW OF 1915,” "5064 GERRARD,” "ROSY RAPTURE.”
10-inch
Wingates Band-
■ 2- each.
G692G-
Excelsior—
Trombone and Euphonium
Robin Adair—Euphonium Solo
King’s Military Band
G 6905
f Friends in Peace March
\ Independence Guard March
Gems
Hearts and Flowers Intermezzo
Medley of Harry Lauder’s Songs
(Introducing: I Love a Lassie;
Lass of Killieerankle; She’s Ma
Daisie) —Regal Orcli.
Violin and Piano Duets-
G 6927
Fiddle Fun—Part 1.
Fiddle Fun—Part 2.
F. C. Hennequin (Dramatic Recitals)
GG9O7
j The Blacksmith’s Story
i “Banky”
The Temple Quartette—
G 6938
{Scatter Seeds of Kindness
What Shall the Harvest P.e?
(Sankey)
William Thomas, Tenor-
G 6930
( When the Fields are White with
J Daisies
| Where the Sunset Turns the
l Ocean’s Blue to Gold
Sam Asli and Quartette —
f Good-bye, Virginia
GG93l< Come Over to Dover—
t Campbell and Gillette
F. W. Kamsey, Baritone—
G 6933
/ Dearie (Next Sunday at Nine)
\ Burlington Bertie from Bow
G 6938
f Keep On Keeping On
-[ Hearts Are Something
t Than Playthings
More
10=inch 2/= each.
Stanley Kirkby, liaritone—
G 6917
Little Singing Girl of Eldorado
Itazzy Wazzy Lou
Descriptive-
G 6929
I Derby Day—Part 1.
i Derby Day—Part 2.
“PASSING SHOW OF 1915”
G 6924.
Wlien tlie Clock Strikes Thirteen
P. VV. Ramsey
God Bless Old England—Duet
Dick Darby & Harrison Latimer
G6f)25
f Four-Foot-Ten Brigade—
Harrison Latimer
{ Constant Lover—William Thomas
—..aHvaaao i»os,.
GOO *5
f On the 5.15 —Collins & Harlan
! Ile’d Keep on Saying Good-night
Duet, Jones and Robbins
G 6918
j He’s a Rag-Picker—Edgar Trevor
I Pick of the Family—Edgar Trevor
<56919
Winter Nights—ltogal Quartette
Mississippi Barbecue—
George O'Connor
“ROSY RAPTURE’'—
G 6920
“Rosy Rapture” Selections—ln
Two Parts —Regal Orcli.
G 6921
f Ipswich—Stanley Kirkby
-[ Mother’s Knitting Mittens—
F. W. Itanisey
G 0932
Sally is my Ally—
Duet. Meadows and Ivirkby
The Honeymooners—
Stanley Klrkby
G 0823
Same Sort of Mother—
William Thomas
When I’m With You—
William Thomas
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daldngr House, Kawson Place.
.MELBOURNE, VlC.—Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King; and King, Ltd., Queen Street,
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A.—H. R. Firth. Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannaty lie & Hunter, Ltd., W akefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—’Webley Sons and Gotton, Ltd., 213 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


TYRES
DuvakCo.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
475 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE.
BEST in the LONQ RUN
IDDEAS
* 'FOUNDED-1888-
PHILLIPS - ORMONDE&O
Consiy/A/np /Tngincens, PcrfenA rf/fomey-s
one/ Trac/e/Vcrr-A/9penAs • I7QUEEN S T
MELBOURNE
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book.
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng*
Insist on “ Singleton’s* —refuse all substitutes.
■mhhb
Ariel exchange
to country
cheques:
Victoria, 6d ;
1/- Inter-State.
Buy Direct from the Manufacturer,
and Save 25 Per Cent.
Our Illustration is in Glace Kid or Box Calf. Fair
stitched to heel, on an up-to-date Anglo-American
Model. This is an Ideal Country Boot, with an
appearance fit for a Prince or a Premier. At the price
— l6/6 Carriage Paid —it is the Best Boot Value
being offered in the Commonwealth.
Send To-day for Full Illustrated
Catalogue.
HY. HARRIS,
50 McKean Street, N. Fitzroy,
... MELBOURNE.
“E.N.M.”: Re tLe flying-fish yarn (B.
4/11/’l5). I never met any mariner who’d had his
skull fractured by a flying-fish, but I shall never for-
get the first flying-fish that came aboard the old
River Ganges when I took ship in her. It was a
glorious moonlit night in the “Trades” —the first
night after we had managed to back and tack and
crawl and sweat out of the Doldrums. It was about
five bells in the first watch —say 10.30 p.m.—the
ship bowling along sweetly, with all plain sail set
and every sheet drawing, and sea and sky a double
glory of silver and indigo and purple and pearl; in
fact, a perfect night in the Trades. The second mate
and I were yarning and the ship was deserted save
for the wheelman and the lookout on the fo’c’s’le-head.
Presently the mate thought he’d stroll along and see
what the had become of the rest of the watch
(the beggars were smoking in unseen corners), and
forward he goes, I with him. At the forehatch the
mate stopped and looked overside, and just as he
did so—Blip! Whack! a big flying-f »h came sailing
like an arrow out of the silvery gloaming, and hit
the mate fair in the mouth. When he had finished
his few remarks appropriate to the occasion he
picked up the flying-fish—a beauty about 16in. long
and weighing, I daresay, 1 Jib. —and said: “That’s
my breakfast, sonny. It’ll be a change from salt
horse.” But it wasn’t, for Lizzie, the ship’s cat,
smelled it out and grabbed it when the mate wasn’t
looking.
*•*■**
“The Keefer”: With about 20 Papuans I
was discharging merchandise from a punt at the
end of a long, narrow jetty at Port Moresby. Sud-
denly Kissavi yelled a warning and took a header
overboard. Every one of the niggers followed him and
swam away as thouglh the Devil was aftar them. Then
I beheld a maniac with a.razor in each hand racing
straight at me, pursued by a crowd of Europeans
and natives. “Collar the low!” yelled some
ex-Rugby player from the pursuit. “Ay, by Cris!
taubada, look out; too many plurry knife, you pou
dobi (swim) quick feller,” bawled Kissavi from the
sea. I did. The party who had run amok missed
me by inches, and when I reached the surface he
was on a pile flourishing a razor towards his own
throat. Someone made a lasso and was just about
to fling it, when with a shrill scream of triumph
the madman ripped in the blade, and his top piece
seemed to tumble off as he dropped into the sea.
They told me later that he was annoyed because the
co-respondent insisted on him taking his wife back.
He was a Spaniard—a people full of prejudices.
* * * *
“Silas Snell”: I see that a German expert,
in calculating the amount of food available to the
hungry Hun, includes “100 tons of dog.” Which
reminds me. I was at the Pinafore rush, Tasmania,
in 1880. “Dutchy” Graff was one of the local char-
acters. “Dutchy” was a Bavarian. He catered for
the diggers, and made a little pile out of rasp-
berries and cream at a bob a plate in summer, and
in winter established a series of Saturday-night
THE EXPRESSIVE ADJECTIVE.
THE FIGHT PUNTER: "'Ow are yer feetin’, kid?”
THE WHITE HOPE: “Beautiful!”
suppers which were very popular. These suppers
consisted of home-made mutton pie and hot coffee,
and the Hun was regarded as a public benefactor
until that Sunday morning when a terrible suspicion
spread through the camp. Amos had circumstantial
evidence strong enough to carry conviction five miles
that the pies of the previous night were not loaded
with genuine sheep meat. A pale deputation of
nine miners, with firm spirits but quaking stomachs,
waited upon Herr Graff with pertinent inquiries.
Was it true that his usual consignment of meat from
Launceston had gone beyond redemption on the wav-
down. “Ya, eet vas der troot. But der pie, he vas fresh,
eh? You don’d gomplain me mit der pie? No?”
That point being settled, arose a stern demand that
Graff produce his dog Bismarck at once, or account
for his absence to the satisfaction of the customers.
“Aeh, Gott! der tog he vas vent. He tie presendly.”
“Where’s the body?” asked Amos ominously, and
the deputation turned a thought paler. “Dot tog
I half puried me der garten by,” said Graff. But
when a disinterment to produce the proofs was
talked of the Hun admitted his guilt. Choice cuts
from Bismarck had gone into Saturday night's pies.
“And you told us they were mutton!” said Amos
with dreadful calm. Graff smiled sweetly. “Dot is
all right, mein friendt,” he said. “He vos a sheeb-
tog!” They half-drowned Herr Graff in his own
well; then, having restored him, and dried him, they
coated him with second-hand engine grease and cotton
waste, and turned him loose. Graff sold no more
pies on the Pinafore. Public confidence had departed.
“Cartridge”: It gave me a start of sur-
prise when I first saw the lark leave its nest between
the firing mounds and the targets at Randwick
(Sydney) and flutter into the air to the popping and
crackling of several hundred rifles. It didn’t seem
to be concerned—unless its complete silence was a
sign of nervousness or stage-fright. As I understand
the birds are old residents, they may be used to
the rattle of musketry. Anyhow, the afternoon I saw
them their motto was “Business as Usual.”
* * * *
“Barcoo”: “Low’s” (B. 14/10/T5)
description of the beautiful shade-giving emu apple-
tree of Western Queensland is altogether misleading.
How the boundary-rider out there will smile when
he sees his favorite shade tree, under which he and
his horse and his dog shelter for hours during the
summer’s intense heat, described as growing to four
feet high. Its home is the Downs, on the Barcoo,
Thompson, Landsborough and Flinders Rivers, and
when full grown it is from 16 feet to 30 feet high,
with a mushroom top of a very dark green foliage,
ranging from 30 to 50 feet round and almost im-
penetrable to sun rays. The lovely park-like appear-
ance the trees give the landscape is the envy of
visiting Britishers. All stock are ravenously fond
of the foliage, which accounts for the clean bole and
the fact that young trees on occupied country never
come to maturity. When ripe the fruit is item
one on the emu’s menu, and he camps handy so as
not to be late for breakfast.
NON-ESSENTIAL, ANYWAY.
BILL: “I been and got married since I seen
yer last, Bob.”
BOB: “Go on, Bill. Who’d yer marry?”
BILL: “Nice little tart, Bob, with brown hair—blanked if I ain't forgot her name!”
“C. 11.5.”: A. L. P. Cameron, one of tlie
pioneer family of that name on the Lachlan, told
me over 25 years ago that he knew of a tribe of
aboriginals in Central Australia that had a mono-
poly of the plant pituri (pronounced pit-00-ree). It
grew only in their tribal area. They traded it to
neighboring tribes, who retailed it to other tribes.
The method of using it was as follows: At camping
time one nig. took out his pituri bag and lit a dry
gumleaf at the fire. The ash of this he collected
in his hand and spat on it, and, adding some raw
pituri, made it into a paste. This he chewed for
a certain time and then passed it to nig. No. 2, who
Lad his chew and passed it to No. 3 and so on.
After all had been more or less satisfied the
proprietor stowed the remains behind his ear
for a chew next morning. The tribe that
monopolised the pituri was the same that muti-
lated its males in a manner I cannot describe in
this place, in order, so my friend Cameron sup-
posed, to keep the tribe from increasing beyond cer-
tain limits, and thus to conserve the pituri trade.
And A. L. P. Cameron spoke the tribe’s dialect and
knew what he was talking about.
* * * *
“H.8.W.”: Dunno anything about the
breeding of eels, but I can enlighten “Long Bill”
(B. 4/11/'l5) as to how the wrigglers came to be
in a lake near Charters Towers which was quite dry
some years ago. Pelicans. These birds when pur-
sued empty their pouch, and as eels can live for hours
away from water numbers of them when hurriedly
emptied out undigested sprint for an adjacent lodg-
ing.
“Milo”: As the possessor of quick-time
fattening properties no indigenous tuber that I
know of is at all in it with bulgroo, which grows
luxuriantly in the swampy land on the Herbert
(N.T.). The top is a species of cane-grass, but does
not appeal to stock as a fodder; it is the tubers that
are valuable. Under each plant a large number of
them are found, some a couple of inches in diameter.
The skin is soft and the inner substance resembles
that of the potato. Wild pigs by the score live on
them, and all the pork fattened on the Herbert is
raised on bulgroo. Wild ducks and wild geese
luxuriate on such of the tucker as is rooted up and
left by the pigs, and from the tubers which escape
the vigilance of animals and birds the new crop
each year proceeds. The bulgroo is one of the few
indigenous wild vegetables that could be profitably
cultivated in suitable parts of tropical Australia.
TEE DRAMATIC ATMOSPHERE.
BUSKER ( encouragingly): “Why, damme,
Footlites, how ARE you, old stick?”
FOOTLITES ( ironically): “Tip top, old boy,
tip-top. The wind has been very nutri-
tious of late.”
“Perihelion”: Again the casualness of
Bill. He was seated on a kerosene case, smoking,
amongst the crowd on Regan’s verandah. A quarter
of an hour, half an hour, an hour elapsed, and then
Bill arose slowly and cautiously scrutinised his seat.
Then he got up and sadly stamped down with his
heel the business end of an upstieking nail, mutter-
ing that he had endured the thing so long under the
impression that it was a blanlcy splinter.
BALLADE OF AVEANOTHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s sweet to hear from over the lea
The rustle and swish of the golden grain,
Sweet are the tunes (though eerily)
The winds are humming around the pane;
But sweeter far is that old refrain
We hear so oft when the lights are low,
From some old mate with a heart so fain,
“Let’s all 'aveanother before we go.”
The good old days and the nights of glee,
The mates we never may see again
(How many a long-forgotten spree
Comes racing back to tickle the brain) ;
The farewells said at the boat and train,
The hope, the fear, the joy and the woe
That mingle within the sweet old strain,
“Let’s all ’aveanother before we go.”
In many a land, on many a sea,
In crowded city, on lonely plain,
There’s mates of our bygone jollity
Now battling on in the sun or rain.
It’s few who around us still remain,
And many have left this fleeting show;
So often we say with a twinge of pain,
“Let’s all ’aveanother before we go.”
Envoi.
May He who is holding Life’s guiding rein,
Ere Charon starts with our shades in tow
To paddle across that sombrous main,
Say, “All ’aveanother before we go.”
TASMANIA.
E. SWEENEY.


The “ Beau-ldeaT of the Cigarette World\
CIGARETTES
THE NEW RED PACKING.
10
D
N° 333
6°
Obtainable at all High-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
fy(r,
&
THt
ItW
Si!
OTHER STATE EXPRESS PRODUCTIONS
TATE EXPRESS Virginia No. 555 10 for -/9
„ „ „ De Luxe 25 for 2/3
„ „ „ His Majesty 2 5 for 2/9
„ „ „ Astorias 10 for 1/-
STATE EXPRESS Virginia My Darling
„ „ » No. 999
„ „ Turkish H.R.H.
„ „ » No * 1
10 for -/»
10 for 1/-
20 for 2/9
10 for 1/-
Sole Manufacturers:
TOBACCO C°
onaon


I
I
■ a
Mi
i
•NS
an
u*
&
a
I
(T
\
Blue
Ribbon
Lager
The Beer of Quality
Teasdel a L/teley
<So/e Confro///ng Agents for Ac/stra/as/a
7 ZiAM/L ro/v SZ SYDHE X
BLUf A/880/V LA6BR /s obta/nab/e Z: very where,
Lipton’s
Tea.
By Special Appointment to Ms Majesty the
King, Purveyors to the late Queen Victoria
and King Edward the Seventh, the King and
Queen of Italy, the King and Queen of Spain,
and to every Viceroy of India for the past
25 years.
THERE can be no better recom-
mendation to the virtues of Lip-
ton’s Tea than the fact that in
India, which is the greatest Tea-pro-
ducing country in the world. Lipton’s
Tea has reigned supreme in the Vice-
Regal Court for nearly an ordinary
working lifetime.
Lipton’s colossal organisation has
been described as “The business on
which the sun never sets,” and Lip-
ton’s Tea as “The Pride of Five Con-
tinents.”**
A Medical Opinion of
Lipton’s Tea.
Road what Dr. N. E. Yorke-Davies, the
I' amous Nerve Specialist says regarding
l.ipton’s Tea:—
‘‘lt has also other advantages besides the
excellence of its quality. It comes from a
British Dependency, and is prepared under
British auspices. It does not pass through
the hands of natives, but it is manipulated
after it leaves the gardens entirely by
machinery of the most up-to-date character.
Of all the teas grown throughout the
world Ceylon teas are the best,” and the
finest Ceylon teas are grown on the Lipton
Estates, as they are entirely free from
Tannin' or anything that could be injurious
to health.
AVe can supply grocers and farmers with
thousands of original chests at 2d. to 3d. per
pound under contract prices which will he
paid during the next twelve months.
Lipton’s Red Label Tea.
Lipton’s Yellow Label Tea.
Lipton’s Green Label Tea.
Lipton’s “At Home” Tea.
Lipton Ltd.
Head Office for Australia:
SYDNEY-414 KENT STREET.
BRISBANE—S 29 Petries Bight.
AIIiLBOIIRNE—37B Flinders Street.
NEW ZEALAND—Customs Street East,
Auckland.
Also, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, WEST
AUSTRALIA, and all over the world.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
There is a lot of coin waiting for the per-
son who discovers a reliable enemy for the
Maoriland flax grub. The business-like
manner in which the pest is getting to work
in the Manavvatu district is causing alarm
among the people who depend for bread and
beer on the growing of flax. At the begin-
ning of this season the leaf was in good con-
dition, but in the past few weeks an entire
change has taken place and large areas of
promising vegetable have been ruined. The
Government biologist has taken samples of
the grub and the green leaf to have a real
good look at them, and meantime the grub is
digging himself in for all he is worth.
* * * *
“Moana”: Some people in Auckland
( M.L.) are busy making money out of shark
oil, which is extracted from the lawyer’s
liver. It is being largely used as a calf
food, for when mixed with skimmed milk it
practically _ restores the properties lost
through taking out the cream. If the pre-
judice against it could be overcome shark
oil would quickly replace cod-liver oil, for,
according to medical authorities, its proper-
ties are much superior, and, of course, it is
cheaper. The Auckland industry uses the
whole of the lawyer. The body is converted
into fertiliser and the fins are carefully
dried and exported to China, where you give
them to your best girl’s grandfather.
There has been a selling-off at Fairhavens,
George Hope’s most gentlemanly “model”
farm over near the Ivoo.vong Polo Ground.
The Fairhavens silo and maize-crops have
frequently been photographed for use as
object-lessons in the Victorian Journal of
Agriculture, and a few years ago the
farmlet was chosen as an ideal source of
supply for the Lady Talbot Milk Institute,
which has saved the lives of hundreds of
babies. But most “model” farms are run
on narrow margins of profit, or a loss, and
Fairhavens was no exception. Some inter-
esting vehicles of a bygone age were put up
at the sale. A 60-guinea phaeton brought
£10; a £lBO brougham, £6 10s.; and a neat
thing in victorias (once £l5O, if the auc-
tioneer told all the truth), six sovs. One
wonders what sort of person would pay six
good sovs. for a victoria these days, and
what he would do it for.
“Copabella”: I had the opportunity this
week of taking off my hat to another Aus-
tralian production—a flour-sifter, made to
supersede the American contrivance, now
risen 50 per cent, through war freights and
other excuses. The Australian producer
will have to do better than this,' though.
The local sifter is a crude, poor thing. Its
edges have the rawness of youth, the solder
was seemingly put on with a trowel, and it
is as dear as the Yankee it copies. Strong,
certainly; but so is a dray wheel. We retail
robbers are ready enough to push local
goods: but patriotism to us is only per-
ceutism, and the Australian article that
fails in artistry, efficiency and percentage
isn’t going to cut out the imported article
nor smash up Germany’s trade.
* * * *
“F. 11.” : A gentle friend of mine bought a
German piano the other week. When I
/. taxed him with being a pro-German, a dis-
loyalist and no patriot lid explained that he
didn’t care for any make of Australian or
British piano; that the Donner-Blitz had a
beautiful tone; and that, since the D.-B.
agent had (so the agent said) bought the
piano before the war, Germany would profit
in no way, while the worthy Australian
agent would have sufferer} had he failed to
make the sale. Besides, lie got it five pounds
cheaper than the agent’s price. Then I told
him a few facts —that the D.-B. agent was
simply selling on commission for a German
firm, that some of the firm or the firm’s
money was certainly fighting England and
Australia, and that the cash received for
the piano would be paid to the German
shareholders once the war was over. At the
same time I recited a few instances of Ger-
man frightfulness from the Bryce report. It
was enough. The harmless, well-meaning
wretch broke down and confessed that he
was an ignorant dunderhead, at the same
time enthusiastically describing the agent as
a liar. But my friend still has the piano,
the agent has the cash, and Germany the
credit —and it is the same with regard to
many other German-made articles still being
sold in Australia on the same pretext of con-
sideration for the Australian retailer,
allegedly “stuck” with a German stock.
This consideration is being overdone, parti-
cularly when one takes into account the
attitude of a huge percentage of Australian
shopkeepers, even to-day, towards our own
Australian manufactures.
“R. 8.”: “Made in Australia—-by whom?”
CB. 30/9/Y5) reminds me of a one-time
Minister for Customs in the old pre-Com-
monwealth days of .Victoria who was also a
fine States Frigliter, a heavily-gilded calico
Jimmy, and such a right-thinking person
that when the Customs went over to the
Commonwealth, and Charles Cameron Kings-
ton was Minister, he prosecuted the ex-
Minister on charges of invoice faking and
fraudulent Customs entries. The ex-Minis-
ter’s greatest performance was the discovery
that a rival softgoods firm manufactured
goods in Melbourne and sold them as "made
in England.” The tremendously virtuous
person put his trade rivals away to the Gov-
eminent, which, to his intense disgust,,
seemed to think that the crime of mis-stating
the country of origin was more than bal-
anced by the virtue of making something
in Australia. The ex-Minister’s horror, it
turned out, was not for the mis-description
losing an advt. for Australia, but because
“an inferior colonial product” had been sold
under the sacrosanct name of England.
* * * *
Charles Steinway, the manufacturer of
“American” pianos which are made in Ger-
many (as far as this country’s supply is
concerned), seems to have been very well
informed about Germany’s intentions in the
piping times of peace. The Music Trades.
a New York journal, gives away the fact
that when the Balkan States were boiling,
some years ago, the alert Steinway ordered
a change in the lettering on the firm’s goods.
The inscription had been “Steinway and
Sons, New York, London, Hamburg.” He
changed it to “Steinway and Sons, Makers.”
remarking that the Balkan troubles would
be followed by such a world war that Eng-
lisli people might not wish to buy German
goods, and vice versa. How well iie guessed
it!
* * * *
“Copabella”: British combine-made mus-
tard has advanced again ; and the drummer
tells me that the big rise is due to “the
immense quantities needed by the troops to
go with their British beef (canned in
Chicago). Strange, but mustard fit for the
table is one of the simple things we can’t
make in Australia. Of course, local manu-
faeturers say they can, but the public won’t
buy it, and Australian mustard is merely a
decorative feature on nearly every grocer’s
shelves. One of the most advertised Aus-
tralian brands is now “prepared in Eng-
land, expressly for” so-and-so, Melbourne.
Is it our climate that is at fault (as with
matches) ; or our gospel of hurry (as with
leather) ; or our crude taste (as with bis-
cuitst : or must mustard, like the lawns of
Oxford, be watered and rolled for a thou-
sand years; or is it merely lack of (1)
patriotism, (2) advertising?
* *
(ici-n in in
oi ' AF° W ' I V e ' ( bug (B.
says the only way to obtain
Australian cabinet timbers is to go into the
scrub with an axe and cut them; also that
if only Sydney and Melbourne amateur car-
penters could obtain suitable Australian
woods they would use them in preference,
etc., etc. This is mere playing to the gal-
lery. Sydney is a big market for North
Queensland timbers. Maple, silky oak and
Cedar logs are shipped from Cairns in fairly
large quantities, and sawmillers cut them up
and season tlie boards —yes, and actually
sell them. Beech and black pine also find
a good market in Sydney, as well, as other
cabinet timbers. If “Chug” couldn't get any
of the above-mentioned woods he must have
forgotten to inquire for them. These tim-
bers also find a fair market in Melbourne.
The Vic. Railways are large users of maple.
All the Tait cars are fitted out with it. The
last contract was for 500,000 super. _ The
general idea seems to be that Australia has
huge handy forests of timber, that very little
if any is being cut, and unnecessary, im-
ported timbers are knocking ours out, or
have never given them a show. Like many
other ideas it is all wrong.
W. G. T. Goodman, autocrat of the
Adelaide Tramways Trust—a municipal
body—has seen the awkwardness of getting
his men’s backs up, and a general mellow-
ing-down of his policy has ended in an agree-
ment just filed in the Federal Arbitration
Court, and a better feeling all round than
has existed for at least two years. The
election to the S.A. Parliament of Lionel
Hill, old footballer and secretary of the
Tramwaymen’s Association, probably helped.
Annual leave is increased a little, a wages
log has been settled, and the much-fought
principle is at last laid down that every man
joining the service must join the Employees’
Association, too. A reference Board, to con-
sider any points of detail as they arise, is to
consist of three from the Trust and three
from the Association —lawyers barred.
*• * * *
“Carfax”: Is it only a coincidence or is
it the result of overwork that while the Aus-
tralian Post Office distributes tons of news-
papers for P. Enterprise at a heavy annual
loss, it sticks up any paper addressed to Bill-
jim in his trench unless the rag bears full
postage rates? It looks like a preference to
Shirk, anyhow.
THE PRODIGAL SON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I went to kirk with Sandy Mac,
And heard the pastor preach and pray;
The Prodigal, how he came back,
The things he did when going gay—
This was the theme
Of Pastor Bream.
We heard of lavish bouts with drink,
Of backing nags that didn’t win;
Of substance squandered in the sink
Of infamy, with brides of sin;
The soul he lost,
And what it cost;
Of purple and fine linen, and
Of luxury and heavy play.
Said Sandy Mac: “Eh, mon, it’s grand
To ken, as weel I ken this day,
Yon weekid sot
Was no a Scot!”
VICTOItI A.
SILAS SNELL.
AN EFFICACIOUS INSTRUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I am a working bur-gu-lar,”
The simple stranger said.
“From which don’t think you must infer
I am a bad 'un and a cur—
Me children must be fed.
This thing I’d like to sell to you—
See for yourself, it’s good .as new.
“I paid a visit Chewsdce night
To one old city coot.
He woke, and, ’struth, I got a fright;
But ez he didn’t go to bite,
I didn’t have to shoot.
For which he thanked me very kind—
It seemed a weight from off his mind.
“I pinched his cash and watch and chain,
What silver he had hid;
And then this box. He did complain—-
To lose this went agin his grain.
It’s yours fer arf a quid.”
He took the thing from ’neath his arm—•
“It’s Bodger’s bur-gu-lar alarm!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


m
Tk ADJUSTMENT ELEMENTS
OF THE TYPE 1-14 METER.
%
THe regulating - or adjustment
elements of a Watthour Meter
control the speed of the meter so
that it will register the load
correctly under widely-varying
load conditions.
The continued accuracy of a
meter depends more upon the
permanence of the damping mag-
nets than upon any other one
thing. Ihe two C-shaped magnets
used in the hype 1-14 Meter are
manufactured from the highest
grade of steel, specially hardened,
magnetised and aged. "The perfection of
the process by which these magnets are
pioduced has been developed in the com-
mercial production of ten million magnets.
In ordinary service these magnets are
absolutely permanent.
'
m
I
*
IHe full load speed of the
meter is regulated by moving
these magnets nearer to or further
from the edge of the moving disc,
thus increasing or decreasing the
magnetic drag. 1 his adjustment
is made hy a micrometer screw,
which gives a fine regulation with
a wide range of adjustment.
I he friction, compensation or
light load adjustment is regulated
by the “ light load plate” which
carries a small copper punching
under the potential pole. The
plate is moved laterally by a micrometer screw
to secure the desired compensation. %
The permanence of magnets ami the
simplicity and convenience of adjustments
are two of the many good points of Type
i -14 Meters.
M
9
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
Agents —
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA. Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver
& Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart
A
vl
. Exercise the Same Care
5. h , oosin f caf tridges for your .22 calibre rifle
do for your larger calibred rifle or revolver.
as you
Remjnpori
.22 CALIBRE CARTRIDGES
arefullv rnnrlr* anrl . r- „1 _ _ 11 t
a b r Mn a gS y bv a tho?r n le a C f CU ?, tely loade l' Thc!r . reputation has
thev arp chmn i ea f accura cy and penetrative powers, and
Ke shooterT P Our^Hi 16 “T- o™’ 0 ™’ ° f ,he " orld ' s 'small
yic floorers. Uur trade mark is your guarantee.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building. New York City
I>. D.
BRYANT, Australian Representative,
P.O. Box 686, Melbourne.
m
Contractors to the British and Colonial Governments.
m
'AustreJidJi Made
w
Combs,
2/= each.
Cutters,
6d.each.
Postage extra. Ask f or them at every shed,
or send direct to the .Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
forr.ar Larltir. & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, S/dnay: or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTOPM SHEARING CO. LTD., Chamber of
Comrr rec r jlfding's, George Street, Sydney.
ft
For a Christmas Gift—
The Gillette Safety Razor is sure of a hearty
welcome, life-long use and a fresh appreciation
every day. Put him down on your Christmas
list for a Gillette. British Made.
Many different styles in handsome leather, silver and gold plated cases
to choose from. Prices from One Guinea to Ten. Sold everywhere.
Agents for Australasia:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street. Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, England.
i J
3333
SEE
m
St
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
h is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing,
Ihe children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
, MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
'/2


Solid Silver-mounted Manicure Set,
finest .quality instruments, cut glass jar, 25/-
■ Engraved, 27/6.
msmmam
Two Hobnail Cut Glass Toilet Bottles, Puff
Vaseline Pot, with richly embossed solid silver tops,
Morocco case, £2/5/-
Jar and
in silk-lined
Solid Silver-mounted Gent’s Hair Brushes and
Cloth Brush, in silk-lined case, £2/15/-
HANDSOME
-TOILET GIFTS-
Delightful in appearance
and reasonable in price.
------ u-
Solid Silver Handsomely Embossed “Empire”
Design Brush, Mirror and Comb, £3/15/-
Two brushes and Comb, £3/3/-.
i/asizs
Sterling Silver-mounted Shoe Hook, and
Glove Hook, highly burnished, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
Solid Silver Handsomely Embossed “Empire”
Design Hair Brush and Comb, silver-drawn bristles,
in Morocco case, 30/-
Solid Silver-mounted Sewing Companion, com-
prising four articles, in silk-lined Morocco case, 15/0*
:* «««**f* Mffjjjjgiteiv
35
3R
iVi
HI
'V\ ; 5 ? -'Vi
Solid Silver Plain “Concave” Design Manicure
Set, finest quality instruments, £2/15/-
807-817 GEORGE ST
(Opp. Railway Station) SYDNEY
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
S -m»
*~, ~> > . -;
em
m
- f ,-.'
/'■ • ■ ' ~tYf
mmmmmmk.
9%
&■■
05^
r;^
vA
m
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AKABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
V
THE GIES REVERSE GEAR.
The GIES is built in three sizes of the enclosed and open type, so that it
is the best-fitted reverse gear for the greatest number of power boats. It is
the simplest reversing mechanism made. The few parts it has are all inter-
changeable, as they are jig made to accuracy. High-grade materials and first-
class workmanship, combined with right design, make the GIES the most depend-
able reversing device on the market.
GIES Gears are not an exper ment, they are the result of
10 years’ experience in building reverse gears exclusively. Over
30,000 satisfied customers are our best recommendations.
DEALERS: We wish to secur responsible dealers wherever
we have no representation. We feel certain that reliable
importers will want to represen the GIES line, once they have
investigated its merits. The GIES offers any dealer a com-
plete line of reverse gears to fit any make of engine. Rightly
priced and widely advertised, th ' GIES will be a quick-selling,
money-making line to handle. Write for our sneeial dealers’
proDOsition to-day. Cable Address :
GIES GEAR CO., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
O U
lESGEAR.
ETROIT.
THE J PEN
vv
\
\V)“
V#
Vv
■a-
£
V>**
/tBGISTCRKD
DUPLICATING.
Ask Your Stationer or Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box—BRITISH Made.
Exclusive Ag'ents Wanted
to Sell Gasoline Engines
MARINE, STATIONARY AN D
PORTABLE OUTBOARD MOTORS.
•ariavxnoj vni-s
Write at once to
The Caiilc Perfection Motor Co.,
506 CAILLE STREET,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
*« WORLD’S LARGEST BUILDERS OF
TWO-CYCLE MOTORS.”
We manufacture every practical type of Gasoline
Motor. Prices Right. Quality First.
m
IMPROVED
Comp ass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2-Jin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
2 2/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
I
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold tn Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
m
The Delicate Magneto
is the very life of your cycle or car. It requires the
skill of the expert to adjust and repair. Send yours to
Moody & Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney,
who have specialised in electrical work for years, and
who undertake to repair quickly and cheaply, and
guarantee to make it work equal to new again or
make no charge.


TALKS ON BICYCLE BUYING—
No. 4.
'/zAootf- tff-
a
V
fito
<3S
| ETTERS from B.S A.
riders all emphasise the
wonderful service their
bicycles are giving. After
exceptional opportunities for
testing they are unanimous
that a bicycle built through'
out of B.S A. Fittings is
unequalled for reliability
So'Called cheap 'pattern
machines may be highly
polished, but remember ap'
pearances are no guarantee
of reliability. The B.S.A.
reputation is based on the
only sure foundation-service.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
ITTIN^s
•THOROUGHLY BRITISH.”
B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE.
!Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
A
Anthony Horderns’
Universal Bicycle.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with
EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub, Free
Wheel on both gears, Back-pedalling
and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS
BIRTLES. £l2/10/-. Write for
Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons
Only Universal Providers, Ltd.
New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Calverts
toilet Soap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3 -tablet boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made byF. C. CalvertSf Co.. Manchester, Eng.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
A FAMOUS RAZOR.
m
m
m
m
The “Plum” Razor has firmly established its ascendancy throughout
Australia. Sheer merit is the secret of its success. The stiffest beard
will yield to its business-like edge, and one lathering is all that is
necessary.
Johe “PLUM” RAZOR
Can be stropped in a minute.
PRICE 10,6-POST FREE.
We keep this razor in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the Above Post Free.
This line makes a lovely present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG &l AITH.EN, 6S *
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
OSTER
When it comes to Threading Tubes
there is a special tool to fit your particular use
in the Oster line. 20 years of specialisation
guarantees their quality —an Oster means
clean threads quickly cut.
FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
IN ALL CITIES.
m
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, 0., U.S.A.
Australasian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT, Box 251, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
OSTER
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
m
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
f hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcaile, Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
Hand- and
Roller-Feed
Surface Planing,
Thicknessing,
Moulding, etc.,
Machine.
Makers: J. SAGAR & CO.,
Halifax, England.
Planing out: of Winding (out of twist). Making Glue Joints. Stopped Cham-
fering. Cornering. Planing Taper.
Rebating. Tonguing and Grooving. Sticking Beads and Mouldings.
Thieknessing Panels or Boards. Planing and Thicknessmg several pieces together,
either on the flat or edgewise. Will plane stuff as thin as 1/1 Oth of an inch, and
anv intermediate thickness up to 9 inches, and at speette varying from .At. to
40ft. per minute. Suitable for planing and moulding skirting, etc., at one operation.
Over 4000 of these machines are at work in different parts of the world.
Sagar Woodworking flachines
are made to" high standard, being second to none in regard to Design, Accuracy,
Perfection of Workmanship, and in their Productive Capacity.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
MCPficrsorts)
Proprietary Limited
Machinery and Tool Merchants,
554*00 and 582-88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
m
ABBEY
SHOES
Every careful dresser appreciates
the high-class appearance of Abbey
Shoes.
Their long-wearing qualities and
comfort are equally as satisfactory
as their fine appearance.
We illustrate J a Ilighest-grade
PATENT KID BUTTON BOOT.
PERFORATED GOLOSH, AND
FAWN CLOTH LEGS.
Price - 42/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog.
ABBEY.
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
FORD OWNERS
A Pfanstielil Master Vibrator will make your motor
run steadilv and smoothly; will make starting
much easier; will save yj?u the trouble of try ins to
keep four vibrators working together.
iiiiuiiinimmimi'mmn
If i jU
Lft
mi
ifei
r,Ns 'lEHL ItECTWCAHIjSI
toft Faster vi bbato"
Pfanstiehl
Master
Vibrator
Increases the speed,
I power and flexibility
of the motor; gives
your motor perfect
timing and conse-
q u e n t 1y increased
power. Does away
with missing and the
resulting loss of power.
Reduces carbonising.
The Pfanstiehl is the
standard Master Vibra-
tor. Small, neat, at-
tractive. Measures only
4 x 4 x 4 \ inches.
Heavy black fibre body with lacquered spun-brass
cover. Price, 40/-. Shipped by prepaid Parcel Post,
registered, to any point in Australia for 2/- addi-
tional.
Made by PFANSTIEHL COMPANY, North Chicago, 111.
U S.A. Orders promptly filled by LYON PETCHELER
and CILLES, Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
m
MARBLE’S
GAME GETTER GUN
Two Guns In One
Upper Barrel .22
Lower Barrel .44 0r.410
1
110 ■
Rid of the Rabbit Pest
—with the aid of the f< Game
Getter.” Easily carried about
with you at your work. Folds
compactly and slips into shouN
der holster—Free with gun.
Snaps open firm and rigid —in a
moment. Barrels 12-15 or 18 inch.
Shoots ball or scatter shot. Accurate
" carefully tested and sighted before
leaving our hands. A gun for every
lover of the great "out o’ doors.”
Brings down all small game, even an-/
telope—truly a "GAME GETTER.”?
Ask Your Dealer
to show you this gun. See it,
swing it to your shoulder that
you may know the “feel” of
the biggest little gun on earth.
Illustrated folder on the" GAME
GETTER GUN" or catalogue of
Marble’s 60 Sporting Specialities or
both sent postpaid.
Marble Arms & Mfg. Co.
611 Delta Avenue
Gladstone, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Address “MARBLE" Gladstone j
Australian & New Zealand Repiesentativea J
HARRY MOLDEN, Box 1349, Sydney*
m
m


Sydmez-y. FN.SW.
OPENING of the SUMMER GARDEN!
The Wentworth Hotel Summer Garden is now in full swing, and, as
in previous .seasons, has quickly become the rendezvous of the elite.
Delightfully cool and comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons. Dinners,
Afternoon Teas and Supper Parties and all open-air functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find The Wentworth Hotel most popular.
The appointments and service are superb, and compare favorably with
the best hotels in Australia. Terms on application,. ,
' Mrs.'MACIAJKCAN,. Manageress. . .
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow-
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
Buyers of
HORROCKSES'
LONGCLOTHS
MADAPOLAMS and DRILLS
Have a guarantee if they will see HORROCKSES’
name on Selvedge that they are getting the very
best that the Old Country produces.
Decline all Substitutes
' Sold by all First-Class Drapers and-Storelceepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 3
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE WOODEN HORSE.
The Queensland Legislative .Council, after con-
siderable discussion, negatived the second reading of
the Commonwealth Powers [War] Bill by 19 votes
to 5.
HUGHES: “Perhaps, after all, it is some-
times advisable to make a careful ex-
amination of a gift horse.”
So far as N. S. Wales is concerned the
old insanitary habit of “kissing the Book”
goes—wiped out by the Oaths Amending
Act. In future the nervous occupant of
the witness stand who has a fear of germs
will not have to look for a clean page while
an . official rushes breathlessly through the
form of oath. The Act originated in the
Upper House, where it afforded a quaint
illustration of the vagaries of the party
creed. First a Liberal M.L.C. introduced
the thing, and, although no one objected, it
would, no doubt, have been slaughtered
because of its origin. But Fitzgerald arose
and promised that if the private Bill was
withdrawn, he would himself, as Government
representative, introduce the same reform.
So a Government measure took the place of
the private Bill; and, having the correct
party stamp, it went through.
MAN’S INGRATITUDE
THE FLAPER: “Patriotism is Pa’s strong
point, and he is determined to withhold
consent until you enlist.”
THE OTHER: “Blazes! And I helped him to
fake his tear-tax returns!”
We are economising all right! During the
annual November foregathering in Melbourne
no less than four State Excellencies, with
their various wrap-carriers and secretaries,
accompanied by members'of most of the 44
Houses, of Parliament and sundry*'- odd lots
of semi-public officials, trained up' to Sliep-
parton and then sortied out 18 miles to
Dookie College, per motor. Two machines
broke down, but the expedition arrived ulti-
mately—only to learn that the College was
proceeding more or less normally, employing
some IS persons and “teaching” 33 students,
the whole outfit managing to cultivate 1000
acres after their own fashion.
Most of the meat has been hacked off
Tasmania’s very newest Electoral Bill. The
Assembly has cut away the uniform quota
and other devices for making proportional
representation more proportional, and also
the extra member (this would have given
the taxpayer 31 salaries to pay instead of
30). The deliberative vote for the Speaker,
which was intended to lessen the at-present
pretty big chances of a deadlock, has gone
likewise. Practically nothing is left but an
attempt to solve the difficulty which by-elec-
tions present under a proportional system.
Even those Liberal members of the Select
Committee who agreed to the lines on which
Ihq| Bill was drafted joined in slashing it
down, and there is so little left of it
that the fragment is hardly worth warming
up? for breakfast, and will probably be given
to' the dog.
Farthing (East Melbourne), who is the
nearest approach to an independent in the
Vic. Assembly, and can afford to risk his
scalp, has introduced a Totalisator Bill, with
Oman (Hampden) as his hacker. If ever a
Bill' promised and deserved to be dealt with
on non-party lines this is the one. The esti-
mated deductions are put down at £450,000
per annum, so it will be possible to be good
to everybody. The Farthing tote is to be a
74 per center, one-tliird of the deductions to
go severally to (1) charities; (2) relief of
sick and crippled soldiers, (3) racing clubs
for “promoting horseracing and improving
racecourses.” Provision has been made for a
totalisator commissioner and deputy to ad-
minister the Act, and for other appointments
to be made from members of the public ser-
vice or . superannuated officers. The one
weak point in the scheme is that no allot-
ment has been specified to reimburse the
Treasury, out. of tote profits, to the extent
of the above-mentioned officers’ salaries. It
is only a minor, remediable detail; but the
wowsers will find an argument in the fact
that they are fo be “taxed to run the tote.”
One can almost hear Oswald Snowballing
his new war cry.
Another chance gone! The N.S.M . Gov-
ernment isn’t likely to get the Tasmanian
long-sentence gaolbirds as paying guests
even at the very reasonable rate quoted of
£1 per week. The gaol officials object to
losing them, because they say the longer a
man's sentence the more work you can get
out of him if you take the trouble to teach
him a trade. So Carle is reconsidering the
matter and is likely to keep on at it.
German-made goods to the value of £BBll
managed to squeeze into Maoriland during
the quarter ended September 30.
the same quarter last year £212,727 worth
fell into the land with a loud “Hoch 1”
Twelve months ago the imports from Hol-
land were only £19,851; last quarter they
had pushed up to £34,711. And that’s only
a beginning. Yet there are still some fools
who think we shall he able to exclude Ger-
man goods without a tariff. ■
In his feeble efforts to square the ledger
Vic. Premier- l'eacock has this year reduced
the municipal subsidy to country munici-
palities and shires from £lOO,OOO to £50,000;
whereupon lawyer Mackey, member for a
Gippsland district, exclaims upon this “fur-
ther tax of £50,000 a year upon the poor
fanner.” Seeing that there is no real justi-
fication for any municipal subsidy at all,
and seeing further that the Main Roads
Board is now engaged in spending £3,000.000
of borrowed money in doing the work the
country landlords were too lazy or too mean
to do themselves, it is a fair thing for
Mackey to explain what he calls “taxation
of the producer.” The policy that actually
is being pursued is the taxation not of the
producer but of the unfortunate kid—the
kid who will have to - fin'd that £3,000,000
of borrowed money by-and-bye.
Who said the affairs of the Australian
Post Office are not looked after with great
care? Let the Balfour episode supply a
refutation. Balfour is a one-horse mining
village in the nor’-west of the Hpeck, re-
ceiving mails twice a week. The local post
office was in a dirty little shed 80 yards
away from the residence of the postmistress,
and as the place was falling to pieces the
Deputy-P.M.G. gave her permission to run
the office at her house. Wild uproar from
Balfour, where the population, voting en
masse at tin indignation meeting, decided by
21 votes to 17 to protest against the site
of the post office being changed. And the
21 made such a hullabaloo that a committee
of seven Senators was on August 19, by
resolution of tin 1 Australian Senate,
appointed to “inquire into and report upon
the conduct of the Deputy P.M.G.” in this
tremendous issue. The rest doesn’t matter
much. They drew travelling expenses, they
sat to take evidence in various places, they
carted round a secretary and shorthand
writers, reams of drivelling evidence was
printed, and by November 5 the dreadful
business was over. More money had been
spent than will be handled at the Balfour
post office in several years.
THE LITTLE RIFT WITHIN THE
LUTE.
Last week invitations were sent out for an at-
home. On the corner of the cards, instead of the
customary word, “Music,” there was the stunning-
phrase, “Smashing (hammers provided).” The guests
assembled in strong force, and at a given signal
hammers were served out by the maids, and each
guest arose and delivered smashing blows at the
German-made piano. —News item.
Mistress : “Norah, run out and hug me
another dozen hammers —and no local
rubbish, mind!”
Victorian Minister for Agriculture Hagel-
thorn snivels as he looks in the cashbox: —-
Restriction of loan money would perhaps make it
difficult for the Government to keep the people in
regular and constant employment.
Why can’t Australians keep themselves em-
ployed? Isn’t there enough room, or what’s
the matter?
Thank Ileaven there is still some balm
left! The bargain Hughes made with the
Colonial Sugar liefining Co. won’t stand
much looking into, and Australia’s cruiser
Brisbane is costing several hundreds of
thousands more than her sister ships, the
Sydney and Melbourne. But (loud applause)
the N.S.W. Unnecessary Commodities Com 1
mission is carefully watching the price of
plum puddings.
HIS ONLY HOPE.
A Bill has been read a first time in the Queens-
land Legislative Assembly to abolish the Upper
House. —News item.
THE TORY : “Well, I hare yet to learn that
the fuse is a good one.”
“W.F.S.”: To the ardent Labor poli-
tician who. “having nothing,” as he says,
thinks he would have just as much under
German rule, I recommend a-study of 1 lit*
Prussian electoral law. Voters are divided
into three classes according to the taxes
they pay, and the voting powers of these
three classes are equal to one another. If
the taxes of a town amounted to £30,000
each class pays £lO,OOO. If one very rich
man happens to pay £lO,OOO taxes his one
vote carries as much punch as the combined
votes of the 5000 poor taxpayers who pay
£2 each. In this very possible example Von
Sweinedrech’s vote counts as 10,000 and
Hans the artisan’s counts for one. Even
our Legislative Councils’ franchise is iced
Rag Socialism alongside that!
The calamitous Australian Patriots 7
League at Melbourne has come out with a
proposal for another “badge.” First it was
the foolish badge for rejects, then the
horrible mourner’s badge; now citizens are
being asked to pledge themselves to refrain
from using German goods and to wear a
badge in token thereof. Of course those
agreeing are asked to forward the usual 2s.
It would be much more effective and also
infinitely more patriotic if the League
ceased asking people to deck themselves out
like King Billies, and devoted its energies
to securing a tariff which would put the
use of German goods right out of the ques-
tion.
Cheerful item on the N.S.W. estimates: —
Expenses of public function in honor of Mr.
Campbell Carmichael during his stay in London —-
£335 19s. 3d.
Mr. Campbell Carmichael until recently
decorated the Holman Ministry as Minister
for Education. Last year he was sent away
or went away or was prevailed upon to go
away “to examine educational systems in
other countries.” While in London he was
asked by Tim Coghlan to attend a dinner
and make a speech about loans and the debt
and have it reported in the papers. That
it was a gorge which the public would have
to pay for never entered the mind of Mr.
Campbell Carmichael. He thought the people
who rolled up were paying. Of course!
When the N.S.W. Agent-General spreads a
table and it is known that a travelling Min-
ister is going to talk about a loan his Minis-
try is after, the natural impulse of Cohen
is to pay several pounds a head to listen.
The notion y? to cueing Cohen to come along
for the van -.v protolse of some chicken and
fizz would b~ absurdly un-British. Anyhow,
it is good to know from Mr. Carmichael
that after the feed Lord Emmott remarked
“Well, that was a damn good dinner.” But
The Bulletin knows a man who was at
the feed and he swears that after Car-
michael’s oratorical, effort Coghlan helped
himself to a liqueur and sadly remarked,
“Well, that was a damn poor speech.”
AFTER THE WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In fact, after the war the people may prefer to
sweep away both bodies and introduce a more simple
and less expensive system of government.
—Sydney Tblbgbai-ii.
When the last note blows on the bugle and the guns
are folded away
We shall open some' old discussions that are not
in order to-day :
'Twill be time enough then for wrangle and altering
things as we will,
Buc now while tho war smoke gathers we ought to be
muni and still.
Oui: on the front of battle, out where the shrapnel
burst,
Australia thrills to a war-whoop while slaking her
red blood-thirst;
And the business oUthose who linger afar from the
fight and pain :
Is to try to do simply nothing':again and again and
again.
Then when the war is over and the Turk is down on
his knees,
And the gallows, loaded with Germans, creaks loud
to the northern breeze,
When the troopships come into harbor and the girls
have been duly kissed,
We must tackle the job of finding the tracks that
we lost or missed.
Then we may mend or alter our laws in the way we
like.
Then we may seek more wages, then we may toil or
strike.
And as for the Referendum, let all men be free to
speak,
For, though sacred, the Constitution may be changed
six times a week.
Then, if the people will it, the second Chamber may
go,
Or the revenue fail and dwindle in the breweries’
overthrew ;
And the States themselves may be smothered or
choked or broken small
While the ears of the small States Spiters are nailed
to an outhouse wall.
After the war is over a number of things may be
done;
The railway from Oodnadatta may even be taught to
run;
And the dust of Dryestberra may be stirred through
the flies and heat
l!y the Capital’s swift departure ere the swindle is
made complete.
After, the war is over, when the storm of battle is
laid,
Then will be time for action, then shall our debts be
paid, '
Then shall Australia flourish and the pulse of the
land beat strong,
And Riel’ voice of the kookaburra be heard like a
marching song.
For the days' of our rest shall be ended and our
newer march begun
To the splendid goal of the ages and the deeds that
we dare not shun ;
But now While the shots are flying and the widow
and...orphan weep
The solid work of Australia is simply to go to sleep.
x.s.tv.
MARY McCOMMONAVEALTH.


There’s No Better Reading than
The* ‘Bookstall' ’Shilling Novel
-•H'fcaWl HIM ■nHBMH—mWIfITI i l asfflßEgt WanSSßßnX?
AN ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCT.
Written by Australians. Printed by Australians.
KVHXCrig
HU
aw
MO
Over 1,500,000 Sold.
Obtainable from all Booksellers
and Bookstalls throughout the
Commonwealth.
Posted: 1/1 each.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
trcaE,
A TALE OF
. TOMORROW
JohnSandes
“Chandler of Corralinga,”
By R. J. Cassidy.
An exceptionally good bush yarn. Jack Chandler
is a dare-devil, hard worker, expert shearer, reck-
less gambler, habitual Lothario, sheep-stealer,
cattle-thief, Bohemian and general ne’er-do-well,
and lie is the central figure in a great variety of
interesting situations.
“ Scotty Mac, Shearer,”
By R. S. Tait.
A series of rollicking sketches concerning a bush
nomad.
The Trader,’
By C. Ross-Johnson.
A thrilling - story of adventure in Papua. The
author, who knows the country intimately, tells
convincingly of a young trader’s foolish attempt
to establish a plantation in a district where the
natives were known to be most treacherous. Many
interesting glimpses of Australia’s northern pos-
session.
“The Haunted Shanty,”
By Thos. B. Spencer.
A scries of fifteen delightful camp-fire stories.
Have You Read
“ D()UBLE=BED DIALOGUES,
By HENRY JAMES JAMES?
“The Golden Kangaroo,”
A mining - story of unusual interest. Apart from
the fact that this is a novel of exceptional literary
quality, the author also performs the good ser-
vice of explaining - the methods of the market-
rigger and mine-salter. A story brimful of
dramatic and thrilling- situations.
“The Knight of the Motor Launch,”
By Arthur H. Adams.
The amusing story of a young man who seeks
adventure on Sydney Harbor, and who is overcome
with all manner of strange situations.
“The Pyjama Man”
A capital romance that originates in the surf,
adjourns for a spell to the glamor of London
theatrical life, and eventually terminates in
unconventional circumstances on a station on the
Monaro. One of those rare books that has not a
single dull page.
“ Sodger Sandy’s Bairn,”
By A, Bathgate.
A novel dealing with life in Otago (New Zea-
land) fifty years ago. It bristles with exciting
episodes at the early gold rushes.
N.S. W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
470 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MSeußecelpj^j
:mS*w4
Is Your Cash System
Safeguarding Your
Profits,
Mr. Shopkeeper?
• Your need for properly protecting the daily transactions
that take place in your shop —Cash Sales, and Credit Sales
if you have them -is GREATER TO-DAY THAN EVER
BEFORE.
Working conditions in retail businesses are now un-
usually productive of mistakes and losses. THEREFORE,
it is absolutely necessary for shopkeepers to PROTECT
themselves from the losses of profit that are encouraged by
inefficient methods.
Thousands of your fellow tradesmen have had YOUR
difficulties, but have now discarded old-fashioned methods.
They' have safeguarded themselves by adopting National
Cash Registers, and stopped the leakage in their profits.
The wisest step you can take to-dav is to investigate
what a “National” WIDE DO FOR YOU. Investiga-
tion will COST YOU NOTHING.
The National Cash Register Company
of Australasia Ltd.,
Head Office: 119 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
Branches in all the Principal Cities.
Your Xmas Suit
Have it Leviathan Tailored.
Xmas holidays are but a few
weeks ahead—and, as a good suit
takes time to make—you can rea-
lise the need for ordering your
LEVIATHAN Suit right away.
Here's a special inducement for
you to join the happy throng of
Leviathan-tailored Men. You can
choose from a beautiful range of
light-weight Worsteds, Mohair and
Flannel Suiting (1 Ooz. per yd.)
almost unprocurable to-day—just
“tbe thing” for Summer Wear.
These fabrics are principally
Greys and striped effects—do not
easily show stain or dust—and per-
manently retain their shape and
color.
Write to-day for free patterns.
We guarantee absolute satisfaction
—or money back.
Mohair or Flannels.
SAC SUITS ... £3/10/-
SAC 8 TROUSERS £.2(17/6
Worsteds (lOoz. per yd.)
SAC SUITS £3/17)6
SAC 8 TROUSERS £3.5,-
m
m
m
JBr FULL VALVJE IN HALE ATTIRE
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
l!, *p4 # T( l,|, **onl' pu i j niD^inu^'iv''' P^e'' 13' ’ asiio\|9u i'i's a /v\ ’ ‘ vjs i:j!kiq ' aq x
Electric Motors
There is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose.
They are built in all types and sizes—both alternating and direct current.
They are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A good —Westinghouse —motor is the only one that will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
m
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents:
Standard Waygood Hercules, Ltd.,
77. King Street, Sydney.
Elder, Shenton & Co., Ltd.,
William Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd,,
27-31, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
11(1111111111111111=


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES &CO., PERTH. KALCOORLiE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
MAGNESIA HELPS DYSPEPTICS.
PATENT FOODS AND MEDICINES NO
LONGER NECESSARY.
Many dyspeptics have now discontinued
the use of expensive patent foods, harmful
drugs, medicines and artificial digestants,
and instead, following the advice often given
iu these columns, they just take half a tea-
spoonful of pure bisura ted magnesia in a
little water after meals, with the result that
they not only save money, but enjoy much
better health. Those who have once tried
bisurated magnesia never dread the approach
of meal times, because they know that this
wonderful antacid and food corrective, which
can so readily be obtained from any chemist,
will instantly neutralise acidity and prevent
all possibility of the food fermenting in the
stomach. Try this plan yourself, but mind
you get the pure bisurated magnesia, as other-
forms are unsuitable. —Advt.
STIFF JOINTS,
From whatever source arising there can
he no greater cause of pain than that in-
flicted by stiff joints. Like a badly-fitting
'<s ?
'
door the bending or straight-
ening of the leg or arm, or
the part affected moves with
a jar so excruciatingly pain-
ful that it is only a matter
of time before the joints be-
come fixed. Bathing, friction,
oils, liniments and ointments
have in thousands of cases
proved utterly unavailing.
Stiff joints that resisted all
other treatment have yielded
to the powerful influence of
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone
Liniment. Persevering use
of this liniment will cause
the most stubborn case to relax.
Sold by all leading chemists and store-
keepers, price 2s. 6d., or will be sent post
free at same price by The W. 11. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney.—Aovr.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
This ought to interest McGoorty, any-
how. It’s from the San Francisco Bulletin, of
October 14:—
“The Eddie McGoortv-Les Darcy fight was a fake
and ‘McGoorty cleared $'20,000 for taking the flop.
“So says General Pinaso, the crack rifle shot, friend
of McGoorty, and who is just back from Australia.
“T know what I am talking about,’ said the
General when seen at the Continental Hotel. ‘Yes,
I am a friend of McGoorty, but I do not feel that
I ought to keep still about this matter.
“JMcGoorty made most of his money betting
against himself, and he put up all his money the
day before the fight.
“ ‘How much chance Darcy would have of knocking
out McGoorty in a square fight is shown by the fact
that since then Darcy was unable to stop Billy
Murray in 20 rounds, while McGoorty has knocked
out Murray in four rounds and Joe Bonds, the heavy-
weight, in a round.’ ”
Now, what about it?
t, • * • •
Off to Yankeoland, searching for dollars
in vaudeville and the ring, Les Darcy, the best
middleweight Australia has produced for several
years. His first engagement will be a six-round
flutter with Leo Houck, at Philadelphia, and there
is talk of his arguing tlic point with Gibbons. From
wliat The Bulletin sees of the arrangement it
seems pretty clear that Darcy is going to have an
opportunity of learning quite a lot of things.
* * •* *
Fritz Holland and Jimmy Clabby are a
pair of rare good boxers, and when they came
together at Sydney Stadium on Saturday the public
saw something really worth looking at. It was the
best display of scientific work with the gloves seen
in an Australian ring for many a day—a boxing
match in the best sense, every round of the 20 a
grim, strenuous battle. Arthur Scott’s verdict, of
a draw was generally regarded as a fair thing. This
writer is inclined to think that Holland's boxing
was the better, but quite willingly concedes that a
decision to that effect might have been wrong.
There is no doubt that in the earlier and later
rounds Fritz kept Clabby mightily interested in the
position of his jaw. There are men in the business
who are the masters of both these gentlemen ; Darcy
and McGoorty, for instance. But neither of these
can box with the same fine skill as the two who
fought on Saturday. The strength of the others is
in their ruggedness.
* X- * *
Charlie Simpson and Frank Ellis began
to see red early in their clash at the Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night, and treated the crowd
to a Fifth of November display. Ellis showed
considerable cleverness in avoiding the wallop
swung by Simpson, and after being' dropped in the
seventh; he cut loose and provided Simpson and his
“take 5; to 2” backers with much food for thought.
In the ninth collision he sent him sprawling on
deck, and the crowd, remembering that the Vic-
torian had only been knocked off the perpendicular
once before, and that once by Ellis, screeched in
delirium. Simpson, however, carried on, and at the
final reckoning was deemed the more worthy, where-
upon the crowd made a larger noise, most of which
was anathema heaped on the referee, his forebears
and his descendants unto the third and fourth
generations.
Eugene Corn, the celebrated referee, has
put up: this public protest against the “rabbit
punch”: “It will not be my fault if one day (the
sooner the better) it is forbidden. Nothing is easier
than for this punch to be used in a foul way. When
Gunboat Smith lost his fight against Carpentier for
hitting him when he was down he employed the
rabbit punch. Nothing good can be said for the
back-of-the-head blow. No punch is legitimate
unless it, is delivered with the padded part of the
gloves. ; I call this punch dangerous and contrary to
the first principles of modern fisticuffs.” To which
The Bulletin adds its vote.
* * * *
When it went forth that J. G. Robins’s
ancient high-jump champion Snowflake, who was
foaled 24 seasons ago, had, at the recent
Kyneton (Vic.) Show, got over 7ft. 6in.,
doubts were expressed about the measurement.
They were well-founded; but careful cheeking
showed- that the horse had leaped 7ft. 4j;in.-—a great
performance for an animal only half of Snowflake's
age, and an Australian record, the previous best
being 7ft. 2Ain., by Bandolier, at Quirindi (N.S.W.)
Show last March. Snowflake is one of the daring
Miss Waugh’s mounts- —one of the safest, she says,
she has ever ridden.
***-'-
The other day there was a race-meeting
at Werribee (Vic.) in aid of Red Cross funds. Last
week the Aiigus printed the information that, at this
meeting, “a. well-known Werribee resident anony-
mously contributed £250 towards the stake-money.”
The “well-known” anonymity looks like Percy Chirn-
side (of the Manor) or George Chirnside (Werribee
Park). Between them they own the earth in that
region, and it is hardly likely that Percy will worry
much if George gets the credit for the cash, or
vice versa.
* * * *
“Hamer”: lu spite of being unable to get
down to anything under 9st. 71b., which naturally
robs him of many mounts, Victorian pony
jockey Tom McGrath has a record of 190°
wins in 14 years—half his life. He started riding
under V.R.C. rules, but, through unintentionally
breaking an engagement, he lost his license and
drifted to the ponies. The reputation he has made
on those courses is such that almost as many
people back McGrath’s mount as follow form, and
mostly with better results.
First forfeits of Tasmanian Derby leave
14 horses in the mile-and-a-half scatter next month.
It will be the Speck’s initial classic three-year-old
event, and provides a good sweepstake, with £2OO
added money. “It isn’t a N.S.W. or Vic. £5OOO
Derby,” says Tassy. “But, then, we’re just making
a start. You waitabit.”
“Merrigal”: Private Fitz Hill (once
owner of Quambone station, N.S.W.), son of the late
Richard Hill. M.L.C., who left for Egypt recently in
order to liberate a fighting man for the Front, is a
noted horseman. He has owned and bred some of the
best that ever answered a bridle, and on a rough or
with the colors up was always conspicuous. In the
romantic racing days about the Macquarie and Oastle-
reagh he and his favorite neddy Rifleman, who subse-
quently won races at Randwick, had a remarkable
run of wins. He is 63 years of age, but Time
takes a back seat in his company.
Two new Maoriland records were hoisted
at the recent M.L. Cup Meeting. When T. H.
Lowry’s fine filly Desert Gold annexed the Derby she
put the mile and a half behind in 2min. 34 l-ssec.,
which is a full second inside the previous best,
accomplished by Cherubini two years ago. The
other record has to be charged up to Desert Gold’s
half-brother, Croesus, who won the Stewards' Handicap
on the first day, covering the six furlongs in lmin.
12 1-ssec., which wipes out Warstep’s famous effort
of lmin. 13sec. in 1913. Croesus proved himself a
brilliant sprinter last season, winning eight races
out of Tl starts, and scoring his first six wins in
succession.
The line mare Pavlova lias definitely left
fhe race tracks of Maoriland and gone to the Burn-
side stud, where she was bred. She proved her-
self a brilliant performer during her brief career,
her two most important wins being when she bagged
the Wellington Cup in 2min. 32see. (only -isec.
outside the Australasian record) and the big W.R.C.
Handicap.
W.H.
McLACHLAN,
who las icon
about a dozen
assorted Cups.
A discrepancy in tlic performances of a
pony named Barbara Dale was the subject of mixed
language at Richmond (Vic.) Racecourse the other
day. Barbara, burdened with 6st. 71b., failed to take
a place in the Abbotsford Handicap of five furlongs,
but w r hen humping Bst. 101 b. over the same distance
in the Stewards’ Plate later in the day, she fled first
past the post. As the time for both events was lmin.
OJsec. the stewards held that Barbara’s conduct
called for investigation. On inquiry, however, the
stewards accepted some “explanations” which tended
to show that the gee had acted like a perfect lady.
It might be added that an informal committee of
punters outside gave a dissenting judgment, contend-
ing that Barbara had behaved like a Perfect Cow.
“H.W.P.”: Was “F.H.” serious (B.
18/11/T5) when he referred to punters losing their
money because P. T. Heywood was fined a “pony”
for not scratching Nylston in the Maiden Plate at
Williamstown? If “F.H.” doesn’t know he ought
to that if the horse a man backs does not start the
money is returned. At the pony courses in Mel-
bourne if a horse is scratched or found not able to
run after the time for scratching is due, the club
declares all bets off, and starts betting afresh. This
seems to find favor with booky and backer alike.
Alex. Montgomery’s contribution: Is the
revolver doomed'? The question figures largely in
weapon-talk to-day, and there are still many who
answer in the negative. But look back on the his-
tory of firearms. My recollections go to thje
time when the Minie rifle—first used in the Anglo-
Franco-Russian war of 1854 —was scoffed at by many
military men as a new-fangled foolishness, which could
never take the place of good old “Brown Bess.” That
gun had been the British arm for a century and a
half, and it was not superseded by the Minie, which
embodied but a crude and unsatisfactory application
of the rifling principle; but when the Enfield was
introduced, Bess had to go. Then, again, when the
breech-loading method came under consideration, and
it was proposed to “convert” the Enfield, the idea
was scouted as involving “an absolutely foolish
waste of money.” But the Snider (converted En-
field) was one of the best breech-loaders of the day.
Next, the magazine-device was derided as wholly
visionary and impracticable; and then there came
along the automatic pistol, which has been
disparaged by many who have never had any experi-
ence of it and even by a few of those who have
used it. Speakihg from personal experience of five
different makes, I have found it, with deeently-
eareful handling, less liable to “sticking-up” than
the best revolvers. As a test, I fired 3000 consecu-
tive rounds from an automatic, cleaning the arm
after every- 500 shots, and never had the slightest
stoppage, breakage, or difficulty of any kind. No
revolver that I know of could have successfully- under-
gone such an ordeal. In every other respect the auto-
matic has incomparably the advantage of the cham-
bered arm. The absence of recoil allows of the
use of a stronger amrtrunition in proportion to the
calibre than can be used with a revolver; and this,
with the hard, metal-jacketed bullet, gives the auto-
matic more than three times the range, and nearly
four times the penetration, of a revolver of equal
calibre.
* * # ‘ *
“Snell”: Sin Fat was his name, and he
was newly-appointed cook at the Harp and Thistle,
which is within a mile of the grounds of the Wal-
laby Gun Club. Mrs. Bur-r-rns, of the Harp and
Thistle, had been promised a string of pigeons, and
Sin Fat was sent to collect. “You go by' Gun Club,
Maekie's paddock, get plenty pigeon—men shoot.
You come long home make him pie.” Sin Fat went
on his mission. He returned in due course, and half
an hour later called up the missus. “You come see,”
he said. “Me get him pigeon, me make him pie. Me
no likee.” Mrs. Bur-r-rns hastened to the kitchen.
Sin Fat’s pigeon pie was in course of construction.
He had spread the bottom paste and filled the dish
with fragments of pigeons—but they were clay
pigeons !
* * * *
Enterprise (Sydney), winner of N.S.W.
Rowing Association’s premiership and pennant, had
an exceptional record last season. Its oarsmen won
every senior inter-club event, besides singles, fours
and eight-oar championships, and accumulated 184
points out of the possible 302. The 1914-15 flag
was let loose in the breeze the other day, but war
has impaired its defence.
Rugged, sun-tanned and weather-browned.
Peter Kemp, who left the 62nd milestone behind him
last week, is still a youngster. Kemp has been one
of the greatest “all round” sportsmen Australia ever
knew. There was nothing he couldn’t do—even to
“mixing it” in a willing “go.” When Bill Beach
gave up the sculling championship title on November
27, 1887, Kemp was the rod in pickle of the John
Deeble stable. After defeating Clifford and Ned
Hanlan (twice) on the Parramatta River he went
down to Harry Searle on the same course on October
27, 1888. Searle died the following year, and Kemp
again stepped into the title, but lost it to McLean
on December 15, 1890. Burly Jim Stanbury came
into the limelight by defeating McLean on April 28,
1891 ; and then Kemp dropped out for good. Kemp
was always a leading light in the strong sculling
camp which also sheltered Bill Beach, Jim Stan-
bury, Dick Arnst, Harry Pearce and Alt' Felton;
and two limbs of his family—Fern and Syd Kemp
—are now the mixed-doubles sculling champions.
Ernest Barry, sergeant and champion
oarsman of the world, is taking his war job with
proper seriousness. Since he upended himself in
khaki he lias not been in a boat. “And I’m not
going in one,” he recently declared, “unless it’s to
cross the Rhine or the war is over.” He’s evidently
in no hurry.
* * * *
“Rag”: Last Sunday as my ferry-
steamer swam away from Mosman wharf I was
attracted by the strenuous efforts of a very scratch
four-oared crew to keep ahead of us. Stroke was
digging in at the rate of 40-something a minute;
three and two kept pace as well as they could, but
bow had run quite amok. As we drew level he
sprinted in a frenzy at about 50 strokes a minute,
knocked two’s oar across stroke’s, deluged the cox-
swain with his wash and suddenly caught a crab
which jerked him into the air and half-swamped the
boat. When he scrambled off his ear he gave three
shrill “Banzais!” and I observed that he was a son
of Nippon, presumably getting the hang of the sports
which made history at Gallipoli.
■X vt # 4fr
The 18-footer Scot, by winning the
“double” (heat and final), a rare event on one Satur-
day, and then carrying off the championship the fol-
lowing Saturday, is setting up a claim to be the
•best of the season in Port Jackson. Australian, the.
champion boat for many years, is “off her feed”
this season. But at her best she never put up a
performance superior to Scot’s. The latter has to
date landed £5O in stake-money.
* # ' * *
M. A. Noble still strings the centuries
together in his taking style. Last Saturday for his
club, Paddington, against Gordon he was stumped at
126 (35 from the previous Saturday). He W'as 145
minutes on the job, hit 15 fourer- and clouted one
of Macartney’s bombs for six. Two chances came
from him, one at 93 and another at 114. Inciden-
tally, the ex-skipper of Australian Xl’s will be 43
next January.
What with the war and one thing and
another the New South Wales Inter-State cricket
team of the last season or two has faded away.
Bardsley and Macartney are the only first-flighters
left playing, and there isn’t a No. 1 bowler on the
job in first-grade cricket in Sydney.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A few more W. G. Grace
items. In his long experience he did pretty well
everything that could be done on a cricket field.
Before the amateur question was at all settled (that
is. in the ’7o’s) he used to tour about England
with a warm team —Jupp, Humphrey, Southerton,
Pooley, Lilly white, his brother G.F., his cousin
Gilbert, etc.—and play local 22’s for the gate-
money. At last he got a hint that he really must
drop this if he wished—-as he did—still to rank as
a “Gentleman.” When he first came to the front, in
the ’6o’s, his elder brother, E.M., was the best
cricketer in sight. That was over 20 years before
any Australian XI reached England; yet for close
on 20 years after their coming W.G. was chosen as
a matter of course for every Test, and faithful
followers lamented it as a mistake when at last he
had to be dropped, on figures. The aforesaid young
brother, G.F., only just lived to play in the first
Test match (1880) ; Murdoch’s lot on that occasion
got within five wickets of Lord Harris’s, and was
considered to have done well. The -next match, in
1882, Australia won bv seven runs, a young English
team being skittled out by Spofforth and Boyle after
W.G. seemed to have the game won. In 1884 he
was in every place in the field in a long Aus-
tralian innings, finally taking the wicketkeeper’s
gloves when Alfred Lyttelton went on to bowl. Late
in his career the patient statistic-compilers who
swarm in English cricket discovered that W.G. had
in his time made every possible two-figure score
except 98. He could not be expected to miss a
“century” on purpose to oblige them; but presently
the unexpected happened, and his collection was
complete.
* X- * *
“Coot”: The surviving members of the
North Fitzroy C.C. talked over old times tire other
evening. This club was a prominent “junior” in the
earlv ’Bo‘s, winning the Boyle and Scott Cup in
1882-83, 1885-86 and 1886-87. Those were the days
when they played in the Edinburgh Gardens, North
Fitzroy, and the matches were often attended by
thousands of enthusiastic spectators. Among the best
men who played with the club were J. Kelly (the
Australian Eleven wicketkeeper), Ambrose Tarrant,
Jock Drysdale, T. Russell, W. H. Elms (for many
years captain of the South Melbourne Football Club)
and Billy Hayes. Dan Reddan, the founder of the
club, and for many' years its secretary, was at last
week’s festival, and Corporal John Wren, v.ho played
with the team during its last year, and distinguished
himself with the bat, wafted a greeting from the
rigors of his camp life. [The rigors are now off,
it having been suddenly discovered that John is
“medically unfit.” At time of writing he is in hos-
pital with a sore ear.] Representatives of famous
rivals, the Ormond, Capulet, Queensberry and Cam-
berwell Clubs were handy to swap reminfteences.
These reps, included Harry Trott, Mat Ellis, N.
Batchelor, W. B. Craven, and J. Ryder, father of ttv
( oilingwood bowler.
“Eko”: “0.K.” (B. 11/11/;15) says
Tommy Horan has passed out. Well, I saw his
ghost to-day going down Collins-street. The same
jolly red face, the same twinkling little eyes, the
same lazy old bon vicanl as ever.
* * *
Waverley (winter premiers) r. Leich-
hardt (summer premiers) supplied a fine game of
baseball at Sydney on Saturday. The liver-wing of
this chicken was the pitching of McQueen,
an American who fanned 12 batsmen and routed
Leichhardt badly. At the end of the seventh
innings Leichhardt led by 3 —-1, but Wavier ley
rattled out five runs in the eighth, and Leichhardt
failing in the ninth, the game ended: Waverley 6,
Leichhardt 3. The competition score-board has
Waverley at the head with one defeat in seven
matches. Leichhardt Blue Sox (two defeats) is
next. But as the Yanks in the leading club are
likely to migrate at any time there’s no saying
what will happen in the future. There hardly
ever is.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Bowling Association is doing
the thing properly. The Association will not give
any trophies tin's year, but will donate their value,
together with the whole of the year’s revenue, to
patriotic funds. Bowlers handicapped by the age-
limit, don’t show up so well as other sports in the
recruiting-lists, but their pockets have spoken
splendidly.
*• * * *
The Pirate Club, of Many Peaks (Q.).
back from Gladstone, took the whip to the cat lately
in its overhaul of the football season. Its repre-
sentatives did not land the bacon. As usual, there
was some paltry excuse. Of 17 players who were
showing up well in the early part of the competition
no less than 15 turned tail and ran away to the war.
And now Hie other two are getting ready to follow
them. Talk about mustard!
* * * *
Hugh Fraser, of Kalgoorlie, claims to bo
the first to run a car from Fremantle to Adelaide
entirely by its own power. Distance covered, 1850
miles, at 15 miles to the gallon of petrol. Car, a
six-cylinder 40-h.p. Studebaker, carrying four men:
total weight, 2} tons; tyres, Dunlop; time, from
1 a.m. on Wednesday to 11 p.m. the following
Monday. The last day, from Port Augusta south-
wards,* was of course easy. The first, to Coolgardie,
was fairly simple. The chief troubles were (1) sand
after leaving Norseman; (2) grass seeds in the
radiator before reaching Eucla, also stumps hidden
in the long grass, which is like a wheatfield for
miles; (3) camel waggons cutting up the tracks
inside the S.A. border, with ruts just too wide for a
motor-car to run in them; (4) awful sand over
Gawler Ranges before reaching Port Augusta. There
is a main-track of some sort most of the whole way,
and, bad as that may be, the travellers found that,
any back tracks recommended by local advisers were
generally worse.
* * * *
Frank Birtles dropped into civilisation
again last week. His car (Ford) has since February
taken him about Australia thus: Sydney, Adelaide,
Gulf of Carpentaria; back to Melbourne: up to
Cooper's Creek: now Adelaide again. Back to
Sydney via Melbourne is the present programme.
His latest run was made to pick up Burke-and-Wills
points for cinema, purposes, and he got a lot of
information from old natives who remember the
expedition—or say. they do. Motor vehicles of all
sorts are becoming general outback, says Birtles, and
are doing much to open up new country and keep
settlers in touch with their fellows. But parts of
the pastoral areas have not yet recovered from the
drought; stock seems short, and wild game much
more so.
* * -*
Australian cyclists in America are skit-
tling records. Big Alt' Grenda set the pace recently
by riding the half-mile in 53 l-ssec. —2-ssec. off the
best; and 10 miles in 20min. 21 l-ssec.—4-ssec. off
the top. Then R. J. McNamara clipped the 25-
miles world’s competition record to 54min. 13sec.,
slicing off 34 3-ssec. McNamara, however, has had a
good season, and made the highest “general point”
score (174), followed by Grenda (169), and Goullet
(137). .
* * * *
Kramer, the Yankee wheelman, blushing],v
admits that he has accumulated a comfortable little
£40,000 on the track. In consequence he considers
that he deserves a rest. But a lot of unkind people
in Wilson’s country have been saying “Yah!” and
remarking that Kramer’s retirement is being hurried
because Australia’s Goullet is threatening to shove
him off liis pedestal. Kramer’s answer to that was
to snatch the American championship for 1915 when
it looked a sure thing for Goullet. Both men tied
at 48 points, and had to run off for the title and the
“sugar” in three flutters. Kramer won the first and
second, and the argument as to who is the greatest
cyclist in the world is closed for the present.
“Eko”: “W.G.” had some humor. He
enjoyed walking out into the field with tiny Johnny
Briggs, who hardly reached past the girth-band of
the big, black-bearded champion. A common trick of
the old chap’s was, on missing his first ball, to look
at his wicket and then walk towards the pavilion.
The yell was just out, fairly on its way, when he
would stop and pretend to retie his pad. Then he
would go back and begin to make a couple of
hundred while the crowd would tell its neighbors
not to be a dashed fool. As for Johnny Briggs, he
could act the goat so joyously that he was as wel-
come in the tedious seriousness of first-class cricket
as an iced long beer would be in Hades.
THE PUNTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Stow this nonsense—it's all kidstakes that the
punter’s lot is joy—
When lie’s on a real good wicket Ikev Mo. has
“fixed” the boy.
Backs a prad who has been “sleeping”—this time it's
to “have a go” ;
But the trainer gives him water, so, of course, he
gallops slow.
Once again he has a flutter on a horse “they’re goin’
to spin.”
It gets beaten by an eyelash; once more punter’s
“done his tin.”
Next “puts in” on Rip Van Winkle (waking up to
“have a lick”),
But the cup is filled with sorrow —rank outsider
does the trick.
Comes up smiling (game old punter!), backs a cert,
that's “home and dried.”
And it outs his chance of winning, at the turn, by
running wide.
Now he backs another crook ’un, which has left its
run too late—-
Conies to light “the Resurrection” —it's all over;
“shut the gate.”
I.ast a plunge upon the fav’rite, backs him down to
six to four —-
Just a “skinner” for the bookie. Now the punter’s
off to war.
QUEENSLAND.
THE MUG.


Taddy’s GRAPNEL Mixture
HIGHEST-GRADE TOBACCO.
.
meae
SK
jgg|?BW|j
Manufactured by
James Taddy
and Co.,
LONDON.
Established 150 Years.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
1/6
PER 2oz. TIN.
Sole Agents for New South
Wales and Queensland
Scott, Henderson (Q. Co.,
lO LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY SMOKER
SHOULD HAVE
T, ■
a copy of my new Catalog of
Cigars, Tobaccos, Cigarettes,
Smokers’ Requisites, etc. Write
for one to-day, it is sure to inter-
est you.
MY CIGARILLOS
are fine smokes. The' l '
flavor is the same as a
shilling Havana, and'they
are exceptional value.
.Test the thing for a short
smoke more
than a cigar-
ette and less
than a cigar.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
2 3 li- 1/9
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
5/3 4/9 4/3
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
10/- 9/- 8/-
Postage Extra
on 100:
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
A. M. SOLOMON,
‘•CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
WELL
is
NATURE’S
BEST.
Ask Yourself These
Questions when Purchasing
Has the machine PROVED Its super!- fy
ority in open competition ■
Is it easy to drive, simple of control and fy
luxurious to ride •
Does it possess ample reserves of power fy
for all exigencies ■
Has it been built to last ?
Shall I get 20 shillings in the £ value for fy
the money 1 spend ■
Ask the man who rides an
W*ndiwn
Catalogue o Post Free u,aon recast.
Cof
109 Russell St.MELBQURNE.
YOU HAVE NO DIFFICULTY
m
in getting exactly the Shoe to suit your taste
at the Rignoy Shoe Parlors.- We have a fine
assortment of Merits High grade Footwear —
all the newest shapes and styles, in a
quarter-j half- and full-size.
We illustrate a TAX WILLOW CALF
THREE-BUTTON SHOE. SMART
AMER I C A X SHAPE, “’NOX-TREAD-
OVER” BRAND.
Price - 32|6
ALSO IX PATENT LEATHER,
32/0 and 357-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of Our Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
3J7 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
MENINGITIS.
I>i\ Bull, the well-known bacteriologist, recently declared
that Eucalyptus Oil destroyed the germ of meningitis.
Some years ago medical men stated in the London
“Lancet” that Eucalyptus Oil destroyed the influenza germ.
Bosisto’s
“PARROT BRAND
Eucalyptus Oil
will destroy the germs of Meningitis,
Influenza, Scarlet Fever, Measles
and other Infectious Diseases.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
Take two or three drops of the oil on sugar or in water several times a day.
Sprinkle a few drops on the pillow at night. Inhale the vapor by means of a
handkerchief.
CAUTION.—The public will do well when purchasing to be sure to look
for the parrot on yellow band on top of bottle-wrapper, and to insist upon
having none other than Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus
Oil is sold throughout Australia.
■'<
N
A
GUINEA
THE LAST WORD IN PANAHA VALUES.
A Real Panama —the Genuine! Native Leaf —Finely Made —
Light—Cool—Coinforta'ble. Shape as shown. Wide or Narrow
Brim.
POST FREE 21/-
You couldn't possibly get anything better at the price, and this
Hat will please you, so—
POST YOUR ORDER NOW !
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd
‘Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,”
244=254 Flinders Street-
Melbourne.


“ Biff ” for Sore,
Tired Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feel
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
/'s'.
Vs
z
I
‘'How ‘Biff’
does he'iif' “
Sore Eeet.”
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet, bunions, corns or hard skin, “RIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to-the feet. Use
“BIF'F” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke porgs
'of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS. CARTER WRITES -For years my feet
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
"Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores ; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4s. (triple box contains three times the Is.fid. size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
ACTRESS TELLS SECRET
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair and
Promoted Its Growth with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview, made the following state-
ment : “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of hay rum, a small box of Orlex Compound
and ioz. of glycerine. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist's at very little.cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until it
becomes the required shade. This will make
a grey-haired person look 20 years younger.
It is also fine to promote the growth of hair,
relieves itching and scalp humors, and is
excellent for dandruff and falling hair.” |1
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, thill when you press your linger on
the .inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies s the remedies you have tried. Per-
- hapswK.vour knees arc swollen, (lie joints being
the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may he discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals anil been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
hot. Try, the great British Remedy;—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Hites.
British Prices, 1/1 *£ and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
Wv H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTIIONY HORDERN k SONS etc
SOAPKO
It Surpasses Soap.
Toilet and Motor in
TABLETS.
Household in BARS.
SOAPKO CLEANSER i„ BE M 5 . T r S d
ALL PURELY AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE.
SOAPKA PROP’Y, Box 685, G.P.0., Adelaide.
KITZS
CIDER
Interstate Agents.—SYDNEY: Tucker & Co.;
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.; ADELAIDE:
AY. P. Auld & Co. ; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Phiip &
Co.; GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.;
HOBART: J. Ferguson &. Co. ; LAUNCESTON:
J. McKenzie & Co. ; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M.
Ileddrick & Co.
NEW ZEALAND
Ikb
:
u
s
w
MILFORD SOUND, NEW ZEALAND.
Avoid the Hot Weather by Visiting New Zealand.
Steamers leave Sydney twice a week—steaming time, 34 days.
Return fare, £l2/15/-/
Special Tourist Excursion Tickets on Railways.
All Lines, £l3—or South I gland, £S ; North Island, £B.
Full information and Literature Supplied Gratis at the
New Zealand Government Offices:
Sydney, N.S.W.—Bull’s Chambers, 14 Moore Street.
Melbourne, Vic. — Dominion Chambers, 5 9 William Street. • ]
Mr. H. GRINDELL MATTHEWS (the Inventor
ony)
flered from
S sic
h®-rat
Mr, ROBERT RADFORD (the well-known
Bast. Singer) writes"l have derived the greatest
some conditions, or for''dejection, ihd tt 'imme-
diatcly renews the strength of my' nerves, and
exercises a stimulating effect ca the whole of
the nervous
I HONORgD
I^OV/*L
COMMAND,
the
vocally relaxed, Phosferine immediately restores
resonance and brightness to the voice, bartishes
lassitude,* and generally tones ifp the* system/
—63, Haverstock Hill, London,* England.
WEHLEN, the talented and charming
I have used Phosferine with really
[ general health. The unusual exertions
sals make one nervously anxious and
much 'induces dull
tonic for
otes the
Miss EM
Actress, v
excel
and
8
•AW Xxvatn
m
Vi?
d to lose a I
$OO
st efh
4te<y
;~i j' ■ • AI 1
“In all
) there
jfcog dreary
to weather.
f •rder, and
fesity as my
ndon, Eng.
hosfer
164, High Rd., W
reen.
iMr. B. C. HUCKS (the w
nglishman to " Loop ths,
:ally must express my ap]
PHne back I felt mysilf in
arought on, no doubt, by the’
.jnder all sorts of weather co
tour, last summer. I had., an
becoming shaken. I was advised
quite astonished at the beneficial
the first few doses. 1 am now feelin
and ready to start upon a season's flyinjpWat promises to
onsiderablc more arduous than the lasj.”—ll6, Plccadilljj
London, £nglond
At the hands of any Chemist this is what you should obtain
PHOSFERINE i« a World-wide Remedy for
Indigestion
Anaemia
apnjissir]
BIUUIOSU]
Debility
Neuralgia
Loss 6f Appetite
All Nerve Troublesj
1
Just sto 10 drops of this golden remedy in a wineglass of water. •
The original and Genuine PHOSFERINE is in buff packages, and be Aarticulaf to
notice that it is spelt P-H-O-S-F-E-R-I-N-E. Price— l /, 2/6 & 4/6. If you find any diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies send Postal Note to Asbto'n & Parsons, 408 Collins St. Me!b.
The Dining-room in the Model Cottage, Furnished by
Marcus Clark & Co., Sydney Town Hall, October 25,1915.
DINING-ROOM 15ft. 6in. x 13ft.
1 Wilton Pile Carpet Square, lift. Sin. x 12ft. £l4 5 O'.
7 Yds. Art Felt" (Surround) 6/6 2 5 (i
4 Pairs Casement Curtains, complete with Brass
- Rods' ..-..7..: 4 10 0
5 Short Muslin Curtains, with Brass Rods
Top and Bottom r..... J 2 0
' 6 Oak Mission Chairs, Movable Seats, Uphol-
s'Cied in Best Steer Hide, and 2 Oak Carvers’
Chairs 14 10 0
1 oak Mission Style, Buffet, 4ft. Wide...'.... g 10 0
1 All-Oaiv Screw Extension Mission frining Table, . .
opening to 6ft. x 3ft. 6in......... .' • • '6 10 0
1 sft. Oak Mission Sideboard (with plate rack), '•
Lead Light Cupboards below . 18 10 Q
■ - - " ' £7O a 6 -
Marcus Clark
%’v I:
and Co., Ltd.
Sydney and
Branches
J. Fielding and Co.. Ltd., boxmakers,
printers and carton makers (Sydney), who
began in 1910 with a goodwill or paper qsset
of £5OOO. shown hereunder as a deficit
Towards De-
Sopt., Profit. Dividend. Reserves, fieit.
1910 .. £5OOO
ion ' / Premiums on new shares £32 1 n - a ~
•’ \ £2750 lOjj.c. = £1577 1173 f °‘ y,>
.* '•'Premiums On.jnew'-shares 38 3757
1012 .. 341§ 10 p.c, =; 1801 1017 2140
1013 ;. . 2668 8 ,; ~ 1445 1223 917
Premiums on new shares 250 667
• • .. ,v • • Reserves.
1914 . . 2841 S p.c. = 1445 1396 729
1915 .. 2856 S ~ „ 1685 1171 1900
Of the £l9OO of reserves £lOOO is to the
credit of a machinery fund : and that pro-
bably ought not to be reckoned as reserved
profit. It may be a provision for special
replacements, and therefore a set-off against
wear, and tear. However, it doesn’t matter
very much. The important thing is that, even
if the £l6OO is struck off, the eo. has made
enough profit in five years to wipe out the
goodwill of £5OOO with which it started. In
other words, the co. now has tangible assets
to represent all its capital, and in addition
has a business worth a good deal more, we
should say, than it was at the start. Cer
tainly it is a bit further in debt:. Its lia-
bilities total £15,040. On the other side its
land and buildings are in at £15,059. The
other principal assets are stocks. £12.345;
book debts, £5124, and plant, £10,138. Pro-
spects look-good. Always.-no doubt, a busi-
ness of this sort is very liable to lose its
rudder when one man drops off; on the other
hand the co. produces a class of goods which
is almost bound to grow in demand, partly
because even the lightest packing-timber is
getting too dear to use; and the co. seems to
have the eyes to perceive an opening and Ihe
energy to push into it. Just at present the
directors are mourning because the Cus-
toms duty on raw products used in making
“corrugated” paper sheets and fibre-board is
high. But that’s a dangerous wail. What
is this co.’s raw material is another co.’s
finished product, and what is this co.’s fin-
ished product is’ many another co.’s raw
material. The higher the tariff in general
the better off this co. will be.; because un-
questionably it must for its success depend
mainly on the increased output of local
goods that need packing.
tt * * . *
The County of Bourne Permanent
Building and Investment Society (Mel-
bourne) : ''
Busi- Net Pro-
ness fit on To Rc- Rc-
Profits. Sales. Dividends.. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1904.. 10,753 1563 7-J p.c. = 7.314 5002 30,438
1905.. 9,408 1500 8J „ „ 8,533 2375 32,813
1906.. 10,291 1200 10 „ ~ 9,752 1739 34,552
1907.. 10,922 1300 10 ’ „ „ 9,752 2470 37,022
1908.. 10,870 1500 10 „ „ 9,667 2703 39,725
1909.. 10,702 2000 10 „ „ 9,636 3066 42,791
1910.. 10,512 4000 3 0 „ „ 9,636 4876 47,667
1911.. 11,768 3000 10 ~ „ 9,636 5132 52,799
1912.. 13,297 3550 10 „ „ 9,636 7211 60,010
1913.. 13,425 1500 10 ~ „ 9,868 5057 65,067
Premiums on new shares . . 1923 66,990
1914.. 15.006 1000 10 p.c. = 12,064 3942 70,932
1915.. 15,370 750 10 „ „ 13,750 2370 73,302
Transferred to Capital. . £26,000 48,302
Perhaps it may not work out quite like
that;_ but it is good enough to go on with.
Actually the directors pay a bonus or special
dividend of £25,000, and shareholders have
the right to take it in either shares or money.
It is assumed above that, as a 10 p.c. div.
is being paid and the shares are at a market
premium, scrip will be asked for. This is
really the restoration of capital previously
written off in excess of what turned out to be
the actual requirements.' ... In 1898, when
properties standing in ihe Iwoks fit £180,870
were revalued at £118,151. two-fiftlis of the
capital was shorn off to provide for this esti-
mated loss. Subsequently, as the j table
shows, “profits” were made, on sales: that
is,to say, things didn’t turn' out as badly as
they had be*en ..expected to. As over £25,000
has-been recovered in that way, it is a fair
enQjigh thing to restore this amount of
capital. '
The work of the co. during t)ie past 15
years is indicated in this comparison:-
1900. 1910. 1913. 1914. ,1915.
Capital £98,150 £96,361 £108,732 £125.000 £ 125,000
Deposits 0,211 21,275 37,117 44.489 140,265
Other lia- I
bilities 1,897 4,347 13,871 8,672 6,062
Foreclos- t
ures 6.6,536 17,837 1,063 877 1,662
Advances 49,339 157,273 222,553 254,365 249,655
Other J /
assets,* 5,907 563 6,222 102 811
That-*i125,000 of capital is, of course, irre-
spective of the increase now in progress. The
co. has got rid of practically all its old fore-
closed properties; so that “profits on sides”
will now tail off. But note that during the
last year, for the first time, the foreclosed
properties have increased. High values hav-e
ruled during the past few years; hence it
has been possible to get rid of old proper-
ties at a profit. But that very-circumstance
has constituted a new danger; if the co. has
sold at high values it has also; had to make
advances on ihe basis of high values. For-
tunately the shrinkage of values has thus far
been gradual, and is likely to go on being
gradual; and they are the conditions that
suit a building society exactly. There will
be almost inevitably a falling-away of new.
business, but there should not be any very
serious foreclosures, because the repayments
of principal are likely to lie more* rapid than
the decrease of value. Thus it will always
pay the mortgagor fo hang on—or. if iie
can’t hang on. he will generally be able to
sell for more than he actually owes on the
property. Further, it is probable that profit's,'
will not shrink in the same proportion as
new business; because interest is going to be !
high, and that-will suit a co. like this which
works to so very large an, extent on jits own
money. Its total liabilities amount to only
about one-third of the share capital, and it
good deal loss than one-third of the capital
and reserves combined. .. f
It has come to this, in Queensland: Divi-1
dends for October, £4069, Charters Towerfe;
paid £1544; all other goldfields. £2525. But;’
thanks entirely to-Mount Morgan, the year’s
average is better. The total for the 10
months is £184.234.


r-
WC
ras
Takes the place of Whips,
Whims and Windmills and
Does it Better.
Requires No Anchor Posts, No Stays, No Special Bed—any
good well platform is sufficient.
floes out ready for work, and fits any windmill pump by
coupling two bolts.
Works all day—Hot or Cold—WET or FlNE—for one
penny per hour.
Giving satisfaction to hundreds, including:—
A. T. C-reswick, Esq.,'Tarwong and Truida Stations, llillston,
and Tupra Station, Hay who has 8
A. P. G. Tyson, Esq., Corrong Station, Hay.... .. 4
Dr. R. L. Davies, Scone „ 3
C. Williams, Esq., loudaryan, Q „ 7
Meteor Downs. Springsure. Q „ 6
Messrs. Ramsey Bros., Cambooya, Q „ 5
101 Farm Pump Engines sold in one district proves its
popularity and reliability.
Have a contented mind by securing a Fuller & Johnson
“Farm Pump Engine,” and be prepared for the time
when your stock want water.
Write for Full Free Information to
“ Pumping Department **—
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
70 Market Street, Sydney.
HO Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
I
—i
m
I . -
1 . EZ\/EZR
ULD
CTM
AMD
(idedlV
Fo un tainPen
Making History !
More history for the silent Sphinx—and
our own brave fellows are making it.
They could send many stirring tales to
home and friends. Have they' all got
Waterman's Ideals? '
Safety Type is best for Active Service, j
4 Types—Regular, Safety, / ? "
Self-Filling, * Pump-Filling. . -• ..
WJ
m
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Den Corner, London, England.,
AUSTRALIA— 3FO George Street, Sydnev.
TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
_V' . %
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
• • - v “+l. £ v 3. .
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Consider what Rabbits
Mean to
THEY SOW NOT. NEITHER DO
THEY PAY. but they LIVE. MOVE
and HAVE THEIR HOMES at
YOU R E X l* E N S E—on Y O U R
COUNTRY.
n
m
a
ft.
S
‘•j >ir *
mill
Your Crops and Grass supply thorn with all that is necessary for heir . "
being. Consider as you ride along that every eight; rabbits you see mean <
your country is carrying one sheep less than it is capable of, or that you -u
garner half a bushel less than you should.
DON’T HESITATE ANY LONGER.
BE UP AND DOING SLAY THEM WITH
The “SUDDETH”
Fumigator and Smoker
The machine which:
GENERATES SMOKE WITHOUT FIRE.
DETECTS ALL OUTLETS OF BURROW.
KILLS SI RE AND QUICK IN THE DEEPEST DEAD-END.
ONLY WANTS CHARGING ONCE A DAY.
IS BUILT FOR CONVENIENCE IN CARRYING ABOUT.
Mr. Ernest Cory, Wonga, Gurley Siding, 31/7/’l5: —
The “Suddeth” which I got a few weeks back is doing good work. Just
finished a paddock of 1400 acres, which was thick with rabbits.
' Mr. E. J. Jenkins, Melrose, Leadville, 22/6/’l5: —
I tried the No. 2 “Suddeth,” purchased from you last April, on the
sandy warren mentioned, about a month ago. _ The warren was about
Itt acres in extent, and I have not seen a rabbit on it since.
Over 5000 Machines giving Excellent Results.
Sydney Prices
for Complete
Outfit,
1 No. 2 “Suddeth” Fumigator and Smoker £5
1 Box “Suddeth” Patent Smoke Mixture
1 Drum Carbon Bisulphide ............ 110 0
Write for Catalogue and Full Particulars to “Suddeth” Department.
BUZACOTT & CO. LTD., 70 Market Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NEWELL & CO., 180 King Street, Melbourne, Vic.
E, RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane, Queensland.
ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
MURRAY, ROBERTS & CO. LTD., Dunedin, N.Z.
rk.
O'? OZ/J
<P
i *U5iS
'' 1
-
|: ' lfl - ! :M *
&
_ >.?
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
“GRAMOPHONE (Reg’d Trade Mark)
THE VERSATILE ENTERTAINER.
If it is too hot for music indoors these languorous summer nights entertain
your, guests on the verandah with an His Master’s Voice “Gramophone”
instrument. All will enjoy it. The. “Gramophone” Concert at home is.
always enjoyable —always truly melodious-
brilliantly realistic.
Cabinet Grands from £22/10/-. Table
horn instruments from £O/10/-.
—and always
Grands and
Instrument catalogue, record lists, and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
103 I IXT STREET SYDNEY.
Registered Trade Mark.
If you want the best
English Eau-de-Cologne
get Atkinson’s “No. 24.”
MADE IN ENGLAND FOR OVER 100 YEARS.
J. & E. ATKINSON, 24, OLD FOND STREET, LONDON.


I
J 0
Jki
'Convalescence
After a serious illness Nature must
have help.
The best that Science knows is
Fisher’s Phospherine
The Great Nerve Tonic.
For renewing health and restoring
vigor it has no equal.
In Cases of Indigestion, Back-
ache, Malaria, Headache, Brain
ll
Fag, Nervousness and Muscular
Rheumatism Fisher’s Phos-
pherine has stood the test for
Forty Years.
't.
All Chemists and Stores, 1/- per
bottle. Four times the quantity,
2/6.
FII7P.
FISHERY
Chemists,
337 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE POLI-SHINE
Self-Feeding: Polish Mop
Made in Australia.
V
Absorbs Dust as a sponge
absorbs water.
r
Detachable Fringe.
Adjustable Handle.
jpidce— Mops, 6/6;
Extra Fringes, 5/-
Poiish: 4oz.
bottles, 16.
120 z., 2/6.
m
A
LABOR-
SAVING
NECESSITY.
SIX HOURS
WORK IN ONE.
ij
Cleans 8 Polishes
in One Operation.
FROM ALL LEADING
STORES OR
POLI=SHINE MOP CO.,
48 HUNTER _ TREET, SYDNEY.
Agents: CEORGE RAMSAY & CO., 326 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne; FRANK BOUCHER,
105 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
For Christmas:
The Edison
Diamond Disc
Phonograph
It would be appropriate to introduce into your
homo the Edison Diamond Disc Phonograph
(the finest musical instrument in the world)
at Christmas. It is the one sound-reproducing
instrument that gives the exact character and
quality of the best music, and the richest
voices—reproducing every tone. It is the
first talking machine invented that pleases all
critical, mvsiv-locing people.
There are several beautiful models at a wide
range of prices, commencing at £2O.
Write for catalog giving full details of each
model : mailed post free to your address.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 861-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Lstter-pap er
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10it x
Bf, post free 4/6: or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
w
BEFORE THE MIRROR.
By “JEANNETTE.”
“Jeannette,” the well-known writer on Beauty Culture and author of “The Book Of Beauty,”
will be pleased to help and advise any reader on matters of the toilet. Queries should be accom-
panied by a stamped addressed envelope, and directed to “Jeannette,” e/o “Before the Mirror,”
43 Gray's Inn Road, London, W.C., England.
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one And all of
us. Anxiety, with Its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow over the
lives of many of us Women, and while, perhaps, a few —the more stoical amongst
us—can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we may all, with a little
care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results of worry from being notice-
able in our appearance. To these fortunate few this little chat Will, however, be
as interesting and instructive ns to those who stand in real need of help in toilet
matters, apd may be the means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown
method of retaining, or regaining, that beauty of face and figure which is the birth-
right of every woman.', Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present,
not generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Some Hints about the Hair.—An Excellent
Shampoo. —Few . women realise how all-im-
portant a really good shampoo is if the hair
is to he kept in perfect condition. To shampoo,
the hair properly, shake it down, comb it out,
then dip the fingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil. and thoroughly massage (lie scalp.
Then, mix a teaspoonful of stallnx granules
in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin with
warm water, into which the ends of the hair
can fall, and shampoo the stallax mixture into
the roots in the usual way. Rinse, and dry
by fanning, or in the open air, if the weather
permits. Should the hair be exceptionally
greasy, the oil massage of the scalp should be
omitted. Stallax can be bought at any chem-
ist’s in quarter-pound sealed packages; it, keeps
indefinitely, and one package is sufficient for
twenty-five or thirty shampoos.
A Tonic for Thin or Falling Hair. —When the
hair falls unduly, or has become thin and im-
poverished. a tonic should be applied every
night for six or eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most efficacious
lotion, at home, take a quarter of a pint of
bay rum and add to it, one ounce of boranium.
Shake thoroughly, and leave for thirty
minutes, then strain, and add sufficient water
to make half a pint. Every night, massage
the scalp for ten minutes, going over the
entire head, then dab the mixture into the roots
with a soft sponge. Regular brushing for a
few minutes every morning will also help to
improve the condition of the hair.
The Question of Grey Hair.— -The arrival of the
first grey hair is always a worry to a woman,
for, while silver hair is undoubtedly beauti-
ful, iron grey or streaked tresses are far
from being so, and they are hot only Unbe-
coming. but a sure tell-tale of age ih these
days of eternal youth. It. is not generally
known that one ounce of tammalite, procur-
able at the chemist’s, mixed with four ounces
of bay rum, piakes a most satisfactory lotion
for restoring grey hair to its original color.
All that is necessary is to apply the lotion
night and morning with a soft tooth-brush.
In a few days the hair will be found to be
gradually regaining its proper shade.
To Wave the Hair. —Never wave the hair with
hot irons—if you value the beauty of your
tresses. The heat makes the hail harsh "and
brittle, and in the case of fair or auburn hair
entirely spoils the color, while,;it undoubtedly
hastens the advent of grey hairs. To give a
wave to straight hair it is only necessary to
damp it with silmerine, and .'either plait it
tightly, tying the ends, or arrange it in wav-
ing pins for a short time. A couple of ounces
will Irst quite a long time.
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads. —A greasy,
oily skill with blackheads and enlarged pores
Is a Sore trial, and many a girl goes through
life with her appearance entirely spoiled with
these unsightly blemishes, which may now lie
so quickly and effectively removed with but
little trouble, To remove blackheads, and
the dull, dirty look of the skin which accom-
panies them, dissolve one stymol tablet in a
glass of hot water. Allow the effervescenct
to subside, then dip a small, soft sponge into
the liquid and bathe the face. Leave on the
skin for a few minutes, then dry with a towel,
and the blackheads will come right off. For
a greasy skin, bathe the face three times a
week With stymol. and spray with cold water
every morning, Using a vulcanite throat spray.
The Secret of a Good Complexion. —-The secret
of a good complexion is so simple, that were
it only more widely known there would be
no such thing as a rough, blotchy skin.
Nature has decreed that the outer cuticle, when
it shrivels and dies, Shall be removed, but so
many Women fail to realise this. To remove,
by absorption, the dead outer skin, and pre-
serve the complexion in all its pristine beauty,
mercolised wax is recommended; ordinary
creams and lotions being quite ineffectual for
this purpose. Smear the wax over the face
and neck, rub it gently into the skin, and
leave for the night, ill the morning wash it
off, using a good soap, such as Pilenta, and
all the dead skin Will be removed with the
wax. Then apply a lotion to remove any
trace of greasiness and brace up the skin,
making it firm and White. The lotion catt be
made at home quite easily, by mixing one
ounce of elehiinite in four tablespoonfuls of
hot water. Pottle, and, when. cool, apply to
the face with a soft sponge or the tips of the
fingers, allowing it to dry on the skin.
To Remove Superfluous Hair,—Superfluous
hair is the bane of many an otherwise pretty
woman’s life. Sometimes it is due to hereditary
tendencies; with others, it is the result of bad
soap or greasy face creams; but be the cause
what it may, the result is always disfiguring.
To remove the growth, apply a little powdered
pheminol, First dust the skih with powdered
alum, then mix the phemihol with cold water
to t a paste, which should bo spread oh the
Skin with a bohe knife. Leave on fbr two
mihUtes, then wash off. About one bunco
should be sufficient for the inbst stubborn case.
Powdered plieminoi can be bbtained from any
reliable chemist, and its use not only re
moves the growth but eventually kills tb-
roots permanently. I'
“Peace hath her Victories,
no less renowned than War”
We are fighting a continuous
battle against disease and death,
We fight all the time for the
sake of the poor unfortunates
who come to us without the
wherewithal to pay for private
medical treatment. But there
are many whose fight we can-
not take up at all because we
have not sufficient room. We
want to provide accommodation
for 150 more beds, and it will
cost us A MILLION SHILLINGS.
Will you strengthen our arm to
the extent of a Shilling? It
may be that your shilling will
“Is it nothing to you,
all ye that pass by ?’’
Kelp to bring happiness into
a life that never knew happiness before. That
would be a noble shillingsworth.
Hand your Shilling in to-day to any local collector,
and get a coupon in exchange for it.
Twenty Shillings or Coupons entitle you to a ticket in a draw for an
Engraved Solid Gold Plaque
value One Hundred and Fifty Pounds Sterling, and the entry of your
name as a member of
The Million Shilling League
St Vincent’s Hospital Melbourne
appeal for a Million Shillings
MR. ARTHUR S. BAILUEU. Collins House,)
MR. EDWARD FITZGERALD, Bank Place, f
Hon. Treas.
to the fund.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Black Bonnet: They have been hovering
over the basket, and at last have fallen in. Try
again; such intimate friendship with the bush
shouldn’t be wasted C.W.G.: Good point; would
like further information on it.... Margot: Thin
humor.... A.F: No, we don’t want to build a house
on your foundation. Life is too crowded just now
for these little jobs C.G.McI.: Whatever else you
do, don’t call yourself “The Vagabond.” It used to
be the property of a dead man who could write, and
now belongs, so far as The B. is concerned, to its
brightest correspondent in the French trenches....
Bellerive: Another seasonable item from your Poetic
Diary:—
....May F.: Nice little thing of its kind, but not
vvliat we want.... Yarrawonga: No use to u 5....
Johanna T. H.: Some freshness in first part, but it
crumbles into a conventional end. .. . J.8.M.: Right!
Love is a tender plant and we mustn’t worry it.
The Bulletin roof-garden is now dotted with notices,
“Don’t Worry the Dog-roses”.....F.T.C. (W.A.) : Story
too weak to stand.... R.T.L. (M.L.) : Rather clumsy
and more - than rather conventional... .Louis M.:
Nc....L.W. (M.L.) : Unsuitable.... Blacchus: You’re
very dull over your beer....A.8.P.: Don’t care for
soldier rhyme.... Fred S.: Did you say “Egad!”—
and “rascal” ?... .Hy. P.: (V.): Let the patriotic
poems come on ! The basket is mighty and shall pre-
vail!.... D.11.W.: Not enough in it to cuss at....
George J. N.: No market value here....F.J.: Pleasant
but tinkling... .J.N.R.: No dead-baby verse, please!
. ...Chas. XL: Hardly enough in it for a sketch....
T.L.A.: It doesn’t get us. But it got to us and cost
us 4d. for excess postage... .11. C. (Glebe): Rough-
hewn verse... .L. 5.8.: That sort of thing has been
done to death.... H.: Matilda, you haven’t an idea!
....Peevish: Some things are not worth worrying
about... .F.Q.M.: Why shouldn’t a good Australian
who can prove lie’s a good Australian change his
name if the possession of the old one does him an
injustice?. .. .W. 8.: Thanks... .E.S.: Bit old now;
besides, the cause of the trouble was not what your
friend complains of. ... Jaques: For the Christmas
wishes, but can't use them... . Dongo: Send them
along, but don’t write in faint, shiny pencil. The
price of eyes has risen since the war Australian
P. C. Agency: Thanks... .Huftin Guffin: Yes....
Ignorant Australian: Both in North Queensland.
One is a species of pumpkin ; the other a glorified
passion-fruit... .Apple I: The yell to the newspapers
to drop this and that advt. because the yeller dis-
approves of this and that particular trade recalls
the parable of the man and the ass he was implored
to carry. Regularly, twice a year, this paper is
spoken to in sorrow by a worthy enthusiast who sees
Young Australia riding to the Devil on the backs
of the people who make and sell cigarettes. And
there are dozens of other recipes for ruining the
world, and dozens of other good people who implore
the newspapers to stop advertising the ingredients.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.W.8.: It is family-circle art and lias no right
to go beyond the front door. . . .11.C.C.: You’ll have
to use a ton of dynamite and a crowbar to get in. . . .
E R.M. (M.L.) : No use. . . .R. Judd: No humor in
the figures. .. .Cliff H.: What’s the use of a turning
tide to a bear without a boat?... .F.A.T.: The
skimmed-milk of art... .K.L.M.: Don’t scratch....
John B.: But we take quite a different view of it.
In Tasmania the area of timber land that
may be held in .one block for saw-milling
purposes is limited to 1500 acres, but the
law is evaded almost as a matter of course.
Commenting on this the Chief Forest Officer
says in his annual report:—
One effect of thus limiting the area from which
the timber supplies can be drawn for the mills is to
cause dummying to be resorted to; that is, the tak-
ing up of lands in other than their own names by
sawmillers when they already hold all the land they
are entitled to hold. No great harm accrues from
this system of dummying, as the Department receives
the rental of £1 per 100 acres while the timber
remains intact.
His remedy for dummying is delightfully
simple ; he recommends the rescinding of the
regulation limiting the area. In view of the
official’s quaint views on monopoly and the
evasion of the law, it seems advisable for the
Earle Government to consider the wisdom of
rescinding something else.
“Copy Boy” : If this war lasts much longer
there will scarcely be a Conservative in Aus-
tralia who will not keep a Sosh tiger upon
the premises. Here we have Prime Minister
Hughes’s scheme for pooling the Australian
wheat harvest, which, according to the
cable, is regarded in London as the “rankest
Socialism,” and yet eminent Tories are falling
over one another in their anxiety to
claim the paternity of it. Its beauty,
according to Baillieu, M.L.C., is that it pro-
vides “Equality of opportunity!” “I do not
believe in people who cannot stand a thing
because it is socialistic,” he cries, “the cir-
cumstances have to be considered!” And
again : “Mistakes will be made in carrying
through this business, but no more than if
the undertaking were conducted privately!”
Ilagelthorn, one of the crusted Conservatives
of the Vic. Leg. Ass., boasts (as do about
eight others) that he was the originator of
the idea, which he himself speaks of as “a
gigantic piece of Socialism.” Really. I should
have thought that these politicians would
rather that the country should rush head-
long to, perdition than that it should ride to
salvation on the back of old Stripey!
The stationary condition of the population
of Tasmania extends even to the absolutely
dotty portion of it. The New Norfolk Hos-
pital for the Insane began the year 15)14-15
with 537 patients and ended ’up with exactly
the same number.
MOSQUITOES.
’Twas a close summer night,
Not the breath of a breeze
Did sigh o’er my brow
As I la}- midst the trees,
When a swarm of mosquitoes
Neath the moonbeams arose
Buzzed round my ear’s
And lobbed on my nose.
I shifted my quarter’s
In pain and despair
When the vipers did rout me
Again from my lair.


m
Two German Officers
30© German Soldiers
From One German Piano Factory
alone are actually Fighting Against
the Allies in Flanders to-day.
The same German firm has hitherto supplied thousands of
German pianos to Australians during many years.
Yet German pianos and player-pianos are still actively
advertised in Australia by the Anglo-German Agents, so that once
again your enemy will regain his footing in Australia, once more to
establish his spy system, and to use Australian money to prepare
his ultimate revenge for his present disappointment !
If you are thinking of buying a piano, will you come and inspect
for yourse/f the Beale Pianos —made in Australia, your own country,
by your own countrymen ?
If you buy a Beale Piano you
will be actively assisting in provid-
ing a livelihood for nearly 500
Australian families, many of whom
have sent sons, brothers and fathers
to fight the Germans and their
Allies.
J ust come and see the Beale
Pianos you will be delighted with
their qualities in every respect.
Mr. Octavius C. Beale,
founder and present con=
trolling Director of this busi=
ness, was born at Mount
Mellick, Queen’s County,
Ireland, of an old Irish
family. The Directors and
Managers throughout the
business are all descendants
of British families for many
generations. There are no
Germans employed in the
business,and no supplies are
obtained from Germany.
Head Office & Factories: Trafalgar & Nelson Streets, Annandale, Sydney, N.S.W.
Showrooms: 136 Liverpool Street, Sydney
George Street, Bathurst
Fitzmaurice Street, Wagga
273 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane
Flinders Street, Townsville
839 Flay Street, Perth, W.A.
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Argent Street, Broken Hill
Summer Street, Orange
Lismore
Kent Street, Maryborough, Q’land
William Street, Rockhampton
Sydney Street, Mackay
Cairns, Q’land.


Banking 1 , Public Companies, Sc.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners —
U. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O'M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAY INGS.
DEPOSITS received from Is. upwards.
INTEREST paid at 3f per cent, per annum
on all balances up to £5OO on accounts
opened under the conditions of Government
Saving’s Bank. Acts, and up to £2OO on
accounts opened with the late Savings Bank
of New South Wales. -
Deposits guaranteed by the Government.
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS.
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest a
per cent.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGH-
OUT THE STATE.
POST OFFICES are NOT NOW Agencies
for this Bank.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES. Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Sank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1915) .. £1,195,831
RESERVE FUND .. . . .. £65,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37TlireadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Mark Si-ieldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R.
Lysagiit, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New. South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C.- SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers tp the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. . . ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 190,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All neiv business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq;; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L:C. ;
James Love, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,780,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,780,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohem, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kateu. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brrnan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)ew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up . . . . . . 992,295
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
fhe Colonial mutual Qiie
assurance society limited
FOE
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments a::u
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000;000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping &c.
ORIENT LINE
lutted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous i Steamers - Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with al! United States and Canadian
Railways.
"Steamers sail from Wellington:-
MAITAI,
Dec. 9.
MOANA,
Jan. 6.
Connecting Steamers leave Sydney:—■
DEC. 2, DEC. 30.
STEAMERS
“THE PEARL
STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE,
OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
1 Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
| Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports)..
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 27.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 1.
Leaves Sydney Dee. 4.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 8.
Leaves Sydney Dec. 11.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S. A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dee. 4.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
DEC. 15, JAN. 5, JAN. 26, FEB. 16.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Special Christmas Cruise
pi
to Papua &, Rabaul
S.S. “MARSINA,” December 15.
Calling at Brisbane, Cairns (Barron Falls),
Port Moresby, Sainarai, Woodlark Is. and Rabaul
A TRIP REPLETE WITH CHARMING SCENERY AND
SURROUNDINGS.
SPECIALLY REDUCED ROUND TRIP
FARE, £2O.
(Deck Accommodation 10% Extra.)
Send for full particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:—
. £3,500,000
- £2,550,000
. £3,500,000
£9,550,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORS: —William Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepbeard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office— 29 Threadneedie St., E.C.
346 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world.
-T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian Statn.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enehanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Qtieens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THIS INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
SITstrA&S
Banf^Bustraita
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for a.II
General Banking- Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at « 0/ -
per annum «S/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1915 DENIS )N MILLER, Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up.. .. .. ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is tiie only Trustee Company empowered by
Act of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
The Hon. Sir Cl I ARLES MAC K ELLA R, M.L.C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq.
11. W. BELL, Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
li. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, CORE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —-steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director,
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to ail North-Western Ports. ,
DIMBOOLA, Dec. 13
and Jan. 15.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North
1
Cairns. J
INNAMINOKA, Nov. 27.
■MORI ALT A, Deo. 4.
RUPARA, Dec. 11.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUTLL, & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEA-LAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRAL ASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS :
tTwin-Screw. *Tri ple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OH N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
" Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” "Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between
Australia and United Kingdom via Suez
Canal, Cape of Good Hope, Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers,
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large, airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
Fare to London or Liverpool, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, Etc.,
apply to
Birt & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane; Turnbull,
Martin & Co., Brisbane; Mellwraith, McEacharn
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne and Newcastle;
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide; H. Jones
and Co., Ltd., Hobart.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraph}'.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel bv
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
214 George Street, Sydney.


Take
Christmas Pictures
with the
Autographic
KODAK.
siH
tfKE
H Ull t
1
1
1
■HI
The autographs of friends, the age of the baby on Christmas Day, 1915, the size of the stop in the
lens, the exposure and the light conditions, father’s and mother’s signature to their pictures made
in the happy Christmas surroundings—these are subjects for the Autographic Kodak.
Surprise him—or her—with an Autographic Kodak—the Christmas gift supreme 1
Anyone can learn to use an Autographic Kodak in half an hour, and they are priced from
30/- to £l5/2/-
i
iu Mil in ip
There are Brownies for the
children from 5/- to 50/-.
The No. 3 Folding Autographic Kodak is a wonderfully com-
pact, convenient, and efficient camera. Takes pictures 3%
x 4 % inches. Price, £4/7/6.
The 3A Autographic Kodak takes pictures postcard size,
5y 2 x 3 % inches. Price, £5/10/-.
Ask for new illustrated booklet on Autographic Kodaks.
There are Brownie Cameras from 5/- to 50/-. A child can
learn to use one in half an hour, and as a Christinas gift for
boy or girl they are absolutely unexcelled. They encourage
children to think and act for themselves, and are a constant
source of pleasure.
The No. O. Brownie takes fine pictures, size 2V 2 x lg inches
—which are easily enlarged. Price 6/-.
Of all KodaK Dealers and
. • ,-**•
KODAK LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street. MELBOURNE: “The Block.” 284 Collins Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HIED: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 76 Stuart Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
HOBART: 45 Elizabeth Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
JOKES, TRICKS, PUZZLES, NOVELTIES, etc.
Write for our New Catalog. A Novelty in itself. Sent Free.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIFE.
. A most useful article for anyone. Can be carried
in the vest pocket. Puzzle to open and shut.
Post Free, 1/3.
THE OVAL
MATCH BOX.
A beautifully-made match-
box, oval in shape and nicely
plated. A nice size for the
pocket. A splendid puzzle,
and made with a rin" for
the end of watch chain.
Post free, 1/3.
m
The two articles together, post free for 2/3.
H. L. Hutchinson Ltd.— New York Novelty C 0.—708-710 George St., Haymarket, Sydney
m
<T
If you prefer to
shave your moustache
don’t leave off using
Capillarine. It will
strengthen the hair-
roots in the mean-
time, and the mous-
tache will be more
luxuriant when you
decide to grow it again.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE
Craig: & Aitken,
654- CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
o
**T3
« MtU »
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich —so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you. Ask for it at the
Soda Fountain.
HORLiCK’S
MALTED MILK
Soldiers’ WRISTLET WATCHES
should be good—yes—good—but better
than good. They should be the best.
Absolutely the best without qualification.
We unhesitatingly say, and numbers of
officers and men have proved and told
us that our celebrated
“Fx & It” movement
is the best for hard-wear conditions.
WHY ?
Well! It is a J lever.
It is jewelled with 15 jewels.
It has a brequet hair spring.
It has a compensation balance.
It is unusually strong.
It goes with profound accuracy.
It is not high priced, but it is the
best watch that money can buy
for hard wear.
Stocked in every metal case with luminous
or plain dials.
Absolutely :reliable Lever Watch, with luminous dial
and hands, complete in regulation leather wristlet,
35/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
fr
JORDAN.
The Marv
Who Knows
More -
Earns More
For the Electrician the line above might well be written, “I earn more
because I own
The Book of Electrical Installations ’
For to possess it means to “know more” —to be an fait with every late
development in the great new realm of electricity —to Have at your »
elbow an unfailing source of information on any subject in electric
science, from Wireless Telegraphy to Electric Clocks, from the details
of the construction of a 3600-Amps, switchboard for electrolytic
work io tlie best means of making a trifling repair. Comprehen-
sive and scientifically accurate, the work is free from dry-as-
dust theory and abstrusity, whilst numerous illustrations
valuably contribute to the easy grasp of the many subjects
treated in its pages. Here it is possible to convey the
merest hint of the scope and value of the work —mail
the coupon for an illustrated prospectus.
THE
STANDARD PUBLISHING C°
too Flinders st Helb?
19 HUNTER ST SYDNEY
ADELAIDE 81 LONDON
'S’
■O'
J& ■*
cS .■■<>
vP'.e^v
4 N #S*
,n £
' " ' &f 4?
x>- N
#,o'°
w
V
•••^


Finney’s Pay the Carriage*
for the man
who puts comfort above all else.
lohe “SANS SOUCI”
Golf Collar!
The “Sans Souci” is not the ordinary
everyday soft collar you can buy almost
anywhere, but a superior non-drooping, stand-
up, stay-where-its-put shape that is as smart
as it’s comfortable, and to be had only at
Finney’s!
In White Silk, 1/-, 1/3, 1/6.
In Silk Crepe, 1/-, 1/3.
In Assam Silk, 1/6.
In White Linen, -/9.
Just the Tie to wear with it,
“FLYAWAY,”
Similar to design, and many others that
are in good taste and excellent quality. All
smart new shades. Price 2/6.
Patent Pin Fasteners, 1/- and 1 /3.
EVERYTHING ELSE MEN WEAR.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., Ltd.,
The Big' Block, BRISBANE.
The' hope that lack of Entente initiation
in the Balkans is now being mitigated by
gigantic effort is inspired by Bonar Law
and that royal spirit, King George IV, top-
notch Scotch. — At>vt.
Og fA^
THE BEST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL STATIONERY
IN THE WORLD
carries the KOLOK trade mark. No office is
sending out the best British-made stationery
unless KOLOK TYPEWRITER CARBONS,
PEN AND PENCIL CARBONS and TYPE-
WRITER RIBBONS are used. The KOLOK
ECONOMY BINDER has no equal. Every
businessman should at once see that his
office uses Kolok makes.
ALL STATIONERS.
Australasian Agent:— C. F. BICKFORD,
5 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL FLESH BUILDER
FOR THIN PEOPLE.
It is generally admitted that the forma-
tion of flesh depends largely upon the power
of assimilation, and all physicians agree
that people who assimilate their food
properly are usually well and firmly devel-
oped without being excessively fat. If
everyone possessed perfect assimilation,
there would be no thin, scraggy men or
women, and it is extremely interesting to
notje that specialists are now advising the
use ofr a remarkably effective nerve and
flesh-building prescription, consisting of 2oz.
Salrado Compound, Tincture of Car-
damoms Compound, 2oz. Elixir Simplex and
Bioz. of water, whicjb can be prepared by any
chemist at slight expense. Best results are
obtained by taking one or two tablespoon-
fuls fifteen minutes before each meal. This
tonic prescription possesses remarkable
properties for strengthening the nerve tissues
and increasing the power of assimilation, thus
making it possible for the thinnest of men
or women to put on flesh in the most rapid
manner. It is very pleasant to take, and un-
doubtedly the most effective and inexpensive
method of increasing one’s weight and im-
proving one’s appearance.
Caution.—Although this prescription is a
wonderful ' nerve builder, and gives astonish-
ing relief in cases of chronic catarrh, stomach
and liver trouble, it should not, on account of
its unusual flesh-building properties, be used
by those who object to increased weight.
----- —Auvt.
IN BANANA LAND
“Barcoo” : This should be unique in over-
landing, and shows the adaptability of the
Western Queenslander. A grazing selector
had 7000 valuable young ewes on the
Thompson River, and owing to drought con-
ditions they were in danger of perishing.
So it was decided to send them to a Pro-
mised Land flowing with grass and water
120 .miles down the river. The first 60
miles of the intervening distance is abso-
lutely impracticable, no water and no grass.
To bridge this part of the route a motor-
lorry was obtained and fitted with a frame
containing three compartments into which
100-odd sheep were penned. These were
transported over the bad stretch to agist-
ment country, where the flock was mobilised.
Two loads were shifted daily, the lorry-
man contracting at the rate of £BO per
1000. The grazier reckons it is cheap at
this price, as by leaving the jumbucks on
their old run their death was certain.
Trials in Court and Trials in the Dark.
Up to the present the Bananaland Govern-
ment in its prolonged sparring with Pope
Cooper, the Chief Justice, has not succeeded
in doing more than assert the constitutional
right of the Executive to exercise the pre-
rogative of mercy. No one disputes that
right. Therefore all the words used relating
to it have been merely escaping steam.
The whole question at issue is one of prac-
tice. Cooper’s points are two: (1) That
in reviewing a sentence the Executive should
not depx-ive itself of such assistance as might
be obtained from a report on the case made
by the Judge who sat at the trial; and (2)
that the Court of Criminal Appeal afforded
Ministers a constitutional tribunal to which
the sentence might be referred. In the
particular case of Denis McCarthy, who
in 1912 was sentenced to 15 years’ imprison-
ment for manslaughter, the Chief Justice
was not asked for a report, nor was an
appeal made against the sentence. Ministers
simply cut 12 years off the helping
McCarthy received, and they explain this
by saying that they had ‘‘new matter” before
them. This is not good enough. Long rig-
maroles about the functions and “riglns” of
the Crown, which are not questioned, do not
make it look any better. Either Denis
FLUSTERED.
MOTHER : “Mary, is that you or the cat?”
MARY (deciding to chance it) : “The cat, mother .”
McCarthy was a greatly ill-used man or he
wasn’t. If he was, the “new evidence”
which shows him to be so should be made as
widely known as the other evidence which
moves Cooper to say that “the line which
separated the case from murder was so fine
as to be indistinguishable.” If there was a
gross miscarriage of justice and a savage
sentence was passed by the Judge, the public
should know that too —and so should the
Bench. Human judges are not to be trusted
to give the last, unalterable word, and it is
well that the people should retain within their
hands authority to overrule those officers;
but the exercise of that authority should
always be performed with the greatest cau-
tion, and never without the strongest pos-
sible evidence that the Courts have failed to
do justice. Elected politicians cannot be
trusted in this matter with any greater con-
fidence than Judges, and the practice of hav-
ing men pushed into gaol after trial in day-
light, and. smuggled out of the back door in
the dark, is one from which a powerful smell
may very quickly arise. Now what was
this “new evidence” which justified the sen-
tence on Denis McCarthy being up-ended V
If it is not produced, what sort of answer
will Ryan have to anyone who may suggest
that its value was too shaky to stand exami-
nation in the Court of Appeal? Or what
answer can he give to anyone who may sug-
gest that there was really no new evidence
at all, but merely a feeling that poor Denis
had been long enough in gaol? It would be
a fair thing to McCarthy, the Courts, the
Ministry and the country if Ryan produced
the new facts.
“Bungo”: I was never introduced to a
more business-like Parliamentary Bill than
the one that is sticking in our Fatman’s
throat. There are three clauses in it, but
practically only one sentence. It reads:
“The Legislative Council is abolished.” I
wish it was as easily done as said.
“Con” Moynihan, who passed in his checks
recently at the early age of 54, was for
many years assistant librarian in the
Queensland Parliamentary Library, and
easily the most persistent poet in Queens-
land. His greatest work dealt with abo L
riginal customs and was entitled “The
Feast of the Bunya,” but he lately scarified
the Hun in a perky little volume called “The
German Armageddon.” Con’s knowledge of
Parliamentarians was phenomenally minute
and extensive, bu 4 he never entrusted it to
print, preferring to cultivate the barren and
thankless Muse.
“ ’Bout Turn”: A batch of Expeditionary
appointments gazetted the other day in-
cluded a quartet of Queenslanders who
mostly took the same track from the old
Queensland Militia to jobs in the permanent
foices. Colonel C. B. Brundenell White,
D. 5.0., is probably the youngest full
colonel in Australia. His father was an
old police-inspector, and there’s a baronetcy
concealed about the family somewhere,
though nobody ever throws it up at them.
White was formerly a bank clerk at Gympie.
Lieut.-Col. J. K. Forsyth, appointed to tern-
porary command of an infantry brigade,
with rank of Colonel, was an officer of the
old Queensland Mounted Infantry. Lieut.-
Colonel C. H. Foott, appointed Quarter-
master-General temporarily, had his first
serious encounter with work in a Brisbane
engineering shop, and in the R.A.A. and
R.A.E. has been learning engineering ever
since. Major C. H. Brand, D. 5.0., who is
promoted lieutenant-colonel and to command
a battalion, is a young man from Bunda-
btrg who left the Militia for the A. and I.
Staff a while back and has been shoving
ahead ever since. Each of the four is within
a year or two of 40—one side or the other.
Frightful!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
V'hen oudt our Deutscher fighters go
To strike der terror in der foe,
You see our Picklehauben shine
From Meuse undt Marne to Father Rhine,
[ Ve shoudt above der battle din,
“Hoch ! Hoch ! Hurrah ! Ve’re sure to vin ;
Der French undt Russians must go down;
Der Kaiser vear a driple crown”—
It sounds delight-ful!
Oh, ve are Frightful!
Dose yarns aboudt der shooting down
Of gentle fraus undt priests in gown,
Of leedle boys undt veak old men—-
Dey’re all aboudt, you see, but den
1m Krieg ist Krieg ! You gannod grush
Your foeman mit a Christmas bush;
You haf to shmite, you haf to smash,
Undt alvays mit a schrecklich crash
You fill der night full-—•
You must be Frightful.
Each Mann has got his Iron Cross
(Der Kaiser never minds der loss),
Undt dose who up in Louvain shlew
I hear, bei Himmel, deg haf two !
Der Kerls who in der submarine
Blew up der Luisitania clean,
Undt sent der British crew to H—,
Undt drowned der British babes as veil—
Dot vas not shpiteful!
No ! It vas Frightful!
Dot gas, dot is a shplendid ding—
It makes der long-legged British sing!
Undt vhen ve blay der petrol shquirt
You bet deir heart is in der dirt.
Ve lof der Bulgar undt der Turk
(Dey finish off mit knife undt dirk),
Undt vhen dey’ve done mit hostile town
Dere’s noding left vorth burning down.
Oh, dey are might-ful.
Undt ve are Frightful!
Undt vhen old Europe kiss der rod,
Undt Kaiser Bill is Lord undt God,
If anybody vill not drill
Or do der Teutons’ noble vill,
Or tanse undt sing vhen Prussians play
Ve’ll teach der donkey how to bray,
Undt how to beg undt how to kneel,
Undt how to lick der Prussian heel,
In fashion rightful!
Oh, ve are Frightful!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 20, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Our Excellency has returned to us after
visiting Tocumwal to watch experiments
with a third-rail system in which some of
your politicians are interested.
On Thursday afternoon Premier Ryan
unveiled the Railway Department's honor
board, on which there are 856 names
already. There was a big crowd in khaki
and other clothes to watch the ceremony.
Mayoress Davey (South Brisbane) fed
seme 80 guests at Dutton Park on Satur-
day afternoon, and they responded by un-
loading coins to help the Fiveways’ Creche
and Kindergarten. Don’t forget the chil-
dren ! For their benefit a moonlight fete
was to-night held at the Kindergarten Train-
ing College. A pastoral play, “Robin
Hood,” was the big item on the programme;
and Miss Jean Mactaggart, Victor Down
and Les Edye sang; and the Municipal
Concert Band helped.
“Bishop” Barnes wants to know whether
Miss Crankhurst and Cissy John were
whizzed around in State motor-cars, and
whether the Government knows what brand
of literature the pamphlet signed by the
ladies really is. Ratepayers and other
people who don’t matter also have some
curiosity on this point.
Nugent Trench, whose father at one time
managed the Union Bank here, was in Can-
ada when war roared, and joined a Cana-
dian regiment. Last month he was given
a commission in the East Surrey Regiment.
Since the “Benzine Lancers” in camp
were disbanded several leather caps have
left for England to join motor transport
sections there. Eric Wardrop, onjy son of
bank-manager Wardrop, sails this week on
that business.
Also off to England to enlist is Noel
Robertson, son of J. A. Robertson. He
w r ill travel through America, where his
mother and brother are. Aren’t the Aus-
tralian forces good enough for these fel-
lows ?
Major Annand, who is to command an
engineer corps, entertained a party of friends
at luncheon yesterday.
Freda Taylor, a Brisbane girl who was in
France when the war broke out, is coming
back to Australia by the Maloja. She has
been a Red Cross nurse and is due for a
rest.
Mrs. Ferguson and other Enoggera
ladies organised a concert for the boys in
camp on Thursday night. It is a long time
since any were held there, owing to fear of
meningitis. Over 1000 attended, and after-
wards attacked a supper with the usuai
glorious success.
The Patriotic Fund is doing this Christmas
what it did last year—providing toys for
the kiddies* of soldiers and sailors in camp
or on active service. Anyone with a spare
half-crown, any flapper who has outgrown
her dolls, or any bellicose youngster who
has discarded his marbles and taken to rifle
practice knows what to do.
Parcels addressed to individual members
of Queensland regiments may be sent to No.
3 Goods-shed, Kennedy wharf. Here some
kind soul gathers them up, sorts them and
packs them into separate regimental cases.
The packets are not hauled from their rest-
ing-place until the cases are landed at Gal-
lipoli, so there is every chance of the men
to whom they are addressed getting them.
The Arts and Crafts Society held its
annual meeting last Monday, with the tem-
perature 103° in the shade. A triumphant
and perspiring secretary broke the news that
in spite of war the society had managed to
keep up the standard of work, and also had
handed in £5O towards equipping an operat-
ing theatre at the Military Hospital at
Kangaroo Point. Furthermore., Mr.
Maroney, a respected and pious member,
won a medal at the Panama Exposition for
his pottery.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Justice Chubb, the lone-hand commissioner
appointed to inquire into the allegations of
the Daily Mail in regard to Goodna Men-
tal Asylum, lias made his report. S’onor
has no bouquets for the Mail. He says
that nothing could be further from the truth
than many of the accusations made. He
agreed, however, that there was obsolete
sanitation in the older wards, and that bugs
and rats had been allowed too much free-
dom. Apart from that, John Wren’s organ
ran last all the way, so to speak.


STUDEBAKER
a
$
>
I
vs
K
r
II
imiiiiiiiii
IlllllllllllllHlllllillllllll
Ipiiiiiiniimmgnimm] liimiii
THE
1916 FOUR
£350
Announcing'
THE, NEW 1916 MODELS.
CONFIDENCE.
Three years ago Studebaker Cars were introduced to Australia —Now you see them
everywhere.
For 64 years The Studebaker Corporation has manufactured vehicles of every description
and sold them the world over —The name commands the confidence of the world.
In the Boer War, Lord Roberts in his official report said:
“Waggons were imported from the United States, and these proved to be superior to any other make, either of Cape
or English manufacture. They were built by Messrs. Studebaker Bros., America.”
Immediately upon the outbreak of the present war, the Studebaker Corporation was
approached by the British Government to furnish motor cars, ambulances, water carts and
waggons, and were awarded contracts worth £4,000,000.
Private Richards writes from Embarkation Camp, Alexandria, Egypt;
“All the head officers (English) here use Studebakers, and there are twice as many Studebaker motor ambulances than
any other make used here. We have about 35 on the wharf every day.”
Private J, R. Haslam writes:
Headquarters, Aldershot, 15/5/To.
“Studebaker Cars are doing a greater part of transport work here than any other car. Nearly every officer has
a Studebaker, and I am sure the London Company must be working day and night, if the new cars that come across
in the course of a day have anything to do with the matter. There are about 30 Studebaker vans doing great work
here. They are used for conveying foodstuffs to the different camps. Studebaker cabriolets are also being freely
used by officers, and a great number of these are constantly on the roads. Studebaker Cars have a good name
here. T have spoken to motor drivers on Studebakers, and not one has a word to say against them in any shape or
form.
The Russian Government ordered 1000 Standard Studebaker Touring Cars—the
Russian Government has confidence in Studebaker.
If a better car could be built at this price, or as good a car at less price, Studebaker
would build it.
The world has confidence in Studebaker—surely we must have yours.
PRICES OF ALL MODELS. £.
4=cyl. s=pass. Touring Car ... 350
4=cyl. 3=pass. Roadster... ... 335
6=cyl. Touring Car 420
6.=cyl. Roadster 405
Light Delivery Van Chassis ... 295
All prices liable to change without notice in case of rise in ocean freights.
EQUIPMENT.
ALL, INCLUDED IN PRICE OF CAR.
Electric Self-starter.
Electric Lights.
Electric Motor-driven Horn.
Petrol Gauge.
Oversize Tyres (875 x 105), on “Four” Cylinder.
Oversize Tyres (920 x 120), on “Six” Cylinder.
Non-skid Tyres on Rear Wheels.
Fifth Tyre included.
Improved One-Man-Type Khaki Hood.
Studebaker Jiffey Curtains.
Stewart Magnetic Speedometer
Rain-vision Ventilating Windscreen.
One Extra Rim.
2 Auxiliary Disappearing Seats.
STATE IMPORTERS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Queensland : Canada Cycle <EL Motor Agency, Brisbane.
N.S.W. (except Sydney): ClutterbucK Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Victoria: Turner Bros., Melbourne.
Tasmania: Wally Gahagan, Hobart.
South Australia: T. J. Richards (St Sons, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Armstrong' Cycle (St Motor Agency, Perth.
New Zealand: Adams, Limited, Christchurch.
General Distributors for Australasia : The StudebaKer Corporation of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.


m
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
10 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
Tooth Paste.
If our teeth could talk —they
would say something like this:—-
“Yes, we are thankful for our
friends —the millions of Tooth
Brushes. They do a splendid
work—so far as they go. We
are grateful for the hundreds of
dentifrices. They 'in turn do a
splendid work —so ‘far as they go.
But both together fall far short of
protecting our enamel—our only
weapon of tooth protection. Is
there no escape from these
‘MOUTH AClDS’—these ever-
present mouth fluids which, un-
seen, unbidden, are working day
and night to break down our
armor plate—and then make the
soft inside tooth structure easy
prey to decay-germs?”
We answer:
“There IS escape from ‘Acid
Mouth.’ Bebeco Tooth Baste is
the one dentifrice to-day which
prevents ‘Acid Mouth’—the direct
cause of 95 % of all tooth-decay.”
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
Made in Australia by
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [4
Parfum
JUNE ROSES
MQ^
on
The real fragrance
of English roses is for the first time
distilled into this potent Essence,
which is unapproached for truth
and beauty of odour.
A complete range
; of Exquisite Morny i
Toilet products is',
issued, all fragrant
with this perfect scent.
"June Roses" Perfume, 7/-. 10/6, 18/6
Complexion Powder, 7 lb ;
Bath Salts, 4/-, 10 '6 ;
Dusting Powder, 7/6;
Bath Soap, 21- large tablet.
A NEW AND TRUE
FLOWER ODOUR.
The MORNY FINE BATH & PERFUME PRODUCTS
are retailed in Sydney h.v: —
Civil Service Co-operative Stores of N.S.AY., Ltd.,
152-154 Pitt Street ; Farmer & Co., Ltd., 221-229
Pitt Street ; David Jones Ltd., George Street ; Las-
setters Ltd., George Street; Pattinson & Co., 427
George Street; Washington H. Soul & Co., 160 Pitt
Street; H. A. Rose & Co., 149 King Street.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia: —-
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
32 Pitt Street, Sydney.
,
*
v:. : v
Dr B. Allen’s (U-SA
STAIN
m
NEW SOUTH
m
saivM
THE- PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor, Administrator, Attorney or Agent.
STATE GUARANTEE.
LOWEST CHARGES IN AUSTRALIA.
NO PROFITS.
INCREASED BUSINESS MEANS REDUCED CHARGES.
Apply for Particulars to Public Trustee Office, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Larg'est Tyre & Tube Repairers in the State.
The Curotta Rubber Co.
Buyers, Sellers and Repairers of Motor Tvres, Tubes and Accessories. Makers of Protector Tyres.
Largest Rubber Buyers in the State. THE ONLY FIRM IN AUSTRALASIA GUARANTEEING
SECOND-HAND TYRES. Also Sole Distributors for Firestone Tyres, Tubes and Accessories. Largest
Rubber Buyers from all Government Wat.er and" Sewerage Institutions.
193 a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone City 3170 or Randwick 1158.
:£bsgrpas!
J It*
i<
\
/
BARNET GLASS
nose
AUSTRfILM/N Z'l/qDE
Will nol'Kink.Crack orftursr
BfIRMCT “GLfISS ROBBER C?L TD
All States and New Zealand
m
GIVE
«Sp» ’•
Swan
FOUNTPENS
FOR XMAS
There is no speculation about giving a
“Swan” for an Xmas present. I No wonder-
ing whether he will be pleased. A “Swan”
is the one gift certain to please, and
guaranteed to satisfy.
It is the simplest, strongest, most reliable
—the standard best, in fact, and will be
accepted and appreciated as such. “Swan”
Pens are so stronaly made that they give
literally lifelong service.
Made in London and Sold by all Stationers.
Catalogue free from :
Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd., 79 and 80
High Holborn, London, England.
Australasian Branch (Wholesale):
Jas. A. Burke, 255 a George Street,
Sydney.
Swam
FOUNTPENS
“The Snake” : The protest by “Billy B.”
(B. 18/11/’l5) against the offensive man-
ner of some recruiting agents emboldens me
to bury my fangs in the Sydney Sheepskin
Clothing Committee. Plastered all over
the city is a poster urging the public
to buy vests for the lads at the
Front. This rally is illustrated in
a manner which is a gross libel on the people
of the Commonwealth. It depicts one of
our soldiers dead—frozen to death —and
above him in big type this lie : “Australia,
you forgot him.” It’s a pity the Censor
doesn’t make himself really useful occasion-
ally.
“Bad Australian” : Wandering around one
of the provincial cities of the Argentine I
struck a rather decent-looking place,
labelled “Restaurant Inglese.” I went in
and called for a cocktail and the menu,
which hit me with this jumble:—
Yorkam, Ogstel.
Moque Tortu, Fryfis.
Quakkerots, Bakebins.
Iristu, Rosbif.
Mouton Chop, Budin Inglese, Panqueque, Gotsmilque
Chez, Scozwiskee, Iriswiskee, Buldoguebier.
The grub was exactly like the menu, so I
continued my pilgrimage.
A bit from Philip Gilbert Ilamerton,
written some 25 years back, but as good
to-day as then :—-
There is but one kind of greatness that need give
England a thought or a care in reference to foreign
countries, and that is her power of offence and de-
fence by sea and land. The only unanswerable
superiority is superiority in arms. Commercial and
colonial greatness is but the filling of a sponge; a
victorious enemy would squeeze it. If ever the day
should unhappily come when an enemy clutches Eng-
land by the throat as Germany held France in 1871,
he will make her sign away the colonies and India
too. . . .Commerical prosperity at such a time. .. .is
as useless as a showman’s profits when his skull is
cracking between the lion’s jaws.
Ilamerton had no illusions regarding the
sufficiency of voluntary military service.
Having lived abroad for years, he was able
to institute true comparisons, and he very
clearly saw that while the Continent
throughout found conscription essential
Britain was only playing the fool’s part by
relying on voluntaryism.
When the . Liberals were last in power in
the Federal sphere, Joe Cook was the nomi-
nal Minister for Home Affairs, while Willie
Kelly, as Honorary Minister, did the actual
rubber stamping. Then Archibald got the
job. It is the custom for a photograph of the
previous Minister to be hung in the office
by his successor; but Archibald evidently
reckoned that the circumstances hardly
called for a portrait of W. Kelly. One of
O’Malley’s first administrative acts, how-
ever, was to command that Willie be hung
somewhere. And no doubt there will be a
portrait of Archibald, too —with this sub-
scription: “William Oliver Archibald, ex-
Minister for Home Affairs, by the order of
his old friend, the King.”
“A Summer Girl,” writing “more in indig-
nation and sorrow than in anger” :
I protest against the “Busted Summer Poem,” by
Arthur H. Adams (B. 4/11/’l5).
“The Summer Girl, so uselessly complete.” There
are thousands of us who would be glad of an oppor-
tunity to serve our country in the way the men have
done and are doing, and would be willing to lay
down our lives. But unfortunately we are not per-
mitted that privilege.
“Uselessly complete.” Is the work that the
women have done of no value? Do the men who
still remain here use even the time spent in travel-
ling for any practical purpose? For every man who
has made a splint or a crutch for the wounded (who
have fought as much for him as for us) there are
hundreds of girls, and so-called Summer Girls, who
Jill every spare minute they have knitting, knitting,
knitting for the soldiers.
We are here, and, unfortunately, we have to stay
here, and while we live we have to Wear clothes.
Beneath the “finery” there is many a breaking-
heart, and the “filmy veil” is often used to cover
eyes that are dimmed with tears.
The “grave at Gallipoli” is clearer to a woman’s
vision than to a man’s, because there the only one
who made life worth living is buried.
Whereupon the sinner :
Please, miss, the writer did not say
All summer-girls are built that way;
For some are girls, and some are pearls,
And some are simply summer-girls.
Australia’s Fie Commissioner spoke from
the fulness of his stomach in a recent
article on “Australia's Triumphs” in
Reynolds's Weekly. He thought there
ought to be a lot of emigration to Aus-
tralia after the war, because this is “the
land of abundant, substantial dibt and enor-
mous space for everybody.” What else could
a man want but plenty of room to grow a
bingy and heaps to fill it with?
HOLD OUT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hold out for five days.— Allies’ message to Servia.
Thus King Peter to his people, thinned by everlasting
war:
“I am old, and worn, and weary, I can lead my
troops no more.
I can see no sign of succor on the earth or in the
sky;
Fight ye on ! and to the last man ! —and, if Servia
falls, I die!”
But again the star of promise, flashing out o’er dis-
tant hills,
To an army well-nigh hopeless brings a message that
yet thrills:
“Hold them back, for we are coming!” and the
hopeless dare not doubt,
And the heartsick Servian answers, “We are holding,
holding out.”
“Hold them back, for we are coining, we, the great-
est and The least,
From the ivied homes of England and the slums
of London East!
From the depths of war-scarred Paris, from the halls
where courtiers dance —-
From the sunny southern vineyards of the pleasant
land of France.
“From the blunders of- our masters, beaten once, but
undismayed ;
From the Dardanelles and Egypt we are coming to
your aid !
From the sandwastes of the Never, from the wool
barge ami the track,
■ From the hills of fern and tussock, we are coming.
Hold them back !”
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


W‘,
i
mm
NY
CARLSBERG
LAGjjJ
Jf
Cooling
£1 S
the
■JZU
m
THE DANISH LAGER
mflE claim that “\Y CARLSBERG” Danish Lager is the best brewed is substantiated not only by the--highest
-I- awards in the world, that “NY CARLSBERG” has secured, but also by its popularity with the Australian
public. The way it pours from the bottle—clear, sharp, sparkling and foaming, and its distinctive rich flavor have
won “NY CARLSBERG” scores of friends.
For Dinner or Supper there is no finer drink. It is an ideal appetiser, and is cooling and bracing.
HENRY OLSEN 8 CO. PTY. LTD., 255 a George Street, Sydney; BROWN 8 CO., 21 Lang Street, Sydney—Joint Agents.
Holgate Finds Out.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE was a block just below the sta-
I tion, and Holgate had to run to catch
the train. Then found that he had five
minutes to spare—matter of a .watch too
fast. Nuisance, because the day was warm,
and the run put him out of breath. He
settled in a corner of the empty smoker, and
began to think again. All these years of
struggle, and now comfort. Never was legacy
more welcome to a man. A thousand a year
would make everything easy, and he could
go slow with work, just as the doctor had
bidden him do.
Two men he knew slightly came in, but
didn’t notice him snuggled in his corner. He
was glad ; he didn’t want to talk trivialities
just then. The doctor. . . .phew ! What rotten
luck it would have been without the legacy !
Heart bad for years, and he’d barely sus-
pected anything till lately. Now, what was
it the doctor said? “No definite danger, if
you take things easily. May live to seventy,
or more. But no strain, no needless excite-
ments. Must go warily.” Well, he would.
He had everything. . . .now.
What a brick Marion had been all these
years! How wonderfully she had managed
ti make ends meet! What a dear, too!
Always good-luck at home, however things
went. lie remembered her as she had been
when he had gone in to kiss her before he
left in the morning. She was half-dressed,
and looked very exquisite. .. .Ah, well, that
was the sort of excitement that never harmed
a man, anyhow. He’d make up now for
those lean years of struggle. She should be
spoiled and petted to her heart’s content.
Pity there were no children, things turning
out so well. Still, a man couldn’t have
everything.
The train started. Twenty-five minutes
without a stop, and then home and Marion.
The two chaps sitting with their backs to
him were talking audibly now. Holgate
heard his name mentioned, and for a moment
tried not to listen. But
“He’ll find things a bit harder now Lin-
coln is dead. They say the fool never guessed.
Wonderdibw she’ll square it?”
“Been going on long?”
“Oh, years. Case of the best friend again,
you know. Lincoln was a bachelor, wealthy.
Left her nothing. Queer. S’pose he’d tired.
Perhaps reckoned she’d get through somehow,
and didn’t want to start Holgate suspecting.
Ten years, and he never suspected. She must
have had the devil of a lot of money from
him one time and another. She had him
spoofed all right, and kept the two men
thick as thieves ! Clever, eh ?”
Five minutes out of the station, and to
Holgate it seemed like five eternities of
horror. Never suspected? How could he
suspect. Lincoln had pretended such indif-
ference to women. And Marion’s conduct
had seemed perfect. So affectionate with
him, so passionate. And now this....this
filth! A thousand things came back to him
with sudden fierce significance, and he knew,
he knew! He had a sense of nausea, and
sat back gasping.
The men sitting with their backs to him
didn’t notice.
lie listened greedily again, too dazed and
sick to interrupt.
“I passed one morning, and saw ’em sit-
ting in Lincoln’s place, she hanging on his
mouth like a leech. I wonder if Holgate
knew” ——-
And so on and on, interminably, w T hile they
rattled along and the stations crawled
by. But eternities end. Presently the train
slowed up at Holgate’s station. The men got
up and walked out at the other end of the
carriage. Holgate would have liked to spring
on them, to strangle them, to crush the tale
of his shame in their throats. But something
held him back there in his corner. He went
on in the train.
He had been dead twenty minutes.
FRANK MORTON.
Prisoner of War.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ nyj"O talking in the ranks there!”
I shouted the dusty sergeant as the
weary lines of men tramped along
thr hot bush road. They were between their
khaki-clad guards—Germans on their way to
the concentration camp, where they would
be interned until the war was over, and
naturally they weren’t elated at the prospect.
Occasional sullen mutterings were overheard
by the sergeant in charge of the guard, and
as the road was lonely and the evening
drawing in, he didn’t feel too comfortable
about it. An escape, easy enough under the
circumstances, would probably blight his
chances of promotion—and he was a very
ambitious non-com.
“That man there in the first rank—stop
talking!” The dark man in question—“one
of them sneakin’, dangerous cows,” the ser-
geant had mentally labelled him —tossed his
head impatiently, clenched his fists, and
walked on. Ever since they had started,
two long hours ago, the fellow had been
working himself up into a passion and try-
ing to make inflammatory speeches in his
own language. On two or three occasions
he had actually tried to remonstrate in
broken English with the sergeant himself-—a
liberty which was fiercely resented with
appropriate bloodthirsty threats, all of them
perfectly legal and in order.
Tramp—tramp—tramp—tramp ! On they
trudged in a cloud of dust and flies. The
sullen, unarmed men in plain clothes in the
centre of the road, and the brown men of
the guard with rifles slung striding on either
side in the shadow of the trees.
“Private Hammond . Tell that man to shut
up !”
The soldier nearest the old offender passed
on the sergeant’s shouted command in a
good-natured growl.
“Cut it out, Number Four! It don’t do
no good !”
The man addressed spat some sort of reply
over his shouldew
“That’ll do /” shouted the soldier. “You
’eard wot I said ! Cut it out!”
A shrug of the shoulders, and the garru-
lous one relapsed into moody silence.
“If all Germans was like you,” soliloquised
the footsore guard, “this job wouldn’t be
worth ’avin’!”
And the column went stolidly on in silence,
as though its destination was the Last Judg-
ment and it possessed grave doubts about
the chances of its collective soul.
It’s a long march that has no halt. A
quarter of an hour after the dark-liaired
prisoner had been warned for the very last
time the concentration camp was reached,
and the dispirited prisoners were marched
in, lined up and delivered by the sergeant to
superior authority with all due solemnity.
The cool, collected officer, who had just come
from an afternoon rest and had all his wits
about him, ran his eye over the military way-
bill which had been presented to him by the
sergeant, totted up the number of names
mechanically, and then tallied the dusty
squad. A shadow of doubt seemed to pass
over his face, and he audited the consign-
ment again. The shadow of perplexity deep-
ened, and he turned to the anxious non-
com.
“Sergeant!”
“Yessir?”
“By your list, Sergeant, you should only
have twenty-ftao men. There are twenty-
three in the batch! Seems to be a mistake
somewhere.”
From the waiting ranks came a heart-cry
of distress. , -
“Ah-h, Signor Captain ! One-a moment,
if you pliss. I”
“Silence in the ranks!” thundered the
sergeant.
The irrepressible “dark bloke” collapsed
again.
“Who is that man?” snapped the captain.
“I don’t know liis name, sir, but lie’s been
a bit of a trouble all the way—can’t keep
him quiet, sir.”
“What’s the matter with him:'’
“I don’t know exactly, sir. But I think
he’s just one of the argifying sort.”
The captain ran his eye along the ranks.
“Fall out, Number Four —yes, you with the
grievance.”
Number Four stepped odt at once and
stood writhing with anticipation.
“Well —what’s your trouble?”
The formal invitation issued, Number
Fortr fairly burst and bubbled over with
soft, liquid speech. “Ah, Signor Captain, I
am-a no dir-rty German, ah-h no! I am
Italiano! I sella the ica-crim an’ make
beeg profit till this fool-soldier he see me
away from my car-rt an’ say ‘Fall-a in you!
Falla in there!’ an’ I think-a no har-rm at
all, an’ I falla in, an’ —ah, my God —we
march an’ we march, an’ every time I try-a
to tell heem he say ‘Shoot up, you !’ an’ this
othair man he say ‘Cut it out!’ an’ we
march an’ we march, an’ all the time I am
thinking ‘My poor ica-crim ! I shall not
see you again !’ an’ I try to tell heem I will
losa all my ica-crim, an’ he only say ‘Shoot
up !’ alia the time to-ah me —ltaliano !” He
stretched imploring hands to the officer.
“Oh-h-h!”
The sergeant choked, wrenched his eyes
off the squad and spat in the dust where his
pride lay bleeding.
KODAK.
My Trinity.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the Shadow and Bitter Silence, we foes
(.who were one and twain)
Looked each on the soul of the other,
then each to his own again.
One tilled up a crystal goblet with wine of a
vintage rare.
“I drink to your hope’s confusion!” he called
to his brother there.
“For all in my life that matters-is mine, be
it short or long,
If, loyal to Love and Laughter, I cleave unto
Wine and Song!
“But you are the brake to my joying, the
philtre of poison are you
That bitters the cup of delighting the gods
hand me down as my due!”
In the Shadow and Bitter Silence, we foes
(who were one and twain)
Looked each on the soul of the other, and
each to his own again.
While he who the first had spoken yet spake,
did the other rise;
There was terrible scorn in his speaking and
terrible hate in his eyes.
He filled up with myrrh a goblet, and holding
it high in the air,
“I drink to your soul’s repentance!” he
called to his brother there.
“You aim to my soul’s undoing, you scatter
: my dreams as dust,
But all of your singing is folly, and all of
. your love is lust.
“You mock at my sweetest sowing, and tell
me the seed is vain,
But the harvest that you will garner is. a
harvest of tares and pain!”
In the Shadow and Bitter Silence, we foes
(who were one and twain)
Drank each one his toast to the other, drank
each to the other’s bane.
When looming away in the Future, the
fellow of each, the Third,
We saw, both the One and the Other. .. .
nor said we a single word.
He clawed with his taloned fingers at the-
mop of his hair and cried.
Or grinned while an imbecile slaver dripped
out from his mouth at the side.
In the Shadow and Bitter Silence, no longer
as foes were we,
For we knew that our souls were a treble,
and that we were not One, but....
Three.
MAORILAND.
BERNARD INGLEBY.


np O Readers of “The Bulletin.’’ —Your
_I. countrymen sent to England from
the Dardanelles long for “Bully.” When
you have read your copy “spare another
copper” and send it, post paid, by
the first mail to Mr. Phil Holdsworth,
Australian War Contingents’ Association, 72
Victoria Street, Westminster, London, S.W.,
who will personally see that it gets to some
Australian who has “done his bit.”
Missing Friends.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
the relatives of WILLIAM JAMES
CARIt, deceased, intestate, is requested to
communicate with the Public Trustee, Wel-
lington, New Zealand, forwarding a copy of
this advertisement.
RE the Estate of MARGARET POWER
or MARGARET ELIZABET H
POWER, late of 252 Colombo Road, Syden-
ham, near Christchurch, New Zealand,
Married Woman, deceased. —Will any person
knowing anything of the whereabouts of
Thomas Patrick Power, issue of the above-
named deceased and Patrick Power, kindly
communicate with The Local Deputy Public
Trustee, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Medical.
Summer Diet Mistakes.
In summer many people lose appetite, and
from this draw conclusions that are not
medically sound. Some sav that in summer
the body does not require so many meals;
but this is wrong.
Certainly the body does not require so
many elements that create heat, but it does
require as many energy-giving elements, and
cannot find these in the insubstantial meals
usually partaken of with the idea of “keeping
cool.”
Then the common mistake of taking too
many cold “gassy” and acid drinks also sets
un trouble. They distend the stomach, dilute
the digestive juices, and provide no help for
making rich blood ; exhaustion, lack of appe-
tite and indigestion are bound to follow.
Your stomach needs new blood summer or
winter, and the best method of renewing the
blood and strengthening the stomach and
digestion is by taking Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People. These pills combat
the poisons in the blood and create' new
blood. By this natural process you remedy
your debility aud restore your appetite, the
system being toned up and the overworked
nerves invigorated.
A postcard request to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney, will bring a copy of a
useful diet book free of cost to you. Your
own dealer sells Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
—Advt.
A Bilious Tongue.
When your tongue is coated evenly, all
over, with a whitish-yellow color, and your
breath is bad, the chances are that you are
bilious. If you also have indigestion, con-
stipation, headache and a general ill' feeling,
there is scarcely a doubt -about it. Your
liver needs attention.
Harsh cathartics which purge violently
and I hen produce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance is what
nature needs to establish regular habits of
health, and Pinkettes, the Ihtle pink laxa-
tive pills, free from harmful or habit-forming
drugs, meet the requirements most admirably.
Send for a free trial sample to the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, mentioning
The Bulletin. Pinkettes are 1/- a bottle
at all medicine dealers. — Advt.
Government Notices,
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
NOTICE.
{War Precautions Act lit
(This supersedes Notice dated 17th July,
1915.)
Returns of Foodstuffs, Etc., to be Fur-
nished to the Commonwealth Attorney-
General, Melbourne.
IT is hereby notified that all persons,
firms, or companies, who or which, at
midnight on the 30th day of November,
1915, have in their possession or under their
control stocks of any of the undermentioned
commodities in not less than the minimum
quantities set out below, must furnish re-
turns of same within seven days to the Food
Census Office, Attorney-General’s Depart-
ment, Spring Street. Melbourne.
Similar returns must be furnished for
stocks held on the last day of each subse-
quent calendar month, viz., 31st December,
1915, 31st January, 1916, etc., until further
notice.
Forms on which the returns must be made
can be obtained on application to the Food
Census Office, Attorney-General’s Depart-
ment. 51 Spring Street. Melbourne, or to the
nearest Customs House.
Penalties :
Under an Order published in the Com-
monwealth Gazette of the 18th June,
1915, power is conferred upon each author-
ised officer to arrest any person who refuses
or fajls to furnish returns required by him
under the Order, and to detain him in cus-
tody in such place as he thinks fit during the
continuance of the present state of War.
Section 6 of the War Precautions Act
1914-1915 provides that any person who con-
travenes or fails to comply with an order
made in pursuance of the Act is guilty of an
offence which may be punishable either sum-
marily or upon indictment. The maximum
penalties are:—
Upon summary conviction, a fine of £lOO
or imprisonment for six months, or
both.
Upon conviction on indictment, a fine of
any amount or imprisonment for any
term, or both.
Minimum
Commodities. Quantity.
Beef, in cold storage .. . . 20001 b.
Mutton, in cold storage .. .. 20001 b.
Lamb, in cold storage . . .. 10001 b.
Pork, in cold storage . . . . 5001 b.
Rabbits, in cold storage .. ..4SO pairs.
Preserved meats . . . . .. 10001 b.
Bacon and ham . . . . . . 5001 b.
Rutter .. .. .. . . 1001 b.
Cheese .. .. .. .. 1001 b.
Sugar .. .. .. . . 1 ton.
Molasses and syrups .. .. 1 ton.
Jam .. .. . . .. . . 5001 b.
Fish, preserved and tinned .. 5001 b.
Milk, condensed, concentrated and
powdered .. .. .. 2501 b.
Rice.. .. •. .. .. 1 ton.
Kerosene . . .. . . .. SOOgals.
Petrol .. .. . . . . 500 gals.
The Return for 30th November will be in
place of the Return due under the former
notice for 20th November. 1915.
W M. HUGHES,
Attorney-General for the Commonwealth.
Melbourne, 9th November, 1915.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY & WEDNESDAY
■ AT 2.30
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 27.
. TIVOLI FOLLIES—I9IS-16.
EVERYTHING NEW !
THE BIGGEST FUN SHOW IN THE WORLD.
“J“IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PERFORMANCES AS ABOVE.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
THE VERY BEST VAUDEVILLE CAN EVER
OFFER.
Plan at Glen’s.
UER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
.3. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
and MISS FLORENCE YOUNG
in
PAUL JOKES.
Plans Paling’s.
Day Sales Callose’s.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
RENEWED AND CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
KICK-TN,
A PLAY WITH A PUNCH AND A THRILL.
Plans Paling’s.
Day Sales White Rose.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessees PHILIP LYTTON LTD.
Representative GEO. L. MERRIMAN.
LAST NIGHTS.
PHILIP LYTTON presents
THE WAYBACKS: AT HOME AND IN
TOWN.
The jolliest show that ever came to Sydney.
The merriest Australian comedy ever written.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1 /-. Booking Fee, 1/-
Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE picture block theatres
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
II E GARDEN T H E A T R E.
BAYSWATER ROAD,
DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY.
Direction E. BRANSCOMBE PTY. LTD.
AN ENTIRELY NEW
DANDIES CO.
EVERY EVENING (Wet or Fine) AT 8.15.
Prices: 2/- & 1/-; Reserved, 2/6.
DANDIES’ SUMMER LOCATIONS:
RED CO PERTH, W.A.
VIOLET CO. , ST. HILDA, VICTORIA.
ORANGE C 0....... MANLY, N.S.W.
PINK CO ADELAIDE, S.A.
SCARLET CO BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
X H EATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present their new Farce
Comedy Co. in
A PAIR OE SIXES.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of
THE NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO. in
HIGH JINKS.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
LAST NIGHTS OF
A SCRAPE O’ TIE PEN.
NEXT SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 27.
Farewell to MR. and MRS. GRAHAM MOFFAT in
BUNTY PULLS THE STRINGS.
Prices'and Plans as usual.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
K
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 27.
ALLEN DOONE
in
THE BOLD SO J Eli BOY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1,/-
■MELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE
Direction GREGAN McMAIION.
ATFIEN7EUM HALL.
Nov. 27 and 29: THE PRICE OF THOMAS SCOTT.
Comedy by Elizabeth Baker.
Dec. 4: WHAT THE PUBLIC WANTS.
Play by Arnold • Bennett.
Box Plans at Pianola Co. and Booklovcrs’ Library.
DtJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
** FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
MABLE AND MALFE, THE TWO COLLIERS,
LES TEODOROWICZ, HARRINGTON REYNOLDS,
ALICE PIERCE, FRANK LANK & ALICE, ASCOT
& BARNES, GEORGE WHITEHEAD, MAY ERNE
& HE. •
Prices: 2/6, 2/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
m
EVERY SOLDIER NEEDS
the "Active Service” BELT
Made of the finest tanned Leather, in various
styles, to hold stamps, letters, cash and
valuables. The pockets have snap clasps.
Postage paid to any address.
4/6, 7/6, 9/6
116, 15/6
Send for Catalogue.
We Pay
Carriage.
Gift
Suggestions
Priced lowly—that are
eminently suitable for
soldiers.
“ONOTO” PENS. —The famous self-filling,
self-cleaning, and self-regulating fount
pens. The finest “Active Service” Pen
in the world ... .... 12/-
“ORLIK” BRlARS. —Finest French
Briars, silver-mounted, from 7/6
“THE TREASURE” SAFETY RAZOR.
—With 24 blades, each having 2 shaving
edges. Complete in leather case.... 12/6
Stewart Dawson’s
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
H OST’S PICTURES. MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, nex} Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince's Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL,
DIRCH&C A R R O 1, L
** (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE
Business Notices.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished h.\
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCTCE. TOMrSTTT & CO.. Melbourne.
DAIMLER
m
m
sotor Carriages ~
Vehicles ~
AfiRicuLTDRAi Tractors
the DAIMLER COMPANY
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
By ordering
CEREBOS
SALT
you make sure
of getting the
best and purest
that is to be had.
Sir Lauder Brunton’i
Snake Bite Lancet nt Cure
A Simple an) Practical Reifiedy I
NEVER FAILS WHEN PROMPTLY USED I
Only One Shilling
Carry it in your vest pocket ready for instant use
and you need fear no snake, however deadly. Sir
Lauder Brunton, the famous Royal Physician,
vouches for the genuineness of this treatment, that i
has saved hundreds of lives every year I
in India from cobra and karait venom. The com*'
plcte outfit is only 2# inches long and about as
thick as a pencil. Full printed directions with
each Lancet. Send Postal Note for |/• to
The Union Co«. 239 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying*
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin snotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2/9
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them bv post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch_
“Y.Z.’’: George Reid was pictured in Mel-
bourne Leader the other day. He stood out,
a tremendous swell unduly swelled, holding
the hand of a wounded soldier. The wounded
soldier was scarcely visible to the naked eye;
but Reid loomed like a hill. The wounded
warrior lay on an ambulance, his face ob-
scured by the bedding; George Reid, holding
his hand, stood four square (if you can
square the circle) to the several winds of
Heaven. Looking reverently on that picture
I realised what the war was for. It was de-
signed by a benignant Providence to procure
a sufficient quantity of wounded soldiers in
the vicinity of whom eminent personages
might pose to keep up the supply of topical
films, and provide stirring process-blocks for
the illustrated weeklies. In those films and
illustrations the shot hero is only a sort of
lay figure ; the play of the eminent personage
is the thing. The latter strikes many attitudes
suggestive of cordiality, pity, reverence, admi-
ration, hope and entire confidence in the Em-
pire’s strength. Observing the tableaux you
realise that the proudly eminent public per-
son is really the man who is saving the
nation.
From a Northern correspondent:—
If Professor Skertchley reckons he originated the
submarine net he is in error. He had as much to do
with the origin of the rocks he studies. That he
was thanked by the War Office demonstrates the
gentlemanly instincts of that august body, but does
not strengthen his claim. I was for 10 years con-
nected with naval-construction firms in the Cold
Country, and though it is 12 years since I brought
my last half-lung to Australia, I often heard the net
discussed by naval men as a device for dealing with
submarines. Incidentally, there was great divergence
of opinion among these experts as to just what
would happen when a submarine struck a net, so
much depending on where and how the contact
occurred. I believe the idea was first adopted by
three half-caste Maoris at the Bay of Islands (M.L.),
who have been netting whales for years. Their
method was to stretch a steel-wire rope from the
mainland to one of the islands across a passage
through which at certain seasons the big fish fre-
quently passed. Prom this rope was suspended by
rope-yarn stop-nets of steel wire rope six-foot mesh,
and made in sections of about 100ft. When the
animal struck the net he carried it away from its
lashings and was soon in trouble. It was only
necessary to follow him up with a boat and secure
him when exhausted by his struggles.


With Eczema on Hand and Arm,
Nearly Tore it OfTWith Pain. Used
Cuticura, Eczema Disappeared,
■ a
Ouruliia, Canterbury, N. Z. —‘‘I was
troubled with a small red spot of eczema on
my right hand. I used to rub and scratch
it an:' nearly tear it off with the pain. It
gradually grew bigger and bigger every day
until all my hand and part of my arm was
affected. The itching and burning was
terrible and I could not bear to put my hand
near water at all.
“It was painful for many weeks, until I
resolved to try Cuticura. After the first
application of Cuticura Ointment I found
relief so I continued using the Cuticura
Ointment together with some Cuticura Soap
and in a very short time all the eczema had
completely disappeared.” (Signed) Mr.
Sandford, Feb. 27, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
VSI»
BENGER’S
is the
most easily
digested
Food
obtainable .
It is expressly
devised to be fully
nourishing when
natural digestion
isenfeebled, whether
in child or adult.
It is prepared with fresh
new milk and forms a dainty
and delicious cream, which
fully satisfies “hunger-faint-
ness,” and soothes internal
discomfort. Benger’s is the
safe food in illness, and in
convalescence promotes
rapid recovery.
Delicate children thrive on it.
m
Food
For CHILDREN,
INVALIDS and the AGED
is sold by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Bender’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids,and the
Aeed, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,Manchester, Eng.
Branch Ojffices —New York (U.s.A.) 92, William Street
Sydney (n.s.w.) u 7, Pitt street.
Canadian Agents— National Drug Co., Ltd., Montreal.
lBO A
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
Treat your
hair kindly
You desire fine, beautiful hair.
Therefore you must treat it
kindly—nourish it, preserve it,
care for it by regularly using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
“For Your Hair”
This preparation has been used for over
120 years —it has proved its value time
and time again. Do not try experi-
mental remedies on your hair —get a
bottle of Rowland’s Macassar Oil at
your chemist’s. Also sold in a Golden
co 1 our for Fair or Grey Hair. Rowland
& Son, 67, Hat ton-garden, London, E.C,
TO “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
The Motor in Australia, 16 Pitt Street, Sydney,
pays standard price for motor, motor-bike, aero-
plane or motor-boat jokes for illustration.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
The Best Bonus Paying: Life Office in the World.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OF CASH SURPLUS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1915.
AH participating policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
SHARE in the CASH BONUS to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus divided for the one year 1914 . . . . . . £1,034,346
Yielding Reversionary Additions to policies of about . . . . £1,800,000
Total Bonuses distributed since inception of Society . . . . £19,810,000
Now is the time to effect an assurance or a further assurance on your life, so as to reap the benefit of
this year’s Cash Bonus.
Write for full particulars to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or anv Distrct Office or Agent of
the Society. RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., ‘ H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager and Actuary. Secretary.
i
-2
m
THIS year the dainty foot daintily shod
comes into its own. Never were skirts
shorter or fuller, never were shoes more in
evidence. So the smart woman will hail
with joy the arrival of the new Bostock styles
for the season, since these are more captivating
than ever. The shoe here illustrated, for example,
is typically charming. Cut from that most
elegant of materials, patent leather, made in
that new, short-fronted French shape which
makes every foot look so arched and delightful,
this is the shoe of shoes to give a telling finish
to one’s new walking suit or gown. And it is only
one shoe amongst many equally desirable.
Bostock styles now on view at the leading stores.
Bostock No.
Q 9583
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostoek.”
Unmistakable in style, out and finish,
and the name “Bostock” on the soles.
\\rHEN Decorating,
~ Remodeling or
Building, Le assured of
SANITARY as well
as Beautiful Walls and
Ceilings use
BEAVER
BOARD
You need hygienic walls, not only
in sleeping rooms but in every
room in the house.
Beaver Board takes the place of lath, plaster
and wall paper. Better, stronger and more
sanitary walls and ceilings are quickly and
easily built with Beaver Board.
Beaver Board is made of Pure
Wood Fibre. It beautifies and
brightens the home. It won't crack,
and will last a lifetime.
Beaver Board is especially recommended for
residences, offices, schools, shops, hospitals,
and churches. It assures well designed, well
built walls and ceilings that give greater
satisfaction, freedom from cracks and repair
expense, and permanent satisfaction.
MADE IN CANADA
Your architect will tell you all about Beaver
Board. Booklets, designs and free samples
are obtainable from any Beaver Board stockist.
WARNING: All wall boards are not
Beaver Board. There are imitations. Be
tare to get the genuine with name and
trade mark on back of every Jtanel.
The Beaver Board Companies
Ottawa, Canada
4 Southampton Row, London, W. C. England
REPRESENTATIVES:
0. D. Canton, G. P. 0.1893, Sydney
R. S. Ward, 40 William Street, Melbourne
STOCKISTS:
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide
Cowell Bros. & Co., Adelaide
Gunuersen, Crockett, Ltd.,
379 Kent St., Sydney
James Hardie & Co., Melbourne
G. Gunnersen & Co., Melbourne
Geo. Wills and Co., Ltd., Perth
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth
Geo. Wills and Co., Ltd., Brisbane
James Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane
Solid Comfort!
No torn or dingy wall paper in
this room. No cracked plaster.
The walls and ceilings are
made of Beaver Board.
Easily put up at any season
of the year without mess or
bother. Lasts without repairs
as long as the house. Resists
heat, cold and sound.
Treated on both sides to pre*
vent absorption of moisture,
and to protect against changes
of weather. Is scrupulously
clean and makes any room
more cheerful and inviting.
Make a spare room out of the
attic. Use Beaver Board for
partitions. Use it to brighten up
the living room or dining room.
Supplied ready for nailing to
joists or studding or over old
walls. Panels about A" thick,
36" and 48" wide and in even
foot lengths up to 16 feet
BEAVER
BOARD
n
PURE WOOD FIBRE
The Inky Way.
The Malta Chronicle (5/10/T5) got it
mixed up this way:—
No. 1370 Pte. John H. Curtis. 12th Battn.,
A.1.F., writes from All Saints’ Camp: “Would you
allow me to ask any of your kind readers to oblige
me with the loan of either a banjo, Patterson’s
Poems entitled “Man from Snowy River” (?) or
Lord Byron’s works. These loans will be greatly
appreciated, carefully looked after and faithfully
returned.”
» * * *
Christchurch (M.L.) Press, a very dis-
creet aud solemn rag, nerved itself the other
day to start printing stories about the Hun’s
performance in Belgium, under the delicate
heading “The Wild Beast of Europe.” But
the Press goes into the homes of greengrocers
as well as to the shop of the pork butcher, so
the enterprising boss stuck in a sub-heading,
“To Be Read By Men Only.” How these
little flashes of genius relieve the monotony
of victory, and give old maids the office!
* * * *
“Footstick” ; For the past few weeks the
Argus has been running a column headed
“Items of Interest.” It is never more than a
column —often less. But really the Argus
is too self-depreciatory. Occasionally there
is an item quite readable in the other 63
columns.
* * * *
“J.F.H.”: “The Pulse of the World” is
a new book of more than 40 years’ recollec-
tions of Fleet-street. Its author, Malcolm
Stark, is one of the many Scotsmen who
made good in that quarter. Among
the yarns he tells is one of the time
when cable rates to Australia were
half a guinea a word or thereabouts,
and severe condensation was the rule. Some-
body sent a couple of distinct items in these
words: “Carlyle dead. Fighting Ashantee.”
The man at the Australian end ran them
together: “Thomas Uarlyle, author of ‘Sar-
tor Resartus’ and ‘The French Revolution,’
died yesterday while fighting the Ashantees.”
During the last hour of Disraeli, Stark was
one of the reporters who had to linger out-
side, and he heard a thirsty confrere remark
that “Dizzy is dying inconveniently far
away from any place of refreshment.” At
that time certain pubs in Fleet-street were
allowed to keep open until two in the morn-
ing provided they served only persons con-
nected with the press. The police some-
times dropped in to see whether this condi-
tion was being observed. Once they caught
a trio of convivial cabmen refreshing them-
selves in a corner of the bar. In reply to
the usual question the first said he was a
reporter on the Daily News, the second said
he was a compositor on the Standard.
while the third, after a moment’s reflection
to recall his identity, proclaimed himself the
editor of the Times.
» * * *
Parson John Henshelwood, who left his
home at Malvern (Vic.) the other day to
go on a long journey, was a men tally-youth-
ful patriarch of 86. Trained as a Presby-
terian at Glasgow University, he came to
Melbourne in 1887 to bring the latest gospel
to the Swanston-street Church of Christ,
and remained in the service of that body
until he retired to an armchair some years
ago. In his younger days he had edited a
church journal. At Malverm in his declin-
ing years, his motto was: “No day without
a poem.” and he weekly attained the dignity
of print in the local paper. Seldom, if ever,
did he actually manage to touch the. flutter-
ing skirts of the Muse as she fled before him ;
but once in a great while he was able to get
a whiff from the roses in her hair and tell
about it in the paper. His views on most
worldly matters were up-to-date and good-
Australian.
“Vancelot”: William Moore, the last of
the Bohemians, who for three or four years
has been trying to bulldoze London mana-
gers into producing Australian drama, lately
deserted the pen and within 24 hours was
whirled off to some remote fastness in Lin-
colnshire to superintend war supplies. When
last heard of William was trying to kill the
boredom of evening by organising a drama
night for the natives.
* * * *
Ernest Lowe, brother of the once well-
known Herbert Lowe and of another Lowe
whose reputation as a journalist is interna-
tional. has got into khaki. Ernest shared
the family failing for writing. He was
toiling in a N. S. Wales North Coast town
when he heard the call.
WAR WORN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sit and write of gory war,
Of battle stains, and sweat, and sin
From nine o’clock, a.nn, to four,
Then go and put some turnips in.
I shed abuse on Kaiser Bill,
As Satan’s most despised spawn,
Some fifty thousand Germans kill
With blue-black ink and trusty quill,
Then turn right to and mow the lawn.
No more is there a call for pars
Of Jim and Bill and backblock blokes;
’Tis all of massacre and Mars.
And if one writes some little jokes
They deal with lads who slay the Turk,
Or blood-sprayed items from the trench.
I write of Joffre’s gory work;
Then, wearied of the battle’s irk,
My pansies and my. peas I drench.
Of nations all aflame I write,
Of one great continent distraught,
Of whole towns passing in the night,
Of victories this morning bought
With seas of blood, and lost again
Ere night with redder, deeper flow,
Of Zeppelins dripping fearsome rain,
The orphan’s grief, the widow’s pain—
Then plant potatoes in a row.
The new two-column tale must tell
Of Austral’s military sons,
Of roar and heat, and smoke and smell,
And of the devastating guns.
I drop a glowing English shell,
And hurl aloft the mangled dead ;
Then, having raised and settled hell
It’s up to me to take a spell—
I spray my roses white and red.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


We Sell only
RELIABLE SPORTING GOODS.
Our Motto: “Goods Right—Prices Right.”
A SATISFIED CUSTOMER is our best advertisement, THAT’S WHY we endeavor to always satisfy,
TKNNIS REQUISITES.
&
a
2
7
For full particulars of Tennis,
Golf and all Sporting Materials,
see our illustrated Sports Last.
Post free to any address.
We specially recommend our M.S.
Haymarket Rackets and Balls as
being absolutely the best value
procurable.
RACKETS.
(Postage on one racket: N.S.W., 9d.
other States. 1/2.)
M.S. Handicap, full size 6/-
C. 8.8. Special 9/6
M.S. Champion 11/6
C. 8.8., cork handle .. 13/6
C. 8.8., Quadruple .... 15/6
M.S. Haymarket 22 /6
Haymarket, Special .... 27 /6
Haymarket, Selected. . 35 / -
Haymarket, Ex. Special 37/6
Ayre’s Handicap 14/6
Avre’s A 1
Avre’s Double Central. .
Ayre's Champion
Ayre’s S.N.D
Slazenger’s Renshaw . .
Slazenger’s Demon .. . .
Slazenger’s Whitehouse
Slazenger’s R.G.M
Slazenger’s Doherty ...
Slazenger’s Stadium . . .
16/6
18/9
22/6
45 V-
-15/-
22/6
27/6
36/6
40/-
45/-
BALLS.
(Postage on
one doz.: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Kach. Doz.
Grey Regulation. . - /O 5/0
Grey Regulation,
superior ... . - /to 0/-
Challenge, covered 1/- 11/-
Avre’s Court, cov’d 1/- 11/0
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Champion I/O 10/(5
Tlaymarket Special 1/8 18/0
Avre's Champion 1/8 10/-
Slazengcr's Cham-
pion .... 1/8 19/-
NETS.
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, full size, 5/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, wire head line—
-13/6, 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/-
GOLF MATERIAL.
Our stock of Golfing Requisites is unsurpassed, and comprises
Clubs, Balls, etc., by the world’s leading makers.
CLUBS.
Postage on
one club: N.S.W., 9cl. ; other States, 1/2.)
M.S. Drivers and Irons.. 5/-, 7/6
Auchterlonie Drivers and Irons 8/-
Simpson’s Drivers and Irons.. 7/6
J. Braid’s Drivers and Irons 8/-
Cann and Taylor’s Irons 7/-, 8/-
Spalding’s Irons & Drivers o/6, 7/9
m
Braid Mills’ Aluminium Putters 10/6
Patrick Bulldog Spoons, Ladies’ favorite 10/6
(Postage on
BALLS.
one doN.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
m
Each. Doz.
Watson’s No. 10 3/- 347-
Silver King (Yel.
Dot) 3/- 357-
Silver King (Black
Dot) 3/- 35/-
AVhite Dimple .. 3/3 387-
Midget Dimple .. 3/3 38/-
Domino Dimple 3/3 387-
Black & White
Dimple .... 3/3 38/-
Challenger King 3/3 39/-
Arch Colonel .. 3/6 39 7-
Glorv Dimple .. 4/3 48/-
CADDY BAGS.
Waterproof Canvas, leather bottom and slins —
Solid Hide, best quality
7/6, 0/-, 12/6, 14/6
... 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
MlcK Simmons b
HAYMARKET
•SYDNEY*
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KINO STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
k
n
A
, tr<
>r
We are Specialists in all kinds of
SPORTING REPAIR WORK.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE-
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
Information for the Housewife
CLARK’S
CAST-IRON
SAUCEPANS,
BOILERS, KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as the lightest Enamelled Ware, and will last
a lifetime instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust. Handles that will not slip in the hand.
Please note the
Hygienic Shape
and the Patent,
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
SECTION,
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S HOLLOW-WARE IS THE BEST
Australasian Agent: A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16 - per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J, URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrie
England, Od. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is Od. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatc'n-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, Od. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. P'rench Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d
m
f
i
m.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
m EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH, -wg
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, Ac., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River., 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator', Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and many
others, all an 2s 6d each posted. Lee's Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women's Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. IN’ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarp. Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster's Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing! Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com!
plete), Is 6d posted The Age of Reason, dv Paine
posted, 84 WRITE FOR CATALOG UK TO-DA


WHOS THE LADY?
She uses
REXONA
SOAP.
She is Miss Ethel Dane, the charming
actress whom everyone admires; she’s
a true Rexona Girl, and knows the
value of a good complexion. Are you
a Rexona Girl, too? Read what Miss
Dane says:—
“I cannot understand why anyone
should use a skin food or face cream
when Rexona Soap answers the pur-
pose of both so well. I have found it
simply delightful to the skin, and as
a shampoo for the hair it is truly
wonderful.
“I shall recommend it to all my
girl friends, and I wish Rexona
every success.”
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) ETHEL DANE.
m
Miss ETHEL DANE,
(from a Murmann
Studio Photograph).
Rexona, the Aristocrat of Soaps.
Why not enjoy a good complexion? You cannot, if you do not care for the delicate skin
of the face. When you wash your face do you realise that it is not enough to remove simply
the dirt, but that your skin needs a soothing, healing influence to keep your complexion fresh
and free from blemish? Scented toilet soaps are often very pleasant, but do not assert this
influence, as you are well aware. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends
to dry up the skin and destroy its delicate textures. Even the better class of such soaps do
; V-
»i
SOAP.
MEOVCATtO
g;SS-""a REFRESHING
5 HEALING ANTISEPTIC SOAP
MEDICATED ON THE SAME PRINCIPLE JgpW
THE FAMOUS REXONA QINTMEMX^^^fflj
not in any way help to im-
prove the skin, but Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap is not
only an absolutely pure soap,
but is medicated on the same
principle as the famous Rexona
Ointment, which is famous
throughout all of Australasia
as the Rapid Healer. That
is why Rexona Soap really
does for the skin and face
what cosmetics are supposed to
do, by ensuring not only a
clean face but a pure and
healthy skin, and thus gives
you a clear complexion. Don’t
forget now is the time.
Take a Tablet home to-night.
It is beautifully put up, and
sold at Is. per tablet; or you
can get it in boxes, each con-
taining three tablets.
Anyone Can Make £2O Weekly with
MOVING
PICTURES
By Showing Events of the Great War.
Secure at once one of our High-grade Biograph Outfits, w hich includes
Latest Model Machine, Patent Lighting Apparatus, Complete Program
of Latest Film, and Book of Instructions. The Whole Outfit, ready to
Show, sent to any part of the World, ranging in price FROM £5 CP, or
BY EASY INSTALMENTS FROM 2/6 WEEKLY.
m
SEND NOW FOR
OUR
FREE
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
It’s full of
Valuable
Information
Concerning
MOVING
PICTURES
There is no easier or quicker way of making money than running a
Picture Show. NO EXPERIENCE IS NEEDED —our Book of Instructions
will teach you all there is to learn in Two Hours.
AYE SUPPLY BIOGRAPH OUTFITS FOR HOME OR THEATRE.
500,000 FEET OF BEST FILM FOR SALE AT % cl. PER FOOT.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH CO. (Regst.)
110-112 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Carts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TO-NIGHT the carts made pathway
through my brain;
Rattle and jolt and heavy rumbling
wheel,
A chain that swung with the cold clank ot
And blunt hoofs beating out a dull refrain.
Night’s linger on the pulse of traffic stills ;
Birds hatch their broken dreams amid the
palms;
The river holds within her drowsy arms
The clouded purples of the crouching hills.
The streets are empty, and the flickering
light
Seems half to sleep, so low is trimmed the
flame.
Gone from dim corners are the shapes ot
shame
To make a part of soundless things.... and
night.
1 meant to sleep and quite forget the day.
Gain strength to face what the to-morrow
brings,
Folding my head beneath Rest’s silver wings
That gently drive the hawk-eyed world
away.
I meant to sleep, luxuriously laid
In that content when souls their Heaven
own.
Thought sank in those calm deeps, like some
flung stone,
And only ripples for a moment made.
When flowers sleep their secrets are astir.
My garden sent a good-night breath to me —
Until the chime of midnight mystery
I had not known my plot held lavender!
And then.... the market carts began their
round!
The hopper carts, the produce carts; the
ruck;
Like a coarse oath across a prayer they
struck,
Beating my brain through as they beat the
ground.
And as they beat the sound became a flood,
Pent with old sighs, and kept abrim with
tears....
The snarling of the mob down reeling years,
The smell of burning houses and of blood.
The dawn on Paris.... rose and silver
sheen....
A soft white trail of cloud curd in the sky,
And on its pearl a naked sign, and high
Where tumbrels roll towards the guillo-
tine ....
Her little head is held erect and proud,
Her little face is paler than the pearl.
The driver leers, unheeded by the girl
Whose bridal gown will make so fair a
shroud!
Shouts from the alley where the Red Caps
dance:
A bare-breast beldame flings a clot of mud.
What matter? She can dye her silks with
blood
As pure and blue as any blood in France!
Carts.... Now the faint light o’er the river
streams ;
The wheels go thundering down the waking
quay.
The guillotine is... . just that stark-limbed
tree....
And these are market carts. . . .and those
were dreams !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Angel Who Came to Europe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Deputy-Inspector of Seventh Class
Worlds had been a little lax. Bnt he
was only a young angel, and rather
given to sky-larking. Thus it was that on
his last visit of inspection to the solar sys-
tem he had flown past the Earth at a height
too great for him even to discern a zeppelin.
As a matter of fact, he had fallen in with
another angelic roundsman who had to "do”
the worlds in the adjoining constellation of
the star Taurus; and they had lingered so
long in that hospitable star system that he
had had no time for a detailed investigation
of the Earth. But he filed his usual report
at Celestial Headquarters, stating that the
World was going on steadily with its usual
evolution. Looking up his previous report,
he stated that civilisation was slowly spread-
ing over this minor planet of a seventh-class
sun, and that its inhabitants were beginning
to find out obvious things like wireless tele-
graphy and radium. As the World was still
in the kindergarten class, the Deputy-Inspec-
tor of Seventh Class Worlds considered that
his report fully covered the ground. So the
report was pigeon-holed; and the youthful
Deputy-Inspector took his overdue four
thousand years’ vacation.
By chance, however, a party of Seraphim
tourists decided to go slumming, and came
near enough to the Earth to notice signs of
unusual activity upon its surface. On their
return to the Celestial City they wrote a
letter to the paper complaining about the
system of inspection of Seventh-class
Worlds, and demanding a Government in-
quiry.
While Headquarters was calling for the
facts, the Celestial Registrar of Births and
Deaths forwarded his weekly report. The
attention of the Chief Celestial Statistician
was drawn to an unexpected increase for the
half-year in the arrivals in Paradise from
this particular world. On further examina-
tion he found that the average age of this
group was much lower than before. Con-
fifmation came from the Director of Accom-
modation for Over-skies Arrivals, who wrote
complaining that the barracks provided for
Earth-souls was already shamefully over-
crowded, so much so that in the crush a
number of new haloes (the property of the
Crown) had been damaged.
The Chief Celestial Statistician reported
that, though his statistics of Hades were
somewhat vague—there was a coolness of
long standing between the Celestial Statis-
tician and the Satanic Statistician—he felt
sure that, judging by the proportion of Over-
skies arrivals in the Celestial City and in
Hades, the supply of instruments of torture
in the latter place would not be sufficient
for the sudden rush of Earthians.
Headquarters studied tlie report with sur-
prise, and at once dispatched the Inspector-
General of Civilisation to investigate the
peculiar happenings on the Earth.
The angel hastened to the distant portion
of the stellar backblocks where, according to
his map, the Earth would be found. He
descended in Belgium, a desolate and
stricken spot, hardly recognisable as the Bel-
gium of his recollections. He made his way
to the British lines, and, being an angel,
got there without mishap. He appeared to
a British artillery officer who was in charge
of a field howitzer.
“Excuse me,” the angel said politely, ‘ I in
an angel.” .
The British officer, who had been fighting
since Mons, and had got so accustomed to
this extraordinary world of the firing-line
where so many peculiar things happened that
he accepted even miracles as ordinary, took
the appearance of the angel without com-
ment. He merely nodded, his ear to a tele-
phone.
The angel asked him what he was doing.
Courteously the officer explained that he
was waiting for his range to fire his gun at
the Germans.
“But why do you want to fire your gun at
the Germans?” .the angel asked.
“Because we want to kill them.”
“But why,” the angel asked, “do you desire
to kill them?”
“Because we are at war with them,” the
officer replied.
“But why?” the angel continued.
“Oh, ask the Kaiser!” the officer said
impatiently. “Right!” He dropped the
telephone, ran to his men, gave the range
and fired.
The angel was interested. “I notice,” he
remarked, “that you’ve smashed up an
ammunition convoy and killed nine men and
wounded 17, of whom three will die to-
morrow. two the following day, and one will
be killed by the bayonet of a private called
Smith next Thursday week. Curiously
enough, both Smith and the German he
killed will go to the same over-skies destina-
tion in company.”
The officer was naturally pleased, and
when the angel asked him why he was
pleased he advised him to apply to the
Kaiser.
The angel vanished, and reappeared in
Poland. There he found a Jewish soldier
concealed behind a tree carefully sniping at
another Jewish soldier, also behind a tree.
Naturally the angel asked why. since they
were both Jews —not that he particularly
liked Jews —and they might indeed be bro-
thers. one Jew should so fiercely desire to
kill the other. _ ,
“Because lie's a Russian, and I'm a Ger-
man,” the soldier wearily explained.
“But neither of you are Russian or Ger-
man,” the angel politely corrected him.
“Well. I’m fighting in the German army,
and he belongs to the Russian army,” said
the soldier. “And Russia and Germany are
at war. Here ! Get behind me, or he’ll see
you, and you'll draw his fire. I don’t know
what my officer meant by letting an angel
loose in this hell. There! I knew it!”
And he fell shot dead at the angel’s feet.
As, of course, the angel knew he would. The
angel was rather sorry, though, since the
question interested him. and now he wouldn't
perhaps ever find out why one Jew was. so
keen to shoot another. But as he was getting
tired of the Russian Jew’s bullets whistling
through his halo he vanished —to reappear
this time at the Dardanelles. ■
He landed on the face of a cliff close. to
the shore, where a little party of Australian
infantry was precariously holding on in the
face of a point-blank fire from the Turks.
The angel courteously introduced himself;
but the Australian private hadn’t been long
enough at the war-game to lose his common-
“ You’re no blankv angel,” he remarked,
firing busily. “No blanky angel would be
fool enough to come here.”
The angel, however, was too eager to find
out the facts of the matter to protest. He
asked Private Backblocks why he, particu-
larly, was firing at a Turk, and why lie
chose this dangerous and uncomfortable cliff
to pursue his hobby?
Private Backblocks informed his visitor
that any fool, even an angel, knew that Eng-
land was at war with Turkey, that this was
a portion of Turkey—though he hoped the
other portions of Turkey would be a little
more habitable —and that Australia was
merely doing her little bit.
“But what grievance have you against
that Turk whom you’re going to kill the
shot after your next?”
“Here,” the Australian answered, “there s
too much of this blanky argument.” And
he shouted to the reserves climbing up the
cliff that he had a spy with him. and, call-
ing out “Below there!” picked the angel up
by his halo, hurled him off the cliff, and went
oil firing. And, of course, lie did kill that
Turk as the angel had prophesied.
The angel vanished immediately lie hit the
beach, and reappeared, somewhat bruised, on
a German submarine. Life on a German
submarine is harassing enough for a German
commander to accept the appearance of
bruised angels as a commonplace of war.
“What are you doing here?” the angel
pleasantly asked.
The commander explained that he was
preparing to torpedo the Lusitania, which
at that moment the angel observed coming
unconsciously toward the submarine.
“Is that a warship?” the angel asked.
“Oh. no.” the German laughed. “It’s a
passenger-ship.”
The angel wanted to know whether it was
because the vessel w r as tin seaworthy that the
German was going to sink it.
The German commander laughed. He ex-
plained that it was precisely because it was
such a fine ship, and had so many women
and children on board, that he was going to
sink her and let the passengers drown. “You
wait a moment,” he chuckled, “and you’ll
see something to laugh at. My men have
been laughing so much at people drowning
that they’re tired of the sight. Though, you
know, drowning people, especially drowning
children, look so comic; they get into such
attitudes! But I’m going to give my brave
men something special to laugh at. You
know I allow each his turn at the peri-
scope. It’s the only diversion I can give
them.”
“But isn’t it very dangerous for you .' the
angel solicitously inquired.
“Not at all. That’s the fun of the thing.
(Continued on next page.)


What is
BACKACHE?
Backache is the Kidneys' Call for Help .
7
e
as
HN
V3k
A •
!
U
i
•vys
>\t
••Every Picture
tells a Story."
When a Woman has Backache, Headache, Rheumatic Twinges,
Urinary Trouble; when she has Aching Limbs and Swollen Joints,
WEAK KIDNEYS ARE THE CAUSE.
A woman lias more than her share of burdens in life.
The care of the house, the needs of the family, the
making and mending —and constant anxiety for everybody
round —except herself.
It is not surprising that women are subject to kidney
weakness—their kidneys cannot stand the strain that’s forced
upon them.
Backache from morn till night, worn and tired before
mid-day with headache, dizziness —to stoop is painful, and to
rise again is torture.
Sallowness, weak heart, sleeplessness, sciatica, rheuma-
tism, dropsy, gravel, stone are outcomes of diseased and tired
kidneys.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills act directly upon the
kidneys —they help them to filter the blood —to take out the
uric acid and impurities that cause the aching back —they give
relief in cases of dropsy, heart palpitation, neuralgia, lumbago,
rheumatism, sciatica, stone, gravel and all urinary ailments.
SYDNEY WOMAN CURED.
Mrs. Sehellnack, Rosehill Street, Parramatta, says:—“For years I
was a great sufferer with disordered kidneys, and as a consequence my
back gave me a lot of trouble. It was very weak and always aching, and
if I stooped the pain in standing up straight again was awful. Every
movement seemed to increase my suffering, and the constant pain made
me feel so tired that may own weight was a burden to me. I was also
troubled with bad headaches and indigestion, and many and many a time
I felt too ill to get out of bed ; hut the children had to be looked after,
and I felt that I must do my work, even if I could hardly crawl. I can’t
remember all the remedies I used. One friend would advise me to take
this, and another to try that, and when each one failed everybody said I
was incurable. One day a friend saw an advertisement about Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. She tore it out and sent it to me, knowing what
a martyr I was. I got the pills at Pye’s Pharmacy and took them
according to directions, and a few bottles cured me. When my husband
came back from Tasmania he was surprised and delighted to find me
cured. I tell everyone with pains in the back to use Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.”
Fifteen years later Mrs. Sehellnack says : —“Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are an excellent kidney remedy. I suffered dreadfully before I
used them, but they put an end to my health troubles fifteen years ago,
and I am still well.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s. 9d. per bottle, or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
YMMXVWVS
PILES
A Lasting' Cure by
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mrs. G. Gavin, 57 Briggs Street, Camperdown, says:—“Three years
ago my husband was suffering terribly from Itching Piles, an ailment that
had troubled him for a long time. One day he was advised to use
Doan’s Ointment, and this remedy, I am pleased to say, relieved him
almost at once, and one pot effected a complete and permanent cure.
Before he got Doan’s Ointment he was always trying different remedies,
but they were powerless to give him ease, and he had almost despaired of
ever finding a cure. Doan’s Ointment, however, banished the complaint,
and he has had no return since his cure was effected, three years ago.
We cannot speak too highly of Doan’s Ointment, and strongly recommend
it as a cure for Itching Piles.”
Twelve months later, Mrs. Gavin says:—“My husband has been
free from Piles since Doan’s Ointment cured him four years ago.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot,
or post free by Foster-MeClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
You see, they’re non-combatants; half of
them are women and children. You watch !”
He gave his order, the torpedo sped, and a
minute later the gigantic ship shuddered.
Then he called his men, in turn, to the peri-
scope, to watch her go down and the passen-
gers drown. They-enjoyed themselves hugely.
What a lot of interesting and humorous
things they would have to tell their wives
and children when .they returned to port!
"But why do you destroy such a nice, big
ship and so many babies and women?” the
asked.
‘‘Well, you see,” the German commander
replied, “we’re at war with England.”
“At war with those drowning babies?”
“Oh yes; some of them, at least, are Eng-
lish babies, and the rest were warned not to
keep them company.”
The perplexed angel saw there was nothing
to do but to interview a person whose name
h ? had frequently heard mentioned, a person
christened Wilhelm. The angel thereupon
materialised at the palace of this Wilhelm.
But Wilhelm was the only person, except
the Australian soldier, who did not recognise
that his visitor was an angel. He told him
testily that he would have to wait, because
he was busy.
“The superior Kultur of the Fatherland,”
he announced presently, “has invented a
method of poisoning the English, instead of
shooting them. My chemists have made ex-
haustive experiments upon dogs—l suggested
British prisoners of war—from which they
undertake to poison the English soldiers so
that they die in dreadful agony, slowly, and
even if they escape with their lives they will
always remain incurable and suffering inva-
lids.”
“But why should you want to do that?”
the angel asked.
“Because thev are my enemies. You see,
I want Paris, and Warsaw, and Calais, and
London, and Australia; and they refuse me.”
“But what do you want all those places
for?”
“To spread my Kultur.”
“Ah,” said the angel, “this Kultur is pro-
bably the explanation lam seekinv Where
could I discover this Kultur?”
“Wherever there are Germans,” Wilhelm
proudly replied.
The angel was delighted at so easy a
solution of his difficulties. “I have just
come through a state tilled with Germans,”
he said. “It was cn'led Belgium. That is
your Kultur, then? It seemed to me to
consist of burning and torture and murder
and destroying cathedrals.”
“Well,” said Wilhelm, “it is necessary to
lay the foundations of Kultur first.”
The angel vanished, made his way
straight back to Headquarters and put in
his report.
Headquarters pondered for a minute, then
ordered His orderly to fetch all the infor-
mation he had about the Earth.
“Why,” said Headquarters, “there’s been
some mistake. According to my decree the
pay of Judgment for the Earth was fixed,
in their chronology, for A.n. 1918.”
He pressed a button, and the Puisne
Judge in charse of Days of Judgment for
Seventh-Class Worlds appeared. He ex-
plained, in answer to Headquarters’ demand,
that there had been a great rush of Days
of Judgments during the past aeon : conse-
quently lie was considerably in arrears. But
in a few thousand years he would reach the
case of the Earth.
t At this moment the angel interrupted.
May I suggest,” he said, “that a Day of
Judgment wouldn’t be of much use to the
Earth?”
. *‘Nonsense!” snapped Headquarters.
Every world needs a Day of Judgment.”
The angel was undaunted. “From my
observations,”. he persisted, “the Earth has
gone mad. It’s busy smashing up everything
of value, killing and mangling everyone left.
I am sure, that on the evidence His Honor
would certify the World as insane.”
“Obviously,” said Headquarters, “we can’t
convict an insane world. Let it go on with-
out a Day of Judgment, like the Wandering
Jew in the Earth’s legends, a lunatic planet
ac large.”
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Hits and Misses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were a small party on our way to
the left wing, where there was to be
a bombardment the following clay and
an advance in the night. We had bivouacked
on a more or less sheltered hillside, and
awoke on a fresh, sunny morning with a mile
of grassy flat between us and a_n expanse of
still blue sea. Except that our quarter-
master had got a stray bullet through his
foot while he slept we might have been a
' Sunday-school picnic or an Easter camp at
Chelsea or Deewhy. But when we were at
breakfast there came a sudden metallic shriek
and a rending crash overhead, then a
whir-r-r and hum of raining metal as the
contents of a shrapnel shell peppered into a
wide area of earth before us. We all stopped
and waited —to see the next one fall shriek-
ing further away, and again lacerate the
tufted face of unoffending nature. After that,
they seemed to run wild, and lobbed viciously
into any old part of the wide anatomy of
Mother Earth that spread before us. But we
didn’t mind that. Even a couple of old
mules wandered about through it all, com-
placently grazing without so much as receiv-
ing a pellet on the rump.
We were still wondering what the gunners
were after, when there came a more re-
sounding bang that shook the earth beneath
us; and a drift of smoke showed where the
shrub and tussock-land met the sea-sands
away in front of us. Then we knew that
somewhere thereabouts an Australian bat-
tery was hidden ; and the argument was one
between our artillerymen and the Moham-
medan —or German —gentlemen hidden away
beneath the distant hills behind us.
With a disconcerting promptness the
enemy sent one within fifty yards of our
hidden gunpit. Had our piece spoken un-
wisely? Anyway, bang! bang! she replied,
this time with double emphasis. A few
moments passed; then, whir-r-r-thump!
thump! and our friends from beyond re-
turned the compliment with two that burst
on contact and threw uo geysers of sand
and earth not far behind where our artil-
lery appeared to be. The shot was a de-
cided improvement on the last. Then our
boom kept a wary silence. But whir-r-r-r-
-tiiump. another one came from the enemy
and dug into tlie earth a hundred yards
snort. This was too much. Bang! bang!
was our impatient reply. After which our
thunderer dozed in dignified silence, as
though it was too old and hard in the head
to frivol away ammunition in promiscuous
shooting.
But our fanatical enemy continued to in-
dustriously spray the unoffending landscape
with lead. Once two shells appeared to
land right on our gunpits. Whereupon the
management so far relented as to issue two
salvos just to show that the same firm
still carried on the old business —and went
on with its breakfast again.
Meanwhile the enemy’s shells continued
to polka around the plain. One struck and
exploded at the root of a lone tree. To
everyone’s surprise a figure materialised out
of the smoke and dust, and trudged away
in stolid disgust. Wearied of the malodor-
ous though comparatively safe trench, he
had ventured down into the breezy but bullet-
swept open country for a quiet, clean doze
on the shaded far-side of the lonely tree,
away from everyone. There the shrapnel
had found him out—which is its way. Ami
either through the explosion or the efficient
Australian language (lie grass was soon
merrily ablaze about the spot he had
quitted.
During the night a company of English,
on the same trek as ourselves, had camped
in the absurd shelter of a small slope down
on our right, and near a small, steep gully
that led up to the firing-line. They ail
appeared young lads, and their officer’s
voice came clearly up to us, expostulating,
rousing or urging Briggs, Jobson. Davis
and Hawkins to more haste or efficiency;
while others sat stowing away tea and bis-
cuit and staring stolidly out on the plain.
Once a. shell burst close and spattered
about them. All dipped their heads with
the perfunctory unanimity of a musical-
comedy chorus; then the matter was for-
gotten and they went on with their chewing
again. Experience had taught us that
nothing was more pleasing to tlie enemy’s
gunners than to catch a body of men passing
up one of these gullies that led to the
trenches and sweep them down with shrapnel.
This gully was a notorious death-trap.
Wherefore it was the custom to navigate it
with some pains and caution ; and we were
curious to see how our nonchalant friends
would fare. But they didn’t seem to worry,
although a couple of shells had already burst
close over them. Ready at last, the O.C. led
the way down into the creek-bed, the strag-
glers gathering their goods and forming up
in the rear. To the onlookers it appeared
like suicide for men to march en masse
through such a place without waiting for a
lull in the firing. The foremost platoon
must have been gone 25 seconds —the others
were still stowing breakfast on the little hill-
side —and we could see their heads bobbing
above the bank as they tramped up the creek-
track. Then the expected happened.
Whir-r-r-r-r-phomb!! The shell seemed to
burst low right amongst them.
“Gawd ! If that hasn’t got half a dozen
of ’em!” began someone breathlessly. The
dust and smoke cleared away and the
same lot of heads seemed to bob along in
the same order! But something told us that
only by a miracle could a party escape in
such a place without losses; so we waited.
Whir-r-r-r-r-phomb! came another into
their midst.
When the dust cleared away we could see
that the heads had stopped and seemed wait-
ing for something.
“My God, they’re waitin’ for more!” ex-
claimed a tense voice beside me. “The gun
ners have got ’em marked —it’s pure murder ”
M hir-r-r-r-r-phomb ! phomb ! rang two more
shells into their midst.
As the dust and smoke shifted we could
see heads and shoulders moving away—in
haste at last.... But a few lingered, and
two were sheltering behind a small shrub—
sheltering in such a place from shrapnel!
Just then someone noticed that their com-
rades were still feeding on the hillside and
unemotionally watching a squad of stretcher-
bearers liurryipg down to the gully.
“Gripes! I believe they’ll get suspicious
in a minute!” hopefully exclaimed Bill Ben-
nett, a practical Australian with.little time
for heroics. But he apparently had his
doubts; for suddenly he half-shouted : “Ili !
Come out of that! They're shootin ’ at
yer!"
Presently, between shells, the stretchers
began to file up out of the gully with their
limp, dusty, blood-and-bandaged burdens,
with helmets pulled over the faces.
Bill clucked his tongue disgustedlv
“Poor beggars!” he grunted. “Jus’ like a
lot er sheep that have lost th’ bell-wether
. . . .pure murder!”
Everyone remained silent in general sym-
pathy. some mentally picturing what lay
uncollected by the bearers in the dusty bell
of that little watercourse. For we, too, had
experienced things in that gully; there were
mates of ours bedded under two feet of its
gravelly covering.
The shelling had gradually ceased by now,
and I had time to reflect on the imperturba-
bility of the English under stress of danger,
and I seemed to find a closer understanding
of such events as the sinking of the Birken-
head. But such things are not of this
period. There is little heroic in a warfare
in which, as I have seen, a man soars for
hours in the sunlight, far above the reach
of shell or bullet, dropping pointed steel
darts into the brains of helpless men below
and a machine-gun waits until a score of
wearied, thirsting men are in a queue before
some scant waterhole to mow them down
like corn before a scythe, in cold blood; and
the relentless shrapnel does its dastardly
work wherever traffic is thickest with the
passing, of sick and broken men, with patient
food and water-carriers, with the unarmed
bearers of the helpless. Each horror waits
for the ripe moment to get the full fruits of
its devilish astuteness.
I tried to unload some of these philoso-
phies on Bill, but he would have none of
them.
“Bah!” he said, as he viciously flicked
flies out of a couple of pints of tea. “If
they wuz Australians they’d er moved out
of it quick an’ lively!”
And I had to agree with him ; and neither
of us felt any shame.
TED COLLES.


WESTINGHOUSE
(Morse) CHAIN DRIVES
R : 1
t wm
«* isggsw
&mMI
SBi
MU®
|fe'\ V *?S
» r
feif ,r <
!>«
«fiV
siSisi dBI i -
For all types of high-speed power
transmission.
Positive in Action,
Silent in Operation,
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to sliding
surfaces. Consequently you have
Full Power,
Continuous Power,
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
frice: 93-°lo7l ! eathei'Ston St., Wellington,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Our NEW CATALOGUE No. 4
DEALING WITH
ENGINEERS’ Supplies
and REQUISITES
Woodworking Machinery,
Boiler Feed Pumps, etc.
IS NOW READY.
WRITE FOR A COPY TO
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOTICE TO READERS.
IF any illustration appearing in Thb
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
iKe’^alldx/rt.
214 George Street, Sydney.
m
Note Your Notes with an
ONOTO
Take an Onoto Pen with you wherever you
may be stationed.
It will save you time and trouble and will
make writing under any conditions possible
and easy.
It is the pen that fills itself and cannot
leak.
Price from all stationers, Jewellers, etc*
12/- and upwards.
m
British made and
(guaranteed by Ite
makers*
Ask for the Special
Service Model ** Oi”
made to fit the Uni-
form pocket.
Onoto
feU-FUUng - • pAfl
%ai&S fountain m
Booklet about the Oaoto Pea
free on application to
Thomas d* la Rue « C®>
Ltd,, iOJ, Bunhin
London, E.C.,
•r die Australasian Managing Agents,
Norman Baker A Longhurst,
go ¥ork Street, Syd«<J.
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WOY, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
tx^c/ima
Cures ECZEMA.
Skin irritation, which makes rest impossible, is
instantly allayed, the very first application producing
wonderful results.
The skin becomes clear and healthy again, and
every disfiguring pimple or rash completely disappears.
Exzerma is a household remedy, and no home
should be without a bottle.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
or by
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. [2
ARE YOU
tureD
Have vou grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it M,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and ohafing leather
understraos. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which Serts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GrKE A FREE TRIAL
in every instate. The price is witmn the
reach of all. Can you ask for mow?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT »nd SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. ♦‘Time tells
all things” says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. ,It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled, price Io£d. (36 pills) I/I J (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/6.
Mad® in England.
m
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks ol
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
SOUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
fht cough of BRONCHITIS and
00H8UMPTI0H.
Aoto like a charm In
OIARRHCEA and simple
DYSENTERY.
DINNEFORD’S
DINNEFORD'S
Magnesia
I IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Aoidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
Your
Engine
will only
produce its
maximum
power
—with proper
care and
attention I
m
therefore you need
Plume Benzine
the fuel that takes more air;
keeps the engine cool and clean;
gives maximum power, and more mileage
to the gallon than any other benzine,
whilst
Gargoyle Mobiloils
ensure frictionless running.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand


Mangrovite
Tanned
Sheepskin
Vests.
...
Superior Quality.
Short, Clean Fleece.
charleTlbdowici,
Tanner and Manufacturer,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only),
Tel. 2898. Near G.P.O.
MADE ONLY IN HOLLAND.
m
THE
PUREST
SPIRIT
il*"
$0?
38*-
>2
\W\
wmm.
WORLD
m
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID i ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES BARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
mm
RELIABLE MOTIVE POWER^
for Shearing, Pumping, Woodcutting, Milking, Irrigating, Chaffcutting.
* *
“ TANGYE" New Pattern Lampless Kerosene Oil Engine, started Immediately without
Blow Lamp. Particularly Reliable and Economical to run.
“ CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH ” Portable Steam Engine, the long established favorite
on the Australian market. Has large wheels, giving plenty of clearance.
DALGETY & CO. LTD. , Miller’s Point, Sydney. Sole Agents, also, for Tangye Pumps, Suction Gas Plants, etc.,
Nicholson & Morrow Agricultural Implements, Munro Chaffcutters, Gane Milking Machines, Wolseley Shearing Machines.
iiToaA] :
WOLSE
MOST FAVOURED BY BOTH SQUATTERS AND
DALGETY & CO. LTD. AGENTS
SHEARERS
SfIECP
SHEARING
CRANE
125
Dependable Steam Valves—They Hold Tight
This cannot be claimed for every valve, in
these days of Hard service and extreme tests.
Crane Valves for Every
vice
[are recommended because every finis bed Crane Valve is tested
before leaving the facStory to more than twice the pressurl they
must stand in a<stual every-day service, which ensures absolute
safety at the rated working pressure.
Call or write for Price Cists. Agents carry in StocK
STEAM and FULLWAY VALVES tip to 12"
m
m
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
to
ffi4
II?
A
Pressure Filters, Fountain Filters.
Glass Filters. Water-bag Filters.
Special Filters for Hotels, Cordial Factories, Breweries, etc.
GET ONE EARLY AND AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT.
From all Stores or direct from Manufacturers.
.GUTHRIDGE LTD.
Equitable Building,
SYDNEY, Ring City 7719.
THE ABBOTT’'
