

the Veteran ot Whiskies
v- • .' - . V, ; ' • * .. .. - / . .•; • - • . '
R. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
o*l all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
NSW- MONT DE PIETE D SI C? LIB
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
site National
186 C stlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
AHU Hi
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
E3iinnSmfflTii»isimniia;nn;sßsiiui.E:,T.i'.g
Beagidail
ilwaosMl
li:iii
Ira
I't >m\
1 v II!
•■iiraPiriiPiPonif
■i ■„ laailiMrM, laar iibmim
Mlllill ii;U.;Hl^!'!iV».i'iliilHllilli«lHl‘
SO3EB'uOL«.7.
m*
■
Ijadley 8 Orient fjotel.
PICHARDSOrS
Wine 8 Spirit
Stores,
259 Little Collins St,
MELBOURNE.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
i*
5
Bottle, Case or Gallon at 1
Prine.
r->
mm
MKi
m
aiilmliill!
ifliftiiT
Take it back.
I must have—
HUTTON’S
fine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA N SE NS
fi
cl 1
TABLETS
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
0
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber=cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER GO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
HAVE YOU HAD A
SAMPLE OF
Hundreds of the finest Homes and Offices in Australia are decorated with
Amiwud. Possibly you have never seen it; possibly yon don’t know what it is.
It is a reproduction of the Hardwoods for Panelling. We want to send you
Samples and Booklets, illustrating its use. Will you let us? What address?
mu
n
n
dfgf
(Makers of
MA
i * £>?
, Sydney.
.
<D. S. EVANS, Australasian
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. o.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
STEEL TRUCK
dfgf
TOOTH Its use gives a delicious sense of clean freshness to the mouth.
PASTE.. It is genuine British, Made in Australia with Australian and British Products.
The Bulletin
Yol. 36.—N0. 1845. J
[Thursday, June 24, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


MELBA’vS GIFT BOOR
(Ready early
in July.)
Of Australian Art and literature, for the Belgian Relief Fund.
Australian Authors and Artists, at the invitation of Madame Melba, have combined to make a worthy
Gift Book) -to l assist the’ Belgian Relief Fund. There will be eight plates in full color, twenty full-page
etchings, two-color, and black-and-white drawings, as well as numerous drawings and decorative designs
in the text of 176 pages. Everyone should possess a copy as a memento of this Great War.
Price, 4/-; posted, 4/3.
There will be a limited Edition de Luxe, autographed by Madame Melba, and sold for One Guinea
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y LTD., 23* PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
Eumenthol
JUJUBES
For COUCHS,
COLDS, SORE
THROAT,
and the
Prevention of
Consumption.
A. The Larynx or
organ of voice.
B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes o! a dis-
sected lung.
D. A lobe of one
of the lungs.
dfg
LET THE BUYER BEWARE!
CAUTION. —The large sale for “Eumen-
thol JUJUBES” has led to a number of imita-
tions being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S “Eumenthol Jujubes.” You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s “Eumen-
thol Jujubes.” This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s “Eumen-
thol Jujubes.”
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Tim, 1/6.
is.
The Red Page
War is a Smell
' The idea of selecting a professional humor-
ist for a war-correspondent lias, in at least
one case, proved a brilliant success. Irvin
o. Cobb, an American writer, being a neu-
tral > was welcomed by the German stall',
and offered facilties for which correspon-
dents with the Allies sighed in vain. And
the humorist, dealing with the least humor-
ous subject in the experience of mankind,
has written the finest war-correspondence
yet published. But there is no humor in
it. Irvin S. Cobb is more honest than most
war-correspondents' in admitting that he
knows nothing of strategy, or, indeed, of
the meaning of the military movements that
he was permitted to notice ; but he gives us
just the illuminating detailed pictures that
enable the civilian to reconstruct the partic-
ular brand of hellisliness called war. His book,
The Red Glutton (Hodder and Stoughton,
per Dymoek’s < Library) is composed of
articles that have been more quoted from
than those of any other war-correspondent.
The war will have made one literary repu-
tation, at least.
Irvih''S.' Cobb’s inethod is the only truth-
™ method permitted to the correspondent.
He tells you only what lie sees. And the
nearer. he got to the war the less he under-
stood its scope.- He was too close to the
canva,s to see the whole picture; but he
could, and did, see the brush-strokes, the
color-shadings, the infinite small detail. Only
once was he permitted to see a section of
the war picture, when he was allowed to
ascend in a captive German balloon during
the progress of an engagement. And all he
saw wah “some grey grub-worms” (German
infantry) advancing one behind the other,
and beyond them “a row of tiny scarlet
dots, like cochineal bugs, showing minutely
but clearly” (French infantry, whose red
trousers showed as they wriggled forward
on tlieir faces).
“The grey grubs had shoved ahead until
they were grey ants; and now all the ants
concentrated into a swarm, and, leaving the
trenches, began to move in a slanting direc-
tion toward a patch of wood. Some of them,
I think; got there, some of them did not.
Certain puff-balls of white smoke, and on
big smudge of black smoke, which last sig
nified.a bomb of high explosives, broke ove
them gud among them, hiding them from
sight for a space of seconds. Dustclouds
succeeded the smoke; then the dust liftec
slowly. Those ants were not to be seen
They 1 d altogether vanished. It was a
though .n anteater had come forth invisibl
and eaten them all up.”
Cobb was unable to convince himself tha
he had -.seen men destroyed, and not insects
And once, through a telescope, he wa
permitted fo observe a similar scene. “Quit
distinctly I counted three mannikins who
instantly fell down flat and two others who
went ahead a little way deliberately anc
then Iny down. The rest darted back to
the coyer: The five figures remained where
they had dropped and became quiet. They
were just little grey strips. Into my mind
on the moment came incongruously a memory
of what I had seen a thousand times in the
composing-room of a country newspaper
where the type Avas set by hand. I thought
of five pica plugs lying on the print-shop
floor.”
But Cobb has grimmer pictures than these.
He does not let us forget the smell nor the
flies.
“Every; Woodland (where men had crawlec
to die).' in Northern France was a poison
place, and remained so until the freezing of
winter- sealed up its abominations.”' The
smell of 1 the dead could be felt five miles
away from the battlefield. Only as long as
the men can keep on smoking, a German ex-
plained, can they stand it. “Thousands of
dead between the lines —been there for 20
days....and once in a while a shell falls
into one of those trenches. Then-well,
then, it is worse for those who serve in the
front lines/’
“I stood there and I smelled the smell.
And I thought of all those flies, and those
blood-stiffened stretchers, and those little
inch-long figures which I myself, looking
through that telescope, had seen lying on the
green hill, and those automobiles loaded with
mangled men, and War de Luxe betrayed it-
self to me. Beneath its bogus glamor I saw
war for what it is—the next morning of
drunken glory.”
“As I sit and look back on what I myself
have seen of it, this war seems to me to have
been not so. much a sight as a smell. Every-
thing which makes for human hanpiness and
human usefulness it has destroyed. What it
has bred, along with misery and pain and
fatted bur.ving-grounds, is a vast and loath-
some stench and a universe of flies.”
It is an awful picture-that Cobb draws of
a railway station, which had been converted
by the Germans into a victualling point for
troops going south to the fighting and a way
hospital for the sick and wounded coming
back from the fighting. The trains bearing
the wounded came in at intervals varying
from 10 minutes to an hour; and this traffic
in marred and mutilated humanity had been
going on for four weeks when Cobb saw it,
and is fcertainly still going on now. These
trains moved by sluggish stages, and with
long halts in between; for the merciless rule
in war (German war) is that the trains of
wounded must wait upon the sidings while
the troop trains from home sped down the
cleared main line to the front.
“The man who got himself crippled be-
came an obstacle to further progress; where-
as the man who was yet whole and fit was
the man whom the generals wanted. So
the fresh grist for the mill, the raw material,
if you will, was expedited upon its way to
the hoppers; that which already had been
ground up was relatively of the smallest con-
sequence.” Thus it was that these .crippled
men would take at-least a week to go a dis-
tance that would ordinarily take less than
12 hours. “We could smell this train as we
could smell all the trains, when it was yet
50 yards away from us.” Technically these
men were lightly wounded men, therefore
they were unattended by surgeon or nurse.
The picture Cobb gives of the harassed doctor
at the station hurriedly ripping off bandages
and operating where incipient mortification
had set in, in a mess of filth and flies, is
hardly quotable.
But the climax in piteousness comes in
the mere mention by Cobb that he saw in
desolated Liege Belgian kiddies playing at
Soldiers. There was one game, however,
which was frowned upon by their parents:
it was the game of executions. One child
stood against a handy wall, as the condem-
ned culprit and half a dozen others made up
the firing squad. No wonder the surviving
mothers objected!
The Love-letter
The real love-letter, the perfect love
letter? Somehow, out of 70 example
submitted, this page has failed to dis
cover it. Not one of these letters looks
the real thing: the commercial taint o:
the guinea prize is over them all. For the
test of a love-letter is simple. The dictionary
definition is “a letter between sweetheart
and concerning love.” Between sweethearts
remember. A love-letter is meant only for
Her or for Him ; hence it will be fully under
stood only by that particular Her or Him
Head by a third party, even so sympathetic
a one as this page, there would surely be in
love-letter some reference to some incident
some trivial little love-secret, that would be
more or less unintelligible. The real love
letter is a cryptogram, the code-words of
which are known only to two persons in the
world, the writer and' the recipient. One
writer, it is true, suggests this intimacy by
adding to her signature a hieroglyphic that
looks like a cross between a Masonic sign
and the Chinese word for “wowser,” with the
remark, “Only you “and I know the meaning
of this !” But in the real love-letter, there
would be no need for that comment. The
recipient would know that it was a delicious
secret between those two. This touch of
intimacy is sadly lacking in most of these
love-letters: they seem to have been
written for publication—as, of course, they
were!
For the appreciation of a love-letter a third
party must merge himself or herself into the
personality of the recipient. A love-letter
is not meant. for public criticism. Consid-
ered by a third party, most love-letters are
humorous, banal, foolish or pathetic; but
imagine that you are in love with the writer
and the writer is in love with you, and what
is inherently silly, humorous, cheap or forced
becomes, for you, a miracle of love. The
only humor allowable in a love-letter is
unconscious humor; and in simulating this
unconscious humor of the love-stricken writer
several competitors have admirably succeeded.
No woman or man in love can be both
humorous and passionate—and that is why
“N.A.E.,” in attempting to be funny, shows
that she is not in love.
Contrary to expectation, almost as many
letters were written by Him to Her as by
Her to Him. There were also nine girls who
wrote, under a male pseudonym, to other
girls—an interesting side-light on the writers’
personalities. They wrote the sort of love-
letter they would like to receive.... and
hadn’t? And there were three men who
signed themselves as females and wrote to
themselves! One competitor sends his love
to his “Darling Bully,” and tells of the bliss
he. feels every Thursday when the postman
brings him the pink-clothed maiden “in her
drab sash with the name of the writer’s house
mis-spelled.” Another competitor has fallen
hopelessly in love with Miss Mary McCom-
monwealth. and cares not who knows it. He
is frantically jealous of the Religious Editor.
Excellent, but otherwise imperfect love-
letters were submitted by “Dick” (Black
Wattle Range), “Kathie,” “Maia,” “Towers-
ite” (the lover’s ever-welcome catalogue of
his maiden’s itemised charms), “Undergrad,”
“Helen” (telling her husband for two pages
that she loves him, and then adding the nice
P.S.: “Jim, do you know that I love you?”),
“Ever or Never Yours” (whose heart is half
given to him and half to literature, and who
writes because she is in love with writing),
the poet to his “Shireen” (who, being a
poet, cannot write a love-letter, because his
lady is but a peg upon which to hang his
poetry, and girls are made, for nicer and
warmer things than that. Yet even a poet
can make a great discovery, as this one does
when he tells his “Shireen” that the real
reason of his love for her is “a small mole,
that only you and I know of, on the silken
softness of your ivory-tinted skin.” Still he
needn’t have run into adjectives over her
skin: the mole was the only thing that
mattered, and even the identification of it
must have been superfluous to the girl, since
she would naturally know its whereabouts.)
“Jane” (who has been jilted), “Enola,”
“Motura” (who writes poetry, not passion,
and finds allegories in stones, similes in the
running brooks, and Him in everything),
“Francis” (who, with the dramatic sense too
highly developed, refuses him elaborately in
her letter, and nicely accepts him in the in-
evitable postscript. Could a lover ever for-
give a woman who played a trick like that in
a moment of such solemn importance? Love
is too serious a' matter for humor—to those
in love) “Darkie,” the anonymous lady who
sent her love-screed in typewritten (who has
little to say but “Darling” and “that last
long kiss”), and “Cynthia.”
One competitor raises, a nice point. He
states that the honest, straight-forward love-
letter has been rendered out of date by the
daily newspaper and the telegraph wire. “All
real love messages conveying true sentiment
are now jambed into a line of a newspaper
column or the 16 words of a telegraph form.”
I-Ie offers samples: “Dearest, to-nlglit, eight,
railway, love, Obadiah” ; and “Screw raised
two hundred how about it now? Oby.”
“Margaret” writes a charming love-letter
—and breaks off to say: “The grass has been
green on your grave this many a day, Laddie,
but it solaces me sometimes in the lonely
twilight to sit down and write you the fond
and foolish letters I wrote long ago.” A
pathetic fancy, but for any purpose but
inclusion in a work of fiction, too literary.
“Hal” writes of a storm in a teacup, just
because it is raining on that night of all
nights, and an orgeish aunt builds barriers
about his Trixie. True love laughs at
aunts. “Ariki” becomes melodramatic, and
therefore incurs the suspicion of artificiality ;
and his P.S. shows artificiality, too: —
Don’t worry about your hanky, I mean, don’t think
you dropped it to-night. I’ve got it, and I want
it. It’s got that scent you use on it. And, look,
one other thing I want. You remember that bath-
ing-suit you wore, the last time we were in to-
gether. Send me that like a kind Kid. Don’t
worry. I will keep them all at the office with the
bebe and hair-ribbon.
In the midst of “Stella’s” farewell to the
man she loved five years' before, because she
has grown tired of waiting and is going to
marry the other man on the morrow, she
breaks out: —-
I do not believe any man living adequately real-
ises the monotony, the stagnation, the utter empti-
ness of the life of the average suburban girl, parti-
cularly that of the badly-off suburban girl, to which
class I belong.
Little pleasures, little loves,, little hates, little dis-
contents, little ideals, little, little, little everything!
A general reflection quite out of place in
such a personal communication as a love-
letter. “F.F.” is hardly for publication;
the tenor of his letter is sufficiently sug-
gested by its opening sentences: “Don’t be
scared, Eva, when you get thinking it all
over to-day. I’m going to stick to you
all right.” “Queery” tells him of “that night!
God! Could I ever forget it?” And how she
wants him to kiss her over and over again,
and she won’t mind if he hurts her. Her
love-letter repeats the burden of many
another love-letter sent in; but she does it
really rather well.
“Zara” explains too much ; she tells him
—or us?—the story that he already knew ;
but as a sample of passion her letter is worth
printing.
In giving the prize of one guinea to
“Mick Much,” this Page confesses itself
unable to state its reasons for its preference
over the other love-letters here printed, and
over others that will be printed in succeeding
issues. The merely humorous love-letters
deserve space rates, but not the prize for a
love-letter; and each of the other letters
has some quality not to be found in the
prize-winning entry. And though- these
other ten writers have been debarred the
honor, they get the cash. And this is the
last love-letter competition this page, any-
how, is going to be rash enough to hold.
J*
Alexandria
Dear Kid
Its up to me to get going again with a let-
ter to you but its crook when a blokes got to
write—wouldn’t it be a bit of orlright if we
cud just have a rorty old smoodge, none of
this citting down scratching with a pen
about what I cant write ennyhow. You
cant make a letter feel not nohow can you
Kid. Wouldnt I like to be feeling your breaf
on me now- —better an ennything. Square
an all it knocks me kite in trying to tell
things on paper but I cant come at you enny
other ways so hears on the scribble.
You neednt go crook about tarts in these
parts. There Dago skirts. I wouldnt swop
a paddiclc ful of the pick of them for the
sliadder of your little finger—youd know
that if I was near you. The only women
that aint multy agen good old Australians I
seen hear is nurses an you bet there on too
much trade to chuck a glad eye round. There
not the sort to try a meet with enpyhow,
mightswell try to knock a picture winder in
a church—but none of thems my Kiddie —-
what!
I suppose I gotto tell why I writting this
from ere. This is were they got a bosh-
ter hospital an Im on a hblliday at it. It’s
orlright old girl nothun bad with your tough
old Micko. You see I was with the blokes
wen we was put up to block them greasy
rag hat Turks at Gallipoli. They was
pottin our heads like hell so we hopps out an
went for them. A few prods of the bayonet
knocked the swine. My cobber an me had a
go up a range, cliff they call them, were more
was yelling an potting. Soons we got up
the cobber was a goner fair done in with
bullets, and it sent me off pop I tell you.
Ennyhow I got on to a few ipore but I got
crook after a bit and took a spell. Lots
more of the blokes come up an went past
an afterwards a Red Cross bloke shook me
up an kidded Id been knocked out.
Thats how Im at this dart. You ought to
be in this act—its orlright ony for one thing
—you. Im leaving soons they give the
word. Id sooner see you if ony for a while
even than have a cut at that Kaiser swine.
You cant tumble to what I feel about you
no use me trying to put it with a cow of a
pen. If I wasnt fair shook I’d never have
a go at writting. But Im screwing every
letter that comes hear for more frum you.
Letter writtings a cow but yours are next
to as good as you. There somethin youve
touched since I saw you an there meant for
me an no other coot.
Im orl out now Kid old girl. I know you
wont be letting other blokes get your fancy
will you. I’ll see you soon—this shindy ill
soon be over now an then wont we be fixed
up. Well make a shyin paif in double
harness. 11l have a bit more for the house an
enough ; for a fair' bit of stock ; for a staid;, so
Kiddie old girl well get going soons Im back
wont we.
Bear up and think the mugging marks at
the bottom are IT. There not but I put
them there like you put yours and we cun
both kid ourselves a bit about them. Dont
forget to think of tue always and be sure Im
doing orlright.
Your old bloke
Beloved
You have asked me to write to you, to tell
you of myself after you left me—last night.
Was it only last night V Can it be only a
few short hours since I lay sobbing in your
arms? when your voice rough and broken
with sudden passion, you gasped out “I love
you dear—God forgive me for telling you—l
love— you.” You asked me if I had not
guessed? I had —but had put the thought
from me, some little touch that I did not know
of —broke down your guard.... And as I
lay silent crushed against .your breast in the
quiet car—a light gleamed suddenly in a
tiny cottage at the bottom of the hi 11.... We
both had the same thought—and when you
breathed my unspoken wish —-I could not
deny it. How I would wait for you there
my darling, listening with madly beating
pulses for the faint far off signal—the first
flash of the head lights... .And then, the
passionately desired heaven of your arms, the
breathless joy of your lips on mine It is
all so wrong —so hopeless—to love as we
do is a reckless madness—-that can only end
in misery. You say my kisses give you new
life —and I love you to gay so but what of
me? —over everything that has gone before a
mist seems to have gathered, and the future
—-I dare—not —think—-of ! !
Dearest —we have nothing to look forward to
—we have had our little enchanted hour—
what is left for us? Shall we say our long
goodbye? I am so tired tonight—so deadly
tired of trying to do what is right and I want
you so —I want you!! That if you were to
come—if once your longing arms were round
me—•. . . .but you must not. Goodnight dear
heart. I shall dream lam in. your arms—.
and you.? )
But you will tell me—tell me in burning (
whispers in the scented dusk of the night. ]
with my bare arms against your throat and
your passionate lips on mine.... Until then
.. /.lover of mine ' -
Goodnight .
J*
to lib. melon and 1 lemon allow flb.sugar
10/lbs. melon „ ?
I x I x f = 141bs.
You dear old Silly [scratched out by author\
You dear old, mean old, darling to go off
to the office and let me have a perfectly
miserable morning, what was it you got an-
noyed with me about?—Oh! I know —I had
again forgotten to make the stupid stud hole
smaller in your shirt -??!!! Oh darling
wasn’t it trivial, wasn’t it awful of us to get
so annoyed about it, when I think of how we
love each other. But that’s why it doesn’t
really matter does it? Do you know my
dearest, I’ve been thinking lately how very
lucky I am —I have all the wealth of your
love (and there is a lot sometimes, eh? Why
the other night [scratched out by author]
Well, you know! and thousands of women
don’t ever know or ever will know now,
because of this awful war, what it means at
all, and how we smile when we read how
girls write about love or how I used to think
what it would be —what a small thing, mostly
hanging on a kiss, I often look at our married
friends and think do they feel like I do, are
they really alive and awake —but I’m sure
they are not, I don’t envy one woman her
man, they haven’t got what we have, the
frank honesty with each other and our love,
oh the relief—oh the joy of it and I write in
humbleness and thankfulness to you my own
(because you are you know) for the great
love you have given me and have taught me
not to be afraid to give you—oh we live—we
have lived and will live and love and give
and adore :
You old nuisance making me write this
letter —I’ve burnt all the jam I was making
for the soldiers—*—
Don’t you dare to come home for dinner—
I’ve got horribly red eyes and a cold in the
head and I wonff look anything like you said
I looked last night—are you quite sure my
dress wasn’t just a wee bit too low? I think
perhaps you had better go to the club to-night.
Will you?
Your own.


dfg
Anthony Horderns’ for the Winter Fashions
Vh
8300
No. 8300. —Smart Coat of Imitation Broadtail,
three-quarter length, wide Raglan Sleeves, new hared
skirt, fastens to side with ornaments of Self, lined Silk
throughout 84/-
Similai' designs 00/6
No. 5314. —Serviceable Sports Coat, in ribbed
Nap Cloth, Raglan Sleeves, loose shape with Belt,
patch pockets; in Reseda, Emerald or Purple
shades 35/0
No. 4820. — Useful Sports Coat, in Cheviot
Serge, Raglan Sleeves, roll Collar, finished Belt at
waist, in soft shades of Saxe, Grey, Brown, Rose,
Cardinal, Tan, Navy, or Cream .. . . 20/0
FASHION and Economy go hand in
hand in the Green Room at the New
Palace Emporium,, where every phase
of the Winter Styles is shown in vadety
that makes light of the Dress Problem.
m
V
63
536
No. 163. — Japanese Silk Blouse, ivory, Black or
Navy, fastens front 6/11
No. 536. Flannel Blouse, White with Black stripe,
White Flannel Collar and Vest, loose, set-in sleeve 11/6
<
I
146
892
No. 892. Smart Flannel lllouse. White with Mauve and
Brown stripes, Raglan Sleeves, roll Collar, Brown Silk,how, front
fastening 8/0
Or White Flannel with Black stripe, plain White Collar and Black
Velvet knot 11/6
No. 146. Smart Blouse, Of striped French Flannel, Raglan
Sleeves, White with Black, Navy with White or Red, Black with
llelio. or Red with Black stripes 10/9
CONSULT our Illustrated Price Lists for
anything you want. Write for copies,
posted free on request; they place the
immense resources of the New Palace
Emporium at the command of everyone
in Australia,
No. 4410.—A11-wool Cheviot Sports Coat, Raglan
Sleeves, fastens high at neck with large fancy Buttons,
finished with wide Belt round hips, in Navy only.. 19/e
Similar design (No. 5310) in Corduroy Blanket Cloth, with
Raglan Sleeves, in shades of Brown, Purple, Cardinal, Black
or Navy 49/6
No. 629. — Stylish %-length Coat, of Imitation Pony
Skin, military effect, with new full back, finished wide
Belt, inset Sleeves, fastens with Braid Ornaments, lined
silk £6/6/-
Similar style 80/-
n
iff
y
«i«i iii'Bi'i imw
,11,1 iff |li ij!
iiltili! 1 ! 1 .!
J/teSfra/id.
3/>e
/ &fm/nsfer
The Strand. Coat, in a Warm Nap Tweed, smartly
tailored ; Cinnamon only ; fitting small Lady s goi -
Size 45in. 48in. 6hn.
35/6 35/6 35/6
The Westminster. Coat, in Checked Blanket Tweed,
perfectly cut; fitting- Grown and Maids’ and small Ladies
figures —
Size 42in. 45in. 48in. 51in -
-24/6 24/6 25/6 25/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
Pala.ce E,mporiu.m,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


it
"AT. q ?k
soft
point
<- lL
-
F
SM
ss
From Ingot to Case
Through all the various processes of manufacture,
from the metal in the ingot, or from the other raw
materials, to the packing in the shipping cases,
vVinchester Rifle, Pistol and. Shotgun Cartridges
are constantly watched over and inspected by
experts. This system of manufacture produces
ammunition as perfect as it can be made.
That is why
WINCHESTER
CARTRIDGMS
enjoy the highest reputation for quality and de-
pendability. That is why they are the first
choice of shooters everywhere and the biggest
selling brand on the market. Winchester
Cartridges are made for all kinds of rifles,
revolvers and shotguns. All reputable
dealers keep them and will supply your
wants.
Ask For The w Brand
Fortify yourself
with Bovril
IT MUST BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
(D
Cceur de Lion
understood
perfectly
He knew that courage and cheer-
fulness depended on good
digestion and perfect elimination.
He didn’t have Cockle’s
Pills. But he managed
as well as he could
without them. All the
brave hearts, all the bright
and cheery and successful
men and women of to-day,
know what Richard Coeur
de Lion knew. Human
nature, human digestion
and elimination, have not
changed in the least. But
now, instead of the violent
remedies that Richard
took, we know that the
best possible way is to
give nature the gentle
help she needs, by taking
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMIES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond St,, London, Eng.
mmu
z
LAM).
Write for
particulars to
DROIT”
Swedish
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
for ail purposes on
k
m
MARINE.
I ARM, STATION, COUNTRY HOUSE OR M./TOR-BOAT
WOOD AND CHAFF CUTTING, PUMPING, ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
Crude oil is cheaper than kerosene and safer. Power costs onlv
one-third that of a petrol engine with our system of water injection
Our Marine type, for Fishing Boats and small Tugs, a Speciality,
Swedish Drott Motors,
c. HILDEBRAND, Agent
306 Kent Street, Syunev’
P.O. Box 2097.
BISTO is a fine dry powder
which thickens, colours and
seasons gravy, soups, stews,
meat puddings, etc. No flour,
salt or
brownin
is
needed.
OISIO
is
“ Everything
but the meat.”
All Grocers. In Tins, Made by Cerebos, Ltd.
You Cannot Buy a Better Present
•• r\\ fr.ll - j r . •
“O! tell me a good fountain pen-
Not one that will write now and then,
Of this there’s no doubt
That you can’t do without
Onoto —the self-filling pen "|
D 0 e o La t ßnt S * i rL nB i S' vario “ s ™° de, s. free on application to
nos. L>e La Rue & Co., Ltd. Bunhill Row, London, E.C*
*-***• ounniu kovv, London, E.C*
Onoto Pen
Fill* Itself—Cannot Leak—Price from 12/
IMPORTANT.— For those who require a
larger pen with a very flexible nib,
has been put on the market a special model .-.
L- ~the new G. Try this new Gat your .*
.. stationers.
rrrpmM,
ft i
1 ■{,
d upward
-:V [' * ■' 1
■: .
m
MISS ADDINGTON
Modern Miracles
-—-The beautiful daughter of
Mrs. R. A, Addington, Argent St. 3
Broken Hill, is declared to have I
been cured of St. Vitus' Dance by
CLEMENTS TONIC
RECENTLY in France a peasant woman whose little girl had
been bedridden with paralysis for years, had occasion to
f cll urchyard which contained the statue of a well-
hnnav l l ]- of the mould from the tomb adhered to her
handkerchief, which, upon touching her child, cured her. This
tact is vouched for upon reliable authority.
Miracles are not all confined to the older countries, for we have
heard also of similar remarkable incidents in newer countries,
and very often in Australia. A few years ago a certain section
of Broken Hill was electrified by the recovery from apparently
incurable St. Vitus Dance of the daughter of Mrs R A Adding-
ton of Argent Street. It was on the 10th October, 1911 when
first the mysterious cure was reported. The mother, being seen
by a special interviewer, and, overcome by gratitude that her
daughter was heaithy again, told the facts at once. She said
that, the disorder occurred through her daughter falling from a
tram. This gave her a great shock, and so affected her nervous
system that eventually St. Vitus’ Dance ensued She became so
bad that it was impossible to hold a knife and fork, and going out
of the house was out of the question. This remarkable condition
continued for some time, medical skill being useless Mrs
Addington declared, WHEN SUDDENLY, AS THE RESET T OF
USING CLEMENTS TONIC, a wonderful change took place She
gradually improved, and soon regained her normal condition
Nearly two years have elapsed since her complete recovery and
all that time she has enjoyed the best of health. “1 have ’°reat
faith in Clements Tonic, and always recommend it,” added the
mother, “and you can make what use you wish of this.”
ALL STORES AND CHEMISTS SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
Sec you get the Original Medicine. Do not accept any “just as
remedy. There is only one real Clements Tonic. *
>oo< I”


All is Food in
dfg
Food
When you prepare Benger’s
Food with fresh new milk, ic
forms a dainty and delicious
cream. In this form, all the
nutritive elements in both the
milk and the Food itself are
made soluble, ready for bodily
nutrition.
Consequently Benger’s is
assimilated with ease, even
in illness, when other food
b \
i
hi
178 A
causes pain
and distress.
Benger’s Booklet-A little
work of authority on the
special feeding of Children,
Invalids, and tne Aged, will
be sent post free on appli-
-1 cation to
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.
Manchester, Eng.
Branch Offices—
New York (u.s.a.)
92. William Street.
Sydney (n.s.w,),
117, Pitt Streeti
Canadian Agents —
National Drug and
Chemical Co. Ltd..
34, St. Gabriel Street,
Montreal, and branches
throughout Canada.
Sender’s Food is sold
by Druggists, etc.,
where.
HIM ROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
dfg
dfg
QUICK RESULTS
USE
dfg
dfg
(|PILLfIRINE
It develops a smart, stylish mous-
tache in double-quick time. That's
the merit of Oapillarine—it gives
results. If other preparations have
failed don't despair—try Capillar-
ine. SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY.
10/6 JAR, POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AIIKEN,
654 Ccorgre St.
SYCN£Y.
Established Over oO Years.
TOBACCO KILLS!
ZZr.
a
■jz
?
Face to Face with Death l
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “l was a hard smoker for 30
years, but since taking your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
“OX THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Bormington’s
Jubes
For the VOICE * *
THROAT (Si LUNCi
ThwfS 1 0f ? niq ! le ; lnd valuable curative properties of Bonnincrton’s Irisli Moss.
The y afford immediate relief in case of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice Huskiness
these^Jubes°ai 1 e g entir«f^f llllT f rollble i) etC : VVhilst soothing and antisepticin their action,’
mese Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
fro.
«-«e
t*S
>5
*s*
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
them Ihe best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
Tf not obtainable Really, send yirice iti
stamps to
Bonnington Co., Ltd.
17 1 HMililS >TUEET - - SYDNEY
r'l 1
»
MAKE UP YOUR
MIND TO HAVE
A PERFECT
BUST
there are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-
bosomed, hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and
suffering the effects of a naan ia and defective digestion, who are now for
the first time in their lives healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and
enjoying the full vigor of robust womanhood, as tiie result of a few
weeks under our wonderful
" FLESH-FOOD »» TREATMENT.
Many women whose figures have been spoiled by maternal duties
have been entirely restored to splendid form, and flat-chested young
women who suffered slow development have had the fault corrected by
this treatment with lasting effect.
Flesh-Pood is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is
beyond question, and its use no demand upon the subject's time. Many
cases gained up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measure-
vv •,vmriv mont up to S and 10 inches. Guarantee given in every case.
muma.n who lacks good bust development lacks the one essential that creates a perfect
appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt-cellars” quicklv take from
a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in
so tar as natural development is concerned, but science has found a wav to correct vour deficiency.
Lven though you have never been full-bosomed, and though you have been attenuated all your life,
l yon suffer from no wasting disease, your bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased
o notma IT HAS BEEN DONE FOR THOUSANDS WHY NOT YOU?
You can readily see the effect of an increase in your weight or measurements. It is not neces-
sary to imagine you are being benefited. See what Miss M. JBOUHKE, of Taimvorth, says
“lours to hand, and am pleased to state that your treatment increased m.v
weight considerably over two stone, and my bust measurements by several
inches. Since using it I am much better in health, and my flesh is now firm
and 1 leel stronger and more vigorous. I thank you for the trouble you have
Taken, and am grateful for all you have done for nle. ,,
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenuation and develop-
ment. and will send same and a PR UK SAMPLE TREATMENT to you FREE
OF CHARGE upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communica-
tions private and confidential. rite or call to-day for full particulars. [lBlB
FALL IF It K FLESH-FOOD CO.. 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
SAMPLE
ONTNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
uschen
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
21-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VAIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Wind-blown Love.
Refore Invention slew Romance with water
boiling hot,
And steamers cleft the careless seas with
power in a pot,
My love would saunter down the coasts to
shrill and cheery hails,
With scarlet smiles on her rouged lips and
West Wind in her sails.
In coracles and galleys, too, in luggers, life-
boats, skiffs,
She blew across the wintry seas with loving-
sighs and sniffs;
Rut when the oily engineer inherited the seas.
My love was never found aboard—she hated
dungarees.
Rut now enmotored, rugged and furred, my
love arrives each hour
On swollen rubber bags of wind by sixty
horses’ power;
She flies with ne’er a jolt or jar to where I
hang about,
And never seems the least annoyed unless the
wind blows out.
n.s.w.
FOE.
The Two Minds.
I took my head aside one day.
And lifted up its window-blind;
It may seem funny when 1 say
1 saw I had an extra mind !
My proper one is rather dull—
A slow but honest .sort of mind ;
On any street crack any skull,
And you will surely see his kind.
And_ many waking hours he spends,
With busy rake and spade, to sort
The mullock and the odds and ends
From out my garbage heap of Thought.
Dr else each morning I surmise
Hi! takes a seat as such minds do;
And waits behind my ears and eyes
To grab the good which trickles through.
My other mind’s a loafing chap.
He holds himself from toil aloof.
And sprawls within my skull, mayhap,
And counts the flies upon the roof.
He’s ever in the other’s way.
And always putting in his spoke
To make him*take a holiday.
And fires off many a ribald joke.
So I must take the upper hand.
_ And make my word the law instead ;
I’ll do a lot of things I’ve planned.
And rule the household of my head.
I’ll write a hook or two, I think.
And build a pretty home, and then—
“ Say! hain’t it time to ’ave a drink?”
Dh. dash it! There he is again !
MAORTLANIX
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Wine of Dreams.
Night from a chalice glowing
That burns within the west
Sets fragrant wine a-fiowing.
The vintage she hath pressed
From sombre clusters shrining
The purple calm, and twining
Round slender pillars lining
Dim, leafy courts of rest.
O’er wearied hill and hollow
The shadowy eddies creep ;
Translucent surges follow
Till all the world lies deep,
Lost in the crystal glimmer
Of Lethe's pools that shimmer.
V\ here love and light grow dimmer
Whelmed in the tides of sleep.
The risen bubbles, breaking,
Spangle the gloom afar,
Like fairy cressets shaking—
Star beyond myriad star.
And sick of mirth and jesting,
Of sorrow and far questing.
We yield, in languor resting,
To peace no strife may mar.
Drowned in these depths of slumber
We sweep by alien lands.
Where splendid wrecks encumber
The curved ivory sands ;
Where ’neath a strange moon’s beaming
Rich webs and jewels gleaming.
Toss in the spent waves’ creaming,
Or lie in wave-flung bands.
Soft echoes of past feeling
Circle that misty shore,
Like ghosts that shiver stealing
Down paths they trod of yore,
Rut vague as weak wind’s sighing,
Sad as a sweet strain dying,
Or wandering seabirds crying
From darkness where they soar.
We have no hearts to fret us.
For they are washed away;
The busy Fates forget us,
And, neither sad nor gay,
We drift in tranquil pleasure,
In peace beyond all measure,
We grasp life’s chiefest treasure—-
The boon for which men pray.
Rut all too soon upspringing
The morning fires the sky.
Its torches fiercely flinging.
And cool, soft shadows fly;
With scarlet, hot lips craving
The wine’s cool, fragrant laving,
With garish pennons waving.
Nor heeding plaint or sigh,
Dawn, like a, thirsty rider,
With fretting steed a-strain.
Drinks deep, and splashes wider
The lees in cloudless rain ;
And dazzled dreamers, yearning
Cool draughts in noontide’s'burning.
Long for the Night’s returning
To fill their cup again.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


A Splendid Genuine Offer
for One Man or a Council.
COST
£230
A Genuine Lister=Bruston Patent
Automatic Electric Lighting Outfit.
Now Only
£l5O
Including" Engine, Dynamo, Starting dear. Storage Battery, Switchboard,
I etrol and M a ter Tank. Oil, Foundation, Belt, etc.
lhe Outfit is almost new, and in perfect working order, having only been
used slightly for demonstration purposes.
At this price—£lso—we will deliver within 10 miles of Sydney—otherwise
r .mi's. or Jb .U.K.
Let us forward Catalogue, giving all particulars,
a lifetime.
This is a chance, once in
w. G. WATSON (SL CO., LTD.,
279 Clarence Street; 420-430 Kent Street, Sydney
(Just round from the Town Hall).
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how Jong standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
I] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
d. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Insist on “ Singleton a* —refuse all substitutes.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF ?
V 7 OU begin to
A look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer's
dfg
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, iSydney
<V2
ran
m
(tuniiu/iL/ia.
Old King Cole
Was a Satisfied Soul;
And he said to his fiddlers three —
“You may note retire,
or my ‘ REX’ PORK AND BEANS
Are pleasure enough for me.”
Leave it to any man. Serve to-day for to-night) a plate of
“REX”
PORK and BEANS
and what he decides we are prepared to accept. Will you?
There are many reasons why men like “REX” PORK & BEANS Tliev are
dTiry-fed' e pork well ' cookefl hemiS ’ P«t up in tins ready to serve with prime,
family W i!- J t . hpm with and last, but not least, you
ndm/tes ‘ ° seiVee * >Slniply linm<n-se the tin in boiling water for 10 or
Sold by all Grocers. Insist on “REX”
BRAND, the Australian Pork & Beans.
REX
:
OTHER “REX” CANNED DELICACIES
include : :
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal anti Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Funch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Lunrbeon Cheese, in decorated tins,
And
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in
lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones 8 Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Pood Products.
Rain or Snow Wind or Cold
It is all the same if you are inside
A PERDRIAO
PURE
RUBBER-
PROOFED
MACINTOSH
Highest-grade materials, perfect tailoring, reasonable
prices, and the guarantee all help to make our Coats
the most desirable.
EVERY COAT GUARANTEED WATERPROOF.
MEN’S.
Tweed, in Dark Grey shades 35/-
Cashmere, Special Quality, in Fawn
and Olive 45/-
WOMEN’S.
Indianas, Green and Black shades.. 25/-
Shot Effect Canton. Green and Red 45/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Our Catalogue No. 43 contains full particulars, with
colored plates of all Macintosh and Oilskin Clothing.
Write Dept. M for a copy, together with patterns.
PERPRIAU
Robber
Co. Ltd.
/
270 George St., Sydney.
105 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
67a Gawler Place, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
§ti**&**
POLISHES FLOORS
PERFECTLY.
dfg
Slii-noleum gives a better shine m
less time than any other Polish—does it more economically, too. A
little goes a long way, and the effect is lasting. It does not gather
the dust and is a preservative, doubling the life of the Pinoleu:n.
Shi-noleum is good for wood floors, furniture, tail boots, and all
leather goods. *
Do not accept a substitute said to be t£ just as good.” If your storekeeper cannot
supply you. send his name to the Paget Manufacturing Co., Did., 109 Regent
Street Sydney, and a free sample will be sent you.
■
Hr JH
.
■■■ '■:. :
Mf f# « | I
k m JH I I
.
ftH# : ,’t">: .1*
Hi
. ;■;- ...
1 i
HHBIH
hHHHI
hi a
n
MMffiiiiiMi l flp~"
im
■
.........
.
r
wm
ELCOM
tRIZE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper
Vol. 36. No. 1845.
THURSDAY, JUNK 24, 1915.
PIUCE CD.
THE ISHMAEL OF THE NATIONS.
“And he will be a wild man; his hand will he against every man and every man’s hand against him.”


The BUlletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for I'he
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Ud. r>er Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and. where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when,
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, _ those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of M 5.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other* topical drawings in line or wash,
of ''sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Stree-,
San'Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago U.S.A.
Egypt. — lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Breu-er and Co., Pedder Street,
W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Bates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 16oz.
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed m each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Sioz. to 10oz 2ld :
lOoz. to 120 z.. 3d.; elsewhere, I/oz., Id., and id. each
additional Hoz.
'tffee'ZßrzlleZzfli.
THURSDAY, JUNE 24, 1915.
THE PLEA FOR A GREAT NATIONAL
SHIRK.
Liberal politicians in the Federal Parlia-
ment and their newspaper barrackers. have
been talking lately about the great wisdom
of forming what they call a “Unanimous
National Government.” The Ministry has
been invited to close Parliament after
making provision for the financial obliga-
tions of the nation; to throw a few mem-
bers of Cabinet overboard and ship Liberals
in their place; and to then devote the com-
bined energies of the hybrid to the prosecu-
tion of matters directly relating to the war.
In other words, the proposition is that Joe
Cook and Millen should get a rise in salary
for doing nothing in particular and that the
Referenda proposals should be dropped. At
a pinch the Liberals would apparently be
satisfied if all hands took a holiday, pro-
vided amendment of the Constitution was
not talked about until the war has passed
into history. As that seems to be about
as remote as the brotherhood of man, the
essence of this furtive manoeuvring is just
a plain invitation to Australians to give up
politics and live in hopes of some day taking
up the fresh lot of troubles that will have
ripened in the interval. In one sense the
Liberals have aimed a fairly hearty blow at
the joss Party; in another they have repre-
sented that Parliaments are sinister insti-
tutions at times of national crisis, to be
treated as the wowsers would the vineyards.
This Federal Parliament is not the
creation of a day anterior to the war. It
was elected in the midst of war’s alarms —
while battles were being fought in Belgium,
and while Australian soldiers were being
mobilised for service. Moreover, it came
into being under conditions which on the
part of the Liberals involved a contemptuous
rejection of the very suggestions they are
now making. Amidst the election hurly-
buriy—when the air was rent with strident
shouts from a hundred platforms came the
call to arms, and with it the appeal from
Hughes to “Stop the Election. Whether
Hughes was impelled by cold feet or a
warm heart doesn’t matter now. Nor is it
material to consider whether the cry was a
wise one or just a plain red herring The
fact is that the Liberals were earnestly be-
sought to join in a party truce and refrain
from the indecency of proceeding with an
election at such a moment But Cook and
the rest reckoned they had a good strong
hold on the situation, raised the loud bray
of derision, and insisted upon the sovereign
imnortinee of Parliament and the people.
When, after the poll, they scrambled out of
the soup and began to take stock of things,
they found that the tune for the dance would
be played by others; and great was their
rage thereat. Since then, though they have
discussed every question touched on in Par-
liament as partisans, repentance appears to
have taken possession of their souls. But
it is a repentance that came only through a
licking. The party politics the Liberals pro-
mised to give the people, they now say,
would have furnished a wholesome,
nutritious meal; the dish offered by the
Ministry is poison. But the objection
to Party is not met by a comparison of the
goods on offer by rival partisans; and as
Cook firmly demanded that the constituen-
cies should decide on party lines what
they would have, the prayers to have parti-
sanship now consigned to a temporary grave
resemble a cowardly effort to dodge the con-
sequences of the hazard which he himself
insisted on putting to the test.
The comparison drawn between Britain
and Australia will not stand. The
conditions in the two countries and
the two Legislatures are wholly dif-
ferent. Zeppelins are not dropping
bombs in Brisbane or Bunbury. Submarine
pirates are not blowing up ships on the Aus-
tralian coasts. No gigantic battles are being
waged within a few hours’ journey of Can-
berra. The Commonwealth Government is not
responsible for carrying on a mighty war by
land and sea—of maintaining armies in the
field, of handling a vast navy, of grappling
with staggering problems of industry and
finance, of sustaining Allies and of meeting
mine with countermine in a field of diplo-
macy covering half the world. Therefore
the Australian Parliament has time for
other work, and it has plenty of other work
to do. The war has revealed national weak-
nesses which require strengthening against
the days when they may again become points
of danger. Problems relating to trade and
finance, to defence, and internal develop-
ment, have been thrust further into the light.
There are questions concerning such purely
domestic issues as the relation of the States
to the Commonwealth which could only be
postponed now at grave risk. And the
nowers of the Federal Parliament demand
immediate extension. If Parliament does
not attend to these things now,_ when will it
be in a more satisfactory position to do so?
Certainly not when it has other issues to
wrangle over. That they should be grappled
with in a spirit of party hate, amidst un-
roar, confusion and spite, is of course deplor-
able; but for that the politicians have them-
selves to thank. And by the quaint irony of
shifting circumstance it is the Liberals who
in this instance are wholly to blame.
* * * *
And even the British Parliament did not
close down. Indeed, had it done so at the
beginning of Armageddon nobody would have
been satisfied. By keeping it open, the Nation
had the means to pass judgment, on the
capacity shown by the Administration. And
it Avas because Parliament came to the con-
clusion that things were not going just as
they should —that the Government required
substantial stiffening—that it leaned on the
Party joss and set about creating a new
precedent. But it was not a precedent for
the laziness and shirk which the Australian
apostles of Don’t-work are trying to estab-
lish. If these people feel that the Party
theory is so rotten that it won’t stand. the
strain of serious effort, then their obvious
patriotic duty is to set about helping to bury
the thing. But they cannot expect to be
taken seriously when, after just returning
from an election in which they scorned an
invitation to sink Party, they whine about
the outrage of having to consider the party
platform of the other fellow who happened
to succeed.
THE CASES OF BILL JONES,
SRAUGHTERMAN, AND HECTOR
MUCIRAGE, CRERK.
Why do people of no financial consequence
go on being Liberals? Is it worth while?
Does the social glory pay for the hardship?
It is easy to understand why Browne, the
millionaire importer, wants the tariff left as
it is, and why Smytiie, the millionaire
squatter, is hostile to further land legisla-
tion of a Socialistic character. They have
luxuries to lose, even though the State cannot
tnx into their comforts. But what are
Brown, the clerk, and Smith, the shop-
walker, and Mrs. Robinson, the little
hash-house proprietor, doing in that galley?
What interest is it of theirs that the meat
ring and the sugar monopoly should be pre-
served for'Australia? Why should they battle
on platforms, and in committee-rooms, and
at political tea-parties to save from taxation
citizens who draw as much in dividends in a
week as they earn by strenuous toil in a
year? How is it they can always be relied
on to vote for inaction when nothing in the
way of chiange can make their positions more
unpleasant? Why do kick?
Jones is a member of a fairly powerful
union. His parents spent nothing on his
education; he is a good worker; and he
earns without difficulty £6 a week. He lives
some way from his work, but a “workman s
tram” lands him there at under cost every
morning, and bears him home at a similar
rate in the evening. He has no “appear-
ances” to keep up. He is at liberty to do his
work in any old clothes he pleases. This
saves washing and tailor’s bills. He carries
bis lunch to his toil in a tin, and so gets
the food he likes, and pays the least possi-
ble sum lor it. While he is at work the
State watches over his health with motherly
care; the organisation to which he belongs
sees to that. At any moment an inspector
may arrive to find out whether his surround-
ings are clean, airy, dry ; whether the lava-
tory accommodation is good, and the supply
of water plentiful. If his wife is expecting
an infant the Commonwealth will provide £5
towards the expenses,, and the family will
accept the money as a matter of course.
Some of the States (notably N. S. Wales)
propose to go much further. The Holman
Government has announced its intention of
placing a sum on the Estimates to provide
doctor and nurse for every woman who
needs them. This in addition to the Federal
bonus. Preparations are being widely made
to provide free dentistry for children. If
for any reason—drought or war or the opera-
tions of Trusts —the cost of living rises,
Wages Boards and Arbitration Courts see to
it that Jones’s earnings at least keep step.
And always the chief concern of the politi-
cians is to maintain Jones in his job. Much
of the Governor’s speech in the N. S. Wales
Assembly last week was characteristic: —
Arrangements have been made with Messrs. Norton
Griffiths and Company, as a result of which a
large body of employment will be guaranteed to work-
men now employed by the State. .. .My advisers have
been able to provide occupation for thousands of men
left temporarily unemployed.
The State does its duty, and sometimes more
than its duty, by Bill Jones ; and in a sense
he deserves it, since he has had the nous to
do his duty by himself.
* * * #
Consider, now, the case of Hectok Mucil-
age. His parents saved heroically, and sent
him to a Grammar School, from which he
emerged knowing rather less than the aver-
age State scholar of his age. At 30 he is
earning £2OO a year, and is considered in his
circle to be doing well. If he arrived with
his lunch in a tin he would get the sack, so
he has a poor, furtive meal for sixpence in
a tea-shop. If he came to his daily toil in
shabby clothes he would be liable to repri-
mand, so he spends an undue amount on his
wardrobe. He lives in a bandbox villa in
an outer suburb. His wife does the house-
work and looks after the children. There
are no clerks’ trams or trains, so journeying
to business he pays the same fare as his
directors. He and his wife would scorn to
apply for what they denounced as the Bangle
Bonus when it was introduced ; and the re-
sult is a horrible period of financial strin-
gency before and after the arrival of each of
their children. They would also scorn to
accept Socialistic assistance in the matter
of free doctors, nurses or dentists. _ Mucil-
age, having no union behind him, is at the
mercy of his employers as regards salary.
The marvel is that he does so well. By
strict attention to duty, and a cheerful atti-
tude towards the question of overtime, lie
may rise ultimately to as much as £5 10s. 6d-
a week. On the other hand, of course, he
may not. And, in any case, his salary is
never likely to overtake the evpr-rising cost
of living. In 1913, when he ajid his fellow-
clerks first began to explain to their families
and friends that W. M. Hughes and the
rest of the Socialists were either fools or
knaves for wishing to interfere with the
Beef Trust, meat stood at a more or less
reasonable figure. In June of that year sir-
loin of beef was sid. and ribs were 5d.;
rump steak was Sd., and corned silverside
was 5d.; legs of mutton were 4d., and best
chops were sd. By June, 1914, sirloins had
gone to or 7d., and ribs to s|d. or 6d.;
rump steak was 9d. to Is., and corned silver-
side 6d.; legs of mutton were 5d., and best
chops 6d. In June of this year sirloin of
beef is lid., and ribs are 9d.; rump steak is
Is. 2d., and corned silverside is Bd.; legs of
mutton are 7d., and best chops lid. There
is every likelihood that prices will have
ascended another 25 per cent, or so by June,
1916. And through it all the astonishing
Mucilage continues to draw his exiguous
salary without complaint, to recoil from the
idea of organising for his financial protec-
tion, and to voice the political gags of the
people who are fleecing him.
* ‘ * * *
Last week W. M. Hughes moved
in the Australian Parliament to re-
introduce the Referenda. The voice
of “Liberalism” was immediately heard
in protest. It Was contentious legis-
lation, and nothing of the sort ought to occur
during the war. Look at England ! What
right had the Government “to distract the
public mind by throwing down the gauntlet
of party politics” ? And, in any case, it, was
not the fault of the trusts that the cost of
living was mounting, and hence it was beside
the point for Hughes to assail them! Long
before another Bulletin sees the light the
Mucilages of this great continent will be
faithfully repeating these things; and when
the Referenda questions are submitted they
will vote accordingly. To what end? That
the U.S. Beef Trust, which is at present safe
within the State of Queensland, may be
shielded from Commonwealth interference;
that meat may double in price outside the
State which benefits financially from the pre-
sence of the Trust, without the Australian
Parliament having any power to prevent it;
and that a thousand other vends and pools
and gentlemen’s agreements may be at liberty
to do likewise to their own profit and the
ruin of Mucilage. The carriage _of the
Referenda questions, which is the basis of all
effective anti-Trust legislation, is of no great
moment to slaughterman Jones, though he is
certain, on general principles, to work and
vote to that end. The higher the price of
necessaries goes, the higher will go his wages.
For he is organised. But Mucilage is
economically defenceless. He is earning no
more now that chops are lid. than he was
two years ago when they were sd. If he
isn’t prepared to drop his pride and vote in
the one direction that promises to bring
down prices, there will be but one thing for
him to do soon. Namely, forego chops. One
of the bulwarks of Liberalism is the fact
that there are thousands of Mucilages who
would turn vegetarians rather than demean
themselves so far as to vote Labor. _ Hector
Mucilage was the name of the original eel
that liked being skinned.
SIGNORE J. CAESAR GOES NORTH
AGAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Italy comes to the Allies with more insult
and spoliation to avenge than ever France
has known ; the old crimes of destruction of
Home, the invasions of Gothic barbarians,
the later German scourge succeeded only by
a change to an Austrian tyrant; the works
of departed Latin genius trampled in the dirt
by northern savages, and Art dying in blood
and lust. Napoleon brought liberty' to
Italy, his fall brought back the iron rule of
Austria. The invader kn,ew well how to
treat the subjugated country, weakening it
by partition; Lombardy and Venice went
back to Austria; Sardinia and Genoa to the
house of Savoy; Lucca and Modena and
Tuscany stepped back a century and again
became duchies; the Vatican regained the
Papal States, and there was a King of
Naples. They so remained until .1848, a
foolish collection of duchies and principali-
ties, and kings were common as fireflies.
Then Venice and Milan fought for their lib-
erty, and lost; Piedmont tried conclusions in
1859 and beat Austria out of the province.
In 1861 Victor Emmanuel I. established
the Kingdom of Italy ; in 1566 Austria ceded
the Venetian province; in 1870 united Italy
made Rome its capital. Yet Austria still
holds Unredeemed Italy, the provinces of
Trentino and Istria. In addition there are
many Italians or half-Italians in Western
Croatia and Dalmatia, where, though under
the rule of Austria, the official and legal
language remains Italian. These are the
prizes that must come to Italy, and it is
well for the expedition of the war that the
reason existed. Vienna, by the mouth of
Emperor Franz Joseph —who talks as .if he
were playing comic opera—has charged Italy
with all sorts of perfidy; and Italy has
calmly rejoined with a list of acts of war
committed by Austria in time of peace. But
these reasons do not matter; 1915 sees the
bill presented for the old debts of centuries,
and the recognition of men with steel in their
hands that oil and water will not mix.
Italy can present probably 31 million sol-
diers to the common offensive; and these
represent the reward of Italian cheerfulness
under crippling taxation made necessary by
the Germanic menace. Land taxes equal to
35 per cent, of the land’s earnings; building
taxes on houses and factories up to 16 per
per cent, of income; income taxes on per-
sonal earnings; stamp duties on almost
everything large enough to carry a stamp.
To pay arrears of taxes 220,000 people were
sold up during eight years. Twenty-five
millions sterling so accruing goes to main-
tain the army and navy; 20 millions ster-
ling to pay interest on old wars of which the
names are practically forgotten. Public
services have been hampered by this war bill:
national progress impeded by the withdrawal
from industry for two years or more of every
youth of 20 years, although there is a profu
in the national and mental betterment of the
conscript.
The Italian youth is as proud to be a sol-
dier as his father is glad to vote his own
taxation for defence against Austria, the
old enemy; and that pride and cheerfulness
I saw at its best a few years ago at Leg-
horn when the new conscripts of that year
were being drafted for embarkation to the
place of their two years’ service. They
brought color to a city already loaded with
color —the color of Italy, color of Africa,
color of the East and the Tyrrhenian Sea.
Perhaps its color is Eastern more than
Italian, gotten from its Babel of peoples—
Italian, French, Greek, Scotch (who are in
all places but the poor-house), Swiss, Arme-
nian, Arab and Jew. All its classic indus-
tries of shipbuilding, its important work of
citron candying, its marble export of Car-
rara, its olive oil, orris root, and straw hats
—all pay defence taxation to the limit, with
the heavily-taxed labor of the 2000 girls who
make up the coral of Sicily and Barbary, of
Sardinia and the Azores. Ladies in silks
of Milan; girls of the people graceful of
carriage from long bearing of head burdens;
flashl.y-uniformed carabinieri, swaggering
cavalry officers; tourists under the tamar-
isks from San Jacopo to Ardenza, mixed
with the soberer uniform of the soldiers —
the taxed and the reason for the taxation.
Everywhere you see measures to pay for
powder and its food —the heavily-taxed Gov-
ernment monopolies of salt, matches and
tobacco; the shop that failed closed with a
Government stamp; every letter in the hands
of the postman written on stamped paper;
the pleadings of the lawyer drawn on
stamped paper; and the man who hired a
maid-servant or a workman at the employ-
ment bureau opposite has had to pay a tax
for the privilege. If the landlord raises
the rent you have to pay a tax on the in-
crease ; and for all this we now go to war
gaily enough—for Austria shall pay !
* * * *
On that day of drafting, the old streets
of Leghorn were filled with callow and
mostly-noisy conscripts, boys of 18 or so,
wearing picturesquely mixed clothing ; brand-
new aluminium water-bottles new, half-new
and rusty side-arms, new military caps and
the conscripts’own poor rags. The worldly gear
of these poor villagers of the Appenines, of
Tuscany and of Calabria, was held in hand-
kerchiefs which spotted the masses of yellow-
and brown-clad men like poppies in a wheat-
field. All of them marched in some condi-
tion approaching comfort in the military
boots that would cripple them with weight
were not their feet used to the clumsy gear
of their mountains. They were not tall,
picturesque soldiers —the nice, pretty war-
riors of the front page pf a magazine for
ladies —but strong, broad-shouldered, stocky
men, of the type that endures to death and
can march while half asleep. Very splendid
officers with heaven-turned moustaches and
blue cloaks —as light as the blue of a sky
in early spring—marshalled the raw recruits
in the Cathedral square, and the raws ad-
mired a troop of Bersaglieri, “veterans all”
—not one of them under 24 years old! A
draft from the railroad joined a draft from a
transport. They were evidently of the same
province; they rushed each to his village
mate crying “Comrade mine,” and “Amico
mio .” A seasoned regiment made the little
piazza look like the second act of “Faust” ;
and then the bands began to bray and the
war-meat of the year marched to its ser-
vice. Down to the quay the blatant bands
led the drafts through ancient, narrow streets
shrinking from the clang of the tocsin —the
notes of menace and affright the bell-founders
of the 16th and 17th century seemed to cast
with the metal. A mob hearing a dozen 17th-
century bells clanging in these confined
streets would be ready for any carnage, any
heroism, any crime. And last of the draft
were two brown boys, friends of the antique
mould. They were of the country; the
noises and the people stunned them; they
walked very close together, hand in' hand,
looking up momentarily to each other’s faces,
half smiling and half fpll of wonder. And
now those two. with one or two million
others, are to face their baptism of fire —if
they be yet alive. # #
The importance of Italy as an ally cannot
be exaggerated. These people are great
fighters, and for the first time in history they


face a common foe as a nation indivisible
from Reggio to the Alps, from Udine to
Turin. They were no mean enemy when, as
only Piedmont and Savoy, they, smashed the
army of Austria; now to Piedmont and
Savoy are added Lombardy, Venetia, Tus-
cany, the old Papal States, the old kingdom
of Naples, Modena, Parma, Sardinia and
Sicily. No more will Lombardians and
Venetians stand alone on those great plains
which have flowed blood so many times in
the last thousand years. United Italy
rushes to its north-eastern and northern
frontiers determined and able to carry the
borders north and north-east to their old
and natural limits. They will prove one of
the most decisive factors for peace, late as
is their entrance to the arena. Of their tem-
per and endurance there is no doubt; and
their frugality, their passionate love of coun-
try and their hard training make of them a
terrible foe to encounter. They will con-
auer their common enemy as they conquered
the petty kings, and the internal enemies who
kept them apart so long. Steadfast as the
rocks, fanatic lover of liberty, passionate
patriot, united as one flesh, the mos
heavily-taxed people of Europe go forward
to Vienna, to revenge and to reward.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Awful Problem of Making Shells.
The position disclosed in Australia regard-
ing shells is just about as deplorable as might
have been suspected from the diligence with
which any reference to the matter has been
throttled all these months. Speech being at
last possible, it was remarked that shells
were not being made in Australia; and on the
Minister for Defence being charged with
having failed to protect the national interest
in this important direction, he made a reply
which sounded like the unwinding of all the
red-tape in the universe. Pearce appears
to have realised at an early stage of the
proceedings that the matter required atten-
tion. But unfortunately he was content
with consulting two or three soldiers, witn
calling for reports at wide intervals of time,
and with cabling and letter-writing. Clearly
the business was one demanding the con-
centrated attention of a resolute, organising
mind, and this is just what it missed get-
ting. It received the occasional attention ot
a Minister overloaded with the other cares
of a new machine; of military officers, who
should always be the last people to. consult
about business; of a High Commissioner,
who seems to have immediately gone to sleep
or to Egypt. There are a score of men in
Australia who could have lifted the problem
from Peakce’s desk, and inside of three
months either had machines at work turning
out shell cases or been ready with all the
information necessary to permit of a start
being made. But the Defence Department
was allowed to move with creaky delibera.-
tion, and in the end leave the public with
the exasperating reflection that, though the
Commonwealth had a navy and had built up
an army, it was without official knowledge
of how to make a shell or where to get one
made. As an illustration of how Govern-
ment departments can muddle when a cen-
sorship is on hand to silence criticism, the
whole business is the most effective on local
record.
Greece and Its Real Ruler.
The war is shown to Australia in the
wrong perspective. Venizelos, the great-
est man in Greece, some say in Europe,
was returned to power by an immense
majority last week, and the daily papers
took less notice of it than of the bombing
of Karlsruhe. The Karlsruhe adventure
meant nothing ; the triumph of Venizelos
is the biggest thing that has happened since
Italy joined the Allies. It stands for the
overthrow of the Queen, who is a sister of
the Kaiser; of the King, who is of German
descent; of the Conservative classes, who
are pro-German. It may mean a revolution
and the ousting of a Royal family which
very nearly went in 1909. It is still more
likely to mean the speedy entrance of
Greece into the war. Venizelos is used to
fighting kings. He is a pure-bred Greek
whose family had been settled in Crete tor
a century when his country-of-origm
annexed the place three years back. Prince
George, a brother of the present King of
Greece, went to the island a decade ago
and tried to govern it on Turkish lines.
Venizelos organised and led an army
against the pocket despot and drove him
out. Four years later King George, the
father of the man whom the obscure Cretan
barrister had dislodged, was by the
Greek people to summon his family s humi-
liator to Athens and give him office. It
was that or dethronement. The issue that
will face Constantine, the present mon-
arch, the moment he is well enough to face
anything will be much. the same war or
dethronement. A British naval mission
reorganised the Greek navy in
at the instance of Venizelos, and it
is now a formidable instrument. About the
same time the same reformer called in the
French to remodel the. army. The result
was immediately shown in the war in which
Turkey was routed and freely despoiled.
Had Bulgaria got the fair treatment from
the Balkan League which Venizelos advo-
cated, all four States would now be solid
against Germanism. Constantine had
promised that Bulgaria should have
Kavalla; but at the last moment, doubtless
under nressure from Berlin, he went back on
his word. The effect was to drive the Min-
ister into private life and. embitter Bul-
garia against any cause which was favored
by the betrayer Greece. But Venizelos is
back in power, called thither by a record
majority; German diplomacy has registered
another failure; and anything may happen,
even to the recreation of the Balkan League
and another concerted attack on harassed
old Turkey—which would mean, amongst
other things, the saving of many thousand
Australian lives.
“The Bulletin” Smells Something.
The following arrived last week from an
old and trusted contributor, who is at tne
Remount Dep6t, Cairo—a horse-master ot
quite exceptional experience:
There is something wrong with the system o
remounts from Australia. As you know, I have been
in the game for the last 20 years, and speak with
some authority. A heavy percentage of the animals
arriving are mares heavy in foal. Others are under
four years, and hence practically useless. Many are
spavined, blind and very aged. I examine daily some
4000 horses, and as an oversea shipper would say
that only 25 per cent, of that number were ever fit
to leave Australia. It is not that good horses are
not to be got there. But there is something wrong
with the “buying.”
If this writer’s estimate is correct, approxi-
mately 22,500 of the horses now in Egypt
are of inferior quality, a shade over ,10,000
having gone with our Expeditionanes since
the war began. The wonder is, considering
that the buying has been done by Private
Enterprise—and most of it by professional
jobbers at that—that as many as one in four
of the animals have turned out all right, lhe
contract system for the supply of war re-
quirements has proved rotten everywhere, in
all ages. The swindling contractor appeared
in shoals in the Crimea; he was a feature
of the Russo-Jap war; he flourished all
through the Boer disturbance ; and the Allies,
more particularly Britain and France, have
suffered from him in the present tragedy.
It is a fairly easy thing to defeat the
machinations of the scoundrel who sells the
army bad meat, or uniforms which fall to
pieces on sight, or boots which let the water
through their paper soles the first time it
rains. But the swindle of the valueless
horse is difficult to expose. Once the fraud
has been passed by a vet., the onus is re-
moved from the contractor. And once a pos-
sibly ignorant or indolent official has taken
delivery, the onus is off the vet. The State
then pays heavily for a useless article, and
the unfortunate soldier to whom it is allotted
has his life imperilled as surely as if he were
given a badly honeycombed rifle. Australia s
Defence Department has consistently let tne
Remount side of its activities slide. In a
country which, in the event of invasion, would
have to do nine-tenths of its fighting on
horseback, the Department has been content
to see thousands of high-class military horses
going abroad, while local troops were
mounted at manoeuvres and in the camps of
continuous training on hired van-horses, it
has not moved a hand to check the deteriora-
tion in the local breed, due to the prevalence
of unsound stallions, and to the encourage-
ment given by the Agricultural Societies to
the showy but soft-boned Yankee trotter. No
Government has bothered to institute
a State farm for the breeding of remounts,
though members of every Government for the
past 10 or 12 years have given such a scheme
their academic approval. Armageddon found
Australia with no systematised means ot get-
ting the standard horse-types that were re-
quired by the different military arms. Hence
the Private Enterprise horse-contractors
above-mentioned. The poor class of horse
that has been going away, the deplorab e
casualness with which most of the animals
have been, and are being, bought, and the
inordinate profits which individuals are
known to be making out of the trade, have
been matters of scandalised comment in the
country districts for months. If the Gov-
ernment fears to alienate its conservative
supporters by the institution of a Socialistic
farm, it can'at least see that the trading as
between the State and the contractors is done
on business lines. At present, there is a
smell about it that no honest business con-
cern should possess.
Whole Rule v. Rule by Chunks.
Hugh D. Macrossan attempted to win a
seat at the Queensland elections as an advo-
cate of Whole Rule, and as an opponent of
Government by Organised Chunks. He
missed by 300-odd votes, mainly because he
was accompanied everywhere by the ghost
of the Liberal he once thought he was. His
defeat has been made the text for scores of
political sermons, and every hole and corner
in Pricklypearia has been told, with sneer-
ful emphasis, that there is no room for a
third party in Australian politics. There is
not. Neither is there room for two parties,
and one party is too many. Parties were
perhaps necessary to political evolution, but
the vested interests of parties are now the
only matters that really count. No third
party can be of use for the work of eradi-
cating this leprosy. The party system itself
is at fault, and the birth of another chunk
would only prolong the agony. Govern-
ment must be of the whole by the whole.
That and only that is Democracy. Parlia-
ment, too, must be a whole Parliament, and
every possible chance of its members split
ting into sections must be removed. All
this can be accomplished by some such plan
as this: —
(1) Effective voting. , „
(2) The Initiative, Referendum and Recall.
(3) Elected Ministries and compulsory attention
to “initiated” legislation in order of priority.
(4) Immediately after the enactment of the fore-
going, the people through the Initiative to promul-
gate their policy and elect their representatives to
carry the legislation into effect.
Such a Parliament would give the people
direct control of their own affairs, and the
Ministry, in all its administrative and general
work, would be responsible to the nation, not
to particular sections or classes. Such a
Parliament might have a majority of mem-
bers who at present are pledged to the Labor
platform, yeti the first business it would
have to deal with might easily be the enact-
ment of plank 1 of the Liberal platform.
Given its broadest scope the Initiative would
make the Press, the Platform and the Par-
ties educational media, and would clothe Par-
liament with a new dignity by making ot
members a multitude of counsellors, instead
of a multitude of haggling partisans. Mean-
while even the sneers of ardent party men
ati the “would-be pioneers” are useful.
Sneers come readily when arguments are not
available.
Revolutionary Sosh in the Pulpit.
Over in Maoriland the other day a Bishop
contributed to a controversy about ( ‘ paying
for the war” a proposition that the in-
creased price received by wool and meat
growers and butter and cheese producers
should be treated as unearned increment and
appropriated by the State,” which is just
about the kind of thing that might have been
expected from a man who goes out in
gaiters and is partially concealed behind a
superfluous and wasteful apron. There is no
better reason why a man who this year
makes an extra £5O by milking cows should
be compelled to part with the money than
why a parson should be made to disgorge
any increase in stipend, or a lawyer his
extra fees, or a Shylock his additional
interest, or a metal miner his additional 10
or 20 or 90 pounds a ton. Of ail
these people—of the whole tribe of workers
and shirkers who toil or scheme and spin—
the farmer is likely to be the most deserving
of his extra wad. He certainly will be a
curiosity among hayseeds, if he hasn ti a
mortgage requiring attention, a bundle ot
unpaid bills, and a family that would be
none the worse for a few additional com
forts. To speak about the product of his
labor being “unearned” is eouivalent to bath-
ing in a sea of blither. There is no such
thing as unearned increment in the product
of labor at the point where meat or wheat or
butter leaves the hands of the producer, fo
its exchange value represents his wages.
The words become fantastic when used m
such a connection. Still, if the Maoriland
bishops want to convert their flocks to a
sane system and make a raid on unearned
increment, they could find heaps of material
to operate on in the shares and suburban
lots and town sections held by their flocks.
♦ —•
National Unionism.
“0.K.” AGAIN urges thoroughness: —
A recent “Plain English” preached a seasonable ser-
mon on the German cult of Hate and the absurdity
of advocating hate of Germans in this country, the
text being a quotation from some remarks which
Albert of Belgium probably did not make to a news-
paper interviewer. Be that as it may, one can con-
fidently assume that Albert does not favor unreason-
ing national hatred of the Germans, seeing that he
married one of them. But does any Australian
hate all Germans, or any section of them, in the
way the teachable subjects of the Kaiser are
told to hate the English? The passion of Hatred may
be somewhat amenable to discipline in Germany,
for all I know; but I guess that the Government
and learned University professors can’t do much with
it in any other civilised country. As for the Aus-
tralian who says that he “hates the blanky Ger-
mans,” in the tone of animosity that he would use
in speaking of “blanky Jews,” or cold weather, his
foolishness is his own discomfiture every time he
is introduced to a German or a Jew who has nothing
that is obviously hateable about him. The hatred
business is not a real going concern here. We don’t
hate Chinamen or any other colored people whom
we exclude by legislation. So it clearly is possible
for us to suspect Germans of disloyalty to our State,
to regard them individually as representatives of a
people who would soon dominate the country if they
were permitted, without hating them. The question is
how to protect ourselves against the Germans whose
national aspirations have brought trouble to us,
whose iron-bound militarism we wish to avoid, who
would divest us if they could of our “pride of race”
(whatever that may be worth), and push our lan-
guage from its throne, but for whom, individually, we
have as much liking and respect as we have for lager
bier and German sausage. To deprecate hysterical
professions of Hatred for Germans is not to advocate
brotherly love for them. In a country where prefer-
ence to unionists is the Government rule, it is surely
reasonable for workers to refuse to work, deal or
hobnob with people who swear patriotically by the
German' Fatherland. Why should not the sins of the
Fatherland be thus visited upon the children? The
ghost of Moses says: “Why not, indeed?”
+
In the N. S. Wales Assembly last week
Jabez Wright proposed that the House
should work from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily
and then go home. Loud applause mingled
with laughter. Why is every proposal to
repair the crazy old Parliamentary machine
greeted in this way? Picture the work
that would be got through under a business
system. A beginning might be made with
the North Shore bridge. A member could
be put in charge of the Bridge matter.
Practically any fairly-sober member would
do. Everyone knows the arguments both
ways. The designs have been ready for
years. The cost has been calculated again
and again. The member might be given
half a day to put the job through,
though an hour would really be sufficient.
He would arrive in the House at 10 a.m. and
deliver his address :
Gentlemen,—ln the matter of that North Shore
Bridge. The cost will be so-and-so, the time occupied
in the building of it so-and-so. The Financial mem-
ber hafj intimated that the money can be found.
The chairman would call on those in favor
of making an immediate start to say “Aye” ;
the others “No.” The “Ayes” having it.
the business would start without further
parley. The afternoon might be devoted to
a reform which would go some way towards
paying for the bridge. Everybody knows
the arguments for and against the Tote.
Parsons and bookmakers and Royal Commis-
sions have the subject to death.
All that the member who had this matter in
hand need say would be
Gentlemen,—The Tote. Those in favor, etc., etc.
It could be put through in 10 minutes.
Decentralisation; the question of using the
Macquarie-street Government House as a
convalescent home for soldiers; the aboli-
tion of the office of State Governor and a
dozen more hackneyed issues on which
everybody’s mind is made up, might be
settled by the taking of a vote. And if
Parliament went about its affairs as men
do in a Board room they ivould be so settled.
But before anything so reasonable can occur
the party system and the Cabinet arrange-
ment will have to go. Members must be
able to support the measures of which they
approve without the knowledge that by so
doing they will damage themselves or ruin
their colleagues.
♦
Weary of the delays and dodges of Private
Enterprise, the Melbourne Fire Brigade
Board lately set going a little factory of its
own to make uniforms for its firemen. The
place had been quietly running for six weeks
and the manager was able to forecast a sav-
ing to the Board of £5OO or £6OO a year,
when the metropolitan councils got wind of
the business, and forthwith most of them
made loud noises. In reality they only
offered further reasons for the immediate
creation of a Greater Melbourne Council,
which would undertake the manufacture and
supply of all equipment, gear and tools.
The two dozen piffling councils now let
small tenders which mean high prices and
shameful waste. A central council that
understood its business could easily save
Melbourne’s citizens thousands of pounds a
year. It is the logical conclusion of the
whole municipal business. If, instead of each
householder attending to the road in front
of his own door, it is the right thing for
citizens to pool their road-mending money
and do the job collectively, how can the
councils defend the system on which they
themselves want to work —the system of
each one hiring , a private enterpriser to do
its own little coat-mhking or other 30b?
—-♦■
“Croson” smells something : i
At the end of May, when the last of its promised
consignments of meat to the War Office had been
loaded, the Vic. Government issued instructions to
the local exporters that ro more was to be
shipped till further notice; also, it cabled to Eng-
land that, owing to local shortage, no more meat
could be supplied unless it was absolutely needed for
the troops. When, therefore, Peacock learned that
in the middle of June a firm of exporters had shipped
37,000 carcases of mutton and lamb to London for
private sale, and was about to despatch a second
lot, he seized the latter parcel and ran it into cool
store pending developments. What game are these ex-
porters up to, seeing that mutton and lamb are
bringing about 50 per cent, higher prices in Mel-
bourne than in London? There is a loud call, too,
for investigation of the statement of S. Australia’s
Chief Sec. Styles, that there are 300,000 carcases of
mutton and lamb in the Geelong freezing works, and
that that meat was being retailed at the works, on
jure 14, at 3jd. per lb. cash, though mutton could
not be then bought retail in Melbourne under lOd.
It all looks so much like a conspiracy to fleece the
Australian meat-eater that a searching inquiry should
be made. If it can be shown that Australia is being
squeezed into paying higher prices than it would
naturally have to pay owing to drought losses and
shortage of supplies, somebody ought to go to gaol.
The New Iconoclast.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beotheks, in my peaceful study, all dispas-
sionate and thoughtful,
Wrapped in pensive contemplation, mo-
nished with an eager pen, ,
I would fashion thoughtful verses; but tne
air is filled with curses,
And the night is rent asunder by tne
shrieks of futile men.
From the Akgus on my table comes the
shrill, incessant chatter
Of a scared virago scolding, mingled with
the voice of one
Wheezing platitudes all hoary. Brothers,
’tis the startled Tory
Crying impotent to Heaven that we must
get something done!”
[Sin, — what is the Labor Government
doing? In this time of national peril every
British statesman worthy of the name has
set aside party politics and devoted his
energy to the cause of the Empire. Ihe
Liberal statesmen of Australia are only too
eager and willing, as we all know, etc., etc.]
Oh, my brothers, it would pain me, only
that I see a glimmer .
Of a truer understanding dawning m the
Tory mind;
One by one his josses vanish, one by one he
seeks to banish
Fetiches and shibboleths that through long
years have served his kind.
Party Government, his idol, he has cast in
anger from him —
Anger, tinged with trembling terror lest
reform shall come too late.
Yesterday, reform he hated. how with
eagerness belated '.. .
He would cleave with fierce affection to
the object of his hate.
[Sir, — as has been stated on several
occasions, private firms are not capable of
producing ichat is urgently needed by the
nation, it behoves the Government to step
in, and, by careful and efficient organisation,
to see that the needs of the people are sup-
plied. The British Government is adopting
Socialistic methods, etc., etc.]
Brothers, is it not amazing? But a few
short months have vanished
Since we fought for just such measures
while the Tory blocked the way—
Strove and schemed and battled vainly that
we might be governed sanely;
But reforms he fought with fury—now he
wants them in a day.
“Private Enterprise has failed us!” In the
days well-nigh forgotten,
Shiftless days of peace and plenty, he
who strove to “muddle through.
Glorying in ancient blunders, calls tor
miracles and wonders. , „
Scorning all his olden idols Precedent
and “Party” too.
[Sir, — Let registration be begun at once
of every individual, man and woman, in .
Australia, and a record be kept 0/ their
special qualifications to serve the State, it
would be a revelation of the power, etc. J
What? Conscription! Hearken, brothers!
Yester-year it was “un-British.
Yester-year a proud old Tory left our
shores in angry haste ;
For it made his proud flesh tingle to sug-
gest his sons should mingle .
With the sons of vulgar persons, lacking
wealth and finer taste.
Yester-year, my friends, we slumbered,
fatuous and feebly striving .
To build up a sturdy nation m our island
continent. . , ™
Now, behold, we are awaking! Ben tne
Tory is forsaking
Ancient ways and olden idols, and his
cherished “Precedent.”
Brothers, through the gloom that shrouds
us, through the fearsome smoke of
llßttlG • -r
I can glimpse a bright star shining, I can
see a hope for men; A
For he wakes who long has slumbered, and
the nation’s march encumbered.
It has taken war to wake him do not let
him sleep again.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


GAELIC WHISKY
the old smuggler
XII
rP
BAfTLIWIML
dg
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
The Tornado of Blood and Iron.
In the midst of confused reports about
TTWrtf W 0^ k Ti w 1 i . til shell and bayonet in
witi? a S ’ * Italian mountaineers grappling
with Austrians on the topmost crags of
snow-capped hills, of Ivan fighting with
back to the wall along the Dneister, and of
homeric battles with the Turk, a distant
voice came drifting round the world It
was the voice of William J. Bryan, of the
u.b.A., late Secretary of State, remarking
that war is the natural result of the funda-
mental precept of the false philosophy that
Might makes Right.” Apparently Bryan
imagines that the dignity of his country can
best lie preserved b.v getting into the pulpit,
wnnsmg a pair of ineffectual hands and
expoundmg copybook maxims. But though
HlAans windy eloquence discloses the state
mind in which he approached the task of
protesting against the murder of United
States citizens, it is not likely to deter his
friends from making shells, which are
"? ore . val ue just now than
bubbles of air. How urgently they
are wanted is daily emphasised even
by the disjointed summaries of the proceed-
ings at the Fronts. The struggle has still
everywhere the same general features—an
enormous expenditure of ammunition, des-
perate fighting for foothold in a trench
a counting-up of the dead and wounded,
and then more blowing up and digging out.
ihe side that can keep on wheeling up shells
and marching up men the longest is the side
that is not going to lose. When exhaustion
commences the collaipse will be as rapid as
of a building under which the foundations
are crumbling. How Germany is feeling
about the matter is not perhaps of much
consequence now, but if the statement is true
that nearly half a million men have been
taken from the railways, their places being
filled by women, the Hun’s successes in the
Hastern front have been dearly won. And
they are suedpsses which still leave a power-
ful enemy hanging on his back. Our own
troops, are being severely tried, and it is still
a subject for exasperated wonderment that
the Government should persist in the folly
of denying the people at home some adequate
account of the campaign.
After the Great Loaf.
From Our Special Reporter in the Gallery:
The Federal Parliament to-day re-opened after
being closed for the currency of the war. Members
took their seats slowly. The old gentleman who
came in first leaning on the arm of an attendant
was stated to be Willie Kelly. He wore long
white whiskers, and it was noticed that when his
guide handed him a copy of the Standing Orders
he produced a magnifying-glass to assist his specta-
cles. Age had touched Willie with a hard hand. He was
followed by a much younger-looking man, who, in
spite of his undoubted years, walked blithely into
the Chamber, swinging a cane and with his hat on
the back of his head. It was Bigjohn Forrest, Who
had entered the Federal Legislature when a boy.
“Ah, Willie,” he was heard to exclaim, “and hoo’s
the koff?” “Poorly, poorly,” Mr. Kelly replied;
“I’m thinkin’ of goin’ to Darwin —this is no climate
for a sick man.”
Members began to flock in more quickly—some
on crutches, others with sticks ; a few were wheeled
up in invalid chairs. Mr. Hughes was the single
occupant of the Ministerial benches; the only other-
survivor, Mr. Mahon, was unable to attend through
a collapse caused by close attention to the litigation
arising out of the Panama Exposition. Hughes wore
a goatee. The stout person on the Opposition
benches with florid face and jovial laugh was said to
be Mr. Cook. The Speaker took his place with diffi-
culty, having suffered severely from gout.
Proceedings commenced by Hughes giving a full
account of what had been done since the House
adjourned. This occupied fully seven minutes. He spoke
with great emotion when referring to the unseemly
riots over the strike of the Sugar Co.’s share-
holders in favor of a 15-hours’ day. The disturbances
had finally been quelled by every director of the co.
being promised a pound of butter each Saturday
evening.
"That is a clear breach of the truce,” cried Willie
Kelly.
“Hear, hear,” shouted Mr. Cook, shaking a
threatening fist towards the Minister. “At a moment
like this, when we all have one foot in the
grave”
“I rise to a point of order,” quavered Hughes.
“Is it”
“What do I care for points of order?” bawled
Cook. “In the interests of the workers”
“Remove that man,” ordered- the Speaker; and
the leader of what was the Opposition was dragged
howling from the Chamber, upsetting Irvine and a
hot-water bottle out of a wheel-chair on the way.
“I suppose the truce will continue?” asked some-
one whose name was said to be Glynn : —a tall, gaunt
man dressed in the fashion of a bygone day, with
hands inured to toil.
“Oh, yes,” said Mr. Hughes, wearily. “The
referenda” •
“Wot?” shouted Willie Kelly.
“I say,” proceeded Mr. Hughes, “the referenda
will have to be taken for”
The scene that followed was disgraceful. Crutches
were thrown at the Speaker, the Minister was hunted
from the Chamber under a bombardment of inkpots,
and members, singing ribald songs, made their way
into the lobbies.
Subsequently' the Liberal party held a caucus, and
decided that the general election should be postponed
for 27 years in order to allow the time to ripen for
measures to restrain trade with the old German
epemy. There had been an increase of £10,000,000
on German imports during the previous year, but it
was thought that further experience might show a
change.
Consideration of the shortage of food among the
owners of sheep stations on the irrigation areas will
be referred to a Royal Commission.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty’s “The Chocolate Soldier”
Royal “On Our Selection”
Criterion “The Law of the Land”
Palace “A Scrape o’ the Pen”
Lyceum “The Rebel”
I'ivoli . Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty’s “The Arcadians”
Royal “The Man Who Stayed at Home”
Princess’s “As Midnight Chimes”
IVOLI Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Luou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Auditorium. .. “With the Fighting Forces of Europe”
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating
-V
Since last Bulletin, the G. and S.
merry-go-round at Her Majesty’s (Sydney)
has reeled off “The Pirates of Penzance,”
‘‘Pinafore” and “Trial by Jury.” To-night
(Thursday) “Patience” was to have been
revived with song and dance. But some-
body changed his mind, and so the village
milkmaid who scorned the popular poet will
be allowed to rest for the present. “Pina-
fore” and “Trial by Jury” will finish on
Friday, in order to give stage-room to “The
Chocolate Soldier, ’’ due on Saturday. No
doubt he will be wiped out in his turn ; but
so far a considerate management has re-
frained from setting a limit to his existence.
*s* $
There be only eight more nights of
‘A Scrape o’ the Pen” at Sydney Palace.
On Saturday, July 3, Graham Moffat will
replace it with the sunny little “Bunty
Pulls the Strings.” As both plays are well
worth seeing, the playgoer who is slow on
his feet might take them off the fender and
start to think it over.
* * * si:
Sydney Adelphi, which has been a non-com-
batant since May 29, and has been on the
brink for the past week, will on Saturday
declare war on all that is opposed to Virtue
and Holiness. “Mary Latimer, Nun,” is
named as the successor to the four weeks of
peace and quiet.
v
“On Our Selection” is doing such good
business at Sydney Royal that Dad has
had to suspend the free list to make room
for paying guests. Mimes in town
who have been crowded out are to be
appeased with a special free matinee this
(Thursday) afternoon. This is a case in
which matinees speak louder than words.
Some day the supply of U.S. melodrama
will Tun out: but meantime another offerin'-?
from that uncertain republic, "The Law of
the Land,” by George Broadhurst. author of
“Bought and Paid For.” will be presented
at Sydney Criterion next Saturday.
“Eye-witness” reports that the Tivoli pro-
gramme is still entrenched behind the bass
drum, and the official announcement of con-
tinued successes by Robert Parker. Arco
Bros., and Murfayne the xylophonist may
be taken as correct. At present there is
little, prospect of the Follies being reported
missing for a few weeks.
“Breach of Promise ” Angelina makes her
entrance in “Trial by Jury," at SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY’S.
This week’s happening at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s is another of the travestying after-
effects of “The Prisoner of Zenda,” which
first brought apochryphal kingdoms into
vogue on the stage. The male characters in
“The King’s Romance” are mostly disguised
in weird uniforms, and they babble of
crowned heads and other State matters. They
play the game of king-making with commend-
able disregard for the rules and regulations of
Court etiquette, and they wear any gaudy
old togs that look likely to impress a popular
priced audience. The spirit of common or
hardened melodrama is in them, but their
outward appearance suggests the pictorial
world of penny fiction.
* * * i *
George Cross, the heir-apparent to the
throne of Venantia, assumes the romantic
disguise of a landscape-painter, or a poet, or
something, and marries Miss Remee, notwith-
standing his lowly birth.' His wife’s brother
is a misguided revolutionary who assassin-
ates George’s royal father and uncle at the
instance of the greasy villain Michel. When
the bloodstained young man flees to his sis-
ter’s bedroom for shelter, George suspects
himself of being domestically betrayed, owing
to the fact that Michel aforesaid claims to
have been the lady’s concealed visitor. So
when George comes to the throne of his mur-
dered parent, he seriously thinks of annulling
his romantic marriage and taking the Prin-
cess Stephanie to wife. Michel, being sum-
moned to the royal presence, declares that he
is entitled to rank as co-respondent, and gul-
lible monarch George calls Michel a lot of
hard names before he remembers that lie
mustn’t forget he is a king. The leading
Ministers of State are favorable to the
chucking of Miss Remee on account of her
lowly birth, no matter whether she has been
giddy or otherwise ; but her brother puts the
whole show awdy, assuring the King that the
lady is in-no-cent, and then the clouds roll
by. Cross wears the white uniform of a
credulous potentate with easy seriousness,
and Miss Itemee suffers smilingly as usual.
J. Ennis and M. Nodin, as mistrusted Mini-
sters of State, show a fitting sense of their
importance. Kirby, as the ill-fated assassin,
keeps his oath, of secrecy in a frank, defiant
manner, even when the torture chamber has
done its worst. Riley plays the villain on
Hebrew moneylender lines, and Ward Lyons,
Kehoe, Pearl Hellmrich and many others
furnish their sentiments when appealed to,
and_ make a point of never speaking out of
their turn. Next Saturday’s drama is “As
Midnight Chimes,” for the first time in Mel-
bourne.
“A SCRAPE O’ THE
PEN,” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
THE PROFESSIONAL MOURNER (David Urqu-
hart): “Flora, will you marry me?”
FLORA (Margaret Noble): “No. ’Twould
make you too cheerful for your busi-
ness.”
Anderson’s long reign at Melbourne King’s
is coming to a gruesome end with “The Face
at the Window,” which is a classic of its
kind. Time has dealt kindly with the droll
old story of the Chevalier who puts on a
panto, mask whenever he goes forth to kill,
and always makes a noise like a motor syren
to warn detectives of his deadly errand. “The
Face” wears well, and two of its sets are far
above the scenic average. Stanford, Beau-
mont, Dawe, Cannam, Maude Goldspink and
Agnes Keogh have most to do with the pre-
sent revival of this dear, familiar horror. It
will be their last effort for the season, seem-
ingly, the Bert Bailey co. being due in
another week. (Incidentally, Bert Bailey
and his partners have obtained a seven
years’ lease of the King’s.)
* * * #
Melb. Royal is still the Home of the
Man who Stayed there, and the mysterious
pro-German person who writes threatening
letters to a Manly councillor is doing his best
to boost the topical drama in question.
$ $
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) a revival of
“The Arcadians” is promised for Saturday,
and Maggie Moore has been engaged to assist
the present co. in the character of Mrs. Sim-
plicitas Smith. Meanwhile, “The Marriage
Market” has two more nights to go.
'!•
The Fighting Forces of Europe, at the
Auditorium, have beeh reinforced since their
last encounter with The Bulletin’s col-
umns. The new division of kinemacolored
forces is from Asia, and Melbourne is view-
ing the screen with fresh interest. '
* sj: *
The second of the series of Orchestral
Concerts, under the Taits’ management,
comes due at Melb. Town Hall on Saturday
afternoon. The orchestra, as numerous as.
before, or more so, will asiain be conducted
by SlapolMd. and Sneezeowsky’s Pathetic
Symphony will be its heaviest task. Mr. de
Bourguignon is to piano in a Schumann con-
certo. In the evening, at the same Town
Hall, the Taits start their Saturday Pops;
and Miss Serena, the contralto from Adel-
aide, is to appear as a brilliant sample of the
new season’s goods.
The latest' arrival at the M«lb. Tivoli is
Nickelsonn. a wizard and illusionist. For
the rest, there are Nella Webb, Ida Barr,
Frank Wilson and Pisano, the sharpshooter,
whose clever turn leaves a pungent smell of
ammunition behind it. Among the also-rans
are an excited citizen described as Yakov
lenki and six Tivoli girls. Yakov, is the
one who capers about and expects the girls
to make a fuss of him.
#* * ♦
Nellie Stewart, playing at Adelaide Royal,
found that the public flocks even more
keenly to the old “Sweet Nell” than to
fresher pieces. Atholwood put up one more
fine bit of work in the small part of the old
act-orr, Roberts gets no great chance as a
hero who is perpetually fugitive or prisoner,
and Wilkie’s Jeffreys is hardly what Grau's
used to be; but Blakiston is sound and
delightful as the king, after being quietly
effective as a deformed jester in “Dorothy.”
Nancye Stewart is going to have a big
future, and, honestly, Nellie is much the
same as she was 20 years ago. Once again,
what a Cleopatra she would make! For
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES, SYDNEY.
How the audience welcomes the Royal
Welsh Glee Quartette. (Snowballs provided
by the management.)
the moment, the only drama in Adelaide is
“The Bad Girl” at the Tivoli. Rubbishy
play ; fine acting ; popular prices ; big busi-
ness. West’s rely largely on a Nelson Page
drama, but the fine orchestra is always a
welcome extra feature at this house. Won-
dergraph’s best-scoring line is a fairly com-
plete “peep” at the local electric-tram sys-
tem. The only variety show is at the King’s,
where Brown and Sorlie put up a clever
“coon” turn, something on Irving Sayles
lines. George Ford does the usual ventri-
loquism with some new features, and the
two Gaffs, with Hennessy and Martell, give
the programme a fine convivial flavor. The
dainty “English Pierrots” are in their last
week at the Town Hall, and the Belgian
Band is nearly due at the Exhibition.
Revised version for the use of Britishers :
“War is Hell—and Tommy !”
Warfare at the best is savage. At the
worst it is Cultured.
Francis Conway Mason, the just dead
ex-Speaker of the Vic. Assembly, was
always careful of his whiskers, and right
until, he closed the debate with Time they
were still in good order, though lately a
little the worse for wear. The maidens of
his prime admired whiskers; so Frank was
a great man with the maidens.. He dressed
the part well, too. One night in the
Assembly he sprang up to say, “I have been
waited upon by a deputation of ladies”
but the laugh took precedence, and it was a
long time before he could explain what they
wanted. He was 70, came from Tipperary
and has a Major son in the firing-line.
John Hopkins, an old-time solicitor, just
dead, put ashore at Port Phillip in ’52, hav-
ing as shipmate Anthony Brownless, John
Madden’s picturesque predecessor as Chan-
cellor of the University. Hopkins pursued
costs in Melbourne for over 50 years. It
was him that J. L. Purves received his
first brief. The oldest practitioner in Mel-
bourne now is Boyle Patey, a sprightly
young fellow of 87. For many years he
was managing clerk to Field'Barrett, when
that brilliant advocate practised as an amal-
gam. After Barrett’s death Patey trans-
ferred to the office of R. W. Dickinson.
Besides preparing bills of costs he runs the
Homes for Destitute Children in Colling-
wood, founded by the Rev. C. H. Cherbury.
“Orient”: I believe Japan and China will
become one nation, with the capital at
Hankow. Every Australian ought to study
the conditions which, by the new treaty,
Japan has imposed upon China. Really
China is in entire tutelage, as to embassies,
the army, navy, engineerihg, railways, Cus-
toms, even the Church! Yuan apparently
is agreeable to the Jap thumb, recognising
that it is the only way to escape anarchy;
but he made a show of resistance, to placate
England, France —and Germany. Hankow
will be the largest city in the world. Chi-
cago is to beat London, and Hankow is to
beat Chicago. The situation is the finest
on earth. Though 600 miles up the glorious
Yangtse, it is virtually a big-ship port.
There is already rail to Pekin, and there will
be soon to Canton, and all the way to
Shanghai. And after that the lines will
reach out to Tibet and Burmah and India.
The German attack of hydrophobia has
sent the price of drugs up, in some instances
seven fold. Some proprietary articles freely
prescribed by Australian physicians are un-
procurable. One very commonly used pre-
paration of salicylic acid has soared from
2s. to 225. 6d. a pound. Shortly after the
hogs of war broke out a well-known British
firm, whose products stand high in the trade,
advanced prices for most lines —some 24
per cent., some per cent., others as
as 50 per cent. No doubt the majority of
the firm’s preparations were put up in Bri-
tain. but the bulk of the ingredients evi-
dently came from behind the Rhine. In
this as in so many other ways John Bull is
paying a heavy price for the blessings of
Free trade. And he is not merely being hit
by the extra cost of medicine. Worse than
that, the chemists whom Britain should
have been employing are at work making
gas to poison John in the trenches. The
whole business shrieks a lesson to Australia.
This country could and should manufacture
iodine, for instance. This is obtained from
seaweed, but without Protection there can
he no hope of success against a foreign ring.
Lanoline, the purified grease of- sheep’s
wool, is used all over the world., This is
the wool country; yet so foolish is it that no
attempt is made to hang on to the wealth
annually washed away at the fellmongeries.
There is a duty on refined lanoline, and
Australia does some of the refining, but that
is from the unrefined fat imported from
abroad, duty free, after being captured from
our exported wool.


dg
RED
uc
[Sunt CRWFORpjJ
ScOTGI WinsKV
**z.
dfg
STAR
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt/ & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. A. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest f kates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 ,.. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
AT POVERTY POINT.
One day last week poor Temple Harrison
justified The Bulletin’s recent announce-
ment of his death. It was his mother who
had died a week or two previously. Temple
Harrison, it is said, came into a small com-
petence (£6 a week) under his deceased
parent’s will; but Fate had ironically de-
creed that the hard-working mummer should
succumb to consumption of the. throat almost
as soon as he got a private income to fall\
back upon.
The violinist of the Nordica co. of two
years back can play the principal’s obligatos
now. Franklin Holding was only 30 wlien
Bright’s disease laid him low in the U.b.A.
on April 3.
“THE FACE AT THE WINDOW .” AT MELBOURNE KING’S.
THE LADIES OF THE AUDIENCE.
1. They listen to the
heartrending wail.
2. The Face is about
to appear.
“Theorbo”: Bourguignon, the Belgian
nianist, at the two Melbourne concerts he
has just given, contemptuously thrust aside
the idea of excluding German music. At
both concerts he revelled most in Wagners
“Ride of the Valkyries.” Not very long
ago the Kaiser evinced his appreciation ot
the cosmopolitan spirit of music by com-
manding a production, in Berlin, of Meyer-
beer’s ‘‘Huguenots,” and it is alleged to
have outshone any ever given m Paris, it
was stage-managed by Broussan and _Mes-
sager, the leading men from the Pans
Opera, In response, the Paris Opera gave
a production of the “Valkyrie,” which cer-
tainly, as spectacle, outshone any ever seen
in Germany.
Prom London: War plays continue to be
born. Mostly they soon die. One with
atrocities in it caused a small riot at Bir-
mingham, being so realistic that it brought
shrieks and hysteria. “The Man who
Wouldn’t” —the name calls up memories ot
old sex-problem novels —is a useful pendant
to the one who Stayed at Home. It tells
of the conversion of a lukewarm patriot.
The most remarkable Spy play of late weeks
shows a German installed in a flat opposite
Downing-street, with a Krupp cannon that
is at a given moment to blow the whole
British Cabinet to Hades! Lewis Waller,
back in London, relies on nothing fresher
than Beaucaire and D’Artagnan. Other
successful revivals are “Sealed Orders
now dated as of last July, with many anti-
German digs—and “Raffles,” with Du
Maurier (who was the first that ever. played
the amateur cracksman).. Bessie Major has
a fat little part in the latest American
crime-drama, “The Argyle Case.” She plays
a negress cook!
k r “E.T.”: Compton Mackenzie, now doing
the Dardanelles campaign ' for London
'TIMES, is, I see, described in cables as
“understudy” to Ashmead-Bartlett, thm_ex-
“Thunderer’s” original “special. Well,
it’s not the first time that an understudy
has proved as good a performer as -
principal. Mackenzie will not kick at tne
theatrical word. He comes of a mumming
family. His father, known on the Engiisn
stage for nearly half a century as Edward
Compton, is still running his old cornedj
company” round the provinces. Also n
runs nearly a dozen provincial theatres
in partnership with one Bode. The latter
busy proprietor, by the way, extended his
sphere of operations to Australia
Meynell-Gunn-Glarke regime, and was in
with that firm when they put on pantomime
and musical-comedy programmes. Compton
Mackenzie, long before he became an
understudy war-ftorrespondent, was, a novel-
ist. His first attempt, “The Romantic
Elopement,” was a miss, but he scored
a ■ bull’s-eye with his second, “Carnival :
and he followed this hit with _ the
two-volumed “Sinister Street.” “Carnival
has been dramatised by the author
and played in America. A younger
brother, Frank Compton, who appeared in
it, was in Australia: for a year or two. He
also was an understudy, and had small
parts in many of the, Aleynell-Gunn musical
pieces. Later in. “Everywoman” he did well
as a vacuous Jehbny with an eyeglass and
“Everywoman’s” lap-dog under his arm,
The Scythe recently mowed down com-
poser Carl Goldmark, after missing him for
85 years. A Hungarian Jew, his music suf-
fered the handicap of being opposed to that
of Gounod, Bizet, Wagner, Verdi and
Brahms. His opera, “The Queen of Sheba,
produced 40 years ago, is a favorite m the
continental part of Europe, but beipg built
on a Scriptural theme was barred in Eng-
land until recently. 1 Sarasate popularised
some of Goldmark’s music for the violin.
For exhibiting outside a Strand picture-
theatre a photograph of Marie Lloyd, with
the words “White Slave Traffic” close by,
the Charinh Cross Cinemat. Co. has had to
present Marie with £250 and an agreed sum
for costs. The words and the photograph
related to different, films, but Marie claimed
that she had been hurt in her young and
tender feelings, and the Judge sobbed out the
verdict mentioned above.
3. The Face appears.
4. The result.
A man who had a glimpse of that unlucky
show the San Francisco Exhibition, says
that some U.S.A. firework manufacturer
must have read all about Babette s nightie
in “The Double-Bed Dialogues.' The even-
ing he attended a flight of detonating bourns
soared aloft and burst into stars, one of
which, bursting in turn, unfolded Babette s
wedding nightie —or some equally confiden-
tial garment. The searchlights on the
grounds immediately swung round and
focussed the skied lingerie which floated
away tranquilly on the wind to the delighted
roars of the groundlings. It would be a good
■joke on a wowser celebration to include
some surprise of the kind amongst the offi-
cial fireworks. ,
That bright little girl, Irma Ear on, lately
ventured a tour through the wilds ot
land with a good-class entertainment. _t ue
show left a trail of favorable impressions.
Irma herself sang as many as a dozen
numbers a night in various .anguages ana
costumes, getting enthusiasm from the high-
brows and respectful applause from the low-
brows. The taste of audif rices way-back is
nowadays waiting for refinement, it seems;
and when refinement comes unexpectedly
they regard it with pleasant surprise, and
ask it to stay to tea.
“Jape”: The irmy of it! Justus Miles
Forman, who went down. with the Lusitania,
was returning to Britain after seeing his
■drama, “The Hyphen,” staged in New York
The play was written round the loyalty ot
the Yankee German to Uncle Bam.
“Melb”: “Kaniva” (B. 17/6/T5) rig ll *"
eously corrects the error that Brooke opened
the Olympic. I knew well enough that it
was Wizard Jacobs; but I said so at too
Treat length and in condensation so®***-
Now let me divagate with a yarn, which will
not evoke the indignation of more than
ninety-and-nine “Kanivas. Wemyss Job-
son, of the Cogers’ Club, yvas proudl of his
belltoppers, specially imported from London,
£2 each. To do his omelette trick Wizard
Jacobs wanted a hat. Sprightly, the assist-
ant, walked straight to Jobson, and seized
bis “No! No!” says Jobson. ' Don tbe a
fool,” says his wife. So the hat went. The
Wizard made an omelette m it. After a lot
of hocus-pocus, Jacobs said : I am sony
this trick has failed, for the first time in my
life. I will give the gentleman £1 for his
hat ” “No, you won’t!” shouted Jobson,
“nor £5 nor £2O! I’ll expose you for an
impostah !” Enormous merriment, especially
among the Cogers. Jobson sued Jacobs in
the District Court. Crowded Bench and
crowded court. Hat produced Why, this
is disgusting,” said John Thomas Smith.
“Verdict for”- —“Hold on,” says Jacobs;
“give me the hat.” Examines it. “Nothing
the matter with this. What do you say,
Mr Jobson?” Jobson seized the hat and
exclaimed. “Why, it is perfectly restored !
The Wizard had done the trick m the wit-
ness-box.
At Beechworth (Vic.) the other day a .
showman who had struck a fearful
left the town with the band playing the
“Dead March.” In defence of Beechworth
a celebrity rounded up the town band, and
set it to work to play down the departing
minstrels, with “Fare thee well, and if for
ever, then for ever fare thee well. It
was of Beechworth that the head of a well-
known Australian circus family said: lhis
is a great business town. The people will
do anything if you pay them well enough
—even go to a circus.”
“C. Ockney” : Not a bad traveller is “The
Man Who Stayed at Home.” Quitting
London, he has already visited Australia,
S’Africa and N’York. In the U.S.A. the
piece is known as “The White Feather ;
and the cast of mostly-Murkan mummers in-
cludes the very British Eric Maxon, who
plays the German spy led out to be shot at
curtain-fall. Maxon when in Australia was
usually the leading juvenile who wore the
white socks of a blameless life and Was
always assured of the sympathy of the gal-
lery girls at least. Now he, like Gynl
Mackay in the same piece, has to hump a
role which is, in shop talk, against the
audience.” But maybe in New(tral) York
Maxon does not get on the audience s nerves
so very much.
“S.S.” : A well-knoWn family of nomadic
actors was playing “His FataLError,” ahas
“The Silver King,” at Four Roads. Ihe
audience was not tremendous, and there
was no great cause for elation; but after
the curtain had fallen, several friends the
brethren had made since their arrival three
davs earlier raised so great a clamor tor
“author!” that the good elder brother was
compelled to step out before the curtain, and
pass remarks. He made a longish speech.
He praised Four Roads for its enthusiasm
in the cause of Art, for jits culture, and for
its hospitality. “I owe a great deal to I our
Roads,” he said. “In fact, we all owe a
great deal to Four Roads.” Then spoke
Isles, the local publican. “By ——, you
do!” he said. “But there’s two of us here
’ll see you don’t get out without paying.” j
Nathalie Rosenwax, who is in London,
was chiefly instrumental in organising a big
concert, a few weeks ago, for about 500 Aus-
tralian soldiers in England. Fifteen artists,
sympathetic with Australia, co-operated, in-
cluding Ivy Shilling, Olive Lenton and
Maude Telfer. The concert was at South-
ampton, where the Australians, are stationed.
They were delighted—said it was the great-
est treat they had had in>Ehgland. Ivy and
all the rest were entertained by Colonel
Tunbridge and the officers at headquarters—
Colonel Ashley’s estate at Romsey, formerly
Lord Palmerston’s. Miss. Rosenwax writes
home with enthusiasm of its magnificence.
Jabez Wright, of Broken Hill, who usually
ha£ a point, even if it J)e a blunt one, con-
cealed about his remarks, startled N.S.W,
Assembly last week with a mysterious ques-
tion. He wanted to know if Arthur Grif-
fith knew of the existence of schools in
N. S. Wales where German only was taught
and spoken, which were subsidised by the
Hun Government, and were visited a couple
of years ago by a Gerhog official? Griffith
answered that he was unacquainted with
these things; but. Jabez Wright is not the
sort of man to ask a question merely for the
sake of asking.
Ex-Premier Peake has struggled back mto
tho S Aus Parliament, through the note
made for him by the quite-unexpected retire-
ment of McDonald. The latters. “peake’s
at the general election was low, reaves
margin above Monks at the
week was only about a fifth-of this,
Parliament opens on July 8, Vaugha
have a comfortable majority of half a dozen
behind him. ConeybeeU Minister fox Educa
tion in the Yerran Government, will he
Speaker.
Threatened men live long, so John Liv-
ingstone, of Tasmania, stands a chance to
■ make old bones. Twice the Law has
threatened to suspend him by the neck and
hasn’t done it either time. The first occa
sion was in 1890, when, after John s con-
viction for pushing a man into the Der
went with intent to drown him, the death
sentence was. commuted to much gaol, llie
other day the Law again changed its mind
and decided' to jug John for his natural
life, after solemnly threatening to dislocate
his neck for murdering a woman at Sandy
Bay.
From an old Vic. Parliament man: —
Watt is supposed to be a bigger man than Peacock,
because the kookaburra Premier of 15 years ago
knuckled down under him ; but Peacock gets on much
better than Watt, whose “greatness” lies in insulting
oratory, whereas Peacock keeps in smooth water, and
makes progress. He now tinkers up Watt s Greater
Melbourne Bill, with the improvement of One Man
One Vote, instead of keeping up the old property
franchise. I would not back the passing of the
measure this session, but it will get much nearei
realisation. The House now pretty generally realises
that the Melbourne Corporation is all right for finan-
cial schemes like the Electrics, but is wholly defici-
ent ih the public spirit of such as Glasgow, Birming-
ham and Manchester; and putting it that- way
Peacock may get even the Council Ho presently swal-
low his scheme.
Unofficially it is stated (that’s how they
usually break the news) that the Holman
Government will appoint B. Donaldson, ex-
M.L.A. for Tumut, as Inspector of Abo-
rigines, at £5OO a year. If the appointment
is made it will be one more example ot the
politician giving a good job to a brother-
politician who has lost the confidence ot his
constituents. Of course, there is nobody in
the Public Service capable of inspecting
Binghi. The Labor party yells for public
enterprise. Then, whenever a. decent sa.la.ry
is on offer for a public job, it declares that
the public service is so poor that some out-
sider or other must be brought in.
Symon’s fine innings in the S. Aus.
Supreme Court continues. His latest big
hit was in the motor-’bus v. tram case. Two
of these rival vehicles fell foul of each other,
and were both immediately burnt up, with
one life lost. The public was inclined to
think that, as a car is confined to its own
rails, the ’bus was in fault for getting on
them. But Chief Justice Way summed up
dead against the Tram Trust, on the grounds
of excessive speed and faulty look-out; and
the jury pronounced for the ’Bus Co. on
claim and counter-claim, £1240 damages —
with doubtless much Costs to follow, for the
case lasted 14 days.
A much-threatened political slander action
has reached the practical stage in Adelaide:
Premier Vaughan is definitely issuing a writ
against ex-Premier Peake. The suggestion
is that at a Strathalbyn meeting Peake,
annoyed at the Labor dead-set against cer-
tain followers of his with German names,
said (approximately) that to find men in
power who were associated with Germans
they had “only to go to the Vaughans and
one of their colleagues.” Considering what
a’host of German names there are in South
Aus., and also that the original bearers
mostly -game away to escape Prussian
tyranny 60 years ago and have bred good
Australians since, the chances are thdt the
case will never get into court.
' “10-2-4” : Archdeacon Boyce is distracted
at the discovery that N. S. Wales is spend-
ing £4 6s. 6d. per head per annum on Drink.
For my part, remembering the drunks who
pervade the pavement near my place of busi-
ness, I marvel that it is so little. The total
bill for refreshments comes to Is. Sd. per
week —-less than half of what the average
business man or woman spends on fares.
But put the position at its worst. Say
that half the population splits the drink
account. Then the expenditure of those who
do all the drinking is approximately 3s. 4d.
per head per week. One bottle of cham-
pagne per month; three-fifths of a bottle of
whisky per week, say a nip and a half per
day; six beers a week, or, if the worst liquor
is drunk under the poorest conditions, 13.
The pietist takes a distorted view of things
always. Alongside Archdeacon Boyce’s
views on the drink question (it was in a
“religious” paper) l was an article headed
“Girls Sold to Procure Food.” Who wants
to buv girls? I would not mind standing a
man a meal. But if he tried to lumber a
girl on to me in return I would regard him
as an enemy. It is owing to the wild words
of “social reformers” that every other flat-
footed, scorbutic, and tow-haired girl in the
community goes in constant terror of being
stolen by the vampire man, either for pur-
poses of trade or to be added to his private
collection of white slaves. As a result of
an intimate experience of life in most of its
aspects, I have arrived at the conclusion that
mankind is not so much bad as cautious. He
does not hurry about picking up girls at
bargain-rates. He rather confines himself
to one girl, and wonders often why he was
such a reckless daredevil as to undertake
that responsibility.
ME!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W. Premier Holman (loq.) •'
I’m the boss mummer of the State,
A star of stars I coruscate,
I share the “lime” with no one;
A better leading-man than me
In rattling farce or trage-dy,
Can any country show one?
(I’ve gotter motter, entre nous,
It’s “Me —not You.”)
It’s in the blood. I take the stage
As ducks to ponds—my heritage !
I got it from my pater.
And when I didn’t act a part,
And work to death the “kidding art,
There isn’t any data.
(When rival pros, came into view
’Twas “Me —not You.”)
So nobody now thinks me rude,
Or that, like “Paul Pry,” I intrude,
When I annex the centre;
I’ve stood that other mummer Ward
As long as I can well afford —y \
He exits when I enter!
(Star mime and stage-director, too.
It’s Me —not Hugh!)
N.S.W.
E. T.
THE FALLING TDOL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Extraordinarily high price of eggs.... These indeed
arc the (lays of the Hen that lays the Golden Egg.
-V Market report.
Wat Cattle was an actor old,
A player with a weary heart,
Who’d hoard the bitter critics! scold,
And pocketed but little gold; ■
And so,, poor man, he played his part,
With mind more bent on grub than art.
The people rose* in great delight, v, ;
And round old Walter Cartle’s legs
They piled their fine bouquets that night.
With rage the veteran’s cheek was white.
“Bouquets!” he shrieked. “When to these
dregs
I played before, they threw me eggs!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


English Horse-hide Shooting Boots, 37/6
For tramping over rough country in Winter no boots will give you
more foot comfort or stand more real hard wear than a pair of these
Eog(lisH Horse-Hide Shooting Boots.
Tougher than any ordinary leather, these great, black horse-hide boots,
specially treated with a non-greasy oil to keep out water, will outlast
three pairs of ordinary boots. With welted soles that are
thoroughly waterproof.
Price
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. Q.P.0., SYDNEY.
dfgf
Bronchitis,
Stubborn Coughs
yield to
Of all Chemists
1/3, 2/9, 4/6.
The soothing, healing properties of
Angier’s Emulsion make it invaluable for
colds, coughs, bronchitis, and all catarrhal
affections of chest and lungs. It not only
heals and strengthens the lungs, but it
keeps the digestive organs in a healthy
condition, and exerts a most invigorating
tonic influence upon the general health.
Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by
the medical profession for twenty-two
years. It is the standard approved remedy
for chest affections.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage,
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7
and mention this papejr.
Barrack Street, Sydney.
SOCIETY
“H.M.W.”: There is a slight inaccuracy
in “Anti-Snuffle’s” yarn on “woman and
war” where he says: “If a wife slanders or
libels an enemy; runs over someone with a
motor-car;.... or is guilty of any tort what-
ever, he (the husband) is liable.” That
would have been a correct statement of law
before the High Court case of Brown v.
Holloway, which decided that a husband
was no longer liable for his wife’s torts. It
was the Married Woman’s Property Act
that did the trick. Before that operated a
husband was joined in actions against the
■wife “for the sake of conformity” ; but this
formal joinder did not save him if the wife
lost; he had to spar up. After that Act,
the reason for joining the husband failed.
As a learned writer put it at the time :
“Cessante ratione cessat ipsa lex.” It was
Fletcher Moulton who dug up the point.
“Mujik”: Anderson Stuart, of Sydney
Medical School, finds a subtle connection
between Grub and Beer. At an early-clos-
ing-of-pubs meeting said he: —
Women could keep their husbands away from
hotels if they made their homes bright and looked
after the cooking more than they do. The attraction
of the yellow hair behind the bar might cease if the
homes of the working classes were more comfortable.
Perhaps. But the clatter of washing-up
and the hot, clogging smell of boiling food
may, for all the knighted professor knows,
drive more men to the pub than are kept
at home by the fascination of a perspiring,
red-faced wife with the odor of cabbage in
her hair and half an eyebrow singed off.
Then there is this incontrovertible fact that
the most persistent boozers—the men who
bore holes in their livers with nips morning,
noon and night—do not belong to those
who live in unattractive homes and con-
sume uninviting meals. And devotion to
the yellow head is not a measure of the
devotee’s domestic comfort. Nor is it a
pursuit to which the “working classes” are
particularly addicted. Reginald and Percy
are much more ardent in this form of dissi-
pation than Billo. For every excessive
drinker or Lothario of the bar that Stuart
can produce to support his theory about
squalid homes and bad cookery, I will tender
half a dozen flabby, kidney-congested
wrecks who have pleasant places of resi-
dence, comely wives and good meals.
* * * *
“One on the Inside”: It is quite true that,
as stated in a recent Bulletin, a bald pro-
fessor of German extraction in an Austra-
lian seat of learning had the Union Jack
painted on his cranium by ultra-patriotic
students. But, since a matter much talked
about quietly has at last vot into print, it
is only fair to say that those students, on calm
consideration, realised that they had made
a mistake as to the facts, and they sent him
a handsome apology to the effect that not
only were they sorry they had done it, but
they now admitted that the yarns about his
being unpatriotic, which had spurred them
on to act as they did, were plain libels; to
which he, also handsomely, replied that so
long as his character was cleared his scalp
didn’t matter —or words to that effect.
PEEZNESS AS USUAL.
MRS. C OHENSTEIN: “ Crachious, Ikey, vot you doin’ mit dot Kaiser mostache?”
COHENSTEIN : “Sh, ma tear. Ven it sticks proper I stand in der doorway, and p’raps
dem patriotics set fire to der shop.”
VIVE LA ICECREAM!
HARDWARE: “Have an icecream, Softgoods?”
S OFTGOODS: “No, thanks.”
HARDWARE: “Have an icecream, man. For Cod’s sake do something for our noble ally.”
A number of N. S. Wales Ministers paid
leg-pulling visits to Cranbrook and old Fed-
eral Government House on Saturday. Their
ostensible aim was to see which of the two
was more suited to be a convalescent home
for Australian soldiers. As the minds of
the visitors were notoriously made up on
this point three or four Cranbrook dinner-
parties ago, the taxpayers might as well
have been saved the moritey which the jaunt
cost. Everyone outside the State Gov-
ernment House clique recognises that the
Macquarie-street place is superior in every
way for recuperating soldiers. It is
quiet; it is removed from dust and
noise; its surroundings are beautiful; it
is handy to where the doctors live; it is easy
of access to the relatives and friends of the
men. In short, it has only one defect —that
of being so exceptionally alluring as a resi-
dence that Sir Gerald Stiv '"land probably
wants it for himself. If he does, he deserves
to get it, if only for the subtlety of his
diplomacy. Lord Denman foolishly alienated
the little local men when the “eviction” row
started. Had he treated these small people
with the same consideration that he showed
for the Fisher Ministry, the Fergusons might
have been in the Sydney establishment to-
day.
* * * *
This week’s ecclesiastical note: —
The newest episcopal apron in Australia will be
the one at present being made for Henry Newton, of
Dogura, Papua, who has just been chosen by the
Anglican bishops in Queensland to succeed Gilbert
White, of Carpentaria. The parsons had better stop
trotting out the g«g that the white man can’t live
or work in tropical Australia. White, who came
from the Cold Country in bad health, has been there
for 26 years, first at Charters Towers, and for the
last 15 years at Thursday Island and its vicinity.
After spending about 10 months in each year travel-
ling afloat in small cutters or ashore with pack-
horses, varied by an occasional tramp of a few
hundred miles per boot (he once strolled across the
continent from Darwin to Adelaide), his vitality has
been so exhausted that at the age of 60 he is going
to organise a brand-new diocese—Willochra, in the
backblocks of S. Aus. The Queensland bishops, who
ought to know, reckon that 16 years’ continuous resi-
dence in Papua has not unfitted Newton to take
White’s place as boss of the Carpentaria diocese—no
soft snap, but one of the most strenuous jobs at
bishing that this country holds. Newton is a mere
Australian, born in Victoria in Jan., 1866. Strictly
speaking, his name is not Newton at all, but Wil-
kinson. Left an orphan, he was adopted by “Parson”
Newton, an old-time identity of the N.S.W. North
Coast, who still lives at Brockley, near Lismore.
After experience at school-teaching, young Wilkinson,
or Newton, went to the Anglican College at Sydney
Uni. on a bursary subscribed by co-religionists at
Newcastle (N.S.W.), and on getting his B.A. was
sent to Oxford to acquire a bleat. Instead, he
secured double honors in mathematics, and came
home again as a “clerk in holy orders” as good an
Australian as ever. His first soul-saving job (not
counting a minor skirmish with Beelzebub as a curate
in the Cold Country) was in the bush at the back of
Esk (Q.), and after five years there he, in ’99, fol-
lowed Stone-Wigg, the first Anglican bishop of New
Guinea, as a missionary to Papua, where he has been
ever since. Among the clergy who will be under him
in Carpentaria is his elder foster brother, W. M.
Wilkinson, the itinerant “mission priest” of the
diocese, who spends his time wandering through the
less known parts of tropical Australia as a missionary,
not to Black Brother, but to the infrequent white
man. At 62 years of age this tough Australian has
just returned from a two years’ overland trip of 6000
miles on horseback, during which he rounded up all
the stragglers from Cape York via Burketown and
Normanton, through the Northern Territory as far
west as Tanami, and as far south as Charlotte Waters.
* * * *
NO PARADISE.
[For The Bulletin.]
A Belgian girl-soul came to Heaven’s gate,
Which to receive her straight was opened wide;
But swift she turned and fled, with eyes of hate,
Shrieking: “Christ save me! There are men inside!”
MAORILAND. SELWYN RIDER.
“G.G.” : What a fool idea is this of giving
the “rejects” a badge to wear in public so
as to distinguish them from their brothers
who don’t volunteer? The “justice” of the
thing is all awry. It is neither British nor
Australian fair play to classify a man a
rotter who, for some cause equally as potent
as physical defectiveness, is prevented from
getting busy on Unspeakables. Furthermore,
would the “rejects” themselves like it?
Anyhow, the man who desired to strut round
the public thoroughfares with a Government
brand signifying that he had been thrown
out because of (say) venereal disease, would
be a very remarkable idiot indeed.
“T.H.”: A bombardier had his polished
brass buttons and red facings held up to scorn
in a crowded tram the other day by a pom-
pous hot-air merchant of about 45. “Every
man should go at the call of Empiali!
If I were your age”—he pointed an accusing
linger at the young soldier—“I’d be ashamed
to be seen in that —I’d be in the firing line
to-morrow!” It was too much for even a
bombardier. “Strange I did not meet you in
South Africa,” he merely said ; “what regi-
ment were you in?”
THE NEW CODE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(< M r. Ward went on to refer to the fact that the
“Queen of the Day” voting scheme in Christchurch
(M.L.) had realised £40,000.
Mrs. Holman: Of course you can get money by
going into a bank and taking it.
Mr. Stinson: None of us is likely to do that.
Mrs. Holman: But to be undignified is as bad as
being a robber.
—Daily paper.
Do not chase the joyous “ready” in an unbecoming
way;
Do not stalk the willing giver in a manner free and
gay;
Don’t be eager, don’t be pushful, when you’re hunt-
ing down a “tray,”
And be dignified when shadowing a copper.
Don’t degrade yourself by shoving when you see a
pound ahead,
The undignified collector really might as well be
dead.
Though you need it for a hero or a hero’s Red Cross
bed,
Miss it rather than exceed a pace that’s proper.
Miss it rather than exceed a pace that’s proper;
On your mad enthusiasm put a stopper.
You can rush at any rate
If you’re Premier of the State;
But in others speed is neither right nor proper.
The criminal while burgling never has the slightest
doubt
That there’s something solid waiting if the Law should
find him out;
And the person who goes charging-in to gather cash
from Stout
Is no better than the burglar when he’s burgling.
It’s a code severely simple, but it saves a lot of time,
To throw in the eager worker with the specialist in
crime;
They’re both of them good subjects for the hangman’s
noose and lime,
And I would not mind a bit to hear them gurgling.
And I would not mind a bit to hear them gurgling,
To be undignified is quite as bad as burgling.
Though the statement is severe,
I mean every word, my dear!
No! I would not mind a bit to hear them gurgling!
N.S.W.
ADMIRING INSOLVENT.


ARNOTTS
New Delicacies
FOR
Afternoon Tea
"CRISS-CROSS” "KIDDIES”
"ORANGE SLICE”
& "ROYAL CROWN” BISCUITS
hal.ed by Arnott!
Sure to be good!
LUXURIA
TRADE
0
MARK.
Eau de Cologne.
A Toilet Luxury of Great Merit.
MADE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Send One Penny Stamp for Free Sample to
PARVIOLA PERFUMERY CO.,
Box 239, G.P.0., Melbourne.
WEATHERPROOF COATS
—-FOR THE RAIN AND THE COLD.
The Raglan Gabardine Coat, which we illustrate, is easy to slip on, light
to carry, and is this season the most popular all-purpose Overcoat, because
it is sufficiently warm, quite weatherproof, and distinctive in cut. The
material is serviceable —it is quite free from rubber. The coat has
Military Collar, and buttons to throat. The sleeves have wind-straps, and
the vertical pockets are slit to give easy access to inner garments.
A better-than-usual Coat, in Fawn or Grey Gabardine.. 451-
Please state height and chest measurement.
REAPED & CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 George Street
SYDNEY.
•n;
Adelaide is unexpectedly admitting that it
can learn something—in fact, two things
from Melbourne. Chief Secretary Styles
has been having a look at Victorian hospitals,
and has sent two police-inspectors to observe
Melbourne’s system of controlling street-
traffic at busy crossings. The results are to
be (1) probably a revolutionised or even a
new Adelaide Hospital, (2) certainly anew
way of keeping to the kerbstone the wild
throngs of women who stand all over King
William-street waiting for tram-cars that may
be still half a mile away. #
James Edmond writes from the innards
of Africa: — . , _ ,
The front door, which is Capetown, is beautiful.
So are some of the side doers. But behind them is
an immensity of flat and ordinary grass and trees -
not very good grass, and not very big trees. When
the narrow-gauge train —which is a pony train, not
a thoroughbred l —has done 1500 or 2000 miles over
this country it grows wearisome. There are excep-
tional patches, of course, and there is the supreme
glory of the Zambesi. and the Victoria Falls, but
mostly it is a very moderate kind of show.
Like most countries which have heaps of cheap
colored labor it is a very expensive place to live in.
The landlord of one big Rhodesian hotel made me
two confidences before breakfast. One was that the
suit he was wearing had been, cleaned 10 times by
the Hindu across the street. The other was that, in
a moment of virtuous indignation, he had kicked one
of the Kaffir servants so hard that one of his (the
landlord’s) toenails had come off.
A mine manager told me that when it was neces-
sary to extract information from one of his Kaffir
“boys” five cuts of a whip generally did the trick,
but that one heathen stood 28 cuts before he tendered
a frank and voluntary explanation of the matter at
issue.
Our colored brother appears a hopeless proposition
here. The white man has apparently three solid
convictions in Rhode&ia-—Scorn for the colored bro-
ther ; hatred of the Boer; and a boundless, bottom-
less, shoreless, imperishable hatred of the Chartered
Company, which governs and largely owns the coun-
try. Cecil Rhodes’s concern seems to be our own
Van Diemen’s Land Cos., on a bigger scale.. Its rail-
ways are poor, its trains are slow, and its freight
charges are wonderful. Many places are served with
trains that run twice or three times a week. There
are only two places of any account in the vast area
of Rhodesia—Bulawayo and Salisbury, It is when
you leave Bulawayo on the road north, and plod
over scores of miles of apparently good country
which grows one locust to the square mile, that the
feeling comes on you that Rhodes’s gigantic Private
Enterprise or Wild Cat has somehow made a failure.
The shareholders, I am told, have scored one divi-
dend (3 per cent.) in 25 years. Still, it is good to
be a high official of the Chartered Cos. Salaries of
£IO,OOO a year are hot, unknown.
STAFF ORDERS.
“If you salute this Boobsley man I’ll never
speak to you again. His sister is the
most detestable girl I know.”
LOOKING BACKWARDS.
RETURNED WANDERER: “I suppose you have almost forgotten me, after all those years?”
STAY-AT-HOME SPINSTER: “Oh, no, I remember you used to be such a pretty girl.”
A German officer said admiringly of
Britain after Mons: “It has an army of
N.C.O’s.” What would he not think of the
U.S., which has an army of Generals—
according to the latest figures, 2148 them.
“Billy Blue”: Mrs. C. B. Marriott —one
of the early-day Lee family, of Bathurst —
had long promised to produce the “Log-book
of the Lady Nelson,” and publication was
announced last week
from London. The
Lady Nelson, nick-
named “11.M.5. Tin-
derbox,” was a brig
of 60 tons built in
England in 1798, and
sailing under com-
mand of Lieut. James
Grant. With her
mate and crew of 16
she anchored at Syd-
ney on December 16,
1800, after navigating
Bass’s Straits. Pre-
vious to that all ships
that had made Sydney
had sailed south of
Tasmania. A month
later the Lady Nelson
was followed by two
trading craft, the
Harbinger and Mar-
garet. Like Grant
they gave Governor
King a chart of their
course. Afterwards
the Lady Nelson was
sent back to survey
the Strait, under com-
mand of Lieut. Mur-
ray, and in doing this
she discovered Port
Phillip. The brig was
eventually claimed by
Davy Jones at Baba,
near Timor, in 1825.
“The Eighteenth”: I’ve been wondering if
it ever strikes the deserter from the Expedi-
tionary Forces that, besides being a fraud
and a humbug, he is a potential murderer,
tjuite a number of these beauties enlist with-
out the slightest intention of going to the
Front. While they remain in camp they
are a hindrance to their company, because
they won’t take an interest in the training,
dodging drill on every possible, occasion,
and they’re a nuisance at the hospital, where
they are habitual malingerers. When the
troops are about to depart the rotters slink
off, and the vacancies in the ranks have to
be filled by untrained men. And there’s no
need to stress the point that the man without
the knowledge of self-defence has mighty
little chance of getting through this or any
other war alive. I don’t know, what the
punishment is for such desertion, but 1
know what it ought to he.
“E.N.M.”: Let tliose who wish to do so
remove their hats to W. A. Holman as a
wily “leader,” a “statesman” and a master
of high, low and middling finance; also as
a limelighter of parts. Where he extorts my
utter admiration is in his sublime pose as an
authority on the war —the war he spoke of
nine months ago as no concern of Aus-
tralia’s. Speaking (when he was allowed to
by the indignant crowd) at Sydney last
week, he said :
It is a happy thing for us —British, Australians
and Canadians —that at the outbreak of this war
France had her great army in being. (Applause.)
Her men were ready to take the field —two and a
half million of her valiant soldiers were prepared to
resist the attacks of the enemy whilst the forces
of England and Australia were gradually created, and
whilst the forces of Russia were equipped. To this
day neither Great Britain nor Russia can be regarded
as being fully represented upon the field of opera-
tions. To this day the main brunt of the resistance
offered to the common foe has been borne by the
valiant soldiers of France. And it is for us, an
intelligent and educated community aware of these
facts
It all reads so beautifully that there seems
to be something cruel in putting the brutal
truth—something like dropping a (borrowed)
penny through an iridiscent soap-bubble. Yet,
alas! the brilliant orator-c Mm-owe-it-all is
horribly, stupidly wrong, though the good Lord
alone knows how anybody dares to contradict
him ! First, if the French Army had been
ready to take the field there would not have
been any war. That, at any rate, was the
opinion of M. Delcasse, of M. Augagneur,
of Hilaire Belloc, of Austin Harrison, and a
hundred others who are credited with know-
ing something about the subject. I yield to
no one in a warm admiration of France and
her clever, kindly, delightful people, and of
her splendid soldiers; but to let admiration
and liking blind one to the tremendous
hiatuses which existed in the French de-
fences when the storm burst would be to
descend to Holmanic depths of ignorance.
Britain hasn’t done all she intends to do,
but she has raised about 3,300,000 men. a
fleet three times the strength of the Hun
navy, £862,000,000 special war funds (in-
cluding £7,000,000-odd that Holman has
cadged), and is settling down to an effort
that will shift Sheol 137 degrees south of
Berlin. Nobody knows all that Russia has
done, but it must be quite something, because
2,500,000 Austrians, 1,700.000 Germans of
sorts, and about 300,000 mixed Turks,
Kurds and Tartars are “out” along the im-
measurable Eastern front, where the Bear
lives. Holman would, probably, dismiss
these figures with a wave of the hand and a
“What’s a million or two, anyway?” but
they represent no small share in the Allies’
general contribution. By all means give France
the immense credit she has earned; but,
equally, allow that our own folk and the
Russ have done, and are doing, as much.
“The Religious Editor” : As all the ground
and lofty abuse of the Kaiser seems to be
exhausted, I would like to suggest a suitable
climax, after which we can settle down to
make shells and finish the thing off,
Wilhelm should be solemnly charged
in absentia at Bow-street Police Court
with being drunk whilst in charge of a horse
and cart, to wit the German Empire. After
he had been fined ss. and costs, a cheap
policeman should be despatched with a war-
rant, ostensibly to arrest the defaulting
Drunk of Potsdam and rush him into the
nearest lock-up. He would, of course, be
furnished with secret instructions to lose
himself in Switzerland whilst the account
of the common police-court proceedings were
printed in all the papers of the earth, to
the great annoyance of the heroic Drunk
and his dwindling circle of friends. Some
such small insult would have raised pimples
on the reputation of a. Julius Csesar; applied
to a common brigand it should be as effective
as a tin can tied to the tail of a flying cur.
GENTLE CANDOR.
H E: “You can’t make me "believe that you
love me as you did.”
SHE: “I think I can. Why, I once made
you believe I loved you as I didn’t.”
In these days of successful opportunists
it is hard to pick one out for pre-eminence;
but the man who took advantage of Edward
Cantwell can’t well escape honorable men-
tion. Cantwell, who lives in Wattle-street,
Sydney, was on June 13 knocked down by
two horses attached to a hearse. While he
was on the ground, the anonymous opportu-
nist picked his pocket of £S. An unreliable
memory can recall only one similar Aus-
tralian case. Some months ago a girl was
fatally damaged by a rich Syrian’s motor-
car in Swanston-street, Melbourne. While
she lay unconscious on the roadway, a hound
whom the Kaiser would have been delighted
to honor with the Iron Cross opened her
handbag, stole her purse, and dropped the
emptiness beside her. Neither dog nor purse
was ever traced.
A RECRUITING SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A cheer for the boys who made for the fight
At the call of their country’s cause;
Sure a hot young blood is a shining light
To his steady-going mates, who pause.
A slap on the back for the cautious chaps
Who will do their bit, after all;
A sigh for the boys who have met mishaps,
And a tear for the boys who fall.
For valor in the lead, and courage in the ruck,
And manhood in the distant rear,
Here’s a cheer or a sigh or a tear;
They were friends in need when they chanced
their luck
And mocked at a poltroon’s fear,
So we give them our thanks sincere;
But for brawny boys who have shown no pluck,
Who are free to go and whose name is Muck,
We have only a gentle sneer, my dear,
Not a jeer, but a gentle sneer, d’ye hear,
Jack, Tom, Bill, Percy dear?
There’s much to be done by the boys who work
At the game which the old can’t play;
We are out of the fun (like the boys who shirk),
Yet at least we’ve a debt to pay.
If in peace we live we have gold to give
Whilst the blood of the bold is shed;
But the boys who might and. refuse to fight—
Well, they ought to be damn well dead.
victoria.
O. K.


■ The N-.S.W. Chief Sweetary is going to appoint two women
the police force. If the experiment prows successful the,
number of police ladies will be increased.
Wr duties will, to a (treat extent, lie in tho* j
ctioo of reelamai ion work ....
If* .Why, who dares to doubt the success of a female eon-
stabulary? One artist is m cocksure about It that he here
Ventures to design a costume (not TOO distinctive) for the female
fooreo, for which he makes no charge. They should he armed
with hatpins for emergency.
There will be mounted police ladles, |
should they sit their horses sidewise or ' . abided on this!
It is rumored (like the skirt of the lady on the right), Is divuieo on J
important, detail.
POLiemVOMAN: “Cotne, why not a
‘follow the Ivins'?” V
iIARBBXEh SWW! “Bemuse. I g
«nd It pieasaoicr to follow >»*«* , #
thontfii it do set. powerful red in
, the process!” 1
A Consmtssiouer is to be JP*
f / jmiMStfci , to exajwiae tl»« <{«»»«-
/ eatiotos "t i( '<ii|i]die«etot, who «a}pe»s>-
jitunfoer w&r 4W,
Li
/
I J\ML; y«a I
w|tft '-imping arwstiag ofllwr's j
. .. stacJ using: insulting j
Saiiguagej What haw you to: I
■ say?” ; :
FiilHOXKit: ‘"Woll, yet Wushap, I’m «ri®»' to ausitee amends
■fey marry in* the arrestin' hotMcer!"
-y 1 Vt S % ■• " ’ '• •• -.- ■< '•> W-..> .-.V.\.V>. .<■ <s■&• <' r? ' ?
QUALIFICATIONS COMMISSIONER: “Being under a© yoor age is «« ft*®;- ;
ami you hare goo-goo e.vw; hat unfortunately year feet are too small.
(Which fiatteriug disqualification of course alleviates the disappointment .
2-„ an being tamed down, > •„ ■ ....
. m THIS BACK AREA, ; ' “ —~ ::
FRENCH COOK: eef yon try to k«* me I sail scwf-r-PMseam
for see missus!"
One of their datles will he to look after .
women who hare taken too much drink.
They will, however, fee instractefl to u*>e
no more force than is necessary in making arrests.
They will stem
assist timid men
la crossing busy
streets*
Likewise resetting awl looking after little
rliiidrcn.
THE FEMALE POLICE.


Hei r Maximilian Harden, in the latest
number of his journal “Die Zukunft,'”
publishes an article in which he seri-
ously reviews the recent reconstruction
of the British Cabinet. “Great Britain,
at last,” he says, “is awake, and will
never slumber again except in death.”
|ril|? I'1« r
**'***■
ot>!
OOOP.J^-
y m-i •' . .
- V K ® e te ar ’
I ,^Nt\.
HaM« °'f ,
iWf >
j Nafvjre.
According Jo Mr. Baracchi, the
latest comet, now visible in the
evenings, has three neuclei.
Tlie Workers’ Educational Association
has decided to Introduce into Victoria
study circles, a form of
education for workers which has
become very popular in the Arnted King-
dom. The circles comprise a limited
number, varying from six to 20, who live
close to eacli other, and meet at regular
intervals for the purpose of pursuing
some definite line of study. Age.
"Ckrtvoy.
a Ssgif'
A FACE AT THE WINDOW AND OTHER ITEMS.


v£ are Born to
Uecr Benei its
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid=up ... 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State
Write for particulars
W R. CAVE, General Manager.
263 George Street Svr]
SOAPKO.
It Surpasses
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR IN TABLETS;
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS.
Send Six Penny Stamps for Box containing Sample
Manager, of ea ch kind.
SOAPKO PROPY., Box 685 G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
m
m.
r 0f Ul. TV.E K\^°
dfg
frarre Vht £? you HO ’ the world over, leading men
HAIS. They are unequalled in quality, style,
comfort. ALL STORES. ’
wear WUnoaOW
durabality and
WHAT MAKES THE. WHEELS CO ROU
LEWIS&VvnITTy MAKERS
HYGEiA
Shaving
Stick.
In
Hygeia
oil-foam
hard
bristles
grow soft
Mother’s
Friend—
PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: 'halhots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. 'Brin Chemist
East Malvern, Vic- 1/2, 2/3, 3/9. and with Nit
Comb, 6d. extra.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
REAR-ADMIRAL CIIISAKA, of the Jap
Training Fleet.
‘1«1 Larkin, of N.SAY. Assembly, killed
in action while lighting for Australia against
the lurk, made a reputation by winning the
though by seat when it was .reckoned a
"cert, for the Liberals. lie won by per-
sonal popularity and hard organising work,
lie was never an Empire Day talker, and
his speeches about the Flag were not note-
worthy ; but he was prompt to act when the
guns began to play. Rumor killed him at
least three times before news of the fatal
bullet arrived ; and Rumor was just about
right, for Larkin fell early in the tight. In
private life he was secretary of the N.SAY.
Rugby League ; prior to that he was in the
Police. He was a big, powerful chap, and
only 35.
Lieut. Sydney Pickles, who will command
the Australian Flying Corps at Melbourne,
is an Australian who learned the aerial busi-
ness at Salisbury Plain (Eng.), and is
reckoned among the best all-weatlier pilots.
His flight in the Blackburn 80-h.p. military
machine at \mk last year was the sixteenth
make lie bad flown in. and probably bis
record is now higher still. Other Austra-
lians who have made good at aerial business
in England are Hawker, Busteed and Harri-
son, all of whom hold first-class pilot certifi-
cates and are recognised as well in the first
flight of birds.
, Phil Robin, killed in the Dardanelles, has
been, all through, the most talked about sol-
dier South Aus. has sent to the Front. A
keen footballer who worked as accountant
m a bank at Murray Bridge, he used in times
of peace to rush the 60 miles to Adelaide by
motor after business hours on most Satur-
days to play for the Norwoods. He was one
of the first to enlist, and while in camp at
Cairo the good-natured military authorities
allowed him to marry the girl he was engaged
to (she came from London for the purpose) ;
so his officers took the matter up and enliv-
ened the camp with a full “military” wed-
ding.
W. Ivennedy-Smith, member for Dundas,
one of the few Victorian legislators who
have _ volunteered for service, used to be in
training for the Scotchbyterian Meenistry.
Yv lien in his final year at the theological
nail the call to politics tempted him, and
lm tell. But he now reckons the time is
ripe for giving (lie Turk a lesson on atone-
ment, and not with a bunch of feathers
either.
TRUTHFUL.
CAPTAIN (joyfully): "And how did you
come to join our noble army, my dear
brother?"
RECRUTT (frankly): “It was the only way I
could get the public to stand my cornet
playing.”
YV king : Is there an Australian mother
to put Airs. Leane, of Prospect (S.A.), out
of top place? Of her 11 sons five are in the
permanent forces (naval and military), three
are at the Pront, and three are in the train-
ing camp. The only daughter has a Red
Cross diploma.
Labor reckons on having a good chance to
carry the mayoralty of Adelaide this year.
The best it ever did before was to get 300
the worst of things in the Cohen-Wells elec-
tion a dozen years ago. But with the broader
franchise Smeaton, ALP., a popular Scot
who. though too old to fight, has given up a
profitable practice as an architect to assist
in military work, may do the trick. The
other side is backing financier Isaacs, who
has never done anything to make himself a
special favorite.
The father of the lower branch of the
legal profession in N. g. Wales, Colonel
Percy Owen, died on Friday at Wollongong,
aged beyond SO years. He was admitted to
practice in August. 1851. Ilis father was
that Robert Owen who represented Camden
in the second Parliament (ISSS), and be-
came a District Court Judge in 1859. On
resigning lie was appointed to the Legis-
lative Council and died in 1878. He was
the only N.S.W. solicitor ever placed on the
Bench. The deceased Colonel was father of
several sons. The eldest is Colonel Robert
Owen, now at Gallipoli : another is Major
Percy, who holds high office in the Common-
wealth Defence Department.
Captain Bage. just killed at the Dardan-
elles, went to the Antarctic with Mawson
as astronomer, assistant magnetician and
recorder of tides. He was there over two
years, being one of the six volunteers who
remained for the second winter when Alaw-
son and his companions had failed to return
t> winter quarters at the appointed time.
Bage was leader of the southern sledging
party, which accomplished a perilous journey
of GOO miles, man-hauling their sledge over
rough, blizzard-swept ice surfaces. To Alaw-
son’s book. “The Home of the Blizzard.”
Bage contributed the chapter entitled. “The
Quest of the Southern Magnetic Pole.” He
was a native of Alelbourne and only 27.
“Boomquack” about a man who lately set
Australian newspapers rummaging for big
type:—•
So Ignatius Timothy Tribich Lincoln has been
making a sensational “confession” in New York about
his treachery to John Bull! It was time Ignatius
Timothy was heard from again. A Hungarian Jew,
married to a German, turned Presbyterian parson,
then successively Anglican priest, secretary to a
millionaire Quaker philanthropist, member of the
Commons, and sharebroker —the record shrieks its
verdict. Lincoln is one of the great adventurers of
his time. His intrusion into the Commons was the
result of one of the biggest pieces of bluff he ever
carried through, for it was accomplished at a moment
when he was gravely discredited in his secretarial
job (Rowntree, the cocoa man, was his boss), but
before the official Liberals got wind of things.
Yet he didn’t sneak in by the back door; lie
defeated the Conservative Whip, Pike Pease, for
Darlington, the result being one of the great sur-
prises of the 1910 election. His gift of palavering
is wonderful; his cheek colossal. When Darlington
threw Ignatius out he started as a company-promoter.
Some of the papers describe him as the “owner of
oil wells in Roumania.” Many angry people in
London would like to have the address of his assets.
Then last in London he certainly was raising capi-
tal to exploit the Roumanian oil-fields. Then lie
bolted. With all this history behind him he is only
30. I wonder if he told tile N’York papers what lie
was doing between his' last bolt and his present
appearance—about how, at the end of last year, he
was working as rouseabout in a ’Murkan doss house?
Anyway, it’s a thousand to one on he will do some-
thing big directly. Start a fresh religion or a new
pill, most likely.
John Tebbutt, the Windsor (N.S.W.)
astronomer, discoyerer of at least one comet,
celebrated his Slst birthday
the other evening. Though
self-taught to a great ex-
tent, Tebbutt has a place in
the front rank of those en-
gaged in research, though
the value of his service to
science is better known in
Europe than Australia.
Tebbutt’s. figure has been
familiar in old Windsor for
many years. He owns pos-
sibly the pick of the basket
so far as landed dominions
go thereabouts; but in his
landlording capacity he has
always tried to be just, even
if he cannot be accused of
having been splendidly gen-
erous.
July birthdays.—Federal Auditor-General
J AY. Israel, 05 on the 4th ; “Iceberg” Irvine
(Vie.) .17, and Prof. J. L. (“Larry”) Rentoul
(Vic.) 69. on 6th; Pianist Percy Grainger
(born in Victoria) 33 on Bth ; 11. E. Barff,
Registrar of Sydney Uni., 58 on 9th ; Aus-
tin Chapman, Federal M.P., 51, and E. J.
Stevens, M.L.C. (Brisbane Coukiek), 70, on
10th ; editor Cunningham (Melbourne
Akgus) 56, and “Smiler” Hales, formerly
of Australia, best known as novelist and
war correspondent, 55. on 21st: Ben Hoare
(Melbourne Age) 73 on 22nd; Dr. C. Carty
Salmon, M.H.R., ex-Federal Speaker, 54 on
29th ; Mrs. Ellis Rowan, flower painter, sister
of Melbourne’s surgeon Colonel Charles
Ryan, on 30th; Surgeon-General Williams,
C. 8., of the Australian Army Medical Ser-
vices, 59 on 30th; and Geologist E. F. Pitt-
man (X.S.W.) 66 on 31st.
JUDGE FITZHARDINGE, OF N.S.W.
Tasmania’s Mines Minister Ogden at one
time earned his crust underground, and
knows at first-hand what a mining accident
means. This perhaps is the reason why he was
understood to tell a deputation that while
“igneous rock was on top, carnivorous rock
might be underneath.” Apparently a new and
not unpoetic way of referring to the risks of
the miner’s calling.
PROTRACTING THE CAMPAIGN.
IRENE : “Molly complains that he is adopting
German naval tactics,”
ISABEL: “What does she mean?”
IRENE: “Trying to avoid an engagement, you
know.”
William Johnstone Allen, who died in
Sydney lately, was son of Australia’s
pioneer soap-manufacturer, who had his
works first alongside Darling Harbor and
later at Waver!ey. On the old man’s death
Alfred Allen and his brother, just dead,
carried on the business. Both were in Par-
liament. Alfred, who besides boiling soap
wrote verse, sat for Paddington from 1887
to 1894; W. J. Allen for Paddington 1888-
9. The original soapboiler had a few ses-
sions in the House too —close on 60 years
ago.
S. Squire Farnell, fatally hit at the Dar-
danelles, was the youngest son of Frank
Farnell, and grandson of ex-Premier James
Squire Farnell, who was the grandson of
James Squire, of the First Fleet. The
Squires and the Farnells have been making
Australian history from the first. James
Squire settled at Kissing Point. There he
grew the first hops (his reward was a cow
from the Government herd) and was Aus-
tralia s first brewer. James Squire Farnell,
born in Parramatta, 1827, was a promi-
nent figure in N. S. Wales politics from
1859 until his death in 1888. the centenary
of his grandfather’s arrival. His son Frank
had a seat in the Assembly, too, for some
years. The name was prominent also in
sport in the long ago, when Tom, brother
of the ex-Premier, was a great pedestrian.
George Upward is retiring this month
from his billet as clerk assistant of the
Senate. The fine old athlete has been a
fancy-dressed member of the Parliamentary
service for 24 years, and for 10 years pre-
viously he was in the Legislature’s plain-
clothes force. Duncan Gillies, the iazv
Vie. Premier who gave the Melbourne
Tramway Co. its wicked charter, took
young Upward out of a clerkship at the
Treasury and made him his private secre-
Subsequently lie held two or three
positions-—he was a judge’s assistant for
a few months —before assuming the knee
breeches of a sergeant-at-arms. When
Federation came he passed to the Senate
to usher the Black Rod and perform duties
less ornamental but more useful; and he is
immortalised, more or less, as the central
foreground figure in Nuttall’s picture of
the opening of the first Australian Parlia-
ment. When he goes, Melbourne’s stately
Parliament House will lose its most widelv-
known official. lie is identified with the
ancient customs of a bygone age, such as
Mace-bearing and Rod-carrying, and tradi-
tion will say of him that no matter what
he had to do—bear a mace, carry a rod, or
stand a drink—he did it like a man. Of
late years he has not been the only George
Upward on the beach. His firstborn, also
George, is a scenic artist for. the Combine,
and is probably busy just now on a haunted
glade or a fairy dell for the next panto-
mime out one.
THE SONG OF THE DARDANELLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wireless tells and the cable tells
How our boys behaved by the Dardanelles:
Some thought in their hearts, “Will our boys make
good ?”
e weie mates of old, and we knew they would!
Knew they would—
Knew they would ;
lie were mates of old, and we knew they would.
They laughed, and they larked, and thev loved
likewise,
For blood is warm under southern skies;
They knew not Pharaoh, '(is understood,
And they got into scrapes, as we knew they would.
Knew they would—
Knew they would :
And they got into scrapes, as we knew they would.
'they chafed in the dust of an old dead land
At the long- months' drill in the scorching- sand;
Put they felt in their hearts it was for their good,
And they saw it through as we knew they would.
Knew they would—
Knew they would ;
And they saw it through, as we knew they would.
The coo-ee called through the Mena Camp,
And an army roared like the ocean’s Damp
<bi a gale-swept beach in his wildest mood,
I ill the Pyramids shook, as we knew they would!
Knew they would—
K new they would :
And the Sphinx woke up, as we knew she would.
They were shipped like sheep when the dawn was
grey
Hint their officers knew that no lambs were thev) ;
’lhey squatted and perched where’er they could,
And they- “blankved’ for joy, as we knew they
would.
Knew they would—
Knew they would;
ihey blankyed for joy, as we knew they would.
Ihe sea was Hell and the shore was Hell,
With mine, entanglement, shot and shell;
I’mt they stormed the heights as Australians should,
And they fought and they died, as we knew thev
• would.
Knew they would—
Knew they would;
Ihey fought and they died as we knew they would.
1- l’om the southern hills and the city- lanes,
From the sandwaste lone and the blacksoil plains,
The youngest and strongest of England’s brood,
They’ll win for the South as we knew they would!
Knew they would—
Knew they would ;
They’ll win for the South, as we knew they would.
Jf.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


i
■
t
KT
HP
s 1
V
sr
4
¥/>
?/
r
HP
io%
OFF
2\- IN THE £,
OFF EVERYTHING.
Except Military Uniforms &. Equipment.
OFF
Now is the time when the economical man replenishes his wardrobe, and the
careful parent sees to the boys.’ clothing necessities. Send for our full cata-
logue of Men’s and Bovs’ Wear. Pattern Books and Self-Measurement
Forms Post Free. We Pay Carriage on all Orders throughout Australia.
484 to 490 George Street,
SYDNEY.
o
o
Pioneer Distributors Goods
3 to 17 Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
fc*
The Reliable
Swedish
Detachable ROW-BOAT MOTOR
WITH THE VERY LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
MAGNETO IGNITION, also for Astern Drive.
AUTOMATIC SELF-LOCKING STEERING DEVICE.
Propeller turns with the rudder. Rudder protects'
propeller.. Submersible parts rust-proof! Smallest
petrol, consumption! If you want a perfectlv
reliable. Out-board Motor, write for particulars and
testimonials to Swedish Australian Trading Company
Chamber of Commeroe'Buildings, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Hie Bank of New Zealami :
Dividend.-
~ 7ip.c.pref. Written
V«o7 « 10 pc. ord. Off. Reserves.
1908 “ £87,500 £1«,000 £281,675
1908 .. ~29,923 8(,500 20,000 504,098
8£ p.c. pref.
p.c. ord.
1910 ” 9-Hoi 106,250 15,000 710,999
•10 .. 2,4,886 106,250 15,000 864,135
10 p.c. pref.
, 011 15 p.c. ord.
191-> “ 12 125,000 20,000 1,034,405
imo ’• 125,000 25,000 1,240,588
1914 “ 125 ’ 000 40 ’ 000 1,118,118
Jl4 .. 348,490 125,000 40,000 1,601,608
Fit "in,ms on new shares, £365,536 1,967 144
"A ’ pref. “B” pref. Ord.
lOp.c. 15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1910 869,486 50,000 2,057,170
changes Imve occurred during the year
m e regai : d t 0 the c apital account,
worm set 1 0l , ll: Jn detail when they were
v d lieedu t be served up cold now.
t 0 'I ay n tliat the old £1,000,000 of
, 4 P-C ‘ Stock has be,ln
.f^onnn dU r in Sxi, he year to £528.988, that
,V f ci ß pref - shares have been
irf nid C w hich still holds
lh i/75 fH’ii ' OOO ‘r A pref - shares), and
mat ‘O,OOO new ordinary shares of £0 13s 4d
each have been issued on which £475,710 of
the total of £500,000 has been paid. There
are also 150,000 old ordinary shares, like-
wise or £6 los. 4d.; but only £3 6s. Bd. has
ufr ap on this lot. The table shows
nat xooDjOoo net was added to the reserves
from premium on the new issue of ordin-
aries.
It has been an amazing business alto-
gether. 1 lungs looked so shocking after the
smash of the old borrowing boom that the
assets with the most disreputable appear-
ance w ere passed over to a special concern.
It was reckoned that nobody would have
anything to do with a bank which had such
a shocking collection of skeletons in its own
cupboard. But the freezeries soon clothed
most of the skeletons in pretty pink flesh. Pro-
perties w'hich looked hopeless found a sale,
and the special undertaker was dismissed a
few years ago—there was nothing more for
him to bury.
In the past 20 years Maoriland’s annual
exports of frozen meat have sprung from
£1,195,000 to £4,500,000. of butter and
cheese from £366,000 to £3,832,000, of other
produce (excluding gold, wool and manu-
factures) from £1.266,000 to £3,511,000.
With the great market developed for frozen
meats there has of course been a big in-
crease in wool exports—from about
£4,000,000 to over £8,000.000. One result
has been a staggering increase in the market
value of land. Twelve or 15 months ago
The Bulletin shuddered at Maoriland
values. This and other comments sent the
very able chairman of the 8.N.Z., Mr. H.
Beauchamp, hunting for precise informa-
tion ; and he laid some of it before share-
holders on June 12 last year. A sample:—
Taking the dairying industry, which was in its
infancy in 1894, we find that land in favored dis-
tricts, which could then have been bought at from
£5 to £l5 per acre, is now selling at from £2O
to £75 per acre, an increase of (say) 400 p.c.
The gross yield per acre has, however, not increased
in a corresponding ratio, being only about 130 p.c.
more to-day than it was then.
That seems to justify The Bulletin’s old
shudder. For the present, however, the
figures are merely ciuoted to show how the
miracle of the B.N.Z.’s resurrection has
been worked. Twenty years ago the bank
was a Lazarus that had to have a cloak
thrown over its sores before it could be
safely let out to seek its crumbs; to-day
it is a Dives without any visible sores, and
with reserves of over £2.000.000 in its
pockets.
Moreover, it is a Dives so popular that
really it doesn’t seem to know what to do
with the money thrust upon it. Consider
these figures:—
1910. 1914. 1915.
Notes in circulation £919,329 £989,882 £1,676,051
Bills in circulation,
etc 1.146,917 1,403,457 1,670,103
Deposits .. ..14.687,680 18,070,613 18,741,657
Liquid assets ..11.254.314 12,590,186 14,’227,407
Advances . . 8.060,206 11,360,486 11.849,166
Premises, etc. . . 359.790 449,577 451,867
Total up the liabilities—£22,oB7.Bll. Add
if you like the £528.988 of guaranteed stock
• —£22,616,799. Against that a very reason-
able average holding of liquid assets would
fie "10 P-C. —£9,000,000. From the foregoing
comparison it will be seen that there actu-
ally is £14.227.407 in hand. When the right
securities offer the B.N.Z. could comfort-
ably, on its present resources, lend another
three or four millions.
The present trouble is to get the indubi-
tably-right securities. Banking institutions
of Australasia have been and still are far
too dependent on mortgages —which is to
say, on quite hypothetical land values. In
Maoriland they are more dependent than in
Australia. Hence the tremendous import-
ance of the inquiries made last year by
the chairman of this bank. Why should
that land which is selling (invariably on
long terms) at £75 be worth £75? Sup-
posing everybody forgot everything that was
known about the M.L. real property market,
and supposing every record were blotted out,
thorr is no better reason why the price
shonkl then be fixed at £75 than at £6O.
oiost fortunately the chairman sees that any
financial institution which trusts to M.L.
land vales is trusting to thin ice:—
l-and hunger and competition are forcing values
up to a point which leaves no margin for any
materal increase in cost of production or decrease
m sale price of the product; and as the cost of
pioduction does not seem likely to diminish, but
rather to increase, no effort should be spared to
maintain the excellence of the product, so that a
chop m prices may not occur as a result of deteriora-
tion in quality.
The National Bank ok Tasmania
(Launceston, Tas.) ;
Writ-
Dividends and ten To lie- Ite-
Prof Us. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Nov., 1907..8570 7 p.c.= 5587 1000 1983 41M73
May, 1908..8793 7 „ „ 5587 1000 2206 43,379
Nov., 1908..8464 7„ „ 5587 2877 46,256
May, 1909..8288 7 u „ 5587 2701 48,957
Nov., 1909..7647 7„ „ 5654 1993 50,950
May, 1910..8115 7„ „ 5654 2461 53 411
Nov., 1910..8058 7„ „ 5654 2404 55 816
May, 1911..8127 7„ „ 5587 2540 58,355
Nov., 1911.. 7110 7 v „ 5587 1523 59’578
May, 1912..8828 7 „ 5587 1000 2241 62 119
Nov., 1912..7906 7„ , 5587 2319 64 438
May, 1913..8656 7 „ 5587 3069 67 507
M OV ." im l ?' 'n 702 7 ” » 5587 1500 1675 69^182
rlay, 1.114..9393 7 „ „ 5587 1000 2806 71 988
w , 01 . Pre mbans on new shares. . 4321 76,309
No\., 1914..8402 7 p.c.= 6653 1749 78 058
Ma.l% 1915..9219 7„ „ 7141 - 2078 80,136
Ihe balance-sheet movements during the past
eventful 12 months have been as follows:
Liabilities.
v , . . May, ’l4. May, ’l5.
Notes in circulation ..£4,626 £4,222 Dec. £404
uiiis, etc. . . . . 21,854 21,446 Dec 408
Deposits at interest ..343,243 305,996 Dec 37 *47
hiee deposits .. ..356,788 358,460 Inc. R 672
Assets.
Ad q vancef SetS ” ••238,141 282,370 Inc. 44,229
Adwnces .. ..702,318 664,670 Dec. 37 648
etc 26,666 25,611 Dec. 1,055
S'L! ;;; 1 ' p th !- Public has called for
° f ! ts ""moy und the bank
has squared things by getting in or calling in
about £38,000 of its advances. Liquid assets
have meantime increased by £44,000; but
that comes from new capital. The total paid up
stands now at £195,200 as against £152,040
. m °uths ago. The new capital, though it
is not earning very much, has substantially
improved the cash position, which previously
S weak side. Now the bank has
±282,370 liquid against £690,124 of liabili-
ties—a shade over 40 p.c., which is quite
satisfactory. \Y ith a holding like that any
sudden trouble can be faced with the eooi-
ness ot an iceberg. Against the £690.124 of
liabilities there is, first, £282.370 in liquid
assets; and against the £408,000 of liabili-
ties not represented by liquid assets there are
lands of assets _ valued at over
xo.ju.UtO. 80 the depositors need lose no
sleep either. In fact, this little bank is
working on such safe lines that profits are
and must continue to be comparatively poor
until it is prepared to take more risks.
Hungs are best left as they are at present.
Goldsbrougii, Mort and Co., Limited the
wool people :—•
Debenture
Interest,
f “A” Stock 9
L Xet ■ lIT JP' C - l Added
¥ rn -] Stock f to Re- Re-
~™,*» ln gs. ' 5 p.c. ) Dividend. serves, serves.
S' • £85,102 5 p.c. = £27,950 168,765 £98,158
1908 mn’ilr ». » 55 > 900 81,493 179,651
1908.. 160,14/ /9,365 10 ~ ~ 55,900 24 882 204
1909.. 162,390 78,440 126-7 „ 71,871 12 079 216 619
1910.. 241,916 76,840 15 „,, 83,849 81,227 297’539
Transferred to Capital .. £79,856 . 217,983
1911.. 345,929 73.274 20 p.c. = 127,770 144,555 362,868
iom Transferred to Capital .. £63,885 .. 298,983
1911.. 382,101 73,825 20p.c. = 140,548 167 798 466 711
! 202,499 73,147 16 „ „ 105,411
1914.. „24,359 73,014 20 ~ 140,548 10 797 501 449
1915.. 178,127 71,422 10 ” 70’,274 m,SI 537!880
J-haf s a tidier table than has stood at the
head of the few remarks that have been made
m recent years concerning Goldsbrougii, Mort
and Co. The trouble in the past was that
in some years “B” debenture stock didn’t get
moie than 4 p.c. Since 1905, however, the
payments have been unchanged—“A” stock
4 p.c.; “B” stock, 5 p.c. It isn’t any use
going back now into a past which doesn’t
smell sweet; all that need be said is that this
debenture stock represents old debt. “A”
carries 4 p c, and is secured by a charge on
assets; B carries 5 p.c., subject to pay-
ment of A interest, and payable out of
profits; and the interest is rather loosely
guaranteed by a primary reserve which
amounts to £lOO,OOO.
lhe next table shows that pretty big
changes have been made in the past 10
years :—■
r . ~ , 1905. 1914. 1915.
Capital .. .. £558,995 £702,737 £702,737
Reserves . . . . 29,393 606,859 590,586
Debentures. 1,945,620 1,642,118 1,623,223
Other liabilities .. 178,227 144,908 233 541
Liquid assets . . 231,505 513,461 447’848
Advances.. .. 1.140,053 1,970,640 2,154 765
Properties & stock 978,090 360,153 280V>9
Premises, etc. . . 362,587 252,368 26M15
The increase in the capital is made up of
transfers from reserves. It was explained
that shareholders were merely getting back
‘V ittl m, of wh - at had formerly been written
T i-® unfo rtunate thing was that the
old creditors, who ought to have benefited,
if anybody did, got no corresponding advan-
tage whatever. Reserves, notwithstanding
foe transfer to capital, show a fine growth.
J Ins is very largely due to the extraordin-
<uj use in the value of properties during
the past few years—coupled, of course, with
the good seasons, which to some extent pro-
duced that rise. Ten years ago properties
and stock were valued at £978.090. Thev
have been steadily got rid of until to-dav
the remnant stands at only £280,859. How
much that lot would fetch to-day The Bul-
letin doesn’t know. The drought of the
last year probably clipped a few tens of
thousands off; nevertheless, there is sure to
he a good margin in the item still. When
the co.’s assets were valued some years a»o
nobody seemed to be anxious to put a good
face on things. In those days small stock
were probably taken in at 7s. Gd. a head.
Last week not over-prime crossbreds were
sold in the Sydney market at 48s. Gd. And
of course it is not merely the stock that
are worth more. A lease that would carry
10,000 sheep worth 7s. Gd. a head is ob-
viously worth a mere trifle compared with
one on which you can breed lambs that will
grow to be worth 40s. a head.
The graduated land tax, with an exemp-
tion. didn’t do what was expected of it
either. It was argued this Way: “Here’s a
sheep-run of 20,000 acres worth at present
£3 an acre. In small areas the farmer has
to pay £5 for such land. We’ll squeeze the
owner into cutting it up, so that the farmer
can get it at £3 an acre, too —perhaps less,
because if the big landlord hangs on he
knows he may have to pay a still stiffer tax
in future.” What really happened was that,
though the big landlord knew that as part
of a big tax-burdened estate the land might
be worth only £3, as a number of small tax-
free farms it was worth £5; and the farmer,
tired of waiting for laud ballots, mostly
paid the £5. So, as the figures of this co.
suggest, the graduated land tax as a means
of _ giving the farmer land at a reasonable
price, hasn’t proved much of a success.
The co.’s profits for the past year have
suffered, both directly and indirectly,
through drought and war. Drought affected
the co.’s own holdings as well as the co.’s
selling commissions on wool and merchan-
dise; and war has kept a lot of the clip off
the Australian market. Some of it has been
shipped on to London to await favorable
chances. Maybe also the co. reckoned it a
proper thing to put a bit up its sleeve to
meet contingencies. It has £2,154,705 out
in advances; and though the drought seems
to have had its back broken in most parts
it is still capable of making a few bad debts
among that two millions-odd. Further, the
drought, even if it lias quite passed, will
inevitably do the co. no good during the
next year or two; for in consequence of the
stock losses the aggregate clip will be lighter ;
and it doesn’t look as though there will be
much doing in those station-property deals
from which such sweet commissions have
been made during the last few years.
The Townsville Gas and Coke Co.
( ) •
Dividend and Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1903.. £3466 10 p.c. = £1675 £lBO2 £B9 £5,972
499 £-- 05 10 » » 1575 —• 2130 8,102
499 5.. H 5l 10 , ”” 1575 1697 185 8,587
1906.. 3504 12i „ „ 1969 1335 200 8787
1907.. 3738 12i „ „ 1969 1299 470 9,257
„ £7500 of Reserves capitalised .. 1,757
1908.. 3390 10 p.c. = 1643 375 1372 3 129
1909.. 3715 10 „ „ 2614 1000 101 3’230
Premiums on new shares . . 96 3 326
1910.. 4156 10 p.c. = 2625 —■ 1531 i’gr>7
1911.. 5549 12|- „ „ 3670 2000 4J36
Premiums on new shares . . 49 4 785
4 °P- c - = 3134 1000 H 96 5,’ 981
1913.. 5845 10 „„ 3219 1000 1626 7,607
1914.. 6719 10 „„ 4360 1000 1359 8,966
Assets written up, £5OOO . . . . 13,966
‘ „ Deficit.
£15,867 of Reserves capitalised .. 1,901
1915.. 7385 10 p.c. = 5358 2027 8e5e1 ’1?6
That brings the capital up to £68,757 A
10 p.c. dividend on that will call for £6875.
and only once has the visible profit been
capable of paying it. Anyone who is
looking forward to a continuance of the
10 p.c. dividend has a very good chance
therefore of being disappointed. Certainly
profits may be bigger than they have been,
ror xool>4 of new capital has been got in
during the year—got in in hard cash. But
this hasn t been enough to keep the co. out
of debt The co. some time back decided
to instal new plant, and in spite of the new
capital it has had to mortgage itself to the
bank for £14,534 to get it. Now it finds
that the plant has been delayed on account
01 the war; that extra “freight, insurance
and other charges” have to be paid: that
‘ the impost of Customs duty has added
considerably to. the cost of the plant,” and
finally that its wage-sheet shows “an
approximate increase of 25 p.c. since the
beginning of the new w r orks.” The watering
of the Capital account thus seems to have
happened at an unfortunate time. Gas
sales in the 12 months have improved from
£20.214 to £21,9G9. and that isn’t much
with which to meet a 25 p.c. increase of
expenses. The financial position is only
moderate: stock and liquid assets amount to
£B7OO and liabilities to £17,659.
The Queensland Civil Service Co-
operative Co. (Brisbane) :
Writ-
Dividends Purchasers’ ten Re-
Profits. and Duty. P.onus. Off. serves
£/ £, £ .Q £
Jan., 1907.. 906 4 p.c.= 133 7 p.c.=590 44 1919
Premiums on shares, £3 .. .. 1922
July, 1907. . 1216 4 p.c.= 159 7 p.c.= 577 347 2055
Jan., 1908. . 1165 5 ~,, 165 7 ~,, 700 97 2258
July, 1908.. 936 5 ~,, 164 7J „ „ 688 42 2300
884 5 ~,,164 6-J „ „ 654 41 2325
Julv 1909" 1230 5 ~,,163 61 „„ 633 110 2652
«)an., 1910. . io6o 5 ~,,165 61- „ „ 675 51 2824
July, 1910.. 1190 5 ~,, 163 61 „ „ 629 99 3123
Jan., 1911.. 909 5 ~,,165 61 „ „ 674 18 3175
•Tnlv. 1911.. 1284 5 ~,,165 61 „„ 682 104 3508
Jan., 1912.. 901 4 ~,,142 6 ~,,727 3540
July, 1912.. 598 2| „ „ 88 4 „ 4.34 40 3574
Jan., 1913.. 1276 5 ~,,165 6 ~ ” 672 120 3893
Premiums on new shares, £ 1 .. 3894
July, 1913.. 1028 5 p.c.= 164 6 p.c.= 633 78 4047
Premiums on new shares, £8 .. 4055
Jan., 1914.. 1493 5 p.c.= 168 6 p.c.= 703 37 4640
July, 1914.. 670 5 ~,,168 6 „ „ 659 4453
Jan., 1915.. 985 5 ~,,173 6 ~,,768 29 4468
Brisbane, which lias been talking a lot
about the high cost of living, hasn’t yet
awakened to the benefits of co-operation and
cash payments. The directors, knowing
what they were up against, evidently, there-
fore, wouldn’t risk making a cut at the
wherefore so much is distributed
that the reserves are less now than tliev
were two years ago. Fearing that whole-
sale prices of most eatables would go still
higher, the co. has a bigger stock than
usua l Of assets totalling £17,307. no less
tnan ±ll,O i 4 is on the shelves, as compared
with £9529 12 months ago. In order to
stock up it laid to go to the bank, and
re . an over draft of £3902 as against
, in dan., 1914. That makes the total
liabilities £6OlB. Assets apart from plant,
freehold and stock total £4136, mostly liquid.
Sales for the half-year compare favorably
with those for the corresponding 1913-4
•vrm, but, whereas sales on credit amount to
£20,070, cash, sales were only £4692. Not
till that position is reversed will share-
holders reap the full benefit of their co-
operative enterprise.
* * * *
The Co-operative Credit Bank of Vic-
toria (Melbourne) :
Carried to De-
„ , Profits. Dividends. Reserves, fieit.
i'eb., 1910.. £56 4 p.e. =£46 £lO £B3
Aug., 1910.. 72 5 ~ „ 60 12 95
Feb., 1911.. 72 4 ~ „ 50 22 117
Aug'., 1911.. 62 4 „ „ 46 16 133
Forfeited capital. . 18 151
Feb., 1912.. 57 4 p.e. - 41 16 167
Aug., 1912.. 53 4-1 ~ ~ 44 9 irr.
Feb., 1913.. 41 4; ;; 4 o i m
Aug., 1913.. 59 41 „ „ 49 10 187
Feb., 1914.. 60 4} „ „ 48 12 199
Aug., 1914.. 45 41 ~ ~ 48 195
' Forfeited capital. . 9 205
I'el.i., 1915.. 52 41 p.o.= 48 4 209
This bank makes advances to customers of
its poor relation, the Vic. Civil Service
Co-op., so that they can pay cash at the
stores. As the Stores have lately sold
themselves, the future of this little concern
is doubtful. During the half-yenr 137 loans
were floated, amounting to £1426, bringing
the advances outstanding to £2817. Interest
received and accrued amounted to £l3O.
Liabilities, including £47 of unclaimed divi-
dends. total £421. and the assets, except for
£o-j of sundries, consist entirely of loans.
* * * *
The Southland Building and Invest
ment Society and Bank of Deposit
(Invercargill, M.L.) :
ct 'Pq Rg*
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
; .. £2,506 4 p.e, = £2244 £312 £467
Inuo ‘ ’ 2 ’ 680 » » 2475 205 672
, ’ ' Tof? ” ” 2420 22 0 892
ion- '• o’n!> 2” •• 2637 474 1066
QU6 " £ » » 2867 46 1112
ion? “ a ” ” 3177 306 1418
1908 " £ » ” 4277 270 1688
lono “ f’?-- 6 ” ” 4829 37 1725
mn " PVA 2” ” 5364 113 1838
1910 .. 6,1 ol 6 „ „ 5911 240 2078
mm ‘' 9 ” ” 6613 75 2153
1912 •• i,137 6 ~ ~ 6976 161 2314
1914 " I’nm lx ” ” 7866 219 2533
1914 .. 9,009 6-j ~ „ 8743' 316 2849
1910 .. 10,035 6| „ „ 9730 305 3151
Twelve months ago The Bulletin remarked
that the reserves were insufficient, that the
foundation of the society was insecure, and
that it was time the Maoriland Government
did something. The directors this year reply
to this comment. Rule 18 provides that the
Reserve Fund must be 1 p.e. of the amount
out on mortgages, and The Bulletin re-
garded that as utterly inadequate. This is
the directors’ defence :
The same rule also provides “that any realised or
estimated deficiency not covered by the amount at the
credit of the reserve fund may, at the discretion of
the directors, be met by a sufficient amount taken out
oi the profit and loss account.”
This comparison gives some idea of the
amount of responsibility thrust on the
L roht and Loss account:—
Debenture Ad- Properties
Capital. Liabilities. vances. in hand.
1900 .. £60,770 £21,092 £74,889 £456
1905 . . 60,920 49,722 112,575
1910 .. 105,571 79,348 183,427 524
1911 •• Hr,913 81,062 201,055
1912 .. 124,312 69,580 204,782
1913 . . 140,320 84,581 222,580
1914 . . 150,545 101,099 255,731
1915 •• 167,854 115,231 282,310 -
4he capital is withdrawable, seemingly at a
moment s notice. The debentures are in
two classes; some are no better than deposits
at call, while others are equal to 12 months
deposits. The whole of this money has
been lent out on mortgage. It may have to
be all called in in a year or so; and all that
there is to meet the inevitable losses that
would result from such a forced liquidation
is 1 p.e. of the amount out on advance, plus
the Profit and Loss balance. The Bulletin
mustn’t forget the Profit and Loss balance.
It amounts to the magnificent sum of £387.
The Bulletin again draws the Maoriland
Government’s attention to the law which
permits societies to operate and take de-
posits on such terms. In the hands of the
cautious men of Invercargill no harm may
ever result. But the risk oughtn’t to be-
taken even at Invercargill.
* * * *
“Mourns” : By June 30 it is evident the
Commonwealth Notes Account will show
a circulation of £40,000,000, against
£12,000,000 of gold and £28,000.000 of
State and other securities. Thus 30 p.e.
of the issue will be held in gold coin, and
it looks as though the reserve will gradu-
ally be reduced to the 25 p.e. of gold pre-
scribed by Act 21 of 1911, and the notes in
circulation will reach £48,000,000. During
the three months ending June. 1915, the
note issue rose from 26 millions to 40 mil-
lions. It looks as though some of the
States are borrowing pretty heavily from
Uncle Aaron Commonwealth. By the end
of the year Australian notes in circulation
may easily reach 55 to' 60 millions, and a
new currency law will be imperative, unless
the Fisher Government borrows another IS
millions from somebody or other at wr
antipodes. At March 31 the Australian
banks held £34.577.000 in coin and bullion.
* * * *
“Garnishor” discusses cheques : :
“G.J.H.” (B. 10/6/’l5) makes the announcement
that traffic in post-dated cheques is criminal “since
a person who cashes a cheque which is not met on
presentation is liable to imprisonment.” He thinks
either (a) that a drawer who knows that there will
be no funds to meet his cheque is guilty of a crimi-
nal offence, or (b) that it is an offence per se to
deal in post-dated cheques under any circumstances.
He needn’t worry. The Crown wouldn’t enter into a
prosecution on (a),, and if it did it would never get
a conviction. Assuming that the cheque was drawn
on a bank with which the drawer ordinarily banked.


The Personnel of an
EXECUTOR
and TRUSTEE
is a verv serious matter for a Testator’s Widow
and Children if tlie best selection is not made.
The wisest course is to appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
(The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia),
which, having had twenty-eight years’ experience,
and employing an Expert Stall, is much to be
preferred to any private Trustees, no mattei
how trustworthy;
A Booklet giving full particulars as to
the Company’s-Methods and Charges
will be sent on application.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
U COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4»d.
1/6
9d. (minimum
15/-, '2O words)
Canada
2/4
1/2
7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
U.5.A...
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4-
7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
What shall we talk about? Shall we “sit upon
the around and tell sad stories of the deaths ot
. . ° .. 4-.1 L 1 • XXi-r, i WQV Af
kings ?” No, we’ll put bigger profits in the way of
11. i -j. i— “Wa.iooi'” leather belt-
the plant owner by talking of “Pioneer
ing. For 57 years it has held the lead in transmit-
ting the maximum of power at the minimum of ex-
pense under all conditions. “Pioneer’ leather belt-
ing is every inch an Australian product, from the
flawless Australian ox hide, from which it is cut, to
its preparation. Let us send you a trial length to-
day. There’ll be no hitch on your pulleys then.
Obtainable only from J. 0. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.
Pioneer Leather Works, 117 York Street, Sydney
( opp. Q. V. Markets). Sold in Victoria by Geo.
Russell P’t’y Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne ; South
Australia: j. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide:
Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd., Bris-
bane ; West Australia: Horace Summers, Howard
Street, Perth; Broken Hill: Geo. C. Dempster,
Argent Street.*
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.*
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Ilardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
Extract from The City Review, London, January
17, 1914, re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd.:—“This led to the appointment by the
Lieutenant-Governor of Victoria of certain distin-
guished actuaries to investigate the affairs of the
Society, with the result that we anticipated. Those
gentlemen reported that at the date of their investiga-
tion (December 31, 1911) the Society was sound and
solvent, and able to meet all its liabilities, immedi-
ate and prospective, and they expressed the emphatic
opinion that the charges of fraud, dishonesty, mis-
management and incapacity made against the direc-
tors and managers were wholly unjustified.”* [4
PIONEER WOOD PIPE, as a conveyor of mine
waters, has no equal, bcintr nroof against mineral and
chemical action. Catalogue from The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., contractors to all State Governments,
57 York Street, Sydney (head office).*
The Australian Provincial Assurance Associa-
tion, Ltd. —June is proving an exceptionally pros-
perous month with this Association. The New Busi-
ness in both the Life and Accident Departments is
highly satisfactory, and the Renewal Premiums are
also very gratifying. The Accident Department,
which is being* thoroughly organised, will un-
doubtedly be an important branch of the Associa-
tion’s business.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria,_ have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
The Port Kembla works of the Electrolytic
Refining Company are freely buying ores containing
copper, silver, gold from all parts of the Common-
wealth. The Ore Purchase Department is at
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.*
“Robey-Leplastrier” Road-Building Machinery
means big saving. One shire in N.S.W. saved last
year £4OOO. Sixty shires equipped already. Apply
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., head office, Sydney.* ,
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s &
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. K.
Silberberg & Co., ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney :
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. • - •••• £ 546,660 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,451 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt.. Stock) 80,500 0 0
£781,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ■■■■■
Gen Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannen Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House,Sydney
it would not only have to prove that the drawer
knew that there would be no money in the ban v o
meet the cheque, but also that he intended there
should be none. To do this, it would have to prove
“a state of mind,” a feat which is regarded by law-
yers as being practically impossible. But even it it
succeeded it would have got no forrarder, because
knowledge is as essential as intention, and the drawer
could not have had it. Prosecutions even in respect
of ordinary cheques are the rarest of rare burs,
because of'this difficulty of proving knowledge. On
the rare occasions when they occur it is in respect o
cheques drawn on a bank where the drawer’s account
had been closed, or else on a bank where he never
had an account.
If “G.J.H.” means (6). he is wrong. A cheque,
whether of post or even date, is a bill of exchange,
drawn on a banker, to whom it is addressed, to pay
on demand, or at a fixed or determinable future time,
a sum in money, to (or to the order of) a specified
person or to bearer. The day of “demand” on a
cheque is the day on which it is ostensibly dated.
The*only difference between a cheque and the more
popularly recognised bills, such as drafts and accept-
ances, is that a cheque only bears the date on which
it purports to be drawn, whereas the others bear two
dates—-the date on which they are drawn and the
date on which they are acceptable. A banker should
not pay a post-dated cheque if presented before its
ostensible date. A cheque, by the way, is not invali-
dated because it is ante-dated or because it is dated
on a Sunday.
Possibly it is in relation to some stamp point that
“G.J.H.” has got into his present muddled condi-
tion, because it is thought—but not known that a
person may be liable to a fine under the Stamp Act
in respect of a post-dated cheque if the latter is used
instead of another form of bill for the purpose of
avoiding stamp duty. But even if this were so, the
proceeding would not be a criminal one. It would
be merely a proceeding by the revenue authorities to
recover a penalty.
If it be true that usurers are “using threats of the
criminal law as a debt collector,” the police would
prosecute them for blackmail if applied to. The
extreme penalty for blackmail is imprisonment for
life.
Recently one Ludbrook wrote his name
across the shop front of the Civil Service
Co-operative Society’s store in Flinders-
street (Melbourne), and started operations
with a Grand Opening Sale, or words to that
effect. An excited meeting of shareholders
spoke of the transaction as the co.’s funeral,
and the creditors were also disposed to go
into mourning; but, as a matter of fact, the
concern is not yet dead, for it has a big
bakery at Richmond still to be disposed of,
and the creditors are hoping for the best.
The co. was registered under the Provident
Societies Act, and trading was at first re-
stricted to the Vic. Civil Service. But the
shareholders who bought goods at their own
shop were so widely scattered, and the Aus-
tralian objection to carrying parcels was so
strong, that the business was soon
“cruelled” by the expenses of delivering
small goods. The spirit of co-operation was
not in the shareholders. So the outside pub-
lic was appealed to, and non-civil servants
became shareholders. The business still
didn’t pay. It was managed by amateurs,
and its finance was of the most frenzied
description. Tens of thousands which ought
to have been in stock were in bricks and
mortar. To put itself further into debt
the Richmond bakery was established, and
although that once began to show a profit
it is now merely paying expenses. It was
the same thing there—the customers were
too widely scattered.
The management has done some cute things
in the countinghouse. Under the Provident
Societies Act shareholders can withdraw
their capital at will, and occasional with-
drawals happened. The time arrived when
this was embarrassing. Withdrawals natu-
rally came from those who traded least at
the store. The management therefore de-
cided that all those shareholders who were
not co-operating— i.e., buying goods up to a
certain amount per half-year—should be
lined. These fines of course gradually
weeded out the holders who had come to
regard the co. as past praying for. Another
much more questionable scheme was then
carried through whereby shareholders were
enabled to convert their capital into un-
secured debentures. All shareholders could
have taken advantage of this opportunity,'
but many didn’t; and the apathetic ones ran
some risk of getting left in the event of
liquidation, seeing that even unsecured de-
benture-holders take precedence of mere
shareholders. Trading firms are naturally
interested in the possibilities of such mani-
pulations. For all that the Act says to the
contrary, a scheme of this sort could be
worked without any regard for creditors’
interests. It is said that the rights of
creditors will not suffer in the present case :
but there is plainly a gap in the law.
*** * ■
Many old-time managers stick to the
crude and often wasteful method of letting
the battery value a claim, and pooh the
scientific sampler. This seems to be. the
case with Mount Bora, out from Armidale
(N.S.W.), on which a local crowd erected
a 15-head mill. Trial crushings went about
Sdwt. from a tunnel, and reports said the
lode was 100 ft. wide. However, the stamps
are uow hung up and further money is being
raised to try again. Apparently small
veins carry most of the gold, and there is
as usual, too much mullock to be slutted m
reaching it. »
“FII It.”: A recent Bulletin par.
commented 'on the increase of prospecting
since the war. One party has picked up .
shoot south of the once-famous Lady Jer-
sey, Niangala (N.S.W.). The reel runs
from Sin. to Ift. wide in soft country, and a
six-ton lot treated at Cockle Cieek le
turned 4oz. ldwt. per ton. The party lias
also a saddle reef—an uncommon thing in
N.S.W. —which prospects from 3oz. to ooz.
over a width of Sin. in soft country.
Tributing is the vogue now at Ardlethan.
The Commonwealth and the Outcast are _ in
the hands of small parties, who are making
wages or so. The Black and W hite is undei
option to a Ballarat syndicate, which isn t
likely to be enthusiastic over the latest
crushing. On the Bygoo end of the field
there are no more than about a dozen men
at work altogether. # #
When the B. H. Consols couldn’t he
reconstructed any more, a job was found for
the people who had been hanging on to it
for years bv shifting camp to the South
Extended —an abandoned show long since
turned into a rubbish dump. To-day it
masquerades as the Barrier South United,
and as the ore cannot be turned into silver,
the co., to help pay management exes., has
turned its surplus water into revenue. In
the year ending December, 1914, it sold the
Zinc Corporation £2705 worth. London
outlay was £l5OO, and Australian expenses
were £4OOO, so that Barrier South United
has gone to loo’ard £2BOO during the 12
months. There are 76,500 profs. of £1
called to 11s., and 672,800 ordinaries of 2s.
fully paid. To form the new co. cost £5OO
all but a note, and underwriting commisli
cost £7600. Stores £250, creditors £930,
and bank £590 will soon vanish if the past
is any guide to the future. #
Great Cobar faces the Warden once more
on July 1 to ask for further suspension for
three months on the Cobar Gold and Chesney
leases. It’s a pity the debenture-holders
don’t realise that the present operations are
little short of a joke. Money apparently is
forthcoming from somewhere; why, there-
fore, is some extra-special effort not made _to
start, even if it is only in a small way with
one furnace? With copper at its present
price there must be a respectable profit. As
the co. holds such an immense area of land,
on the working of which the town of Cobar
practically depends, the debenture-holders
should realise that they are under a moral
if not a legal obligation to resume opera-
tions at the earliest possible opportunity,
and also assist in a small wav to prevent
the British Government being exploited by
Yankee copper producers. A public meeting
is called for the 23rd inst. to protest to the
Minister for Mines against the granting of
any further suspension of labor.
* * . * #
Gladstone Copper shareholders had rather
a. leathery proposition put before them last
week at Cobar. The mine is let on tribute
on a 10 p.c. royalty basis for three years,
with about 12 months to run. W. J. Norris
new offers £5OOO for the property, lock,
stock/ and barrel —£1000 cash and the bal-
ance at the end of a six months’ option if
exercised. As about £50,000 worth of ore
has been raised by the tributors in less than
two years, and as good ore is still being pro-
duced, also as it is rumored £lOOO was paid
for a tenth interest in the tribute with 12
months gone, it looks as though the buyers
would have been on a pretty good wicket if
the deal had come off. But it didn’t, as the
meeting thought the claim was worth more
money. It’s too early to call the Gladstone
anything more than an excellent prospecting
show, but if it’s lucky to get decent manage-
ment after the tributor’s term it may
eventually develop into something small and
respectable.
Hawkins Ilill Reward (N.S.W.) hands out
its maiden 3d., and there is more to follow.
A crushing of 280 tons was put through last
month for 2340 z., and the average for some
time past lias been between £3 and £4 per
ton.
* * * *
Last half-year tributors at Baker’s Creek
(N.S.W.) crushed 267 tons for 10440 z.: but
the co. itself made a loss of £1297.
* * * *
John Couchman has run the North British
mine at Maldon (Yic.) for the Oswald family
almost since he got out of knickers. He had
to live down the little jealousies of the
Maldon “practical” miners, just as R. A.
Moon had to in regard to his saddle-forma-
tion theory. Renamed the Oswalds, the
North British has now a share register, with
Moon and Couchman doing the practical
work and Sam Warnock to give an eye to
the accounts in the interests of the Oswald
beneficiaries. The quartz runs to about
10dwt., which gives a nice quarterly div.
and a bit over. The surplus is tucked away
to a reserve fund, now built up to £BOOO on
an issued capital of £25,000. Such pru-
dence couldn’t exist in any ordinary mining
co.; but Warnock hasn’t been through boom
liquidations for nothing. The co. trifles
with two mines—the North British and its
neighbor, the old Independent. It is in the
last-named that prospects show, best. In
the North British the chase after spurs and
patches is vigorous down to 1100 ft,, but
without much to show for it. Still, Couch-
man cries for more prospecting, and almost
promises fresh finds if he gets his way. It
Maldon had a few more such enthusiasts, as
well as bank reserves to draw on, it might
lose its played-out appearance, for. there is
lots of likely ground to test.
* * * *
It isn’t fair that chairman Dave Murray,
of the South Langi, Ararat, should be pin-
pricked because he said that the Cathcart
and the Langi gutters meander through the
three miles of the co.’s big lease. After
all, he can’t be far wrong, for even if the
Cathcart gutter junctions with the Langi
in the New Langi, the South will get the
combined stream. The co. will be told by
the New Langi liow the Cathcart gutter
shapes in its lowest section directly the No.
2 shaft workings locate the wash and
sampling is done. What isn’t clear about
the South is whether it has yet got the
measure of the pumping it will have to do.
New Langi is helping it a lot, but old hands
are still very shy about saying that the
pumping done there has made much of an
impression on the underground stream.
* * * *
Westralian copper and tin shows are
gradually recovering from the paralysis that
overcame them at the outbreak of the wai.
The Labor Government helped to bring them
round by making advances against metals
and assisting to find a market. Recently a
shipment of £30,000 worth of copper was
sent to England, and other consignments are
being arranged. Whim Well is expected to
rejoin the copper-producing list _ very
shortly, and activity in other centres is dis-
played. Lead mining has in the last few
months got another move on at Northamp-
ton, and promises to bloom in the Roebourne
district shortly. The State assistance given
to gold mining by a reduction in treatment
charges at the State mills has, however, not
been attended with the same good results.
* * * *
Burma Mines, in which Lake View and
Oroya is largely interested, is credited w itli
an 'additional 17ft. of high-grade silver-lead
ore, making 57ft. in all at the 4301 t. level.
Assavs are reported to range from 240 z.
silver, 23 p.c. lead and 13 p.c. zinc to 50oz.
silver. 52 p.c. lead and 37 p.c. zinc. The
co. claims that the ore can he directly
smelted, and that at £2O per ton the lead
contents alone show a profit of £•:> per ton
of ore. But those interested are waiting for
divs. They have got very hungry on a diet
of gaudy estimates.
* * 15- *
Six months’ exemption was obtained the
other day by the late John Darling’s execu-
tors on the old Princess Royal North, Norse-
man (W.A.). Darling was the biggest
holder in the now defunct of that name,
and paid calls amounting to £2344. He
then bought the show outright for £Boo, and
later on put £2352 into it, making his total
outlay £5500. There is little prospect of
getting back much of it.
Somebody is buying Bullabulling franti-
cally. though the best authorities describe it
as the usual Coolgardie squib, and the man-
agement doesn’t seem daring enough to drive.
The shriek about ounces has come down also
to ’weights. A few enthusiasts still call it
Bullabulling, but most people pronounce it
Bearabearing.
* * * *
The jump in tin has landed New Ruby
Flat, Branxholme (Tas.), into a snug haven.
A consignment sent to London netted so well
that the kindly soul who lent £lBOO was paid
off and a fair credit was established. lhe
drought shut up the mine for nearly six
months, but sluicing is now in full swing.
Tin is accumulating in the race, and as Lon-
don is crying out for the white metal Ruby
Flat ought soon to shell out another dividend.
The co. has a fair area of drift still to attack,
so if it can get the water and the market
lives it will shell out profits with the best.
* * * *
The Tasmanian prospectors who felt glad
when they were told that rutile was worth
£5OO or 'so a ton are likely to be disap-
pointed. At present there is probably no
buyer at all in Australia; but friend blud-
wurst used to pay from £25 to £4O per ton
for it if it contained from 90 to Jo p.c.
titanic acid. There was, however, only a
very limited demand —an occasional five to iu
tons. The stuff is used chiefly in porcelain
work, and the manufacture of false teeth.
The best find of it in the world would not
be much good to anybody.
* * * *
Owing to the war boom in high-grade cop-
per, Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) put on
Bs. per share in as many days. The co.
placed 1163 tons of refined metal to store in
eight weeks, so Wallaroo copper at £7o
means under existing conditions something-
like Is. per share per month.
■* 44- * *
“E.J.C.” : Croydon, which once had a
population of 30,000. is almost deserted.
There is only one mine working (the con-
tent), though there are still a few “shows.
One of the most successful of late has been
Turcatti’s. Pasco Turcatti, who found it,
was the hardest worker ever seen in the
district. A lot too much work and a little
too much etc. killed him, and now his
brother Peter gets the fruits of his luck and
industry. Peter has just crushed 76 tons,
the result of six months’ labor. The yield
was over £lOOO. Fred Cuthbert is on his
W av south to see if he can float 3. co. toi
deep sinking on Iguana Ilill.
Charters Towers is hatching another deep-
sinking scheme, and applications for a vers
large area have been lodged with the alines
DeDartment. Mills United is interested.
* * *
News was cabled from New York last
week that H. 11. Davey had interested a
N’Yark oil group in a boring proposal near
Kingston (S.A.). Details are not copious,
but £40,000 it is said will be put up to put
down 40,000 ft. of casing. The area to be
explored by the Yanks is 20 square miles
north-east of the Ocean Oil Co.’s well, which,
by the way, is marking* time pending the
arrival of steel plates for a projected tank
alongside the derrick.


Under
Royal
Warrant
dfg
To H.M.
King
George V
CHAMPAGNE
f?
=b A
CHAMPAGNE
'-barlesHcidsieot
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR
SALLOW COMPLEXIONS.
Everyone may have a clear and bright
complexion, free from furrows or wrinkles, if
they will only take a little daily trouble'in
the following manner : Buy some Puritol wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply every
night, lap a little cold water on the face ten
times with the hands every morning, allow-
ing it to get thoroughly round the closed
eyes, and pinch the skin very gently across
all wrinkles. Puritol Wax Soap, which
leaves a fine film of wax on the skin, should
he used ; this acts as a protective during the
day. This treatment arouses the dormant
nerves and blood vessels, and undoubtedly
accounts for many of the clear complexions
so much admired by those who do not yet'
know the secret.* r?>
COGNAC
BRAN DV
TARD
15 YEARS OLD
% 4* %
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 21, 1915.
-My Dear Arini, —
la the middle of a stormy week Mayor
Richards took the chair at a big relief-fund
gathering in the Town Hall. He took it to
such purpose that he got the rebels in hand
after a wild outburst had threatened to break
up Mr. Holman’s oratory. Even a Scotcli-
bytenan parson who insisted on rising to
address the meeting from the body of the
hall had to close down under the firm ruling
ot the chair. On the platform, Mrs. Hol-
man, whose back feathers inadvertently
dusted the face of Hugh Ward, who sat just
behind them (his luck being out), vigorously'
led the applause for her party. Mrs. Ricli-
arcls and Mrs. Arthur Griffith wore properly
official expressions of sphinx-like calm while
the proceedings threatened to go up in gen-
eral disorder. The selection of a strong
working committee was the final result. A
small explosion later, in an executive meet-
mg m another part of the building, called
forth a few remarks on Dignity from the
Premier’s lady.
Oraythwaite, the old home of banker T. A.
Dibbs, which has been given to the State
Government primarily for the use of the
wounded soldiers, was first known as Euroka.
An early resident, if not the builder, was
Mr. E. M. Sayers, a shipping merchant who
was a member of the third Parliament of
A. S. Males. In 1870 it was the home of
Mu A. J. Ralston, secretary of the A.M.P.
Society. In 1872 George Dibbs, who blessed
• hicago, was the owner. Ten years later he
vacated in favor of brother Tom, who
changed the name, and added greatlv to the
place. Prior to that Mr. Dibbs had lived
at the bank in George-street—the bank whose
service he is ouitting next month, after
being in it for 08 years, most of the time as
general manager.
Belgian Consul Watteeuw, after 10 months’
overtime at every species of patriotic show, is
going to take the sea air on a trip to the
Pacific Isles. Mrs. Watteeuw also recuper-
ates on this restful voyage to the cocoanuts.
The lady has never been quite herself since
her attack of scarlet fever. Mr. Balthasar,
a wool buyer who long represented Belgium
in Sydney, will again answer the roll on
Albert’s behalf during Mr. Watteeuw’s
absence. He has an Australian wife to help
him.
A big meeting at Her Majesty’s seethed
with Red Cross dames who were out for
Premier Holman’s fine crop of hair. Luckily
the defendant was not present, and the femi-
nine temper had cooled down before it
waited, next day. on the head of the Govern-
ment. Hugh Ward made genuine efforts to
stem the more frenzied outbreaks. But the
female form rose up so suddenly, and the
lady orator was so übiquitous, that the meet-
ing was chiefly a loud hurrah, pierced by
occasional cries of “Shitne, shime!” from
Government supporters. To this latter chal-
lenge came clarion cajls, “He’s our mascot.”
"He’s our Lancelot.” The latter simile
was a misfit, and the lady probably meant
someone with more domestic virtues, or
that white knight Galahad. After the
Hero had explained that he must go to
the P.S.A. and attend to business there.
Gladys Moncrieff sang “Poor Wandering
Oriel” to convulsive applause.
Every Australia Day meeting is studded
with interjectors, who ask “What about the
Patriotic Fund?” There’s a notion that the
Mayor has buried £199,331 (Is. 3d. in the
Town Hall cellar, and beats off anyone who
tries to seize even the threepence. The
facts are that 1216 soldiers’ dependants are
already getting steady help from this fund,
and the number swells every week. Tn addi-
tion there is an emergency fund. If either
hon. sec. Nesbitt or lion. sec. Layton feels
that the applicant can’t wait till the neces-
sary official inquiries have been made, some-
thing to go on with is handed out immedi-
ately.
Journalists have a lively remembrance of
the kindly Matthew Harris dame —just laid
at rest —during her reign as Mayoress of
Sydney. With a fierce dislike of sham gen-
tility, she figuratively hit the more preten-
tious Society women many a hearty slap in
the ears. If they put on airs at committee
meetings where Mayoress Harris was the
able president, she hinted darkly at their
genealogy. On one occasion a well-known
Society light pulled her skirts aside so that
they might not touch the draperv of a lady
whose husband was making a million in the
retail trade. Dropping an aitcli or two in
the excitement of the moment, the municipal
mother informed the company that “There’s
trade what’s honest, and trade what isn’t,”
and when those whose people hadn’t them-
selves done quite the right thing dared to look
down on clean trade, they’d better get out.
The Society lady got out, and kept away
from Town _ Hall meetings when "Mrs.
I laris, mum,” was in the chair. Generous
to a fault, site fairly spilt money on free
food and drink while her wealthy husband
was Mayor.
Lucky those professionals of German ex~
traction _ who, like the S. Australian girl
’Serena,” changed their names before
the great trouble started! One not so for-
tunate was Itose Dornbusch. To get to her
leutonic ancestry you have to take a lan-
tern and grope back to a great-grandfather.
Grandfather was English enough to establish
DornbtjSch’s Ltst. which is or was the
wheat merchant’s Scripture. Rose, who
chose music for a career, was listening to
all she could hear in Berlin when the bugles
called. She didn’t know what it meant,
hesitated, then fled, and lost clothes, music,
everything, in the flight back home to the
north side of the Harbor.
A wail from little Montenegro comes this
way The stunning news that this lion-
hearted little nation of a quarter of a mil-
lion souls lias one-sixtli of its population
m the held rings like a call to alms. For
■>G) years the warriors of the Black Moun-
tain have kept the Fez at bay. The present
ueen ot Italy is. as you know, a daughter
. Montenegro s king. Now the bread-crock
is almost empty. The Mayor will take your
contribution.
After all, the euchre party to raise money
I n the immediate needs of the Hospice for
tiie H.wng has been revoked. Instead there
July 19 a C ° nCert iu tlle Town Hall on
Vustralh, de n Vhidl i iS i t 0 calTy Sold into the
Fr rihl r ay h *£ er has washed over
the P,w I « <>1 i t - T hen ' the committee of
S u y f. ley Ya< r ht Squadron, usually
r, )!- i • behind a haughty manner, has
sinilr'wif Ar S a nd-off signals. Melted by the
smile.-, of Mrs. John Mackay and Mrs. Cecil
Iloidern, the yachtsmen have made their
din fSe? Ue Watei " fr ° nt a '-ailable for a gar-
,^L WaV H 8 not exterminated the osprey.
tall wln'Vo 061 orgy °f public meetings the
tall, white plume stood at attention on the
WildTif p iu th ? saiae old wa?. The
M fc I Reservation Society, which see,,,.
wili l ave 1< ? < J u n H he , heat of Armageddon.
WIiIIpTI to t | l / thc tra ? lc Story of Mrs
nre’pußaway. OVl ' 1 ’ again when the glms
apable qualities which make Australian
att “ «*»« eo r e M ;, usl, S
wing. 400 arniy uiu 'ses under her
wlm'S 3 SO - n . of the A - W. Pearse
P, isMt of d-v A 1° ?°'2 ! n the landsman's
n. mt ot dij cash, is lighting in Flanders
He has some of his father’s handy way with
pen and in a recent letter vividly describes
t bßliened slieus of the finest churches on
ti e I ranco-Belgian frontier, and the weir
elßct ot a solitary cross the smoky
the lU (\iast i Ul<l U ! e lwvsin " st aff of
im coast Hospital ought to get Severn I
(f.wl marks from the RScordins Anrnl ft
,r 'hoT'S c sm ' 1 ' f/ta
the Red Cioss. Ihe park-like grounds
bunting 'Thf' dotted with bands,
minting stalls fnlam and fancy) and
Bad fr«h-fa< r <l nurses. 'Minister
'o'R' mack, who ,s now the offh-Ri
Ontfm? ° f Public health ' opened the show
weighß°° n pei ' s P lril) g tar pulled heavy-
weights from shore to shore for the Cause
l«ay Present appearedto
nisil this foim of amusement; so the oars-
man mostly sat high up in the prow while
m rest of the little tub swished low’in the
shallow water. Hr. Clubbe and his missus
togethQV with a helping of the
The postponed Red Cross meeting at Gov-
ernment House collides with the youngsters’
matinee hop tor the Woolloomooloo Dav
Aursery. Both are for June 22.
Mrs. C. S. Elliot, widow of a former
resident magistrate at Norfolk Island—a
thorny billet that—is back again in N S
Bales. She lost her husband, an old navy
man. not so long ago, at Largs Bay (S A )
where he had acted as Naval District officer
or p u- e 7 ar ' Aow a son has been killed
at Gallipoli, and one or two others are in
the same struggle.
Governor Strickland attended the official
party which this year kept up Italian Con-
stitution Day with special fervor. The com-
pany bristled, like grand opera, with signors
and signoras, but none proclaimed their
ominous in trills or other vocal manoeuvres.
Help d Apice. a mountaineer from the crags
ot Hunter s Hill, comes of Italian forebears
so he pattered zealously on the vice-regal
heels. ' °
The rush of Society damsels for the proba-
tioneer s broom still swells the horrors of war.
They are going to insist, so rumor has it, on
nursing our wounded when they come ashore
in Sydney. Happily only the convalescent
are likely to take the long voyage home, and
they can stand the amateur hand fairly well.
Developments are, nevertheless, said’to be
pending in the A.T.N.A. The trained nurse
may peck back if our Best Suburbs try to
take over all the interesting invalids.
The annual prize day at the Girls' Gram-
mar School was a mildly-liilarious affair,
with the Anglican Archbishop in the middle
of the stage. Miss Badham’s report, read by
that learned principal under the shade of a
feathered hat, was delicately garnished with
a humorous tilt at the Public Instruction
Department’s modern orgy of cram. It was
starred with the screaming answers junior
pupils give when they are gorged with all
the ologies, divinity and the political situa-
tion. lion, treasurer Wilfred Docker, who
gives a yearly bonus for some form of learn-
mg at this academy, saw Consuls Chayet
fnd \V atteeuw into front seats. Here thev
had an. uninterrupted view of a heavenly
choir of schoolgirls, who sang the Belgian
national anthem in a soft pipe while a hard-
worked piano thumped out the tune. The
Cullen dame (evidently fresh from Australia
Day meetings) warned the Hairbows against
uie deadly sin of petty jealousy. Mrs. Ethel.
i ll iY- ne , r P u,^ew ' s had the beatitude of seeing
mm \-haired daughter Jean proclaimed dux
of the school. Mrs. Harry Morris and Mrs.
1 ed An till were interested in another prize-
winner, the youthful Helen Morris.
Itertha Merfield’s decorative panels are
stili hanging m Anthony Hordern’s Gallery.
Die best are the big, dashing silhouettes of
gum trees against a warm sunset. In a
i i • lon ie Victorian artist’s work
-7-114 pictures and panels—the efforts run
lings round everything from pumpkins to
limestone caves.
The Bed Cross concert on June
promises to be a clattering success all ways.
nmf'ir •), lrs - Spencer Bruntun,
and Miss Eadith Walker are organising the
show. Dolores and Bobert Parker are to
be tlie chief songsters.
The Girls’ Bealm motor-ambulance is to
lie given, on military advice, for the use of
our own wounded and convalescent in N S
W ales -Nearly £2OO is already in hand, col-
lected by the loung Person in various coun-
try centres. A cafe chantant in the Salon
rest UX<3 011 ex Pected to provide the
. Amongst queer oddments which auc-
tioneer Gorman lately sold for the Belgian
cause was a little Belgian cannon, said to
have passed its 249th birthday.
Sydney High School, which blazed the
track lor many similar State institutions,
loses its head at the end of June. The
success of the institution has been largely
due to the line personality of John Water-
house. muv retiring at 05. In many ways
the old man” is quaintly typical of the
best traditions of the literary type of
schoolmaster—stern, religious, methodical,
jet kindly and affectionate. It has been
;}! s . 1 . ,, '! <1e „ th at he had established school
• tr -h! ti ftii>ns which inspired the pupils to
imitate the excellences of the best of the
old hoys ; but his surprise on once discover-
ing that the prefects were running a bob
sweep on the Melbourne Cup was much less
than Ins amazement on learning that the
sweep was a “tradition” too.
Ihe Amy Castles season opened with a
slender audience and more "paper” in the
best seats than anv manager can S m“e at!
- s tlie -bendigb soprano is now probably at
the zenith of her career—she is improved
out of recognition as an artist—the cause
ot the coolness must lie in the troubled times,
lucre is plenty of money, but the people
behind it are absorbed in patriotic efforts,
fetui. Amy s business representative, brother
reoige, may have the pleasure of turning
away paying guests on June 24.
Ihe programme at the first concert was
badly mapped out. The company curled up
Vo -V s ' vr; !l ,s hear “God Save” from the
, h' • Society, then Bryce Carter on the
cello, then tenor Goldspink—a confidential
singer who keeps the words to himself—and
Amadio, delightful on the flute, before Amy
swished her satin fish-tail across the plat-
V? rm - Tlump and good to look at, with bare
dimpled arms, she was clad in an up-to-
date white satin understudy of early Bornan-
bath sheet drapery. It hung straight down
from neck to ankle, and was subdivided by
a frivolous wisp of black tulle. Her great-
est effort, a brilliant attack on Thomas's
Mac! Scene from “Hamlet,” brought her a
garden of blooms and thunders of applause.
J he concert closed with Gounod’s fine can-
tata, “Gallia.” Conductor Bradley reck-
lessly mounted an uncertain box to steer the
Phil, through the chorus work, while Amy
took her best top-notes in the fore-ground.
Harold Whittle was at the piano.
George Earp and his wife and fair-haired
daughter Marjorie are off to Papua. After
putting in a day or two with Lieutenant-
Governor Murray they go on to inspect
Fuzzwuz in adjacent isles.
The Bose Bay Goff Club threatens to do
something tremendous for our wounded. It
has ample space and plenty of pocket money
So its suggested building—a hospital annexe
• —is likely to materialise. Standing high
up on a grassy knoll, the situation is It for
men who want leg-room to convalesce in
Amongst the coming events for the benefit
ot our boys in splints will be “The Spirit of
the Times”—slightly adapted from a U.S.A
pay for girls by Carolyn Wells. The Tem-
ple on Mt. Olympus, which forms the back-
ground, can be furnished with blocks of
white marble or cardboard draped with but-
ter muslin —as most convenient. Miss Four-
drinier is organiser of this effort in St
James’s Hall on July 10.
The State schools are likely to be a bi<'
feature in a suggested sports show for Aim-
tiaJia Day. A lied Cross formed of eight or
lime thousand youngsters is mentioned as a
trimming.
-Vs a lesult of the Railway and Tramway
mens procession about £2OOO is likely to fail
into the patriotic hat.
There’s a mention of Mrs. Leslie Willsallen
and Kathleen Osborne making a dash for
Kgypt "to nurse the wounded.” A third of
the British aristocracy is getting about with
its limbs in bandages. Our best young men
are m the same wrappings. So local Society
is going to buzz round the Egyptian and
Maita hospitals -to pet the darlings—unless
the Red Cross Nightingales put up the same
stern resistance as they did in France.
Mayor Richards gives the visiting Gov-
ernor Galway and his ladies a motor outiim
to Kunng-gai Chase this week. On Monday
the Government whisks the party up the
flawkesbury River.
The Queensland writer. Mrs. Forrest is
now convalescing after a long illness. The
f arramatta Mills family, from which she
springs, is doing its part in the great
trouble, two cousins have been killed, and
a brother is pouring lead into the enemy
under Boyd-Ciinningham in Africa. This
brother is a crack shot, who has had much
experience with big game.
The Polish matinee at the Tivoli drew a
substantial audience. Gladys Moncrieff
and Kobeit 1 arker had the big lines on the
programme. In the twilight gloom the click
ot knitting needles proved that much practice
helps the initiated to feel their way through
many socks. The Tom Hughes lady tore
herself away from two public meetings to
ook in. -Neville -Mayman and his wife and
the Karp family, with Belgian Consul Wat-
teemv, were 'jj fbe d.c. Paderewski’s com-
patriot, Miss Czaykowska, assisted. In the
front row that insatiable supporter of the
matinee in every form, Judge Backhouse, was
a silhouette in the glimmer.
„,,4.. brother of Artli ur Adams is just in from
< Inti and Bolivia. This wandering Adams
doesii t write verse or short stories or long
ones; to the utter despair of his aesthetic
kinsman lie talks all his days about mines
and machines, and he has just come in from
looking after some of these things at a height
of 15,000ft.—“where you get nervy and
beastly bad-tempered after a while,” lie says.
So far as South America is concerned, the
most popular thing Britain has done in the
war was, it seems, to smash the Dresden in
Chilian waters, and then apologise for it.
J hings are rather mixed in that republic, as
the army is organised on German methods,
while the navy is so British that the sailors
wear an accurate copy of the British Tar’s
clothes, including the black handkerchief
about the neck to commemorate the death of
Nelson! me army is thus pro-Hun and the
navv pro-British. But Chili was tickled to
death by the fact of a great nation like
biitain taking the trouble to anologise to a
little terrier like Chili for smashing a mere
German warship upon Chilian premises. Ii
was the greatest compliment the capable
little Republic had ever received. The
( lnhans were only sorry that there were not
some more German warships in their neutral
waters for the British navy to destroy—and
•so charmingly apologise for.
The successful start of the Twilight
House, where old ladies can recount their
favorite anecdotes under the shade of the
sympathetic gum-trees, has fired the Govern-
ment to got into a somewhat similar line of
business. The Twilight hostel is entirely
supported by private generosity, backed up
b.v the mite the residents pay for much com-
rort. me Government is going to start at
the other side of life. It hopes to launch
• ' , I m a cheap and attractive week-end
chateau (the name isn’t mine) for tired
young women-workers in the city. Some
mountain summit is likely to be the site.
Minister for Railways Hoyle, having re-
gained consciousness after his visit to the
new Lavender Bay station of steps, is keenlv
interested in this castle in the air.
A glance at the list of duties in waiting for
A 1 t wo new lady bobbies is awe-inspiring,
me truant youngster is, however, to claim
first place in their regard : and that ought to
because Woman knows the
kiddie without any introduction. And he is
here by scores. In fact, a committee dame'
once bewailed linn as so frequent a public
nuisance that he delayed her motor chariot
in its progress.
Hats are gradually growing up tall and
I hm like lightning conductors; or they are
•small and flat and like collapsible buns. The
trimming is monotonous. Outside the ex-
ceptional feather-duster millinery, stiff little
posies, generally in angry shades of red or
purple, dot them all round with mathe-
matical precision.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


‘CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
9
x
m-
/i
V \ ’
\\
U> \\\
- \
\. \\
W£
\ l
m
? <
>
s£
V:
i
wmM
mmm
mmm
r.Pj£',l\&V
m
S .S'
S"}
wfcfM
10
“)
l^/>
£1
&3»
2^
||f§ili|fe
~'“S
a f
*agr /
rJ"
§g .";
&
11 if
HHf ft
mmsmm
ssti
£§§
m
*2*
Torwey lolly
|_ve^^ a Nice
fek
««/
l\
S
H
Ui
5 NT
?T:Jn
S tl®
«
1
m
11/
iMii
//
tm. *
r
'"•■Cj* ?#£«,
rMI
■:*V
?#ss■<
ilii /x
T<r*
m
mMssM
£2l
I! ill
fUE
i#
ira
Lrty-.^V;
5<
r;^
ssSs
>5
■ -:
HI
>eis@
c*?f
i?m
1
<*S
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Likes his Turkey
Lollv too.
Eagerly he
Eats the sweet
In the funny
Eastern street.
When the soldier’
Resting, he
Tastes the sweets
Of victory.
“ COBRA” Allies
Think it fair
Each should have
A hero’s share.


Farmer’s Gaslh. Bonus SALE
a
/v
°*\
£
/A
or
£
a
Begins Tuesday, June 29
SAVES YOU 2/- IN EVERY 20/-
BESIDES MANY BIG REDUCTIONS.
This Sale is a Genuine Clearance of Winter
Goods and Surnlus Lines —a splendid chance to
save at least 10 per cent, on every Cash Pur-
chase.
At Sale Time the whole of our Immense Stock
of Reliable and Desirable Merchandise (a few
proprietary lines alone excepted) is subject to
the Bonus of 10 per cent. (2/- in the £),
in addition to which we offer many striking
reductions in every department.
Will Country Residents also please note that
THE SALE
OF THE
WINTER
SEASON.
FARMER'S PAY CARRIAGE ON ALL DRAPERY GOODS
' TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
FARMER’S,
PITT, MARKET
and
GEORGE STREETS,
dfg
Bos/ocA
THERE is generally one pair of shoes that is
remembered as having' been just right. They looked
well, they wore well, they fitted well. Every
woman must have had such a pair, which she remem-
bers with pleasant regret and hopes by some happy
chance to match again. She can do so by securing
her right size in Bostock. The fitting proper-
ties of these shoes are so excellent that one
feels at home and comfortable in them from
the first day of wear: the styles are particu-
larly up to date and delightful, as the present
model goes to prove. Bostock shoes are
obtainable at all the best stores —and are un-
mistakable, the name Bostock being stamped
on every pair.
821
' J
■ *:
wSEm
w®
Bostock No.
P 6388
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, June 21. 1015.
Mr Dear Yarrie, —
Ihe Fergusons gave an impromptu party
at Government Mouse on the shrieking: cold,
windy night of Tuesday last week. The 930
stih u a u IVed t0 rm ,ld that tbeir hosts were
TlVi m dlll , nei '; 1 u ‘. v gathered gloomily in
He largest drawing-room, and waited—
which, when you come to think of it, was all
here was tor them to do. Lady Helen’s dress
turned out to lie worth all the delay— a gor-
geous rose-pink silk creation it was, puck-
monds AT°n UCed ’ and with dia-
monds Melba wore most of her diamonds,
too - Her dress was flimsy black over a glint
"t gold threaded purple. The Japanese Ad-
struck the house blind with the
multitude and magnificence of the Orders
which blazed across his chest. Under his
cnin was suspended a huge gold rising sun,
v hose centre was a ruby that may well have
caused some trouble in its wicked, glowing
, a - y ‘~ The other Japanese officers depended for
martial effect on an air of extreme reckless-
ness and pugnacity—the immemorial heritage
of the small man. The Admiral himself is
i o u r-ree t-something.
Some taking gowns accompanied the pro-
cession mostly pale brocades below the
™ and •■‘ himy bit of tulle or lace above.
Dimpled Lady Doris was m white tulle, with
the trills turned upside down. Mrs. Aide
fane was rather droopy in black, and Mrs.
Inviitß-Secivtary Blackstock wore some
i'lilt | rainbow colors discreetly veiled in a
ot . Tbe Hennessys gave the party of the year
\dmSnl lO Ti - aH to receive the Japanese
Admiral and his officers on Wednesday after-
n?o D ‘i •n Lu n Unous 9 riental spread over
the chilly floor and heaps of flowen-veiled
radiators made the vast refrigerator almost
cosy. A great Rising Sun in flame-tinted
electrics blazed against the organ pipes, and
chrysanthemums were all over the Alace
Ihe organ thundered. (The Mayoress loves
this instrument as if it were a tame ele-
phant.) Hidden musicians played the Jap
anthem, and the visitors sang in response—
the sound being quite out of proportion to
the sip of the small men. At the foot of
the organ was a bank of moss with anemones
and other spring flowers growing out of it.
t.hjs delicate bit of decoration drew the
visiting aesthetes to it. like a magnet, dur-
ing the whole afternoon. The Mayoress
ltiooied under suspicion of having designed
if. she being an artistic gardener who usu-
ally thinks out the flower decorations per-
sonally.
This reminds me by some involved pro-
cess of thought that the hostess of the day
had literally crept out of bed to do honor
to the visitors. She has been down with
flu and it has so ruined her voice that she
declared she could scarcely speak English,
lee alone the Japanese she had studied up
fo1 ’ the occasion. She was comfortably
padded over with ermine furs. Her husband
wore the rabbit-skin which is among his
insignia of office. It was one of those days
when there are points about being a mayor.
To get back to his wife, her gown—under
the ermine—was shirred lovelinesses of black
and peacock-blue; and she waved peacock-
due plumes from her hat. The Admiral
has a large, scrubby moustache, and long,
radiating, thoughtful wrinkles from eye to
ear. In other respects he is a miniature.
He v ore a frock coat and all his orders —
including the dazzling ruby-and-gold Rising-
Sun which I told you of before. I was
scandalised to hear several misguided dames
talking to the Admiral in the pigeon-Englisli
which suburban housewives practise on the
Vegetable John. Quel Mtise! as the French
(or is it the Germans?) say.
. The Rest lady was a neat, dainty vision
in pale grey and chinchilla furs. Mrs.
Dwyer wore a glowing Paquin model, all
carnation pink and sable. Mrs. Tom
Hogan s hat was a medley of gold threads
woven with blue and furs and things. Mrs.
Andy Fisher was sedate and impressive in
navy blue. The new Weed on lady showed
an irreproachable profile from under the leaf
of a large velvet hat. John Madden’s stately
wife wore black glace and a hard, cold-
looking puce toque. The Creswells came
together, she in clinging black; he in his
gleaming orders. The Pearces were there;
also Peacock of the Yell and his wife, who
was beautifully attired in navy blue. Mrs.
livey talked Camp talk, since her husband
is training recruits. Mrs. Godfrey and her two
daughters booked dates for entertaining the
Japs; and there was Mrs. Beresford in
black, and Mrs. Fred Eggleston, wearing the
trickiest little hat in the room, and heaps
of others.
A.t this party, by the way, there tran-
spired an individual who had not heard of
Melba. He was cross-examining a local
matron, after the fashion of his country.
“Do you know Miss Melba?” he asked
politely. “I met a grand, important lady
called Miss Melba at last night’s reception.”
“Hhe is the greatest singer in the world.”
said the matron, and the small .Tap stewed
carefully over this amazing - fact, and
stored it methodically in his mind before his
next question. Japan does not specialise in
singers. One has not heard of a Japanese
Caruso or Castles. For that matter, one
has not heard of a Jap Julius Knight or
. rank Anstey or Hugh D. Mclntosh. It is
impossible for a country to have all the re-
finements of civilisation, I suppose.
ihe Munro Fergusons, Lady Doris and the
Ellison Macartneys went to “The Man Who
Stayed at Home” on last Friday night. Sir
Ronald, by the way, still has to help his
hurt knee along with a stick. Two rows of
stalls were tilled with boys in khaki, and
whenever the gallery cheered, which was
fairly often, the vice-regals were embar-
rassed to know if the ovation was meant for
them or the departing heroes. The result
was they had to crouch back behind the cur-
tains and endeavor vainly to look innocent
and unconscious. Moral: When you become
a Governor never go to the theatre at the
same time as departing heroes.
I am told by the usual sensationalist that
at a Government House dinner last week
the Japanese Admiral sat next a Russian
of importance. They tried various means
of communication and eventually fell back
upon German. Think of it, my dear, and
with the place simply seething with Loyal-
ists ! An octogenarian aide swooned from
shock, and for the rest of the evening the
guilty pair conversed in the deaf-and-dumb
language.
Some of the State Governors take them-
selves with portentous seriousness. I will
give you three guesses as to which of them
this story is told about. He was entertain-
ing an old friend at dinner at a club —just
one of those informal little parties of four
that Governors have, now and then, when
they want to discuss old times with visitors
from the other end of the earth. The guest
appeared to be going very slow on the wine.
Said his State Ex. to his Secretary: “Kindly
ask Mr. Blank” (who, of course, was on the
host’s right) “if he would prefer some other
sort of wine.” It is about the last word in
majesty, isn’t it?
Ernest Watt—Captain Oswald Watt’s
elder brother —is teaching at an English
school in the name of patriotism. He volun-
teered but was turned down on account of
his health, which is poor. Casting round for
a way to help he heard of a school in Kent
which was willing to release an athletic
young mathematics master on full salary
provided he found a substitute. Mr. Watt,
who is a Cambridge man, offered to lill the
breach and was accepted with acclamation.
He is about the only member of the gilded
Melbourne Club who has held the job of
usher.
That was a stupendous literary effort of
Melba’s last week- —I mean the one begin-
ning “Dear Country-women,” in which she
expressed in terse, racy language the effect
of the war upon her emotions. The first
passage :
At twilight last evening I was pacing my rose
garden, with eyes turned north to greet the crags
which like sentinels stand guard at the gates of my
haven. And as I mused and wondered, my mind a
conflict of thoughts, emotions and impressions, down
in the forest something stirred. ’Twm only the note
of a bird. Ah, me ! that note, a faint twitter barely
rustling a leaf, it grew to a half-cry, and further
swelled till its clarion ring and final dying' echo
woke within me an overwhelming desire to speak all
that has been locked away within my heart.
The finish takes some beating, too:
I could tell .you more, but my heart is too full,
my eyes cannot even distinguish the crags, and the
bird note is stilled, and 1 have nothing left save
the darkness: but beyond it, as a child sees in the
deep heart of red coal fire, 1 see
And she proceeds lo mention what she sees.
Not to be outdone, even by a world-
famous prima donna, your faithful Johanna
has also been visioning. She sees, on every
side, ballrooms filled with girls “marriage
high,” as the old phrase has it, and no one
to flirt with them but elderly gentlemen and
boys, in the spotty stage. ' She se6s girls
skating together, and bored maidens goffing
in company. She sits, observant, in the
theatre and sees the glad eye being given by
desperate show ladies to male specimens who
would have been spurned in the brave days
of old. She sees beautiful women whose
lunches are being paid for by Male Relics—
there is no other word for them —and glad
and proud to be selected for the honor.
W herever she looks she sees social tragedies
large and small, and in her considered judg-
ment things are going to be worse before
they are better.
Last Friday the Town Hall was besieged
by chronic committee-women —the pushing
females who associate themselves with every
well-advertised movement whether it wants
them or not. The occasion was a meeting
of the original members of the Victoria Red
Cross Society, .and the object was to orga-
nise a fund for wounded Australians. The
news that Lady Stanley had convened the
meeting and was to be there had got about,
and feathers and furs from all the suburbs
collected on the doorstep, only to be told by
callous Town Hall officials to trot home
again unless they had invitations! The
crowd was somehow dispersed without loss
of life.
Vera Adamson, of the Brighton clan, is
to be married, without uproar, in July. The
young bride is to have all the satin and lace
and orange-blossom binding suitable to the
occasion; also she will have three peach-
pink bridesmaids, but only the family will
be there to gaze upon all these glories. One
of the intended bridesmaids is black-haired,
one fair-haired, and the third is bronze-
thatclied. The bronze-haired one is a cousin,
Olive Adamson, and is to be imported from
Sydney for the ceremony. The mere man
in the case is David Jones, a planter from
Papua.
The Austral Salon the other day invited
heaps of people to tea and music. The
invitation cards mentioned that the Club was
collecting clean old linen butter-muslin, five-
yard-lengths of pyjama material, and any-
thing that would do for bandages. The
visitors arrived bearing huge bundles, just
like the country Afghan or the door-to-door
John, and cast the packs inside the door
before they shook hands with hostesses Mrs.
Quinnell and Mrs. Horatio Webb.
Squatter Campbell’s second son, Donald,
one of the Sari Bair heroes, is in hospital
in Alexandria with a poisoned foot. He
commenced operations with the Westralians,
then fell in with the Maorilanders, and
ended by helping to work an Indian moun-
tain battery.
Mrs. Langlands Thompson is becoming
very popular among our soldier boys. She
asks nice girls to meet them, and lets the
mixture tango in a discreet way. “So far
they have only been on the carpet, my dear.”
she says anxiously. “But I think i might
open the ballroom if I restricted the frivo-
lity to khaki men—-and the girls, of course.”
Meanwhile a lot of healthy young soldiers
who. can break camp occasionally are im-
ploring her to chuck Mother Grundy under
the chin or under the table and let them
have some real dances before they depart
for trench and bayonet work.
‘‘General” McKinley, who has fallen in
action in France, was a singularly gifted
youth with a charming personality. He
was manager of the Abosso mine in Africa
when war broke out; but happening to be in
Kngland at the moment he joined the Flying
Corps. Harry McKinley, by the way. is
wounded and in hospital; and yet another
brother is still in the great trouble.
Clive Were, son of Frank Were, the stock-
broker, has fallen in the Dardanelles, and
his brother John is wounded. There are
numerous Weres and Bicketsons (their
cousins) in the fighting line.
Mrs. George Knox (who was Kathleen
McPherson) is a pale, sad-looking young
matron these days. Her husband has gone to
the war. His bachelor brothers went some
time ago.
Robert Best sent a son and a son-in-law
to the Dardanelles. They are both in hospi-
tal at Alexandria now. The son-in-law lay
for a day and a half wounded and alone —
result, sciatica, from which he is still suffer-
ing.
Young Clifton is off to the war, and his
mother came down from her Darling Downs
sheep run a few days ago to wave a fare-
well to him. He means to Fly; also to
offer a bird machine to Great Britain. Tie
has already presented a motor-car to the
cause.
Theodore Fink’s son Gordon is listed “miss-
ing.” However, Theodore is optimistic. “My
wife and I have a feeling that he is well and
a prisoner of war,” he says.
Ivy Cole, daughter of bookseller Cole,
who married Rupert Rudd last week, has
left with her 6ft. Sin. husband for the
U.S.A.- They are heading first for San
Francisco.
Frank Russell, of the Melbourne Shaks-
pearian Society, has left for the U.S.A. with
his wife and their youngster. They hope to
pull up in England about September.
Butter-muslin inter-shirts, soaked in dis-
infectants, have been suggested by a Society
spinster and promptly spurned by the authori-
ties. Their stern decree is flannel next the
skin, pneumonia being regarded as a deadlier
foe than vermin any day. But Sister Susie
can still help by drv-rubbing sulphur or some
other disinfectant into the shirts and under-
pants she is sewing.
Mrs. Major James and the Overseas Club
are making ready to welcome back Reika
Parker, the little Tasmanian with the big
pigtail who was sent abroad to study, and
who now strikes a defenceless piano 10 times
her size with merciless skill and precision.
Surgeon Abe, who is a very small Jap
and not a Yank, as his name might suggest,
has been visiting the Melbourne Hospital to
attend a sick boy from his boat. The
patient has typhoid. The Melbourne nurses
are violently interested in the charts and
prescriptions of old Asia.
~.-4, w i se 'l°°ki n g old pony is collecting in
Melbourne for the Purple Cross Funds. The
worker’s name is Kiss Lass, and it comes
trom the \\ onthaggi coal mines, and is the
oldest mining pony in the country. Kiss is
elaborately decorated, and wears a purple
cross tilted coquettishly over the left eye.
Dorothy Meyer that was, and Shields that
is, writes froni London to her Australian
women-sympathisers concerning herself, and
the doctor who is prosperously established in
the Smoke, and the three-months-old baby.
Ihe rolling wave of scandal has borne the
handsome divorcee into a haven of rest and
her new family motto is “All’s well that
ends well.” The happy consummation in
this case was assisted by the decease of
Meyer a while ago.
Melbourne is full of excitement one way
and another. Just round the corner from
the t own Hall the Church has stuck up a
hoarding that begs you in red, white and
blue to "Follow the King! Sign Kitchener
1 ledge. Here.” “Here” is a small table
with a very crossed nib and crowds of paper
on it. I counted three obvious Sunday-
school teachers—the sort of people who
would be liable to faint at the sight of a
beer-bottle—and two small bovs following the
King for all they were worth. In the Pdock
more signing is going on. It’s splendid
practice for getting married, this writing
with your gloves on. At another corner is
the pony of which I have already told you.
and by its side a lady attendant with philan-
thropist written upon her brow —that is, in
a figurative sense. From all of which you
can see the city is as good as a circus in
many respects.
From my Adelaide correspondent':—
Tn a “sporting” rifle-shooting event, fired in
Adelaide last week on a miniature range, 12 a-side,
seven shots at 25yds., Woman showed her usual con-
tempt for the Law, trampling it underfoot by 608 to
463. The top scorers, Hargrave and Miss Giffen, were
equal, with 61 out of 70, but the feminine team
was well balanced, all but one scoring over 40, while
the lawyers—some of whom arrived when the light
was failing—were half of them below 40, and tailed
down to a horrible 17. Mrs. David Fulton
organised the match, and the proceeds are to he
divided between the Returned Wounded Soldiers’
fund and the Women Rifle Shots’ Ambulance
Fund.
The latest casualty list includes the name of
“Phil” Robin, the Norwood footballer who was
married to Miss Nellie Honeywill in January at the
camp in Egypt. She is now in England. Lieut.
H. E. Brock is amongst the killed, too, a fine soldier
and a popular man, who had been connected with
file loth Light Horse for years. He was the son
of Mr. T. A. Brock, manager of the Port Adelaide
Dock Company. The F. 11. Stokeses have lost their
youngest son, who went as a private with the first
lot of infantry ; and Lieut.-Colonel Miell is wounded.
The Adele, the old Dutton steam yacht, has been
bought by the Government for the Geelong Naval
College. When fitted out it will take in about 35
boys.
The Port Adelaide Racing Club’s Winter Meeting
was the last that will be held with Mr. Cruickshank
as chairman, as he is resigning from both chair and
committee at the end of the year. During the after-
noon a mare, presented by Teesdale Smith, was sold
and resold (we S. Australians call it the Bugler
system), with the result that £6B was added to the
Belgian Fund ; -and £7B was collected on the lawns.
The increasing difficulty of getting wool for sock-
knitting- is driving us to the old-time spinning-wheel.
A demonstration in the art of spinning lias already
been given by Mrs. McLeod, a Scotchwoman who
is 85 herself, and whose wheel is 20 years younger.
Dr. J. I. Sangster, who died at the North Adelaide
Hospital on Saturday, was a son of Dr. Sangster, of
Glenelg, and one time of the Burra. He married
a daughter of the late Mr. G. M. Turnbull, and she
and three small sons survive him.
From the West comes news of the death of Mr.
F. A. Price, who was well known here some years
ago. He married one of the Milne clan.
Nora Kyffin Thomas and John Dempster are organ-
ising a series of concerts in connection with the
Cheer Up Society, the proceeds to go to the Wounded
Soldiers’ Fund. The first was given at the Unley
City Hall, and scored a big success, and one is
hilled for North Adelaide on June 25.
From • China comes news .of the death of George
Ohamier, who for many years practised here as a
civil engineer. He was responsible for the original
railway to the Grange, the Patawalonga Dam, and
the big dock at Port Adelaide. He was also engineer
and promoter of the Parkside Tramway Company.
He leaves a son, who has a commission with the
Bedfordshires, and a daughter.
The town clerkship, vacant through the promo-
tion of T. G. Ellery to Melbourne, has fallen to H.
P. Beaver, who seemed his natural, successor; as
chief accountant to the city for over 10 years he has
done much organising work and in general has been
Ellery’s right-hand man.. His appointment was
nearly unanimous. He is 47, English by birth, but
Australian by residence nearly all his life.
Yonrs sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820 —Still going strong .
r
m.
jLA
\$K
\
y
7
£
I
*
V 3
f.
JL
0
/
/
<IR
*0
,
%
ETo
/<
Johnnie Walker : “ Well, how are you ? ”
Mr. Tommy Atkins : “ Like yourself, Sir —Fit to go
anywhere.”
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whiskv Distillers, KILMARNOCK


Valuable alike
for
the
Invalid and Robust
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘AHenburys’ Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel, etc. and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigested it is
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘AHenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals.
The ‘AHenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants.
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘AUenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause indigestion and flatulence.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
dfg
l»Jl=iT
Montserr4T
SAUCE
§
&
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
Homeward.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rp HE lion and two gladiators aceom-
I Ponied me over the ferry. To the left,
in the windy sunlight, the towers of
New Fork, diminished to a row of speckled
dominoes, were growing smaller and smaller,
lo the right, New Jersey kept pushing out
her welcoming wharves, but we passed many
before we hit upon the right one ; and then
when we were finally swallowed up in the
shadows of a great archway, the lion and
each ot the gladiators took a box, or a trunk
and helped me into the train. That was the
last 1 saw of my dear theatrical friends-
the boa in bis little round hat, arm-in-arm
H theVh? ?° m f nS ’ i ll waving their hands.
At the third or fourth stop I was drowsily
ft iva 6 - onfv wJh bdJ | S nnging ’ alld - although
it was only \\ eduesday evening, I wasn’t at
all cuinms until I heard them again at the
hith station, and the sixth. “Americans re-
notpUa i>e °- P e /’ , was tlle silent comment, a
note as quickly deleted as made when I dis-
covered the bell to be attached to our engine.
cholv nhS thr ? Ugh many villages ; melan-
cnoij places, whose smoke-smothered cot-
S S W^ Webbed U “ d l, r wiry wet branches,
•still stick in my mind. No paint, no cur-
tains, no fences, no leaves, no paths Iron-
nmulded roa d s as black as burnt grass.
them S?'l!f ln !5 ly i niSht Came down and buried
them in her darkness. Then, for the
sidT’id 7be C f d tbat the baby on the opposite
-side ot the carriage was wearing pearls in
hf JittT’ tha l f he had a silver ring on
t c- httle hnger of her left hand. I nodded
noffonW Ce f a a her : but <*<* remained
in tacks teady as a pair of bammered-
aisfe men passing down the
aisie suddenly made me aware of the fact
lhat a real train “blood” always parades
vh<.n"tK.7t th his t ? ck s t “Ms «
tho i h od . w< ? niau In front of me bemn
the slow unwinding of a wonderful night-
S'go to b bed oned t 0 the I>orter “”<1 PtopL-d
• having the train at Chicago the foilow-
ng evening we crossed the city through °U-
la nously dark streets to the depQt from
"Y' JV Ver t to set out for ’Frisco.’
I had two hours and a half to snare -h
to g C e a t g rid a of so n T ght ? gr ° Wth of whiskers
the nearest hofel i C n- ° Ut of the station to
f hotel, taking my razor with me
Lss I was able T f ° Ur sbillings ! neverthe-
I ss l was able to economise to the extent
oi haying a free shave and not tinning the
attendant. Outside, a ghost in rags whin el
monotonously for a dime. He had no somer
God-blessed’- me than another and yet an-
otnoi took his placo thaf t -. Tro *
completely bedgef im' T made five 0/““
zig-zag moves, got clear up the station stens
Sh^' ay ticket, and boarded the train. 1
exactly opposite to me I discovered a
blonde young man with a long chin A naif
of doubled-up fists clenched on extended
knees troubled me a good deal by reason of
their close proximity to my nose. His bam
*r?° red bag -. rocking in the lamp-light,
bore the inscription—
Zilphag Brown,
, . n Anitas, lowa,
llmt is all; we didn’t speak one word in
le whole of our journey, and who Zilphag
was or where Zilphag was going I shall
never know. But his name interested me.
Across the aisle from where I sat was a
young fruit-buyer, and with him a red-
headed undertaker. The undertaker was
proud of his calling.. He talked of nothing
but cedars and “deals” from morning till
night.
4he tiain ran through an interminable
desert, yellow and flat near the rails, but
rising in thin, sandy-sided mountains to the
edges of the sky. The atmosphere was
miraculously transparent, so that horses and
men seen far in the distance, and only appear-
ing the size of a few pins, preserved the
same sharpness and minuteness of detail as
they would have had they been held in the
palm of the hand. But the whole place was
hungry-looking, and the eye ranged in vain
over the horizon for something to break the
terrible monotony.
At one station I saw a neatly-painted
sign: “Hang Frogs Here.” But the frogs
have dropped to it, and none appeared any-
where near the notice.
That night, lying in my bunk with the
window open, and the great desert stars
burning in the outside darkness, I could hear
the undertaker talking to the little fruit-
buyer. His words came out of his mouth
like a smooth-running ribbon. I put my
fingers in my ears and went to sleep.
In the morning the damnable desert was
still there dancing before our tired eyes, and
continued to do so the whole day long until
we were plunged suddenly, sword-like, into
the heart of a deep mountain side. For a
few priceless moments, after the long agony
of so much hideous scenery, we experienced
the calm blind anaesthesia of a tunnel, then
whirled into the quick sun-rays again.
Out of the desert we crawled up a cause-
way bordered by melodramatic castles of
eagle-haunted stone, the clouds falling down
cHfff h °w y bangl P gs u °ver the dull-colored
ini n \rr. e Passed through cold darknesses
ito green, open, paddocky lawns set against
the silent sky, brilliant in the sunlight and
St ded by u tangJ , e “ ents of P in e. We saw
ancient giey shacks mortised into ever-
asting rock, swept about by crooked rivers,
and echoing the hollow roar of rapids in the
mountain tops. Crests of ice were lifted up
out of the silver distance.
L’ine-trees, pine-trees, pine-trees, pine-
trees. 1 me-trees and snow. Pine-trees and
snow.
The earth flattening between hills, we
round spaces covered with sawn timber piled
to a height of 12 and 15 feet. Trees of rain-
black emerald towered out of the dry wood
beautiful Survivors of a cathedral forest
whose columns had made choirs of silence
years before man had ever come into them.
A keen, clear lake miles underneath us,
spread itself over the land; and no house 01-
living creature anywhere in sight.
Next, surrounded by precipices—bleak but-
tresses ascending with an almost visible
motion through waveless white mist. A hawk
passed like an airy phantom, upwards, be-
tween two peaks. Everything seemed to be
straining towards the skies. The very stones
climbed one on top of the other, and even the
SUCCESS AT LAST.
The behavior of the Crown Prince is causing general unpopularity, and his movements have not
been chronicled since March. His latest entanglement is with a Berlin danseuse. —Neutral story.
THE CROWN PRINCE: “This is my line —all my other advances were failures!”
bare-branched shrubs rose perpendicularly out
of the bitter earth which lay dark in the
shadow of the hills. Close against the train
stood a tipsy slab-sided saloon, its walls
painted lead-color, and its whole length
carrying a ricketty top-piece over which was
scrawled in irregular writing: “The Waffle-
otas. That’s AIL” Near to it, and set about
Noah’s Ark fashion, a few fowls, a horse, a
boy about three years old in long blue pants,
a “blackboard,” and a mule.
At Utah, the words “Boomerang Bill,
King of the Tramps,” roughly scribbled over
the breadth of a big bluestone bridge, gave
me iny. first reminder of Australia.
Leaving the Mormon city we crossed
Salt Lake, the distance from shore to shore
26 miles. We rode with our faces towards
the sun. The mountains before us. losing
their details, were as sharp and ugly as a
torn bit of tin; those behind glittered up
out of the water, the snow on their crests
seeming to flicker in the enchanted air like
a shower of butterflies.
On the farther side of the lake we were re-
ceived into a strongly-built shed, and trav-
elled under bars through ice and melting
snow for 40 miles. There was no motion
in the air, and no sound came from any-
where while we sailed softly as a homing
bird into the white stillness of those solitary
hills. We descended lower and lower, and
every hour a deeper green came over the
earth; thickets of young rods covered with
foliage brushed against the windows, and,
gradually, like a vision slowly unfolding
around us, there rose to our eyes the warm
vineyards and olive-gardens of California.
After that hell in New York I could have
cried to see the country blossoming before
me for miles and miles. I wanted to take
the earth into my hands, to feel that it was
real earth, to smell the cracking buds in the
black-red leaves of the hedges, to run
through the long crops of maize and lie bv
the roadside. I knew somehow I was going
to live again.
Later we crossed another lake in a ferry-
boat, the boat swallowing the whole of our
train (14 carriages and an engine) and
carrying us safely over.
At Oakland our journey ended, as far as
the rail part of it was concerned, and I made
the water-trio to San Francisco. While I
was there (two nights and a day) I stayed
at the St. Francis Hotel, opposite to a
Plaza so like Wynyard Square in Sydney
that I could have easily believed I had come
home.
On the Sonoma I am once more in New
York. Magicians meet me in the smoke-
room, increasing the length of their thumbs
to eight inches over their normal size, chang-
ing my handkerchief into a wheat-cake with-
out removing it out of my pocket. Besides
magicians we have a Protean actress, three
acrobats, an animal impersonator, a musical-
comedy team, and an Indian princess with
baskets of snakes. All good people, every
one of them; but, better than any of these,
a sturdy New South Welshman, five feet
eleven in his socks, and as brown as a piece
of mahogany. He had been all over the
earth, and was coming home with the same
idea as myself, that there was no country
under Heaven so well worth living in as
Australia.
Passing through Golden Gate we struck a
heavy beam sea that smashed in our saloon
doors, wrecked the balustrade on the stairs,
and flooded the cabins knee-deep in water, in-
juring two chilren seriously. Our smoke-
stack was shifted on one side, and the cap-
tain was forced to run the ship 300 miles
out of her course. To calm our minds the
chief-officer went among the people with a
sailor, and gave demonstrations of how to
put on and take off lifebelts. it didn’t
trouble me. I was too sick.
Diamond Head loomed up out of the ocean
with its big blue following of sky-covered
mountains. The water ran greasily round
the iron flanks of the ship, and the taffrail
burned in our hands while we gazed towards
the shore. Far in the offing a small coast-
ing vessel was sending up columns of smoke
into the air, while, nearer to the beach, a
boat with a white sail toppled about, danger-
ously close.to the breakers. And so we got
our first glimpse of Oahu.
Once ashore (and wholly through the kind-
ness of a fellow-traveller) I was able to
meet Mr. Aleck Hume Ford, editor of The
Mid-Pacific Magazine, a man of consider-
able note in the island and one who has un-
selfishly devoted himself to its interests, with
results that are continually bringing their
own reward. AVe took him this afternoon
by surprise; and a grey rain was just begin-
ning to rustle in the garden when we walked
on to the broad glassed-in verandah where
we discovered him, typically enough, buried
to the nose in papers. He put everything to
one side the moment he saw us, and, after
dictating a couple of absolutely necessary
letters, led us, by way of many rice-fields, to
the famous beach of Waikiki.
Jack London was there, fresh as a daisy,
and only just beginning to dry a little after
three hours in the surf with Mrs. London.
o l’d touched an electric button hidden in
the trunk of the tree under which we were
sitting, and a lemon-faced Chinaman ap-
peared with iced drinks.
London, grown fat by island-feeding, his
crisp hair curling in wet rings on his tem-
ples, bare-armed and with naked legs, was
the picture of happy indolence; and yet he
is, after all, one of the busiest men living.
He had positively nothing to say about
books, but sat with his shoulders turned to
the shore, his whole gaze centred on the on-
rushing waves. His eyes sparkled every time
a surfer rose on his board, and often he leapt
to his feet out of sheer uncontrollable excite-
ment.
The stars were already beginning to peak
when we said “Good-bye” to our friends on
the quay-side. Japanese women, in kimonos
and light wooden sandals, stood in groups
under tree-shadowed lanterns. The darken-
ing hills towered high over our heads and
the palms whispered in the cool air. All this
we saw while the Sonoma drew slowly into
deep water ; all this we will always remem-
ber.
After dinner God sent for our pleasure a
beautiful meteorite. It rose in the west, a
steady light; then flowed over the ship with
a long green flame breaking into three sep-
arate stars and falling behind a cloud miles
off in the east. A slender trail of fire re-
mained in the sky long after it had gone.
We have lost 12 hours in our journey from
San Francisco, and so to-day is only AVednes-
day until 10 o’clock a.m., and then it be-
comes Thursday.
Pago-Pago Bay in Tutuila Island is the
crater of a huge volcano, and the shores des-
cend quite suddenly to a depth of a hundred
and sixty-five feet. The ship floats into this
cup of the mountains, and, turning towards
the wharf, is surrounded so completely by
hills that one is unable to distinguish any
entrance. On the pier is the police-band,
composed entirely of Samoans, whacking big
chaps, dressed in black kilts with scarlet
sashes and turbands. Farther ashore, under
the cocoanut trees, are the women and chil-
dren and old men, with fruit laid out on mats
before them; and clubs, and model canoes,
and baskets, and trays, and fans, and rolls
of tappa, etc.
These people are gentle and kind, utterly
unlike the savages of New York.
A white school-teacher leaving the island
came on board, followed by girls and boys
all on the verge of tears. On the deck each
in turn gave him a present; one a live bird
on a long stick, another a shell; many gave
necklaces which he strung round his neck as
fast as he got them. Others brought wreaths
and boxes. AATien the presentations were
over the girls sat down in two rows of 11
each and sang three or four songs, swaying
from side to side and clapping their hands.
I shall never forget Tutuila or the Tutuilans.
or the bright fish, blue, like sulphur, glowing
under the black sides of the ship.
An old man with lime in his hair, carrying
an umbrella, came into my state-room and
washed his hands. His little daughter, with
a green banana-leaf basket, stood in the pas-
sage. I gave her a dime, and she opened her
brown palm and showed it to her father. He
said: “Thank you very much,” and, lifting
up a fan which had been covering some bread-
fruit in the little girl’s basket, shook his
head. “Too old.” He meant to give me a
present, but didn’t think anything he had
was worth offering.
HUGH McCRAE.


1
QOTTI
m
*9.
u
$
PR
%
£
at
&
> E
ca
o
■
QC
fias
•5: ca
•Tr*
C 5
585
*
o
«c
• ***
60
8K
Iftl
$
I
Qo
s
■
x \
X <b
- Vsi^'X
« A
w i
?v
w
&
\
• V
P«
»;,/(*•
£
>
X>
0901
CHATEAU
TAriOMDA
★★ ★ 1
BRANDY I
VuUOJJ
aUIVI/fyjpQ
aDuis
Chateau Tanunda Three Star Brandy is not only guaranteed
by the Government as to its purity and maturity, but it is a
cheaper brandy than the imported spirit, for the reason that it
has a much less duty to pay.
Guaranteed OLD Brandy, MATURED IN WOOD, distilled
wholly from pure grape wine, made from fresh grapes.
Rich and mellow.
A perfect medicinal spirit.
A superb stimulant.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
Made by the largest distillers of pure Australian Standard
Grape Brandy in the Commonwealth.
Sold by Hotels and Stores throughout Australia.


MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE "CALIFORNIA SYRDP OF FIGS.
Harmless “fruit laxative” cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, indi-
gestion, coated tongue, sallowness —take
“California Syrup of Figs.” For the cause
of all this distress lies in a torpid liver and
sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of “California Syrup of Figs” as
a physic. Don’t think you are drugging
yourself or your children. This delicious
fruit laxative cannot cause injury. Even a
delicate child can take it as safely as a robust
man. It is the most harmless, effective
stomach, liver and bowel regulator and tonic
ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of -Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs,” which has full direc-
tions for babies, children of all ages ami for
grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Beware of counterfeits sold here. Get the
genuine, made by “California Fig Syrup
Company.” Refuse any other kind with con-
tempt. “California Syrup of Figs” is sold
by all leading chemists, 1/14 and 1/9.
A SPLENDID HAT VALUE-
an t to Add to Our Reputation
tor FASHION, QUALITY & VALUE
As the result of a specially-keen purchase
we are able to offer A Hat that is right
in the front rank for style, being made in
good-quality rough fur. Dark slate
color—just the hat for hard country
wear. Will retain its shape right through.
I'} IMPOST FREE TO ANY
I J&jij PART OF THE STATES. I jL\ O
Would be great value if you paid 15;6
M362.— A Marvel of Value;
supplied with back or side
can be
bows.
Our Mail Order
Catalogue is brim-
ful of smart styles
and values. Write
for it.
CHAS. LANE,
& CO. PTY. LTD.
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE
"THE RELIABLE MAIL ORDER HOUSE."
Your confidence is
our sole aim. Orders
by post Receive
Expert Supervision,
satisfaction Guaran-
teed.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Vigilans”: There are two Northern
Territory trees which the local white ant will not
eat, namely, Cyprus pine anti malleuca. The latter is
better known as paper bark, anti grows along many
of the streams and upon low-lying country. The
finest I ever saw was in the neighborhood of
Maranboy, the hope of the Territory. In Elsie Creel;
is a channel about 12 miles long and 50 yards wdde.
On either side of this stretch of water is a forest of
straight, tall spars of varying thickness. This forest
is about half a mile wide. Paper bark is the
hardest and most durable timber in Australia. For
fencing purposes it is superior to even Cyprus pine.
It is put in the ground with the bark on, and after
20 years is as good as when interred. The “bark”
attains a thickness of over an inch. You can pull
it off in layers. I have stripped 20 layers off one tree.
The blacks use it to make roofs for their wurlies,
and also lie upon it at night. As a mattress it is
unsurpassed in the bush. I have even seen Robinson
Crusoe jackets made from it.
Silas Snell’ : This is the story of Henry
Gateway, who dwelt at the foot of Hungry Range,
on from AValhalla. I had often heard of Henry!
, 11 la< 11 lnc ‘* ; * l ’ ln fhl one Sunday when prowling
from our camp on the coal seams. He was a
small, ragged man, hatless and bald but with a thin
nnge of hair that hung down his back and fluttered
foolish 1 v m the wind. Henry had long, thin whis-
keis, too, and an inept sort of a pale-grcv eve. He
was turning up soil with a spade, and disregarded
ny greeting-. Bush residents in the vicinity said
lie had not spoken for seven years. I persisted and
fo lowed him into his hut in quest of a drink, He
Hw. ill ' ™ te *' ;l P annikil b and began to lay
e table The tact that he produced two plates 1 com
st ued into a hearty invitation to lunch. I stayed,
and was cordially Communicative. We had corned
beet and potatoes, and it was not till the second
course (treacle fritters) was finished that Gateway
was betrayed into speech. “It’s on’y fair to warn
.'on, Mister, he whispered, “that I’m a most infernal
scamp. Yes.” He nodded solemnly three times.
. ,’/ eS \ “9 h> nonsense!” I ga id. He shook his
lead fiercely, placed a hand on my arm, and whis-
pered: “lt‘ I was you I wouldn’t speak to me. No.”
fnt tut!” I said. “I haven’t been speakin’ to
myself for years,” Gateway continued- “Bless un-
sold, I said, “will you never be reconciled?” “I’i]
never speak to myself again as long as I live. No.”
Svich a pity, ’ I said. “What was the quarrel
about. Gateway held my arm tighter, and whis-
pered again. “I killed my poor wife. Oh, ves I
did. We quarrelled over the hens. I threw a later
at her (dirty cur!). It hit her in the breast. There
was a growth. She died of it. I’ve never spoken
to myself since she died, V never ez long- ez I live
will I open my lips to Henry Gateway, cause why,
lies a blarsted villain! See that.” Henry pointed
to the frame of a cheap mirror on the wall. “I
broke that the night she died. Never wanted to
meet myself again. I don’t go near the creek for
feir of meetin’ myself. Murderin’ brute.” Gate-
way was getting angry. “Low, coward]v scoundrel
—hittm’ a woman! Yes! Yes! ’Bominable vil-
ain • Gateway hit himself a violent blow on the
nose. “Miserable, creepiiT crawler!” He kicked
himself on the shin with his heel. “Manslaughterin’
thief!” lie tore out a handful of his own hair,
punched himself in the month, and then began to
fight himself all over the hut floor. I had a des-
peiate struggle parting Gateway from himself, and
had to sit on him pretty well all night to prevent a
renewal of the bloodthirsty battle. By morning he.
was very weak, and quite submissive. “I knew what
’d happen if I ever came face to face with myself
agen, he whispered. “But the murderin’ villain
deserved all he got!”
* * * *
“X. or M.” : Black Brother of Tasmania,
who bequeathed very little to the arc biologist when
he went AVest, at any rate left some traces of his
sojourn on South Arm, the attenuated strip of sand
and scrub that separates Ralph’s Bay from the outer
sea. 1 pon the sandhills certain of the tribes used
to gather at the time of their regular yearly migra-
tion south-eastward, and gorge themselves at the
prolific oyster-beds then to be found all along that
part of the coast. Recently a big wind shifted some
hundreds of tons of sand, leaving the line of cooking-
places—mounds of shells and fire-blackened sand-
much as they stood after the last oyster supper of
Hie late lamented. This is not by any means the
only blacks’ camping place to be found in Southern
Tasmania, but it is more vivid in its human sugges-
tion than any other I have seen. A curious feature
of the place is that the stems of honeysuckle, booby-
alla and such-like scrub, engulfed long ago bv the
oncoming tide of sand, are now once more exposed.
r Jhe wood has long since rotted away, but the original
shapes arc still kept by a calcareous deposit which
has gathered upon them.
WAR AT ANY TRICE.
C ASEY: "Faith, do yes see Muldoon beyant
wid a German flag in the hat av him?”
N OLAN: “Eure, it’s his woife won’t let him
go to the tear, and he’s do yin’ fer a
fight.”
A CASUIST.
DOMAIN ORATOR: "Wot we want is more pleasure fer the workers an' less drink."
OLD BILL: :Oh, fork sense! Where's per gain’ to get the pleasure wirout the drink?"
“0. J.” : On the Roller (N.T.) there is a
sij iei 11 cattle-run owned by a struggling - pioneer. So
much struggle is there that when he goes droving, as
he lias to do, the wife musters and brands on the
selection with the aid of a few blacks. The blacks
also help the struggle along by stealing from her
a beast or two occasionally, and thus add to their
salaries. 'Recently seven Birghis were convicted of
this cattle-thieving, five of them being mission boys.
Subsequently the settler met one of bis bullocks
carrying round a mission brand on his hide. Some-
how this exasperated the owner, and lie declared
that lie would raise trouble for somebody. Apparently
lie forgot about it; anyhow, the matter dropped.
“Pick” : This is how the game was played
rather low down on a dingo slut that for months
had raided the lambing flocks on Redbank and Wid-
gengullen (N.S.W.). Big rewards for her scalp
were offered by the squattocracy, and when her den
was discovered in the Jeremiah scrub, with five
pups at home, station-bands with guns took it in
shifts to sentry the lair. They waited days and
nights, but failed to see the lady marauder dodging
in through their baits, snares and spring-traps,
although the condition of the family showed that she
often arrived home. Then a swagman caller at the
station offered to earn the reward, and next day he
brought in the corpse and the litter in a bag/ He
had greased the pups with p 'soiled fat.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: Re tenders called by “Bill
Hickory” (B. 6/5/’l5) for the solution of the mystery
of big dead coolibah in Nebine Creek, near Cunna-
mulla (W.Q.). During recent years the creek lias
been dammed up in places for miles, and the back-
water has submerged the trunks of the coolibah and
its neighbors. They certainly didn’t come up through
the water like German submarines. Bore water,
which in some of these parts rivals the strength of
overproof whisky, trickles into the Nebine, especi-
ally in flood time, and completes their discomfiture.
“Ilardfaco”: May I waft in a few
corrections of “J.G.’s” statements (B. 13/5/’l5) re
destruction of native trees by Broad ford (Vic.) Shire
Council? The trees destroyed were as inviting-looking
as the Kaiser's face when he heard that a few women
and children were saved from the Lusitania. They
would never form a decent avenue if left for another
centurc. There is only one German (by descent) in
the council, and X fail to see why he should get the
credit for this improvement. I knew the Syclney-
road from the Dividing Range to beyond Seymour
over 30 years ago, and upon visiting the district
lately 1 found that the avenues which gave forth joy
to travellers 20 and 10 years, ago were still there.
If “J.G.” seriously thinks they are the best in the
world. I advise him to “break camp” and take a
stroll through Gippsland. I’ll pay his fare.
“A. Xeliocw: Do any Abo.-writers know
other than the following of our local fish which have
vocal organs—the trumpeter, the bulll'oarer and the
trevally? Ihe first is a rather musical little water-
bird with a kind of chirping, flute-like note ; the
bulll'oarer barks like a dog in the distance; and the
trevally gives voice to a sharp squeak when caught.
[Let no man rush in with the fish that hums after
death ! ]
PAID BY THE HOUR.
“Who's that swell fat Johnny rearming him-
self in Mrs. Starvem's porch?"
“Oh, he’s playing kid stakes. She's got a
couple of rooms she can’t let.”
‘“E.J.C. : I saw an interesting operation
on a camel at Cloncurry (Q.) last week. The hap-
less beast had a sore on its back about 12 inches
square and was in such a condition that it should
have been laid up for a month. But the Afghan is
deaf and dumb when it comes to considering other
beasts. By beating this camel with an iron rod lie
kept it on its knees while another Afghan sewed
to the poor brute’s back, with a sail-needle, a piece
of goatskin which covered the sore completely.
The animal didn’t appear to be enjoying the opera-
tion, .but it would enjoy the result less with half a
ton of cargo above it. Then a dry goatskin rubbing
the raw sore would incline it to the opinion that
the Huns are not the only devils on earth.
(Continued on page 26.)
WAS IT SIMPSON?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He looked like Simpson, though the rags he wore
Were Oriental in their make and dirt.
Smith eyed him through the smoke the war-wind
bore.
Careless he walked as though no shell could hurt.
Or bullet pierce a man so fine and brave—
lie looked like Simpson by his walk and shave.
Twice in the scrub along the fire-scourged hill
_ Sn,ith savv him as he swaggered to and fro;
Three times above the trenches, careless still,
As if he owned the fight and all the show.
Surely it must be Simpson ! Xone but he
Would make himself a mark for all to see.
Smith clenched his teeth. If Simpson were turned
Turk,
Here was the chance that he had sought so long;
Here he was free his vengeful wrath to work
And settle scores for rears of shame'and wrong.
Smith watched. If it were Simpson it was plain
Ihe braggart would reveal himself again.
lie did. And now the trenches were so near
That scarce a fez appeared above the soil ;
On high the loud guns thundered death and fear,
Hut one Turk’s impudence was hard to spoil,
lie stood erect with bullets whistling round:
'Then, ducking, laughed. Smith knew that laughter’s
sound.
Then Hell broke loose. The hills were felt to sway.
Queen Bess from Saros launched her bolts of
flame.
A tempest of hot steecl keen-edged to slay
Swept o’er the Turkish trenches. Smith became
Half-frenzied lest that rushing battle breath
Let Simpson off by the short road of death.
Hut. no! The rain of shells and shrapnel ceased.
the smoke blew off, and clearly in his view
Ihe Turk that looked like Simpson, not the least
Perturbed or damaged, to new shelter drew.
And then Smith cheered, so certain did he feel
'I hat Simpson lay there waiting for his steel.
Ihe word was spoken. From the trench they rose,
five hundred strong, and yelling as they ran.
'I he scattered rocks and scrub revealed their foes,
And they were mad for battle to a man.
Hut Smith was foremost in the furious race
Jo see if that tall Turk had Simpson's face.
The Turk in question did not wait his steel,
Hut sprinted down the gully for his skin.
Smith followed hard upon his ragged heel,
( ailing his gods to witness Simpson’s sin,
And cursing loud that thick Australian boot,
Sound leather, hindering the hot pursuit.
Achilles chasing Hector’s horsehair plume
Was not a circumstance to that mad race.
The whole peninsula must give them room,
So fierce and frantic did they make the p ice ;
For, whether he was Simpson or his double.
The front man understood that Smith meant trouble.
He dodged and twisted like a well -coursed hare,
But never gained a yard for all his toil,
Until at last, in panting, hot despair,
lie reached the verge of European soil,
And, like Leander, plunging in the tide,
Breasted the Hellespont to save his hide.
Smith wildly followed, daunted not at all.
Suspicion in his soul had larger play.
Simpson or Turk, this man could do the crawl
That Simpson learned from Smith at Watson’s Bay.
Reckless of floating mines they crossed the flood,
And landed angry in the Mysian mud.
The Turk (or Simpson) charged for Ida’s peak,
Where dimly in the warm south-east it rose....
Old Phrygian ghosts beheld them pass last week,
And Smith is still pursuing, I suppose ;
While Simpson (or the Turk), I understand,
Is rushing towards Australia overland.
K.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


HALL’S
The Leading
Home Furnishers
.amut «c thr desire of the true home lover.
A a/jLI == —r== xi. (itilitv is the desire of the true home lover.
Good Furniture has a refining, uplifting influence, a feature in character building. cc^ 'are prepared to submit
A visit of inspection to our Large Showrooms woulb We are p P t#
an estimate for the complete furnishing of your home from goods you may y
t*
_ mm
, * v,-
mmmam
■MMi
1
The “CARRINGTON”— very comfortable,
£3 17s. 6d.
The “HAMPDEN” Morris Chair— Adjustable Bark*
£4 17s. 6d.
All the easy chairs and chester-
field illustrated have solid oak
frames, and are upholstered in
splendid wearing Fabrikoid
leather. We stock this in the
following shades : BROWN, BLUE,
CREY.
The “COI/EDAEE”—Double row of Springs m Seat,
£5 2s. 6d.
A COl’Y OF OUH
LARGE
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
AND FURNISHING
ESTIMATES AVILL
BE MAILED FREE
ON REQUEST.
r!*?
■H
a mam
fllllif I
.. «... ■>;
£.9 7s. 6d.
CHESTERI'IEED, splendidly ripholstered seat, baeli and arms,
6ft
ALL. GOODS
MARKED
PLAIN
N ET
CASH
ARE
IN
PRICES.
A. HALL ®. CO.,
Complete Home Furnishers
561, 561 a, 563, 565, 567 George Street. Sydney
MURDOCH’S
RED-SPOT
SALE
is Swinging Along!
The greatest sale Sydney has ever
known.
The War has made no difference —the
bargains have never been surpassed.
Fill in the coupon for “lied Spot” Sale Book.
GIGANTIC “RED-SPOT”
TAILORING OFFER.
We have reduced every line of our high-class
Tailoring. And the quotations are absolutely
without equal.
Our 55/- Suits, to measure NOW 47/9
„ 68/- & 70/- Suits, to measure „ 58/9
75/-& 84/-Suits, to measure „ 67/9
May we post you patterns of our latest English,
Scotch, Irish and Australian Materials? Ask Desk
It.
DESK R.
Messrs. MURDOCH’S I V PARK ST., LTD., SYDNEY.
Please send me one of your “Red Spot” Sale Catalogues.
Name
Address
So pay MUCH
less and dress
better!
k
f y
%
i
MURDOCH’S
in Park St. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
‘Complete Outfitters to Man and Boy,”
cm
Sic
A
J
In
V-
<<S l
IB
ami
QZO
This high-class safety
razor will be sent free
to your friend on service.
Every purchaser of a 7 o c.ock
Safety Razor receives a voucher which
entitles him to have an exactly similar
set sent as a free gift from himself to
any friend in the Army or Navy.
The only safety razor at less than 22/6 that can be spopp ®
whhout removing the blade. It is stropped m the -y
“ „t. Si'S
iralufi ri*." ■"*
for the duration of tne War.
Heavily silver - plated
razor complete in Hand-
some case with strop in
hinged partition, and 6
finest lancet steel blades
(as illustrated).
Price in Australia, 12/6
Price in New Zealand,
13/6
Managing Agents
for Australasia:
PARTRIDGE,
ABERCROMBY, Ltd.
York Chambers, Market Street,
SYDNEY.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
'B


Recipe to STOP DANDRUFF
This Home-made Mixture Stops
Dandruff and Falling Hair and
Aids Its Growth. .
To ;i half-pint of water add:
May Itum
Orlox Compound V small box
Cl.vcerine ] O/ _
These are all simple ingredients that you
<-an buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used.
A half-pint should be enough to rid the head
of dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. It
stops the hair from falling out. relieves itch-
ing and scalp diseases.
Although it is not a dye, it acts upon the
hair roots and will darken streaked, faded,
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair soft
and glossy.* rg
dfg
Britain brands her
underwear thus—-
dg
ms
4**-r»T7"
UNDERWEAR.
To protect the maker s, as well as the purchaser’s, interest against the cheap
made-in-Germany" Underwear-which has no stability, is unreliable, washes into
holes, and has clumsy irritating seams.
VoWgarments are made of best Australasian wool, woven by expert British worW.
excXnctandtualS. feel " to ‘Jason.’ And the British branded mark
"Any garment that shrinks will I e replaced free of cost.”
Support honest British labour and quality—and insist on
Jason when you visit your dealer—he'll see you right.
Sole Ma n u/acl u rers:—
The Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, England.
dfg
dfg
Martin's Tills are sold by W. 11. Soul,
Tattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.’
Be , sure you get the genuine with (lie
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
IlDEyftS
•FOUNDED- 1888
PHILLIPS • ORMONDE&O
Conso/rmp fno,nee ns , Pa/kn/-/9M>nn« yS
one/7rx*Gfc/Ton*rtpenfc • 17QUEEN S T
MELBOURNE*
“McNortli : The one thing that remains to
hing'lii after the white man’s morals, rum, religion,
tobacco, clothes and disease have knocked out what-
ever other virtues lie possessed, is his knowledge of
wild-plant life. How many whites are there who
can recognise and deliver a dissertation concerning
the flowering and fruiting seasons, habitat, peculiar-
ities, etc., of a weed picked haphazard? Binghi can,
and rarely makes a mistake. The exigencies and
difficulties of sustaining life before the advent of the
white man are, no doubt, the cause of his intimaev
with indigenous vegetables. lie had to be able to
distinguish between food and poison and to know the
reasons when the things good to eat were productive.
But it seems remarkable, now that alleged civilisa-
tion lias to a great extent dispensed with the neces-
sity of depending on wild life to fill his menu, that
anything of alio, science or original instinct should
remain to Binghi. Civilisation has ruined him.
"1 e I’nna : Rotorua and thereabouts car-
ried my loose change when volcanic; upheavals and
smells formed the argument, until the other dav,
when 1 passed Konua Lei, a small island in tile
north of the Tongan Group. The chart gives its
hrigiit as GOOft., and the clouds of steam and mud
and dirt that the little spot blows skywards make
White Island (M.L.) look a mere squib. The north-
western point of the volcano is a seething mass of
la\a, and when the flow conies into contact with the
sea, the steam would make the Devil rush home to
inquire if the main boiler had'burst. At night the
island is fthmunated 10,000-furnaco-power strong,
and the reflection in the skies is as the red wrath of
1 leaven.
THE [?] SBAND IN WAR TIME.
LONG-SUFFERING HUSBAND: "Look here,
Mary, if you don't atop knitting those
sods for soldiers, mid darn mine I'll
hare to enlist to keep nip feet warm.”
“Flintlerino” : In the way of natural his-
tory oddities Queensland has some good specimens.
There is, for instance, that little lung-breathing fish
called the .lohnnie-jumper, or mud-skipper, which
can climb a vertical mangrove tree with ease. (No
dog can climb a vertical tree with ease, or even
with its talons.) The animal fish can also shake
the salt water oft' itself and go ashore for a cruise
along the mud flats in search of a change of diet.
Another, the rifle or archer fish, feeds on insects at
which it throws hand-grenades of water. Then there
is a semi-submarine creature called the snake bird.
It is a large-sized black and white bird with a
small head and a long neck, like a serial story.
This oddity can submerge itself until only its head
and a small section of the garden hose shows on
the surface, like the periscope of a submarine. In
that position it can swim at high speed until well
out of danger front enemies that move above the
surface. Dunno' whether or not whales attack it
front below.
SECOND NATURE.
ONE ALPINE GUIDE: "Who is the human chamois?”
ANOTHER: "From North Sydney, in Australia, he comes, and says this sort of climbing is
child's play!"
“X.P.D.”: Several varieties of vegetable
rooting are used in Papua. From as far north as
Colling wootl Bay down to Samarai. and, maybe,
further^ round towards Moresby, plaited
eocoanut leaves are much used.
Jsut northerly, from about Cape
\ ogel, sago leaf is the fashion. Each
leaf is stripped from the frond and
bent double over a light stick Oft. or
Bft. long, each leaf being lapped
over part of the breadth of the one
next to it. Further along the
northern coast, and on the Mamba
and other rivers near the German
boundary, the best roofs are made of
the leaves of the nipa palm, which
grows in sea-coast swamps and has
fronds 16ft. or more in length. This
stuff is worked on rods the same as
the sago leaves, but is always sewn.
Hladey grass makes an At roof; it
was introduced by mission teachers
from Mnlrkula, 1 believe, and is tied
on in bundles, like English thatch.
As some of the various “shingles"
are 3ft. wide, and the poles, in the
best work, may be only six inches
apart on the rafters, a roof may he
1 Sin. thick. Such a one i- beauti-
fully cool, and collects good drink-
ing water. Some of the mission-
aries reckon sugarcane leaves are good.
lou can get a comfortable house,
fii to last 10 years if it gets a new roof at half-time,
for about a couple of pounds' worth of “trade. - ’
Nails are unnecessary, everything being lashed (the
natives will use bark for lashings if you don't insist
on split rattan), and the only imported material
needed is an old ease or two to make shutters and
door.
* . . * * *
Outcast : Chiefs have many privileges
m llossel Island (Louisinde Archipelago), not the
least of them being tbe right of wearing a long nose-
shell. The common or garden person is only per-
mitted to wear his nose-shell short. They may also
tabu portions of land, and anyone who wants to
pass has to pay the tabu manufacturer for a right-
oi'-way. The chiefs also possess most of the valu-
able shell money, and use it to subsidise murderers
or buy the local painted lady. In the Trobriands the
J lead chiefs claim all the cocoa nuts and pigs as a
right, and when the Government regulation as to
the compulsory planting of cocoanuts was enforced,
• here were ructions among the common herd. None
would get work from which the profits were going
to be pouched by Fat until a Socialist Government
stepped in and insisted that the nuts each man
planted should be his own property.
This came with The Bulletin's mail :—-
Bi LLETix, I believe you are in want of short
Stories. I send one. This is a straight griffin of my
own life. —Yours truly, .James .
Chapter 1.
A swagman for seven years. Followed all Kinds
of Bush work.
Chapter 1 L
Married a widow who had a selection, and some
dough. Exit Swag: for 3 years.
Chapter 111.
Wife died. Left me everything. Sold up; received
£3OOO. Went horse racing. Took to the shikker.
Done my block.
Chapter JV.
Cot mashed on a Barmaid. Married again. Lived
xx ith her six weeks. She done a bunk with xvhat
cash was left, about £3OO. The Bloke she done n
guy with was a motor-ear driver. Back again to the
dear old Matilda. Now cutting scrub for sheep.
“(linger" : T beg to introduce the Surveyor-
General Hotel. Berrima (N.S.W.), a patriarchal beer
dispensary. Founded in 1834 by one Harper, it
has seen three generations of that ilk dispense liquid-
joy to thirsty gaol warders and plebeian cow-cockies.
It forms the one obstacle to the final and supreme
comfort of certain Germans, who are putting on
beef daily, and having the time of their lives gener-
ally in the vicinity. They’re forbidden to touch,
taste, or handle the refreshment that the Bible passes
a yes-no verdict upon. The comfortable sitting-room
adjacent the bar belongs, to the long-ago times, before
Bung conceived the idea that it was a customer’s
place to fill ’em up again standing at the counter
till he got blind or stone-broke. The age o f the
pub is 81, not out.
Pick” : If I didn’t know the following to
lie a useful remedy for hots I wouldn’t mention it.
The horse is first-prepared for the-joys to come by 24
hours’ penance at an empty manger. He is then
drenched with a mixture of one pint raw linseed
oil to a wineglassful of turpentine, and lightly exer-
cised, hut allowed no feed for a further four hours,
lie is then again drenched with a quart or two of
warmed new milk, and chased out into the paddock
to make up for lost time on the greenest feed avail
able.
“Hitasun”: About tykes not eating
'possum raw. “Zamia” ought to be sent up for two
\eais hard on a perjury charge. Skin joev or
bunny or any other nuisance and any dog will eat
the meat. Dogs don’t like a mouthful of fur anv
more than a parson does, hence they wait for the
skin to come off. Gohanna, snake, an Abo-liar—the
average bush dog will eat any of them without salt
provided their coat is off and they are dead or drunk.
“Wandi" : Binghi has many ways of cap-
turing' waterfowl, in some of which he exhibits
patience and cunning. At favorite feeding grounds he
stands neck-deep and motionless in the water, with
a headgear of spear-grass or reeds. As the ducks
swim up to the reeds he catches them by the legs
and drags them under quickly. If there are many
handy hi' passes each one between his knees, where
it is held till it drowns. He never enters the water
in sight of a duck, and therefore has often to wait a
long time for the game. The greatest care is also
exercised in leaving the water, the exit occupying
at times from one to two horns, so as not to excity
suspicion amongst the birds; indeed, Murri often has
his gin handy to scare away the remaining birds
so that they may not get wise to the ruse. In
Western Queensland the blacks use a snare—a thin
cord woven of bark-fibre and human hair, with a
noose at one end, the other end being tied to a
long slender stick. The operator conceals himself
among the reeds, holding the snare over Ihe water
like a boy fishing with a toy line, and when a duck
swims within reach tlio noose is slipped over its
head. A somewhat similar device is employed for
lassoing the plain turkey. Some steal into water
where the duck's are feeding, and, diving under,
catch them by the legs. Tin's requires much skill
and endurance. The ability to locate the birds with
exactness while under water is a great factor in
success. About the Darling River, and westward
to the Paroo, the blacks used a net stretched between
two poles. A couple concealed themselves, one at
each end, whilst others hunted up the game. One of
the first two, on the approach of the ducks, threw
a piece of curled bark into the air, and the ducks,
mistaking it, for a hawk, swooped down and became
entangled in the meshes. Sometimes, when the
ducks were flying high, boomerangs were first thrown.
Near the end of a bushy waterhole, or a little war
round the bend of a lagoon, was the locality usually
chosen for this kind of netting, the birds mostly fol-
lowing- the watercourse on being flushed.
“Lou'; The biggest natural storage on
the Murray River is at the wrong end, between Mil-
dura and Swan Hill, near Tarpaulin Bend. It is 10 or
11 miles round this curve by boat; but a tarpaulin
would stretch across from water to water at one
Point. the storage is a chain of lakes, and in a big-
wet the moisture backs up for about 15 miles. The
luyf to receive it is Kanarka, then Moonpool, Little
Moonpool, Lock.v, Rocky. Hat tali and about Hi others.
1 ve seen the far ones wet for a stretch of six or
so\ eu months. Hattali is det-n. permanent and
beautiful. Fringed with big timber with high east-
ern bank and sandy beach and swarming, with game,
it would be a splendid place to sneak away to and
die.
* * w #
"I’tttld.v Melon'’; I'll peg farther west for
seagulls than “Barbwire" (It. 29/4/’l5). He de-
picts them at Thargomindali (Q.), but J have seen
them in mobs in the Dtamantina country. The best
time and place to see the sight is on the clav-
Pms after a flood. I think tile Southern Ocean must
be deserted then.
* * * *
“Outcast"; The conch shell is. as “L-N"
says (B. I I 2 "15), largely used as a trumpet in
tin; South Stas, but conch shells don't grow in the
high mountains. In the back-country of Papua the
trumpet is mostly a wooden one and makes a dull,
booming sound. Other tribes use a length of bam-
boo. By tlie way, there is a distinct method of
passing signals both by the drum and by the trum-
pet, chiefly based on a long-short blast system. It
is however, very poorly developed, and resolves into
about three distinct “beats," each with a special
significance. There is nothing like the extremely
rich drum language of West Africa, the notation of
"inch is still a mystery to Europeans.
AFTER THE ACCIDENT.
“Hi! Port your helium!”
“The Reefer” : Here’s the inventory of the
household furniture in a recently-discovered Papuan
village: A small, fiat bit of iron, a few stone axes,
a stone club in tbe making', three human jaws, a.
piece of pearl-shell, necklets of animals’ teeth, a
cassowary dagger, several cane fish-traps and canoe
paddles, tobacco leaves, crocodiles' skulls, the skele-
ton of a fresh-water tortoise, mussels, yellow, red
and black pigments for painting- the body, vermilion
seeds for decorative purposes, drums, tappa cloth
cloaks and blankets, fish-traps, bags knitted with
banana fibre, bamboo knives, bamboos stuffed with
resin for torches, spears, bows and arrows, and some
hunting- nets. The huts were spacious, thatched
with sago-palm fronds, and built high up in trees.
AT LAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The toughest nut in argument
Mas Brown of Buckingprad,
1' or most perversely eloquent
llf was, and jumping mad
Was every man who tried to down
This Brown.
A cobbler, Biown, his days spent lie
In patching people’s shoes,
And mending men’s philosophy
And their religious views.
The final word in Buckingprad
Brown had.
To corner him in polities
Men tried with endless gab.
As well attempt an eel to fix
Upon a marble slab
With flow of eloquence and stacks
Of facts.
Then Brown he died. The people sighed
(it may have been relief).
The epitaph McFec supplied
Expressive was, but brief,
lie wrote upon the lid: “Poor Brown!
Nailed down!’’
VKTOIiIA.
SILAS SNELL.


/
uop
7
c
%
m
o
1
m
Lj
Q
Of
J?
'l V;.
.
K\
=?%
Z-2
s?
//
VA
/
&
>
»
c
.
s
m
7
a
s
STOCKED IN ALL SIZES
‘'AT ALL GARAGES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
(FOUNDERS OF THE PNEUMATIC TYRE INDUSTRY)
ALL STATES AND NZ.
Motorists
can Help push Australia,
along to Prosperity by
using Australian made
DUNLOP TYRES
Which stand alone for
v.
Strength, Service & Satisfaction


1
* '
aasas.
:: :
■ ■
1
«
«ip§?v
fc.v'S
I
i Si
'•v '
m
mm
w
m
mm
mm
wm i
K
m
»
&
m
■ n m
THE CURE FOR SORE THROAT
Everyone who suffers from sore throat should send
at once the coupon printed here, which will bring a free
supply of Formamint Tablets.
This pleasant-tasting, harmless tablet gives immedi-
ate relief from the pain of sore throat; cures it
rapidly; prevents further attacks; and safeguards the
user against catching other infectious diseases like
diphtheria, consumption of the lungs, scarlet fever,
measles, etc.
Formamint Tablets are endorsed by over 10,000
doctors, as well as by thousands of other people like
those whose letters are printed opposite. All Chemists
sell it, price 2/6 per bottle, but insist on having the
only genuine Formamint, as its great success has pro-
duced many worthless imitations.
FREE SAMPLE.
The Formaminfc Co..
17 Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a Sample of Forma-
mint ; I enclose two penny stamps
towards postage.
Name
Address
F. 13/147
Formamint is British-made
50
LORD G LAX TA WE writes: “I have been using
Formamint Tablets for Sore Throat with most satis-
factory results.”
GENERAL TILLARD, C. 8., writes: "Formamint
has afforded me ready relief when, as is frequently the
case, I have been suffering from Sore Throat.”
LORD KING SALE writes: "I and my family use
quite a number of Formamint Tablets and find them
all you say they are. I always carry a goodly number
in my pocket, and have recommended them to manv
friends.”
Formamint Tablets are also used by the Rt. Hon.
Arthur J. Balfour, M.P., Sir Gilbert Parker, M.P., the
Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton, etc., etc.
F ormamint
THe
Germ-Killing
Throat Tablet
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Milo”: The war has given the Too and
wallaby-shooting industry at Kangaroo Hills
(N.Q.) a lift. A strong demand exists at
the Front for the tendons, which are used
in surgery. They are drawn from the tail,
hind legs and neck, and a pound-weight of
them, obtained from about 15 ’roos, is worth
355. at the camp.
The State sugar factory at Maffra (Vic.),
though as yet, naturally, it can’t supply all
V ictoria, or even all Gippsland, is neverthe-
less keeping its regular customers supplied,
as well as sparing a trifle for others, and is
doing it at 10s. per ton less than the same
people can get Bananaland sugar for.
Which no doubt accounts for gallons of the
cold-water that the business has to shiver
under.
From an ex-Australiau in London: —
( leaflets are being circulated here proclaiming that
‘Australia offers help to women in distress through
the war.” On inquiry it turns out that N. S. Wales
and \ ictoria are willing to accept untrained girls
and widows with not more than two children for
domestic service, and the Queen’s Work for Women
lumd is prepared to provide them with an outfit
and a grant of £2. A Sydney woman, Miss Sutton
Tatham, has written to the papers arid thrown cold
water on the project. She found that the single girl
was expected to take five shillings a week —about a
third of the ruling Australian figure ; she says one-
fourth. And as for the widow with two children,
the woman is destined for the Backblocks, for which
in most cases she will be quite unsuited. Now and
always Australia needs people; but it wants the
stream of immigration directed by men and women
who know more about Commonwealth conditions
than the philanthropic people do who have this
scheme in hand in London. Ten minutes’ talk at
headquarters satisfied me that the immigrant who
is sent out through this channel will be bitterly
dissatisfied, with the ultimate result of checking
immigration. For the only immigration agent who
really matters is the immigrant.
* * * *
“Ike Maclsaac”: Australian troops
‘‘abroad" have been giving an ad. to, among
oilier things, an Australian boot-polish.
Alien the small traders in Egypt found
their stocks of this polish running out they
set about remedying the trouble in their
own way. From the rubbish bins tlie
empties were garnered, and, with tlie addi-
tion of a more or less passable imitation of
the genuine label, were placed upon the
market again, tilled with a concoction that
did not even remotely resemble the real
article in polishing properties. In a city
like Cairo, where the gathering of cigarette
butts for sale to manufacturers is one of
the recognised professions, and where the
making of “whisky” for sale at live piastres
(about Is.) a bottle, is quite an honorable
occupation, the counterfeiting of any well-
known commodity is looked upon as a busi-
ness not discreditable even to an archangel.
Nevertheless the awful profanity of a Light
Horse troop let in for the brummy polish
suggests that there was some annoyance in
the camp.
* * * -
“Mary” : One of the chief reasons for the
N.b.W. butter crisis is that Sydney is using
more milk. As against 120,000 gallons sent
1914, one South Coast co. sent
200,000 gallons in the same month this year.
The increase suggests , that the housewife is
using more milk in the construction of the
daily dinner. The soaring prices of beef
and mutton are driving them off the table,
and milk foods largely take their place. As
a result, butter becomes rarer, and the per-
son who makes it rages and threatens to
drive his cows into the German lines or
somewhere if he can’t sell it at the market
price of ambergris. By the way, has any-
body tasted butter made from soya beans?
It is claimed that these vegetables, beaten
into a paste, make a butter so closely re-
sembling the chw product that a blind* man
couldn’t tell the difference. Also, the bean
is a simple person, and free from guile. He
doesn’t carry round tuberculosis in his
whiskers.
"Ananias'’: While we’re raging at the
madness of carting Maoriland white pine
for butter-boxes to North Coast (N.S.W.),
and, simultaneously, burning millions of feet
of the best pine, bar kauri, south of the
Line, let me explain how the local vegetable
got its bad name. The first boxes made from
it were knocked together in Sydney. That
was long ago when the logs were rafted into
Darling Harbor, at that time a sewer. No
wonder London held its nose when it tried
Ma’s butter! I’ve seen good fruit put into
similar boxes and turned out in 24 hours not
fit to throw at Freetraders.
* * * *
“Protein”: Margarine as a substitute for
butter, advocated by “Itan” (15. 27/5/’lu),
receives but faint endorsement from Mel-
bourne housewives who have given it an
earnest trial. On the meteoric rise in the
butter market the article was provided with
a front seat in dairy-produce shops, and was
at first rushed by the housewife as a possible
deliverer. But it is mostly disappointment.
It is difficult to spread on bread, is far from
appetising, and does not readily dissolve in
the mouth, while in cooking it tends to
toughen the pastry, and its flavor is predom-
inant. Dietetic experiments made on rats
proved that while it sustained, it contributed
nothing to the rat’s growth; but immedi-
ately the rodent was fed on butter it started
to grow. As the housewife is generally
concerned most about her growing children,
this would make the food value of margarine
appear dubious, in spite of chemical tests.
Beef dripping, with the addition of a little
pepper and salt, is the only understudy to
butter that gives any satisfaction.
* * * *
“Copabella”: The reason “reputed” mea-
sures and “nominal” weights are so pre-
valent is because the public thinks in money
and not in avoirdupois. A tin of jam is a
tin of jam to the housewife, and tlie robber
who offers a tin of jam for Bd. to the other
fellow s 9d. is the one who delivers the
goods. The one tin may be 2<Joz. to the
other’s 32 ; it may boldly say so on the label,
but that won’t influence Mrs. Buying Pub-
lic. Once upon a time, probablv, all
‘ quarts” were two pints, and all “pounds”
Bioz. Then some unmoral genius thought of
offering 30 fluid ounces at 2d. less than was
charged for the imperial 40, He was rushed,
and retired on the hypothecated ounces. Ilis
competitors, knowing their public, didn’t give
him a free advt. by holding him up to re-
probation ; they countered with 20oz. at 3d.
reduction, and they got the rush. And so
on. There's a concrete instance in essence
of lemon. The popular sixpenny bottle con-
tains six fluid drachms—a big thick bottle
with a thin pencil of fluid. Another line
contains loz. fluid (12 drachms) in a small,
light, fragile bottle, and is sold at about 9d.
or lOd. The contents of each bottle are
plainly marked on the label, and the strength
and flavor are all on the side of the small-
seeming but really larger : bottle. Ask
any grocer which he sells the more of. A
line of coffee essence contains 90z., and is,
sold at Is.; another, of infinitely higher
quality, contains 120 z.. and is sold for Is. ad.
Nine people out of 10 buy the shill’ny just
because it costs a shill’n. So with soap.
A 36-bar at lid. will outsell a 32-bar at Is.
every time, even if it be branded “36” in
red, black and yellow down both sides, and
in red, white and blue through the middle.
I don’t pretend that the business man is a
plaster saint and a model of probity and
upright-dealing (I’ve been a retailer for 25
years) ; lie’s out to sell profit-bearing goods,
not to conduct a school of horse-sense. But
he’s as moderately upright as his customers
v/ill let him be. Not even the most honest
can sell what his customers won’t buy.
The trawling crews imported to N. S.
Wales by the Holman Government were
surprised at the local prejudice against the
deep-sea fish of the skate tribe. To the Aus-
tralian all skates are stingrays, or, as often
miscalled, stingarees, and are as much fan-
cied for the dinner table as a shark would
be. In the North Sea trade skates are
highly prized, and the trawlers were much
surprised at the refusal of the Sydney mar-
kets to take them. On the other hand, they
were just as surprised when told that the
hideous-jawed, hide-bound leather-jacket
was edible. At the second sale of the
trawlers’ catch, skates were in demand as
a result of the strangers’ recommendation.
One buyer paid Is. 6d. for one, which price
is believed to be a local record.
* * * *
The use made by the Italians of stamped-
ing buffaloes to break through the Austrian
wire entanglements seems to have been more
successful than some earlier attempts to use
the relatives of the cow in battle. When
Morgan made his attack on the rich Spanish
city of Panama the defences included a herd
of some thousands of fighting bulls. The
bulls were sent in advance of the Spanish
infantry ; but Morgan’s men, starved by the
long, foodless march, were so cheered at the
sight of beef that the cattle merely roused
them to new enthusiasm. One account
states that they cut raw steaks from the
advance guard and rushed on to the attack
gnawing as they went.
"Think So” : “Harrison ().” asks (B.
20/5/Mf)) : “Isn’t it time parsons were
warned officially that compounding a felony
and being accessory after the fact are
offences?” And I reckon it is. Recently a
firm which does-a little time-payment trade
received an order from a country traveller
for goods to be sent to an Anglican parson.
The order was accompanied by a small
deposit. Suspicion lifted its head, and a
representative was sent to investigate. He
found that the account had been paid, and
that the agent had pocketed the money, and
the instalment yarn was a ruse to gain
time. The parson, when asked if in the
event of a prosecution he would give evi-
dence, replied: “No. the firm is a wealthy
one and can well afford to lose the money.”
Asked if compounding a felony was part, of
bis religion, he answered : "It is not for us
to judge. God will do that and punish
accordingly, if He thinks necessary.” If
anybody doubts this, refer him to me. I
was the' representative.
MY SHRIEK FOR FREEDOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I will not build myself a gaol,
Or with a mortgage buy
Some likely yard that is for sale;
I want no bond or tie ;
No man who has an ounce of sense
Should yearn to own a bound’ry fence.
I do not want to “settle down,”
As though I were a wreck!
Gold hawsers bind me to the town ;
Love’s bonds are round my neck.
To them I do not wish to add
The mortgage that drives mortals mad.
Stone walls may not a prison make,
But bricks and mortar do !
My heart and back I will not break
Acquiring of a “view,”
And all the other agents’ baits
That make men bite at wide estates.
When I have sailed the world around
I’ll let both anchors go,
And idly lie in peace profound
Where free winds never blow.
But I must see a thing or two
Before I buy a yard and “view.”
I will not let a. plot of soil
Lie heavy on my chest;
No city rates will make me boil,
No taxes spoil my rest;
1 will not water with my tears
One d—d allotment through the years.
1 will not fence ambition in
Or put the years in chains;
Though friends and agents make a din,
I spurn them and their drains.
They call me “Fool!” I’m well content
To keep on doling out the rent.
The world is very wide and free,
And anything may chance;
To-morrow may hold out to me
’The white hand of Romance.
Shall I be free to take the track,
Or must a mortgage hold me back?
N.S.W.
THE GIGGLING UNDERTAKER.


dfg
TM
| —
< <
TO
0
THE question becomes increasingly perplexing on each announce-
ment of fresh agencies for imported pianos, never previously
represented in Australia, all advertised as “the best,’’ and
selected specially to replace the cheap German pianos, which, although
still advertised, presumably for an obvious reason, are, thanks to the
British Navy, now unobtainable.
Ihe purchase of a piano in most families is a serious under-
taking, and consideration has to be given not only to the price. Be
sure you buy a piano with not only an attractive case, but one which
possesses undoubted quality of tone and assured durability. Make
no purchase till you h .ve examined a
BEALE PIANO
Made in Australia
You will find the workmanship of
your fellow Australians superior to that
in imported pianos, and the materials
throughout the finest and best.
Beale Pi anos are made in Australia
by Australians. Each is guaranteed
in writing by the makers for 25 years.
Over 21,000 customers in Aus-
tralia testify to their unequalled musical
qualities and durability.
Mr. Octavius C. Beale, the
founder and present con=
trolling Director of this busi=
ness, was born at Mount
Mellick, Queen’s County.
Ireland, of an old Irish
family. The Directors and
Managers throughout the
business are all descendants
of British families for many
generations. There are no
Germans employed in the
business,and no supplies are
obtained from Germany.
Head Office & Factories: Trafalgar & Nelson Streets, Annandale, Sydney, N.S.W,
Showrooms: 136 Liverpool Street, Sydney
George Street, Bathurst
Fitzmaurice Street, Wagga
273 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane
Flinders Street, Townsville
839 Flay Street, Perth, W.A.
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Argent Street, Broken Hill
Summer Street, Orange
Lismore
Kent Street, Maryborough, Q’land
William Street, Rockhampton
Sydney Street, Mackay
Cairns, Q’land.


Lady's Solid Silver
Huntin g Keyless
Watch, full jewelled Lever
movement, patent adjusted
balance, £3, Extra jewelled,
£3/10/- Solid Gold, £4.
Guaranteed,
A. SAUNDERS
Sydney's Great Watcß House for
Watches!
W atches!
The largest variety of
first-class, reliable Time-
keepers to choose from,
personally guaranteed.
Hundreds of new designs
in our Jewellery Catalogue.
Write for a free copy,
and try us with an order.
saisv
Lady's Solid Silver
Open-faced Kejless
Watch, full jewelled, ac-
curate, 20/-. Extra quality,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-
>Jid Gold, 50/-, 00/-,
70/-
Lady’ Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled Lever movement,
compensation balance, £», Other styles, £5/10/-,
£G, £7, £B, £lO,
Lady’s Black,
Face Keyless
Watch, full
compensation b a
25/- Kxitra
Open-
Lever
jewelled,
1 a n e e,
jewelled.
Gent.’s Extra Heavy Solid
Gold Elgin or Waltham Lever
Watch, full jewelled and adjusted
with ('ll Tonometer Balance, heavy
case, £7/10/-, £B/10/-. £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
WE PAY POSTAGE
ON ALL OUR
JEWELLERY.
Lady’s Cold-filled,
i O-years’. guaranteed
Keystone case “El-
gin” Lever Watch,
£2/15/- 2 0-years’
guaranteed, extra qualitv,
£*s/10/- K xtra jew-
etlid, 25-years’ guar-
anteed, £5/5/-
m
*
Gady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, f«n jewel ini, £3/10/-
Lever movement, £4, 4/10/-
12/6
15/-
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face
Keyless AVatcll, jewelled, non-
magnetic, dust- and water-proof eases,
12/6, 15/- Higher Grades,
Lady’s Solid Silver Wristlet Watch,
strong- keyless works, full jewelled, accurate, set
in smart Leather Wristlet, 25/- Higher Grade,
50/-, 35/-. Solid Gold, £2.
Gent.’s Military Iveyless Wristlet Watch, Nickel or
Guninetal Case, high-grade Lever movement, 20/- Extra
Jewelled, 25/-, 30/- Solid Silver, £2. £2/10/-, £3.
807-817 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY
30 1-
35 1-
Gent/s Solid Nickel Silver
Hunting Keyless Lever
Watch, nou-niagnetic, dust-proof
case, 30/- Hi gher Grade, 36/-
Kxtra lieavv solid Silver Case, £2.
10-years’ Guaranteed Gold Cased,
£2/10/- Kxl-a jewelled; £3,
£4/4/-. £ 5/5/- Solid Gold,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
THE. LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL . .
RESERVE I'UM) AND UNDIVIDED PROMTS
RESERVE LIABILITY OE PROPRIETORS
..£2,886.007 10 0
. . 1,376,747 10 0
. . 060,785 0 0
351,487 18 3
000,962 10 0
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
AVID FINL.VYSOX, Esq., Chairman.
ROBERT JAMES BLACK. Esq.
GORDON HIINTLY CAMPBELL, Esq.
VXDIiEM CUNNINGHAM, Esq.
Hon. Sir AKTIfUU I-VWLIiV. G.C.S.I.
EDWARD VINCENT REID. Esq.
GEORGE sums, Esq.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Presented at the Ordinary General Meeting of Proprietors, held at Winchester House. Old Broad Street. ti.C. (Hull Xo. 174), at 12 o'clock noon, on Wednesday, May 5. 1015.
The J>i rectors present their Report accompanied as usual by Audited Accounts for the year ended December 31 last.
Tlic Profit as shown by the Annual {Statement, after deducting management charges, all
taxes; including the federal Land Tax and State Government Land Taxes, providing
tor all bad and doubtful debts (no provision being necessary for investments at
leaving a balance to be carried forward to next account of. . 4728,317 13 0
After payment of the above Dividend the Preference Shares will have received a
full dividend at the. rate of 7 per cent, per annum for five years, and henceforth, in terms
of the Bank’s Articles of Association, cease to be entitled to any preference or priority in
respect of dividend.
During the year branches have been opened at Ultima in Victoria, and at Roma
Street, Brisbane, in Queensland.
The Directors retiring under the provisions of the Bank's Articles of Association,
are Mr. Robert .James Black and Mr. David Finlaysou, who, being eligible, offer them-
selves for re-election.
The Bank’s Auditors, Messrs. Price, Waterhouse & Co., retire, and again offer them-
selves for re-election.
The transfer books are closed from April 21 to May 5, both days inclusive.
Warrants for Dividends, less Income Tax, will be issued, payable on and after the
7th May next, to those Shareholders whose names appear on the Register on the 21st
instant.
By Order of the Board,
71 Old Broad Street, London. E.C., April 22,
1915.
W. 11. BARBER,
London Manager and Secretary.
BALANCE SHEET, 31st DECEMBER, 1914.
Authorised Capital:—
61,603 Ordinary Shares of C 22 1 Os.
1 50,000 Preference Shares of CIO..
CI A mu I I KS.
. . C 1.356.067 10 0
. . -1,500,000 0 o
Subscribed Capita] : •
•19,103 Ordinary Shares of
be.v.v Calls in Arrear. .
Reserve Liability. .
C 22 Ids. ...
C 952 10
.. 613,787 10
C 2,886,067 10 0
Cl, 104,817 10 0
0
0
011,710 0 0
beilift clo per share paid .. .. .. 190,077 10 0
Amount prepaid by Trustees in respect of Reserve
Liability . . . . . . . . . . 6,825 0 0
17,193 Preference Shares of CIO, fully paid
Capital Paid-up ..
Reserve Fund
Balance of undivided Profit
Deposit and Current Accounts ..
Bills payable and other liabilities (including reserves
Notes in circulation (secured as per contra) ..
496,902 10 0
171,930 0 0
668. 532 10 0
300,000 0 0
51,187 18 3
C 1,020.320 S
. . 5,151,571 13
for doubtful debts) .. .. 683.357 10
7,155 10
0
5
0
C 0,862,405 7 8
ASSETS.
Coin. Bullion, Cash Balances, Government .Votes and Votes of other
Banks . . .. .. . .
Money at Call and Short Notice in London
Investments and Bills Receivable on hand and in transit ..
Investments held by Trustees against Notes in Circulation
Bills discounted, advances and other assets
Bank promises..
£1,257,087 1!) 10
# 35,000 0 o
905,075 2 8
12,500 0 0
• £2,209,003
4,378,277
274,405
£0,862,405 7 8
STATEMENT OF PROFITS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
Balance of undivided Profit, as per last Report
Less: Dividends for the six months ended December 81, 1913..
Profit in London and in Australia after providing- for interest due and accrued on current depoists, deduct-
ing rebate on bills, and making- provision for bad and doubtful debts
Less: Salaries and general expenses in Australia —including remuneration to local directors, rent,
rates, repairs, stationery, travelling, etc . .
Salaries and general expenses in London —including directors' and auditors' fees, rent, repairs,
stationery, telegrams, etc.
Land Tax, Income Tax and Tax on Note Issue
Deduct: Interest at 4$- per cent, on Transferable Deposit Receipts ..
Transfer to Reserve Fund
Grant to Officers’ Provident Fund .. .. . . . . ■ . . . .. ;.
Less: Interim Dividend paid November 3, 1914-.
Balance of undivided Profit, as above
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
A\c certify that we have obtained all the informa-
tion and explanations we have required. We have to
report that we have examined the above Balance-Sheet
with the books at the head ofHce and the returns
from the branches, and in our opinion it is properly
drawn- up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of
the state of the Bank’s affairs, according- to the best
of our information and the explanations given to
us. and as shown by such books and returns.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO., Auditors.
London, April 16, 1915.
D. FI NLA V,SOX
O'IRDON H. CAMPBELL
OFQRGE SLADE
Directors.
W, 11, BARBER, London Manager and Secretary.


dg
///////
A
There is Nothing Better than
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS
CURE =
\\A I, //////
H
85s
4
m
O-S
R
/W
+***2,
£
yA^>
JUWW
/»!
/s
*ar
i:
t
O vO o
t> o
m
o V >
\
£
o$
?
Uc
W*A
? HAA«n*.»
it (MQMcmrii cu« I
h cevent
ra?(
w
/
bW
12.
Illlllk
i
SMITH-
for CROUPY CHILDREN
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT SAFETY and the
UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does
NOT contain, and has NEVER contained, any poison or harmful
drugs. It is very pleasant to taKe, and children taKe it readily—
even CLAMOR for it. HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE is
prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE who is a REGISTERED
CHEMIST with nearly 40 years’ experience. The
REPUTATION of and the DEMAND for HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE are GREATER now than ever.
It’s just the Finest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS, CROUP, and COLDS on the CHEST
The REMEDY with
the REPUTATION
Price 2/6 & 4/6 (double size).
The BEST is always the
CHEAPEST in the long run.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your district
send direct to
W. G. HEARNE & CO. LTD-
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office# at
SYDNEY, N.S.W. WELLINGTON, N.Z.
dfg
dfg
A few entries from the laconic diary of a
casual young Australian named Thomas
Cook, of West Maitland (N.S.W.), who
joined the Naval Reserve in England:—
July 29. —Arrived in England.
Aug. 2. —Joined Naval Reserve.
Aug. 6.—Helped to sink Koenigin Luise.
Aug. 7.—Helped rescue crew of the torpedoed
Amphion.
Aug. 28. —On destroyer when German cruiser
Maine was sunk. A shell killed all my gun mates
and left me unhurt.
Sept. 22.—0 n look-out H.M.S. Aboukir. Torpedoed.
Blown into sea and rescued by Hogue. Blown up on
Hogue and picked up naked in water.
Dec. 20.—0 n destroyer Landrail at Cuxhaven air
raid.
Jan. 24.—Wounded slightly in North Sea fight.
Saw Blucher sink.
When last heard from he was still seeing
life on the ocean wave.
According to Louise Mack, the Landsturm
garrison in Antwerp is regularly doped with
“victories” prepared by the motion picture
studios in Berlin. Recently the screens in
Antwerp broke the news that Paris had
fallen, and later showed Crown Prince
Willie and his angular missus driving
through the streets of a captured London.
Teuton soldiers greedily swallowed the gor-
geous fakes, but the civil populace refused to
bite. A smuggled newspaper service had
put them wise to the truth.
Four seamen of the Australian navy who
had died from pneumonia were buried
recently in Scotland. The cemetery was
covered with snow. The North of Britain
goes steadily out of cultivation. It has not a
white man’s climate.
“P.F.”: Re this extensive rejection of
would-be recruits in Queensland. A man
who underwent an operation for simple rup-
ture in childhood was thrown out on
account of the scar. The same man was
passed uy two doctors for insurance, and has
been engaged in outdoor work requiring
bodily strength and activity. Do these doc-
tors think a volunteer should be like the
Paschal Lamb —without spot or blemish?
“U.S.”: Leon Pols was arrested at Bridge-
port, Connecticut, shortly before the last
mail left, for impersonating a woman, and
then an astounding story was dug up.
Although married, or perhaps because he
was, he became a chorus girl in “The Sea-
side Girls” and “The Broadway Beauties,”
and was familiar as “the second from the
end.” He has two voices—the feminine and
the bass, a phenomenon known to most
variety managers—is 30 years old, and has
been at the game 10 years. In slack time,
when shows were not on the road, he was
employed at Bridgeport in a corset factory.
Two hundred girls worked with him, and
never suspected that he wasn’t the merely
Mary that he said he was.
Among the North Queenslanders who have
gone to help keep the flag flying is one J.
Sullivan, tin-scratcher. Previous to enlist-
ing he walked twice a week 10 or
miles to drill and back again to camp.
Finally, he walked away and didn t come
back ; he’s still going. Another case of that
slack spirit so characteristic of the ener-
vating North.
“Pica de Vinne” puts the formalin aside
for a few minutes: —
My stay in Egypt convinces me. A White Aus-
tralia is worth while. Over Yonder there are pure
breeds, crosses and mixtures that would send old
Mendel crazy with delight. They call themselves
Bedouins, Arabs, Turks, French, Egyptians, Persians,
Syrians, etc. The native villages smell abominably.
Most of them are surrounded by water, or else are
walled around. The houses are of mud bricks. Sani-
tation is unknown. Sheep, goats, donkeys, poultry
and cows herd indiscriminately with horribly filthy
citizens. Pineapples are cultivated on some of the
blocks; also tomatoes, lucerne, maize, vegetables and
millet. I saw a number of single residences of bam-
boo and bushes, with one side open, measuring about
10ft. square and sft. high. Sheep and goats were in
the enclosure; fowls on the bed and on the roof.
The natives are filthy, as a rule, but some of the
girls are pretty when washed and dressed up in neck-
laces and ear-rings. The poverty of the poor devils
is of that absolute character which cannot be
measured by even the most acute degradation one
sees in Europe. Yet they are a smart lot in some
ways. Judging by noses and the business aptitude o
the traders, 1 conclude that many Israelites must
have shirked it when Moses, growing tired of build-
ing bricks from camel manure, set out overlanding
to Canaan.
From discursive “Spasmode” :
A millionaire Yank said “I go to church or theatre
for a quiet think about my business. ’ There is a
nice, cobwebby Methody chapel round the corner, in
Lygon-street, which is to me a refreshment on Lord s
day morn. There I am not incommoded by more
than about nine women, three men and 13 kids. A
glorious timberyard of pews! Last week there was
a coffee supper, and says I: “This will be chummy,
with only a handful of people.” So I went. But,
bless you, the place was thronged 1 Panjandrums
were round, rubbing their hands over the prosperity
of the Cause. Oh, for the pen of a Dickens! Supper
came after the concert. The footmen’s swarry
attended by Sam Weller consisted of a b’iled leg of
mutton. This Methody swarry consisted of sitting on
a form and holding a cup of coffee in one hand and
a scone the size of a ss. piece in the other. All the
Brick-lane branch of the Ebenezer was there. I
looked around in vain for Stiggins or Chadband, or
even Mrs. Weller, or the lady who was swellin’
wisibly under 13 cups of tea. lleally nice ladies,
and I made r ore acquaintances than I did all 1914.
It must be remarked, though, that they were cruel
to the concert. How is it that women, with lots to
eat and drink at home, will willingly sit through a
miserable concert, two hours long, for a cup of poor
coffee and a bun?


Model 80
Passenger Touring' Car,
£.395
dfg
Model 81
s a Passenger Touring Car,
£.345
An Unusually Comfortable Car
COMFORT is one of the Overland’s
most noticeable equalities. It has
been carefully and skilfully provided
in the Overland design
The seats are wide and deep. The
seat-backs are high. The upholster) 7 is very
thick, and is supported by springs in which
stlength and elasticity are perfectly balanced.
4
The wheel base is long— iinches
(289.56 cm). The springs are exception-
ally long. The rear springs are underslung.
Their wide opening permits great freedom
of motion, and all shocks are absorbed over
an area so great that no unpleasant jars
reach the body. All this is possible because
practically every part of the Overland is
designed and made in the Willys-Overland
factories under our own supervision, by
our own master workmen.
To appreciate all of the Overlands
comfort, you must experience it yourself.
You are invited to inspect the Overland at
the local show rooms.
Silent, powerful motor
Instrument board on cowl dash
Individual front seats, high backs
Tonneau, long and wide
Genuine leather upholstery, deep & soft
W indshield, rain-vision, ventilating type,
built in
Crowned fenders
Electric starter—Electric lights
High-tension magneto
SPECIFICATIONS—MODEL 80.
Thermo-syphon cooling
Five-bearing crankshaft
Rear axle, floating type
Springs, rear, % elliptic, extra long,
underslung
Wheelbase 114 inches (289.56 c.m.)
Large tyres, 35 x 4% inches
Beautiful dark-green body finish, with
ivory striping; nickel and aluminium
trimmings
Demountable, detachable rims—one
extra
Right-hand drive
Electric engine starter and generator;
electric head, side, dash and tail
lamps; storage battery; mohair top
and top boot; top curtain box; wind-
shield; speedometer; electric horn;
robe rail; foot rest; tyre-carrier in
rear; full set of tools; tyre-repair kit,
jack and pump.
AUSTRALIA :
E. G. EAGER <& SON LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
THE CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., 45 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., 60 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., 1056 Hay Street, Perth ,
H. C. HEATHORN <& CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
NEW ZEALAND:
HA TRICK <fe CO., Wellington and Wanganui.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OP . ASSOCIATION, Christchurch.
MODEL 80
fillys~Overlaij4 Company,
Manufacturers of the famous Overland Delivery Cars.
Toledo, Ohio, U.S.A.
Full information on request.


f *
n
m
SAG)
MV/
Peace Cartridge
I Full Kodak efficiency is realised only in the use of Eastman N-C ■
Film. It is orthochromatic, fast and thoroughly dependable—the
choice of experts. Look for the Eastman N-C on the box and Kodak
on the spool end. Kodak N-C Film is made in Australia, by
Australians for use in Australasia. Always fresh and perfectly |
reliable. Insist on Kodak Film; experiment with no experiments. |
Kodak (Australasia) Ltd
| Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd. _____
THE SOLDIER’S KODAK
Tell your own story of the
great War with your own
VEST POCKET KODAK
Treat yourself to a “Soldier’s” Kodak, and start to use it beloie jott
go to the Front. This little Vest Pocket Kodak is extremely highl-
it weighs only 9 ounces, and you can easily slip it into your
pocket. Hundreds of them are in use at the front to-day. So get
one now and make sure of bringing back a priceless picture record
of your share in the Great War.
Takes pictures 2$ x 1§ inches, and the price is 30/-, or, with Kodak
Anastigmat FT.7 Lens, 507-
Call and see our Special Window Display, or write for fuller details
and specimens of work done with this splendid little Carnet a.
Not all Roll-film Cameras are Kodaks. For your own protec-
tion see that the instrument offered you bears the name
“Kodak.” Insist on the genuine article.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street. MELBOURNE: “The Block,’’ 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
HOBART: 45 Elizabeth Street.
BRISBANE: 250-253 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.,
BROKEN HIDE: 346 Argent Street."
WEEDING TON, N.Z.: Dixon Street.
AUCKEAND, N.Z.: 3 Eorne Street.
DUNEDIN. N.Z.: 16 Stuart Street.
nmrrmii
ft
JL
=u
(Regd.Trade Mark?'
The
All-British Washing Fabric
pyjamas ; and chil-
dren’s frocks, night,
gowns and underclothing.
“Viyella” is pre-eminently the fabric
for the whole family, and is peifect
for women’s blouses, mghtdi esses
and underwear ; men s shirts and
“Viyella” is economical, exceptionally duiable, and neithei
shrinks nor loses its dainty appearance in the wash.
“Viyella” is specially healthful. It is of a porous textuie, and
allows a free air circulation. Moreover, it absorbs the moisture
of the body, and quickly radiates it away, and. lias been awarded
the certificate of the London Incorporated Institute of Hygiene.
n Viyella” is practically non-inflammable, and is safest and best
for children’s wear.
Sold by all leading drapers and storekeepers. Look for the name
on the selvedge. If not procurable in your vicinity, the name ol
the nearest dealer will be sent by I. and R. MORLEY, 56 Market
Street, Sydney ; also 250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
*
JJ
nil
'J
y
II


TO DEVELOP THE BUST.
A simple, safe and harmless way in which
any lady, no matter how thin or old, can
increase her bust development from two to
five inches in a few weeks is to take 20
grains of phormoid, a standard concentrated
food product, just before each meal. For
convenience, it is best to ask your chemist
to supply you with the standard phormoid
tablets, which contain 20 grains each. For
a few shillings you can get enough to last
you two weeks, during which time your
bust should develop from one to two inches.
Many ladies report five inches’ development
in four weeks, and at the same time marked
improvement in the general health. Phor-
moid is pleasant to the taste.*
EVERYTH IMG IM RINGS SEMD FOR OUR SPECIAL RING CATALOGUE
CHOICE DIAMONDS MOUNTED IN SOUO 18'" OOLD
Ti
■
'
sPF
ii?
mui
Hi ;
dg
‘ *1 -izrH ■ •••
s~ f*Ktrt
7/'V*
3600
,mm
6/10/-
, P7S
S Of
s.mwW’ilWW -JIWIM Refunded
Edison
Patriotic
Records
Two more shipments of Patriotic Records
have arrived, and among the wide variety
available are the following beautiful selec-
tions :
2487—“ It's a Long Way to Tip-
perary.”
2483—“ Russian and Belgian
Airs.”
2461 —“Soldiers of the King.”
2439—“ La Marseillaise.”
23333 —“Hearts of Oak.”
23340 —“Our Troops.”
Early application to your dealer is necessary.
Call on him at once and have them played
over for you.
Complete Catalog sent post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 3G4-372 Kent St., Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A Fable for J. Cook :
He was a cold, stern sort of Person, 40 perhaps,
and distinctly Oxfordian, lie had on a suit of obvi-
ously excellent Antecedents, and his Nose had that
red, burning blush of Shame that results from dip-
ping it too much. He had been caught in a yard
at Balaclava (Melb.) with an executed Pullet stuffed
under his coat, and the Police had been sent for.
“ ’Pon me Soul,” he said disgustedly, “all this beastly
fuss over a measly Hen, and Our Poor Fellows dying
in their hundreds out there at the Front!”
SOMETHING ELSE TO PAWN.
“After many years of disappointments, the hcet-
sugar industry in Victoria appears to have at last
gained a fair footing.”
VICTORIA: "'Ooray! Another national
asset.”
It is in respect to the franchise that Alec
Peacock’s Greater Melbourne Bill differs
most from Willie Watt’s stillborn project.
The new council of 30 members will be
chosen by single electorates on the one-rate-
payer-one-vote franchise, and will control
tramways, light and power, fire brigades,
rivers, parks and gardens, markets, weigh-
bridges, hawkers, abattoirs, saleyards,
noxious trades, transport (other than rail-
ways), buildings, and water and sewerage.
The Bill is quite a good thing; the last
doubt about it is removed by the bitterness
of the Argus. Peacock said that less than
10 per cent, of the ratepayers have more
than one vote, and “that fact,” says the
organ of the Melbourne Club, “seems, to out-
weigh all considerations of principle. The
old political hand seldom thinks anything
more important than the counting of heads.”
And the Argus thinks nothing so important
a i the counting of hovels. The House was
with Peacock —except that Norman Bayles
asked for postponement “while the Empi-ah
was in dange-ah.” To people like Bayles
everything should be suspended while the
Empiali is in dange-ah—except rents.
A N. g. Wales Minister announces that if
he were Czar of Australia he would abolish
liquor altogether. But being merely a party
politician who has to bustle round
for votes, he sits back and counts noses and
says there’ll be nothing doing.
Dr. Deeper, the disloyal Australian whom
an Australian college pays to teach Aus-
tralians, has been writing to the Argus
girding at the Commonwealth for sending-
only one of every 100 of its population to
the war, while Canada has sent one in 50
and Britain one in 10. The figures are a
libel so black that they disgrace the person
who put them forward ; for our men actually
sent or in training represent one in every
51 of the population, which is a better pro-
portion, apparently, than Canada’s. In
addition, there is not only the Australian
Fleet which is standing by ready to «-ive a
hand; there are also the hundreds of Aus-
tralians. who for one reason and another
made direct to England and enlisted there
—scores of them because, having had experi-
ence, they reckoned rightly they could get
into the fight sooner than if they waited
till the Expeditionaries reached the trenches.
DIGNITY AND IMPUDENCE.
N.S.W. Assembly settled promptly down to
the business of the new session by discussing
the war. Of course it has nothing to do
with the war, but the fact that many hours
can be spent calmly talking about a thing
which concerns another body shows how very
necessary these stout legislators are.
E. C. J. Stevens, the.ancient member of the
Maoriland House of Fossils who passed out
in Christchurch the other day, was generally
credited with having suggested the Public
Trust Office to Vogel. The latter set to work
to establish it, and thus pioneered a bit of
Socialism which is being copied now by anti-
Socialists in all parts of the Empire.
Brennan, Federal member for Batman
(Vic.), asked Fisher in the Reps the other
day if “as leader of an enlightened people,
believing in the settlement of international
disputes by arbitration, he would ascertain
upon what terms the belligerent parties would
be prepared to conclude peace.” It looks like
a possible job for the Inter-State Commission.
Clearly it is no use Fisher going to the
President of the Arbitration Court about the
matter, because the once-pacific Higgins is
now voting for gore and shells and a per-
manent settlement on the end of a bayonet.
A good deal of the credit of the little
smash in the Australian Labor party is due,
as usual, to Holman. At the profoundly-
secret Inter-State Conference in Adelaide
Hughes and Holman renewed their old row,
Hughes standing for Australia and Holman
for State Spites. Each spoke for nearly
two hours, and Holman was in very fine
oratorical form. Anstey fell under his per-
suasive charms, and afterwards was quite
satisfied that Hughes hadn’t answered the
Sydney word-spinner.
A S. M. Herald representative recently
visited the Liverpool (N.S.W.) field hos-
pital, and used up three-quarters of a col-
umn in praise of it. “Since January 19,”
he wrote, “2202 soldiers have been accom-
modated —a rate of 500 per month, equal to
that of the largest metropolitan hospitals in
Australasia.” Incontrovertible evidence, no
doubt, as to the efficiency of the field hos-
pital, but what a biting comment on the
hygiene of the camp ! On these figures alone
the site demands the immediate attention
of the Board of Health. If the Defence
Department will not move, plainly some-
body else should, since these men are none
the less citizens because they are also sol-
diers.
Meat which was purchasable by the Aus-
tralian householder a generation ago for 2d.
a pound now stands at about a shilling.
This is only one form of robbery which can-
not be hindered as the Constitution stands.
The same applies to the New Protection, to
the Common Rule, and to any intra-State
anti-trust legislation whatever. If, for in-
stance, the Federal Government were to take
steps under the War Precautions Act to
make it illegal for any person to kill female
cattle under the age of five years, a law
action would be financed by the Yankee Meat
Trust, and might last till the cows came
home. And the Trust would win in the end.
There is only one plan by which the Com-
monwealth can acquire the powers that
Anstey wants to delegate to the Cabinet, and
that is by amendment of the Constitution.
Time enough will be wasted in doing the
thing in the proper way; to waste it in
wranglings about the impossible at a vital
moment is worse than foolishness.
The inland population of N. S. Wales is
decreasing in many areas ; in others it is just
holding its own. But Sydney goes on bulging
ut the waistcoat like an alderman after meat.
Therefore it is good and encouraging and an
mndication of wide, statesmanlike vision to
hnd the biggest showcards on the Holman
bargain-counter attached to: (1) Construc-
tion of a city railway ; (2) building a S.vd-
ney bridge; (3) establishing a Greater Syd-
ney. Port Stephens and Jervis Bay are of
course to be left to rot, and immense sums of
money spent on improving the facilities for
dragging to Sydney the material for still more
bloat.
To an appeal in the Reps, that “party”
should be dropped and all hands do their
combined best for the country “while the
war lasts” (presumably, everybody will be
entitled to do his worst afterwards),
Mathews (Melbourne Ports) said:—
As the well-being of the people depends upon
Party politics, we ought to have party politics every
time.
Every time? Well, hardly. If Mathews’s
house is in danger, he won’t inquire about
the political color of the tire brigade and
chuck those firemen out who don’t curse
Joe Cook. It is only when the mere country
is in danger that the party fireman is indis-
pensable.
“Quidam”: The monotonous persistency
with which the Australian public, every time
it_ gets a chance, casts out the “good old
Liberal party” must strike even that wooden-
headed body as hardly a compliment. De-
spite the misdeeds and mistakes of Labor,
and the reams of daily-paper literature point-
ing them out, the public in this hour of trial
turns solidly away from the Liberals, who to
it represent money power and monopoly and
other items which it is getting very tired of.
It must be humiliating for the once-mighty
Liberals to reflect that when the country and
the Empire are really up against it, nobody
wants to see them at the wheel. How many
more hints do they need that they had better
get a fresh bag of charts, or a new crop of
sailing directions?
Last week an earnest worker in a Glas-
gow foundry was assaulted by one of his
mates because he had produced too much
shell in a given time. This champion of
Loaf and Shirk was charged with the
assault and sentenced to three months’ im-
prisonment, the Glasgow sheriff remarking
that in “another country” the penalty would
have been death. The trouble with Britain
is that the authorities are always uttering
apologetic warnings to people on whom
warnings are wasted —always telling them
of something that might, could, would or
should be done under different conditions.
In its half-awake state Britain is talking
only as it talked in its perturbed sleep.
The result of the prosecution is that one
man is put out of shell-making for three
months, whilst his fellow-slackers, though
they will doubtless refrain from stoushing
the man who wanted to do his best, are
probably working slower than ever to em-
phasise the fact that Britons don’t live in
“another country” and “never will be
slaves.” Fule Britannia!
SUPERFLUOUS ADJECTIVES.
“What is redundancy , Pa?"
“ Redundancy , my child, is the use of more
words than are necessary to express
one’s meaning—such as WEALTHY dealer,
POOR artist.”
N. S. Wales set out to borrow £5,000,000
in London the other day ; and when Cohen
had taken all he wanted there was
£3,000,000 of the loan on the underwriters’
hands. That is to say, Holman was able
to borrow £2,000,000 now, and has to pay
a syndicate a stiff sum for advancing the
other £3,000,000 until the baby can be un-
loaded on to the public. It is all right, of
course, so far as the present loan is con-
cerned : the underwriters have to part up,
seeing that Cohen won’t. But it makes the
outlook for future loans simply Arctic.
The second of the Maoriland by-elections
leaves parties as they were: Massey 40.
Ward 39. With a Speaker taken out of
that lot, Parliament will be in a splendid
condition to do nothing except show the
beauty of Party government by glaring hor-
ribly across the Mace.
“AUDITIONAL INCOME.”
SWEET YOUNG THING: “And is selling papers
your sole means of support?”
PAPER SELLER: “Well, not exactly, mum; my
old woman ’as earnt a, fiver three times
note!”
So the Federal Land Tax is valid —a big
consideration in these days of heavy deficits.
The case for the appellants who were kick-
ing against the tax was in the hands of
Mitchell, K.C., Irvine, K.C., Prof. Harrison
Moore and Pigott. No stronger Bar ever
appeared before the High Court. Their
Honors, however—and six of them sat on the
case in Melbourne—were unanimous that col-
lection of the tax was not an infringement of
the Constitution.
Anstey, M.11.R. for Bourke. on Thursday
clamored again that “the Government be
instructed to take action under the War
Precautions Act to protect the people of the
Commonwealth front exploitation.” Un-
fortunately the Commonwealth Parliament
can’t do it. Anstey thinks, seemingly, that
the existence of a state of war automatically
operates in some mysterious way to place
powers in the hands of Parliament which it
does not ordinarily possess. It doesn’t. The
only power which the Government can pos-
sess is the power delegated to it by Parlia-
ment, and neither Parliament nor any other
body can delegate a power which it has not
got. The powers of the Australian Par-
liament differ from those of the Commons
inasmuch as the Commonwealth’s powers
are limited by the Constitution. Tim
Commons can delegate power to do anything
on earth to anyone they please, because no
instrument places any limitation upon them.
They actually have delegated unlimited
power to Cabinet and Sovereign under the
Defence of the Realm Act. They can dele-
gate this power because they have got it to
delegate. The Australian Parliament has
not got it. as a dozen High Court judgments
have shown, and consequently it can no more
delegate it than the writer can delegate the
million pounds he doesn’t possess.
“BY GOD'S DISPENSATION.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By Hod’s dispensation we have received a new and
potent weapon, a gas which vanquishes our enemies.
—German staff order.
It stood beside the Kaiser's bed.
Within a spacious palace room.
“Lift, William, now thy royal head,
And gaze on me,” the figure said.
It had the strident voice of doom,
vie looked. The face beneath the cowl
Compounded seemed of all things foul.
The ape and tiger lent a trace;
Its spotted trunk, with evil big,
Some sodden sea-thing, loathly base,
Suggested. In the tusked face
There blinked the mean eyes of a pig.
About its neck there hung a noose.
Its whole form dripped a noxious ooze.
The Kaiser gazed in frozen dread ;
The skin crept on each quaking limb ;
Went icy cold the monarch’s bed.
An odor as of untombed dead
E'illed all the room to stifle him.
The damned thing up to its thigh
With blood was clotted, black and dry.
“Great Kaiser, thou must bow to me!
For triumphs fallen to thy lot
Give lowly thanks on bended knee.”
The Kaiser shrank. “Nay! Nay!” said he;
“Begone, dread shape, I know thee not.”
Then said the fiend: “ ’Tis very odd.
Look, look again. lam tiiy god!”
VICTORIA.
E. D.
SAVING THE COUNTRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Foster: 1 did not call Mr. Fisher a heathen.
I called the whole Ministerial side heathens, and I
withdraw the remark. I withdraw it. According to
the Standing Orders and Rules of the House I have
nothing more to say. — Federal Hansard.
Liar and imbecile and knave!
Embezzler of the widow's mite!
Forger and Cad and cringing slave !
Justice would have you shot on sight!
Those are my views. Now by the law
Of Parliament I shall withdraw.
I look upon you, sir, as one
Who should be doing time in gaol.
Tlfe thefts and swindles you have done
Put you beyond the common pale.
Obedient to the Speaker's call,
I hereby, sir, withdraw it all.
Deeming, compared with such as you,
Was gentle and benevolent;
A Torquemada would eschew
The cruelty and cunning blent
Which you display. Your bandit paw
Is Mr. Speaker, I withdraw.
N.S.W.
PARTY GOVERNMENT.


dg
LOUIS BECKE
dfg
The Romance of the South Seas
Four Great Novels from
the “Bookstall” Series.
“BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER,” by LOUIS P.ECKE. —The famous Australian
Author’s stirring story of “The Pirate of the Pacific.” Becke know Hayes well,
and once sailed under him as supercargo. This true account includes some
extraordinary stories concerning the redoubtable “I’ully.”
“SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES,” by A. J BAKU I'. —A series of splendid sea stories-
by one of the most popular sea-writers. “The stories in this volume,” says
Melbourne Auk, “show the writer's customary humor, dramatic strength and
descriptive power.”
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER,” by RALPH STOCK.- A. romance of the South
Seas, full of exciting incidents. The story introduces an entirely original type
of heroine——the daughter of a recluse who has discovered a process of making
synthetic rubber. An exceptionally bright and entertaining novel.
“THE ADVENTURES OF LOUIS BLAKE,” by LOUIS BECKE.— I The thin
disguise under which the late Louis Becke wrote of his exciting adventures in the
South Seas.
The “Bookstall” Series
Australia’s Most Popular Novels,
1,500,000 sold to date.
II- each —Ninety Novels —1/1 posted
STEELE RUDD’S FAMOUS SELECTION STORIES.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM.”
“ DUNCAN McCLURE.”
“FROM SELECTION TO CITY.”
“OUR NEW SELECTION.”
“THE DASHWOODS.”
“SANDY’S SELECTION.”
“FOR LIFE.”
“THE BOOK OF DAN.”
“STOCKING OUR SELECTION.
“THE POOR PARSON.”
“BACK AT OUR SELECTION.”
“DAD IN POLITICS.”
OBTAINABLE AT ALL BOOKSTALLS AND BOOKSELLERS, OR
DIRECT FROM THE PUBLISHERS.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PIANO
IN YOUR HOME
dg
should be an instrument which will
add to your enjoyment, and help in
the development of a discriminating-
musical taste.
A skilled performer recognises the
excellence of tone, and the superior
construction of the famous
“BROADWOOD” and “ALLISON”
PIANOS
These celebrated British Pianos are renowned
for their expressive features, which delight
the ears and appeal to the tastes of all music
lovers.
The “Apollo” Player=Piano
is without question the finest Player on the market. Scientifi-
cally constructed and substantially built, it is superior in
harmony and expression.
Our Player Library Fees
are very moderate indeed. New Rolls added by every mail for
58-, 65- and 88-note music. Complete lists on request.
String & Brass Musical Instruments.
We can supply every need—a great variety of instruments by
the best makers.
Inspection will prove of interest.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. WYNYARD STREET).
Tshe
DEAL
SQUARE
Your Chance to Pay sale Price
and Wear Leviathan Tailoring
m
il
jutn&t
;;;
H
[SSmiiiE
ANY man ill Australia
who wants a new suit
—ami a “Square
Deal” —should post this
coupon to-day.
It is a free ticket to
g uai anteed satisfaction
and sound economy in
perfect tailoring.
At
596, 72 6
or 89/6
you can have a “Square
Deal” Sac Suit Tailor
Made to your order. These
prices represent reduc-
tions of 10/-, 15/-, and
even 20/-. ALL the
special “Square Deal”
Suitings are up-to-date—
ALL high-class in quality
—ALL heavily-reduced.
The “Square Deal" mean* 1:0
corresponding reduction in quality
or workmanship. The regular
skilled cutters are employed—
the regular tailors —the regular
high standard maintained —there's
but ONE difference- the reduced
prices.
Take the first step towards a
“Square Deal"—post this Coupon
to-day. We guarantee to satisfy
or refund money.
COUPON FOR PATTERNS “SQUARE DEAL” SUITINGS.
Name * • •
Address B't’n 24/07*1
s
COI3JVJSH? OF
smmsrasomvsrs.
ivr&is&ozyjQNE
10-incH
3> each.
(N.Z. 3/6.)
DOUBLE-SIDED
Fcolumbia^
Records
12-incH
51- each.
(N.Z. 5/6.)
DOUBLE-SIDED.
NEW RECORDS for JUNE NOW READY.
ON SALE at ALL UP-TO-DATE DEALERS.
5/- 12-incH Record—s/-
Vocal Gems from “Business As Usual,” by tlie Columbia Light Opera Company.
n ft o f Vocal Gems from “Business as Usual”—ln Two Parts (F. W. Mark, Clias.
I Wilmott and 11. E. Darewski, &c.).
Introducing: Part 1. —Mary from Tipperary; ltut Are We Downhearted?—
Xo! When We've Wound Up the Watch on the ltliiue; The Goose Step.
Part 2.—The Arms of the Army for Me; Come On, You Boys of London
Town: Three Cheers for Little Belgium.
12-ir\cH—Price 5/- each.
Russian Symphony Oreh.—
mo ' Titrs Serenade
* J i Triiimie (Dreams)
Miss Ruby HeLder, The Girl Tenor—
/ Kily Mavourneen
l Then Vnn'll Remember Me
Miss Bettina Freeman, Soprano—
\ The Valley of Laughter
° u i The Sons' of Aiche
Signor JE. <li Giovanni, Tenor —
sn2 I All. Moon of My Delight
° I The Garden of Sloe])
Mr. Dalton Baker, Baritone —
■lOO
' Loeh Lomond
i I’.eanty's Eyes
10-incln—Price 3/- each.
Band of lI.M. Scots’ Guards —
/ Soldiers’ Chorus (“Faust")
* lPilgrims’ Chorus (“Tanuliauser")
J Raymond Overture, Part 1
1 \ Raymond Overture. Part 2-
The Ellery Band —
9i09 / Danse Aunamite
‘ 4iJ ~\La Feria Suite, No. ?> —La Zarzuela
Cristeta Goni (Violin Solos)
9iiB / Flower Song
a ( Andalusian Romance
Duets by Rosina Bnckman and Thorpe
Bates—
o.or/Of Fairy Wand Had 1 the Power
ZiJn gmj ag t j le Night
Miss Carrie Herwin, Contralto —
j My Ships
iVo6 I In Sweet September
IQ-incH - Price 3 - each.
Miss Lilian Braitliwaite in a Dramatic
Recital—
(King Albert’s Reply to the lvaiser
Lilian Braitliwaite
It’s a Lour Way to Tipperary—
British Guards Band with Men's
Chorus
Mr. Thorpe Bates, Baritone —
I Oil to Philadelphia
l Father O'Flynn
Mr. Edgar Coyle, Baritone—
/One and Twenty—with Piano
.4i>o rpjj e (j en ti e Maiden —with Piano
Mr. Ernest Hastings at a Piano—
/Variations on "The Vicar of Bray'’
2494-! Is Anybody Wanting Any Floor-
cloths?
Columbia Quartettes —
>lor t The Sunshine of Your Smile
.4jo Wllen xx-isli Eyes are Smiling
Peerless Quartette —
Follow Fp the Big Brass Band
'* .1 That Naughty Melody
Chimes of Old Trinity—
/ Great God. What Do 1 See and
•t. 113 ; Hear?
f Holy. Holy. Holy. Lord
Mine. Vota, Contralto (in French) —
/Battle Hymn of France: “Le
2513 { Chant du Depart”
fLa Marseillaise
Dramatic Recitals by Mr. Bransby
Williams
•>498 ) Spotty
' f The Coward
Mark Sheridan in his Original War
Songs—
Tom. Tom (Give Mv Love
Jack, the Handv Man)
Was Years and Years Ago
songs
/ Tom.
>199 f to •'
l That
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Baking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, Proprietary, Ltd., 26!) Swan at on Street.
BRISBANE, (l. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —W. Cornell and Sons, Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—A. 11. Nathan and Co., Ltd., Customs Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garrett.
COLUMBIA RECORDS BRITISH-MADE


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIFIITED, Redfprn, Sydney.
PAINTER’S TROUBLES.
COUNTERACTED BY DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
‘‘Being a painter by trade,” writes Mr.
W. B. Russell, of 178 Victoria Road, Mar-
rickville, “I have had occasion to counteract
the fumes arising from whitelead and other
deleterious poisons which one is constantly
meeting in the trade. I found Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills cope with this trouble, and
I can further assert that they are a useful
medicine for the regulation of the bowels.
You have my permission to use this testi-
mony for publication.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills cleanse the
system by stimulating the liver and strength-
ening the kidneys, which filter the blood and
throw off the impure matter through th,
regular channels.*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Sport in Sydney has a big, vacant chair
now that “Teddy” Larkin, M.L.A., has handed in his
life on a battlefield of Turkey. The great organising
work which he did for the Rugby League, and which
more than anything else was responsible for the
swift rise of that body, is generally known ; but his
help and tact and enthusiasm in the counsels of other
branches of sport have been less observed. Swim-
ming and cycling particularly owed much to him.
One of the strongest parts of his character was his
ability to e’those others—that, and his genial
straightforwardness. He was quite a young man
when a shell got him on that fatal beach on April
95. but he hail crowded a lot of usefulness into his
life. ,
William (he answers to “Bill” much
quicker) Montgomery, heavyweight boxer of Bioken
mil, is stated to have been recommended for the
V.C. for bravery in action at the Turkish front.
That makes two for Australia. Stanley Carpenter,
of Newcastle, footballer, was the first said to have
attained the honor. But there is nothing official in
either ease.
* * * *
Another of Maoriland’s well-known crick-
eters has fallen —Robert 11. Currie, of the moist
West Coast. He played against Lord Hawke’s team
of 1902-’O3, and when they saw how he shaped up—
or, rather, down—to the English bowling they won-
dered what sort of a joke was being worked on to
them. Currie’s head was about on a level with
his knees. “Plum” Warner reckoned it was the
most remarkable stand for a batsman he had evei
seen. And he had seen a lot.
*■ * *• *
A fine, manly sport met his end at Gal-
lipoli when Joe Pearce fell. He played full back for
Melbourne, and as they were usually bottom dog he
had plenty of work in the forlorn-liope department.
A solid man physically, lie had great pace, and in a
kicking contest three mules would have been a poor
sort of substitute for Joe.
* * * *
Dr. C. .T. Tozer is following many another
good cricketer along the warpath. He goes kvitli the
A.M.C. When Sydney Uni.’s first-grade team won its
last pennant Tozer’s batting was a powerful factor.
* * * *
Sir Cecil Moon, chairman of the Maoriland
Cricket Council, has issued a special appeal to crick-
eters to enlist. Says lie: “I am following the ex-
ample of my friends IV. G. Grace, A. C. Maelaren
and other well-known English cricketers. I only hope
that the response may be as gratifying as it was
in their case, at least 75 per cent, of the county
cricketers at Home having joined the colors, while
practically all are doing some work in connection
with the Army. There has been some adverse com-
ment in the newspapers recently on the meagre
response by representative Australian cricketers to
the call to arms, and while I do not wish to suggest
that it is so serious in the Dominion I am certain
that there is much room for improvement.” If it is
correct that 75 per cent, of the county cricketers of
England have enlisted it is certainly great business.
The figures are nothing like that in Australasia.
Somebody lias been casting doubt on the
yarn that in' bayonet charges Turks have been pitch-
forked over the heads of raging Australians. But
why not? Stand out, Private Richard Swale. He
weighs over 16 stone, has a chest measurement of
47 inches, and hurls hundred-weights about with an
ease that should be highly uninteresting to the Turk.
And, in case the abashed Ottoman, believing that
such a bulky enemy must be slow and lumbering,
attempts to get away unobtrusively, let him pray
for the wings of the Prophet, for in pursuit there
will be one of the slickest footballers of the Liver-
pool Plains (N.S.W.).
Winners at the big coursing meeting at
Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) last week: Australian Waterloo
Cup, King Comedy (Comedy King—Francesca) ;
Waterloo Purse, Medium Chain (Longspan Daisy
Chain) ; Waterloo Plate, Duplicate (White Hope—
Black Cygnet) ; Dardanelles Stakes, White Grain
(Laplander—Ratlinot) ; Richmond Stakes, Just An-
other (McDougall—Jewell Box). King Comedy is
owned in Victoria, Medium Chain in Queensland,
and Duplicate in N.S.W.
•y- 'X- ’ -X- &
The annual offering of weights for Mel-
bourne and Caulfield Cups and Epsom and Metrop.
Handicaps was laid before punters this week, and
the joy of unravelling the mystery began. Taking
the work of the handicappers at face value the
weights vividly indicate the absence of good horses
in Australia :—•
9st. and 7st. and
over, under.
Epsom Handicap.. .. 8 122
Metrop. Handicap. . . . 6 92
Caulfield Cup . . • • 7 118
Melbourne Cup .. .. 6 It”
Those are figures that speak louder than bagpipes.
Form at Caulfield last Saturday shed no
light to speak of on the Grand National Hurdle; but
the performance of Tim Doolan, from Maoriland, who
carried very little money, showed good reason for his
being fancied for the big Steeplechase which comes
due on July 10. Doolan ran a respectable third to
Booligal in the Wanda Steeplechase. Several other
likely National candidates ran behind Booligal and
Tinto, and perhaps the two leaders will beat them all
again in the longer race. Nevertheless it seems reason-
able to suggest that the Doolan that shaped so
encouragingly in his first attempt in Melbourne will
be harder to beat at Flemington next month. The
great disappointment of the race was Icon, who
seemed to lose heart when he was tackled, and is
probably not nearly as good as he looks.
* * *• *
Cairn Wallace (Ayr Laddie —Locli Kat-
rine), winner of the £lOOO Albion Cup at Brisbane,
collected £1645 in prize money in the northern
State in two weeks.
“Fido” : According to N. S. Wales Gaming
Act bettors on the speed of horses, unless the betting
be done on a racecourse or in secret, may be heavily
fined ; yet the card for the Australian Waterloo Cup
was called over last week in a Sydney pub, and
backers and bookies made their wagers openly. Also,
a newspaper publishing the odds on a horserace
would be prosecuted ; but there is no restriction as
OSCAR O’BRIEN.
to hare-mur-
dering dogs.
As to the bet-
ting itself, the
straight -out
odds seem enor-
mous ( £lOO to
10s. is a common
bet), but the win-
ner has to land
seven consecutive
courses. One optim-
istic owner took
the short odds of
700 to 40, and his
pup went out in
the third ties. It
is the individual
courses that make
queer betting. The
bookie must be
asleep or drugged
before a dog with
any sort of a show
can' start at less
than 5 to 1 on.
In the second ties
’ for the Gup two
favorites were
drawn, and each
dog’s partisans
backed their fancy
at 10 to 9 on.
Quite a lot of
money was wag-
ered beford the flats
woke up to Ikey's
good wicket. Dur-
ing the first ties
an outsider at the
benevolent price of
5 to 1 against up-
set. a hot-pot at 6
to 1 on, and the
babel resulting
would have scared the remaining hares to death's-door
if they hadn’t been that way already. A coursing
plumpton may be a good place to exercise the higher
Christian attributes, but as a pitch for money-making
it is a delusion.
Burst of generosity which illuminated
Melbourne Herald (16/6/’l5) : “In connection with
the Belgian Relief Fund meeting, to be held at Epsom
to-morrow, Mr. G. W. S. Dean, the secretary of the
Federated Bookmakers of Victoria, has written to
Messrs. J. L. Reilly and H. E. Connolly to say,
‘Our members will be pleased to attend and pay the
usual fees. We will do all we can to assist in
making the meeting a success.’ ” The totalisator
would have paid the usual fees also, and nobody
would have shied if they had amounted to 5 per cent,
or more on the gross takings. Me Jericho’s usual
fees are not worth mentioning; it’s his usual fleece
that counts.
* * * *
Victoria discovered that its champion
motor-boat, Nautilus 11. (120-h.p.), was better than
anything in the line that could be brought against-
her on Saturday at St. Hilda. There were two chal-
lengers for the championship—E. A. Bell’s Silver-
bee’s ( 40-h.p.) and P. C. Gentry’s Vanish (30-h.p.).
The race was for the best of three rounds on a
4-J-mileS course. Nautilus won the first two rounds,
with Silverheels second, and there was nothing fur-
ther to be said.
*. » *•
Details of the overthrow of Jack Donald-
son by ex-amateur W. R. Applegartli . show that;
although the Australian was dissatisfied with his
performance in the first race —for the 100yds. cham-
pionship of the world—he had nothing to say about
the second (220yds. championship). The stakes were
£lOO a-side. When the mail left London Donaldson
was under engagement to appear in one of the
revues ; he was to do a sprint on a revolving track.
Terry, his trainer, was also to put on a turn of log-
chopping, an Australian pastime of his.
* * * *
The 100-miles Victorian motor-cycle race
the other day was unusually attractive, and but for
a wet track it is a shade over possible that the dis-
tance would have been covered in 100 minutes. Find-
lay, the winner, made the distance in 112 minutes,
and J. Dixon travelled over a stretch of 33 9-10 miles
in 36min. 24sec. Only 38sec. separated first and
second men past the post, and 75sec. the second and
third.
* * * *
R. Spears, the- Dubbo (N.S.W.) cyclist,
tore into a starry place in the world’s cycledom re-
cently, when he tackled Alfred Goullet (another
Australian) at Newark (U.S.A.) and wiped him out.
There were three heats, unpaced, over two-thirds of
a mile. Spears won the first and third, and thereby
opened the waj' to a match with the great Kramer.
Next Monday’s motor-cycle Grand Prix
promises to considerably disturb the dust between
Yetholme and Sunny Corner (N.S.W.). There are close
on 50 entries, including record-smashing Booth and a
team of Victorian Indian riders. If the latter come
to Sydney there will be something doing.
* * * #
Tommy Uren and Billy Gradwell (light-
weights) clashed at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. Thomas is a dark, slim local lad, with a
growing reputation and a self-effacing smile; Grad-
well is an import from the U.S., who is credited with
having done big things there. He didn’t quite come
up to specifications—or else Uren is better than
anyone has. hitherto suspected. The visitor was out-
pointed over about two-thirds of the journey, and
would have taken the complete knock had the home-
grown been a shade more enterprising.
Frank Thorn stopped in the seventh round
of his contest with liughie Mehegan at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. He had reason, his left
arm being broken. He was down for eight in the
fifth, and his hopes of winning looked dim even had
his luck been good. Thorn must be close on 40
now ; he has had a strenuous time in the ring, as his
battered countenance indicates; and the two things
suggest that it is about time he abandoned boxing
and retired to the seclusion of the family ingle-
nook. The spectacle of grandfather courageously tak-
ing a hiding is pleasing only to those who hoot when
Nature forces the gallant old gentleman to give the
contest best.
Frank Ellis, who came from M.L. a
couple of years ago in pursuit of the featherweight
championship, and who has been side-stepped assidu-
ously by the top-notchers of his class ever since, met
Jimmy Hill in Brisbane on Saturday. Ellis won,
though the referee gave it a draw. The local cham-
pion outpointed the Maorilander tor a while, but for
more than half the battle he was both outpunched
and outskilled. In the 20th Hill was as nearly out
as a boxer can be without lying down to it. The
decision was met with howls of disapproval.
* * * *
“Tas”: It was Bananaland’s turn last
year to stage the Australasian amateur boxing cham-
pionships, but at the request of the other States and
Maoriland the show was postponed until 1915 on
account of the war. The Northerners are now ready
to go through with their part of the belated job, but
the outlook is not encouraging. « Tassy arose the
other day with a rolling eye to declare that there
was nothing doing as far as she was concerned, and
that she would be no party to the expenditure of
£5OO or £6OO on such an object while Armageddon
was raging. At latest information Barianaland was
putting raw steak on its eye.
• * * *
“L.S.”': Melbourne Stadium-goers were
thoroughly enjoying themselves at the recent Simp-
son-Geilce bout when an unfortunate collision in the
eighth round resulted in Geike’s forehead receiving a
gash which necessitated his withdrawal to be sewn
up. It is doubtful whether a dozen more rounds
would have made any difference. In all probability
Vic.’s feather champion would have beaten the
Bananalander. So long as he could keep clear Geike
out-boxed Simpson, displaying a lovely straight left
and a handy right-hook and cross; but when they
got together he would grab Simpson’s glove and for
his trouble would be pummelled unmercifully on the
solar, kidneys or neck. Early in the eighth round
both boys feinted with the right, and their heads met.
Simpson’s proved the hardest, and blood poured
down Geike s face and chest. He saw the round out,
but when his chaperones examined the damage they
wisely threw in the towel.
* * * *
There was a line scrap at Auckland the
other night when Barney Ireland and Sid Mitchell
had a violent dispute over the M.L. middleweight
championship and some loose ca>li. It was sultry
from the jump, and after six hurricane rounds Mit-
chell seemed done. He didn’t appear to have a dog’s
chance. He was groggy and dazed, and only the
clang of the gong saved him from obliteration. Yet,
owing to his superb condition, he made a marvellous
recovery and nursed himself so well in the two fol-
lowing rounds that in the ninth he Was : able; to put
Ireland to sleep and depart with the cash and the
title.
* * * *
League football gourmets bad tlieir fill of
titbits in the course ot the game between South Syd-
ney and Eastern Suburbs on Saturday. Particularly
was this the case in the second spell, when the for-
ward and back divisions of each side flashed the ball
from vantage to vantage, from hand to hand, from
foot to foot, like so many jugglers. Both teams were
in the mood and trim for play, and 10,000 onlookers
took to it like free beer. S. Sydney won by 10 points
to seven, and if there was any difference between
the teams that was the margin. Play in the other
three League games was any old thing sawn off by .
the yard. Balmain over-ran North Sydney by 28
points to nil; Glebe accumulated 18 points while
Western Suburbs was collecting 0: and Newtown
impressed itself upon Annandale by 19 points to' four.
* * * *
League barometer: Balmain, 11; South
Sydney and Glebe, 10; Newtown, seven; Eastern
Suburbs, six; Annandale and North Sydney, two;
and Western Suburbs such stuff as dreams are made
of.
* * * *
Sydney and Paddington are running neck
and neck ahead of competitors in the Australian code
of football in Sydney. Each has played six matches,
each has lost one, and each has 20 points on the
slate. Central Western follows with 16 points; and
far off and dim, like the chance of Buckley and
William Sossage, appear Newtown (8), East Sydney
(4) and South Sydney (4).
* * * *
There was something doing on Saturday
at Sydney University Oval when Granville and Pyr-
mont met at the Soccer game. It was the principal
game for the Gardiner Challenge Cup, a competition
which embraces the championship of the State.
Pyrinont this season has once beaten its old opponent,
and until the second half was well on on Saturday
seemed likely to do it again. But thereabouts a
mighty effort on the part of Granville landed that
historic team ahead, and the opposing side collapsed.
In anger or disappointment it forsook science and
adopted rough-up. That, of course, settled things.
Granville won by 6 goals to 3.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Rugby Union last week
recorded that 1067 of its players had crowded into
khaki.
* * * *
Saturday’s games concluded the first round
of Melbourne football, leaving Collingwood, Carlton,
Fitzroy and Melbourne with fair promise of con-
stituting the final four. The sodden grounds made
for untidy play and brought about unexpected re-
sults. St. Kilda, f’rinstance, on its own ground,
went off pop against Carlton and scored seven points
in about as many minutes, but thenceforward was
out of the hunt. Carlton woke up and bundled the
opposition into the mud arid won out by 45 to the
aforementioned seven. The Richmond-Essendon
scuffle was the most exciting, though worst attended,
of the day. The teams scored point for point almost
throughout. In the last few minutes the yeliov.-
and-blacks forestalling an Essendon attack snapped
a couple of points and won by 38 to 36. Colling-
wood got to business early, while the ground wasn’t
hopeless and the ball beyond salvation, and piled up
23 points to one before South Melbourne realised
what was happening. A four-goal lead in the first
quarter isn’t much to some teams on a fine day;
but on a day like Saturday no team could wipe it
off against ’Wood. (Latter team, by the way, has
five of last year’s players bogging into Abdul-Ger-
hog, but has replaced them with such hefty juniors
that it is the only combination that can draw a
payable crowd.) The conclusion of the day’s dis-
turbance was victory for Collingwood bv 43 points
to South Melbourne’s 28. Fitzroy polished off Gee-
long by 72 to 36.
In the Association brand of kick-ball North
Melbourne has concluded the round without defeat.
On Saturday it spiflicated P’ran by 57 to 18, while
Brunswick left Northcote in the mud, figuratively
and literally, by 71 points to 39. Port and Wil-
liamstown put up a mighty scrimmage before a
numerous attendance of the holy brotherhood of
barraekers, the latter team winning by 45 points to
44. Other teams are nowhere in the competition.
“Coot”: At Nathalia (Vic.) during a
football match between Picola and Nathalia, a stray
unbleached dog suddenly. started to take a keen in-
terest in the game, and, seizing the ball by the lace,
made off across the paddocks with it for half a
mile. He was only induced to divorce himself from
it when another tyke belonging to the local hang-
man appeared, and a fight took place. The game
was delayed for lOmin., and the language used was
inspiring.
On Saturday (d.v.) tlie long-standing dif-
ference of opinion between Charlie Towns, sculling
champion of N.S.W., and Alf Felton, ex-champion
of Australia, will be settled on Middle Harbor. The
race has caused unusual speculation, and will prob-
ably induce an unusual “gate.” In addition to the
latter there is the stake of £250 a-side to comfort
the winner and make the loser feel that life isn’t all
it’s cracked up to be. No title is at risk.
*• * * *
Some maniacs have started a new “sport,”
which they call aquaplaning, and it was given a
trial at the Parramatta River carnival. It consists
merely of one of the maniacs trying to keep his
balance on a narrow board which is towed at break-
neck pace by motor-boat. L. Bell, who, with spiked
shoes, stood on the mat-covered timber last week, was
hauled along by the Kangaroo at 30 miles an hour.
* * * *
Some of Australia’s old watermen who
recently gathered on the Parramatta: Bill Beach,
65; Peter Kemp, 62; Stanbufy, 47 ; and George
Towns, 46.
* * * *
Lacrosse in Adelaide, though much modi-
fied by; enlistment of players, is brisk, and, so far,
even. Sturt, whose only check had been a tie-game
with East Torrens, was unexpectedly beaten by the
bottom team on the list—the latter’s only win this
season—and this left University with a. narrow lead.
Football also has sent many men to the sterner game,
and “gates” are much reduced. Port Adelaide’s
inconsiderate habit of winning every match it plays
continues from last season, and annoys the other clubs
very much. South and North Adelaide are next-best.
* * * *• *
“Strike One”: Baseball fans are arguing
the point over the squabble between the N.S.W. Base-
ball Association and the disaffected Leichhardt Club.
For refusing to play where directed the latter was,
on the recommendation of both grade and executive
committees, disqualified for three years. The trouble
has its good points. For a long while defiance has
been thrown at the Association by some of the clubs,
and the well-being of the game was threatened in
consequence. That Leichhardt was in the wrong in
this instance is shown by the fact that so far no
other club has followed its lead and withdrawn from
the Association. The Assoc, is further supported by
Rule X, which gives power to “alter the programme
in respect to dates or grounds on which any of the
matches shall be played.” Discretion in operating on
that rule should be exercised; but believing an altera-
tion necessary in this instance, the Assoc, had no
option but to stick to its orders, and there was every
good reason why those orders should have been
accepted. Otherwise the arrangements of the competi-
tions will become the shuttlecock of every outfit that
feels inclined to battledore them.
* * * *
W. Hamilton, the best distance athlete in
Queensland, added the State three-mile amateur ath-
letic championship to his list at Brisbane on Satur-
day, with R. Rustley and L. Belloc in the other
places. The race was run in 16min. losec. Better
time was made by Victorian champion W. IT. Brown,
who ran the distance at Caulfield in 16min. Still, it’s
slow going compared with Englishman Shrubb’s
14min. 17 l-ssec.
It. .1. Fitzsimmons put up a fine effort in
the Olympic five-mile cross-country handicap onthe
sandhills around Botany (Sydney) on Saturday. Fin-
ishing second to G. Darke < 2min. 45se'c. start) he
completed the journey in 31 min. 3 3soc. This is a
sample of what’s ahead of champion Hayden in this
season’s cross-country tests.
* _ * * *
Miss Carr, a Bathurst rifle sport, recently
scored 60 out of a possible 70 at 500yds. and
600yds.—only' two points behind top-score. Who was
it inquiring what to do with our girls? Not an
enomv, surely ?
The red deer of Otago (M.L.), which used
to be classed by' experts as among the finest in the
world, have lately shown evil signs of over-stocking.
The Acclimatisation Society estimates that, in order
to restore to the herd its original standard, it will
be necessary to shoot 4000 head in the next two
years.
(Continued on page 40.)
‘“The Sentimental Bloke” in book form is
to “dip his lid” to the public early in Aug-
ust. C. J. Dennis’s verses, already popular
with Bulletin readers, are to be published
by. Messrs. Angus and Robertson in a cloth
edition at Bs. 6d. There will be a three-
color cover design and many black and white
decorations by Hal Gye ; and in a foreword
Henry Lawson will introduce the Bloke to
the crowd.
The Local Government Act which is due
to pass the N.S.W. Legislature shortly will
give alderwomen a chance. In England
women may join local-government bodies, but
only 19 had done it when .Tiie Bulletin
last counted heads. The lady mayor is,
however, an institution in the U.S.A.. and
slip is known, too, in Maoriland..
NO SPORT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the days ot old, when a foenian bold
Came on with a rush and a roar,
Gallant and dashing, his bright steel flashing,
And honestly eager for gore ;
We studied to slay him while ready to pay him
Respect in a high degree;
For a fiercely frolicking, roaring, rollicking,
Generous foe was he.
But the foe to-day,has a sneaking way;
lie lurks in a secret lair ;
He crawls on his belly, and chemicals smelly
He wafts on the good clean air.
He's furtive and slimy, and ghoulish and grimy;
He froths at the mouth with hate;
He murders and ravages, shaming the savages-
Simian up-to-date!
When the legions of France they led us a dance,
In the days when a fight was clean,
They slew and they fought as a gentleman ought,
And they never did anything mean.
With rifles and sabres they went for their neighbors,
Ferocious, but ever polite.
Vanquished, victorious, e’er wire they glorious,
Foes it was honor to fight.
But the Blut worst breed it holds to the creed
Of the vulture, the snake and the skunk,
And it loves to go sneaking with chemicals reeking
And methods that savor of funk.'
AVhile prating of Culture, it soars like a vulture,
And drops a foul death from the sky.
It mauls us and mangles us; poisons and strangles
us ;
Gloats when our children die.
When we fought a foe with a blow for a blow,
And the chance of a good clean death,
We could honor him well when one of us fell,
Or both of . us paused for breath.
Though we jeered him and curst him, and battled to
worst him,
At least, when we finished the fray,
Quits we could stand to him, giving our hand to
him—
That was the gentleman’s way.
But the bounder who slinks with his gases and
stinks—
The slimy, unclassified squid,
Who lurks ’neath the water all eager to slaughter
The innocent woman and kid—
The world is against him ; and when we have fenced
him
And herded him close in his lair,
If his God can endure him, vve’ll kill or we’ll cure
him,
And cleanse once again the good air.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


When Language FaiIs—ELAND'S WHIPS!
(x
J
Ted: “I say, Bill, it’s your turn to yard the
horses to-morrow. Get a move on bright
and early.”
Bill: “Right-o, Ted, but I’ve got no whip.
Lend me yours, will yer?”
Ted : “Yes, Bill, but take care of it. I don’t
want to lose that whip.”
NEXT DAY.
Bill : “I got the cuddies in, Ted, but
I’ve lost the bloomin’ whip!”
Ted: “Look here, Bill, you'll have to
spar up for another. I had to
send to Walther and Stevenson’s
in Sydney for that whip. It was
one of Eland’s. You know George
Eland —he was a musterer like us
blokes, and learned how to use a
whip before he ever made one. I
wouldn’t use any other whip than
Eland’s. They’re beauts —all
Kangaroo —square dinkum. Don’t
ring the changes, Bill. Eland’s
whips have saved me language!”
The Trices for ELAND’S Stockthongs, with Pails, are:
6ft 7ft Bft. 9ft. 10ft. lift.
12-plait 10/6 12/6 13/6 15/6 18/6 21/-
16-plait 13/6 15/6 17/-
20-plait 16/6 18/6 20/- 21/6 22/6 25/6
Handles to match: 10-plait, 12/6; 20-plait, 14/6; 32-plait, 16/6. With solid
Caps, 2/- extra to above.
These whips sent post free to any part of the W orld for cash.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—post free.
12ft.
25/-
27/6
30/-
Nickel
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
Saddlers and
Harness Makers,
383 George Street, and 32 Hunter Street, SYDNEY,
Lloyd’s (London)
BRIAR PIPES.
ALL ONE PRICE.
48 DIFFERENT SHAPES.
These pipes are exceptional value. The
mounts are of hall-mar,ked silver, and each
pipe is guaranteed not to crack or burn
within a reasonable time.
No. 9
No
o. 10
.do. 3
Any Shape, 4/6 Post Free.
A great variety of LLOYD’S (London) PIPES
are illustrated in my catalog, a copy of
which will be mailed free on request.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
■ ' V
■''ft'
50 l
MMI/
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on
SHELL
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD.
Don’t be a Trailer
Ride an
INDIAN
Two years in succession we
“scooped the pool” at Goulburn,
and with the same stock model,
T.T. INDIANS. Can you beat it?
Write for Catalogue 11 D.”
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
START WEARING RIGNEY SHOES!
dg
If you are not already a wearer of RIGNEY
SHOES start to-day, and you’ll enjoy shoe
comfort such as you have never before ex-
perienced. They need no “breaking in,” but
give solid comfort from the start, and retain
their smart shape until they are worn out.
The illustration shows a Tan Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Brown Cloth Insertion Tops.
“Non-Tread-Over” Brand.
Price - 32|6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
I
m
H
THE
MULSION
EDIBdT
3HIKTS
3 r 6
(Post Free)
“Veribest'’ , Shirtings
are the Best that
money can buy. Every
Pattern is Guaranteed
to come through the
Wash Unharmed, and
to give Satisfaction in
Wear.
“Veribest” Shirts are
produced in our own
Workrooms. We are,
therefore, personally
responsible for each
garment.
“Veribest” Cutting and
Making are in a Class
of their own.
“Veribest” Value, con-
sidering Quality and
Price, is the Highest
obtainable.
THE “LOUNGE” STYLE
is the one illustrated here. With its Soft
Fronts and Wristbands it offers the maxi-
mum of Ease in W ear, while the
WINTER-WEIGHT CRIMEAN FLANNELS
in which it is made, with'their
Effects (in all colors), provide a
amount of Comfort and Style.
beautiful, soft Texture and Smart Stripe
combination that will give the necessary
POST YOUR ORDER WE GUARANTEE SATISFACTION.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd
.“Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,”
244=254 Flinders Street MELBOURNE.


IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
Ihoro tmt no teeth like those furnished by
fie .ltv. , I Kervlce - comfort, and good
a f:V I,clal teeth cannot be com-
l>«uetl with a natural set.
I'C'd'le will accordingly try to pre-
i • _ 'ccU l as long ;,s possible by
v epmg them clean, fold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
i leftectual. Hough powders, such ;is cuttlc-
lsh, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
•lie too severe on the enamel.
EUDKXTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
eTtVEXTa' • ( ? US p I,l,even,i "g decay).
nillliMA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube everv-
fcr' Fr, 'c sample posted.
KOI RE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne
HOW TO GET RID OF YOUR
GREY HAIR
A Simple, Sure, Harmless Treatment
which can be used at home with
complete success. Ag-e no obstacle.
COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS
FREE
„ rD *u M A i ' VOM , AN "' ho belongs to a prematurely
grey haired family. My father was grey before he
was JO, and two of my brothers as well as my sister
became grey early in life. Before the age of 25 I
developed grey hairs, which became quite emlvir
‘° me-socially, and also in burineS I
LOST THREE GOOD POSITIONS for no other reason
1 114,1 my fading hair. The greyness increased with
alarming rapidity, and at 28 I LOOKED UUP a
WOMAN OF 45. One day I was serioufly th hiking
o buying one of the many Grey Hair Restorers
that are extensively advertised, when I casuilkl
mentioned the subject to an acquaintance a scien-
tific man, and, as l after-
wards learnt, a greit
. student of the Che-
mistry of the Hair.
l He strongly ad-
vised me to have
nothing what-
ever to do with
these concoc-
tions. He poin-
ted out that
SUCH PREPAR-
ATIONS EVENT-
UALLY RUINED
THE HAIR, and
in the meantime
rarely deceived
even the casual
observer. ITesug-
, gested that T try a
formula that he had
perfected after a con-
siderable time, which,
b.v a certain chemical
dg
action on the pigmentary colouring cells
the hair to its normal colour. In reply to my en
quines he assured me that the formula not
only absolutely harmless hut ~,„„ij j , .
STRONG AND BEAUTIFUL GROWTH OF HAIR 'Wy
mend wrote out his prescription, which I hadmade
up, and after carefully following the instruction” for
a few days. I was surprised and delighted to find my
hair becoming richer and darker in tone The ™
colouring process continued until after'some few
weeks my hair actually once again possessed the
natural shade of my girlish davs. Since then I Have
SEEN INUNDATED WITH ENQUIRIES from friends
and also persons unknown to me, who came to Vieo-
of this wonderful preparation. Having Wme con-
vinced that I have found A REMEDY OF rymi
ORDINARY MERIT, and which is quite harmfels l'
have resolved to offer it for sale, as I am certain
from my own experience that it will prove an ines
tunable boon to any man or woman who finds grey
hair to be the same serious handicap it was to me
offer a nFw r asn e nL 2 enuine Preparation, and i
OFFER A REWARD OF £lOO if it will not re-colour
Grey Hair to Original, Natural Shade.
~ you are interested in this wonderful prena-
ration__l_am wilhng to send you COMPLETE IN-
STRUCTIONS FREE
under plain sealed
cover. Simply write
your name and full ad-
free
dress plainly and enclose 2 stamps for postage and f
will write you by return post, or if convSt call
Mrs. MARY K. CHAHMAM
Suite S 8 Linden Court. S/DNEY
HEAN’S—Best Cough Remedy.
“ Heart’s Essence mixture is the
best remedy I have ever used for
colds. It is splendid in relieving
coughs, and soothes sore and swollen
throats promptly. I recommend it to
everyone, because it is so good and
saves so much money.”—Mrs. P.
Stapleton, Black Springs, N.S.W.
One bottle ot I lean's Essence makes a pint
of best cough mixture and saves io/-. Simple
to make, pleasant to take, and always does
good. Try a bottle at once. Sold by chemists
and stores, or post free, 2/-, fromG. W. I lean,
Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, lie
sure you get 11-E A-N’-S —the genuine. 8 15
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
ol Internal and External Bleeding I’iles, some
after suffering- over 40 years.
MADE AND SOI.D BY A. MURPHY, WOY
MOY, X.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout, the States.
‘ON THE HOP.”—-A superb library
volume, containing over 300 ot'
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” OlTice, Sydney.
COMPANIES ACT 1890.
TWELFTH SCHEDULE.
Nullagme Mining Company No Liability.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Co)
CO)
(7)
(8)
l l |'\ ; |' , |MTV ltSl<; , X v"’ application to register XURLAGINE MIXING COMPANY No
18«J0 - liability Company, under the provisions of Part 11. of tile “Companies Act
The name of the Company is to be NULLAGINB MIXING COMPANY NO LUBII ITY
The , KeMst°ered P mT o, ' S ;%; lt llmlTa Gold ? el , d ’ District, Western Australia'.
Melbourne < ompany will be situated at Collins House, 300 Collins Street,
The nnn L ,be, o m tl iL Colll|sal ct S £ ropert - V> iwllldi "T claim and machinery, is £27,500.
li e unbei of shares m the Company is 100.000 shares of ten shillings each,
ilic number of shares subscribed for is 100,000.
Che name of the Manager is GEORGE SEETII ANDERSON
T^th"rdate a, i a i lh Mow:- d OCCU,,: ' tiollS 0f llu ' «har,'holder; and the number of Shares held by each
NAM r.
Alexander Campbell . .
Arthur Robinson
Gerald Henry Robinson
William Sydne.v Robinson
George Selth Anderson
AIIJ) I[ KSS.
dl Queen Street, Melbourne,
•too Collins Street, -Melbourne.
•KiO Collins Street, Melbourne,
j 3AO Collins Street, Melbourne,
i MOO Collins Street. Melbourne.
(In trust for
occur.vrjox.
Investor.
Solicitor.
Journalist.
Member London Stock Kxchange.
Accountant.
Shareholders.)
iKited this 1 Itii clay ol June*, 1915. fjpn'Rr'P' q avm< v i)u/UT
Wit,less t 0 si Bd>ature—W. A. INGE, Clerk to Airmen ROBINSON V CU, Solicitor/ Melbourne
T, GEORGEJELTH ANDKRSO.V, of .360 Collins Street, Melbourne, do solemnly ami sincerely declare
M) 1 am the Manager of the said intended Company
<2> ,x h »inur«si yv
}SX&% m AlJtJssrz&. ""«*• ren '" ri " s ■**'«* *
Taken before me at Melbourne this lltii day of .Tune, 1915 • y
WM. 11. WADDELL," .T.P. } GEORGE S. AXDERSOX.
Arthur Robinson & Co., Collins House, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Company
Y
Examine tHe Heads
of tHe .22's You Use
If they are stamped with the letter < ‘U ,,
then they are the genuine Remington
UMC .22 calibre cartridges.
These little cartridges, with a .22 Remington
Repeater or any other standard make of .22 calibre
rifle, will afford you more pleasure at less cost, than
can be secured in any other way.
Learn to shoot with these accurate cartridges; or improve your
score if already a shooter and protect yourself by insisting on
the Remington UMC red ball brand.
Jr e shall be pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When ‘writing, send us the name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
Australian Representative:
IT. W. WARDS, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
dg
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks, Novelties
Write for our New Novelty Catalogs It’s FREE.
m
%j*J
The four puzzles illustrated are tlie latest nut. They are strongly made and nickel-plated, and are
real teasers. Post Free, with full directions, 0(1. each, OF tile four for 1/0.
SPECIAL.—A box of Seven Puzzles (different from the above)
sent Post Free, with full instructions, for 2/3.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.-New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARHET, SYDNEt!
There is never any question about a dress made of
LOUIS VELVETEEN. Fresh charm, dainty
grace, style and dignity characterise every length of
this beautiful material. For your protection see that
every yard is marked with the letters L-O-U-I-S.
r j // /
Velveteen
dg
Easy Shave Always!
"'Vis
Vi-
That is what every shaver wants, and that is what* he sots if lie uses
A “PLUM” RAZOR.
There's merit in the “Plum” that give's satisfaction at all times.
The blade of a “Plum” is made of silver steel —tempered so accurate!'
that it keeps a keen edge always. The smooth, gliding “Plum” shaves
easily and leaves the face like velvet.
PROVE IT YOURSELF—IO/6 POST FREE.
Send your order to-day. We keep it in perfect order for two rears
free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/0.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/0.
Pair m Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List."
CRAIG & AITH.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, i'YDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEA US.
THE IMPASSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
< apturci •‘(•von Russian (lenerals, 100,000 nun
guns Captured 100,000 Austrians....
►Seventy thousand Turks taken prisoners. .. .Stiffemi
heavy loss. -Many thousands were taken... The
prisoners included -Cable w, « <i,,r X .
\( length tiie shocking fight is o’er,
Ihe little hills are sleeping now;
I he rills are running sweet once more,
And on the lordly mountain’s brow
The lonely guns look out on space
In silent and majestic grace.
Athwart high Heaven's sunlit face
■\o shrapnel runs its fearful race
A shining city's front to plough.
let trodden fields implanted stn.v.
The factories and shops are dumb,
And down the long road’s winding way
The swaying oxen do not come;
And still the mothers cry for bread,
And still tile children are unfed;
Rut buried are the riven dead,
And river waters are not red.
And broken is the martial drum.
The Kaiser’s flags still kiss the breeze,
the Allies flags still erect the sun.
Anile vaunt their signal victories,'
Because, you see, both sides have won.
The fact is all the hosts of war,
Battalion, regiment and corps.
Have ta’en each other prisoner,
And King and Czar and Emperor
■ Must meet to fix what should be done! •
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
1 ropicus’ : The description by
“McNorth” (B. 18/2/’l5) of the excellent
mountain road built by the Sacred Heart
Mission to its station at Mafulu (inland
lapua) is accurate, but does not mention
another strenuous bit of toil completed bv
the same band of large-hearted Christians.
1 refer to the work done by Father Fillodeau
in mapping the Mekee and Mafulu districts.
His is the only com])lete map of this portion
ot lapua, and the Government has not been
backward in using the result of his labors.
\\hde engaged in this job Fillodeau wan-
dered about the mountains with only a few
savages to assist him. He took it up. he
says, as "a relaxation from his ecclesiastical
duties. ’ and very excellent results are avail-
able m splendid charts of the river systems
and mountain chains of the whole district.
H a layman had done a fraction of the ex-
ploring and mapmaking that he lias to his
ciedit, all sorts of honors would he showered
on him by the Geographical Societies of the
world. But the Mission do la Sacre Comr
does not advertise nor shove itself into the
limelight. So its good work passes unnoticed,
l he latest thing it has done is to put down
the prayer-book and take up the rifle to
defend France against the Huns. Recently
the “brothers” of the Mission received a call
to the colors, and great was their joy at the
chance to do their share in driving the
invaders from la belle France.
“Alamon” knows what happens in the
.territory:—
A mother sent her three-months-old baby out
each day in charge of a black nurse. The gin some-
times sneaked to the blacks’ camp, and there all
the piccaninnies took turns in sucking the “com-
forter. ’ Result, a syphilitic infection of the throat.
Another case: The mother sent the baby out in
charge of a nurse, and put a bottle of food in the
pram. This lubra also went to the camp, shared
the buttle round among the black kiddies and passed
the white child on to a gin to be fed from her
breast. The doctor found angry-looking sores on
the mucous membrane. In a third instance the
lubra used to take the children down to the creek
for a bathe. When she forgot a towel she used her
loincloth. All four children were bitten. The
horror has been spread among the Binghis by the
Chinese; and the importation of more yellow and
brown is seriously advanced as a remedy for the
existing evils.
' a bond : A\ lieu the official despatches
remark that “there is nothing to report”
everyone along the line lias, of course a
happy and peaceful time, and there is no
minder and sudden death. To-day. for
instance, there has been “nothing to report.”
ic, t but 111 tell you onr own little pro-
gramme of sports. 15arly morning was dull
with only the usual snipers on both sides
trying to shoot the eyes out of the trench
loopholes, or plunking a bullet into anv old
building that looked as though it would like
its ribs tickled. About eight o’clock a Ger-
man gun began playfully pitching shells
along the support trenches and into ruimd
houses behind them. After about ’!()
leisurely rounds from him. some of our guns
began to join in the lark. This shut Fritz
up for a bit, and things quietened.down to
the usual sputter of rifle fire. About S.3(>
a couple of British ’planes buzzed over and
began making eights over the Germ position.
Brother Hun couldn’t stand this, and
started with his anti-aircraft guns, bursting
whUe cotton-wool balls all round the fliers.
Alter the plane excitement had died out
some of our heavy guns had a practice on
louses and other marks behind the enemy
linos. 1 hoy knocked one house down vrrv
prettily and set fire to a ruined farm. The
next hour was dull, and I filled in time
peering through a periscope at the land-
scape and eating some food. About this
tune a smper took a sudden dislike to mv
observation post, and sent bullet after bullet
smacking into it. As I was well under
cover it didnt worry me. and I let him
smack away. _ Then the Germs pumped a
number of O-ineh shells into the trenches,
ns apparently stirred up the opposition.
, thpy jammed back a cartload of compli-
ments. Onr heavies, retorted with Ivddite.
and for a hit there was a lively passage, with
shells roaring over our heads both wavs
Beth sides let up about tea time, and busi-
ness was slack again until dusk, when some-
imdy got the pimps and started a ponple of
iine-iire. Both sides apparently thought
there was .something in R and proceeded to
seek it m. Machine guns joined the
rumpus, and the air was alive with whist-
,?• "’liming bullets, and the vicious stock-
whip-crack reports of bullets hitting sticks
and stones and smacking into parapets.
Arp one who wanted to commit snieido had
only to neon Word the cover. As a matter
tact ' * v 111 Mom Come is always hist round
the corner from any point in the firing line
even although the despatch does have
no lung to report” except that it’s “all


THERMOGENE
WAS
INVENTED
BY A
BELGIAN
CHEMIST
IN BRUSSELS.
he Truth about Thermogene
Thermogene war discovered by Charlesiwt Charlt
Va a „T=t 0 Bro"rsoV l i?e B“ 1 sh n s m h , tsof Thermogene to an English Family, who are
the mesent owners. Since that date Thermogene has been Bntjsh-owned and
manufactured entirely by British Labour at Hayward s Heath, Sussex, England.
In 1909 when the steadily increasing demand for Thermogene called for a larger
output aniTan extension of "the factory, the owners a pnvate
limited company, known as the Thermogene Co., Ltd. The Shareholders, .
number, were all British, and, although one of the original Shareholders is now deceased,.
the entire ownership remains in the hands of the same private British Company
Thermosene besides being a British property manufactured in Britain by British
labour, has not only secured the goodwill of the British Public on its own merits, but
is used bv the British Red Cross Society and the Royal Navy.
General Manager and Secretary.
THERMOGENE
IS
BRITISH OWNED
AND
BRITISH MADE
BY
BRITISH LABOUR.
No matter how acute or how long-standing
your pain may be, Xhermogene will bring
you comfort and relief.
The joint that is throbbing, the chest that is racked with coughing, the back, the head or hm
that is aching with pain, caused by damp and cold, will find immediate and certain re ie
when Thermogene is applied The pain will subside, the aching will cease, and t e
genial, comforting warmth will permeate the affected part. Thermogene is a scienti ica y
prepared, light, dry, fleecy wadding, which entirely supersedes the old-fashioned t
requires no preparation whatsoever—no boiling water, no mess, no fierce blister-raising eat.
A piece can be taken straight out of the box and applied at once. It can be secure y
means of a simple tape bandage, or may be lightly tacked to the underclothing over t xe
affected part, and can be worn without the least inconvenience or discomfort night an ay.
RMOGENE
dg
*22*
l)d»
Thermogene is Natures sovereign remedy for aches and pains.
The secret of its wonderful efficiency lies in its subtly stimulating
effect upon the blood.
At all Chemists, 1/3 per Bos,
IpO Cl 7 Write for our new Illustrated
IT I— * 1-4 Book on the Thermogene treat-
ment. You will find this little book very in-
teresting, as it describes in detail the action cr
Thermogene, and tells you how to get the best
results from its use. Write for a copy now to
Thermogene Bureau, 5 & 7 Barrack Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Sj!c Agents for Australasia 1
BASSETT & JOHNSON,
5 & V Barrack Streel, Sydney, N.S.V/.
Manufactured by
THERMOGENE Co., Ltd.,
Hayward’s Heath, Sussex, Enj.
Thermogene Absorbent
Wadding as applied foe
the relief of Sciatica.
Lumbago, etc.
m
mft
mm,
1
BRITISH OWNED and BRITISH MADE by BRITISH LABOUR.


Building up
after typhoid
THE EVIDENCE
Claygate, Robert Street, West End,
Townsville, Queensland. 18/7/1914.
After a serious attack of
typhoid fever, I was a com-
plete invalid, not having
strength to walk, and suf-
fered great pain after par-
taking of the smallest
amount of food. After the
fust bottle of SCOTT’S I
felt decidedly better, and
now feel a new woman. 1
am better than before my
illness and owe my health
to your wonderful ‘SCOTT’S
Emulsion
(Mrs.) E. E. Stovold.
SCOTT’S Emulsion never fails
to build up weakly men, women
and children.
It strengthens the lungs, en-
riches the blood, revitalizes
the nerves and drives
out weakness and
depression.
Yon get the finest cod
liver oil in. the world
and the advantages
of the perfect SCOTT
process when you
insist on genuine
dg
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
IMITATED BUT NEYER EQUALLED.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
: the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
j If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
: which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals' and been told your case: is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Trv the great British .Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
British Prices, 1/1 *4 and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
IV. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, etc.
m
a. ■
4
a
Dr B. Allen’s (USA)
m%\o,m
WALNUT
STAIN.
FAR
GREY
HAIR.
SIEMENS
Cable & Instrument Worßs: Woolwich, London.
Machine &, Switchgear Worßs s Stafford, England.
Electric Lamp Worßs: Dalston, London.
OBACH
dg
Cells
For
Ignition
and
General
Use.
aw**!
?■ * •-
Some of the Varieties of Cells manufactured
at Woolwich Works.
The
Highest
Quality
Dry Cell
Made.
SIEHENS OBACH DRY CELLS are universally admitted to
be the most POWERFUL and DURABLE Cells of their
class.
They are entirely of British Manufacture as supplied to
Commonwealth Postal Department.
SIEMENS BROS. DYNAMO WORKS Ltd
Head Office —London.
59-01 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
42 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
YOUR HAIR
WILL
LOOK BETTER
will be finer, softer, smoother,
Scurf aud Dandruff will disappear,
if you take care of it by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
which will Preserve, Nourish, and
Strengthen it, and as it penetrates to
thi roots will replace the loss of the
Natural Oil in the Hair, the want of
which causes Baldness. It is sold in a
Golden Colour for Fair Hair, of Stores,
Chemists, Hairdressers, and Howland’s,
67, Hatton-garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations under the
same or similar name which have no
Kestorative Properties and do not
contain that delightful perfume—
Otto of Hoses for which Howland’s
Macassar Oil has been so long famous.
WHEN YOUR INVITATION TO A
FANCY-DRESS BALL
comes along, don’t puzzle over what you will
go as, but call on
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO.,
and they will suggest for you from a wonder-
land of fancy dresses and costumes. For
years The Buttonhole Co., 1.0.0. F. Temple,
Elizabeth Street (opp. Mark Foy’s), Sydney,
has won all the first prizes at carnivals and
displays. Wigs made and sold.
Special attention given to the dressing
of operas, children’s plays & fancy sets.
*
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
„ A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AKAHIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive v*u. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SUM FT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless— effective—
reliable—it, is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
h actory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
sr
vfyx?.
A
'\ t -Xi:?P'&
_i“‘ :’•
aS® «
*2B@m
&£
m
#fC
St B ■'.:
o>
pij
Tricolor Electric Signal Lamp
RetflorOanger, Green for Caution, White
dg
for All Clear—Go ahead!
This is the finest Pocket Electric Lamp yet
produced. It has Three Powerful
1 Lenses —Red, Green and White, with
which all kinds of signals can be
flashed. By using the Morse code you
can 44 talk ” to a friend at a great dis-
tance on a dark nigbt. You can
change the color Instantly
from white to red or green. Won-
derful effect. Handsome, well-made
lamp with nickelied fittings. The best
dry * battery, needs no preparation.
Only 4f6, we pay carriage anywhere.
|The Union Co.'. 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourm.l
Hardly a list of dead and wounded reaches
Australia and Maoriland but is studded with the
names of prominent athletes. Footballers are parti-
cularly prominent. One of the best-known of a bunch
on M.L.’s honor list the other day was Corporal
Claude Dustin, of Wanganui. He had worn the
representative ' Rugby jersey ■of the North Island.
Killed in action, aged 21.
M.L. Tennis Association has started a
shilling fund to provide a memorial to 'Anthony
Wilding’. Part of the money raised will be used to
erect a monument of some kind at Christchurch,
Wilding’s birthplace, and the balance will go to pro-
vide .Wilding Challenge Trophies, to be held by the
annual winners of the Championship Singles for both
sexes. • •
Another feature of the football season
that has been declared off in Maoriland is the con-
; tests for the Brown Shield, the emblem of supremacy
of the. Soccer game. Canterbury holds the bauble at
present.
“Garnishor”: The Sydney betting case
which cost a landlady a 7O well exemplifies the
devious way in which the Law advances upon such
matters. Under the ancient Common Law a plaintiff
could recover upon a bet. Then came the Early Vic-
torian age and a Parliament increasingly swayed by
the wowser, and as a consequence the Gaming Acts
were introduced. Debts of honor thereby became
truly debts of honor. But the centuries-old principle
that it is impossible to make legislation effective
which is against the national instinct came into play,
and the Courts had to find a way out of the mess in
which Parliament had landed the community. They
did it with great tact and consideration for the feel-
ings of everyone; and in spite of Parliament it is
practically as easy to recover on a gaming debt as it
is to recover on other contracts. In the first place,
the Judges said that as soon as it became evident
that the matter in issue before them arose from a
wager they would decline to try it. But, going
beyond that point, they added that “if another and,
distinct legal consideration can be established, there
is nothing in the payment of a sum equal to the
amount of the bet to taint such consideration.” What
is done by a plaintiff therefore is to create a new
consideration. When Mossy Solomons sues “one of
the lads” to recover a bet, and the latter pleads the
Gaming Acts, Mossy relates in the box how he threat-
ened to report the defendant to Tattersall’s commit-
tee if he didn’t pay up, how the defendant broke down
completely and promised that he would pay as soon
as he could get the cash if Moss would only hold his
hand, and, furthermore, how he (Moss) did hold his
hand in consideration of the agreement by defendant
to pay him. The new consideration is a valid one,
say the Judges, thus biffing the Gaming laws. Mossy’s
yarn is generally a lie, but it is received with sym-
pathy and even respect,- and Mossy gets a verdict.
George Price, a well-known Maoriland
horseman, at present in England looking for horse
bargains, hadn’t come across any when the last Eng-
lish mail left. He says that, judging from the big
attendances at race-meetings, one would not suspect
war was raging. Horse-owners were optimistic, and
preferred not to sell promising animals, believing that
the unpleasantness would be over by December.
Optimism is a fine thing, but it can be overdone.
* * * *
War and all, the entries for the Y.R.C.
classic events amounted this year to 1951 for seven
races, which is 97 better than last year. The Derbv
has a string of 396, the St. Leger 360, Melbourne
Cup 256, Sires Produce Stakes' 220, Maribyrnong
Plate 257, Ascot Vale Stakes 289, and Oaks 173.
“Fits P.”: From this out let nobody say
the cocky isn’t a sport. Was driving for’ a doctor up
Warwick (Q.) way, and getting an urgent call from
a selection went out at a 40-50 clip. On our
arrival Cocky, who was doing Ids best to help the
nurse, was, of course, hunted off the premiss. ’He
came out to me, and after the usual remarks about
the weather wanted to know all about the car.
“Wot’s ’er ’orse-power?” “Twenty,” I told him.
Then he let off the most contemptuous grunt I’ve ever
heard, and said: “Look ’ere, I’ll ’itch 20 ’orses on ter
yer rear axle and pull yer for the fiver wot’s ’anging
to the job inside.”
* * * *
“Quill”: Can anything rival the bleak
aridity of the horse-owner’s mind when it comes to
christening his nags? May one, therefore, make
suggestions? Anyone with a real topnotcher ought
not to hesitate to register it Goben, for with such
a name it should run away from anything, Then if
someone wants a name for a real coot, can any
objection be found to Hollweg? Or to Unterteocean
for an in-and-outer ? Communique might meet the
case of a moke the trainer was in doubt about ;
Dardanelles of a good plodder, and Berlin Wireless
would do for something having a questionable pedi-
gree. But the name that should appeal most stronglv
to owners and punters is Munitions, for the stable
having this up its sleeve must win. A youngster
called Shells might prove a disappointment by going
off the day before a big race and wounding everyone
but Noses. But if the entry of Bar Von and co.
were dubbed U2O it could easily live up to its name
by coming to light only now and again—when least
expected except by the party on board.
Elias Laycock, who rowed in the
veterans’ race at the Belgian fund regatta on the
Parramatta, is 70. He was bom in N. S.
Wales in 1845, and as far back as 1879 defeated
for the champion belt of the State
A. Hayden, who last year scooped most
of N.S.W. long-distance athletic championships,
showed the other day that his legs are still sound bv
winning a five-mile road-race at Sydney from scratch
in 25min. 7sec.
“E.N.M.”: The sudden exit of Frank
Musgrove in the prime of life is something to
deplore. “One of the finest type Australia breeds,”
might be his epitaph. In the Westralian roaring
days, when first I knew him, he was famed for his
all-round abilities as a cricketer and t footballer.
He was a good bat, of the steady-to-brilliant order, a
very clever, heady howler, and a fine field. As a
footballer there was no cooler, cleverer, fairer player.
In those days he was a slim but well-built, freckled
youth, clean-shaved and admirably groomed. He had -
a natural turn for writing, and for some time pro-
duced the cricket notes for the Westralian Sunday
Times.
* * *
Floyd McFarland, the best and one of the
biggest of the. Yankee long-distance cyclists, who was
killed at the Newark Velodrome, got his rise in life
through a railroad strike in 1893. He was then a
bank messenger at San Jose, and the local banks
needed cyclists to carry funds to San Francisco.
Mac used to bike 50 miles a day, to and fro, with
10 or 20 thousand dollars concealed about him. Then
he got the idea of making long-distance riding his
specialty. At the dreary game lie lasted as a cham-
pion for 12 years, and his final go—in 1911—was a
win over 10 miles. Australia remembers him as a
pretty tough sort of dollar-chaser. Still he was
much too good a man to be done to death with a
screwdriver by a German-Jew confectioner.
“Pick”: With some gun-men the trout-
liound is becoming favorite among dog’s. Any non-
descript mongrel will do when trained to slather
along in the shallow reaches of the rivers and start
out trout from under the banks and stones. Then
his master bangs away, and where the water isn’t too
deep or the gun too crooked, the fish is usually
bagged. It mightn’t tally with the notions of rod-
and-line experts, and may be a contravention of the
regulations against explosives under the Fisheries
Act, but, as I lately witnessed on the Bredbo, it is
a sure and easy way of getting a feed.


I
«3S
**■
4! iiiib >
dg
3
«f ■•••' =»
■JwSiV.
tiitfu
BiftrliH
it
dg
dg
Edison
Mazda Lamp
Insist on MAZDA
—lt Will Pay You.
BRITISH
B
T'H
MADE
This is a photograph of a MAZDA
LAMP that was in service in
Sydney from 30th Sept., 1909, until
7th May, 1915.
LIFE 22,700 Hours.
A number of other lamps installed
at the same time are still burning.
9
M
“ Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY,
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
' Agents
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
DINNEFORD’S
'I
DINNEFORDS
Magnesia
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
■ IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Stewart Dawson’s Specialise
in Birthday Gifts
Selecting the gift is quite a simple matter at Stewart Dawson’s. We have such an
excellent range of high-grade novelties in Silver and Jewellery that no matter
what price you wish to pay you will find something dainty, sensible and unique.
May we send you our new Gift Catalogue post free 1 '■ *
K 192. New design in a 15ct. gold Brooch,
set with Aquamarines and Pearls . . 90/-
mm
&
Kl9O. Pr.etty 15ct. gold brooch, set with
selected Aquamarines and Pearls,
£3/10/-
STEWART
O’
KlB9. Fine Aquamarine and Pearl _set
jjiuoch, in soliu loot, gold 105/-
m
Kl9l. Exclusive design in a 15ct. gold
Brooch, set with Aquamarines and Pearls,
105/-
DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, SYDNEY.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL GOODS TO ANY ADDRESS.
Winter Nights’ Enteftainments!
Indoors around the fire you’ll all have a GREAT time with the merry-
making “CINCH.” It’s the top-limit in talking-machine value—will
play any disc-record and play it well. It has the famous Goosepeck
tone-arm —the device that enriches the tone. Get one for these
Winter nights and keep things lively.
The “CINCH” costs only 75/=
Zonophone Double-sided Records: 10-inch, 3/-; 12 inch, 5/-. All the
latest subjects—all reputed artists.
No better entertaining combination for tie outlay anywhere.
Ask your nearest accredited dealer to play The “Cinch” Zonophone
and Zono. Records.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest accredited
dealer on request. }
THE BRITISH ZONOPHONE CO. LTD.,
Hoffnung’s Chambers. 163 Pitt Street, Sydney


Companies. Ac.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
• A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
tnSK and satisfactory
interest for your savings.
received from 1/- upwards.
£2OO Pakl per cent - on flrst
*•200 and 3 per cent, on excess to £6OO.
ERNMENT TS guaranteed by the gov-
MONEY TO TEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS
mcn^°r, tS ,v P to £5O0 ’ by instal-
ments extending: over 31 years. Interest, 5 per
State InC 7W o* AgetlCieS throughout the
this Bank offi are not now Agencies for
By Order of the Commissioners,
H. DAVIES, Secretary.
the
Bank of North Queensland
limited.
U -T E IORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
subscribed Capita] and Reserves. £385.000.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY •
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Generai. Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USTjA'L BANKING BUSINESS.
THE '
Australian jjanlt of Commerce
EIAIITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.]
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED URigS^Q
PAID-UP (31st December, 1914) .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £55,000
HEAD OFFICE : George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq ■
George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth’,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world.
principal towns of n
C. AT. C. SHANNON. General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LTAfITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital ~ .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 178.000 , 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 I 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
: .Tas. Slunro, Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.;
James Love, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa. China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, limited.
Capital Paid-up ~ ..£2,000,000 0, 0
Reserve Fund ~. 1,755,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,755,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Gf,oi*oe J. Cohen. Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater. M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. IL Moses, M.L.C. Hon. .Tames Burn?, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Auditors: F. AV. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, 'Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dirbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief inspector:
H. IT. Massie. (
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY. 4 '
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Hem Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .. .. 600,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
«P 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial fflutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance. '
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directorsi
The Hon. C. .1. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping. &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
OKMONM ..GearedTurbine
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12.130
12,129
12,124
12,077,
12,036
9,023
8,282
MA .. Triple-Screw
OR VIE TO ..Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
, OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMRAH
'aPS™ Wireless Telegraphy“’“New’Lnd lu’xuri-
bedsteads s,;^ip C R blI H S ‘ < l e " luxe; Staterooms, with
Electric B Lifts"and SdrES””’ P ™‘ e B ‘ ,hr ““'
MPnimromr' 11 f! ' 0m BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, 0
Railways U d States and Canadian
dg
*The largest, finest and newest ‘ steamer trading
between Sydney and San Francisco. a: : j
Framcisca Paciflc Exhibitiori novv open at San
hv Ar ( ?"" d ,. Pac . ific , T , ours - returning from Vancouver
Span"S Ror "' JMI u « «'»
Steamers eqtlipped with Wireless Telegraphy
Particulars 'and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND LTD
259 George Street. Sydney. ’ ’
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
for
this and other
Queensland ports) .J
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 26.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 30.
Leaves Sydney July 3.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves, Melbourne July 7.
Leaves Sydney July 10.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 3.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. Peregrine (3500 tons) leaves Brisbane every
Friday at 8 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at
GLADSTONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting
at TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports
as far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares,'Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii'
giving
12 days to see the exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
July 3; July 31; August 28; Sept. 25.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
?0 RE
RAW
Wk/-,
sjy/4
j Ava
THtfR
~V- <•
.1^
;v^
i •»
BRISBAME
K
10RD
SYDNEY
IEIBOURHE
,-4
' NORFOIK
I?
'5375/ D/JIDVJ *8
JtiOdtfON/£'VAVp
Burns Pimp&C?L t p
Send fop Pamphlet*
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve '.Liability
-fm
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,550.000
£3,500,000
£9,550.000
The Hon. Sir Charles I\. MaeKellar,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Eaithfull, Esq., M.D.
Kt., M.L.C.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G.,
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
M.L.C.
AUDITORS: —William Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepbeard Edgecliif Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
346 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world
_• , ■ . ' J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian Stat.n.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
i With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the intpstor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker. •'
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU. Brisbane.
T. C. TBOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. HESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
I IIEAl) OFFICE
'
IBank* Australia
SYDNEY ■
Open
for all
in the
principal
General Banking; Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened Interest paid on fixed deposits
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Deposit
1/'
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at *j o /
per annum w/ 0
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL Deputy (Joremor. June, 1915 DENIS IN MILLER. Governor
h>W
Splendid Wipter ToCsrs
TO THE
SOUTH SEA ISLANPS
FIJI
Quaint Customs,
Rugged Scenery.
TONGA
Palm-fringed
Coral Islands.
SAMOA
The Cem of the Pacific.
Union Company’s GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at SUVA Is NOW OPEN.
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION FROM
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
July 3 and July 31.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
INSTAMINCKA, June 26
GRANTALA, July 3.
WOLLOWRA, July 10.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at'‘the Company’s Office.
G. S. YPILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
7 t
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN H.M.
LINE.
iri conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST AND
FINEST VESSELS TRADING BETWEEN AUS-
TRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
dg
■’■Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite. Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift. Wireless, t Twin-Screw Steamer. Wireless.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can, obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Uiimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern. Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphs'.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON, ;
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS. ,
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
T. 5.5. “ KANOWNA”
T.S.S. “KYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
10,000 tons
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all, Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in .the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, II BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
"j"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-'
date liners for SYDNEY’, or vice-versa. ; j
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon jtjnj
steamer. £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerages
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply!—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.?
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director. • 1
Missing Friends.
U/ILLIAM BARNET WALKER, of Yacl?andanda|i,s
vy Victoria, last heard of in Kalgoorlie, WffitJ
Australia, is requested to communicate with the
undersigned, when he will hear something to fiisi
advantage. |! \
F. J. T. LYNE, Solicitor, Tallangatta, Victoria." ?


dg
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
IO YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Del i vered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Mae*' 5 " r o
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
MEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
Fire Insurances
- £.500.000,
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks . •
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool* Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed ..
Capital Paid up ....
Reserve Fund and Undivided
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
..£250,000
..£lOO,OOO
Profits .. £15,365
and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trustee,
Administrate r or Attorney under Power for absentees,
and is the only Trustee Company empowered by Act
of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street,
Directors.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL. Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
R. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
TELESCOPES
A good Telescope affords a view of delight-
ful experiences, and makes each outing highly
instructive, as well as intensely interesting.
The “RANGER” is made of solid brass,
three draw tubes, cap for object glass, and
revolving disc for eye-piece, to keep out dust.
Good definition, and magnifies over .eight
diameters, with splendid range.
The “Ranger” Telescope
Post Free, 12/0.
Only obtainable from
A.P. Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.,
189-191 George Street. BRISBANE.
British “PRINCESS”
CREAM SEPARATORS,
dg
The Cream
Separator that
has stood the
test of time.
The best is the
cheapest in the
long run.
Spare parts
stocked.
AGENTS—
JOHN uANKS & SON PTY.. Ltd., Melbourne.
W, HART & SONS, Launceston.
W. BUCKLEY, Barlow Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
W. A. PRESTON & CO., Brisbane.
Made
by
Watson, Laidiaw 8 Co.,
Engineers,
Glasgow.
' EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF: '
From 16/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH. Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
0
Your car may have a strong frame, good transmtssion, and an excellent
motor, but if the tyres, which indeed form the very foundation of the car.
are not equally good, then beware l
An insecure foundation, whether in houses or in automobiles, is equally
treacherous, and is sure to result in disaster.
The tyres, therefore, form the foundation, not only of your car. but of
that feeling of security which is so essential to the pleasure of motoring*
Ensure your enjoyment, then, by fitting
Motor Tyres,
MADE IN ONE QUALITY ONLY-THE BEST.
MICHELIN TYRES AND ACCESSORIES
can be obtained from all the leading Agents*
G. 4.
(Michelin Tyres are made in France).
Stewart
Light
Delivery
Motor Van
Solves the Parcel Delivery Problem .
TEWART Light Delivery Van means much to the merchant and tradesman:
Prompt and better service.
Lower delivery service costs.
Four times more delivery mileage.
Access to more customers.
One Stewart will do the work of three or four horse-waggons. It means an efficient delivery service at
all seasons of the year. The Stewart is simple to drive and take care of—is handsome, reflecting goocLtaste
and “quality”—costs far less per mile than ordinary touring car—carries extra loads with ease. Petrol
consumption is low; automatic lubrication for motor; has long working life.. Pays for itself several times
over.
Built in one chassis size, of 15001 b., to which our entire energy and accumulated experience have been
devoted.
Used in no less than 85 different kinds of business, by many of the foremost firms in the world.
IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT GUARANTEED.
Write for catalogues and full information. Special
care taken in assembling and packing for export.
Dealers are invited to write for Special Informa-
tion. Representatives wanted in Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart (Tasmania).
Stewart Motor Corporation
Buffalo, New York, U.S.A.
Terms, F. 0.8. New York. Cable Address : STEWART, 3ufFalo.
dg
ill
sr
'NVM
iS^AWOTRAVt
*»<awii^
S2hSTtToh^
7JIUCM enoU**
MADE IN A MOMENT!
Just hot water (not boiling) and you have a delicious, invigorating Food Drink
—known as the Powdered Energiser. The unique process of manufacture
makes it germ-free. Sample will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson <sk Co.. 26. Jamieson Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
INSTANTLY
PREPARED


“Finney” Overcoats
For the “Man-of-to-day” are vastly better than those his
father bought here half a century ago—although they were
the best produced in their days.
But the world and “Finney’s” ,have moved on apace, and
there has been no pretermission in our care of styles and
stuffs!
The Best Argument, however, is the
“KUMFORT” OVERCOAT at 27/6
(FINNEY’S PAY THE CARRIAGE).
Quite the Smartest Coat you will meet in many . a day’s
march, cut on loose, swinging lines to envelop the figure
with smartness, yet giving jt,he desired protection of warmth
and comfort. With wide lapels, smoothly-fitting collar, and
flap pockets. Of Wafm, Woolly Tweeds, in effects of Grey
and Brown. Price 27/6.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO. LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK
«
Love of justice being the
civilisation, German kultur is
on their idol of frightfulness,
of justice is King George
Scotch.*
truest test of
but the gilding
A great ally
IV. topnotch
WHEN
IN
BRISBANE
STAY AT
GRESHAM
*
Typewriter Carbons.
Pen 8 Pencil Carbons.
Typewriter Ribbons.
Insist upon getting Kolok makes, which are
acknowledged the best in the world; The
Kolpk Economy Binder is used by many thoU, l .
sands of operators ; and once used is always
used. All Stationers.
British Made with British Labor.
IN
BANANA LAND
Stcdart, M.L.A., probably the oldest mem-
ber of the Queensland Assembly, has been
informed that his son, Colonel Stodart, is
among the wounded. Somebody banteringly
asked the old man during the election cam-
paign why he didn’t go to the Front. “I’m
too old,” the veteran replied ; “but the only
two sons I have in the world are there fight-
f® r our country.” That proud answer
didn t do the old man any harm, either.
The Parliamentary Country Party has
just resolved to go alone and not attend the
meetings of the regular Opposition. All
these attempts to squeeze public opinion and.
representation into two narrow channels are
bound to fail in the long run—as they
ought to. _ Appel is leader of the Country
Party—without prejudice to W. S. Murphy,
who continues to lead and organise himself
as before.
Excerpt, in defence of the police, from
the old Rockhampton News (1865) :
Smith, a well-known trooper, having treed a nigger,
used to challenge him thus with finger on trigger:
“One, two, three, in the Queen’s name, come down!”
A report and the fall of the unhappy black game
would be almost simultaneous. Charley, a trooper,
in the heat of the fray had dropped his nigger with-
out repeating the orthodox words. Turning with a
triumphant smile to his officer, and calling attention
to the writhing form of his half-dead victim, he
sang out with his carbine at the present: “Almost
mine bin forgot it! In Queen’s name, surrender!”
The Gallery’s post-mortems:—
Denham.—Keen in attack, able in defence, but tor
prone to be shifty in tactics; attentive to official
duties, and a whale for detail.
Barnes.—ln spite of all, the most trustworthy man
in the Ministry. A good speaker but for his wowser-
istic intonation.
Appel.—A jolly good comrade, with the most
robustious voice ever heard in the Assembly.
Grant. —A pleasant, tactful fellow—cut off too
soon for fame.
Kankin and Douglas.—Politicians whose predicted
magnificent future is now behind them.
Blair. —He missed a Judgeship, and is now not
even a politician.
Scenting another battle 'Over' thr Bible-
in-schoals- (let in there-- by the Denham
crowd) Archbishop-Donaldson is organising
the defence. Many Labor men are hotly
opposed to the introduction of the parson
into the secular schools, and may be relied
upon to try to force Premier Ryan into an
awkward corner if he jibs at the task of
tindoing the butter-man’s legislation. The
churchmen are uneasy at the announcement
that the Government will submit to the
people the question of State-aid to denomina-
tional schools and “other difficult problems.”
The hint drove the Archbishop to heroics in
exhorting his synodsmen to die at their posts
rather than surrender their privilege of
retailing Bible stories to young Queensland
in school hours.
“Don Q.” : Of the six Ministers, who were
bumped in the recent elections, ex-Treasurer
“Bishop” Barnes took defeat-4;he worst. For
a week he filled the newspapers with la men-b
tations, and has ever since been a loud-voiced
Jeremiah predicting calamity. The “good
sport” in the brigade was Rankin, and he
saved his seat. “A regular boil over,” was
bis only comment; “we’re in the soup all
right.” The Colonel will probably be made
leader, though there are some Liberals fool-
'jish enough to speak of trying to get Barnes
and Denham back through friendly resigna-
tions in Fat strongholds. It wouldn’t be very
safe to run Denham for even Toowong or
Fassifern. And. anyhow, why? How many
tips does the Liberal party of Queensland
i want that the “Liberalism” of middlemen
jDenham and Barnes isn’t the Liberalism, the
I country wants?
Old James Farquharson, who passed out
at loowoomba recently, was a man of many
parts and much experience. Born in Scot-
land under the shadow of Balmoral, he came
to Queensland 50 years,ago, and busied him-
self with building and contracting until the
grazing fever took him. It took him so
badly that he wound up as the owner of
three handsome stations. In his early, im-
pious days he danced a Highland fling before
Queen Victoria, and thereby won laurels of
which he was immensely proud. The in-
sidious climate of the Downs undermined
him in his 84th year.
. T ]\v latest import that threatens trouble
in Queensland is the warble fly. The
. warbler” pierces the skin of cattle and lays
its eggs there. Maggots hatch out, drop to
the ground, are picked up by fowls and
emerge in chrysalis state to hatch out as
flies again. If the Stock Department could
only train the tick to feed on the fly, or the
warbler to worry the tick, both pests might
be cut off early. Imported British bulls are
responsible for the new infliction.
Principal Freda Bage, of the Brisbane
Womens College, loses a brother in Captain
Bage, killed in Gallipoli. Bage was Mel-
bourne-born, and educated, but migrated to
Bananaland, where lie was attached to the
staff of the Chief Engineer of Railways. He
went with Mawson to the Antarctic, where
his skill and courage won him the King’s
medal. When he fell the Engineers lost a
brilliant, officer and Australia a son of great
promise, e ~
BILLGHTENING THINGS UP.
DEAR OLD AUNT (to prickly-pear selector): “I’ve brought you this cactus to take back
with you, Harry. It will help to brighten up your home.”
“McNorth”: According to “Opus” (B.
29/4/T5) one of the reasons why the newly-
started cocoanut-growing industry in North
Queensland won’t be a success is “exorbitant
shipping- freights and erratic facilities for
trade.” Freights are no more exorbitant in
N.Q. than in the South Sea Islands, or in
Papua, or in any other copra-producing
countries. The main difficulty the would-be
planter in Bananaland has to contend with
is a clause in the Land Act which says, re
that “the frontage' shall not ex-
ceed two-thirds of the depth.” As most of
the suitable land in the North is contained
in a . narrow strip, up, to half-a-mile wide,
along the littoral, the man who is gbing in
for the industry is compelled to take up a
heap of useless country in order to obtain.the
strip of suitable foreshore. I know of one
instance where the selector had to saddle'
himself with 740 acres of useless, barren
land that he didn’t want, to obtain 220 acres
along the beach and conform with the regu :
lations as to frontage. -However, the indus-
try is going ahead, several new places have
been opened up recently, and, in these part's,
at ally rate, there is no sign of disease.
One of the quaintest of recent Queensland
functions took place the other day at Laid-
ley, where the German residents rallied to
give Dr. McDonald a send-off —to the war!
Queensland Local Authorities have been
living lately in a state of chronic congratu-
lation. Some seven or eight months ago
they were complimenting Appel on his
tenure of office and hoped he would reign
long. When Appel departed they rushed
down on Grant and eulogised him till he
blushed. When Grant suddenly vacated the
Home Office they sallied out and heaped con-
gratulations on Bowman. And if Appel
returned to-morrow they would re-com-
mence their blither.
Lance-corporal Ivaufmann, another of the
slain, was well known in Maryborough,
where he was helping to build up a self-
supporting Australia at Walkers, Limited.
Some years ago he sustained shipwreck at
Wide Bay, and distinguished himself by sav-
ing some of his companions who couldn’t
swim. Hobart and Geelong had the honor
of educating him, and he boasted seven
cousins at the Front —most of them, by the
w&y, with Teuton names.
The coming session will find the Queens-
land Leg. Council bossed by a peer without
a portfolio. Hitherto the Councillor repre-
senting the Government has always held a
seat in the Cabinet, but the maw of the
present Assembly demands all the Ministerial
positions without exception. Ichabod! The
Graveyard’s glory is departed!
Five of the new Ministers are Australians,
one came all the way from Tipperary and
two from England. McCormack, who gets
the Speakership, is native born.
It is intended to amend the Industrial
Peace Act by making preference to union-
ists compulsory. To do Denlianj’s law jus-
tice, it has worked remarkably well, only
three strikes having taken place in nearly
three years, while N. S. Wales has had
quarrels by the hundred.
Ipswich Grammar School promises to be
the most war-distinguished institution in
Bananaland. Sergeant Fowles, who died
“leading his men” of the 9th Battalion, was
another “old boy,” who passed thence into
the. Education Department. His father.
Major Fowles, is a well-known schoolmaster.
Premier Ryan says he thinks “steps should
be taken to prevent able-bodied and single
young men from receiving the benefits of the
immigration system at a time like the present
when they are required at the Front.” It
would be much more" valuable if Ryan would
tell what steps his; party will take to get
people- into this country, instead of
what should be done to' keep some of them
out. It was only the other day that a
plank of the State Labor party was “Com-
plete stoppage of State-aided immigration.”
It is to be feared that the spirit underlying
this foolishness is not dead yet.
Troop Trains.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Troop trains, troop trains,
Passing on their way;
A- sudden gust of cheering cuts
The crisp, cold winter’s day.
Above, a sky swept clear of cloud.
A blue infinity ;
Below, the dun-brown carriages
oteaming towards the quay.
All along the railway line,
Where the people dwell,
h leeks of eager handkerchiefs
b luttering in farewell.
Troop trains, troop trains !
Hear the bugle’s note,
b lags, and cheers, and music, and—
A touch that grips the throat.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 19, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
We have had another “Day”—Rose Day,
a ( variation of Red Cross Day. And the Red
Cross by any other name is just as sweet.
We fed the gluttonous little 'money-boxes
some more for our sick and damaged, and
then, gathering up the blooms that beautified
streets and vehicles and stalls, we fittingly
closed the evening by distributing them
amongst the hospitals. Our next “day” will
be “Golliwog Day,” and, alas, there are
many more to come.
Mrs. John Reid lent her home at -Glayfield
to-day for a “Paddy’s Market” in further
aid of wounded soldiers. She has been a
consistent worker in this cause. Another
attack upon spare cash was made by a large
party of small children at the Centennial
Half Their operations, titled “Cinderella
in Flowerland,” were planned and con-
ducted by Mrs. Matthews.
The cabmen remembered that we have
sick at home, and to-day their annual race
meeting was a gift to the Brisbane Hospital.
The congregation was not as large as it
should have been.
(i Our Amateur Operatic Society opened its
“San Toy” season at the Tivoli to-night.
It is the most elaborately-staged unprofes-
sional musical comedy we have enjoyed here,
notwithstanding that several musical props,
of the Society (including George Webster)
are not in the cast, being busy working up
“The Stenographer Girl” in aid of a patri-
otic fund. “San Toy” is frankly in aid of
the Operatic Society itselfthe coffers are
in a shrunken condition.
.The Women’s Club spread itself the other
night on scenes from “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” “The Merchant of Venice,”
and a couple of other trifles which William
Sbakspeare wrote some time ago before the
revue became the rage and ragtime
delight. During the evening Mrs. .Cliffe
Mackie read a letter from Colonel Plarris
which said, in effect, that travelling kitchefis
weren’t much use, and that the money could
have been better spent. This made members
of the club click angrily. It is most annoy-
ing, Thargomindah, when something you
have toiled for is turned down casually by
the. Eternal Tyrant. Colonel Harris ex-
plained -that' the kitchens can’t get near
enough to the Front. Still, there are such
things as rest camps and route marching,
and hungry Tommies abound in both. Any-
how, why couldn’t the advice have beep
sent along earlier?
The tramway to Buderim Mountain, one
of the most beautiful spots in Queensland,
was officially opened yesterday. Mr. Adam-
sbn (Minister for Railways) drove the last
spike, and coaxed a little engine through a
ribbon held by. Dorothy Irwin and Mary
Brandt. The line winds through orchards,
between Palmwoods and Buderim, and many
of the visitors were astonished at the wealth
of fruit.
Can nothing be done to the persistent
spreader of horrible stories about alleged
happenings at the Dardanelles? Two
Northern boys, who were wounded in :the
memorable landing of April 25, have, accord-
ing to idle liars, lost a limb apiece, Respite
the fact that their people have received
cabled news that one has started business
again with rifle and bayonet, and the other
is convalescent. Then, too, who is respon-
sible for the eye-gouging story, which keeps
many mothers awake o’ nights, and which
has not been confirmed? The 'fact that
Lieutenant McDonald, of Victoria, who was
the first Australian to go missing, has been
stated by the U.S. Embassy to be a prisoner ;
of war (and a well treated .one) in Con-
stantinople 1 surely proves that others may
b? similarly situated. Yet I heard one j
cheery soul assuring an anxious mother the i
other day that all our boys had orders to
keep the last bullet , for themselves, lest they
fall into the hands of the Turks !
Ipswich lost a fine young fellow when
sapper Lindsay was shot. Football, cricket,
and rifle-shooting were his hobbies, and ’he *
was the first Ipswich man to leave \yith the
Engineers for Egypt. A Bundamba native,, A
he was son of John Lindsay, a pioneer of
Queensland’s coal business. McAllister,
also killed in action, was another Ipswich
Grammar boy, who, although mighty in
build, was one of the first to join the 2nd
Light Horse. He was a sport to his
marrow a'Ad a gentleman to his toe-tips.
N. S. Wales Railway Commissioner
Harper and his wife arrived a week ago on
their way to Cairns; but he was still too
sick a man to go further than this until to-
day.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIAN JANE.
One amusing feature of the anti-drink
meetings convened, by bishops and other
clerical dignitaries in Brisbane 1 id 1 that they
are attended almost exclusively by professed
teetotallers, who are earnestly adjured* to
drop whisky and “Follow the King!”


THE NEW RED PACKING
10 for 6d.
Autely uni Q
( ii)tbeir qualities a
m
©
&
i*p
SESS
Remember when smoking
State Express Cigarettes
that no amount of extrav-
agance will secure you
cigarettes of higher quality.
CL You are smoking
“ Quality’s Limit.”
CIGARETTES
io
N? 33 3
ft?
OTHER STATE EXPRESS PRODUCTIONS
STATE EXPRESS Virginia No. 555 10 for 9d.
„ „ „ De Luxe 25 for 2/3
„ ■„ „ His Majesty 25 for 2/9
„ „ Astorias 10 for 1/-
STATE EXPEESS Virginia My Darling 10 for 9d.
„ „ „ No. 999 j 10 for 1/-
„ „ Turkish H.E.H. 20 for 2/9
„ „ No.l 10 for I/-
State Express Cigarettes are obtainable of all High-Class Tobacconists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Sole
Manufacturers
ARDATH TOBACCO Co., Ltd., LONDON.
Britain’s Greatest High-Class Cigarette and Tobacco Factories,


dg
dg
DO YOU-
LIKE TO
for f Drawing *u US to develo P your talent
copy this SI etrl hat u° U Ca , n make mone y>
critic ism S l, et T h and send to us for
Ms incomes.* Let ,n m "'.'.“'jf, 1 ?' 8 " make
it Soh'lfi
ot SKetchmgr, Bond Street, Sydney.
THE BIGGEST GAME DROPS
vdg
The Ross .280 Rifle, with Ross
Sporting Ammunition, with
Copper Tube Expanding Bullet,
patented, offers sportsmen a
wonderfully effective help
towards a successful hunt.
• 280 Calibre
High. Velocity ••
The great power and
consequent low tra-
jectory, the perfect ac-
curacy and easy
balance, are great
helps to the marks-
man’s skill, -while the
smashing blow of the
Ross Copper tube ex-
panding bullet brings
down any game it
fairly hits.
Ross Rifles
are used by the most
experienced big game
hunters throughout
the worl d.
SOLD BY LEADING SPORTING GOODS DEALERS. 6r 5
Illustrated catalogue sent free on request.
Ross Rif leCo.,Quebec,Canada.
The Record-Breaking
BARNET GLASS
TYRES
Again win right out
The First Four Places and Fastest
Time in
BULLA, KEILOR,
NORTH ESSENDON
33-mile Road-Race
went to
Sanlter - First
Bowling - Second
Munro - - Third
Farrow - Fourth
Jones - Fastest Time
ALL ON THE FAMOUS
Barnet Glass
Tyres
EVERY TYRE A WINNER
BARNET GLASS RUBBER
CO. Ltd.
All States and New Zealand
‘ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
London’s Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty Experts Writing for
the English Press. Simple and Effective Methods.
By OLGA AMSDELL, Special Correspondent, London, Eng.
The Killing of Superfluous Hair.
It is easy to remove superfluous liair tem-
porarily, but to remove it permanently is
quite another matter. Not many women know
that for this purpose such a simple substance
as powdered pheminol may be used, applied
directly to the hair. The recommended treat-
ment is designed not merely to instantly re-
move the hair, but also to eventually kill the
roots entirely. Almost any chemist could
supply an ounce of pheminol, which quantity
should be sufficient.
Renewing Complexions by Absorption.
If your complexion is marred with sallow-
ness, moth patches, pimples or freckles, it is
useless to potter with powders and paints,
lotions, creams and things, in an effort to get
rid of the trouble. Unless you have some
ability as an artist you will mar your appear-
ance still more. The new and rational way
is to take off the complexion itself, with all
its offensive marks. Just get some pure
i'ercolised wax at the chemist’s and use at
night the same as cold cream. Remove next
morning with water and soap, following with
dash of cold water. The mercolised wax
absorbs the half-dead scarf skin in flaky par-
ticles, so gradually no one guesses you are
treating your face —-unless it be by the result,
which is truly wonderful. There is nothing
like it for bestowing a natural, healthy and
beautiful complexion.
Hair Culture.
There is no excuse for falling hair; no ex-
cuse for thin, sick hair, or bald spots. No
beauty of features can make up for a distress-
ing lack of hair growth, and the following
formula will positively force the hair to grow.
Mix about an ounce of boranium in |-pint of
bay rum, shake the bottle well and allow it
to stand for half an hour, then add J-pint of
fresh cold water and strain. Rub well into
the scalp, and in two weeks’ time look for the
new growth; you will not require a micro-
scope to see it.
A “Blackhead” Secret.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly cor-
rected by a unique new process. A tablet of
stymol, obtained from the chemist’s, is dropped
in a tumbler of hot water, which will then, of
course, “fizz” briskly. When the effervescence
has subsided the face is bathed with the
stymol-charged water and then dried with a
towel. The offending blackheads, of their
own accord, come right off on the towel, the
large, oily pores immediately contract and
efface themselves naturally. There is no
squeezing, forcing or any drastic action. The
skin is left uninjured, smooth, soft and cool.
A few such treatments should be taken at in-
tervals of three or four days thereafter in
order to insure the permanence of the pleas-
ing result so quickly obtained.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often downright injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to
a natural color in a perfectly harmless man-
ner. You have only to get an ounce of tamma-
lite concentrate from your chemist and mix it
with four ounces of bay rum to prove this.
Apply this simple and harmless lotion for a
few nights to the hair with a small spop.'
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
The lotion is neither sticky nor greasy, and
has been - proved over and over again for
generations past by those in possession of the
formula.
About Shampoos.
To quote an eminent London beauty special-
ist: “The slimy egg cannot dissolve the scalp
impurities, but only adds to the trouble by
completely choking the pores with animal
matter.” The substance sticks, decomposes,
thereby causing the hair to assume a dead,
“dull color.” Avoid eggs (and soap, too) on
your hair. Try the delightful preparation
made by stirring a teaspoonful of stallax in
a cup of hot water. It will bring out new
beauty possibilities in your hair, will clear
and prevent dandruff, and leave that fine,
fluffy effect so much sought after. It also
removes excess oil or greasiness. [4
Shave Yourself.
A man has got to have some
care for his comfort and appearance,
before the Gillette shave can seem
worth while to him. More than
seven million Gillette Safety Razor
users in 1914—nearly a million new
users added every year. British made.
Gillette Standard Sets. One Guinea. Sold Everywhere.
Write tor illustrated and descriptive booklet. Mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
The New Reinforced Breech
AUSTRALIA, more than any other country in the World, requites a gun strong
in the breech, because our varying temperatures generate such high pres-
sures in Explosives. Having a long experience of sporting conditions here, we
have all our Guns made to suit these requirements, and the latest addition to
Specially Made Models is the Long Distance Reinforced Breech
Single Barrelled Gun. It has full choke, finely-bored 34-in. steel barrel, snap
fore-end, top lever, automatic ejector, half pistol grip. Weight, 71b. 6oz.
Price 45/- Postage 4/- all over Australia.
Alcock & Pierce, 318 Little Collins St., Meib.
Ladies’ Wristlet WATCHES
at £5/5/- each we have sold by hun-
dreds, and good value they are, but
we now want to popularise
OUR £lO/10/- FX. &R. WRISTLET.
WHY?
Well, it is phenomenal value.
It is a really fine three-quarter plate
lever movement.
It goes with profound accuracy.
It has the latest word in watch im-
provements.
It is jewelled wherever there is hard
wear.
It has a compensation balance.
It is in fine gold throughout, and in
many designs.
It is a watch we strongly recommend
to our best customers.
It is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept
in order without charge—break-
ages excepted—for 2 years.
pJH.TE.HT
Absolutely reliable, fully jewelled Lever Watch, in
heavy loct. gold case, with 15ct. gold expanding
Bracelet, choicely cased £lO/10/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Sandy: Someone said “Hoots awa!” and
awa it went. ’Twas verra du11....Li1: Cultivate
the patches and let the powder g 0.... Sanity: Cer-
tainly stop the war, if you can. Get a gun and
help.... Knut: The bones of it: Mash, cash, hash.
very rash. Bash! Strut: The shell of a
yarn... .M.Y.X.: Don’t be miserable because no one
takes any notice of you. The Turk is still there.
Get him on the end of a bayonet, and he’ll give you
his undivided attention. .. .Hone: Do you live in a
dug-out-—or up a tree ? Anyhow, George Reid is
not ordering troops about. He orders steak and
onions... .J.D.: An engagement in the Soudan cam-
paign conducted by Kitchener.... Bushie: We’ve
stood the recipes for damper, but must bar the pro-
posed specifications for making pies... .H. 8.: Hit
them in the face, if you like to do it openly; but
The B. offers no facilities to stab public servants
in the back.... Pip: Yelps about “taxing the mer-
chant” are all very well; but have you thought
about the merchant taking it out of the retailer
and the public nursing the baby at the finish?....
Bluebush: Can’t nominate subjects, but you should
have a lot of good copy from your personal experi-
ences.... Mary E.: Sorry; no space.... Henshaw :
Interest merely academical—to us Yancy: “On
our road there are 10 cockies who chew their daily
crust on the strength of applying their nimble
digits to the business end of Strawberry.” Can’t you
write plainer English than that? A.L.: The
lament doesn’t melt the cashbox.... Shore: There’s
an idea in it, but you don’t make it scintillate....
Jean E.: Humor too diluted.... Homo: Shell fails
to burst....'Bellerive: A war-echo, with the black
border omitted :—■
The Bulletin trusts he’ll repeat the performance
in the name of the Czarina... .C.L.G.: Your grocer
talks too much.... Kim: Poem progresses like a
motor-cycle, with a series of sharp explosions....
C.E.L.: Good topic, but requires finer handling....
W.A.D.: Basket... .J.L.8.: You don’t make enough
of it. .. .E.0.U.: Ghost rhyme doesn’t freeze our
supper beer... .H.P.: Not a Bulletin character.
... .J.H.T.: No good. .. .Tiggles: Story is too young.
.... 11.A.P.: At first glance, it seemed to start off:
“He sent me a present of bloomers.” But it turned
out to be something commonplace about flowers....
Gunner: Sorry, it’s a misfire... .S.G. (Tas.): The
verse-carpenter may be able to save it. Unaided it
cannot make port... .R.K.: Unexciting sonnet. Every
good sonnet should have a murder in it.... A.H.T.:
Old ladies don’t talk like that. Or if they do they
shouldn’t... .E. 5.8.: “Farewell” nicely rhymed, but
too conventional. .. .C.E.H.: Sorry for the sailors.
The verses won’t d 0... .K.H. (Q.) : But whose rats
are they—the journalist’s or the Kaiser’s?... .Iris:
Your warm, eager letter: —“Dear Sir, —Hearing that
you are sympathetic with your literary aspirants, I
am enclosing an effort of mine in that direction.”
Your cold, bitter verses:—
....Sparks: If you have -been an operator on a
passenger ship you should have much better copy
than the sample you sent along... .H. 8.: Of no use.
.... W.F.: That letter to the Bishop has been so often
in print that it can now put itself into type without
the help of an operator. Ditto various versions of the
pill story.... W. Hope: No hope... .R.S.: First-rate
idea in “Just to let you know’’ ; but it isn’t worked
smoothly enough. Passed out with regrets....
G.H.C.: “Fools” is very promising. It’s one of the
things that the Kaiser has crowded 0ut....J.5.:
Mother’s frenzied morning is only cut out of the
calendar because another mother’s frenzied morning
was reported but recently.... The Imbecile: Your
misfortune that “Den” covered that ground lately.
But there’s good color in it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.R.M.: Crude, flat things. Buy an elementary
art book, and try to absorb a few hints.... S.T.:
Small, cheap gag; but there is a suggestion of life
and gaiety about the drawing... .H.J.R.: No value.
0.8.: Don’t want brunette gag or diagram
S.A.G.: Kindergarten stuff... .Arthur M.: You
challenge comparison with various artists, and that’s
your misfortune... .Alec: Tired of panto, devils and
wooden Kaisers Fred: You bit off more than you
can chew .D.A.C.: A picture of the mayor of
Leichhardt’s waistcoat wouldn’t thrill Thursday
.Island and Bunbury. Always keep your eye on Thurs-
day Island and Bunbury. There shouldn’t be any-
thing in The Bulletin that doesn’t interest both.
.. Bar coo: You don’t know the awful language
artists make use of or you wouldn’t offer them such
gags for illustration. .. .Richard B.: Afraid not.
W. M. Hamlet, who has just retired from
the post of Government Analyst in N.S.W.,
fired one big blast against the importing habit.
That 'was when he published the results of
an examination of brandies. On the smoke
cleaving away staggered importers were heard
inquiring what had moved a Government
official, unsolicited, to throw such a mass of
destruction about? Hamlet showed that
white spirit, Berlin spirit or some similar
basis, with a dash of cognac and an addi-
tion of tap water, constituted most of the im-
ported brandies. Next he showed how the
foreign faker bottled up this stuff, gummed
on it a label bearing the design of a bunch of
grapes, and got it shipped from a French
port, so that invoices, bills of lading and
Customs certificate all vouched for the con-
tents being “pure French.” And after that
he dropped in his moral. “We live in a
country,” he wrote, “where the vine flourishes
and wines are distilled for brandy produc-
tion. In Australian brandy we have a sure
basis to work upon, and it is open for the
inquirer to see the steps in production from
the grape to the finished product.” Still,
for merely acquiring a drunk headache on,
the imported brandy was as good, he ad-
mitted, as the Australian.
DUEL ON HORSEBACK.
On a lonely route
During a fall of snow
Met a cossack grim
And a german foe ;
With flashing eyes
And bated Breath
They fought a tragic
Duel to death;
As their fiery steeds
Did prance around
Their swords did cross
With a slashing sound ;
When the cossack fierce
Like a warrior true
In the name of the czar
Run he’s enemy thro’.
MODERN MARRIAGES.
They say that love is Heaven sent,
Yet seem to think that Heaven meant
That they should live in discontent
All through their married life
I think ’tis Heaven to be free,
And live a life of chastity,
For marriage now is mockery.
Oh! who would be a wife ?


m
H«E
LINIMENT
No.l
This is, the famous Liniment that has
been used at the well-known Willows
Hospital with unfailing success for nearly
sixty years in all cases of Rheumatism,
ticiatica, Lumbago, Stiff Joints, Fluid on
the-. Knee, etc.
Athletes and Sportsmen will find it
an ideal Embrocation tor training purposes,
it being very soothing, invigorating, and
penetrating.
SOLD EVERYWHERE HT
Price Perßotf/e.
■REPARED ONLY BY
W. H. SCHOLZ & SON,
WILLOWS HOSPITAL
NURIOOTPA. SA,
Wholesale at all Warehouses.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPT - ONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION'
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2/9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS '\ t O STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removesthe effects otSunscorch
9
(Ideal)
Lasts a
Lifetime
Pleases all
the time.
Nib just
right, and
pen always
right. Too
simple to get
out of order ;
too useful to be
without.
4 Typ°s —Regular, S**ety,
Self-Filling, Pump-Filling.
Of Stationers and J ewe tiers
everywhere .
L. G. SLOAN, ®br pen Cornier,
LONDON. ENG.
AUS'IRALIA- ZIO, Ce.rge St., Sydney.
dg
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
We Supply—
J ARRAU and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S DRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.YV.
Brunches in all parts ot the world.
/
Don’t Remain
Weak, Anaemic,
“Nervy,” “Run-down.”
You really need
suffer no longer.
Because “Win-
earn is” will give
you new health,
new strength, new
vitality, and new
life. “ Wincarnis”
is a Tonic, a Re-
storative, a Blood-
maker and a Nerve
Food all com-
bined in one clear,
delicious beverage.
Th erefore, when
you take “W 1 n-
carnis” you obtain
its four-fold benefits
—all at once. It
coves new strength
to the Weak —new
blood to the
Anaemic new
vigor to the “ Run-
down” —new nerves
to Nerve sufferers
new vitality to Old
people sleep to
the Sleepless —new
energy to the Ex-
hausted —and new
health to Everyone.
It does not merely
“patch you up” —
it gives you new
life . Don’t con-
tinue to suffer
needlessly. Take
A. A A A. A
AA
ajA
AAAAAAA
m
*
TTf
rrrrw
mrn
has a reputation of
over 30 years’
standing that it
has given new
health and new life
to countless thou-
sands of sufferers —
and that it is recom-
mended bv over
10,000 doctors.
You can obtain
“Wincarnis” from
your Wine Mer-
chant or your
licensed Chemist
or Grocer. To-day
is the best day to
begin to get well.
Will you try just
one bottle ?
Begin to get well TO-DAY.
“Winearnis” is made in England by COLEMAN & CO., LTD.,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich. Yon can buy “Winearnis” from
any Wine Merchant, Licensed Chemist or Grocer, but if you
experience any difficulty in obtaining it, write direct to the
Sole Distributing Agents, Eassett & Johnson, 5-7 Barrack
Street, Sydney.
u
dg
You’ll Get
What You
Pay for
—that is, if you buy ABBEY
SHOES. They embody _ all the
qualities desirable in high-grade
footwear —distinctive appearance,
perfect finish, comfort, and long ser-
vice.
Above we illustrate our Latest
Model, a Choice Patent Oxford
Bal., with Dull Calf Legs.
PRICE 357-
In highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf . 32/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our New Catalog;.
ABBEY.
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
Mr. RANKIN’S EVIDENCE.
“Please send me another bottle of
Hean’s Essence. The cough mixture
we made from the last bottle did me a
lot of good; also my wife, and her
cough and cold were very bad.—Robert
Rankin, Ganmain. N.S.W.”
Mr. Rankin’? experience is the ex-
perience of all who make their own
family cough and x cold remedy by
using Hean’s Essence. The mixture
so easily made in your own home
promptly relieves all kinds of colds,
coughs, sore throats, croup, whooping
cough, asthma, bronchitis, etc., and
saves 10/- for your pocket. All
The Cure for
Lumbago
Rheumatism, Gout,
Wounds, Cuts, Burns,
etc. is, as thousands have
proved, the ever popular
“world’s embrocation” —
SOLOMON SOLUTION.
Read what Stephen
Simmon, of North Mel-
bourne says: —
“I was suffering great
pain in my right arm
from Rheumatic Gopt, it
was quite withered. ! I
was under a medical man,
but received no benefit
till I used Solomon Solu-
tion, which cured it in
three weeks.”
Solomon
Solution
Obtainable in 2/6 jars
from Chemists or Store-
keepers, or pest free for
3 i- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street
Melbourne
1..R/WI
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Biuxisu Ausxbal.-
asiaN, 6d. weekly—au illustrated paper
eontaining mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Bbixisii Ausxrai.asian
Reading Room at the ollices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
tMenhone, and obtain iflformation without
charge.


Public Notice.
Tongkah Harbour Tin Dredging Co., N.L.
Notice of Dividend.
Notice is hereby given that a
DIVIDEND (the seventeenth), of 10
per cent., or two shillings per share, amount-
ing to £15,000, has been DECLARED, pay-
able on July 22. 1915, anrl for this pur-
pose the Share Register will be CLOSED
from July 15 to July 22 inclusive.
Dated at Hobart this 11th day of June,
1915.
By order of the Directors.
H. J. WISE, Manager.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
-Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSII.
g Y D N E Y TIV O LI.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 AND 8.
TIVOLI FOLLIES.
AUSTRALIA’S BIG FUN SHOW.
ROBERT PARKER,
World Famous Baritone, etc.
Plan Nicholson’s and Tivoli. ,
|y| ELBOURNE TIVOLI.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 AND 8.
NELLA WEBB.
THE TYRELLS, GENERAL PISANO, NECKEL-
SONN, THE EXCELLAS, IDA BARR, ARCO BROS.,
VAUDE & VERNE, DORA SAWYER, “LEG I SEE,”
Plan at Glen’s.
jgRIS BANE TIVOLI.
RANDELL JACKSON CONCERT CO.
FRANK WILSON.
GUS T. RAGLUS, COR DE BLY, etc.
JULY 3.
NELLA WEBB.
The Incomparable Diseuse.
E~K M A .1 E S T V ’ >. S Y 1) N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF PINAFORE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 26. - i
Brilliant New Production of that evei'-delightful
Opera,
THE CHOCOLATE SOLDTER.
Plans at Pali tig’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
Q RITER lON THEATRE, SIDNEY
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF UNDER COVER.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 26.
Dramatic Offering of the First -Importance,
TEE LAW OE THE LAND.
Brilliant Cast, headed by MURIEL STARR.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
II K A T K E R O y A L. S Y I) N K V.
Lessees: Messrs. J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Sub-LesSees: Directors of the BERT BAILEY CO.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BERT BAILEY COMBINATION
in STEELE RUDD’S
ON OUR SELECTION.
Plans at Paling’s.
AL ACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES: WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, at 2.30.
MR. and MRS. GRAHAM MOFFAT
in
A SC PAPE O’ THE PEN.
A Scottish Comedy in three acts.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Amusements.
TOWN HAL I. . SYDNEY.
* COMMENCING SATURDAY, JULY 3.
In Aid of AUSTRALIAN WOUNDED SOLDIERS and
BELGIAN RELIEF FUNDS.
THE BELGIAN BAND.
Conductor: Mons. PHILLIPE MENY.
In addition to the Band there are three leading
Belgian Concert Artists: —• ..
Mdlle. ALICE VICEROY, Prima Donna from the
Grand Opera House, Brussels;
Mons. ALBERT GOOSSENS, Brilliant Operatic
Baritone, from the Grand Opera House, Brussels;
Mons. FLORENT HOOGSTOEL, Violin Virtuoso,
from Royal Conservatoire, Liege.
The Belgian Band consists of SIXTEEN BEL-
GIAN and is further augmented by
Twelve English Performers.
IMPORTANT. —Messrs. J. & N. Tait announce that
the Vvhoie of the profits from the Australasian Tour
wiU be given, half to the Australian Wounded Sol-
diers and half to the Belgian Relief Funds.
Popular Prices: 5/- and 3/- (Reserved). Unreserved:
2/- and 1/-. Hon. Direction J. & N. TAIT.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s Monday Next.
■ You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
T iIE PICT CHE BLOCK THEATRES.
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, II a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
YCE U II THEATRE, SYDNEY,
SATURDAY NEXT. From 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
SATURDAY NEXT. Continuous Exhibitions.
ALLEN DOONE.
i Supported by EDNA KEELEY and the original Co. in
THE REBEL.
A Five-reel Picture Portrayal of the stirring Drama
of Ireland’s Struggle for Freedom.
Hours of Screening: 11.10 a.m.; 12.50, 2.30, 4.10,
5.46, 7.25, 9 p.m. Prices: 3d., 6d., 1/-. Prices.
Til E A T It E R O Y A L, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON,' Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
the Great Spy Play,
THE MAN WHO STAYED AT
HOME.
Prices: Dress Circle and- Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
U lilt MA.JKSTY\S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 26.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. revive the Delightful Musi-
cal Pluy, '
THE ARCADIANS.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
r Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 26.
George Willoughby Ltd. present the New London
Success,
AS MIDNIGHT CHIMES.
Prices: 2/-,‘l /- and-6d.-
Plan at Pianola.
Amusements.
I J O U THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
FULLER BRENNAN vaudeville.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
CARLTON CHASE, MICH A LET, THE QUEALYS,
ROSIE RIFLE & CO., FLORENCE ESDAILE* THE
BRADNAS, TED STANLEY & WESTONY.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, & 6d. MatinSees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
** Direction W. J. SHEPHERD.
Direct from the SCALA THEATRE, LONDON.
EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees: WEDNESDAY, SATURDAY, AT 2.30.
Children Half-price.
WITH THE FIGHTING FORCES OF
EUROPE.
IN KINEMACOLOR.
New Features This Week.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
H OYT’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
M ELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
AFTERNOONS, 3 to 5.
EVENINGS, 7.45 to 10.
RICCO’S ORCHESTRA.
BRISBANE.
OPENING JULY 31.
pALACE GARDENS THEATRE.
HA 1! 11l N G T ON~ REYNOLDS
ASSOCIATE PLAYERS.
IN HIGH-CLASS COMEDY.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all' the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Heat- Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
Rt.llntJn*' OWno Crdnov.
“Britannic” Hot Water Heaters
For Wood, Fuel or Gas.
dg
BRITANNIC CHIPS HEATER.
This Heater is specially designed for country people
who have not the advantages of gas. They are also
used extensively in city homes, being more economi-
cal in fuel consumption. ' A sheet of newspaper - and
a handful of chips are quite sufficient for a nice
hot bath. Our prices should appeal to all keen
householders, more especially as they are backed by
our guarantee. . ■ ■ i ■
These Heaters are made of strong Galvanised Iron
and neatly finished in Enamel.
Made in Australia by Australian Mechanics.
With Shower, £4. - • •
Without Shower, £3.
Packing: Rail or Steamer, 5/- extra.
IMPORTANT.—State which end of Bath
Heater is to stand.
BATH
FRONT.
tEFT
HAND
RIGHT
1 HAND
The Britannic Lighting 8 Engineering Works,
(P. T. KAVANAGH, Proprietor),
Corner Essex 8 Harrington Streets, SYDNEY.
dg
Britannic Quick and Lively
Water Boiler for Gas.
These BOILERS are of tubular con-
struction, and are very efficient heaters.
Made of tinned copper with tinned
brass tubes. Specially suitable for
Hotels, Caterers, Factories and Kitchen
use.
4 gallons polished copper, £4/5/-
6 gallons polished copper, £O/-/-
12 gallons polished copper, £B/10/-
Mckel-plated, 20/-, 25/-, 35/- extra.
PIANO &
This lady “ rattles off" songs
and dance music, yet DOES NOT
KNOW ONE NOTE PROM ANOTHER
SJH
ORGAN PLAYING MADE EASY
ALL THE DIFFICULTIES OF ORDINARY MUSIC SWEPT AWAY
Not Vamping, but actually PLAYING TUNES with BOTH HANDSj
Anyone can learn it. No Teacher needed. FAILURE IS IMPOSSIBLE ,
A Large Book of Sixty Pages (11 by 15 inches)* 8/6, including postage anywhere|
(.This new way of playing can be MASTERED IN HALF AN HOUR. No
of music needed You see just where to place your fingers to play the tune, melody |
and accompaniment, with both hands, and, without knowing one note from another, you
.find you can produce exactly the same music as a talented player. IT SEEMS
'IMPOSSIBLE, BUT IT IS A FACT. Miss Julia Evans, Keyneton, S.A.; Mr. A
Fountain, Wanganui, N.Z.; Miss H. Wickham, Mackay, Q.; Mr. M. J. Pattison, McMahon s
Ck., Vic.; Miss C. Piper, Warwick, Q., and many others have expressed their delight atj
the' ease and simplicity of the new system and their intense pleasure at being able toj
play brilliantly without the drudgery of learning scales and keys, sharps and flats and
all the other difficulties of the old method, that are swept away. The book contains a (
fine collection of popular music, songs, pieces, hymns, dances, waltzes, quadrilles,- fantasias,
an<r operatic* sefections. YOU START RIGHT OFF PLAYING TUNES, and by the time you reach the end of the book
you are gratified to find that you can perform the most elaborate compositions with ease and confidence. (
Obtainable only from THE UNION AGENCY CO., 299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE. .
dg
dg
Pastilles
dg
THESE wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a
formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes : “ . tnank you for
the boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.” „, „ , ,
Sole Manufacturers :
EVANS SONS LESCHER, & WEBB, Ltd,, LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS” Pastilles and see you get them.
Missing: Friends.
James Paton Thomson, Deceased.
INFORMATION is sought as to the
whereabouts of the following persons : —•
EMILY THOMSON or FOGARTY (nee
Pretty), age about 50.
JAMES PATON THOMSON or FOG-
ARTY, age 23.
Both were last heard of in Sydney about
the year IS9B. Will any person obtaining
information as to the above kindly communi-
cate with the Public Trustee, Wellington,
New Zealand.
I P MALACHY WHYTE, son of James Whyte, late
* of Ballveorhan, Loughrea, County Galway, Ireland,
who emigrated from Ireland about 12 years ago, and
last heard of in Brisbane, will communicate with the
undersigned he will hear of something to his advan-
tage.—J. F. FITZGERALD & WALSH, Solicitors,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 10th June, 1915.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for Provisions —1915-16.
TENDERS will be received, subject to the
conditions of tendering, until noon on
Monday, 28th June, 1915, for the supply of
the undermentioned provisions to PI.M.A.
Ships or Establishments at the Ports . of
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Albany, Fremantle and Hobart, during the
year ending 30th June, 1916.
(1) Bread.
(2) Fresh Meat.
(3) Vegetables.
(4) Dairy Produce.
(5) Fresh Milk.
(6) Condensed Milk, Unsweetened.
(7) Soluble Navy Chocolate.
In the cases of (1) to (5) above, alterna-
tive tenders are to be submitted for the fol-
lowing periods, viz., (a) three months end-
ing 30th September, 1915 ; (6) six months
ending 31st December, and (c) twelve
months ending 30th June, 1916, and the
right is reserved of accepting any one of the
alternatives. Deliveries of (6) and (7) are to
be made to Sydney and Melbourne only.
Tender forms, etc., may be obtained on
application to the Director of Navy Con-
tracts. Navy Office, Melbourne; the Victual-
ling! Store Officer, Royal Edward Victual-
ling Yard, Sydney; or the Naval Staff
Offices, Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Albany,
Fremantle or Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for . . . .”
on top left-hand corner of envelope, and
addressed to the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; or to the Director
of Navy Contracts, care of the. office from
which.the tender form was obtained.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Tenders in all cases to be on the printed
form, which can be obtained as above.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 9th June, 1915.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Examination for Appointment as Pay-
master’s Clerk (Sea-going).
A COMPETITIVE examination for ap-
pointment as Paymaster’s Clerk (Sea-
going) in the Royal Australian Navy will
be held in the Capital Cities towards the end
of 1915.
The syllabus and standard of examination
will be the same as for examination as clerk
in the Commonwealth Public Service.
' The following qualifications are required
of candidates :
(1) Must attain the age of 18 in 1915.
(2) Must be of pure European descent,
and be- the sons of either natural-born
or naturalised British subjects.
(3) To be able to pass the prescribed medi-
cal examination.
(4) If subject to provisions of Defence
Act, must produce evidence from his
Area Officer that he has fulfilled his
obligations in that respect.
The present regulations provide for sal-
aries commencing at £9l ss. per annum on
appointment (first twelve months on proba-
tion), and there is a possibility of rising to
a maximum of £BB9 13s. 9d. per annum.
Officers also receive, clothing and provision
allowances, and medical attention.
Application forms and particulars may be
obtained from District Naval Officers at the
capital cities of the States, and from the
Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne,
with whom applications must be lodged not
later than Monday, August 2, 1915.
Each application must be accompanied by
a postal note for 15s. crossed and made
payable to the Director of Navy Accounts,
Navy Office, Melbourne.
T. TRUMBLE,
Acting Secretary.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 16th June, 1915.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for Supply of (a) Motor Car,
and (b) Char-a-banc.
rfIENDERS will be received until noon on
J_ Wednesday, 30th June, 1915, for the
supply of the following to the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College, Jervis Bay, N.S.W.,
viz.:—
(a) Motor-car capable of seating 6 per-
sons ;
(b)
Char-a-banc capable of seating 30
persons. . .
The price tendered is to include delivery
at the Naval College, Jervis Bay. Tenderers
are to give complete particulars regarding
the cars offered, and must state whether the
body is Australian-made. Tenders to be
endorsed “Tender for Motor-car” on top
left-hand corner of envelope, and addressed
to the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
The daily press can’t get out of the habit
of leaping in the air when it is discovered
that this country is a little more resourceful
than a nigger republic. There is jubilation
at the present moment because someone has
remembered that a Melbourne firm made two
torpedo boats away back in 18S0 when the
Hmpire felt nervous about the Russians. At
t£e same time a Sydney firm manufactured
shells for the artillery. These engineering
concerns didn’t stop making torpedo boats
and,'shells because the supply of brains had
giyefc out; they stopped because a country
with Freetrade tendencies and a daily press
with a great capacity for astonishment and
drift didn’t give them any encouragement to
continue the good work. The habit of being
wildly astonished over mild industrial
achievements should be discouraged with
.good-natured ridicule; in many cases it is
'hypocritical, and in all cases it is cheap and
, gives outsiders the impression that this
country still lives in a bough hut and eats
; gohanna.
No sooner had the Red Cross Society
started to get machinery in motion for
taking up a big collection throughout N. S.
Wales than Holman rushed forward bawl-
ing “Halt!” and mumbling that the thing
was one the Government could not allow to
go forward except under certain conditions.
After its first shock of surprise the com-
munity learned that the only condition was
this: That Hugh Ward, of the Williamson
firm, should not be the boss director; that
the limelight should fall on someone else —
either Holman or the person who pulled the
string which caused Holman to move with
such suddenness. The upshot of a prolonged
and discreditable wrangle was that Ward re-
moved himself from the waggon after leaving
a big cheque behind. Why Holman was
allowed to butt in in this ill-mannefed
fashion has not yet been explained. The
activities of the Red Cross have nothing to
do with him as Premier. He is under no
obligation to make provision for the wounded
soldiers. The care of these men is wholly a
Federal matter and is being attended to by
the proper authority. If the public wishes
to assist the Defence Department then that
is the public’s business, not Holman’s. As
Premier of the State he has no more status
or responsibility in this matter than Tom
Henley or Chidley, and all the talk the com-
munity has heard from him on the subject
has been just so much guff. If N. S. Wales
had to do anything in the matter as a State
then it would have been Holman’s duty to
seek the necessary appropriation from Par-
liament, not to discharge the State’s duty
by running round with a hat.


HAIR TO FALL OUT
Greatly. Very Annoying. Looked
Like Rash. Awful Itching Pre-
vented Sleeping. Cuticura Oint-
ment Healed. Hair Now Thick,
Fernlcigh, Turil, N. S. \V. —“For two
years I suffered with dandruff in my head
which caused my hair to fall out greatly
and was very annoying as it used to show
on my dress. The trouble looked like a rash
and I was continually troubled with an
awful itching which prevented me from
sleeping.
“I used several other remedies, but
without success. I then tried Cuticura.
I applied the Cuticura Ointment daily and
when soaked in the scalp I removed it by
washing with hot water and Cuticura Soap
and almost immediately I felt the improve-
ment and by the time I had used the con-
tents of the tin of Cuticura Ointment I was
completely cured and my hair has now grown
quite thick again.” (Signed) Mrs. D. J.
Power, Feb. 23, 1914.
FOOT BADLY BLISTERED
Bellmont, Tocumwal, N. S. W. —‘‘Some
time ago my brother while playing ran on
some hot ashes and burnt one of his feet
so much that the foot became badly blistered.
I at once procured a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment and it eased the pain at once. In
about two weeks’ time the sore was quite
healed up and my brother was able to wear
his shoes again and run about.” (Signed)
Thomas Bradford, Januai’y, 1914.
Samples Free by Post
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold
everywhere. Liberal sample of each mailed
free, with 32-p. Skin Book. Address R.
Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
“I simply can’t account for this
trouble with my teeth —and I’ve
been so particular to keep them
immaculately clean always.” This
is the complaint of thousands.
It’s just this way, Madam.
You’ve spent your time watching
the highwaymen robbers of tooth-
health —Decay Germs —and for-
got all about their sly, insidious
accomplice, ‘‘Acid Mouth.” Acids
are constantly forming in the
mouth. They are constantly
“working.” But they work
“incognito.”
And here lies the danger.
These mouth-acids, unmolested,
unsuspected, gradually dissolve,
and break down the enamel. The
tooth then becomes easy prey to
decay germs.
Look out for “acid mouth,”
that filcher and falcon of healthy
tooth life. Pebeco Tooth Paste
users have a good chance to keep
their teeth for life.
Send 3d. Stamps for sample
tube and interesting test of Acid
Mouth. I
OF ALL CH E M ISTS.
PEBECO is Made in Australia by
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [6
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance tliat is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Tben write us. and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collina.at., Melbourne, Vic.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1849.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold tib'
or Suburban Properties, or on freehold
. JK „ O .r nf i .4\ HU* II I
Dntf
I
ICnox
K
or Suburban Properties, or on j reeuoiu
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands or o;./he Semuity of Oovern.nent
Oebentures, Inscribed Stock or LOWJRST 'ciJBKEJiT AtATES^OF^INTKKUST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
hn to 20 ner cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment or any nne.
.tHCTohs-Tlie Hon. AW. Meeks. M.h.r..Chairman : The lion. .1. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; (he
lion. James Burns, M.i.J . : The Don. I!. J. Black, M. I. (' : The lion. E. B W (''‘ I'roiHCJC
Knox Esq KG * Sir Alex. MacConniek, General Manager and Actual \ . Riclwid leu.e, • • •>
K.p.A.. F.S.S." ’ HEAD OKFiCE: 87 PITT STBKET. SYDNKV. 11. W. APPKItLY. Secretary.
NTO fire insurance can prevent
fire—but “ Decay Insurance ”
will prevent decay. To secure in-
surance against loss by decay, have
your property protected and pre-
served by Berger’s Paint. It looks
better, wears longer and is more
economical than any other paint.
Ask your painter to use “ B-P
Berger’s Paint (prepared).
er
Ml
“ B-P ” Berger’s Paint (pre-
pared) for painting buildings inside
and outside is guaranteed to work
easier, cover more surface, look
better and wear longer than any
other paint made. Colour folder of
52 standard shades free on request.
Berger’s
1 Paints
isr Varnishes
Get Colour Folders and Particulars,
together with name of local
Agent, from Head Office:
18 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
I Ask to = day
If o r your
I colour folder.
dg
SBSSSS
WEAR WELL EVERYWHERE 1
UNDER THE SUN. |
Lewis Berger & Sons '
(Australia). Ltd.,
18, Young St., Sydney,
Makers of Paints, Colours and
Varnishes at
HOMERTON. LONDON.ENG.
AN/EMIA
(Poorness of Blood)
Loss of
Appetite
I
Lack of
Energy
Pallor
~T~ i
Hysteria “ Nerves
y
Depression
Breath- Palpi-
lessness tation
.A - ' ▼ '
Exhaustion
Be sure you take Iron ‘Jelloids’ when Anaemic.
In Anaemia the whole body suffers, because the rich red blood
upon which the well-being of the whole body depends is lacking.
The system then becomes weakened and debilitated, the nerves
are starved, the heart is overworked. The result is Lack of Energy,
Depression, Paleness of Lips and Cheeks, Breathlessness and
Exhaustion after slight Exertion. To remove these symptoms the
blood must be enriched and strengthened—and the simplest, most
pleasant and economical way to do this is to take IRON ‘JELLOIDS.’
iron Jelloids'
enrich the blood-renew vitality
The Revel. A. J. Waldron, Vicar of Brixton, says : “I have heard
“ about your Ikon ‘Jelloids’ froma Doctor, and have recently had occasion
“to take them. I am strongly of the opinion that if the public realised the
“fact that tliev have at hand at sucha small cost such a pleasant and efficient
“remedy for Anaemia, and such a splendid tonic for Nerve-strain, etc.,
“many a home would be happier and many a life made brighter.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince yon.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine),
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/U and 2/9, per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N..S.W.
Manufactured only by The ‘Jelloid’ Co., 205, City Rd., London, England.
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produces
w HORROCKSES’
SEE HORROCKSES* NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS.
The Inky Way.
THE POET.
[For The Bulletin.]
ITe sang of love. The song flew far
And solaced many a heart a-vvearj,
And saved some soul from wreck maybe.
At home he nursed a vile catarrh.
II is wife was false, his soul was dreary,
The butcher, sued for seven-and-three.
maoiuland. SEEWYX RIDER.
* * * *
Newspapers’ serial-story geese are all
swans. Hobart MERCURY sticks to tins
theory while its yarns are being sawn up
alive; but when they come to be bunecl in
book form, the old lady is liable to snort at
them. The other day a “powerful and
“thrilling” yarn expired in its columns, and
within a week this review of the book
brightened the Mercury : —
“The Eternal Triangle,” by Lindsay Russell.—A
painful story of men and women tangled up by what
the author considers love. They are a poor lot, not
worth reading about, much less writing, about.
Was it honest repentance, or just plain,
cussed carelessness?
Douglas Sladen, who was in the Com-
monwealth for a few years, and wrote Aus-
tralia’s worst poem and a biography of Adam
Lindsay Cordon, has just turned out in
London a half-guinea volume of reminis-
cences, “Twenty Years of My Life.” He
gossips about London clubs, actors and
actresses, and a number of notabilities with
whom he was brought in contact as editor
of “Who’s Who.” W. S. Gilbert at first re-
fused in liis rudest manner to give him any
information for that guide-book. Sladen re-
taliated by giving Gilbert a couple of curt
lines: “Writer of verses and the libretti to
Sir Arthur Sullivan’s comic operas.” Gil-
bert retorted with a long and furious letter,
but he took care to supply full particulais
for the following year’s issue. Sladen says
J. Iv. Jerome became a humorist by acci-
dent. He started “Three Men in a Boat” as
a guide-book to the River Thames, but it
changed its character and developed comi-
cality as it went along.
* * * *
Being the reflection of “Sarto”
An editor is a cow that wanders on to the Inky
Way, and too often wrecks one's finest train of
thought.
“P.ega” : 1 see the Italians have been ex-
perimenting with one or other of the recent
■ Abo-liar recipes for damper. I learned it
from the S. M. Herald (1/G/T5). which
reports a raid upon Pola by dirigibles. The
cable concludes
Returning from the raid the flotilla destroyed some
large sailing vessels with flour.
From the Southern Star, an up-country
N. S. Wales newspaper:—
The military regulations now provide that a recruit
must have at least two upper and two lower sets
of masticating teeth on each side of the mouth —that
is, eight in all.
Tough, no doubt; but surely this Turkey
isn’t so tough as to demand all that.
Harry Burne, the son of a Sydney doctor,
who is going to the Front as a lieutenant
in the Field Artillery, had some picturesque
adventures as a black-and-white artist in
North and South America. After doing a
lot of illustration and poster work in the
States, he had a look at the Canal, and
drifted to the Argentine. There he struck
a slump. To get back to the States he
worked before the mast on a Nova Scotian
barque, struck a bad gale, and put in at
Barbadoes. In New York he met Hugh
MeCrae. An eye-witness of the meeting
describes it as being even more impressive
than Stanley’s “Mr. Livingstone, I pre-
sume.” From N’York he got through to
London and the recruiting sergeant.
■* * * *
“Quidam”: Re Thaddy O'Kane and the
Charters Towers Miner (B. 8/6/T5).
Though the paper toned down considerably
when Dave Green and the two Towers
lawyers, Luke and John Marsland, pur-
chased it and installed linotypes, it still had
a sprightliness not common to Southern
dailies. Nominally it was a supporter of
the Philp Government; yet when "Bob”
proposed anything contrary to goldfields’
desires, the Miner used to make a noise
that could be heard in Parliament House.
The journal was for many years published
in Thaddy’s weatherboard barn, and it took
much ingenuity to steer a way in between
bales of paper and other hrie-a-hrac. “Yon
Kotze,” a one-time well-known Bulletin
writer, was for some years a proof-reader,
and every 50 seconds used to light his PjP (J
at the gas-jet over the desk, lie had to give
the job up when the electric current was
turned on and the flame was cooped up in a
bulb. But “Yon Kotze” didn’t make as
much noise about it as a thirsty sub-editor
once did when, beating a retreat through a
dark doorway in response to a whispered
invitation from a circus agent, he ran into
the head of an elephant which had been
surreptitiously brought in for the occasion.
It was a disreputable, cheerful, old wreck
of a place, where good fellowship was more
frequent than boiled shirts.
Corporal AY. A. Fry, killed at the Dar-
danelles. was a popular S.A. inky wayfarer.
Graduating from the Mount Barker Courier.
he later brightened up the Moonta People’s
Weekly and other country sheets. In Vic-
toria he ran the IIeytesbury Reformer.
* • ' > •*
Dead in London, the Daily Citizen, the
organ of the official Labor party —the crowd
which sits in Parliament, is said to have
succumbed to “the tone of the House,” and
takes tea with duchesses. The paper was
as vapid as one might expect the organ of
such a party to be.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : Adam Lindsay Gordon is achiev-
ing that kind of fame which consists in
your lines being household words in the
mouths of people who don’t even know your
name. The clever Mrs. Hugh Fraser, who
wrote “A. Diplomatist’s Wife in Japan,” says
in her last book: “ ‘Kindness in another’s
trouble, courage in your own’ —it is won-
derful how some of these old nursery rhymes
fit those dear, simple, golden-hearted, foul-
mouthed” Western Americans.


m
m
I FIL CEIiT D.8.8.L. GUN. 12- or 16-gauge, top lever 30in
steel barrels, extension rib. rebounding Jocks, left choke, snap
fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock ; weight about 71b
Postage on one Gun. 2 9 N.S.W. : 5'2 Inter-State.
37/6
Harrington S Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
32-gauge top
action, soli d
case hardened
locks, deear-
dg
lionised steel barrel,
about Glib, (lun ea
Double I'arrel Gun.
anu. pistol grip, walnut slook. weight.
1 be taken apart, same as an ordinary
Auto-Ejector, 25/-; Non-Ejector, 22 6
Postage—-2/C N.S.W. ; 4/S Inter-State.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
and all Sport-
ing Goods,
Post Free
Anywhere.
dg
The tf Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 ups I Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock
case-hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all .18-I,in., weight about 41b. A
splendid gun for use in Orchards. Tostage—ls. 9d. X.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
£l/15/.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City Sports l>epot : 119 King Street. Sydney ; and at Newcastle and Brisbane.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST HOUSE for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK.
©
mßi
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks,
cioss bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke. 30in. special steel
pistol srnn wnlnut .
Greener
barrels,
Asii ‘ st0CK- engraved, weight of 12-gauge about
Mb. to 71b. ; of 16-gauge, 611b. to 611b. DELIVERED
Ve can supph' this Gun in 20-gauge at 12/6 extra.
£4.
e are the Sole Agents i
pecifications, and therefore ca
N.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own
thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
o
9
“Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
.lOin. Ivrupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full
choke, 12-gauge-shot. 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7-lib.
CARRIAGE PATD.
£77-
Information for the Housewife
CLARK’S
BOILER*,
CAST- IRON
SAUCEPAN S,
KETTLE*, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as the lightest Enamelled Ware, and will last
a lifetime instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust. Handles that will not slip in the hand.
Please note the
Hygienic Sha p e
and the Patent,
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
SECTION
n
tm
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S HOLLOW-WARE IS THE BEST
Australasian Agent : A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
dg
Cures ECZEMA
Prom the slightest rash or pimple
ECZEMA spreads until the whole body
is in its grip.
No matter how the terrible disease
manifests itself, either dry, scaly or
mattery, this splendid remedy
Cures the worst case of Eczema in 2 weeks
Large Bottle,
5-
Invaluable for all irritations of the
Skin. Exzerma is a Household
Remedy, and no home should be
without a bottle. Perfectly harmless
and absolutely non-poisonous.
Small Bottle,
216
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Australasia.
None genuine without the signature S. FIELDER.
Ms
AustreJi&n Made"
dg
Combs,
2/= each.
Cutters,
6d.each.
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB& CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, Sydney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARINC CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
PI
Sh
k «E
31
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over SO en-
gravhigs, new 1013 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, (id. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend,- Is 6d. Nud Donnelly's Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including- Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating thb
Hoh.sk, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, ls6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aus-r. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
llow to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ds. Not Guilty (Blatc'n-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
IQs 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d
m
m
i
w
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows’ up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very-
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -®|
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full, directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Tiie White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Evbrt Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinkt Makers’ Handybook. Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, ls2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, is.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hbptameron, and manv
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lees Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women's Secrets. Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SHfEsktablislied 23 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL, IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s (id.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete'
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted".
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pav 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing” Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors. Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyanc b
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
piete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY’


*
mm
m
m
m
i
MISS DOROTHY CUMMING Praises
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
yiiss Dorothy Gumming is one of Australia’s youngest, fau est and most notable
Artists. This talented young lady started her career under the direct auspices ot
Mr. J. C. Williamson himself, and her progress since then has delighted all hoi
many admirers. „ . ~
Miss Dorothy Gumming’s part in “The Man Mho Stayed At Home is the
most discussed of any part that has been seen m Australia for some time. She
writes as follows
I want to tell you what I think about your Remedy for Coughs and
—Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. At various times r have tried
many things when troubled with a cold, and I want to saj that you have
the best by far, of any I have ever come across.
It has always cured me in a remarkably short time. lam only too
glad to add my testimony, and wish you every success with it.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) DOROTHY CUMMING.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY is the quickest, safest and best-
known remedy for Coughs, Colds, Pleurisy, Bronchitis and all ihroat and ( host
Troubles It is the remedy that can always be relied upon. It. is obtainable
everywhere at 1/6, and in larger bottles, holding two and a half times as much,
at 3/-.
D? Sheldon’s
saio
aNV
sHono
'V\7'HEN Decorating,
YY Remodeling or
Building, te assured of
SANITARY as well
as Beautiful Walls and
Ceilings use
BEAVER
BOARD
You need hygienic walls, not only
in sleeping rooms but in every
room in the house.
Beaver Board takes the place of lath, plaster
and wall paper. Better, stronger and more
sanitary walls and ceilings are quickly and
easily built with Beaver Board.
Beaver Board is made of Pure
'Wood Fibre. It beautifies and
brightens the home. It won't crack,
and will last a lifetime.
Beaver Board is especially recommended for
residences, offices, schools, shops, hospitals,
and churches. It assures well designed, well
built walls and ceilings that give greater
satisfaction, freedom from cracks and repair
expense, and permanent satisfaction.
MADE IN CANADA
Your architect will tell you all about Beaver
Board. Booklets, designs and free samples
are obtainable from any Beaver Board stockist
WARNING: All wall hoards are not
Beaver Board. There are imitations. Be
sure to get the genuine with name and
trade mark on hack of every fianel.
Solid Comfort!
No torn or dingy wall paper in
this room. No cracked plaster.
The walls and ceilings are
made of Beaver Board.
Easily put up at any season
of the year without mess or
bother. Lasts without repairs
as long as the house. Resists
heat, cold and sound.
Treated on both sides to pre-
vent absorption of moisture,
and to protect against changes
of weather. Is scrupulously
clean and makes any room
more cheerful and inviting.
Make a spare room out of the
attic. Use Beaver Board for
partitions. Use it to brighten up
the living room or dining room.
Supplied ready for nailing to
joists or studding or over ole
walls. Panels about A" thick,
36" and 48" wide and in even
foot lengths up to 16 feet.
The Beaver Board Companies
Ottawa, Canada
4 Southampton Row, London, .C. England
REPRESENTATIVES:
0. D. Gordon, G. P. 0. 1893, Sydney R. S. Ward, 40 William Street, Melbourne
STOCKISTS:
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide
Cowell Bros. & Co., Adelaide
Gunnersen & Crockett,
379 Kent St., Sydney
Janies Hardie & Co., Melbourne
G. Gunnersen & Co., Melbourne
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Perth
G. P- Harris Scarl'e & Co., Ltd., Perth
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Brisbane
James Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane
BEAVER
BOARD
The Blue Danube.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rII IIE mobs are boxed in Europe till
I there’s nothing in a name,
1- So it doesn’t really matter whence
the Brandenburgers came ;
But they did no pioneering as our fathers
did of old — , ....
Only bullied, robbed and murdered till they
bought the land with gold.
And they settled down in Prussia, to the
bane of Germany,
With a spike upon the helmet where three
Lombard balls should be. .
And they swaggered, swigged and swindled,
and by bullying held sway,
And blindly inter-married till they re mad-
men to this day. ,
And the months and years in Munich are as
memories of the dead ;
Night is filled with nameless terrors, day is
filled with constant dread.
But Bavaria the peaceful, ere the lurid star
is set, , , ~
She shall lead her neighbors on to pluck the
Prussian Eagles yet.
Pass over little Denmark, as the brave his-
torians can.
Austria suffered at Sadowa, 1 ranee was
sorry at Sedan.
And for England’s acquiescence in the crime
she suffers too.
Meanwhile Denmark drained her marshes,
planted grain and battled through.
We, who never knew what war is—who had
gold without the pain—-
Never locked a Western river that might
save a Western plain. _ ,
Do you say the Danes were pirates, and
let’s leave them on the shelf?
Given youth and men and money, I would
pirate some myself!
(Why should I he so excited for another
nation’s pains?
I am prejudiced and angry, for my fathers
they were Danes.
What have I to do with nations? Or with
battle’s lurid stars?
I am Ilenry, son of Peter, who was Peter,
sou of Lars ;
Lars the son of Nils —but never mind from
whence our lineage springs.
Yes, my fathers they wore helmets, but their
helmets wore the wings—
There’s a feather for your bonnet, there is
unction for your souls—
And the wings bore us to England, and Aus-
tralia and the Poles.
What did tee for little Denmark? M ell, we
sent our thousand through;
But, without the guns or money, what could
Scandinavia do?
It is true of some Australians, by the sea
or sand-waste lone,
That they hold their fathers’ country rather
dearer than their own.
As a mate can do no mean thing in the
Bushman’s creed and song,
So a fellow’s father’s country, seems to me,
can do no wrong.)
Where was I ? The Wrong of Denmark or
the chastening of her soul?
Well, perhaps her rulers “got it” where ’twas
needed, on the whole.
’Twas the gentlemen of Poland crushed
the spirit of the Pole,
Till he didn’t care which nation he was
knouted by, and served ;
So the gentlemen of Poland were wiped out,
as they deserved.
Freedom shrieked (where was no freedom),
and perhaps she shrieked for shame.
But let Kosciusko slumber — we’ve immortal-
ised his name.
By the poets and the tenors have our tender
souls been wrenched ;
And. on many a suffering Christian, Polish
Jews have been avenged.
Where the skies are blue in winter by the
Adriatic Sea,
And the summer skies are bluer than our
own blue skies can be,
In the shadow of a murder, weak from war
and sore afraid.
By the ocean-tinted Danube lazed the Serbs
of old Belgrade.
Danube of the love-lit starlight, Danube of
the dreamy waltz —■
Belgrade bowed her face in ashes- for her
crimes and for her faults.
And Austria, Prussia-driven, as driven oft
before,
From her city by the Danube marched reluc-
tantly to war.
Just to clear a path for Prussia and her
bloodhounds to the sea;
To the danger of the White World, and the
shame of Germany.
And a blacker fate than Belgium’s stared
the Servians in the face.
But Belgrade had her soldiers of the old
Slavonic race,
And her gun-crews manned the Danube,
small and weak, but undismayed—
And the Serb remembered Russia, and he
called his kin to aid.
So there came a secret message and a sign
from Petrograd.
And the Servian arm was strengthened and
the Servian heart was glad.
For the message of Big Brother from the
City of the Snow
Simply said: “I’m sending Ivan by the
shortest route I know.”
Who are these in rags and sheepskin, mangy
fur-caps, matted hair? —
Who are these with fearsome whiskers, black
and wiry everywhere?
Who are these in blanket putties—canvas,
rag, or green-hide shoes?
These with greasy bags and bundles grimy
as the Russian flues?
Never song and cheer amongst them, never
cry of “What’s the news?”
Packed on cattle trains and ox-carts, from
the North and South and East;
Trudging from the marsh and forest, where
the Man is like the Beast?
()ii the lonely railway platforms bending
round the village priest;
Here and there the village scholar, every-
where the country clowns?
These the reservists of Russia pouring in
to Russian towns!
* * *
Women’s faces, gaunt and haggard, start
and startle here and there,
White and whiter by the contrast to the
shawls that hide their hair.
Black-shawled heads—the Shrouds of Sor-
row! Eyes of Fear without a name .
Through the length and breadth of Europe,
God! their eyes are all the same !
Famous Artist of the Present, wasting Art
and wasting Life,
With your daughters for your models, or
your everlasting wife —
With your kids for nymphs and fairies, or
your studies in "the nood” —-
Oh, wake Imagination, and forget your
paltry brood !
Take an old Bulgarian widow who has lost
her little store,
Who has lost her sons in battle, paint Iter
face and call it "War.”
x.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Poetess of “The Broganhole
Buglehorn.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ "I TT ]•; had oust a bit iv a paper here,”
V V said Flynn. “'Twas called The
’ " Bungaree BANNER ’a” Brogax-
nor.E Bugleiior-ex, ‘id was print ’n’ pub-
lished in shuppor-rt iv the Lib-ral rural
intlirests, no less. The circ-lation iv Tiie
Bugleiior-rn was triminjis. I've seen
ez manny ez t'ree min wid it in
the sthreet at wan time, ’n' wan
copy bein’ devoured simultaneous be
a goat. But that was whin it contained
the first iv the gr-reat poems iv Lucy Ann
Maguire, the potess in exile, the shweetest
singer iv the sorrers iv Oireland since Tommy
Moore himsilf. ’Twas Laurence O’Hara
Burke Quinlan, editor iv the Brogan hole
Bugleiior-rn, himself did print thiin o-pin-
yuns iv Misthress Lucy Ann Maguire, the
lady bein’ discovered be him, ’n’ brought t’
light in the columns iv The Bugleiior-rn,
which is advertisin’ esclusive rights iv the
products iv the pen iv Miss Maguire, _n
notifyih’ English ’n’ American papers in-
fringin’ will be prosecute wid the utmost
rigor iv the law, Lor-rd have mercy !
“Misther Laurence O’Hara Quinlan is a
gintleman dthrifts t’ Broganhole frim the
city way, a tall man iv 88 maybe, wid a nate
hand to a glass, ’n’ very free wid the potes,
quotin’ what they’ll say consumin' annythin’
in the whole wor-rld wide. Larry Quinlan
is no writer iv poethry himself, but he 11
knock you off a meetin’ iv the Shire Council,
’r a progriss repor-rt iv the Road Board, ’r
anny other kind iv prose composition wid
the best man livin’, ’n’ in jue time he kim
t’ be edithor-in-chafe iv The Bungaree Ban
ner ’n’ Broganiiole Bugleiior-rn.
“Larry’s a feverish gintleman, which he’s
takin’ various dthrinks for it, whisky fer
choice, but beer fer pref’renee, ’n’ it’s a fact
he’s soon infusin’ keen local inthrest in Tiie
Bugleiior-rn, fellin’ the President iv the
Shire what he thinks iv him, ’n’ rebukin’
Hogan fer his unseemly condue’ in milkin’
his neighbors’ cows be too frequint inadvert-
ence.
“But Larry’s big sthrikc is onearthin’ iv
Lucy Ann Maguire. He inthrojuces her wid
‘The Sad Song iv a Lady frim Clare,’ which
is a piece would touch the hear-rt iv a rock
—-’twould iv a shamrock, annyway.
‘“’Tis a noble pome,’ sez Laurence Quin-
lan, ‘breathing the noblest Irish sintimints,’
sez he, * ’n’ inslitinct wid the tind’rist soul-
yearnin’s iv the ixile,’ he sez, ‘ ’n’ writ be
the most beautiful ’n’ shweetest iv God’s
creatures,’ sez he. ‘Do yell nivir bilave me,
look ut here,’ ’n’ he dthraws a fine, portrit
frim his weskit —a picture iv a . gir-rl iv
twinty-foor, no more, wid a slimile to her
like the open gate iv Heaven, ’n’ two gr-reat,
dar’rk eyes all wistfulness ’n’ wonder. Glory
be, ’tis the loveliest lady in the width iv
creation, ’n’ editor Laurence Quinlan’s atiu’
her up ’n’ adorin’ a way you’d think he was
goin’ on his knees to her for ivvor.
“ ‘Herself I’ve not seen at all,’ sez he, ‘but
this she sent wid “The Sad Song iv a Lady
frim Clare,” ’n’ a few touchin’ wor-rds askin
the sympathy iv a thrue Irishman fer wan
far frim home ’n’ countliry, ’n’ achin’ fer the
laste iv a cool day be the green banks iv
Shannon.’
“I’m in the way ir'knowin’ Quinlan sends
Misthress Maguire wan guinea fer ‘The Sad
Song,’ though ’ti/agin the politics ’n’ the
economic princivrfes iv Tiie Bugleiior-rn t
pay fer poeth/.v iv anny make ’r shape.
Moreover ’n’/ikewise. Misthress Maguire is
invite be uivrgent letter t’ conthribit more iv
her most >&’lent verses t’ the columns iv
The Broganiiole Bugleiior-rn. Misthress
Maguire does so immejit, an’ t’rows in a
pome/fer iv’ry issue, which — The Bugle-
iior-rn bein’ a thri-wakely—is landin’ the
great Lib’ral or-rgan in Critic ixpinse.
“But be this Larry Quinlan’s clane daft
concarnin’ the Bardess iv Bungaree, ’n’ givin’
space should be devote t’ the prospects iv the
piraty crop to litherary considerations iv the
gloryis lyric qualities iv Lucy’s pomes, ’n’
the tiie iv her geenyis. He have an enlar-rge-
mint iv her photygraf made by a fir-rm iv
imminent distinction Ballarat away, wid the
hair to ut goldener than goolcl itself, ’n’ eyes
that blue ’twould be an aclverts’ment fer
wastin’ materials ye’d think, ’n’ teeth white
ez tombstones, ’n’ cheeks bur-rnin’ wid roses.
“So far Misther Quinlan have not been
privileged t’ see the lady Lucy Maguire, she
livin’ up nor-rth frim Quinn’s Whim, ’n’
sendin’ her lither’y ee-fusions be registered
post, but sez he : ‘ ’Tis the way I see her wid
me mind’s eye.’ he sez, ‘ ’n’ I’ll shwear on a
mile iv bibles,’ he sez, ‘me inshtincts have not
played me false.’
“Harrigan is in the editor’s offis ’n’ bood-
war where the nicture be hung, ’n’ sez he:
‘ ’Tis ho Irish face one way or the other,’
sez he.
“ ’N’ fer whoi not?’ sez the celebrate’
editor.
“ Divil fly away wid yer goold hair,’ sez
Harrigan. ‘Goold is the insthrumint iv the
oppressor.’ sez he, V t’ Hell wid yer Eng-
lish roses,’ he sez. ‘in the cheeks iv a lady iv
Clare. I will have her blue-eyed, ’n’ black-
browed, ’n’ black-haired,’ sez he, ‘wid cheeks
iv Limerick cream.’ he sez.
“‘Ye’ll not in this office, Harrigan.’ sez
Larry, ‘ ’nj who’re you t’ dictate what me own
potess wilt be ’r will not be?’ sez he. ‘ ’Tis
like the damn impudence iv the mangy liar-
(Continued on next page.)


What is
BACKACHE?
Backache is the Kidneys’ Call for Help.
' Every Picture
tells a Stcry.
'-s
e
SV
i
W
If
/ \ /
w
Ck \
Ji
When a Woman has Backache, Headache, Rheumatic Twinges,
Urinary Trouble; when she has Aching Limbs and Swollen Joints,
WEAK KIDNEYS ARE THE CAUSE.
A woman lias more than her share of burdens in life.
The care of the house, the needs of the family, the
making' and mending' and constant anxiety for everybody
round—except herself.
It is not surprising' that women are subject to kidney
weakness their kidneys cannot stand the strain that’s forced
upon them.
Backache from morn till night, worn and tired before
mid-day with headache, dizziness —to stoop is painful, and to
rise again is torture.
Sallowness, weak heart, sleeplessness, sciatica, rheuma-
tism, dropsy, gravel, stone are outcomes of diseased and tired
kidneys.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills act directly upon the
kidneys - they help them to filter the blood —to take out the
uric acid and impurities that cause the aching back—they
give relief in cases of dropsy, heart palpitation, neuralgia,
lumbago, rheumatism, sciatica, stone, gravel and all urinary
ailments.
SYDNEY WOMAN CURED.
Mrs. J. French, Senr., 43 King Street, St. Peters, Sydney, says:—>
“Some years ago I had a very severe attack of kidney trouble. There
was no doubt my kidneys were affected, the symptoms being very plain.
My joints were all very stilt and painful. I had dropsical swellings on my
legs and ankles, and I felt weary and depressed. My worst suffering was,
however, with backache; the pain was awful, and at times 1 was almost
helpless. I always trying one remedy or another, but nothing seemed
to. do me any good. Eventually. I was advised to try Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, arid I am pleased I did so. I soon found they were doing
me good, and by the time I had taken six bottles of the pills 1 was com-
pletely cured. My Cure did not happen yesterday, but four years ago, and
I have been well ever since. I consider this remedy saved my life. 1
don’t think I could have gone on suffering as 1 was much longer. I shall
always recommend Doan's Backache Kidney Pills; they made me well and
kept me well.”
Two years later Mrs. French says:—“Six years have elapsed since
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me. and I have had no return of
backache and kidney trouble since.”
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s. 9d. per bottle, or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
dg
mYvKCYK.
YAmxvwvs.
PILES
A Lasting Cure by
DOAN’S OINTMENT .
Mr. Joseph Abrahams, 2 o Bourke Street, Redfern, Sydney, says:—
“For twenty-five years I pave been tortured with Itching Piles. The
pain and irritation of this I ailment are terrible, and only those who have
suffered know what an ajwful complaint it is. I used dozens of Pile
remedies, but could not get anything to give me ease. 1 never expected
to get a cure for Piles. A friend urged me to try Doan’s Ointment,
saying he was sure this preparation would cure me. I got some, and
commenced using it, ant) in a very short time I was completely cured.
I shall be pleased to personally verify this should any sufferer call on me.”
Three years later, Mr. Abrahams says : —“I have not been troubled
with Piles since Doan's Ointment cured me over three years ago. I have
advised many sufferers to use this grand remedy, and I am sure it will
cure in every case if people will only apply it properly.”
Doan's Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot,
or post free by Foster-McClellan Co-, 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ngans,’ he sez, ‘to have wan wor-rd t’ say
wid Laurence O’llara Quinlan on aunv sub-
jei- iv litherary inthrest!’
yeh say mangy Harrigans. Misther
Quinlan i sez Harngan. tailin’ a lump iv an
mkpo,; to his list -Mangy Harrigans. did yeh
’ fnipni scut iv a Sldbbereen fish-
' »< > ' 11 le M-oo the inkpot.
’ Twas a »at,e fight while auuythin' lasted
a man could toss ’r club wid. Then Larry
re a vlv tU i° k - e i t 5 e l l eeh t * r.annigau’s barr, ’n’
n\i\ed wid draft beer, after-r which the
ar-rgumint is resoomed consarnin’ the Bard-
<ss n Lungaree. her color, complexion ’n’
accessories. There’s sides took, the prev’-
Janee iv opin-yun bein’ wid Harngan be
reason iv the local prejudice agin thim Eng-
lish roses Quinlan have planted to the cheeks
iv Misthress Maguire.
“ ‘lt comes to this.’ sez Quinlan. ‘l’ll be
makm a bet. Dan Harrigau. a bet iv five
pounds, he sez, ‘Lucy Ann Maguire have the
gooid iv the har-rp iv Erin in her hair.’n’ in
" cheeks the red rose of Shannon.’
’/ ‘ley a liar,’ sez Harrigan. ‘The black
;' : . ur . n the blue eye of a thrue woman iv
< (Ireland, sez he. “n’ the olive cheek that’s
rale for Erin’s sorrer,’ he sez.
"So was the bet made, Larry’s best suit iv
black, n’ his silver watch, ’n’ two pairs iv
boots, wan umbrella, ’n’ a wor-rn weddin’-
ring was his mother’s, agin Ilarrigan’s old
imaii mare, ’n’ Lannigan holds the shtakes
lis considered fair Larry Quinlan will pro-
duce the poetess fer the satisfaction iv the
lefeiee. which, n 1 say it wid jue modesty,
is mesilf. wan noted fer taste ’n’ disarnmint
in mathers connect wid the ladies.
"Larry n meself is conthrivin’ t' injuce
Misthress Lucy Ann Maguire t’ visit Brogan-
hole. if attind a compliminthary reciption
iv the Sons iv Erin ’n’ other ri]ireseiitatif
Oirish residents, all int’usiastic admirers iv
the celebrit potess anxious t’ present her wid
some shmall mar-rk iv their esteem 'u' rev’r-
cnce; Wid me hat I have collect thirt.v-foive
shillin’ for the bit iv a brooch wid the foine
wor-rds writ acrost: —
I iescnt t Lucy Ann Alagume \ Lc T*ii*tv-foive
A i-nlent Admirers iv her geenyis.
And the day is fixed.
"Miss Lucy is cornin’ in Blair’s thrap frim
Wallace away, ’n’ Laurence Quinlan, editor,
is that feverish ye’d think ’twas the Impress
Queen iv Oireland arrangin' t’ visit us all.
In troot, sor. Larry’s thut in love wid the
potess ’n’ his picture iv her he’s quakin’ in
his two boots, poor man. Ye’v heard iv love
et first sight.? Here’s wan in love an’ never
had a look at all at all. ’N’ not in all me
life have I seen a sane man madder wid
thoughts iv a woman.
“The day is here, ’n’ Blair’s thrap too, ’n’
we’re all waitin’ on the primises of The
Bboganiiole Buglehor-rn. leadin' cit’zens in
the editor’s office, ’n’ orthin’r.v wans over-
runnin’ the place generally. But there’s a
great dissapintmint fer us all. Never a wan’s
ill Blair’s thrap but Blair ’n’ a shmall, har-rd-
lookin’. grizzly man wid a face like a freak
pitaty. ’Tis the grizzly man jumps down, ’n’
marches straight in wid us, boulcl ez a brass
pot. ’n’, sez lie: ‘A good, war-rm day t’ ye all,
gintlemin.’ he sez. ‘ ’X’ a fine good day to
you. whoever ye are,’ sez Harrigan. ‘But
ye’ll take a place one side, will yeh now?
’Tis a great lady potess we’re celebratin’ this
day.’
“The grizzly man’s bowin’ low, his hat in
his fist knockin’ on the fiure. ‘ls it Lucy
Ann Maguire?’ sez lie.
“ ‘The same ut is.’ sez Laurence Quinlan,
white wid his emotions breakin’ out on him.
“ ‘She presents her complimeents, gintle-
min.’ sez the sthranger.
“ * ’N’ she’s not cornin’?’ sez Harrigan
’Then,’ sez he. eager fer the bet he made,
‘yeh know her, maybe? Yer a frind. I’m
thinkin’. Will yeh say, then, is thut the
like iv her. ’r is she wan wid dar-rk hair ’n’
a clane skin?’ lie pint t’ the enlar-rgement
to the wall over Quinlan’s bed.
“The sthranger screws liis face to a har-rsh,
ouare grin, ’n’ sez he : ‘ ’Tis the devil a bit
like iv the like.’ sez he.
“Wid that Laurence Quinlan steps
front, dthrawin’ the portrit iv the potess
frim his breast, ’n’ sez he: ‘Man alive, ye’re
a. poor, small liar,’ sez he. ‘for that’s done
frim this, which is her own thrue picture I
howld here.’
“The sthranger looked agin, ’n’ agin he
screwed his face iv a freak pitaty to a
thrul.v ins’lent grin, ’n’ he sez: ‘Have done.’
sez he. ‘ye’re holdin’ there the portrit iv
Agatha Bombrope. the imminent, notorious
Shakspearian acthress.’ lie sez: ‘I sent it
the editor, knowin’ well editors is ouick im-
pressed wid a purty face iv a shmall woman
t’ print their poems ’n’ the like.’
“ ‘ ’N’ is this not Lucy Ann Maguire?’
whispers Quinlan, white ez death, ’n’ work-
in’ all over so ye’d think him a settin’ iv
dough with sooparfluous yeast to ut.
“‘’Tis not.’ sez the man. ‘Lucy Ann
Maguire is a nong-de-plootn,’ sez he. ‘Gin-
thlemin. I’m proud ’n’ plazed t’ meet you.’
lu> sez. ‘l’ll intherjuce mesilf, fer I’m the
gifted potess. Lucy Ann Maguire, no less.’
“Quinlan rushed him wid a chair, ’n' we
ni'ivint open murther by a narrow majority.
Then we t’ouglit Quinlan would die wid
horror V love disappoint, but no man died,
nor nothin’ but The Broganhole Bugle-
itor-rn. Wan week later that great Lib’ral
organ succumbed t’ the shock.”
EDDYSON.
Ingratitude.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SINCLAIR SINGLETON, an actor of
the old-fashioned, ponderous style,
stopped me as I was passing Poverty
, Point. It appeared, at first, that he merely
desired to make quite unnecessary remarks
about the weather. Then his real purpose
unfolded itself.
“I am not in a position.” he said, ‘‘to
invite you to have a drink. Di-reetlv, if
the ghost walks. I will be glad if you’ will
join me.”
The invitation to invite him was too
obvious to ignore; so I asked him to name
his refreshment, which proved to be beer —
in a mug.
“It is not like the beer we used to get.”
he said, poising the pint and looking through
it. ‘‘ln the old days, when I had my own
mmpany—ah, those were the days!”
I notice,’' I said, “the papers give Doris
vnowles hue notices in the new piece.”
He set down his beer and looked at me.
i., 1S a triumph for me, sir.” he said—•
a triumph tor me!”.
<‘\ e n half em P. tie( i his mug.
, i* & rl knows about the stage I
Bufsl I,e ' ‘ Sh . L ' iS talente d—very talented.
i>ut sbe owes her position to Me! She
should have been my wife, and then it would
have been better— for us all.
* \\ lien first I met her she was a raw
time ‘will a ' Vlng IJl iV f '* Ssi,,n;,l) - v for the first
time, with a small tra-velling com-panv •
w\ d s-^ i r < ; llld ha -' C remained just where she
itilde V” 1 fo ’ me And what is her gerrat-
Ile finished his beer with a sigh.
~ , you . ' vi * l ac-company me to the
i f’mJin 1 / 66 if the , s ' llost llas walked,
t will unfold to you the uar-rative ” he
said. I noticed the talent of Doris but I
saw that what she wanted was a know
Mvself f fi a , ge '- raft i sueh a * au actor like
that lb. i , S j V 0 llor ' Aial I determined
frwa i ' S ( hOU < , "• < P pl 'ish. pro-fessionallv,
r °* an t of. a helping hand.
“I gave her in-struction in the Art sir
.iiHl she profited. More than that. I pushed
n a l honi a^ lH> ~* ] m for her and myself
n a bittei-dass company; and in or-der
While °sh? n ni Ul . hei ' way 1 was con-tent,
unite a I'hiyed second woman, to take
juite an m-tenor part—something quite
•4i°"t niy °rd-mary stand-ard. In fact
httle better than u-tilitv!”
inipiae^sdveiy n ‘ ,V stol,petl and held my arm
‘M did more than that,” he said: “I left
in\ wife and family for that woman !”
Inn r'*e abo ! 11 to . sny ' A 01 ‘y good of you!”
taln’f « lb r l-ec • sadclenly - that perhaps it
a f a f- s " 1 merely said "Indeed!”
-the gieatest sac-rifice a man could make
or any woman.” he continued plaintively,
ret m the end she was not gerrateful. The
com-pany we were with stranded. It
was then I gave her her great op-portunitv.
1 ,-,ot a com-pany together, and I let her plav
•tnu > "7 th I nlysclfl of course, as juvenile,
and I played up to her in a way that is not
Known to these younger act-ors.”
e showed a tendency to digress at this
stage, stopping m the street and illustrating
the difference between the modern stvle of
slurring the lines” and the old. dramatic
method of leading up with increasing
vehemence to the lines of the partner in dia-
logue.
I inquired hurriedly how they got on.
did a ll right for a time,” he said
moodily. In fact, it made Doris’s name.
ui a. went mad about her. You know
wdiat they are like ; they often fail to under-
stand Art. She did many things of which
1 disap-peroved. Still she was very pop-ular.
More pop-ular, perhaps than I myself. But
then / never work for pop-ularity; I have
al-ways worked for Art!
“No.” he went on, “many of the people did
not understand Me. But we did fairlv well.
Of course, working with perractically no
cap-ital,. we had our troubles; but we car-
lied a piano-case with us, and it was useful
when fares were short. Very useful ” he
added thoughtfully. *
It was in our seas-on in Wellington that
the climax came. You know how it can
rain in Wellington? It rained as if Heaven
were weeping because there was such a God-
forsaken place on the earth. The people
began to be dis-coutented about their sal-
aries. In-grates! I had taken them up when
the seat was out of their trousers, as you
might vulgar-ly put it. and given them
several months’ work; and here they were
corn-plaining about their pal-try salaries!
There is little gerratitude in life, and none,
sir. in an act-or!
“When one of them held me up about his
shirts. I knew the thing couldn’t last. The
ungerrateful dog wanted to get his laundry;
and just two minutes before the curtain was
due to go up, after the orchestra had been
rung in (we got some amateurs after the
band had left), the brute demanded three-
and-six-pence for shirts—shirts, sir—or he
wouldn’t play. First 1 told him to go to
the Devil: finally I gave him a slip to get
the money from the ticket office.
“I was sick of the business, and all the
ingerratitude; and I wanted Doris to come
back with me to Sydney. But she found
some fellow who was prepared to finance
her and the show. And. sir. heark-'ee—on
a stipulation he made, and she agreed to.
that I was not to play lead, but merely to
stage-manage the show. A young fool who
didn’t know what acting was, sir! But
again I yielded—for Doris’s sake.
“Luck, sir, luck was with ’em; and that
tour was a success; and after it Doris got
a show with the Firm. But all they had for
me was u-tilit.v work, and I turned that
down. Fortun-ately Doris got good engage-
ments. constantly: or. un-fortun-ately. for
when I tried to get up other shows she re-
fused to go with me. The girrl I had made
in the business!
“Finally, when she went on tour, she re-
fused to take me with her. That woman,
sir, said it would cost too much; but if I
liked to take an engagement as u-tility, she
would get me one. U-tility! I who have
played Iago!
“That was the end ! She did not—but I
do not speak of this! The. girl I schooled,
and taught, and made what she is! Let her
think of her ingerratitude, sometimes. I will
nev-er do anything to harm her!
“It was my own fault!” he added, after
a long pause, accusing himself. “I should
have married her!”
M « had rea-hed the stage-entrance of the
theatre, and Singleton, having me affection-
ately hv the arm, drew me in. lie may have
been afraid I would escape.
“Miss Knowles on the stage?” he inquired
of the doorkeeper.
“No.” said the doorkeeper, briefly. “She
left this for you.”
Singleton onened the envelope as we went.
. “Gerratitude!” he hissed in his best style.
“Gerratitude ! Ten shillings—a pal-try ten
shillings !”
He made as if to hurl the insult from him.
hut thought better of it. and placed it care-
fully in his pocket.
“I am afraid." lie said, meditativolm halt-
ing before the bar-door, “that we will have
to do without that derpipkA
But, of course, we didn't,.
HAMER.


dg
J*
; •
m
,-r
m
ROCKER-
JOINT'
CHAIN
will appeal to you as
an important factor
in the problem of
Costs reduction♦
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8M.310 to—
The Westiiighlist Brake Co, of Australasia Ltd.
Queensland Agents: Hollies & LSmroJi, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips &*Pike, Wellington.
dg
-
:
I
CUT DOWN
EXPENSES
SHARPEN YOUR SAWS WITH THE
‘BAHCO’ AUTOMATIC
SAW GRINDING
MODERATE
PRICE
MACHINE.
TAKES FRAME'SAWS OF ANY LENGTH.
CIRCULAR SAWS TO 46" IN DIAMETER.
Immediate Delivery from Stock.
SOLE AGENTS:
The Austral Engineering
Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Reducing tie Cost of Pipe Threading
For quick to, kfamj clean-cut threads use an OSTER.
OSTp,R Mach ines
BELT & MOTOR-DRIVEN.
Note these features-—automatic die
release, automatic oil pump, quick-
opening dies, simple, convenient
die-head.
dg
Threads,
Tubes,
Nipples
or Bolts.
in 3
Size*
OSTER MFG. CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.
For Sale by Leading Dealers in
all Cities.
[3
dg
Smith’s Paten)
Foot Pump.
it
if
Smith’s Lighting Jots
dg
Smith’s
Speedometers.
Smith’s
fr Carburetters.
dg
*>«#M PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telephone—ClTY 2401.
Elizabeth House,
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
f CENTRAL 9627.“
IT IS TIME
which is the test of all things—including proprietary medicines. The enormous
and ever-increasing popularity of Beecham’s Pills which, after a service of
seventy years, still hold their own against all rivals, is the most genuine proof of
the sterling worth of this excellent preparation. It must of necessity, be a really
good thing to withstand the tremendous pressure of modern competition and
maintain a superiority so distinct and indisputable. With the flight of years
Beecham’s Pills have become known far and wide as the best medicine
TO TAKE
for those numerous ailments arising from a disturbed digestive system. For
biliousness, constipation, dizziness, flatulence, heartburn, headache, loss of
appetite and sluggish action of liver and kidneys, there is nothing to beat
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price l/l\ (56 pills) <£ 2/9 (168 pills).
OXY-AGETYLENE WELDING CO.
The Metals we Weld —Cast Iron and Wrought Iron, Steel and Aluminium,
and other Alloys. Send along your Broken and Worn Parts and we will
weld them for you as good as ever. Cutting any thickness. Portable
Plants sent to all parts. First-class Workmanship Guaranteed.
Under the Personal Supervision of
j. w. McPherson, The Welding Expert,
Address: Head Office—so Day Street, off Erskine Street, g opp. A.U.S.N. Co., Sydney.
Telephone -city 8966. Works: Jones Street, Pyrmont.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
dg
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
SPASMS .and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
'he cough of BRONCHITIS and
Vsfc 2 / 9 & 4/4). Made in England.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
— AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dogrs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
Ams No; 98 AT.
Double Searaer.
dg
The Seal
of Safety.
Ams Automatic
Double Seamers.
The Trade Standard.
Progressive Seamers for
Progressive Canners.
Make Your Cans with Ams Machinery
We furnish machines for mak-
ing tin cans of every descrip-
tion, for Sardines, Peas, Fruit,
all Food Products, Spices, Teas,
Coffee, Tobacco, Paint and Oil
Cans.
These machines are automatic throughout, and are fitted with Cover
Feed, Can Straightener and Plunger, and make a very complete and service-
able Double Seamer. They are rigid in construction, complete lubricating
system, ease and convenience in operating, plenty of speed, and will do the
work cut out for them. The can stands still during the seaming operation
and boy or girl can run these double seamers.
Takes all standard sizes including No. 3’s. Out-
put over 50 per Painute. The 988 for gallon cans
from 40 per minute. We are specialists in this
line. It is not a side issue.
We build complete can-making equipments.
Write to us about your intentions. We are in
business to answer questions. Experiment if you
like, but come to Ams for standard.
Send us a sample of what you want to make.
CORRESPONDENCE AND ESTIMATES IN EVERY
LANGE AGE.
MAX AMS MACHINE COMPANY,
MOUNT VERNON, N.Y., U.S.A.
CHARLES M. AMS, President.
Address us direct or through any EXPORT
COMMISSION HOUSE.
§3
rs=sQu>
!anit
ea(c


SPI«
LEATHER
LTI
has been awarded the Gov-
ernment Contracts for 1915.
1916.
It is AIl-Austraiian— -from
Australian Hides, tanned
and manufactured by Aus-
tralian Workmen.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
TO CHECK COLDS
.. ■
t ■ ' : -v
■
Ml
Ml
11
Mi if
BB.S
oi»iX,u
I
:>Vt
US
i
.
W
Z W: £*SP
/,«& '■jr-'.sFtz
mm
N ><cr*^
i?c'.
hot
with
Lemon
AT
Bedtime
\\
w
a
Si
%
\\
Genuine
m
Used in place of vyeatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceijfings and Partitions.'
FIRE, ROT, HEaI, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED tCOST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our Booklet B free on application.
CO.,
JAMES NfeRPIE &
Circular Qfay West, Sydn y;
“Courier” Biiildinjrs, Brisbane; & Melbourne
TANCYE Portable Lampless OH Engine.
HIGH-GRADE and RELIABLE MACHINERY
• for all industrial purposes -
AGENCIES—
TANCYE 88 Kerosene Oil Engines, Benzine Engines. Stationary type Steam Engines. Vertical Boilers.
oi ivtau » e, L IP I! mpS ° f a " types Suctlon Cas P* 3 "* B - Irrigation Plants. Blocks, Jacks, etc.
CLAYTON &BHUI FLEWORTH Portable Steam Engines. Steam Tractors and Road Rollers. Oil Tractors, etc.
CANE MUking Machines. MONRO Chaff cutters, WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines.
,lfr MO ! BROW “ Onion » Farm Implements, Harvesters, Ploughs, Cultivators, Drills, Harrows, etc.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON, TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
i
m
Clayton and Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
SEETHE"! 91$
1
f
%
*
%
A
5H E E
SHEARINC MACHINES
35
rs
a
r
ox
t»* «**«*• TMRtVfN
►» ««w*
./*
m
•»i’l * ..oL.'iIVUU-*^
A.-.s cf.e-.vUeßoi \ . :
»'*» :• -k . I V ‘ y*f
/ I i-'
/ - *; 5 C 'SS^V > ‘ 1
'•• "MV »><r MRMftKIM. r, rr'; ; ‘‘l-liraßßa
oogoi4 pum wh
CONSIDER THE ADVAN f AGES
of being able to obtain instantly without the remo val of a single
gear, the ENTIRE RANGE of THREADS and corresponding FEED
CHANGES on yotw Lathe. We invite inspection of our StocK of
MODERN HIGH-SPEED LATHES
embodying' this feature. It is essential in these days of
SPEEDING-UP, or where COST OF PRODUCT MUST
BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT.
Milling, Shaping, Drilling, Grinding and Strewing Machines.
PARKE ®. LACY CO. LTD
Engineers and Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOUL & SUFFOCATING GASES
THE “ PROTO ” RESCUE and BREATHING APPARATUS, as recommended by Royal (British)
Commission on Mines, is made in many types for many purposes, the most tisual of which
is illustrated, namely, the - . v
SELF-CONTAINED PORTABLE
type, which gives absolute freedom and adequate protection against ALL FUMES and GASES.
USED IN MOST ENGLISH RESCUE STATIONS.
No Injectors or Helmets Necessary. Entirely British Throughout.
N. GUTHRIDGE Lie
Equitable Building, Sydney
Church Lane, Melbourne
swr
m
L\
1
-vfcfi
