

— ■
•7
R. O-. & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of
BILLS DISCOUNTED,
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
ITSWMONT DE PIETE D &I C? UP
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. n(j Telephone: City 9320.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HfWlffW 'B9 2 nut
niiH 'B9? (iinii ntiflamifnn
HOBART. x
—a mu' —
Itadley’s Orient |jot@S.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
259 Little Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
v
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
x
back.
Take
I must have
TON’S
f ine Apple Brand
cx
xvcv
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
by
highly nutritious
digestive organs.
and invigorating for
HANSENS
c
vc
fo, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
0
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber=cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER GO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
k
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
i
Wouldn’t you like your
rooms panelled like this?
Wouldn’t you like the rooms of YOUR Home
like the one we illustrate? It is possible with
Amiwud —the reproduction of Hardwood in w w _ ,
all the beauty of the grain. You can buy Amiwud in sheets, so that they can be nailed to the studs of a
new house, or to the walls of an existing one. The woods reproduced are Golden Oak, Jenisero, Weathered
Oak and Mahogany. May we send you samples?
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO, Challis House, Sydney
(Makers of Malthoid). D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
Ml
K
*4
IWU
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
s .v. o.
MINING
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY, „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
HELIDON SPA
HELIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
Water with Genuine Osmotic Properties.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents f
Phillio St., Sydney, end R<*d?»r~
The Bulletin
Vol. 36.—N0. 1837. J
[Thursday, April 29, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
(Postages in
parentheses.')
Taylor’s What an Advertiser Should Know. 2/- (2d.).
Phelan’s The Straight Path. 3/6 (2d.).
Kempe’s Engineers’ Year Book for 1916. 20/- (7d.).
Smyth’s Rural School in Australasia. 5/- (2d.).
The „^. ew F °°lish Dictionary, by Gideon Wurds.
2/6 (2d.).
Metcalf’s Complete Auction Bridge.
Liddell’s The Track of War, illus.
The Stage Year Book, 1916. 1/3.
6/- (2d.).
6/- (4d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROP’T’Y LTD., 238 PITT
STREET,
ROUND TABLE,
Marc lii,
1915-
Special Articles: The Dominions and the Settlement;
A Plea for an Imperial Conference; The Politics of
War; The Schism of Europe; Nietzsche and the
“Culture State”; and the usual articles from the
Dominions.
Price, 2/6 per copy; 16/- per annum.
McMILLAN & CO., 109 Russell Street, Melbourne, or
any bookseller.
THE MOUTH IS THE GATEWAY FOE THE
ENTRANCE OF DISEASE.
Professor Miller has proved conclusively that
no fewer than 38 different infections may be
traced with more or less directness to the
human mouth as a focal or starting point.
The mouth_ being the gateway for the en-
trance of disease, therefore it is here that the
fight must begin to keep the enemy out.
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
are the most powerful, safe, and pleasant
Germicide and Antiseptic known, being de-
structive to all forms of bacterial life. They
keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
A. The Larynx or
organ of voice.
B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
vc
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. The lobe of one
of the lungs.
Hudson’s Eumentliol Jujubes contain
no Cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited
for old and young. For Coughs, Colds, Sore
Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza and the Pre-
vention of Consumption.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, in tins, price Is. 6d. [4
The Red page
Marie Tarnowska
One of the most sensational murder trials
of recent years was that of a beautiful
Russian Countess, Marie Tarnowska, for
the murder at Venice in 1907 of Count
Kamarowsky. The Count, it will be remem-
bered, was shot by his young friend, Nau-
moff, and the wounded man himself assisted
his assailant to escape. Kamarowsky was
not fatally wounded, but the chief surgeon
of the hospital, in a sudden mental collapse
—he died in an insane asylum—ordered
the stitches in the wounds to be removed,
and thus caused his death. Kamarowsky’s
last words were a message of love to his
betrothed, Countess Tarnowska, in whose
favor he had made his will and insured his
life for £20,000. The Countess and a Rus-
sian lawyer, Donat Prilukofli, were arrested;
and after a remarkable trial these two were
found guilty of instigating the young
Naumoff to commit the murder. The
Countess was sentenced to eight years,
PrilukofE to 10 years, while Naumoff, who
had been incarcerated for two years await-
ing trial, was liberated.
The chief medical expert in the case sug-
gested to A. Vivanti Chartres, author of
The Devourers, that she should write the
story of the Countess’s life. Pie hints in
his letter to the author of Marie Tarnowska
(Heinemann) that the problem of this
extraordinary woman is mainly pathological,
and that the medical elements of the pro-
blem could not in such a work be discussed
or even clearly stated. His thesis is that:—
Moral obloquy in women is in most cases
due to pathological causes comparatively
easy .of diagnosis and of cure; that a woman-
criminal may be morally redeemed by being
physically healed; and that just as alco-
holism, typhus, pysemia or other modes of
toxic infection may result in delirium and
irresponsibility, so certain forms of disease
m women, by setting up a condition of
persistent organic poisoning, may and very
often do conduce to mental and moral aber-
ration and consequent crime.
And while the author states that this
book was not written to plead Marie Tar-
nowska’s. cause, and admits that several
deaths lie at her door, Vivanti Chartres
wields such a brilliant pSh and writes with
such. sympathetic insight that her book does
nothing but implicitly appeal to our sympa-
thies for the strange woman soon to be
released from prison. Marie Tarnowska
has found in Vivanti Chartres an advocate
more moving than even Oscar Wilde dis-
covered in himself. And though she pro-
fesses to have extenuated nothing, to have
colored nothing, her pen has, perforce,
created ah exquisite and moving piece of
fiction.
Doubtless her heroine’s attitude in
prison, in which there is to the callous
critic an element of the obvious pose, and
the medical expert’s pathological bias, have
influenced the author to stress that side of
her heroine’s character, to exhibit her,
for our pity, as a victim of an obscure
disease. And though the story is supposed
to be told in the Countess’s words, there is
too. much literary art, too brilliant a utili-
sation of the value of dramatic contrasts
and of romantic “situations” to carry veri-
similitude. If this is a human document it
is one decorated by another skilled hand.
We see the heroine first as a child of 16,
asked for in marriage by three titled Rus-
sians. She chose Vassili Tarnowska, and
ran away with him, after frightening her
mother by pretended (or real?) convul-
sions. The doctor said there were symptoms
of epilepsy, due to a fall from a swing. The
17-year-old bride was nothing but “a bore”
to her dissolute husband.
My untutored adolescence was trailed
from revelry to revelry, from banquet to
orgy; my innocence swept into the mael-
strom of a licentious life. I was forced to
look into the depths of every depravity; to
my lips was proffered every chalice of
shame.
But she had a child. In the phrase that
is surely not Tarnowska’s, “I had no
thought, I had no desire. Pale and pure
I sat enthroned in the milk-white paradise
of maternity.”
And after the birth of another child she
met Bozevsky—and Dr. Stahl, with his
morphia syringe—“the little glags viper, the
syringe of Pravaz, whose fang is a hollow
needle.” Bozevsky, “the gallant young Pole,
the handsomest officer in the Imperial
Guards,” pursues her with his passion. Her
husband negligently laughs, her aunt,
“rectilinear and asexual in her grey flannel
dressing-gown,” advises her to trust in Pro-
vidence and camomile tea.
Came an entertainment at the Tarnowska
house, where the guests for amusement shot
at bottles in the garden. Marie did not dare
fire the gun unless somebody covered her
ears. Bozevsky performed that friendly
office, and took occasion to whisp ”, “Dar-
ling, darling, darling! I love yo ” And
all were drinking, heavily. Mad revels fol-
lowed’ in the midst of which the nurse
called Marie to her child. She kissed him
good-night, and he murmured, “You smell
of many tilings—of perfume and powder
and cigarettes and wine.” A charming
dramatic touch—surely not Marie’s. Next
morning* resolved to live a virtuous life, she
chanced to meet Bozevsky in the garden.
Again she aimed at a bottle.
I was about to press the trigger when
suddenly Bozevsky, with a lightning move-
ment, put out his hand and pressed his palm
against the muzzle of my gun.
“Wait!” he cried, with a wild, extra-
vagant laugh. “Wait a moment! Before
you press the trigger I want you to say,
‘Alexis, I love you!’ ”
“You are mad!” I exclaimed. “Take
away your hand!”
He did not move.
“Take it away, I implore you!”
Still he never moved, and I could see that
hand stopping the muzzle of my gun....
and I felt almost as if I were under the
influence of some hallucination. It was
not. only his hand that I saw—l seemed in
a kind of frenzy to see the hands of all men
outstretched before me, ready to grasp me,
to crush me, to beat me down. Doubtless a
wave of madness swept over me; a con-
vulsive spasm shook my wrist—and the gun
went off. I saw .the long, lithe hand drop
like some wounded creature.
With a cry I let the rifle fall and covered
my face. But Bozevsky had sprung upon
me. “You little tigress,” he gasped. Then
he covered my mouth with his shattered
hand, and I felt the blood gush over my
face.
What distant heritage of madness broke
upon us at that moment? What primitive
frenzy lashed us together in a fierce
embrace? I cannot tell. All I know is
that from that hour I was his—tamed, van-
quished, broken in spirit, and yet glad.
Her husband’s jealousy grew frenzied.
But friends prevailed upon him to give a
supper to Bozevsky and patch up an osten-
sible reconciliation. It was a supper that
the author has made strangely dramatic,
leading to its theatrical “curtain” when
Vassili, maddened by drink and jealousy,
shot Bozevsky as he bent to kiss Marie’s
hand in a final farewell. Bozevsky did not
die. for many days, and his death was a
thrillin.gly horrible one, according to
Yivanti Chartres. Vassili was acquitted—
justifiable homicide. Stahl committed sui-
cide,. after having made Marie a morphia
maniac. Marie fled with her son, aimlessly
Accustomed to almost wasteful
luxury, soon she found herself without
money. She met Prilukoff, whom she had
known in Russia. “Leave all that to me,”
he said, and Marie soon found that she had
to leave everything to this sinister, domi-
neering personality. She drifted, submissive
to her fate. Then she met Count Kamarow-
sky, a widower with one child. Their chil-
dren charmingly made friends.
“Do you like pelicans?” Tioka inquired
suddenly.
“No,” said Grania.
“Neither do I,” said Tioka; and there
was a long silence.
“Do you like ducks?” asked Tioka.
“Yes,” replied Grania.
“So do I,” said Tioka; and their friend-
ship was sealed.
So we reach the complicated intrigue
which was to shut the prison doors upon
Prilukoff and Marie, ruin Naumoff and
kill Kamarowsky. Marie pleads madness;
but there was in her madness always a
method—a method made sordid by the need
of money. Incredibly dramatic scenes take
place, all the paraphernalia of conspiracy,
spying and intrigue are romantically utilised,
and the final tragedy is made inevitable by
Marie’s superstitions and obsessions. Prilu-
koff instilled into her unbalanced mind the
idea that the life of her child —it was seri-
ously ill—could be saved only by the death
of Kamarowsky. But the two conspirators
weakened in their hellish desire, but when
one shrank back from the crime the other
grew the more determined. Naumoff, the
youthful lover of Marie, had to be deceived,
led to believe that Kamarowsky’s death was
necessary; the method of the crime had to
be . thought out; difficulties postponed the
action; Naumoff held back; Kamarowsky
had to be tricked into insuring his life for
Marie, his betrothed.
Then began the ghastly game, the sinister
comedy with the three puppets, whose
strings. I. held in my fragile hands. I had to
tranquillise and disarm Kamarowsky; to
kindle and fan the murderous fury of Prilu-
koff, and above all to enchain and infatuate
Naumoff, so. as to impel him to the crime
.... I was indeed the modern Circe, weav-
ing her evil spell. I was fervent and
temerarious, full of exotic anomalies, eccen-
tric, unexpected.... I cut my initials in his
arm with the triangular blade of a dagger;
I pressed my lighted cigarette upon his
hand; I assumed all the absurdities, per-
versities -&nd puerilities with which since
time, immemorial woman has decoyed and
beguiled man. who, after all, is essentially
a simple-minded and ingenuous being.
No, despite her advocate’s efforts, the real
woman emerges as a weak and degenerate
criminal; her crime was mean and sordid.
She deserved all she got. But what a theme
this crime would be for a picture-show!
The U.S. Magazine Market for
Australians
In B. 12/12/’l4 Albert Dorrington gave
Australian writers some idea of the literary
market in London, and his article no doubt
has saved several local writers from wasting
time and stamps trying to get their MSS.
accepted by magazine editors in the Big
Smoke. James Francis Dwyer, another Aus-
tralian writer, who is said to have made
good in U.S.A.. during a recent visit to
Sydney advised Australian writers to sene
their stories to America, where there was
dearth of this class of copy, and every maga
zine editor in that country was asking fo
a glance at the work of new writers. Mr
Dwyer also stated . that the writer wh
could produce the goods could demand any
price. Now I want to have a say. *;
know something about American editors
and a visit to the States, 15 months bac
convinced me that the magazines through
out that country are conducted on a policy
which must of necessity prove absolutely
fatal to the aspirations of the majority o :
new writers. Every periodical of any im
portance is endeavoring to secure as many
popular writers as possible. These well
known authors, therefore, occupy the greate
portion of the available space in the maga
zines, and the obscure author can coun
himself exceedingly fortunate, indeed, if h
ever finds his MS. published along with
those of the veteran contributors. There i
no question as to the immense field for fic
tion in the U.S.A. magazine world, but thi
field is occupied so completely by the popu
lar authors as to exclude almost entirely the
less fortunate writer. And this condition
is brought about solely by the policy of the
magazine publishers. Take the case of any
one publisher of a monthly American periodi
cal. He has recently added to his list of
monthly contributors a writer who is rapidly
becoming a top-uotcher. This author he
makes exclusively his own by means of an
ironclad contract, securing to himself the
work of this individual for months or even
years to come. When the publisher has
secured a full list of contributors in this way
he proceeds to bring them prominently before
the public by lavish expenditures in wide-
spread advertising. It can readily be seen
from these facts that the publisher has
neither use nor space for the lesser-known
writer. The merit of the outsider’s work is
immaterial to him.
Under the caption, "A Famine in Short
Stories," the New Yobk Heeald recently
said editorially :
According to our contemporary, the Bookman,
there is a famine in short stories, due to different
causes, not the least of which is the fact that the
story-writers are now busying themselves with play-
building. The others, it would seem, have lost the
gift of invention, for never before have editors found
it so hard to obtain what they call “bright, read-
able stories." One of these editors says that “since
O. Henry’s death it has been utterly impossible for
him to secure for his publication a short story that
is original in any way.” When we consider that O.
Henry’s manuscript was offered for two years with-
out a buyer, we are led to suspect that the fault may
lie_ in the editors themselves rather than in the
writers, and this theory is borne out by the experience
of everyone, who has written for magazines long
enough to discover the cast-iron rules and moss-grown
traditions by which they are governed. And every
one of these writers knows that it is much easier
to sell commonplace matter than anything novel in
theme or form.
A retired publisher, in a signed letter to the
New York Sun (July 9, 1913), says in
part :■ —■
The young author has no chance other than the
chance in a lottery. His work may be good, but it
will need “the smell of the frying bacon” to be
brought across the firm’s private desk to get a hear-
ing. A leading “English best seller” is the exception
to prove the rule. A certain book was offered,
favorably endorsed by one reader in three and turned
back to the author. Two years later the favorable
reader went into business for himself, and the first
thing he did Was to look up the declined novel and
writer. He made an offer; it was accepted, and the
book published—to be the success of the year. With
our current literature in its present bizarre condi-
tion what change for the better can be expected in
the future? I retired from the publishing business
two years ago, and have a warm spot for the strug-
gling unknowns.
I may be excused from mentioning personal
experiences, because they are the same as
the experiences of hundreds of thousands of
other writers in the States. To withhold an
accepted manuscript for six months or a year
without paying for it is not just. It is
deuced mean business to keep a writer out
of his bread and butter for a long term, while
not allowing him the chance to sell to another
publisher. I submitted an article to 16 dif-
ferent American magazines and was over a
year in getting it back, much mutiliated. I
got 16 little slips of paper with the editorial
stereotype—with which every writer to the
press is familiar. Finally, after 14
months, I received £5 for this article
from the editor of one of the highest-
class publications in New York. But
Jack London’s manuscripts were returned to
him from New York publishing houses with
the regularity with which he sent them, and
Rex Beach carried the manuscript of The
Spoilers around in his pocket till it became
frayed and dog-eared before he found a pub-
lisher. Blessed are the patient!
In a recent issue of this paper I referred
to the English literary agent. I also found
him in America. I remember well my first
experience with him. I imagined, after an
almost endless number of rejections, that my
manuscripts were not available simply be-
couse I was unknown. About this time I
happened to see an advertisement to the effect
that a certain syndicate wanted a number of
short stories, articles, etc.; in fact, anything
which would put them in touch with amateur
writers. Immediately, I gathered together
all of my productions and sent them off. In
due time I received a letter irorn the concern
stating that their reader wished td examine
more of my work, with a view to publication
in book form. Of course I was delighted.
1 felt that I had arrived. A week passed.
Then a letter came. It stated that because
of my unusual talent, the publishers would
make me a special offer. For 165 dollars —
but, pshaw! you know the rest. Another
experience was with a magazine which adver-
tised for stories and poems. Upon receipt
of my manuscripts I was coolly informed
that the editor did not consider any material
for publication unless the author owned
shares in the enterprise, which were five
dollars each. The periodical was philan-
thropic in its motives, seeking to exploit the
wares of the great unknown and bring them
before the reading public.
Despite what Mr. Dwyer has said, I am
convinced that so far as America is con-
cerned the time has come for the unheralded
author to awake to the fact that his case is
hopeless just so long as the above conditions
exist in the U.S.A. magazine field.
BILL BOWYANG.
H. C. McKay joins the Brennan Society:
“I hope it is not too late to enter the great
cryptic competition, especially as the only
commentator hitherto published seems to
have out-brennaned C.J.B. himself. To me
the poem in question has a comparatively
simple explanation—it is an invocation to a
subconscious power, and the imagery is bor-
rowed from astronomy. The poet’s conscious-
ness—“the citadel wliere I would seem dis-
tinct” —his lit universe—is stirred and
vaguely influenced by the nameless impulses
beyond its bounds; his conscious thoughts,
like stars at the edge, fly off into the dark
and return infected with subconscious in-
stincts. The subconscious darkness or im-
pulse is even powerful enough to ‘intoler-
ably dilate ’ —draw out the stars (conscious
thoughts) in a tide —as if there were a huge
dark moon in space drawing them. Having
now given this version, I utterly refuse to
accept any of O. J. Brennan’s, having con-
sumed five gallons of midnight oil, 27 brain-
cells and four bedroom-jugs of beer in the
effort.
“When a student, I remember a lunatic
at Kew Asylum who tackled all visitors with
an arithmetical problem: If two horses and
nine cows plough a paddock of 12 acres in
three days, how long will 40 horses and a
cow take to plough double the area?’ When,
to placate him, you worked it out, his pity-
ing answer was: ‘Wrong. I got that at
first; but it seemed much too simple, so I
multiplied by nine cows and added in fresh
horses and a couple o’ mules, an’ took away
the number I first thought of, and shifted th’
dismal-point four places to th’ right.’ Bren-
nan is working on similar lines. He gets an
idea, and adds psychology, metaphysics and
astronomy to it ‘in case it is too simple.’ I
defy anybody to make sense of the latter part
of his poem who has not read Arrhenius’ con-
ception of all the suns, moons and planets in
the Universe aggregating at last in one giant
sphere, finally and forever. But is this poetry
or a course of lectures in atomic synthesis?
“I write in great agony, as I have just
been striving with the contortions of another
hard, E. J. Rupert Atkinson. Will any
specialist in Infinity, Chaos, Theology and
Ellipsis give me a clue to “Before the Altars”
in Wayside Poems? The poet, good fellow
as he is personally, can give me no help. ‘I
can’t reply to you,’ he writes when appealed
to. ‘But I stick to Berkely.’ It is high time
a Society for the Nailing of Poets to an
Explanation was founded, with power to cut
off their ink, beer and technological diction-
aries. ‘Bellerive’ is hereby nominated Presi-
dent. Subscription, one Disillusion.”
“John Drayman” has made the delightful
discovery that, long before the war, a well-
known cigarette manufacturing firm had
unconsciously defined the german. This firm
gives away a series of animal pictures with
a popular brand of cigarettes. No. 38, which
“John Drayman” encloses, too late, as his
entry for the german-defining competition,
shows a picture of the dachshund, and thus
defines that german animal: “A German
variety of dog which is very popular on the
Continent as a sporting dog, and is used to
draw the fox and badger. Dachshunds make
good companions, as they are as a rule very
docile, but, given the opportunity, they cause
havoc amongst poultry, destroying the birds
for the mere lust of killing. In color they
are usually black-and-tan, deep red, or liver-
colored; a white variety is also occasionally
met with, but is not popular.”


'S’
'nee
Attractive
Designs...
for
Small Ladies,
Misses and
Children
at
Anthony Horderns'*
xvc
•' x
srne
Emd
46
274
<4<
m
!xr>.
<£2
PfM Plf |
111 v i IiIJM
m
KS
£I‘J
H
SPI
8
1
ii
i
23
m
Stratford
420
Doris
176
Blanche i
474 1:
ftnit
lenbu”
49'0
m J¥% it
"Norfolk y "Rutland
ess it
29&
Dorset
b I 6
'Devon
491»
554
274
1-5'6
The Dorset. —Long-coated Russian Costume, in
Basket Cloth, with smart Medici Collar and Cuffs of Black
Fur; suitable for grown Maids and small Ladies’ figures,
55/6
The Anita. Robe, in Corduroy Velvet, soft shades of
Mole, Navy, Brown, a smart Pinafore style; suitable for
Maids and small Ladies’ figures—
Size 51in. 45in. 42in.
29/6 29 6 29/6
The Devon.—Coat and Skirt, of fine Navy Coating
Serge ; Coat is cut in the new, smart length reaching below
hip line, the becoming Skirt has slight easing at hack;
fitting Maids and small Ladies’ figures.... .... 49/6
The Enid.—Coat and Skirt, in fine Coating Navy
Serge; a delightful little costume for Children from (5 to
14 years 27 / 6
The Doris.—Frock, in Silk Poplin, in soft shades 01
Cinnamon, Saxe, and Navy ; charming style for Children
from C to 12 years 17/6
The Bessie. Robe, in fine Navy French Serge, with pretty
Collar’ and Cuffs of Black Corded Silk, fastened down
front with attractive Buttons; suitable for Cirls from 12
to 19 years 27 / 6
The Esme.—Coat and Skirt, in fine Coating Serge,
Navy; an attractive little Costume for Children from 7
to 14 years —
Size 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in. Neck to Hem.
24/6 24/6 24/6 24/6
The Norfolk. —Coat and Skirt, of fine Coating Serge,
Navy; exnrcssly designed for College Girls from 14 to 19
years 45/6
The Rutland. —Coat and Skirt, of heavy Coating Serge,
Navy; most becoming and serviceable for School Girls
and Grown Maids 27/6
The Stratford. —Tartan Cloth Coat and Skirt,
with effective Velour Cloth Collar and Cuffs of a pretty
Chocolate shade; fitting small Ladies’ figures.... 42/6
The Blanche. —Coat and Skirt, in fine Navy Coating
Serge; smartly tailored Coat has the new, high-fitting
Collar, rounded fronts; Skirt has the new flounce; fitting
Maids and small Ladies’ figures 47/6
The Tenby.—Coat and Skirt Costume, in fine Navy
Coating Serge, Coat cut in the new loose-fitting design,
finished with a smart Military Collar, Skirt slightly eased
at back; fitting Maids and small Ladies’ figures.. 49/6
EdttfL
mvy
Kntu
WoHy
cdna
S 'ro/^
me.
ue
swf r ;
%omJtorderns
or
V
n
WZ
Jne Sfra/id
TAe
‘bfmnsfer-
ra
Our Winter Fashion Book
is an authoritative guide
to the prevailing modes.
Write for a copy, post free
on request ; it faithfully
presents all that is New
and Smart in the World
:: of Dress. :: ::
The Nancy. Child’s Frock, in Heavy and Fine Serge,
Navy only; also in Soft Tweeds in Grey, for Children from
5 to 12 years—•
Sizes: 22in., 24in., 27in., 30in., 33in.. —Fine Serge,
13/11; Tweeds, 12/11; Heavy Serge, 12/6.
The Madeleine. —Child’s Frock, in soft Grey, Checked
Tweed ; for Child from 6 to 13 years—-
Size 24in. 27in. 30in. 33m. 36in.
14/11 14/11 14/11 14/11 14/11
The Kitty. Child’s Frock, in Partridge Tweed, Blue
and Brown Check, fitting child 8 to 13 years.
Size 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in.
12/11 12/11 13/6 13/6
The Edith. —Knitted Wool Coat and Bonnet, Single
or Double Breasted: Grey, Brown, Navy, Vieux Hose and
Cream —-
Size 18in. 20in. 22in. 24in. 27iu. 30in.
11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6
The Edna. —Child’s Jersey, in a good washing stitch;
Vieux Rose. Saxe. Grey, Brown, Navy and Cream; also
Serge Pleated Skirt in shades to tone; fitting child 1 to 8
years—•’
Size 00 0123456
Jersey 4/6 4/6 4/9 4/9 4/9 4/11 4/11 4/It
Pleated 4/114/115/6 5/6 5/6 5/115/115/11
The Margaret. Erock, in Heather Mixture Check Tweed ;
fitting child from 6 to 13 years —
Size 24in. 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in.
13/6 13/6 13/11 13/11 13/11
The Molly. Coat, in good-quality Satin-faced Cloth;
Crimson, Grey and Navy; fitting child 7 to 14 years —
Size 2 7 in. 30in. 33in. 36in. 39in.
17/11 19/11 22/6 25/6 27/6
The strand.—Coat, in a Warm Nap Tweed, smartly
Tailored; Cinnamon only; fitting small Ladies’ figures—
Size 45in. 48in. 51in.
35/6 35/6 35/6
The Westminster. — Coat, in Checked Blanket Tweed,
perfectly cut; fitting Grown and Maids and- small Ladies
figures—■
c;..„ 42in. 45in. 48m. 51in.
24/6 24/6 25/6 25/6
The Peffgy. Coat, in fluted Velour Cloth; Mole, Navy,
Terra Cotta; fitting Girls from 7 to 14 years—
Size 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in. 39in.
15/44 16/11/18/6 19/6 19/11
No. 7432 — Children’s Thibet Sets, in suitable for
Children 4 to 15 years 15/6, 17/6, 21/6
The Dora. Frock, for Children, in Soft Grey and Brown
Tweeds, Amazon Cloth in Brown and Navy, and Fine ana
Heavy Serges in Navy only; fitting Child from 6 to la
Sizes: 24in., 27in., 30in., 33in., 36in. —Tweed, 13/6;
Amazon Cloth, 14/6; Fine Serge, 14/11; Heavy
Serge, 10/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


e
*
Hi
.42
IMM
m
»** s..
4 ' %<
iim
s&li
ifsstjfS
: : iV .
a * s ! •a
r-o-j
S-7
0:$ W
f IbiUi
mcmsm,
.22 CALIBER RIFLES
For target shooting or hunting small game, Win-
chester .22 Caliber Rifles give entire satisfaction,
because they are made with the same care and
skill as the “big guns.” There are three different
Winchester .22 caliber repeaters and four different
single shots made. From this array you can surely
pick out a rifle that will suit you. Your dealer has
them. Remember that
YOU CAN’T GO WRONG ON A WINCHESTER.
Bovril develops big
reserves of strength
IT MUST BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE
u
BT‘\
It was too
much for
Alexander
He cried easily. We know that his
petulance was probably caused by
faulty elimination and digestion.
People forget sometimes
that the human system to-
day is the same as it has
been for thousands of
years. Science hasn’t
changed our system. It
has merely found out more
about it. And the more
they discover, the more
clearly do doctors under-
stand why Cockle’s Pills
are best and gentlest. A
century of comparison con-
firms the supremacy of
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists throughout the World. English prices, 1/11 and 2/9.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond Street, London, England.
Carry an Onoto with you
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills
itself in a flash, cleans itself in the act of filling, and
contains sufficient ink to write 20,000 words.
Never leaks —always writes smoothly—and is always ready for
writing. Can be filled from any ink supply without a filler, without
tness or trouble, in five seconds.
vcx
vxv
Onoto
Self-filling Safety Fountain Pen.
The Onoto is fitted with a large gold nib which is
iridium pointed, and therefore practically indestruc-
tible. It is British made by British labour. Get
an Onoto now—Price 12/- and upwards. At all
stationers, jewellers, stores, etc.
IHPORTANT. For those who require a larger pen with
jl very flexible nib, a special model —the new G, has been
on the market. It is exceptional value for the money.
Try this new Gat your stationers.
Booklet about it free from T. De La Rue
& Co., Ltd., 219 Bunhill Row, London,
E.C., or the Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
12s.
*s*
r 4
Jfoe Model Store
BROADWAY, SYDNEY
1W tfiofoU Ttvcsk mo
vivo^iws*-
£3
3 ::
Perfectly Equipped Yvardrobe trunks.
A Ureat Convenience
to the Tourist
To those who have travelled through America or Europe the WARDROBE TRUNK will
be recognised as A NECESSARY PART OF AN OUTFIT. Lovely dresses deserve
better treatment than being pressed into a flat trunk. The WARDROBE TRUNK saves
all the worries of badly-creased clothes. Every dress ha ngs on a proper hanger ; men’s suits the same.
Mil—“ The Mooltan.” Ladies' Ward-
robe Trunks of 3-ply Veneer, heavily bound
and clamped .with steel. Holding capacity,
37in. Wardrobe compartment contains 9
combination suit hangers, 3 large drawers,
hat box fitted with cone. Extreme outside
measurements, 40in. x 24in. x 22in.
Price £lO/10/-
LR2.—“The Orsova.” Gent.’s Ward-
robe Trunk of 3-ply Veneer, covered painted
canvas, bound with solid brass cones and
clamps. Holding capacity, 6 suits. Ward-
robe compartment is 40in., 6 large drawers
and straps for umbrellas and walking-sticks.
Outside measurement, 44in. x 21in. x 18in.
Price £lO
NOVELTY LINES IN MEN’S WEAR.
-
'"v-
. |. .
1,115. —T he J\ e w
Knicker Shirt. —This
Garment is one of the newest
Novelties in Men’s Wear.
If is a combination of Shirt
and Knickers, made all in
one piece, opening down
front. Made of White Mercer-
ised Shirting, with double
Cuffs, and White Linen
Neckbands. Price 7/6
The Model Store,
LR4.—The New Sleeping
Suit—made in all sizes. —This
Suit is specially designed for sleeping
out. It is made in two pieces, has
hood and hoots which can be attached
or detached as one prefers. When not
required as a sleeping garment, it may
be worn as Pyjamas. Made in Flannel
and Flannelette. Price: In Flannel,
J 2/6. In Flannelette, 7/6.
GRACJ& BROS.
Jjß3.—The New Athletic
Shirt. as illustrated, will he
most welcome by all Athletes and
Tennis enthusiasts. The strong
feature of this Shirt is its com-
bination Collar. This can be
worn open at neck, or as a. regu-
lar Collar. This Shirt is made
of plain White Mercerised Shirt-
ing. All sizes stocked.
Prices •• 4/6 and 7/6 each
Broadway, SYDNEY


vv \
% \
BENGER’S
Food
for
Delicate
Children .
When children
are weakly from
birth or through illness the
digestive strength is naturally
sub-normal, and, as there is
failure to extract full nourish-
ment from ordinary food,
malnutrition results.
Benger’s Food is specially
recommended for overcoming
the ill effects of malnutrition
in growing children.
cxvc
Food
For CHILDRFN,
INVALIDS, and the AGIO,
is sold by Druggists , etc. , everywhere.
Benger’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids and the
Aged will be seat post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Manchester, Eng.
Branch Offices— NEW YORK (U.S.A.) 92 William Street.
SYDNEY in.S.W.I 117, Pitt Street.
Canarian 'cent*—. National Drug & Chemical Co., Ltd.,
34, St. Gabriel Street, Montreal, and Branches
throughout Canada. A
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
If our teeth could talk —they
would say something like this:
“Yes, we are thankful for our
friends—the millions of Tooth
Brushes. They do a splendid
work —so far as they go. We
are grateful for the hundreds of
dentifrices. They in turn do a
splendid work —so far as they go.
But both together fall far short of
protecting our enamel —our only
weapon of tooth protection. Is
there no escape from these
‘MOUTH ACIDS’ —these ever-
present mouth fluids which, un-
seen, unbidden, are working day
and night to break down our
armor plate—and then make the
soft inside tooth structure easy
prey to decay-germs?”
We answer:
“There IS escape from ‘Acid
Mouth.’ Pebeco Tooth Paste is
the one dentifrice to-day which
prevents ‘Acid Mouth’ —the direct
cause of 95 % of all tooth-decay.”
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
Made in Australia by
G. ARNOLD,
O O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [4
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
r] bi ■ SnilUniinmiiiM
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, LtcL, Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH: McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
“ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
xvc
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS & COLDS.
INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, SORENESS and
TIGHTNESS of the CHEST, WHOOPING
COUGH, SORE or RELAXED THROAT.
BONMIISCTOfifS
301 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Messrs. Bonnington & Co.
Dear Sirs, —For over 20 years “Boninng-
fcon's Irish Moss’’ has been an unfailing
remedy in niv household. tor Coughs and
Colds and Chest Affections generally I con-
skier there is no better remedy than ‘Bonnington s
Yours truly, \V. J. C. YATES.
Ifk» BOfSTNI^^TO^’SI
y> - -
'MI:
n w 1
A WOMAN’S BIRTHRIGHT!
A CORRECTLY RUST!
DEVELOPED y
I'very woman can have a perfect figure. A deficiency in bust is
rcadilv corrected bv Du. Fallikhu’s Flush-Food treatment. The best
evidence is that of those who have used it. It is never-fai mg. See
wliat ?dI!S. K. WINGROYE, of Gvuipie, Queensland, a skilled nurse,
says of its efficacy: —;
“After leaving off your treatment I waited several months
to see if the results were permanent before writing you, and
1 now wish to sav that I think the treatment is absolutely
marvellous. Before adopting it I was only skin and bones,
hut now 1 am one of the best walking advertisements you
could have. It did all you claimed for it and really more,
and the results were startlingly ahead of my fondest expec-
tations. Mv health and appearance have improved most
satisfactorily, and I now thank you for urging me to have
the treatment.”
~a Wt ~n nrn t 0 K ive von more letters here like this one, but we will send you scores of
them*upon request. We possess thousands of grateful testimonials.
Manv cases o-ain as much as 51b. a week, and improvements up to as much as ten inches
have been made in the bust measurements. Guarantee given in every case.
rnt UP in tablet form, it is pleasant to take, and palatable. It leaves no unpleasant after-
effects, and the results are permanent and lasting. It can be taken secretly.
Free Illustrated Book ! Free Trial Sample !
We want von to know just what FLESH-FOOD is, and will gladly give von a free sample.
Send a *>d stamp and let us forward a free trial sample and our instructive book on attenua-
tion “Lovelv Women.” No matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post All
corn-nondence is confideutial and private, and all our literature is sent closely covered and free
from observation. Write at once. You are placed under no obligation whatever to buy because
you send for a sample. Call if convenient. Lady attendant. Hours. 10 to 4.00. 118214
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney
Reducing the Cost of Pipe Threading
For quick work and clean-cut threads use an OSTER.
OSTER Machines
xvc
belt &. motor-driven.
Note these features—automatic die
release, automatic oil pump, quick-
opening' dies, simple, convenient
die-head.
Threads,
Tubes,
Nipples
or Belts.
Built
in 3
Sizes.
[3
THE OSTER MFG. CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, O.S.A.
For Sale by Leading Dealers in
all Cities.
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. It. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “1 was a hard smoker for 30
years, but since takino your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian. Gd. weekly —an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia. and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
HIMRODS
asthma powder
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ARE YOU
UPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance tha,t is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and teatimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children,
CESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Crazy Kate of Camperdown.
I hear all sorts of poets rave of girls,
From far Toowoomba south and west to
Hay,
Of Cornstalk figures and of rippling curls.
Broad bosoms and eyes honest as the day;
But, by the iove of Mike, I always frown
Except at crazy Kate of Camperdown.
This talk of skins of milk and roses tires me,
This skite of what she looks like makes
me wild.
It’s only homely virtue that inspires me,
I hate the “artless habits of a child” ;
But give to me, in ancient boots and gown,
The Lady Bottle-oli of Camperdown.
All through the week from Monday unto
Friday,
She gathers bottles in the old spring cart;
On Saturdays she makes herself look tidy
In her green silk she is a bonzer tart,
And a gem hat sticks saucy on her crown;
Angels, shield Crazy Kate of Camperdown!
I wait until the cart is full of bottles,
And then I go and word her for a sprat
(A coin men use to buy beer for their
throttles),
And then I up and make an end of that;
Some call me “loafer,” or some other noun,
But never Crazy Kate of Camperdown.
Heaven bless her! But for her I d have to
work ;
’Tis that old bottle-cart keeps wolves away.
The beauties of the harem of the Turk
Could never equal Kate, not any day.
The praises I do trumpet round the town
Of dear old Crazy Kate of. Camperdown.
N.S.W.
RANDOPH STOPOUT.
A Vision of Fountains.
Here where the earth is brown and barren.
Where trees are stunted and skies are pale,
Where dust from the dry plains wind-
tormented
Hangs in air like a stifling veil —
Here I am dreaming of snowy columns
That up through the wide boughs leap and
sway;
A glittering vision, fountains playing—
Fountains playing on a windy day.
The water flower swift!v budding;
Blooming, fading and still renewed.
And ever the petals falling, falling,
Till the tangled grasses are thickly dewed,
And the waving roses are jewel strewn,
And the low green boughs are hung with
pearls;
And ever the central shaft of splendor.
Wind-maddened, musical, sparkling, whirls
Broken in rainbow-misted mazes.
Scattering, flying drifts of spray.
This is my vision of fountains playing,
Splashing, swaying—
Fountains playing on a windy day.
The wind that ferries the white clouds over
Snatches the blossoms and strews them wide,
And veils itself in the fine-spun gauzes,
Laughing low like an eager bride;
And the fountains’ laughter is sweet with
singing
As they rise and fall in fantastic play;
A delicate vision that hangs displayed
In quivering plume and swift cascade,
A lovely vision of fountains playing—
Fountains playing on a windy day.
Spinning poised like joyous dancers
Tossing their slim, white arms aloft.
Bending, bowing in rhythmic measure
To the pattering crystal drumming soft
On the spread of the silver, singing pools,
While the trees a-nodding clap to time,
And wind and water twirl together
To the lilting heat of a happy rime,
Sweeping ever away, away.
This is my vision of fountains blowing,
The path of the breeze with diamonds sow-
ing i
A vision of fountains flashing, flowing—
Fountains playing on a windy day.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.
Song of the Vine.
When Springtide’s silver sandals tripped
Across the bloss’my meadows.
And purple-garbed the young Earth danced
From out the Winter’s shadows;
While gay September’s golden hair
Across the land was lying.
And overhead on sweeping wings
The wild galahs were flying ;
The new leaves clustered on the stems,
All ruddv-hued and sappy.
Yea. then the vine brought forth its bloom
While earth waxed rich and happy.
And while the languorous Summer bared
Unto the Sun her bosom,
A pulsing life rushed through the stem,
The fruit crept from the blossom.
The brown soil fed the swelling grape,
And, in the sunlight thrilling,
The honey wine-blood crept along,
The purple skin out-filling.
And, now the gracious Autumn’s come
To reap the cornfields yellow.
Upon a thousand burdened vines
The grapes hang lush and mellow.
In laughing bands the pickers move
Along the purple alleys;
The clicking of their flashing shears
Makes music in the valleys.
The wine-vat runs its crimson flow,
The must foams up for pleasure,
Gay Bacchus, lurking by the door.
Cries “Taste the vine’s mad treasure.”’
No score of years in it lies drowned,
Fresh-rough, it lacks their duty :
This sweet, wild wine is Nature’s draught,
And speaks a new land’s beauty.
N.s.w.
CHARLES FIRTH-PETTIGNER.


BIG BELLS, LITTLE BELLS,
LONG BELLS, SHORT BELLS,
THE WHOLE BELL
FAMILY AT PRICES
BELL=LOW ANYBODY ELSE.
Order NOW from
W. G. WATSON 8 CO., LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything- Electrical,
279 Clarence Street; 426-430 Kent Street, SYDNEY
(Just round from the Town Hall).
Melbourne Representative: GEO. SMITH MORISON, Collins
House, Collins Street, Melbourne
y>
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how Jong standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSON'S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Bng,
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes-
T'VURING the Summer a most pleasant,
* " refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle
handy. Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days come round.
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
TOOTH 8* CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
YOU LIKE GOOD CHEESE?
THEN WHY NOT THE BEST
CHEESE EVERY TIME?
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese is produced in
richest Dairying District of Australia
It is the new kind of Australian Cheese that
has captivated the Connoisseurs —men to
whom the taste of a flat or inspid Cheese
would he as wormwood and gall.
“REX”
Luncheon
Cheese
3B
iy
joaoda
aoojjs
wins by its flavor and holds by its uniformity. It is prepared and sold in
an easy-to-spread consistency, which makes it an economical cheese to buy.
Has all the valuable properties of perfectly-matured full-cream cheese,
digestion—a little taken after each meal turns the trick.
Sold by all Grocers, in sanitary, solderless tins.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are: —
Aids
iMaatk.
ISWI
imn»*
?Plrj
min
■•n.r
ll'liiiß
i'3.
g*
ii.
gjvdwvfi
3lYd . *)f>N oll -,
r HV.IA
Ham Pate.
Veal & Tongue Pate.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork & Beans, 131 b. tins.
Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
Punch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib tins.
And “Bex” Brand Bard, for cook-
ing purposes, in lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones 8 Co.,
LIMITED,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
REX
Not a Luxury
ç
“titan” -y
HOT water;
BAG -C
TWO SEASONS'
but a Necessity—
The “Titan” Hot-Water Bag,
Australian Made,
and Guaranteed Two Seasons.
One of these bags placed bet ween the sheets shortly before
retiring gives absolute relief from sleeplessness caused by
cold feet, etc.
Size.
Without
Cover.
With
Cover.
12 x 8 7/6 8/6
14 x S 8/ii 9/6
12 x 10 9/- 10/6
Post
Paid.
“TITAN” BAGS are sold by all leading Chemists and Storekeepers throughout
Australia. To be sure of getting the Genuine Bag see that the Registered Brand is
moulded on the Rubber-Covered Stopper.
Our New No. 43 Catalogue is now ready. Post Free to any address.
0
Rubber
Co. Ltd.
270 George St., Sydney.
105 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
67a Gawler Place, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
ć
Bright, well-kept Linoleum
adds wonderfully to the appearance of any roam
and it is marvellous what an added charm Sai-
noleum gives. It is extremely easy to use, too,
and is lasting in effect. There is never any
wasted, for you cannot spill Shi-noleum. It is
a firm paste, is exceptionally convenient to use,
and saves you both money and time. When the
glossy Shi-noleum surface is produced - a rub
over with a soft cloth occasionally will keep ; oir
floors bright for a very long time.
Get it from your storekeeper.
'MJhuvm
9[qurodvucoYi]
jwsmw sawdOHi
VAwrmaanxKi
1
&
11ITI1111H1111
«-r 111 rrn i i i i I i 11


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Poso as a Newspaper
Vol. 36.—N0. 1837.
THURSDAY, APRIL 29, 1915.
Pbice 6d.
“PASS, FRIEND!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. ver Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects ,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications t
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
iilitECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current'event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central Nercs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 555
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. — lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — lV. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies Tiie Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id., Bioz. to 10oz., 2ld. ;
lQoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, hoz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
ffiuTS&i'zZleZxm,.
THURSDAY, APRIL 29, 1915.
THE FUTILITY OF BUILDING A
FENCE WITH ONE WIRE.
The idea that, if the Federal Parliament
forthwith imposes a heavy surcharge on
enemy manufactures, its obligation to the
nation in respect of tariff reform will be
sufficiently well discharged, appears to be
taking root in quite unexpected quarters.
At various meetings of manufacturers
throughout the Commonwealth recently—at
a deputation to the Minister for Customs
in Melbourne the other day—this point of
immediately jumping with both feet on Ger-
man trade was elevated into one of major
importance, • and a vast amount of breath
was expended on picturing the evils Aus-
tralia would suffer by vast quantities of
Teutonic goods being pushed over the coast
line —after the war. The reply is that the
war is neither over nor shows any definite
signs of being over soon ; that for the present
direct trade with the Plun has been cut off
at the meter, and his ships bottled up in
places where, instead of earninv subsidies,
they accumulate oysters on the bilge; and
that, anyway, the real business of the Com-
monwealth is not to discuss how on the
declaration of peace the trade of Germany
or any other country may be hampered, or
crippled, or killed outright, but by what
means manufacturing may be promoted here in
Australia —how it may best be protected dur-
ing the period of growth against the insidious
blight of foreign industry. This is the
problem Parliament has to deal with, and
the measure of the success with which it
handles its task will be determined not by
the alleged effectiveness of the bash it ad-
ministers an already-bashed von Spooken
stein, but by the actual expansion of Aus-
tralian enterprise.
*> * * *
When the war is over a weary old world
is going to find the weather very cold and
wet; all, or nearly all, its savings against a
rainy day shot off in smoke, with enormously
increased debts, an industrial position requir-
ing immediate readjustment, and a ravenous
demand for cash. A great part of
the world is going to be very poor; wages in
those places are going to be very gaunt and
the price of goods below zero, for only by
work will the team of dead horses be shifted.
And this will not be so in Germany only.
There are other countries badly affected,
are none where the pinch will not
be felt. What of Australia? Is going
then to depend on what she can borrow or
on what she can make and sell and save?
floes she propose to continue sending abroad
a steady stream of raw materials in order
that her population may be given a job with
pick and shovel and provided with a calico
shack on the outskirts of a port congested
by ships carrying away the products of sta-
tion and forest and mine, and bringing in the
output of foreign workshop and factory? Or
is she going now to get ready, even at the
eleventh hour, to do for herself what other
people do? If she is, the way is obvious.
If she is not, then it will be sufficient to
adopt a futile tariff and tack on to its knock-
kneed schedules a weapon to hit the irrelevant
German in the eye. After which the Par-
liament can give three cheers and adjourn
amidst a scene of great patriotic enthusiasm.
This frantic desire to deal with “the
menace of German imports” before sun-
down bears a strong family likeness to the
queer anxiety recently displayed to have a
conference of Premiers in London about “the
terms of peace.” What they were going to
talk about, and who they were going to talk
with, the gentle Bunyip only knows. The
conditions precedent to peace are not within
the region of human ken, nor is there any
“menace of German imports” on the horizon.
What should specially be done about this
particular menace when it begins to take
shape can be much more profitably dis-
cussed then than when it merely consists of
rumor, just as “peace” can more advantage-
ously be considered when warring parties,
having had enough stoush, are ready to bind
up their wounds. Considerations of trade
must inevitably take a prominent place in
adjustment of the broken bones. The com-
mercial relations that will eventually exist
between European countries —and between
Britain and Germany in particular—must
manifestly be a pronounced factor in deter-
mining the attitude of Australia towards her
present enemy. John Bull is a Free-
trader, or pretends to be, and may conceiv-
ably be prepared to continue his old-time
practice of securing from the German
a large volume of the things which
enter into manufacturing. That aspect
of the matter alone opens a page for some
pretty hard thinking by Australia, both
in regard to preference on British
imports (which may be half- or quarter-bred
Hun), and to schemes of to-day for making
trade in manufactures between the Common-
wealth and Germany as impossible as trade
in wheat between N. S. Wales and Victoria.
Trade with Hamburg on the basis of taking
from the German what Australians should
make for themselves is undesirable, and the
less they have of it the better. But what
about Chicago? How about Amsterdam and
Genoa and Tokio? What Australia needs
is Protection for the shirt and boot
and hat —for the axle, and horsecollar
and pair of socks —for everything her
people are capable of producing on
their own account, whether the com-
peting goods come from Tipperary or Tim-
buctoo. Economically it is all the same
whence they originate. And for Australia,
with her enormous public debt and unde-
veloped capacity for a sane mode of life, the
need is now more pressing than ever for a
tariff wall high enough to keep everyone back.
The extra row of spikes on top for the
special amusement of particular persons can
be put in position when the other 30b has
been finished according to specifications. To
stretch a piece of barbed-wire in the atmo-
phere will do nobody any good—or any
harm either.
ON THE SCRAP-HEAP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the end of the war Australia will have
to its debit 50 millions or so of new debt of
the worst and most unprofitable kind, and
the lossI—at 1 —at least temporarily—of 100,000
men. To its credit added prestige ; the ad-
vertisement of ability to put up a fight when
lawful occasion demands ; and maybe a new
Pacific empire with a million and a half
colored subjects calling for heavy expendi-
ture and careful administration before they
can be converted into machines for trade.
For a country with a practically republi-
can government, Imperialism will be no
more welcome to us than it has been to
America, and the million and a half of alien
subjects are worth less than nothing. It is
conquest with but a paper value; a Com-
monwealth with a territory as large as that
of the United States of America and a popu-
lation less than the population of New York
City, suddenly achieving 1,500,000 people
whom its religion of White Australia will
not permit it to receive as citizens. Aus-
tralia, for its spontaneous acceptance of the
duties of nationhood —an acceptance regard-
less of expense of money or the more splendid
gift of some of the best men in the world-
must be paid, and paid in men and women,
the best men and women in the world. And
that is just the payment the world doesn’t
like to make.
The Belgians accept money to feed their
starving civilians on the scrap-heap that
Junkerdom has made of Belgium—are ready
to accept money indefinitely—buj are quite
unready to let a better country welcome its
non-combatants. It has been a scrap-heap
on a small scale many times in history, and
has rebuilt itself as often; but never has it
or any other country had colossal problems
in regeneration such as the end of this war
must state. There was reason for hanging
on to a patch of ground as a matter of life
or death in the days when there were no new
countries established to offer asylums to the
vanquished, or when transport was not; but
there is no such excuse to-day.
Australia is spending men and money, and
wants to be paid in men—and write the
money off. This war has been caused by
land hunger, while Australia had room for 50
millions if but they would throw down the
shadow for the substance of comfort offered
them in this newest country. From the
beginning of wars it has been so; wars
born of land hunger, the apparently stronger
expelling the seemingly weak, and they
fleeing to newer lands to prove that the
conservative love for grandfather’s worn-
out patch of ground is a foolish thing, and
that love of country verges on the ridicu-
lous when the country loved was over-
swarmed with life as a kitchen midden.
The Australian trade lost to German manu-
facturers for ever is not to be passed on to
Japan or the United States or any other
country. That would be but a change of tax-
gatherers. Australia wants that trade for
itself, and the condition precedent to that
is skilled artisans from the countries which
supplied us before the war.
The conservatism of manufacture is as
stupid as any other. Scotland was early in
the field as a jute spinner, and jute is still
dragged from India to Scotland —to be
again reshipped to India and the East.
Dundee makes marmalade and never grew
an orange; and Australia grows wool and
bought a lot of woollen goods from Ger-
many. Yet Australia hasn’t a climate fatal
to woollen manufacture —though it used to
be stated that Australia couldn’t produce
water for brewing. Australia is simply
hard up for men—for the last word in arti-
sans and craftsmen.
The big zinc smelters of Belgium once had
French and Belgian zinc mines to draw
from ; then in the attempt to keep alive an
industry which, in the natural way, h„d
died for. want of local raw material, it
opened zinc mines in Italy and Spain and
freighted calamine and blende to Belgium.
Certainly Italy and Spain had no coal mines,
and the ore had to go somewhere to the fuel;
but Australia has coal a-plenty, and yet
Belgium and Germany got all the zinc con-
centrates which the admirable Broken Hill
Proprietary Co. could not smelt for the
small Australian demand. Germany’s
efficiency as a zinc smelter at last secured
all the trade from British works, and the
British political economists appeared to be
quite consoled by the fact that Cardiff coal
is the best fuel for zinc smelting, and that
Germany bought Welsh fuel for the treat-
ment of Australian ore. Yet all Australia
Wanted to keep an increasingly greater pro-
portion of its own zinc trade was more
people.
In Europe so much have they developed
their natural resources that they are de-
veloped out of existence. Germany and
Belgium drag even cement and concrete for
great distances out of France; and the
newer countries are keeping alive the super-
stition of nations being everlasting in a
world of change by sending meat and wheat
to overcrowded countries that cannot feed
their own people, in order to feed men to
smelt zinc from the world’s end. The actual
loss of effort in transport alone is colossal;
and its one result is the maintenance of
people in overcrowded towns of indifferent
climate, while the finest country on earth
asks vainly for men, and yet more men.
It is not as if transport were perilous, or
Australia unknown. It is too well known
to the undesirables; on one day in Mel-
bourne recently two pauper imbeciles from
England were presented for vagrancy—one,
“of good family,” said the humorless record,
had been shipped out of England by his
brother and abandoned. These were the
first dividends we had for our men and
treasure; while the people we do want will
cling to some ruined hamlet in France or
Belgium, and, after the war, will labori-
ously rebuild the place of their agony and
starvation. They managed things better in
the Middle Ages in Burgundy, principally
because they had not learned sanitary science.
To the village decimated by disease or
wasted by wars they “decanted” the sur-
plus population of an overcrowded town,
and so equalised matters. But even Bur-
gundy has stopped that not-all-foolish
interference with the rights of the subject;
and the scrap-heap is picked over and re-
cast at tremendous effort and with no
great result.
The people of the Balkan States, for
instance, are always more or less at war;
often destroying, and between times recon-
structing the unnecessary. We do not
want the Turk, and many Balkan and
Eastern Mediterranean peoples would be
similarly barred. Yet the best of them
Australia would welcome, and the worst of
Australia is better than the best their
own countries can offer. Albania is so
mountainous as to be good only for the
wildest of scenery merchants, and as the
people are mostly robbers —theft with
violence being regarded with them as re-
spectable as falsifying Customs entries is
with us —the country is especially fitted
for tourist traffic. They are foes to all the
arts of peace, and are best left alone by
Australian immigration agents. The Greeks
are just the people for the immense fisheries
Australian coasts must develop—the 80,000
square miles of the Barrier Reef, leaving
out its edible fish, can produce all the fer-
tilisers Australia foolishly drains itself of by
export. Greece could give Australia 100,000
people and never miss them. The Monte-
negrins, like most mountaineers, would be
of little value in Australia, especially as
they are still self-separated by the clan idea
and as ignorant as if they were still young.
And being very ignorant they are the most
intensely patriotic people on earth; not
with the patriotism that tries to make its
fatherland better, but believing with the
fatuousness of the criminal that anything it
does is well done because it does it. The
Roumanians—a people of Roman and Dacian
origin, its stream muddied with a strong
infusion of Tartar blood—are no good for
Australia either. Servia is a different pro-
position. Its 450 years of Turkish domina-
tion has not destroyed all its Greek blood
and feeling : its fertile country is not great
in area, being broken up by immense forests
and mountain systems and barren heaths.
Its people are some of those we want.
Yet for the millions that Australia must
have we must, consistently with the White
Australia religion and the policy of taking
only the best —which is the logical conclu-
sion of our remoteness —look to Western
Europe. In Italy there are hundreds of
scrap-heaps in the Appenines inhabited by
splendid people; fine, simple, frugal, honest
men and beautiful women, and these we
want as much for their beauty and refine-
ment as for their qualities of kindliness,
courtesy and self-abnegation. More than
any other people in the world they have
inherited the miracle of self-restraint; bet-
ter than any other people have they learned
to do without things gracefully. Villages
are there which were old 1000 years ago,
yet never do their populations grow
because the little tongues of land will feed
but so many. A man will keep a wife and
six children and the old grandmother to
mind the newest baby and stir the family
pot, and he will do it on Bs. a week and
keep his dignity. He has even a cup of red
vinegar— alias wine—and he and his wife
turn out of their bed of corncob tassels for
the honor of the guest. In one village—
Agli—-they built a church ten times that it
might be destroyed by lightning, and they
prayed and rebuilt for 200 years until a
stranger gave them a lightning conductor
for their tower. Their village is an eyrie—
rock-perched against the robber bands which
are no more —and it is an hour’s work to
descend to the “fields,” and two hours’ work
to climb home again. Yet when their mad
villages fall down in a ’quake, these hard-
working, frugal, splendid, fat-headed
wasters of effort build the lunatic structure
up again. They never waste" a penny, but
nobody shows them new methods, and so
they don’t make many pennies to waste.
They plough still with a section of forked
tree, and the motive power is a cow, or a
cow and a woman. I asked a ploughman in
Garfagnana, whose wife was leading the
drauglit cows up and down the field, why
he did not use reins, and he replied that
if he did his wife would have nothing to do.
You meet little boys and girls carrying
heavy burdens where they should be singing
in the sunlight; you see beauty taking oh
its wooden boots when it comes to stony
ways, because boots wear out and feet do
not. They capture every fallen leaf for cow
bedding; beauty and youth mix manure
with blue hands in the quite unnecessary
snow; and in the spring they pack the
manure in great baskets, and youth and
beauty carry it up unnecessary mountains
to the little tongues of impoverished soil.
And England in its refusal to adopt mod-
ern methods in manufactory is as foolishly
conservative—no more and no less.
At Santa Fiora, in Eastern Tuscany, the
death-rate is 34 per 1000, because the nurs-
ing mothers are so poorly nourished that
their milk dries early, and the toothless
child is fed on chestnuts and a little
polenta on Sundays. The chestnuts and
the summer finish off the seven-months-old
babies as a Broken Hill duststorm kills
caterpillars. But the survivors! What
world-beaters when well fed! One of the
most beautiful women in the world was on
my pay-roll at Monte Buono. She had the
figure that comes to the bearers of head
burdens, and she walked seven miles a day
to and from work—l 4 miles in all—for the
privilege of shovelling ore for 10 hours a
day at the drying floors. And if their
village falls down they build it up again
as if it were still in the tenth century when
the village was the end of the world, and
the world was flat. And at every threshing
floor the gleaners—starvation seeking alms
of poverty — many Ruths, but Boaz always
married to a watchful wife.
Earthquakes in Italy and Sicily were
repeated at intervals for 2000 years, and
yet no movement at abandonment of ruined
places, because the destruction was not
absolute, and Messina was not so fortunate
as Pompeii; Belgium, torn and riven by
the invader, rebuilding for the next invader;
England with many a sore-eyed village per-
sisted in century after century, though it
can give but poverty and sorrow to its
people; Spain growing sour wine on stones,
and keeping the Spanish virtues away from
the land of wine and oil.
Of them all, Australian character wants
most the Belgian, the Italian and the
French—-and the last are the greatest people
of the Old World; frugal, industrious,
courteous, artistic, happy-minded, cheerful
souls. We want a few millions of them
so badly that I could wish for the resurrec-
tion of that old Duke of Burgundy who
used the language of the vineyard and
forcibly “decanted” the over-full to the
empty. Europe _ must be rebuilt, of
course, but to do it on the old scale —while
rich, empty, splendid countries like Aus-
tralia wait development—would be waste-
ful and ridiculous. Pisa’s leaning tower is
interesting, but one is enough; and the
labors of Hercules contained in the making
of Venice, if repeated to-day, would entitle
the maker to a nice new asylum in rein-
forced concrete.
_ Again, let it be stated —Australia has
given men and money; let Australia begin
planning now how to be paid in men.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia and Fiji.
An unconfirmed rumor has been floating
around lately that the Commonwealth
would presently take over control of Fiji;
whereupon several right-thinking news-
papers have felt called upon to make the
customary ill-chosen remarks, and “gentle-
men thoroughly conversant with the posi-
tion” have aired themselves in print on
the subject. Boiled down, their joint and
several yarn consists of a whimpering
recital of the alleged chaos that would fol-
low such a transaction —of the ruin, desola-
tion and embarrassment that would take the
place of the coolie and the nigger through
the extension of the White Australia
doctrine to the island group. All of which
is the dressing-up of a shabby old scare-
crow —an attempt to throw back-handed
ridicule on a policy these unpatriotic con-
troversialists are afraid to attack openly,
but are characteristically ready to misre-
present. No Australian is ass enough to
propose a White World. To suggest that the
principles which govern the national atti-
tude on racial questions should be extended
to other countries where their application
would represent a complete reversal of the
doctrine accepted by the Australian people
for themselves is merely to call tenders for
ridicule. Yet this is what these anony-
mous wiseacres are unwittingly doing. Hav-
ing invited the community to gaze on a
laboriously manufactured travesty of Aus-
tralian sentiment, they ask their little world
to see with what derision the thing should
be jumped upon. The White Australia
principle is only converted into a White
Fiji principle by enemies. Australia has
quite enough on hand to deal with in re-
spect to her own country; and these queer
Tories who are now trying to argue that
she is bound to a policy of extending her
social theories to distant, over-sea lands are
just as fatuously incapable of understanding
obvious facts as they were 25 years
ago. Instead of, as they suppose, making
the White Australia idea appear ludicrous,
they are just proclaiming their own
banality.


The Lacking Sense of Proportion.
“0.K.” calls for a stiffer back
British casualties in the war up to April 11 num-
bered 139,347. All the casualties in the war amount
to millions, dead or disabled for life shockingly
disabled in tens of thousands of cases. And the num-
ber of persons otherwise injured within the past nine
months runs into tens of hundreds of thousands.
Calamities like the loss of the Titanic will be mere
flyspecks on the foolscap page of 20th century his-
tory. The same remark applies to earthquakes lesu
ing in vast destruction of mortals and landed pro-
perty. Probably the Moving Finger will rub them
off the page quite unconsciously. Nowadays nothing
really matters to existing civilisation, or posterity in
general, save the question whether Germany is, or
isn’t, to perpetuate the rule of truculent armed
force. The nations are all concerned about that one
great question. Yet in this very time of appalling
storm and stress there are persons pleading, for
selfish personal reasons, for benevolent treatment of
the comparatively few Germans who hate England in
English-speaking countries. From a logical national
point of view the comfort, convenience, wife, children
and future prospects of ten thousand individual
Schmidts and Kaufmanns matter not a bean in com-
parison with the stake at issue. Yet a few blind
“humanitarians” and hypocritical egotists, swayed
by commercial or social interests, cannot be per-
suaded that at the present time all civilian Germans
outside of Germany, “naturalised” or otherwise, are
out of place. In an enemy country they are “unde-
sirable aliens,” in the fullest meaning of the term.
Interned, they are a needless trouble; at liberty,
they may be a danger. What should their personal
desires re domicile matter to the millions who are
suffering from the accursed military Ilogmanism
whereof these few citizens are foreign representatives ?
The British passengers on the Falaba desired to re-
main aboard their floating domicile, but the German
submarine forced them to quit the vessel, or die —-or
both. Belgians, Flench and Russians have suffered
slaughter and horrible outrages, as well as loss of
property, -at the hands of men not more German
than Schmidt and Kaufmann. English soldier
prisoners are being victimised, and even done to
death through privations, by the enemy that refuses
an exchange of military captives lest the whole
truth about the good and bad treatment of them in
their respective places of captivity should become
known to their respective countrymen ere the war
ends. But in face of these facts a mischievous min-
ority of the world-wide British public still attaches
importance to the comfort, convenience and blessed
vested interests of a few thousand undesirable aliens,
potential spies, insidious enemies to the Cause —the
danse that cost the British forces 139,347 casualties
up to April 11, when the war, according to Kit-
chener, had not yet begrun. What Britain and the
English-speaking world wants of everybody is a
proper sense of proportion. Without it there can be
no proper sense of jus'.ice. Let the Germans who are
shirking their inherited duties to militarism remain
under British rule, if they are content to feel con-
temptibly out of place, or let them patriotically re-
turn to the dear old German Government which
wants all the food for cannon it can put on the war
market. But do not let them be matters for mawkish
sympathy or special consideration.
A New Parson and an Old Gospel.
Whenever a big Australian, question—
Defence or the working power of the white
man up North or the desirability of State
education—is . settled and put aside to
mature, someone, usually a parson, is bound
to drift along and beg the whole proposi-
tion. A new arrival in Sydney named
Kencii is the latest to run true to clerical
type. Taking the war as his text he said
lass week: —
Will it be possible to say to the Japanese and the
Indians, your gallant sons were good enough to die
to Secure our safety, but you are not good enough to
live within our borders. .. .The days when we could
keep a great continent practically empty are drawing
to a close.
What the Black Australian persists in
blandly overlooking when he advocates what
amounts to miscegenation is that the
virtues of ~ the colored man have nothing to
do with the case for bis exclusion. There is
no doubt as to the gallantry of the Indians,
and the Jans have shown themselves
to bre fine soldiers. But what sane indivi-
dual would advance proved courage as a
reason why a man must make a desirable
mate? Anyone who has the time and money
to fake a trip up the White Nile can find
between Khartoum and Gondo Koro hun-
dreds of unclothed tribesmen - brave as any
wearer of the Y.C. They have many splen-
did qualities, but they are not. and never
could be made, the sort - of folks whom
we would care ' to' have' at our tea-
parties and bowling matches. The
colored men who are fighting on our side in
Flanders and elsewhere , are incomparably
more civilised than most of the inhabitants
of Africa, but their ways will not blend with
ours either. They live, think, work and die
differently, and they always must. And that
is to set aside the tremendous race-question
which no amount of word-chopping can sur-
mount. The parson who opposes the White
Australia policy on Biblical grounds—this
same Kench, by the way, when in West-
ralia supported it on Biblical grounds—
and who winds up by appealing, in the name
of the Gospel, for just a little unoccupied
territory for the use of the heathen, is
oblivious apparently to the fact that a black
North is going to mean a polluted South.
The Australian who fights now for racial
purity is playing the altruist in a way that
will astonish the future generation which
observes bitterly how little altruism there
was about the Australian who passed on so
many debts, and so few genuinely reproduc-
tive works to pay interest with. He is
struggling for a cause that cannot benefit
him personally, though it must save his
remote descendants from tragic experiences
if it prevails. And, above all, it is one
that he will no more drop than the Britisher
will abandon the present campaign to render
Germany harmless. Why can’t the clergy
realise this and switch on to_ some new
evangel? Or else go back to their oldest one
of all, now much neglected?
—
The Men Who Went to War and Robbed
a Chinaman.
Unless the facts in relation to the four sol-
diers convicted by court martial at Rabaul
for robbery are materially different from the
statements presented in the Federal Parlia-
ment last week by Jensen, who assists
Peabce to be Minister for Defence, it looks
as if this matter has not been thrown open
for inspection any too soon. Anstey (Vic.),
who brought the matter forward, appears to
have been mainly moved by the consideration,
not that these men were innocent, but that
a number of other guilty persons had escaped
punishment. Therefore, he claimed in effect,
the four were the victims of an evil system,
since unless Justice be even-handed, the
gravest injury follows. No doubt; but in that
case the wrong is done, not to those who
are punished, but to the community which
suffers through the escape of those who are
not punished. Nevertheless, Anstey did
good service, not by throwing his allegations
and rumors about, but by directing attention
to the court-martial sentences. To the chari-
table judgment these must appear in urgent
need of revision. Sentences of three years’
and five years’ penal servitude are reserved
by the civil Courts for two classes of offend-
ers —those who have been guilty of premedi-
tated crime on the major scale, and those
who come forward for sentence on serious
charges as “repeaters.” At Babaul the court
martial seems to have taken the harshest
possible view of the offences. Pretty clearly,
this was recognised by the Crown, for the
penal servitude (most unusual nowadays) was
commuted by Governor’s warrant to hard
labor, and the men were informed that at
the expiry of six months the terms of impris-
onment would be considered with a view to
remission of part or all of the unexpired por-
tion. The circumstances were so exceptional
that the sentences should there and then
have been finally reviewed, and the men
allowed to definitely understand their fate.
Apparently they are guilty. They disgraced
their uniform and their country. It is
right that they should be adequately
punished. But when a man who at Mel-
bourne would get perhaps 12 months from a
Judge with a wig for robbing a Chinaman,
is at Rabaul given five years by Judges with
feathers in their hats, there is obvious room
for re-consideration. So far as the accusa-
tions of wholesale looting against officers
are concerned —about an orgy of “loot,
rapine and plunder” and “shiploads of spoil
sent away”—it is high time they were dis-
posed of one way or the other. If they, are
lies they are so circumstantial that, they
must do us great harm so long as they are
permitted to float around unchallenged.
Already they have been . unchallenged much
too long.
♦
Sosh Gets Another Kick from its Own
Side.
The way not to conduct a Socialistic busi-
ness is-exemplified Jay the Sydney City Fish
Markets. The municipal concern; has. oppo-
sition in the: form of a Private Enterprise
market. With the. prestige and material
advantages attaching to a city-owned show
it might fairly be concluded that the P.E.
establishment would soon be wiped right out.
In point of fact, the reverse 'is happening.
George Black, the Chief Sec. in. the
Holman Government, visited the municipal
markets the other morning and found, four
patrons there. Passing on to the rival estab-
lishment he was hardly able to get inside
owing to the press of customers. ■ AH .the
fishermen and fish-shop proprietors can’t be
fanatical anti-Socialists determined to _ dis-
credit Sosh .at any expense or inconvenience
to themselves. There must be some other
explanation of the calamitous fact that the
municipal fish markets are costing the com-
munity £5O per week, while the other con-
cern is paying its shareholders, a dividend.
Meanwhile the committee appointed by the
City Council to inquire into the working of
the white elephant or grey shark or what-
ever it is has just found as follows: —
That there has been no neglect on the part of the
staff, either in the management or in the conduct
of the business of the markets.
That, by way of experiment, a thoroughly experi-
enced and competent officer should be appointed for
a term not exceeding six months to' systematically
canvas for business in the various fishing centres.
That the staff should be reduced from four to two,
and if extra assistance is required at any time this
should, be supplied. by the Town Clerk from the
Council’s staff.
That all private fish markets in the metropolitan
area be closed, and the exclusive right of conducting
markets for the sale of fish in such area be vested in
the City Council.
That this report be brought under the notice of the
Honorable the Premier, and that he be urged to
immediately introduce legislation to give effect to the
recommendations contained herein.
Briefly •the:-management has been admirable
- -t hough it-has neglected to get out after
business. -The ~ staff is blameless —but
requires to be reduced by one-half. And
the opposition market, since it has insisted
on flourishing in. the open, should be sti-
lettoed in,a. back lane. If the aldermen and
others who were responsible for this report
had set out expressly to discredit the
Socialistic principle they could hardly have
done better. Here is a business which
frankly admits that it is losing money; that,
though skilfully and honestly run, neither
the fishermen, the middlemen nor the public
will patronise it; and that it cannot hope to
live unless its only rival is slain. The
public—Sosh and otherwise —will certainly
respond that, if these things are true, it had
much better die. But, pending the funeral,
the Council had better appoint another
Committee to ascertain if the first com-
mittee wasn’t a fatuous ass.
4
Simplicity Makes Strange Bedfellows.
With the P.L.L. of N. S. Wales dexterously
side-stepping the totalisator, with the know-
ledge that the Bill to legalise the machine
in Victoria is already in troubled waters,
and with the benediction of the Church in
his ears, Ikey has decided that even if he
cannot “follow the King” he can at least
continue to venture a good cigar now and
again. Anything more fatuous than the
attitude of the parson brotherhood on this
matter is impossible to conceive. They
seem to be impressed with the notion that
if Ikey is made to work for his living there
will be an enormous increase in gambling,
“especially among women and children,” and
they view with horror the idea that if the
totalisator is legalised wagering will be
sanctioned and patronised by the State.
These black-coated obscurantists may know
a whole lot about Jonah and the whale, and
the weapon Samson demolished his enemies
with, but what they don’t know about the
racecourse and betting would fill a caravan
of pantechnicons. The yam about women and
kids, who can bet now as much as they like
with Ikey, being in peril if the tote comes
along, is obvious nonsense ; and as for “sanc-
tioning” gambling, well, isn’t it sanctioned
now? Doesn’t the State get revenue from
Ikey, and don’t the racing clubs, too? And
where is the moral turpitude in giving sanc-
tion to a machine-made wager instead of to
one concluded with a bag and a nasal voice?
The answer is, of course, that the sky pilots
don’t know what they are talking about —are
so immersed in their own Book that they
imagine there can be nothing wrong with
the Rook of McNoses. A further quaint
objection raised by the parsons is that
“experience in Maoriland and S. Aus. proves
that once the machine is introduced it is
almost impossible to get rid of it.” To every-
one except bookmakers and curates this'will
look like evidence in favor of the clean,
straight machine. It is an argument which, if
used in relation to the Christian religion by
some cultivated heathen in justification of
treating missionaries as undesirable immi-
grants, would be denounced as ignorant
sophistry by every parsonical association in
the * universe. Employed as an excuse for
the clerical toleration of Ikey, it is entitled
to even greater derision.
. • . •
On the Futile Grinding of the Mills.
Melbourne University disposed of its
annual stock of degrees the other day with
dismal results. The list: 58 persons made
Bachelors of ■ Arts (24 were women), 42
Bachelors of Medicine and 16 Bachelors of
Law; three took a degree in Civil Engineer-
ing, one in Agricultural Science, one in
Music —but mot even one in Mining. This
deplorable record of misdirected individual
effort and national folly is repeated year
after year. In a country positively shriek-
ing for the application of technical and
scientific knowledge the “centres of learn-
ing,” like so many sausage-machines, are
turning out every year larger and larger
batches of lawyers and doctors —of the men
who are really wanted not so many as could
shelter beneath a 6 x 4 tent. | : ln one of the
world’s great mineral territories the Uni-
versity produces actually onei - mining en-
gineer in a year, and only three electrical
engineers! Is it any wonder that Aus-
tralia has to send abroad for men to run
departments in mefallurgical works at Port
Pirie, Queenstown and Port Waratah? And
is it any wonder that mines everywhere fail
for want of proper direction? It is the
same with agriculture. That Melbourne
can produce only an occasional scientist
in that department is of itself sufficient
evidence to damn the system. Even, if
Australia doesn’t care, about eating sausage,
there are still a thing or two in
which she can take a lesson from the Ger-
man, and one of them is in making her
system, of education reasonably approximate
to the needs of the nation.
.... -♦ ■
The row over the proposal to beautify St.
Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, by allowing the
church authorities to extend it as far as
Phillip Park reached a sort of deadlock last
week when the City Solicitor intimated that
the thing cannot legally be done. That is to
say, it cannot be done while the law remains
as it is. On the other hand, it could be if
Parliament decided to alter the law. The
real issue has been clouded by the intrusion
of the Walls of Derry. The Orange pup
can see no farther in this matter than the
fact that the acquisition by the Church of
the desired fragment of land will gratify
the priests. The pup doesn’t explain to
himself that the triumph of the clerics must
be short-lived, inasmuch as many of them
will soon be dead and none of them are
immortal; while the possession of an ill-
finished public building must be a reproach
to the city for as long as they both exist.
If England offered Sydney (say) the Elgin
marbles on condition that the city built a
gallery in Phillip Park to shelter them, the
community—Rome loathers and all —would
certainly jump at the cljance. This sug-
gests the truth that practically the whole
objection to the extension of the Cathedral
is a matter of religious prejudice—a paltry
feeling that success will mean a score for a
sect which ought only to have bricks thrown
at it. If Parliament approaches the trouble
in this spirit it will reduce itself to the rank
of a backblocks shire council.__Shorn of the
sectarian element theTfi'SiTion is this. The
cathedral occupies one of the best positions
in the city, and it 4s t and has -be’eii for' yehrs,
an eyesore. If tne proposed extension is
carried out and the business of finishing the
spire is pushed on with immediately—works
which the Council can and should insist
upon—Sydney will possess, within a very
short time, a building as imposing and almost
as beautiful as some of those which are
being destroyed in Europe by the German
guns. The solution of the difficulty is for
the Church to be -allowed to take over the
land at a fair valuation and give security
in return to have the building finished within
a stipulated time, as the London Oratory
did 20 years ago under pressure from the
L.C.C. Sydney would sacrifice in that event
what it does not greatly need in exchange
for one of the finest city ornaments in the
Southern Hemisphere.
One of the big men of the days before Fede-
ration died in Adelaide last week. Tom
Playford was big every way; in one S.A.
Ministry he sat in— John Colton’s —every
member was a six-footer. Bluff and straight-
forward, he was yet a born politician. The
S.A. Assembly knew him almost continu-
ously for 26 years, from 1868 onwards. He
was in nine of the short-lived Ministries
of those days, and twice was Premier. He
made history by standing up to Henry
Parkes, in a very early preliminary conven-
tion to discuss Federation, when that hairy
autocrat thought the rights of the “small”
States could be disregarded. In 1894 he
followed Bray as S.A. Agent-General in
London, but was back in time to become a
Senator in the first Federal Parliament.
Under Deakin, he was vice-president of
the Executive Council, and, later, Minister
for Defence. At the end of 1906 he ran
up against Party politics. A Kingstonian
democrat of the old school —he had a big
hand in giving S. Aus. Protection, land tax
and income tax —he could not see his way
to rank himself with either Labor or the
Fusion “Liberals.” So he stood on his repu-
tation, and an ungrateful public bumped
him out of politics. Still he had done his
work and left such a mark as no man need
be ashamed of.
♦
The Minister’s explanation of why the per-
inanent instructional staff and the Gunners
are prohibited from going on active
service is quite unconvincing. To say
that the training of the forces in
Australia must proceed is true; but
surely, if . the militia officer is good
enough to lead in war, he is competent to
hold together the military machine in Aus*
tralia till the war is over. That seems to
dispose entirely of one official objection. The
other is that a ship of the German North
Sea fleet might break away. But does the
Minister. propose to use his army to beat
off a naval attack? Some permanent offi-
cers and men badly want to have the chance
to show what they are made of in a crisis
which they have been specially trained to
meet. Others have not spoken. The ques-
tion seriously agitating those who do want
to go is: “Are we being held back to save
someone’s face?”
*-
What is called a Premiers’ Conference is
to he held, and a dozen politicians are on
their way to Sydney to talk of things of
common interest. Every such meeting is
evidence that a political fraud has been
practised on the people of Australia. Fifteen
years ago a body was established to. do
those things which called for common action ;
and when State Premiers have to meet it
simply means, even if they come to an
agreement, that .the joint action is taken
at great expense by six bodies instead of the
one that was created for the purpose. In*
variably one or more of the bodies
will not act; and then the whole
irregular business is a farce. There
is only one way out of the bog. To
make the 50 necessary amendments of the
Federal Constitution would be such a cum-
bersome proceeding that it will be far easier
and simpler and safer to put the entire com-
plicated instrument of Australian Govern-
ment in the melting pot and make a com-
pletely new start with unification. Unifica-
tion is good enough for Great Britain ;; and,
in spite of the handicaps it has put on itself,,
Great Britain, under that form of govern-
ment, is proving itself not such an impotent
old bull-ants’ nest, after all.
The Ma country is having many shocks
these days. One of the latest came through
Octavius Charles. Beale, past-president
of the Australian- Manufacturers’ Associa-
tion, getting on his legs before the Royal
Society of London and telling it to follow
Australia’s lead. Said the piano man: —
My proposal is that there should be formed in
Great Britain, in like manner to Australia, manufac-
turers’ associations solely to represent producing in-
terests, apart from those of distributors of foreign-
made goods. As things stand in Great Britain, in-
dustrial interests are affected, and possibly, on occa-
sion, overborne, by the purely commercial. Importers
and manufacturers are inextricably mixed in the
Chambers of Commerce.
Apparently some of the audience was gasp-
ing at the impertinent Beale’s idea that
England could learn anything in the matter
of trade from Australia; so he proceeded
to rub it in this way:—
From his very circumstances the manufacturer is
profoundly and energetically nationalistic. . . .He does
not admit the glory or the wisdom from the national
viewpoint of buying in the cheapest and selling in
the dearest market. A few years ago an English expert
on wheat-growing surprised his hearers in this very
rocm 1 y telling them that tilling and harvesting in
Australia were conducted at a lower cost than in any
part of the world. Yet the remuneration of labor is
happily high... .Australians invented the sturnp-
jumpirg plough and the stripper and the harvester,
and so helped to teach the world. .. .They didn't
even consult the allegedly profound thinkers of the
world as they might.
Then he went into the story of the American
attempt —foiled —to seize the agricultural-
implement market of Australia, and told his
highly incredulous but deeply interested
audience that Australian implements now
have a large sale in Argentina and in North,
South and Central Africa, to the benefit in
particular of the Empire and in general of
the world.
The magistrates of Coburg (Vic.) lately
repeated an old-time scandal when they
sent an old woman of 91 to gaol for
12 months for failing to maintain
herself. The charge, of course, was
“having no lawful visible.” She had
just finished serving 12 months for a similar
crime, and, not having acquired a com-
petence in prison, and having failed to get
a job- immediately on her discharge, she
was run in and sent back. Certainly, one
God, in this Hour.
(An Illuminated Address to Moloch.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God, in this hour when swings a molten
world
And Time is forged anew,
When through the quivering air Thy Word
is hurled,
Our thoughts turn back to You!
Beyond the yelling guns, beyond the smoke
That drifts in reeking palls,
Where wretches shriek and stricken heroes
choke,
Thy awful shadow falls.
Here is no martyr Chkist to salve and heal,
No piteous word of love;
Only red wrath and those dread whips of
steel
That lash men from above.
We stand aghast who have to stand and
wait, •t,.:-;.
While far and near the drum
Proclaims with pride at ev’ry brazen gate
Thy chosen victims come. ‘
To what great end Thou work’st we dare not
think ;
But we would brave the fire
And venture, shouting, to the molten brink
To find Thy dread desire.
Long have we served in peace. But now in
war,
Our chosen faith to prove,
With naked steel towards murder red and
raw
In serried ranks we move.
N.S.W.
FOE.


WHISKY
THE OLO SMUGGLER
<*&
6**
XIS
rp
THE BAFFLI*!*:
2i&
vc
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
• . . in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
vc
Pastilles
ANTISEPTIC
THROAT
vcx
THESE wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a
formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes : “ 1 thank you for
the boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which 1 find excellent and
efficacious."
Sole Manujacturers :—
EVANS SONS LESCHER, & WEBB, L'd., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS” Pastilles and see you get them.
of the magistrates made a mild protest; but,
being assured that the poor old grandmother
had an impression that Pentridge Gaol was
a “home,” and that no one would undeceive
her, he stifled his qualms and subsided. But,
apart from all other considerations, is
Peacock so flush of money that he can
afford to throw it away on providing notori-
ously expensive gaol accommodation for
inoffensive derelicts who are nearing
the century? Incidentally, if “a year’s
hard” is the proper punishment for an idle
old woman, what is the correct thing for a
notoriously tired man of, say, 60?
t ♦
Ip the spring campaign has not opened with
any dramatic gain or loss of ground, the
blood-letting has been considerable. After
Nelive Chapelle came St. Eloi; then fol-
lowed the gory affair at “Hill 60.” The
cables had not succeeded in making clear
what took place in connection with this
eminence when messages began to arrive
about a furious scrap along the Yser canal
in the vicinity of Ypres. Apparently the
Germans, being annoyed by the punishment
they received earlier in the month, decided
on hitting back. Great volumes of Hun
were thrown against the points of junction
between the British, French and Belgian
troops, due west of the German headquarters
at Boulers. The battle appears to have
been of the most sanguinary nature, its lead-
ing features being the effective use of poison-
ous gas by the enemy, a temporary making-
good on his part, and the ultimate success
of the Allies in heaving the invader back on
his haunches. The Canadian infantry is
reported to have borne itself with signal
gallantry in this argument. When last
heard of the German was burying big heaps
of slain, and viciously glaring at the road
to Calais. While things were looking fairly
good for Hans glad tidings went from the
front to Berlin, and the biergartens rejoiced.
What happened next day, when the popula-
tion woke up with a sore head to read of
repulse instead of victory, has not yet been
divulged. Flung off though the enemy has
again been, this latest engagement empha-
sises several points which it won’t pay us
to forget. One is that the German has still
a heavy foot on Belgium; another that he
is still ready to take the offensive and fight
with courage, endurance and skill; a third,
that no trustworthy evidence exists about his
alleged shortage of food or guns or anything
else, including iron crosses. All of which
is a reminder that the best we have to offer
Civilisation and the Empire in this struggle
is the least we can afford to give. In the
East the thaws of spring are apparently
imposing a period of relative inactivity,
though the more recent reports from Russia
indicate that Ivan is moving down the Car-
pathians into Hungary. Generally, however,
the performances in that theatre are pro-
ceeding beyond the range of the limelight.
In‘ the Dardanelles operations are being
resumed on a scale so much larger that suc-
cess looks now more probable than when the
Allies confined themselves to the water.
Troops have been landed on the Gulf of
Saros—there is reason why Australia should
be very interested in that movement —and
preparations made to engage the Turk in the
rear with a bayonet, while the warships
throw sudden death in his face. Meantime
Italy looks on with a ruminating eye, and
the Bulgars and Roumanians are still having
a smoke.
The High Court of Australia, having
thought over the matter for several days,
last week told the pneumonia-proof Chidley
that it couldn’t hear his appeal against con-
viction on a criminal charge. This was
because the Court had previously told one
Eatheb it wouldn’t hear his appeal. The
position is farcical. The Eatiier appeal
was thrown out by a majority of Judges,
among whom were two who confess they
didn’t know what they were doing. The
Chidley appeal is denied a hearing because
a majority of the Court is of opinion that
the rule laid down about Eatheii was final
—and this majority is a mixture of Judges
who either believe the Eatiier judgment to
be hopelessly erroneous in law or know that
the rule was formulated in the dark. And
the Chief Justice holds —very strongly, it
seems—that the majority is wrong and
that the judgment in re Eather, to which
he subscribed, does not govern criminal
appeals in the way the Court now says it
does. This is really dreadful. It is also
highly dangerous. The Crown should hurry
up a search party at once, and by case
stated find out where their Honors are.
They seem hopelessly bushed and bawling
for help.
Charles W. Harris, killed at Suva, Fiji,
last week, was an Australian with a promis-
ing career cut short at 36. Fie started to
draw pay from the Works Department at
Newcastle when 14 years of age; after eight
years he shifted to Sydney Harbor Trust for
11 years, and had been engineer-in-chief for
the Fiji Government for three years when
the accident happened. He was the eldest
of a family of 13 good Australians.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Cinderella”
Royal “The Man Who Stayed at Home”
Criterion “Bought and Paid For”
Adelphi “Tommy Atkins”
Palace “Too Much Johnson”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Prince Alfred Park Wirths’ Circus
Salon de Luxe Dancing
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “High Jinks”
Royal “Broadway Jones ”
Princess’s “From Convent to Throne”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt's Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Auditorium The Royal Strollers
Athenaeum Hall Melb. Repertory Theatre
♦
T. W. Robertson’s “Caste” wears well.
Its presentation by the Little Theatre Raget
company, on Saturday evening, for the final
six nights of the season, was so skilful that
hardly any moth-holes appeared in the dia-
logue, though undoubtedly the silverfish
had been at work on the sentiment. In
these days when the British aristocracy is
bred chiefly from the ballet, the Hon.
George D’Alroy’s marriage with a pretty
dancing-girl does not call for any dramatic
tears. The old play, however, is remark-
able nowadays for its long-suffering infant.
During most of the third act the baby
occupies the centre of the stage. It is the
best behaved baby on record. It is solilo-
quised to, called names, fondled, nursed—
even by its father —and never once does it
howl or do any of those unexpected but per-
fectly natural things which babies on exhi-
bition invariably do. Next to this brilliant
performance are those of Gerald Souper as
Captain Hawtree, and Kenneth’s fine study
of Sam Gerredge. These two actors had
character parts from which they extract the
utmost dramatic effect. Eccles is in the
capable hands of Arthur Cornell, though an
element of clowning was apparent on the
opening performance. But the character
remains this actor’s most finished effort,
with the exception of his part in “Fanny’s
First Play.” Victor Fitzherbert is making
rapid progress; his presentation of the hus-
band is simple and sincere. Violet Paget is
sweetly mournful, but this part gives
her little scope for acting. Lillian
Lloyd and Tempe Pigott complete a cast
that for all-round suitability shows this com-
pany at its best.
** * *
“Cinderella” is still at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney.
There’s “Too Much Johnson” still at the
Palace.
* * * *
Charles Millward is still smashing bed-
room doors at Criterion,
* * * *
“Sinbad the Sailor” will be granted his
clearance from the Adelphi (Sydney) to-
morrow night. • Attention is directed
to an advertisement on page 57 of
this paper calling for tenders to re-
move the co.’s treasury from the theatre,
the successful tenderer to carry the
load over culverts and bridges at his own
risk. On Saturday “Tommy Atkins” will
assume command. This is the English
spring; and Kitchener promised he would
then.
IN THE “ SINBAD" HAREM, AT
SYDNEY ADELPHI.
P.S. for departing troops. —The greedy
gentleman in checks struck trouble for doing this.
Jim Corbett, retired licensed vendor of
stamps, now of Sydney Tivoli, continues to
look on the humorous side of being walloped
by Fitzsimmons, and the cheerful way he
goes about it has converted The Bulletin’s
Religious Editor, an enemy hitherto of the
Stadium, into an ardent paper-weight. Gus
T. Raglus provides a particularly clever
ball-bouncing turn; and Smith and Nielson’s
mainly-musical item is another bright spot
on a very-good-all-round programme.
What you’ll see if you go in out of the
wet: —
Crystal Palace : “The Avenging Conscience, or
Thou Shalt Not Kill,” wherein the still small voice
breaks into a howl that occupies practically the
whole of the programme.
Lyric : “On the Stroke of 5,” so The Bulletin
refuses to say anything more about it unless paid
overtime.
Empress: A further consignment of “The Million
Dollar Mystery,” parts 5 and 6.
* * * *
Our first imported topical war drama,
“The Man Who Stayed at Home,” is due at
Sydney Royal on Saturday night. The
likely-looking cast includes, by special
arrangement, Violet Paget, the decorative
leading lady of the Little Theatre.
** * *
After Saturday night’s show at Prince
Alfred Park, Sydney, Wirths’ will deflate
their elephants, dismantle the bears, powder
Lizzie’s hide and let the monkeys run down
prior to taking to the road.
* * * *
The Imperial Salon de Luxe will open its
doors to rag-timers, two-steppers, high-
steppers, bunny-hiiggers, Gaby-gliders, etc.,
on Saturday evening. By special request
of the Amalgamated Curates’ Union the
opening hymn will be, “This is the Life.”
"SINBAD THE SAILOR .”
The Dardanelles situation, as the Sydney
Adelphi Panto, sees it.
“ Broadway Jones,” staged at Melbourne
Royal last Saturday, is a farcical comedy
which wants pruning of some of the patter-
allotted to Jones. Once in a way it is dull,
and more than in a way it is long
for a story where real human interest never
gets a look in. The young man that Niblo
talks for in this instance would seem a cross
between Harry Bronson (“Belle of New
Nicholas Gehde “ storming ” on the Sydney
Town Hall organ.
York”) and “The Fortune Hunter” if he
had any suggestion of a heart. Being
merely an impossible person who talks like
a machine and acts like an unprincipled
simpleton as a rule, he doesn’t suggest any
sort of character at all. The utter empti-
ness of Broadway Jones gives an air of
unreality to all the surrounding characters,
though they are conventional stage types
without exception. Farcicality is confined
to the all-pervading hero and the highly
accentuated widow presented by Mrs. Hollo-
way. The other characters seem as reason-
able as they could be, considering that they
have to accept Jones as a fact instead of a
fiction. Sydney Stirling is never foolish,
save when he falls in love with an un-
sophisticated flapper at first sight. E. P.
Bush seems an absurd boy merely because
his acting is rather crude and his inches too
many for his knickers. Cambourne, George
Bryant, Lester, Dudley, Marion Clarke and
Lacey are well placed in straight parts, and
Enid Bennett is a nice little girl with a weak
little voice, as usual. The comedy has some
telling flashes of humor and satire, and
Niblo’s mannerisms maintain their popu-
larity.
* * * *
The King’s (Melb.) is a temple of
silence at time of writing. Two nights of
“Confusion” reduced the management to
despair, apparently, and the season came to
a jagged end.
** * ❖
“Lady Godiva” is lasting a second week
at Melb. Princess’s, not because the dull
and gaudy melodrania deserves such
proud distinction, but owing to a vain ex-
pectation that the Earl of Coventry’s missus
will provide a pleasing study in the alto-
gether. _ As a matter of fact, her flowing
mane hides so much of her pink tights that
even her milk-white steed doesn’t trouble to
turn his head. The animal simply walks
slowly about, with a dejected air, as though
his lovely burden were a funeral. Next
Saturday the incentive to business will be
“From Convent to Throne,” and the prices
will range from sixpence to two “bob,” as
before.
** * *
“High Jinks” is a bubble that continues
to float on at Her Majesty’s, and the dance
of .Miss. Novotna and Victor Lauschmann
is invariably a graceful trimming to the
third act.
Hs * #
A considerable change of bill at Melb.
Tivoli has not shifted Mozart and his
long, lean auxiliary from their place in the
foreground. None of the newcomers or re-
turns are more effective than the boneless
Chinese Puzzle or the brawny Arco Bros.
Dooley and Sales, clever artists in their
way, are about the fourth- mixed double
since Christmas who have sung or con-
versed together on the same lines; West-
wood does some balancing and juggling
whilst wobbling on a unicycle ; Rose Hamel
sings tunefully to her own accompaniment
of artless charcoal sketches; Will Con-
nolly, a human marionette, needed editing
with a blue pencil last Saturday; J. Fields,
the American tramp, protests that each of
his loud efforts is going to be better than
its predecessor; and Ivanoff and Keith
describe their dismal carpet dances as “new
crazes.”
* * * *
Melbourne Savage Club promises a cap-
ital half-crown concert at the Town Hall
next Wednesday (sth) in aid of the Bel-
gian Fund. The Club rarely breaks out into
public entertainment, but never fails to do
it very well. A feature on this occasion will
be the Toy Symphony, conducted by Fritz
Hart, each toy having a leading musician
behind it. For instance, Alberto Zelman is
to play the cuckoo —and some other profe'ssor
may be expected to play the deuce. Horace
Stevens, with chorus, will sing an awful
version of the German “Hymn of Hate.”
The 2s. 6d. pasteboard admits to the Town
Hall. Holders can book their seats gratis
ac the Pianola box-office.
* * ❖ H*
Reinforcements at Melbourne Bijou Jhis
week comprise the Thessalys, moderately
brilliant dancers; and Keen and Waller, fwo
satisfactory acrobats hampered by a piffling
sense of humor. Rose Lee Ivy continues to
be the ringleader in the general vo,cal dis-
“BROADWAY JONES.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A waster weak was Broadway Jones,
Untroubled by regrets;
His dollars gone, he raised no loans,
But lived upon his debts,
And then, because he wanted stuff
For spending at the bar,
He mashed a widow, old enough
To be his grandmamar.
A worthless thing of flesh and bones
Was Yankee bounder Jackson Jones.
Ere Jones could wed his would-be bride
And further dissipate,
A providential uncle died
And left him much estate —
A factory with trade in hand,
A ripe commercial plum;
For uncle ran the famous brand
Of Jonesville Chewing Gum.
His wicked uncle being skyed,
Jones bolted from his promised bride.
He meant to sell the stock in trade
And fool away the cash ;
But Josie came to Jackson’s aid
And changed his purpose rash.
She praised the bizness in the past;
She told him how it grew,
How all mankind would crave at last
For Jones’s gum to chew.
’Twere cruel, said the pleading maid,
To kill a profitable trade.
The gum was grandad’s recipe,
His father’s pride and joy;
His uncle built the factoree,
And left it to the boy.
The spendthrift saw the girl was bright—
In fact, he thought her “some”—
And vowed that with his main and might
He’d push the Chewing Gum.
A thousand workers cheered when he
Took over grandad’s recipe.
O’er myriads of chewing guys
St. Peter weeps and groans,
And when a pallid chewer . dies
He scores it down to Jones.
From Noo Yark city, Boston, too,
And dark Chicago slum,
St. Peter gets the sinners who
Were killed by Jonesville Gum.
With wonder in his saintly eyes
He views the stream of chewing guys.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


xvc
RED
WNIEI CRkWfORDS
ym* o»*
Scotch Mis
S';
%
STAR
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
turbance; a painful reminiscence anent an
empty chai-ah is making Gracie Graha.me
husky with emotion; and the Nat Phillips
Co., previously wrecked in the S.S. May-
sail, are leading a disturbed life in another
alleged farce entitled “The Squaw.”
Louise Mack is coming to Australia in
June. The brilliant lady has decided to
tell all she knows about the pounding of
Antwerp and other scenes of excitement and
bloodshed which she recently encountered as
a penwoman in Belgium. The lectures,
which will be managed by the Taits, will be
delivered before an illustrative background
of lantern slides and motion pictures.
H: $ H* *
The Dandies, who have all summer been
entertaining outdoors at Adelaide Exhibi-
tion, have taken flight for Maoriland, which
they propose to tour thoroughly. They are
a capable lot of merrymakers, strongest in
singing and “character” work, weakest on
the humorous side. This leaves Adelaide
quiet, the Royal being again closed; also
the Tivoli, at which Dooley has been putting
in some fine acting, and Rosa Hamel some
quick caricature work, enlivened by a
moderate voice and a cynicism appalling
in one so young. At the King’s is another
sketcher, Tozart, more thorough than the
lady. Carrie Moore is in her last nights
at this house—Adelaide’s only theatre for
the moment. But the Tivoli is to reopen
at the end of the week with Cannot and his
Follies. West’s, Wondergraph, Empire,
Central and Pav. are all busy with war-
pictures and “drama.” All have a strong
family likeness, and the public rushes the
lot.
After the Federal House of Reps, had
contemplated the War Precautions Bill for
a time last week the measure was hauled
off for private inspection on the under-
standing that some pf the Government fol-
lowing could resume their hostile remarks
when the Bill was next produced. -There
are parts of this measure that will be much
improved by hostile remarks —especially
those, parts conferring on courts-martial extra
judicial rights over civilians. In this mat-
ter the Ministry seems to be playing the
part of an obedient poodle to the War
Office and to imagine that no more justifi-
cation of the measure is required than that
“it was put forward at the request of the
British Government.” That is a long, long
way from being sufficient. Parliament is
entitled to hear all that can be said in favor
of this proposal, and if the arguments are
inadequate then its duty is to pitch the
thing overboard. The conduct of the mili-
tary when they touch anything outside their
own particular business is so usually dis-
tinguished by ineptitude and uniptelligence
that the most overwhelming evidence should
be demanded in the Bill’s favor. Rabaul
and the Censor’s office are solemn warnings
against giving the soldier anything but a
gun to play with.
Thomas Scarfe, of Harris, Scarfe and Co.,
Adelaide, left an estate now sworn as just
under half a million. A dozen charities are
remembered in his will, but the most notable
feature of. it is a complete scheme of
legacies for every servant in his employ—
and he had a good many. All house, garden
afid stable hands of over 10 years’ service get
£100; and more than 20 old associates in
the warehouse get £3OO each.
THE STROLLERS, MELBOURNE
AUDITORIUM.
The Toreador.
“His Royal Rotundity."
Centenaries this year : Henry Parkes, May
27; explorer Edward John Eyre, August 15;
Richard Dry, one-time Speaker and Premier
of Tasmania, August 15; explorer John
McDouall Stuart, who first hoisted the
Union Jack in Central Australia, and after-
wards crossed the continent from the South-
ern to the Indian Oceans, September 7;
William Foster Stawell, Chief Justice of Vic-
toria from 1857 to 1886, June 27.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The yarn that Melba had been tempted by
an offer of 4000 dahlars a week to
sing in vaudeville came to the London Daily
Telegraph in a telegram from N’York,
though acceptance was referred to only as a
“possibility.” The Palace was mentioned as
the place that was willing to pay the 4000.
“I never will,” says Melba; but meantime
her sister prima donna, Calv 6, the finest
Carmen of the day, has gone into vaudeville
at Chicago at 3000 dollars a week.
“Mascotte”: “Upstage” (B. 15/4/T5) is
out of liis reckoning in his Pat Behan
reminiscence when he states that in 1886
Mrs. Armstrong sang under the name of
Melba for the first time. The diva did not
assume the name until her appear-
ance on the opera stage at Brussels in ’B7.
At her farewell concert in Melbourne early
in ’B6 she was billed as Mrs. Armstrong.
Lemmone was in the programme, and the
accompanists were Zerbini, Herz and
Guenett.
Misfortunes have been crowding in on
poor Bernhardt. As if it wasn’t enough to
lose her right leg by amputation, she has
also dropped nearly all her savings in the
luckless speculations of her spendthrift son.
Her great rival, Rejane, started a subscrip-
tion list, which was so successful that
Sarah’s beautiful home at Belle Isle,
threatened with seizure and compulsory sale,
has been saved for her occupation during
the rest of life.
“Ivaniva”: The arguments of “Private
Boxer” (B. 15/4/T5) against what “Avon”
had to say about the practicability of a
Shakspearian revival lose value when dis-
sected. To quote H. B. Irving’s “Hamlet”
as a sign that Shakspeare is not popular is
absurd. The first consideration for an actor
of these plays is a clear enunciation. Irving
gave an intolerable burlesque. He reminded
me of the Teutonic BandmanU. Australia
has not heard “Hamlet” spoken properly for
many years. Matheson Lang would have
drawn full houses as “Hamlet,” but he
failed to produce it. Asche may have lost
on “Antony and Cleopatra,” but he was the
wrong man to represent Antony; and in “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream” the cast was
very uneven, and not to be compared with
the Musgrove production of a decade back.
As to Waller’s “Henry V.” being a frost,
that mummer had committed the unpardon-
able crime of growing old. and his monarch
was too tame for those of us who had seen
Rignold.
“Avon”: I did not propose Sunday Shak-
speare on the magnificent scale of Oscar
Asche. My contention is that Sunday even-
ing performances of plays such as “Antony
and Cleopatra,” “As You Like It,” “Cymbe-
line,” “Hamlet,” “Julius Ciesar,” “Midsum-
mer Night’s Dream,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
“Tempest,” etc., at cheap prices, from the
existing resources of our theatres, would
draw as big crowds as picture shows, seven
6f which, in Bourke-street, Melbourne, are
filled every Sunday night. How delighted
our ambitious performers would be to enter
upon these studies ! I just leave that to the
Melbourne Greenroom Club. As for pro-
ducers, I would confidently entrust that work
to such as Niblo, Atholwood, Styan, Charley
Brown, or Muriel Starr. Nay, even Bland
Holt might emerge from retirement, and do
the job in- first-rate style. If the experi-
ment failed, I would subside, like H. G.
Turner, as a trustee of the Melbourne Public
Library, when he found that patrons wouldn’t
come on the Sabbath. Why must Germany
have the monopoly of Shakspeare?
“Fax”: Advts. of “Confusion,” in Mel-
bourne, state that the ancient farcical comedy
was “previously produced in Australia by
the famous Brough-Boucicault co.” It was
George Rignold, not B. and B-, who always
played “Confusion” hereabouts, the first pro-
duction in Australia being previous to the
B. and B. co.’s existence. When the
monotony of melodrama or the strain of
Shakspeare grew wearisome to “Handsome
George” he would stage “Confusion” for a
change. An old anecdote in point. The late
Harry Diver “pinched” the farcical comedy
and toured it through Maoriland. Seeing
that no objection was raised, Diver thought
his steal had escaped notice of the owner of
the Australasian rights in the piece. But Rig-
nold —good old cynic—was quietly saving up
a revenge for the young man. Presently he
announced a revival of “Confusion” in Syd-
ney, and invited Diver to come and study the
leading juvenile part. When Diver had
“studied” the lines which he already knew
by heart, Rignold gave him a fortnight’s re-
hearsal, still affecting ignorance of the facts
of the case. On the night of the production,
however, Rignold flummoxed Diver by play-
ing the part himself. “You had enough of
it in Maoriland,” said George to the spoofed
' one.
“THE SEVEN
KEYS TO
BALDPATE."
Maurice Dudley, as
Hayden the presi-
dent, shows signs
of anger.
“0.K.” devours a black pudding:—
I know now why the wowsers, who snort at stage
plays, are whales for picture shows. Somebody in-
duced me to go and sit among the godly at a
film production of “Cabiria,” and, O my brethren,
what an improving, what an inspiring entertain-
ment was there! A feast of murders and a flow of
gore lasting for 2$ hours. I revelled in awful
destructions of human life incidental to a story
which, to tell the truth, had more blood than body
in it. The disjointed plot seemed to be just a row
of pegs to hang gruesome tragedies upon. No
wonder the wowsers eat it as greedily as they drink
temperance beverages containing 37J per cent, of
alcohol! The story dates back to the bad old b.c.
period when all the princes of the earth were Kaiser
Bills and crimes were three a penny. It begins with
an earthquake and an eruption of Etna, after which
the little Cabiria girl is captured by pirates and
sold to a church dignitary, who intends to pop her
into the blazing interior of the great god Moloch.
Moloch, at meal times, is a feature of this charming
photo-play. The kids drop into his mouth like ripe
plums, and the audience sniggers with horror. Moloch
doesn’t get Cabiria, however. A black Jack Johnson
of the period, with his early Roman trainer in attend-
ance, rescues the dear little girl. Any number of
people are killed that she may live, all Carthage
being in pursuit of her rescuers. When the crowd
gets them cornered Johnson picks up his nearest
assailants and chucks them into cauldrons of boiling
fat, of what not. This sort of thing is always hap-
pening. The siege of Carthage is largely a procession
of Romans, who climb ladders and are hurled from
the topmost rung into eternity. The slaughter goes
on for years at one place or other. Conquerors come
and go, but Jack Johnson and his trainer and the
fair Sophy and her little lot remain as young as ever
all the time that little Miss Cabiria is growing up.
Finally, Queen Sophy poisons herself, and nearly
everybody else is destroyed except Johnson and his
trainer, who gets away with the grown-up girl for a
honeymoon on a yacht.
The cake offered annually by London
Pelican for the most popular performer in
panto., revue or musical comedy went this
year to Ivy Shilling, who is playing in
“Aladdin” at Birmingham. In view of the
fact that the runner-up, Ethel Colfer, was
900 votes behind Ivy, and that the third and
fourth places went to Gertie Millar and
Ellaline Terriss, the Australian girl has
plainly made an exceptional “hit” with a
public that does not easily abandon old
favorites —especially those with large teeth
and ducal admirers.
“C. Ockney” : Oswald Stoll, of Melbourne
and London, the man mostly responsible for
the popularity of the modern music-hall in
England, manages to earn a crust in
spite of the war. Business, in fact, on the
Stoll circuit is not only as usual, but is bet-
ter than ever. The dividends paid at the
various halls under Oswald’s direction for
the past half-year tell the tale. The 'aver-
age was 10 per cent. The Coliseum, the
huge twice-a-day house in St. Martin’s Lane,
which is under Stoll’s personal direction,
weighs in with 25 p.c. All of which goes
to show that Kaiser Bill hasn’t frightened
all the theatre-goers into the cellars. It
takes a lot to put a London playgoer off
his hunger for amusement. If bad acting
and worse plays could have done it he would
have died of starvation years ago.
“Screen” : I reckon the number of good-
class picture theatres in Melbourne and
suburbs as 34 open every night. As many
more are weekly or bi-weekly. Say over
60 altogether. It amazed us to hear a while
ago that Chicago, four times as big as Mel-
bourne, had only about 60. Perhaps Mel-
bourne’s two suburban finest are the rival
Barkly and Trocadero, in Footscray. When
one of these went up, cautious people ex-
claimed “Ruinous!” Yet up went the other.
Visiting both last week, I saw them pretty
full on off nights. Jack Cannot was at the
Trocadero. The Barkly advertised Ander-
son’s complete dramatic company in “The
Face at the Window.” So vaudeville and
what not are creeping in. The fact is the
picture supply is so short that entrepreneurs
fervently join in the prayers for peace.
There is a great loss in the French and
German contingent, and not much is coming
from England. Even the U.S.A. are not so
free producers as before, because their field
of circulation is so much diminished. Hence
the development of the “serial,” which goes
on night after night, week after week, drib-
bling out with no effort on anybody’s part.
(Continued on page k 2.)
Baron de Reuter’s suicide, in London, though
said to be due to the sudden death of h s
wife, was doubtless more or less a result o
the war. He was accused of German leai,
ings as soon as the row began, and never go.
quite clear of the hasty suspicions. A so
of the very Teutonic Reuter who founded th
telegraph business just 50 years ago, th*
late Auguste Julius Clemens was a Harrow
and Oxford johnnie. He seemingly adopted
“Herbert” as his front name when he sue
ceeded to the German title in 1899. Both he
and his co. were British enough. The direc-
tors, editorial staff and correspondents of
the agency are British, and only 20 out of
1200 shareholders belong to the Gerhog clan.
But Auguste Julius Clemens, otherwise Her-
bert, couldn’t get away from his German title,
and when the war happened he was made to
feel conscious that the business had an un-
fortunate name.
Whoever succeeds George Reid as High
Commissioner, it is time to consider the
whole question of cost. Australia has seven
Agents-General, with independent staffs.
When Australia voted for Federation it was
on the understanding that Moses’s rod was
to swallow all the rest. The. saving was to
be more than sufficient to pay for the High
Commissioner. But the State agencies,
instead of costing less, actually cost more.
The outlay on the High Commissioner’s
office in 1908-9 was £3050. In 1913-14 if
was £27,461. The new buildings, with land
and furnishing, are estimated to run away
with £650,000. Interest and maintenance
will be £40,000. Soon the whole thing will
mean about £78,000 a year. Adding the
outlay of £36.000 for the States, the agency
for this small population will be £114,000
a year, plus immigration expenses and pay-
ments to banks, etc., for doing financial
work. The Premiers’ Conference ought to
talk over the scandalous waste.
The Argus raises a chant of thanksgiving
because “Customs and excise receipts for
April are showing up so well that there is
now every reason to believe that the Federal
Treasurer will receive far more revenue
from these sources than he estimated in his
last year’s Budget statement.” In his Bud-
get speech Andrew Fisher calculated that,
owing to the war, the Customs and excise
revenue for the financial year would de-
crease £170,000. With 10 months gone the
receipts should, on Fisher’s figures, be over
£140.000 behind. Instead they are only
£87,000, and as there has been a marked
increase in trade during the last month it is
expected that the total shrinkage for the
year will be proportionately less. Obviously
a Protectionist tariff is not fulfilling its pur-
pose of building up local industries when
at a time like this the Customs revenue is
practically normal.
A case of a type thought to be dead was
heard before a Sydney magistrate a few
days ago, when Thomas Lovell Rothwell,
“Honorary Director of the Sydney General
Poor Relief Fund,” was sentenced to six
months’ gaol on a charge of false pretences.
Suspicion was aroused 12 months ago, but
it wasn’t until the Crown Solicitor received
at his private address a touching circular
asking for a subscription that things came
to a head. Inquiry discovered that about
£6OO a year was being collected for the fund
and the only disbursement traced was
through a letter, sent to a bookie —with a
cheque forwarded to Rothwell’s institution
by a philanthropic contributor!
“Bedlam”: The N.S.W. Labor Govern-
ment has proclaimed May 24 (Empire Day)
as a holiday throughout the State, “the cir-
cumstances this year being unusual.” If
Holman wanted to show a loyal spirit he
would, in accordance with the prayer of the
British Government for a speeding-up cam-
paign, have set apart the day as one on
which everyone would work harder than
usual. Presumably the people engaged on
the cruiser Brisbane, the ammunition fac-
tories, and the factories where military
equipment of all kinds is being made, will
either have a day off or be able to claim
double pay for working on. The King’s
Birthday is due the following week, and
George V. has expressed the earnest wish
that the anniversary shall be celebrated only
by the hoisting of flags. Holman’s way of
“following the King” is to proclaim a second
holiday. *
WASTED LIVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Aimee Kelly, the sweet-voiced Fairy Queen
of “Sinbad the Sailor,” is a famous equestrienne.
Miss Violet Paget’s favorite exercise is in the r6le
of equestrienne. In the West Indies Miss Paget says
she practically lived on horseback.
Miss Preston is a good horsewoman. She was well
known in Western Queensland for her exploits with
unbroken horses.
M. Sterzelly, who is appearing at the Tivoli, was
a rough-rider.
—-From one day’s theatre gossip in a Sydney paper.
The modern mummer sits his steed
Like some primeval centaur ;
The pro. is Master of the Horse,
And its accepted mentor.
When buckers have to be subdued
Our mimes can always do it ;
The prad that kicks or jibs with them
Is swiftly bound to rue it.
The lads on whom the flappers dote
(Gentiles as well as Sheenies),
For all their seeming foppishness,
Are Skuthorpes and Martinis.
The gorgeous ladies, with the clothes
That paralyse and dazzle,
At horsemanship have Mrs. Stace
Licked to the merest frazzle.
Skilled artists they on animals,
Whose habits are unlawful—
A reason why, perhaps, their Art
Is frequently so awful.
N.S.W.
AN EMBITTERED MANAGER.


ENGLISH-MADE HORSE-HIDE
SHOOTING BOOTS, 37/6
r\ NE pair of these Horse-hide Boots, subjected to
continuous rough wear, will last longer than three
pairs of any ordinary make of boot.
The illustration shows the style, but no illus-
tration could convey any idea of the great
strength and durability they possess. If
STRONG Boots are required, they are THE
Bpots. They have round toes and water-
proof, welted soles.
PRICE 37/6 pr.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
PAIR.,
çxv
DAVID JONES, LTD.
Opp. Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
SKSS- 8 PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic. —1/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb, 6d. ..extra, t
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Siippt.y—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard =
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Brunches in all parts of the world.
HOW TO MAKE FLESHY HIPS SLIM
AND GRACEFUL.
An excess of fatty tissue on hips or
abdomen not only prevents one from looking
well or feeling comfortable, but. it is likely
to keep increasing until all the youthful
beauty of the figure is gone. A very simph&
yet wonderfully effective .means .for quickly
and permanently reducing this ' superfluous
flesh consists in applying night and morning
a harmless herb mixture composed of one
dram of quassia chips and three ounces of
cirola 1 bark extract, which you can get at
small cost from any good chemist. Put the
quassia chips in a pan and pour over them
a teacupful of boiling water; in half
a minute strain through a cloth and add the
cirola bark extract, when it is ready feu*
use. This recipe is also very valuable for
reducing double chin, puffy neck, arms,
hands, etc. The fat shrinks away rapidly
leaving no wrinkles or flabbiness.
CAUTION.- —Be sure and apply on botH
hips or both arms, for a difference ■in one of
them would soon be noticeable if the' lotion,
were only used on one side.* "■»'
SOCIETY
Geelong has been enjoying a riotous
time. About a year ago the Citv Council,
coming to the conclusion that the town hall
wasn’t big enough to contain its dignity,
decided to pull down the old Grammar
School and have a new hall erected on the
site. A number of ratepayers objected to
thousands being “blewed” in this manner,
and when the council told them to go and
grow potatoes they rushed off to court, but
were biffed there good and hard and told
to pay the council’s bill of costs (£272), as
well as their own. This so elated the
A RIFT IN THE LUTE.
VISITOR (inspecting new portrait of hostess): “My dear, it is charming, superb! Divine!
But think of the effort of living up to it!”
councillors that they called tenders in a
hurry and let the building job. But just
after the contractor had started the whole
business fell to pieces with a crash. The
annual elections had come round, and the
ratepayers threw the council out on its
jaw. The majority of the new body being
anti-hallites, they at once pitched the plans
under the table, roasted the contract on the
grate, and paid compensation to the con-
tractor. Whilst this was going on the
council’s Gent. One billed the leader of the
objecting ratepayers for the costs. The
objectors refused to pay a bean, except £lOO
which had been previously deposited as
security. Being unable to collect the
balance, Gent. One reported the fact to the
council. The council decided to give the
objectors a release under seal of all the
costs that the Law said was due to the
council, and also to refund the £lOO held as
part payment. Thus the net result of it
all is that the council pays everybody’s costs,
while the usual unpleasant person asks the
44 winds of Heaven whether the time will
ever come when municipalities will have
sense enough to take a referendum on dis-
puted points of public policy.
* * * *
The horrible uncertainty of the beast that
men call Law was stressed a week back when
Chidley, the well-intentioned clothes re-
former, who was present in court watching
the last awful processes of his appeal, ven-
tured to say a word on his own behalf
about his own case. “Sit down!” said the
Chief Justice in rebuke. “The Court
doesn’t know you in this matter.” If
Chidley hadn’t been himself and had known
less about the facts, and if, instead of being-
clothed in light, airy garments like the
simple-living ancients, he had been disguised
in an unnecessary black cloak and had a
mass of hair belonging to a wiser and faster
animal than Man perched on the roof of
his skull, he would have been listened to
with the greatest show of respect by the
row of elderly High Court judges. But
being merely himself, the person the whole
trouble was about, and having no archaic
disguise, he was regarded by the mandarins
on the bench as an intrusive stranger.
For over 70 years one of the landmarks
in Auckland (M.L.) has been a windmill
near Symonds-street. About eight years
ago the owner, who runs a flour mill, took
down the sails and put in a suction gas
plant. He now reckons this is too expen-
sive, and has consequently added another
25ft. to the tower, bringing it up to 100 ft.,
and has brought the sails into use again.
As they are 9ft. broad by 70ft. from tip to
tip, the old whirligig is a more conspicuous
object than ever. It is the only flour mill
in Loan Land using wind for motive
power, and probably there isn’t another in
this Hemisphere.
“Callan Park” again comes to his
country’s rescue
The Rifle Club movement in Sydney would be
admirable as an evening pastime, only there are
hardly any rifles. In one affluent suburban club 60
members are trying to learn the art of war with two
rifles. It is difficult to achieve the “Kitchener
touch” on such lines. Efficiency is needed, and you
cannot make an efficient rifleman by handing him
one-thirtieth of a rifle three times per week. Faced
with this difficulty one is reminded of the fact that
there is no need to concentrate on rifles. Hand-
bomb throwers and grenadiers are doing just as
good work in Flanders to-day as the better-adver-
tised men behind the guns.
Here is an official description of the modern bom-
bardiers: “Around their middle they carry 20 or 30
bombs, little cylinders fastened on a long stick,
from which fall streamers of ribbon. Crouching
down among the barbed wire the bombers raise them-
selves a little from the earth, and seizing one of
these rocket-like bombs from their belts, grasp it
by the stick and hurl it high above the parapet.
Clouds of greenish smoke arise from the stricken
trench, through which hurtle lumps of earth and
stone and fragments of shrapnel.... After the trench
has been gained the bombers again come into play.
They help in a valuable manner to hold it. Bomb
after bomb, jampot after jampot, grenade upon gren-
ade is hurled out of the back of the trench.”
This is the very job for the amateur fighting man
of a country which has hung on to Freetrade so long
that it isn’t in a position to make enough rifles for
itself. Anyone can get the material to drill as a
bomb-thrower. All that is required is a jam tin,
a stick and some string. The hand-grenade which is
used at close quarters is an even easier weapon to
simulate. The only thing a club needs to practise
with is a half-brick per man. Youth, health and
physical strength are not nearly so essential in bom-
bardiers and grenadiers as they are in riflemen, who
must not only have keen vision, but be prepared to
use their bajmnets. Almost any elderly citizen can
throw half a brick.
And these are not the only ways in which they
could serve. For example, grave-digging. Thou-
sands of suburbanites who are now wasting their time
struggling for rifles in the name of Empire are
born gravediggers. All that they require to make
them invaluable to the allied forces is a spade
apiece and a week or so under the direction of a
competent sexton. As things are at the Front,
innumerable soldiers, skilled at their work and of
a fighting age, have to be withdrawn from the
trenches and employed to bury the dead. There might
be nothing spectacular about the training and subse-
quent departure of a brigade of expert gravediggers,
but they would be welcome in Flanders, more especi-
ally if each man brought his own tall hat, frock
coat, shovel and mattock with him.
“Pure Codde” : The Melbourne ring whose
manoeuvres have made fish a luxury in Vic-
toria struck a sort of Sedan the other day.
A “disloyalist” firm imported some M.L.
blue cod —fish which the ring has been selling
for a shilling a pound. The trust-breakers
asked 10d., whereat the combine came down
to 9d. But the public, remembering the
innumerable tuppences it had been black-
mailed out of, rallied round the “disloyal-
ists” and bought at lOd. The same thing
happened in the case of a cargo of oysters.
It almost looks as if the public is waking
up. The other day when the Governments
imposed a few fresh taxes to meet the special
conditions created by the war, the borrow-
ing policy, the drought and other calamities,
some traders immediately attempted to make
money out of the community’s ill-luck.
Tobacconists who had been selling a certain
brand of cigarette at a shilling a packet
(and making about sd. on the deal) bumped
up the price to Is. Id. The effort of the
Sydney publicans was as bad, or worse. The
smoking and drinking public took much the
same line as the fish-eaters, and with entire
success. Nobody asks Is. Id. for those
cigarettes now, and beer is, in some quarters
at least, cheaper than ever. Where the
recreant trader scores is in the fact that the
public’s memory is as brief as pleasure. The
resentment at being swindled dies almost
before the swindler has finished banking his
gains. If boycotts were not so evanescent
—if the man who has been “scaled” once
refused to put himself in a position to be
“scaled” twice—many flourishing, little
rings and combines would explode. Several
tricky tradesmen might even become honest.
It will be a hundred years on May 1
since the first sittings of the first Supreme
Court of N. S. Wales in its civil jurisdiction
were held. The Court sat in one of the
northern wards of the then newly-finished
hospital in Macquarie-street. The presiding
judge was Jeffrey Hart Bent, assisted by
two magistrates appointed for the purpose,
Alexander Riley and William Broughton.
The sitting was only a preliminary one, dur-
ing which the court was formally opened
and the members of the court sworn in;
then proceedings were adjourned till the
following Friday, May 5. At that sitting
consideration was given to but one matter
—a petition from some attorneys, who had
left their country for their country’s good,
but had been allowed to practise in the
courts prior to that date. Judge Bent at
once announced his refusal to hear them,
but the two magistrates agreed to allow
them to plead. Bent then adjourned the
court and appealed to Governor
Macquarie, who sided with the magistrates
on the grounds of expediency. This led to a
lot of correspondence, which had at last to
be referred to England. Bent, although he
remained in N. S. Wales for two years
longer, stubbornly refused to call the court
together again, and thus hung up all litiga-
tion. Finally Lord Bathurst superseded
him and appointed Judge Barron Field in
his place.
THE CAROUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At to-day’s meeting of the Liverpool Plains
(N.S.W.) Shire Council it was resolved that during
the continuance of the war the council, instead of
adjourning for a social glass, would take up a collec-
tion for the Belgian Fund. —News item.
I met Mcl-laggis in the street,
His eye with pleasure glinted.
He seized my hand and wrung it hard.
And said, with warmth unstinted:
“Come right in here —let business be—
And have a Belgian Fund with me.”
We had it and rejoined the throng ;
McHaggis seemed contented,
Until a poster caught his eye
On which there was presented
The legend, “Socks for soldiers, please!”
He said: “We’ll do a pair of these.”
We did —and then an Ambulance,
Some Shirts, a Motor Kitchen;
My throat was parched, my face grew long
And grey as any lichen.
He said : “I hope you won't be vexed —
We join the ‘Track the King League’ next.”
I bolted from McHaggis here,
And fled for home and liquor ;
I filled a glass, I raised it high,
It looked like golden ichor.
To drown the drunk I’d had on pelf
I had five whiskies with myself.
N.S.W.
MISERABLE DISLOYALIST.
SHOE STRINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I knelt to tie the vagrant string
That held in place her dainty shoe,
And sent a wireless on the wing,
And wondered if she’d catch the
cue.
N.S.W.
Then prompt the answer came to show
My wish had not been all in vain;
Said that sweet maid: “Don’t tie it,
Joe,
So it won’t come undone again.”
BILLY B.


A COPY OF ALL YOUR LETTERS will often save
you worry. The Zanetic Peneopying system (copies
as you write) is the most perfect. Nothing messy
about it. and extremely little trouble. Id. stamp for
all particulars and free sample to Zanetic Works,
Leicester. England.*
mtitiiW'
LAND.
W rite for
particulars to
“DROTT’
Swedish
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
fir all purposes on
MARINE.
FARM, STATION, COUNTRY HOUSE OR MOTOR = BOAT,
WOOD AND CHAFF CUTTING, PUMPING, ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
Crude oil Is chaaper than kerosene and safer. Power costs only
one-t lird that of a petrol engine with our system of water injection.
Our Marine type, for Fishing Boats and small Tugs, a Speciality,
Swedish Drott Motors,
C. HILDEBRAND, Asrent,
3D& Kent Street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 2097.
Angola Wool Shirts.
iT\
We have just introduced something quite new,
and distinctly superior for Winter wear. The shirts
are well cut, from a soft, warm Angola Wool, of
superfine quality, in new self tones of Pinhead
Grey, Green and Blue. Nothing so subdued or so
smart and serviceable has hitherto been produced
in Flannel Shirtings. Soft detachable collar of
same material supplied with each shirt. Soft
band cuffs to button or link.
READY TO WEAR, 14/6 each;
3 for 42/-
Patterns on request.
Please state linen collar size.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
MALICE PRETENSE.
NELL: “ However did you manage to drop that
Mrs. Toady woman?”
B ELLE: " Oh, when war was declared I made
her a present of my dachshund , and now
she calls me a cat.”
It is still spelt Rabaul —not Roball.
* * * *
Sydney was given an object-lesson in the
difference between good soldiers and bad
ones —or rather between trained soldiers and
the other sort —during the route march last
week. The infantry- and cavalry-men, who
had been schooled to behave as soldiers
should, marched or rode like machines, their
faces serious, their eyes to tfie front.
They looked inspiring, efficient, manly, omin-
ous, resolute —all that they should. Along
came another lot, which it was hard to
believe belonged to the same race. Held
high in the air were the toy flags which they
AT THE BELGIAN FUND BAZAAR.
“Are you the girl who sells kisses for the boor
Belgians? ”
“I am; but I’m sold out ”
had collected from the crowd. From time
to time one of them broke ranks, collected
another flag, and scurried back to his place.
They talked, laughed and greeted friends and
people who were not friends. Some marched;
others walked; a number merely shuffled.
And yet the misguided lads obviously re-
garded themselves as the popular heroes of
the occasion. This type of warrior does
not understand the change which has come
over Australia in the last nine months.
Nobody has much use now for the soldier-
wag, the individual who wants to drill,
march, and, if need be, fight, along vaude-
ville lines. The occasion is too serious.
The heart of the people goes out to the other
sort- —to the soldier who is taking his job
seriously, and who shows it wherever he
makes his appearance.
* * * *
“ Jeames” : There is going to be money in
the “Follow the King” movement for some
people. For instance, Governors. One of
them told me years ago that the job would
be well worth while financially but for the
drinks. He didn’t put it in those precise
words, but that was what he meant. One
State Governor has already
“abolished intoxicating liq-
uor from Government
House during the war,” and
the rest of our imported
potentates may be relied on
to do it as soon as they
drop to the position. Enter-
taining, on an alcoholic
basis, costs the average
Governor two-thirds of his
salary. That is the usual
estimate during normal
times. In war time there
is necessarily less of it—
dances, for example, which
are the most expensive of
all festivals, are cut out. If
the few who do frequent
Government House these
black times are given soft-
drinks, the King’s represen-
tative will be on to an abso-
lute gold mine. For if it’s
soft-drinks or nothing, after
the first taste it’s invariably
nothing, unless thirst actu-
ally grips the throat.
The Argus is angry with people who seek
to disparage the poor cocky because he
keeps his children at the demnition grind
of cow so long that they are often found to
be too weary to assimilate knowledge at
school. The reasons for this child slavery,
if it exists, are given by the Argus—“pre-
posterously high wages for farm laborers,
and the blighting effects of drought.” But
the high rates of pay enjoyed by farm lab-
orers are a delusion; and the over-working
of infants is not so conspicuous an infamy
in drought time as it is in times of natural
boupteousness, when the cows are yielding
profusely. And in God’s truth the case of
the man who barbarously overworks his own
small boys and girls for profit in any cir-
cumstances is as much improved by apologies
as that of the South Sea savage who eats
his relations straight out.
One of the Kaiser’s troubles is to find
land jobs for German admirals. The latest
case is that of Admiral
von Hintze. On Janu-
ary 24 Wilhelm ap-
pointed him Envoy-
Extraordinary to
China. Speaking Eng-
lish like a native he
travelled to New
York, posing as an
Englishman. He was
unable to carry
swords, spurs and so
on through the Eng-
lish Customs, but lie
bought a brand new
outfit in New York.
The American Eagle
chaperoned him to
Honolulu. Here the
Admiral packed his
costume in a case and
consigned it as fruit
laxative to a Yankee
indent firm in Pukow.
He got himself a job
as supercargo on the
Christian Bors, a
Scandinavian tramp
steamer, and signed on
as an Australian.
Half-way across the
Japanese searched the
ship. Von Hintze’s
box was discovered
and taken away. At
Pukow he ordered
some more clot h e s.
Before they were fin-
ished he had to bolt.
Since then he has been
steadily getting into trouble. But Wil-
helm can’t recall him, as the cables
are all in the hands of the British,
and Ilintze couldn’t come if Wilhelm
did recall him, because the sea is
like the cables. Ilintze wouldn’t take
on another job as supercargo at any
price, and he couldn’t get it if he wanted it,
as the condition in which he left the
accounts of the Christian Bors will be
remembered in the China Seas for years to
come.
“Etaoin”: Enter this for the red-tape
championship. A civil servant who travels
about N. S. Wales sends telegrams from
each town he reaches advising certain per-
sons in the district of his presence. Tele-
grams cost sixpence each and are charged
for in the monthly expenses list. Recently
the civil servant found one of his clients had
a telephone, so, instead of sending a wire,
he rang up from the post office—cost, one
penny. The next ex-
pense list had a claim
for the penny, mainly
included for the rea-
son that he wanted
headquarters to know
he had been in com-
munication with his
man. A vigorous re-
ply came wanting to
know why item 13,763
was not accompanied
bv customary voucher.
So the civil servant
hiked away to the
post office to get a re-
ceipt for that brown.
The post-office clerk
couldn’t remember it.
Tire official said he
would pay again to
get the receipt. The
clerk said that was
all right, but to get a
receipt for payment
of a penny for the
use of the telephone
would cost a second
penny. So a second
penny was paid to
obtain receipt for the
other penny. Then
the civil servant
paused with a faint
feeling: What would
he do about the re-
ceipt for the penny
for the receipt for the
penny for the telephone? Would that, too,
cost a penny? With swimming head he
managed to send on three receipts, and is
now waiting for a decision as to how many
more will be wanted. He supposes the
P.L.L. will be asked to decide.
* * * *
The Holman Government has another
scheme for blewing the loan—this time
for providing families with an inex-
pensive holiday. It proposes to establish
accommodation houses in cool uplands and
health resorts, where board and lodging can
be had for next to nothing- The scheme is
to be limited, first of all, to the wives and
children of small farmers and laborers in the
Central and Western districts, and the first
shack will probably be erected at Yarrango-
billy in time for use next summer. Cheap
fares are included in the general proposi-
tion. It is a good enough scheme,
and there is not a word to be said
against it except that it costs money,
and that the people of the Western
and Central districts would very much rather
be put in a position to pay full rates for
their holidays. They could do it comfort-
ably, too, if Governments didn’t steal nearly
half the proceeds of their harvest and hire
foreign syndicates at extravagant prices to
carry out public works.
* * * *
The Burglars’ Union in Maoriland is
contemplating a strike. It declares that it
isn’t getting fair treatment from the
Supreme Court and as “Exhibit A,” offers
for inspection the following list of sen-
tences :
Shooting with intent, under great provocation
(jury recommended mercy), 15 years; ditto at
father-in-law (guilty without recommendation),
three months.
Incest (two charges), 20 years; ditto (six charges
—a shocking case), seven years.
Burglary (first offence), seven years plus seven
years’ reformative treatment; ditto (ancient offender
with a multitude of charges), 10 years’ reformative
treatment.
Pickpockets (first offenders), five years, three year;
and two years; ditto (old hands), three months, six
months and two months.
If the Judges don’t care about joining the
Burglars’ Union themselves, it looks as
though they might with advantage form one
of their own and draft some sort of a
schedule to govern their trade.
Dr. Golding-Bird, Anglican Bishop of
Ivalgoorlie, evidently thinks he didn’t lay it
on thick enough in his first appeal for
cheques in London. At any rate, he sent
out a second letter, which puts Kalgoorlie
and Coolgardie in the same district as
Sodom and Gomorrah. Thousands in his
diocese, he says, are “little better than white
heathens; they are growing up in absolute
ignorance of Christianity, and the standard
of morality is deplorably low.” But (lon]t
despair—he promises to put it all right if
the British public will part up another
thousand a year. It seems almost like
sweating to contract to shift so much sin
at that figure.
At Neuve Chapelle the shells of the Allies
tore open a cemetery, and strewed coffins
and bones upon the surface.
HAT HUNTING.
MABEL: “ There's a darling little hat , and
only Jos.”
M ARY: "Yes. Isn't it a shame? If it were
12 guineas it would just suit me.”
A Gippsland settler is coming forward
with a patent for converting “the most
troublesome noxious weed in Australia”
into an inflammable spirit. “This weed
nearly drove me off my land,” he
says, “but I was put on the track
by accident, and now I light the
whole of my place with spirit distilled from
the growth.” Here, at any rate, is a mai
who makes light of his troubles.
THE WHITE FEATHER.
The Confessions of a Tody in Distress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sent a white feather to George to-night
The coward who stays behind !
Was ever a maiden in such a plight ?
My lover is sailing away to fight!
And—why is a man so blind?
Ah, me! but my lover has gone from sight,
I never shall see him more!
Alone must I mourn for my absent knight.
But George got a feather —and serves him right!
I pray that it hurts him sore !
I hope he will writhe when he sees the thing,
I hope he will guess ’twas I!
I want him to squirm at the scorn I fling ;
I’d love to be near him and see it sting,
And —I wonder if he’ll reply?
I sent a white feather to George. Ah, me !
To (his I have waved farewell —
Dear Gus, who is faring across the sea
To fight for his country, his flag—and me !
And the other —how can I tell?
Oh, how can I tell of the awful mess
I’ve made of the whole affair?
Yet how was a poor little girl to guess
The end of it all would be dire distress,
When I played with that spoony pair?
Yes, Gussie and George they were courting me,
And both of them seemed quite nice ;
For George is as handsome as he can be,
And Gussie is little, but jolly and free ;
And neither was prone to vice.
Now, wasn’t I lucky, with two such swains ?
And how could a maiden choose?
For Gussie was witty and blest with brains;
But George offered dresses and sundry gains
That prudence should not refuse.
I think, on the whole, it was George that led.
He had —oh, such splendid eyes!
But darling old Gus, with the things he said,
Would easily turn any poor maid’s head
If she wasn’t extremely wise.
So I played with them both, as a maiden will,
And smiled at their fret and fuss.
Dear George was my choice ; but I flirted till
The war came upon us. Then, prudent still,
I said: “Well, it must be Gus!”
For George seemed so handsome, so strong and
brave,
I thought he was sure to go.
One boy of the two for myself to save
Was just; so my answer I sweetly gave,
And sent him away with “No.”
Ah, me! I accepted poor Gus next day.
I had it worked out so grand !
Dear George, broken-hearted, would sail away
To bury his sorrow ; while Gus would stay.
Now, wasn’t that nicely planned?
Oh, I dreamed of it all as I sat alone.
If each had but played his part!
Poor George was to die with a love-lorn moan,
And then, ever after, would Gus atone
To my bruised, remorseful heart.
But —I sent a white feather to George to-night;
And my lover I’ve kissed good-bye.
Brave Gus, who is sailing away to fight!
And what holds the other? Mere craven fright!
Oh—l wonder if he’ll reply?
VICTORI
DEN.
They fire upon the graveyard green,
The thunderous shells destroy 'it;
A hopeless time for Peace when e’en
The dead may not enjoy it.


WHY WORK WHILE THERE’S A WAR?
Mr. Cook did, however, as did Senator Millen in the Senate, enter a strong protest against the determination of the Ministry to go right through its party programme, in
spite of'the grave’crisis through which the Empire is passing. —Melbourne ARGUS.
THE MALCONTENTS: “Why should a bloke he asked to earn his screw, while other blokes is enjoying of themselves at the war?”


iW Atvya.sMado*!’ j *Der Sgllao say's we-
3C©OOO Q&rmavi troops
or we. strike "tfajoble •"
-t(je yarned- VOarlord : " Donnerund • ‘ f
bhT*eo a l . <oT all fe
n d«r -trouble • Hcre’i
4/ a croso *b jo on urtV'
Mr. John Wren deputed his agent to
inform a social gathering of bookmakers
and turfmen in Sydney that he is “not,
in favor of the totalisator.”
1 Wold vt H? rue wrtVf Him wWo \
one clear bar> >n dioers -tors?*
fliar "VJren may rise on atones
ht& dead oelf "fe Tforj^
y r oh 0!
deW . £,S9*’ , t \o»-
of ''°'' UV
\»e»°
Instead of making provision against
the growth of the community and sear
sonal risks, the Metropolitan Board has
been keeping the people close to the
famine line; if it can blunder through
a dry season without a serious shortage
it is satisfied, even though for months
the citizens suffer keen anxiety.
—News item.
Albert "1 sec_ /i
ErberT . vt«)e heach
**6<- «> 5- \A)odse< A
Hiiwk voc orfer Jfoi
about '»t ?- g
Herbert * " Try \ \
an l
if , me boy
A movement is on foot in Melbourne
to Keep the Customs tariff moderate, and
impose a heavy surtax on goods im-
ported from present enemy countries.
. sjffz
// u
r\ou) can a man a drink u>itil
■Hus ornamental head Hie -J-lo'vo?
y The : I'm starving? *
D r 'fjlpher; "itrat* all nshT as
as \T tint* ibe enemy "that's
lhe • "
PROM COLLINS STREET TO THE NORTH SEA.


Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
«• 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFIGE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid-up ... 82,500
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every Siau
Write for particulars
\V K CAVE. General Manager.
•2fi3 George Street. Svdnev.
cv
cx
W
&Wj
xvc
an
To H-K The V^°
xvc
cr \ mo' e m ever - ou the world over, leading men wear Vv UunnOW
HATS. They are unequalled in quality, style, durabality and
comfort. ALL STORES.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROU
tea*&
LEWIS & WTIITTY MAKERS
HYGEIA
Shaving
Stick.
y^veßX
X 7
know
yourself
behind
Hygeia
Missing: Friends.
Miss Louisa Mary Key (of Fulstow, near
Louth, England), deceased.
IF Mrs. LOUISA ALICE BUCKER
(born Louisa Alice Ewing), EMILY
CHRISTIANA EWING or HENRY WIL-
LOUGHBY EWING (who about 1882 were
residing in the Colony of Victoria. Aus-
tralia) or other the next of kin of Miss
Louisa Mary Key, of Fulstow, near Louth.
Lines., England, will communicate with Mee
& Co., Solicitors, Retford, England, they
may hear of something to their advantage.
WILLIAM BARNET WALKER, of Yackandandah,
Victoria, last heard of in KalgOorlie, West
Australia, is requested to communicate with the
undersigned, when he will hear something to his
advantage.
F. ,T. T. LYNE, Solicitor, Tallangatta, Victoria.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BLUNDELL, S. Australia's new Minister
of Industry.
One A'ictorian Governor’s wife at any rate
did something that will be gratefully remem-
bered. Lady Talbot busily interested her-
self in the Bush nursing scheme and the
supply of good milk for infants. The death-
rate has fallen from 88 to 64 per 1000 births
in districts where the “Talbot” milk is dis-
tributed. If that isn’t the result of the
pure fodder, it is anyhow a coincidence
which it is worth while trying to reproduce
elsewhere.
Who invented that saying about ill news
travelling fast? Australian poet Adam
Lindsay Gordon shot himself at Brighton
Beach (Vic.) away back in 1870. Last
week a Yankee paper was delivered at The
Bulletin office addressed to the poor fel-
low whose funeral took place 45 years ago!
J. G. Edwards, for many years owner of
the Bendigo Independent, is dead at last,
after not feeling very well for half a genera-
tion. lie came from Tasmania and was a
compositor and more or less trained to the
printer’s job ; but during most of his days in
Bendigo he passed the control of the Inde-
pendent over to E. A. Banks, a bearded old
democrat, who ran the paper to the length
of the rope he was given, and since Edwards’s
day has made it frankly Labor. Simultane-
ously Willie Wright raked in the pennies in
the manager’s room. The proprietor was
thus able to slip out between his two assist-
ants and spend his mornings on the police-
court bench —an inconsiderate habit, since
it obliged at least one reporter to waste
many weary hours listening to the illoquence
of Sergeant Fahey and his unworthy suc-
cessors.
Passed out unobtrusively in Sydney the
other day Bro. John Wheeler, formerly an
Emperor or Doge in the local Orange move-
ment. Time was when politicians occupy-
ing doubtful seats shuddered beneath the
howls of John. Dread of hostile machina-
tions on his part drove them to Town Hall
platforms, Clifton Gardens picnics and simi-
lar functions. Yet he was no Torquemada.
A mild, hairy man, with the sodden figure of
one who had spent a lifetime eating buns,
there was no vindictiveness and a good deal
of humor in him. The only violent thing
about him was his voice. For as long as the
constituency would have him he was in the
N.S.W. Parliament as Freetrade member for
Canterbury, and for a crust he toiled 40
years for the big Wallsend Coal Co., which
he managed on safe but stodgy lines.
Died at Chislehurst (Eng.) William Wil-
lett. a notable crank who was taken seri-
ously. He caught the crankiness from Wil-
liam Morris the poet. Morris wanted every
man to sing at his work, and Willett wanted
the singing to be done in sunshine. His Day-
light Saving Bill was heavily fathered in the
Commons, and nearly got through. In the
N. S. Wales Assembly the earnest and
unhumorous Dr. Arthur took it up, but had
no better luck with it. On the more
practical side Willett was a moneymaker,
and died very wealthy. His line was specu-
lative building.
Until quite lately four Victorian drivers—
Bahl, Norman, Richmond and Sitlington—
had practically run the whole of the passen-
ger-train service on the Ararat-Portland line
from its opening nearly 40 years ago. Then
Sitlington’s eyes fell so far below the
departmental standard that .he had to climb
off the footplate, and he now passes out on
a pension. The others have still a year or
two to go before they cease watching the
prssure gauge.
The Defence Department did the right
thing and set Assistant-Minister Jensen on
to the important job of making an inquiry
into the recent change in command at the
Broadmeadows (Vic.) training camp —an
inquiry really as to whether an officer in
Australia was to be penalised for making
so conspicuous a success of his work that
the public noticed it. No time was wasted
about the inquiry either, and the result was
the wholly satisfactory return of Major
Taylor to the command.
Jack Fitzgerald, the new Vice-President
of the Executive Council of N. S. Wales,
“arrived” in politics along with Chief Sec.
George Black. He headed the poll when
four Laborites were returned for West Syd-
ney nearly a quarter of a century ago. The
other two were Andy Kelly and T. M.
Davies, both dead now. That was the occa-
sion when the hustings erected in the Town
Hall enclosure broke down, and about one
hundred persons—candidates, proposers and
seconders—fell in a heap.
Died last week, W. P. Manning, who had
been mayor of Sydney, M.L.A. for part of
it. and generally an enlightened and useful
citizen, with an extra pound behind his
shoulder when he was giving music a lift.
He belonged to the Protectionist party when
it didn’t amount to much in N. S. Wales,
and for that reason was one of J. P. Gar-
van's early friends in founding the present
Mutual Life and Citizens’ Insurance office.
A more selfish man would have made a mil-
lion for himself with his knowledge of
finance; being what he was he made some
money for himself, but more for Lord Rose-
bery and a good many other wealthy British
investors whom he represented—or in some
cases saved them from making the big
losses which early wild plunging promised
to land them in. For digging a man or a
concern out of a bog there were few better
in Australia: and he had one of the times
of his life in connection with the highly
successful reconstruction of what is now the
Australian Bank of Commerce —the old
A..T.S.
John McGuire, who died at Albury the
other day, was a brother-in-law of Ben Hall
and intimately associated with the bush-
rangers of early days. He was arrested in
connection with the attack on the gold
escort at Eugowra Rocks, and with eight
others was brought to Sydney for trial. 20
police accompanying them ; but he produced
an alibi that time. He was 91, blind and
very feeble when the end came.
Richard Pearse, Mayor of Ballarat (Vic.),
is not going to “follow the King.” George
has followed him. A little Richard took the
pledge from “Billy Bray,” a once-famous
Cousin Jack evangelist, 'way back in the
Dark Ages, and noth-
ing that has occurred
since has seemed worth
fillin' ’em up for—not
even being thrice
Mayor of the town or
residence in the same
cottage for half a cen-
tury. The old man
was 70 last week.
THE CAT.
HE: “Betty says that May is the meanest creatture in the world."
S HE: “I don't wonder. She told May , as a secret, of her engagement to Bertie Casheous,
and May promised not to tell anyone .”
HE: “And did, I suppose? ”
SHE: “No! She didn't."
May birthdays; G. M. Prendergast, M.L.A.,
formerly leader of Vic. Labor party, G 1 on
the Gth; “Peter Pan” Barrie, 55 on 9th;
Queensland Chief Justice Cooper, 67 on 12th ;
Justice Chubb (Q.), 70, and Agent-
General Newton Moore, 45 on 17th;
Madame Melba, 50 on 19th; Governor
Gerald Strickland, 54 on 24th; astrono-
mer John Tebbutt, 81 on 25th; Queen
Mary, 48, and Archbishop Riley, of Perth
(W.A.), 61 on 26th; Archdeacon Gunther,
76, and Fred T. Robertson (associate-editor
Adelaide Advertiser), 57 on 28th; and poet
George Gordon McCrae, father of Hugh and
Dorothy, 82 on 29th.
BAKHAP , the whiskers champion of the
Senate, who made a very pood speech about
Defence last week.
Mrs. Jane Nicholls, a Ilawkesbury native
who died the other day, within three months
of her 93rd year, had a father who lived to
be 93, and her mother was 87 when she died.
Two sisters are living; one is 91, the other
82. She left four sons and three daugh-
ters. The eldest is 72; the youngest a
flapper of 54. To further illustrate the
degeneracy of the Bulldog in these parts, the
sons, though nuggety enough, stopped short
soon after passing 6ft., while a kid of the
third generation is a mere Gft. 4in.
Tom Playford, ex-Premier, ex-Agent-
General and ex-Senator of South Aus., was
a market-gardener—one of scores who stand
as high socially in Adelaide as any other
kind of cocky, and live in far pleasanter
surroundings than most of them. The
Eastern States owe a. large debt of ingrati-
tude to Ah Sin. There he pushed into the
cabbage-growing business, and the cabbage-
growing business soon lost caste and thou-
sands of white Australians who ought to
be using the hoe are making out bills for
imported fluff or hanging on to a precarious
job paid for with hard-cadged Government
money.
The French know how to pay a compli-
ment. When Captain Oswald Watt was
decorated by Joffre the latter ordered that
the password for the day should be “Syd-
ney.”
Dead in Adelaide, at 81, William Barlow,
doctor of law, and vice-chancellor of the
University. A brilliant Irishman, of Trinity
College, Dublin, he was nearly 40 when he
came to Australia, with a reputation for
legal oratory. Yet a lifelong shyness in-
duced him to take up solicitor’s work—the
two were always combined in South Aus.
He ran Richard Baker’s office while that
brilliant politician was doing State or
Federal business; and at the University—
to which most of his later life was devoted
—he was always willing to let Chancellor
Way do all the public appearing while he
himself did the “spade-work” in the rear.
In _ appearance he was the typical Don
Quixote, and in manner a gentle, lovable
humorous old Irishman of the Ulster variety.
From the sands of Egypt:—•
The cussedness of things! Private Reginald Arthur
Beard falls 20ft. from the Pyramid of Cheops, and
is for the rest of his life paralysed from the waist
down. Private Norman Yeness, ricochetting 11 times
in a roll of 350 ft. down the face of the same pile of
masonry, is none the worse except for a few scars.
Beard was attempting to climb at a dangerous point
when the rotten limestone gave way. He lay all
night among jackals and mosquitoes before he was
found and patched up by Dr. Fred Bird at Mena
House. He was then sent back to Australia, crip-
pled at the age of 34. Yeness, whose people live
at Manilla (N.S.W.), lost his footing at the 30th
“step,” after which he finished the journey on what-
ever limb or other excrescence bumped the blocks of
stone on his way to the ground. He was picked up
by his companions with an Bin. fracture of the top of
the skull, a 4in. fracture near the right temple, and
a third near the left eye. After a week’s unconscious-
ness he recovered, but has had to return home, a
standing advt. for Bird's surgery. Another soldier
who fell from the same height was killed, and Cheops,
except for the north-eastern side, which is regarded
as a safe thoroughfare, was then placed out of
bounds.
THE GAOLER’S LOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bogtown (N.S.W.) Police Station was the sub-
ject of much discussion at the last meeting of the
shire council, and one councillor characterised it as
a “dank, darksome dungeon.” It is riddled by dry
rot and ants, and when it rains the officer in charge
and his family have to shelter in a corner and go
next door to boil the kettle. —Evening 'paper.
While the cold drops pitter-patter like a rain of
gallows’ tears,
And the summons lies all sodden on the chair ;
While the gloomy gaoler sniffles through the damp
and dreary years,
In the place his stern Department won’t repair;
Lo, the criminal goes drily on his villa-breaking
round,
And he whistles very softly at his job,
As the copper, ’neath a brolly, tries to frizzle half
a pound
Of raw bacon on his spotted, spitting hob.
In the place of ants and dry rot falls the never-
ending rain,
And the parchments and blue papers fall to bits;
And the face of Law an’ Order is a mask expressing
pain
With a hopeless scatteration of the wits.
So the gaoler in his dungeon catches nothing but his
death,
While the dry and cheery criminal goes gay;
And he snuffs up eucalyptus in between each wheezing
breath,
Dreaming sadly of the cops who’ve passed away.
When he’s had his thumping Dead March, and there’s
one damp Hop the less
To inveigle merry thieves into the cells,
Will he find warm comfort elsewhere, and forget his
past distress
In pursuing bone-di-y devils through hot hells?
Oh, I see him in my day-dream lugging demons
through the flames
With his red-ghost handcuffs glowing on. their paws,
Just to punish them for playing at forbidden wowser
games
Where old Judas at his chains forever gnaws.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


8$
.■
w,
s«
i -
* *
>
m
&
■
“Austral” Evening Clothes, made to measure,
Fit like a Glove, and are Correct in every detail
With the Winter Season coming on there will be a lot more indoor social life, and the average mail will make
Kent UK of his Dress and Dinner Suits. Nothing looks better than a well-made Dress Suit, and nothing let us
looks worse than a badlv made one. The man who mixes in circles where such clothes are worn cannot afford to
rsk I,“social reputation bv entrusting their making to inexperienced hands We will turn you out correctly to the
s button Full Evenin'- Dress Suits from &5 55., hand-made throughout from £7 7s. Dinner Suits from
Dst button. haud _ made » om 6s Satin-lined Chesterfields or Opera Cloaks, 1265. to 1475. Opera Hats :
Pure Merino, 255. ; Ribbed Silk, the very latest in style and pattern, oOs.
SEND FOR PATTERN BOOKS,
SELF - MEASUREMENT FORMS,
Pioneer Distributors Goods
484=490 Georg? Street, & 3=17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
and fully-illustrated CATALOGUE
We pay Carriage on all Orders


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for irrigation Work. Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St„ Sydney
fct
The Reliable
Swedish
Detachable ROW-BOAT MOTOR
WITH THE VERY LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
MACNETO ICNITION, also for Astern Drive.
AUTOMATIC SELF-LOCKING STEERINC DEVICE.
Propeller turns with the rudder. Rudder protects
propeller. Submersible parts rust-proof! Smallest
petrol consumption! If you want a perfectly
reliable Out-board Motor, write for particulars and
testimonials to Swedish Australian Trading: Company,
Chamber of Commerce Building?. Sydn3y.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Queensland (Bris-
bane) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Prolits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’07.-11,246 4 p.c.= 9,790 1456 70,146
Dec., ’O7. . 12,626 44 ~,,11,162 1000 464 70,610
Mar., 'OB. . 6,305 44 „„ 5,709 596 71,206
Sept., ’OB. . 12,768 44 ~,,11,597 1171 72,377
Mai-., ’O9. . 12,707 44 ~,,11,719 988 73,365
Sept.,’o9. . 12,826 4i ~,,11,864 962 74,327
Mar., ’lO. . 13,211 44 ~,,12,100 1111 75,438
Sept., ’lO. . 13,338 44 ~ ~12,228 1110 76,548
Mar., ’ll.. 15.137 5 ~,,13,746 1000 391 76,939
.Sept., ’ll. . 15,586 5 „ „ 13,931 1500 155 77,094
Mar., ’12.. 15,969 5 ~,,14,156 1500 313 77,407
Sept., ’l2. . 15,857 5 „ „ 14,260 1500 97 77,504
Mar., T 3. . 15,412 5 ~,,14,289 1500 77,127
Sept.,’l3. . 15,972 5 ~,, 14,344 1628 78,755
Mar., ’l4. .16,965 54 ~,,15,767 1198 79,953
Sept., ’l4. . 17,148 54 ~,, 15,791 1357 81,310
Mar., ’14.. 17,223 54 ~,,15,810 1413 82,723
And that is after six solid months of war.
But what about the future? Can we keep
going like this? It seems to this paper
incredible. We have only kept going like
this so far by the grace of the British Gov-
ernment, which propped up our national
finances as soon as they began to sag. by
the issue this year of Commonwealth notes
of the value of over £15,000,000, and by the
profuse expenditure of money in connection
with the fitting out of the expeditions and
the feeding, etc., of the army. Queensland,
while it did not share directly in the scatter-
ing of the £18,000,000 with which J. Bull
obliged Australia a few months ago, has
had a large share of the other fictitious
prosperity. Admittedly it has had a lot of
real prosperity as well, the inevitable result
of years of good pastoral seasons and high
prices, combined with phenomenal returns
in the sugar business. But for the future
the outlook holds these among other things:
(1) the serious consequences of a drought
in the Western district —a drought far more
acute than the papers have suggested to
the general public; (2) failure of the com-
ing season’s sugar crop in many districts
through shortage of summer rains, and the
harvest in the second season from now will
also be affected more or less; (3) not only
the stoppage of the supplies from J. Bull,
but the fact that we shall have to start pay-
ing out interest; (4) the issue of paper has
gone just about as far as it can go. so we
must stop churning out money in that easy
way. Doubtless nature may presently he
kind and send us bumper harvests and
clips, and the markets may be good, and
mining may take a turn for the better. All
these helps and more Queensland will need
if it is to jingle money in its pockets as
freely as it has done lately.
The Royal’s position compares with that
of 12 months ago this way:—
1914. ' 1915.
Bills and notes .. £18,299 £19,962 Inc. £1,663
Deposits, etc. . . 1,617,238 1,636,287 Inc. 19,049
Liquid assets . . 781,300 766,049 Dec. 15,251
Advances . . . . 1,420,735 1,456,250 Inc. 35,515
Premises . . . . 73,876 78.143 Inc. 4,267
Actually more deposits now than it had
before the war started ; and. in spite of the
drought and the hanging-up of so much wool,
the advances are only £35,515 more, from
which it is fairly safe to conclude that town
traders have been reducing their liabilities,
and that’s a good thing. Taking the figures
into account, and remembering the prices
which have lately been charged for shifting
money, it isn't surprising that the Royal of
Queensland has sustained its profits. Cer-
tainly there are banks which, expecting to
make some bad debts out of the business
now in hand, have been shipping down their
disclosed profits and putting more by to meet
contingencies. But it is quite possible that
this bank is justified in saying that what
seems to be ahead of us is no worse than it
has been steadily providing for all along.
If so there is no reason why it should make
any special provision now. The visible
reserves to protect the capital, should things
get worse than it expects, are not very sub-
stantial; but the deposits are beyond doubt.
Enough to pay nearly half of them is held
liquid; and there, is £lOO worth (book
value) of other assets to pay every £5B of
the rest of the debt.
* * * *
Beath, Kchiess and Felstead, Ltd.,
softgoods warehousemen, with two “buyers”
on the Board in London and two sellers on
the Board in Melbourne: —
Dividends.
/ ,
Cum. Pref. Ordi- Towards
July, Profits. 61 p.c. naries. Reserves. Deficit.
1912.. £56,187
Jan.,
1913.. 16,654 3250 6 p.c. = 2100 11,304 44,883
1914.. 12,444 6500 5 „ „ 3500 2,444 42,439
1915.. 12,814 6500 5 „ „ 3500 2,814 39,625
It never seems possible to make a table to
carry a co. from its birth without decorating
it with an explanation of some sort. In this
case the prospectus was dated June 28, 1912,
and was not of course issued until a few
days later,_ whereas the profits were with cer-
tain restrictions to belong to the co. as
from Feb. 1. 1912. In the final settlement
there was £2BBl coming to the vendors as
their one-sixth share of the year’s profits.
Also £2140 profit made prior to the regis-
tration of the co. came to the co., but was
not available for dividend. The deficit with
which the co. started is made up this way:
Goodwill, £50,000; extra payment to ven-
dors as above, £2881; preliminary exes.,
£3300. The £2140 profit made prior to
registration is included with the £10.054.
The prospectus contained an auditors’
certificate which said that, excluding a very
bad year, the average profits for eight years
from 1904 onwards “show that a co. with
a capital of £320,000 as proposed would on
your present turnover be able to pay”
£21,000 in dividends and carry forward
nearly £10,.000. It seems a fair thing to
ask wlnit has happened. The present share
capital is £220,000, with £lOO,OOO of 5 p.c.
mortgage debentures. If the £5OOO interest
on tin' debentures is added to the profits of
the past two years, it will be seen that the
total averages only £17,600, which is a long
way from £31,000. What has eaten up the
other £13,400 ? Trade was certainly not
very brisk in Melbourne last year; but what
about the year before? Somebody ought to
explain something. In particular that audi-
tor ought to be given a chance to show why
very little more than half the £31,000 he
talked about has been forthcoming.
The vendors took £lOO,OOO in 5 p.c. mort-
gage debentures, £36,000 in 04 p.c. cum.
pref. shares, £30,000 in ordinary shares, and
£50,000 in deferred shares, with an option
over 100,000 ordinaries at par. For under-
writing they transferred to “Big Bill” Bail-
lieu and his friends 15,000 deferred shares
and the option over half the 100,000 shares.
The deferred shares, issued for goodwill, are
not of the malignant sort. That is to say,
they don’t confer the right to half or three-
quarters of the total profits in excess of a
given rate of div. payable to the other shares.
Under that system a deferred share might
easily be entitled to a 50 p.c. dividend if
the thing were a success, while the ordinary
and pref. dividends plodded along at any-
thing from a mere 5 to 20 p.c. In this case
the deferred shares get nothing until the
ordinaries have had S p.c., when they are
to get up to 8 p.c. if it is there. After
reserves of £30,000 have been accumulated
the deferred become ordinaries.
One of the troubles afflicting the co. is its
load of debt. Including the debentures the
liabilities on January 31 were £234,585. But
even so something is wrong. With £134,585
of floating debt, mostly no doubt cheap;
with £lOO,OOO of a debenture debt costing
only 5 p.c.; and with £lOO,OOO of a pref.
debt stationary at 04 p.c., the £70,000 of
ordinary capital ought to carry a very easy
S p.c. in good times —as times were up to a
few months ago. If they can’t do it then,
they arc going to go very short indeed in bad
times. Finally, holders of ordinaries may
profitably reflect that, since the deferred
shares lose their handicap when £30,000 has
been put to reserve, there isn’t much likeli-
hood of ordinary shares getting more than
8 p.c. for a long while to come. Any profit
beyond that will go (1) to give the deferred
their 8 p.c.; (2) to reserves in order to wipe
out the deferred’s handicap.
* * * *
The Perdriau Rubber Co. (Sydney),
manufacturers and retailers of rubber goods:
Deficit
(Goodwill
In lledue- not reck-
tion of oned an
Dec.. Profits. Dividends, Deficit. Asset).
1907.. £5,804 10 p.c. =£4,001 £lBO3 £12,799
1908.. 7,271 10 „ „ 4,742 2529 10,270
£52 added to goodwill account . . 10,322
1909.. 8,050 10 p.c. = 5,801 2249 8,073
£63 added to goodwill account .. 8,136
1910.. 10,184 10 p.c. = 6,757 3427 4,709
£l3 added to goodwill account .. 4,722
Premium on shares . . 2000 2,722
1911.. 14,645 15 p.c. =? 12,500 2145 577
£l2 added to goodwill account .. 589
Reserves.
Premiums on shares .. 6878 6,289
To Reserves.
1912.. 15,397 124 p.c. = 12,160 3237 9.526
1913.. 13,126 8 „ „ 10,222 2904 12,430
1914.. 15,597 10 „ „ 13.000 2597 15,027
The reserves are made up this way :
Machinery and plant fund .. .. £12,851
General reserve . . . . .. . . 11,182
Unappropriated profit . . .. . . 6,227
Total £30,260
Less goodwill, patents, etc. .. A 15,233
Xet reserves as above . . . . £T5,027
That is to say, after providing for all liabili-
ties there are enough assets, apart from
anything the business may be worth, to
represent the capital (£130,000) and leave
£15,027 over. But it is really very difficult
to disconnect goodwill from a trading busi-
ness of this sort: for if the time comes when
the business —that is, the goodwill—is worth
nothing at all, then it is practically certain
that the factory premises, plant, and per-
haps even some of the stock will be worth
far less than their book value. That, how-
ever, doesn’t justify a co. in leaving good-
will among the assets. It seems to be the
tendency of businesses to decay just as
assuredly as it is of human beings; and
the man who will not write down goodwill
out of profits might almost as well go a
step farther, and, backing his own immor-
tality, refuse to ever take out a life policy.
When you say, then, that Perdriaus have
£15,027 of reserves irrespective of the good-
will, you don’t say that if something quite
unforeseen happened and the co. fell to
pieces, there would be 225. Od. in the £ for
shareholders. There would be a rush
for the shares if you could have
security like that ami 10 p.c. And
somewhere about here is a point to
which the politician won’t give sufficient
attention. “Ten per cent!” he says. “Mon-
strous! Why should people get 10 p.c. for
their money? The duty which is protecting
them is too high!” Or if the concern is
paying 8 p.c. the duty is high enough. It
would be—if the capital was secure. But
it never is. The co. puts the money into
plant, etc., which on liquidation is liable
to be worth ss. in the £or less. And if it
lias borrowed money—which in desperation it
generally does before it gives the thing best
the chances are the shareholders don’t get
much of the ss.
Tlie_ co. lias developed rapidly during the
P as t n ye years, and now covers practically
all classes of rubber goods, from umbrella
rings to motor-car tyres :
„ .. , 1909. 1912. 191". 1914.
( apital . . . £60,000 £120,000 £130,000 £130,000
Liabilities . . 15,849 49,929 36,320 36,644
i- i i 7 ,' ' 35 > 838 94,226 88,459 83,960
1 reehold, plant,
etc... .. 24,476 63,781 71,305 76,599
Book debts . . 9,625 26,502 21,984 28 118
Other assets . . 839 833 904 792
Of the necessary capital £70,000 has come
from shareholders: £14,310 has been con-
tributed out of surplus profits—not very
much, seeing that just upon £55,000 has
been distributed in dividends during the
same period. Much depends on the amount
ot profit _ that has been written off against
depreciation. If it has been just enough—-
in other words, if wear and tear has been
piovided for apart from the visible machinery
reserve—then it has taken 80 p.c. of the
net profits of the past very prosperous five
years to pay the dividend. If the machinery
reserve which has been accumulated is
merely a set-off against wear and tear, then
the five years’ history is as follows :
Dividends .. .. £54,639
Depreciation . . .. 11,044
Reserves.. .. .. 3*266
Profit . . . . £68,949
Maj be something very substantial is being
written off and not disclosed. Otherwise
the dividend is perilously close up to the
full amount of the profit.
* * * *
Australian Steamships, Ltd., being
the shipping side of the Howard Smith
business: —•
Net t 0 n e . p e .
f.™;’ Dividends. serves. serves,
in}?’* MM 72 4 P-c. =£32,820 £7652 £7,662
IJI4. . (0,i40 8 ~ ~ 67,133 6607 14,259
‘After long and careful consideration” the
Howard Smith directors decided ‘‘for sev-
eial material reasons” to turn the shipping
assets over to a separate co., paying the
parent co. in shares. The Howard Smith
directors constituted the Board of the new
concern, and the parent co. was made man-
aging agent; so the change, though effected
tor several material reasons,” made no
practical difference—anyway, so far as
finances are concerned. All that happened
was that both the Howard Smith and the
Australian Steamships, companies are able
to tell inquisitive political commissions that
they are not combined coal-mining and
shipping cos. -and it will be remembered
there was a bit of a commotion over that
matter when the shipping combine was being
inquired into.
At the end of the co.’s first year the
capital was £820,513, all but £5 of it issued
to the Howard Smith Co., that being the
valuation of the net assets arrived at by
three experts. During the past year the
capital issued to the vendor co. has been
increased to £839,618. Of that and the
reserves, etc., £782.060 represents steamers
and plant at cost, less depreciation. What
amount of profit lias been written -off
against depreciation is not mentioned; and
without that information, or at any rate
some indication of the facts, the figures are
not worth much. The net profits claimed
for the first year were reduced by the exes,
of forming the co. At the end of the first
six months the directors said there was a
loss showing; and thereupon freights, etei;
were put up. Evidently things have been
going all right since then. For the first half
of the past year the div. was at the rate of
6 p.c. . For the second half the Board; —
which isn’t in the habit of paying away
more than it. has earned or of making too
little provision for contingencies—distri-
buted a div. at the rate of 10 p.c... making
8 p.c. for the year. The co. lias a fine fleet,
a fine connection and the knack of money-
making, and if it can’t pay at least 8 p.c. it
will no doubt be a very surprised and dis-
appointed crowd. Its financial position ■is
of course very easy. Its cash, after provid-
ing for the div., exceeds its liabilities ; but
no doubt the money in hand will bo used
up during this year in ships now building.
* * * *
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
(Adelaide) :—•
Towards
•Tmie, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1910.. - - £458
* 4ar -> Reserves.
1911.. £468 Nil £468 10
1912.. 425 Nil 425 435
1913.. 1722 Nil 1722 2157
1914.. 2435 6 p.c. =£4200 1235 3392
1915.. 1883 6 „ „ 1200 683 4075
Though only four years old this co. has the
control of estates valued at £1,405,146. It
is an astonishing performance, and suggests
at first sight that the appointment of Elder’s
Trustee Co. as executor is as fatal as an
argument with a torpedo. But it isn’t that.
In parts of S. Aus. Elder, Smith and Co. are
something like “8.P.” used to be to thousands
of Island niggers. The name stood —and still
stands—for something like omnipotence and
omniscience. Elder, Smith and Co. probably
recognised the value of interesting itself in
the affairs of the departed. Anyhow, if it
didn’t, the agents of a rival, who generally
followed on much the same lines, used to be
instructed to “look after the dead men.” So
the co. probably got into close touch with
many deceased estates; and when this separ-
ate Elder’s Trustee Co. was formed, and put
in charge of a man who had had 20 years’
training in the excellent school of the T. E.
and A. in Melbourne, numerous trustees re-
lieved themselves of their responsibilities and
thus set the co. up with a ready-made busi-
ness. The co. is in 100,000 shares of £1
paid to 4s. (£20,000). and all the money is
in Govt. 3f p.c. stock. There is thus no
question whatever about the recognisances
entered into by the co. to be of good behavior
—recognisances which no private trustee
would think of entering into. Even the
reserve fund is lodged with the Govt. So far.
shareholders have got the most gilt-edged
security for their principal; and they have
prospects also of substantial dividends. Not
more than about 10 p.c., perhaps; anything
beyond that is likely to impel the Govern-
ment to take a hand. But even 10 p.c. is
very choice on such security.
The Castlemaine Brewery, Ltd. (Fre-
mantle, W.A.) :
Writ-
Dividend ten To Re- Re-
l’rofits. and Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’12.. 5026 10 p.c. = 3150 806 1670 17,941
Dec., ’12.. 5420 10 „ „ 3150 849 1421 19,362
June, ’13.. 6131 10 „ ~ 3150 854 2127 21 489
Dec., ’13.. 6224 10 „ „ 3150 904 2170 23,659
June, ’14.. 4954 10 „ „ 3675 873 406 24.065
Dec., ’14.. 6625 10 „ ~ 3675 855 2095 26,160
That is better, though the extra profit com-
pared with Dec., ’lo, isn’t enough to pay the
dividend on the extra capital. However, the
investor isn’t so much concerned with what
a brewery co. did last half-year as with what
it is likely to do the year after next. As
an outcome of the war some people are going
to abolish drink off the earth. There never
was a war in the course of which the public
didn’t make tremendous resolutions. And
there never was a place where it wasn’t re-
garded as more or less a public duty to break
those resolutions. The threat to never touch
it again is probably worth just about as
much as the threat never to wear a German
sock even though it should be better and
cheaper than all others offering. It is not
the war that is likely to have serious perma-
nent consequences for the Trade. It is the
women. Their vote outnumbers man’s; and
whether they care to have an opinion of then-
own about politics in a general sense or
not, the majority of them will let no man’s
hand guide their hand when it comes to
marking a ballot-paper on the liquor ques-
tion. S. Australia has just had its say;
and bit by bit privileges will almost certainly
be nibbled away from the Trade elsewhere.
llow that will affect the brewer remains to
be seen. A good deal will depend upon the
interest he has in beer pubs. It smells as
if there was a particularly cold time ahead
for the pub that is chiefly bar. It is impos-
sible to say how this co. stands in relation
to that. Of assets totalling £131,212 no less
than £109,927 is represented by a mixture of
“freehold and leasehold properties, plant and
machinery, rolling stock, goodwill, water
supply, etc.” It is pretty certain that there
is a substantial whack of-pub in that lot.
In addition to the reserves mentioned in the
table there is £17,199 of a depreciation re-
serve. On the other hand, there is an un-
known quantity of goodwill on the other side.
One way and another, considering the doubts
which pervade the co. in particular and the
Trade in general, it is a business not to be
recommended just now- to maiden aunts and
excitable persons with weak hearts.
The City and Suburban Building
Society (Brisbane)
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
i-eb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1902 ..£4778 4 p.c. = £3221 £1,417 £l4O £13,325
1903 .. 4502 4 „ „ 3219 1,192 91 13,416
1904 . . 4547 4 „ „ 3159 1,353 35 13,451
1905 . . 4381 4 „ „ 3185 10,380 4.267
1906 . . 4142 4 ~ „ 3190 463 489 4,756
1907 . . 4201 4 ~ „ 3196 594 411 5,167
ISPB • • 4388 4 ~ „ 3184 718 486 5,653
,lffl)9, 4552 4 „ 3173 421 958 6,611
•f?B> ■ ■ 6068 4-i „ -,, 3376 1,280 412 7,023
. . 5329 4f ~ „ 3801 347 1181 8,204
1912 . . 5792 5 .. ~ 4023 517 1252 9,456
1913 .. 6362 5 „ 4021 1,208 1133 10,589
1914 .. 6458 6 „ „ 4767 1691 12,280
1915 ~ 6330 5 ~ „ 3791 2539 14,819
Although practically all pastoral Queens-
land is suffering from drought, and money
is scarce out west, there still appears to be
plenty of cash in Brisbane. Further, this
year’s sugar crop has missed the monsoonal
rains and is looking very poor. So the
cheque from that business, too, will be small
compared with last year’s. Notwithstand-
ing these things, cash, as before remarked,
is plentiful in Brisbane. Twelve months
ago the City and Suburban Society had
£104,741 of deposits to play with. Now
after seven months of war and drought, it
has £103,470, or only £1271 less. But it is
unlikely that things generally can continue
like this; wherefore the directors have done
the right thing and gone back to the old
■> P.c. dividend. Advances amounting to
£46,649 were made during the year, as
compared with £44,680 in 1913. But it is
noticeable that repayments have been com-
ing in more slowly: whereas in 1913 the
total amount outstanding had increased by
only £594. this year’s figures show an in-
crease of £4540. Still the difference is
small, and the co. will be fortunate if
borrowers stand as well up to the collar as
that all along. Assets, apart from
advances, are: Freeholds, £7000; invest-
ments and cash, £17.884; and sundry
debtors, £55 —not at all excessive, though
there is. no reason whatever to expect that
there will or can be any sudden demand for
the repayment of deposits by the hundred-
weight. And no other sort of demand could
inconvenience the co. seriously, seeing that
its total assets a'mount to very nearly twice
the total liabilities.
* * * *
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.), from the time the profits from
the Neath colliery allowed the co. to pay off
the accumulated div. on pref. shares:—
Written Nominal
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Mar., 1913..£10,137 ( 10 P =' =^2so} £3l77 £3 ’ 959
Sept., 1913.. 11,650 -42*1X0.= 5609 1
Mar.; 1914.. 11,448 jpjg f - 6625.j ;j2g; . 6824
Sept., 1914.. 8,093 Pref. = 1250 3290 10,377
Mar., 1915.. 719 Pref. = 1250 3178 6,668
After working an amazingly good seam of
luck the co. struck a band of the other sort,
and a fire threw the colliery out. of commis-
sion until the last few weeks of the half-
year. This is at the Neath, on the Maitland
field, to which the co. had shifted when its
old Newcastle property got on its last legs.
The fire, which affected also the previous


The Personnel of an
EXECUTOR
and TRUSTEE
is a verv serious matter for a Testator’s Widow
and Children if the best selection is not made.
The wisest course is to appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
(The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia),
which, having had twenty-eight years’ experience,
and employing an Expert Staff, is much to he
preferred to any private Trustees, no matter
how trustworthy.
A Booklet giving full particulars as to
the Company’s Methods and Charges
will he sent on application.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Asst. Mgr.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST BOUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States oi
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC. ’
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. 'Week-end.
Gt. Britain
3/-
1/6
/ 9d. (minimum
1 15/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4.1 d.
Canada .. 2/4 1/2
) 7(1. (minimum
I 11/8, 20 words)
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
f 7cl. (minimum
\ 11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies Central America and other rates on
application; Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained. at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2SB$.
T MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Insurance: No reason t<> change.
“Well, show me,’’ were the words we heard used
by a business man to a canvasser the other day. That
is the essence of conviction —a positive proof. Let
us “show you” what “Pioneer” leather belting' can
do. We won’t place any “it's” or “buts” on the test.
Let us put a length of “Pioneer” on your stifl'est
drive. Ask our nearest office to-day, and if it doesn’t
transmit the maximum of power at the minimum of
expense we shall be prepared to abide by the test.
Make the trial now. “Pioneer” Leather Belting and
Engineering needs are manufactured only by J. 0.
Ludowici & Son, Ltd., “Pioneer Leather Works,” 117
York Street, Sydney (opp. Q. V. Markets). Inter-
State offices are: —Victoria: Geo. Bussell P’t’y Ltd.,
Flinders Street, Melbourne; South Australia: .1.
McKell, Tiinpson Street, Port Adelaide; Queensland:
Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane; West Aus-
tralia: Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth;
Broken Hill: Geo. 0. Dempster, Argent Street.*
* # * •
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard slacked, on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. Bd., as against 4s. lOd.— a saving of 2s. iid.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
♦ * # *
Extract from The Review, London, December 5,
1913, re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Ltd.:—“Life policies alone do not appeal to some in-
dividuals. Therefore, the Society’s combined accident
and sickness policy, if fully advertised, should meet
with the acceptance deserved. This is a branch offer-
ing much scope for energetic development. This
office, we are sure, will press forward and transact a
much larger business of this kind in coming years.
It is an interesting office in every way, being
thoroughly equipped to carry on its work with the
maximum amount of good for its policyholders.”* [3
* ’ * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the most economical as
well as the most durable system of piping for all
purposes. It is made in all sizes from Sin. to 14ft.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
contractors to all State Governments, 57 York Street,
Sydney (head office).*
* * * #
The Australian Provincial Assurance Associa-
tion, Ltd., still continues to make steady progress in
all departments. New business is coming in in
satisfactory quantities, and the cost of procuration is
quite satisfactory. Renewal premiums are coming in
at a satisfactory rate, whilst the Personal Accident
Department is making steady progress. The policy
of the Association is one of “progress,” combined
with economy, and there is no doubt in the minds
of all connected with this progressive office that the
Association will rapidly develop into one of the finest
insurance offices in Australia.*
On the Murrumbidgee at the present time land
owners find it necessary to irrigate extensively to
provide feed for their stock. Many up-to-date plants
have been, or are, in the course of erection by R.
Hornsby & Sons Ltd., of 1 Barrack Street, Sydney,
and at Melbourne and Brisbane.* [2
• * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Go., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
» * » »
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
The Port Kembla works of the Electrolytic
Refining Company are freely buying ores containing
copper, silver, gold from all parts of the Common-
wealth. The Ore Purchase Department is at
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
“Robey-Leplastrier” road-building machinery means
big saving. One shire in N.S.W. saved last year
£4OOO. Sixty shires equipped already. Apply Arthur
Leplastrier & Co. Head Office, Sydney.*
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BOYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Chaliis House,Sydney
half-year’s profits, caused a direct outlay o
nearly £2OOO in the last six months so,
seeing that the output didn t amount to ve
much, the final result is not so bad. for-
merly the co. made a bad mistake i
writing down the wasting property
to say, in not accumulating a fund to 1 epa.v
capital when that capital was no io g
represented by mining assets. In this
co.’s second time on earth a wiser plan
being pursued:— „,
. * * 1904. 1911. 1915-
Liabilities .. .. £lB7
Mine property .. 81,000 60,000 56,300
Plant, stock, etc. .. 18,810 37,748 36,147
Liquid assets.. .. 2,450 *>3,818 *>4,/ .
Certainly the last 12 months don’t show up
any too well; but that was due mostly to the
fire —and one can’t reasonably assume that
the co. is going to be hit by a fire cror// 1 -
months. The capital nowadays is tllu.UiH)
—ordinaries. £1)0.000; 124 p.c. profs.,
£20.000.
* * * *
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.) :—•
in: Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£££ £ £
Dec., 1907.. 2072 6 p.c.= 1377 455 240 6,792
June, 1908.. 1924 6 ~ ~ 1490 810 6,416
Dec., 1908.. 1962 6 „ „ 1490 807 6,081
.Tune, 1909.. 2465 6 „ ~ 1490 90S 7 6,088
Dec., 1909.. 2633 6 „ „ 1490 933 210 6,298
June, 1910.. 1627 1101 526 6,824
Doc., 1910.. 2900 6 p.c.= 1490 1743 6,491
Premiums on new shares .. 514 7,005
June, 1911.. 3570 6 p.c.= 1618 705 1247 8,252
Premiums on new shares .. 10 8,202
Dec., 1911.. 3095 6 p.c.= 1800 1295 9,557
June, 1912.. 3289 6 „,, 1800 3748 7,298
Dec., 1912.. 4007 6 „ „ 1800 969 1238 8,536
June, 1913.. 4045 6 „ „ 1800 2245 10,781
Use., 1913.. 3703 6 „ „ 1800 067 1296 12,077
June, 1914.. 4147 6 „ „ 1800 525 1822 13,899
Dec., 1914.. 4147 6 „ ~ 1800 2042 305 14,204
Further extensions of plant are ahead, and
the co. proposes to issue £25,000 of deben-
tures to meet the bill and ease a temporary
loan of £17,000 incurred for recent works.
It shouldn’t have much difficulty in finding
the money. Fortunately for shareholders
there is usually a very fair margin after pay-
ing the dividend; for the capital, which is
only £60,000, will have to support the de-
bentures as well until the new works can
earn their own keep. In view of the possi-
bility of a Victorian Gas Act, probably on
much the same lines as the N.S.W. measure,
it is questionable whether an issue of deben-
tures represents the best tactics. The capi-
tal is £60,000, and all of it is paid up. Fro: i
the shareholders’ point of view a better
scheme might be to increase this
amount and call up part of it. The
co. would then be in a safer posi-
tion, should a Gas Act arrive, to transfer
its reserves to capital. Gas sales continue
to move in the right direction, and the income
from that source for the half-year (£11,098)
shows an increase of 10.7 p.c. over that for
the latter half of 1913. No allowance is
made for depreciation, but various amounts
•—shown in the table as written off —are
spent on renewals, etc., and charged to Profit
and Loss. Liabilities, including the “tem-
porary loan” of £17,000 aforementioned,
amount to £19.217 ; and liquid assets reach
£10.711. including stocks, which are only
liquid in a manner of speaking. The co. has
been making a fine lot of extensions on a
very little extra capital. Seven years ago its
capital was £48.871, and its plant brought in
a gas revenue for the six months of £4829.
Now, with a capital of not quite £12,000 more,
and nothing very serious in the way of debts,
it has a gas revenue of £11,098. Things
must be very wrong somewhere if share-
holders haven’t got something better ahead
of them than the present 6 p.c.
* * * *
The Adelaide Co-operative Society :
Divi- Writ-
dead Bonus on ten Re-
Profits. (4 p.c.). Purchases. Off. serves.
Feb., ’O7. . £2898 £845 3s p.c. = £1590 £282 £2091
Aug., ’07.. 3989 877 4f ~ „ 1955 573 2675
Feb., ’OB.. 4138 935 5 „ „ 2385 610 2883
Aug., ’OB.. 4737 10.07 5 „ ~ 2790 581 3242
Feb., ’O9. . 4255 1052 5 „ ~ 3003 344 3098
Aug., ’09.. 4994 1103 5 ~ „ 3182 632 3175
Feb., ’lO . . 4483 1179 5 „ „ 3253 294 2932
Aug., TO.. 5877 1284 5 ~ „ 3658 404 3403
Feb., ’ll.. 6225 1425 5 „ „ 3872 539 3792
Aug., ’ll . . 4287 1537 3 J ~ „ 3129 522 2891
Feb., T 2.. 6743 1616 5 „ „ 4372 524 3122
Aug., T 2.. 8091 1652 5 „ „ 4744 805 3952
Feb., ’13.. 6508 1733 5 „ „ 4705 510 3512
Aug., T 3.. 8266 1768 5 ~ „ 4954 569 4487
Feb., ’l4. . 8150 1789 5 „ „ 4945 600 5303
Aug., T 4.. 8218 1830 5 „ „ 4909 629 6153
Feb., ’l5. . 7372 1780 4 „ „ 4000 623 7122
Some of the figures in the last line are esti-
mates : they will have to be adjusted when
the appropriations are shown six months
hence. The co.’s capital and shareholders’
loans- —they are practically the same thing,
both being withdrawable —now amount to
£114.201. of which £54.157 is in stock and
£48,645 in property and plant. The small
balance is in book debts, cash. etc. The
basig is all wrong and improper and danger-
ous and ought to be illegal. Otherwise not
a word can be said against the highly
respectable old concern, whose whole fault
indeed springs from its struggle to be unlike
a Fatman’s money-grubbing proposition.
But that’s no reason why it should under-
take to repay, almost on demand, a large
sum-of money three-fourths of which is in
premises and stock. At least two-thirds of
the capital employed ought to be fixed. It
shareholders wanted to realise, they could
then go into the open market. As it is, they
can go to the co. and demand that it buy
the shares at par.
The most hopeful thing in the Amalga-
mated Zinc’s progress report is that
costs are set down at £18,797, and as the six
weeks’ run produced 11.617 tons of zinc
concentrates the average is only £1 12s. sd.
per ton. The assay was 49.6 p.c. zinc,
7.70 z. silver, 5.4 p.c. lead. These con-
centrates contained 5762 tons spelter, and at
the phenomenal price of £5O the value for
this alone is £288,100. But don’t reckon
on that. Zinc is worth £5O a ton only
because this and other cos. like it can’t turn
their concentrates into metal. Taking
spelter at a saner £22. the Amalgamated
reckons its profit at £8872, which is a shade
under 30s. 6d. per ton of zinc contents and
15s. 3d. per ton of concentrates. The dump
has already increased to over 60,000 tons,
and in that lot the recoverable zinc is
approximately 20,000 tons. That so great
a value should be locked up in a heap of
ore in one co.’s yard is exasperating; more-
over, it is inexcusable in a country that
owns some of the finest coal seams in the
world.
-*■**•*
Y Waterholes’ half-year ended on Janu-
ary 31; and even in a term chewed into
by war and drought a profit was. shown,
though it amounted to only £2766. The
plant worked for seven weeks. Then, a fort-
night before the half-year ended, it started
again, smelting arrangements having been
made with Mount Bisclioff, and things have
been going on well ever since. The dredging
plant is still on the eastern ground, and
though there isn’t more than about six
months’ work ahead there, what ground is
left is very good. As stated here some time
ago, the western half has been re-bored,
and has been proved worth from 0.9 to 11b.
tin per yard for 3,000,000 yards. That, of
course, is not as good as the average of the
eastern ground, which has given lately about
111 b.; but with a decent tin market and the
reconstruction of the plant —for which there
will be ample means on hand by the time
the eastern ground is worked out —Warlow
Davies and his adviser Moline (who is
nowadays tackling the tough Cock’s Pioneer
proposition at El Dorado) believe they call
promise very reasonable dividends.
Mouramba Mines, Nymagee (N.S.W.), an
English-owned property, originally controlled
by the Longworths. is tipped for another
start. The Carriers’ Union has been asked
if it is prepared to cart so many tons of
coke from the railway at a certain price,
and has said yes. The co. has had a private
survey for a railway made from the State
system at Hermidale, which is the nearest
point. Apparently it has despaired of get-
ting the Government to put the line down.
* * * *
0.5. A.. Cobar, still has hopes, that, a rail-
way will be built to assist it with its
low-grade ore. There is also some likelihood
of a furnace being put up on the mine. It
is about time something was done. For
years the co. has been rooting around and
sending the best of the ore away for treat-
ment at a small profit. Last year 1254
tons were shipped to smelters for a return
of £6426. and 678 tons of “good” copper ore
remained at grass- The loss on the year’s
operations was £1653: but the ore at grass
may wipe out that deficit, or most of it.
The output from the Vie. State coal-mine
at Wonthaggi will be about 530,000 tons for
the current financial year. It isn’t a mighty
thing, but it is a very painful matter to
the few Gippsland coal-owners who first
laughed and then snorted at the idea of the
Government having any mine. The Rail-
way Department takes over 300.000 tons of
the output. The rest is available for Pri-
vate Enterprise (which loves chear> fuel
for its own furnaces) and household pur-
poses.
* * * *
At Lake Boga, near Swan Hill (Vic.), a
start has been made to work gypsum and
salt springs, also a deposit of lime. £7OOO
is being spent on machinery, which is being-
made locally. It is expected about 100 men
will be employed when all three substances
—gypsum, lime and salt- —are being pro-
duced. All of which is a text for a sermon
about the need in Victoria of looking for
something else besides gold and tin.
# * * #
“California Gully”: A recent Wild Cat
par. about the Bank of N.S.W. anniversary
revived old memories. It was stated that
the bank’s profits in 1851 were £22.478. and
in 1853 they jumped to £178.196. And this
is the reason why. In 1851-2. approximately
2 500,0000 z. of gold were raised at Clu.nes.
Castlemaine. Bendigo and Ballarat, chiefly
alluvial, and mostly worth £4 an ounce and
over. The banks engaged in buying gold
were the Oriental, the Bank of Victoria, the
New South Wales. Union and Australasia,
and most of their gold was bought by
trusted buyers who travelled from rush to
rush and gave the diggers what they pleased.
My own father bought gold on Bendigo from
1852 to iB6O, and he reckoned he weighed
and paid for personally over one million
ounces on behalf of one of the banks,
whose deadliest rival was the Bank
of N.S.AV. The old man used to say
he never met a gold buyer who had
equalled his record. The banks paid
from £2 10s. to £6 an ounce for gold
worth £4 to £4 45., so their profits were
gigantic, after paying escort expenses, in-
surance, freight, and all shipping costs to
the London Mint. Years after, in the same
bank. I personally bought on assay Huntly
and Epsom alluvial gold running up to 22
carats, and have even paid £4 4s. for nearly
pure stuff. No wonder the Bank of N.S.W.’s
profits jumped !
* * * *
Shareholders are not likely to get much
out of the final clean-up of the liquidated
Golden Pole (W.A.). The plant, leases,
etc., which stood in the books at £23,923,
realised only £OOO, but in view of the sys-
tem of mine finance this isn’t very astonish-
ing. It is quite usual for a mine which is
worked out to have a main shaft with a
book value of many thousands, and plant
and machinery worth on paper many thou-
sands more. And yet, the property being
valueless, the machinery can hardly be sold
for old iron. As for the main shaft, it
isn’t an asset —it is an expense, since it
must be fenced in to prevent accidents. In
the case of the Golden Pole the cash in
hand on February 5 was £134; so, lumping
that with the £6OO and deducting liquida-
tion exes,, shareholders may get about Bs.
per 100 shares.
* * * *
Three Ivurnalpi prospectors turned up in
Kanowna (W.A.) the other day with £l7OO
worth of gold and gold ore on their backs.
The stuff came from shallow workings and
included a 420 z. and a 20oz. nugget. As at
most old alluvial fields there is always a
chance of striking it rich at Ivurnalpi; but
for one who does there are scores who don’t,
and beyond contributing a few hundred
ounces to the State’s yield every year or
two and giving employment to a few
battlers, the field counts for very little nowa-
days.
Edna May Deeps (W.A.) is down about
200 ft. and is sinking as fast as it can to
the point where a slice of the Edna May
shoot is expected. Meantime the market
seems to depend for support on the inter-
section of quartz veins and lode formations,
several of which have been cut. Some
trouble has been experienced with bad
ground, but that is said to have been over-
come. The way in which the Edna May’s
reef has opened un at the No. 3 level of that
property is considered to enhance the pro-
spects of the “Deeps.”
Edna May (W.A.) starts crosscutting at
No. 4 level next month. The mine is look-
ing well at No. 3, where, contrary to the
expectations of many, it has a bigger shoot
than at No. 2. It is said that one end of
the No. 3 level is in ore of much above the
average grade, and that the other has been
stopped 17ft. from the Central boundary,
with a face of 13ft. of ore ahead.
■X* * *■ *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) held its annual
meeting in London on April 27, _ when
“everything passed off satisfactorily.” A
most hopeful view of the future was taken
by the chairman, but as the ability of the
main shoot to live much deeper is still un-
certain, the market is inclined to be cautious.
On March 31 Westralia’s State batteries
had pounded 1,027,944 tons of gold ore for
an extraction of £4,340,000, and the tin
dressing plants had treate_d 70,000 tons of
ore for a recovery of £85,000. Just now
both types of treatment plants are very
helpful. # *
“Oof Bird” (4V.A.) : The Empress is
taking no risks. Some time ago stoping of
rich ore was left off in the bottom workings,
and now, with apparently both eyes on the
market, the co. is about to drive a level at
a point only 25ft. or thereabouts below
where stoping ceased. This, combined with
the report tliat working capital is fast run-
ning out, makes one sit down and think.
* * * *
Mammoth Copper (N.Q.) expects to make
another start with its furnace early in May.
Coke and limestone are being hauled to the
works by traction engine, and a fair quan-
tity of ore from the co.’s Chieftain and
Clansman mines is in the bins. At. the
Chieftain the deepest level (No. 3) is at
230 ft. vertical. It is intended to sink the
main shaft to 400 ft., the co. being encou-
raged thereto by the big ore body
that has been opened in No. 3 north level.
The latest report was that this level was
in 145 ft. from the crosscut, and that the
ore was the full width of the face, and more,
and worth 12 p.c. copper, soz. silver and
Idwt. gold.
Austral Malay, which nosed out the
Kamunting. Ivampong. and one or two other
fine-looking dredging propositions in the
Malay States, has under consideration its
biggest thing to date. Managing-director
A. W. Freeman cables his people : “Believing
a large part of the Taiping field will pay for
dredging, have arranged options to end Sep-
tember four square miles. Scheme involves
central station generating current for elec-
trical dredges treating half a million yards
monthly. Government sympathetic.”^
“Quidam” : A curio in the way of batter-
ies stands on Campbell’s River, near Rockley
(N.S.W.). Long ago—so long that none of
the local people appear to remember any-
thing definite about it—it was worked by a
water-wheel, which served two boxes of
6-head each. Instead of solid cast-iron boxes
as nowadays, each box has only a cast-iron
bottom, with sides of riveted wrought-iron.
The dies are one solid oblong block of cast-
iron, and the heads are simply solid blocks
of cast-iron with a hole for the shank. Evi-
dently the removable shoe had not then been
devised. All the tailings went into the
river. A still older stage in batteries was
shown by Beard’s mill at Tambaroora, where
the heads and shanks were square; The
Campbell's River relic had arrived at the
round revolving stamp, and near it again is
an old 4-head mill in which the heads are
fitted with-shoes of the present pattern, and
each stamp has its separate die.


Under
Royal
YV&rranr
cvcxv
To H.M.
Kin§
George V
CHAMPAGNE
k 3
CHAMPAGNE
'-fctflesHeidsieat
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
TO THE SOLDIERS.
LORD KITCHENER’S MESSAGE.
The public of Sydney has been waiting
ever since the cables came through stating
that the British Expeditionary Force.s had
proceeded to France, for the full text of
Lord Kitchener’s advice to each member of
that historic company. It has now been
cabled out, and one of the chief of all sen-
tences in it, and fraught with great mean-
ing, reads: “Your duty cannot be done
unless your health is sound.”
Health to the soldier fighting for his
country, or to the civilian fighting the great
trade battles at home, is essential. A
healthy army should be a successful army,
and Captain H. E. U. Burke, formerly of
the “Third King’s African Rifles,” British
East Africa, states that Clements Tonic is
the ideal nerve medicine for the soldier on
active service, or recuperating after severe
illness or fever. It is the medicine that has
always been to the front throughout Aus-
tralia, and its effect upon weak or sorely-
tried nerves is little short of miraculous.
All chemists and stores sell it everywhere.*
Otard Brandy
15 YEARS OLD
IS A TRUE COGNAC BRANDY.
Otard Brandy is the pure distillation of the grape,
matured for years in the f amous historic Chateau de
Cognac, where Francois 1.. King of Prance, was born.
This Chateau now forms the cellars and premises of
THE MAISON OTARD-DUPUY. For sickness or
health, as a liqueur or as a beverage, there is no spirit
to equal.
OTARD (15 Year) BRANDY
©
40^
Q.
dualS)
®®<SE3i&®
:«o D
rR«*2
A
WOMAN'S
LEŢER
Sydney, April 2(5, IUI3.
.My Dear Arini, —
G.-G. Munro Ferguson took the salute on
Saturday, while “Tipperary” was yelled
along the line of march by thousands of on-
looking youngsters. For an hour or so
before the first plumed hat bobbed into Mac-
quarie-street, the police troopers ambled their
satin-skinned horses up and down the lines
of the patient crowd. Part of the quarter-
million was eating its lunch in Hyde Park at
noon, so it had a long wait for the crawl of
the great brown centipede at three o’clock.
Society, with his Anglican gaiters and a
herd of politicians and their legal ladies
lined every balcony and spare inch of blue-
metalled space near the saluting base as the
magnificent examples of Australian manhood
trooped along the broad highway.
Enthusiasts who dashed across town to see
the end of the march found a bleak wind
and squally showers waiting for them at the
Town Hall. Here an intermittent mixed
choir bleated in the windy area near the
iron railings. When its bleat was over,
the Scotch pipers smashed the silence with
stupendous noises. When they took two
bars rest, a sentimental orchestra on the
other side of the steps gave “Mary of Argyle”
and similar ditties to cheer the waiting mul-
titude —which by this time had retired under
its umbrella.
On top of the wind-swept Town Hall por-
tico aldermen and their friends were packed
like damp herrings when the rain began to
splash. Then the crowd bawled a welcome
to the French • sailors who headed our in-
fantry. The Light Horse stepped out briskly
to the tunes of “Tipperary” and “The Mar-
seillaise” —a medley that echoed along the
wet streets. The great white-hooded Red
Cross waggons, the tramp of feet, the roll
of gun waggons, and the waving of tiny flags
filled in a stirring moving-picture.
(Jetting the crowd home to its evening
meal was the least satisfactory part of the
day. Thousands of women with kiddies
hanging round them were drenched by the
heavy rain that fell at six o’clock. Pater-
familias, growing desperate, scoured the
streets for trams, which were grotesquely
insufficient; yet not so grotesquely insuffi-
cient as ferries across the harbor. It was
only after two and a half hours’ jostling that
the Milson’s Point wharf was cleared. The
Mosman arrangements were almost as great
a scandal and reproach. The Ferries Co.
made many a thousand of new opponents on
Saturday. But the co. seems to thrive on
enmity.
Barrister llanbury Davies folded in the
palm of his hand a cheque for £SSO the
ether afternoon. This was the cash that
.-•oiled in from subscribers to the Artists’
War Fund exhibition. Colonel Reuter
Roth, of an army medical corps that goes
to heal the wounded, hurried round the
R.A. Society's rooms in khaki, and dropped
a word of thanksgiving for the Red Cross
comforts that follow our boys to the long,
long Front. As chairman of the Red Cross
executive, Mr. Davies quietly hugged the
artists’ cheque at this juncture, and re-
marked that it would buy a first-rate motor-
lorry. James Fairfax handed the cheque
over on behalf of the committee —with a
postscript to the effect that the Art Stu-
dents’ tableaux would add £lOO to the
funds. After which the lottery tickets were
rolled furiously in two barrels, and Oxnard
Smith read the names while a colleague—
entrenched behind the second tub—supplied
the numbers.
Subscribers’ faces stretched in horizontal
or perpendicular lines according to what
came their way. Governor Strickland’s
name was fitted with the figures that
entitled him to Salvana’s “Cattle Camp.”
John Lane Mullins’s countenance exnanded
in a satisfied smile when “In Brittanv.” a
virile water-color by Maud Kimbell, fell to
his five-guinea ticket. She is the Maori-
land girl who had been painting in France
for some. time till the war sent her this
way again. A Scot who got 50 guineas’
worth of Blamire Young’s brush-work for a
tenth of the money looked as if he’d drawn a
winner in Tatt.’s.
The A.J.C. intends to come down with a
further handsome donation to the Belgian
larder. Empire Day race-meeting receipts
will be handed over without deducting a
cent, and president Adrian Knox, K.C.. is
polishing up a sub committee to carry this
decision into effect-
Poland’s cries for help have raised a
sturdy working committee to mould various
helping entertainments into shape. Arrange-
ments for a matinee at the Little Theatre
on April 30 were knocked into form at last
week’s meeting. Premier Holman again
expressed his sympathy, which is backed by
the State’s pound-for-pound subsidy till
about the end of June. The Little Theatre
manageress, Violet Paget, is bustling along
rehearsals for the matinee, and Julius
Knight will don a suitable wardrobe for the
occasion. Tivoli and National Theatres are
also offering help to the hon. organiser, Mrs.
George Earp.
The most picturesque widow hereabouts is
the young and handsome relict of the late
Roderick Cameron. She was Miss Linde-
man, of the wine-growing family. Roder-
ick, who changed his mind about being a
confirmed bachelor when he saw the Sydney
girl, took her away to New York. Now
she is home again in wonderful draperies of
raven black. Even her baggage is said to
be something in tremendous purple, and her
car is en suite.
Still another wedding in Egypt between
a fighting man and his best girl. The bride,
Marjorie Pockley, belongs to the Antill
Pockley clan, formerly of Killara. Her next-
of-kin in sandy Egypt, Col. Jack Antill.
handed her over to her young man, George
Knowles. He is a son of Admiral Charles
Knowles, and he stood not on the order of
his going to the war, but hurried off as a
volunteer in a Ceylon lot which has been
in the Nile country for quite a while. You
have no trouble to get an Australian con-
gregation if you insist just now on having
your wedding at a place called Kasr-el-Nil.
The North Sydney Bernard Newmareh pair
were present, and Mrs. Bernard gave the
wedding spread. The Sid Christians
(Major and Mrs.) also looked on to see fair
play.
The Graham Moffats have been putting in
a sea-breezy holiday at Avoca Beach. The
author of “Bunty” astounded the seagulls
with his prowess in the breakers as he
tonicked his nerves for another theatrical
outbreak. This time it is to be “A Scrape o’
the Pen,” which starts in the Palace
Theatre on May 29.
The widow of Admiral Charles Cross —
formerly Edie Mclntosh, of Bathurst—has
two sons fighting the common enemy. One
is. or was. in the French trenches; the
other is with Jellicoe in the North Sea.
Director Maiden, of the Botanic Gardens,
had the town-planning dames buzzing
around an out-door lecture last week. It
didn't happen to be raining at the time,
so the hard-worked gamp wasn’t able to
spoil the situation. It may be that amongst
the town-planning ladies there are some
who would make the world better if they
would but curb their gigantic intellects
and plan the family dinner and clean up
the back yard. Still, the enthusiasm for
such pursuits as planting herbage in the
public streets is a craze of the moment, and
not to be easily killed. You see, my dear,
no woman ever gets her name in the papers
for attending to her own back yard.
Mrs. Kirchner, who used to be Jean
Walker, is still staying with her German
mother-in-law near Berlin. Hubby was
snatched from liis honeymoon to make him-
self useful in the Kaiser’s big city. As
little or no outside news percolates through
the enemy’s press—except, of course, tales
of the scarred ruins of England—the Aus-
tralian woman knows so little of our side
of the war pictures that she believes —or
did a few months ago —that the Common-
wealth is a German possession !
At the National Council’s executive
meeting the other day Mrs. Tom Hughes
took the best chair. Miss Rose Scott got
away with a long indictment against care-
less husbands who skip over to other States
and leave the missus to be supported by the
Government. The Federal politician will
shortly be interviewed by indignant Woman
on this rift in the domestic pianola. The
notion is to cover all Australia with one law
on the matter, so that absconding Man may
be chased with a long blue paper, even
though he does tumble through a border
fence. At this stage Mrs. Ebenezer
Vickery, who had a sheaf of correspondence
to unload, nearly exploded. Mrs. President
Hughes, believing the meeting at an end,
was about to withdraw in peace. But Mrs.
Ebenezer. in a voice trembling with emo-
tion. called the attention of the company
to her little lot of literature —still unread.
So Mrs. President got back to work. At
least, I suppose this is work.
Robert Parker’s fourth concert was illum-
inated by a magnificent vocal effort —his im-
pressive attack on the famous Tannhauser
gem, “O Star of Eve.” With Truman at the
organ and little Florence Scapini drawing
her bow tenderly across the fiddle-strings,
this Wagner item was an event. Parker
understood the Town Ilall acoustics better
at his later concerts, and his great voice,
which may be approached with respect as an
organ, drowned the echoes that lurk over the
eastern gallery. Mrs. Carmen-Harris, a
vision in rose draperies, had no corsage
worth mentioning to disarrange, so her top
notes struck the rafters in the same old place.
Why the Harris lady should be so deter-
mined to sing contralto music, when Provi-
dence fitted her up as a showy dramatic
soprano, is best known to herself. Her
frocks are for that reason much bet-
ter than her lower notes. Harold Whittle
consistently supported the company from his
usual place at the piano. Parker was handed
a floral boomerang the other night, and Mrs.
Pinchof-llarris got away with stacks of
flowers.
When Harold Whittle, who accompanies
Parker on the piano, was rehears-
ing with the Canadian, the voice floated
out of the window —no, I am not referring
to the Parker mouth —and filled the adja-
cent street. A man who stood on the near-
est kerb waited till Parker had finished.
Then he hurried up to Whittle’s room. “I’ve
been listening to that pupil of yours, Mis-
ter,” said he. “What’s your terms for
teachin’?”
Artist Bernice Edwell has gone to pitch
her camp in Melbourne for a while. She
means to find out if it’s the Promised Land
for artists that it has been cracked up to
be.
A North Sydney man, E. F. McLeod, for-
merly on the Malwa, is now navigating loo’-
tenant on H.M.S. Royal Scot.
The new recruits in camp with King
Edward’s Horse have a thick sprinkling of
Cornstalks. Campbell Lloyd, of Tamworth ;
H. Hepburn, a Cooma man; and A. W.
Mayne, from the same uplands, are included
in the latest roll. Ted Capper, of West
Maitland, is under canvas in the same park.
Sydney ’Varsity women had their annual
spread in the big sarcophagus of the Uni.
the other evening. The trencher-boards
present were, members of the Women’s
Union, which is a kind of Black Hand Soci-
ety in blue stockings. Its vendetta at present
is. against everybody who won’t help its
friends the Belgians, and it will, if neces-
sary, rob their domestic fowl-roosts for the
cause. The Black Hand made its own sac-
rifice by. munching ninepence worth of sand-
wiches instead of its customary three-and-
sixpenhy annual dinner. The other 2s. 9d.
per head fell into the Belgian hat forthwith.
President Dr. D’Arcy presented the honor
list, and specially mentioned Dr. Isabel
Ormiston and Dr. Elsie Dalzell. Both are
graduates of Sydney Uni., and their work at
the Front has been mentioned in headlines.
Dr. Elsie has now tucked up her sleeves for
duty in. a Servian field hospital—about the
stillest job any woman can look for. Gladys
Marks, an Arts graduate, not long back
from England, told stirring tales of Red
Cross toil in the wet little isle as the com-
pany washed down its sandwich with obla-
tions of coffee.
Artists Thea Proctor and Justine Kong
Sing are batching together in Chelsea. I
believe the place used to be an old inn, but
tea is the tipple nowadays.
Concerning socks, it were better for the
comfort of Tommy Kangaroo if the enthu-
siastic knitter who achieves a lumpy result
abandoned the experiment. Tommy’s feet
are much too precious to practise on. A
few shillings sent to Mrs. Keith Jopp’s sock
fund (which hides its cash-box at Elizabeth
Bay) enables the committee to pay experts
to do the business. Of course, there are
other ways-—including one which is becom-
ing the nightmare of visitors to once-peace-
ful suburban homes. The lady of the house
gives the' caller her distracted attention for
one minute. Then she faces her with three
or four balls of wool. Appended to eacli is
the blighted beginning of a sock. The
stunned visitor is commanded to go ahead.
So She writhes and falls to. Her work
may differ violently from the stitchery that
preceded hers —the work of a former
pounced-on caller. But no one seems to
mind how bad or how good the result is
likely to be. Boracic powder may comfort
the wearer.
Julius Knight’s farewell to Sydney—for
a few weeks, anyhow—found the gallery
girl in her old place; and bombs of feminine
applause exploded in the Royal when
Julius, in “The Lifeguardsman,” fell
through every obstacle, including a bad
motor smash-up, in time to claim his girl—
Princess Dorine Brown. Julius had only
half a second to spare. He won the lady
by the length of an eyelash from his hated
rival, Prince Hugo, who was too worried to
take off his busby or top boots for the State
Ball that formed the climax. Irene’s red
hair topped some handsome frocks in this
stirring melodrama. She scolded her Cabi-
net Ministers in a Futurist gown of floral
design, upholstered in a long blue tunic with
a heavily-loaded tail that banged the stage
like a flail. A shimmering white coat with
black velvet edges was a more effective color
scheme, with the sable drapery of the skirt
coming to a thin, curly end on the floor.
The spot light that found Julius on his knees
before his stage girl trembled on Irene’s
ball gown like a streak of moonlight on
phosphorescent water. A court train of
soft white bunny rounded off this stunning
pantomime-Queen effect.
Mrs. Hugliie Ward had Mrs. Freddie
Shipman and Amy Castles in the manager’s
box. At the end they looked out on a
garden of blooms which had been laid
at the feet of the company—with special
favors for Lizette Parkes, who looked like
Beauty in a florist’s shop.
The Gallery trustees recently bought
three charming etchings by ,T. B. Godson,
and Englishman who means in future to
boil his billy in Australia. He came from
the Fog about three years ago to an art-
teaching billet in Auckland. But art limps
in that commercial town, and the lure of
Sydney has brought him this way. The
new man, who has five years’ training in
the London College of Art behind him, is
now prepared to fight Syd Ure Smith fox-
picked positions on the harbor foreshores
for etching purposes.
While the enemy is smashing up famous
architecture in Europe, Sydney is on the
crest of a wave that washes town-planning
gatherings into all kinds of special corro-
borees. The women’s committee the other
day sat down in the Australia while archi-
tect Sulman took the chair. Naturalist
Froggatt then discoursed on the domestic
habits and piratical instincts of the house-
fly, and in the buzz that followed Mrs.
Burley Griffin—the U.S. lady architect who
helps hubby with town-planning—lent bel-
aid to shape a women’s executive.
The N.S.W. Institute of Architects is
already in the thick of preparations for its
biennial show in October. The Town Hall
will be packed from the cellars to the
ground floor with a model cottage competi-
tion. Just here woman ought to knock and
come in; for in the average suburban cot
built by the Inferior Creature the kitchen is
an inconvenient kennel hung on to the
hottest side of the humpy, the forage depart-
ment is as remote from the cook depart-
ment as the builder can put it, and there
are no sane ideas in the matter of cup-
boards. Anyhow, president Anderson, of
the Architects’ Institute, is promised a
lively time if the lady plumber or the lady
gasfitter does get into any of the competitive
struggles.
We have lost, for a time anyhow, the
Rajah of Pudukota. lie is an unassuming
potentate who doesn’t care for Society frills.
For the next few weeks Melbourne is to
have a chance to stalk him for its Best
entertainments. But he knows the jungle
tricks, and the hunter who captures him
must be wily.
On April 29 a garden party to help Hos-
pital Saturday collection will occur in the
Wentworth Hotel winter resort.
Mrs. Theodosia Wallace, who contributes
to the social-news items in various Sydney
papers, was given a souvenir of sovereigns
by her friends the other afternoon. Mrs.
Ilolman, as the voice of the Avomen’s com-
mittee, handed the pleasant insult over.
Mr. and Mrs. Francis Chapman and their
only chick, Evelyn, leave for London in
June. The girl is aching to get back to hex-
art studies, and the family will probably
settle for a while in ancient Chelsea. The
Sydney National Gallery, as you know,
i-ecently bemrht clever Evelyn’s picture,
“Blue and Gold.” for 75 guineas.
The Naval House tea-fights for sailors’
Avives are temporarily shorn of the presence
of Miss Henderson —the strong-minded
naval lady Avho keeps an eye on the social
Aveather boAv, so to speak, at these parties.
She is getting her second Avind on a Queens-
land holiday trip, and returns to the fray
next month.
There is likely to be a row on the sub-
ject of nurses’ uniforms before Europe
settles down to rebuild itself. Here the law
is so slack that the trained nurse begins to
jib at wearing any outdoor symbols of her
pi'ofession, because any untrained Gamp can
put on the garb of the Nightingale. The
latest squall—no bigger than a woman’s 5j
glove at present—is developing over ambu-
lance classes. Damsels Avho have lately
attended, with more or less useful results,
1.0 or 12 lectures, are floating round in the
uniform which is supposed to be the badge
of years of hospital chores. Professor Andy
Stuart, who is a first-class fighting man,
might shake things up before the genuine
sick-bedside comforter entirely discards the
saucy little bonnet of her trade.
The Inside Inn, as it is called. is. the
only tavern within the Panama Exhibition
grounds. It is built on the usual U.S. plan,
and contains, in addition to 1100 guest
rooms, a village of shops and baths, which
latter you must nay to approach. Aus-
tralians, who consider a bathroom a free
perquisite, always kick against parting with
cash for the privilege of washing them-
selves. But it seems to be the usual thing
on the other side. The huge hostel, which
is prepared to swalloAV up the tourist and
his tips, looks like a trust in large flat-
roofed iron tanks, indented with windows.
The spiky feathers of some of this sea-
son’s millinery shoot up and cross in mid-
air. They average about 10 inches in
height, and are frequently emerald-green
survivals of the barn-door fowl’s humble
tail.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
« " 'Jr
/ ' \
?? V \ \
r iw'.Wy ]*,
Fr :;; - ; -
T _
\ ASS
XAf
1/
—-'.'.l '*' J"! . / ;-■'
<? A
:£._2>
>r:
iffl
tX
rf*
Apt*
« : j
W
-f;
C> i
Vcu- ff?
AV
y"
C-;J>
iA "'CJp
/§
«©•*
:y
.w
T>
xS
■'V:
G
n
'
xe
r u
95
6
«££»**
*ll
«%
f( fW’j' a
A-AAj^
f//.f
m
'AKA
m
*%
W:
n
a\
7 A
A*?\
f\ivt
%-
m
mu
m
/a
spf
./
1 #
o<?«s
//V
IOsI
I# •
&
* .'3
a
®§f
*
M
a
**
A
-m
*
Ax
id;
\
@ss
Cd
ic<
3^
:c
/M
Ai&
ffj
77
M
djfy
wm
Ed
?ww*mmf
rj&i
M
Am
€
m
Am
ySjgSssi
m
?M
m
■‘Aa
•ti s/v
s\c,%
A
W.r
m
A
soffit
doSs. n
■scftfgl
*&i£g*2.
SSrf
“»S
tael*'.
AAA '
L
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Rides the croc-
Odile. Oh, you
Ought to see him,
Like a count,
Riding his
New “COBRA” mount
Poor old Bear,
With frightened squeals,
Shows a nice
Clean pair of heels.
At those teeth
He cannot scoff,
For they’d polish
Him right off.


SPECIAL OFFEE
in Tunic Shirts.
Farmer’s Shirts are renowned for Stele and
Comfort. The smartness reflected in the line
featured comes from perfect cutting and efficient
workmanship. They are the best value possible
at the price.
RR27.—Pine Quality Cambric Tunic
Hllirts, in neat, good-washing, striped patterns,
made with soft fronts, stiff cuffs, and linen
neckbands. Colors: Light grounds with Blue,
Grey and Mauve stripes.
PRICE: 4/6, or 3 for 13/-
Carriage Paid to any Part of Australia.
FARMER’S, Sydney
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS*
cvx
MAKES THE WEAK AND THIN
STRONG AND FAT.
Weak and thin people—those who are
troubled with indigestion, nervousness, sleep-
lessness, liver trouble, etc. —can become
strong, fat and hearty, if they will only use
a little common sense. Just bear iu mind
that it’s not what you eat but what you
assimilate that makes flesh and strength;
and that the nerves directly control the pro-
cess of assimilation —the conversion of food
into flesh. Weakness, thinness, sleepless-
ness, nervousness* etc., are all signs that your
nerves are weak and must be strengthened
by a proper tonic food before they can hope
to do their work properly. For this pur-
pose there is nothing like the plain old-
fashioned nerve tonic and flesh builder the
chemists prepare by mixing iox. tincture
..Cardamoms Compound, 2oz. Sal rad o Com-
pound, 2oz. Elixir Simplex and water.
One or two tablespoonfuls of this tonic 20
niinntes-.before eating, or whenever you feel
W'd®,- tired or nervous, will freshen you up
amazingly, and if used regularly for a week
will, by building up and strengthening the
nervous ' systent,'overcome all those com-
plaints and symptoms due to weak, devital-
ised nerves. You will be full of energy and
vitality, and should put on two or three
pounds of firm, solid flesh every week. In
fact, on account of its flesh-building proper-
ties, it should not be taken by people who
do not want to put on flesh.*
SAUCE
69
!•ownnm traw
dire
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of AU Storekeepers.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
MELBOURNE, APRIL liU, 191.").
My Dear Yarrie, —
Melba’s concert will have happened by the
time this reaches you. The seats were all
gone after the plan had been exposed for
three days. Some people still have hopes
of clinging by their eyebrows to the chan-
deliers, but they are optimists. Melba has
circularised Melbourne to the effect that
she will only take £lOO bids for her special
Belgian flag. You might think that that
was a reliable method of preventing the
flag from being sold, but if so you don’t know
Melbourne and you don’t know Melba.
When she fixes her eye on the company and
says in a compelling manner, “And how
much am I offered for this flag?”—well,
someone has to spring another century or
go outside and hang himself for a skinflint.
Talking of Melba’s magetism, she hawked
her concert tickets in person. Amongst
other places she invaded the Stock Exchange.
“A guinea? Certainly,” said Mr. Bull-bear
affably, as he dived for coin. “I can get
a guinea anywhere,” was the haughty an-
swer. “These seats are tw r o guineas on
’Change.” What a bagwoman she would
have made, to be sure!
Hugh I). Mclntosh came over from Syd-
ney to say good-bye to the Tivoli Follies.
It was a braw wild night. Half the boxes
were filled with men of the arrogantly pros-
perous type which shies at the "Follow the
King v movement as though it were a tooth
extraction. A sad lot of dogs they looked.
1 was told on good authority that there
wasn’t so much as one churchwarden in the
lot. In the other boxes were yearning-
young men, who leant over the edges in a
Burne Jonesy fashion and sent burning
glances at the damsels on the stage. Take
it from me, dear, it was no place for a
wowser. To put the lid on the whole busi-
ness, as it were, the beautiful man-dancer
who revolves around Vera Pearce split his
pale-blue silk unmentionables. It was ouite
like Paris, or Home shortly before the Fall.
He was unaware of the tragedy, but the
house got considerable joy from .it, I grieve
to say. He scored the hit of his bright
young career when he appeared later, cov-
ered with self-consciousness and a vast pair
of orange-colored bloomers —understudies of
the most obvious description. All the
Follies maidens (who, whatever they may ,be
as actresses, can never be accused of over-
dressing) hung blue silk bags over their lack
of clothes and hurled from them balls of
face-pow r der. The idea would have been
quaite all right if the girls in the front of
the house had got the powder. As it was,
most of the prizes went to soul-less youths
in the orchestra stalls, and they, having no
use for t hem, employed them on the com-
edians after the fashion of vegetables or
eggs. When a lovely young manager
man stepped forward to protest, he got pow-
dered from the shining and level parting of
his hair to the iridescent tips of his shoes.
The girls flung thousands of colored ribbons
into the audience; the stout box-holders
looked balder and the alcoholic ones
more alcoholic than ever; the aesthetic ones
yearned so that they nearly set the O.P.
wings on fire. I could see that the worst
was liable to happen at any moment, and,
intoning a short hymn, I left.
It is a relief to turn from such hectic
scenes to the placid subject of the Gippsland
cow and the Stanley family. The Stanleys
have been installing bush nurses and visit-
ing the lieges down the southern branch of
the line which goes to Port Albert. The
most marked thing about them has been
their reticence. At every little railway sta-
tion the blinds of the vice-regal carriage
were carefully lowered to shut out the gaze
of gaping yokels. At one siding (given up
almost entirely to milkcans and potato-
sacks) a peripatetic motor-cyclist asked the
meaning of it all. The stationmaster, a
gentle maiden of the bush, replied. “Lord
knows; but they say that orl the Heads of
Everywhere are in there.”
A Savage Club concert has been fixed for
Wednesday next in the Melbourne Town
Hall. Object—the Belgian Fund. The
Savages have already started hanging ban-
ners across Collins-street from the Club to
the Hall. Women, ever forgiving, have put
on one side the bitter memories of the past
—none of them have ever been allowed to
put so much as a nose inside the Club —and
are working up the show. The Club reci-
procated recently by standing the workers
a tea-and-ehat party in the upper room of
the Vienna Cafe. Mrs. Arthur Woolcott
took the chair, looking impressive in fawn
color. Mrs. Percy Cook was there in navy
blue, and Mrs. Weston Pett, with the loveli-
est new veil, just reaching to her nose-tip.
and tailorings that had apparently been put
on with a slioe-horn. She is to round up
the programme-sellers. After Mrs. Gordon
Allard and Mrs. W. L. C. Search had been
made committee-women the real work of sell-
ing tickets commenced.
Mrs. Fox, the artist’s mother, aAVoke the
other morning to find herself famous.
Though well into the eighties, she designed
and worked a Avonderful tea-cloth, which
Avas raffled for the Belgian Fund. It brought
in £OO at Gd. a ticket. The old lady thinks
the drain upon public money is “simply
awful,” but is highly jubilant at her
achievement all the same.
Is there a hoodoo sign on the name Car-
negie, or what? The other Sunday a fear-
ful smash occurred betAveen a Nyora coal
train and a Gippsland goods train. The
scene of the calamity was Carnegie. Next
day Carnegie’s music Avarehouse in Mel-
bourne was burned down. The day after
that, as an aged farmer and his Avife from
Dandenong were crossing the line, a coal
train bound from Nyora to Carnegie
smashed into them. It is enough to choke
one off a free library.
Mrs. Bon, of Wappan station, near Mans-
field, the AvidoAV of one of the earliest Vic.
squatters, has sent a motor-ambulance as a
personal present to the Belgian Queen. The
old lady indulges a passion for kings and
queens, and has personal letters from half
the crowned heads of Europe. Her collec-(
tion includes one each from Edward VII.
and Queen Alexandra, as Avell as letters
from George and Mary and the long-de-
parted Victoria. She probably has a feAV
billets-doux from Kaiser Bill, but this is no
time to speak of them. She is an ardent
worker for the dispossessed Aboriginal (she
knows several tribal kings to give blankets
to), and is, furthermore, an energetic
Scawtchbyterian. When the earliest Scawtch
kirk on Eastern Hill was sold to
make a Catholic Convent she rushed
iii to buy the old pulpit and pews.
The nuns insisted on handing them
over as a present. Mrs. Bon took
them up to a small township near her house
and built a church round them.
Lady Helen Fergussssson is despatching
the Bon motor-ambulance to the Queen of
Belgium. It ought to be good for at least
one exalted autograph, perhaps two.
J. S. Horsfall gave £lO,OOO for the build-
ing of a chapel at Trinity in the University
grounds some time ago, and it is noAV nearly
finished. All that is needed are the fittings.
Who’ll give the organ? Wlm’ll give the bell?
Don’l all seize your cheque-books at once.
Good old surgeon O’Hara has offered a
stained-glass windoAV to the memory of his
son —Captain O’Hara, AA’ho Avas killed in
the war. The young man Avas an early
Trinity College student. The window is to
be designed and made by Montgomery.
They say that the Avar has thawed the
glacier which for so long divided the two
branches of one of our first families. Both
have sons in the fighting line, and thus the
reconciliation came about. One of our oldest
and most persistently inaccurate gossips
nearly swooned last Aveek at seeing Mrs.
Montague cross the Capulet threshold at
the dinner hour, and later on emerge one
vast smile and proceed to her Avaiting
chariot arm-in-arm with Mrs. Capulet her-
self.
The awful sameness of modern marriage
Avas leavened on the Riddel Stanley-Hayter
occasion by the Madden dame. Seeing that
the bridegroom’s mother (her cousin) had
been left out of the toast-list, she rose up
and gracefully filled the blank herself. It
would have been even more thrilling had she
sung a song, but it was well enough. People
are grateful for anything in the way of
diversion at a wedding.
The Parkers are going West again. The
father was given a solemn Audedictory by
his pals at the Melbourne Club the other
night, and his pretty girls are already pack-
ing in the recesses of their city flat.
Button Day has arrived, and under vice-
regal patronage too. You buy a button
for a shilling to show your loyalty,
and you are entitled to w’ear it for a
month. Then Button Day recurs, and you
demonstrate that you are still loyal by
spending another bob on another button. It
is. of course, nothing more or less than a
button tax, since no one is going to pervade
the city flaunting a time-expired ticket;
but these sacrifices must be made Avhen the
Empire calls. And if the Empire doesn’t,
there are some wonderfully good imitators
on the stage.
Sub-lieutenant Charles W. Hicks, who is
bound for the Front shortly with the First
Naval Bridging Train, is to marry Miss Doris
Grindrod before he leaves. She is a daugh-
ter of Mrs. A. Tlirelkeld, of HartAvell, Fitz-
roy.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The A.R.C. meeting occurred at A’ictoria Park on
Saturday. It wasn’t what you could fairly call a
howling success from any point of view. A few
Bowmans were there (a Bowman horse captured the
Park Trial Stakes), also Mrs. Allan McFarlane and
her daughter, the R. E. Hopes, Mr. and Mrs. AV. G.
Thomas, the Lister Colleys and Miss Jean Stirling,
Mrs. Seymour Hawker and the Claude Fishers. But
for them, and the public, the function Avould have
been a fiasco.
On the same day a Polls’ Bazaar was held at the
Kyffin Thomas home at Rose Park. It \\'as worth £64
to the Belgian Fund.
While on the subject of Funds, the Brewster-
Jones concert transpired in the evening. Belgian
Consul Herbert Phillips attended, and the hall was
well tilled at prices ranging from 7s. 6d. downwards.
Mrs. H. It. Dutton accompanied in a lovely black
garment that smacked of Paris as the latter used to
smack before Worth and all the rest of the dress-
experts joined the army.
It will be unsafe to get ill before long. Dr. Cud-
more, Dr. de Crespigny, Dr. E. A. Russell and Dr.
L. A. Hayward have all been appointed to the Double
General Hospital, England; Dr. Cunningham and Dr.
Yeatman have got their captaincies on the staff of
the No. 1 General Hospital, Egypt; Dr. Morris, of
Port Adelaide, is to leave with the Naval Bridging-
Brigade ; and there are others.
A rifle club has been formed to withstand the hos-
tile invader, with Premier Vaughan as patron, D. J.
Gordon as president, and a carefully-selected list of
vice-presidents that gives representation to all the
newspapers. ..
Before the Governor left for Sydney on Tuesday
he made a personal appeal to some rich men, who
are above the age for active service, for funds to
buy 10 or 12 motor ambulances. Ten days later he
cabled Kitchener that he could purchase seven ambu-
lances, and the funds Avould follow ; also, that there
are more of the vehicles to come. /
Errol Monk, whose father is in the Register office,
has been made a sub-lieutenant in the R.N. He was
in the merchant service when the war broke out. His
first job for the Empire Avas to act as second officer
of a crew sent to take a German prize from East
Africa to England.
The learned professor wlio has just com-
pleted bis first matrimonial experiment in-
tends shortly to make another. The subject
of it plays at concerts, and Avas recently at-
tached to the Marshall Hall staff. June is
mentioned as the month in which the new
venture will be made.
Miss Gwen Cole, the Coroner’s daughter,
is to marry Charles Naples Brown, of Gee-
long. Appropriate, isn’t it, when you come
to. thing of the sort of place that Geelong is
said to be?
An Irishman in the Melbourne Telegraph
department has struck a neAV idea in raising
money for the Belgians. He thought of a
sixpenny fete day at the Zoo, and when the
children hear of it they’ll make it gee. The
possibilities for extra attractions are im-
mense. Thus the oldest and tamest lion
might be clothed in a Union Jack and put
up to auction, the final purchaser to have
the right of presenting the beast back to the
trustees. There’s a lot of money in it.
Besides, everybody ought to be compelled
to go to the Zoo once in a way.
J. A. Lyons, the Tasmanian Treasurer,
gets himself wedded on Wednesday to a Miss
Burnell, a scholastic Burnie girl. This
event reduces the unmarried members of
Tas. Assembly to tAVo, both Labor members.
One is Martin, the smallest man in the
House, who wears a clean shave over a
County Cork upper lip; the other is Giblin,
the biggest man in the House, Avho deco-
rates himself with a black beard and the
mild expression of a pirate. Giblin is also
addicted to jiu-jitsu and mathematics.
May Grice, of the big East Melbourne
and Western Port family, has just been
married in England to one Aubrey Wilson.
No definite information about him has
reached me thus far, except that he is. going
to the war. But then Avho isn’t? lie is
alleged, by the way, to be a nepheAy of
Admiral Bridges.
The approaching matrimony of a vdry
well-favored pair is announced. Herbert
Spry is to marry Margaret Ashfold, an East
St. Kilda girl, and a wedding trip to Eng-
land is projected.
Tommy Cochrane’s brother lias got a com-
mission in the Natal Light Horse, -And
writes stirringly of his adventures in south-
west Africa. His captain is young Ggar,
also formerly of Victoria. Gear’s uneTfi
was rich old Cook, of the Upper House hiim
Toorak. Tommy Cochrane himself is toiling
at Dalgety’s in the troopship line of busi-
ness, which explains his prolonged absence
from the social firing-line. In his infre-
quent spare moments, Avhich mostly occur
at midnight when the troopships have been
tucked up and put away till morning, he.
has written a play, and the Reps, have
promised to produce it later on. lie
appeared for three nights in the recent
Pinero playlet at St. Peter’s Hall.
Melba is in great distress. Her old
butler died last Friday. He Avas faithful
but deaf, and had looked after Melba for
many years. She loved him, though she
Avas obliged to imperil her melodious voice
to make him hear, and her visitors had to
give an imitation of a thirsty man pouring
the contents of a bottle down his throat.
The sweet girls of Melbourne fail to rea-
lise the conspicuosity of the Caulfield toilet
room. xlll that the rakish bookie, his
radish clerk, and the Avicked men Avho sur-
round them on the turf below have to do if
they wish to see our noblest and best apply-
ing the poudre de riz and sundries is to .look
up (with or without binoculars) at the 'top
of the grandstand. To -say that they do it
constantly is merely to mention that they
are racing enthusiasts.
Maoriland, the country that gets up at
2 a.m. to clean the tourists’ boots, has dis-
covered that a European war is not such a
bad thing after all. The restless Australians
(there are about 5000 of them every year)
have not been able to go to the usual haunts
this year, so they have gone to M.L., Avliere
the hotel porters are used to taking tips
from trout-fishing noblemen and peers Avho
have temporarily broken loose from their
moorings.
One of our very smartest women survived
a severe strain on her concert mannahs at
this entertainment. Just as Parker began
to sing an encore she dropped her Fright-
fully Expensive ermine stole on the dusty
door. She gasped for a moment, then pulled
herself bravely together and left it. there
until the song Avas ended. The Empire is
all right Avliile Ave have women of this
resolute stamp to mother our boys.
W. H. Berwick, Avho for some years has
been teaching vine-growing at Dookie Col-
lege, is off to attend to another brand of
culture. This Avill not be his first acquaint-
ance with the job, as he Avent through the
S. African business, in Avhich he Avas
wounded. W. 11. is a brother of the gentle
Leonard — the man aa’lio can Avorm his way
into the confidence of a grand piano like
feiv others in this world.
Bonnie Watt, who, as I have often told
you, can ride anything from a tram-car to
a buck-jumper, has become engaged to one
Charles Arundel Symons, of Falmouth, over
against Plymouth. The heroine’s real name,
by the ivay, is Sybil Lauder Watt. Motor-
cars and other marks of esteem may be ad-
dressed to Lauderdale, Toorak-road.
Willoughby advertises his new Lady
Godiva show as “the great costume drama."
The subtle humor of these impresarios!
Hannah Scott, of Tasmania —a sister of
Antarctic Scott —is leading a band of
Red Cross nurses into the recesses of Servia.
Lipton’s famous steam yacht, the Erin, will
transport them to one of those ridiculous
Adriatic harbors, hunger for which on the
part of Seiwia Avas among the excuses for the
present war.
Nicholas Joy and an amateur company
played “The Marriage of Convenience” at
the Athenaeum Hall one night last week,
and handed over the proceeds to the Purple
Cross Service. The Purple Cross looks
after the welfare of horses, and is under the
guidance of Mrs. Monash, Miss Harvie and
Mrs. Theosophical Hunt. The somewhat
stuffy hall was packed at 3s. 6d. a time.
You can work out for yourself how many
miles of bandages for Avounded gee-gees this
represents.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
It looks very much as though Viscount
Crichton, who visited Australia as a tall
soldier in attendance on the Duke of York,
died or was killed after surrendering him-
self to the Germans’ gentle care early in
November. The first report was that he
was among the prisoners; but no subse-
quent word of him reached headquarters,
and a telegram from King George to the
Kaiser, inquiring what had become of
Crichton and another lord who was under-
stood to have surrendered with him, fetched
no reply from that angry potentate. All
things considered, the official announcement
—six months later- —that the big major fell
in action is suggestive of foul play.
“Von Schmidt”: Par. (B. 18/3/Y5) re
Vic. Education Department’s concern as to
which of its officers it should style “Mr.”
and which “Esq.” recalls an incident of
years ago in connection Avith the same De-
partment. In replying to a correspondent
trading under the dignified family title of
Smyth, the Department inadvertently ad-
dressed the -writer as “Mr. .T. Smith.” He
promptly resented this, and indignantly
called attention in another letter to the fact
that he was not “J. Smith” ; but, notwith-
standing the protest, a subsequent communi-
cation from “your obedient servant, J.
W. Venables” —the then Secretary of
the Department—actually repeated the
offence. Swift retribution followed: next
day the culprit received one in the
solar plexus in the shape of a mis-
sive directed to “J. W. Vegetables, Esq.”
It had the desired effect. The local postman
soon delivered something very clearly ad-
dressed to “Justinian Smyth, Esq.,” and he
lived happy ever after.


f
\ [l
s'
&
2?
z
N
Cj
/ri
v
<7*
m/jm
¥
m
&
to
v//
i
i
V l '
j
\
?<
\\
“m
1
ii
&
[
E
Recntiting,
like
Johnnie
Walker ,
is still
going
strong.
TOHNNIE WALKER
‘WAR CARTOON No. 5
CLIPPING ITS WINGS.
Those spreading pinions, fledged for lofty flight,
Are stained with blood and fouled with lust of t
ight.
JOHN WALKER & SONS,
Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK.


IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
“CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.'
Delicious “regulator” for stomach,
liver and bowels, for mamma,
daddy and children.
If you ai’e headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful
of “California Syrup of Figs” to-night and
in the morning all the constipation poison,
bile and clogged-i.p waste will gently move
out of the system without griping, and you
will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use this
fruit laxative as occasion demands. It is
just as effective for grandpa as it is for baby.
It simply cannot injure. Even cross, sick,
feverish children just love its pleasant taste
and mothers can rest easy after giving it,
because it never fails to effect a good “inside
cleansing.”
For thirty years “California Syrup of
Figs” has been recommended by physicians
as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califor-
nia Syrup of Figs,” which has full directions
for babies, children of all ages and for grown-
ups plainly printed on the bottle. Beware
of counterfeits sold here. Get the genuine,
made by “California Fig Syrup Company.”
Refuse any other kind with contemDt. “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs” is sold by all leading
chemists, 1/1\ and 1/9.
A SPLENDID HAT VALUE.
We Want to Add to Our Reputation
tor FASHION, QUALITY &. VALUE
As the result of a speeially-keen purchase
we are able to offer A Hat that is right
in the front rank for style, being made in
good-quality rough fur. Dark slate
color—just the hat for hard country
wear. Will retain its shape right through.
12/6
POST FREE TO ANY
PART OF THE STATES.
12/6
Would bo great value if you paid IS 6
M 362. —A Marvel of Value; can be
supplied with back or side bows.
Our Mail Order
Catalogue is brim-
ful of smart styles
and values. Write
for it.
CHAS. LANE,
& CO, PTV. LTD .
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE
“THE RELIABLE MAIL ORDER HOUSE.”
Your confidence is
our sole aim. Orders
by post receive
Expert Supervision.
Satisfaction Guaran-
teed.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Cleveland”: Burrowing in tlie ground
for protection is neither new nor confined to the
armies in Europe. The sand whiting of North
Queensland are expert in the art of digging them-
selves in. I was at a N.Q. resort recently, and
fancying a fish breakfast, borrowed a net. Shoals
of whiting abounded. At the first cast I got a splen-
did catch, and started to drag the net ashore; but
when I got there I found’ a haul of two jam-tins, an
old boot and a soft-shelled crab. Tried three more
casts. Each time I saw the net full of fish until I
got it near the beach, but didn’t land even a scale.
Hat down to search myself as to my condition,
physical and mental. Had abstained from fermented
liquors for about four hours; Had not heard a tele-
phone or any war news for a week; the last military
and naval expert had been smothered two days pre-
viously.' While yet a prey to deep and bitter
reflection I saw dozens of pairs of black-ringed e.ves
appear out of the sand at the water’s edge, and
immediately afterwards there was a flurry in the
water, and a shoal of whiting appeared and dis-
appeared, none the worse for its submarine mining.
Scored next timed Spread one net just at the
water's edge, and dragged the other on to it, and
the surprise of the whiting I hauled in was like that
of the politician who finds himself at the bottom of
the poll.
“Yancy”: Could any of you tell me liow
to pasture cows on lucerne? In the Yanco (N.S.W.)
irrigation district the milk manufacturer has a fool
of a habit of trying to stow her hold in record time.
The result is an abdominal distension of such mag-
nitude that if you are not prompt to let out a hole
in her belt the lucerne, to say nothing of the cow,
is wasted. I have heard that if you put a bit in
the beast’s mouth it acts as a brake on her chewing
capacity. What reliance can a bloke put in that
tale?
"SCOUTING."
Tiati”: “Plm! ’Tis not te proper way
ta make-a te fig;ht,” said Tiki Waitoa, referring to
the European programme. “You know te ole Maori
way? Werra, orate rangatira he ko te Front, an’
lie rook out for te rangatira te urrer ferra.. S'pose
lie fin’ him first, he bus’ his prurry head wit’ te mere
pounamu, knock his prurry heart out wit’ te taiaha.
What te way now? S’pose I peen hawwen’ my kai
in-a te parepare [trench], werra, I earn’ see te
ferra—he peen toun Chris’chu’ch. He not te ranga-
tira ; he te mungjyel —make-a te proonin’ sossits
[sausage], te pannikin, p’raps. Werra, I newwa
see t’at toan’ know ’im. He ’pout kupple
a huneret milcwfovay,. 1 t’ink. Pang] He fire te
prurry camnon. Te s’ell right on-a top o’ te ranga-
tira. I tead [dead] me. Te mungarel sossits he
live. T’at’s not te fight. T’at’s te murter.”
“Bad Australian” (from the Andes)
J hope I am in time to say two words about the
modern revolver. As one who has used the plaything
for many years for other purposes than perforating
the amorous tom cat, I say the Colt lays over all
kinds of automatic pistols in that it is practically
a non-jamber, and even on the rare occasions when
a shell does jamb the next pull brings the cylinder
round and looses off another projectile, whereas an
automatic which jambs through any cause whatever
is not worth a plumber’s conscience until it has been
to the armory ; and meantime even a cave-man with
merely a club would have no trouble in extinguishing
the innocent coot who had stacked his chips on the
automatic. .1 have tried most of the automatic con-
traptions, and the almost invariable result has been
jambing, occasionally by the mechanism going wrong,
and frequently through a swollen or fractured shell
sticking in the barrel. The absolute necessity for
ejecting the whole shell immediately after each shot
is what makes the automatic an uncertain proposi-
tion. When playing for keeps with a Colt a jambed
shell is of little importance; but with the auto—-
Que (Hallo? As to accuracy and range, honors are
fairly even between the Colt and the best automatics;
but that is about all that can be fairly said in favor
of the auto. South America holds a very heavy
percentage of the world’s gunmen, in the strictly
business, sense of the term (not the flickergraph
gunman; but|:the out-and-out “bad man”), and in
my nine years’-- wanderings over this continent 1
have found this type of tough going nap on the
Colt almost without exception. The rare exception
was usually in favor of the Smith and AVesson of
exactly similar type. The same must be said of
the South American .Tolm Hop, who is about the
handiest Hop in existence when it comes to the
short-gun.
* * * *
“Barbwire”: How far inland have you
seen seagulls? On the Salt Lakes at Dynevor Downs,
near Thargomindah (Q.), we’ve had mobs of both the
small and large variety; and during rough weather
on the coast I have noted the small variety along
the bore drains in the Warrego District. In the
latter locality, however, the birds never settled, and
after dipping into the water for a day or two dis-
appeared.
* * * *
Two Bananaland fishermen had hard
morale lately on their north coast. They collected
in their net a groper weighing, they estimated,
2501 b. The struggle to secure him was stupendous,
but eventually the beast was tied up to the landing
place with the only piece of rope at hand. AVhile
he raged and used all the fish curses he could recol-
lect his captors went oif for more rope, and their
return drove him to extra fury. AVith a. mighty
wrench he broke his tether .and dashed oft’ in a
torrent of foam and language from all concerned.
The fishermen reckoned he was worth £3 at Chatters
Towers.
“Tekelo”: The law in Hie Islands runs:
“Boys must he paid in cash.” One boss who had
nine boys and only one pound squared his account
of £9 with them this way. Boy No. 1 was handed
the pound, and simultaneously the glories of the
trade-room were revealed to him. He spent the
quid. Boy two was then invested with the sove- .
reign, and the trade store scored again. Seven
more times the coin went out, only to be engulfed
in turn by the store. And everybody seemed quite
satisfied. I know the boss was, because 1 happen to
be him.
* * «
“Blacklip”: “Boronia’s” poisonous “<-ob-
bler”-fish (B. 4/3/’l5) is mentioned by Seville Kent
in his work on the Great Barrier Reef. Up there it
is known as the “stone”-fisli, and amongst some abo.
tribes as the “bullerow” (won’t
swear to the spelling). Its average
length is Gin. ; color, liver and
dirty drab; piebald marked; shape,
not unlike the common eatable flat-
head ; head, hideously corrugated
and indented; eyes, small and
deeply inset. One hand-like fin on
each side is spiked. On the spine
are six spikes, finer than any needle,
about fin. long, erectible at will,
enclosed in a filament sack and
containing a transparent, viscid
fluid. When alarmed the stone-fish
works itself down into tlie sand
until its body disappears and then
onlimbers its poisonous spikes.
Should the unfortunate intruder be
a barefooted human the contact is
electrical and atrocious. The
agony adds interest to all of 24
hours at intervals. I’ve had to hold
a black boy down while his
paroxysms of pain-madness lasted;
and, although I can’t vouch for it,
the story goes ihat a child pad-
dling in Brisbane Itiver died after
being perforated. The only cure
(if available) knowil to -me is used
by northern aborigines. The injured part is" scarified
and common wood-gum dropped or placed burning
hot, or a piece set fire to, on the wound.
* * * #
“Outcast”: I don’t know if goitre is a
commpxy complaint with native mountaineers all the
world* over, bu|, jt is frequent in several hill dis-
tricts fhatsTve yisited in Papua. In., the Upper Vetapu
regions I haVe seen swellings as large as yams, and
the complaint is very prevalent. The name of one
of the local villages is itself a vernacular word in-
dicating goitre. In the hill country on the Upper
Kemp Welch I found goitre to be exceedingly com-
mon, especially among the women. Native thera-
peutics ascribe the complaint to “something in the
water,” and I believe there is some foundation for
this. The Swiss peasant women, who are great
sufferers, blame the carrying of heavy weights on
the head in their country.
NOT PARTICULAR.
J ACKY: “Give us a handkerchief, Boss."
SHOPMAN: “What color , Jacky?”
J ACKY: “A ny Hanky color, s’longs it's red. ”
“Yarrum”: The old engine-driver ex-
plained what he did when something got into his
eye. lie; rubs the oilier eye and blows his trunk to
dislodge the irritant. I use castor-oil. Once, camped
at La Perouse, I was? taking my company down on
the flat for parade, when a shell, thrown from Manly
or somewhere, struck near the monument, and sent
•lewt. of sandy soil into my left telescope. The
cadets got none of it. I sped off to the German
doctor. lie produced a silk handkerchief, and pro-
spected for the earth, hut couldn't get a color. Then
he told me of the oil ; but he hadn’t any about him.
However, I got the lubricant, which did the' trick,
and I’ve used nothing else since.
* * *
“Lagani-Namo”: All Papuan drums are
more or less shaped like an hour-glass, but they vary
considerably in size. The mountaineers make' the
best dancing drums. These are seldom more than
12in. x 3in., and weigh about lOoz. I have heard
them tum-tumming at a distance of several miles.
The finest native drums, though, that I have seen
are made by the cannibals of the Fly and Bamu
Rivers. These are of some dense blackwood (not
ebony), about 40in. long by 16in. at end. The
deep booming throb seems to jerk out from the
mouth of these drums as though it were a pro-
jectile. Here’s the recipe for making them: A block
of wood is first roughly tomahawked into shape,
(hen stood on end so that the maker can keep a
tiny hardwood coal aglow by blowing through a
narrow reed or bamboo tube. When one end has
been charred down as far as the narrowed middle,
the other is turned up and sit|ijlavly .dealt, with..
The re onancy of 'the (Irani“depends, of’S’ccWrse, on
the smoothness and proportioning of its interior,
l.vrn a chip too much out of the neck, between the
chambers, makes a noticeable, difference in ihe tone.
Inside and outside are made smooth with a piece of
shell or glass. The cured skin of a gohanna or
snake is then damped, stretched, over one,, end, and
cemented around with a mixture of rubber-tree sap
and gum. A very ordinary drum will take 50 or
60 hours in ihe making.
* * * «
“Boronla”: To what height has maize
been known to sprout? Often the splendid cow-furni-
ture surveys the Westralian landscape from an alti-
tude of 14ft., and the other day I saw a crop on
one of the rich swamps on the fringe of the Donelly
plains, defiantly waving its whiskers 19ft. 6in. in
the atmosphere. Is this a record?
‘‘.1.8.5.”: “C.F.E.” (B. l/4/’l5) asks lif
the betel-nut and betel-leaf are related. The t etel-
leaf plant is a i limber, and is related to the pepper
plant. The arcca nut and the betel nut are
-different species of a palm. I have seen tooth paste
made from the areca nut, but can’t say if it has any
other virtue than as a deodoriser.
IT SOME TIMES HAPPENS.
H E: "Now, you don't feel-nervous about the
high jump, do you?"
SHE: “ What! Are you afraid I won't cleat
it?”
H E: "I don't doubt that you will clear it—
but—er—will the horse go with you?"
“De Oriel”: I saw black brother fiercely
toiling in a hotel yard in Emerald (Q.). “Why you
work so hard, Billy?” i asked. He chopped away:
“Well, Boss; I only get five bob a week here, so 1
have to work pflurry hard to make it pay.”
(Continued on page 2f)
AN EAGLE FLEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An eagle flew
Where the fading blue
Of the sky sloped into a sunlit west,
With a slow, strong flight,
As the coming night
Cast a purple pall o’er the mountain’s crest.
And a fluttering, clattering,
Squeaking, chattering
.Bat burst out of the glooming bush;
In furious rout,
It chased about,
And insects caught in frenzied rush.
And it seemed, as I sat,
That the noisy bat
Saw naught but the bush, and the gnats, and
me;
But the eagle, high
- In the western sky,
Saw a darkening earth and a golden sea.
N.S.W.
J. H. RAMSAY.


8S8S!
■
m
SSBS
Ss§§3
'
limmm
m
■
§S§§H
&8o8j&
m
■A
m
$
Kg®
SfiSSS
1
x hajjye found out
the make IfJ/tyre' that® stands right by itself
for hard wear !®, They i-have by experience
proyed that the present day
consistentl|iij|a big mileage and are the
most economical to use.
THESiREAfT DEMAND
working djfwd night endeavouring c. cope
with the continuous call for more Dunlops
p from all parts of Australasia.
Such appreciation from thousands
0 f nroof positive as to
gives the best results.
which
If I you do not use “Dunlops” try
one of jour latest covers and note
the mileage!
■OS OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING GARAGES.
¥t w T S* K, ÜBB E•


Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
lattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
.Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
HOW TO HAVE LONG,
BEAUTIFUL HAIR.
By a Hair Specialist.
It is not hard to stop the hair from falling
out and promote its growth if the right
means are used. There is no hope for the
scalp where the hair-roots are dead and the
scalp is shiny. However, to those who have
not reached this condition, immediate steps
should be taken to stop it before it is too
late. Here is a simple recipe which you can
make at home, that will stop the hair from
falling out, promote its growth and eradicate
scalp eruptions and scalp humors. To a
half-pint of water add loz. bay rum, a small
box of Orlex Compound and -]oz. of glycer-
ine, and apply to the hair, rubbing with the
finger-tips, two or three times a week. These
ingredients can be obtained at any chemist’s
at very litttle cost and mixed at home. This
recipe not only promotes the growth of the
hair, but darkens streaked, faded grey hair
and makes it soft and glossy. C 9
vcx
British
Wool
M, ad ® from Australasian
and British Branded
, Stockings & Socks
for Men, Women and Children.
By wearing «&2£!> you not only support the induslry ot the "Old Country ”
ceLz-'isS;:' ”’• " d ' ~8n! ' long ' r se,,ice ,h “ ,h ' ■■Si
S tL?; .°rL°'„ h ,“tv,:” *• <■»»*
Every stocking and sock is work-o-rfect and faultless in mode, whether dressv or nit.; A J
pair have that inimitable silky finish, so soft and soothing to the most defe
When you buy stockings tor yourself or members of the family—rememher
?i!t Guaranteed. Your Draper or Outfitter can supply you
s»st on yaden. and resolutely refuse any other. y y
are
In-
Aas2
Sol' Manufacturer,-The Jason Hosiery Co.. Leicester. England.
IGDE^S
"FOUNDED- 1888-
PHILLIPS - ORMONDE&O
C Z'^ / ? >S LfZZ.' />,:erV ’ J"
nr * /Vcrr>A rf&cn/S • 1701 if: it tvt ci
• I7QUEEN S T
MELBOURNE
xcv
X.P.D.”: The advocacy by “Vigilans” (B.
l/4/’l5) of Beckett's idea to train northern Binghis
for home defence prompts me to offer further evi-
dence of the general handiness <jf these part-Malav
people. _ On Murray Island, Torres Strait, the school
for native boys and girls is self-supporting. The
youngsters peg away at ordinary school subjects for
half the day, and put in the other half at growing
paw-paws, cocoanuts, etc., the marketing of which
pays for the teacher and school material. One of
the main sources of income of Yarrabah mission
station, near Cairns, is—or was—the beche-de-mer
and other sea-harvests gathered by about half a
dozen of the younger men and bigger boys, with the
able assistance of a small sailing craft. *
* * *
“Frank”: I was going through the heart
of the drought-stricken Malice the other dav and
when near Curvo, on the big level stretch, I saw one
of the “travelling farms” approaching—a caravan a
mob of horses as poor as wood, a sleepy
dog, and the boss, a young fellow. The
horses were just able to crawl along. It
put a lump in your throat. But not for long.
Coming level, you saw that the side of the cart
bore the inscription: “Starved out—God bless the
Malice’; and underneath that: “Housemaid wanted—
apply within.” You simply can’t crush some of
these chaps.
* * *
a Nortbern River (N.S.W.)* news-
CHALLENGE.
STATED that a well-known man on the North
Wi St mi k n f 3 co 'y s in 1 ho,lr 45 minutes. I will
back myself to milk a greater number of cows
against the best man on the Northern Rivers to
the amount of £5O to £lOO. 1 have been on a
rlairy 10 years. My tally of cows milked is 90,580
in 10 years; can anyone beat it?
JOSEPH ZEEN,
Now, altogether! ‘ Upl ’ cr North Arm ‘
WELL EQUIPPED.
THE LADY: “ Clear out! I don't want any
shaving soap and I don't want any studs
—my husband has gone to the war!”
THE GENTLEMAN: "Don't you worry, lady-
he'll come back safe. A man who's lived
with you, lady, could live through any-
thing.”
“Levuka”: If it’s rock-rod on a large scale
that anybody’s looking for let him take his tackle
to Fiji. In the native market at Suva the other
day one was on view that has my backing as the
record. It measured just on 7ft. long, was about
6ft. in girth and weighed 3361 b. And if anybody
calls me a German diplomat when I sav the marine
bullock was caught on a line, don’t let him do it in
my hearing.
MORE EFFECTS OF THE WAR.
SHE: “They issued 150 wedding invitations."
HE: “And what were the presents like?”
SHE: “Oh, they barely paid expenses."
Quill : Visited a town in the droughty
part of Victoria the other day, and found on the
wall of the bedroom allotted mo at the pub an
illustrated placard: “Instructions for restoration of
the apparently drowned,” Had a bath in a pannikin
of water, and got a restorative over the bar.
* * * *
“Devilfish” : According to a yarn I heard
at Burnie (Tas.) the other day, a Bass Strait octopus
played a part very like that attributed by Victor
Hugo to the English Channel variety. Thev arc
building a breakwater at Burnie,
and divers have the job of going
down in from 40 to 50 feet of
water to scratch a bole in the
bottom for the 60-ton blocks of
concrete to rest in. A diver in
full working- rig is such an in-
edible-looking- object that the
most ferocious of octopi might be
expected to hesitate before attack-
ing him. But his hands and
wrists are unprotected. While a
diver was busy near the pump
used to clear the sand away from
the foundations, an octopus got him
by both hands and twined its ten-
tacles tightly round them. The
diver was in a pretty fix, for they
didn’t expect him on top for a
long time, and lie could not pull
the communication cord to let
them know he wanted to come up
in a hurry. With the fish getting
a firmer and yet firmer grip of
his hands he had an idea, and
pushed the brute up against the pump. The pump
21 2 ? SOt the oct °P us out of the
shaft they found its arms measured 7ft. 6in. from
tip to tip.
.* * *
“N.”: The usual nose ornament in Papua
is a piece of pearl or tortoiseshell or a short cylin-
der of bamboo, but in the ears great bunches of
colored shells ( sapi-sapi), tails of pigs, or cus-cus,
are worn. The Solomon Islanders beat the Papuans
out of sight with the variety of their decorations.
It is quite common to see a boy’s earlobes tied
together beneath his chin when he is engaged in
anything strenuous, or is travelling through the
scrub. I have seen lobes that could be stretched
around articles up to 44in. in diameter. Tortoiseshell
or wooden discs exquisitely inlaid with mother-of-
peail aie the usual furniture for ears, but pannikins,
bottles, candles or any old thing are used. One
artistic native whom I had just paid for six months’
work invested in two alarm clocks, and hung one
in each flapper.
Ilie Reefer ’: In Papua the natives’ fancy
lightly turns to murder. For instance, a boy
•rained his tottering grandmother with a stone
club simply because a child crying in the adjoining
hut had annoyed him. It relieved his feelings, and
he had no use for a grandmother, anvway. Another
murderer excused himself to the Judge this way:
I had to kill this feller for all-e time he talk,
talk, talk, talk too much.” Out of 187 arraign-
ments dealt with by the Papuan Criminal Court last
year 97 were for murder, 11 for manslaughter and
nine for rape. The balance ranged from forgery to
e stealing of corpses for sorcery purposes. Since
then three white men have been butchered. Some
years since one of the high Administrative panjan-
i rums opined that “a white man can now go from
ore end of the Territory to the other with a walk-
ing-stick.' My walking-stick is going to be a .32
magazine rifle for a long time to come.
Paddy-M.’ : “Cambridge’s” par (B.
25/3/’l5) about some horse disease in Tasmania
being identical with the Birdsville disease is all
mush His verdict is that the disease is caused bv
ie bot-fly. Kittens! I’ve humped my knot up
and down the Cooper and Diamantina country a
good deal, and never clapped lamps on a bot-fly.
He also radiates the information that multitudes of
grubs are found in the horse’s stomach at post-
mortem time Well, I’ve seen scores of carcases
opened after death from Birdsville, and devil a spoor
r f m gl '<£ dl , d observe ' once I must en-
ghten Cambridge” and his fellow students that the
Birdsville disease is caused by the yarraman eating
a poisonous weed that grows in the sandhill country
and relief I know is death.
‘Wal”: The Papuan highlanders are not
unlike their cousins of Scotia in their great faith
in charms and dreams. Rambling in the Owen
Stanley Range recently I dropped across a youth who
lad been shot through the knee some years before
and oil asking him how he treated the puncture lie
in ormec me that he tattooed a charm-sign around
the wound, and the gods made it well again. He
was hit in the centre of the cap, but with all his
rough surgery the knee was only slightly stiff, and
beyond a limp he was as good a tramper as any-
body. He informed me that the same pattern was
tattooed on a man’s head if he was sunstruck, and
it always acted like a white man’s medicine.
as'ani-N.” : livery new division opened
np in Papua has something quite unique to show us
When Beaver explored the Girara swamps between
the Fly and Bamu rivers last year, he was trans-
ported in a canoe 70ft. long and 3ft. 9in. in beam
hewn out of solid cedar. The prow was carved to
resemble a crocodile, and other carvings extended
from end to end along the outside. In one of the
genemas (married men’s lodges) there, he saw huge
figures of crocodiles and iguanas depicted as swallow-
ing humans, and in the part hollowed out for the
belly lay four human heads. These effigies were
carved out of wood, and have some ceremonial use.
the last magistrate who ventured thereabouts with
a squad of armed native police was attacked while
rafting along a waterway. One arrow went through
his hat another into his left shoulder, one into his
oot, and another through his right forearm. There
were 57 arrows stuck into the raft. The return
civilities were the death of 10 attackers.
“Broombus.h” : Carrying coals to Newcastle
seems no less absurd than carrying water to Murray
Bridge; yet in this dreadful year it has been a
matter of every-day occurrence. The river has ceased
to flow, and the sea water lias encroached inwards
as ar as Mannum. Water for railway engines at
Murray Bridge, on the Adelaide-Melbourne line, is
supplied from a fresh patch in the river above
Mannum. A barge, fitted with valves in the bot-
tom, is towed to the fresh patch; the valves are
then opened, and the freight is allowed to run in
up to within a foot of the top. The barge is then
towed down to Murray Bridge, where the cargo is
pumped out, and so the weary business goes on. The
strange thing about the fresh-water patch is that it
has salt water on the up-stream side as well as the
down-stream side. Can any potamologists explain?
*
* * *
jhe Wanderer ’: “Hare’s” recipe for dam-
pei (B. 1 /4/’ 15) lacks the raising ingredients. The
old hand takes what he considers sufficient flour for
the job, a small quantity of cream of tartar, half
a small quantity of baking-soda and a pinch of salt.
-Mix the lot thoroughly (dry) ; then add sufficient
water to make a doughy mixture that won’t gallop
while you're raking out the coarse ashes. The fine
art is to get the concoction, after damping, into the
ashes as quickly as possible. Cremate for about one
hour, and if the product isn’t satisfactory blame the
flour. line gidyea or box ashes are easy winners for
open-air cookery.
* * * *
Oopabella”: Had taken the local store-
keeper to the pub to damp the monthly softgoods’
order. During reticulation a wood-dray pulled up
outside, and the carter entered. Obviously a pessim-
ist and a drought-victim, he nodded a dour “G’day”
to the. storekec er ; looked through and over me as
non-existent, and absorbed a jimmy-woodser. “Fill
) em U P again, old man,” I said, as he backhanded
his mouth preparatory to leaving. He accepted with-
out enthusiasm. “Thing’s not too good?” I asked.
“Rotten,” he said. “No luck at all!” He chewed
his beer. Lost a damn fine draught horse an’ me
wife lately,” he added. He gulped down the rem-
nant and slouched moodily out to the dray. It
was tme, too and both losses had been replaced in
the order of their importance.
PASSING COURTESIES.
SHORT: “ Gaarn , you snake! It 'nd
kink a man’s neck to look at you."
LONG: “Well, that 'ud save you th ’ trouble
of gettin’ ’ung.”
THE QUARREL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Annie King was a little bit “on,”
Mrs. 801 l was a little bit “off,”
And the latter when partially “gone”
Had a mean disposition to scoff.
So she tackled her hostess, poor thing—■
In the vehement course of her tale
She declared Mrs. King
Had no right to her ring,
And had lots of relations in gaol.
Then arose Annie King in her pride,
And she squarely confronted her guest.
Setting lady-like weakness aside,
She assailed her with eloquent zest.
Maiw 801 l she declared was a thief
Whose pa had been properly lynched;
She asserted, in brief,
How it passed her belief
That the dame had escaped being “pinched.”
Mary 8011, with alarm in her eyes,
Fled the verbal assault, but in vain;
lor a full fifteen minutes the cries
_ of her neighbor infected the lane.
From no epithet sinners might use,
From no crime Mrs. B. was exempt.
Then Ann made her adieus:
“I despise such as yous—•
I jest treats yell with silent contempt!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
„ “P; ]1 Bowyang”: This is the Tully* River
(Iv.Q.) wording of Tipperary:-—
Long, l-o-n-g way that Dibberaree,
B-i-g fella walk about from town ;
Long way that Dibbcraree, ’
Good fella gin sit down.
Good-bi, Tully Riber,
Finis, Tam Santer Bay,
Wild fella belonga Ribberaree,
Sundown walk-away.


Model 80
5 -Passenger Touring' Car
£.395
xvc
Model 81
5-Passenger Totxring Car,
£ 345
xvc
THE Overland is peculiarly and
distinctly the car of economy.
Its price is less than the prices
of other cars of equal quality, size
and specifications because we are the
largest makers in the world of auto-
mobiles of this type, and our produc-
tion costs are less.
The Overland comes to you com-
pletely equipped. You need buy no
extras. Trlt
The Overland is built to travel
the worst roads without injury.
Practically every part is made in the
huge Overland factories —made to
last. It is sturdy, lasts long under
hard usage and does not impose
frequent repair costs.
It is light, and its large tyres last
unusually long.
To investigate all these savings,
you must see the Overland at the
local show rooms.
Silent, powerful motor
Instrument board on cowl dash
Individual front seats, high backs
Tonneau, long and wide
Genuine leather upholstery, deep & soft
Windshield, rain-vision, ventilating type,
built in
Crowned fenders
Electric starter—Electric lights
High-tension magneto
SPECIFICATIONS—MODEL 80
Thermo-syphon cooling
Five-bearing crankshaft
Rear axle, floating type
Springs, rear, 94 elliptic, extra long,
under slung
Wheelbase 114 inches (289.56 c.m.)
Large tyres, 35 x 4*4 inches
Beautiful dark-green body finish, with
ivory striping; nickel and aluminium
trimmings
Demountable, detachable rims—one
extra
Right-hand drive
Electric engine starter and generator;
electric head, side, dash and tail
lamps; storage battery; mohair top
and top boot; top curtain box; wind-
shield; speedometer; electric horn;
robe rail; foot rest; tyre-carrier in
rear; full set of tools; tyre-repair kit,
jack and pump.
ç
MODEL 80
Model 80 Roadster,
£-380
Model 81 Roadster,
£-330
The Willy s-Over land Company, Toledo. Ohio, (J.S.A.
Manufacturers of the famous Overland Delivery Carx
bull information on request


r>
a
imiinimlmlrnTr
WT the
J Grand Prix^
International
JleclicalGoncfress • 1<)1 y
Has teen awarded to
NSANATbGENi
Let Sanatogen Make You Healthier.
You will certainly be healthier,
stronger, and more vigorous, if you
take a few weeks’ course of
Sanatogen.
“Since taking Sanatogen, I am
really better-—a brighter, stronger
tone altogether," writes Lady
Muir.
Even after the first few doses —
say, for instance, the contents of
one small packet—you will notice
a marked improvement in your
condition.
Your nervous system, in particu-
lar, will be wonderfully invigor-
ated. Witness this statement by
Madame Sarah Grand, the famous
authoress of “The Heavenly
Twins” and other well-known
novels: —■
“I pin my faith to Sanatogen,
because it certainly restored me to
health in the worst nervous break-
down 1 ever had. It is a building-
up process, but not ‘jerry-building’
—the worlc is done to last.”
In Digestive Troubles,
etc.
Yes, the good which Sanatogen
does is lasting, not only in a ner-
vous breakdown, but in various
other conditions. For example,
Mrs. Kensington, wife of Mr.
Justice Kensington, Lahore, India,
writes: “Sanatogen is the best.
help for digestive troubles that I
have come across. Mr. Kensington
and I have also found it a won-
derful reviver and tonic.”
In Anaemia.
The effects of Sanatogen in
poverty of the blood are described
as follows by Dr. Ferchmin,
physician to the Czar of Russia:
“My daughter, who was very
anaemic, lias been greatly benefited
by the use of Sanatogen. Iler
appetite improved, her weight in-
creased, and the color of her skin
became healthier.”
Equally remarkable are the
effects of Sanatogen in the case of
weakly children of all ages. Public
Health, one of the prominent
medical papers, contains an article
by a well-known doctor who says:
“I determined to try Sanato-
gen on a child suffering from
really pitiable debility. The change
in her condition at the end of a
fortnight was truly wonderful.
Appetite was improved, diarrhoea
had stopped, the cheeks were rosy,
and her weight had increased by
lib. lOoz.”
Sanatogen is of the greatest
value before and after confinement,
because nothing is so effectual for
building up and strengthening the
system. It is also strongly recom-
mended for nursing mothers to
ensure that the milk shall be
abundant and healthy.
Other uses of Sanatogen—for
example, in Neuralgia, Nervous
Headache and Insomnia, etc. —are
too numerous to mention here.
Send a post=card, men-,
tioning this paper, for a
free interesting Booklet,
“ How to Live Healthily.”
Address : The Sanatogen Co.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. Sanatogen is sold
by all Chemists, from 2 6
per tin.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Moana” : The pirate who says lie is mak-
ing £r>ooo a year when lie is really making
£.'171 19s. Id., and on that representation
succeeds in soiling out lo the usual mug for
£S0()0, got it in the neck at Wellington
(ALL.) the other day. The gentleman who
received the axe sold for £1750 a business
whose average profits had, he said, been
£l5OO per annum. When the simpleton paid
his money and climbed inside he quickly saw
he’d been had, and when he stumbled across
copies of the income-tax returns for the last
two years and found that one gave the profit
as £415 and the other as £530, he heaved in
a writ for £2500 damages for piracy on the
high seas. The pirate, the Lord knows why,
defended the action and struck trouble. Ilis
income-tax returns and the Income Tax
officials were brought into court. The latter
stated that they had delved into the books
and assessed the pirate’s income for the
previous two years at £415 and £530. and
that the pirate had protested violently and
there had been a big controversy because he
considered these assessments too high. That
landed him between the Devil and the cold
ocean ; for if he proved that his income had
been £l5OO the Income Tax peonle would
fine him heavily for sending in a false re-
turn and smite him with treble tax, and if
he couldn’t prove it the simpleton whom he
had taken in would get damages. It was a
rotten position, and the Judge ended it by
awarding the simpleton £1750.
Maoriland is going to have a shot at
making paper from wood pulp. A company
with plenty of confidence in the future has
just obtained a lease of 30,000 acres of bush
at Otira. It has also obtained water rights
and has acquired a suitable site for power-
house, mill and other buildings. Recent
experiments have proved the suita-
bility of the Otira timber for making pulp,
so there is every prospect of Maori land being
able to print the terms of peace on paper
made out of local chips.
* •* * *
“Bill Bowyang”: “Gator” in B. 1/4/T5
wants to know if there is a market for alli-
gator skins in Australia. There is not.
Some years back Lee and Sons, who used
to follow the unique profession of capturing
alligators in the Johnstone and Tully
rivers (N.Q.), cured several fine skins and
sent them to Sydney and Melbourne, where
they hoped to sell them to trunk makers,
etc. No one bought, and the skins were
returned. Later on, the Lees tried to find a
market in Germany, but were informed
there was more demand for the imitation
article, and that when Sauerkraut did use
the real thing he procured it from America.
There is now and then an opportunity in
Australia to sell the great lizards for show
purposes. The Lees have received as much
as £7O for a large specimen landed in Mel-
bourne.
“Chug”: The outlook for the canary is
gloomier than ever. Seed supplies usually
come from Turkey, Morocco, Spain, Hol-
land and the Argentine. Germany has used
up all the Dutch seed. France, England
and other countries have depleted the
Spanish and Moroccan stocks. The small
Argentine crop keeps the birds singing in
the United States, and is all absorbed.
Turkey alone remains as a source of supply,
and Turkey isn’t feeling like feeding canaries
just now. So the Gerhog may be said to
have brought down another victim —the
little bunch of fluff and feathers that sings
in the cage.
“The Old Man”: After months of war,
there are still German toys for sale in Lon-
don. A little clockwork clown has just
arrived in our household from the darkened
city by the Thames. The German who
wrote the “Directions for Using” did vio-
lence to the hated language in this fashion:
When the figure stops standing upright turn, for
putting it in the cartoon, only the key of the clock-
work, mind pushing the upper part of the body hv
force down.
Still, though the grammar may be rocky,
the Huns have collected the money, and the
translator probably makes himself under-
stood with the cartridges he bought with the
proceeds.
* * * *
“Gas Escape”: What with the war and
the drought and the price of beer going up,
kapok costs about three times what it did a
few months ago. Now there is a local beast
called physiantlius by those who can pro-
nounce it—l call it moth plant myself—
which yields an exact imitation. Moth
plant is a creeper, and rather an ornament.
It has a sweet-scented white flower, whose
principal occupation is catching moths. The
flowers are succeeded by large gourd-like
pods, which burst when ripe and display
a creamy white fluff exactly resembling
kapok, and equally good for pillow stuffing.
I have tested it. The small black seeds
inside tlie gourd can be separated from the
fluff without much trouble. The plant is
easy to cultivate. It seems to like stony
ground as much as anything else. I have
it growing wild in m,y fowlyard. It seems
to me that there is a chance of a local indus-
try here. Machines used for cleaning seeds
from cotton could probably be adapted. I
don't know whether the fibre can be spun,
but there would be a pretty large demand
even for the fluff.
* * * *
A long-felt want has been supplied by a
small Melbourne jeweller who is making a
specialty of “week-end wedding rings,”
guaranteed Grundy-proof, from Is. 6d. up-
wards. Propriety is the mother of inven-
tion.
* * *
South Aus. has now reckoned up its last
wheat-harvest. It reaped under a bushel
and a half per acre, 1.41 to be exact. This
is the worst since records began to be- taken,
GO years back. Very nearly half of the
land sown with wheat was not reaped at
all. Areas far north and far west mostly
averaged under a bushel. Mount Gambier
district, on the other hand, surprised itself
by going over 10. Others were astonish-
ingly varied and patchy. The total yield
was 34 million bushels, as against 17 the
year before, and over 20 previously. This
directly reflected the rainfall, under 114
inches in Adelaide for the year, and a
trifle over seven (or half the average) all
over the agricultural areas. Still, the
finest April rains for years having directly
followed the election of a Labor Ministry
-—which fact makes pious South Aus. very
thoughtful—there will be a great scramble
for seed-wheat and another gamble, with
Providence.
* * * *
“A.H.J.”: A furnishing house makes a
special window show of Oriental carpets.
Good ! One of these is ticketed 40 guineas,
and in case the carpet ‘ fails to strike the
taste of Mrs. Money-Bagges a show card
presents this diffusive information
It takes six natives six months to make one of
these carpets. They are carried 200 miles by
caravan or camel to the coast arid are taken by
surf boat to the agent's steamers. Eight in evert/
10 carpets are damaged or lost in these small surf
boats. They are then taken to headquarters at
Smyrna and thence resliipped to us.
I don’t know anything about the cost of
dragging carpets across a desert by camel
team, nor of the cost of the various tran-
shipments, nor of fishing damaged carpets
out of the surf, but I have a vague idea
that in this case the customer is informed
that 40 guineas represents not the value of
the carpet but the cost of making and haul-
ing over a sandy waste of 200 miles on the
hump of a smellful quadruped four other
carpets which get lost on the way. The
view that it were better to give employment
to white men in Australia than to other
colored persons and camels in some remote
corner of the earth may not appeal to Mrs.
Money-Bagges, but paying for four lost car-
pets in order to get one may strike her hus-
band as being rather dubious business.
THE BUSY GERM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Berlin to-day no man is accused of neglecting
bis duty to Germany who puts in his time voicing
bitter hatred for the English.
—„l mar lean correspond ent.
He leant upon the spacious wall
Of Berlin’s greatest bank,
A beery cit. in view of all.
They took him for a crank —
lie did not talk, he never howled,
But leaned just so, and darkly scowled,
And goodly Germans paused to vow
They’d never seen so black a brow.
All day he leaned there. Late at night
lie still was on the job.
A local peeler in his might
Came charging through tho mob.
“Ach, ged a moot', you ’beat!” lie cried.
“You can’d sday loafing here ail nidc.”
”1 ain'd vos loafing,” said the sot —
“I’m hating Enklant, dat is vot!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
MYSKLE AT THE BOOKSELLER’S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ido not drink or gamble—l only dissipate with
books.
Every now and then the hunger comes upon me;
And I hurry along to the bookseller s.
There are books heaped on tables and more books
piled to the ceiling;
Books by old men and young men and fools and
flappers; }
Books on philosophy and engineering and exploration
and love —
Especially books t on love.
Men climb up long ladders and peer at books through
spectacles;
Other men go down on their knees and grope in dark
cupboards for books
Books large and dusty and very small books with
gilt edges.
I go amongst the books and turn their pages and
peer at their backs;
It gives me a strange pleasure just to take them up
and put them down again.
1 would not be allowed to do the same thing in a
butcher’s shop,
Or a grocer’s,
Or a chemist’s.
Someone would linger round me, and ask me if I
wanted to buy something.
But everything is different in a bookseller’s.
I am allowed to wander where I will, and do what I
like.
I turn over the stock and put it back again.
I wander from exploration to civil engineering,
From electricity to poetry, and from fiction to
theology.
I look at new books and second-hand books, at pub-
lishers’ remainders and dead men’s libraries.
I do not know what I want, or if I really want it.
I do not even know if I can afford it.
I have books at home that 1 have no time to read.
I also have books at my office that I have no time to
read.
But I have an idea that I want more books.
And more books.
My hands are busy amongst the books, but my
mind is a blank.
I love the books piled to the ceilings!
I love the books heaped on the floor!
1 love the books that I cannot see !
They are all like beautiful, mysterious women!
I probably would not understand half of them !
The other half would probably bore me!
Already I spend too much time inside reading!
And too much'time writing!....
I look round at the books —the heavy, unrecessary
books!
How disgusting!. How superfluous thee are!
What blatant brutes their authors must be!
The philosophers are probably mere buzzers!
Lots of them are dead, and lots of them ought to
be dead!
I think I would like to hang a few authors!
And a few publishers!
I would like to hang them closely so they would
obscure their shelves of rotten books !
It dawns -upon me that 1 should not have come into
this charnel-house.
I leave the place in disgust, and walk quickly away
down the street.
I have bought nothing.
1 have stolen nothing.
But I have had my debauch of books !
Is it not immoral!
M. KODAK (Paris).


//4
jmminmmwm w
J.R.
Why deny yourself, because you are unable to operate
the keyboard of your “silent’ piano, the inspiration, in-
fluence, enjoyment and entertainment of good music ?
Music is not now only for the fortunate few who by dint
of lifelong practice, are able more or less imperfectly, to
attain to the higher flights of musical skill and technique
necessary to the rendition of ‘he most beautiful and
difficult compositions of the great masters.
It is not necessary now to depend upon the one (if
there be even one) musical member of the family for
musical entertainment.
(Made. In Australia)
will enable you, with absolute ease, and without any previous musical
training, to at once enjoy any kind of music you may fancy.
Classical Music, Sact'ed Music, Dance Music, Ragtime, all are not
only possible to you but a matter of consummate ease.
(Made in Australia)
is not just an ordinary “self-playing” piano. It is the first perfect Player-
Piano, built on a unique principle, demonstrably superior to any impor-
ed Player-Piano. Its operation is simplicity itself. The construction is
mainly in aluminium, there being no perishable rubber tubes or connec-
tions, and its sensitiveness, expressiveness, ease of operation, extreme
beauty of tone and durability, are unequalled.
Compare the BEALE PLAYER-PIANO (made in Australia) with any
imported Player-Piano, and you will be convinced of its superiority.
Catalogues Free by Post
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES:
41-47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney
City Showrooms - 136 Liverpool St., Sydney
BRANCHES AT
Newcastle, Lismore, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga, Broken Hill, Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns, Mackay, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth
*
i
S£gJ
vk
■"Hill
J*


Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished,
fancy embossed edge, £2/15/-
SEE THE WINDOWS
at the House of A. SAUNDERS for delightful and
4
*55
! I
Sugar Scuttle and Scoop,
pure Silver-plated, “Thistle”
design, 27/6.
modern ideas in
Silverware
Thousands to
choose from at
the most
moderate prices.
Preserve Dish, pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, richly bur-
nished, Rainbow Glass, 12/6.
Salad Bowl and Servers, Fancy Floral China,
handsomely decorated, burnished Gold Handles, pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver Mounts, 30/-
Pickle Jar and Fork,
pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, nicely embossed, Cut
Glass, 15/6.
Teapot,
engraved
pure Silver-plated, richly
“Butterfly” design, 21/-
Hot Water Kettle anti
Stand, pure Silver-plated,
richly engraved handsome
'design, £2/12/6.
Breakfast Cruet, pure
Nickel Silver, richly embossed
Bottles, 32/6.
Silver-plated,
Cut Glass
Hot Water Jug,
pure Silver-plated, hand
engraved “Butterfly”
design, 25/-
|
SSIXJM
■
Custard Frame, pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver, highly
burnished finest. Crystal Cut Glass, solid base, gilt-lined Spoons.
£3/10/-
POST
FREE
ANY-
WHERE.
Bl
.
■ ■
Communion Service, pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
gilt-lined Cups, £4.
SEND
FOR
CATALOG.
Vegetable Dish, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, highly burnished, 3 divisions; 9in.,
40/-; I0in„ £2/10/-
807-817 George Street,
A. SAUNDERS,
Opp. Railway Station, Sydney
SS^CI
The Two Gaulois
Both in the Service of the Allies.
THE FRENCH BATTLESHIP "GAULOIS"
AND THE FRENCH
“Gaulois” Tyres
MELBOURNE Depot:—
GAULOIS TYRE CO.,
401 Post Office Place.
SYDNEY Depot:—
GAULOIS TYRE CO.,
*204 Clarence Street.
Agencies, ADELAIDE, LAUNCESTON, etc.
DARDANELLES.
FORCING THE STRAITS.
SEVERAL FORTS IN RUINS
At 10 o’clock on Thursday
morning the ‘Queen Elizabeth,’
‘Gaulois,’ ‘Agamemnon,’
and ‘lrresistible' began to bom-
bard the first four forts in
range ... Excellent practice
was made by the ‘ Irresistible ’
and ‘ Gaulois ’ against the
Orkanieh and Kum Kalessi
forts. . . . The French battle-
ship ‘Gaulois’ engaged the
Kum Kalessi fort, her shots
landed with remarkable pre-
cision.— Argus, 1/3/15.
r//6


Children Going to School
are very liable to catch cold. They have to go in all weathers—
often having to sit in school with wet feet. Apart from this, they
are always face to face with the risk from infection —especially
when Epidemics of Whooping Cough, Measles, Diphtheria, In-
fluenza, szc., are about. Mothers of school boys and girls, how-
ever, can be always free of anxiety IF they have a bottle of
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
in the house, as one dose of this medicine at the first
indication of a “ Cold ” will at once “ nip in the bud
what might otherwise prove to be a serious illness.
Cork the bottle up; the rest will keep.
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST
The REMEDY with the REPUTATION
S- VS,
«*w-
*
iil
23
m^r:
mjw\
In':
x
m
VC
-am
/r/
&s
3
Vi
f Ai
=^ : *
1
i
K
\
&
n.s\
v
£C£
,
s=£t
rv:
-*7
■&'o>
ClAMJtty'JttlTH
B
Price
2/6
4/6
The BEST is the
CHEAPEST in
the long run.
Sold by all Reliable CHEMISTS
and STORES.
If not obtainable in your District
send direct to
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices:
SYDNEY, N.S.W. WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Ex-Premier Jimmy McGowen's elevation
to the N.S.W. Leg. Council, along with the
job of handling Government business in that
Chamber, was a strong tip as soon as it was
known that Fred Flowers was to follow
Suttor as President. But McGowen s health
is still bad, and the family doctor put his foot
down. So someone else must argue the point
with the Old Men and move the frequent
adjournment.
“X.P.D.”: That par. (B. 1/4/T5) about
Robert McNab’s drivings for the record
buried by Du Fresne after he bad taken pos-
session of Maoriland as a French colony in
1772 reminds me of a similar quest on Pos-
session Island, in Torres Strait. According
to Cook’s journals, it was here that be, a
few weeks after the Endeavor’s close call
on tlie reef outside Cooktown, went ashore
and took possession of all territory lying
between latitude 38deg. south and lOdeg.
30min. south, lie. being then satisfied, after
passing .through the narrow waters at the
top of Gape York Peninsula, that Australia
was an island. The records refer to a cop-
per cylinder containing papers having been
buried on the island. The disinterment was
financed by a syndicate of Thursday Island
people, and every part of the place to which
Cook’s description could apply was dug over.
But the cylinder was never found, and the
presumption is that it was taken away by
Malays or fell to pieces in the campfire
when Binghi tried to cook shellfish in it.
About bores of one kind and another:
The “City of the Plains,” at the Far Western end
of Queensland’s Northern line, has the hottest Mow-
ing bore in Australia, if not the world. 'the
temperature at the surface is 210deg\, or only two
below boiling point. It is likewise the deepest ser-
viceable spouter. The town is reticulated from this
supply, which comes up from a depth of nearly
5000 ft. The bagmen make the neighborhood their camp-
ing ground. There tliey don’t have to worry about
: fuel. They attach their corned junk to a wire
hook, suspend it under the overflow pipe, and the
fodder soon is cooked. The making of the tea is
simpler. Glenariff bore, on Rockwood station, in the
same Western country, is well over 4000 ft. deep, and
took longer to complete than any other bore the same
depth, viz., over 10 years. The “drillers” were fresh
hands on deep holes, having been brought over from
the comparatively shallow oil wells in Petrolia, Can-
ada. They had to learn as they burrowed, and during
tlie process everything except the engine fell to the
bottom. It is easily the most expensive hole of its
size in this continent. It has a small flow of gaseous
water, and by applying a match to the pipe above
the overflow a steady blue flame can be got six to
eight inches in diameter. The water is just like
pure rain water after being allowed to stand some
hours, tlie gases escaping when exposed to the air.
The late Frank Sutter, for so long pre-
sident of the N.S.W. Council, was once
expelled from Parliament House. With his
eldest brother, William Henry, ho had come
to Sydney on a visit. His father was then
a member of the “mixed” —or single—
House. The brothers were accommodated
with seats in the gallery, and \V. 11. induced
F. B. to fire a paper pellet at the bald head
of some legislator sitting below. YV. 11.
arrested the uplifted hand with a laugh
which shocked the Sergeant, who promptly
instructed an attendant to remove the
offenders, and the pair were fired out into
Macquarie-street. The brothers in 1875
obtained seats in the Chamber, though they
always sat on different sides.
One of Tasmania’s best-known con-
tractors got bis start this way. In the ‘7o‘s,
before the Government had an up-to-date
Works Department and a staff that can write
B.C.E. after its name, a carpenter much
addicted to forcible language was employed
as a sort of handy man to do anything the
Minister of Lands required. A bridge was
wanted, and the handy man spent, the best
part of two days making a plan. He com-
pleted it entirely to bis own satisfaction and
showed it with pride to his Minister, a feeble
gentleman, who had been educated for the
Church, but whose health had driven him to
agriculture. The Minister, who was just
beginning to feel his feet, sat back in his
chair and said leisurely, “I don’t think much
of your plan!” This was too much for the
carpenter. “Why, you old potato-digger.”
he said, “you are looking at it upside down.”
The speech got him the sack, and sent him
out to seek and make a fortune in the build-
ing line.
•Morrissey, the snake “charmer” \\;ho had
dropped out of The Bulletin’s eye for a
few years, lias returned to his native Bal-
larat, accompanied of c&nrge,. by ths
bagful of reptiles. Th«#nrst day fie''was
back home he gave an lecture in
Lydiard-street on Australian snakes and
their habits, and he. went on illustrating it
by very live example's’’’'till a John who knew
not Morrissey ordered the orator to move
on. Before shifting to the nearest pub
Morrissey declared his intention of estab-
lishing - a snake farm at Lai Lai “for scien-
tific purposes.”
A new comet is reported to be roaming
round, about 800,000,000 miles from Can-
berra; but its tail has so far not been
focussed by Australian observers. Also a
public debt of about £800.000,000 is hanging
over the country: and no one lias photo-
graphed the tip of that monkey’s tail either.
From time to time loud complaints are
made about the slowness., of the. Federal
Arbitration Court: yet the Court is greased
lightning compared with some of the parties
who say they want to come before it. The
other day, when it was looking fur work,
none of the parties in a long list were pre-
pared to go on, although the cases were filed
from six months to two years ago. And
nine times out of 10 it is the most dilatory
party that makes the loudest howl" it the
Court doesn’t get to grips with the job the
moment the ease is ready.


A Good Corn
Remover.
Those who suffer from corns and hard skin
on the soles of the feet will find it a great
boon to apply a little Atla Resin to the corn,
which, when applied to the corn or hard skin,
and a little covering of cotton wool on the
the top to prevent it sticking to the stocking,
will remove the corn in a day or two. The
Atla Resin seems to act by getting thor-
oughly into complete contact with the corn,
and thus being able to penetrate it, and not
to act on the surface only. It is certainly
the latest cure for these troublesome and
painful structures, and, according to all re-
ports by those who have used it, one of the
best.* [2
Silver-plated Steel Blades: Dessert Knives, 21/- per dozen.
Table Knives, 26/6 per dozen nett.
SILVER BLADES TO TABLE KNIVES
saves all trouble of knife cleaning. They look much superior in wear. They never rust nor look
off-color. They wear twice as long as Steel Blades. They retain a keen cutting edge. The new
process of deposit ensures that. They have hand-fbrged, double-shear Steel as a base, on which is
placed the Silver. They are only 2i/- a dozen for Dessert Size, and 26/0 for Table Size.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
(CASH. PLAIN FIGURES.)
CHEMIST TELLS HOW TO STOP
INDIGESTION.
SAYS USE OF PEPSIN LEADS TO
CHRONIC DYSPEPSIA.
“It is a wonder some of ns have stomachs
left,” remarked a well-known chemist
recently. “While all chemists sell a score or
more of stomach remedies for which there
is a wide demand, most of them are just
pepsin pills, which aid digestion of the food
that is in the stomach at the moment. They
have no curative or strengthening effect on
the stomach at all, and, of course, do not
reach or cure the cause. So the same people
keep on coming here and buying and using
them until they are real chronic dyspeptics.
When anyone really asks my advice I swear
by and recommend ordinary bisurated mag?
nesia, which doesn’t digest the food at all,
but acts as an antacid and sweetens the sour,
fermenting contents of the stomach. That
stops the pain, heartburn, sour rising, wind,
floating, fulness, etc., in just a few minutes,
and the stomach digests its food without help
or trouble, which is the proper way. jt
“Doctors make mistakes sometimes, too.
he continued. “My own aunt had all kinds
of trouble with her stomach for years. She
bought and used several styles of digestive
pills, but got worse right along, as naturally
she would. Finally she went to a doctor,
who nearly scared her to death by telling
her she had cancer of the . stomach. She
came to me with his prescription, and told
me what he said. I thought it was non-
sense. I sent her to another doctor whom I
knew T very well, and he didn’t tell her any-
thing, but just gave her this same thing,
bisurated magnesia. She took it for two
weeks, and never has had any stomach
trouble since, and that’s three years ago.
She’s my own aunt, and I know this for a
fact. Yes, a lot of bisurated magnesia
note the name carefully, as other kinds are
lacking in its peculiarly valuable properties
—is sold in Sydney. All the chemists have
it, I suppose, and all you take is half a tea-
spoonful in a little water after every meal.
It’s all right.”*
POLITICAL
POINTS
Premier Holman explained that the job
of N. S. Wales Agent-General is not pro
tom. —that the lucky winner will be
appointed for two whole years. All the
same, there will be little in it. Coghlan
joined the service as a boy and comes under
the old N.S.W. Superannuation Act. This
gave to every person who kept up his con-
tributions the right to retire at 60 on two-
thirds of his salary. But no other A.-G.
will get this. The N.S.W. Agent-General
(as Agent-General) shares with Federal
Judges and Commonwealth military officers
the disability _of getting no pension—and
nothing excessive in the way of salary.
It is never safe for Davy Hall, the
N.S.W. Attorney-General, to tell his own
story. The other day, after announcing
that he had made £17,000 out of the mostly
drought-stricken farmers whose poor little
wheat harvest he had grabbed at about half
the present market price, he said proudly
that this money belonged to the general
public and would probably be used to
cheapen the mice of the loaf later on. Of
course the wilier Holman, who represents a
farming constituency, saw that that wouldn’t
do; so a new story is to be told presently—
the money is to go to the farmers if there is
enough to give them an extra penny a bushel.
If there isn’t, it is to go to reduce the price
of the seed-wheat and fodder which the State
has been supplying.
The author of “Undiscovered Russia” in-
sists that the black race will eventually
dominate the United States. “What then?”
the Age asks. Uncle Sambo then.
It looks as if the frowsy shirt of sec-
tarianism is to get an airing at the Legis-
lative Council election for Hobart on May
4. Father Travers, of St. Joseph’s, has
been urging his flock to forget the name of
Dwyer Gray on polling day. Dwyer Gray,
one of the Labor candidates, editor of the
local Labor paper, and an R.C. himself,
declines to conform to the wishes of the
Catholic Federation in the matter of a State
subsidy to denominational schools. Hence
the unpleasantness. Archbish. Delany seems
to have called Father Travers over the coals
for mentioning a political candidate’s name.
Next day his Riverence wrote to the papers
admitting hist error, but repeating his pulpit
sentiments with additions. The Mercury
published the letter, and has been writted
by Dwyer Gray for £2OOO for libel. These
happenings are adding some interest to the
election, which is due for May 4, and
threatened to be a dull affair. The candi-
dates are Bond, M.L.C.; Dr. Bottrill, who
lost his deposit at last Assembly elections ;
Crooke (another deposit-dropper) ; and the
two Labor candidates, Dwyer Gray, editor
of the Post, and Martin Ryan, solicitor.
The latter, by the way, was secretary of the
N.S.W. Farmers’ Union 20 years ago. Bot-
trill, Crooke and Ryan are in favor of the
subsidy to denominational schools. The
£3O franchise, plus the sectarian shindy, will
probably make the retention of the seat by
bark-merchant Frank Bond an easy thing.
Premier Peacock having promised to re-
enact liis Price of Goods and Prices of Food-
stuffs Acts before they expire on April 30,
and also to re-appoint his Price of Goods
Board, it is only a fair thing that he should
first explain what use the foolish things
are. Although the Board fixed the whole-
sale price of butter at Is. 2d., and has not
officially raised it. the combined whole-
salers have gradually pushed the price up
to Is. 3d., Is. 4d., Is. 5d., and now to Is.
7d. per lb. The rises may be justified, but
where does the Board come in?
The usual monthly foreign parson arrived
in time to throw mud at the White Aus-
tralia religion before April was 16 days
old
Rev. A. G. Fraser, principal of Trinity College,
Kandy, Ceylon, speaking in the Church Missionary
Society meeting at Melbourne, said that the White
Australia policy would have to be modified largely.
The people of Asia were developing a great national
spirit. .. .and it would be only a very short time
before they began dictating terms. They had many
resources, and were developing them strorgly, ard it
would be a very serious thing if they had to assert
their rights.
Their rights! The rights of a black man
to a home in White Australia! No such
right ever existed, and Fraser of Kandy in
saying it is an impudent guest in the house
of an all-too-tolerant host.
GOOD CAUSE FOR OFFENCE.
THE OLD LADY: “I see the British and
French is startin' to get offensive now, and
I don't blame ’em either, after the way
them Germans ’as been carry in' on."
“Ramassis” : According to James Marion,
the Cold-Tea party in N. S. Wales is going
to follow the lead of South Aus. and have
the beer turned off at six o’clock. A much
more sensible proposal would be to have the
beer restrained during business hours and
turned on for a while in the evening.
Liquor during working hours is a curse.
If there is anything at all in alcohol
—and most people think there is—its busi-
ness is to knit up the ravelled sleeve of
care, and it can get its stitches in best when
the day’s work is done. The .South Aus.
vote suggests that men should be compelled
to neglect their work if they want to drink.
Therefore it is a fool vote.
A MINOR MENACE.
The Zeppelins were stationary above some towns,
but the residents were not alarmed. — Cable.
MRS. BINKS (fearfully): “ What's that thing
up there , Mrs. Briggs?"
MRS. BRIGGS (calmly): "Only one of them
German Zeppelins! They're getting a per-
fect pest."
MRS. BINKS (relieved): “Thank 'Eaven! I
thought it was an ’awk aƒter me chickens."
Various church bodies in the Eastern
States have just been denouncing the
totalisator on the ground that it produces
national demoralisation. The same people
have been sounding the loud timbrel over S.
Australia’s magnificent forward movement
on the liquor question. If the totalisator
is a national demoraliser, what is S. Aus.
—which must be the most demoralised State
of all—doing with a great forward move-
ment? Which is wrong—the parsons’ yarn
about the totalisator or their yarn about S.
Australia’s forward movement? They can’r
have it both ways.
Finlayson, M.11.R., of Brisbane, attacking
the. Federal Government’s wise policy of
nationalising the liquor business in the
Northern Territory, demanded to be told
whether it was for this the great Common-
wealth was formed —to paint its coat-of-
arms on an hotel? While he is contemplat-
ing the degradation of a great agency being
used for such a trivial purpose as the reduc-
tion of crime and suffering, Finlayson might
inquire whether it was for this that the
great British Empire was founded —to put
its coat-of-arms on a “Black Maria”? Also
the idea of Finlayson’s great City of Bris-
bane being interested in a slop-cart no doubt
fills him with unspeakable grief. Still the
vehicle is not likely to be abolished on that
account.
The acuteness of Andrew Fisher’s disap-
pointment over the inability of Bill Massey,
who reigns over Maoriland by
a brown and insecure majority
of one, to attend the Premiers’
Conference, causes The Bulle-
tin to suspect that something
in the way of a joint p.n. may
have been in the incubator.
Massey seems to have reckoned
it safest to keep tight grip on his
elusive savior Henare and do his
own pawning.
“Rags” : I have just finished
opening up a load of stuff from
_■ Sydney warehouse. Included
in it is a line in great demand
among Australian unionists’
wives, because it is cheap—and
nasty. A little label bearing in
very small type “Made in Ger-
many,” formerly adorned the
packet. Now the same article,
in the same packet, bears the
words “Made in Holland.”
Everybody in the trade knows
that goods of this description
were never brought from Hol-
land before the war. It is also
public knowledge that Holland
has been purchasing from Ger-
many and re-labelling all the
Cotton goods it could handle,
and our patriotic country has
been taking its full share per
medium of intensely patriotic
York-street and Flinders-lane.
Those resolutions to neffermore trate mit
Ilans ought to be flung into the Pacific.
They merely, in a manner of speaking, side-
track that tariff wall.
Though Andrew Fisher doesn’t take any-
thing with his soda, unless he pours it out
of the milk-jug, he would be a sadder man
than he is if all Australia followed the
King, Stimulants and narcotics are return-
ing an extra £lO,OOO a month under the
increased excise, otherwise . the revenue
would take a big drop. And that is the
drop the temperance Treasurer is most con-
cerned about at present.
For some mysterious reason, possibly con-
nected with herrings, Premier Peacock is
introducing into his Bill to assimilate the
State and Commonwealth electoral methods
a clause making voting compulsory. Why
imperil a commonsense economy by tacking
on to it a doubtful and quite irrelevant pro-
posal—a proposal so doubtful, in fact, that
Peacock wouldn’t dare to apply it to his
own mining companies?
The Parliamentary programme for this
session in Victoria looks more promising
than gaudy, though some of the items at
purely ornamental. Bills dealing with the
Price of Foods, the Murray Waters, the
proposed Greater Melbourne Council, Pub-
lic Charities, the Price of Gas. Combines
and Monopolies, and Public Health are the
main subjects for consideration. Elmslie
starts off with the usual no-confidence
motion; but this amounts to nothing. The
real opposition will come from the Rich
Landlords, who won’t say half as much as
the nominal Opposition, but will destroy
Peacock’s work far more effectively. And
as long as Peacock leaves Fat in its trench
the assumption is that he wants to see his
bills bayoneted.
WHAT WAS WANTED.
LATE CALLER: “ Well, was your 'evening
a success, John?”
THE HOST: “ Splendid! Everything my wife
prepared went wrong , and the guests were
delighted !”
What sort of a reception would Dry-
berra receive on a vote of the present Senate
if the Capital Sites battle could be re-
fought? Of the 16 Senators who, in the
final vote five and a half years ago, sold the
Cotter pup to Australia, only Gould and
Millen remain on deck; but T-renwith, of
Victoria, is alone missing from the band
of 14 Nationalists who refused to be bluffed
by the Ma State-Frighters into accepting a
barren piece of Sydney’s backyard as the
site for the capital of a continent.
A DIRGE OF SUNDRY DEBTORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The latest figures show that the debt of the Aus-
tralian States is £6l 6s. sd. per head of the popula-
tion.
Is it not wonderful? Can it be true! All of this
money we owe—me and you! Ev’ry young
fellow and bald-headed coot; every saint, and
each sinner to boot; ev'ry dear girl, be she
eighty or eight; the children of Fat, and the
wards of the State; each innocent babe, though
it cannot as yet observe more than “Goo’ ” owes
a mountain of debt; each infant, in fact, in
this country alive owes sixty-one quidlets six
shillings and fivel
And this, be it understood, is merely in its capa-
city as a State infant. As a Federal infant the un-
fortunate child must be held responsible for its share
of something like another seven and a half millions.
Jones —forty, and bald—lives down Jolimont way,
but journeys by tram to the city each day. He
“saves” on a fiver, and suffers from corns; the
Flesh and the Devil he righteously scorns. Ilis
stipend he snares in the drapery trade, and sees
that his rent and insurance are paid. lie gardens
a little, and drinks rather less; his only real
vice is a passion for chess; and no one who
noticed him toddling with care (for his corns
always keep him informed that they're there),
with well-rolled umbrella and business-like bag,
and, fixed in his coat fold, a small Belgian flag,
would think for an instant that Jones is in debt
for something like sixty-two quidlets; and yet
this is the plain truth! So, in cold, steely
tones, I ask: “What think you of a blighter like
Jones ?”
And Smith, whose employment is sorting out hides;
and Smythe, who to town in a motor-car rides ;
the good man whose job ’tis the Gospel to
preach, the bad men who write for the Yarra-
side Screech ; McTavish the German, O’Leary
the Jew, Ike Cohen the Scotsman, the “softies”
at Kew, the “heads” out at Caulfield, the “nuts”
on the Block, who tilleth the soil, and who tend-
eth his flock, the Fatman who lives on an int’rest
in tin, and Flossie who lives on the wages of
sin ; the cute fiend who cannons in style off the
“cush,” the fencer who toils in the heart of the
bush, the butcher, the baker, the candlestick-
maker, the doctor, the nurse, and the brave
undertaker ; the flapper who flaps half her time
on the Block, the vagrant who drifts ’twixt the
gaol and the dock, the woman with children,
the woman with “views,” the sweater who
sweats, and the student who stews, the blue-
blooded exile who lives on a pension, and others
too humorous even to mention, eat, drink and
make merry, what time they contrive to owe
sixty-one pounds six shillings and five!
But fill we our pewters—the cash we can borrow—
and care not a d—-n for what happens to-
morrow! The int’rest is growing, the outlook is
blue; afar sounds the rumble of loans falling
due; but trip we a measure and merrily sing:
“Where, Jew, is thy victory; where, Debt, is
thy sting?”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWE.
THE VERGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Dago’s eyeballs roll and flash,
His hands are black as ink ;
I buy a bream for sixpence cash,
He says his comrades think
That Italy is on the Verge
And Greece is on the Brink.
A leaderette enwraps the 1 ream,
Familiar words emerge—
Greasy, and odorous and dim,
They read: “The cables urge
That Italy is on the Brink,
And Greece is on the Verge.”
And daily from those wastes of mud
Where twenty millions surge
Through hells of murder, fire and blood,
Comes drifting back the dirge
That Italy is on the Brink,
And Greece is on the Verge.
When half the world is dead with age,
And weariness and drink,
Still will the mighty conflict rage,
Whilst future glasses clink
To Italy upon the Verge,
And Greece upon the Brink.
N.S.W.
W. R. D.


The “Bookstall” Series of
AUSTRALIAN SHILLING NOVELS
AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
biters
WJBF.6T
KALEJKJ
The most popular Australian
fiction library. Includes over
eighty volumes by leading Aus-
tralian novelists. Actual sales
exceed 1,500,000 copies.
xxvc
1/- each
All One Price
1/1 Posted
Sporting Stories in the Series.
“IN THE LAST STRIDE,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“A SPORT FROM HOLLOWLOG
FLAT,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“IN RACING SILK,”
By GERALD It. BALDWIN.
“WOLAROI’S CUP,”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
Humorous Books.
“THE MISSING LINK,”
By EDWARD DYSON.
“ ABORIG IN ALIT'IE S, ”
From Tiie Bulletin.
“THEATRICAL CARICATURES,”
By HARRY JULIUS & CLAUDE
McKAY.
“GAMBLERS’ GOLD,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“RUNG IN,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“EROS! EROS WINS!”
By F. AGAR.
“A ROGUE’S LUCK,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
Historical Novels.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,”
By DON DELANEY.
“ON H!S MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
By ROY BRIDGES.
“MR. BARRINGTON,”
By ROY BRIDGES.
STEELE RUDD’S GREAT SELECTION STORIES.
THOMAS E. SPENCER’S HUMOROUS BOOKS.
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers in the Commonwealth.
Write to the Publishers for a Complete Catalogue.
/V.S.VV. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Model “N” Horizontal Stationary Oil Engine.
Model “M"’ Vertical Stationary Oil Engine.
INVINCIBL
Marine—
Stationary—
and Portable
OIL ENGINES
The Best in the World.
Simplest—Strongest—Most Durable—Most Economical.
“INVINCIBLE” ENGINES are on show at our Dephts in the following towns of
New South Wales:—Canowindra, Coolamon, Cootamundra, Delungra, Gilgandra, Glen Innes,
Grenfell, Inverell, Lockhart, Manilla, Molong, Mudgee, Murwillumbah, Narrabri, Narroniine,
Parkes, Peak Hill, Scone, Tamworth, Taree, Temora, Trundle, The Rock, Wellington, West
Wyalong.
At these Branches we are keeping full sets of all Duplicate Parts, and expert services
are always available.
See an “INVINCIBLE” working. It will convince you. It is the simplest in design,
the easiest to operate, the sweetest-running, and, because of these qualities, it costs you the least in
repairs. It is built with absolute precision, so that repair parts (of which large supplies are kept
constantly in stock) fit with the utmost accuracy.
“INV INCIBLE” ENGINES ARE BUILT TO RUN ON ANY FUEL.
“INVINCIBLE” ENGINES ARE GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.
WORKS: WOOLWICH, N.S.W. SYDNEY SHOWROOMS: 35 PITT STREET.
Brisbane Showrooms: 529 Queen Street.
Sole Distributing Agents for
“INVINCIBLE” STATIONARY AND PORTABLE ENGINES for N.S.W. are
A Messrs. JAMES BELL & CO., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney
Just Arrived! A New Shipment of
Burberry Raincoats
HE outputs of practically all the British Clothing Factories
have been commandeered by the military. But our
huge orders for Burberry Raincoats—fortunately placed
very early—have arrived this week.
vc
No further shipments will be sent.
Secure YOUR size to-day.
The Burberry Garbicord
(as illustrated) possesses all the style and
security of a well-tailored Overcoat —but has the
extra advantage of being protective against Bain,
Wind or Dust. Cut to the exclusive burberry pat-
tern and generously built. Has Raglan shoulders,
step collars, and half lined in rich shot silk. Two
distinct shades —Olive or Stone.
Price
Freight Paid
£5/5-
The Burberry Urbitor
Unites the dual services of a smart Overcoat for
cold days and a reliable weatherproof for the wet.
Tailored in a dense weave coating, an artistic
brown pattern with the permanent Burberry proof.
Has perfect fitting Raglan shoulders, step collar, and
half lined with shot silk.
Price
FreigHt Paid
£6/6/-
The Dexter Belted Back
Beautifully tailored in rubberless Gabardine, show-
ing a smart half-belt at back. Made with Raglan
shoulders, gauntlet cuffs, Hap pockets, and warmly
lined with proofed wool plaid. Naturally ventilat-
ing-, cut liberally and absolutely rainproof, the
“Dexter” is suitable for the climatic conditions of
Australia.
Price
Freight Paid
£4jls/-,£5j5;-
ORDER BY POST
Simply send remittance, chest measurement (over
vest), and height. Your size will be sent by return,
freight paid. It unsuitable the purchase may be
returned and we will refund your money.
K|L^(MM]il
jfc FULL VALVJE IN AIALE ATTIRE:
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
B
El E 3
And the nights shall be filled with music,
And the cares that infest the day
Shall fold their tents like the Arabs,
And as silently steal away*
Longfellow.
xvc
xvc
TTSIC contributes to our day-by-day need, gives us help and
joy. Who has not “lived' 5 in the great and glorious
works of such masters as Beethoven, Liszt, Mendelssohn
and others, when interpreted on such an Instrument as
The Glorious “ Broadwood ” Piano
xvc
The qualities of tone and excellence of touch which
are necessary to a faithful interpretation of the
great masters’ works in all their original beauty
and color are all to be found in the glorious
“Broadwood”—British built and so nearly perfect
that their manufacture has gone on uninterruptedly
for every business day of 200 years.
YOU can own one of these magnificent Instruments TO-DAY, for
terms of payment will be made agreeable to you. Come and hear —or
play yourself —one of these beautiful Instruments. If distance
prevents a visit, let us send you interesting “Broadwood” literature.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
New
Address,
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
(Opposite Wynyard Street).


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Australians at the Front, led by the spirit
of right and Sir lan Hamilton, must
triumph. It is their birthright. A truism
supported by that wise spirit, King George
IV. top-notch Scotch.*
Missing Friends.
CAREY. —Andrew, John, Michael or Patrick, bro-
thers of Miss Margaret Carey, late of Feme
Street, Fitzroy, near Melbourne, or their relatives,
or anyone acquainted with them or their where-
abouts, please communicate at once with National
Trustees Company, 113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
INCORRECT DIAGNOSIS.
TONIC PRESCRIBED FOR WELL-
KNOWN SYDNEY MAN WHO HAD
LOST THIRTY POUNDS IN WEIGHT.
—WORMS THE CAUSE.
The striking case of Mr. G. B. Renton,
of 14 Sir John Young’s Crescent, Sydney.
N.S.W., and connected with a well-known
George. Street wallpaper house, illustrates
two. things: One, that doctors are not in-
fallible ; and the other that adults are
troubled with worms just as children are.
and that Comstock’s “Dead Shot’’ Worm
Pellets are a most effective remedy for this
most unpleasant complaint. The letter of
Mr. Renton is purely voluntary and freely
given, and simply states the facts, which he
will at any time confirm.
“Some time ago I began losing weight in
an alarming manner,” writes Mr. Renton,
“so much so that I went to see a doctor,
who examined me and came to the conclu-
sion, it was due to overwork and worry... I
continued to lose weight and also suffer from
peculiar internal pains. I became very
anxious at the continued loss of weight, and
thinking I might be going into a decline
went to a second doctor, who examined me
thoroughly and gave about the same opinion
as the former one had done, and prescribed
a tonic. One night going home in the train
I read one of your advertisements giving
symptoms of people who have worms. The
symptoms given strongly coincided with my
own, and I determined to test the question.
I accordingly procured a packet of your
Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Fellets, and
took eight tablets, and in the morning four
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and to my
intense satisfaction and relief passed two
very large stomach worms. I took them
and showed them to the doctor who
had last examined me, and who had pre-
scribed the tonic, and it is needless to say
he was surprised at the result. Altogether
I lost 80 pounds in two months, due to these
worms, and you may believe me I was
thoroughly alarmed, thinking I might have
consumption. I regained all this _ lost
weight immediately I rid my system of the
worms, and am in splendid health at pre-
sent. These are the simple facts which
speak for themselves, and I shall be only too
pleased to confirm them to any person, who
doubts their truth. You have my permission
to use this for publication.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot”. Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers, price 3s. Gd. per packet; or
six packets for 205.; or will be sent
post paid at the same price by The
W. 11. Comstock Co.. Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney.*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
v PROBLEM.
[For The Bulletin.]
A boxing crowd chased Sam Langford out of the
ring in Montreal last week, hooting and hissing him on
the grounds that lie was not trying.— Gable item.
The angry crowd blasphemed at Sam and chased him
through the ropes,
It clamored loudly for his gore and that of all
black “hopes” ;
it threatened him enragedly as through the doors he
hopped—•
Hut what would those who made the row have done
if he had stopped?
N.s.w. WILLIE.
The tennis championship tournament was
more or less washed away in Sydney last week, and
instead of the finals being played on Saturday the
games have overflowed well into this week. At the
time of writing there’s nothing decisive. The only
championship finally nailed down is the Ladies’,
which went to Miss Stewart, of Victoria, who turned
the tables on Mrs. Ford (6-4, 6-2) after the N.S.W.
lady had beaten her in the inter-State match 6-1, 8-6.
The other championships are being narrowed down,
and on present appearances only the old hands will
see the finals. ■ '
Judging by the “gates” at the opening
of the football season at Melbourne on Saturday, war
and drought are things of no account. The 15,000
crowd at the big match, Carlton v. ’Roy, was well up
to the opening-day average. The game was fast and
skilful, and when, after being seemingly out-played
in the earlier quarters, the old Blues got going in
the last, and wiped off the deficit, excitement rocked
the crowd like a gale. For 15 minutes both sides
strove all they knew for the point that meant victory ;
but ’Roy’s defence was too sound for Carlton’s attack.
The bell rang, with the tale 41 points all. At Vic-
toria Park ’Wood made a better start than usual by
walking over Essendon to the tune of 52 points to
26. Last year’s runners-up, South, got a shock at
St. Kilda. The seasiders have discarded the red,
white and black colors of llogmany, and adopted
those of'Belgium, and the change has apparently in-
fused into them some of the latter’s spirit; anyhow,
they snatched the lead from the Southerners before
half-time,, and gave them no rest thereafter, winning
by 64 points to 37. Melbourne, having captured most
of the disbanded ’Varsity team’s stars, now possesses
a strong agglomeration of ’bailers, but individual
brilliance is of no avail against training and combina-
tion, arid unless the team practises it will go down
as persistently as aforetime. It managed to beat
Richmond by 82 points 73, but that was nothing
to brag about.
*, * * *
“Goal”: There was only a week’s inter-
lude in Melbourne between the chief summer and
winter games, but in that time the Vic. Hoofball
League grasped the opportunity to settle its attitude
towards the new all-Australian game, whose ultimate
eventuation is now practically assured, though much
still depends on the public’s attitude when the exhibi-
tion games are played, towards the close of this
season. Chief points of variation are, on the Rugby
League side, the abolition of the scrum and the throw
in; and, on the other, the adoption of the Rugby
method of tackling, the bar across the goals, and
the abolition of the right to throw or knock the
ball forward as well as backward —in other words,
the imposition of “off-side” on the Australian game.
Seven of the component nine Vic. League clubs
accepted the alterations, and though this writer
approves of an all-Australian game if it can be accom-
plished and popularised, he has doubts about the
wisdom of adopting the “off-side” rule. The Aus-
tralian game has been attractive and fast without
any offside rule —-why make it slower and less exciting
by adopting it ?
* * * *
Senior Victorian football club officials
have been worrying as to whether it was compulsory
for their players to be insured under the Workers’
Compensation Act. The State Insurance Commis-
sioner, on application, said “Yes,” and added that a
premium of £2 a head would be charged. Still
unsatisfied, the Association took the opinion of 11. E.
Starke, who advised as follows: “An Association foot-
ball player is not, in my opinion, a ‘worker’ within
the meaning of the Workers’ Compensation Act.
Therefore, in my opinion, neither the Association
itself, nor the clubs, paying the respective players
a fee for playing are under any obligation to insure
the players pursuant to the Act. As the compulsory
clauses of the Act come actively into force on May 7,
when football will be in full swing, it will be inter-
esting to see Whether barrister Starke is right of the
Insurance Commissioner.
* * *
“Scrum” : The N.S.W. Rugby Union was
well advised not to make arrangements for an active
football 'season. The manly Club reports that 33
of its members have volunteered for war service.
East Sydney and Armidale, with 31, are next on a
long list. Of the many members of the old brigade
who have obtained commissions in the Expeditionary
Force are J. F. Macnanemy and B. I. Swannel. The
proportion of League members who have followed the
example of secretary E. R. Larkin, M.L.A., who was
an early recruit, compares badly with the Union.
On this subject Headmaster Adamson, of Wesley
College (Vic.), made the grimly humorous statement
that if he were a- German living in Australia he
would assist Germany by patronising League football,
thus encouraging the semi-professional ’bailers to
keep out of the trenches.
“Makaire”: Chanced to wander into a
paddock attached to a Maori pa a day or two ago.
A. football match was in progress, and I stopped to
watch. Football, billiards and horse-racing’ are part
of a Maori’s religion. The game proceeded, to the
accompaniment of a medley of shrieks, groans, hoots
and waUyells from the spectators, until the hall
worked out at the side of the scrum. A big fellow,
clad a bit different to the rest, appeared, seemingly
from the clouds, grabbed the leather and bounded off
with a good start. His fellow-players emitted a yell
that senf a queer chill up my spine and gave chase.
The whole of the spectators and about 53 dogs of
various shapes and breeds insisted on joining it. But
the man with the ball had reached the goal-posts, and
there lie grounded it. A try! But before he could
arise the crowd was on him, men pummelling, the
waliines tearing his hair out, and the dogs con-
ducting well-organised rushes at his unprotected
legs. I spoke to a large and ponderous youth who
stood by watching matters with ill-concealed amuse-
ment. “What’s the matter?” I said, pointing to the
dilapidated and dishevelled try-getter. “Oh, him,”
was the contemptuous retort, “he no plurry good!”
“But what’s he done?” 1 persisted. “Done?” in-
dignantly shouted Henars. “Why, he te plurry
ref’ree! !”
The Demlen-Loughrey disturbance at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night was a rotten
show, regarded as a fight. The parties seemed only
really happy when they were in clinches. They
were as slow as dinosaurs, and the clean hitting
which betrays the championship event was mostly
absent. As a psychological study, however, the
scuffle was worth the money. Loughrey is an Irish-
American, and as full of emotionalism as a dime
novel. Towards the end of the row he hit Demlen low.
The latter protested, whereupon the other promptly
landed him again in the same place. The referee
grabbed the offender and severely cautioned him; in
fact, it looked as if he severely cursed him. Lough-
rey thought, apparently, that he had been overtaken
by the fate which he had assuredly earned, and he
proceeded to give a representation of a strong Yank
in anguish. Twice he leapt in the air, with his feet
close together; and twice he raised his hands in
unison and dashed them to liis side again. Then he
sobbed. At this stage his mentor, A 1 Lippe, con-
vinced him that all was well ; his sobs ceased; he
lay back in the arms of his friends like a tired child,
and had his nose wiped and his brow valeted.
Demlen is the stolidest proposition imaginable. He
tottered to what looked like certain doom at the
beginning of the next round with an impassive coun-
tenance. Howls from the enemy’s corner of “Git to
his hardy, Bo!” “Hit him in the bal-ly, son!” and
so forth, left him calm. Half-way through the round
he was recovering; by the end of it lie was pasting
the young fellow from the U.S. all over the ring.
It was a fine study in Belgium ruggedness. At the
finish Ilarald Baker rightly gave the decision to
Demlen, who accepted the same, with the unconcern
of a brass image. When the Yankee youth grasped
the position he bounded four times in the air, as
before, semaphored violently with his arms, as on the
previous occasion, and bowing his head upon the ropes
wept bitterly on to the writer. He then went else-
where and wept on to another pressman. Loughrey
is a game fighter; in fact, it is not too much to
say that he is a Yankee Demlen as regards endur-
ance. But he requires to get a grip on himself, and
cut the nursery business out.
A. B. JONES, a Tennis Champion.
Hughie Mehegan and Fred Kay fought as
welters in Perth last Friday. The old lightweight
champion tried to knock his elusive opponent out,
and with a motor-car or even a pair of skates he
might have done it. On a pedestrian basis Kay
was too shifty. After 20 rounds of stern effort on
the part of Hughie, and stern evasion on that of
Frederick, the referee gave it a draw,., and for once
the house was satisfied.
* * * »
N.S.W. amateur boxing champions were
drafted out last week. The final conflicts were waged
with great fury. In the heavyweight division R. I).
Manning (12st. 61b.) and S. Baker (14st.) smashed
one another with heavy, meaty swipes, the big fellow
going down four times in the second round. By
virtue of his right and a couple of blows unnoticed
by the referee, Manning took the jam-dish. 11.
Heaney triumphed over the other middleweights,
clinching the matter by dropping E. White in his
tracks for the necessary 10; but he was himself
beaten in the welter by R. Finlay, the winner last
year. F. Brownlee captured.the lightweight prize from
V. Lawson, who was badly punished. P. Jones was the
best of the feathers, and IV. Bell was the only
bantam entitled to crow at the finish. ,On the whole,
a moderate lot. -t
* * * *
Hostile meetings for Saturday— at Syd-
ney Stadium, Harold Hardwick and Jeff Smith; at
Melbourne, Les Darcy and Fritz Holland. The first
two are strangers to one another: Darcy and Holland
have swapped punches thrice before. Holland, much
the best boxer among the middle-weights, had the
worst of the last encounter. Hardwick miy find
that Smith hurts more than King, who argued the
point with him over 20 rounds a few weeks ago.
Jimmy Hill and Geike at Brisbane the same night.
McGoorty, the U.S. left-hook specialist, is
coming back to Australia. Also Jack Dillon,
a pugnacious person who has been raging from Noo
Yark to ’Frisco at the rate of a battle every fort-
night the last couple of years. With this pair to
operate on the middleweight division should he able
to sort itself out fairly well.
From Buenos Ayres: The racecourse at
Palermo (near this city of sin and beauty) gives
Flemington and Randwick a point or two. Fleming-
ton was made by nature, in a sense; Palermo has
'been made by money. The upper floors of the
grandstand are reached by electric lifts. The flat,
as we Australians know it, isn’t in the picture. In
its place there are lakes and ponds, islands and
rustic bridges, flowers and shrubs and swans. That is
what you gaze on from the stands instead of contem-
plating a hot crowd of people wolfing sandwiches and
beer. Then there is a wide .tree-shaded space 'with
chairs and tables and waiters, where one can sit
and have a drink in peace. There are no bookmakers
to bellow. All betting is through totes, one for a
win and the other for places. Parsifal 11., a grand-
son of old Carbine, ran here a few months ago.
He’s a game finisher, and I would like to take him
to Vic. and have a cut at the two Cups.
* * * *
Earlier in the year good judges were say-
ing that the Bedwell-bred colt Reputation, which is
to be sent across from Maoriland to winter on the
spot before .being tried against Australia’s best at
Randwick in the spring, was pounds better than
War.step. But as Warstep has beaten the
colt at w.f.a.., dead-heated in the N.Z. Cup,
won the Great Easter Handicap, and the
Dunedin Cup and set up a new two-miles
record (3min. 24sec.) in the Trentham Cup
at Wellington, and as Reputation is on the
small side, the good judges may merely have
been showing once more how wrong the judgment
of good judges may be.
War clouds have not frightened the A.J.C.
into being sparing with the prize-money for big
fixtures ahead. For the 1915 spring meeting the
Metrop. (£5000), Epsom (£2000) and Breeders’
Plate (£2000) will be as heretofore; also the A.J.C.
Derby ( £5000) and Sires Produce Stakes ( £3000)
in 1916, and Sires Produce Stakes (£3000) and St.
Leger ( £1500) in 1917 remain intact.
Pony-racing in Sydney is a thriving mid-
week business for McWowser’s partner who carries
the bag. It took 17 races (in heats and run-offs)
to dispose of last week’s programme at Ascot, and
only seven favorites were successful. It was the
longest helping of horse at one day’s meet that Tins
Bulletin knows' of.
It is remarkable how often the M.L.
Great Autumn Handicap has been won by a mare. A
start was made by Lady Emma in 1881, who rushed
home first carrying sst. 131 b., the lowest weight ever
put on a winner of the race. Rubina won in 1885,
Ravenswing ip 1889, Hazel in 1891, Merganser in
1893, Lady Zetland in 1894, Bellicent in 1896, Gold
Leaf in 1898, Pitch and Toss in 1899, Palaver in 1901
and Lady Lilian in 1903. Then there was a break
until last year, when Bronze won.
Polo is another branch of sport that has
heard The war gong. So many players have volun-
teered that the country clubs won’t be able to turn
out, and the big Sydney annual gymkhana has been
abandoned, including the yearly contest for the
Countess of Dudley’s Cup.
After a lot of barging Charlie Towns and
Felton have signed up for a race on June 26. The
stake is £250 a side; and the course, as insisted
upon by Felton, is (o.jie Middle Harbor, Port Jack-
son. Towns was eager “to row on the old Parramatta,
having a natural desire, to win back, if possible, the
honors he lost there when he last met Felton. But
Felton wasn't letting sentiment get in the road of
cash returns; and, when the precariousness of the
sculling game these days is considered, there’s small
blame attachable to him.
Something definite, too, appears to have come
upon the negotiations of Webb and Hannan in
Maoriland. The champion is reported to have planked
a covering wad on Hannan’s £lOO, and has declared
for September as the time for concluding the long
and wearisome argument. The challenger’s anxiety
was to race in June, and on this point, or any other
old point, another hitch may occur. It’s more in the
nature of a skulling match than the other thing.
Incidentally, there’s nothing doing for Arnst with
Webb—at least, that’s the latest , bulletin from head-
quarters.
Peter Kemp, who once signed himself
champion sculler of the world, passed some of his
oarsmanship on to his family. Hence it was, partly,
that son Syd and daughter Fern relieved Lily and
Arthur Pearce of the double-scull championship of
N. S. Wales on Saturday at Middle Harbor. Bad
weather made for gruelling work, but the girls
in both boats showed fine grit and sea-craft. The
Ivemps, having won the toss, were able to take advan-
tage of some leeshore, and consequently had not the
same solid fight against the punching southerly as
the Pearce delegates. One and a half lengths separ-
ated the canoes when they passed the judge, and the
losers promptly separated themselves from a side-
stake of £4O.
* * * *
Sydney Church of England Grammar
School’s wiri in the race for the Great Public School
eight-oar championship last week, at Sydney added to
its ornamental record in the event. Since 1893 this
school has dragged its proa to the home line first
on 12 occasions. In the four-oar championship St.
Joseph’s gave its friends an excuse to maffick by
scoring a maiden victory.
Lacrosse is becoming animated at the
approach of Sydney’s energising season of winter.
Inter-State visits are listed between Queensland and
N.S.W., at Brisbane; and Tasmania, and Federals
(Sydney), at Tasmania. The N.S.W. Association’s
finances are sound, and there are plenty of playing
grounds, so the 35th season will be opened on Satur-
day without any anxiety, thank you.
* * * *
The very first test-match at lacrosse
between Britain and Australia has come off, in the
shadow of the Pyramids. But it wasn’t a real Test.
The English team —Lancashire Territorials, mostly—
admitted (or claimed) that they were practically a
representative XII, whereas our side was merely what-
ever talent was available, half S. Aus., the rest
Queensland and Vic. The Englishmen provided all
the materials for the game. They also won easily.
*■**•*
N.S.W. Cricket Association “reform”
proposals are getting short shrift. On top of the
refusal of inter-State Associations to swallow the
“eight-balls-to-the-over” pill, the State delegates in
council last week threw out the recommendation to
cut down first-grade clubs from 13 to 12 —at one
time it was proposed to reduce them to 10—and also
decided not to concede second-grade clubs representa-
tion on the Association. It took the reform com-
mittee three months to think out that little lot, too!
“Midchannel”: A word about resuscitat-
ing interest in big cricket. Hitherto, the batsmen
have had all the concessions and the bowlers have
suffered all the disadvantages. For instance, bats-
men' are allowed to guard their wicket with their
pads after the ball has beaten the hat so long as
the hall is pitched clear of the stumps. The
absurdity is obvious in the ease of googly bowlers,
who, bowling with a fair break, must pitch the ball
clear of the wicket. The rule for l.b.w. needs amend-
ing. Then, no batsman should he allowed to remain
at his wicket (in perfect condition) unless he makes
50 runs each hour. This would mean that every
partnership lasting an hour would yield 100 runs,
which is good scoring. If he should fail to make
50 ho ought to be counted out. This would weed
out Bardsleys and Ivelleways who study their figures
on paper and not the feelings of the crowd. “Oh,”
someone says, “the bowlers will take mighty good
care they don’t score off them at that rate, because
they’ll pitch nearly every ball outside the reach of
the batsman.” There is a counter for this. Am
bowler who pitches two balls clear of the batsman’s
reach in any over will have four runs given against
him. As for the suggestion to have eight balls in
an over, it is obvious the men who make it have
never played when the glass was 95deg. in the shade.
Fancy men like Richardson, Brearley, Cotter or
Lockwood bowling eight balls to an over 1
* * * *
“Moana” : The suggested eight balls to an
over isn’t going to put new life into cricket, but, all
the same, it is a step towards smiting tradition out
of the ground, and that is something. My pet schenn
is the bowling of two overs in succession from each
end. It seems remarkable that this very simple and
entirely reasonable solution of the troublesome chang-
ing- over difficulty and the consequent delays has no.
been tried before. Here is how it would work.
Smith bowls six balls from the pavilion end ami
Brown, the other bowler, does ditto. Then the field
changes over, and Smith bowls six balls from tin
other end, and Brown again does ditto, and so on.
This would at once cut down the changing over and
the delays by one-half without putting any extra
strain on the bowlers.
* * * *
Some positions in the batting averages
for the now-ended season at Sydney: Macartney,
fifth, with 51.50 in 16 innings; Victor Trumper,
ninth, 39 in four innings (he was a long time sick,
but is improving) ; R. B. Minnett, eleventh, 38.50
in 11 innings; R, V. Minnett, twelfth, 38.09 in II
innings; Bardsley, sixteenth, 36.92 in 17 innings;
E. L. Waddy, twenty-third, 32.50 in six innings:
A. Diamond, fifty-first, 25.42 in 14 innings.
* * * *
W. J. Stack, the long, loose-limbed Sydney
’Varsity slow bowler, has joined the Army Medical
Corps, with the rank of Captain. “Tib” Cotter, the
N.S.W. express, is with the Light Horse. R. ,1. A.
Massie, the two Minnetts, Gregg and other leading
first-graders are also with the colors. There wouldn’t
be any difficulty in raising a first-class team to plav
(lie Germans cricket—-if they “played cricket,” which
they don’t.
* * * *
Adelaide Y.M.C.A., which believes in
getting the under-hold when wrestling with the Devil,
has installed two billiard-tables in its new building
in the local Expeditionaries’ camp at Mitcham"
Alcock and Co. gave one table, and the Good Young
Men of the city, who number some very warm
Players among them, found the other and the build-
ing which houses them.
* * * *
From “Rosna” (London) : The war—if
1 may mention it-—has brought out An irregular
army of crack she-motorists and motor-cyclists. The
Women’s Emergency Corps, which Leiia Ashwell,
Decima Moore and other stage damsels started in
August, was in two months 500 strong—all women
motorists or cyclists, many of them not only expert
drivers but qualified mechanics also. One dame, a
Mrs. Knocker, of Salisbury, jumped on her motor-
cycle when war was declared and dashed off to the War
Office to offer her services as a despatch-rider. The
M .0. nearly fell over its own red-tape at the impu-
dence, and refused. The lady rode sadly home to
Salisbury, and on the way had the pleasure of repair-
ing the motor-cycles of three male despatch riders
on Government business, who were incapable of
mending their own broken-down machines. Mrs.
Knocker afterwards took herself off to Belgium,
where she has just received the Order of Leopold
from Albert the Good-Looking, for services rendered.
The Bulletin is sorry to hear that one
of Australia’s oldest manufacturing indus-
tries is suffering from the suspicion that it
is “made in Germany.” Zevenboom might
he some sort of a Deutscher; but, as a mat-
ter of fact, the man of that name who landed
in Victoria 59 years ago and started to
make paint and other brushes came from
Holland, and his successors in the business,
which has been carried on ever since, are
partly Scotch and partly English and wholly
Australian.


A Voice from the Bush
l
A
A-
u
tor*
“Did I have a good time at the Show?
You bet I did. Rained like blazes most
of the time, but I didn’t mind that when
I heard it was doing a hit back here.
“I met a few of the old boys —ran
against George Eland, the champion whip-
maker, and Saltbush Bill, the champion
whip-cracker. Old Saltbush had the pin
the King gave him in England—l’d like
to own it.
“George Eland took me over to Walther
and Stevenson’s stand on the Show-
ground, and I saw some saddles, harness,
whips and things that made me mouth
water. Eland only makes for Walther
and Stevenson.
“Well, I bought one of Eland’s whips
for thirty boh —this one here —and I
couldn’t resist this saddle. It’s the
Wien eke Pattern Stock Saddle, and a beauty
at that. It’ll stand rough work all right, and has a jolly comfortable seat. The waist
is narrow and the tij.ee is heavily steel-plated over the head and along the bars. You
can see the panel lfas extended leather facings, and has leather points down the flaps,
and this gives a chap a great ‘grip.’ The flaps are long, and the long girth straps
buckle below the flaps away from a feller’s legs. The fittings thrown in were short,
folded leather girth (two buckles each end), bevelled stirrup leathers and solid nickel
stirrups. I paid £O/15/- and got a bargain. The firm send this saddle freight free,
for cask, to any port or railway station in N.S.W., or any direct port in the other
States, New Zealand or Fiji. Write for their catalogue, Bill, they’ll send it to you
post free.” ____________
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
383 George Street, and 32 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Saddlers and
Harness Makers,
YOU’LL ENJOY MY
vcx
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
CIGARILLOS
They are little cigars of
excellent ■ quality. For a
short smoke —something be-
tween a cigar and a
cigarette, my cigar-
illos are just the
thing.
Mild and delightful
in flavor.
In three sizes, but
ONE quality.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2/3 2/- 1/9
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
5/3 4 9 4/3
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
10/- 9/- 8-
Postage Extra
on 100:
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States BJ.
Write for a
Copy of my
Illust rated
Catalog-
Post Free.
A M SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
35
she ll
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on
SHELL'
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD.,
Don’t be a Trailer
Ride an
INDIAN
Two years in succession we
“scooped the pool” at Goulburn,
and with the same stock model,
T.T. INDIANS. Can you beat it?
Write for Catalogue “D.”
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
RIGNEY SHOES GIVE MORE WEAR.
xvc
It’s not what you pay for your Shoes, but
what you get for what you pay, that consti-
tutes ECONOMY. Rigney Shoes may cost
more by the pair, but they certainly cost less
by the year.
The illustration shows a Tan Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Brown Cloth Insertion Tops,
“Non-Tread-Over” Brand.
Price - - 32,^6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBA NE
I
r.
l tf*’WTT»nmn.«-.
m
THE
f^ff^MULSION
.. prCV*-»
X
>
w;.
\
Horsemen!
IT WILL PAY YOU and PLEASE YOU to
investigate the valuable offer we make you in
connection with Riding Trousers to Order. Dis-
tance makes no difference. Samples are Post
Free. We make to a 6-day schedule. We Pay
Freight and GUARANTEE SATISFACTION.
** L/.5.”
Riding Tr’s, 12/6
(Tailored to
Measure).
Judhpores, 22/6
(Tailored to
Measure).
In Medium-weight
Khaki Drill (as
supplied to the
Military Forces)—
guaranteed to give
Seasons of Wear.
Will not soil
easily, and Im-
proves in the
Wash. Regulation
Riding Cut —Full
Seat —Tapered to
Ankle • Fitting
Closely over Boot.
lii Medium-weight
Khaki Drill of
the same quality
as used in the
Trousers. Style as
shown, which does
away with the
necessity of Wear-
ing Leggings. Cor-
rectly and Com-
fortably Cut and
Tailor -made
throughout. Un-
equalled for Ser-
vice.
r
I Si
WRITE FOR PATTERNS
—they’ll reach you by return, Post
Paid, together with a copy of our
Mail-Order Catalog, Self-Measurement
Forms, Tapes, etc.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
PTY. LTD.,
“ Mail-Order Tailors & Outfitters,”
244-254 Flinders Street. Melbourne.


<
□
fgygjgegj
■iSsSsa
MIX'S
CIDER
Interstate Agents.-—SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. ;
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co. ; ADELAIDE:
AY. P. Auld & Co.; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOAVNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co. ; GERALDTON: A. 11. Mountain & Co.;
HOBART : J. Ferguson & Co. ; LAUNCESTON :
J. McKenzie & Co.; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M.
Ileddrick & Co.
A Noted
Hair Specialist.
There is a clever young English scientist, Margaret
Windeyer, practising her profession of hair and skin
specialist in Sydney, who is going to cause a stir
in this sunny land of ours by the extraordinary things
that she is doing for the hair. She practises what is
known as the Thorl system of hair culture, under
which falling hair, even if it is coming out in hand-
fuls, as it often does, is stopped within a week, or so,
and made firm in the scalp. The dandruff germ is
entirely cleared away so that it cannot return.
Thin, weak, short, broken, decayed hair is made to
spring into life and grow thick, long, strong and
beautiful. It is worthy of note, too, that this re-
markable system of hair culture has the power of
growing thick, healthy, firm hair upon scalps that
have been bald and bare of hair for many years.
The most amazing feature about it is that it entirely
cures grey hair, that is, it brings the natural
original color back to the greyest, whitest hair,
irrespective of whether the hair has been grey since
one was -in one's teens, or whether it is absolutely
all grey,’ or 'half or three-parts grey, or just going
grey. “To have the lost color brought back to one’s
grey hair so that never again in the coming years
of one’s life can a single thread go grey, to be cured
of our baldness, falling hair, dandruff, etc-., to have
our hair given such a start that it’ll just go on
growing thicker and longer year after year without
a bit of bother, worry or expense—that seems to us
to be the kind of relief that is worth seeking and
obtaining with all speed. Nearly the whole of the
first floor of the Bank of N.S.W., 228 Pitt Street
(opposite Palace Theatre), has been taken for this
young Englishwoman’s laboratories, consulting rooms,
etc., and it is pleasing to know that consultations
with her are free. There are private separate and
exclusive waiting-rooms for men folk and for women.
Country dwellers who send a few combings to Miss
Windeyer to be examined under the microscope will
be written to. free of charge, explaining what is
wrong with their hair and the cost of complete per-
manent cure. Her address: Margaret Windeyer, Hair
and Skin Specialist, Bank of N.S.W. (first floor), 228
Pitt Street, Sydney.*
xvvc
BARNET GIASS
WATERPROOF O'COATS
Made in
Australia,
for
Australians.
Barnet Glass
Motor=cycle Suits
Waterproof Raincoats
for Gentlemen
Waterproof Raincoats
for Ladies
are unsurpassed for Style, Quality and
Durability.
BARNET fiLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
All States and N.Z.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTiONS
ENSURING
A. CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/> and 2 9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them by post or from
UL CHEMISTS Wn STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removesthe effects of Sunscorch
SIEMENS
Machine anti Switchgear Works: STAFFORD, ENGLAND.
Cable and Telegraph Works: WOOLWICH, LONDON.
Incandescent Lamp Works: DALSTON, LONDON.
-
m
ii
m
W.
m
m
' %
* .■■ : * 'iSS§>’...,:
I' ! r 'v>. .
' i * 1j JR
. ■ HB i
■>
". -A. * y
, . l
m%k % ? »,
HSkC / .<«|j|. i
,7^jj * **v
. tsu k
,*f ■*- S& %'
fi J ' .. C F
Part of Small Motor Shops: Stafford Works.
Large Australian sStocKs
DC and AC MACHINES
for
Immediate Delivery.
SIEMENS BROS. DYNAMO WORKS LTD.
Head Offices LONDON.
Australian Offices:
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
42 Bridge Street,
Sydney.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
xvc
The Seal
of Safety.
Ams Automatic
Double Seamers.
The Trade Standard.
Progressive Seamers for
Progressive Canners.
Make Your Cans with Ams Machinery
We furnish machines for mak-
ing tin cans of every descrip-
tion, for Sardines, Peas, Fruit,
all Food Products, Spices, Teas.
Coffee, Tobacco, Paint and Oil
Cans.
These machines are automatic throughout, and are fitted with Cover
Feed, Can Straightener and Plunger, and make a very complete and service-
able Double Seamer. They are rigid in construction, complete lubricating
system, ease and convenience in operating, plenty of speed, and will do the
work cut out for them. The can stands still during the seaming operation
and boy or girl can run these double seamers.
Takes all standard sizes including No. 3's. Out-
put over 50 per minute. The 988 for gallon cans
from 4 0 per minute. We are specialists in this
line. It is not a side issue.
We build complete can-making equipments.
Write to us about your intentions. We are in
business to answer questions. Experiment if you
like, but come to Ams for standard.
Send us a sample of what you want to make.
CORRESPONDENCE AND ESTIMATES IN EVERY
LANGUAGE.
MAX AMS MACHINE COMPANY,
MOUNT VERNON, N.Y., U.S.A,
CHARLES M. AMS, President.
Address us direct or through any EXPORT
COMMISSION HOUSE.
rc==sQL3
a
xvcx
“ARABiS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘All A BIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive v'ui. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
[Tricolor Electric Signal Lamp
Red fsr Danger, Green for Caution, White
for A!! Clear—Go afcoad!
■This is the finest Pocket Electro Lamp vet
produced. It has Three Powerful
Lenses —Red, Green and White, with
| which all kinds of signals can be
flashed. By using the Morse code you
can “ talk ” to a friend at a great dis-
tance on a dark night. Yon can
change the color instantly
from white to red or green. Won-
derful effect. Handsome, weil-tnade
lamp with nickelled fittings. The best
f dry battery, needs no preparation.
Only we pay carriage anywhere,
iTIIG tJrxioint Co.. 293 Elizabeth Street, Mclbonme
vxc
xvc
The infamy of robbing the Blind Man of
liis dorg has been surpassed. At Bathurst
(N.S.W.) last week someone stole £8 belong-
ing to the local Belgian Fund.
A Melbourne paper asks for a new name
for the motor-’bus, in view of the many
accidents that have resulted since its appear-
ance on the streets. What about blunder-
bus?
Spurr, the anti-Defenee crank, imported
for the Collins-street Baptist Church in
Melbourne, anti now pulpiteering at Regent's
Park in London, has published “Five Years
Under the Southern Cross.” The Times
calls it a “pleasant and lively volume,” cal-
culated to make everybody pack up and
make tracks for Australia, without delay, to
enjoy a gorgeous climate, delightful fruits,
spacious cities and splendid opportunities—
especially for manual workers, who draw
the highest wages in creation. Incidentally,
The Times expresses the hope that many
will read the book “as an introduction to a
serious study of a vast region which, great
as its advance has been, still offers a multi-
tude of untried opportunities to enterprising
Englishmen.”
Thomas Holden and his wife, of Geelong
(Vic.), discovered a week ago that 50 years
had passed since their partnership com-
menced, and they rejoiced accordingly. They
and their families go back to the beginnings
of Australia. Mrs. Holden’s father was
Seth Hague, one of Melbourne’s first wool-
brokers. Her husband was the son of a sol-
dier in the 17tli Regiment which landed in
Sydney nearly 00 years ago, and had served
over 10 years when he received his discharge
from Colonel Despart in 1836. He was born
at Camden (N.S.W.), but went to Geelong
when the world was 68 years younger, and
found the place agree with him so well that
he stayed on and became a trustee of the
Methodist Church.
Tablets in commemoration of Commis-
sioner Coombs and Colonel Kilbey, in front
of the Salvation Army Temple, in Mel-
bourne, have just been painted out. Yet it
is a simple fact that the acquisition of this
magnificent property was due to the energy
of those two men —in 1895 and thereabouts.
The property cost the Y.M.C.A. £55,000 in
the palmy and balmy time when Mat Davies
was the gorgeous president. He and the
other magnificoes had paid £29,000 off the
debt when the slump came. Coombs and
Kilbey got the lot for. £19.500. How they
raised the money just then nobody knows;
but, anyway, they secured a gigantic plum
for General Booth. The property is now
worth much more than £30,000. Yet
Coombs and Kilbey, who received Booth’s
warmest thanks, have to get out. In the
like spirit the name of Herbert Booth was
scraped off the very fine buildings he
erected, the Training College and Printing
Office. The official histories of the herring-
brained crowd omit all mention of such
valuable workers as Coombs and Kilbey, or
of Pollard and Wright, the pair who pio-
neered the business in Maoriland ; even the
whilom favorites Catherine Booth, the Gen-
eral’s daughter, and Ballington Booth, the
son. But Time will have its revenges, and
we may yet see the name of William Booth
scored through.
From the annual report of Victoria’s
Education Department. concerning the
Little Slaves of the Cow: —
In some parts of the State, particularly in dairy-
ing districts, many children are overworked at home,
and, when they attend school, are unfit to profit I).''
the instruction. .. .In the case of one school the dis-
trict inspector reported as follows on one locality:
“Child-labor is rampant. Of the 31 children in
attendance, 12 milk cows before comma- to school.
One boy eight years of age milks six cows, and one
girl of six years five cows before leaving for school.
Ten of the pupils rise at daylight, summer and
winter. These circumstances operate against the
school, and, as a consequence, only six children have
a chance of reaching grade eight. The details of the
work done by the 12 overworked children are: Child
eight years old milks six cows; child six years old
milks five cows; child 13 years old milks eight
cows; child 11 years old milks five cows; child 13
years old milks six cows and feeds calves; child 10
years old milks six cows and feeds pigs; child 12
years old milks nine cows ; child 10 years old milks
six cows; child 14 years old milks 12 cows; child 12
years of age milks 12 cows ; child nine years of age
milks eight cows ; child 14 years old milks nine cows
and feeds calves.”
The cows!
“Chasuble”: Depledge Sykes, from Stow
Church, Adelaide, is nominated for the Col-
lins-street Independent Church. He has been
a good deal there, and knows that it is a
cold tomb, so he will not be taken in as Ley-
ton Richards, the Englishman, was. Dr.
£. £. Bevan toiled at it for 20 years, but
could not warm it. To be sure, his big
money was safe, for the rents make this
tabernacle quite independent of the plate—-
like those cobwebby London proprietary
chapels, such a one as Bellew’s father had.
However, money will not satisfy absolutely
every soul, and Sykes is credited with a hope
that he can get warmth into the vault. The
only man hitherto able to do it was Tom
.Tones, the Web b poet-preacher.
A FASHION NOTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rhymester’s heart is glad to note
The some-time vanished petticoat
Returns again to fashion ;
For petticoats were all along
A theme to grace a simple song—
With me they were a passion!
Whatever Isabel has worn
Could in no way a verse adorn,
And what it was I know not.
Of asking questions I’ve a fear ;
She won’t display what she may wear,
It may be naught—l trow not.
I hear the modern maids all say
The petticoat is “out.” But, nay!
It is no ugly bustle.
Though girls some newer fashions quote,
Man loves his lady’s petticoat
And its bewitching rustle.
Whatever Isabel may wear
She is—at least, part of the year —
My petticoat, my passion.
Though fashions change and twist about,
The petticoat is never out:
It always is the fashion !
x.s.w.
HAMER.


Government Notices.
VICTORIAN Government Loan Conver-
sion under the authority of Act. No.
2026 as per prospectus published in_ Gov-
ernment Gazette of 14th April,
Interest at 4 per centum free of State
Income Tax.
Act No. 1982 Treasury Bonds 34
per cent., maturing Ist April,
1916 £1,248,500
of which .. .. .. £1,060,000
is offered for conversion.
Applications will be received at the
Revenue and Pay Office, Treasury, Mel-
bourne, until the 15th day of May, 1915,
from holders of 34 per cent. Treasury Bonds
due Ist April, 1916, for the surrender and
conversion of such bonds into —
(a) Four per cent. Victorian Government
Debentures under Act No. 2026, bear-
ing date Ist April, 1915, and due Ist
April, 1921, or
(b) Four per cent. Victorian Government
Inscribed Stock under Act i\o. 2026,
bearing date Ist April, 1915, and
maturing Ist April, 1927.
Conversion will be at the rate of £lOO of
debentures or inscribed stock for each £lOO
of bonds surrendered, and will take effect
from Ist April, 1915.
Forms of application may be obtained at
the Revenue and Pay Office, State Treasury,
Melbourne, where a copy of the authorizing
Act may be inspected.
A. J. PEACOCK. Treasurer of Victoria.
Queensland Government
4 per cent. Debentures
Due Ist July, 1915.
Notice of Redemption or Renewal.
HOLDERS in the Commonwealth of Four
Per Cent. Debentures, amounting in
all to £344,000, issued by the Queensland
Government under authority of “The Gov-
ernment Loan Acts. 1875-1882.” are hereby
notified that the nrincinal sum will be repaid
at par on the First day of July. 1915, on
presentation of any of the said Debentures
at the following places, viz.:—
The Queensland National Bank, Limited,
Queen Street, Brisbane;
The Queensland National Bank, Limited,
Pitt Street, Sydney ;
The Queensland National Bank, Limited,
Collins Street, Melbourne ;
The National Bank of Australasia,
Limited, King William Street, Adelaide.
It is also notified that applications, which
should be addressed to the Under-Secretary,
Treasury, Brisbane, will be received until
31st May proximo from persons desirous of
converting their holdings into Queensland
Government 44 per cent. Debentures, which
will mature on the Ist July. 1925; but the
Government reserves the right to redeem the
Debentures at par any time after the Ist
July, 1920, upon three months’ notice being
given by public advertisement of such in-
tended redemption. Conversion will be at
the rate of £lOO of Debentures for each
£lOO surrendered, and the first half-year's
interest will be payable on the 2nd January.
1916. The new Debentures will be issued
in denominations of £lOOO, £5OO and £lOO,
and applicants are requested to state the
denominations required.
Interest will be paid as usual by the bank-
ing agents of the Government at Brisbane,
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide, free of
exchange, half-yearly on the 2nd January and
Ist July.
W. H. BARNES,
The Treasury. Treasurer.
Brisbane, 9th April, 1915.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, April 10, 1915.
Tenders for Boots.
TENDERS will be received, subject to
the conditions of tendering, until
twelve noon on Monday, 10th May, 1915,
for the supply of Boots for the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy.
Sealed samples may be seen at the office
of the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne; the Victualling Store
Officer, Sydney; and the Naval Staff Office,
Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Fremantle
and Ilobart, where tender forms can also be
obtained.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for
Boots” ‘in top left-hand corner of the
envelope, and addressed (if by post, prepaid)
to the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne ; or the Director of Navy
Contracts, care of the Victualling Store
Officer, Sydney; Naval Staff Office, Bris-
bane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Fremantle or
Hobart, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders are to be in all cases on the
printed forms, which can bt ontained as
above.
G. F. PEARCE.
Minister of State for Defence.
British “PRINCESS”
CREAM SEPARATORS,
xvc
The Cream
Separator that
has stood the
test of time.
The best is the
cheapest in the
long run.
Spare parts
stocked.
AGENTS—
JOHN OANKS & SON PTY.. Ltd., Melbourne.
W. HART & SONS, Launceston.
W. BUCKLEY, Barlow Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
W. A. PRESTON & CO., Brisbane.
Made
by
Watson, Laidlaw 8 Co.,
Engineers,
Glasgow.
THE BANK OF APELAIPE.
FORTY-NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE
SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting- herewith, for the information of Shareholders, the Balance-
Sheet of the Bank as on March 29, 1915, also Statements of Profit and Loss Account and the Reserve Fund
on that date.
The balance to credit of Profit and Loss is .. .. .. .. .. £53,190 11 5
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows:
To Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum .. .. .. 20,000 0 0
leaving a balance of .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £33,190 11 5
to be carried forward.
An Interim Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum was paid in November last.
Since the last Report agencies have been opened at Booborowie and Mypolonga, and the agencies at
Bowhill, Callington, Eastern Well, Monarto South, Purnong and Wilkawatt have been closed.
The General Annual Meeting will be held in the Board Room, at the Head Office of the Bank, King-
William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, May 5, 1915. at 12 noon, at which the Shareholders will be called
upon to elect two Directors in place of James Harvey, Esquire, and George Brookman, Esquire, who retire
by rotation, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Shareholders will also have to elect Two Auditors for the ensuing year, and to fix the remuner-
ation of the retiring Auditors.
BALANCE-SHEET on March 20, 1915.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital paid up £500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund. . 510,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 53,190 11 5
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Balances due to other banks ..
Deposits
Interest accrued on fixed de-
posits and rebate on bills
discounted .. ..
£1,063,190 11 5
11,003 0 0
208,239 12 0
20,266 10 1
3,186,027 6 11
41,929 14 10
£4.830,656 15
ASSETS.
By Specie, bullion
and cash
£4,830,656 15 3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, from March 80, 1914, to March 29, 1915.
To Reserve Fund as
below .. £20,000 0 0
Dividend in May,
1914 .. .. 25,000 0 0
Dividend in Novem-
ber, 1914 .. 20,000 0 0
£05,000 0 0
Balance .. .. .. .. 51,190 11 5
£118.190 11 5
£70,167 14 7
By Balance, March 30, 1914..
Net Profit, includ-
ing recoveries and
after making pro-
vision for bad
and doubtful debts,
interest accrued
on fixed deposits
and rebate on
bills discounted
and expenses at
head office and 52
branches, includ-
ing salaries, rents,
etc £52,484 11
Loss land and in-
come taxes, £4216
4s. 2d. : note tax,
£245 10s.
0
48,022 16 10
£118,190 11
4,461 14 2
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date
..£510,000 0 0
£510,000 0 0
By Balance, March 30, 1914. .
Transfer from Profit and Loss
May, 1914
£490,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
£510,000 0 0
JOHN SHIELS, Manager.
C. F. WREFORD, Accountant.
H. C. E. MITECKE
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE
GEORGE BROOKMAN
JAS. R. FOWLER
Directors.
We have compared the above Balance-Sheet with the books and accounts of the Bank of Adelaide for
the year ending March 29, 1915, and certify that it is a correct abstract of the same. We have counted
the cash and examined the bills on hand at the head office, the Assets and Liabilities at the branches other
than London, have been taken on the certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective
branches, and those of the London branch as cabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, April 14. 1915.
W. L. WARE. F.C.P.A. )
WILLIAM XEILL, F.C.P.A. f
Auditors.
tKe World!
1 f i\oi" oLTairvalle ir\ vour serve! direct" to
W. H.Scholz l Sory, Wurioolpa, Soutk Austelia.
SCHOLZS
11 rvi n\e r\T
(0/
60 year; repu
(jure/
jl^Joint/
jciafica
fluid onlKe Knee
c:
{Vice
c 6
m
Will i
&
sO
.
O.
V
3Ea
mm
m •
m
MWm
.
f
W?>
B 0
\'«P?
mss
iUiUs. '::"■ „
8
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
SYMPTOMS of KIDNEY TROUBLE
ARE YOU IN DANGER THROUGH
IGNORANCEV
Nearly all of our readers suffer from
aches and pains of some kind at one time
or another. Aches and pains very often
mean kidney troubles. Such symptoms as
constipation, backache, improper action of
the bowels, pains in muscles and joints,
nasty taste in the mouth first thing in the
morning, swelling of the feet, cloudy urine,
a general feeling of weakness and irrita-
bility, backache, all these are symptoms of
kidney trouble.
They are caused by the poisonous acid in
the blood which the kidneys should remove,
but they do not owing to their being in a
weak state.
To cure kidney trouble of any kind you
must positively get rid of the cause—the
poisonous uric acid. Remember, to do this
a real remedy must pass through the kid-
neys and the bladder, and not through the
bowels, as most kidney pills do. When you
see the urine change to a muddy bluish color
—a feature which distinguishes De Witt’s
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing
touch on the right spot—the kidneys and
the bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to
the kidneys—that is the reason why I)e
Witt’s give such amazingly quick relief
every time. A permanent cure follows in
almost every case.
DE WITT’S KIDNEY and BLADDER PILLS
can be obtained at any of the branches of
Washington H. Soul Pattinson & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney; Longmore’s The Melbourne Phar-
macy, Bourke Street, Melbourne, and all
leading chemists at 2/9 and 5/6 per large
box. The 5/6 size is two and a half times
as large as the 2/9 ’size, and contains
enough doses to last you three weeks. Try
your nearest chemist, but if you have any
difficulty in obtaining De Witt’s Pills send
the price of the package required to either
of the firms mentioned above, and the goods
will be sent by return, post free.*
Helpless with
Rheumatism, till
NOIIMOS
N.QNOIOC
cured him
9 Byron c trcet, Kew, Vic.
“ Having a s vere atta k of Rheu-
matism, I was laid up for three
months; at times quite helpl S', and
unable to attend my work, I tried
a nu her of r medies without getting
any rel ef. 1 was advised to u e
your Solomon Soli tion the' result
was wond ufui; aft r u jiu&two jars
1 was qi.d*Vllr< <1 and Situe to attend
my work.
(5 igned) Albert Allen,
l arge Jars 5/- Irm C hurts jsts,
S tO! es ai d’ Sadd err every-
where, or post free for 5/6
fr m
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
L.R.W.


HAVE YOU a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being-
ulcerated. the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Piiis
which you will find a certain restored. Can
be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/114 and 2/9.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.
Agents — LONDON, E.C.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL.
PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
5 aimed shots in
vcx
• 280 Calibre
High Velocity
vxc
2! seconds
The choice of your rifle and am-
munition help to decide the success
of the hunting trip you have planned
for months.
To see game, after you
have hunted it for days
and anticipated it for
months.and have your shot
drop short, or yourbullet
•whizz over it, or pass
through without bringing
it down these are keen
disappointments. With
the Ross .280 and the Ross
sporting ammunition with
copper tube expanding
bullet (patented) you have
the best combinatiom to
ensure the success of your
hunting trip.
Rossßifles
Ross Sporting Rifles are
used by the most exper-
ienced of big game hunters
all over the world.
Full illustrated Catalogue on request.
Ross Rif leCo.,Quebec, Canada.
515
0
Malt a
AN
RALJ
w
Savoy Hotel, Perth
(The Ritz of the West).
80 Luxurious Apartments.
Ball, Banquet, Reception and English Grill
Room.
SAVOV LOUNGE TEAS.
Perth’s Fashionahle Function,
EXCLUSIVE ORCHESTRA.
c £
s m
Recherche Dinners.
Smart Lunches,
Exquisite Suppers.
American Bar.
Wire “SAVOY, PERTH.”
G. D. PORI'US. Proprietor.
For Public Information only. PROSPECTUS of
Boyds Molybdenite Yetkolme Mines No Liability
Yetholme, New South Wales.
CAPITAL. —£20,000 divided into 20,000 shares of £1 each.
7200 Fully Paid-up Shares to Vendors.
2000 Fully Paid-up Shares to Promoters.
5800 Contributing Shares, payable 5/- per share on application, 5/- per share on allotment, and the
balance in calls not to exceed 1/- per share per month.
5000 Shares are held in reserve.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
PETER LESLIE, Bondi. J. G. PURVES, Glebe. W. A. -T. MARSHALL, Hill End.
R. H. WARREN, Burwood. D. M. MARSHALL, Hill Eend. EDWIN NICHOLS, Paddington.
It. J. BOYD, Yetholme. ®
LEGAL MANAGER: OLIVE A. COOPER, Gibbs Chambers, 7 Moore Street, Sydney.
BANKERS: THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE LIMITED, Head Office, Sydney,
SOLICITORS: Messrs. WEBSTER & MACLEAN, 7 Moore Street, Sydney.
Boyds Molybdenite Yetholme Mines, No Liability, is being formed to acquire from Boyds \ etholme
Syndicate their Molybdenite Mine, situated four miles from Yetholme and about the same distance from
Gemalla or Locksley Railway Stations, comprising an area of 45 acres. .
The discovery of Molybdenite at Yetholme was made by Messrs. Kirk and Wade during’ 1914— 1
Boyd’s mine was discovered later, during the latter part of the year, and is about one mile distant front
Kirk and Wade’s leases. Open cuts have proved the lode to run through the whole length of Boyd’s Lease
and the outcrop shows the width to be 100 yards and upwards.
Sufficient development work has not yet been done to enable anyone to estimate the value of a lode
of such magnitude, but already an unlimited supply of good grade ore has been exposed assaying up to
47 per cent.
A suitable treatment plant will be erected as speedily as possible, and vigorous development work
proceeded with at the mine.
It is safe to say that the present price of Molybdenite—over £7OO per ton —cap fall a long way
and this property still produce the metal at a big profit.
In purchase of the property the Vendors receive 7200 Fully Paid-up Shares and £BOO in cash. The
Promoters receive 2000 Fully Paid-up Shares.
The only contracts entered into on behalf of the Company are those of which particulars are stated
hereunder.
(«) March 22, 1915. Agreement, Frederick Buckridge, Thomas Maccabec Boyd, Henry John Boyd,
Hugh Turner, Eliza Boyd, Mary Boyd and Emily Turner, with William Alexander John Marshall creat-
ing an option over mining properties.
(b) March 23, 1915. Agreement, William Alexander John Marshall with Clive Ashley Cooper (on
behalf of the Company) for the sale and purchase of the options created by the above-mentioned agreement.
Dated at Sydney, March 23, 1915.
Form of Application for Shares.
Boyd’s Molybdenite Yetholme Mines, No-Liability, Yetholme, New South Males.
CAPITAL, £20,000 —Divided into 20,000 Shares at £1 each.
7200 Fully Paid-up Shares to Vendors.
2000 Fully Paid-up Shares to Promoters.
5800 Contributing Shares payable 5/- per share on application, 5/- per Share on allotment, and the
balance in calls not to exceed 1/- per Share per month.
5000 Shares held in reserve. -
To the Provisional Directors, c/o Clive A. Cooper, 7 Moore Street, Sydney.
In terms of Prospectus dated March 23, 1915, I hereby apply for Shares in the above
Company.
I enclose herewith £ , being the application money at 5/- per Share, and I agree to pay
5/- per Share on allotment, and the balance in calls as required.
I authorise you to place my name on the list of Shareholders, and I agree to be bound by the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
Name *.
Address ;....'
Date
Information for the Housewife.
CLARK’S
CAST-IRON
SAUCEPANS,
BOILERS, KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as the; lightest Enamelled Ware, and will last
a lifetime- instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust. Handles that will not slip in the hand.
Please note the
Hygienic Slia p e
and the Patent,
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
SECTION
£.
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S hollow-ware IS THE BEST
Austra.la.sian Agent: A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne.
I#
This is a
Man’s Wristlet
There’s a certain sturdiness of build—a bold-
ness of line —in this little WRISTLET WATCH
that instantly appeals to matter-of-fact men.
The movement is fullv-jewelled Lever, tested
thoroughly by our workmen, and fitted into a
solid Oxidised Steel Case, complete with Leather
Strap. Bushiest men —workers —-soldiers —and
men of leisure will find'this Wristlet of excep-
tional value and wonderful accuracy. This is
the Watch that we supplied in hundreds to the
members of the First Expeditionary Force.
Sent Anywhere
for
20/-
A valuable little Book on 'Watches will be sent
to any address on request. Write for a copy.
Stewart Dawson s
STRAND CORNER,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks, Novelties.
Our New Catalog is a Novelty in itself. Write for one, it’s Free.
THE MAGIC COINER. With this little machine you can
make sixpences, simply by placing a round piece of tin on the
machine and then placing a cover over it and lifting it oft.
Post flee, with full instructions, 17-
SPECIAL. —Box of 6 assorted Wire
Puzzles, with instructions, post free, 1/3.
The Magic Coiner and the Box of
Puzzles sent together for 1/9.
\VI
rw>-
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.—New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office, Sydney.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. Jo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Annette L.: Tired of the fluster about
George V. setting an example by giving up rum.
Start an agitation to get Queen Mary to set an
example by giving up bargain sales.... Straight
Painting: There should be a par. in that rupture, but
your scheme is no use. . . .It. Moore: This paper did
not state “repeatedly,” or at any time, that America
guaranteed the neutrality of Belgium. At hat it said
(l/4/’lo) was that the U.S. was a party to the
Hague Convention. The Hague Convention agreed
that certain acts were inadmissible in civilised war-
fare — suc h acts as Germany is committing every day
in Belgium—and the recreancy of the U.S. consists
in looking on without a protest. This is the view,
by the way, not only of Britishers, but of Yankees like
ex-President Roosevelt... .Barcoo: Thanks; but that
shameless cadge has already been dealt with. .. .AV.5.11.:
Meaning of Biragambil and Guntawang? Don't know.
Mulga: Don't know how, where or why the
phrase, “Let her go, Gallagher,” originated....
M. 8.: That shin-plaster yarn first appeared in ore
of the 12 books of the Bible that were lost
Barcoo: Terrible death; but a couple of years ago
when the yarn was printed in The Bulletin the man
was reported to have put his hand into the tree aper-
ture for wild honey Liz: Good Inky subject, but
you haven’t written it. AVhy not have done some-
thing with the special Joffre article?... .A. Wag:
Don’t boast about your lack of imagination. If you
are dull, try to conceal the dreadful fact... .E.F.L.:
You are still on the three-volume racket, and we
really can’t spare the time to read you... .Ronald
AV.: Where did you get your Abes and Ezras and
hogs and icecream from ? These things are not, often
met with in real Australian literature E.At.A. :
Amiable ambling rhymes without any bright ideas.
....Mrs. G. B.: Regret verses quite unsuitable....
AY.ILL.: Ponderous thing. .. .Frank E.: Story labori-
ously told. .. .P.J.K.: Better save up your fury for
the next war... .R.D.J.: Sonnet seems uncalled for.
.... H.G'.R.: Mild humor on a worn theme. .. .
W.l 1.T.: Good try. It just misses.... Shickey:
Rather clumsy.... E.B. (N.S.AAL) : Don’t repeat the
dose R.M.Y.: Unsuitable K.A.E.: It isn’t quite
verse, and you couldn’t classify it as prose....
L.H.J.Ti: Probably it wasn’t intended for you. Para-
graphs are very rarely referred to in this column,- the
reason being that there are too man,- of them....
Helen F.: It had the bad luck to be read on a
dripping, grey day, But even brilliant sunshine
wouldn’t have saved it. . . .F.G. (S.A.) : AA 7 e fail to
see why we should apologise to you for pointing out
to you that the verses were the work of another
man. The position is that you sent in (presumably
for sale) the literary property of somebody else, and,
being challenged, have not a satisfactory explanation
to offer. You don’t even sign your silly, blustering
letter. Better give up literature —more especially
other people’s literature Bellerive: In sombre
mood :—•
....Mattie A. P. : Not enough color or force....
V. : You must hope harder... . Kangaroo: Verses
don’t grip with their teeth, or hang by their tails. . . .
M.P.S.: Sorry candidate defeated... .A. E.R.: Sincere
but smoothly commonplace... .A.E.M.: The first
attempt is always forgiven and forgotten... .G. Hooli-
gan: This paper didn’t ridicule Hagelthorn’s idea that
national efficiency should be increased. What it did
say, and prove, was that it isn’t necessary to import
'a Yankee professor to tell us how to be more
efficient —anyway, not until we have stopped a
hundred leakages that are obyious to hundreds of
thousands of Australians who are not professors.
The last Yankee professor who came this way to
teach us national efficiency was Mills, of Milwaukee.
HagelthcfVn might ask Massey, of Maori land, what he
thinks of that savior?
TO ARTISTIC (AM) INARTISTIC)
CORR lIS PON DENTS.
A.E.H.: Thanks; but too complicated.... .Annie
W. : Did you ever see women of that shape?....
•J.S.P.: You can’t draw yet.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant'': —.
“Monkbarns” (B. 15/4/’lf>) is wrong in stating
that John Thomas Smith, seven times Mayor of Mel-
bourne, was- in partnership with Mark Last King as
a timber merchant in Sydney. John Thomas Smith
started life in Sydney, where his father was a shoe-
maker, as a clerk in the Bank of Australasia. He
was just out of his ’teens when he went to Mel-
bourne as assistant teacher at the Aboriginal Mission.
Then he became clerk to John Hodgson, who advised
him to start in business for himself. About where
Temple Court is now John Thomas Smith, in IS3S,
kept a little tobacco shop. Later, he married a
daughter of Mick Pender, licensee of the Shamrock
Inn in Flinders-lane. Mick set up his three sons-iu-
law in pubs, John Thomas being established in the
Adelphi, Flinders-lane. He had a unique public
career. He was an alderman from the birth of the
Melbourne corporation until his death, and he was a
member of the first Legislative Assembly, and held
that seat, too, until he was too dead to hold any-
thing.
A bit of Emden wreckage from Singapore :
Seen anything of a gentleman named Diehn? lie
was the manager of Behn, Meyer and Co., one of the
largest Hun firms in these parts. When ship
after ship was so easily found and scuttled
by the Kmden, and when the pirate sank a
Russian cruiser and French destroyer at Penang
while they were getting cleaned, the Government
smelt a rat as large as a whale, and made investiga-
tions. The result was that they unearthed a powerful
wireless installation and two German operators at
Diehn’s home. Diehn was tried and sentenced to 15
years’ imprisonment. The Emden did practically
nothing afterwards. When the sth Light Infantry
mutinied and opened the gates of the German en-
campment, Diehn was One of the few who escaped,
and he succeeded in getting aVvay to Sumatra. Now
the Government is trying to put its hand on him,
and is working with an assiduity which must be
making Herr Diehn very uncomfortable.
LINKS ON AN OLD NEGLECTED BURIAL
GROUND, HOBART, TAS.
Upon the hardened turf,
Above human bones,
Shattered and wrecked,
Lay old' tombstones.
Around the paths and beds
Where once flowers did bloom
Wild weeds did twine in
The yard of gloom.
Privations and trials brave
Proud wealth can leave
But cannot defy the
Dark wormy grave.
I realised the power
And work of fate
As I turned away
From the rickety gate.


BRITISH
CB<
T-H
MADE
IRONCLAD SWITCHGEAR
(Serviceable and Economical)
xvc
vc
xvc
vxc
vxcv
is manufactured by the
BRITISH THOMSON-H9USTON CO. LTD
RUGBY, ENGLAND,
for the control of all workshop, raining and outdoor circuits.
Oil Switches are totally enclosed, dust- and drip-proof;
can be mounted on wall or floor, and assembled in a variety
of ways to suit local conditions.
The standard test to which this gear is subjected is
10,000 volts, irrespective of its normal working voltage.
ASK FOR BULLETIN No. 4154-
xv
xcvxc
Representing THE BRITISH THOMSON-HOUSTON COY. LTD., Rugby, England; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., Schenectady,
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd. (W.A.), Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
A gencs —
‘Mazda House.” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
vxc
TIYRES
ENDURING
9
w
4*
as becomes Britishers
A TREAD of the toughest and most resilient rubber
ever “ cured,” and a more generous depth of it than
is to be found in most tyres —
Fabric walls of sturdy strength, woven from finest
Egyptian yarn and proofed with pure Para —
Super-strong beads fitting snugly and distributing
strain with scientific nicety—
These are some of the reasons why British AVON
TYRES achieve comfort and safety in the highest degree,
endurance to the furthest limit, economy that motorists
can definitely trace in “ pounds, shillings and pence.”
as
JKr
<v
.V
STOCKISTS & AGENTS:
N. J. Howes & Co., 212 Clarence Street,
Sydney; H. C. Pannifex, Melbourne;
E. H. Fothergill, Ltd., Fremantle;
Guinness & Le Gen, Timaru, N.Z., etc.
AVON GOLF BALLS. —Longest drive,
sweetest feel, easiest control. Agent:
Norman Allwood, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
-MAKE MOTORING
CHEAPER - SAFER -
MORE COMFORTABLE
ZONOPHONE
DOUBLE-SIDED RECORDS
vcx
vxc
10-inch
3-
12-inch
S/-
“the Records that
won’t wear out.”
Long after other makes of Records
are “played out,” you will lind
Zono. Double Discs still clear and
tuneful.
There are SIX BIG REASONS
why you should always specify
Zonophone Records: —
1. Each Record has two selections.
2. You get TWO Masterpieces at
the price of ONE.
3. Every Zono. Artist has a big
reputation.
4. The Records are well made.
They wear well.
5. The reproduction is absolutely
true to life.
6. They are BRITISH and there-
fore BEST TO BUY.
Accredited dealers in every important centre.
If you do not know of one, write to us for address, instrument catalogue,
record list, etc.
The British Zonophone Co. Ltd.,
Hoffnung’s Chambers, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Hanking, Public Companies, Stc.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 31% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by ths Govsrnment.
By order of the Commissioners.
J. IT. DAVIES. Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY-
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ;
lion. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE AVORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1914) .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £55,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton. Esq.; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq.; Herrert R. Lysagiit, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 178,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ;
James Love, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .-. .. 1,755,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,755,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cotten, Esq. . . . . Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Auditors; F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq
General Manager: T. A. Dirbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector-
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. IT S
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world
Bank of |jeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING.
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £1,000.000
Preference Shares .. .. .. 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
«P • • 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial fljutual tife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 431 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South AA'ales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping, & c .
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
0l;~9VA .
ORONTES .
OMR AH
. • Geared Turbine 16,000 Reed. Ton*.
..Triple-Screw.. 13,000
• Twin-Screw.. 12,130
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,252
"'KfcKSSfr JSZSi ‘“Tth
££?&£& SStJST- Priv “ ,e
. r r sailings from BRISBANE SYDNEV
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE ’
ORIENT S.N. CO., I v td.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railway?.
Steamers.
MOANA ..
•MARAMA
Leave Svdney
Noon.
May 22
June 19
Leave
Wellington.
May 27
June 24
And every 28 days thereafter.
H* e finest, largest and newest Steamer trading
between Sydney and San • Francisco.
Panama Pacific Exhibition now open at San
Francisco.
Around Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
by Canadian-Austraiasian Royal Mail Line or via
Japan and China.
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACIIAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping' for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 1.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May 5.
Leaves Sydney May 8.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May 12.
Leaves Sydney May 16.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S. A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 8.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. Peregrine (3500 tons) leaves Brisbane every
Friday at 9 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at
GLADSTONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting
at TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports
as far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
May 8; June 5; July 3; July 31.
'ppiy:— O CE A NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
<4 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
?0 RE
RABAUt
&
TOv/
hi,
fiV/4
*<?
% £
j AV4
r<s
<*>
BRISBANE
wfsu*nuvUolf~ LORD
HOW6
y///s7//A
IIIBOURNW
,-4
- NORFOLK
I*
Holidays
TO ‘
tIA VA.SiNGAPORE
& Pacify Isles.
Burns Ptmp& C 9L t p
Send for Pamphlet*
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
vxc
vxcvc
v
£3,500,000
£2,500,000
£3,500,000
£9,500 000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C. -
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
„ AUJHTORSj—WiIIiam Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., ec
347 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world
. -T RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Eiberal Eand Laws,
Potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Eocal Director.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
t -
JSank«Suotralia
B
SYDNEY
General Banking 1 Business
Open
•for ail
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
ii'tiltitd t a ' ,rl dr:l,t f dr ' wn on foreign places direct. Foreign Irlls negotiated and collected.
Exchange R™ , , / t 0 J P arto '. the world ' * illh negotiated or forwaroed for collection Banking and
Cnrreni g Lcon it nne.7, ery transacted within the Com,nonwealth. United Kingdom and abroad
«. urrent accounts opened Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances male against approved securities.
In the
principal
Saving’s Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from .
1/- to £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia,
and Paaua
Interest at q O /
per annum &/ 0
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Gorernor.
DENIS 'X MILLER. Governor
THE
11 NIT Ell insurance
(Jill I ECU COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marins Ris'cs
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The "United” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLTCY, Manager.
WHEN YOUR INVITATION TO A
FANCY-DRESS BALL
comes along, don’t puzzle over what you will
go as, but call on
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO.,
and they will suggest for you from a wonder-
land of fancy dresses and costumes. For
years The Buttonhole Co., 1.0.0. F. Temple,
Elizabeth Street (opp. Mark Foy’s), Sydney,
has won all the first prizes at carnivals and
displays. Wigs made and sold.
Special attention given to the dresoing
of operas, children’s plays & fancy sets.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED). .
EXPRESS FASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
May 8 and June 5.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
GRANTALA (5000 tons),
May 8
WANDILLA (8000 tons),
May 22, June 19,July ]7.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIIjL & CO., IjTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.'
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST AND
FINEST VESSELS TRADING BETWEEN AUS-
TRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
xcxcv
Iriple-Serew Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nurserj r , Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Panama Pacific Exhibition is now the great
attraction.
AROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning from San
Francisco by Union S.S. Co.’s Royal Mail Line or
via Japan and China.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD,
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”
T.S.S. “KYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
10,000 tons
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
"| IB HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY’, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars applv:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ' ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545.634 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,476 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 0 0
£780,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. *======
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents .throughout the World.


CAN ADD
the final touch to a well-dressed
appearance by wearing ABBEY
SHOES.
Above we illustrate our latest
model, a choice Patent Oxford Bal.,
with Dull Calf Tops 85/-
In highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf 32/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of Our Catalog,
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne#
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Motel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH. Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
WE TRUST YOU!
Try
7-Vy
£3 12/9 down,
balance 15/- per
month.
STANDARD
VISIBLE.
L. C. SMITH MODEL NUMBER 2.
Perfect machine, standard size, keyboard,
back spacer. Complete with cover, tools,
ribbon, etc. A machine worth £2O for
£lO/15/6.
Carriage prepaid to any seaport.
Send us Post Office Order or Bank Draft for
£3/12/9, and we will ship you at once
this wonderful machine, or write us for
further information. The most liberal type-
writer sffev ever made. Bank references.
Harry A. N. sth Ave., Chicago, U.S.A.
A few reliable Resident Agents wanted.
The Best Tyre
A Michelin Red Inner Tube
in
A Michelin Cover*
Both are made in
ONE QUALITY ONLY—THE BEST.
MICHELIN TYRES AND ACCESSORIES
can be obtained from all the leading Agents.
(Michelin Tyres are made in France).
G. 6.
11l
ORLICKS MALTED
2H2
NOW IS THE TIME TO TEST IT.
To all those who are lacking in robust health or are run down from any
cause whatsoever, Horlicks is warmly recommended. It is an ideal restora ive
for the wife and mother in the home, as well as for the husband or business man
unduly harassed at his daily calling. Children thrive upon it.
Sample will be sent on receipt of 2d. in s'ambs.
HUTCHINSON & CO-, 26. Jamieson St eel, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ts INVM-
'“WUNC
KUITCD _
Nrrr.T
„»UOO CHOtA'T,
There is never any question about a dress made of
LOUIS VELVETEEN. Fresh charm, dainty
grace, style and dignity characterise every length of
this beautiful material. For your protection see that
every yard is marked with the letters L-O-U-I-S.
m
mm
Sii
m
Velveteen
o^s
EVER TRIED A “PLUM” RAZOR?
xvc
vc
xvcx
If you haven’t, then you don’t know what a real comfortable shave you
can obtain with a “Plum.” It’s a real champion razor, with a keen-
edged blade that glides over the face and leaves it smooth and soft.
We are practical tradesmen, and know the edge required to give
best results. Therefore you can always rely on a “Plum.” Prove it
yourself—•
ORDER ONE TO-DAY—IO/6 post free.
We keep it in perfect, order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE SXREEX, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVEB SO YEABS.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
■yOU begin to
* look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
OS
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and- restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
TELESCOPES
A good Telescope affords a view of delight-
ful experiences, and makes each outing highly
instructive, as well as intensely interesting.
The “RANGER” is made of solid brass,
three draw tubes, cap for object glass, and
revolving disc for eye-piece, to keep out dust.
Good definition, and magnifies over eight
diameters, with splendid range.
The “Ranger” Telescope
Post Free, 12/0*
Only obtainable from
A.P. Greenfield § Co. Ltd.,
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.


The Evcrleigh
Stetson’s American
fur Felt Lounge Hat
This is a popular style, made in
new Brown and medium Fawn
colors.
It has a smart, open, curl brim,
cut edge, about 2f inches wide.
Can be turned up or down at will.
A splendid hat for satisfactory
wear.
Price 30|-
Post
Free.
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
The Big Block, Brisbane
BRISBANE'S LEADING HOTEL
The Gresham
is under new management and has
been made right up to date, having all
the most modern improvements.
The Sewerage System has been in-
stalled on an elaborate scale, which
overcomes Brisbane’s greatest menace.
Proprietor,
T. M. AHERN.
SOAPKO.
It Surpasses
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR• ¥n TABLETS;
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS. .
Send Six Penny-Stamps for Box containing Sample
Manager, . of each kind.
SOAPKO PROPY., Box 685 G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
- --w. ‘ ” - • ■ - -•
HOW Of It GRANDMOTHERS
MANAGED TO ROOK YOUNG
AT SIXTY.
“It is strange,” remarked an old chemist the
other day, “that so many women nowadays
persist in trying all sorts of injurious patent
systems and _ complicated treatments, hoping
to restore ruined complexions or improve the
.appearance of their skins, when thoy might
easily do so by the simple home remedies of
their grandmothers. In olden times a woman
looked comparatively young at 60, while now
most women have blemished complexions long
before they are 30. Yet nothing new has
been invented anything like so effective as
the old-time lotion used by famous French
Court beauties, such as Recamier and Du
Barry, to preserve their youthful appear-
ance. The recipe was so simple: just 2oz.
rosewater, 1 dram tincture of benzoin, and
2oz. ordinary flowers of oxzoin, which any
chemist will supply. Mix the lotion well,
then apply with a soft cloth. If you apply
it regularly it will not only keep the skin
free from- wrinkles, but will quickly restore
the dullest complexion. My own daughter is
nearly 50 years old, and in this way she
keeps her face looking so young and fresh
that most'people think she has not reached
the age of 35.”
. The above advice'indicates such a simple,
harmless means to rejuvenate the appear-
ance, that* it is published- for the benefit of
lady, readers.*
GIVE YODR FAMILY
anAMBEROLA
They bring' good
cheer into the home.
.Yes, there is no musical instrument that
for versatility and all round excellence
could please your family just as much as
an Amberola.
The Amberola has. a beautiful appear-
ance, perfect tone, and is easily carried
from, one room to another—on the lawn
on the verandah—or may be taken on
the launch, or to the week-end camp.
One thing is certain, that wherever it is
it will delight any audience —no matter
how exacting.
Amberolas play New Blue Amberol Records,
and prices range from £8 10s. to £-45.
. Enquire ,of your local . dealer, or write-
direct to us for free literature.
THOMAS A. EDTSON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent St., Sydney.
IN
BANANA LAND
Only one Brisbane daily, the Telegraph,
supports Denham wholeheartedly. The
Mail uses the stiletto ; the Courier damns
with faint praise; the small fry pray and
scoff by turns.
The irony of things. Scarcely has Rob-
erts, the: Yankee chemist, successfully demon-
strated that his arsenious chloride, if not
capable ; of absolutely destroying pear in
immense areas, is yet an infallible means of
checking, its spread, than Western graziers
come along testifying that pear is their sal-
vation in drought time. Unless rain comes
shortly, pastoralists in some parts will be
taking out an injunction against arsenious
chloride and denouncing Oliver Cromwell
Roberts as a public enemy.
Queensland Ministers are prattling every-
where : “Our railways pay their way.” The
State has just renewed a loan for £1i,728,000
at a price which makes the nominal 4\ per
cent, nearly 4f, while official statistics show
that the railway system is returning a net
£3 7s. 6d. per cent. Practically the whole
of the loan renewed was spent on line con-
struction, so that Bananaland has money
borrowed at 4| per cent, bringing in some-
what less than 3} per cent. That is how
the Queensland railways “pay their way.”
“Opus”: I have just returned from a
critical inspection of tropical Queensland in
time to tell two recent Bulletin inquirers
that I don’t think much of the cocoanut-
growing prospects up there. Reasons
(amongst others) : Scale, exorbitant ship-
ping freights and erratic, facilities for trade.
Incidentally, I noted mangoes, flyblown, are
wasted in hundreds of tons. What’s wrong
with the freer manufacturing of chutney to
eat with the salt horse and cold cow so
extensively devoured these times ? Cascara
bean that grows so luxuriantly is of no com-
mercial use—it is not sagrada. Tamarinds
are wasted in shiploads, despite their many
uses. Strychnine bean flourishes ungar-
nered in scrubs. Wasted also are “wild”
pumpkins, tomatoes, marrows and sweet-
bucks sufficient to feed expeditions. In the
canning factories tanks of what ought to be
syrup are discarded in the guise of pine-
apple peelings. But why worry? There
might be a surplus of foodstuffs on the
market, and that would perchance mean
HALF-PRICE.
THE McT AVISH: Threepence, ye say? Have ye no half-price for a man wi' one eye?”
fewer cigars for the struggling middleman.
Australia ought to cut £lO,OOO off the cost
of its representation through the Pie Com-
missioner’s office in London and spend it in
a cold-blooded inquiry into the reasons why
tropical products are wasted and the means
of stopping the sin.
Queensland’s new Governor told the
local Historical Society that he didn’t know
the country had any history. What! No
history? iJjas he been three weeks in the
State and no yet met the Macintosh, M.L.A.,
and heard the story o’ his kilts?
Queensland has £344,000 of short-dated
4 per cent, debentures coming home to roost
on July 1: and though the holders can have
the cash if they want it, they can also con-
vert to 4i Per cent, debentures if they like
that better. The new per cents" will
mature in 1925>. but will be redeemable at
the Government’s option- any time after
1920.
The desperate efforts made by Brisbane
hospitals to keep-afloat are really a public
scandal. Judging by the reports of the
General Hospital it seems that every visitor
to the city is., badgered for aid, or asked- to
do something to raise the wind. The con-
cerns simply live from hand to mouth. Yet
when Arthur Morgan, as Premier, introduced
a Bill to compel the landowners in the city
and suburbs to provide for the sick poor, a
noise went up in protest loud enough to be
heard in the Gulf, and the Upper House fired
out the measure with great gusto. They
liked the present policy of cadge a hundred
times better.
The luck of the seasons will be against
Labor-leader Ryan, even if he gets a majority
in the current general election. The mon-
soonal rains have done very little for most
of the big sugar districts this summer, and
it is upon the monsoons that the cane de-
pends. On present appearances the next
sugar harvest will be the poorest for many
years, and the one following will be affected
by the drought which has blocked planting
operations this season.
It is 50 years ago this month since Samuel
Griffith, now Chief Justice of Australia, was
awarded the Mort travelling scholarship by
the Sydney University, having won the
highest honors up to graduation. He was
a great student, a great lawyer, and he is
greater than all as a Judge. But probably
because he was made to be a great Judge
he was one of the worst politicians that ever
won to the Premiership of a State which has
suffered from many poor ones.
“P.”: Has Bishop Frodsham, once of
Townsville, got a- press agent too? A
recent number of the World’s 'WORK re-
marks concerning him: —
They were wont to call him the Citizen Bishop in
North Queensland on accou-nt of his wise leading: of
public affairs.
I know Townsville and North Queensland
well, yet I never once heard of a “Citizen
Bishop” or of the personally popular Frod-
sham’s alleged “wise leading in public
affairs.” I know he could drive a team of
horses, and that counted for something; but
as for “wise leading in public affairs”—
'rubbish!
Little Warra, on the Western line, is
wearing a bigger hat these times. Hitherto
it has been a bit proud of itself because
Jerry Jerome was a local product. Now it
is prouder, because it has discovered a
second black proposition. Coal has been
struck alongside the railway station, and
the find is being vigorously exploited. As
W ayra is about 80 miles out from Too-
woomba, on the Charleville line, the rail-
ways are watching it closely. Commissioner
Evans saw the mine the other day and then
gave the fuel a preliminary trial, with satis-
factory results.
Root, Hog—and Die!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Owing to a shortage of fodder nearly 1,000,000
German pigs are billetted in Belgium.
—London Daily Mail.
When Flanders late was overrun by swine
Hungry from Wilhelm’s land across the
Rhine,
The fields were rooted out
By many a greedy snout
That sought the hoggish wherewithal to
dine—
When Flanders late was overrun by swine.
The Belgian burgher trembled in the frost;
To hogs lie saw his daughter’s virtue tossed ;
The nose of foreign boar
AVas in at every door
And grunting was the password and the
sign—■
When Flanders late was overrun by swine.
The women rooted out from cot to street;
The children driven the road with wearv
feet;
The weak and lame , and old —
Sans hope, sans bread, sans gold—
Rooted from hearth and patriarchal vine
AA'hen Flanders late was overrun by swine!
The church was littered as a noisome sty,
The priest was rooted from his flock to fly
Before the anguished cry—
“ The Hogs are coming by !”
The flats of Flanders shivered to the brine —
When late the land was overrun by swine.
The tusks were deeply dyed a bloody red ;
They rooted even among the murdered dead ;
And. when the maw was full
And teeth were getting dull
They wallowed in the still undrunken wine—
When Flanders late was overrun by swine.
And now the Lord Hog sits aloft in state
And raises up his anthem all elate:
“ ’Tis I that wear the crown, .
The rest of you are down—-
Hear, hear me squeal in triumph o’er the
Rhine—-
This land is now the Province of the
Swine !”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 24, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
Yice-royalty has been fairly occupied this
week. It visited the Southport flower show,
attended a fete at the Junction Park State
School, and on Friday night the head serang
was at the St. George dinner. To-day both
Exes, are due at a skating carnival in
aid of a patriotic fund, and Suburbia is
impatient to know if lie or She
intends to glide. When the Governor
and his missus engage with an un-
crowned Mayor and Mayoress in a rifle-
shooting contest, one never knows what to
expect. By the bye, in the rifle match, his
Ex. and Lady Goold-Adams each scored 63
out of a possible 70. Some spiteful people
hint that they addressed the marker as
“Charlie.” Mrs. Davey, the little Mayoress
of South Brisbane, notched 26, which was
three better than his Worship.
The Red Cross fete at the Junction Park
School was a social, artistic and financial
success. That was'the general result. As
for the details, Premier Denham made an
impassioned speech, urging all and sundry
to do their best for “our husbands” at the
Front. Lady Goold-Adams, whose voice is
really too gentle for public speaking, made a
pleasant little speech, and to the great joy
of the neighborhood managed to remember
exactly the number of garments made and
the amount of cash gathered by the
Stephens Shire for the boys at the Front.
The Ambulance Sports took place on the
same afternoon and drew crowds to the
South Brisbane Cricket Ground. Governor
Goold-Adams was again on deck, and masked
any sign of boredom that might have been
inwardly consuming him.
On Monday night one of Brisbane’s most
popular daughters, Miss Nerene Qualtrough.
was given over to Renton McSwaine, a
son of the late Rev. Dr. McSwaine,
of New Farm. She looked very charming in
a coat and skirt of white crfipe de chine and
a white sailor hat with a water-lily on the
brim. Miss Io Qualtrough was bridesmaid,
and brightened adjacent man’s outlook in
white chiffon taffetas and a black velvet hat.
The wedding was a guiet one, the directly-
affected families only being invited to the
feast, which was spread in the hospitable
Qualtrough dwelling. None the less, the
church was besieged by the girl friends of
the bride, who showered much confetti in
the aisle, to the boiling annoyance of an
elderly gent, in a black nightie.
Another wedding during the week was
that of Dr. Eric Cowlishaw, youngest son
of James Cowlishaw, M.L.C., to Miss May
Thurlow, second daughter of the late R. W.
Thurlow. The event was got off in the
drawing-room of the Thurlow homestead.
J- V. Black, a student at the Teachers’
Training College, has swapped his text-books
for a uniform and an assortment of iron-
mongery. He leaves for some part of the
Front with the next batch of Light Horse.
Tlie Brisbane Women’s Club met on
Thursday night, and listened to Mrs. Cliffe
Mackie’s postponed presidential address.
I learned that the club has added 75 mem-
bers since the beginning of the year. The
information was interspersed with music and
light refreshments.
The committee which has the matter of a
recreation room for soldiers in hand is still
looking for premises—which is annoying,
but not so annoying as it would be to have
to look for funds. In this case there is no
necessity to scratch for cash.
1 heard a woman at a picture-show", where
the fighting men of the Empire were being
screened, shrill out. as an ambulance clat-
tered down a hill. “Fancy anyone being in
there with a headache.” Sometimes, Thar-
gommdah, I wonder if the imagination of
our se_x ever reaches further than headaches
and afternoon tea !
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIAN JANE.
Further evidence that the North is no
good without colored labor in the fields was
available the other day when a couple of
Sll £. ar farms in the Mackay district were
sold at over £65 per acre —and that with a
poor year ahead, too. In spite of the
steady rise in the cost of white field-labor,
running to about 50 per cent, in the past
odvn n n^a ai ’ S^) he value of land I,as steadily
advanced. Of course the .country is no good
and the climate is rotten, and the owners
S oa and clemand these higher prices
simply to prevent other people buying in
and mining themselves.


£
Up
r
K
AUSTRAI/a
/
•■ A
m
a/**,
I %
Mi
/a
U
OYED
s,
&
m
o
iu
£
Q}
CiWie
21 <o
r W
PURE
a % \ STANCE
«J>\ \ BWVNOy J
®A #\\ > /
?v»
K^fTO 1
*
/rv* r ' Ao ' e -V
4|A juice or-%
_ q«wtf»eis i
t3> JT, k?»
111 M*
Itl
II *
4^2
>v\
tm
cC
f 6
J«i*3
L SoytH^l
a
*j\
M
jL
“Mr; Chairman and Men of Australia, —
You ask me how Australia can help the | British Empire* Well, you
have already done your share in your noble sacrifice of men and equipment)
to help to right the Great Wrong—to uphold the integrity of that great)
Empire to which we are all proud to belong, and I can tell you that in the
records of these historic days, when millions of men meet in the clash of arms,
and the fate of Empires trembles in the balance, Australia’s part will be written
in imperishable history.
This much you have done, but there is still more to do. My thoughts are of
the mother country and of Australia. You can help both by buying Australian
products. Particularly can you'help Australia. Remember that, gentlemen,
and live up to it. It is your duty.
The article before us to-night is Chateau Tanunda Three Star Brandy,
distilled wholly from the fresh grape in South Australia, and bottled under the
supervision of the Customs officials of the Commonwealth Government, whose
seal guarantees its purity and age. It is one of the finest brandies in the
world. For medicinal purposes it is without a peer; as a beverage it is a superb
old spirit. . , <-,
Now, here is a brandy that is a credit to Australian skill, enterprise, labor
and capital. When you buy it you help Australia in a score of ways. You
keep the money in your own country. You help Australian labor. You assist
in the development of the Commonwealth. Your money spent here means
more wealth —more people—more general prosperity for Australia. There is
not a single, solitary reason why, when you ask for brandy, you should not
demand ypur own country’s product in preference to any other.
Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen, I ask you to lift your glasses to the Empire
and to Australia. The coming years are pregnant with great things. There is
a great, industrial expansion looming up. Your share will largely depend on
the amount of your patriotic purchases of Australian products. Develop the
resources of your land —call forth its powers—build up its institutions —promote
all its great interests —this is Patriotism. “Advance Australia!”
“Since Eighty-nine from Pure Grape Wine.”
vc


You need
strength
After illness there follows a
period when the body struggles
to cast off the effects of disease
and strives to regain a condition
of health.
SCOTT’S Emulsion offers the
surest and shortest way to re-
gain health and strength and to
prevent further illness whether
in adults or children.
SCOTT’S Emulsion nourishes
without taxing the digestive or-
gans. It enriches the blood,
builds up wasted tissues and
brings back the colour, vigour
and energy of natural health.
When buying SCOTT’S Emul-
sion you may be
offered an imi-
tation orcheaper
cod liver oil pre-
paration. Refuse
such offers. No
other prepara-
tion contains
the same mag-
nificent quality
of cod liver oil
or has the ad-
vantage of the"
unique SCOTT
process. Insist
on genuine
NEVER accept an
Emulsion which
does not bear this
trade mark.
scons
Emulsion
IMITATED BECAUSE SO GOOD.
xvcx
BEFORE
cv
AFTER
QUICK RESULTS
USE
dPILLGRINE
Don’t be a boy all your life —grow
a moustache and have a manly
appearance. Capillarine will help
you. It never fails to give good
results. Hundreds have proved its
merit—why not you?
Cet a Jar To-day—lo/6 Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AIFKEN, 654 SY c^ e st -
F/tnhJhhed Over 30 Years.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
mm -
i
Dr B, Allen’s (USA)
cxv
'T’HE loss you suffer by allowing
your property to wait for a
new coat of paint, is not less serious
because you cannot actually see the
process of decay and deterioration
which is taking place. You can
prevent decay with least expenditure
by asking your painter to use
Berger’s Paints and Varnishes.
vcx
"B-P” Berger’s Paint (pre-
pared) for painting buildings inside
and outside is guaranteed to work
easier, cover more surface, look
better and wear longer than any
other paint made. Colour folder of
52 standard shades free on request.
Paints
&~ Varnishes
Get Colour Folders and Particulars,
together with name of local
Agent, from Head Office:
18 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
Ask to-day
for your
colour folder.!
WEAR WELL EVERYWHERE
UNDER THE SUN.
Lewis Berger & Sons
(Australia), Ltd..
18, Young St., Sydney,
Makers of Paints, Colours and
Varnishes at
HOMERTON. LONDON.ENG.
Since 1760.
vcx
Shave Yourself.
You shaved this morning but
how? Easily and naturally 9 with a
Gillette Safety Razor and the luxury
of the keen Gillette Blades ? Or with
an old-fashioned razor stropping,
irritation, and perhaps a bit of plaster
to hide mistakes ? British made.
Gillette Standard Sets. One Guinea. Sold Everywhere.
Write for illustrated and descriptive booklet. Mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD.. LONDON. ENGLAND.
Gillette
lUA CtnAnnf.w
NOSTHOPPINC NO HONING
Safety
Razor
vcx
vcx
Cures ECZEMA
From the slightest rash or pimple
ECZEMA spreads until the whole body
is in its grip.
No matter how the terrible disease
manifests itself, either dry, scaly or
mattery, this splendid remedy
Cures the worst case of Eczema in 2 weeks
Large Bottle,
5-
Invaluable for all irritations of the
Skin. Exzerma is a Household
Remedy, and no home should be
without a bottle. Perfectly harmless
and absolutely non-poisonous.
Small Bottle,
216
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Australasia.
None genuine without the signature S. FIELDER.
£V£RYTHmG Ifl RMIGS SEfID FOR OUR SPECIAL RING CATALOGUI
choice diamohos mounted in soud oot.D
vc
c ;-„\ •
5
.. V.,X „
BMC-
m
5/tO/
MU!
vcx
-M "V t /■>.'} ■
6600 '‘ 1 \
\rn\
mb
OP RIMGS I STOfI C S DO ST^Y.
, -<OT*3»*p/:SS»j?B;iiJ. jt&m*».' «**»«*»»« utm-wwMW'.Nbj.-;
vcx
a superb library volume, handsomely primed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Tull -
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
An English Divorce Court the other day
granted Jessie Hannah Porter’s petition that
her matrimonial partnership with Caleb, in
Australia with Asche, should be wound up.
Caleb is still with Oscar, who is doing a
potted edition of “Kismet” in the ’alls.
“Melb”.: The Naval Battle at the Glaci-
arium, with real water and model ships, is
creditable so far as it goes, but does not go
far enough. Glance back nearly 60 years, to
“The Siege of Sebastopol” at Cremorne.
W. J. Wilson, afterwards of Sydney, painted
the enormous canvases, displayed in the
open air, behind the lake, with its ships. The
affair was really impressive. The guns
were heard, and the rockets were visible, for
a radius of miles around. Afterwards came
“The Eruption of Vesuvius,” equally well
managed. Then a lapse of many years, and
we had Pain’s “Destruction of Pompeii,”
behind another lake, in the Friendly Socie-
ties’ Gardens. If Australia’s interest over
the present war had been as intense as it
should be, surely there would be great open-
air military spectacles. We don’t even have
military or naval plays at the theatres.
“Samuel N.”: Do dramatic critics ever
read plays? I want to know. Thus the
S. M. Herald (15/3/’l5), referring to the
second curtain of “Bought and Paid For”:
A dramatic situation quite as audacious as this has
not hitherto occupied the modern stage of any coun-
try, so far as accessible records reveal.
Does Brieux’s “Maternity” come into the
category of “accessible records”? Broad-
hurst has simply “lifted” the curtain of
Act II of “Maternity,” using a situation of
tremendous dramatic force to provide a
“thrill” in an ugly story. No doubt about
it, there is audacity in tjie Yankee play—
in the barefaced plagiarism.
Samuel Wagner, who had a queer asso-
ciation with the very often parodied hymn,
“Hold the Fort,” was dug in the other day
at Illinois, U.S.A. Wagner, while a soldier
in the CiviP war, had on one occasion to
flag-signal al message from Sherman to
Corse, who was holding a pass against Con-
federate troops under great difficulties. He
flapped “Plold the fort —I am coming.”
Subsequently Wagner related the incident
to Sankey, who piously turned the words
into the chorus to a new hymn. That’s the
yarn anyhow.
“H. 0.”: Melbourne Repertory Theatre is
starting a play agency, which will read
dramatic masterpieces, at prices ranging
from 21s. to 525. 6d.; and it announces with
pride that it is “Under the patronage of J.
C. Williamson, Ltd.” When a repertory
theatre boasts of the “patronage” of a
frankly commercial concern it seems to me
that it has for all practical repertory pur-
poses put up the shutters.
“Kaniva”: Answered the last call, aged
60. Mrs. Bernard Beere, who made her Aus-
tralian debut at Melbourne Opera House
23 years ago in “As in a Looking Glass,”
supported by Marius, apd, among others,
that great actress, Henrietta Watson. Her
repertoire included a big range of old comedy,
Shakspeare and modern drama—she was ex-
cellent in Sardou’s works. Her last appear-
ance was at the London Coliseum in 1905 in
“Tim Spy.” Mrs. Beere was three times
married—first to Captain E. C. Derring;
then to Bernard Beere; finally, in 1899, to
A. C. Olivier.
Died the other week in London the violinist
w;ho was known to Australians of yore as
Jan Pechotsch, the infant prodigy. He
achieved a reputation in England under the
name of Rudenyi, and his death, at the age
of 28, is reckoned a real loss to the musical
world.
“Stargazer”: She felt hurt about it at
first, but soon was as cheerful as usual. Her
source of success lies in certain physical
qualities—an overplus embonpoint, a
marked shortness of leg, with a calf that
might outshine Rockefeller if it were golden ;
also a mouth that is in excess of all reason-
able requirements. When she seeks to shine
without stressing these points of hers she
goes for nothing;. but when she utilises her
physique for all it is worth in low-comedy
antics, the audiences vote her “immense.”
She was offered a 50 per cent, rise on her
present screw to join an American film co.
“With us you can let yourself go,” said the
agent. The actress was inquisitive, but it
appeared the agent only meant that she could
let. Imi’self grow. “They’re buying me by
weight.” moaned the artist; “but I’m
going!”
“E.T.”: Re the remarks of “Cockaigne”
concerning Wilson Barrett’s very up-and-
down career. The suggestion that “one
Kelly financed him at the Princess’s,” though
undoubtedly , warranted, applies to a much
later period than “Cockaigne” imagines.
Kelly was unknown in England when Bar-
lett produced “Lishts o’ London,” and the
later gold-mine, “The Silver King.” It was
long after he had “blewed” the "profits from
these two bonanzas that he attempted “Ham-
let.” Then it was that W. W. Kelly came
on the scene. Kelly had landed in London
P'om America with a few dollars and a lead-
ing actress, Grace Hawthorne. After several
flutters, to which the London public declined
to respond, Kelly produced the worst piece
«»f his repertory, “A 'Royal Divorce”—and
lived happily ever after. That’s how he got
the money to help Barrett. There seems to
be a moral attached to this story somewhere.
C. Ockney” : “Too Much Johnson,” now
being pkyed at the Palace, Sydney, by the
indefatigable Allen Doone, was, strange to
say, one .of the first big successes of the
lanky Yankee, actor-author, William Gillette.
-He adapted it from a French original, and
starred in America in the leading part for
years—long before he rose to fame as the
author of the “Sherlock Holmes” drama.
Also he played a season in the piece at the
Garrick, London; but as Hawtrey, had
already appeared in a comedy which came
from the same source, Gillette did not score
cither his “Secret Service” or “Held by the
Enemy” success. Why, by the way, does
not the enterprising J.C.W. firm let us have
another look at the latter piece—the best
war-drama of its kind? Brought up to date
“Held by the Enemy” should pull them in
as of yore.


Give Kim a Soldier’s KodaK!
“The Vest Pocket Kodak is as small as a diary—and tells the story better.”
You are puzzled to know what to give that relation or friend of yours who is going to the front. Other people seem
to have given him every suitable thing that you can think of—except “ The Soldier’s Kodak.” Happy thought!
Every Soldier naturally wants to keep a lasting record of the brave part that he and his own Company are playing in
the Great War and he can do it well and easily with the little Vest Pocket Kodak.
The Vest Pocket Kodak has no equal for the Soldier, either at the front or in the training camp. The Vest Pocket
Kodak is, in fact, the Soldier’s Kodak. It has every advantage that the Soldier looks for
It is Light
THE VEST POCKET KODAK just turns the scale at
9 0Z . —] ess than half the weight of the regulation service
field glasses.
It is Small
thin and flat. It is little bigger than a silver cigarette
case.
It is Strong
being made of aluminium and steel. All exposed
parts have a smooth black rustproof enamel finish.
It is Simple
the last word in simplicity! You can learn to use it in
half an hour. No skill, no practice, no scientific know-
ledge is needed.
The size of “THE SOEDIER’S KODAK,”
open, ready for use, in comparison with
a man’s hand.
It is Convenient
ALWAYS WITH YOU, NEVER IN THE WAY. It
is an ever-ready Kodak that needs no focussing.
Size of Picture
Compresses a wide view into a little picture —2fin.
long and If in. wide. It is then easy to make enlarge-
ments of any size.
Choice of Lens
THE VEST POCKET KODAK, when fitted with a
single lens (30/- model), gives clear, sharp pictures in
bright sunshine. Soldiers, however, should take at least
the 50/- model, fitted with a Kodak Anastigmat Lens.
This, being twice as “fast/ 5 gives capital pictures, even
in a much poorer light.
Finishing of Pictures
THE VEST POCKET KODAK takes eight pictures
on one cartridge of Kodak Film —and Kodak Film keeps
fresh for over a year.
Price 301
Or witbi the Famous
EodaK Anastigmat
F 8 Lens,
50/ -
WRITE FOR CIRCULAR GIVING FULLER DETAILS AND
ILLUSTRATIONS OF WORK DONE WITH THE CAMERA.
-
ACTUAL SHE of tho
SOLDIER’S KODAK.
KODAK«LTD
Incorporating Baker (Si Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street,
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Randle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Rulhven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON : Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL: 34G Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 3 Lome Street,
nr NED IN. N.Z.: 76 Stuart Street.
m m
...
64
(RegO. Trade MarkX
This dainty, all-British
Washing Fabric does not shrink and
can be worn next the tenderest skin
Economical housewives will find in “Viyella” a fabric of the highest merit.
It is soft to the touch ; though light in weight, it is exceptionally durable ;
refined in appearance, yet unshrinkable, and does not lose its color in the wash.
Ideal for Women’s Blouses, Undergarments and Nightdresses; Men’s Pyjamas and Shirts;
Children’s Frocks, Underclothing'and Nightgowns.
Look for the “Viyella” label on the selvedge—and remember there is no other material “just
as good.”
Sold by all leading drapers and storekeepers. If unobtainable in your locality, write to
us for the name of the nearest retailer. I. &B. MOBLEY, 56 Market Street, Sydney,
and 250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing: Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
I* IVO I, I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
JAMES J. CORBETT,
Ex-Champion Boxer of the World.
SMITH & NEILSON.
THE THREE LASCELLES.
JACK STERZELLY & LUCKY.
BALTUS TRIO. THE STANLEYS.
GUS RAGLUS, IDA BAN.
Plan Nicholson’s and Theatre.
MODI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE
GEORGE MOZART, Famous English Comedian and
Mimic; FRANCIS DOOLEY, assisted by CORINNE
SALES; THE WESTWOODS, THE ARCO BROS. ;
IVANOFF & KEITH; CHESTER KINGSTON;
JOHNNIE FIELDS: KLTMO & CLIFTON; ROSA
HAMEL; WILL CONNOLLY.
Plan at Glen’s.
JiVOU TIIEA T R E, ADELAIDE
COMMENCING SATURDAY, MAY 1.
First Production in Adelaide of
THE TIVOLI EOLLIES.
The Greatest Fun Show Australia has ever known.
Prices and Plans as usual.
H
E It MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Stupendous Pantomime Extravaganza,
CINDER E L L A.
Crowded with Comedy all through, and with a
dazzlingly beautiful succession of wondrous scenes.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose's.
gBITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
w Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MURIEL STARR, CHARLES A. MILL WARD,
WILLIAM lIARRIGAN & DOROTHY DAVIES,
In the Gregt American Success,
BOUGHT AND PAID EOR.
Plans at Paling’s.
Day Sales White Rose.
THEATRE ROYAL. SYDNEY.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 1.
J. C. Williamson’s Newly-organised Company, in-
cluding Miss VIOLET PAGET, in
THE MAN WHO STAYED AT HOME.
For the first time in Australia.
Plans at Paling’s.
Prices as usual.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
ALLEN DOONE
Presents his Farce Comedy,
TOO MUCH JOHNSON.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
ADEL P HI THEATRE, SYDNEY!
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF SINBAD THE SAILOR.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 1.
TOM M Y A T KINS,
THE. MAGNIFICENT MILITARY MELODRAMA.
To be presented by William Anderson’s Dramatic
Company.
M
R.
JULIUS KNIGHT’S
FAREWELL TOUR.
PROVINCIAL ITINERARY.
Tamworth
Gunnedah
Moree
May 26 & 27
May 29
May 31
Inverell
Glen Innes
Tenterfield
Queensland to follow.
June 1
June 2
June 3
Box Plan open four days before performance.
Reserved Seats, 6/-.
£ A LON D E L U X
Foot of William Street, Sydney.
Sole Direction JAMES C. BENDRODT.
THE HOME OF REFINEMENT.
1915—SEASON—1915.
FASHIONABLE DANCING.
PRICES POPULAR.
Evening Dress not essential.
Write for our Boooklet containing full particulars.
William Street 1016.
Toil haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
■ In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller. General Manager.
AST
'AST
WEEK.
WEEK.
LAST
LAST
WEEK.
WEEK.
WIRTH BROS. LTD.’S
CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
“THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.’
Positively concluding .on Saturday,' to depart oi
Extensive Country Tour.
GRAND CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
GRAND CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
EACH NIGHT AT 8 EACH NIGHT.
FAREWELL MATINEE:
SATURDAY, 2.45.
Admission to Combined Shows: 5/- (Reserved
Chairs), 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, and 1/- Gallery.
Book Early. Plans at Paling’s and Hotel Australia.
THEATKE KOVAL, MELBOUKNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
COMPANY,
Comedy,
BROADWAY JONES.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
EIS .MAJESTY’S 111 EAT UK. MEI.ItOUItNI
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
FRED NIBLO
In the Delicious
H
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the Frenchy Frivol
HIGH JINKS.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 6/-, 4/*, 2/- and 1/-.
Amusements.
JHE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present
THE ROYAL STROLLERS
Plan at Allan’s.
3/*, 2/- and 1/-.
Amusements.
DItINCKSS’S THEATItE, MELBOURNE.
r Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 1.
George Willoughby, Ltd., present the Picturesque,
Romantic and Stirring Play,
FROM CONVENT TO THRONE.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d.
Plan at Pianola.
The Royal Bank of Australia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
FIFTY-FOURTH REPORT,
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 30th April, 1915.
The Directors have pleasure in placing before Shareholders the annexed Balance-
sheet and Statement of Accounts for the Half-year ending 31st March, duly audited and
certified.
The net profits (including £7845/2/11 brought from last half-
year) amount to
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz.:— 1
To pay a Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £240,000)
And to carry forward the balance
.£27,161 0 4
£12,000 0 0
7,500 0 0
7,661 0 4
£27,161 0 4
During the half-year substantial premises in St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A., have
been purchased, and it is intended to open a branch there when tile necessary arrange-
ments are made. , i . .
Mr. Wilson, the general manager, returned from London and resumed duty early in
December.
By order of the Board,
H. T. WILSON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
For the half-year ending 31st March, 1915,
Including London Branch Figures to February 22, 1915.
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—-
600,000 shares
of £4 each. . £2,400,000 0-" 0
To Capital Subscribed—-
300,000 shares
of £4 each. . £1,200,000 0 0
To Capital paid-up £300,000 0 0
~ Reserve Fund 232,500 0 0
~ Profit and Loss
Account . . 27,161 0 4
£559,661 0 4
~ Notes in circulation . . . . 961 0 0
„ Bills in circulation . . . . 255,660 11 9
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest . . £34,869 0 4
Bearing interest 468,402 ,2 4
— 503,271 2 8
To Other Deposits—-Rebate and In-
terest Accrued—
Not bearing in-
terest . . £824,497 911
Bearing interest 951,539 13 9
1,776,037 3 8
~ Balances due to other banks .. 4,778 1 7
£3,100,369 0 0
Contingent liabilities as per
contra .. .. ~ .. 234,924 0 0
£3,335,293 0 0
ASSETS.
Ck.
By Coin, bullion,
Australian notes,
and cash at
bankers’ ..£855,525 6 4
~ Notes and bills
of other banks 2,619 10 8
~ Balances due
from other banks 27,146 1 8
~ Bills and remit-
tances in transit,
and payable in
London .. 421,250 13 9
„ Govern ment,
municipal and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures and funds 69,955 0 0
„ Stamps .. 960 7 11
„ ' —£1,377,457 0
By Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank premises 65,000 0
Bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad-and doubtful.debts. . .. 1,655,411 19
~ Bank furniture, fittings, stationery,
etc. 2,500 0
4
0
0
, £3,100,369 0 0
Liabilities and securities of cus-
tomers and others in respect of
contingent liabilities as per contra 234,924 0 0
£3,335,293 0 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, rent, income and land
taxes and other charges
„ balance
£15,850 9 8
27,161 0 4
£43,011 10 0
By balance at 30th September, 1914 £27,345 2 11
Less dividend declared 30th
October, 1914 ..£12,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve
Fund . . . . 7,500 0 0
: 19,50.0 0 0
~ balance carried down' .. .. £7,845 2 11
„ profits for the half-year after de-
ducting interest accrued on de-
posits and rebate on bills current,
less reserve for bad and doubtful
debts . . 35,166 7 1
£43,011 10 0
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance .. £232,500 0 0
£232,500 0 0
By balance at 30th September, 1914. . £225,000 0 0
„ transfer from Profit and Loss
Account 7,500 0 0
£232,500 0 0
xvc
DINNEFORDS
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Amusements.
DIJOG THEATBiS, MELIiOGKNB.
a FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
KEEN & WALLER, THE THESSALYS, ROSE
LEE IVY, NAT PHILLIPS COMEDY CO., McKEN-
Zm & GUEST, & GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAHAME.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-■ II- &■ 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6J.
SIJIELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE.
Direction GREGAN McMAHON.
At ATHENAEUM HALL.
MAY 1, 3 and 4.
Arnold Bennett’s THE GREAT ADVENTURE.
MAY 8, 10 and 11.
Euripides’ THE TROJAN WOMAN.
With music by Professor G. W. Marshall Hall.
Box Plans at Pianola Co. and Booklovers’ Library,
April 24,
|_|OYT’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO 810 SHOWS.
lIOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
I K C II & CARROLL.
(Queenslan ( |).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTIIWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Legal Notice''
IN DIVORCE.
In the Supreme Court of New Zealand,
Northern District.
No. 809.
BETWEEN LILLIAN FRANCES EMMA
CAMERON, Petitioner,
And HENRY ELLIOTT AUBREY CAM-
ERON, Respondent.
To HENRY ELLIOTT AUBREY CAM-
ERON, formerly of Auckland, but now
of parts unkown.
riAAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
JL date the 30th October 1914 has issued
out of this Court citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of Lillian Frances Emma
Cameron of Auckland praying for a dissolu-
tion of her marriage with you on the ground
that you have deserted her for five years and
upwards without just cause: TAKE
NOTICE that by an Order of this Court
dated 30th March 1915 it was ordered that
personal service of the Petition and Citation
herein be dispensed with and that service
be effected by advertising an Abstract to be
settled by the Registrar at Auckland in
The Bulletin once and in the Sydney
Morning Herald twice at an interval of a
week also twice at an interval of a week in
some daily newspaper published in San Fran-
cisco. and that appearance and answer be filed
within 90 days after the appearance of the
ast advertisement and that the trial be at
the first Civil Sittings of this Honorable
Court to be held at Auckland after the
expiration of 120 days from the appearance
of such last advertisement aforesaid. If
you wish to enter an appearance you must
within the time above mentioned attend in
person or by solicitor at the Registry of this
Court at Auckland and there enter an ap-
pearance in a book provided for the purpose,
in default of your so doing the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition and you will
not be allowed to address the Court.
Dated at April this 10th day of April,
1915.
(Sgd.) R. G. THOMAS,
Registrar.
This Abstract is issued by Ralph Lionel
Ziman of Shortland Street Auckland Solici-
tor for the Petitioner. A copy of the
Petition may be inspected at the office of the
said. Ralph Lionel Ziinen or at the Auckland
Registry of the Court. Friends of the
Respondent are requested to forward this
advertisement to him.
Business Announcements.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
I n. HEALTH or SIOKNESS
Take regularly the ‘Allenburys’Diet. It is most easy of assimilation, increasing vitality
and diminishing fatigue. It restores the impaired digestion and gives tone to the whole
system. Prepared from pure, rich milk and whole wheat, combined in a partially
predigested form, the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is a complete food, and is valuable alike for
‘the Invalid and Robust. Made in a Minute add boiling water only.
Allen & Hanburys
Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
xvc
firm


Irritate and She Would Scratch.
Caused Disfigurement. Cuticura
Soap and Ointment Soon Healed,
109 A George St., Erskineville, Aust.—-
“The beginning of last year my baby’s face
caught the sun and formed a dry rash; it
was red and ugly looking and looked bad.
She was getting her teeth so I put it down
at first to them, but it looked worse every
day. It used to irritate her and she would
scratch it and for the time it caused dis-
figurement. It was bad for over a month
and I really thought it was eczema.
“I tried other remedies but without any
success, so seeing the advertisement I sent
for Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment.
From the first application it looked much
better. I washed it with the Cuticura Soap
using it freely and then applied the Cuti-
cura Ointment. I continued doing this
and she was soon cured and now no marks
remain." (Signed) Mrs. M, Higgins,
Apr. 24, 1914.
Samples Free by Post
For pimples and blackheads the following
is a most effective and economical treat-
ment: Gently smear the affected parts with
Cuticura Ointment, on the end of the finger,
but do not rub. Wash off the Cuticura
Ointment in five minutes with Cuticura
Soap and hot water and continue bathing
for some minutes. This treatment is best
on rising and retiring. At other times uso
Cuticura Soap freely for the toilet and batli,
to assist in preventing inflammation, irri-
tation and clogging of the pores. Cuticura
Soap and Ointment are sold everywhere.
Liberal sample of each mailed free, with
32-p. Skin Book. Address R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
'o*3?
M
Washable
Tubular
Ties
Ask for Cash's
Seamless
Poplin
Ties
Ask for Cash ’s
V
ii
a
Do you know the Best
Sheep-Shearing Machinery ?
It is the famous FALKINER Electric
Equipment with these special advantages:
Easy to erect
Absence of troublesome line shafting
Independent motor for each man
Any hand piece may be used
Silent running—no vibration
Electricity is the safest, cheapest and
cleanest power for shearing
Write for details electric lighting shearing sheds.
FALKINER ELECTRIC CO.,
103-5 William Street, Melbourne
Somerset House, 5 Moore Street, Sydney
£
<
%
*
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
“AP” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
“ Angling Department,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins St. Melbourne
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
ami C.P.
Debentures
Zealand.
(Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on tbe Security of Government
s. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
WAI LOWEST CURRENT RATES OP INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The lion. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian
Knox, Esq, K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
How to be Beautiful.
By RITA MOYA.
Tt- is not every woman’s good fortune to fee endowed by Nature with fine features and
a flawless complexion, but nowadays it is possible to make the plainest face attractive, and
that too in the privacy of one’s home, without recourse to beauty specialists which usually
involve expensive treatments and much loss of time. I shall endeavor to show you m the
following lines how much may be doue-'in this direction bv any woman of ordinary intelli-
gence When facial applications are necessary, use only the pure ingredients just as they
come to the chemist himself. Do not allow yourself to be persuaded into buying some
ch“ap ready-made preparation instead. Any chemist will gladly obtain the original con-
centrated ingredients for you. if you insist, and although he may not have them in stock,
Jou wllbe well advised to wait while he orders them for you. The improvement in your
appearance will be ample compensation for any trouble taken to obtain these simple and
harmless beautifiers.
Beauty in Breathing. —A great ileal can be
done towards brightening the eyes by system-
atic breathing for 10 minutes each morning
and evening. Breathe slowly and deeply to
the fullest capacity of the lungs. You should
stand erect by an open window. The coisets
should not be worn during this exercise.
About Shampooing.— Even the best shampoo
is somewhat drying, and if the hair is not
naturally oily I suggest that just before the
shampoo you apply olive oil to the scalp, rup-
bing it into the hair roots vigorously. Then
use pure stallax for the shampoo. Dissolve a
teaspoonful in a cup of hot water. This will
leave the hair very clean, soft and fluffy.
An Instantaneous Beautifler. —Instead of face
powder, use a simple lotion made from one
ounce of cleininite and four teaspoonfuls of
water. This lotion will tone and clear the
skin and acts as a protection against sun and
wind. A little applied with the finger-tips
instantly gives the skin a delightful “bloomy
appearance. No powder is necessary, and the
result lasts all day long under the most try-
ing conditions.
To Permanently Remove Superfluous Hair. —
It is a simple matter to remove a downy
growth of hair temporarily, but to remove it
permanently is finite another matter. It is a
pity that it’ is not more generally known that
powdered pheminol may be used for this pur-
pose. Apply it -directly to the hair. The
recommended treatment is designed not merely
to Instantly remove the hair, but also to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Any chemist
should be able to supply you with an ounce
of nlieminol, which quantity should be suffi-
cient.
The Real Cause of Most Bad Complexions.—
It is an accepted fact that no truly beautiful
•omplexion ever «me out of jars and bottles,
and the longer one uses cosmetics the worse
the complexion becomes. Skin, to be healthy,
must breatlm. It also must expel, through the
pores, its share of the body’s effete material.
Creams and powders clog the pores, in-
terfering both with elimination and breathing.
If more women understood this there would
be fewer self-ruined complexions. If they
would use ordinary mercolised wax instead of
cosmetics they would have natural, healthy
complexions. This remarkable substance is
not absorbed by the skin; its action is just
the opposite. The skin repels mercolised wax,
and at the same time throws off all imperfec-
tions. An exquisite new complexion peeps
out. quite free from any appearance of artifi-
ciality. Apnly nightly, like cold cream, for a
week or two, washing it off in the morning.
About Hair Tonics. —Each week almost one
hears of some wonderful discovery for im-
proving the hair, and although this paragraph
may seem a little superfluous, an old-fashioned
recipe may coma as a welcome change. One
thing about it is that it will grow hair, and
also prevent it falling out. From your chem-
ist get an original package of boranium, to
this add 1-pint of bay rum, allow it to stand
30 minutes, then add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Rub briskly into the scaln with
the fincer-tips and you will immediately ex-
perience that clean, tingling sensation which
is a sure sign of healthy action. [2
AN/EMIA
(Poorness of Blood)
f
Loss of
Appetite
I
Palpi
tatioi
Pallor Depression Exhaustion
Be sure you take Iron ‘Jelloids’ when Anaemic.
In Anaemia the whole body suffers, because the rich red blood
upon which the well-being of the whole body depends is lacking.
The system then becomes weakened and debilitated, the nerves
are starved, the heart is overworked. The result is Lack of Energy,
Depression, Paleness of Lips and Cheeks, Breathlessness and
Exhaustion after slight Exertion. To remove these symptoms the
blood must be enriched and strengthened—and the simplest, most
pleasant and economical way to do this is to take Iron ‘Jelloids.’
Iron Jelloids'
enrich the blood-renew vitality
The Revd. A. J. Waldron, Vicar of Brixton, says : “I have heard
“ about your Iron ‘Jelloids ’ from a Doctor, and have recently had occasion
“to take them. I am strongly of the opinion that if the public realised the
“fact that they have at hand at sucha small cost such a pleasant and efficient
“remedy for Anaemia, and such a splendid tonic for Nerve-strain, etc.,
“many a home would be happier and many a life made brighter.”
A fortnight's trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine),
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/1| and 2/9, per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Manufactured only by The ‘Jelloid’ Co., 205, City Rd., London, England.
xvc
HEAR
LATEST 8-TONE
Mears Ear-phone
reproducing
that degree
in the vest
The final triumph of the inventor of the first successful multi-tone
Ear-phone. IF YOU ARE DEAF, this perfected instrument will enable
vou to hear DISTINCTLY, PERFECTLY.
Eight Tones! 8 different adjustments to suit every condi-
tion of the ear. Instantly changed by a touch of the
finger. Just as easily and as satisfactorily regulated for
the hearing as field-glasses are for the sight. Thus ensur-
ing perfect hearing in all degrees of deafness.
The Mears Ear-phone is based on the micropbonic sound-
principle. Highly sensitive and self-adjusting it intensifies the faintest sounds to just
required in ordinary conversation, or in the Church or Lecture Hall. Comfortably carried
pocket or pinned to the blouse. Call and test it free, or write for full particulars.
Australasian
Representative—
A. E. SLADE,
Bernard’s Building's,
387 Ceorge Street,
SYDNEY.
SYDNEY: A. E. Slade, Bernard’s Buildings, 387 George Street,
MELBOURNE: L. G. Callaway & Down, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Carl Zoeller Ltd., 246 Queen Street.
HOBART: Chas. Davis Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
AUCKLAND: Clem Bartley, 8 Ponsonby Road.
Mears Ear-phone Co. Inc., 45 West 34th St., New York, U.S.A,
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price. 21s.
The Inky Way.
There are now over half a dozen news-
papers published specially for the French
troops at the Front. The official daily is, of
course, the most important; but it is tame
compared with the others. It is devoted to
brief, official records of doings along the
whole 470 miles of lighting line, with at
times cheerful editorials by prominent men.
Then there are the Gazette de l’Oise, a tri-
weekly produced amid the whistling of the
shells at Soissons; the Democrat, published
at Dellemont, which gives most attention to
the struggle in Alsace; and the Poilu, one of
several papers circulating in the trenches of
the Champagne country and boasting a daily
sale of 10,000 copies. The most unique rag,
however, is the latest venture, the Echo Of
Shells, which appears every five days and
is edited by a poet who floods it with yards
upon yards of metred war drama.
* * * #
1
The latest competition dodge of the Lon-
don penny snippet weeklies is an offer of
big prizes—running up to £250 cash—for
the largest collection of paper “coins’"
which they print in each issue. The profit
comes in with the immense number of
papers bought by the not quite successful.
It is calculated that, in one recent competi-
tion, the £250 winner must have either
spent over £lOO in buying papers, or col-
lected vigorously from friends. Then came
prizes of £5O, £2O and 120 of five shillings.
The first of the 120 had weighed in with
“coins” cut from papers which must have
cost well over £3O. And he “won” five
bob!
* * * *
“S.D.”: Spencer Browne, whom we
Bananalanders have just sent off to be Colonel
of a Light Horse lot, is the Brisbane
Courier’s “leader,” and generally regarded
as the State’s best descriptive penman. But
lie is more than that. No old and footsore
traveller on the Inky Way ever poured his
woes into Spencer Browne’s ear in vain, and
youngsters turn confidently to him for use-
ful hints. When the “district” of the Journ-
nalists’ Association presented him with a gold
wristlet watch with the A..1.A. badge en-
graved on it, “the boys” told him all this
and lots more.
* * * *
On Rose-bushranging Day- in Melbourne
several females from the suburbs, inspired
by the highest motives, called at sundry busi-
ness places and offered to sell kisses as well
as roses. A skirted couple who invaded the
sub-editors’ and reporters’ rooms of one of
the dailies mentioned their willingness to
help on the cause at ss. per kiss. One high-
way-woman, on learning that a member of
the staff was the author of a tender rose
poem, published a day or two previously,
remarked coyly that he deserved a tender
reward gratis. But the poet was busy at
the time —writing something, as a matter of
fact, about the rise in the price of cheese.
* * * *
“Grenfell St.”: John Harvey Finlayson,
the old-time editor of Adelaide Regis-
ter, who passed out the other day
aged 72, conducted the clumsily-conserva-
tive journal for something like 20 years,
and nearly as long ago took up his resi-
dence in London as representative of the
paper, in which he held a big proprietary
interest. Soon, however, he got completely
out of touch with Australian press require-
ments, and when he came back, shattered
in health —for he was always a slogger—-
he retired finally from journalism. Finlay-
son was an up-to-date man in his day, but
was too deep in the conservative rut, and
should have given over the editorial reins
earlier than he did. Yet he was a man of
high character, and although brusque and
a trifle boorish possessed gallons of the
milk of human kindness.
» * * #
Young man, never mind Pitman. Get to
the camera. The competition for photo-
graphs amongst the big illustrated papers,
especially the cheap dailies, is very acute.
London Daily Mirror, which eats up sup-
plies of illustrations as a furnace eats coal,
is offering £lOOO for the best war photograph
sent in before the end of July. Second most
interesting picture will acquire £250 and
the third £lOO. Avoiding a swindle too com-
mon amongst publishers, the paper pays for
all photographs used. As a war recorder
the camera was first employed at the Crimea,
but very inextensively.
* * * *
The long-distance prophet of this war was
Japanese; as far back as 1907 a cartoon pub-
lished in Tokio showed a huge elephant with
the face of King Edward carrying four sol-
diers who represented England, Russia,
France and Japan. The happy family were
out hunting a tiger. Certainly the tiger was
indefinite. He may have been the Kaiser.
On the other hand, he may have been China,
or Woodrow Wilson, or the last man who
said the time wasn’t ripe.
A GOOD-NIGHT LOOK AT THE STARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’d sat all day with my face to the wood ;
I’d scribbled all night till my eyes were dim ;
So I dropped the pen as a freeman should,
And passed from the room with the oily glim.
I opened the door to the waiting Night,
And stepped from the house with a thankful
sigh,
For, oh! I was weary of work and light
And the little low roofs that hide the sky.
As the dark closed round me, a cool wind stirred,
Like an anxious mother who comes and goes,
And I heard the cheep of a restless bird
While mosquitoes stabbed at my helpless nose.
Like the candles of God, the white stars burned,
As they still will burn when I’m dead as Troy,
And I thought of bed and a pound well earned,
And my heart within me sang for joy.
At the end of an indoor day and mean,
When the last fool-thing has been written down,
It is good to look at the stars serene,
And rest from the circus in which you’re clown.
Ere you fall to sleep in your living tomb,
Ere you bar the windows and clamp the chain,
Oh, steal out awhile where your thoughts have
room
And send them up to the stars again.
x.s.w.
PEN-MOTOR.


R
‘•THE CERT” D.8.8.L. GUN, 12- or IG-gauge, top lever 30in.
steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap
fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b
Postage on one Gun, 2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2 Inter-State.
37/S
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-gauge top
action, solid
case hardened
locks, decar- . , , ~ ,
bonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about GBb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary
Double Barrel Gun. AutO-EjeCtOr, 25/“ J Noi\-EjcctOr, 22 6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W. ; 4/8 Inter-State.
vcx
vxc
The te Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Cun,
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock,
case-hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 38iin.. weight about 4lb. A o-i/i c/
splendid gun for use in Orchards. Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State. Xt i j iO/
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City Sports Depot : 119 King Street, Sydney ; and at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
and all Sport-
ing Goods,
Post Free
Anywhere.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST HOUSE for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK.
©
Y'J
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, (freencr
cross bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels,
pistol grip, walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about « 4
Gillb. to 711).; of 16-gauge, G]lb. to G|lb. DELIVERED
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge at 12/6 extra.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
©
The “ Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun' barrel full
choke, 12-gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about T^lb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
<£7/7/-
The EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
Attached to the stern, the Evinrude
Motor makes your rowboat self-
propelling — an efficient motor-boat
with a speed of 8 miles an hour.
Its weight, 50 lbs., permits easy
transportation.
w if....
mam
wm
vV 5 '
•dq *AG
•oq Z
•dq Vxl
: sazis
Nine Governments use the
Evinrude Motor on rivers
and seas the world over.
Its adaptability and dura-
bility have appealed to
25,000 users.
Driven by Petrol (gasoline) at low
up-keep cost. Steered by the Propeller
—no rudder required, but supplied if de-
sired. Reversible; battery ignition or Magneto,
and automatic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
HI
Write for Booklet illustrating and explaining the
mang uses of this wonderful little motor.
H. A, GODDAPD, 40* St.. Brisbane; 82
Pitt St., Sydney; 376 Collins St., Melbourne;
Clift'e St., Fremantle; liennngton Chambers
(opp. G.P.0.), Auckland.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir Joshua Bartlett’s Book “The Home Doctor. 1 ’
FREE ‘o CATARRH
SUFFERERS
M
7
r
The most valuable and comprehensive
book ever written on Catarrh and all
Bronchial Troubles. It fully explains
Sir Joshua Bartlett’s New Treatment
which has cured thousands of sufferers
in Great Britain and many in Australia.
Hospitals, Surgeries, Laboratories and
numerous other Institutions have
proved beyond doubt that the New
Treatment will absolutely cure every
conceivable condition of Catarrh and is
the ONLY one that can be delivered
direct to the source of the trouble.
3000 medical men in Great Britain are
now prescribing the treatment.
WRITE YOUR NAME HERE.
Cut out this coupon and post to us, with 3d in stamps for postage and the
book will be sent to you at once.
MESSRS. KUNEROL LABORATORIES PROPRIETARY,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Please send me post free a copy of the HOME DOCTOR, authorised by Sir
.lashua Bartlett, for which I enclose 3d in stamps. (State whether Mr.,
Mrs., or Miss)
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
5 D/C
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
HOOK OH NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over SO en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkriiif,
England, (id. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine'S SILENT Hill UNO, Is 6d. NKD ItONX KI.LY ,S ART
OK Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engraving's, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. Dow to Wrksti.k, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De I'oe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tub
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easv, Is. Up-to-
Datk. Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Hell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Cd posted. Riddle ok tub
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/G.
Joys of Life, Is (id. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyuook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Hook, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.. Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s Cd. Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s Cd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamers Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength. 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is Cd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ;>s. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
ford) 9d The Art of Jiu-Jitsu. 9d and Is Cd.
God and My Neighbor, Cd. Britain fop. tiik
British 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/S.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is '-d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
10s Cd. Australian Pastrycook s Guide, Is Cd
m
m
M
m.
a
home cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, it will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOHaICLLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ~m§
gipsy fortune telling gauds-love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soi.dkring, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Ruies for ail Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Tiie White Slavf. Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datf., is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Pup.lic
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, &• Other Verses, is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, .is.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth rs. all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OE MY STOCK CAN
15E GOT FROM THIS A DVT.
Write for my.
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
ItKMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
\\Y BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Gauds, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Sonos, Is 3d Dost. Un. Milford's Mid-
wife's Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s Cd.
Aristotle, 3/fi. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Chamitons ok the
King. Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. (id. Secret
History Court ok England, Is 3d post. Lovers'
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post
Ingersoll s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse's Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at os posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers' Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure. Is 2d posted. Websters Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, lfiOOillus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). ’ Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
Dlete) Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, Dy Paine,
posted, SdT P WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA V.


ANOTHER TRIUMPH FOR
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
A New Zealand Lady Completely
Cured of Throat &. Chest Troubles.
( ojoiid v mo.tf)
•aoniitvii n v
“For months I hart a very hard,
dry cough, causing deafness in the
ears, and my throat and chest were
very much inflamed and sore. I suf-
fered with loss of voice and had no
sleep at night and no rest in the
da.v with this severe racking cough,”
writes Mrs. A. M. Hamilton, 8 Rail-
way Street, Cavershatn, Dunedin,
N.Z. “I tried every remedy I could
think of and those recommended by
friends, but all to no purpose. I was
very much distressed and began to
think it might turn to something
serious, when one day I by chance
saw in the paper a remedy adver-
tised called Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery for Coughs and Colds, so I
bought a bottle, and 1 am very
thankful I did. for b.v the time the
first bottle was finished my cough
was a great deal better, and all
soreness had left my throat and
chest. After using two large bottles
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery I
was cured completely, witli no trace
of cold left, and I am now in per-
fect health again, and think it is my
duty to let all sufferers like myself
know of that really true and won-
derful medicine, Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery, for all Colds and Chest
complaints, for I am sure there could
not be a better medicine.”
SAFEGUARDS
THE HOME.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds is an unequalled pre-
paration for the treatment of all diseases of the Throat, Bronchial Tubes and
Lungs, including Influenza, Bronchitis, Colds, Asthma, Quinsy, Sore Throat,
Hoarseness, Difficult Respiration and Pains in the Chest. When used according
to directions is a sure preventive of Pneumonia and Consumption. Every bottle
guaranteed. Price 1/6 and 3/-. Hospital size 5/-.
D? Sheldons
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
Mr. H. GRIN DELL MATTHEWS (the Inventor
of Wireless Telenhonv) I^jfleredfrtyn
sleflßs^Wsß^: fat
y I d
fiß-rati
Mr. ROBERT
Bass Singer) writes: —“! have derived the greatest
FORSHQS
some conditions, or for dejection, 4hd it 'immc- voca , ly re!axed> Phos f er ine immediately restores
diately renews the strength of my nerves, and resonance and brightness to the voice, banishes
exercises a stimulating effect <tn the whole of l ass i tude> and generally tones up the system."
the nervous
63, Havcrstock Hill. London, England.
vWEHLEN. the talented and charming
I have used Phosferine with really
general health. The unusual exertions
jals make one nervously anxious and
much 'induces dull
effectually
tonic for
otes the
sure it
Miss EM
Actress, t
•xcelltt-jj
andexiM
r'.—./ess/
an onl
m
smmm
ply imracu
d to lose a I
lost
pin all
) thcr;
*
IPS
- r ■
HOg dreary
ftp weather.
f order , and
fesity as my
ndon, Eng.
hosferinc
(people will find it
—164, High Rd.,
any inval
■
mother
Mr. B. C. HUCKS (the
Englishman to “Loop th^
-eally must express my ap
PHjie back I felt myself in
brought on. no doubt, by the!
undei all sorts of weather co
tour last summer. I had an
becoming shaken. I was advised
quite astonished at the beneficial
the first few doses. 1 am now feelin
and ready to start upon a season's flyinfpfKat promises to
considerable more arduous than the lasj.”— ll6, PlccadiH
London, England
HONORED
-f^OYAL
command;
At the hands of any Chemist this is what you should obtain
PHOSFERINE is a World-wide Remedy for
Indigestion
Anaemia
Insomnia
Lassitude
Debility
Neuralgia
Loss of Appetite
All Nerve Trouble
Just 5 to 10 drops of this golden remedy in a wineglass of water.
The original and Genuine PHOSFERINE is in buff packa ge* and be particular to
notice thfi is spelt P-H-O-S-F-E-R-I-N-E. Price-1/. 2,6 & 4/6 If you find any d.ffi-
culty in obtaining supplies send Postal Note to Ashton & Parsons, 408 Collins ht. Melb.
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produces
HORROCKSES’
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. I
Phantasm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HUE gods of all the nations
That lean to hopes divine —
From those that pour libations
Uf sacramental wine,
To dim primeval giants,
The forebears of the race—
Went up, unseen by clients,
To gather in their place.
They came from misty ages
Receding into stone,
From all the human stages,
From every clime and zone,
From all the types and stations,
From mountain range and feu —
The gous of all the nations
Of all the sons of men.
The law that shall be nameless
And yet holds ever true;
Not errant, never aimless,
Not old, nor ever new ;
Had drawn the host together
As gravitation draws ;
The upper gods and nether,
Of endless cults and laws.
Assembled in their region
Where thought runs free of speech
Each unit of their legion,
Summed up the might of each;
For each looked on the other,
Whate’er his mien or span,
And knew him for his brother —•
A verv dream of man.
Beneath, like endless waters
Whereon no bark is buoyed,
Mankind and all his daughters
Rolled out across the void ;
Dim floods that never rested,
Despite the dark and cold —•
The ghosts of men, divested
Of countless forms of mould.
From distant vapors staring
A dim red globe appeared ;
No longer boldly glaring,
The sun-god’s eye was bleared,
Still gripped by gravitation
His planets round him hung;
Each in its dreary station
The ice-sheathed balls outswung.
Husked of its emanations
Of music, words and signs.
Trailed up the mind’s vibrations
As light through darkness shines,
Assailing that high meeting
With blasphemies sublime —
To stay its gods, retreating
Across the bars of Time.
Saying: “You gave us ever
A dream of wider scope,
A promise for endeavor,
A false ideal of hope.
You magnified our wonder.
You conjured thoughts divine
With faiths that, cleft asunder,
Our widowed souls would shine.
“You visioned some hereafter
For every make of man :
Meet not your dunes with laughter,
But aid them, if you can !
Lead on to some great portal
Of any heaven or hell,
Where harbor souls immortal,
And all may yet be well.
“We might, but would not. perish ;
We have forsworn the mould.
Out after-life we cherish
Though our old earth be cold ;
Then leave us not to groping
Through frigid glooms of space
At bitter ends with hoping
For some safe resting-place!”
As smoke, when clouds are raining,
Drifts through the drops of rain
Arose that vast complaining,
And ever rose in vain ;
The smoke of human sorrow
From homeless souls and sore.
Whose gods could give no morrow,
Nor aid them evermore;
Whose gods, in that dim region,
Were shadows out of reach.
For that phantasmic legion
Looked mutely each to each,
Each looked upon the other,
Whate’er his mien or span.
And knew him for his brother —
A very dream of man.
VICTORIA.
G. G. A. COLLES.
The Last Account.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THREE months?” Bernstein repeated
the doctor’s statement to him as a
question.
“It may be more, with care. At the
uttermost, six months. But I cannot hon-
estly hold out any hope of your living beyond
that.” Dr. Barton’s voice was quite ordinary
and matter-of-fact, it seemed to Bernstein.
He thought of Judges who snivel over pro-
nouncing the death-sentence.
“And may the Lord have mercy on your
soul!” he quoted grimly.
The doctor jumped. “I beg your pardon.”
lie said stiffly. “You asked for the truth, you
know.”
Bernstein had walked to the window and
was staring across at the motor-rank. A
blaze of scarlet geraniums in the North
Terrace flower-beds made a splendid patch of
color against the emerald green of the long
lawns outside Government House. All his
life—what remained of it—he would remem-
ber that scene, he thought.
He turned from the window. “You are
quite sure, doctor?” But there was no hope
in his voice. Barton elevated his eyebrows,
lie was a consulting specialist, and he did
not like to be doubted by a mere patient.
“You can consult any of” —he ran over a
list of North Terrace doctors—“all within
a stone’s throw; but I’m very much afraid
they will all concur with me. It’s not a
pleasant task to tell people they must look
forward to dying very soon? Mr. Bernstein,”
he added quaintly. "I hope you understand.
Your affairs”. ——- he suggested presently.
“Thanks for reminding me, doctor,” said
Bernstein. “I have a lot to do. Got to get
back to the Islands yet, you know.”
“A warm climate,” said the doctor by way
of tilling in an awkward pause, whilst Bern-
stein sorted out his fee.
The man who was to die so soon laughed
more boyishly than the six-and-thirty years
stamped on his face would have led one to
expect. . „ , . i «<p
“A good preparation, he remarked, tor
my future home.”
Then he went out in the sunlight wherein
people walked and lounged and chattered,
and the electric cars whizzed past with bells
clanging sharply, and the motor-car drivers
answered their calls, all as if the world were
going to last for ever. So Bernstein thought,
a little bitterly and a little foolishly.
lie had business to attend to in Melbourne
and Sydney, and it was close on a month
before he found himself at home again.
lie was an affectionate husband always,
so his home-coming presents were only a trifle
more elaborate than usual. Also, he was a
little less irritable with the children. That
was all.
He set his business in order, and assured
himself that there would be at least £4OO a
year for the wife when everything was
settled. She could leave the islands, lie re-
flected, and live very comfortably in Mel-
bourne on that. It would be better for the
children, too; for education at Mulwa Har-
bor was a negligible quantity. When they
grew up he hoped the boys, at least, would
feel the spell of the Pacific and return.
There would always be a friend or two
among the traders for “Bernstein’s boys.”
For the Jew had been everybody’s friend,
and no man in trouble —no man worth the
name of a man —had gone away unaided
while there was money or influence in
Judaea with which to relieve him.
Two of the three months were up before
he was satisfied concerning the future of his
wife and children.
Then he allowed himself the luxury of
looking into the past. The main thing in if
was the unsettled account of George Foster.
And it had been owing for 14 years. It was
the one bill that Bernstein, the punctiliouf
Hebrew, had allowed to stand over.
Bernstein and Foster had been trading
partners in the days of their hard-lived
youth. Foster was four years the elder, a
trifle under the middle height, and broad,
with a thick, pale skin, strong black brows,
and womanishly long-laslied, hard, brown
eyes. There may have been an unsuspected
taint of color in his make-up. The natives
called him “Fighting Face,” and shunned
him. The men, that is—the women loved
him. And the white men feared him more
or less, all save Bernstein the Jew, who
feared nobody.
Not content with the pick of the women
of a dozen islands who were his for the ask-
ing, Foster must needs poach on Bernstein’s
mats and rob him of his favorite. She was
an Ibsonberg girl, and in token thereof she
was large and very beautiful. Foster thought
lightly of her enough, and must needs think
the other man did the same. At the most, he ,
looked for a few high words and an hour or
two s sulking, the whole to be duly con-
cluded over a friendly bottle of square-face.
But Bernstein was of the jealous Jewish
nature, and, besides, had been fond of the
girl in his own fashion; and he had the
illimitable patience of his race. There was
a violent and bitter quarrel, resulting in a
breach between the two men that was never
bridged. Both had long since forgotten the
Ibsonberg girl, but the rancor she had started
grew with the years. And Bernstein didn t
kill Foster, because he couldn’t think of the
right kind of death to meet his case.
Where Foster could over-reach Bernstein
in trading he did so, and the Jew returned
the compliment with interest. The presence
of one man in a room was sufficient excuse
for the absence of the other. And the
accounts of petty insults and meannesses and
sharp dealing grew longer every day, for the
hatred became more tremendous long after
its original cause was forgotten, and as good
as dead to both of them.
Bernstein reckoned it time to balance up
now. When a man has but a month’s sure lease
of life he feels like that. He hated to die
in debt, but he had to wait Foster’s return
from a trading expedition. He bit his
finger-nails in this interesting occupation
for a week before the Hazy Star. Foster’s
tine new boat, slept on her iron in Mulwa
roadstead.
Two days after this Barry, the quarter-
breed Maori and boss trader of most of the
islands since Murray Hansen had “gone
bush,” took a farewell drink with Bernstein
in Sorrente’s Harbor Hotel.
“Good craft that,” said Bernstein, nodding
appreciatively toward the Hazv Star, rock-
ing lazily to the long, slow swell of midday.
“Yes,” said Barry. “She’s likely to stay
there a while, too, if Foster’s sciatica doesn’t
lot up on him a bit.”
“Seen him lately?” asked the .Tow.
“Said good-bye this morning. He’s pretty
bad; can just crawl round the house, lie's
sending down to Vila for his wife next week.
Flighty bit o’ goods she is.”
“I only asked,” said Bernstein, “because
he sent for me to-day, and I wondered if
he’d mentioned it to you. Reckons we’ve
been enemies long enough, or some other
damn rot.”
Barry stared at him. but he told the de-
liberate lie unflinchingly.
“He must be feeling mighty crook,” said
Barry. Then lie laughed. “You’ll miss each
other’s enmity after all these years. That
is. of course, if you’re going to make pals
again !”
“Oh. well.” and Bernstein looked a trifle
sheepish, “I think he’s about right. Frankly,
T’d like to bury the hatchet. I'll look in
this afternoon. I think.”
(Continued on next page.)


BENT BACKS
"Every Picture
Tells a Story.”
3
vs
Why Are They Bent?
Not always on account of age, for j
many old people have straight backs
—and many young people have bent
backs. They are bent with the pains
of kidney disease, lumbago —nric
acid in the muscles of the loins, con-
gestion of the kidneys—the pains
that make the young feel old, and
the old feeble and shaky.
Rest in bed may ease a bad back,
but it cannot cure it. Only a medi-
cine that reaches the cause can do
that. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are solely for weak and ailing kid-
neys. They help the kidneys to
throw off uric acid poison, which is
the cause not only of backache and
lumbago, but of gravel, stone, rheu-
matism, dizzy attacks, irregular
heart, and that heavy, drowsy feel-
ing. Doan’s Pills regulate 1 the
urinary system like ordinary medi-
cines regulate the bowels; they
release the accumulated water in
dropsy, and relieve bladder weak-
ness, which is so common in children
and the aged.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
pure; and cannot injure the most
delicate patient.
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
A Wonderful Cure.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Mr. George Woodroffe, 10 Roseby-
Street, Drummoyne, Sydney, writes: “I
have derived very great benefit from the
use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills.
Seventeen years ago a cold settled on my
kidneys, and eventually inflammation of
the kidneys and bladder set in, and up to
the time of taking Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills some little time ago I have
suffered terribly ever since. I have been
treated by some of the cleverest and best-
known Sydney doctors, and for seventeen
and a half weeks in the Sydney Hospital.
I was also two months in the Coast Hos-
pital, where I had one kidney removed.
Though the various treatments eased me
for a time, I was not cured, and would
soon relapse into my former ill-health. I
also tried patent medicines advertised to
cure kidney complaint, but they did not
even give me temporary relief. My brother
was always worrying me to try Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, if I only took one
bottle. To please him I got them, and
before I bad finished the bottle I felt
much better; in fact, I had not felt so
well for years. The pills were working
wonders for me. I continued taking
them, and am now perfectly cured of
every symptom of kidney trouble.”
Mr. Woodroffe confirms the above, nine
years later: “My cure has lasted, for I
am still free of the terrible torture of
kidney and bladder trouble. If ever I
feel the slightest pain near my kidneys I
take a few doses of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and they never fail to
relieve me at once.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per bottle, or posted by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
vxc
xvc
vc
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
ITCHING PILES.
Mr. W. Solomon, 74 Church Street,
Parramatta, says: “About 20 years ago
I had a very severe attack of
piles, and underwent an operation. I
was right for about eight years, and then
I got itching and bleeding piles again.
The agony was terrible. Not wanting to
undergo another operation, I started
using pile remedies. The number I used
would astonish you, but I could gain no
benefit whatever. I read of Doan’s Oint-
ment curing others, and decided to give
it a trial. After a few applications I
obtained relief, and the one pot cured me.
I always keep Doan’s Ointment in the
house, and shall never be without it, for
I know what a thoroughly good remedy
it is,”
Four years later Mr. Solomon _ says:
“I have still the same good opinion of
Doan’s Ointment. It cured me of piles
over four years ago, and I never suffer
with this complaint now.”
IRRITATING RASH.
Mrs. L. Doull, 102 May Street, St.
Peters, Sydney, says: “For some time my
child had a very nasty rash on the face,
and although I was continually trying
ointments of all kinds, nothing did anj
good. The rash had a tendency to spread,
and was very irritating, and made the
child fretful and troublesome. One day I
w r as advised to apply Doan’s Ointment,
and this remedy relieved the irritation
almost immediately. Before I had used
one pot all signs of the rash had disap-
peared. and not the slightest mark was
left. I always recommend the use ot
Doan’s Ointment in all cases of skin dis-
ease, because I have proved it to be
thoroughly good.”
Two years later Mrs. Doull says:
“The cure referred to above has proved
permanent. I need say no more; the
facts speak for themselves.”
Doan's Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Stores
at 2)9 per pot, or posted free by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“That’s right,” said Barry.. “I heard
Louis and Martindale say they were going
to see him this afternoon, too. They were
to meet here somewhere near a quarter to
four.” .
He shook hands with Bernstein and
walked out to beat up his crew and put off.
"So long,” he called laconically. “See you
again in a couple o’ months.” “So long,”
called Bernstein, cheerily, but he said
nothing about seeing him again. For in his
mind’s eye an electric car sped along the
greasy-looking rails on the North Terrace of
Adelaide once more, and a red, red patch of
geranium flamed incongruously on the shore.
lie went home and waited till three o’clock.
Then, when every self-respecting person in
Mulwa was taking a siesta, he walked to
Foster’s house. He felt weak, and it was
a good half-hour’s tramp, and the shade of
the great verandah gave hint of an inviting
coolness within the great bungalow. The
western side was built up on piles, for the
ground there sloped sharply to the sea. A
spur of coral, running crosswise, barred the
waters off, but at high tide the wash bioke
over this sometimes and crept almost to the
piles themselves.
Bernstein stood a moment on the veran-
dah and pulled himself together. lie
knocked sharply, and presently Charlie, a
sleepy-looking Chinese boy, answered his
summons. His slant eyes opened almost to
the width of a white man’s with astonish-
ment when he saw who stood there, for every-
one knew of the feud.
“Your boss is in'?” It was more of a
statement than a question.
“I go see,” said Charlie. lie was evi-
dently puzzled. “I go see,” he repeated.
But Bernstein reassured him. “It’s all
right, Charlie,” he said easily. “Mr. Foster
and me friends now, topside all right. Boss’
him send word alonga me this morning. He
want to shake hands now.” He smiled so
frankly that Charlie believed him (after
Mr. Foster had said he expected visitors),
and led the way to the big room on the
western side that the owner of the house
had made his den, because it looked out over
the sea he loved.
Foster turned carelessly enough as Bern-
stein came into the room. Then he moved
so quickly that the sharp knife of sciatica
stabbed him again and again.
The Jew smiled pleasantly—he liked to
see Foster’s face twitch like that.
“Heard you were pretty crook, Foster,” he
said, “and I’m feeling none too good myself.
Fact is, I’ve got my marching orders, and I
thought I’d like to bury the hatchet.”
Foster stared at him amazedly. “Fact,”
said Bernstein again. “I’ve only three weeks
to live, I believe, on the opinion of the best
doctors in Australia, and I’d like to be pals
for the sake of old times. Anyway, she's
dead, you know,” he concluded abruptly.
After a minute’s hard thinking Foster
recollected the Ibsonberg girl. He recol-
lected a good many other things at the same
time, but, after all, Bernstein had done a
generous thing in coming to see him like
this. He held out his hand and the two
men clasped hands for the first time in years.
Charlie, hanging about in the doorway,
could not catch what they were saying, but
he saw this display of friendliness and moved
off quite satisfied.
There was the usual Jewish touch of his-
trionics about Bernstein. Ho Foster thought
contemptuously when presently that gentle-
man pulled his revolver out of his pocket and,
walking to the window, flung it far out with
a fine, dramatic gesture. “That sort of
thing’s done with between us, old man, eh?”
he said with a sigh of relief. He had watched
the weapon sink deep in the wet, oozy sand.
Already the surface of the shore was undis-
turbed again.
“I suppose so,” assented Foster. He
Avas not so dramatically extravagant as the
other. He drew his “gun” out slowly and
placed it on the table. Bernstein noticed
that he had attempted to rise, no doubt with
the intention of placing it on a shelf at the
further end of the room, but he found rising
impossible, and sat down again.
“Get a seat for yourself, won’t you?” be
remarked, and pushed a syphon and bottle
of Avhisky within reach on the Avide, bare
table.
“Thanks,” said Bernstein. “Here’s hoAv!”
It Avas surprising how easy they found it
to be friendly again. Sometimes a slight
constraint crept into the conversation, but
the JeAV talked rapidly and excitedly, with
quick, impatient gestures. The other man
thought he had been drinking.
“D’ye remember, ‘Fighting Face’ ” —he
Avas saying in a thick, uneven Amice, and
Foster, whose attention had been Avander-
ing. recalled himself Avith a start at his
native nick-name.
He looked across at Bernstein and in his
eyes read something of the truth at last.
He leaned forward, as if to pay him the
closer attention. He drummed his fingers
idly on the table. Then, quite steadily,
without any undue haste, he. reached over
for his revolver. But Bernstein was watch-
ing e\ r ery movement, and he thrcAV aside the
cloak of friendliness abruptly.
“D’ye remember?” he said again, and
snatched the revolver un himself. It was
past four o’clock, and there Avere footsteps
on the rough-eoralled pathway. It seemed
somehow that he had been Avaiting for these.
Foster heard them also, and Avould have cried
out, but the other had him covered.
Very briefly, Bernstein told him of his
interview with the doctor in Adelaide. “So
it’s only a week or two less or more for me,
anyway,” he said. “Keep still.” he added.
“Oh! I’m not going to shoot you, you prize
idiot. You always were a damned ass,
Foster! It’s only a matter of a few paltry
days less or more to me, anyhow; but it’s a
murder charge, and Avhat’s left of a long
life, most likely, to you. I was determined
on that, but I didn’t reckon on such luck as
being able to finish the game to-day. I only
meant to get friendly, for a start. I didn’t
dream you’d give me such a splendid chance,
though I half-hoped it when I chucked my
gun out of the window so dramatically.”
Foster got on his feet somehow as he heard
Louis’s Amice asking Charlie for him.
But it Avas Bernstein who shouted “Help !”
and “Murder!” with a grim smile on his
mouth before he turned the revolver on him-
self and fired. He smiled still with a thick,
scarlet froth betAveen his lips in little Avork-
ing bubbles.
There was the crash of an overturned
chair as Foster, his sciatica forgotten for
the minute, came at him.
“Quits!” muttered Bernstein, indistinctly.
The clinging red slaver dribbled about his
mouth with each pumping breath. He rocked
in an intolerable agony for a moment, then
dropped the revolver and clasped his hands
beneath his heart, where a great stain was
spreading on his white clothes. His lower
teeth were locked over the upper set in a
fashion horrible to see through his stretched
and parted lips. Then he dropped face down-
ward as Louis and Martindale and the
Chinese boy got into the room. When they
turned him over it seemed to Foster that
those lips shaped the name of the lbsonberg
lass.
LILLIAS GORDON.
On the Practical Utility of
Taking a Large Size in
Gladness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIKE fourpence falling on a tray
The golden bangles on her wrist
Made music at the close of day
Beneath a sleeve of lacy mist;
And it was good to sit with her
And hear the placid evening purr.
The balcony was wide and high,
The harbor murmured cool and wet,
The ferry craft went gliding by
And howled derision when they met;
And I was quite content that she
Was thirteen stone and on my knee.
It may be that I could have found
A damsel of a lighter make,
For this dear maid had grown so round
I suffered somewhat for her sake;
Yet the large dimple on her chin
Seemed worth a small man’s while to win.
There is no standard make in love,
Proportion fades quite out of sight,
The sweetness of the cooing dove
May go with tresses dark or light,
And slim romance he does not miss
Who takes the largest size in bliss.
Sweet young destroyers through the street
On glancing ankles come and go,
The smiling cruisers that I meet
Have conquered merchantmen in tow;
But it seemed wondrous good to me
To nurse a Dreadnought on my knee.
But just as love and weight combined
To crush me flatter than the snail
The garden-roller leaves behind
A-squelcli upon the asphalt pale,
My thin remaining soul was ware
Of some large tumult in the air.
Round the warm edges of my love
I saw a sudden drift of smoke,
And through the gloom some voice above
The echoes of the evening woke
With howls of “Fire!” that let me know
The building was aflame below.
My lady shrieked and swooned away.
Hot tongues of lire beneath us roared.
I felt the groaning timbers sway
As towards our perch destruction soared ;
I climbed from under that sweet girl
With all my brain and heart a-whirl.
Then I observed that far below
A mob of firemen, topped with brass,
Were rushing madly to and fro
Upon the strip of garden grass,
And that a small and sudden jet
Of water made the flames look wet.
I called aloud to ask them if
They had a monoplane or two,
Or any sort of aerial skiff
To help the entertainment through,
And whether ere the roof went wrong
They meant to send the things along.
The firemen swarmed like angry gnats,
They squirted water up like mad.
I saw the shining of their hats;
But that which made me really sad
Was that the poor folk overhead
Would, like ourselves, be shortly dead.
I mentioned this in one long yell.
My lady lay a lifeless heap,
Prone on the floor where first she fell;
I raised her in my arms to leap,
And someone very far below
Bawled “Hurry up ! Your only show !”
They spread a net to break our fall.
I staggered to the giddy edge.
My lady hung like some large sliawd
That droops across a window ledge
But heavy as five bags of coal
I found the casing of her soul.
I lifted her above the rail.
Her weight o’erbalanced and we dropped.
Through leagues of air we seemed to sail
Till with a rending bump we stopped—
I saw wild ends of string aloft
And wondered that the world was soft.
Like fourpence falling on a tray
I heard a golden bangle clash.
I gazed around. My lady lay
Right in the centre of the smash,
And I had landed like a dove
Upon the very breast of love.
For our twin souls had burst the net.
The selfsame net that broke our fall;
And there was nothing to regret
Because, my own weight being small,
I scarce had crushed the snowy lace
Upon my lovely landing place.
My lady wakened from her swoon,
Bruised from her contact with the ground ;
Her first remarks were wildly strewn
In gusts of incoherent sound :
Then looking upward she beheld
The flames that scorched and leaped and
yelled.
At once she seemed to understand.
Remembrance sparkled in her eye.
She pawed me with a gracious hand
And breathed a little tender sigh,
And glad was I my nobler taste
Ran to a generous girth of waist.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


WESTING HOUSE
(Morse) CHAIN DRIVES
•' i .. s
m -
ft
rr*i
1 • •• g
Ms
Sjswr'-v
“ *j* 1
fe.
m
m
■
For all types of high-speed power
transmission.
Positive in Action,
Silent in Operation,
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to sliding
surfaces. Consequently you have
Full Power,
Continuous Power,
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westmghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Unequalled Value. iStri<slly Moderate Price.
PLANES, 12in. x 4in.
Double Row Ball Bear-
ings to all Spindles.
Feed Rollers all Gear
Driven and Of Large
Diameter.
Vertical and Horizontal
Adjustment to Side
Heads.
Can be supplied with
Plain or Ball-bearing
Counter Shaft.
Site
at
■ V
i ,
KK
-
Descriptive Leaflet and Price from SOLE AGENTS—
THE AUSTRAL ENGINEERING SUPPLY CO. Limited,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
£lOOO
Worß of Art
Value
£5OO
IN
PRIZES.
FIRST
GREAT PRIZE.
£lOOO
Worß of Art
Value
&500
Or Twelve Months’Trip Round the World and £lOO in Cash for ONE PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
. Note—The Committee, having paid full value for the work of art, is prepared
to nnd a purchaser for same at the advertised amount if the winner so desires, also
tor the Second and Third Prizes.
Second : Value £lOO. Third : Value £5O. And 97 other Prizes, Totalling £lOOO.
EigHt Hours Great Art Union
59th Year—Oldest and Most Popular—s9th Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all charges. A list of winning
numbers will be posted to any person sending an addressed envelope to the repre-
sentative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before Ist May, or send Postal Note, P. 0.0.,
or stamps with Exchange added, direct to the representative, 165 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a chance in this great Art Union, 22 for
±l, 11 for 10s., or Is. each.
direct applications must reach Melbourne before the date of drawing,
loth May, 1915.
LEST YOU FORGET, BUY TO-DAY.
165 Flinders Lane, Melb., Vic. THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative.
vcx
Results with these Cartridges in your
SMITH & WESSON Revolver or Pistol
THE s ecre t of the results you get with Reminton-
UMC Cartridges is their uniform quality, their
absolute dependability. All shobters know and recognize this.
Remington-UMC Cartridges are made for every standard make of
Revolver, Pistol and Automatic —Colt, Smith & Wesson, Savage,
Browning, Liiger, Mauser, Webley, Iver Johnson, Hopkins & Allen.
Harrington & Richardson, etc. Each kind and caliber tested in the
arm for which it is made.
■„ Shooting quality demonstrated time and again, on the range, in
the held, and all over the world.
Leading dealers everywhere sell Remington-UMC Cartridges and are com-
manding the patronage of the wide-awake users of arms and ammunition. In-
teresting facts about shooting sent free on request.
900 REMINGTON axms-union metallic cartridge company
299 Broadway New York
REMINGTON
UMC
xvc
IT IS TIME
which is the test of all things—including proprietary medicines. The enormous
and ever-increasing popularity of Beecham’s Pills which, after a service of
seventy years, still hold their own against all rivals, is the most genuine proof of
the sterling worth of this excellent preparation. It must of necessity be a really
good thing to withstand the tremendous pressure of modern competition and
maintain a superiority so distinct and indisputable. With the flight of years
Beecham’s Pills have become known far and wide as the best medicine
TO TAKE
for those numerous ailments arising from a disturbed digestive system. For
biliousness, constipation, dizziness, flatulence, heartburn, headache, loss of
appetite and sluggish action of liver and kidneys, there is nothing to beat
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price lll\ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
l/H, 2/9 & 4/b.
vxc
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectual! y
cuts short all
attacks •<
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
'he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acta like a Charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
.'mi. uni-;'niiiiriirrin' "
AGENTS TOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Rowboat
Speed
S Miles
per hour.
33 M N VA
CAILLE
Yankee
Outboard
Motor, 2-k.p.
attached to any row boat as quickly as a
pair of oars. Cut the work out of sport
by purchasing one of these motors for
fishing, hunting and camping. Can be
run in shallow water and through weeds.
This engine is safe in inexperienced
hands—nothing could be more simple.
Guaranteed by the Gaille Perfection
Motor Co. Call and see one working, or
write to us for further details.
Price
Complete
with
B atteries
Ready
for
Attaching
to Boat,
£2O
With
Reversible
High
Tension
Magneto,.
£22
WE ALSO STOCK the complete line of CAILLE 2-cycle standard and Heavy
Duty, Marine Engines, fitted with the Patent Waterproof Ignition System.
SCRIPPS 4-cycle Marine Engines. GRAY 4-cycle Stationary Engines.
Write for Catalog of any of the above to
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA,
51-53 DRDITT STREET, SYDNEY; 60 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.


Imangrovite”
xvc
LEATHER
xvcvxc
has been awarded the Government
> Contracts for 1915-1916.
It is All-Australian —from Aus-
tralian Hides, tanned and manufac-
tured by Australian Workmen.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:
CHARLES LBDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY.
“ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
FOR
“THAT
TIRED
FEELING
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT. ACID § ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
7
A DRINK
A TONIC
A MEDICINE
TANCYE Portable Lampless Oil Engine
■r * iv
Tangye “Special” Steam Pump.
Big Stocks of Pumps—all types.
akL
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, Sydney
AGENCIES—
TANGYE’S Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants,
■ pumps of all descriptions, Irrigation Plants.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLE WORTH Portable Steam Engines and
Tractors.
CANE Milking Machines. WOLSELEY Shearing Machines.
NICHOLSON & MOBBOW Drills, Harvesters, Ploughs, etc.
MUNRO Chaff cutters,
TANGYE
Suction Gas Engine and Producer Plant.
m
Clayton and Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
SEE THE “I 9 L.s’"
•u| #v St
LEV
SHE E P
SHEARINC MACHINES.
imm
■ ■ '■ <-r : K ~"i-
- a
IF your aro interested Write for
our Catalogue, giving full de-
scription and capacities•
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
FOR THE STATION, FARM OR DAIRY
Have you considered the advantages of installing one of these
little Pumps on your property? It means an efficient water
supply at low cost of installing. Especially adaptable for
General Water Supply, Tank Filling,
Factory Use, etc.
Irrigation Purposesj
PARKE (El LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
BRITISH LABOR. BRITISH GOODS. BRITISH CAPITAL.
BRUCE PEEBLES
• EDINBURGH
Dynamos, Motors, Peebles Lacour
Patent Motor Converters, Alternators.
JOHNSON & PHILLIPS
LONDON
Transformers, Arc Lamps,
Switchgear, Cables, etc.
PROMPT ATTENTION.
PLEASE ADDRESS ENQUIRIES:- - .
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney and Melbourne.
GORDON FAINE LTD.» Londop BanK chambers, Brisbane.
