

IDIES^WP'* jmE£, 7 S£ the Veteran of Whiskies
R. Gr. WATKINS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants. 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— , ...
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5 W- MONT DE
pi&j*'
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone! City 9320,
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
3QI£E
M 4
'll -Hi
\uf ■
ğdg
' Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN
SYDNEY.
BUTTONS
MMSafBACOH
/- 5. R B.
sgd
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
'm
g
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
Entirely BRITISH,
and the World’s BEST!
PALMER CORD
TYRES.
Interesting Catalogue free from
The Silvertown Rubber Co.,
279 George Street, Sydney.
For the roofs of great Warehouses, for Harbor-side
Bungalows, for Engine-sheds, and all buildings
where a weather-proof, wear-proof, water-proof,
fume-proof, temperature-proof roofing is desired,
Malthoid stands alone. It is THE ideal roofing.
Let us send you Samples and Illustrated
Booklets.
The Paraffine Paint Company,
(D. S, EVANS, Australasian Rep.)
Challis House SYDNEY.
in
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L
GRANVILLE
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, -GENERAL 8c AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL 8c FARM WAGGONS. IRON A MALLEABLE CASTINGS. SHREDDER DISCS.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & C
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth,
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Deli acy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZQNE
LAVENDER
H/»Ttn
The Bulletin
V 01.36— No. 1866.]
[Thursday, November 18, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


sds
(Postage t
shown in
parentheses.')
J’Accuse, by a German. 6/6 (4d.).
Mills’s Barnavaux. 4/6 (3d.).
Powell’s Fighting in Flanders. (2d.).
Bernhardi’s Germany and the Next War. 8/6 (2d.)
I Belloc (H.): General Sketch of the European War,
8/6 (4d.).
Eyewitness: Narrative of the War. 1/3 (2d.).
Bulow’s Imperial Germany. 2/9 (3d.).
Strong’s Australia and the War. 1/- (Id.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON V CO. PROPTY LTD., 258 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
gď
MUSTDIE
NON POISONOU3 POWDER.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROyER.
K'
Flies.
Fleas.
Bugs.
Mosquitoes.
sĝd
ďgs
"MUSTDIE”
Certain Death to All Insects.
Full directions with each Tin.
Burn it —that’s one way.
Sprinkle with the “MUSTDIE” Blower
—that’s the other way.
But even a small quantity dusted
on the pillow at bedtime will effect-
ually keep away Mosquitoes.
The “MUSTDIE” Blower is recommended to
be used, for it is not only economical, but the
powder is distributed more effectively, and we
want you to get the best results out of every
ounce of the powder.
Sold everywhere. Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, 9d. P er Tin.
FREE TRlAL.—Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H,
Box 1520, G.P.0., Sydney, and sample tin will
be sent post free; or forward 9d. in stamps for
a full-size tin.
The Red page
The Wells Magnificent
As this page expected, H. G. Wells’ latest
hero has £6OOO a year. Wells has got a long
way from Messrs. Lewisham, Polly and
Kipps. And an unearned £6OOO per annum
is the greatest possible obstacle to The
Research Magnificent (Macmillan). Kipps
or Mr. Lewisham would have called it the
Magnificent Research; but Benham lias
£6OOO a year. And it is precisely that
unearned income which _ prevents Beuliam
discovering his grail. If Wells had started
off with £6OOO a year, would anybody have
ever heard of LI. G. Wells? He admits the
fact himself. Benham never profited by liis
mistakes: lie could always pay for them—-
out of that unearned £6OOO per annum.
What he needed was merely hard work:
instead he set out, luxuriously, upon the
grand tour. Seeking the soul of man, he
never thought to find it, or build it, within
himself. He wanted to be king of the
world : he became merely a haughty tourist.
Anyhow, this, Wells’ latest, is perilously
near Wells’ best. It is in line with The
New Machiavelli and The Passionate
Friends , a vivid novel with a heroic theme,
that, in places, is hardly saved by Wells'
humor from perishing in bathos. And in
structure it closely resembles Boon, by
Reginald Bliss. Both books, are built up
by another hand from papers discovered
after the hero’s death ; and in both the nar-
rator steps outside the limits of his sup-
posed position and records scenes of which
neither the papers nor his own knowledge
could have given him any information. How
could Benham tell that Amanda, left alone
in the bedroom, saicl “Damn!” to herself,
and then remarked, biting the hearthrug, or
something, “It’s a cursed thing to be a
woman” ? What need has Wells for this
clumsy pretence, especially when he has to
discard it? Why couldn’t he tell straight
out the enthralling story of the man who
was led into adventure by an idea?
J*
It was a gorgeous idea, though “it led him
into situations that bordered upon the fan-
tastic, it made him ridiculous, it came near
to making him sublime.” and, as Wells just
discovered in time, it very nearly made him
a prig. Benham’s idea was to live the aris-
tocratic life. “He had an incurable, an
almost innate persuasion that he had to live
nobly and thoroughly,” He tried to live so
that “life would be the wonder it so per-
plexingly just isn’t.” But Benham had
hardly decided to live the noble life when
he came bump against the fact that he was
a physical coward. Fear! Wells has a lot
to say about fear—a lot that needed saying.
For “the beginning of all aristocracy is the
subjugation of fear.” And everyone feels
fear, and the true aristocrat is not the bloke
who has eliminated, but the bloke who con-
trols or ignores it. Brave men are men
■who do things when they are afraid to do
them —as this war lias abundantly proved.
The modern world thinks too much as
though painlessness and freedom from danger
were ultimate ends. It is fear-haunted, it is
troubled by the thoughts of pain and
death.... And so it thinks the discovery of
anaesthetics the crowning triumph of civilisa-
tion, and cosiness and innocent amusement,
those ideals of the nursery, the whole pur-
pose of mankind.... Fear, as a social instinct,
has become a misfit.
Benham was scared —of bulls, precipices,
aeroplanes, and especially, thanks to his
nurse when a child, of tigers. So when he
grew up and travelled he wandered off to
spend a night in an Indian jungle, unarmed.
And there he met a tiger in the moonlight.
The two stared at each other, each perhaps
with an equal astonishment. And then
Benham spoke: “I am Man. The Thought
of the world.” And he took (shakingly) a
step forward.
The tiger said “Wough!” and vanished.
This scene, like many of the other scenes
in this extraordinary book, may be either
sublime or absurd. Wells’ eerie powers
make it sublime. But you are at liberty to
think it absurd. This page doesn’t think
Wells would mind.
What worried Benham were the planless,
indeterminate lives that men live. He
wanted something nobler, something less
muddled. And that something is; it exists,
even if only as an ideal.
Imagination, pride, exalted desire are just
as much Man as are hunger and thirst and
sexual curiosities and the panic dread of
unknown things.... Man is leaving his ances-
tral shelters and going out upon the greatest
adventure that ever was in space or time, he
is doing it now.
So Benham came down from Cambridge
to London, with his unearned £6OOO a year,
and his resolve to begin the Research Mag-
nificent, the quest of a noble living. Just
then something happened, something named
Mrs. Skelmersdale. She was sympathetic to
the young man, sympathetic in a caressing
way, and he went to lunch with her at her
nice flat. Mixed emotions.
It was very wonderful and delicious, this
first indulgence of sense.
It was shabby and underhand..
She was the most subtle, delightful and
tender of created beings.
She had amazing streaks of vulgarity
There was a curious enecc aouiu uer as
though when she went round the corner she
would become somebody else. And a
curious recurrent feeling that round the
corner there was somebody else.
Enter Amanda. A delightful, youthful
Amanda. Exit Mrs. Skelmersdale. For
Amanda was his mate, the aristocrat’s mate.
Then the spirited honeymoon, travelling,
chiefly in Albania, but finding out the
world and the muddled peoples who' made
that world the {middled place it is, and,
incidentally biting the arm of the delightful
Amanda, who was exceeding proud of that
bite. Discovering things about the Balkans,
and discovering things about Amanda. There
were so many Amandas, for instance, and
these other Amandas were not the Amandas
that lie had lov d and married. “Wasn’t
Amanda indeed the sister of Mrs. Skelmers-
dale—wrought of clean fire, but her sister?”
A horrible discovery for an aristocrat who
thought he had found a mate. She couldn’t
keep up with him in the research magnifi-
cent. She wanted a home, a house in Lon-
dop, a circle... . ultimately a baby. “She
was an animated discursiveness.” And
Amanda tires of the Balkans ; for the Bal-
kans that Wells takes us to are the real
Balkans, not the Anthony Hope Balkans.
It is not a pleasing picture, but a wonder-
fully credible and vivid picture. One won-
ders how stay-at-home Wells does it. Or,
rather, why he takes the trouble to do it.
It would be so much more convincing if he
saw the world for himself. However, he
still has the Englishman’s prejudice that
there is nothing worth investigation outside
the British Isles. It is so much easier to
send his hero world-touring, and stay at
Lome himself.
However, we are forgetting Prothero, the
Cambridge don. He lives the celibate life,
or The Life Celibate, under protest. He is
not built that way.
Is this love-making a physical necessity
for most men and women, or isn’t it? There’s
a simple question enough, and is there any-
thing whatever in your confounded wisdom
of the ages to tell me yes or n 0?... .If sexual
activity is a part of the balance of life, if it
is a necessity, well let’s set about making it
accessible and harmless, and have done with
it.... Why haven’t we a classification of
temperaments and a moral code for each
sort?. .. .Some want love and gratification,
and some don’t. There are people who wa'nt
children, and people who don’t want to be
bothered by children, but who are full of
vivid desires. There are people whose only
happiness is chastity, and women who would
rather be courtesans than mothers. Some
of us would concentrate upon a single
passion or a single idea: others overflow
with a miscellaneous tenderness. Why spit
uoon and insult a miscellaneous tenderness?
Why grin at it? Why try everyone by the
standards that suit oneself?
Etc. Lots of it —till Prothero settles the
matter for himself when he meets that woman
in Russia. Settles it....we11, temporally.
Jt
And Benham, Wells’ superman, discovers
that one of the hindrances to aristocracy is
jealousy. He finds out about Amanda. He
hurries home to kill her.... and discovers
that he doesn’t want to kill her at all. But
he smashes up the furniture in his room in
a lordly h0te1.... and cheerfully pays for
the damage. We can’t smash up hotel fur-
niture, because we haven’t £6OOO a year.
As Benham wanders about the world idly,
with a tremendous illusion that he is fright-
fully busy and frightfully important, the
defect in his character unsuspected by Wells
comes plainly to the surface —to us, to
Australians: Benham is merely the English-
man, the hitherto untravelled English-
man, the somewhat insufferable English-
man. He goes about, smashing shop-win-
dows (and paying for them), hitting native
policemen (and getting the British Consul
to explain away that hit), telling the Rus-
sian Jew to forget his racial instincts (and
getting considerably smashed up in the pro-
cess), and finally, attempting to stop a
-bullet. (But £6OOO a year and an English-
man’s idea of his importance are no use
when you have a bullet in your heart.)
Benham was too English. He saw the
world merely as a place for Englishmen to
spread themselves in, as a place for English-
men (aristocrats with £6OOO coming in every
12 months) to boss. Only a casual Austra-
lian could have conducted the Research Mag-
nificent without looking foolish —but he
wouldn’t have called it that, and he would
have earned his keep while he was on the
job. But when Wells sent Benham on his
voyage around the world he never got as far
as Australia. True, there was the bullet
that hit him in Johannesburg; but he could
have got that bullet just as easily in Wool-
loomooloo. “And there is no hint in Ben-
ham’s notes that he had - ever heard of
Australia. But there are things to be dis-
covered about the Research Magnificent even
here. Here’s a whole new race setting out
collectively on the Research Magnificent!
This book makes it now imperative that H.
G. Wells should discover this race.
But it is a book teeming with modern
thought, packed with brilliant ideas, lavishly
flung out and lucidly discussed. And it is
saved from the ridiculous by the author’s
wise decision to make Benham, his superman,
of the same common, and priceless, humanity,
as he made Kipps. A book emphatically to
be read, argued about, dissented from
The War
The patriot will get cold comfort from C.
Ernest Fayle, author of The Great Settle-
ment (Murray; 65.). Our Anti-German
Leagues will get less. For this author
placidly and dispassionately argues that at
the end of the war a defeated Germany must
not be punished. The Hun must compen-
sate Belgium and Poland for damage done —
as far as pecuniary compensation can pay
for murder; but there is to be no question
of “crushing” Germany, of smashing the
empire into its original component States, of
permanently occupying German territory, of
imposing a huge indemnity, or of enforcing
a tariff designed to penalise German trade.
All these punishments 0. Ernest Fayle
lucidly argues would react to the detriment
of the victorious Allies. But his arguments,
briefly summarised below, depend on an
assumption the evidences of which are not
yet discernible in Germany. F'ayle assumes
that after a defeat the Germans themselves
will set their house in order, will themselves
get rid of their militarism, and that there is
a “reform” party of sufficient power in Ger-
many to enforce such altruistic demands.
Well, what we know of the German does not
lead us to look with much confidence for
such a manifestation of morality in a Ger-
many crushed to the ground. If Fayle can
prove that there is such a German Ivultur
in being, or ready to be born, we would
accept his suggestions with a greater confi-
dence. With that reservation the book must
be read ; and it will be found that his argu-
ment is lucid and temperately expressed.
Our object, he reminds us, is neither to
humiliate Germany nor to spare her humilia-
tion : our job is to secure the peace and
liberties of Europe. The “crushing” of Ger-
many, lightly spoken of as one of the terms
of peace, has once before been tried. The
Treaty of Tilsit practically wiped Prussia off
the map, and yet within seven years Napoleon
found that Prussia was a worthy foe. “Im-
proved means of production have probably
rendered the recuperative powers of modern
States even greater than those shown by
Prussia after Jena, by France after 1871.”
As the London Times remarked : “To crush
the Germans as a whole we must either kill
them all or occupy their countries perma-
nently, and we do not want to substitute one
tyranny for another.” The Germans, after
the power of German militarism has been
crushed in the field, must be left to work out
their own salvation. But we might conveni-
ently remind ourselves that, with a German
victory, we should not be left to work out
our own Australian salvation; nor would
Germany have any , qualms about a per-
manent occupation of this continent. So,
whatever the upshot of the war, Germany
will still retain her place in the European
system. As for Australia, the author be-
lieves that a German Australia is unthink-
able.
J*
The afithor suggests, as part of the all-
round agreement that must be entered into
after the war, that in Asia Minor and Meso-
potamia Germany might find a field for her
immigrants —with, of course, Russia in the
occupation of Constantinople. But the
author does not believe that, as one of the
terms of peace, we should demand a huge
indemnity, though there does not seem any
inherent impossibility of an indemnity of
two thousand millions raised in instalments.
But the instalment plan would not contri-
bute to the welding of peace between the
belligerents. We know how the suburban
dweller feels towards the weekly collector
who comes every Monday for the instal-
ment due upon his furniture: Germany’s
feeling toward the collector of the instal-
ments of her indemnity, coming every year
for 20 years, would not make for peace and
goodwill on the premises. And there is a
much more serious objection to the huge
indemnity. Payment of large sums by one
nation to another can only be ultimately
made in the form of goods. “The enforced
export of commodities in such huge quanti-
ties as such an indemnity would involve
cannot but stimulate the industrial activities
of the nation paying the indemnity; and it
might correspondingly depress the industries
of the receiving nations.” A fact that Ger-
many discovered for herself when France
had ’to pay her indemnity. After working
so long at high pressure for the smallest
profits, Germany would become a nation so
skilled and so organised and machined that
she would be a most formidable commercial
competitor. We should have trained her to
undersell the world. Of course, Germany
must be made to compensate Belgium. And
“the creation of a Zollverein by the Allies,
aimed definitely at the crippling of German
trade, would not only compromise their pro-
clamations of disinterestedness and prolong
indefinitely the hatreds and suspicions caused
by the war; it w0u1d.... effectually defeat
the efforts of the reform party in Germany.”
So, according to C. Ernest Fayle, Germany
is to get off almost scot free! We are
to crush the militarism of the Hun, and
trust him to set his house in order. The
question is: Would he?
j*
Edward Carpenter is another writer who,
in The Healing of Nations (Allen and Un-
win), has something unconventional to say
about the war. He puts the blame of the
war not only upon the Hun military class,
but upon the rise and influence of the Hun
commercial class. The Junker class relied
for the financing of its schemes on the sup-
port of the commercials. The latter saw in
the militarists a power that might increase
Germany’s trade-supremacy. “Vanity and
greed are met together, patriotism and profits
have kissed each other.” A third cause of
the war was the political ignorance of the
German people. Suddenly told that the
duty of every serious German was the study
of welt-politik, the gentle, ignorant German
became dazed at finding himself on the sup-
posed pinnacle of world-power, and the poor
fellow was easily rushed into the belief that
war was the only thing necessary for his
comfort.
“Commercial prosperity means only the
prosperity of a class Let us. remember
that wars for world-markets are made for
the benefit of the merchant class, and not for
the benefit of the mass-people, and that in
this respect England has been as much to
blame as Germany.... There has been a pre-
tence of the Governments all round—a pre-
tence of deep concern for humanity and the
welfare of the mass-peoples committed to
their charge; but the real moving power
beneath has been class-interest —the interest
of the great commercial class in each nation,
with its acolyte and attendant, the military
or aristocratic.”
“A terrible and serious crisis awaits us —
even when the war is over —a crisis probably
worse than that which we are passing
through now. We have to remember the
debts that are being piled up. If the
nations are staggering along now under the
enormous load of idlers and parasites living
on interest, how will it be then 7 Unless we
can reorganise our Western societies on a
real foundation of actual life, of practical
capacity, of honest and square living, and of
mutual help instead of mutual robbery, they
will infallibly collapse, or pass into strange
and alien hands.” And he acutely asks :
“When these hundreds of thousands of men
return home after the war is over, do we ex-
pect them to go meekly back to the idiotic
slavery of dingy offices and dirty workshops?
....Now at last arises the opportunity for
our outworn Civilisation to make a fresh
start.”
These words are written for England—and
John Bull is certainly making an early start.
He is smashing his ancient idols with mighty
axes, and while Pte. Atkins is happily harry-
ing the Hun, that rebel in the ranks, Pte.
Enterprise, is getting it just as strenuously
in the neck.
The Bookseller, a London trade
journal which judges literature as a
grocer judges sardines, by the popular
demand, objects to this page’s long-ago
attempt to classify English novelists, and
suggests that but for the war “even the
barriers of latitude and longitude would not
have protected him from violent verbal
assault in respect of some of his curious
judgments.”
To take one or two instances, it is surely asking
for trouble to rank Mr. George Jloore among stars
of the first magnitude, while relegating such writers
as Mr. W. J. Locke and Mrs. Humphry Ward to the
fourth; and I should much like to hear the remarks
of Mr. Eden Phillpotts’ “following,” and those of
the admirers of Mr. 11. A. Vachell, Mr. Marriott
Watson, Mr. Anthony Hope, Mrs. Flora Annie Steel
and Mr. Robert W. Chambers, when informed that
all these distinguished novelists are among those
who “at their greatest reached only the third or
fourth magnitude, but have since relapsed.”
By far the most interesting thing in this Sydney
critic’s deliverance seemed to me to be his list of
“novelists of one important book,” though even here
one could find no small amount of disputable matter.
Who, for instance, would be disposed to agree that
Lucas Malet has given us her sole important book in
The Wages of Sin, or that “Richard Dehan,” other-
wise Miss Clotilde Graves, has done nothing else
that counts except The Dop Doctor ? Then, again,
although Vice Versa is undoubtedly Mr. Anstey’s
most brilliant achievement, is it not rather absurd to
class him with the writers who depend entirely upon
a single work for their reputation? But I suppose
one must expect some perversities of this kind from
a critic who sees nothing grotesque in the labelling
of Mr. G. K. Chesterton as one of “a curious group
of small nebulae” !
Well, after a year’s reflection, this page sees
no reason to alter its opinion. What has
any one of the writers mentioned, except
Yaohell, done to increase, not his sales, but
his literary reputation?
“A student of literature at Cambridge”
was also annoyed. In T. P.’s Weekly he
raged thus : —•
When one saw neither Hall Caine’s nor Miss
Corelli’s name in one or other of the lists one’s only
conclusion could be that the writer of the article
had yet to have his blind eyes opened to discern the
trail left by two of the brightest stars in the literary
firmament.... I am still seeking the reason for this
prejudice against Miss Corelli by a minority of
“literary” journals and the multitudinous little
shooting stars whose feeble light occasionally flickers
in the literary heavens, but as yet I can only
account for it by putting it down to jealousy and
petty spite at her fame, and widespread popularity.
It is when one comes against such pro-
digies of culchaw from the “Old World seats
of learning” that one realises what an intel-
lectual billabong we Australians inhabit.


xiGe
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
WE CAN SUPPLY EVERYTHING wanted to carry on the Business of Life, whether that business
is run in single or double harness. To Family People our Store and the vast Stock it contains
are BLESSINGS OF THE MOST PRACTICAL KIND, while to all the other folk, both rich and poor,
our system of trade presents attractions not to be found elsewhere. Write for Price Lists of anything
you want, posted free on request. They place the immense resources of the New Palace Emporium at
the command of everyone, and enable substantial savings to be effected in the purchase of every=day
necessities, as well as luxuries, through the agency of
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Pq"'
V
1
&
kfl
u
! . .3
m
m
m
■
r
M 7
S 4
S 6
Ml
Distinctive Types of the New styl es
at Anthony Horderns’
»>—<
No. S2.—Model One-piece Dress, in Black Crepe de
Chine; the Bodice has the new Bolero of Striped
Moire Silk, finished on edge with pleated frill; Collar,
Vestette and Undersleeves of Ninon on Ivory Net
foundation, smart Skirt with hemstitched double
tunic, completed at waist with wide, wrinkled
Belt £7/15/-
No. S3.—Attractive Model Robe Costume, of Fawn
Silk Eolienne; the Bodice has Zouave effect, with
smart Collar and Vestette of Violet Moire Silk,
opening over gathered gilet of Ivory Tulle; Skirt
has long flared Tunic, the wide wrinkled Belt is of
Violet Moire £6/6/-
No. So.—Fashionable Model Coat and Skirt, of Silk
Eolienne; the Coat has new flared basque pointed at
sides, Sac back, and fastens almost to throat, finished
with Collar of Ivory Moire Silk, smart, high-waisted
yoke, Skirt nicely flared at foot, in Mole and
Grey £6/16/6
No. S 4 One-piece Costume,
of Crepe de Chine; the Ninon. Bodice is made over
Ivory shadow Lace, the Bolero, Collar and Cuffs of
Crepe de Chine, the new, full Skirt shirred at waist,
in Navy, Grey, Tete-de-Negre and 81ack.... 63/-
No. Ml. — Smart Coat and Skirt, in Chiffon Taffeta
Silk, the Eton Coat has Yestette and Collar of Ivory
corded Silk, new. full Skirt is shirred into high
waist, in Navy, Black and the new ; Tete-de-Negre
shade 72/6
No. SO.—.Maid’s Smart Coat and Skirt, in Fawn Silk
Eolienne ; the short, straight Coat, with Sac back, is
finished straps of Self and patch pockets; effective
Louis Collar of Self has revers of White Pique,
which also forms Vestette; the long sleeves are
pointed at wrist, new, Full Skirt has attached
Belt 04/6
No. M 7 Crepe de Chine Coat' and Skirt
Costume; new Eton Coat with Sac back, trimmed
braid and fancy buttons, and has smart pointed V r est
of Floral Silk, small revers of same, French Collar
with turned-back points of Broche Silk, finished Silk
tassels, well-cut, high-waisted Skirt flared at foot,
in Grey, Nigger Brown and 81ack.... 84/-
Here are a few selections of the New Frocks illustrated in our Summer Fashion Book*
Write for a copy, posted free on request*
No. M7o.—Useful One-piece Dress, of fancy striped
Crepe; the Collar, Pipings and Buttons of plain Crepe, in
shades to tone ; Bodice has shaped yoke and long sleeves ; Skirt
with tuck below hips and shaped voke belt; in Saxe, Black, or
Grey • 12/11
Also in Check Crepe, without yoke on Skirt; all colors 12/11
And in Black, Grey or Navy plain Wool Crepe, no yoke on
Skirt (No. 507) 35/.
No. S29.—Fancy Striped Voile Robe; has long Raglan
Sleeves, Collar, Cuffs and Vestette of White Pique; Vest
finished ball Bone Buttons; Skirt has two folds of Pique at
foot; White ground, with Black, Rose, Royal or Skv
stripes 27/6
Also No. 2606; similar style, without Pique trimmings, Yoke
Skirt, Black or Navy stripes 17/6
No. 526. Useful One-piece Dl-ess, Of Natural Tussore
Silk ; Sleeves set in from shoulder, to which Bodice is shirred
at front, Self Collar and Cuffs; plain Skirt, shirred at waist,
and finished stand-up frill 32/C
No. M3l.—Attractive Robe, carried out in plain and striped
Voile ; the Bodice of plain White Voile, trimmed striped pipings
has smart bolero of striped Voile, with belt from sides at back ;
the full Skirt has deep yoke on hips, finished at waist with
bow and buckle; Black, Grey or Royal block stripes on White
ground 24/G
No. M2B. — Japanese Silk Robe, in Ivory and Black;
Bodice has detached. waistcoat front, which forms belt at back,
smart Collar and Cuffs finished hemstitching-; Skirt has panel
of double inverted tucks at front 32/6
No. M3o.—Smart Robe, in the popular block-stripe Voile;
Bodice has cross piece of Self let in on shoulder, extended
down sleeves, edged narrow braiding, Self Collar; tie end and
Cuffs of Velvet, finished pointed tabs; Skirt is gathered on
to scalloped yoke, wide wrinkled belt of Self; in Saxe, Grey,
Navy or Black, with White block stripes 20/6
No. 3127. — Dressy Japanese Silk Robe; Bodice has hem-
stitched Raglan long sleeves, Collar and Vest |f Irish Guipure;
the long tunic on Skirt is hemstitched, also wide fold and
hem on Skirt; in Black and Ivory 39/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


site. Jlil
UUUUil'Kiui
uiiuali
i urn
u^ f .jnuuHiuiiuiiMUiU l
id
M
7m
m
m
m
y/r p
D5B
12,
16 and 20 Gauge
Right, Hammerless Repeating
Shotguns
Sportsmen differ as to whether a 12, 16 or 20 Gauge is
the best shotgun for field shooting, but the knowing
ones agree that the Winchester Model 1912 lightweight,
hammerless repeater is the one best bet in the shotgun
line. This Winchester being made in 12, 16 and 20
gauges permits an advocate of the big, medium or small
bore to indulge his fancy and be sure of getting a gun
that is true to its gauge in balance, weight and length.
All three gauges of this model are made of specially
selected materials. Nickel steel, which is twice as
strong as ordinary gun steel, is used throughout for the
metal parts in this Winchester. This means a light-
weight gun without sacrificing safety or strength.
This gun has a cross-bolt trigger lock, a smooth,
quick and easy action, and a simple Take-Down
system. It loads and unloads easily and its shoot-
ing qualities are not excelled by the highest priced
double guns. There are many other pleasing and
exclusive features of this Winchester which appeal to
sportsmen that could be enumerated, but the gun itself
is the best evidence of its quality and desirability.
FOR A RED FETTER DAY AFIEFD,
l SHOOT A WINCHESTER SHOTGUN f
f
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from o S .
Gd. and upwards. Cards of Tariff aud all L ar-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
M
Columbus’
good liver
did it.
But for his buoyant optimism
(active liver) he would have
stopped before he started.
To-day human nature and the human
system are precisely what they were in
hts day. They have not changed in
the least. All’the active, persevering
optimists, the people who lead and
achieve, have good livers and take
good care of them.
And all the doubting, disapproving,
gloomy, pessim Stic people are those
whose livers are weakened and over-
burdened I and whose blood therefore
is loaded with wastes arid toxins
affecting their thoughts and impulses.
I\ople who for years hare perse-
cuted and weakened their l.ver with
drastic pills or draughts are reluctant to
believe that kindness can doit any good.
Yet kindness is the whole secret of
Cockle’s Pills. By making its task
easier they give the weakened and
injured liver a chance to regain its
normal strength and activity. Result:
Emancipation from the gloom-poisons,
from lassitude and half-health.
You cannot send anyone else to
make this discovery for you. You
must make it yourself. A New World
of finer pleasure-in-living awaits your
discovery when you have encompassed
the tiny Globes called
Cockle’s Pills
Sold bv all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & GO., 4 Great OrmonJ St,, London, Eng.
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas. Acetylene or Kerosene.
All.
FTsm-
t
K
Ikik
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott 8 Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye 8 Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram 8 Son
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Works: 269 Toorak Road,
Melbourne.
ƒd
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
ďg
Works : Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fatted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT IESIED. AN EXCELLENI
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMERS FRIEND-. Special. Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 21 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
li"ht. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6 CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted vvith patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes 22
lon°% .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price 18/6 Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AJ THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largeßt Imgrt-
In the Commonwealth
IEUBfOORNE
m
“there is no need to tell people who
saw me two years ago of the
wonderful results of
Clements
Tonic”
Mrs. Mary Ethel Hoare, wife of the
officer in charge of the Police
Station, Guildford, N.S.W., writes of
her recovery:
Police Station,
Guildford, N.S.W., 2/l/’ls.
CLEMENTS TOXIC, LTD.
“My restoration to perfect health has been so wonderful
that 1 feel that I cannot let this opportunity pass without
letting you know for the benefit of other people the wonderful
results of Clements Tonic.
“For about five years I SUFFERED DREADFULLY FROM
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN and INSOMNIA. The least thing
would send my whole body into a tremble. I would shake all
over.
“I tried medical treatment, hut I gradually grew worse.
I could not eat or sleep. I HAD GIVEN UP ALL HOPE OF
EVER BEING WELL AGAIN, when a friend advised me to
try Clements Tonic.
“There is no need to tell people who saw me two years
ago, and who can see me now, of the wonderful results of
Clements Tonic, for from the first bottle I commenced to get
better, and after 1 had taken Six bottles I WAS RESTORED
TO MY PRESENT STATE OF HEALTH, AVHICH IS PERFECT.
“You are at perfect liberty to make what use you think fit
of this, AS I THINK EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW ABOUT
CLEMENTS TONIC AND WHAT IT WILL DO FOR THEM.”
(Signed)
NOTE. —All Chemists and Stores sell this
Health-insuring Medicine everywhere. Get
it, and you get good health at the same time.
It is health’s advance agent.
ĝd


ELEY
CARTRIDGES^
Always Reliable 1
‘ELEY Smokeless*
A cerise Cartridge
loaded with ELIiY
(42 gr.) Smokeless
Powder and i£oz. shot,
Millions sold annually.
ELEY *E. B.Nitro*
Cartridge case loaded
with Schultze Pow-
der or any other
standard Smokeless
Powder.
H\JEY
u
ELEY ‘Fourten’
Loadedwith ELEY Smokeless Powder.
fg
ELEY '3BO Revolver
t'EV
DNS
a
ELEY ’2? Long Rifle
‘E’ Brand.
ELEY *22 Rim
Black or Smokeless.
Agent: ALBERT ADAMS, 420. George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W-
Wholesale: I'ley Bros., Ltd., London
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
fgd
P.icked Tree. All charges Prepaid
Port direct from our Factory,
grade British-made MEAD
out
est-
Coventry Flyers
WARR IN TED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Vnriable'-SYeed. Gears
|J I yer_or_r3r°jt.-\s Saddles, etc.
(LATEST
MODELS
£ 3. fO
to £9
1 yres an< J a< ceasi re; half usual prices.
AGENTS
wanted m ea* h district. ‘"Write
1 jjs.njv sufficient postage.
Art Catalogue and
o pea a l Offer on sample machine.
a vara
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
WAR
Prompt Shipment & Safe Delivery
Guaranteed. No Advance in Prices
AGENT for MEAD
VAL. D. COLE, Book Area ‘
LARGE STOCKS 0N T HAND.
CYCLES —
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS.
Runs on Alcohol,
h
Aguardiente. Rum and
similar liquids, anywhere
without electricity,
springs or batteries.
Superb construction. 12-
inch blades. Adjustable
roller bearings. Reliable.
A proved comfort. Prompt
delivery to any part of
the world.
KEEP COOL.
W. J. H. STRONG, 114 North Jefferson St.,
CHICAGO, U.S.A.
Tobacco
ĥfg
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but res to. ?s to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Mature in entirely eliminating
£i'°m the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for partieulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR CSb CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. 11.
Bonning'tcm’s
Jubes
For the VOICE > *
THROAT (EL LUNGS
tse 5 e unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss,
they afford immediate relief m case of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice Huskiness
SpasmodicCough.BronchialTrouble etc. Whilst soothing and antiseptiein their action’
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances
CAJfe
ra
y Ks'
'xjs/f
&
3
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S .TUBES are highly reerm-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
them the best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington & Co., Ltd.
179 Harris street - - Sydney
j
Shave Yourself.
A man has got to have some
care for his comfort and appearance,
before the Gillette shave can seem
worth while to him. More than
seven . million Gillette Safety Razor
users in 1914—nearly a million new
users added every year. British made.
Gillette Standard Sets. One Guinea. Sold Everywhere.
Write for illustrated and descriptive booklet. Mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON. ENGLAND.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
ghj
A * A • !
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
\ vhich Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War. enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
ate prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1751
160 years ago.
u
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS .HUGHES
(KRI’SCHEX) LTD.,
63, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ksssing [?]int Road.
Down Kissing Point ltcad where we wan-
dered to-day
The Spring lias been lately and given away
Largesse of violets, purple and pale,
And orchids like butterflies, delicate, frail,
Or shiny, brown bees
And, more lovely than these,
The clear crimson tips of the gum-trees that
gl owed
Like flames in the bush beside Kissing Point
Hoad.
In the gardens we passed there were roses
run mad,
Such vigorous joy in the sunlight they had :
They romped and they rioted, poured like a
flood
Of blossoms, foam-white, bright as gold, red
as blood.
There were sheets of white daisies,
A creeper that raises
A great, leafy banner, a curtain of green,
And tall red snapdragons of soldierly mien.
And Polly was happy, and my heart sang,
too.
With the birds that were singing the, whole
long day through ;
In the bush were such splendors, such secrets
half-told,
Such wonders there were on the road where
we strolled,
For ever beholding
Fresh beauty unfolding ;
And if I kissed Polly and Polly kissed me,
There was no one. on Kissing Point Road
that could see.
N.s.w.
RUTH M. BEDFORD.
Father William.
You are old, Father William, the young man
cried,
And yet you look happy aud healthy ;
You brush with a smile all your troubles
aside,
Although you can hardly be wealthy.
How is it you’ve lasted so wondrously well?
The friends of your youth have departed.
What magic elixir possess you—what spell
That makes you so gay and light-hearted?
In the days of my youth, the old hero replied.
We knew not the germ and bacillus :
Our parents their children with drugs never
plied,
Or bothered with serums to fill us.
Of cultures that swarm with the messy
microbe
. My folks they had never a notion ;
They plugged at their toil with the patience
of Job,
And wound up the day with a potion.
In ease I fell sick I went off to my bed,
And no one got flustered or flurried.
Or wondered what diatoms damnably bred
The pains that oppressed me and worried.
And so I grew burly and smiling and hale ;
The germs may have done as they listed.
But no one had then got a glimpse of their
trail
Or knew that they even existed.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
The Cathedral.
Here, in the deep Cathedral shadow.
Saint and sinner may kneel alike.
Bo!, through the long, wide, painted window
Eights transmuted to glory strike.
One hangs there en the Gross Who suffered,
One now honored and glorified;
Wounds in Llis feet and thorns on His fore-
head,
And a deep, red spear wound in His side.
Men have prayed in this great Cathedral.
Men shall pray through He years to be;
All the fallen and all the 1 vly
Here shall hasten to fof i. the knee.
Memories throng like a host c ..gels
_ Here in its dusky, hall owed* aisles;
xonder, over the great white altar,
She the Lady of Mercy mife.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Twin Witches.
They’re just eighteen, they’re just one height,
Lhey ve just the same dear dimples too;
they give to me the same delight.
And each of them has eyes of blue.
I cannot tell about the twins
Where Mary stops and May begins.
They have the same deep-cornered smile,
r Their nsy chins both dinted are:
Tnoy’re like in goodness, like in guile;
Each has a mole, to me a star.
Their locks are curled and golden fair -
They do not differ by a hair.
They weep alike, alike they play :
Tou rarely sec the dears apart.
Their likes are like. In spirit they
Are not divided —why in heart?'
You ask me which is which. Oh. fie!
’Tis plain to all. “Why, each !'' say I.
To love sweet Mary is to love
Enchanting May. What can man do
But by the stars and all above
Both little dancing fairies woo?
To win but one must wake regret—
'Twere criminal to spoil the set.
So is my heart a basinet,
And cradling twins, but void of,care;
My love song’s for a trio set.
And but the brave deserve the pair.
All's fair .in Jove ; so.let it run.
By lea en. Til have all or none!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Perdriau Motor Tyres are entirely, the
production of Australian labour and
capital, and will stand the test of
Australian roads.
Special Price Lists on application.
V-'
w
r 4
SB
ssmi
•; \\ ';•
/«ad&sf»
C f "■^JfcV&'WF
TP&rs
no
JXOAtrr
ra
UIJ'S
ABl
2 ; >-
Ses
SS
$»
*» ..
JfS
•■tea"
3 '>-1
1 & “'
MANUFACTURED BY
RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, 105 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
69 GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE, 307 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
312 MURRAY STREET. PERTH.
ghj
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The True Safeguard
of Baby’s Health
i&llenburgs Foods
THE milk of a healthy mother confers a de-
gree of immunity to infection to the young
infaiit. Many mothers, however, though
willing, cannot nurse their babies for various
reasons. In such cases the greatest care should
be taken in selecting a proper substitute. Ordi-
nary cow’s milk cannot be regarded as a safe
food for infants; it is acid, contains indigestible
curd, and is almost invariably contaminated
with harmful germs. By using the “Allenburys”
Foods, which are free from all dangerous
organisms, and effectually replace human
milk, security for baby is ensured and vigorous
growth and health are promoted. The
“Allenburys” Foods are largely used and
recommended by the Medical and Nursing
Professions; they have stood the test of time
and have become a household necessity all
over the world.
The ‘Allenburys’ Infant Dietary
M
U>n
■fssssss''.
MILK FOOD No. I.
From Birth to 3 months
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to ? months
iheS**!*!
sUßigy^j
lUlHtM*»*Wr
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From 7 months upwards.
UPBF"’ Write for free han't “Inf ant Feeding and Management *
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market Street, Sydney
Established 1715.
yfc »M- LENBURYS ’
Simplest and Best.
Gift Suggestions
in Gold Jewellery and Handkerchiefs
at GRACE BROS.
No. ADI.
Dainty 9-carat
Gold Necklet, set
with Pearls and Aqua-
marines. PRICE 33/6.
Smaller Stones.
PRICE 28/6.
Pearls and Amethysts or
Rubies. PRICE
24/-
33 6
gh
No. AD4.
Pretty 9-
carat Gold
Necklet, set
with Pearls and
Aquamarines.
PRICE 257-
Pearls and
Amethysts,
Rubies or Gar-
nets. PRICE
21/-
Send for a Copy
of
Our Xmas Jewellery
Supplement.
45/-
ML
No. AD2.
Pretty 9-carat Gold Neck-
let, set with Pearls and Aqua-
marines. PRICE 45 / -
Smaller Stones, Pearls and
Aquamarines. PRICE 28/6.
Amethysts or Rubies. PRICE
22/6.
No. ADS.
The latest design— 9ct. Gold, “Triple Front”
Bangle, prettily engraved, safety chain attached
and wax filled. PRICE 35/-
CGI, 3/6 each.
CG2, 2/6 each.
jgh
42/-
No. A 03.
9-carat Gold Necklet,
as illustration,
set with Pearls and Aqua-
marines. PRICE 42/-
Similar designs, set with
Pearls and Amethysts, Rubies
or Garnets. PRICES 22/6,
25/-, 30/-, 32/6, 35/-
Aquamarines and Pearls.
PRICES 31/6, 35/-, 40/-,
45/-, 50/-, 55/- upwards.
jgh
No. AD6.
Dainty 9-carat
Gold Necklet,
set with Ame-
thysts, Rubies or
Garnets. PRICE
21/-
CG3, 2/3 each.
SUITABLE XMAS GIFTS in Ladies’ Handkerchiefs at Grace Bros.
„ 1 —fJnimire Lace-edge Linen Handkerchiefs, assorted designs, price 3/6 each
qq 2"— Guipure Lace-edge Linen Handkerchiefs, assorted designs, price 2/6 each
CC 3.— Guipure Lace-edge Linen Handkerchiefs, assorted designs, price 2/3 each
model TRADER” XMAS NUMBER. Ready about NOVEMBER 20.
In a few days the Xmas Number of “ The Model Trader” will be ready for
distribution.' Its pages are a veritable storehouse of valuable suggestions for
Xmas and a study of its pages will solve for you what is best to gne.
WRITE EOR A COPY NOW. All requests will be dealt with in strict rotation.
THE
MODEL
STORE
GRACE BROS.
BROADWAY,
SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 30.—No. 1866.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1915.
Price Gd.
CARNAGE AND CO.
It is reported from Amsterdam that Krupps have declared a dividend of 12 per cent. There was a clear profit last year of £4 ,320,000, compared with
£1,695,000 during the preceding year.— Cable.
THE SENIOR PARTNER: “Your share of the profits, gentlemen!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia tor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office oi the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to ihe
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused. ......
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form, of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
6000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will, return ail unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City Neivs Co., San Francisco; Quaker
Neivs Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 586
>9th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— lF. G. P. Percva, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, hoz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER IS, 1915.
THE SOLDIER AND HIS BEER AND
THE PREVAILING RIOT.
Australia is taking part in a war of unex-
ampled magnitude; is involved in a struggle
on which her very existence • depends; is
confronted by military and financial pro-
blems of the gravest character. And as if in
mockery of the nation’s peril and trials, the
most populous State of the Commonwealth
sees its Parliament and a very large section
of the community devoting the greater part
of their time to a clamor about—Beer ! It
suggests a social and political feather-headed-
ness, a trifling with responsibility and duty,
wherein farce and tragedy struggle for
ascendancy. And as if all the bogus excite-
ment about pub-shutting was not sufficiently
maddening, more uproar has been started in
a new place —this time about the Govern-
ment setting up in Sydney an open-air beer
canteen for the special entertainment of
soldiers. Apparently the idea is that the
establishment of this canteen in the Botanic
Gardens and the opening of a lemonade
counter in Hyde Park will neutralise the
licensed drinkery and afford soldiers and
civilians agreeable opportunities for relaxa-
tion. There is a queer mixture of foolish-
ness and common-sense in the scheme; but
so far as it is advanced as something justifi-
able because of the needs of our soldiers, The
Bulletin has no doubt at all that it is just
plain humbug. 4 *
Recruits are not enlisted to hang round
city pubs or beer gardens. They are enrolled
to 'train as soldiers and, ultimately, to fight,
and if while training it is a fair thing tor
them to get a reasonable helping of beer, the
place for them to get it is at their training
grounds, where they are under discipline and
where the beer-tap would be under discipline,
100 Instead of that there is now the para-
d£' „f encampments, run on “dry" pnnci-
pies, being removed by the militaiy authoii
ties as far as possible from the distractions
of booze, while another Government propose
to set up an establishment where the flowing
bowl may be drained amidst more cheerful
surroundings 6 than are provided by Private
Vnterm-ise. One or other of these conflicting
notions *of what is the right thing to do-is
manifestly wrong; but which of them is
wrong is far less certain than that the busi-
ness is one for the Defence Department to
handle. All along this paper lias insisted
that the soundest policy is for the military to
attend to Billjim and liis beer at the place
which Billjim inhabits. To say he must
nor have beer there, but must leave the pre-
mises when he wants a drink and go wander-
ing round a city in search of promiscuous
pints, is not only irrational but grossly un-
fair to the men. And the spectacle of the
camps being conducted on the principles of
Stiggins will be made to look no less
demented if a Government which has
nothing to do with military affairs opens an
al fresco liquor-dispensary to which the
soldiers may journey in order to procure
what the Government whose regulations the
men are serving under denies them. Either
it is right or it is wrong for a soldier to be
able to get an occasional glass of beer. If it is
right, he ought to be able to net it within the
camp. If it is wrong, then the habit of
liberating him so that he may guzzle else-
where has no excuse. To say that no dis-
tinction must be made between civilians and
men in khaki in regard to liquor is twaddle.
A recruit is a man preparing for a special
service, quite exceptional in character, and
everything relating to the recruit’s life ought
to be governed by consideration of that ser-
vice. If the Minister for Defence would only
suffer this to penetrate his head and act
accordinglv, the turmoil about shutting pubs
at 10 p.m. to keep soldiers sober, and open-
ing a beer garden to wean them from drink-
ing in bars before 10 p.m., would be at an
end. And the sight of men training for war
by lurching about the footpaths would be a
less plentiful reproach.
* * * *
But if the ostensible grounds for establish-
ing a State beer garden in Sydney are not
entitled to much respect—a beer garden for
soldiers 12 miles away from their quarters
looks a humorous proposition—the idea, it
put into other shape and made _ part of a
campaign for securing reform in popular
habits, which in respect to booze are degrad-
ingly hoggish, would deserve very cordial
welcome. It is unfortunate that this is not
the line now being followed—that a scheme
for providing cheerful places to which people
could resort and, if they desired,
obtain light beers and wine and fresh
air, is not put forward as a sub-
stitute for, but merely as an addition to, the
scores of frowsy, disreputable groggeries
sanctioned by public policy. The existence
of these hovels is a scandal. They are mere
drinking shops, without saving grace of any
kind, demoralising even to the sight-
centres of physical degradation and fruitful
sources of crime. They could well be swept
away, and cleaner and sweeter places thrown
open for those thousands of citizens whose
lives are now made miserable by the
wretched sores. It has been done in othei
countries. Why not in Australian cities,
where the climactic conditions are so favor-
able to such undertakings? The only con-
ceivable reason is that the authority which
should long ago have moved in this matte 1
is frightened of the mingled yells of rage
raised by Bung and Me Snuffle whenever
there is talk of Parliament dealing with
Booze in the public interests, one party
howling because he sees his profits m danger
of going down the sink, and the other because
lie dreads losing his “awful examples, ’ and
wants to maintain the Curse of Dr-r-ink m
full blast, instead of allowing it to become
as respectable as his own gaseous imitations
of liquor. Therefore it happens that
because of the politician s weak spine, and
because of a whole lot of_ other things, in-
cluding an inefficient administration ot the
licensin'’' law, Parliaments devote themselves
to discussion of piffling, inadequate schemes
for hiding the consequences of their own
supineness. Bills are introduced to shut up
the well-conducted hostelry at the same hour
as the den which should be shut with a bang
for ever. Wire-pullers work overtime to
protect some special interest or other. A
multitude of orators rend the air with howls
about nothing in particular. Soldiers are
hurried up into the argument as if Booze
and Battle were synonymous. And no guid-
ing principle or honest, desire to do anything
except - blow off hot air and get into the
limelight can be seen or heard.
THE QUESTION OF WASTE.
The warning solemnly given against piivate
extravagance while the war-bill runs up may
be all right, and the withholding of the three-
pence from the organ-grinder at the street-
corner may have great results. All the same,
when you get your mind hard at work on this
notion of cutting down expenses, and begin
to contemplate the various theories of waste
in their relationship to trade and industry,
you are apt to produce a mental dizziness.
Work out the current ideas of . waste on the
basis of your larder’s contents and your
wife’s demands, and everything seems as clear
as a tumbler of raw water; but begin to
chase any of your trains of thought to its
logical conclusion with the eagerness with
which you would join in a Kaiser hunt, and
see the sort of mental soup through which
you are trying to peer to discover the design
on the bottom of the plate. Mud made from
coal-dust and chocolate-filings is transparency
itself compared with the thing that under
such circumstances gets up and pelts itself
against the windows of the mind.
Let us begin to economise in theory. This
room contains seven chairs (including one
which is weak in the joints and is resolutely
placed in a corner where you can’t get at it) ;
but more than three people never or hardly
ever sit down at one and "the same time
within its walls. Three chairs therefore
represent the reasonable limit to which
this room should be furnished on a basis of
proper economy. The other four chairs are
waste, and should be got rid of at once. But
Nature in constructing man had no chairs
at all in her vieiv. She broadened out the
human structure in certain directions with
a. view to enabling it to rest in comparative
comfort on any flat surface. Chairs are
therefore unnecessary in a system of true
economy. The floor is all that is needed,
and the upholstery for that lowly seat is a
personal possession of rich and poor, which
is adjustable and non-transferable, and
which is represented by nothing on the bill
of living expenses. Having got rid of all
the chairs, the tables become useless. lou
can’t sit on the floor and hang on by your
chin to a table when you want to eat or
write; therefore the floor should be made to
take the place of table also. Ten minutes of
such economic reasoning has cleared the room
out as effectively as if six separate bailins
had entered it armed with all the powers ot
a hard and unbending law. And now the
furniture that has gone out must be disposed
of. You may throw it on the kitchen tire
after wasting tremendous energy with an
axe, or sell it for what it may fetch. Pushed
out in haste on a market already glutted
with the waste possessions of economists ot
your own type, it sells for very little. Those
tables and chairs realise a great deal less
money than they represented when they stood
in your room. You could in all probabilitj
have raised twice as much upon them under
a bill of sale if you had agreed to keep and pro-
tect them. Getting rid of the furniture seems
to be economic gain; selling it appears to be
economic waste. And now Brown Smith
looks in in a friendly way to see you about
a matter of business in which you were in-
terested, and his eye rests doubtfully on the
bare room. He does not take the lowly seat
that you offer him, but stands erect in the
empty room, and a stiff contempt takes the
place" of his usual noisy gaiety. You cannot
explain to him properly, and he draws his
own conclusion from the state of your home.
Sadly you begin to discover that the rid-
dance of useless furniture, by the sale ot
which you are a loser, has marked you out as
one of broken fortunes. In disposing ot
your furniture you have, in fact, thrown
away some of your best business assets.
* * * *
But the economic tangle is greater even
than it at first appears. To do away with
unnecessary furniture means doing away
with the bread-and-butter of the people who
nroduce it. The cabinet-maker must look for
another job; the turner scarcely finds it
worth wliile to keep his spindles flying; the
upholsterer goes morose while his long
needles rust; the makers of chair-covering,
tablecloths, glue, tacks and a thousand other
things close down.their mills; the demand
for certain classes of timber ceases, and the
men at the saw-bench wonder what has
struck them. Nobody appears to be any
better off for the change. And this same
process of reasoning applied to trousers, soap,
ice-cream, ha.ir-brushes, pictures, pipes and
fountain-pens gets us to pretty much the
same conclusion. The waste even in beer
and other drinks, which is made so much ot
by the intemperance reformer, is not a very
convincing waste when you get to grips
with it. Is it the cash that is supposed to
be wasted? The cash is concentrated into a
till for one night, only to be sent flying again
in a thousand directions the next day, Is it
the time that is supposed to be wasted? The
time of the drinker and the drink trader
could certainly be spent otherwise, but
whether better or worse cannot be clearly
shown. For instance, it could be spent m
making chairs to stand in a room where
they are never used. Is it the brain power
of the drinkers that is wasted bv too much
stimulation? Even this is more than doubt-
ful. Some brains certainly go to pieces as
the result of liquor; others appear to be best
and brightest when preserved in _ alcohol.
The economic waste entailed in lifting pew-
ter pots, going to church, making love and
saucepans, grinding scissors and barrel
organs, printing newspapers and kisses
seems all to conform to the same law. and
that law is written in a crabbed hand in
faint ink in a language nobody can under-
stand.
* * * *
Until we have carefully tabulated lists of
the real value of all the articles we possess,
compiled from utilitarian, ethical, senti-
mental, commercial and psychological points
of view, we must remain in the dark over
this question of economic waste; and the
trouble is aggravated by the fact that each
individual must have a list of his own. Thus,
a clock made of tinsel and third-class im-
ported marble, which strikes the hours with
a musical-box attachment to make melody,
may be worth exactly £2 17s. to some-
body in St. Peter’s or Collingwood, while
another person in cultured Adelaide might
be glad to give as much to somebody to take
the tormenting machine - away and bury it
with the greenest fountain-pen made in all
Japan to keep it company. But out of all
the chaos of the arguments for and against
waste, something clear and definite does
arise on which attention should be fixed.
Civilisation which builds waste products on
the bare foundation of nature is not alto-
gether the foolish business that some people
are ready to assert. It is the outward show-
ing of the ever-increasing activity of the
human brain. Behind chairs and trousers
and ice-creams and beer and travelling rugs
and postage stamps is the throbbing, eager
mind of man ever achieving, ever discard-
ing. but in the aggregate getting forward to
some purpose. The waste of brain is the
thing that hits the world hardest. Brain is
noc necessarily wasted in making a useless
chair or writing a sonnet that has no rela-
tion to bread or beef. Wherever it has free
play and can do things on its own initiative,
it may be said to be put to its legitimate
use. Brain economy is the economy that
really counts. Destroy civilisation under
the hoof of the Kaiser and brain alone can
restore it. If out of the pollution of the
great war this idea emerges clean and bright
and properly recognised the guns will have
been worth their fuel. The tendency of
statesmen and economists to think that man
is merely a machine will then have broken
down. If the war has any end or purpose
it should be to set the brain above all. and
clear the clogging mists that mind may have
freer scope. England with all its brains
working to their limit need have no fear of
lack of bread. Australia thinking hard need
not stop to worry about the future. A com-
bine in restraint of trade must be dealt
with; but the all-but-universal combine in
restraint of thought is the thing we should
get after the moment we have done with the
Kaiser and his friends the Turk and the
Censor.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Struggle to Decorate War with a
Clean Shirt.
The church was nearly half full and the
dear bishop was preaching—about the war
in relation to Christianity, of course. . To
do the poor man justice he looked as if he
knew he was using the lioe in a pretty hard
patch ; and he toiled like this: —
We have gathered about us things that were non-
essential ; we have prized too much the trivialities
of life. We shall wake to a clearer understanding
of the Message when this terrible struggle is over,
and find ourselves in a world purged of grossness
and cleansed by heroism. War is a great corrective
of human vanity—the instrument of His wrath and
justice.
What a hotch-potch of blasphemy and cant
it is ! If it has any meaning it is this —
that the Kaiser’s claim to partnership with
the Almighty is no idle boast; that in ravag-
ing Belgium and France and Poland and
Servia with fire and sword the Hun has
been driven to his unclean work by the
Divine Will; that God is a Man of war who
sees red and deals out stoush with a Jack
Johnson. Of course nothing of the kind
was meant. It is probable that nothing was
meant. The preacher was merely turning
on the platitudinous tap from which runs
an easy stream of empty verbiage. Heaven
only knows why churchmen should talk in
this way or why they should try to bam-
boozle the public into believing that war is
anything else than naked Horror —a raven-
ing beast, with slavering jaws and . blood-
stained claws, that tears, civilisation to
pieces. It is not the trivialities of life
that are destroyed by war, but the grace and
beauty thereof. When the war ends man-
kind will not find itself in a world that has
been purged and cleansed, hut in a world
drenched with blood, full of woe unspeak-
able ; with Europe a vast hospital-grave-
yard; with hundreds of thousands of
orphaned children, widowed mothers, and
shattered soldiers —a place, of misery,
hunger and tears. And it is to the
work of tidying up this gross, offence, of
cleaning from the earth the frightful stain
once more imprinted upon it, that the living
will have to turn. Wherever war’s ugly
head has been lifted the results have always
been the same. For the man who even pre-
tends to see in the ravages of this monster
nothing worse than the .destruction of trivia-
lities this paper can think of no more salu-
tary medicine than an inspection of the
brute at close quarters. Then perhaps lie
might find himself in a sufficiently chas-
tened frame of mind to come back and
explain what it looked like —a-nd. incident-
ally. lend an effective hand in trying tp keep
the animal out of Australia. If forethought
and money sacrifice can do it, this country
must be saved from such “a corrective of
human vanity” as the harrow of war has
given to Poland.
• «
Voluntaryism at the End of the Section.
Six months ago the attitude of Prime Minis-
ter Asquith was one of “unwavering conn-
deuce in the voluntary system/’ which was
going to “prove a lesson to all the democra-
cies in the world.” Since then the lesson
has gone wrong, and last week a new atti-
tude was expressed in the curt announcement
that if young men medically fit donot volun-
teer for service before November 30. they will
be induced by “other means” to arrive where
they are most wanted. This is like wain
ing a child that unless he goes to school some-
thing will collide with the hack of his pants,
and then remarking, when he creeps ott to
his class, that there is nothing like allowing
youngsters to choose for themselves.
Asquith’s confidence now rests in volun-
taryism, assisted, till the end of the month,
by threats of compulsion—which is not
voluntaryism at all. And as he has already
admitted the “unjust and haphazard eharac/-
ter of the system on which he relied, tne
valuable lesson to the universe seems over.
It is about time it was. This business o
testing a political formula in the crucible
of war has been fumbled with far too
long. It was clear long ago that the
struggle could only be won by the Allies mak
ing a supreme effort —by throwing into 1 1
balance the whole weight of their individual
and collective power. This is still as c
as it is that, by hesitating to bring the
whole nation under arms as her enemies
have done, Britain has been discounting hei
strength, sacrificing the most patriotic or
Ancient and Modern Greece.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Between the eastern and the western world
Young Sparta stood,
Three hundred spears against all Asia
hurled —-
And it was good !
For in that clash of arms the nations knew
The splendid valor of the fallen few,
And despots feared
The keen-eyed brothers of the mighty slain
When Hellas reared
Her broken standards and advanced again.
Between the Teuton and the world to-day
A new Greece stands,
Heedless of them that fall and them that
slay
In the near lands.
The tide of battle surges to her gate,
Death reaps his harvest and her soldiers
wait,
Taking no part
In that tremendous strife for truth and
right,
Where once her heart
Had thrilled to stand breast-forward in the
fight.
Leonidas is dust, but if his eyes,
Closing in death.
Had known the Hellas that should yet arise,
His parting breath
Had been a Doric curse that earth should
see
So tame a sequel to Thermopylae—
That Sparta’s fame
Should dwindle to a feeble impotence.
While war’s wild flame
Found Greece astraddle on a breaking fence.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
The Christmas Edition
of THE BULLETIN, 1915,
will be Published on
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1915.
EXTRA AND SPECIAL ISSUE.
The Ordinary Issue of The Bulletin
will be published on the usual date.
her sons, and imperilling her status and
influence The situation in the Balkans
peninsula is a sharp reminder that if
Vsqtjith keeps on wavering there may be
an end of other people’s wavering. The
Bulgar wavered quite a long time; and if
Vsquith had spoken six months ago as he is
sneaking now, Ferdinand's conclusions would
have been a little different, because he
would have seen a different sort of punch
waiting for him.
Hot-air and the Constitution.
liow these hot-air politicians do give them-
selves away! A few months ago the war
could not possibly be prosecuted with the
best effect so far as Australia is concerned
unless certain amendments were made in
the Commonwealth Constitution; and a
referendum was proposed in order to get
popular authority to make them. Tiie
Bulletin took up this attitude: “Very well,
if these amendments are necessary for the
effective prosecution of the war, take a risk
and make them at once, relying upon the
High Court to sanction them as the indis-
pensable war measures they are alleged to
be.” That plan was. however, much too
direct for the politician. Still protesting
that the amendments were necessary for the
successful prosecution of the war, Com-
monwealth Ministers met State representa-
tives, and a long, roundabout and uncertain
method of obtaining the asked-for powers
was agreed upon—the powers, let it be
remembered, that were alleged to be neces-
sary for the effective prosecution of the
war. Now, before the State Parliaments
have passed the Bills conceding thepporers,w r ers,
the Commonwealth Parliament has gone
into recess, and the Federal Prime Minister
is packing up his carpet-bag to go to Lon-
don. So that the powers that all the fuss
was about —powers that were alleged to be
urgently necessary for the effective' prosecu-
tion of the war —will, even if they are
granted, be put to no use whatever for at
least six months. Now what is the fact?
Are the powers really necessary as they
were said to be? If they are, then Minis-
ters who send a Parliament into recess with-
out providing for their use are traitors,
for whom no punishment could be too severe.
If. on the other hand, the Government is
justified in proroguing Parliament, then all
the talk about the urgent necessity for these
Constitutional amendments was merely the
hot-air of party politicians busily engaged
in fooling the public.
♦
The Decision to Sell Cocky’s Wheat for
Him.
If the principle of the last wheat grab in
X. S. Wales was a good one, what words are
the grabbers going to use in justification of
the scheme hatched by State and Com-
monwealth for dealing with the crop now
ripening: l The idea behind the old grab was
t hat the grower of wheat was not entitled to
the best price he could get for the produce of
his labor—that he must sell at a figure deter-
mined by a set of politicians who wanted,
votes for cheap, bread.. The idea forming the
crux of the proposals now advanced is that
Cocky must receive as high a figure for his
wheat as can be obtained for him by the
united energies of several Governments, with,
however, this reservation—that no grower
shall receive more than another, and Cocky-
doin shall have its individual and collective
revenue for the 1915 harvest determined
somewhere about the end of 1910. Between
the grab and the scheme lately incubated
there is not the slightest identity in principle.
Defence of one involves either condemna-
tion of the other or a confession that Cocky
•should get no consideration at all after a
drought and all the consideration possible
after a good harvest. In its broad aspects
the scheme of to-day calls for respect mainly
because it brings the Australian wheat-
grower into the arena of co-opera five mar-
keting, and prevents individuals making profit
or incurring loss through the exceptional con-
ditions in regard to freight. The advantages
that co-operation among farmers would bring
to them are enormous; but for various rea-
sons they prefer to carry on their business
111 a chaotic fashion, each man buying and
selling for himself and being fleeced by multi-
tudinous middlemen. Part of the proposal
now is to limit the fleecing by cutting out
the speculator in wheat and freights, and by
this, process protecting Cocky against (1)
an( i (2) getting too much.
All the other middlemen will, of course, be
doing business at the old address. liow much
good the scheme is going to do the farmer can
merely be guesswork, for everything depends
upon the market and upon the unascertain-
able siim the speculator would have taken
from Cocky’s pocket had he been allowed to
stay in the game. Its weakness is
that, since the price of wheat is being con-
trolled in London to some extent by the
British Government, the advantage gained
by eliminating the Australian buyer for ex-
port may perhaps be no greater than the
embarrassment caused by postponing a final
settlement on purchases for nearly a year.
The best point about it all is that Cocky is
given an excellent lesson of what he might
accomplish for himself, through agencies of
his own creation and management, if he
would only wake up and think of himself
in the plural. This paper gives the scheme
subdued applause to start with, anyhow,
and hopes that it will be better managed
than quite a lot of things which Govern-
ments have been handling lately. The
scheme, or something like it, was imperative
owing to the unprecedented situation in
regard to transport. If the Federal Gov-
ernment had not stepped in, but had let an
unenterprising Private Enterprise do its
worst, the result to Australian farmers
might easily have been disastrous, It is
doubtful whether they would have got their
wheat cheques more promptly than they
will get them under this scheme; and if
private buyers did take risks in •connection
with freights, and bought at once straight
out, it is quite certain that they would have
made very heavy deductions to cover them-
selves. What you call the scheme —Social-
ism or anything else —doesn’t matter. The
main thing is to carry it out at fair cost
to the producer. Given competent hand-
ling in detail, its justification will be com-
plete.
Brother Binghi.
J iOV f’ a South Aus - student, lately
/° r tWO i years on an honorary com-
m ssion from the Presbyterian Board of
iuissions to inquire into present conditions
among the aborigines. His report, published
<u the expense of It. Barb Smith, of
Adelaide, contains a mass of first-hand in-
humation of the greatest interest. The
author who has “tried to avoid a narrow-
minded sympathy with, or hostility towards,
the missionary, the stockman and the trav-
eling bushwhacker,’ the three parties most
concerned with the aborigines in their daily
hte —travelled across Australia to Darwin.
w, Wy^liam (W.A.), the Roper
and McArthur (N.T.), and tracked thence
by way of Camooweal to Charleville. His
conclusions are not despairing. He suggests
leservations where, as civilisation advances,
tne tribal life may be preserved, the blacks
ot the interior having “wonderfully good
nealtli and being “good, clean material to
work on. Considering the ghastly corro-
boration given by Love to the myriad tales
ot civilisation’s” effects on the aborigine,
the reservation idea seems to be the only
aaequate one. The report is not a sermon.
, records a swarm of facts, many of them
ot a frightful nature, and generally leaves
the matter at that. The Board of Missions
ought to send a copy of it to every legislator
am, newspaper in the Commonwealth.
♦
German Trade and German Traders.
“0.K.”: If the trouble in the Balkans
induces an Australian prejudice against the
i Jago who has his grip on the fish and oyster
tiade, I will think that the finger of Provi-
dence is directing the policy of King Tino.
it was always deplorable that Germans
should have almost a monopoly of the larger
restaurant and bun-shop businesses in Mel-
bourne; and the supremacy of the Greek in
fish matters all over the continent has for
many years been a painful absurdity. As
shopkeepers these Dagos in a general way are
i-u • ’ ? r . n * insolent and dishonest; but
their objectionableness has been tolerated for
the sake of convenience. If, however, the pub-
lic demands Australian catering, the native
born will soon make things convenient. And
*" e i’bstaurants ! Where is the reasonableness
ot. talking about capturing German trade in
(bis or any other direction whilst German
traders are still encouraged? Roughly speak-
ing, it may be said that no German is so
unpatriotic as to feed for the profit
or a good Australian establishment whilst
he can patronise a compatriot’s eating
shop, whereas no Australian thus far
has. been sufficiently patriotic to pat-
ronise a compatriot for his nationality’s
sake. All the foreigners of every sort
have supported alien traders, and none
ot the Australians have troubled about
the matter. The clannishness of the for-
eigners was the foundation of German res-
taurant business the Germans masquerad-
ing under Italian or French names, in most
cases and silly Britishers made the busi-
nesses successful. I’m dead tired of all
this talk about boycotting German manufac-
tures in Australia. The Germans tliem-
seives are the manufactures we should dis-
courage. They are a national society for
promoting the importation of goods' and
people from Germany. And we deal so
generally with them that a big German ship-
ping company is actually paying its staff of
German clerks to stay here and do nothing,
except laugh at us behind our backs, in order
that they may be in readiness to resume the
German shipping trade with Australia the
moment peace is declared.
A System that is Cruel and Unjust.
The life of the man who is eligible for ser-
vice, and doesn’t serve, is not a happy one.
lhe shipping companies refuse to carry him
away to calmer realms, and he is open to
insult while he stays at home. Gig-
gang girls work the white feather notion
without discretion or judgment. Old ladies
thirsting for Teuton blood, poke umbrellas
at his ribs and ask him why he doesn’t get
to the hront. Fat old men scold him from
platforms and call him names, mainly on
I ie ground that he is doing what they have
spent their lives m insisting on his right to
do. Employers, if they can afford to, refuse
lum a. job. Mild parsons yell at him in the
name of Christ. And in the midst of all
the noise and vituperation which he has
called forth by the mere fact of his being of
military age and free from active disease,
he reads the plain statement in the news-
papers that statesmen hope to muddle
through without conscription. That is to
say, they don’t propose to take from him
the right which he is now exercising. It is
a 1 a horrible confusion. If the State hasn’t
the right to call on him, what right have these
old women and fat men and hysterical girls
to make his life a misery V A system of con-
scription would be intelligent. The “vol-
untary system, with its present additions,
isn t intelligent. It can, besides, be as cruel
as !t is unjust; and the sort of pressure
which under it is used to fill the ranks is not
ot a kind to provoke any fighting spirit that
is worth while.
♦ .
Bumble, who constitutes the Metropolitan
Water and Sewerage Board, produced such
a mass of evidence against himself the other
nay in Sydney that supporters of the aboli-
tion ot capital punishment have decided to
eep quiet and let the law do its worst. Last
summer there was a serious shortage of water
in several thickly-populated suburban areas,
and the yell of anger and disgust from an
unwashed multitude suggested to Bumble-
dom that the tune was probably ripe to do
something. So it Avas announced that the
necessary pumping gear would be ordered at
once, and if the community kept on prac-
tismg economy in the bath, things would be
all right by the time the next season of hot
weather arrived. But when the heat arrived
the other day and an expectant democracy
stood under the shower and turned on the
ap, there was nothing doing. No sound of
splashing citizens came from suburban bath-
rooms to show that again it was dnv. Onlv
hard, burning words were heard, and when
the dishevelled suburbanites reached the city
there were more words, and Bumble’s ex-
planation was rudely reviled. It transpired
that the order for pumps had been sent to
England, but “because of the war” or some-
flung, no more was heard of them, and
Bumble had decided to let things slide while
lie supported the movement to capture Ger-
man trade and attended patriotic lunches.
<>t course, the pumps could have been made
in Australia, and the scandal of thousands
ot people being without water could thus
have been easily averted, but such a simple
way of doing business didn’t appeal to
Bumble. Now he is rushing round to get
what he wants on the spot, pursued by com-
plimentary remarks about his great efficiency
as a messer.
« .
Archimedes undertook to move the world if
he could get something to put his lever on.
and an alleged co-operative body, originating,
it is said, in Canada, and called the Tas-
mania Colonising Association, proposes to
sluft something almost as ponderous if the
State Parliament will give it a perpetual
lease of 15,000 acres of bush land in the
backblocks of the North-west Coast as a
start. According to its articles it proposes
to make roads, canals, lakes and waterways ;
to establish technical schools and colleges;
to lay out and run towns, parks, tramways,
theatres, hotels and printing offices; to en-
gage in fisheries and canneries; to acquire
steamers, aeroplanes and other craft; to
make harbors and docks ; to go in for mining
and quarrying, and to do a lot of other
things. The Government has brought in a
Bill to let the Association have the 15,000
acres for £lO per year for three years, and
then let each male member over 18 years of
age have 200 acres, to be held bv the Associa-
tion on perpetual lease at £2 per 100 acres
for the first 10 years and then at 5 per cent
on the unimproved value. The local inhabi-
tants are kicking because they say they
would not get the same terms themselves if
they formed a colonising association, and
also because they allesre that there is a
strong pro-German flavor about the Associa-
tion. However that may be. the Bill is in
no great danger of passing the House of
Dodery ; and it is just as well, until a lot
more is known about the scheme. At pre-
sent it reads too much like the prospectus
of that mighty land-grabber, the Australian
Agricultural . (A.A.) Co., which a century
ago pushed itself in on the flimsy pretext
that it was going to civilise the blacks, and
was only very partially pushed out a few
years ago when the N, S. Wales Govern-
ment paid a solid half-million or thereabouts
to repurchase a fragment of its Peel River
Estate.
“Clerical workers” having been added to
the schedule of the N.S.W. Arbitration Act
after _ the Leg. Council had been warned
that it had blocked thus trifle of justice quite
Jong enough, the Clerical Workers’ Act has
been wiped off the Statutes., The agitation
for a wages board for clerks commenced in
1008; and a year later Wade, finding the
agitation growing, passed the feeble measure
as ii sop. file thing was, however, so
manifestly unworkable that it has never
been. used by the clerks at all events.
But it has been used by the Council —as a
pretext for refusing to pass any measure
that was workable. So the long, weary
business has its uses: it is a warning to
resist the oner of a shadow so. long as there
is an undemocratic House which is likely
to use the shadow as an excuse for presently
refusing the substance.
-»
Probably not one Victorian in 10 knows
tnat the State Ministry has b.een recon-
structed and John Murray ejected from the
Cabinet, and not one in 50 would take the
least interest in the reconstruction even if he
did know. Peacock’s previous lot achieved
nothing. A somewhat different crowd will
do no less. The re-shuffle of the cards is
just an incident in the playing of the old
flirty game, and coming only a few weeks
belore Christmas it merely means an altera-
tion in the distribution of Ministerial salaries
during a long recess. Nobodv expects a real
change m administration. The spirit of the
Government which Peacock took over from
Willie- Watt, the successor to Murray,
when Willie retired from his seat in the
State House because he felt it slipping away
from him —the spirit is perhaps more feebly
“ Liberal,” but not more hopelessly inactive.
Even the removal of John Murray’s body
from the Chief Sec.’s office was unnecessary.
It it had been left quietly sleeping through
another recess the same things wouldn’t be
done that won’t be done now.
Now that Winston Churchill has resigned
his Ministerial job and gone to the Front,
the old men are probably shaking their heads
and saying that his errors in administration
were the natural result of his youth—and
the way will be made very rough for'the
next bright boy of 40 or so who pushes in
amongst the greybeards. Yet Winston’s
mistakes and Grey’s explanations seem to
have been the only things the speechifying
British Government was making until
Lloyp GeOrce started on the organisation of
the munition factories. The elder men were
sitting down and doing nothing noticeable—
which was precisely what any other men of
their age would have done under the circum-
stances. Statesmanship is with us one of
the jobs in which there is no retiring
The man of 70 who is seen trying to make a
living at the Bar is generally pitied—and his
client is pitied more. But it is the British
way to hang on to its venerable statesmen
even in time of war, when thought should be
quick as a sword-stroke, arid every action as
sharp and decisive.
+
The Tasmanian munitions committee sees
only one reason why the State Government
should not start a shell factory at a cost
of £20.000. It reports that for that money
a plant could be put in to produce 40 shell-
bodies per hour, and also capable of com-
pleting any supplied ii* a partly-finished
condition. The Railway Department has
at Hobart a suitable building, and by the
time the plant is ready (six months from
the date of ordering or thereabouts) the
Government will have its own hydro-electric
power available for running the plant. The
committee finds that if the Broken Hill
Prop, continues to supply absolutely guar-
anteed shell steel at the present rate of £lO
per ton, bodies can be made at the flat rate
of 21s. each fixed by the Commonwealth
Government, and leave a small margin over.
The one fly in the ointment is that the
Commonwealth Government, though pre-
pared to buy any quantities of shell-bodies
during the war. does not bind itself
to take any at all after the war
is over. If the argument should by
any cnance end in six months, the Stale
Government would be left with a £20.000
plant and no use for it. British. Canadian
and American makers are better off. for they
get a guarantee of 18 months’ work, and it
would probably be quite safe for the Federal
Government to give a similar jm^j'antee.
The committee presses for an early* decision :
but the Government is busy with a political
crisis, and any little matter which affects
only the existence of the Empire must wait
The report itself was in the hands of the
Government for three days before any Min-
ister found time to read it.
— , •»
There’s some good in the ill wind, and part
ot it blew into the advertising columns of
the Mercury, Durban (S. Africa), recently.
The arresting line was “Advance Australia!”
Then it was explained that Harvey Green-
acre and Co. (who are the Anthony I lon-
herns of Durban), being unable to obtain
supplies of boots from British manufac-
turers, had looked at the turn-out of Aus-
tralian factories and promptly ordered a
consignment. A day (“Australian Day!”)
was set aside for a special display of the
footwear, and the public was urged to get
ii early on a good thing. All but stinking-
fish Australians have long known that
locally-made boots and shoes cannpt be 'bet-
tered anywhere in the world; but to the
crowd who would rather have any imported
rubbish than the product of Australian
workmen the South African firm’s testi-
monial is disrespectfully dedicated.
The Unperturbed Patriot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They say that folks are fighting on Europe’s
far-off shore;
The cables tell of battles and trenches soaked
with gore,
Of maxim guns and shrapnel, of shot and
shell and steel ;
Of surge and stress of conflict, and stricken
ranks that reel;
01: gas that chokes and throttles, of men
torn limb from limb,
Though drowned their cries of anguish be-
neath the cannon’s hymn;
Or fertile lands laid barren, and peaceful
cities burned,
And pillage, rape and murder till earth to
Hell is turned.
Efit why should I be worried that Belgian
orphans weep?
I feel no tautened heartstrings—just let me
turn to sleep!
I like the genial sunshine, I love the balmv
breeze,
I hate to dwell on subjects that fail to bring
me ease;
Just let me draw my wages, just let me
come and go
The way that fancy strikes me; but tell me
not of woe.
.1 hey say the time is fateful, that if we lose
we fall
From power and pride of Empire—for stal-
wart men we call.
It may be true, and surely to me it seems
not right
That such a mighty fabric should perish in
a night.
11l think the matter over, when near the
foemen creep;
Till then I’ll not be fluttered—just let me
turn to sleep!.
They say that other Empires have met their
tate and died—
Old Babylon and Egypt, and Greece and
Home beside;
I heal that once they wielded o'er mighty
realms-their sway,
Till, free to sack and pillage, their fairest
cities lay.
It may be true of those days, but that was
long ago— .........
What power on earth is likely to give ours
such a blow?
I never read the cables, nor lore from history
reap;
Why should I fear the future—just let nie
turn to sleep.
hy should it rack my conscience that half
a world away
Ihe pick of all the nations should lock in
deadly fray?
/ never made the quarrel, no goal or prize I
see;
V. liy should I stir in matters that matter
not to me?
For me the local races, for me the starter’s
odds;
I want to he no hero; for me no martial
gods.
Let others fight the battles, our hard-won
rights to keep,
But ask from me no duty—just let me turn
to sleep.
N.S.W.
QUIDAM.


TASMANIA
The Summer Resort
of Tourists.
: : :
mM
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
Proprietors:
Trustees Estate of the late George Adams.
Hiß'hfield
—The Latest in Hotels.
Remodelled & Refurnished
New Winter Garden
Spacious Dining Rooms
Cuisine -highest class
Entirely New Management.
Tariff—63/- to 7 51-
All Correspondence to be directed
to the Manager.
The Faint Daily Echoes of the War.
The situation in the Balkans remains wrapped
in a great darkness. -Kitchener has dis-
appeared into the mist' somewhere there-
abouts, the Greek when'last heard from was
still talking about his benevolent neutrality,
the Roumanian was holding himself down
with a strong hand —apd the rest of the
story is a confused tangle of words concern-
ing the arrival of allied trooos at Salonica,
and desperate fighting in. Servia, and Monte-
negro throwing rocks down on the enemy,
and a fleet being under steam at Malta,
which isn’t far from Athens, the Greek
capital. Neither head nor tail can be made
out. of it all. The only things which seem
beyond dispute are that the German is push-
ing his way through, that quite a lot ot
people are filling in time'by lying with great
earnestness, and that skin and hair will soon
be flying in increased quantities. In what-
ever direction the local cats may jump there
is certainly going to be a hot winter in that
locality. Meanwhile the submarine has
become increasingly busy in the Mediter-
ranean, and the blowing up of the Ancona -
a futile, bloodthirsty piece of piracy, appar-
ently—has given Uncle Sam an opportunity
of writing another Note and asking for more
explanations. This writing of Notes about
the murder of American citizens must have
become almost as wearisome to the corres-
pondence clerks who produce them as to the
minor officials who answer them on behalf of
the quite-indifferent murderers. Anyhow,
the particular Hun havipg supervision of the
solemn correspondence _ jit his end has an
easier job than Yon Hjndenberg is wrest-
ling with in Russia. The yarn about Von
threatening to resign is scarcely worth atten-
tion, but that he has been having a tough
passage through the snow is certain. The
great victories of a few months back have
led to nothing, • for the Bear is still showing
his teeth and was feeling well enough the
other day to “leap forward 12 miles.” This
naturally meant that someone leaped back
13 miles, but so far the-German account of
the performance has not been written up.
On the Western Front there has been no
leap of more- than six inches lately, the
long lines having enough to do wrestling at
the old address. Vague twitterings about
peace are heard occasionally, and the familiar
old messages drift along concerning the Hun
being short of something. One day it is
ammunition, the next fopd, and on the morn-
ing after it is men. These reports are, how-
ever, so lacking in authority that, while we
may hope they are true,.; we shall be quite
mad if we act as though they were worth
any serious attention whatever.
“Itan” : We heed a campaign in favor of
the compulsory storage of fodder. Every
time there is a few months of dry weather
the primarv producers are in the soup, and
as they persistently refuse to follow mere ad-
vice, statutory obligation should be tried.
The drought, bill for dead stock this year will
run into £50,000,000, without bothering
to reckon up what has been lost indirectly.
No precautions could absolutely prevent
loss; but a vast proportion of it is the result
of casualness, and might be avoided. Lush
grass grows in good seasons in all parts;
and silos cost under £lOO. One of these full
would have saved many a herd which now is
represented by bones on the sand and hides
on a fence. ‘ The Dutch masters of Java have
found it necessary to impose some such obh-
gation on the rice-growers. They tried and
tried to make the peoole see that improvi-
dence didn’t pay ; but it was no good. Finally
they made it obligatory on each grower
to put into a Government store enough for
seed and his family’s requirements for at
least 12 months. The system works splen-
didly. _
“The Gink” : I’m here to endorse the
statement made by “Hermes” about German
goods. The public—or, anyhow, a public-
will still rush them if they are cheap. In
fact, the gag now used is: “We’re practically
giving these things away because they re
German.” And* the fish swarm to the bait.
Walk into any auction room where new
goods are sold. Almost every second article
put up for sale bears the legend Made in
Germany.” I went into one place the other
day. The first thing sold was an “unbreak-
able” comb. It was rushed at 6d. a time.
Of course it was “made in Germany. It
wasn’t that there were only a few combs
either. Scores are sold every day. A little later
they put up numerous tin-mounted pipes
in case. They went far half a crown each.
These had “Made in Austria” on them. It
will be the same or worse after the war if we
don’t build a towering tariff wall. ihe
“snide” trader will say: “Were obliged to
sell these things extra-cheap because of their
origin.” And that lure will do the trick.
“D F.” : Potato-digging beats gold-digging
these days. Recently a Pine-road farmer
sold a seven-ton truck of spuds at Devon-
port (Tas.) for £l6 per ton, netting over
£lOO for the little lot.
Seafield, of the Cameron Highlanders, the
eleventh earl of his line, who interrupted a.
German shell the other, day, was a Maon-
lander, born just on 40, years ago at Oamaru,
in Otago, where his father, the tenth earl,
was the local bailiff and; signed the frequent
distress warrant as “James Ogilvie Grant.
The youngster knew nothing about silver
spoons in those days, for the title that was
to be his belonged to one of those Scottish
families in which cash and dignity have fol-
lowed different courses.- In this case there
was an ancient Dowager Countess who had
the purse and. in addition, a firm resolve
to make her will in favor of other branches
of the family who are Anixed up by mar-
riage with all sorts of, exalted houses In
time, however, she relented and left the
young Maorilander, wh o had married Nina
Townend, daughter of a Christchurch doctor,
something to keep the wolf fiom the
door. Later on, since this same doctor took
unto himself for wife the heiress of Glen-
mark, where the moa bones come from,
Castle Grant, in Morayshire, was tidied up.
The Barony of Strathspey goes to the dead
nan’s brother, who married one of .the
Hardv-Johnston girls of Chchurch, and hves
in London; but little 10-year-o d Nina
becomes a countess in her own right.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's
CRITERION ‘“-in,
p nv , T “The P aybacks
r Plvril . Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Garden The violet Dandies
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ‘‘High
Royal •• “A Pair of Sges <t
Princess’s ASciapeo th Pen
Kmci’s . “Sweet County Kerry
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Tivoli . Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Wirths’ Park Wirths’ Circus
Crooks, crooks, crooks!
Garbage of plays and books!
Slanging Australian hours away
And —sa-a-y !
Chewitig the air in their Yankee way.
Good enough stuff for the theatre jay
Who pays for the Sing Sing show ;
But we hate the sight and we loathe the look
Of the rank, machine-made U.S. crook,
And the howling cop who brings him to book,
And the honest girl on whom he’s shook,
And the strange thieves’ talk like a muddied brook,
And the guns and the dope, for it’s crook —crook —
crook:
Do give us a rest, dear bo!
*** . *
The success of “Within the Law” seems
to have encouraged J.C.W., Ltd., to go ou
searching for another .winner of the same
unpleasant . kind; so we are suffering still
another U.S. crook-drama, the rankness’of
which is not compensated for even by admir-
able acting. It begins in the third-degree
department of a police station with two
U.S. policemen making faces at each other
and unravelling a diamond-robbery with
their mouths and teeth; it ends with the
bellowing police-bully making sentimental
faces at the portrait of his two children
(prominently displayed on his desk) and
forgiving the two refined malefactors whom
he is just breaking his factory-made heart to
arrest. • • # -
Lincoln Plumer and Boyd Irwin, both of
whom have had a good deal of practice at
this sort of thing, bellow and snarl natu-
rally enough as the two stage detectives;
but Charlotte Ives and Frank Harvey, with
their English manner thick upon them, are
sadly misplaced as the two slangy victims
of the official idiots, and Gwen Burroughs
is a shade too loud as a retired shoplifter.
J. B. Atholwood grabs a brief chance to
elaborate a neat character study; but the
honors go to Eily Malyon, the despairing but
indomitable woman of the diamond thief who
gets shot while escaping with the 20,000
dollar necklace, and dies alone in the garret
of his honest friend’s lodging-house. The
only real thrill of the play is when Eily
“KICK-IN,” AT HER MAJESTY’S,
SYDNEY.
“Chick” Harvey discovers the holder of the
missing “rocks” (diamonds).
creeps back to see him and is told the ter-
rible truth, just as the sweating host has
finished carrying the blanketed body down-
stairs and putting it in the ash-barrel for
removal by two confederates, whose part ol
the job is done when they have thrown it
into the river. Leslie Victor acts with hor-
rible fidelity the morphine-crazed brother-in-
law of the corpse-carrier who takes the neck-
lace from the body of the refugee-thief, and
so keeps trouble and policemen. hovering
around his relatives; • Maggie Moore is
charmingly natural as the old Irish land-
lady, and the brightest moments of the
gloomy play are when she has a domestic
skirmish with her feather-headed daughter
p a i S y— a part which gives a good chance to
Eileen Sparks. # # ,
On Saturday “Kick-In” puts its thieves’
glossary under its arm and moves along from
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) to the Criterion;
Tts Diace will be taken by Paul Jones,
with 1 Florence Young singing in the lead.
“The Waybacks” boom in Sydney con-
tinues to rage. Forced out of the Palace
after repeated extensions of the lease, Lyt-
ton carted his show up to the Royal for a
fortnight. Then the business began all
o?er again, including the “extended season.
Ten days this time —for a start.
“KICK-IN,” AT HER MAJESTY’S,
SYDNEY.
Police-inspector Lincoln Plumer swells with
indignation.
Lee Harrison and David Jones (from the
same old United States) are now cross-talk-
ino- at Svdnev Tivoli, whence Mary Law and
her fiddle have fled.’ Morris Golden is pro-
moted to fiddler-in-chief, and the bulgy
Pavolas have come back to pose and weight-
lift and generally make life miserable for
the physically uncultured lookers-on. The
bill is otherwise supplied by the outdooi
whistling Staffords and their dogs, the jog-
gling Nolans, the Harkins nonsense special-
ists, 8 Walter James, Hazel Moran and Coy
De Trickey. t __
A clergyman steadfastly pursuing a nude
through several thousand feet of filmed land-
scape is the offering at Sydney Palace this
week Local wowsers are applauding, partly
on the strength of the unclothed lady s asser-
tion that she r is not a nude but merely a
symbol of Naked Truth, and partly because
the reverend pursuer makes it clear by much
exhortation and air-punching that the chase
of the sprightly young nymph unhampered
bv clothes is k deadly serious business. I lie
Hypocrites” is a modern adaptation ot a
legend concerning an ascetic monk wh °
sculptured a nude to represent Truth, and
who was promptly put to death by a people
who considered that the time was not ripe
to encourage even chiselled nakedness. Jhis
legend is filmed at some length to excuse the
modern Yankee parson and the bashful nude
with a marvellous mirror which is used to
reflect the hypocrisy of party politicians,
wowsers and others. “The Hypocrites is a
revelation in cinematography —one portion
of the film was exposed 24 times—-and the
methods of presentation are refreshing, the
pioduction being assisted by a property
church-interior, a parson and a choir. Hut
considered as an allegory “The Hypocrites
is not very convincing, because of indifferent
acting. Courtenay Foote at times looks
more like frozen mutton surpliced ready tor
export than a live clergyman; and Mar-
garet Edwards as Naked Truth plays up to
the title of the piece by contorting and other-
wise making sure she appears at discreet
angles before the lobster gaze ot the
Grundies. -Some war- pictures, an excellent
film of “Helen’s Babies” and an American
cartoonist’s humorous resurrection ot the
dinosaurus support “The Hypocrites.
¥* * *
Branscombe’s capable company of Dandies
is drawing a steady stream of sensible citi-
zens to the open-air Garden theatre. Any-
body who prefers to simmer in the pea-soup
atmosphere' of the closed-in theatres
when he (and—who’s the lady?) , might
wreath the stars with rings of cigarette
smoke or sip a frozen cream-sweet while a
well-varied and merry show proceeds, should
put himself under observation.
** * *
And “Potash and Perlmutter” begat “A
Pair of Sixes,” which begat Boredom. And
when this came to pass at the theatre called
Royal in the land of Melbourne, the people
cried: “Lo, we grow weary of things that are
created in America, where German Kultur is
putting in its deadly work. The Yankee
crooks have tended to make us feel bad, and
the Yankee jokes are not making us feel
better, and the Yankee accent hath lost its
savor of novelty for our ears.” And the
Lord said to the people, “Now is the ragtime
of your discontent, which soon shall pass
away. Hear ye The Bulletin!”
* * * *
The maifa difference between “A Pair of
Sixes” and “P. and P.” aforesaid is that
the Jewish comedy sometimes seems
natural, and the Christianised perver-
sion of it is unnatural throughout.
George B. Nettleton, married, and T.
Bloggs Johns, bachelor, _ are wrangling
partners in a patent-pill business. The steno-
grapher girl and the young man bookkeeper
listen to their wrangles, ar.d endeavor to
reconcile the conflicting orders of . the witless
wranglers. A smart commercial traveller for
the firm, loaded to the muzzle with Yankee
idioms, introduces' a big buyer, who also
talks like a machine. The wranglers push
their respective cigars and civilities upon the
buyer, same as Potash and Perlmutter might,
and then they wrangle until the lawyer is
called in to arrange a peaceful solution of
their absurdities. So the lawyer, being
Yankee, persuades the partners to play one
hand at poker to decide which of them shall
run the pill business autocratically, whilst
the loser serves the winner in the capacity
of domestic butler. Several inane sub-con-
ditions are attached to the contract, and two
acts of puerile humor, in which Nettleton is
the exasperating master and Boggs is the
exasperated man, are devoted to a settle-
ment of their impossible case. The girl to
whom Boggs is engaged persuades him to
lavish attentions upon the other fellow’s
wife, that the other fellow may prefer to
remove him from the buttling job and take
him back to business. It is a silly plot.
* * * *
In a play where everybody is impossibly
circumstanced nobody else is so funny as
Miss Florence Gleeson.' She plays Coddles,
a half-witted spinster of the broom and
dustpan sisterhood, who chases the bogus
butler with her sympathies. To indicate the
pro-German nature of this American comedy
Coddles, the lunatic, is described as “An
English Maid of All Work.” The other sort
of lunatic parts are filled by Tom Shelford,
John Webster, MacLarnie, Harry Sweeney,
Miss Beatrice Nicliolls, Miss Ethel Dane and
one or two more. John Webster, as the
butler, is apparently expected to be specially
amusing. If he falls short of expectation
the fault is not his. The dialogue is mostly
as weak as the scheme of complications. The
two partners, the lawyer with the perpetual
smile, and the two ladies are all alike
clothed in fictitiousness. The one rational
character is the man who cancels his order
for pills because the precious pair of pill
manufacturers have excited his contempt.
* % *
“A Scrape o’ the Pen” is still gathering
good repute at Melbourne Princess’s. It is
a quaint little play with no vice in it. Alec
Inglis may have been a bit too broad in his
morals, but seeing that wee Eppie resulted
from one of his indiscretions the audience
can nae find fault wi’ the lad. For Eppie is
a convincing stage kiddie. The song that
gets her off to sleep is charmingly sung by
Miss Maclellan, and the management of the
lullaby scene is a credit to all concerned.
$ $ $ $
To-night at Melbourne Majesty’s, for the
last night of the season. Ma Mie Rosette will
dream of all that might have happened to
her if she had consented to take milk to
Henri’s chateau. On Saturday the other
musical company returns with a revival of
“H ; gh Jinks,” the festive play in which one
sniff of perfume makes the whole world sin.
** * *
The present Doone drama at Melbourne
King’s—known as “O’Leary, V.C.,” in honor
of the war, begorra!—will pass out on Fri-
day, and “Sweet County Kerry” will take the
flure in its stead.
% ifc . *
At the Melbourne Tivoli the last edition of
The Follies is about to be withdrawn, and
the bill next Saturday (20th) will be full
of fresh names and pastimes new. For
Fuller particulars see the advt.
* # sf: Hs
The Repertory Theatre (Melb.) is to have
two more nights at the Athemeum Hall on
the 27th and 29th. “The Price of Thomas
Scott.” by Elizabeth Baker, is the first bill,
and “What the Public Wants” comes on the
Monday. Times have changed since Arnold
Bennett wrote his satire on journalistic
enterprise, and what the public wants these
war days is the truthful news that the
Censor suppresses.
** * *
The Yankee film-favorite, Mary Pickford,
is the heroine of “Fanchon the Cricket,” the
latest attraction at Hoyt’s Theatres, Mel-
bourne. The picture is only an idyllic study
of innocent endearments and a summers day,
but it reveals a smile and a dimple that
Hoyt’s supporters never tire of. The next-
best feature is “The Dancer and the King,
and the audacity of the coryphee m saving
the monarch from the treachery of his laith-
less Ministers makes the production thrilling
in several places.
** * *
May Erne and Fie, who demonstrate a
taste for frivolous warbling with novel xylo-
phonic accompaniments, are the niost enter-
taining of the new artists at Melbourne
Bijou. Frank, Lank and Alice, club-spm-
ners, revive an ancient vaudeville pastime.
and Ascot and Barnes are only. notable loi
their determination to say nothing of then
own invention. Also, Harrington Reynou •-
and three others are a bathetic quartette m
a sketch that takes a Family Erald viev
of a bit of conventional giddiness. Easily
the best turn on the bill is still being sui -
plied by Alice Pierce, who has substituted a
picture of Muriel Starr as Madame - '
her taking little snapshot of Mrs. Pat Gamp
bell in “Pygmalion.” The latter mutation
which included the famous Shaw adjective
fell with unexpected flatness on the crowd
which evidently failed to recognise the mm
mured word as an old acquaintance.
** * *
Adelaide Royal and Tivoli are at last
competing definitely against each other.
Both stage American drama. Murid Sta
and Millward give the uncomfortable, doo
smashing “Bought and Paid fm , J uhu
Knight—who has had a w£
with “Raffles,” but looked a bit WitlJ
that famous cricketer’s part is n
his best as the lawyer in The i
Devree ” The King’s deals with the Ugni
Sdl of' things. Illy Erne has
much regretted, especially as _ * goo d
male partner; but there is p e ) ™ g and
singing, Oria punches a ball cffecti
McConnell and Austin the e j tv _
old trick-cycling feats a ®Pf e Br ° e f nnan an d
The Dandies are lighter stil, • rpj H ,
Campbell supplying much of the tun.


The Huns in sinking the Ancona again
flout civilisation. Are there no neutrals
ready to do their bit in defence thereof? asks
that royal spirit, King George IV. topnotch
Scotch.*
HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DISTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An absolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
Ideals (also open-air) resemble the Dandies,
plus good music by Ivanoff and Dennett.
Picture-shows are all American drama by
American players, really good concerts are
so numerous as to defy detailed mention, and
a three-days’ fete at Government House has
put all other attractions a little in the
shade.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Private Boxer”: It will surprise most
people to read in-an article on Ethel Turner
and her work, in the current Lone Hand,
that the popular authoress, after publishing
nearly a score of novels, submitted a play
(“The Sundowner”) to the late J. C. Wil-
liamson, only to be told that “Australians
do not care for Australian plays”! Every
local author got a similar reply. I remember
a letter from J.C.W. rejecting a piece and
giving as the principal reason: “As a matter
of fact the Australian element is unfortu-
nately not a recommendation to the Austra-
lian public.” What grounds the otherwise
shrewd business man had for this strange
belief Heaven only knows! Were he to re-
visit the glimpses of the moon—and “stars”
—he would find cause to reconsider his dic-
tum. < The success of “The Waybacks” just
now in Sydney, following so soon after a
record season of “On Our Selection” (a
fourth revival!), proves that there are pots
of money in the vein the late manager studi-
ously abstained from working. There always
were pots of money in it. All the same, the
encouragement which native dramatic
authors receive and have always received
from the big theatrical firm bearing the name
of J. C. Williamson is nil. The shoddiest
American goods are deemed worthy of pro-
duction, while the native-born author is, I
doubt not, still being told “Australians do
not care for Australian plays.”
“Cockaigne”: Exit E. S. Willard. II?
came late into his own. As a young actor
he was remarkable in the English provinces'
for a great versatility, his parts ranging
from Macbeth to Sir Peter Teazle. He
seemed to be marked out as a second Irving,
but squelched himself by taking a job as
second to Wilson Barrett. There he fell
into the ruck of villains, as Phelps did with
Macready. Willard figured in the “Lights o’
London, ‘Romany Rye,” “The Silver
King, Hoodmafi Blind,” etc. This meant
years.. At last he emerged with a leading
part m “Jim the Penman,” where he re-
placed Dacre, and was much better. Be'er-
bohm Tree had a subordinate part. Willard
then stood perhaps next to Irving in
London. He made a particular hit in
•Judah, by Jones, and above all in “The
Middleman.” 1 The ball seemed at his feet.
But he was no good at manoeuvring. America
tempted him with big money, and he went
there 13 times. Like Tree, though with
more force, unction and incision, he could
act anything. A plain, straightforward
executant. ~
Millie Herbert, just dead in Melbourne, will
be well remembered throughout Australia as
a soubrettp with many vaudeville companies.
She had a. rare contralto voice, and knew
ho„w to use it. But the loss of an eye troubled
her : it was probably the reason she did not
go into opera. She married Charles Elliot,
a well-known member of the Victorian Club,
and had been out of the business for some
years.
“R.F.” resumes the debate:—
In musical matters Sydney is in many respects
20 years behind the times, and would remain there
if “E.N.M.” and kindred spirits could have their
way. In constituting himself defender of the “old
Philharmonic” or high pitch, against that which
Mr. Verbrugghen very properly desires to introduce
here, “E.N.M.” (B. 11/11/’l5) is in opposition to
practically the whole musical world outside Aus-
tralia. France, Belgium, Italy, Russia and the
U.S.A., as well as the United Kingdom, all recognise
the low pitch as their standard. And, by the way,
it was originally known in England as the “French”
pitch, so that “E.N.M.’s” attempt to indict it as a
German product is “ridiculous and beside the ques-
tion,” to use his own words. Previous to the change
in England, Plunket Greene, the celebrated singer,
characterised the use of the high pitch as “a crying
scandal,” and further observed: “I know it is some-
times said that far more brilliant effects are got
from an orchestra at the high pitch, but that is not
the case, for where in the world can you hear more
brilliant effects than are produced by Theodore
Thomas’s magnificent Chicago orchestra, or by the
Boston Symphony Orchestra ?” Sir Henry J. Wood,
commenting upon the introduction of the low pitch
at Queen’s Hall (where the organ was also lowered
to correspond with the orchestra), said: “The high
pitch was harassing for the voice, and Patti and
Nilsson refused to sing to it. All the great classical
masterpieces had hitherto been performed at a pitch
higher than that to which they had been written,
and at which alone these works can produce the
precise effects which were in the composers’ minds.”
(This answers “W.J.S.”) Sims Reeves refused to
sing at the Handel Festival in 1877 because Costa
insisted on maintaining the high pitch; and it is
also on record that the firm stand taken by Patti
v.as largely responsible for the lowering of the Covent
Garden pitch. My previous reference to Patti and
Reeves appears to have annoyed “E.N.M.” Why?
Dees he consider his opinion superior to theirs?
Santley, Clara Butt and David Bispham were also
determined opponents of the high pitch; likewise
Parry, Stanford, Mackenzie and other eminent British
musicians. So it was at last dethroned, and was
only retained by military bands because the War
Office, with characteristic short-sightedness, refused
to sanction the expenditure required to bring them
into line with other musical organisations. Cheap
pianoforte makers clung to it because it gave their
tin-kettle instruments a false and fleeting brilliancy.
The leading English makers now conform to the
standard low pitch, except for the Australian market!
The Continental pitch, so says “E.N.M.,” is a pretty
deadly thing to Australians, Well, the Quinlan
Opera Co. used it, but I don’t recollect hearing of
any casualties caused thereby. If it did wipe out
some of those individuals who are never so happy
as when acting as drags on the wheel of progress, no
great harm would be done.
‘‘Tempo”: Melbourne years ago was the
home of a lovable old musician who never
untangled his hair or disturbed his clothes
with a' brush. He had many adoring girl-
pupils, who loved hiih in spite of his incur-
able dustiness, and forgave him his clothes
out of consideration for his genius and
kindliness of heart. One cool and dainty
worshipper got into the habit of spring-
cleaning him a little every time she went
for her lesson. One day, as she soared after
a top-note, she noticed a bit of white cotton
sticking in his beard. As she sang she
leant over and gently pulled at the rem-
nant. Eventually she landed about a
quarter of a yard, with a needle dangling at
the far end of it. “Oh-h!” she gasped, and
stopped singing. The old, man looked at the
curious exhibit, shrugged his shoulders and
laughed happily. “Oh, there it is! Miss
Lena did sew a button on for me this morn-
ing, and afterwards she could pot find the
needle. So! Now let us try that scale
again!”
“Busk”: As they were seen in Australia,
Rignold’s Henry V. was many degrees better
than Waller’; yet Waller had the most fire
-0 years ago.. He was more like the his-
toric ideal. Rignold’s was a glorious sublima-
tion of Rignold. He felt the part just as
Elliston felt that of George IV. in reproduc-
ing the Coronation. I trace only one other
Henry V. in Australia. That was Brooke.
But in England the great part has been acted
by Kemble, Macready, Phelps, C. Kean,
Coleman, and Calvert.
“A SCRAPE O’ TH ’ PEN,” AT MEL-
BOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Graham Moffat A loving Scotch
grows peevish. husband.
S.T.S.”: Charles Sauer, of Adelaide,
lately put up a remarkable evening’s per-
formance at the Lyric Club. The whole pro-
gramme was his own music; also (like Wag-
ner) he writes his own words. Incidentally
he played a piece himself on the violin, but
mostly a strong little co. did the interpret-
ing. Instrumental, vocal, orchestral —the
astonishing Sauer turned them all out, to
the number of 15 or 16. There was some
inevitable monotony; but it was a striking
show for one man to make.
George Edwardes would probably have
died a poor man if it hadn’t been for “The
Merry Widow.” He wag practically broke,
and actually in despair when Lehar’s opera
fell into his hands. It gave him a glimpse
of hope, and he borrowed enough to put it
on. After that all was smiles. During its
long run at Daly’s Theatre it gave a profit
at every single performance.
“Haresfoot”: All eminent performers have
their little ways. Imitation gives the shell
without the kernel. Yet James Smith fan-
cied Henry Irving’s eccentricities, in walk
and speech, were cribbed from Barry Sulli-
van. Martin Harvey is never happy unless
he can rest one hand on a table. Cyril
Maude’s delight is to spread his long legs
as far apart as possible. Fred Terry must
thrust his hands deep in his pockets. Gil-
lette, of Sherlock Holmes fame, must have
his pipe, cigar or cigarette. Seymour Hicks
is incessant in motion, quite a flicker com-
edian. Arthur Roberts had the actions of
a marionette. Forbes Robertson invariably
arrived with slow, rhythmic stride, and up-
lifted clasped hands. Then there was
Edward Terry’s short-sighted, bewildered
look, and chin jerked out. Beerbohm Tree
moves with light and airy tread. Waller
relishes the sword at an angle of 75 degrees,
left arm outstretched, right knee forward,
left leg backward. Alexander must clutch
the lapels of his coat with both hands, after
the style of Knight in the second act of
“Milestones.” Wilson Barrett would jerk
his clenched fists upward, and put them on
his _ breast almost under the chin. H. B.
Irving corkscrews his body round while legs
and feet remain as they were. Ellen Terry
affected coquettish headgear on one side.
Even Ophelia’s straws would get that way.
Mrs. Patrick Campbell’s yell is supernatural.
Mrs. Potter always glided, sinuous and
stealthy. Marie Tempest likes to get on her
toes. Julia Neilson curved her graceful
body like a young moon. Ellaline Terriss
always smiles, but seldom laughs. Ada
Reeve joins her finger-tips.
“Harrison O.”: Quite apart from the
material they handle, the Melbourne Reper-
tory players, at their best, provide the most
convincing performances to be seen locally.
This is due to the excellent casting of the
plays by Gregan McMahon. With a horde
of amateurs to select from, he has the gift
when reading a play of visualising its charac-
ters. Not being under the necessity of
giving the principal parts to a “star” and
his (or her) leading woman (or man), and
allotting the others to various mimes accord-
ing to their positions on the paysheet, he
simply .picks for each' part the person who
in appearance and manner most nearly re-
sembles the character. Misfits happen, of
course, but not of the glaringly obvious
kind met with on the professional stage.
Mostly the Repertory, performer who speaks
his or her lines with moderate intelligence
“gets there,” and the credit is McMahon’s.
In the recent Repertory production of
Harold Brighouse’s “Lonesomelike” the
least convincing and most carefully-re-
hearsed piece of work was supplied by
McMahon himself. He did well enough
according to his lights—which are the foot-
lights:—but his acting, no less than his elab-
orate make up, belonged to the theatre,
whereas his supporting amateurs, well
suited to their parts, represented life in all
its engaging artlessness.
Pinero’s new play, “The Big Drum,” at
London St. James’s, made an unblushing
concession to the demands of the box-office
after the first three 'evenings. The mature
lovers, played by Alexander and Irene Van-
brugh, had separated once, and she mamed
another. She had a second chance as a
widow, and spoilt it by buying up all the
copies of his novel so as to make it appear
a success. This hurts his artistic soul, and
they separate again. He comes back, willing
to make it up ; but she says No —she comes
of a commercially-minded family that is
always “beating the big drum,” and she
cannot make him happy. So they part
finally. (Curtain.) The first-night audience
and most of the critics made themselves un-
pleasant over this wantonly unhappy finish,
and managerial pressure was brought to
bear on Pinero, who at last consented to cut
the heroine’s final speech, and let Alex-
ander’s “I have come back” end the thing
cheerfully. The author swears,' however,
that when he publishes the play in book-
form the original and “artistic” unhappi-
ness shall be retained.
“Mid-Channel”: Pinero, in altering “The
Big Drum” to give it a “happy” ending, has
repeated himself. _ The first time he it was
when “The Profligate” was produced. The
ending of “Iris,” where Maldonado kicks
his “rag of a woman” out into the street late
at night to starve, and then turns to and
wrecks the furniture of his flat, .was con-
sidered brutally harsh, but Pinero stuck to
it, and “Iris” ran ten months. Nevertheless,
in “Letty,” his next play, he saved his
heroine at the critical moment; relegating
her to eternal bliss with the photographer.
“Melb” : Again “The Old Guard.” Henry
Bracy had the Australian rights of this opera
when he was running a co. of his own, but
did not think it good enough to produce.
Afterwards he was engaged by Williamson,
who happened to be rather hard up for a
new piece. Bracy suggested “The Old
Guard.” Williamson said it was a poor thing
and staged it in fear' and trembling. But
Elton made a hit as. the Veteran. Lauri
afterwards joined the.'co. and laid very low
until Elton left Then Elton’s parts were
all better done, Lauri being as good a confi-
edian and far stronger in singing and danc-
ing. He made “The Old Guard” a great
success.
, “Haresfoot”: Among the many English
actors at the front are Grim wood and Wor-
lock, of Asche’s company. Oscar is putting
women into men’s parts as far as possible.
It recalls that when _ Bonaparte threatened
England with invasion, Cooke, the trage-
dian, came on the Covent Garden stage at
rehearsal and asked, “Are we going on with
this rot while the country is in danger?”
I am not surprised at Grimwood. I think
of the thoroughness with which he flung
himself into lago, the king in “Count Hanni-
bal,” Ford in “The Merry Wives” and the
Prince of Morocco.
“Hard Boiled”: Tom Dawson, of the
Tivoli, who enlisted in Sydney the other
day, gave up, according to George Black,
£6O a week when he did so. Salaries to
Australian comedians must have vaulted
with great velocity lately.
“Ancient Prompter”: I don’t want to give
my fellow-workers in the field of dramatic
art away, and I hope I may be pardoned for
mentioning the fact, but mummers of both
sexes have a pernicious habit of “playing
for sympathy” no matter what characters
they may be impersonating. I’m sure it
must be sometimes noticed from the front.
Parts technically described as “against the
audience” are distasteful, as a rule, to any
but professional “heavies.” Many a good
piece has in consequence been rendered in-
effective, as many an author knows to his
cost. J. M. Barrie has, I should imagine,
been a sufferer in this respect, for there is
a significant stage-direction in his little piece
“The Will.” Where, as the whimsical play-
wright puts it, “the great Sir Philip enters,”
we are told that “he is not a ‘sympathetic’
part, and any actor who plays him as such
will be rolling the play in the gutter.” The
only other author I can recall who was fond
of talking straight to the mummer through
the medium of his prompt copy was the re-
doubtable Charles Reade. He was as full
of advice to the players as Hamlet, and
more caustic. After a strong scene in “It’s
Never Too Late to Mend,” for instance, he
appended this note: “If this scene doesn’t
draw tears from the eyes of the audience it
hasn’t been properly played!”
“C. Ockney” : The authors of “The Man
Who Stayed At Home,” the first of the spy
plays, which has recently stood the test of
an early revival in Sydney, were lucky. They
had the tremendous good fortune to have
their piece refused by every important actor-
manager in London before it found a home
at the Royalty—where only half of the
management is on the stage. “The Man”
was submitted to Charles Haw,trey and
Charles Wyndham, amongst others, and
promptly rejected. But those adventurous
folk Vidreune and Eadie (who had the tem-
erity to do “Milestones,” when nobody else
wanted it) staged it. and Eadie made the hit
of his career in the “lead.” That’s where the
luck comes in. Eadie is a comparatively
young man. What would have been the fate
of the play if Wyndham, well into the 70’s,
or Hawtrey, hovering on the 60’s; had ap-
peared in the part? As it is, the piece has
put up just upon a 12-months’ run.
A man in Gisborne (M.L.) who got a
white feather through the post the other
day with a note making violent remarks at
him decided that it was about time he got
into the argument. Gping to the recruiting
office he put his services at the disposal of
his King and country. He would have
squeezed through, too, if his age hadn't settled
him. He was 98.
Little Colonel Lovely, dead in Adelaide
at 71, ran the whole course of the non-pro-
fessional soldier. In business houijs a land-
agent and valuator (ill the
late Dutton Green), and a suburban mayor,
he put in all his leisure in organising and
building up the local army. That was in
its early days. He retired 12 years ago.
Lately he lost a son from meningitis in camp,
and his back never got quite straight again.
“Master Cargo” rings up from Gallipoli:
The other day, as we marched into a gully, a
newly-made grave attracted considerable attention.
A simple box-wood cross, with the inscription
IN LOVING MEMORY OF AN UNKNOWN
COMRADE
made sacred the spot where some good Australian
had found decent burial. Some of our sentimen-
talists made pathetic notes in their letters and diaries
about a lonely outpost who had been picked off by
a Turkish sniper, and from imagination they
described how a sympathetic party passing by had
halted long enough to give decent burial to “an
unknown comrade.” Next day some of our fellows
let off steam as only bullock-punchers can when a
party arrived and proceeded to dig up the grave
and make firewood of the cross; and before the
dust had settled several tons of Turkish shells
were exhumed. Then it transpired that when the
position was taken, some months before this, ammu-
nition was buried by a long-sighted officer, in the
hope that some day the gun to which it belonged
would also be captured. That happy event did
transpire, so the “unknown comrade” had a few
good kicks left for the benefit of the Unspeakable.
“N.” appears for the defence:—
About this “language” business. Isn’t it time
this silly idea about the Australian proneness to
luridity was dropped? At present I am residing in
a coal-mining centre, and often hear a string of
words in which the burr is so pronounced that only
the oaths are recognisable, the utterer being either a
Geordie or a Jimmie or a Scotsman. In fact, as far
as the miners go, taking them all round, the men
from Northumberland, Durham, Wales or Scotland
use more bad language to the minute than our Aus-
tralian uses in the hour. Having been fed for years
with the belief that the Australian was a hard
swearer, at first I thought I had made a discovery, but
I have asked many people who ought to know, and
their opinion is unanimous that in the Slanguage
Stakes the Australian is merely an “also ran.”
“Rag”; “E.N.M.” (B. 14/10/T5) says
that the Light Horse camp at Chermside
(Q.) is a disgrace to the Defence Depart-
ment. In particular, he complains of the
cooking arrangements and the great waste,
especially of meat, and suggests that “a few
ovens such as those used by country bakers
should be installed.” Long before Bill 11.
began ravishing Europe the military pan-
jandrums of the Commonwealth got busy on
army cooking, held trials of various field-
cooking appliances, decided which was best,
and enthusiastically recommended that their
choice should be put into every permanent
camp. Apparently everybody has forgotten
all about those reports and recommenda-
tions, for none of the Commonwealth camps
are equipped with the kitchens, and meals
are still dirtily prepared in antediluvian
“dixies” and Balaclava ovens, or any old
thing. Consequently the grub gets . loaded
with all the dust and dirt flying about, and
those who have no option but to “get it into
them” are overcrowding the camp hospitals.
When it is borne in mind that every soldier
in training costs about £1 per day, the fool-
ishness of continuing the existing method is
obvious. I don’t know the cost of preparing
reports to be thrown on scrap-heaps, but I
should say it’s fairly staggering.
The latest development in the fountain-pen indus-
try is the new lever pocket self-filling pen invented
by the makers of the world-famous Waterman’s Ideal.
The distinguishing features of this new model are
the rapidity with which it can be filled and its
simplicity. The self-filling device is a small lever
which fits flush on the barrel and in no way detracts
from the beauty of the pen or interferes with one’s
comfort in writing. To fill, all one has t« do is to
raise the lever, dip nib in ink and then lower the
lever. This is the work of a moment. Users, of this
new model will find that as a writing implement it is
in every way the equal of the Regular Type Water-
man’s Ideal, and higher praise than this it is impos-
sible to give any fountain pen. As almost all the
leading stationers and stores stock Waterman’s Ideals,
readers who wish to see this new model should not
hesitate to be asked to be shown a selection. The
new model is called The New Lever Pocket Self-
Filling Waterman’s Ideal.*
PERFECT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ring up the rag l —l know
My part!
Knew it two days ago
By heart.”
So swanked young Roscius Knutt,
A freak—
He’d been an actor but
A week!
“Perfect in words and biz,
My pet!
Quick study ? Yes, it is,
You bet!”
The Hebe he addressed
Cooed “Dear!”
And served him with the best
Of beer.
The bar pricked up its ears!
Sneered one
(A mummer old in years) :
“My son,
You know your words ? Then, lad,
’Tis true!
I heard to-day you had
But two!”
VICTORIA,
EARDLEY TURNER.


ghgh
"SOMETHING BETTER THAN A VEST."
A SHEEPSKIN COAT VEST
A great improvement on the ordinary vest, being
shaped at the waist, also has a short skirt that covers
the extreme point of the spine. Big collar that
comes right up to the ears, bound with leather and
■fastening with strap. Fits close to body, ensuring
maximum amount of warmth and comfort... /“
Superior quality »0/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE FOLLY OF TAKING DIGESTIVE
PILLS.
A WARNING ‘TO - :DYSPEPTICS.
The habit of taking digestive pills after
meals makes chronic dyspeptics of many
thousands of men and women because arti-
ficial digestants, drugs and medicines have
practically no influence upon the excessively
acid condition of the stomach contents which
alone is the cause of most forms of indiges-
tion and dyspepsia. The after-dinner pill
merely lessens the sensitiveness of the
stomach nerves and thus gives a false sense
of freedom from pain, whereas if those who
arc subject to flatulence, heartburn, wind,
etc., were to obtain a little pure bisurated
magnesia from the chemist and take half a
teaspoonful in a little water after meals,
there would be no necessity for drugs or
medicines, because bisurated magnesia in-
stantly neutralises acidity, stops food fer-
mentation, and thus ensures normal painless
digestion by enabling the stomach to do its
work without hindrance.*
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Buxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
Suggested motto for the N. S. Wales
Tramway battalion: “Up, Guards, and at
'em!”
STRENUOUS TIMES.
“Terrible war, isn’t it?”
“Frightful! Seventh, Red Cross dance I’ve
had to go to this week.”
All the heroes are not at Gallipoli—yet.
Up at West Wyalong (N.SAY.) the other
clay four young bush Australians were rabbit-
ing amongst the old gold holes. Having
chased bunny into a mullock heap, Andy
O'Halloran. aged 10, hot on the enemy, fell
down a 12ft. shaft with a 40ft. slide at the
end, leading to a final drop of 00ft. Frank
Gillard, in spite of his burden of 10 years,
went after Andy in a twinkling, and dragged
him up the slide to the first drop. Then he
made his mates, who had reached the ad-
vanced ages of eight and six. pass down a
hatful of water and run for a rope. Next
they pulley-hauled the fainting Andy to Hie
top and carried him home to bed. Billjims
in the making—and better than that you
can’t say of any nippers!
* * *
“Star” : He was a wild man of the woods,
with the scarred and blackened hands of one
accustomed to taking falls out of raw gum-
butts, and possessing a head like a
ham. lie had been two days in the
hotel. and was still overcome with
the unaccustomed magnificence of things
and the prodigality of the proprietary.
“Gor'blime! I ’ad three cups o’ corfee t
breakfast.” he said. “I don’t believe they’d
ever stop yell.” He called me into the. bath-
room. “This ’ere thing,” he said pointing to
the heater; “I can’t get the hang iv it. I
explained: “You light the pilot here, turn
this thing, give this a twist, and there you
are.” “And you jest help yerself?” said he
in astonishment. “Yes. of course.” He lit
the pilot very carefully, turned on the
water, turned on the gas. then filled a shav-
ing mug, and took a drink. He spouted out
the tepid fluid in haste, and turned to me in
bitter disgust. “Why, dammit, it's on’y
water!” said he.
-The story of Marion and her wanderings
and her trousseau as told by her to the
Brunswick beaks on a claim for maintenance
against her husband :
I was married to Lavell at the age of 16, and
after a few months of cat and dog cleared out with
some of - his clothes, and upon reaching Digger's
Rest donned them, cut off my hair, got into the
pants and tramped 100-odd miles to Boort. Thence
I walked"to Bendigo, and worked at a place where
a young fellow had been wanted for farm work. I
was the young fellow. Still in male attire, I after-
wards worked at Durham Ox. Going into Bendigo
I was arrested for masquerading as a man. I then
returned to my husband. After living in skirts
for a time I again put on extended trousers, and,
with my husband and his brother, tramped into
the country. The three of us worked together on
a farm in the Lodclon district. ' Subsequently I
worked as a male milker at Ivanhoe, and also in
Sharp’s timber yard.
After the husband had stated that on one
occasion he found his wife in a pub drinking
with another chap the bewildered beak said
lie had better allow her 14s. a week. No
order was made about the wardrobe of
Marion, and apparently it didn’t matter
much one way or the other.
* » * *
“Nemo”: Yes, things have changed. Time
was, and not long ago either, when a man
had to have a license
and be registered if he
owned a gun to shoot
sparrows with in
Wicklow. Now John
Redmond, instead of
talking treason and
separation down there,
has been blowing loy-
alty to the Empire like
a hurricane. The con-
verted rebel, who has
family ties with N. S.
Wales, “expressed the
pleasure he felt in find-
ing an Irish factory
undertaking munitions
work on an extensive
scale for supplying our
troops at the Front.”
The man who used to
talk awful things
against the British
Government now “ex-
pressed himself de-
lighted at seeing works
able to render such
good services to the
Government in this
crisis.” There was a
time when our Irisli-
Australian friend
would have been boo-
hooed for such senti-
ments. Now County
Wicklow cheered him,
before spitting on its
hands and turning-to
with more zeal than
eve*.
“Johnston” : I was admiring “The Burn-
ing of Joan of Arc” in a collection the
other day when Benno and his pal came
along. They eyed the picture critically, and
then Benno delivered judgment: “Takin’ ’er
medicine graceful, ain’t she?” And they
passed on.
THE TRIUMPH OF THE VOLUNTARY SYSTEM.
“Good man! Good man! You go and fight and veil slag home and cheer!”
“Orion” : After a Maorilander hacl finished
his argument with the Turk it was dis-
covered in the base hospital that there was
a tooth in the patient’s nose. Whereupon a
wondering sawbones turned dentist on a
new place, and, having secured a statutory
declaration that the patient had not habitu-
ally had liis left nasal passage decorated
with a molar, wrote a memorandum on the
effect of modern shell fire. It is supposed
to be the first case recorded in the history of
war of a soldier being wounded by a tooth
used as a missile. A great mystery sur-
rounds that tooth. Are the Turks in such
desperate straits that they are charging
their shell cases with teeth? If so where
do they get the teeth? From the Germans,
or from the graves; 01; are the Huns at
Constantinople tearing teeth from the whole
population? There are no immediate answers
to these questions, nor to the other hypo-
thesis that the tooth was knocked out of
an Australian head by a Jack Johnson and
driven into a Maoriland nose. When last
heard about, the mystery was being investi-
gated by the War Office. I remember once
out West, when Murphy and O’Grady were
having a friendly rough and tumble at
MacStagger’s pub, Murphy’s nose got into
O'Grady’s mouth by mistake, and O’Grady’s
teeth, closing like a rat-trap, ended the argu-
ment; but I know of no other collision in
which a nose emerged as a winner by getting
away with a tooth.
* * * *
“The Old Soldier’s” opinion : —•
It is perfectly useless to ask what is to be the
end of the fight for the Dardanelles. No one can
tell when or how a fight like that will end. The
whole thing depends on how long the strength and
resources of the combatants will last. That both
sides are fairly equal so far as the business has
gone may be said, but the time will certainly come
when one or the other will show signs of exhaustion.
Then gradually the weaker force will be pushed hack.
In short, we are coming to the state of things that
prevailed in Europe in the 14th century, when the
feudal castle had been perfected, with its two or
more encircling walls with flanking towers and a
central keep. Such structures could only he reduced
by starvation, and it was not always possible to
keep an invading army together long enough to
finish the job.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: From the
U S.A. comes a yellow-covered pamphlet,
the precursor, it says, of a larger volume,
entitled “The Famous British Convict Ship,
the only one left in the World, the Success,
exhibited at all the World’s Ports since 1890,
and visited by over 15,000,000 people; the
oldest ship afloat, launched at Moulmain,
India, 1790 A.D.,” and now being exhibited
in the U.S.A. The pamphlet perpetuates
the old lie about this smellful tub beinsr the
oldest vessel afloat. She was first chartered,
it declares, by the British Government in
1802 to transport convicts to Botany Bay ;
and the responsible liar quotes an extract
from an official record of her maiden trip as
a convict ship :
Of 93G males sent out by the last ships Success,
Scarborough and Neptune 251 died on board and 50
have died since landing, the number of sick tins
day is 450, and many who are reckoned as not sick
have barely strength to attend to themselves.
This is given as having occurred in 1802.
The actual date of the report is 1700, and
the Success was really the Supply. The
Success, according to the Yankee, continued
in this hideous trade until 1851, when she
was permanently stationed as a receiving
prison in Hobson’s Bay, Australia. As a
matter of fact, the Success was built at
Moulmain in 1840. She was of G2l tons;
she brought immigrants to Adelaide (S.A.)
in 1848 : she brought immigrants to Sydney
in 1849 and to Adelaide again in 1851, and
the following year she arrived in Port
Phillip with 224 immigrants for Geelong.
Then the Victorian Government purchased
her and fitted her up as a convict hulk.
She was a “clean” ship till 1852, when the
scum of old convict days, rushing to Vic-
toria, overcrowded the limited gaol accom-
modation and compelled the authorities to
institute hulks. There were six in all. the
Sir Harry Smith, Lysauder, President,
Deborah,. Sacramento and Success. When
Pentridge was large enough the hulks were
abandoned. They were ordered to be sold,
and in the sale note was a condition that
each should be broken up. Somehow this
condition was not in the sale note of the
Success; hence the life she now loads.
* * * *
From the official hooray of the pressmen
who are running round the English muni-
tion factories
We visited typical arsenals and secured an impres-
sion of mighty forces subdued and adapted to war-
fare by strong masculinity. Iron and coal, torn
from the bosom of the earth, was battered, ham-
mered and burnt into mammoth guns, shells and
munitions of all descriptions.
What sickening rubbish it all is! While
the Empire is hungering for real man's
news, good or bad, this sort of child’s story-
book prattle is spilt over the world by
cable. And some further nonsense about
the way every owner of plant and machin-
ery is unselfishly rallying to the aid of J.
Bull collides with the previous day’s news
of the enormous profits that are being made
out of war work and our extravagant
methods of downing the German. How
long, how long before England blows the
froth off its pot of trouble and gets down
to the real, practical thing!
“FIGHTING OVERTIME.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“D’you want to go back?” the reporter asked.
“None of us iron t to go back,” answered the
wounded soldier. “But we’re all going back because
the fellows here won’t understand how badly men
are needed. Why, see, our mates there are fighting
overtime .”
It ain’t the fear of the bullets
That hum as they pass overhead ;
We ain’t afraid of the shrapnel,
Or the horror of being dead.
Sortie and skirmish and sally
Were made with a dash sublime,
But the thing that hurt —
My oath, it was dirt,
To be fighting overtime!
From “morning hate” until sunset
We scrapped at the Dardanelles,
An’ then we kep’ watch till morning,
Standing and sleeping by spells.
It was dynamite all the time, lad,
And —strike me, it’s almost a crime
That you should stay
When every day
Our cobber's fight overtime!
When the new lots came we’d ask ’em:
“Where’s Sam and Bill and Joe?”
Coves that we rather banked on —-
They’d come when they got to know.
But they're holding off from the trenches,
Don't like their chances and grime.
It's a coward’s lay,
This staying away,
When we’re fighting overtime.
Yes, we’re going back when we’re fit to.
Want to? Of course we don't.
But our cobbers are there, and we’ve got to—■
Wounded —if others won’t.
With scarcely an hour for sleeping—-
Yes, it’s all of a bloomin’ crime
To be loafing here,
When for half a year
They’Ve been fighting overtime!
MAORII,AXn.
W. L.


FIAT
CARS for ECONOMY
and RELIABILITY.
This Graceful 4=Seater Touring
Car completely equipped for
the road ; 5 Sankey Wheels ;
One=man Hood ; All Tools.
a
mm
GARRATTS LTD
AUCIv McNEIL, Gen. Manager.
173-175 Elizabeth Street*
148-150 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
a
(J
I
THE FORMOSA SILK SUIT
an admirable production.
Some silks bedraggle after washing. Formosa Silk will not. It is of an
even biscuit color, with a slight sheen and rib effect. The suits being cut
so effectively set well and retain their shape. Cool to a point of Summer
luxuiy, more serviceable than the ordinary, and, as prices rule to-day, a
triumph in good value. Sac style, with two patch pockets, as shown j^
Sports style, with stitched half-band at back, flaps and buttons to pockets 55/-
NLAV JUBILEE CATALOGUE, just issuing, and patterns of washing suitings
sent on request.
PEAPES CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
300 <a 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
“Kodak’s” confession: —
I committed a murder last night. Just before
sunset the sea invited me out to walk on the sands,
and I put on my rubber shoes and padded along
at the very lip of the Harbor. As I walked with
scarcely a sound the waves reached out large, white
hands and wiped out my footprints; so there was
nothing to show what size feet I take or where i
had come from, when I rounded a rock and came
suddenly on a beach fiend carefully smashing a glass
bottle just where it would cut the pink feet of
children. His squaw (a large, globular silhouette
on a far sandhill) was plunging towards the distant
tramline, and two specks of children whirled round
her like gnats. I knew by the expression of her
back and the rabid set of her beach-hat that she
was fairly headed for home, and would not turn
even if she heard faint shrieks of agony from the
rock where they had gorged and slept away the blue
afternoon. The blood-red sun was slipping into
ambush behind the hills, and the world was holding
its breath in anticipation. I took from my pocket
the Sunday paper 1 never read and unfurled its 750
pages. The crash of paper disturbed the fiend at his
horrible work, and he looked up and read my pur-
pose in my eyes. 11 is silly mouth opened to emit
a shriek; but that shriek never came out. While it
was still in his throat 1 sprang at him with my
paper mainsail, flung it over bis head and choked
him. When he was quite still I unwrapped his head,
prized his teeth open and filled him with seaweed
and oyster shells. After that, I tied him, with his
own necktie, feet first, to the tail of a whaler shark
who was making up his Federal Income Tax return
in the shallows near-by. The last I saw of him he
was far out at sea and going feet-first to his own
bubbling funeral behind the dorsal fin of the quick-
lunch undertaker. It was a thoroughly satisfactory'
termination to a happy day', and I intend to do as
much for every bottle and tin demon I can catch
this summer.
* * * *
From the S. M. Herald (10/10/’l5)
On Monday evening Mr. Marion (the secretarv)
and the Rev. R. 15. 8. Hammond (of the X.S.W. Tem-
perance Alliance) visited all the hotels from the
Railway Station to the Town Hall.
It seems ;i large order: Imt perhaps they
were satisfied with “ponies.”
Ilippolyte Hocks, the wave-worn granite
fragments of a vanished land which rise in
the fairway off the eastern side of Tasman
Peninsula (Tas.), have claimed another ship
for 1). Jones —the tramp steamer Not’d, bound
to Hobart with oil and a Chinese crew. The
captain tried to get Ids stricken craft into
shelter, but she miietly dropped to the bottom
in 4S fathoms. The liglitkeeper at Tasman
Island turned a pigeon adrift with the news ;
hut though the bird homed at about six
o’clock in the morning, the Lighthouse Dept,
officials, who were having a holiday,
didn’t know anything about it till 9 o’clock
at night. As it happened, this did not matter
much, bur it would have been all the same if
it had. The whole of the crew got off in
the boats and reached safety. Bright and
early the second day after the disaster Red
Tape despatched a steamer to see about it.
LIFE'S LITTLE IRONY.
PLAIN BILL: "Gripes, ain't it a nark! A
bloke goes to the war ’cos he can’t git a
girl, and when he goes he can git a
dozen.”
‘ Nick Bottom”: I solemnly and sincerely
leclare that I know a dressmaker living at
a country town in N. S. Wales who has a
contract with a Syrian hawker to make
children’s dresses at the rate of 4s. per doz.
and find cotton and buttons. She is not
on strike. But some of the white workers
who buy the Syrian’s goods are. They pro-
test that Ids. a day isn’t a fair thing in view
of the high cost of living.
THE WAR CENSUS.
MAGISTRATE: “But what caused the quarrel between you and your wife?”
COMPLAINANT: "I put her down as a dependent of mine, sir.”
“Jobber”: I’ve seen the queerest teams
yoked to a plough in this country (Egypt)
that a man could look at. Some of the pairs
Ive noticed : A buffalo and an ordinary cow ;
two cows ; a camel and a buffalo ; a camel and
a heifer. This country has convinced me about
the mule—not that I needed convincing, hav-
ing watched him haul cane in North Queens-
land—but it would do any man’s heart good
to watch the mule at work climbing the
steep hills on Gallipoli, and pulling big loads
in sandy Egypt. On the “other side” it was'
a treat to see the little beggars humping
water and stores up from the beach. I was
on fatigue one night, and if a mule I helped
to load didn’t have the biggest part of 4cwt.
on him. then I'll give up soldiering and go
to work for Abdullah. It was drizzling rain
unit night, 100, and you can ask any swaddie
what those tracks are like to climb when
they’re wet.
“Jwosp” : The Chatham Islands,
one of Maoriland’s “colonies,” was
nearly drawn into German
clutches about GO years ago. This
interesting fact lias been scratched
to light from under the dust of
some papers of the House of Com-
mons. It seems that in 1841
Governor Joseph Somes wrote to
Lord Stanley informing him that
the directors of the New Zealand
Company were negotiating with
certain parties officially connected
with Hamburg for the sale of the
Chathams, which the co. had
bought from the natives. The
would-be sellers were careful to
insist that British ships and sub-
jects should have the same rights
and privileges as those acknowledg-
ing the flag of Germany, and stip-
ulated that the islands should not
become a penal settlement. Bat
they quite overlooked the possi-
bility of their being made a sort
of Heligoland of the Pacific. Luck-
ily Mr. Somes’s letter “blew the
gaff,” and John Bull’s Govern-
ment, acting rather more promptly
than usual, grabbed the bit of ter-
tory and stuck it on to Maoriland.
“Rag”: Business houses are displaying
much ingenuity in the matter of presents
“for the boys at the Front,” thereby com-
bining Patriotism with Profit —the twin P’s.
Some of them in feverish anxiety about the
profit end of the combination are ticketing
all sorts of cumbersome and impossible
articles as being “just the thing for your
soldier friend.” The guileless public is thus
frittering away piles of good money on lum-
ber which no soldier can find room for unless
he happens to be Field-Marshal of a trans-
port division. Why don’t people consult
somebody who knows —almost any returned
fighter will tell them —before* they* send off a
disappointment or a nuisance?
It lias been decided by the S. Aus.
Supreme Court that the otherwise-unsup-
ported statement of a wife that her husband
had been cruel to her, finds legal corrobora-
tion in the sworn evidence of an outsider
that the husband had knocked about another
woman with whom he was living. Cynically,
but no doubt justly, the Court held that any
man who would hammer his illegal partner
might safely be credited with having treated
the legal partner in the same way.
* * * *
“Quidam”: If the horse were really, as
stated in the old school books, an intelligent
animal, lie would long ere
this have kicked against pull-
ing vehicles with plain axles
that are greased once a week
if the boss doesn’t forget. In
almost every other wheeled
vehicle the ball of roller-bear-
ing has supplanted the plain
one. In regard to ball bear-
ings on electric mine locomo-
tives, 800 letters were sent to
managers of coal mines in
Yankee-land recently, asking
questions re experience. The
saving set down in various
directions, such as repair
bills, increased life of gears,
power, etc., range from 20 to
GO per cent. As to comparison
with plain-bearing locomotives,
the general answer was:
“Haven’t got any machinery
with plain bearings, and don’t
want any.” Why should the
silly, hard-working quadruped
be compelled t» tow round
plain bearings, when a bike
or a motor-lorry is supplied
with better? There seems to
be something particularly
stagnant about the average
mind that guides the thing with a leg on
each corner.
“Bill’s” search for the simple 'ife in
franee:—■
Let me give you'an idea of how the land lies:—
A represents the fire trenches, B and C the reserve
trenches and dug-outs,: and D the nearest little
village, usually the centre of ration distribution and
dressing stations. In the daytime the- safest place
to be in is A. You’re not disturbed there for hours
at a time, and there’s an air of repose about the
place. B, C and D are all open to shell fire in day-
light, and it is often hard to find cover hurriedly
whereas in A you are always out of sight. B, C, D
and a bit beyond are usually shelled from 11 am
to 1 p m and from 5 to 7 p.m. As soon as it gets
dark C, D and beyond are quite safe, though there
are always stray bullets as far out as 0. It’s B
that gets all the whiz-bangs, pip-squeaks and machine-
f un flre > while Ais presented with shell fire, liquid
ie, gas, rifle fire, and, now and again, mines Thus
you see to live the simple life, you should be well
nhdit 1 the fl ° nt dunng the da - v and well behind at
“M.Sc.”: Every deputation that has in-
terviewed Hughes on the use of German
trade-names has dropped the main issue on
the doormat. The question is not whether
Bunk and Biffinger can sell their stock of
drugs more readily if these carry the names
the public has been accustomed to by Ger-
man trade enterprise—-a little judicious ad-
vertising and they would sell as readily
under any moniker. (See Shakspeare.) The
essential points are (1) the exclusion of the
llun article after the war; and (2), what is
most important, its manufacture in Aus-
tralia now. The first can at least be assisted
by dropping German names altogether. In
six months “lysol” and “aspirin” would mean
no more than the name on the betting ticket
we tore up in 1905. The second, in the case
of organic chemicals, anyhow, calls for imme-
diate encouragement being given to every
branch of the coal-tar industries. It is easy
enough to make lysol by dissolving vege-
table soap in cresylic acid; but what is the
good of knowing that so long as the cresylic
acid must be imported? It is equally easy
to prepare aspirin if salicylic acid is avail-
able ; but that too is an imported luxury.
Both can be obtained from tar; so can most
other drugs, perfumes and colors. It is time
we stopped piffling about with the least im-
portant features of this business.
*• *- -x- *
A shocking judge of appearances has just
been before Adelaide Criminal Court. A
Salv’army she-officer told in shocked tones
how, when she went to a house to inquire for
a young girl who had no business to be there,
the hostess actually hailed her — her, the
wowserette!—as a promising new recruit,
and made a brisk, business-like proposition
as to the ease with which the glittering sum
of 7s. 6d. could at that instant be earned.
A blunder like that is worse than a crime—
but not iu the eye of the law. The Court,
in handing the bad guesser two years on the
young-girl charge, did not add anything for
the insult which was really meant as a
compliment.
* * * #
This wants looking into. The inspector
of the N.S.W. Agricultural Department
visited an orchard, and finding some fallen
fruit _ which was not diseased within the
meaning of the Act, ordered its destruction.
Then, having deprived the oreliardist of prac-
tically sound fruit, the Department sued
him for 11s. expenses. The Department
claimed that it had power to order the de-
struction of all fallen fruit, whether it was
infected or not; and, when pressed to prove
the presence of fruit flv. its representative
admitted that it couldn’t be done. Upon
which the magistrate dismissed the case with
a few remarks. But the apple cocky went
short, all the same.
BEYOND THE LIMIT.
“I never get ‘over the fence' myself, you
know.”
“Neither do I. Somebody always lifts me.”
“Flinderino”: Whilst on the subject of
the Edina and the Rotomahana and other
marine bric-a-brac (B. 4/11/’l5), let me
mention the Manawatu. This snub-nosed
little craft is older than the "Rotten
Banana,” having been born at Auckland
(M.L.) in 1873. For over 40 years the
little wooden steamer has battled with the
white-headed sea, and is still going strong on
the Victorian coast. A couple of years ago
the Victorian Field Naturalists’ Club char-
tered her for a cruise among the islands of
Bass Strait. The Edina does not venture
away from Port Phillip. About 15 years
ago the Edina, in a fit of jealousy, rammed
the Manawatu near the Gellibrand lightship
and sent her to the bottom, where she re-
mained for months. Another 40-year-old
steamer still on active service in Bass
Strait is the Queenscliff, born at Melbourne
in 1876. These colonial-built craft are hard
doers.


FINIS.
The only way the war can be stopped is to refuse to fight or to make things for the war.—-Wisdom from a Melbourne Socialist meeting .
THE SOCIALIST UNDER THE LEFT BOOT: “There you are! We refused to fight, and refused to make things for the war, and it’s stopped all right."


THE BANQUET.
WILLIAM THE COOK: “Coinin’, gents, cornin’! But don’t blame me if it burns your mouth.”


ACID FAT REDUCERS ARE
DANGEROUS.
AN EXPERT OPINION.
“The reduction of superfluous fat by means
of introducing acid into the system is recog-
nised by medical experts as distinctly harm-
ful, yet it is the secret process of many well-
known treatments. In fact, the writer only
knows of one exception, and this treatment
is applied externally. It has. however, been
wonderfully successful, in many cases reduc-
ing weight to the astonishing extent of
twenty-three pounds in fourteen days. Here
is the prescription for the benefit of those
interested. Purchase one dram of quassia
chips from your chemist, also three ounces
of cirola bark extract. Pour a cupful of
boiling water over the chips, and let them
stand in it for a minute, then strain the
liquid through a cloth, and add to it the
cirola bark extract. When well mixed the
lotion should be rubbed freely into the skin
for ten minutes night and morning wherever
fat exists, so that it is thoroughly absorbed.
After a few applications it will begin to
dissolve the fat tissue underneath, and so
increase the elasticity of the outer skin that
it will be left perfectly smooth.*
BOATERS
World-Famed
for their Unequalled
Excellence in Style,
Quality, Comfort & Value.
s^r
J
.v
■ - mi
£3
A
3S>
$5
Sffli
/£6'S[Ssk
LEWIS&
WhITTY
MAKERS
aSj
i' V
SH
Ly-C./*'
YIN©
Q
Jt®!§
'ZM
HYGEIA
Shaving
Stick.
MO>X
In
Hygeia
oil-foam
hard
bristles
grow soft
Martin's Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul,
I’attiflson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
ROBAN
KING OF
ROWBOAT
MOTORS.
Runs Excellently Without Vibration.
PRITCHARD BROTHERS LTD.,
Engineers, Launch
and Boat Builders,
North Sydney, N.S.W.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
PERFORATED.
THE WOUNDED HERO: “Yes, I had so many
bullet holes bored through me that the
boys behind me complained of the
draught!"
“.Jean S.”: Cabinet rank has wrought a
gratifying change in our new national lodger-
keeper, ■•Bill” Higgs. The former tireless
jester, who played tricks on the mace and
disturbed (lie Speaker’s serenity with unim-
peachable points of disorder, might now pass
for a serious Baptist person worried by a
sleepless baby. Indeed, he has become the
“correct” man of the Government, and his
admirers will be glad to know that he is
playing the new part with the effective help
of tailor and haberdasher. And a flower
in the buttonhole. Those who remember
the early Higgs, in frock coat and baggy
trousers, will realise that the change is
momentous.
Of the 35 members returned to the N. S.
’'Vales Leg. Ass. on the Labor ticket in 1891
but live are now in the House —George
Black (with a holiday from 1898 to 1910),
J. H. Cann, Alfred Edden, J. S. T.
McGowen and J. B. Nicholson. J. D. Fitz-
eerald is an M.L.C., Joe Cook is in the
Reps, A. Gardiner in the Senate, seven at
least are dead, and half a dozen are back-
numbers. Thirteen of the original 35 sat in
only one Parliament.
Dennis’s “Sentimental Bloke,” published
last month, is turning out as it deserves—
one of the greatest successes yet scored by
an Australian verse-writer. It ran into a
second edition within two weeks of publica-
tion ; and the delightful bit of human nature
is now rapidly heading towards a third.
The fiction of a King’s message to his
people being his own “pitch” was finally
battered on the head on Iviug George’s return
from France. He was knocked out by the
horse-accident at the Front, suffered badly,
and was only just able to stand the journey.
But a stirring message to the troops came
out all the same, ending in the sporting
“Remember, it is the final lap that wins”- —
which in years to come will be quoted as his
own, like the “Wake up, England !” which he
never said.
A Hanoverian whom the war did not
trouble much was Christian Henry Fischer,
who formerly practised medicine at Hill
End (N.S.W.), and died there last week,
aged—according to family records—99 years,
which, it is said, made him the second-oldest
doctor in the British Empire. He was a
pioneer of Hill End, and one time a wealthy
mine-owner—in the days when Fischer’s,
Beard’s, Holterman’s and Paxton’s were
quoted on the market at fabulous prices. The’
old man was born in Hanover in George
lll.’s time, and came to Australia in conse-
quence of ill-health nearly 70 years ago.
“Moana”: I see my friend Winston
Churchill, smitten with . an artistic
impulse, lias dashed into a shop, purchased a
fistful of brushes and a pound of paint, and
dashed out again to capture the sunset. I
believe the story. Years ago I was with a
big camera-selling firm in London, my par-
ticular job being to instruct customers how-
to use the stuff they purchased. One morn-
ing Winston Churchill dashed into the shop,
bought £4O worth of outfit, and was turned
over to me for instruction. He was just
dashing away on an African hunting trip to
write a book about his adventures. Well, I
have taught about 13,571 people, from Orien-
tal princes downwards, or upwards, but for
general lack of mechanical ability and all-
round bad temper I hand Winston the
medal. He was horribly impatient, and had
a perfect genius for doing things wrong.
Added to this his artistic sense is about .09.
I luring his dash he never got one decent
photograph. Winston is mainly dash.
When John Bull goes down
to meet the Australian and
Maoriland politicians who are
packing up their bags to go
and have a corroboree at (lie
Big Smoke, he won’t find any
beited earls in the draft. Hughes
left Wales and became Prime
Minister after digging postholes
in Bananaland and “knocking
about on the boats” and mend-
ing umbrellas in Sydney. Fisher
sailed from Scotland to look for
work in the mines at Charters
Towers. Bill Massey (M.L.)
was a struggling cocky near
Auckland, and the only Ward
kicked off as a. telegraph boy.
Ryan, of Bananaland, who may
also go off to see about some-
thing or other, was a teacher
before he started pursuing
Costs. (Peacock and Hughes
also taught school in their
youth.) Holman, who is being
urgently cabled for by Barney
Wise to come along and help
him explain the “phenomena
of the debt,” started out minding the varnish
pot in a furniture factory. He hasn’t yet
forgotten how to do it, either. Apart from
other things, they can all proudly declare
that simple faith (in a p.n.) is more than
Norman blood, anyhow.
Harry Levien, who was “father” of the
N.S.W. Assembly before the last general elec-
tion, furnished two sons for the Front. The
elder, who was mentioned in dispatches, has
had his arm badly mangled, and is being
sent home, permanently disabled : the other,
who is recovering, was unconscious for seven
weeks, from the effects of shrapnel wounds in
the head.
Governor Barron, of Westralia, who has
been spending a week or two with his suc-
cessor, Ellison Macartney, at Hobart, is the
first ex-Governor of Tasmania who has ever
re-visited the place. One or two of the
early men, notably Davey and Sorell, stayed
on in the island for a while after they had
lost their cocked hats, but when they went
they went for good. Ex-Governors of the
Speck don’t survive long, as a rule. Besides
Barron, there are only two, Strickland and
Havelock.
Dave AlcGratk. M.H.R., who sits in
Deakin’s old seat, talks of enlisting. Young
AlcGratk got into khaki some time ago, and
the situation impresses Alac the elder to such
an extent that he has made some earnest
public remarks as to Australia’s duty and
what he is inclined to believe may presently
be his own. The AlcGratk family runs a
couple of universal-provideries iu the Allen-
dale district.
THE ACCIDENT.
DORIS: “ Poor Mabel, she just met her ideal
when ”
DAPHNE: “He died?"
DORIS: “No —met his.”
When the sheep and the goats are sorted
out 11. S. Steele, who died the other clay at
Hobart (Tas.), is sure to be on the right
side. lie was one of the first to introduce
Shropshire sheep into Tasmania, and .pion-
eered the movement which lias to so large an
extent substituted crossbreds for the pure
merino. As a sheepman Steele was all
there. His grandfather was a navy lieu-
tenant who went on the land in Tasmania
about 1830.
“F.” : Even “Nemo” (15. 4/31/M5) doesn’t
give Justice Cussen all the credit which is
due to him. As a young man of 20 lie had
obtained his C.E. degree and was put in
charge of a survey party on the Vic. railways.
He was then associated with the engineering
of the great Leigh bridge, on the direct line
from Melbourne to Ballarat. Seeing greater
openings in other spheres, he turned down
engineering in favor of law, and seven "years
after obtaining his C.E. degree, he had also
earned the right to pul: M.A., LL.B. after his
name. And all this was done when he had
already made his mark in one profession.
His course is remarkable for the fewness of
the exhibitions he didn’t win. Cussen is one
of the greatest students, if not the greatest,
turned out by Melbourne Uni.
\V. J. Johnson, who was M.H.R. for
Robertson (N.S.W.) until he was frozen out
of Parliament, has got into khaki. After the
larger politics gave him up as a bad job he
turned to the local drain and yesterday’s
dog. and was Mayor of Auburn when he
enlisted.
Courtney Smith, for many years engaged
in telling Sydney of the glories of Cold Tea.
died a few days ago at North Sydney. For
a long while he conducted a home for inebri-
ates at Echo Farm, Middle Harbor, origin-
ally founded by “Mudgee” Taylor, M.L.A.
and journalist.
The late Tummas Bent, of Brighton, has
not been forgotten by those who kept him
in Parliament when he was alive. They
turned up at his funeral in their thousands :
they bought him a swell tombstone and a
yet more swell statue. During Cup Week
Brighton held a “festival” in aid of the
wounded soldiers. It was a big affair, as
the takings indicate —£4500 was netted in a
week. While the riot was proceeding the
usual ballot was held for “Queen of the
Festival.” Mrs. Bleazby, Bent’s daughter,
was in the voting. “W’y,” said Brighton,
looking up from its ancient cabbage-cultivat-
ing job, “that’s Tom Bent’s girl.” There
were seven candidates altogether, and Tom
Bent’s girl got some 9000 votes ahead of the
next candidate on the list in a poll of 40,000.
Edwin Tivey, colonel of the Eight Infantry
Brigade, who scored a D.S.O. in the Boer
war, is among tin 1 latest victims of the medal-
giving foolishness. The other day his
brother brokers on the Melbourne Stock
Exchange took him by surprise and pressed
on him a useless gold disc, in addition to an
assortment of more practical gifts. Mrs.
Tivey was a Robb: and Colonel Downes,
who has seen a good deal of the excitement
on Gallipoli, is married into the same well-
known family.
Corporal McQueen, who, with Sergeant
Coates, is much to the fore in the N. S.
Wales recruiting campaign, learnt how to
make a speech by addressing trade-union
meetings. Of recent years he has been one
of the leaders of the Storemen's Union, for
a time its president, and vice-president of the
Labor Council. If the official Labor body
liked to flaunt its roll of honor it. would
wave a lengthy document, considering the
number of its delegates. A number of promi-
nent men have joined the colors —including
Waters, who so fostered unionism in New-
castle that he was secretary, at one time, of
about a dozen bodies in that centre.
WEBSTER, Australia's new Post muster-
General.
Exit suddenly, George Sleele, once a prom-
inent rowing man and athlete in Adelaide.
In fact, only a few nights before his end he
gave a- good axe-swinging turn at a patriotic
concert. But, having lost his wife and his
only sou within a few years, he took to
brooding, and lie strangled himself in the
sample-room of the soft-goods firm he
“travelled” for.
LINES TO BERTIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Metliinks, were I as young as you,
Anil half as strong and fit,
I d go where there is work to do,
And do my little bit.
Nay, 1 was never brave and bold.
1 boast no fighting blood;
lint no man living, young or old,
Will stand to let his feet grow cold,
And bear the shame of being told
His name is Mister Mud.
No pleadings of a mother fond
Can keep the boy at homo
Who pines to see the world beyond,
And finds the means to roam.
He may not long to fight and die,
Yet go abroad he must;
Though prudence frown and flappers sigh,
He cannot let the chance slip by—
The chance at last to gratify
His manly wanderlust.
Some chaps enlist for Duty’s sake,
And some, with eager pluck,
Would share the risks that others take,
Whilst trusting to their luck ;
And some are keen to play the game,
And do their best to win.
The dreamers dream of deathless fame;
The shirkers, dead to sense of shame,
Have only one mean hope and aim—
To save their precious skin.
Methinks were I a boy again
I’d go with head erect
To spare myself the cruel pain
Of wounded self-respect;
If you prefer to browse at ease,
And chew reflection’s cud,
Whilst other fellows gaily seize
A soldier's chance to cross the seas
And serve the State, as fate may please -
Your name, my boy, is Mud.
VICTORIA.
O. K.
THE DRY-BONES CABINET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The much-reconstructed Vic. Cabinet has been
reconstructed once again. The policy followed, at
the dictation of the Argus, was to got “new blood”
by the inclusion of those members not so old but
that they can crawl to the House, but too old to bo
expected to go any further.
Now all is well, the country’s needs
Will surely be attended to.
We look for higher, nobler deeds
From these hot-blood enthusiasts who
Are called Victoria’s work to do.
Boy-politician bold McLeod,
McCutcheon spirited and bright,
With youth's divine impulse endowed.
Nor lack we wisdom's steady light—
Brave Baillieu stripping for the fight.
McKenzie, Membrey, llagelthorn,
The Peacock chicken full of go !
The State must presently be borne
To that sublimity of snow :
Where all our highest ideals glow.
The Cabinet is born again—
Rejuvenated, that’s the word.
In travail and in cleansing pain
It has attained, as you have heard,
Its second childhood. Nay, its third !
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


(HEAVY WEIGHTS)
»
till
L
r-
-5919
One-Before Igo in c
and
One-When lcome out"
THERE’S no Sweeter Tobacco
comes from Virginia, and no
better brand than the “ THREE
CASTLES.”
Thackeray's " The Virginians 11
IN PACKETS AND FLAT TINS AND IN NEW UPRIGHT TINS
ALSO IN ROUND AIRTIGHT TINS OF SO.
The FAMOUS
BRAND of
W. D. * H. O.
WILLS


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUvS CO • Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agents WILLIAM ADAMS CSb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of Australasia: —
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
&■ & £ £
Oct., ’OO. . 153,512 14p.e.—112,000 12,000 1,326,802
Apl.. '07.. 227,463 14 „ ~112,000 15,000 1,427,325
Oct., '07.. 188,750 14 ~ ~112,000 18,000 1,486,075
Apl., 'OB.. 212,029 14 .. ..112,000 20,000 1,566,104
Oct., 'OB.. 187,691 14 .. ~112,000 15,000 1,626,795
Apl., '09.. 174,111 14 ~ ~112,000 12,000 1,670,906
Oct., '09.. 177,566 14 „ ~112,000 15,000 1,727,472
Apl., 'lO.. 193,722 16 „ ~128,000 18,000 1,776,194
Oct., TO.. 198,631 16 „ ~128,000 20,000 1,825,725
Apl. 'll . . 198,460 16 „ „ 128,000 20,000 1,876,185
Oct., ’ll.. 205,889 17 „ ~136.000 20,000 1,926,074
Apl.. '12.. 208,171 17 „ ~136,000 20.000 1,978,245
Oct., '12.. 216,303 17 „• ~136,000 20,000 2,038,548
Apl.. '13.. 206,644 17 „ „ 136,000 20,000 2,089,192
Premiums on new shares, £600,000. . 2,689,192
Oct., ’13.. 220,977 17p.c.= 170,000 20,000 2,720,169
Apl., ’14.. 233,897 17 „ ~ 170,000 2,784,066
Oct., T 4. . 210,509 17 „ ~ 170,000 2,824,575
Apl., T 5. . 108,778 17 „„ 170,000 2,863,353
Many things have happened since April;
but the things that had happened up to Sep-
tember were known to the directors before
the latest accounts were issued, and the
figures have doubtless been influenced by
that knowledge. In other words, if large
losses showed up during the past, few
months, and especially large losses On busi-
ness originated prior to April •><), 1915, the
management would certainly not disregard
them in the present accounts. Iteaiember-
ing this the figures in the last line are most
satisfactory. The drought ma.de a deep cut
into the export trade during the six months ;
and that must have seriously affected ex-
change and other earnings. Yet visible
profits have shrunk only a comparative trifle.
Some equalisation lias probably been prac-
tised. Everybody knows that the ’Asia has
large internal reserves; and that’s what
internal reserves are for —to give the con-
cern which owns them some relief in times
of stress.
But. the following balance-sheet figures
are more striking even than the figures of
the Profit ahd Loss account: —
April, 1914. April, 1915.
Notes .. £195,887 £258,793 Inc. £62,906
Bills, etc... '3,045,714 3,159,819 Inc. 114,105
'Deposits . . 19,259,977 20,099,953 Inc. 1,439,976
Liquid assets 8,910,843 9,704,282 Inc. 793,439
Advances . . 18,527,117 19,427,303 Inc. 900,186
Premises . . 17,684 20,333 Inc. 2,649
The tremendous war filled nine months of the
year; yet deposits increased by nearly a
million and a half. In the early days of
the fighting some fine patriots in Australia
went around furtively collecting sovereigns,
and putting them away in safe deposits. The
banks were going to be bled white, they
believed. A few stupid people even started
a. little run on a savings bank here and
there. The ’Asia’s figures shout ridicule at
these people. The position is that the
nation is going into debt, and the individual’s
hanking account is inflated in consequence.
It is only in the years to come we will really
feel the financial ill-effects of this war. And
Australia ivill feel them more keenly than
England, because we are borrowing abroad
while England is doing most of her borrow-
ing at home; so that presently we shall
have to export to pay principal and interest,
while in England it will be merely a matter
of paying the right pocket by taking some-
thing out of the left.
The increase in Australian deposit figures,
in spite of the drought, is thus quite easily
explained. But there is this to remember:
we are merely banking now what we shall
have to pay back presently. That’s when
lhe pinch will come; but it is doubtful
whether banks will feel it as much as most.
They will suffer taxation, no doubt; but
production and trade are not likely to fall
away in Australia, and those are the things
that form the basis of a bank’s business.
Add to that the excellence of the “under-
standing” between Australian banks and the
tremendous difficulty with which any new
banking concern gets a start, and it may
be admitted that the outlook for the Aus-
tralian banks is more satisfactory than the
outlook for Australia in general. The insect
in their butter is the Commonwealth Bank;
and certainly it isn’t an insect to be over-
looked, because of the growth of public enter-
prises in munifier and size and the natural
tendency of Governments to give the Com-
monwealth Bank some priority or other
advantage.
* ~ x- *
Nicholson and Co.. Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and
other noises, etc.: —
Writ-
ten To Re- lte-
I’rufits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar., ’09.. 3489 10 p.c.= 3001 380 108 5.720
Mar., TO.. 6463 10 ~ „ 3446 201 2816 8,536
Sept., TO.. 4424 10 „ .. 2486 386 1552 10,088
Premiums on new shares, £2450 .. 12,538
Mar., Tl.. 6655 10 p.c.= 2876 1612 2167 14,705
Premiums on new shares. £2960 .. 17,665
Sept., ’ll.. 8151 10 p.c- 3968 4183 21.848
Premiums on new shares. £4016 .. 25,864
Mar., '12.. 7241 10 p.c.= 5675 956 610 26.474
Sefft., T 2.. 7773 Nil 7773 34.247
Mar.. T 3.. 7302 74p.c.= 5117 2185 36.432
Sept.. ’l3. . 8653 74 „, „ 5259 3394 39,826
Mar.. T 4. . 6365 74 „., 5248 1117 40,943
Sept., T 4. . 5021 Nil 5021 45,964
Mar., .’15.. 5008 *6p.c.-= 8397 42,575
lept., T 5.. 3655 5 p.c. - 3506 —— 149 42,724
*6 p.c. paid for the full year.
It is just tlic sort of business that one
would expect to suffer pretty badly in a
collision. When the average person doesn’t
know quite what is going to happen to-
morrow, but has an idea that it may be
something serious, he doesn’t usually go out
and till in the afternoon buying a new
piano. And if he did the piano merchant
would make careful inquiries about the pur-
chaser’s means before letting the machine
go out of the shed. Fortunately in this case
there was no sudden collapse: things are
still apparently so prosperous in Sydney and
a good many other parts of Australia that
there are strikes wholesale. Thus the time-
payment sales that were made just before the
war, and which probably worried the co. for
a few weeks, ought by this time to be quite
safe: so much has been paid off the purchase
price that the co. would be covered even if
second-hand pianos were sold by the dozen,
like clotlies-pegs. Meantime, as mentioned
above, acceptable new business is no doubt
scarce; and the profits suffer in consequence.
Still the circumstances have saved the capi-
tal : a sudden slump might easily have put
the co. in serious difficulties.
How shipshape the management has got
things the following comparison shqws:—
Liabilities.
Sept.,TO, Sept.,T4. Mar.,’ls. Sept.,'ls.
Capital.. .. £50,000 £140,233 £140,233 £140,233
Sundry creditors 26,179 56,401 20,724 18,890
Assets.
Stock .. .. 27,470 57,241 44,732 51,421
Sundry debtors 58,980 178,498 161,719 146,535
Plant, etc. . . 2,237 5,855 5,371 4,828
Cash and sundries 442 1,595 607 8,068
Practically no liabilities now, you see,
thanks to (1) the reduction of time-payment
balances and other book debts, and (2) the
wise limitation of dividends. This paper
hasn’t a prophet’s license, but it knows there
are causes which produce, certain results.
At present Australia is borrowing wildly.
There is a school which professes to despise
the economists who oppose public borrowing.
Very well; this paper will grant that you
can .sometimes make money by borrowing.
All depends on how you spend the money.
If you borrow in a cheap market and expend
wisely to get a big return, you are all right.
But if .you borrow in a dear market and
spend wastefully—as almost every Govern-
ment in Australia is doing at present—there
must be disaster in the end. Australia is
saving up hard times for herself: nothing in
the world is surer. And in those hard
times the piano warehouse is likely to suffer
rather more than, say, the baker. The
baker, by the way, though one of the most
modest of tradesmen, is really on about the
best little wicket in the community. When
from one circumstance and another profit
almost disappears, he can put up his price
sd. a loaf, and it is such a little one that
nobody proposes a riot. Yet just consider
what Id. a loaf on a decent output amounts
to in a week.
* -x- * -K-
The East Greta Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To lie- Re-
Proflts. Dividends. Oft', serves, serves.
Mar., ’OB.. 19,782 10 p.c. = 7,500 6500 5,782 19,703
Sept, ’08..16,829 10 ~ „ 7',500 2500 6,829 26.532
Mar., ’09.. 9,510 10 ~ ~ 7,500 2000 10 26,542
Sept., ’09.. 9,130 10 ~ 7,500 1630 26,542
Loss.
Mar., TO.. 8,073 Nil 23,469
Profits,
Sept., T0..26,203 15 p.c. = '11,250 4000 11,013 34,482
Mar., ’11..12,605 15 „ „ 11,250 1,415 35,897
Sept., ’11..12,281 10 „ „ 7,500 4,781 40,678
Mar., T 2.. 8,125 10 „ „ 7,500 3500 37,803
Sept., 12.. 15,290 10 „ „ 7,500 3050 4,740 42,543
Mar., T3..17,664 10 „ „ 7,500 3205 6,959 49,502
Sept., T3..18,084 10 „ ~ 7,500 3303 7,281 56,783
Transferred to capital, £18,750 . . 38,033
Mar., T 4„ 16.032 10 p.c. = 9.207 3500 3,325 41.358
Sept, T 4.. 6,400 5 „ „ 4,997 3500 39,261
Loss.
Mar.. T 5.. 713 Nil 3500 35,048
Profit.
Sept., T5..10.538 5 p.c.= 5000 3500 2,033 37,081
Two losses lob into that table, and they
represent the two big risks of the N.S.W.
coal-owner: the first was due to fire and the
second to a labor strike, which lasted till
March 17. But even when the strike was
ended things didn’t go back to normal. The
directors put it that “owing to scarcity of
labor the pits have not been fully manned,
and many of the co.’s workmen have en-
listed, which has materially reduced the
output.’’ The superintendent puts it better:
“The mines have worked fairly satisfactorily
during the half-year, with the exception of
about three weeks’ idleness through explo-
sives not being available.” No doubt labor
has been at times short, too; but
in case any workmen should listen
to the ill-timed wail of these direc-
tors and proceed to East Maitland
to take the place of miners who have gone
to fight for the Board, let The Bulletin
quote the following record of days worked
for the five months preceding the war: Jan.,
21! ; February. 15}; March'. 23 7-Abril. 20-
May, 19.
The co. owns the East Greta, Stanford
Merthyr and Ileddon Greta mines and the
East Greta railway, and has bought and
equipped the lot on a share capital of
£199.995 and a debenture debt of £60,000.
Excluding the fixed assets from considera-
tion this is how things have changed in the
last 10 years:—
Sept.,'os. Sept.,TO. Sept.,’ls.
Capital £138,739 £150,000 £199,995
Liabilities . . . . 18,349 46,697 72,640
Assets other than mines,
rail and plant . . 24,238 53,620 57,341
The increase of capital follows the .issue of
50,000 shares at par. The bulk of the
money is going into plant, chiefly on the
railway. The capital and liabilities are no
doubt very amply represented by assets. The
mine properties are not shown separately,
but they are understood to stand for very
little in the books. For instance, though
the recently-acquired Heddon Greta stood in
the books 12 months ago at £6OOO, it was
down six months later to £4950. In the old
days, when all the mine properties were
shown separately, the same severe writing
down of the other properties could be fof-
lowed. Ten years ago. for instance. East
Greta mine (freehold) represented only
£12,015 of the capital, and Stanford Merthyr
(leasehold) only £11,000; and it is highly
probable that they don’t represent that much
now, though they are certainly worth a heap
more.
* * * *
Aerated Bread Co. (Sydney), which
began with £17.965 of its capital represented
by goodwill:—
Written
Prolix. Dividends. Off. Deiicit.
Apr., 1916. . £17,965
Sept., 1910..£2347 Up.c. = £lO5O £428 17,096
Mar., 1911.. 3384 8 „ ~ 1400 228 15,340
Sept., 1911.. 3561 10 ~ ~ 1750 553 13,782
Mar., 1912.. 3461 10 ~ ~ 1750 439 12,510
Sept., 1912.. 3296 10 ~ .. 1750 228 11.192
Mar., 1913.. 2444 8 .. ~ 1400 22S 10.376
Sept., 1913.. 2676 8 .. ~ 1400 187 9,287
Mar., 1914.. 1648 6 ~ .. 1050 11S7 9,876
Sept., 1914.. 563 Nil 187 9,497
Mar., 1915.. 195 Nil 187 9,489
Sept.., 1915.. 189 Nil 187 9,487
"The position disclosed." the directors say.
“although not entirely satisfactory, is as good
as could be hoped for when all the unto-
ward circumstances are taken into considera-
tion." Well, if this is the best the share-
holders can hope for they had better get out
and cut their loss—or the presdn! manage-
ment had better get' out and let 'somebody
else have a try. Sargents, Ltd!,; carries oil
the same kind of business, and for the half-
year to the end of June it made a net profit
of £S6BO, out of which if paid the usual
10 p.c. dividend and put b.f about £BOOO.
Admittedly the A.B.C, was a rotten flota-
tion ; and admittedly £17,000-odd was paid
for: a goodwill which was probably not worth
17,000 d. But that represents only half the
capital; and the other half should be earn-
ing something—the same as Sargents. Wliat
shareholders have a right to know is how it
is that a profit of over £3OOO per half-year
was made a while ago and practically nothing
at ail noiv. It is quite time they called for
an analytical report from the auditors.
Capital is £35,000 and liabilities amount
to £14,793 as against £10,461 twelve months
ago. That reduction of liabilities is really
the best feature of the 12 months—in fact,
it is the only cheerful one. It is of course
partly counterbalanced by various little cuts
into the assets. These assets, apart from
goodwill, have a book value of £25;513 in
excess of the liabilities —14 s. 7d. per share.
But; it doesn’t follow that you could get
1 45., id. per share for them if you broke
them up. Plant, for instance, is said to
be worth £14,510; but Isidore Israel would
probably feel hurt about it if you asked him
to advance £14,510 on it.
The Castlemaine Brewery (Jo. (Mel-
bourne) :—■
T „ „ Written Re-
Jime, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
190 j .. 46,263 4 p.c. = £5OOO £1,500 £5,314
i *to6 . . 1,498 Nil 2,000 4,812
Loss. Deficit
t 907 .. 11,302 Nil 2,396 8,886
Written off Advances .. .. 2 871 11 757
Written off Freeholds,''Brewery,
etc. (net) . . .. ' . . 29,029 40,786
kept., Loss.
1908 .. 1,442 NR ..... 4 2.228
~ , ' Reserves.
Capital written ofl (7/6 per share = £46,875 4,647
Profits.
1909 1,581 2 p.c. = 1562 4,666
Unexplained additions, £6610 .. .. 11 276
1910 . . 8,184 5 p.c. = 3906 ■ - 15,654-
1911 . . 8,183 0 „ „ 4688 • 19,049.
•• 11.843 6 „ „ 4688 26,204
*• 40,506 61,, ~ 5079 - 31.631
I®l4 ' • 0,446 7 ~ „ 5469 - 30’.60S
491.) . . 9,520 7 „ ~ 5469 39)659
Ibis co. is in the so-called Beer Combine
of Melbourne; that is to say. it
doesn’t carry on the brewery business
itself, but eight years ago transferred
its connection to the </. & U. B. Co.
—the Combine —in return for a certain
number of shares. The so-called Combine
doesn’t therefore depend upon the continu-
ance of an “understanding." It actually
owns the business, and. though it did not Inu-
tile brewery premises, it acquired on lease
whatever it wanted, and most of the indivi-
dual cos. couldn’t brew nowadays, after this
lapse of time, even if they could sell the
beer. This, however, doesn’t mean that there
can’t be any competition at all. But, while
it is possible for the outsider to butt in—a
co-onerative concern has already done so—
internal competition is practically impossi-
ble. The co-operative movement isn’t a fly
to be wliisked but'-of the beer and disre-
garded. It threatens to be quite a serious
matter. And the movement towards a stricter
control of liquor-selling cannot be disre-
garded, either. Nobody knows what is going
to happen to the trade. Anything may hap-
pen—even to its extinction. Until the other
day a brewery investment—especially in
England—was something to be recommended
to elderly aunts. Nobody who doesn’t want
to risk shocks should have anything, to do
with the shares to-day.
One trouble in connection with almost
every brewery investment is that a very
large proportion of the principal is repre-
sented by goodwill froth. In this case the
co. owes about £85,000, and owns pub and
other property and assets valued at £125,000.
plus Combine shares worth (face value)
£107,625. Against the share capital
(£78.125) there is thus a surplus of £40,000
of pub property, with Combine shares of the
face value of £107,625. That looks a better
margin than the most cautious Cohen in the
country would require. But, as hinted above,
you have always got to look for froth in
these brewery assets. (1) The pub pro-
perty. etc., is valued at £117.316; but the
chances are that you would have to write
that down to £57.316 if the pubs were
delicensed. (2) The Combine shares are
valued at £107.625 ; but there nrobably isn’t
£37.625 of that represented by tangible
assets. For the man who guesses that the
human race isn’t going to lose its thirst, and
that the persons now in the trade will benefit
rather than suffer from the agitation against
it, brewery investments may be all right. A
mau. at any rate, can get a good interest
return from most of them. And there cer-
tainly is this to be said for his point of
view: the agitation unquestionably is driving
the weaker ones out of the trade and scaring
off competition, even where competition can
come in if it wants to. Thus far, for instance,
there can be scarcely a doubt that the anti
liquor agitation has put hundreds of thou-
sands into the pockets of the owners of the
three breweries in Sydney. For while the
agitation probably hasn’t affected the con-
sumption of liquor to any extent worth men-
tioning, it has consolidated the trade in three
friendly hands.
The Electric Eneruy Supply Co. ( War-
wick.. Q.) :
Written Towards
Jane, Los>. Dividends. Off. Reserves. Deficit.
1913.. £205 Nil %p!
Further goodwill outlay, .V Lti .. 92c
Profit.
1914.. 326 Nil £320 000
Further goodwill outlay. £3O .. 630
Reserves.
1915.. 735- Nil - £l2 , 723 93
That puts things*in the best light, because
it shows as profit the amounts which have
been put by for future replacements and
renewals. The £ll* shown as written off
this last half-year was the first draft on that
fund. The deficit to start with represented
“purchase account” —preliminary exes, and
goodwill—and as soon as the Profit and
Loss account lias been got square, that paper
item should be attacked. The co. has £.'!(ID
of leeway to make up first: that is to say.
the business has thus far fallen £30!) short
of paying exes, (including interest on bor-
rowed money) and providing for replace-
ments and renewals. A very good business
connection has. however, been established,
and, though very inadequate plant was at
first provided, which led to some waste,
there is now quite a rosy promise of a mod-
estly successful future.
Gorpon House, Ltd. (Melbourne), which
began with a deficit of £l7B. preliminary
expenses:—
„ . T> To lie- He-
Sept, 1 l'ofits. Dividends. serves. servos
1905.. £1242 54 p.c. = £B6l £391 c 772
1900.. 1511 64 ~ 1005 500 I’US
1907.. 1698 8 .. ~ 1237 401 1739
1908.. 1906 10 154 7 359 •><)%
1909.. 1671 10 .. .. 1547 124 «22‘>
1910.. 1852 10 .. „ 1547 305 2527
1911.. 2105 10 .. „ 1647 558 3085
1912.. 2080 10 ~ 154 7 533 3618
1913.. 1865 10 ~ .. 15 17 318 3930
1914.. 2139 13 ~ ~ 2 tail 138 4074
1915.. 2197 13 ~ „ 2001 196 4270
This co. mixes philanthropy with business,
and finds good profits in it: it runs a cheap
lodging-house—or, rather, two —and. it is
understood, gives excellent value for the
money. It started off with a pretty heavy
mortgage debt: and, though all maintenance,
repairs and additions to freehold and furni-
ture have been paid for out of revenue, the
surplus in excess of dividend lias got rid of
nearly £4OOO of debt in 10 years:—
1906. 1910. 1913. 1914. 1915.
Liabilities . . £10,644 £B6lO £Bl4B £BlO2 £8144
Cash, etc. .. .50 119 1066 1158 1395
Excess liabilities £10,594 £8491 £7082 £6944 £6749
The share capital is £15.470 in 18,200 £1
shares pajd to 17s.
* * * *
Tiie liquidators of Bowron Bros. l —another
Earle Hermann'flotation—are getting to the
end of their complicated business. Woolston
Tanneries, Ltd., gave £15,000 in 0 p.c. A
debentures (of £lOOO each) and £35.000 in
•' P-c. P> debentures (of £lOOO each) for the
assets and liabilities of the co. ; and as
> s nut proposed that Bowron Bros,
continue in existence, the liquidators are
offering these debentures for sale by tender.
It isn’t yet certain what the shareholders
will get out_of the sale. There are 15,00 u
prof, and 125,000 ordinary shares in the co.:
but the liabilities under the irregular scrip
and transfers which are in circulation have
to be met out of the money realised by the
sale of the debentures ; and the cost of getting
the dreadful affair out of its tangle and
winding it up will also be considerable. Ten-
ders for tiie debentures close on November
24.
* * * #
Westralia. has workmen inspectors at
last, but they arc to be the choice of mine
employees who are natural-born or natural-
ised Britishers, and not of unionists only.
This provision the Upper House insisted on :
but it wont, matter much, as the union
nominee is sure to come out well on top
every time. During the past five years tiie
butcher s bill per 1000 employed. above and
below ground in tiie State lias fluctuated
between 2.34 and 1.76. while the seriously
injured have ranged from 700 to 800. By
stricter supervision and the insistence of
“safety first" methods, the new inspectors
should be able to effect a big improvement
in both rates. After ail. tiie accident ratl-
in a mine depends largely on the personality
of the manager. Tf lie is reckless, and isn't
checked by his shift bosses, lie- same spirit
will prevail in the mine. If he and they are
careful and vigilant, caution and vigilance
will be inculcated. It is little use putting
up a notice warning miners not to do this or
that, and then sacking them if they don’t, m-
can’t, do enough work without tax.ng risks
The mine boss who makes a practice of
“sounding’ carefully and paying attention
to other safety precautions is almost bound
to have miners who do the same.
* * * *
“Matey : There’s a fortune waiting for
anyone who finds a good big phosphate rock
show in Australia. Thousands of tons of
raw rock are imported annually, treated with
sulphuric acid and turned into superphos-
phate for manuring our wheat areas.
“Super” is, roughly, half rock and half acid.
At present the rock mostly comes from the
Pacific Phosphate Co.’s ’ island deposits.
Japan and Germany used to draw supplies
from the same source. Low-grade deposits
exist in South Aus., and N.S.W. had a gam-


The British Westindhouse Electric and Manufacturing Co., L#td
iiiiiiiiiMiiniiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiNimiiiiiiuiiiiiiilliiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiilii
Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
etc. Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the features
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts of the world.
Ask for
literature fr
\rm
jpusr
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
T.. p m , m r. i .. i. ,fn.. i.. i ■ 11.. 111111111111111 ■ 11111 ii 11:1111 ii 1111: i 111 i I! 111111 i 11 (1 llli 111111111!! 1111 f
When you know you have been using' a good
article, and probably using it for years, you are not.
easily persuaded into trying something else. This
accounts for the success of “Pioneer” Australian
Leather Belting 1 . Engineers and Mining men have
used it so long and with so much satisfaction that
they will not bother experimenting with other makes.
“Pioneer” is reliable. Try it and see. Made only
by J. 0. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York Street
(opp. Q.V. Markets), Sydney. Sold in the other
States by Horace Summers, Perth, W.A.; Queensland
Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane, Q’land; 0. Russell
Pt.v. Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vie.; J.
McKell, Timpson Street, Pt. Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
A LUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. — Advt.
*• * * iv
Efficient grinding is one of the many
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardingc
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Heela
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 04 of them, and say
“The Ilardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will bo glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
. v> -X- -X- *
Extract from The Review, London, sth December,
1913: —“Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Societ y
Limited. —The progress of the Society is clearly
demonstrated in figures. Though it cannot be con-
sidered an old company, in comparison with many of
its competitors—it was instituted in 1873 —the
amount of business secured and the resources built
up prove that those who have served the Company have
done their duty most faithfully and well.” — Advt. [4
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is well adapted for use
as a steam-pipe easing. Being a non-conductor of
heat and cold, and proof against acid fumes and
electrolysis, it has many advantages when used in
this capacity. Catalogue from The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal and State Gov-
ernments, 57 York St., Sydney (Head Office). — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Com-
pany of Australia, Limited. —By mutual consent
Mr. Francis H. Snow has retired from the above com-
pany, and the Ore Purchase Department at Bridge St.,
Sydney, has been closed. Sellers of ore must now com-
municate direct with the Works, Port Kembla. — Advt.
* * * *
The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte
Street, Brisbane, are Specialists in Road Buildina
and Shire and Municipal Machinery, also “National”
Gas and Oil Engines, and “Robey” Steam Engines.
■—Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilei's, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd,, who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading-
mines in Australia. — Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Acci dent,
Live Stock.
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid=up ... ... 82,500
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited,
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,660 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,451 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 80,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edvvrl. P. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannrn Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
wmiino'ton show last year, after the
on Q» e i*lan,v s hope,
of the find at Kockbarapton. #
\lhert Boreliard, a Sydney auditor whose
«otk The Bulletin has many times seen
;i° a r s m t o admire, has given it best. He came
to Australia when he was a youngster , but
... ‘was born in Germany, and nothing could
J , "; for that error. So he has passed Ins
business over to his three chief assistants
•iiul gone out with the following explanation.
‘ T “ eeiiino- niy general accountancy business,
1 L rn mvself the right to practise as “con-
tfaiS’ I fear that I may possibly
become a source of embarrassment _ to friends and
who might suffer by employing me. If any
sacrifice"is to be made, I feel it right to surrender
the r work, but I hope not their friendship.
I have never been at any time a member of the
Herman Club, nor have I ever entered its doors.
Iu fact it is one of the greatest mysteries to me
whv I, who least deserved it, having for. many years
been thoroughly Australian in thought, m sentiment
■m<i in act, should have been made a taisret for
attacks on the German question. My family and
material interests are bound up absolutely with the
interests of Australia* , ,
(f Australia were actually m- danger I wou.d not
hesitate a second to defend her shores against any
enemy to the best of m.y power. I would not shun
any sacrifice to retain her liberty and independence.
* * *
Dr. Wade, the oil chemist, has been lent
by the Commonwealth to the Tasmanian
Government to say whether the Bailton
deposits, etc., should be. bought by the State.
One man whose opinion the Government
ought to get before it does anything is
George Georgeson, who came to Australia
as sales manager for the Commonwealth
Oil Corporation, *md ran the whole disas-
trous thing afterwards. Nobody in Aus-
tralia knows so much about the financial
side of the shale-oil problem, anyway. And
that, after all, is the side that matters.
* •* * *
Goobarragandra is a gold-reefing claim
away among the mountains about 30 miles
oast of Turnut (N.S.W.). Assays are
pretty good; in fact, if there is much lode
stuff assaying 28oz. lOdwt. per ton (roughly
£100), the little concern will soon make its
fortune. But Goobarragandra hasn’t got as
far even as the teething stage yet. No. 1 shaft
is down 24ft. and No. 2 is down 34ft. The
280 z.-per-ton stuff is from the bottom of No.
2 shaft. A parallel lode (No. 3) has been
opened, and numerous samples have been sent
to be assayed. The little co. is in 250 shares
of £2O each, half of which are contributing.
It is making a very modest start in life,
which is the right way, for hundreds of reefs
peter out before 100 ft. is reached; and the
reefs in that part of N. S. Wales have a
poor reputation.
* * * *
Three notable improvements have lately
taken place in the West. A good shoot of
ore 800 ft. long and above average grade has
been exposed in the 2100 ft. workings of the
Lake View and Star; the Sons of Gwalia has
opened up something above the ordinary iu
the south end of the 2900 ft. level (=about
2000 ft. vertical) ; and the Yuamni has a
much longer run of payable ore at the No. 5
than at the No. 4 ievel. The Yuamni co.
has struck a plentiful supply of water on its
Warriedar (Yalgoo) options, and crushing
at the rate of 1000 tons a month is expected
to start in December. So far, developments
on the three principal leases —Ironclad,
Muggs Luck and Aurum —have been all
right, and a fair tonnage of oxidised ore has
been broken and made available for stoping.
The proposition is a 10- or 15-head mill one,
and has yet to be proved at depth.
* *• * *
Kalgurli Gold Mines (W.A.) g0t£249,878
out of 125,990 tons during the year ended
July 31, compared with £255,748 from
127,870 tons in the previous year. Beduced
tonnage due to retardation of treatment by
increased sulphur contents and extra damp-
ness of the ore accounts in part for a 7d.
rise in treatment costs, hut it is in the main
attributed to the higher prices ruling for sup-
plies of all kinds, and quotations are still
taller now. Inclusive of all expenditure in
Australia, working costs compare with those
of the previous year as under: Milling,
7s. 7.65 d., against 7s. 11.42 d.; treatment,
12s. 6.60 d., against 11s. 11.95 d.; develop-
ment, 2s. 4.89 d., against 2s. 9.77 d. As to ore
reserves the manager confirms what has been
previously stated on this page- that little
more than another year's life can be counted
on.
* * * *
Lake View and Oroya’s report for year
ended June last is expected to reach Aus-
tralian shareholders in a week or two.
Bevenue is, on account of the curtailment of
operations by the Zinc Corporation and other
ventures in which the co. is interested, tipped
to show a falling off: but according to
London there is no reason to anticipate that
the usual divs. will not be paid.
* * * 4 ¥
Westralians seem to have fallen iu badly
over Allen’s Find. This show is near Mount
Jackson, on the Yilgarn field, and some time
ago a £l5OO syndicate, more than half of
which was locally subscribed, was formed in
Melbourne to work it. Shares soared to £l6,
and it is alleged that a good many Melbourne
holders got out while those on the spot stayed
in. About two months ago it was announced
that further exemption had been obtained
on the property, but a fortnight later, along
came the staggering news that the t other-
side controllers had turned down the option, in
spite of the fact that the Westralians were
willing to take up all the contributing sluiies
in any co. formed. Now the latter want to
know why they were not consulted about the
matter. It is stated tnat 1500 was pawl on
the option, that the vendor received £lO a
week to manage the mine, and that, although
several crushings were taken out, no state-
ment has been submitted. These assertions
are not vouched for, but simply given tor
what they are worth.
Westralia is very sore about the way in
which local holders of the Edna May Junc-
tiou were treated. Ab Hit 40,000 of the
(15.000 paid and con. shares in the co. were
held on the spot, yet the holders were, it is
alleged, given no chance to be represented by
proxy at the liquidation meeting.
* » * *
From the spot:—
Edna May Deeps main shaft has at moment of
writing been sunk 15ft. by the cement process, and
is now down 280 ft. The bottom is comparatively
dry, whereas 7000 gallons per hour were coining
into it before the cement was tried. The experiment
thus far promises splendidly.
* * * *
Melbourne seems to have dropped the Brit-
ish Flag (W.A.) too soon. Some months
ago the owners scooped £3OOO out of a patch,
and an Alec Peacock no-liability co. then
stepped in and took an option. This was
subsequently abandoned. Now comes the
news that another patch of apparently big-
ger dimensions than the previous one has
been struck.
•Sr * * *
The manoeuvring over the increase of the
Edna Deeps capital was like that in a
light between Darcy and McGoorty. Self-
interest won in the end. The man who had
already put up 10s. per share went sour
when he saw that if 40,000 new contributing
shares came into the market they would
rank, with buyers, ahead of his pile. Seeing
this, someone suggested that the Deeps might
sell out to the Edna May for 15,000 shares
in that co. Taking the market value of
Ednas at £7 10s., this would have meant
payment at the rate of over £105,000. Such
a get-out would have been good for the
Deeps. But the idea didn’t fructify in the
Edna May mind, and, as opposition was
strengthening to the first plan of wind-rais-
ing. the Deeps directors jettisoned it in favor
of a third device. This was to still increase
the register by 40,000 shares of 10s. each, to
go pro vata to shareholders; but 10,000 of
these were to be kept in reserve, and the
others were to be issued as paid up to 10s.
on receipt of ss. paid up Is. on application
and allotment, the balance in four monthly
instalments, no scrip to be issued till the
whole ss. was forthcoming. The practical
effect of this would be the raising of £7500
fresh capital with no fresh scrip interposing
between the old issue and the market. All
the same, how are the new shares to be kept
from competing with the old ’uns? If those
who get them like to pay up the ss. at ouce,
there is sure to be a lot of profit-taking—
unless human nature has altered.
* -X- * *
Catherine Iteef, Bendigo, has two big
things—a reef at 2300 ft. and a share-regis-
ter. Pall Mall always sets one against the
other, and when a flutter was started last
week over an Bdwt. yield, Bendigonians
plastered Collins-street with prophecies—
and scrip. The flutter was mainly due to
the specimen gold coming from just over a
slide and close up to the lava. When Cather-
ine Beef last boomed it was over the eastern
run of spurry country. Now manager J.
Langdon is shooting down dirt in the more
solid formation to the west. To see whether
the Bdwt. average can be maintained a
crosscut 150 ft. ahead will be shoved in, and
later on a second one. If colors of gold are
seen in the reef at either of these points
there will be a market flurry because of the
size of the reef and the possibility of cheap
work. That the formation is patchy is cer-
tain, just as it is that most of the large
holders got in at the top prices on which
Bendigo floated out.
# * * *
Bendigo has been weakly all this year, and
for the first time for ages the monthly out-
put has fallen below five figures. For the
first 10 months of the year the total win
was only 99,2720 z., against 188,5240 z. for
same term in 1914, and 136,7250 z. in 1913.
The drop accounts for the feverishness with
which Bendigo is fighting against any in-
crease in the Wages rate, and also explains
why it knocks at the door of the Mines
Department and asks so anxiously for aid
to open up the side-lines.
* * *
St. Arnaud North (Vic.) went to the bad
£1232 in the last six months, and shows
debts of £2937, including some for machin-
ery. What isn’t clear is why with 20
stampers and low-grade stuff the power
available should be able to work only a
portion of the battery. The co. has a 16ft.
reef at 400 ft„ but there is no chance of
sdwt. St. Arnaud gold paying even with a
big reef like that if the co. can only play
on 15 stamps. The North wants to have the
rule run over it in a cold-blooded way by an
old hand like Frank Powell, so that share-
holders may have a good idea whether, if
they get the full plant on the jog, a return
on capital is possible.
■;{• if it
A man just in from the oil wells at Robe
and Kingston (S.A.) : —•
There are two drills, and both are working
steadily down about the same level, 1500 ft. The
Robe bore has had as much trouble with sands as
the Kingston bore has had with water, but they are
nearing- the end of their troubles of that sort.
The indications in each bore are nearly identical,
and it looks like a race to strike oil first. It is
not possible yet to tell how long it will take, for
the log of the drilling varies from day to day.
The Robe pump is continually bringing up wax and
oily slime, with frequent bursts of gas. The rocks
have been correct for petroleum since drilling
started, and both the superintendents speak confi-
dently of their chances of striking oil, though neither
can tell how soon or how much.
» •X* -:>• *
If Mount Lyoll decides to take over the
Rosebery-Hercules group of mines and
wants a smelter, it will be able to get one
cheap at Zeelnin. Some time since the
State Government foreclosed on the Zeehau
smelters —into which it had put £20,000-odd
to keep the concern going. Since then tlie
Department has been wondering what on
earth it is going to do with the thing, any-
way, and Mines Minister Ogden observed
the other day that if the Mount Lyell people
wanted to use the plant the Government’s
terms would be “most reasonable.”
A lot is expected from the trip of A. F.
Showers to his and John MeWhae’s Philip-
pine Island dredging show at Paracale. llis
first bulletin is a lift in the yield, which shot
up to 15770 z., a gain of 5670 z. on the Sep-
tember return. The clean-up, too, is the
best since that of ISOSoz. in April, and aver-
ages about lOOoz. per dredge. This means
a good margin of profit. Showers will try
for a settlement over the legal troubles that
have blocked the company getting plant on to
the best ground. He has J. G. Aikman with
him.
* * * *
Mammoth Copper (N.Q.) has closed down
its smelter, mainly because of high transport
costs on converter matte (about 33 p.c. cop-
per). The co., partly Scotch ' and partly
Australian, has no reason to he ashamed of
its half-yearly retuln of 591 tons copper.
29,1790 z. silver, and 7700 z. gold from 8025
tons of ore. The trouble was that 1765 tons of
matte containing these metals had to be
carted, railed and shipped so far that the
freight was crushing. The Mammoth will
go on with development, and possibly build
its own converter plant if no suitable
arrangement can be made with Chillagoe.
* -X- * -x-
At Charters Towers Papuan Brilliant and
Victoria comes along with a third dividend,
the sixth in 10 months. Eighteenpence on
shares seldom quoted at more than 3s. indi-
cates that in the opinion of the Towers
Papuans have been a gamble; and they are
no better now. The Papuan’s last crushing
was 360 tons, averaging £7 7s. 4d. per ton.
Clarks, the Victory and the East Mexican
have also crushed well. The last-named
hands out 3d. all round, and stopes over the
boundary level carry fair stone.
* * * . *
Last month GympLe crushed 10,102 tons
for 42390 z., worth £15,476. With cyanide
bullion and alluvial gold the return was
£16,124. The Scottish Gympie is now the
only big mine on the field, but its last return,
8000 tons for 20540 z., is only a shade over
Sdwt. per ton. The most profitable crushing
was 34S tons for 7670 z. from No. 3 N.
Columbia. No. 4 North Phcenix crushed 86
tons for 4520 z.: S. Glanmire and Monkinnrl,
93 tons for lOToz.; No. 1 N. Columbia
Smithfield, 352 tons for 115 oz.; No. 2 S. Gt.
Eastern, 716 tons for 109 oz. Obviously the
tail end of the list is at poverty point. In
fact, No. 2 S. Gt. Eastern candidly admits
that its reef at 2000 ft. vertical is mullocky.
No. 3 N. Columbia, at 1600 ft., lias solid
black country on the eastern side of its
drive and pebbly conglomerate on the west-
ern side. The stopes carry from 6in. to 12in.
of good stone. An old favorite with Sydney
speculators, the S. Glanmire and Monkland,
continues to chase leaders. It has paid its
way recently.
* * # *
Westralia is being visited by R. K. Donald,
the man with the Cradle crusher, and the
patentee hopes to get a trial. Ten to one he
will, too. They are not conservative in the
West, and try anything. If good, it is
adopted ; if useless it is thrown on the scrap-
heap, and the cost debited to Experience.
That is how the West is the most up-to-date
field in the world in respect to mining and
treatment processes. This Cradle crusher
was originally brought from Glasgow by old
Tom Mills, of Charters Towers, who consid-
ered there was a great idea in it; but it
proved funereally slow, and Mills abandoned
it, while still claiming that it Avas a valuable
invention if taken hold of and improved by
an engineer. Then R. K. Donald, an engi-
neer of Scotch extraction, took it in hand, and
has been improving it and arguing about it
ever since. lie now claims that it is about
as near perfection as possible, and will crush
gold against anything, while using very little
power. In one respect it is certainly
superior to most mills that have tried
to oust the battery. Tt is not a mass of
springs and cams and working parts, which
Avear out in a fortnight. It has a most per-
sistent and enthusiastic battler in Donald,
Avho is never so happy as when demolishing
the arguments of some misguided battery
advocate. But if it Avere a machine for
slaughtering men. Avhat a much better chance
it Avould have nowadays!
Tho Rand has giants among its gold pro-
ducers. To the end of 1914 the Crown is
credited with £35,827,406; East Rand with
£28,597,379, and Randfontein Central with
£21,735,074. Then follow Ferreira Deep
and Robinson, 20 millions each ; Geldcnhuis
Deep, £18,552,024; Simmer and Jack.
£14,853,150; Village Main Reef, £12,779,801 :
Langlaagte Estate, £12,523,304 ; Rose Deep.
£12,471,609; Nourse Mines, £11,208,293; and
Robinson Deep, £10,993,453. A further 11
cos. have won over five millions each, and of
these one lias a total of nearly nine millions,
five betwen seven and eight) millions, and
three betwen six and six and a half millions.
Among the newer mines Brakpan three mil-
lions, Modder B. two and a half millions and
Van liyn Deep over a million stand out prom-
inently. Dividends are also colossal. The
total amount distributed, viz., £104,438,124,
is exactly one-quarter of the production of the
field.


IS I
Ctltfclfl’CteuHtftk
HEERINGt
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELL9SSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
Good for CATARRH, Asthmatical.
:: Bronchial, and other Coughs ::
HEAN’S ESSENCE
The Great Money-Saving Remedy
Costs 2/ Makes I pint Saves 10/-
26- b
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN' S
LETTER
Sydney, November 15, 1915.
My Dear Abini,—
A number of our best patriotic dames fell
in uproariously during the week. They were
busy making sandbags or knitting periscopes
or something in the Town Hall when a
sound of cheering rolled in from the street.
“The Gilgandra Coo-ees!” squeaked one of
the circle, and led the fluttering stampede
to the balcony to see the bronzed Empire-
savers who had marched 500 miles to Syd-
ney. The street below was full of wildly-
excited men. all yelling and waving their
hats. The balcony of dames shrilly echoed
the rejoicings and waved hankies; and the
final touch was supplied by an energetic
woman who procured a Union Jack on a
pole, and. forcing a way to the front, waved
the splendid emblem till her plump arms
were tired. The men below acknowledged
the reception with counter-cheers, catcalls
and gay hand-waves. And when the river
of excitement had passed and every woman
was experiencing the gratifying feeling
that her duty had been done, someone,
arrived with the miserable, intelligence that
the supposed heroes were the dreadful beer-
trade strikers on their way to hold a mass
meeting !
A woman stepped on to a recruiting plat-
form in Sydney last week and electrified
proceedings by assuring married men that
it was no use hiding behind their wives’
skirts; the women would mostly think bet-
ter of them if they went. The speaker was
a Mrs. Dillon, a Political Labor Leaguer,
who has done some active campaigning for
Labor, and is proud of having sent her hus-
band to the Front. The meeting was
described in the newspapers as “most suc-
cessful” ; yet only 14 men handed in their
names. Somehow all these “most success-
ful” meetings end that way. At a “most
enthusiastic” meeting reported from the
country one recruit was obtained.
Women of course can't manage things
like men ; but I know what they would be
told if they were so stupid as to use a broom
which picked up one grain of dust and left
20 behind’. They would be told to try another
kind.
On its last homeward trip from Welling-
ton (M.L.) the ’Frisco steamer Moana car-
ried so many unusually youthful and hefty
passengers that the water-front x-olled up to
make a few impolite remarks before the
vessel’s moorings were cast clear. The list
included some 50 males between the ages of
17 and 35. and the water-front implored them
to come down and warm their feet. Prime
Minister Massey has threatened to “consider
what steps he can take” to stop any similar
exodus in the future. A mere woman would
suggest that he might either (1) make
Uncle Sam a present of the jellyfish, or
(2) pass a Compulsory Military Service Act
without any more fuss.
Three things took the roving eye at Satur-
day night’s tattoo on the Cricket Ground
—the Coo-ees. the frantically-fanning crowd
and the lamps that supplied the much-adver-
tised moonlight—until the southerly buster
came and greyed all things. The nicest
thing to look on was a quaint Russian
ballet in which the eagle-eyed Lauschmann
capered amongst his heavy-hoofed harem.
It must be hard to get grace into gum-boots
on grass, but somehow Lauschmann and his
company did it in their gay-colored peasant
lcirtles.
Several anxious-eyed Queen-candidates
were present. The final winner of the
crown, Mrs. George Black, was in her
name color, with one effective crimson rose.
She talked with the runner-up, Mrs, Joyn-
ton Smith, looking fresh in cutely cut wliite
cloth even after the parade in illuminated
tramears. Dorothy Gumming, the Mosman
girl who “ran” well up, wasn’t on view
owing to her mother’s sudden illness.
Maggie Moore’s admiring musicians made
moan that the leading candidates had
heavier cheque-books if not more weight in
other ways. It doesn’t much matter to the
Allies who pays the piper, though.
The prize for the “three most beautiful”
was seized by a handsome Rajah with a
quite adorable nose and a brace of gazelle-
eyed shes. The fairy group, led by a tiny
gold-tissued mite, ought to have got all the
beauty prizes if looks and limbs really
counted.
Miss Louise Mack is back in Sydney after
telling the swans and cygnets of W.A what
she saw of the war. What she saw of W.A.
would, as she tells it, be good material for
the Tourist Bureau. The wild flowers!
League upon league of everlasting daisies,
fuchsias, camellias, boronias, poppies outside
Kalgoorlie! She slept upon a bed three feet
high of boronia and daisies. She felt like
au eagle during the trip. Crowds of delight-
ful people would trail to railway stations
with her or keep her company all night when
she had to catch a train at some dawnliglit
hour. Plainly, if Louisa has taken W.A.’s
cash, it has kept her heart.
(N.B. —A little widow is a dangerous
thing.)
Miss Mack met the late Nurse Cavell in
Brussels just after the city was occupied
by the enemy. The matron and her fellow-
nurses then had their hospital in the Fire
Brigade Station. "And strangely enough,”
adds Miss Mack, “Nurse Cavell told me she
did not believe in the reported German atroci-
ties. She and other nurses spoke handsomely
of the German wounded under their care.”
Later, all these wounded were removed by the
invaders to Cologne. Miss Cavell was a tail,
slender, blue-eyed woman with grey hair and
classically regular features.
Mrs. Norman Shelley’s scheme of a South-
ern Cross Convalescent Home for soldiers
at Malta is one at which Defence Minister
Pearce and others will most likely bite freely.
The uncommonly clever and pretty widow
proposes to devote her whole time and energy
to the management and personal supervision
of the Home for at least two years if neces-
sary, and from her own income to supple-
ment, up to the sum of £l2OO per annum,
any subscriptions she receives. Mrs. Shel-
ley’s intention is to take over from the hos-
pitals any cases which, after operations, etc.,
require merely skilled nursing and attention
and careful feeding; also to accept the
charge of hopeless cases and render the
patients’ last moments as easy and happy
;ts care and sympathy may make possible.
In this way the military hospitals will be
relieved, and room made for the inrush of
fresh cases from the Front.
Mrs. Shelley was a Miss Pell, of this
city. She has been living with her two
children, a son and daughter, in English and
foreign parts until lately, when the said
children got happily married and the enemy
disturbed or destroyed the peace and beauty
of England and Allied stamping grounds.
"Euderby,” one of Mrs. Shelley’s novels, has
had quite a good innings in a literary sense.
Mrs. David talked to the Sydney High
School girls the other day on the need for
economy in war time, and pleaded for the
simple life. Now, headmistress Garvin, who
listened, is a stickler for gloves ; and there
was almost spontaneous combustion when
the Professor’s lady advised girls to dis-
card gloves, as one way of helping the
nation. But Mrs. Garvin’s deepest gasp
occurred when her friend held up her hands
to show that her economy was personal.
Backing a double in a classic race is not
the only big event Dr. Stewart McKay has
pulled off. He has translated Dante. You
prove your Italian scholarship by translating
Dante just as the Latinists prove themselves
by translating Ilomer.
Heredity counts. The Mosman girl who
took the prize for an ideal bungalow home is
giand-daughter of one artist and daughter
of another. Grandpa Allen, who was
Something Very High in the M.L.
Government service, painted pictures when
time and earthquakes permitted. Her father,
Stuart Allen, born a Maorilander, is one of
the brush brotherhood of Sydney.
On a visit to Australia, Reginald G. Rus-
son, who left Sydney as a youth to try his
art on Uncle Sam. As a boy lie studied
under Julian Ashton, and at 17 a pencil
sketch of his was bought by the trustees
and hung in the National Gallery. Two
years later he was in San Francisco, and a
series of drawings for Life made them think
about him. Five years later, with an assured
reputation, he settled in New York, where
he draws for most of the leading mags. 11 is
mother is still in these parts, and his heart
isn’t far away.
Ada Reeve has turned her English seaside
house into a convalescent home for wounded
Australians. The place is at Yarmouth, and
has a dairy and a chicken run attached.
Still another Sydney youngster is sprout-
ing wings in England. Norman, a son of
manufacturing-chemist Woods, after putting-
in 12 months with the Engineers, is now
qualifying for a commission in the 'navy’s
flight of birds. A brother, W.G, a King’s
School boy, is with the Artillery.
Mrs. Effie Hawley, who died lately in Eng-
land. belonged to the well-known Yivers
family, of King’s Plains, Glen Innes. A
brother, Dr. George, married beautiful Irene
Marks. Mrs. Hawley, who was known as
a rather clever artist in Sydney, went to
Paris to further her studies, and eventually
had a picture hung on the line of the Royal
Academy.
Dr. Leila Browne, only daughter of Major
and Mrs. Hamilton Browne, lias returned
from Rockhampton, where she has been
assisting one of the local medieoes for the past
year or two. She hopes soon to leave for
the big trouble. Her father. Major Hamilton
Browne, was permanently injured in the Boer
misunderstanding.
The executive of the Red Gross presented
Mrs. Gordon Wesche with a tourmaline and
diamond brooch last week, in recognition of
her uncommonly strenuous work on the War
Job. The distaff side of it.
The Liberal Ass. has lately landed Mrs.
Jim MacArthur Onslow as chairwoman. In
a little while there will be a talkative meal
in the Lib. Club to praise the president and
her views.
Melba, according to Canadians, is the
Empress of Pickpockets, She is. touring
Canada in the interests of the Red Cross
Society—which explains the new title.
Carrie Mayo Weston, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Arthur Weston, of Burwood, was
the other day married regardless of expeuse
to Harold W. Moore, of Bondi. The Mayo
in the bride's name is explained by the fact
that a lord with that title inhabits the family
tree. Thirty choristers who sang like angels
had the help of a couple of blackcoats dur-
ing the ceremony. The bride’s dress of
white duchesse satin, trimmed with rare lace,
had a train four and a half yards in length,
adorned with ostrich feathers, orange blos-
som, seed pearls and ninon roses, and was
lined with blush-pink ninon. Her veil had
done duty for her mother on a similar occa-
sion.
A fashion note from a Brute: —
The prevailing Australian skirt is wide and
short. According lo art experts this should not be
permitted, since a truly artistic skirt must be either
neat over the ankles or right up to the knees (three
cheers). “Half-mast” skirts can't in the nature of
things be artistic or graceful, no matter how satis-
factory the contours lialf-revealed. Yet, in the
nature of things, at least 60 per cent, of right-up-to-
the-knee skirts can't be artistic either, because of
what is then visible below the knee. In short, though
it has been alleged that the purest art conceals art,
there are times when it is more truly artistic to
conceal Nature. And from what I can see, the right
times arc most times.
Violet Paget Buckler got a great load of
greenstuff's and good fellowship at the Cri-
terion on Friday night when she came on
and said she was sorry to go, but was glad
to get to her husband at Malta. There Hugh
is beginning to sit up and think how much
he’d prefer a grilled chop to fluid sago.
The Rose Bay Golf Links, where tea and
tennis are much in demand, still attract
the golden-edged in between their war-work
shifts. The large president, Professor Has-
well’s wife, is less on the golfing horizon
nowadays and more at the Town Hall sew-
ing shirts for soldiers. Mrs. Haswell has
crowds of M.L. people at the Front. The
Rimutaka recently carried her niece, Miss
Nail Rich, who is off to Malta, where her
brother, Lieut. Geoff, is wounded.
When Mr. Verbrugglien heard that a
ladies’ orchestra was permanently installed
on Mcllwraith and McEacharn’s fine boat,
the Katoomba, the idea appealed to him so
strongly that he expressed a wish to hear it.
Accordingly the manager, Mr. Kelso, invited
him to lunch on the boat on Saturday, and
in the party were Mrs. Kelso, Miss Ver-
brtigghen (cousin of the guest o.f honor),
Captain E. Moodie-lleddle and Mrs. Moodie-
Heddle. _ The strains from the piano
(Miss Lilian Cassidy) and first and second
violins (Misses K. and P. Long) evidently
met with Yerbrugghen’s approval, for after
“Chant Sans Paroles” (Tschaikowski) was
played he dropped a stick of asparagus to
applaud vigorously, and the girls of the
orchestra stood quite a foot higher.
Postcards from, respectively. London and
New York say that liosina Btickman is play-
ing the dark and faithful Japanese bride in
“Madame Butterfly” in the first-named city,
and Mignon Scantlebury has the leading part
in “The Whip.”
Miss Edith Hill, who ran that beautiful
bazaar in St. James’s Hall about 10 days
ago in aid of Something Concerning Soldiers,
will take a window in Pitt-street in order to
display for sale a lot of goods left over after
the event. She had some really good and
valuable stuff, and ought to increase the
£4OO already made at the bazaar.
Ex-Gov. Jersey left nearly a million, most
of it made out of Child’s Bank. To his wife,
who loves to be regarded as “literary,” he
left £l3OO a year, and her marriage settle-
ment brings it up to £BBO0 —so the milkman
needn’t worry if he doesn’t find the coppers
in the can every morning. She is daughter
of Henry Parkes’s friend of later years,
Lord Leigh of Warwick, and took no pains
to hide her poor opinion of the “aristocracy”
of these benighted parts.
The death notices mention Ernest War-
wick Evans, manager of the Parramatta
branch of the Bank of N. S. Wales, after a
second operation for appendicitis. Ilis grand-
father, G. W. Evans, was the explorer who
discovered the Macquarie and Lachlan
rivers, having been sent by Governor Mac-
quarie to follow up and extend the tracks of
Blaxland, Lawson and Wentworth, and sur-
vey the road.
Mrs. Priscilla Hack Russell, who died in
Melbourne a few days ago, was the widow of
an old manager of the Bank of N. 8. Wales.
Her father was Ambrose Foss, a chemist,
who bought the business of John Tawell.
the historical Quaker of Sydney’s early days
-—the gentleman •who later had a little love
affair over which he had the bad luck to be
hanged.
Maudant Richard Lowe, of Mudgee,
a representative of one of Australia’s
pioneer pastoral families, had a funeral the
other day. The first of the Lowes came in
1812 with a letter to Macquarie begging
tire usual grant. He got it, near Camden —-
1000 acres, which he called Billing, and
another 500 acres adjoining were afterwards
given. When the road to Bathurst was
opened the Lowes went out looking for new
country, and took up Wilbertree station, on
the Cudgegong River, close to Mudgee. and
ever since some of the family have been
there. Maudant was married to a daughter
of George Henry Cox. a former M.L.C.
News comes from Egypt of the drowning
of Nurse Laura Rattray, who belonged to a
well-known Dunedin family. Her sister mar-
ried Dr. Russell Ritchie, of the Scotch city,
and his brother, Willie Ritchie, annexed the
affections of a daughter of T. A. Dibbs, of
Sydney.
Another case of man's duplicity. Influ-
enced by the anxious tone of certain letters
received, artist Ted Colies sent, or caused to
he sent, to his trusting spouse in Australia
the following cable: “Still picnicking in
Egypt.” Then followed weekly postcards,
crammed with circumstantial chat about
Heliopolis mostly. Who was his artist
accomplice in Egypt I don’t know. But all
this time he was dodging about Gallipoli
learning not to duck his head when a bullet
whisked his ear. To what an extent does
woman’s pleasure and content of mind rest
on the (I was almost saying indispensable)
basis of the mate's ability to hand out “popu-
lar fiction,” so to speak 1
Are flounces going to wilt away after all
the fanfare of fashion trumpets? Anyhow,
they are not the craze one expected them to
be. The wider skirts billow round the
summer girl, but they don’t flap many
flounces on the short woman, who isn’t tak-
ing any risks of looking like a clothes-horse
on drying day.
In a dull week the gauzy butterfly brim
of the summer hat catches the passing
fancy. It floats about in a stiff nor’-easter
like a big moth’s wing. But it's a pretty
halo on golden curls. Not that curls art
much in evidence just now. The smart
damsel is smacking her ringlets so close to
her head that her hair is like an outer skin.
There is no room for a pretty tale about
sickness and distress being relieved by the
first prize in this year’s Sydney Eight Hours'
Art Union. The widow of a dealer who died
some months ago, leaving a big fortune, was
the winner of the £BOO.
This old world is rushing along. Seven
years ago a very top-rung engineer assured
me that we shoudn’t see practicable flying
machines in our day. And last week some-
body advertised in a Sydney morning paper
that if the person who left an aeroplane
on his premises didn’t remove it the vehicle
would be sold to defray expenses—just as if
it was an old wheelbarrow.
The son went to the war and was away
many moons, and mamma let his pay run on
so that there might be a nice, heavy parcel
for him on his Teturn. When he came
back he brought not merely honor and
glory, but a new wife as well. She had
been the nurse who had recovered him.
Then he applied for the cash, and found
that -t he last wife, now divorced, had
annexed the amount! I suppose we'd
think practically the same as he did!
Romantic Lewis Waller, now dead, and his
wife, Florence West, made their first stage
appearances in the same theatre in the same
piece and on the same date : Toole’s Theatre :
"Uncle Dick’s Darling” ; March 2(5, 18S8.
I would not like to swear to it, but
I am almost certain that on Saturday I saw
a curate having a night out. It was in a
big Sydney tea-room, and the hour 9 p.m.—
half-way between the end of the tea rush
and the beginning of the supper scurry.
The curate was a little fair fellow, and the
perfectly flat hat that distinguishes his tribe
was clutched in one hand while he leant on
the cash-register and made eyes outrageously
at the laughing cash-maiden. It was plain
that he had taken at least three cups too
many, and the one eye I could see had a
vicious and depraved look. I twice heard
him offer to buy “cakes for the crowd,” ami
as I went out he was blinking rapidly at the
girl and urging her to let him take her to a
bazaar. I often wondered what a curate
did when he got that reckless feeling that
moves a man to put his hat slightly over one
eye and gaze wickedly into a girl’s orbs
across a sixpenny bar.
Drop your knitting, sisters, and start mak-
ing bandages, for there is a decided shortage
in Egypt. The Arts and Crafts in Mel-
bourne have compact little wooden bandage-
winders that are just as easy to carry as a
knitting bag or bundle of library books.
Yesterday I ate an ice-cream while a
young Australian Chinese, with gold in
his - teeth and a loud suit sagging round
him, talked about white “blokes” and
“tarts” of his acquaintance. These
lemon-colored youngsters probably have
elderly joss-stick relatives trotting about
vegetable gardens and dark banana ware-
houses, and the chances are that their fathers
fled before showers of blue metal the wicked
“Rocks” threw at them. But I can’t
imagine any 1915 boy heaving good paving
material at the 1915 Chinaman and dinting
his loud costume. Are we swallowing the
Yellow Peril, or is the Yellow Peril swallow-
ing us? Somebody tried to explain the phe-
nomenon, I remember, a while ago. We
don’t, he said, mind swallowing the Peril now,
because we feel that he is no longer danger-
ous. But in his new clothes, and with his
new habits of speech, I don’t think he is any
more pleasant.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
.Besides its three Y.C.’s, Maoriland owns
two Crosses of the Legion of Honor. The
last was won by a youngster, 20 years of
age, Lieut. Lloyd Findlay, in Flanders. He
is a son of Dr. Findlay, K.C., of Welling-
ton, formerly a member of the Ward Min-
istry.


gh
Country Roads
arc Very Long.
B.&B. CYCLES
Make Them Short & Sweet.
Just think of the miles you would shorten, the time you would
save, and the pleasure you would enjoy, if you rode a good
cycle, instead of tramping.
A B. & B. Cycle is an absolutely reliable machine, easy to push,
and carries a 12 months guarantee.
No trouble to look after; requiring very little running expendi-
ture, the upkeep of aB. B. Cycle is practically nil; they are
the best cycle-value that money can buy.
For your Christmas holidays one of these cycles would be just
the thing, and there’s nothing to better them for business or
pleasure at any time.
Order One Now, and have it for Christmas
B. & B. EXPRESS CYCLE
B. &B. MODEL 3 CYCLE
B. &B. MODEL 2 CYCLE .
B. &B. MODEL A CYCLE . .
B. & B. ROAD RACER CYCLE
CHILDREN’S CYCLES, £6/1 07-
Cash. Terms.
... £7 10 0 £8 10 0
9 10 0 11 0 0
.. . 13 10 0 15 0 0
.. . 12 10 0 14 0 0
15 0 0 16 10 0
to £7/10/-
L A DIES’, £B/10/- to £l6.
All guaranteed 12 months—old cycle taken as part payment.
Send to-day for our free illustrated catalog C 55, which will
give you full specifications and particulars.
BENNETT U BARKELL Ltd.
“THE HOUSE FOR BRITISH GOODS,”
Agents for Rudge=Whitworth, New Hudson, Triumph and Bat Motor Cycles,
J. A.P. Engines ; and Manufacturers of B. & B. Cycles & Motor Cycles,
124-132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
DRESSING-CASES for WEDDING PRESENTS
WITH SOLID SILVER. TORTOISESHELL OR IVORY FITTINGS.
Compact in character and
appearance, the Case illus-
trated is made in Solid
English Leather, being 2a
inches long, lined with
Watered Silk throughout,
and fitted with Solid Silver
Requisites.
£l9 complete.
A COPY OF
00R N E V
ILLUSTRATE 1*
C A TALOGUi:
•lUST ISSUKO.
SE X T POST
FREE ON AP-
PLICATION.
g,
HARDY BROS- LTD. UNDERTAKE ALL ARRANGE-
MENTS FOR DISPLAYING WEDDING PRESENTS AT
RECEPTIONS, ALSO PACKING, STORING AND INSUR-
ANCE IF DESIRED.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
LONDON AGENCY: 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET W.
I
i
-<r
i rn'mmamm»i.
w
Warner’s Corsets Give the
Figure a Perfect Silhouette!
Warner's keep the
figure lines svelte and
supple* Freedom of
movement and ease in
any position are the
result of Warner
Corseting*
Every Pair Guar-
anteed not to rust,
break or tear.
jhgh
h
Wearing qualities of
special merit make
Warner's Corsets
the chosen wear of
women who demand
the best in every
detail*
Any not up to
standard will be
at once replaced.
ffianierj (onsets
1
EKCICH
s/yy
This British-made
CAMERA
stands out
as the Best Value
ever offered in
Folding Roll=Film
Cameras.
FOLDING ENSIGNS
Folding Ensigns embody all the attractive Features
of the more expensive Roll-Film Cameras and sell
at half the price.
Tile “Folding Ensign” Daylight Loading Roll Film
Cameras are made on very neat lines, with just the essential move-
ments.
The Cameras are very light and compact. In finish and
appearance they are excellent. British Made.
Loading and unloading is particularly simple, and ran be done
very quickly.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
Seasoned Wood Body, Ebonised Baseboard,
Morocco Leatherette Covering, Leather
Bellows, Reversible View Finder, Focussing
Scale, Infinity Catch.
"2 MB Folding Ensign,” with Achromatic
Meniscus Lens and Ensign-Junior Shutter for Roll
Films, 2jin. x 3 jin
“3J4 Folding Ensign,” with Achromatic Menis-
cus Lens, for Roll Films, 3-jin. x 4jin
M A Folding Ensign,” with Achromatic
Meniscus Lens, for Roll Films, 3jin. x 5-1-in. (P.C.) r-j- --
All the above Cameras are obtainable fitted with Rapid Rectilinear
Lenses, at slightly higher prices.
£1 2
£1 17
£2 2
gjh
lIP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland & Wellington.
(Send for a Copy of our New Camera Price List-Latest Models. I
Latest Prices. ALL BRITISH MADE.


jhĥĵh
IJR4J
Farmer’s Footwear
Places You on a Splendid Footing.
Let tlie Suit be the last thought of Fashion —let
the Hat be the smartest made, the whole ensemble
breaks down if the Footwear be not in keeping.
And in Farmer’s Men’s Footwear, snap and indi-
viduality are pleasantly allied with perfect fit,
complete comfort and always keen value;
We illustrate a dressy Patent Leather Model. Made
off straight English last, has dull Ivid tops and light,
flexible welted soles. Also obtainable with Glace Kid
logs and Leather Linings.
PRICE 32/6.
PRICE
Carriage Free,
52/6
FARMER’S, Sydney.
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
PAULINE et CIE
ANNOUNCE
SPECIAL REDUCTIONS In ENGLISH
and FRENCH MODEL MILLINERY.
All remaining “PAULINE” Models also
reduced from Thursday, Nov. 18.
3rd Floor, Denison House, George St.
(opp. David Jones*), SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, November 15, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Hennessy dame entertained a clutch
of women on the evening of the Gaud
Mayoral dinner, which was for men only.
Guests were invited for a quarter to eight to
hear the dinner speeches from the balcony,
•'lust of the guests, fearing that the invita-
tion did not include a meal, took no chances,
but stoked up bravely as usual at home
before setting out. The hostess received in
the special blue-and-gold boudoir at the
Town Hall. She was clad in a glory of
silver lace, ivory and amber. Mrs. Alfred
Deakin, stately and tall in all black, was an
excellent foil. Alec Peacock’s wife’s clothes
were glistening black, and Mrs. Arthur Rob-
inson's were blue. Mrs. Byron Moore,
draped about with some exquisite lace, which
was ivory with age, sat next to a kittenish
young matron in a Juliet cap and a severe
black dress. Mrs. Davey, with her golden
hair heaped upon her head, inhabited suit-
able clothes. Mrs. Godfrey had purple some-
where about her black dress, and there was
a plump daughter who.was head and shoul-
ders above her rose-pink gown. Councillor
Jeffries’ pretty girls were all dear chickens
in fluffy clothes and kiss curls. Mrs. Henry
Stead wore Titian hair and black velvet.
But why go on with the catalogue! Every
woman had on her loveliest rags and all her
jewels and every hair she had saved.
Presently the rustling assembly found itself
on the move, and guessed it was being driven
towards the balcony overlooking the place
where the evening-dress magpies were feeding.
But a fearful surprise was in store —it sud-
denly fetched up in the council room before
heaps of beautiful light nourishment dis-
played on elaborate tables! But the hour
was 8 o’clock, and the Best Fed (Heaven
help them!) had dined at home. What could
they do with it? They sat speechless before
tables groaning with decorations and silently
asked the Creator to put back the Universe
and give them the hour before dinner. But
it was no good. Some of the more heroic
feeders managed to peek a little; but mostly
the waiters and solemn Town Hall officials
dodged round with gold-topped bottles and
urged the pretty creatures to drink. It was
all they could do.
There’s a society for looking after the
welfare of babies born in Paris and of the
mothers incidental thereto (as a lawyer
would say) during the war. Madame Michel,
wife of tiie president of the War Fund, is
running this most womanly of charities : and
Madame (Michel has written to Mrs. Crivelli,
wife of the doctor, - appealing for subscrip-
tions. Arron, Albert Park, is her address,
and “anything, however small,” will be
gratefully received and duly forwarded to
Paris. The little society distributes 3300
gallons of milk a day, and out of 37,085
babies born in Paris during the first year of
the war 34,000 passed through its busy
hands; so no wonder it is terribly liard-up.
Your Johanna has particular pleasure in
barracking for this fund because one of the
Crivelli boys at the Front—Sergeant Georges
of _the aerostation branch —-has been telling
a story in print of how lie was up on a cap-
tive balloon eating a hard-boiled egg and
leading The Bulletin, when a German
aviator nearly pipped him. Once young
Crivelli’s literature was merely the bush-
man’s bible. Now, you see, it is the skyman’s
charm as well.
Following a recent gathering at the Austral
Salon, at which the matter of an Edith Cavell
memorial was discussed, a women’s meeting
was held on Wednesday of last week at the
Melbourne Town Hall. The suggestions
there made were for a statue, a permanent
rest home for incapacitated nurses, a fresh-
air fund, a contribution to the funds of the
Melbourne Hospital—proposed by John
Madden’s tvife —a drinking-fountain and a
fund from which grants might be made to
nurses. After some 1G varieties of speech,
speechlet and few-remarks had been. made. '
the meeting decided to put a bob in and
start a sensible fund for grants-to-nurses.
The Stanleys intend to call their new baby
boy after his native State. Victoria won’t
exactly be the name; but the family means
to summon its friends to consultation and
discover some derivative which will serve.
Victoriarchus might have its attractions to
a really flamboyant Governor, though hardly
lo the boyish Stanley. Florian is a man’s
name, so why not Victorian? .Marius no
doubt was a good pal to Maria in the days
of ancient Rome, so it may possibly be
Victorius. But —oh, well, it’ll be Victor, of
course.
Governor Galway, the curly-haired Ex. of
South Aus., arrived to fill the role of star-
boarder at tlie Stanleys’ in the flat days
that followed the Flemington races. Gov-
ernor Stanley held liis vice-regal head in
both hands and thought furiously. At Inst
he had an idea and proceeded to act upon
it. He took Galway and Genthelp Leigh
Winser to look over Dookie Agricultural
College. The trip was a great success ; you
can’t back a wrong horse at Dookie.
Despite the fact that there is no room for
him in the home of his predecessors in
Sydney, Melbourne feels inclined to take a
firm hold of the coat-tails of the G.-G. He
has declared, forcibly and often, that he is
fascinated by Sydney. (Groans.) Now
that naval affairs are keeping the Admiral
away from home, the poor, homeless G.-G.
has the offer of Admiralty House any time
lie cares to run over. And he wants to run !
Oh, how he wants to run!
Amy Castles drew the music-drinkers to the
Auditorium on Saturday night, and gave
them good song-value for their cash. Amy’s
top-notes soared like rockets; but the singer
herself looked more like a Catherine wheel
in skirts that stood out stiffly, crinoline
fashion, with heavy silver-lace wired on to
ivory net. A sapphire-blue velvet sash (the
last firework touch) travelled up her plump
back in wings to the shoulders. Her hair
was snooded down with dark bands, and she
had a pink rose tucked in her belt. Oh, I
tell you she was a winsome, plump vision,
and the big buff curtains had to be parted
widely in order to let her through. Flau-
tist Amadio tootled with irrepressible gaiety,
and Harold Whittle tickled out the accom-
paniments. A yearnsome ’celloist, Glad-
stone Bell, sawed off sobs and siglis and
kisses and dreams —in fact, anything you
wanted. Brother George Castles “sup-
ported” bravely. George began his musical
life as a tenor, but grew into a baritone —
a very plump, bald and dimpled one. A
batch of soulful young damsels were dis-
covered in the lounge during the interval
worshipping before a Default portrait.
“George may be able to sing,” they mur-
mured. “but he’ll never he able to look like
Paul !” But Lord help Paul if lie loses his
grey hair!
In the intervals of sending off its first-
born to take an expensive course in aviation,
or providing a fleet of motor-ambulances for
the. Front, the Western District is always
doing something in the way of war-work.
One of its most successful minor efforts is a
Red Cross shop at Terang, which has been
taking money for contributed goods during
the past three months. The management
handles anything that comes its way, from
a cold roast uuckling or a drink of milk to
a gold mine or a furlong of old lace. The
profits have averaged about half a crown
an hour ever since the shop was established
—not much by the hour, but quite a lot in
three months.
Mothers of typical “young limbs” can find
comfort in the ease of Capt. Frank Kerr, who
has won the D.S.O. for “conspicuous gal-
lantly and devotion to duty” in Northern
France. In his knickerbocker days, at
Auburn, he was what is known as “an imp.”
Then; he took to winning scholarships, and at
last captured the Rhodes Scholarship (for
1913) and went to Oxford. It was from
Oxford, as a member of the R.A.M.C., that
lie went to win his D.S.O. And all because
he had it in him to be a regular young devil
in his early youth.
James Minifie, younger son of flour-miller
Minifie, of Brighton, lias won a mount in a
British aeroplane. In less than three
months’ trial in England the youth earned
his pilot’s certificate, and previously so im-
pressed the aviation instructors that lie was
commissioned as a flight sub-lieutenant on
probation ;12 days after his arrival in Lon-
don. This is pretty good, considering that
in Melbourne Minifie had had no experience
in aviation, blit was merely a capable young-
ster with a feeling that way.
Rene Crivelli, an Australian son of Dr.
Marcel Crivelli —the Frenchman who has for
years been occupied with an immense prac-
tice at South Melbourne—is serving with
the British troops in the north of France.
Young Crivelli was working for his B.M.E.
degree at Melbourne University when the
call to arms stirred the “Shop” to its foun-
dations.
Six weeks’ fuss and flurry over the Tas-
manian Queen Carnival netted £9501, about
£2500 ahead of 24 hours’ effort on Australia
Day in Hobart alone. The “Citizens’ Queen,”
a daughter of Henry Jones, whose jam-tins
rattle on a thousand hills, was an easy first.
Her supporters backed her with £2144. A
£2OOO villa, raffled at a shilling a time, made
her the best peach in the barrel’. The fluff
industry was second with £1722.
Mrs. Tom Hogan was one of the racing
enthusiasts who deliberately renounced
Flemington this year. She went penitently
into the quiet of the hills and gave Red
Ci-oss the time and money that would other-
wise have gone into race-time entertaining
and dress. Mrs. Waters, having a colonel
hubby at the war, also ran away. She went
to Sydney and stayed with her mother, Mrs.
Whiting.
J. C. Manifold has patriotically offered
3000 acres of Runnymede station for sub-
division among returned soldiers. The land
is rich, and in the very heart of the country
dedicated to Cow. The Manifold great-
grandfather squatted thereon in the very
early clays when opportunity lingered before
every pioneer.
The Howard Berrys gave a brave fare-
well dinner-party to nephew Erie Lear-
month at the end of Cup week. He is bound
for the same old cannon’s mouth.
Some country folk at Berwick who are
not even on bowing terms with Ah Cabbage
have turned market-gardeners in behalf of
the Red Cross. The boss and his wife pick
the prize artichokes, asparagus and cauli-
flowers from their splendid kitchen garden
and sell them to a continuous bazaar stall.
The vegetables go off like crackers, and
the funds swell visibly.
One of the Godfrey girls is working for
a new rest room for soldiers in a building
near the Athenaeum. The kettle is always
ou the boil, there is a box for contributions,
and everywhere you look there is a nice
girl doing something useful and looking
pleasant all the time.
There is to be another show of antiques
and elderly furniture at Federal Govern-
ment House. This time the exhibits will
be sold for the Red Cross Funds. Lady
Helen has lent a room for the display, and
the Red Crossers are busy preparing for
some date (not yet fixed) in December.
If you’ve got any old sticks you can spare,
Mrs. J. C. Syme, of Rotherfield, St. lvilda,
will be delighted to hear from you.
The self-sacrificing Brighton dames who
renounced the Cup to help at the local drill-
room bazaar, were rewarded by bumper re-
turns. In one triumphant week they raked
together £4OOO.
The Green Ball —the annual display of
youth and grace arranged by Mrs. G. and
daughter Florrie —is to happen as usual on
December 0. The balcony ticket money (3s.
a head) will pour into the Lady Stanley
Fund.
We are experimenting with a new charity
device called the Snowball Auction. The
final bidder gets the goods for the amount .of
his or her “rise” on the second-last bid.
Then all the other bids are collected separ-
ately for the cause (usually the Red Cross),
and no one person is bled white. It is a
more gradual arrangement than the old one
whereby every bidder had to pay up the full
amount of his bid.
The new hospital at Auteuil where Major
Helen Sexton reigns has been organised and
financed by Mrs. Wm. Smith and family, of
Ravenswood, Melbourne, assisted by Mrs. R.
O. Blackwood. It was first intended to keep
the hospital open for a year, but it has done
such good work that this bunch of Australian
women intend prolonging its existence.
Mrs. Cyril Lansell is back from England.
She did not join the Cup revels because she
felt too war-sick after the sights and sounds
she saw abroad. Husband Cyril remained in
England to fly for his country.
There is news of May George, who paints
miniatures. In spite of war depression in
England she is kept busy with portrait
commissions—too busy even to get back to
Australia to hold a show. And there is
another consideration —a soldier fianos, who,
after being wounded, has been returned to
France and duty.
Swedish Consul von Goes., during an after-
dinner speech at a patriotic dinner at the
Savoy, remarked that he was so neutral that
his son was coming to Melbourne to enlist.
Hooray! That’s the sort of neutrality!
Sister Adelaide will now testify
The Government House Fair, which is jointly in
aid of the Belgian Belief and Bed Cross Funds, has
turned the vice-regal grounds into a temporary Eng-
lish village and kept about half the feminine popula-
tion of the State busy for months. The Fair is
genuinely well managed and well run, the stalls are
uncommon and attractive, and would-be purchasers
can get good value for their money anywhere. In
wares there is everything from your Sunday break-
fast, ready cooked, to the latest thing in neckties.
There is a dreadful sameness about these announce-
ments, but you might as well be told. The Wattle
Day League has handed over two more motor-ambu-
lances, making seven in all, to the Defence Depart-
ment. The official presentation occurred ou Monday
at the Government House gates, where the usual
well-deserved compliments were paid.
Artist Bessie Davidson is sfill attached to the
French Red Cross, which she joined about 12 months
ago. She is working on the nursing staff of an
auxiliary military hospital iu Paris.
Major Lorenzo, of this State, has got liis D.S.O.
for doing the right thing at the right time. He is
still young enough to go a long way in his profes-
sion, his appointment to , this world being dated
March 7, 1880.
E. W. van Senden is fluttering a cable to the effect
that his son has secured a commission on the York
and Lancaster Regiment. He is quartered near
Sta fford.
Captain Gartrell, of the 3rd Light Horse, who has
been, granted three months’ leave to convalesce
after being wounded and developing enteric, is due
in Melbourne in a day or so, on his way home from
the Front.
Women police will be prowling in this pious city
from the first day of December. If she does nothing
else, the policewoman will be a godsend to the car-
toonists and literary girls. Then there is the no-
shouting reform. Would you like me to tell you all
about that? You wouldn’t! Very well, I won’t.
The Zoological Society has once more appointed
Mr. Simpson Newland as its president, taking the
opportunity to say a word or two about the work
he has done in providing hot-water bottles for the
lions and things like that.
Harold, third son of the William Bickfords, of
Glenelg, is engaged to Tessie Murphy, who hails
from Melbourne.
Fred Kcrouse and his wife, who was
Essie Perrin, received a warm welcome on
their arrival in London. Their caravan-
serai was Zepped on the first night of their
visit. The women took care to be attrac-
tively garbed, and there was scarcely one
that had not delayed to stick a dainty bou-
doir cap on her thatch. Kcrouse will link up
in some soldier caoacity with his old friend,
the Marquis of Tullibardine, as soon as that
warrior returns from the Dardanelles.
The propputy-owners thereabouts set up a
howl when they heard that the George Chirn-
sides’ mansion in South Yarra had been sold
for a private hospital. The howl was so
loud that the place has been handed on to
the Robert Harpers for a town residence.
There is great virtue in a howl if the howl-
ers are the right sort of dingoes.
The Fritz Hart Conservatorium (why
doesn’t the non-German Hart change his
front name?) is looking forward to two ex-
citements. On December 8 the students
give another concert in the Town Hall, and
in the meantime will come a performance of
Purcell's opera. “Dido and .Eneas.” at Her
Majesty’s. The voices that got some train-
ing from Melba are to sing in the principal
parts, and the chorus will be at least s<i
strung.
Carrie Haase, who tells how the boy stood
ou the burning deck, is back in Melbourne
for a short visit, after eight years spent in
England. For two years she was a member
of Miss Horniman’s Repertory Theatre, and
Hie also declaimed for Granville Barker.
The day before Carrie left London, she
appeared at Harefield Park at one of Car-
lyle Smy tlie’s Wednesday matinees for
wounded Australians. That time she told
about the Man from Snowy River. One
of the listeners afterwards told her “I'm
from Snowy River, and my name’s Clancy.”
But then there are so many Clancies who
claim to be Snowy Riversiders. One of
them burst into Cole’s Book Arcade on<-
day and asked to be presented with a copy
of Banjo’s book on the ground that he was
the Clancy.
The honeymooning Ernest Berkleys (she
was Olive Pittard, of Toorak, before the cere
mony) have departed for Hankow, China.
Mrs. Leigh Falkiner (formerly Miss
Young) hadn’t any time for race frocks this
Cup-time, being fully engaged looking after
the comfort of a newly-arrived daughter.
The Repertory Theatricals are packing
up their grease paint and copies of Shaw in
readiness for the move to a new Repertory
Theatre, to be opened soon on the south
side of Prince’s Bridge.
The Gaud Mayor said he could not bear to
cancel the annual Mayoral dinner at the
Town Ilall, but at least one guest is now
wishing that the gorge had been called off
and the wine sent to the hospitals. At the
special little gathering of ladies (while their
lords were dining elsewhere) a richly-garbed
dame became so festive that she smashed a
table of crystal and crockery before 9 p.m.
The vicar of Malvern East, John Gason.
died last week. During a couple of placid
decades he had conducted the affairs of his
church in a highly-respectable, old-English
manner, and always presented a. plump, pro-
sperous, solid Anglican front, having never
a fault to find with Australia’s kindly treat-
men l: of him. The Gason first-born was duly
brought up iu the fold, and in the fulness of
time chose the late George Oakley Vance.
Dean of Melbourne, as his papa-in-law. Now
lie chases sin at Winehelsea, where such
choice citizens as the Annytages, Brownes
and Calverts keep the soil sacred to sheen-
culture. Six years ago the departed cleric
succeeded to a oanonry at St. Paul’s Cathe-
dral.
Mrs. R. R. Garran scored a success host-
essing her Rep. party. The amusement
scheme and decorations were Italian, and the
guest of honor was Mr. E. Eles. Consul for
Italy, who looks like a romantic hero in a
Milan opera, but is none the worse for it.
Mr. Gunning, whose hair stands up like an
excited football crowd, arranged the musical
programme. Belgian Jacques Bols sang a
length of “Boliemc.” arid Barra chi (our ex-
stargazer) wore his fifty-ini llion-miles-away
expression. Statistician Knibbs was present
with his pockets full of decimals ; and Justice
Higgins was another who saved the show
from being a mere cliook party.
While the patriotic Australian importer
is busy bringing in cheap-labor toys from
Japan, to fill a vacancy caused by the
absence of the long-loved German article,
please remember that our Deaf and Dumb
Institution is still slowly picking its way
among the rocks on the track, with a swag
of wooden “engines” and similar children’s
joy-bringers on its back. I know one of
these “engines” that has been iu constant
use for six months, and it still has four
wheels—which is a better record than most
imported nursery-stuff can show.
The dress-outlook is really very discour-
aging. It has been dinned into our ears of
late that duty bids us wear our old togs
down to the last shred. But shortly after
war broke out the narrow skirt went on a
long journey, the wide one came in. and
with the new skirt a new short-coat has
arrived. As to Ihe coat, according to a
gloomy fashion-expert, "not one woman in
20 looks really smart in it. It requires a
figure which is neither too tall nor too short,
neither too thin nor too plump, and these
excesses and limitations are frequently met
with.” As most of us are either too thin
or too plump, owing to ignorance, bigotry,
improper diet or sheer cussedness, the future
looks depressing.
Christmas is evidently not to be postponed
on account of the war. The last of the
monthly municipal concerts at the Town
Hall happened this week, and Dr. Price’s
organ recitals will soon be off for the holi-
days. It was ever thus. Classical music
flourishes in the winter, and when the birds
have begun to sing at the seaside the Town
Hall organ soon ceases its weekly boom.
Society pays little heed to Dr. Price’s reci-
tals, but they supply improving and economi-
cal entertainment to manv a gentle Gertie
and her “boy”-—if she has one on the string.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
Matron M. E. Cameron, who was in charge
of the Maoriland nurses on the recently-
torpedoed transport Marquette, and who is
now reported seriously ill as the result of
shock (nine of her girls were killed), hails
from Australia, having been trained at the
Ovens Hospital, in Victoria. After that
she was at the Cambridge (M.L.) Con-
sumptive Sanatorium for a couple of years,
and was then given charge of the State
Maternity Hospital at Christchurch.


■ •
■
eH
m
m
y\j
**
' ...
mm
M
m
8
iwt
m
111111
*
■
■
m
:
mJmm
■
mmmm
mm
mm
■
A
M
m m
mask,
* i
m
ml
Si
■
■R
/
I#
■
m
mm
-
m
&
■
IP
m
V
A
- V
HR
m m
I
S&MBaRHBI
■
JH|
1
/
* f, .‘ *■!
1 <9l
»«■
I
M
■■nm
—1
na
J ‘ 1J
" J
■al
a
n
; :■
J
a
B
y->.
■
m
mm
» T ' I
i
i\
H
SB
H
I i
B
1
■1
1
HH
fli
I
■
m
§§
SARTO is made from the best Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root wit in special flavorings, the recipe for
wbich is Held by Schweppes Ltd., exclusively. Sarto is a refreshing beverage, and being' a blood
purifier has most excellent tonic properties. It is greatly improved by a slice of fresh lemon.
Head Office: 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
the World.
SARTO is obtainable at all the leading stores throughout tbe Commonwealtb.
See tbat you get SARTO, and do not be put off witb imitations wbicb do not contain
tbe same medicinal properties as Sarto.
SARTO —The Health Beverage.


THE
*C
■ -7^-7
Ks*s*2*
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £545,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,404.
Directors • JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
11. M. STRACHAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
SYDNEY OFFICE, GO PUT STREET. Acting Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria,' South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales. ;
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
Unsoiled Originals and Perfect Permanent Pen-
copies absolutely ensured to users of Zanetic Sheets.
From Stationers or from S. B. Zanetic, Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. ALL BRITISH, imd
contains no Foreign Dye.* [1
ĝ jh
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
jghhjh
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.'
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & GO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
g g
The Kissing of Pegeen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[N the valley of little red trees
The grey dogs were hunting the hare;
With the kirtle of green to her knees
Came the fairy Pegeen to me there;
With the hare running under the trees
Pegeen made a song to me there.
Yellow girls with the sun on their feet
Ran in and ran out of the wood;
Sure, the air with their voices was sweet
Around the green place where I stood.
Och! the grass in the toes of their feet
Was green with a laugh where they stood.
Pegeen, fairy girl, she could sing
Till the daffodils stept to the tune,
And a thorn-tree in bud at the Spring
Let up a clean leaf to the noon.
Pegeen, fairy girl, it was spring,
And the sun was just warm at the noon.
Och! dimples she had, to be sure,
With her hair like the wing of a crow,
And the white of her neck was a cure
For a heart that was beating too slow—
Och, Pegeen, fairy girl! To be sure,
Mine couldn’t be beating too slow.
'Twas the laugh of the girls in the sun,
’Twas the green on the lap of the world,
'Twas the way my wits fluttered and spun,
’Twas the way that her eyelashes curled
Made me mad for a kiss in the sun,
Where her lins at the corner were curled.
Pegeen, fairy girl, she could dance;
’Twas not easy to come at her waist.
Och ! she puckered my soul with her glance,
But her lips had a wonderful taste ;
Sure, the fairy girl led me a dance
Till I caught her pink mouth for a taste.
Thore’s a fairy path over the hill,
Tjiere’s a fairy bridge over the stream ;
Twas her song that was leading me still
And I went like a man in a dream;
There were little red trees on the hill.
And the end of the road was a dream.
Sure, I dreamt like a little brown hare,
’Twas me that the grey dogs would chase.
Och, fur is too handy to wear!
Give me back the red kiss on my face!
Pegeen, I’m a little brown hare,
Oph, give a man back his poor face!
Yellow girls with the sun on their feet
Run in and run out of the wood.
Troth, the sound of their voices is sweet,
And the swish of their kirtles is good. .. .
There are little black toes on my feet
And to stop the grey dogs would be good.
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Honora’s Best Boy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HONORA was her name. She’d not
been out of Bungaree in all her
life till she went to Wallace, which
was 1 not saying much, since she confessed
herself truly that Wallace was “so Irish
of itself you’d hear the pigs singing ‘Kath-
leen,’ ” you would that. Honora was a little
taller than usual and a little plumper than
common. Trcegeen said she had a cheek
like a sunset, but I’m thinking 'twas her hair
lie was meaning.
Honora O’Brien went to service at
Wheelan’s cunning grey house at Wallace
from her own home at Ryansford, and every
man knew well how jealous Wheelan was,
with his young wife Ann and her bold black
eye, more especial of Dinny Whistler from
up the hill and over. Honora O'Brien did
well for herself taking service with the
Wheelans, for it was wide beknown big Ann
Wheelan had the kind heart of a rascal, and
was mighty good to them with the bad eyes
that couldn’t see between the trees. But
'twas queer that Honora O’Brien, being
little more than a babe of 20. and bred at
Ryansford. where there’s nothing known of
shrewd wickedness at all but the manner of
selling a dried cow or two to a born fool,
should have been so pert and knowledgable
when it came to a deal with the devil or a
bit of sly doin’.
Honora had the boy herself, who “rid”
over the Sundays to have moon talks with
her where the apples were thick in
Wheelan’s big orchard. The boy’s name
was Phil Corcoran, a good enough slip of a
lad with stubborn things, but having no art
and tactics like Honora had by nature and
inheritance. So it happened that one night
Wheelan, black with fury, and having a hell
hole of jealousy in the heart of him, stole
fiom the house with a gun to him, and tired
twice on a man in the apples in the north
corner, then went back to the house, grim
and fearful, sitting with the gun across his
knees, waiting for his wife to come in.
’Twas Honora of the simple upbringing
pushed the hurt man to his horse, and drove
him off. ’Twas Honora rushed straight
back to Wheelan, all drabbled with tears.
And sLe ’twas found him confront with
Mrs. Wheelan, she wringing her hands and
cryin’ desprit, and himself with his teeth
bare, snarling black words at her. And says
he, “I’ve finished yer pretty man of King-
cross for you, ma’am. Yiv left him curled
in a true lovers’ knot be th’ trees, have yeh?
’Tis great comfort t’ me, ma’am, t’ know
I’ve weighted him that heavy with lead he’ll
never go anny way but to Hell, and I'm
sittin' here thinkin’ won’t it be good ’n' fit-
ting t’ be puttin’ th’ same heavy drag to
your heel, Ann Wheelan.”
’Twas at this Honora O’Brien, her red
hair all bangin’ damp and straight with the
rain of her eyes, and her cheek like the dead
ashes of the cold mornin’, flung at Mister
Wheelan, screamin’ to his teeth: “Murderer!
Murderer ! Murderer of the wor-rld ! Have
yeh kilt him? ’Tis me Phil yiv shot, and
no pretty man of Kingcross at all. ’Tis me
Phil, me Phil, me dar-rlin’ ’n’ me life ‘n’
light, and the joy of the earth ’n’ the sky !
And yiv kilt him entire, ’n’ he’s ridiu’ off
this moment with the death behind him.
’N' his mother a widdy woman but once
married again. Murderer! Black mur-
derer !” And she tore the gun from
Wheelan’s hands, and the great fight
Wheelan had, big a man as he was, to save
his own hide from the riddling.
To Honora’s bed Mrs. Wheelan stole that
night, and she whispered in the darkness:
“ ’Tis a good girl is Honora O’Brien, and a
kind, and £5O for her under the mattress,
with a gold brooch I had Christmas, and
the gold ring of two stones, and with me best
dresses soon to come, and more money odd
times.” And Honora tittered back from
under the clothes.
’Twas Wheelan himself waited on Phil
Corcoran at Ryan ford, and found him a
mummy of bandages, and whispering that
faint you would have to bend down to hear
a word, and “Me poor widdy that’s to be,
Honora O’Brien —God’s mercy on a poor
body!—will have deal in’ with you,” says he.
“Not a word will I do or say, but leave all
to Honora. she bein’ the sufferer with herself
a black widdy before wed.”
Wheelan then spoke soft with Honora, him
fearing the law for his shooting through a
Christian man that had no harm to his mind
at all; and Honora answered him like the
simple girl, saying there was big need of
£2OO for lacerated feelings, and £5O more
for the harm done to Corcoran’s back—-
Saints preserve a good lad ! The shirt she
would throw in. and ask nothing for the
trousers of him, and them near new, and
full of holes as a wire fence is any day.
Wheelan could not budge her more than £25,
and £225 he paid to save himself being seized
Tuesday for shooting with intentions ungodly
and profane.
THE SUPERFLUOUS TRIMMINGS.
THE M AN: “A lot of our officers are not
quite gentlemen, y'know.”
THE GIRL: “How dreadful! Just take ’em,
I suppose, because they happen to under-
stand military tactics, and all that kind
of tosh.”
Then Phil Corcoran came out of his ban-
dages the Monday. But in great quiet and
apart from all strangers’ observing, Dinny
Whistler, of Kingcross. lay still a-bed, with
his people flipping shot out of him evenings
THE EXCHANGE.
FIRST ONE: “Poor old Jenkins has been getting into trouble again. He's been giving.
the glad eye to my wife."
SECOND ONE: “Really! And what happened?”
FIRST ONE: “A black one!”
till they made a peck. And that summer
Monora in her sheets was tittering the whole
night long.
’Tis a great trick, and I’m ever won-
dering how a simple bush girl of Ryansford
came by the cunning of it.
EDDYSON.
What’s in a Name?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’M a Wounded Hero, I am. But I
didn’t know it until we drifted into
Sydney Harbor the other day.
More’n four months ago I got a wallop in
Gallipoli. It put me right leg out of action,
and two A.M.C.’s had to hump me two miles
to the beach, most of it down rocks like the
side of a house, and the Turks shellin’ us
constant.
They said I was a Heavy Cow. the bearers
did.
Then, on the ’orspital ship, I went
barmy. I’d got another wallop, on the nut
this time, cornin’ down the Peninsula. All
the way to Alexandria I was the Bloomin’
Loony.
Then me leg went .septic—-dressed and
dolled twice a day, and every time they got
a spare minute some new doc. would come
and operate. I told them to keep me blanky
leg and let me have it back when they were
quite finished with it. The doc. said, “See
here, son, I’ll tell you what you are—you’re
a Dam’ Marvel.”
For six weeks I couldn’t eat anythink
except milk. It was the dry season for cows
in Alexandria, and milk was scarce. I’d
been ordered milk —quarts of it —and there
was none to be had. Everybody said I was
a Confounded Nuisance.
When they did get me some I chucked it
all up again. The ward-orderly said I was
a Ongrateful Swine.
I got so poor on it I couldn’t throw a
sliadder. Seems it was donkey’s milk they
gave me. Gorstruth! The Countess oJ:
Buzwuz, who was one of the visiting sisters,
had a look at me. “That man,” she says,
“is The Living Skellington.”
Soon as they booked me back to Australia
I bucked up. I ate. 1 kep’ on eating. They
couldn’t stoke me sufficient, not if they laid
on a strategic railway from the kitchen to
the wardroom. One of the sisters told me
I was a Greedy Pig.
Then we got into Port Jackson. The band
played “See the Conquering Hero Comes.”
I didn’t know it was me at the time —it was
the first intermation I’d had of it. Rut it
was Me all right.
When I was limpin’ down the gangway a
skirt swung her arms round me neck and
told me I was her Darling.
Hot stuff, wasn’t it?
Then in the motor-car... .From there to
the ’Orspital I lost tally.
They'd a sick parade of a sort. The chief
doc. squinted at me. “Five days’ leave,”
says he. “You’re a Brick.”
I thought it was dismiss, but not it. A
cove in a white vest spoke a piece, and at
the end shook me be the hand and said I
was a True Australian.
Then we had lunch.
After the coffee I slid out and did a duck
in a taxi to call on the father of one of the
blokes I’d left in Gallipoli. He made a
great fuss. He took me out to lunch. A
lot o’ silly asses stood up in the eaffy and
sang “Rule Britannier.” My mate’s dad
made a speech. I was a Hero of the Dar-
danelles.
I broke for cover, but was held up at the
door by a newspaper bloke who took me to
a quiet pub where we had a couple of beers.
He said things was dull, and got me to spin
him some yarns. He said I was a Blanky
Godsend.
The barmaid made a date with me for
next Sunday. She said I was a Snort. I
did a bunk.
I advanced on the Soldiers’ Club. It was
full of wimmen. They surrounded me and
gave me afternoon tea seven times. They
said T was a Wounded ’Ero, and deserved all
I got.
What would you make of that?
They took me out to dinner and intro-
duced me to a lot of strangers. One of
them said I was a Soldier of the King.
Then they all sang it. I sapped as far as
the bar.
It was admitted I was ajjClean Drinker.
I told them the Story of the Landing. I
was in fine nick. They swore I was a—
well —’11’way it was a Hero.
When I woke up I was dug-in at the
Central. The old bloke who made it twenty
shillin’s said I was a Disgrace to the Uni-
form.
Don’t you believe it. I’m a Wounded
Hero.
D. H. SOUTER.


BLACK <a WHITE
i«
i
ii
i
4*'
4
V ..Vi
4k-
ii
t
...
■
•• H
1
pp
%**
-.
■
J*
.J
■
■
it
THE HIGHLAND BRIGADE.”
$
WHISKY


■s
m
THE INVISIBLE
NECK REINFORCEMENT
MEANS DOUBLE Y/EAR.
THIS TAB
SLEEVE
LIFT MEANS
COMFORT,
WILL YOU WRITE FOR OUR
NEW MEN’S WEAR CATALOG?
Shirt Economy.
It is hard to say how many shirts men
discard through the neckband breaking away
and worn cuff edges, but it you become a
wearer of the
DOUBLE-LIFE SHIRT
you will get more shirt satisfaction than
ever before. We have specialised to make a
Shirt to give the utmost possible service.
The Re-inforced Neckband and patent sleeve-
lift ensures double life and added comfort;
and, above all, the long-wearing properties
mean true economy.
These shirts are perfectly cut and made in
our new Cot-Tafi'eta, cream ground with
fine black or blue woven stripes—a material
which represents the utmost in style and
quality.
Write for our special Folder of Patterns.
4/6
Here’s Marvellous Value.
Post Free to Any state.
4/6
CHAS. LANE & CO. I X
The Mail Order
House for Men,
Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
=*»<*«€
]Sco/,h*J%ty
WHYdrink
ĝ
JBecause it is
TOP NOTCH SCOTCH t
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Merrigal”: Here’s one cure for aphis.
Combine rendered mutton or beef fat, while still
warm, with kerosene in quantities that will secure
their mixing freely. Allow mixture to cool and
the resultant paste if applied a few times will
effectually deal with the pest.
DOUBLE BALK.
DEPARTING GUEST: “Will you give me my bill, please? I slept on the billiard table.”
HOTEL CLERK: “Yessir. Eight hours at eighteenpence per hour —twelve shillings.”
“W.G.8.”: For the slowest eater put
down the northern erocogator. I saw one feeding in
a creek near Cairns.* It had the hind leg of a horse,
and to get a bite it would shake the banquet till a
bit of it came off. Then the rest would be dropped
into the water and remain there for about half an
hour, while the ’gator chewed with great deliberation.
I watched him for two hours, and when 1 left hi
had not eaten one-third of the leg.
* * -it *
“Tiaki” : Re that par. about the green-
stone lava of the incinerated Henare (B. 3/0 'l5).
This is the way Tom Marsh told me about it:
“We got to a little clearing and saw two Maoris pop
into a little whare. ‘E puta korua ki walio,’ we
called; but the Maoris didn’t come out as invited.
‘E kore korua e mate,’ but even this assurance of our
clemency didn’t bring them. Just as we were pre-
paring to knock and enter, a streak of brown shot
out, rifle in hand, and, before we could pull a
trigger, we were three men short—two shot and one
with his skull smashed. We only got one of those
Maoris. The next place we came to we stood at the
present. A figure rushed out, and, like pollen from
the matai tree, the dust flew from his blanket where
the bullets struck it. It was unfortunate that he
was a harmless old koroua, but we couldn’t afford to
take risks in those days.”
■(■***
“N, or M.”: Evidently “Te W.,” of a
recent Bulletin par., has not smelt a Tasmanian
'long-shore orchard in the shark season, or he would
have had no doubt as to refuse fish and the coarser
sorts being used as manure. Shark and ’couta make,
fine apples, but our process is different from that of
“Te W.’s” friend Ferguson, who interred his fish
straightway among the potatoes. We pit them first,
and the resultant compost when ripe is fed to the
orchard. Whilst this is in progress the windward
side of the plantation is much to be preferred. On
one occasion a barge with fish for fertilising pur-
poses was held up for some time by bad weather, and,
the cargo being pretty high and rapidly aeroplaning,
and there being no chance of getting to the jetty,
tlie craft gave the E. Coast best, and headed up
the Derwent, trailing awful odors. At New Norfolk
the health authorities refused to allow the pestilent
goods to be landed, and the old boat hitched up
and argued the case whilst the . situation developed.
Eventually she waddled out to sea again, still cling-
ing to her precious stock-in-trade. None of the
crew dropped dead and she found a purchaser some-
where along the coast.
* * ¥e *
“Bull’s Wool”: A bright uair were killed
about 40 miles from Rockhampton the other day by
the same man. One was a brown snake measuring
12ft. Sin. and the other a tiger Oft. 2in. to the
summit when he stood on his tail.
“D.F”: If “Leo Lear” (B. 21/10/’l5)
was referring to the original habitat of the black-
fish (Oadopsis marmoratus ) he was right in saying
that it is confined, as far as Tasmania is con-
cerned, to the rivers flowing into Bass Strait; but
Saville Kent introduced it with success some quarter
of a century ago into the rivers in the south of the
island, notably the Derwent and the Huon. A 11 lb.
specimen was caught in the Iluon the other day.
BREAKFAST CONFIDENCES.
THE WIFE (to second hubby) : George never complained about the cooing!”
THE BEAST: “ No; poor George! He suffered and died.”
“Itau”: The Coulstoi) Lakes, on the top
of the volcanic blow in the Burnett (($.), are lower
now than white men remember them to have ever
been before. Local rain, however, does not make
much difference to the contents of the basin. The
area is about nine acres. Birds and fish have no
resting place in these waters ; like Binghi, they seem
to keep clear of the “debil-debil.” So far, no Ajjo-
scientist has yet offered a reason why so many
waters held in the craters of old volcanoes are free
of fish and attract no feathered game. 1 once asked
a nigger why he would not jump into Coulston one
hot day. “No want finish,” he explained. I must
confess I was infected with the superstition, and
did not plunge in either. Of the many strange
waters in Bananaland perhaps the most remarkable
are the two springs out Boulia way, not far from
The Edge. In one it is with the greatest difficulty
that a man can keep afloat and in the other a man
cannot sink if he tries.
* * * *
“Moana” : I’ll eat my grandmother if
anybody in Australia can go one better than a
crossbred ewe owned by a farmer named Henderson,
at Isla Bank (M.L.). She gave birth to a quintet
of lambs. One of them was stillborn, but the other
four were alive. Of these, one was a poor speci-
men, so it was knocked on the head. Three are
thriving and well on the way to become “prime
quality.”
* * * *
“Aneb”: Not a voice has sung the praises
of the W.A. jam as a long-liver after being cut.
Certainly it’s only a slip of a tree, but writer lias
seen nothing to equal it. Inch for inch it will out-
live anything that once had life. Strangely, it
belongs to the wattle family, a collection not noted
for its toughness. But, then, there are very few large
families that can’t boast of at least one hard case.
* * * *
“Sarto” : The other morning I found my
mandarin tree as if it had been scorched on one
side. The leaves there were withered and falling
off, while the rest of the tree seemed quite healthy.
There had been a thunderstorm overnight, ; but there
was no mark of violence or split anywhere to be
found. Was it struck by lightning?
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Grant Allen lays it
down in his “Evolution of the Idea of God” that
“the Australian used to cut off the thumb of a slain
enemy, that he might be unable to draw the bow.”
P’r’aps; but the only bows I ever saw in Australia
were those used by the walkabout Kanaka for shoot-
ing fish or birds, when things were at a dead-end
and grub a minus quantity. In all my peregrina-
tions Outback I never saw or heard of a genuine
bing-hy using a weapon of that kind. Seems to me
that I am entitled to heave the boomerang of derision
at Mr. Allen, but I’ll hold off until the question has
been discussed and finally determined by the Grand
Panjandrums of the Abo. Lodge.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: An. old bush writer, Horace
Wheelright, said that with the help of a bottle of
anchovy sauce fiddler cannot be distinguished from
skate. The stingless ray known as fiddler is often
caught on N.S.W. coasts, but is never used as food.
Yet its tissue is white and firm, and tenderer any-
how than some of the cow-beef that gets tinned.
The blue-pointer shark, too, is an edible fish, but so
far has not become popular tucker. Try a fiddler
boiled and served with anchovy sauce. If you sur-
vive, get in a sirloin of blue-pointer, roast it, and
invite your neighbors. Thus at a period which calls
for stringent economy you will reduce your food
bill and increase the number of your friends.
“And/': Now that all the frauds seem
io have decided to give “Sammy” a rest, I’ll tell
him how to stop his horse's jumping habit. Put a
strap round the leg above and near the knee, and tie
the shank of the halter to it, giving just sufficient
length for the animal to graze. Probably “Sammy’s”
horse now resents nothing in the way of gear, but
1 would recommend padding the strap with basil
until the beast becomes resigned to missing his feed
of growing crop. This trick is universal in South
Africa.
* * * *
“Hori”: Some of the South Sea Island-
ers who are to form part of the Third Maori con-
tingent have gone into camp. They are llarotongans
- -big, sturdy men. When they landed in Wellington
they were dressed as Europeans, with the barbaric
additions of red bead necklets and red parrot feathers
in their hats. They walked along through the rain
singing “Here We Are Again,” very chirrupy in-
deed. A few of the men speak English well, and
a few don’t speak it at all. Another part of the
contingent, which hails from the Savage Islands,
otherwise Niue Island, are less familiar with music-
hall ditties. In fact, when the steamship co. sent
down to bring 300 of them to M.L. it reckoned they
could be carried just the same as Kanakas, so it got
the shock of its life when it had to come to light
with a regular transport—bunks, knives and forks,
and all. The ship also took down enough camp
uniforms and helmets to clothe the nakedness of the
Savages. That’s how much-we know of some of our
far-flung battle-line.
BUSINESS. ROBBERY, ETC.
GOLFER: “Did you see my ball anywhere?
It’s the last one I’ve got, and if I don’t
find it I’ll have to chuck up my game
and go home.”
BILLY DILLY: “No, sir, Hi ain't seen yer
ball. But I got one of me own ’ere you
kin 'arc for 'arf a crown.”
“Myall”: For the many-aliases competi-
tion I nominate “ringing,” as applied to the work
of the fastest jumbuck-barber on a, board. lie is said
to be “ringing the shed,” “in the lead,” “out in
front,” “swinging the gate,” “blazing the trail,”
“showing the way,” “breaking down the thistles,”
“clearing the track,” “falling the timber,” “clearing
the line,” “leading the pack,” “on the rails,” “head-
ing the list,” “greasing the shoot.” He is often
known as a “gun,” or a “deuce artist,” whilst the
shearer at the tail-end of the list is “the drummer”
or “the snagger,” and is sometimes “dragging the
chain.”
(Contiwued on page 26.)
THE WESTERLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The westerly, apparently, had got on our nerves.
- —Daily paper.
1 had a tiff with Bounderby—-a straighter, better
fellow
lon couldn't find from Bass’s Straits to Arafura
Sea.
At most of times our interviews are full of fun and
mellow,
But yesterday w. squabbled in that bless&d
westerly.
The 'phone that's in my office, though its tricks are
sometimes quaint,
Is just about as decent as a giddy ’phone can be;
But yesterday its capers would provoke a very
saint- —
It felt the subtle breathing of that blessed westerly.
And Mary, in the morning (that’s the poet’s charm-
ing missis),
Her chop was like a cindev and the Devil brewed
the tea ;
And when I said, “My darling, would you tell me,
please, what this is?”
ller answer was a foretaste of that blessed westerly.
And whereso’er 1 wandered on my bus’ness dry and
daily,
The men I countered viewed me with a grim ferocity,
And not a soul would chaff me or retort as one does
gaily
When the city isn’t ruffled by a blessed westerly.
it blows right up from Hades, and with desert dust
it’s blended,
It fills our mouths with language and our eyes with
little pins ;
It's sent to give us warning that the sprees of life
are ended —-
It's time we took a reef in and reflected on our sins.
The war's a bitter burden and the drought's a curse
eternal,
But never did 1 realise how black they both could
be,
Till Monday broke upon us with the worries half-
infernal
'That always seem to heave along behind the
westerly.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


If you cannot
call, write to
Desk R,
stating
size, etc.
All Panamas
post free.
\
\ \
10/9
15/6
21/-
2 51-
POST
FREE.
Genuine
South
American
PANAMAS
Beautifully bleached and plaited—silk bands—
all sizes—variety of shapes. Get yours to=day, Sir,
At MURDOCH’S,
IN PARK ST. LTD.
SYDNEY,
WHERE- THE GOOD HATS ARE
We are the Soda-Fountain
Supply House of Australia
tm
and can meet all your Trade Require-
ments better and cheaper than any
other house.
We carry an especially large stock of
the best goods for your benefit, enabling
you to buy the best of the world’s pro-
ducts —right here in Sydney—as much
or as little as you please, and be sure of
immediate delivery.
The Summer Season is just commenc-
ing. Start it with NELSON’S SPECIAL-
TIES, and you’ll make sure of RIO
PROFITS.
D< >n’t hesitate to order a full stock of
NELSON’S CONCENTRATED ER FIT
•JFTCES —you’ll regret it if you do. The
public taste lias been captured by the rich,
luscious fruitiness of these drinks, and
will turn you down if you don’t supply
them with what they like.
Ice-cream Freezers.
We have a big lot of these just what
you want for the Summer Trade. The
most reliable you can get. Quick,
Economical and Efficacious.
Also a consignment of FREEZERS,
SLIGHTLY WATER-STAINED, both
Hand and Power.
20-quart capacity, £l4, with fast and
loose Pulley.
40-quart capacity, £2O, with fast and
loose Pulley.
These are tremendous value; they’ll be
snapped up quick, so be sharp.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at TURBOT BUILDINGS, TURBOT STREET, BRISBANE.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
V
"vfl/
1'
“Operating the wonderful
‘ Graduola ’ device, which gives
perfect control over the tone of
the instrument”
The Success of the
AEOLIAN
VOCALION
is instantaneous.
The moment its first musical tones strike the ear do you
recognise new, fresh born, living qualities of tone, wistful
and sweet and silver pure. It is magical! The subtle
charm of the singer’s voice, the distinctive character of
its instrumental tones, leaves no room for doubt; here
is perfect reproduction at last.
The Exclusive Features of the Vocation
are the result of many years research by the world’s
leading acoustic scientists. By a unique system of
resonators forming the Symphonic Horn, all tones are
reproduced with that characteristic faithfulness that gives
the performance a touch of livingness equalled only by the
An Invitation
artists themselves. The Graduola makes the music your own ; you may vary the
expression, introduce tone shading- and accents as you choose. You supply the personal
element which vitalises the interpretation adds the interest of novelty.
We are anxious that all music-lovers shall know by personal experience what the
Vocalion can do. We cannot translate into words its tonal qualities. We therefore invite
you and your friends to visit Pianola Hall between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. and hear it played.
Made in a Variety of Beautiful Models from £25. Monthly Payments Arranged
THE. PIANOLA COMPANY,
* Manufacturers of the
World-famous Pianola”
384 George Street,
Sydney,
And at Melbourne,
.Adelaide, Brisbane.


TYRES
DuvalsCo.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
475 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE.
BEST in the LONG RUN
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES-
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you'll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 176. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Enfi,
insist on “Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.
RECIPE TO DARKEN
GREY HAIR.
This Home-made Mixture Darkens Grey
Hair and Removes Dandruff.
To a half-pint of water add:—
Bay Rum loz.
Orlex Compound a small box
Glycerine Joz.
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little
cost, and mix them yourself. Apply to the
scalp once a day for two weeks, then once
every other week until all the mixture is
used.
A half-pint should be enough to darken the
grey hair, rid the head of dandruff and kill
the dandruff germs. It stops the hair from
falling out and relieves itching and scalp
diseases. It promotes the growth of the hair
and makes harsh hair soft and glossy. [S
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Milo” : I wish to rush in before a great
misapprehension is nailed down and tell those Abo-
stokers who have a special fancy for particular kinds
of wood for boiler-firing that they have all missed
the ’bus. It is not so much the quality of the wood
used as the suitability of the boiler that enables a
good dry head of steam to be kept up. Be sure of a
good draught and keep the fire-bars clear of clinkers,
and no stoker worth his soot will fail to maintain a
good head of steam. At Yalwal (N.S.W.) 1 once
fired a pair of Cornish boilers requiring 1001 b. of
steam to work 40-head of stampers. I used largely
that much-despised and crooked timber, apple tree,
mixed with small quantities of ironbark and stringy,
and never had the least trouble in raising steam or
keeping it. Apple-tree is the worst-burning timber
in the world out of a furnace; in a furnace it
behaves in a most g-entlemanly way. I have put in
a feed of apple-tree and stringy, and for two hours
never had to open the furnace door, while the hands
of the indicator varied no more than a point or two
above or below the century. This result was due to
the boiler, and perhaps the stoker, and not to the
wood. The Abo-stoker who talks about the heat-
producing properties of certain timber being so
great as to cause the fire-bars to burn must have
neglected his bars until, clinkers became as numer-
ous as barnacles on the bottoms of the Kaiser's
ships. White box is a good fuel, either in a furnace
or out of it, because it contains a large amount of
oil. Stringy’s greatest claim to support is that it is
easily' billeted, is usually straight, and consequently
gives no trouble in feeding. My choice for an
ordinary furnace is forest “he”-oak. Ironbark is too
valuable for furnace fuel.
*••■■■* * *
“Myall”: Some more of the jumbuck
barber’s vocabulary. When he dons his “Jackv
Howe” he puts on his sleeveless flannel, and is ready
for “a cut.” . When his machine requires overhaul-
ing he sends for “the squirt” (expert). When the
boss has occasion to speak to him for rough shear-
ing lie receives “a wire,” “a wireless,” or “a visit.”
When lie has to remove the wool close to the pelt
he is “pinking ’em.” When the cut is a rough one
he gives them “a hit up.” When shearing 200 a
day he is “deucing ’em.” When a sheep has lost
part of its fleece it is “a rosella.” When rough
and wrinkly it is “a snob.” When the last jumbuck
in a pen falls to his lot he has been “snobbed.”
When he “gets the bullet” he is told to “hang up."
When in a shed he is “a greasy,” “a woolhawk,” or
a plain shearer. When in town he is a “long-blow
artist.”
* * * *
“Eryamler”: “Lou” (B. 21/10/’l5) inci-
dentally refers to the curious but little-noted fact
that all the hoofed animals with an even number of
toes lie down first with their front-ends and begin
the getting-up process with their back-premises;
whereas the hoofers with an odd number of toes
subside first with the stern and arise bows-first.
The horse may thus, both in rising and couching,
be seen for a moment in nearly the sitting posture
of a dog. These odd-toed ungulates, once very
numerous in species, have now, besides the single-
toed equines, only two representatives—the rhinoce-
ros (three-toed) and the tapir (five toes on the
front feet and three on the hind). The elephant,
a subungulate (small hoof for each toe), has in
the Asiatic species five front toes and four hind,
and in the African four in front and three behind ;
and being thus neither odd nor even-toed —‘nor both
—he gets up or down with either end first, in-
differently. The camel can also work things either
way, but for the most part he follows the cow
custom.
A CONUNDRUM.
“Question is (hie) do I intrude or docs
shomeone elsh intrude?”
“Q.N.8.” : They still sell some of the real
old stuff in North Queensland. The other day the
boss on a canefield, noticing a casual cutter holding
up his hands and gazing intently at them, crossed
over to ascertain the extent of damage. “Hullo,
hand cut?” “No; look at this b — spider, lie’s build-
ing his web from one hand to the other!”
ALWAYS A CHANCE.
OPTIMIST: "They say he can’t lose."
PESSIMIST: “No; but. he can bloomin’ well try.”
“X.P.D.”: Here’s my belated reply to the
correspondent who found fault with my remarks re
roofs of native material in houses for white men
in New Guinea. 1 can remember only two of the’
objections—that the roofs I barracked for were en-
ticers of vermin, and that they didn’t last long-
enough. Well, I lived under thatches of grass, nipa-
palm and cocoanut leaves, respectively, during 20
months in Papua, and was never bothered with
insects or snakes from aloft. Borers get into the
soft timber after a while, but, beyond distributing a
thin film of dust over the French-polished tables
common in New Guinea, they make no difference to
comfort for years. As to durability, given white-
man superintendence over the selection of material,
sewing and laying, the roofs are right for three
years, anyhow.
* * * *
“A.W.D.”: “Bad Australian” (B.
7/10/’l5) complains of the potatoes boiled at the
summit of the Andes always having a “bone” in them.
Let his poisoner try boiling them in a saucepan with
a rather tightly-fitting lid, weighted down with a
brick. The slight additional pressure of the steam
in a smartly-boiling vessel will raise the temperature
sufficiently to cook the tubers.
* * * *
“Wandi” : Black Brother had an interest-
ing assortment of vessels for carrying water. The
most curious were the skull, which was simply a
human skull cleaned out; the bark : knot (the bark
off the knob or knot of a tree), as big as an ordi-
nary bucket, sometimes'; and the log, from five to
10ft. long, plugged at both ends, which was carried
by a couple of Binghis when the family embarked on
a long trek across thirsty country. The bamboo
carrier of South Aus. and the Northern Territory
is convenient, both for drinking out of and for trans-
port. On the Darling River and westwards the
skin waterbag was used. About the neighborhood
■of the Diamantina a kangaroo’s coat is used after
being tanned with coolabah gum. Besides these
there are —or were—the bark trough, made of tea-
tree bark, and used for raising water or for carry-
ing it over short distances, and the wooden trough,
or coolamon, used for holding water, winnowing
seed, kneading and other purposes. It was common
throughout Victoria, N.S.W. and Queensland. About
Cape York, where it is called marija-anga, and
among the Territorians, who call it pitchi and
tirna, it is as large as a child’s bathtub. The chief
woods employed are kurrajong, corkwood (which is
very light) and bean. Along the coasts shells are
much used.
“Mulga” : In a plebiscite for the champion
volplaner of land birds my vote will be cast in
favor of the brolga or native-companion. All birds
finish a descent to terra firma with a volplane of
varying degree, but the brolga, from an almost
invisible height, volplanes with unequalled rapidity
and beauty, executing a wonderful semi-circle before
alighting. However, for perfection on the wing
what member of the bird fraternity can compare
with the albatross?
“Enby”: At Gongolgon, on the Bogan, 100
miles further north-west than Nvngan (N.S.W.), Tong
Gee has grown a splendid crop of wheat. Has any
white Australian, this year, managed to get wheat
to grow further back than God-forsaken Gongolgon?
“W.C.M.” : What a glorious blaze of color
Queensland displays during the winter and spring
months! The brilliant scarlet poinsettia is at its
best in June, to be followed a little later by the
equally gorgeous ponsiana. Now the golden oak is
ablaze with huge masses of blooms of a richer hue
than the wattle, which has just left us. The
jacaranda is shimmering in the sunlight like the
purple hazes on a mountain at daybreak, and the
rich green foliage of the tropical palms is inter-
spersed with red and purple bougainvillaea, while, to
lend delicacy to the color-scheme, orchids, white and
gold, which down south grow only in hothouses,
flourish in an ideal climate. No other place in the
world can show such a variety and richness of native
coloring as the place with the much maligned
dlimate.
* * * *
“Alamon”: Apropos black cockatoos. A
pair built a nest not far from my camp at Pine
Creek (N.T.), and I had splendid opportunities for
observing them. The female sported a tail of Bel-
gian colors, bars of yellow and red on a black
ground. The male had a broad bar of red across his
tail. Beaks of both were white. I have never found
a pure black cockatoo, i.e., with no colored bars on
tail. Has any Abo-liar?
“Devilfish”: When they put the tape
along a tree-fern near Flowerdale, on the nor'-west
coast of Tassy, it showed 53ft. Record in the fern
line?
“5.8.”: “Low” (B. 14/10/’l5) requires
some enlightenment about emu-apple trees. They
grow as high as 15ft., but instead of the pink and
white berry he mentions their fruit is red. The
“emus’’ grow always on a plain, in small groups.
1 have found no way to cultivate them, as the berry
will not shoot like a seed ; they won’t grow from
slip, and any attempt to transplant a young tree
fails because the roots go down so deep. The onl.v
theory 1 have is that the young tree “suckers” from
the roots of a neighboring tree. The fruit is often
eaten, and around the nut is a quarter of an inch
in depth.
* * * *
“Quill” : A large demand has been made
in Maoriland for the expenditure of enough money
on cinematograph records to show the natural atti-
tudes ami flight of native birds, with a little more to
bottle their noises in the phonograph. This looks
a sufficiently insane method of spending Cohen’s
cash to justify its immediate adoption. The history
of things has been something like this: Maoriland
was originally endowed with beautiful bush and birds
of rare beauty and delightful song. But when the
pakeha came along and found there were no rabbits
and no sparrows, he promptly started importing
them, and when the first consignments arrived he
stood around rubbing his hands and blithering about
the place “soon looking like home.” Later on he
spent a lot of time and money laying imported
poison for the brutes, and importing ferrets and weasels
and stoats to eat them. But the ferrets and weasels
and stoats started eating the domestic rooster, and
then more poison had to be imported. And all this
time the indigenous birds were picking up the
expensive food sprinkled about the landscape for the
rabbit and the sparrow and the ferret and the
weasel and the stoat—and the ferret and the weasel
and the stoat raided the nests of the tui, the huia,
the kiwi, the weka and the cuckoo, and the forests
were fired with criminal glee, and reckless lunatics
went about with guns and helped the work of exter-
mination. Thus it has come to pass that Maori-
THE ONLY WAY.
“You look worried, my dear. What’s
wrong?"
“ I’m anxious to know if my husband still
cares for me, and I don’t know- whether
to go to a fortune-teller’s or buy a dream
book.”
landers growing up to-day have to turn to books to
find out what the country was like when their fathers
started an acclimatisation society and wandered forth
to attack the scenery with a box of matches. It is
a sign of healthy repentance to find someone in the
community clamoring for a loan to send photographers
leaping after the surviving tomtit. If the importa-
tion of a few bears and tigers could be tacked on to
the proposition it might even appeal to the local
sportsmen, who have finished off most of the pigeons
and ducks and have scarcely anything left to shoot
but skylarks.
THE MUSIC OF THE BEERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poets say that music dwells
In every common thing;
And 1 have seen a lobster dance
And heard an oyster sing.
I do not know why I was there —
Nor where I was, in fact;
But I awakened somehow in
The middle of the act.
The orchestra aroused me first
With an astounding crash,
Although it sounded, first, to me
Like plates when there’s a smash.
An oyster sat upon a plate
Ami sang in plaintive style:
“Out on the Rocks,” it sweetly trilled,
And hushed me for a while;
And then, as madder music stirred
Wild feelings in my breast,
The ballet of the prawns commenced
Each prawn in parsley dressed.
On many plates they danced and leapt
And twirled, and danced some more,
Till, with a joyous tenor shout,
A lobster took, the floor.
The. dance it did was weird and wild ;
And 1 am not the man
To coldly sit and watch good sport;
I joined the fish can-can 1
I seized a handy domino
Of snow-like purity ;
I caught a waiter by the waist
And made him dance with me.
We whirled around while music crashed :
The very tables danced ;
The oyster sang; on ev’ry side
The gay prawn-ballet pranced.
Then fell the curtain with a crash ;
The light and music fled;
And with the feeble light of dawn
I found myself in bed.
A tablecloth that draped my form,
1 found, when 1 arose,
Some oysters in my pockets stowed,
And prawnheads on my clothes.
I know not what the damage is
To which the Greek makes claim —-
A Greek with whiskers like two spears:
Stekoysta is his name.
But let him seek his claim, and costs —
For debt, where is your sting,
Since I have seen a lobster dance
And heard an oyster sing?
N.s.w.
HAMER.


ğ
as
B.S.A. Fittings are manufactured through-
out in the great B.S.A. Factories with the
well-known B.S.A. standard quality, material
and workmanship. They can therefore be
relied on to give the same satisfactory
service which has made B.S.A. productions
world-famous. Every B.S.A. part is tested
and gauged to one thousandth part of an
inch, and
B.S.A. Fittings are
Guaranteed Interchangeable
Exact replacements of any part can be
obtained of all Australian Agents without
delay. Don tbe put off with any cheap
“ pattern substitutes, but look for the
B.S.A. Trade Marks on EVERY PART.
They are your guarantee.
Trace the life of a genuine B.S.A.
Fittings Bicycle from the time of
purchase, and you will find it one
long record of satisfaction to the
rider. Day in and day out it gives
unfailing service, and provides many
hours of real enjoyment because of
its easy running and comfort. Con-
trast this with the cheap “pattern”
machine, in which, as a result of
substituting cheapness for quality,
something is always going wrong.
You will make satisfaction certain
by having your bicycle built of
GENUINE
B.S.A.
TITTINGS
You will find it truest economy, for
not only will you enjoy greater
comfort and security with three or
four times the length of service that
a cheap “pattern” machine will give
you, but your bicycle will always
have a good selling
value, as against the
“scrap” price that the
second-hand “ pattern ”
machine usually
fetches.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE "tea l*,. Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
TRADE MAPI’S
Look for this Mark
on every part when
you buy a Bicycle.
ġ


TO “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
The Motor in Australia, 10 Pitt Street, Sydney,
pays standard price for motor, motor-bike, aero-
plane or motor-boat jokes for illustration.
Symptoms of a Weaß Bladder
A Very Common Complaint witß Serious Consequences.
Thousands in Ignorance.
It is really remarkable bow many people are suffering with bladde:> trembly s ci [
know it. K miiberless children are suffering with weak bladders,; and «*» jh■ do . not
know it thinking all the time that the child is naughty. 1 his is Avrong. hut tj e e
even greater number of men and women, both old and young, who are suffering witb blad.c
trouble. They know there is something wrong, but what it. is they cannot tell.
Just read these symptoms through, and see if any of them apply to you.-Ms y ilastcm
month had complexion, scanty urine, restlessness at night, continual. thirst, pains 1
-roiii with a burniim sensation iiiside, inability to retain mine (bed-wetting), stone or grave
in°the"biadder, U toohkoquent desire to’ur.natc/ brick-dust or sediment m the urine, and an
."Itahle temper. S y, n ptoms you should not neglect pas^evrabeen
will find that instead of curing itself your bladder trouble will get wo. se It h« ' ‘“e
l'oown for a case of bladder disease to cure itself. It almost mvariably develops,
pains may develop into chronic rheumatism and gout. A little darkness under thei eyes; m l 3
develop into dropsical swellings. Cloudy urine may develop into gravel and gravel into stone.
Never neglect bladder trouble no matter liow slight.
DANGER IN DELAY.
T f vou arc experiencing any bladder or kidney trouble of any kind do not wait until some
st: nSiriAuro
Im iS ceare aching, and the delicate organs will become soothed in their irritated and
• n 1., 4-, tin . voll yeallv will be surprised how different all the world mil seem t
vom m Instead & of drudgery, your household duties will become a pleasure, life will be brighter—
■ VoU iw t r™£Zm ??’eSAnd do, without doubt, give relief for a time, but the one remedy
, . T - iii () .; V p vou muck relief and most probably a permanent cure, is De A itt s Kidney arid
w ucii av t, ■ } 1 cured by these wonderful little pills, our readers say they are cured foi
Action that babies may take them. They wall cure you, no
*<
iSSgfpr-
/
Oh!
my Back
matter how old you are.
Kidney Bladder Pills
Of chemists and
9
The Inky Way.
“F.J.S.” blows into the discussion of Bean,
the Commonwealth’s official war correspon-
dent : —•
I’m a bit late, perhaps; but Kitchener won’t
serve us up the papers with our morning toast and
coffee, so “J.H.R.’s” defence of Bean (B. 8/7/’l5)
has only, just got to our dug-out. My first sight
of the man was under rather sensational circum-
stances, and I want to tell you what sort of a fellow
lie is.
On May S we advanced up the creelc towards
Krithia. At the trenches of the Lancs, our men
came out on to open country and deployed. Ihcn
the advance was made in short rushes of about 50
yards. It was after the third rush, and we were
about 1000 yards from the Turks. My left-hand
neighbor (we were in support, about 100 yards
behind the firing line) had a shovel arranged as an
armor-plate before his head. 1\ e were both pan-
caked out as flat as possible, breathing only long
ways and side ways, so as not to rise any, noses buried
in the earth, packs drawn right up over our heads,
discussing the probable effect if a bullet struck the
shovel. I held that it would vie. and enter the ribs
of the platoon commander, who was lying next door.
My companion said the bullet would certain!} lisc.
While we were endeavoring to convince each other
a tall, gaunt figure stalked over our line and strode
away ahead towards the firing line. We were so
astonished that we leaned up to watch. Only once
his head suddenly swung aside —probably a bullet
had droned past rather close. Then we remem-
bered the dangerous posture we were in, and, cursing
ourselves for our carelessness, we flattened out again,
and saw no more of the gaunt officer till we spotted
him sitting under a tree at the rear, writing up liis
notes after the show was over.
By the way, I believe Bean when he says the
reported Turkish atrocities arc myths. AVc heard
of several before landing; none afterwards. the
Australian in Gallipoli, although he usually refeis
to Abdul as a gentleman of questionable birth, does
it out of courtesy, and bears him no ill-will at all.
* * * *
“L.T.A.”: Allow me to correct tlie cor-
rector. “E.W.D..” referring to my Inky Way
par. about the McCauglian skit in the “Pass-
ing Show” column of Melbourne Argus,
says that I should have credited the verses
to* Davison Symmons, not John Sandes.
“E.W.D.” is mistaken. The versos were
written by Sandes at least two years after
Symmons left ilio Argus, the occasion being
a ball at Government House when
McOaughan was Among Those Present. That
ball was reported by Sandes and *T. C.
Davidson, now editor of Melbourne Herald,
and Davidson also was a witness in the
resultant libel suit which McGauglian
brought against the Argus. He backs my
statement on the subject.
* *■ * *
“Toowoombaite” explains : —-
The Toowoomba paper which reported that the
enthusiasm of a neighboring village in knitting socks
“is a very hopeful sign of rhe Empire’s awakening,
was the Chronicle, not the Gazette. The Chrun
icle is run by Groom, ex-Minister for Customs, and
members of ids family, and is the paper that, prior
to the last Federal elections, refrained from using
the word “German” in referring to the Huns, and
invariably spoke of the enemy as “the Prussian war
partv.” Toowoomba Chronicle has evinced such
profound care for German feelings that it seeing to
have ■ hastened to assure the 'residents of the little
German settlement that its socks are attracting
Empire-wide attention.
* * • *
“Spasmode”: Poor old Dan Barry made
a rise once with a yarn in a Melbourne Sun-
day paper about Ballarat having fallen into
the interior of the earth. Dan's ghost seems
to have wandered off to Yankeeland. On
August 29 a new paper was printed by
thousands upon thousands in la>s Angeles. It
was named the Hague. Other papers begin
with No. 1. Pol. L This one started with
No. 45. Yol. XXIII. Yet the first number
was the last. Not a single copy was circu-
lated in Bos Angeles. But Eagi.es went oft
in truck-loads to New York. Phicago, 1 lula-
delphia. Boston and other cities. The strange
rag had an extensive account of haw the
German fleet emerged on the North Sea and
wiped the English navy off the face of the
waters Fearful destruction! hull details..
It sold like hot cakes. This no doubt forms
part of the much fuller information which
the Yankees claim to have about the war.
* «■
Thus versatile George Memlell: —
At a convivial meeting of the Australian Associa-
tion of Journalists one Saturday night lately a dis-
cussion arose about Izak Pitman. Then I put in a
claim-—which is hereby recorded —that I hold the
earliest Pitman certificate in Australia, signed and
dated by Izak Pitman on March 12, 1879. Prac-
tically I learnt shorthand from the Manual and
Reporter without instruction, though it took me two
years of daily study. My speed practice was had
in taking down Dr. Nish’s sermons in Bendigo, at an
easy rate of SO words a minute for 05 minutes at
a time. Then I struck Robert Clark, the first Labor
member for Bendigo, and he crumpled me _up by
saying 200 words a minute. W. A. Trenwith was
easily the best speaker I ever followed, and Alfred
Peak in Ihe worst. If he likes I verily believe the
silver-tongued person can utter 250 words a minute.
• * * *
A laurustinus from Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s grave at Brighton (Vic.) has been
replanted at Mount Gambier (h.A.),
his former home. At the ceremony
George Riddocli, old resident aud afore-
time Parliamentary representative, said
that Gordon was one of the finest
characters he had ever met, and never spoke
or allowed anyone else to speak an unkind
word of anv man. On the day of the tragedy
in I*7o. Riddocli and his brother (they were
wealthy squatters) had talked about Gordon,
and George had remarked that it was hardly
safe to leave him alone in Melbourne in his
then state of mind. They decided to wire
asking him to come and pay them a long
visit. But the telegram from Herbert Power
saying that the worst had happened beat
the other message.
“Copy Boy”: Richmond (Vic.) Library
has just got hold of the second issue of
Johnny Fawkner’s Melbourne Advertiser.
dated January 8, 1838. It is in manuscript,
four pages, about the size of a double sheet
of foolscap. More than three of the pages
are filled with advts. In the shipping news
reference is made to a fast sailing cutter,
“a regular trader between this port and
Launceston, carries between 30 and 40 bales
of wool, and is confidently expected to arrive
at this port on 10th inst.” Melbourne's
first pub is advertised as follows :■
1-awkner’s hotel, the first established hotel in Mel-
bourne, wherein the traveller and sojourner will
be supplied with all the usual requisites of a board-
ing-house and hotel of the very best quality, being
mostly laid in from the first commercial house in
Cornwall, Y.D. Land, in addition ro which there
will be found mental recreation of a high order.
There arc provided seven English and five colonial
weekly newspapers, seven British monthly magazines,
three quarterly British reviews. A choice selection
of books. X. 8., a late encyclopedia. The use of any
of these works will lie free to lodgers.
There are only two news items. One relates
to the murder of Constable Tomkins by bush-
ranger Oummerford, and the other an-
nounces :■ —
A wretch named Mooney lias been committed for
attempting to murder liis wife. She lies in a dan-
gerous state. -
Subscribers are given tlie hint to pay up:—
Those of the subscribers who took credit when
they favored this establishment with their support
are most respectfully informed that it i most usual
to pay up all arrears at the beginning of a new year.
* * * *
“Niglitowl”: The proprietor of a North
Queensland newspaper recently pleaded
guilty to two charges of breaking a Wages
Hoard award. After it had been pointed out
that the maximum penalty was £350 and
that the amounts short-paid totted up to
£254, the P.M. put his ears back and fined
the paper-man £5. Deducting the fine and
costs from the amount short-paid, there is
a clear profit of £240 for the defendant.
Breaking a wages law looks like a paying
industry.
* * • *
“Protein”: “O’Pliimerty” (B. 28/10/T5)
wants to know something about the Tas-
manian and Austral-Asiatic Review,
started by Robert Lathrop Murray in 1828.
The paper should not be hard to trace.
Apparently it was still going strong in 1844.
Thus Martin Cash writing in 1870 of liis
bushranging experiences, which occurred in
1843-44: —•
I was under the impression that I had been in-
debted to Judge Montague for (lie preservation of
my life, but I am now aware that my life had been
spared through the exertions of an able and talented
gentleman named Robert Lathrop Murray, the father
of the late able member in our Parliament for Laun-
ceston. who was then proprietor and editor of a
journal called the Review, and who, in one of his
leading articles (written a few days after my con-
demnation, when it would appear absolutely ridicu-
lous for any person to think for a moment that my
life would be spared), particularly addressed his Ex.
Sir Eardley Wilmot, and through his powerful and
unanswerable appeal in the cause of mercy, his Ex.
was pleased to grant me a respite.
* * * *
News editors who find the war-censor’s
pencil run through tlicir most alluring
stories may get a grain of comfort out of
the fact that a N. S. Wales Judge was put
through the same mill the other day. -* r
course the Censor wasn’t Ihere to stun cotton-
wool in his Honor’s mouth ; but instructions
were rushed out to stop him from getting
into print verhalim.
*» * *
The War. and the Drought, and Things
Generally have been responsible for closing
down 17 X. S. Wales country papers during
3914-1!>15; while in six centres the de-
graded contemporaries have patched up a
semi-peace by joining “services wlncli
means hard times for the country hack no
lias to chase a dismal living by “writing
up” the pretty wedding and our esteemed
fellow townsman.
“Jean S.”: E. .T. Brady lias just escape!
from Malaeoota, where lie has been lying in
concealment preparing the final pages o
“Australia Unlimited” for the press. 1 lie
big work, which will be published in hand-
some 4to form by Geo. Robertson and < 0..
has taken a long time to complete, but Brady
has a barrow-load of MSS. to show for hi?
labors.
* * * *
“Copy Boy” : Among the things Australia
has been in the habit of importing are bojs
adventure books. The Cold Country docs
not now own a Kingston, Ballantyne or
Ilenty. and traders say that Ihe supply ol
this literature is not equal to the demand.
At least one Australian publishing firm is
anxious to get hold of adventure yarns for
the young, and local writers should be able
to furnish the goods A start has been made
by Charley Barrett, of Melbourne Hekai.o.
who, in the intervals of chasing butterflies
and spying on the tomtit, has written a yarn.
“The Isle of l’alms.” in which pirates and
buried treasure are skilfully mixed with
hints on nature study. 'The book, illustrated
bv Charley Nuttall. is* alleged to be selling
well, and more of the same sort are wanted.
Story-writers who do not harbor the delu-
sion that the world is nopulated solely by
adults should find something payable in this
line.
“Hugo Ivnapp”: There is a big shortage
in many lines of iron and steel goods, elec-
trical fittings, tools and such things. Jho
familiar explanation is that freight isn’t
available, or that factories have been taken
over by the British Government for the
manufacture of munitions. But this is not
the whole truth. For many years past Ihe
big iron and steel factories at Sheffield
have largely depended on the German. He
has done the first rough work. This hhs
been particularly so in regard to razors,
knives and other cutlery. Much the sarpe
can be said in regard to sheets for making
tanks, boilers and other goods. To such
an extent has this gone on that British fac-
tories-have neither tin 1 skilled labor nor the
machinery necessary for certain processes of
manufacture. The result: has been a hold-
up whilst British labor has been ui'ged to
again learn the things it should never have
forgotten, and which it never would have
forgotten but for that murderous Freetrade
insanity.
THE BELLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Archbishop of Budapest (Hungary) has
announced his readiness to give up all the church
bells, to be melted down for military purposes with-
out waiting for the authorities to requisition them.
I am a simple little bard.
At making poems by the yard
I earn the hat upon my head,
My coat, and boots, my daily bread;
And after working six long days,
if still alive the Lord 1 praise.
But in the suburb where 1 nest
The church bells rob me of my rest,
And many times the furtive rhymes
Are lost to me amid the chimes.
While ringers ring my soul to vex,
I would that I might wring their necks.
And this is why 1 think the \var
Is something to be thankful for ;
For ere the fighting is quite through
Our church bells may be given, too.
Let all be rung in, I implore,
That peace indeed may follow war.
VIC TOUT A.
EDDYSON.


n
ectnc
©for
rive
UP-TO-DATE Manufacturers realise that B.T-H. or G.E. individual electric
motor drive is the best for all manufacturing work. B.T-H. or G.E. motors
are giving absolute satisfaction everywhere in large and small factories. They
can be controlled merely by pressing a button, will stand the most severe service,
eliminate overhead shafting, unprotected belts, experienced attention, and are remarkably
low in maintenance costs.
Large Stock of Alternating-Current & Direct-Current Motors on hand.
We will be pleased to give further information on receipt of communication.
9
0
L
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.):
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd.
The Engineering Supply Co.
. corner Edward and Charlotte
of Australia
Streets.
BERTH (W.A.) : ( has. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents—
Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unhehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
XEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland. Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd.. Launceston;
Oliver & Oliver. Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Ho bail.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee C
ompany
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
ample security assured, trust accounts always open to inspection.
estates and PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
every DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. PULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
\
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
u Shipped in British vessels. H
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
trana jlong Leaeher & Webb, Ltd- Liverpool A London.
6S
f 9
ALRA
The DETACHABLE OUTBOARD MOTOR
t t
p :
rB
- WM
m
B.H.P.
Both Engines are
of the best
Swedish
Construction.
The Latest Improve-
ments.
Pate nt, Self-locking
Steering Device.
Propeller turns with
Rudder, which means the
most effective steering
possible.
High Tension (vvater-
p roof) Reversible
Magneto Ignition, of
the very best make.
Submersible Parts
made from best bronze:
rust-proof.
Remarkable Simplicity.
Highest Efficiency.
Perfect Reliability.
I T nexcelled Durabilit y.
“The ‘AJka’ is strong enough
to propel you through life.”
We always STOCK these Engines
Arrange for a demonstration, or write for Catalogues and Prices to:
NELSON ®. ROBERTSON,
Sole Representatives for Australasia
and the South Sea islands,
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
“SKANDIA”
Marine, Stationary 8 Portable Engines
Unequalled in I
SIMPLICITY,
ACCESSIBILITY
RELIABILITY,
DURABILITY
and
ECONOMY.
NO Water Drip.
NO Cams, Valves or Gears to get out of order and
to repair.
NO skilled labor necessary.
Automatic Ignition.
Runs on Crude Oil. at less than Od. per gallon.
Running Expenses less than half of those of Benzine
Engines.
Fuel Economy higher than that of any other Crude
Oil Engine on the market.
More than 50 “Skandia” now running in Australia and
the Islands.
Stationary Type,
From 4 to
600 H.P.


Shaving Cup and Brush, Pure
Silver-plated, \1 Quality, 15/6.
MS
;, =»C^a ri ‘'“ .
'■« ii_ • am*
_ .Vi?rr-..>
Sterling Silver Manicure Set, 5 Pieces, plain
design, Morocco Case, 25/-
V/
w
mr
m
m
am
m
iiiii«iiiiiii |i <ii
mum
Lady’s Toilet Set, comprising Hair Brush, pure Bristles,
Mirror and Comb. Complete in Morocco Case, £3/ 10/ -
XMAS
Perfume
Bottle, Silver-
mounted, Hobnail
Cut Glass Bottle,
FULL EISE
Fine Diamond-cut Flint
Glass Head Salts Bottle,
Solid Silver Mounts and Top,
5/6.
GIFTS.
Solid Silver
Shaving
Brush, Real
Badger Hair,
8/6.
Cigar Holder, in Solid Silver Case. Real Amber, Gold Mounted,
20/-
s&ssa
Powder Jar, Pure Silver-plated Lid, Cut Glass
Base, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
807-817 George Street, SYDNEY.
m
Gent.’s Solid Silver Presentation
Gis'ar Case, concave back, full size,
£2/10/; Cigarette size, 12/6, 15/-,
17/6.
handsomely Embossed, Satin-finished Handkerchief
Box fine Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, Silk-lined, £5/10/-
’ With Glove Box to match, £lO/10/- pair.
a
irs^ssr-
*
14
,0V *
c
mu
Solid Silver Gent.’s Military Brush Set,
comprising: 2 Hair Brushes, Cloth Brush and Comb.
Complete in Solid Pigskin Case, £4/4/-
HORLICK'S
■MALTED
■■milk
SgAHOTR
>.W M »J)>V
ss
!s*s»s-3
The Wise 1
Housewife
has her shelves
wisely stocked,
just as the
wise shopkeeper
keeps his store supplied with
the right articles. Horlick’s
Malted Milk (Milk, Wheat
and Malt) should be an
essential article in the store
cupboard in every properly
equipped home. It is so
nutritious, palatable, and
easily made. No cooking.
It has been rightly named by
som ■ “The Ideal Food-
Drink ’• —by others “The
Powdered Energiser.”
Ask foj? Horlick’s Malted
Milk at the Soda Fountain.
Write for sample, sending 2d.
in stamps, to Hutchinson &
Co., 26, Jamieson St, Sydney,
N.S.W., or Sharland & Co.,
Ltd., Lome St., Auckland, and
Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
ĵ
ĥ
gj
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
\rabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain'on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to. deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/-and 2/b.
Obtainable from all Chemists‘and Stores in Australia.
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for November
jĵ
The owners of Edison Phonographs will this month have an
opportunity of selecting an exceptionally fine range of delightful
records —beautiful vocal airs, charming instrumental selections
and entertaining humor.
We specially direct your attention to the following : “I all In
(Vernon Archibald) ; “A Call to Arms”—descriptive—(Peerless
Quartet) ; “When the Green Leaves Turn to Gold” (Elizabeth
Spencer and Walter Van Brunt);: “La Mia Speranza”
(Liberal’s Band) ; “Snappy Stories”, (Bobbie Naish) ; “1
Want to Go Back to Michigan” (Billy Murray and Chorus.)
Read the list carefully through and, if possible, call on your
Edison dealer and have him play over those you fancy.
Be sure to order early.
Blue Amberol Concert Records
28202 —Just for To-day (Bingham) —Contralto,
Orel), acc. Christine Miller
28203- —Trovatore —Home to our Mountains
(Verdi) —Contralto and Tenor, oreh.
acc. Margaret Keyes and Dan Beddoe
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2414 —La Mia Speranza Valse —
Liberates Band
2473 —Spring of Love —Violin, violincello,
flute and harp
Venetian Instrumental Quartet
2475 —Adoration —Violin, piano acc.
Bichard Czerwonky
2491 —When the Green Leaves Turn to Gold —
Soprano and Tenor, orch. acc.
Elizabeth Spencer and Walter Van Brunt
2494 — Fairest Rose Valse—Zylophor.e, orch.
acc. Charles Daab
2495 — Mrs. Sippi, You’re a Grand Old Girl—
Contralto and Tenor, orch. acc
Helen Clark and Billy Murray
2499 Ev’ry Valley Shall be Exalted —Messiah
Tenor, orch. acc. Reed Miller
2500 — Weber’s Last Thought—Fantasia.
Cornet, orch. acc. Gustav F. Heim
2507 —l Want to go Back to Michigan—
Tenor and chorus, orch. ace.
Billy Murray and Chorus
2510 —When the Ebb Tide Flows —Male Voices
Knickerbocker Quartet
2512 — Last Rose of Summer —Martha.
Soprano and Chorus.
Elizabeth Spencer and Chorus
2513 — He’s a Rag Picker —Male Voices, orch.
acc. Peerless Quartet
2514—D0d0 Dawdle —Fox Trot, for Dancing.
National Promenade Band
2516—F0r You. Contralto and Baritone;
orclj. ace.
Helen Clark and Vernon Archibald
2519 —Last Night When You Said Good-bye.
Contralto, orch. ace. Marie Morrisey
23304 —Ballet Russe —March Russe.
National Military Band
23307 —In Friendship’s Name. Baritone, orch.
ace. Percy Harding
23308 —Let’s Have a Song About Father. Comic
Song, orch. ace. Bobbie Naish
23309—Hungarian Dance in G Minor.
Moss-Squire Celeste Orchestra
23320 —The Longshoreman. Baritone, orch.
ace. Robert Howe
23322 —Snappy Stories. Comic Song, orch.
acc. Bobbie Naish
23323 —Through All the Changing Scenes of
Life. Tenor and Baritone, orch. acc.
Hughes Macklin and David Brazell
23363 —A Call to Arms —Descriptive.
Peerless Quartet
23365 —Fall In. Baritone, orch. acc.
Vernon Archibald
23376—Here We Are! Here We Arc! Here
We Are Again! ! ! Baritone, orch.
acc. Frederick J. Wheeler and Male
Chorus.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
gjĝ
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2iin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22 16
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
ğjg
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
OPEN>
CLOSED
Portable
Folding
Organs.
“ FOLD LIKE A
SUIT CASE.”
For Camp, Church
or Home.
Used by Chapman-Alexander Missions, Dr.
Mavvson’s South Pole Expedition, Military and
Seaside Camps.
PRICES.
“Wonder” Folding Organ, £5/10/-
“Marvel” Folding Organ, £6/10/-
“Geni” Folding Organ, £9/10/-
Sole Agents for Australia:—
SUTTON’S,
290 & 292 Bourke St.,
MELBOURNE.
BALLARAT,
BENDIGO,
GEELONG.


f&EAUj/j
V. aE. ATKINS ON*
1 If
you took out
each stopper
before deciding
WHICH WOULD BE
YOUR CHOICE?
You would find that
Atkinson’s English Eau de
Cologne is just the type of
perfume that a woman of taste
would instinctively prefer.
And you would be right.
For Atkinson’s English Eau
de Cologne is the finest in the
world. For over 100 years it
has been distilled in London
by a Bond Street House of
world-wide reputation.
Look for the name of Atkinson on every bottle of Eau
de Cologne you buy. It enables you to pick out what
you want —the best.
ATKINSON’S
BRITISH Eau=de=Cologne
J. & E. ATKINSON.
A. OLD BOND ST., LONDON.
44
No. 24.
r
mt
THE BEST
SMOKE
IS
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
Y
A
Examine tHe Heads
of tHe .22*s You Use
If they are stamped with the letter ‘‘U’’’
then they are the genuine Remington
UMC .22 calibre cartridges.
’ These little cartridges, with a .22 Remington
Repeater or any other standard make of .22 calibre
rifle, will afford you more pleasure at less cost, than
can be secured in any other way.
Learn to shoot with these accurate cartridges; or improve your
score if already a shooter and protect yourself by insisting on
the Remington UMC red ball brand.
We shall he pleased, to send, postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When writing, send us the name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building. New York City
D. 1). BRYANT, Australian Representative,
P.O. Box CSC, Melbourne.
j
Contractors to the British and Colonial Governments.
Real Hair Grower
Found at Last!
The Great American Discovery "Crystolis**
Grows Hair in 30 Days.
£2OO Reward if We Fail on Our Guarantee.
Try It At Our RisK. Post Coupon To-day.
g
Beautiful Hail- and lots of it—lf you use Crystolis.
Here’s good news at last for men and women
whose hair is falling, who are growing bald and
grey, whose scalps are covered with dandruff that
nothing seems to keep away, and whose heads itch
like mad.
Good news even for those who imagine them-
selves hopelessly and incurably bald, or who suffer
from hair or scalp trouble of any kind.
We have had granted to us the sole Australasian
rights for the great American discovery, Crystolis,
the new hair remedy that in America and Europe
has been called the most wonderful scalp discovery
of the century, having been awarded gold medals at
the big Paris and Brussels Expositions.
Hundreds of men and women have written us to
tell of the phenomenal results obtained by its use.
People who have been bald for years tell how they
now glory in their beautiful hair. Others who have
had dandruff all their lives say they have now a
clean, healthy scalp and that hair stopped falling
after a few applications of this wonderful new treat-
ment.
We don’t care whether you are bothered with
falling hair, prematurely grey hair, matted hair,
brittle hail - , or stringy hair ; dandruff, itching scalp,
or any or all forms of hair trouble. We want you
to try “CRYSTOLIS” at our risk.
We give you a binding guarantee without any
“strings” or red tape, that it won’t cost you a
cent if we do not prove to you that “Crystolis” will
do all we claim for it, and, what’s important, we
have plenty of money to back our guarantee. We
have deposited £2OO in our local bank as a special
fund to be forfeited if we fail to comply with this
contract. Out out the coupon below, and post it
to-day to Creslo Laboratories, Divis. 200 D, Mal-
colm Buildings, 256 a George Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
FREE COUPON.
The Creslo Laboratories, Divis. 200 D.,
Malcolm Building's, 256 a George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
I am a reader of the Sydney Bulletin.
Prove to me, without cost, how CryStolis
stops falling hair, grows new hair, banishes
dandruff and itching scalps, and restores
premature grey and faded hair to natural
color. Write your name and address plainly,
and ;
Pin this Coupon t<? Your Letter.
Firestone
Non-SRid Tyres.
For the hard road—for the hot pace—for the long
grind—for true economy and service .
The success of Firestone Tyres has proved that the motorist
can have comfort, safety and the ** most miles per shilling.”
Firestone Tyres are preferred because of highest quality at the least
cost—as the greatest value, even though there are "cheaper'’ tyres.
The rubber in them is supremely good. It has the quality of greatest beat-
resistance, of greatest wear endurance. Every Firestone Tyre contains an extra quantity
of this extremely good rubber.
The Non-skid lettering is an imprint of safety. On every highway of the world ii
challenges the need of other anti-skid safeguards. It holds the standard for endurance
and economy. The letters prevent spin or skid in any direction, they radiate the heat
of road friction, insure perfect traction with gasoline economy, car-protection and
comfort beyond contradiction.
4
I
Firestone Tyres are made by specialists in the largest
exclusive tyre factory in the world. This year’s Firestone
output has increased 78 per cent. Firestone are tyres of
greatest strength, sturdiness and safety—
for the Price of Only Ordinary Tyres.
Leading dealers everywhere endorse Firestone quality, and
motorists praise Firestone service.
TO DEALERS.
A Firestone Representative—from
the factory at Akron, Ohio, U.B. A.—
will shortly make calls on dealers and garages In person. Inter-
ested people may make appointments by writing to Firestone
Tyre & Rubber Co., C.P.O. Box 2521, Sydney.
Messrs. GRIMLEY LTD.,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W
Distributors,. N.S.W.
FIRESTONE TYRE & RUBBER CO.
Factory: Akron, Chio, U.S.A.
Manufacturers of Pneumatic ancESolid
Tyres; Motor Lorry Tyres; FireyCnglne
Tyres; Rims, Tyre Accessories, eto.
We are
prepared
to supply
all sizes of
pnepnfatio
tyres.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
v\\ \
\ \ t
t
f /|
.'-V
V. **»
-^■?*r***
sirM&
1 ")
s'-''. ’""{S- ;:>>
*3
>*&
M
rli!
/5
W
:?*•
ts
*
wi
i
ny
I
5®
>-r>
»/»■
■MI
/ 4
■f#
WO-
-
5®
/•#*
g§s§
-V.
w
sfe?
IB
- • »s' VJ „,.
HtfiS
m
4?feS!
Si;
mi
m
m.
m
•/-
Hi
S#;
iiS
Isf
M
m
m
m
,<^l.
\
m
i%
y)
m,
iisa
%
mM.
ft
m
ftX
I
K»
ear
a
3Ks&2j£
tft
ma<
m
m
3m
://J
s~r,d
u
Hi
a?
1®
a,!
Pya
m
s*!&ss
y?U
M
w
¥J
ss
*■?
P
//
S>s
*y
#•
Si
V'
(/
*\J
.^3?'
sistffiam
y£f%! : uok>-
M
im.
SSfc-c
sa
SSSI3?
£M
Ml
§i>
m
m
mm
■m
m
m
m
m
WM
liiip*
>i
,m:
’.jjiOjfi
sj«»
iSjSSS®
ta. s—
* o
Cobra,” IShe. Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Hears the big shell
In the blue.
“ Bk r shell coming !
o o
Look out all!
D own the trench they
H ear him call.
Towards the dug-out
Rush the gang;
As they gain it
There’s a BANG !!.
When the dust has
Settled, see !
Safe and clean,
The “COBRA” three


A Great
Success!
NEW
LEVER
POCKET
SELF-FILLING
Wat erman's
(Ideal)
FountaiiiPen
Raise lever, dip nib
in ink, lower
lever —the
pen is
filled.
,*TtRM
IDEA]
y]
r-
mm
Showing the little lever device
for easy filing. When closed it
lies flush with the surface of the
barrel.
This new type of the
Fountain Pen which
popularised handwriting,
is the outcome of much
thought, much experi-
ment, and vast expense
in machinery and labour,
all of which have been
amply justified by the
remarkable demand that
followed its introduction.
Many thousands of this
new type of Waterman’s
Ideal have been purchased
already. Why ? Firstly,
because there was a
distinct need for a simple,
efficient, and trustworthy
Self-Killing; Fountain Pen;
and, secondly, because the
new pen was a Waterman’s
Ideal, and, therefore, could
be relied upon implicitly.
The only difference be-
tween the Regular Water-
man’s Ideal and the New
Type is the addition of the
simple self-filling device
and a screw cap. In all
other respects the pens are
identical. Ask your sta-
tioner to show you this
splendid new self-filling
pen.
Waterman’s Ideal is made in three types
—the New Lever Pocket Self-filler, the
Regular and the Safety. Every Pen
guaranteed.
For ACTIVE SERVICE and Outdoor
use, we recommend the “Safety”
type, which can be carried is any
position and will not leak.
Of Stationers
and Jewellers
the world over
L. G. SLOAN, Comer,
Kingsway, London, England.
Lightning JBug^lectnFTantern]
I At last a CheapafrSisl
' GOOD FOR> ttr l^L__
i Cheaper, Clearief* and—Safex liras
I other light? “Ncr smoker smell jJdaSgerj’-'
mess or trouble”ivifh“widlcs L ml jirlclum-'-
-sisk witlT"matches. A4w3y£-
ready f -«r ihsT
Safely used amidst escapini
benzine, in-stables.
ijects light; J>Q-'fggt~ Ottty~ 8,
/The UNlQNCo.,299Enzabet hSt reet. Melbourne.,* 3
IFt
PfHE CHAMPION BAGATELLE PLAYER]
s/e
g
The cleverest mechanical game ever invented.
You wind it the little man shoots
ball after ball into
the numbered holes.
The mechanism re-
turns each ball to the
player, who drives it
►again up the table.
It is perfectly self-
acting, and most exciting
games can be played by
several people scoring by the
different colored balls or counting one
’break against another; often tots up 400 at
a break. Absolutely fair; cannot be rigged.
It is over 11 inches long by -6 inches high,
I strongly made and paeked in a box. Only 5/6; we pav,
(carnage anywhere. You will say it is worth double the
money when you see it playing. Obtainable only from 1
The Union M’f’g & Agency Company |
| 299 Elizabeth Street. |
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres L,td.
Governing Dii'ector .... HUGH 1). McINTOSH.
■yiVOLI THEATRE, SYHN E Y.
TWICE DAILY: 2.30 AND 8.
LAST NIGHTS MARY LAW.
COY DE TRICK US', WALTER JAMES, HAZEL,
MORAN, VAUDE & VERNE, HERBERT WINTER,
FRANK STAFFORD & CO., NOLAN & NOLAN,
J. & M. HARKINS, IDA BARR, ANNIE KENT,
MORRIS GOLDEN.
“IVOLI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHT OF
THE FAMOUS
TIVOLI FOLLIES.
AUSTRALIA’S BIG FUN SHOW.
All the old favorites and many new stars.
ER M A J E S TY’S, SYDNEY,
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 20.
Return of the ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in a grand revival of Planquette’s Melodious Comic
Opera,
PAUL JONES.
MISS FLORENCE YOUNG in the Title BOle.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
The Theatre will be reopened on SATURDAY,
NOVEMBER 20, when the successful Drama,
KLCK-IN,
will be transferred from Her Majesty’s.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
fHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessees PHILIP LYTTON LTD.
Representative GEO. L. MERRIMAN.
EVERY NIGHT AT EIGHT.
PHILTP LYTTON
presents
THE WAYBACKS
AT HOME AND IN TOWN.
Only a few nights longer, and then the record-
breaking Australian comedy is away on tour. The
happiest chances come seldom. If. you miss the
Waybacks it may be long before you have another
such opportunity of hearty natural enjoyment. Come
and join the glad crowd that gathers nightly to prove
how cordially Australians delight in genuine Aus-
tralian comedy.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Booking-fee, 1/-.
Box Plan at Paling’s and Hotel Australia.
You haven’t seen Sjalney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. I). WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Baiuuxgton Mill eh, General Manager.
THE GARDEN THEATRE,
* (Open Air),
DARLING HURST, SYDNEY.
Two Minutes from top of William Street,
SYDNEY’S ONLY OPEN-AIR THEATRE.
Mr. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE
presents
VIOLET DANDT KS CO.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
Programmes Changed Every Friday.
SUMMER ALLOCATIONS OTHER COS.:
uwiUiUiJH X AV/IAI VIIILH V V.H3. ;
DANDIES (Green) MANLY
DANDIES (Scarlet) BRISBANE
DANDIES (Oran P-e) ST. IvILDA
DANDIES (Pink) ADELAIDE
DANDIES (Red) PERTH
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, 1/%
Box Plans at CARNEGIE’S, 334 George Street,
and at SINCLAIR’S, top-William Street.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 5.15.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present their new Farce
Comedy Co. in
A PAIR OF SIXES.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls. 6/-;
Stalls. 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
UER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 20.
Reappearanec of
THE NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO. in
HIGH JINKS.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
P RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE!
' Direction E. J. CARROLL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MR. AND MRS. GRAHAM MOFFAT
in their delightful play,
A SCRAPE O’ Til’ PEN.
Plans at Allan’s.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE!
Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 20.
ALLEN BOONE
SWEET COUNTY KERRY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
I J 6 U T H E A T R E, M E L B O U R N E.
FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
BROWN & SORLIE, THE TWO COLLIERS,
MANUEL DE FRA. HARRINGTON REYNOLDS,
HILDA FELSTED, FRANK LANK & ALICE PIERCE,
ASCOT * BARNES, MULLANEY TWINS, MAY,
ERNE & HE.
Prices: 2/6, 2/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
D IRC H &" CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives ip Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELI. CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
yyiRTH BROS. LTD. CIRCUS AND ZOO.
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING.
HIPPODROME, WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
ALL NEW STAR COMPANY, including:—
The ROYAL WIRTH FAMILY.
CAPTAIN FRANK HULING’S FAMOUS RIDING
SEALS ON HORSEBACK.
The ERNESTONIA-NOUIIvOFF TROUPE.
The LORETTA TWINS, only Lady Horizontal Bar
Performers.
The LE VANS. MAXINO, the Drunk on Wire.
STAMPINE, the Steel-skinned Man.
MUSSA MAMIEV, Russian Cossack Rider.
ALL OLD FAVORITES IN NEW ACTS.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Glen’s.
PICTURES. MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHO W S.
HOYT’S OWN: TSourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
Tenders. ■■ _____
THE BOWRON BROS. EXPORT AND
TRADING CO. LTD. (in Liquidation).
TENDERS will be received by the Liqui-
dators of The Bowron Bros. Export and
Trading Co. Ltd. (In Liquidation) at the
office of Alex. Jobson, Ocean House, Moore
Street, Sydney. N. S. Wales, and at the office
of George Bowron, Messrs. Bowron Bros. &
Co., Ltd., Christchurch, N. Zealand, for the
purchase of 6 per cent. A debentures for
£13,750 issued by the Woolston Tanneries
Ltd.
These A debentures form part of an issue
of Seventy-five (75) A debentures of One
thousand pounds (£1000) each, and are
secured by a first charge on the assets and
undertaking of Woolston Tanneries Ltd.
These debentures have a currency of ten
(10) years, and are repayable on 11th day
of June, 1925. They carry interest at the
rate of Six (£C) pounds per centum per
annum payable half-yearly on 31st day of
March and 30th day of September. In-
terest will be computed from 11th day of
June, 1915, and the first payment will be
made on 31st day of March, 1916.
Purchasers will be entitled to accrued in-
terest at 6 per cent. p.a. from 11th June,
1915.
The conditions of the debentures, the con-
tract of sale by which the Woolston Tan-
neries Ltd. purchased the business of The
Bowron Bros. Export & Trading Co. Ltd.,
and the prospectus of Woolston Tanneries
Ltd. may be inspected at the office of the
Liouidators.
Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit
(in cash or by marked cheque) of 10 per
cent, of the amount of the tender. The
lowest or any tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
Tenders may be made for any of the de-
bentures in multiples of £lOO, as Woolston
Tanneries Ltd. has agreed to issue them in
any denomination desired by the Liquidators.
Tenders will close at 3 p.m. on 24th day
of November, 1915, at the office of the
I Jauidators.
Dated thi« 12th day of November, 1915.
WM. TILLEY I
ALEX. JOBSON f
G. BOWRON J
Liquidator
THE BOWRON BROS. EXPORT AND
TRADING CO. LTD. (in Liquidation).
TENDERS will be received by the Liqui-
dators of The Bowron Bros. Export and
Trading Co. Ltd. (In Liquidation) at the
office of Alex. Jobson. Ocean House, Moore
Street, Sydney, N. S. Wales, and at the office
of George Bowron, Messrs. Bowron Bros. &
Co. Ltd., Christchurch, New Zealand, for the
purchase of five (5) per cent. B deben-
tures of £lOOO each issued by the Woolston
Tanneries Ltd.
These B debentures form part of an issue
of Thirty-five (35) B debentures of One
thousand pounds (£1000) each and are
secured by a second charge on the assets
and undertaking of Woolston Tanneries
Ltd. These debentures have a currency of
ten (10) years, and are repayable on 11th
day of June, 1025. They carry interest at
the rate of Five (£5) pounds per centum
ppv annum newbie half yearly on 31st d
of March and 30th day of September. In-
terest will be computed from the 11th day
of June, 1915. and the first payment will be
made on the 31st day of March, 1916.
purchasers will be entitled to accrued in-
terest at 5 per cent. p.a. from 11th June,
1915.
These debentures are also entitled to a
bonus of one per cent, in addition to the in-
terest of Five (£5) pounds per centum per
annum payable on them, if in any financial
year the net profits of the Company < after
making all just and reasonable allowances
for depreciation, bad and doubtful debts,
future or contingent losses and liabilities) be
sufficient to pay the shareholders a dividend
of not less than Six (£6) pounds per centum
per annum and to provide a bonus of one
per cent, for the same vear on the amount
of this issue of B debentures.
The conditions of the debentures,, the con-
tract of sale by which the Woolston Tan-
neries Ltd. purchased the business of The
Bowron Bros. Export and Trading Co.
Ltd., and the prospectus of Woolston Tan-
neries Ltd. may be inspected at the office
of the Liquidators.
Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit
(in cash or by marked cheque) of 10 per
cent. Of the amount of the tender. The low-
est or any tender will not necessarily be
accepted
Tenders may be made for any of the de-
bentures in multiples of £lOO, as Woolston
Tanneries Ltd. has agreed to issue them
in any denomination desired by the Liquida-
tors.
Tenders will close at 3 p.m. on 24th day
of November, 1915, at the office of the
Liquidators.
Dated this 12th day of November, 1915.
WM. TILLEY
ALEX. JORSON
G. BOWRON
Liquidators.
The Xmas
Bulletin
Extra
and
Special
Issue
Published
Saturday,
December 11,
1915.
High=class Stories,
Verse & other Literary
Contributions by
Australasian Writers.
Illustrations by Popular
“ Bulletin ” and other
.j* & Front Rank
Australasian Artists.
On Sale at all News-
agents, or Post Free
from “The Bulletin”
Office, 214 George St.,
Sydney.
Price 6d.


sw
IN
D
Y
ELY
rs
OPENING of the SUMMER GARDEN!
The Wentworth Hotel Summer Garden is now in full swing, and, as
in previous seasons, has quickly become the rendezvous of the elite.
Delightfully cool and comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons, Dinners,
Afternoon Teas and Supper Parties and all open-air functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find The Wentworth Hotel most popular. .
The appointments and service are superb, and compare favorably with
the best hotels in Australia. Terms on application.
3lrs. MACXURCAX, Manageress.
Wanted Lady Home Workers
£1 weekly and upwards may be
earned in spare time at home. Dainty,
fascinating work. No teacher required.
Suitable town or country. Send 3d. (in
stamps) for BOOKLET and particulars of our
offer.
TORCHON LACE CO.,
229 b Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES,
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
A HINT TO THE MOTHER
WONDERING WHAT BEST TO SEND
TO HER SON AT THE FRONT.
To the thousands of mothers who have
sons at the Front and whose thoughts are
constantly with their boys and what can best
be sent them to make their lot easier or
safeguard their health, it may not be amiss
to suggest sending a bottle of Dr. Morse's
Indian Root Pills.
A bottle of pills may seem an amusing or
unusual thing to suggest, but, seriously, could
anything of equal size or cost be sent that
will be so necessary or useful? It is a well-
known fact that the men require such a
remedy. The irregular life causes the sys-
tem to get out of order, and it is this get-
ting out of order that is responsible for such
an enormous loss from sickness. The shot
and shell of the enemy are only a part of
the danger the soldiers face. To be an effec-
tive soldier, good health is far and away the
most important single item.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are too well
known to the public to waste space telling
what they will do. The little amber bottle
in which they are packed will secure them
from all kinds of weather conditions, and
they can be carried by the men on their per-
son at all times without inconvenience.
10,000 bottles of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills were offered and accepted by the Mili-
tary Authorities during the early months of
the war. From letters received from Egypt
and other advices, the gift of these pills was
highly appreciated because they met the
every-day requirement and kept them in per-
fect condition. See that a bottle of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills is included in any
parcel being sent to a son at the Front.*
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE DISAPPOINTED WOOER.
The Milan correspondent of the Daily Telegraph
states that the general impression is that Germany
is seeking to open negotiations for peace on terms.
THE M AN: “Beautiful Peace, I offer you
my hand —vat is your fortune?”
THE L ADY: “Ah, you robbed me of my
fortune when you trampled on little
Belgium!”
All sorts of noble lords Avho cut no politi-
cal ice under normal circumstances are rush-
ing into the limelight in England with cries
of alarm. For instance, Lord Loreburn,
“formerly Lord Chancellor.” The burden
of his yell is practically—“ Stop the Avar for
the Peerage’s sake !” He thinks that “if
the war is continued indefinitely a revolu-
tion and anarchy may folloAV.” The com-
plaining Loreburn has no definite proposals
to offer, but what he indefinitely suggests is
that Britain should regard the preservation
of its ancient political system as the first
law of nature. If the evils of a long Avar
are to be followed by the disturbance of the
old order, better cut short the Avar. Better
anything, in fact, than that Britain shall
Avake up to the fact that it has been mis-
governed almost to the grave.
From a Light Horse Billjim on the edge
of Gallipoli to a Melbourne business man :
Everything supplied by Australia is better than
stuff from other countries —uniforms, food, equip-
ment, everything-. One only wants to be here a
month or two to be proud of Australia.
Likewise one only wants to go round the
corner in Australia to. meet a corpulent im-
porter grunting that nothing ’made here-
abouts is any class, and that to get the real,
honest article you must buy it in a box
dragged from the ends of the earth.
The No-Conscription Fellowship has
sprung into being in Melbourne. Its mem-
bers “will refuse, from conscientious mo-
tives, to bear arms, and will oppose every
effort to introduce compulsory military ser-
vice.” Oh well, if these men won’t fight for
themselves, thank Heaven there are 20,000
women now under arms in Servia behind
whose skirts they can shelter.
“THE PEN IS MIGHTIER THAN THE
SWORD.”
WASHINGTON, Wednesday.—The news of the sink-
ing of the Italian steamer Ancona caused a sensation
here. The action is regarded as foreshadowing a
new controversy -between the United States and
Austria.- — Cable.
UNCLE SAM: “That's what comes of learning
kids those Godarn copy-book maxims!”
A week or two ago an Australian State
Premier was-whimpering about the “magni-
tude of his labors” and the great responsi-
bilities thrown upon him by the war (which
he has nothing to do with), and declaring
that “at times the burden was almost too
great for him to carry.” Two days later he
was twittering to a reporter that he hadn’t
a care in the world. Liver? Not at all.
He had floated another loan, and passed on
the responsibilities and the burden that was
almost too great to bear to the Kid, as usual.
On the worst of authority, The Bulletin
learns that the Federal income tax is not to
be collected in the ordinary way. Treasurer
Higgs wants three or four millions ; but com-
pulsion is not the policy of this Govern-
ment. Instead we are to have “Coo-ees” and
“Snowball” marches. A patriot with a
begging bowl is to set out from Gilgandra,
for instance, and plod towards Sydney, rat-
tling his box as he goes. At every township
he will hold a meeting and invite voluntary
contributions to pay the national interest
bill. This is the system adopted for getting
men to save the country ; and if it is good
enough for the country to rely upon, it ought
to be good enough also for Cohen to rely
upon.
Extract from “The Borrower’s Guide to
Tophet” : —•
Australia has risen nobly to the German assault
on British freedom and is supporting the integrity
of the Empire with money and men. Through the
mouths of her Prime Minister, her six Premiers, her
59 lesser Ministers and her 659 m'-rubers of Parlia-
ment she has spoken in terms that have thrilled the
world with admiration for her high courage, resolu-
tion and spirit of sacrifice. “We will give our last
shilling in this holy cause” is her message to the
Mother of Nations. “But, say, lend us £18,000,000
in the meantime.” The thrilling cry reverberates
frem Pole to’ Pole, from the setting to the rising
sun. It gives fresh strength to the allied arms. The
dying soldier lifts his weary head to cheer its echo.
The lonely shipmaster steering his vessel to, Sydney
full of pianolas, armchairs and chest protectors from
Chicago hears it carried over the windswept sea —this
Great and Glorious Cadge.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Wade was
caught in the middle of a nastily-flavored
campaign by the announcement that
the Referendum was not to be taken. In
the process of making the most capital he
could against the Federal Labor Government
he promptly dubbed the agreement with the
States “a death-bed repentance, and a mani-
festation of fear”; but the next day, having
thought over things, he decided that it was
the duty of the Liberals to fight the agree-
ment to the last ditch. If Wade would
abandon this ditch-fighting there might be
less mud about.
The Macs predominate in the new Vic.
Ministry. This is a sort of set-off to the
O’s who rule the roost in spendthrift N. S.
Wales.
Ex-Senator Pulsford (N.S.W.) wailed
dismally in a Sydney newspaper last week
about the iniquity of the agitation to secure
relief from German goods after the war.
According to the hardy old battler for Lib-
eralism and Freetrade and the cheap nig.,
this is “practically inviting us to refuse
compensation.” The Bulletin suggests
that the Australian public should now sit
down under the nearest tree and figure out
the great benefits that would result from a
course of Pulsfordism. How comforting,
foi instance, to know that our lads had not
died in vain—that they had asserted the
right of the Commonwealth to the cheap hat
from Hamburg and the cheap socks from
Stuttgart.
“Warre”: The business methods of
N.S.W. Government have genius stamped
on every link. On November 1 a bacon-
curing factory (cost £15,000) was solemnly
opened at the Yaneo irrigation settlement,
and up to the time of writing one solitary
hog has been treated. Reason: The Govern-
ment has fixed the price of bacon at Is., but
as the price in Vic. is Is. 6d., the unclean
animal goes up 33 per cent, by walking
over a Murray bridge. Prior to the open-
ing of the factory the buyers from the other
side thought they had bought all the Yaneo
and other Riverina stock. But, thank
Heaven, they missed one, and it blew into
the State’s curing establishment.
Someone seems to be at last recognising
that Australians can stand being told what
happens to Australian soldiers. On Septem-
ber 2 a transport carrying troops was tor-
pedoed near Gallipoli, and a few were
drowned or otherwise killed. By making a
tremendous effort the official news service
managed to allow the bald facts to be pub-
lished in Australian newspapers last week.
This paper is firmly of opinion that the war
ended six days ago and that the censorship
has decided to keep the matter dark for 17
years in case Australia might in a fit of
depression dash to the ground its hopes of
speedy victory.
It looks as if Westralia will default over
the East-to-West Railway. The State’s
part of the bargain was to fix up
the line from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle
so that the Commonwealth trains could
run through. Reminded of the obliga-
tion, Scaddan wrote to Fisher stating
that the cost of construction of a
1 in SO grade 4ft. Sain, line would be three
and a half millions or thereabouts, and he
couldn’t see how this could be done when
the State had only a hole in its pocket. The
incident serves to show the absurdity of
having seven authorities in command of Aus-
tralian strategical railways—and all rail-
ways are strategical. The position is really
far worse than it is in England. In that
country, certainly, there are many com-
panies ; but that doesn’t matter so much
since the Government can at any time
take over the lot and turn them into one
system. In Australia no authority can do
tliat because there are no less than four
gauges.
OFF AND ON.
Do you know, dear, I've put on an inch since
I took on physical cultured."
"Um —and left off about five since you took
on a new dressmaker."
So far as can be told at present, when
the war census was taken there Avere
still in Australia over 200,000 men
between the ages of IS and 44 of whose fit-
ness for service there is no doubt, and who
have no dependents. Yet with this poten-
tial force to draw upon it is considered neces-
sary to search for reinforcements by howling
on the street corner and doing circus tricks
in the country and sending away men like
Sergeant-Major Lamont, whose death robbed
a wife and eight children of their bread-
winner.
Andrew Fisher becomes prophetic:—
The toiling masses of the world are going to take
a hand in the settlement after the war—to speak
their minds irrespective of party politics.
Yes, yes, of course; but after the matter has
been dealt with by caucus, Andrew—after
caucus.
PAST A JOKE.
LONG-SUFFERING ARTIST: “ But, hang it all,
there's nothing funny about THAT!”
More permanent and reproductive work!
Two or three' years ago the Tas. Govern-
ment started an experiment farm at Swan
Basin, on the West Coast. The other day
the Minister for Lands found out that they
had been scrubbing the side of a cliff and
that (after £l3OO of loan money had been
spent on fencing and so on) the land had
belonged to the Strahan Marine Board all
along!
A man from South Africa :—-
At our generabelection meetings Nationalists sat
on one side, the “South African” party on the other,
and speakers were g'reeted with compliments varying
from hoots to clods. Things frequently ended
up with a fight, and in some cases knives were
used. Smuts, when at Johannesburg, was favored
with some shooting, and Botha elsewhere took
delivery of a clod of earth in the face. The delights
of electioneering are ravishing in South Africa.
There is a breeziness about the process suggestive of
the spacious veldt. When General Hertzog ap-
peared in the backblocks his supporters met him on
horseback and greeted him by firing off guns.
Hertzog, by the way, is the ex-Judge and ex-Minister
who stoutly declares there’s no such thing as a
British Empire. Botha’s job isn’t nearly finished
yet, though he has gained a majority at the polls.
Things in the East are still menacing.
THE TRIBUTE OF MULGA FLAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The town of Mulga Flat was stirred.
Recruiting meetings were the thing,
And Parliament adjourned to let
The members visit it, to bring
More sturdy soldiers to the wars—
Recruits to fight the Empire’s cause.
AH Mulga Flat seemed wrapped in flags ;
The cheers were many, loud and long ;
And gath’rings, now and then, would break
In sudden gusts of martial song ;
For years each Mulga Flat will speak
About that great recruiting week.
Recruiters canvassed all the place :
Six soldiers—two of them returned
From scenes of war—and thirty plain,
Good citizens, with one zeal burned -
To get recruits; when all was done
To boast, each man, at least of one.
'File week was styled a great success;
The Mayor remarked, with pride unfeigned,
Conscription was not needed where
Such strong enthusiasm reigned ;
’Twas volunteers would win the war.
Whereat the cheers rose to a roar.
Binks, Briggs and Blithers, M’s.L.A.,
Concurred ; and went away elate
To boast of all that they had done,
And (quoting figures) estimate
If all men did as well as they
Ari army corps would sail away.
It was a great and stirring week.
The echoes of loud, loyal cheers^
And all the speeches that were made
Will live in Midga Flat for jears.
And all the noise bore noble fruit,
For Mulga Flat gave one recruit.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
EMPIAH!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. H. D. Mclntosh, president of the British
Empire League, has cabled General Botha congratu-
lations, and has received an Empire message from
the General in reply.- —News item.
It was the British Empire League—two cripples and
a boy—-
That cabled word to Botha of “the Empire’s’’ pride
and joy;
Not reflecting that ’twas English hot-air helped the
horrid Hun,
And that all the wild flag-flappers are not worth a
single gun.
The German used a tariff, and his workers all were
fed;
But, the “Empire” let some waster steal the English
children’s bread ;
And the German made the big guns and organised
intrigue.
While the English trust Trafalgar and the British
Empire League.
Gone the time for flapping banners; Rudyard Kip-
ling’s skite is dead ;
And the crossheads, top of column, next the wares,
won’t save a head ;
And time wasted on mere limelight cannot help the
need of guns,
But is only so much new hope for the quick, horrific
Huns.
VICTORIA.
PAUL KRUGER.


PALING’S PIANOS
m
sames
Good to Look at
Good to Play upon
The ordinary piano-buyer knows very little about what
is most important in a new piano. Therefore, it is most
important to take our advice. WE, with our vast experience
of successful and honest piano-selling, know real piano value
and are not satisfied till we get it. You, when you buy a
Paling Piano, get the benefit of this in lasting satisfaction.
fit
i-4
See the . .
Chappell Pianos
and Sames Pianos
When a piano leaves our showrooms we
have the satisfaction of knowing that we
have given the customer genuine value, whether
the purchase made was an exquisite Boudoir
Grand, a massive Upright Grand, or an ordinary
Cottage Model. Every piano we sell sells
another, because of its beautiful tone-quality
and extraordinary durability in severe climates.
s w
We will gladly write
you full particulars.
ğj
Heap the . .
Estey Pianos
and Victor Pianos
If you have an old piano we shall be pleased
to take it in exchange for a new piano, and allow
you its honest valuation.
We cordially invite you to call at our ware-
house and inspect the various models now show-
ing. If you cannot conveniently call, please
Write for Free Catalogue
and printed Price List.
“mm
W. H. PALING CO. LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane. Toowoomba, Newcastle & Lismore
NY CARLSBERG
J' m
COOLING
& s *
the
ocean)
BREEZE -
NT CARISBERC
THE DANISH LAGER
r I )HE claim that “NY CARLSBERG” Danish Eager is the best brewed is substantiated not only by the highest
1 awards in the world, that “NY CARLSBERG” has secured, but also by its popularity with the Australian
public. The way it pours from the bottle—clear, sharp, sparkling and foaming, and its distinctive rich flavor have
won “NY CARLSBERG” scores of friends.
For Dinner or Supper there is no finer drink. It is an ideal appetiser, and is cooling and bracing.
HENRY OLSEN 8 CO. PTY. LTD., 255 a George Street, Sydney; BROWN 8 CO., 21 Lang Street, Sydney—Joint Agents.
g
ğ
hg


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
PILES CURED.
Mrs R. Wark, 63 Eveleigh Street, Redfern, Syd-
ney, says: “A member of my family suffered terribly
with protruding piles. The pains were so great that
he could not sleep at night, and would toss about
for hours. lie had been suffering for three years,
and we were always having advice and vising different
remedies, but nothing did him good until we got
Doan’s Ointment. This remedy proved excellent; it
gave complete ease. I cannot say enough in praise
of Doan’s Ointment for his cure.” Ten-years later
Mrs Wark makes a second statement: “The"cure
referred to above has proved permanent. There has
been no return of piles since Doan’s Ointment wa,s
used ten years ago.” Doan’s Ointment is sold by
chemists and storekeepers at 2?. 9d. per pot.
Whenever YOU visit Melbourne be sure
to stay at “Scott’s.” For comfort,
sumptuousness and convenience no other
hotel can compare with it. Private-
attendance-’phones in all rooms, and Hot
and Cold Whiter in Bedrooms. Single
Room or “Private-Suite” Accommodation.
SG0TT5 HOTEL
Collins St Melbourne
Telegrams—“ icott’s,” Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Despite war, horse-racing is still liberally
patronised. At 10 principal meetings in N.S.W.
and Victoria during the past two months £99,060
was; given in prize-money; and every meeting
showed a profit. Add suburban pony, horse and
trotting meetings, and the money distributed in
prizes—that is to say, really in oats and saddlery
and grooms—goes well over six figures.
Place-money is not to be sneezed at in
Australian racing - ,jibwada}ffe J& Westcourt, second in
Melbourne Cup, .Jpln’t woii ‘ amrace’ as a three-year-
old, (vet it has Jarned £2505 for six places in seven
starts. In two years the prad has .Won - three raee|
(worth £602) against nine places (tyor.th £26,90);
William the Silent’s seconds in SytTpgy -Mefrop.
(£1000) and Caulfield Gup ( £75(1) were also a
oohsqiling pick-up. Time., was .AJwO&it paid, better
to “pull” a nag, but fortuntfrety wj> place-bettors
those days have passed.
N-S.W. Trotting Club had a busy day
recently. Those convicted of being concerned in a
“rin^> - in” were presented with “life” disqualifica-
tion i another hatch stepped down “during the plea-
sure [of the stewards”; and a third case is-under
the microscope for a week. The Trotting Club is
making a big effort to shift some of the bad smell;
but it isn’t a soft job.
Warstep, although unplaced, really ran a
great race in the M.L. Cup at Riccarton (M.L.) the
other day. She was burdened with top weight, 9st.
51b.,1 hut she led practically all the way until well
into | the straight, when the fine gelding Tangihou,
who!had got into the event with' a modest Gst. 71b.
aboard, came with a well-judged run and landed the
big stake. Warstep tired- to nothing in the last few
xtridjes, and was beaten by Blaekall and Multiply for
a place, hut she accounted for all the top weights by
running fourth. The winner had 401 b. less on his
hack; than the crack mare, and that is a mighty lot
when the business end of a solid two miles is
reached. No nag lias ever succeeded in catching the
judge’s eye in this event with more than Bst. 91b. on
its hack. Tasman won with that weight in 1883,
and !Vanguard repeated the trick the following year.
|** * *
Economy! On the first day of the Can-
terbury Jockey Club’s Cup meeting at Riccarton
(M.L.) £49,404 was poured through the tote. This
was! £5057 more than went, through on the same day
last lyear.
“Billy B.” : The inevitable breach of the
peace resulting from the irresponsible of
somh recruiting agents becomes imminent. Fol-
lowers of sport and athletes have particularly suf-
fered from coarse and frequently unjustifiable abuse
by politicians, wowsers, women and returned sol-
diers. The footballer had a most unpleasant time
until he could make himself heard in Australia and
Maoriland, when he shame'll a lot of loud-mouthed
people who were holding forth in Sydney and else-
where about “dragging him by the neck to the
Front.” The latest uproar was caused last week by
one 1 Captain Donald Siinson at tlie Christchurch
(M.L.) races. Surrounded by a party in khaki he
“vigorously condemned shirkers arid said that the
voting men present were rotters. He added that if
the women thought of the outrages on the Belgians
and : the Servians and the sinking of the Marquette
they could not with decency attend races and
encourage men to do likewise.’’ To start with, that
sort of thing merely harms’recruiting by its offen-
siveness. So long as the volunteer system is tlie
national system, we have no right to hurl clods at
any man when he has made his choice. If Brown
enlists Smith has no right to call him a fool, unless
he is looking for sudden trouble; if Jones continues
at his ordinary business, Robinson risks a thump
on his outlying feature by bawling “Cur!” and
“Loafer!” at him-. Wherever this gibe, of “waster”
is made in public there are generally present hun-
dreds of men of fighting age who have undeniable
reasons for staying at home, and one day (I’m tip-
ping it to he .close handy) one of them, stung by the
injustice of /’the remarks, will do something calcu-
lated to jar the superior admonisher.
As for the question of racing or no racing, as
Siinson took it upon himself to impress upon the
multitude that “they had ignored the call of the
King,” one might without too much assumption
remind him that the King, so far from having - :
turned his face against the racecourse, still- has his,
horses in the field, as witness the win of Friar
Marcus in the Queensbury Handicap at the recent
Newmarket meeting. In any case, how recruiting
is to he Stimulated by closing the sporting fields
and the bars and the theatres (they’d be attacked
next) isn’t clear. Only one thing is certain to
swell the ranks of the army as they should be
swelled; and people like N.S.W. Minister George
Black and Maoriland’s (or South Africa’s) Captain
Siinson might advocate it with considerable gain to
themselves and the cause they no doubt have at heart.
From Mrs. Hilleard (formerly Miss
King) ; Re “Sarto” and his clamor to abolish side-
saddles in jumping competitions. The fatal acci-
dent which he mentions as befaljing that fine
horsewoman; Miss Ryan, at the Wagga Show, did
not happen at a jump, hut while she was riding
round the ring in the hackney section, I think I
can give a fair opinion on side-saddles, as I rode,
at shows for many years (winning in all 30 first
prizes), mostly over fences. 1 always used a side-
saddle, and never had a fall out of it, though I have
hail horses drop on tlleir knees, and then recover.
Mrs. Ambrose and myself' rode 23 times over the
hunters’ fences in Albury on one occasion before the
judges could pick the winner. I have seen 12 or 14
lady riders at Albury, show after show, and never a
fall, although they were all amateurs. I will admit
that it -is a blessing for the horse, this astride,
riding,, as most of the lady riders of to-day liang
on; they don’t sit on, and that throws the balance
out. But take Mrs. Stace, Sydney’s champion
lady rider. She sticks to the side-saddle, and you’ll
always! find her on her horse, not floundering on the-
ground, when the animal blunders at his fence. lam
sure a lady riding a side-saddle is far more graceful
than astride in unsightly divided skirts. If women
wish to ride that way, why not use breeches and
hoots?. They would lohk very much nicer.
-X- ■X* i!* it
“Y.Z.”: On the list of those who also
spoke at a big public guzzle in Melbourne the other
dav I notified the names of three or four stern, all-
wool patriots who had clamored against the Spring
meeting at Flemington because it was callousness to
run racehorses and watch racehorses run at a time
when the Empire was at war and so many of our
brave fellows were fighting to the death “out there.”
Which compels me to ask how comes it that our
brightest and best can bring themselves to partake of
the fatted turkey and tlie obese chicken, and wallow
in high-priced wines and iced puddings and general
revelry by night at public banquets, while the world
is torn with distraction, and our boys are shedding
their life’s blood on the hills of Gallipoli? I notice
there is a fatuous,: fictitious air of helping the
Empire and encouraging our magnificent lads about
these greasy citizens as they wolf the spring chick
and swell their corpulence to Zeppelin distention
with windy wines; but for the life of me I can’t see
why it is ungracious and vile to visit one course, and
yet patriotic and splendid to eat ten. But some-
how you cannot get it out of the heads of public and
semi-public men that if they only persist they can
eat the Empire out of any difficulty.
“Lord Holuian, who was sent to Mel-
bourne to compete for the Ascot Thousand but did
not start, has returned much the worse for wear.”
No. This does not refer to the Ma State’s plunger
and a loan conference, but to a racing pony. The
animal, seems to have earned its name. But it is a
'sure starter for the Ascot Ten Millions, even if it
hasn’t a leg to stand on.
Maloney, the enterprising person who
was found concealed in a hole under tlie floor of a
N. S. Wales country racing club’s weighing-room,
with a kit of tools, has thus far escaped the reward
handed him by a jury. Found guilty of conspiracy
with a person unknown he was sentenced to three
years’ skilly, but on appeal to the Full Court he
regained his liberty. It wasn’t argued that
Maloney’s purpose in being under tlie scales was to
mend the floor or drains, or that lie was looking for
a lost half-crown; hut it was argued that,
assuming for the sake of friendly conten-
tion that he was up to an illegal game,
there was* no evidence that he was in league
with any cove or bloke known or unknown. Thereon
the props of the conspiracy charge collapsed and
Maloney was set free. Whether the Law can argue
the point with him further is not yet determined.
Some sterling sportsmen in recent war
honors list: Capt. A. 11. Scott, awarded the D.S.O.
for gallantry at Lonesome Pino, holds the N. S.
Wales high-jump championship and State record ef
Oft. Scott lias been wounded three ■"times,. but- is
still on deck. Major R. L. Rabctt, lijTfc A.A. Brigade,
decorated with C.M.G., was a strong link of Sydney
Rowing Club, and bent an oar with N.S.W. eight-oar
crfeW at Adelaide in 1912. Sydney hockey also
owed a good deal to his broad shoulders in its
swaddling days. Lieut. A. W. Morey, whose gal-
lantry brought him a Military Cross, is a South
Aus. ’Varsity athlete —a Rhodes scholar —well known
in inter-’Varsity rowing.
* * ; | *
“Jean Sibi” : As one of the sad majority
in the paddock on Cup Day 1 protest against Isaac
Shortodds’ habit of straying. Convinced that his
bellow can indicate his whereabouts, Isaac frequently
becomes a nomad, with the result that the lucky
but profane investor often gets at least two runs for
his money. Half the time on Cup Day I was an
inquiry bureau for punters whose particular bookies
had no permanent address. The other half I was
mostly hunting for
m'y own particular
Hebrew. Some of
the Noses I admit
remained rooted to
tlie gro u n d
throughout the
day, hut there were
wan d e r ers who
ought to have been
hobbled or fitted
\v it li something
loud and obvious
like a firehell or a
striped hat. If we
must have these
prof ali ations, a
much hotter pro-
ceeding would he
to allot each lkc a
fixed position, re-
vealed by a hoard
with his name legi-
bly printed there-
on. This system
makes Randvviek an
ideal p untin g
ground compared
with crowded and
ill-regulated Flem-
ing! on.
CHRIS
MOORE,
trainer,
Caulfield.
Sid Francis and Bill Carrier provided the
evening’s bash at Melbourne Stadium last Satur-
day, and William took it for sevlen rounds. He
got beans. Then he decided that the argu-
ment had gone far enough and delivered himself of
a punch which settled the bets and everything else.
Sid was in the hospital when he heard about what
Vad happened. He had been “out” for an hour and
mighty close to taking the Long Count.
-- «• * * *
Henri Demlin and Nicol Simpson sol-
emnly battled through 20 rounds at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday, and the leferce announcJd that Henri
iiad been having the best of the affray. It doesn't
matter much, so long as Henri and Nicol refrain
from assaulting one another any more. They have
Both become a great weariness.
• ' * * *
A stirring scrap happened at Auckland
(M.L.) recently, when Peter Cook (holder), of
Chch., and Matt James, of Auckland, disputed the
pro. lightweight championship, The argument was
scheduled to last 15 rounds, and was sultry from
start to finish. In the last rally the disturbance
became a cyclone, in which each man attempted
to annihilate the other. Failing in this there was
nothing to do hut leave the matter to the referee.
When he put his blessing on James he was a popular
hero. It w T as the winner’s first appearance as a
pro., but he knew the business, having stepped off
the amateur champion’s throne.
“Cleido”: Recent pars, on the weighing-in
of pugs fail to connect with the point. It isn’t for
the sake of the extra few pounds of fiesh they regain
that the 2 o’clock weigh-in appeals to the pug. It is
the matter of regaining vitality that counts. When
a pug (or, for that matter, any athlete) makes a
weight much below his normal fighting poundage, he
is to all intents and purposes a sick man. But by
judicious feeding he will in five or six hours no
doubt stick on a few pounds avoirdupois (this varies
with the individual, hut in my experience has never
exceeded 51b.), which doesn’t matter relatively a
continental, but every minute of tlie time lie will be
regaining the reserve force that will enable him to
weather heavy punishment. The McGoorty-Darcy
match bore the foregoing out without doubt.
McGoorty at list. Gib. ringside fought without dash,
and failed to recover quickly enough from the clouts
that lie gathered, and if tlie pending match is fixed
on those terms Darcy carries my cash. McGoorty
list. 61b. at 2 o’clock would be a different proposi-
tion, though not necessarily a cert. Darcy would
still carry some of my cash, but I’d expect the fight
to he very close. All of which in nowise justifies
the system of weighing-in half a day prior to a
contest. This is plain idiocy, and ought to be cut
right out. The only system should be the weigh-in
at ringside, under d heavy forfeit not to exceed the
stated weight.
* * * *
“Barcoo” : This is the hitherto unpub-
lished record of the quickest knoek-out on record.
The scrap took place at Alpha (Q.) for a purse of
£25 a-sidc. In the latter ’Bo’s the cattle kings
congregated there at Christmas for an annual
race meeting, and great was the influx of black
brother. Bill Nutting, white man and good sport,
from Surbiton station, was a boxer of note in those
days, and an enthusiast at imparting the art to his
only-too-willing black stockmen. He always had a
Jack Johnson whom he was ready to back for 20 to
50 pounds at the annual gathering. Billy Elliott,
from further west, also carried a punch about him,
as well as owning a good horse, and he had for two
years swept the board from the cattlemen by win-
ning the two principal races and the pugilistic
encounter, the kings being on their abo. to a man.
Next year they set a trap for "Elliott. A coon of
some fighting ability was secured from Sydney, and
passed off -us a Surbiton stockman. The match was
for £25 a-side. When adjourning to the bank of the
creek where the ring was formed Elliott “tumbled”
that he had been had. His opponent had not the
familiar aho.’s dial. So he began to think hard.
As the men entered the ring to start the black pug.
took things nonchalantly, reckoning the bacon easy.
The gloves went formally together, and then, instead
of backing off as the clasp parted, Elliott flashed to
the point like an electric hammer. - “Smoked Beef”
was out for 20 minutes.
* * *
Phil Shappere, who has figured in Vic-
torian amateur athletics for more than a quarter
of a century, has retired. Thirty years ago he was
playing lacrosse, and in the early ’9o’s he was a
stalwart at walking. In later years he was the
man with the starter’s gun. Vic. A.A.A. has endowed
him with a life membership in recognition of many
services.
“Masetto”: Wally Mackay, a prominent
sport of 20 years ago, passed out in a tragic manner
last week by being burnt to death in South Mel-
bourne. Trained by the late Jack McGowan, he
put up some good fights in the bantam circles, and
several contests with Micko Walsh in the late 90’s
of last century were full of fine, vigorous boxing.
Mackay was also a smart football umpire, and earned
a good name for prompt and impartial judgment.
-X- -X* * -*
“John P.”: The late Harry McCardell,
who passed over at Grey town (M.L.) recently, first
gained prominence as a toe-baller in 1875, when as
a boy at Christ's College, Christchurch, he became
a, Canterbury rep. He was a dashing and determined
three-quarter of the old school, and gifted with tre-
mendous pace. But it was on the running track that
he gathered greatest fame. . His most sensational per-
formance was at the South Canterbury meeting in
1879. He annexed the 100yds., the 250yds., the
440yds., the 120yds. hurdles, the long jump, and
was just beaten on the post in the half-mile, winning
the champion cup and a gold medal for tlie greatest
number of points. As a side-line, he conducted a
church choir, and in his old age even took to
bowling.
*• -»«■*•
A. G. Spalding', who owned one of the
best-known names in the sporting world, is dead.
He first made his reputation as a baseball player,
particularly as a pitcher. From 1871 to 1875 he
pitched for and captained the Boston Club. Then
he joined the Chicago Club as player, and, in turn,
was manager, secretary and president. In 1891 he
left that outfit with a -reputation second to none in
U.S.A. His great ambition was to popularise base-
ball in England, and to this end he managed several
notable tours of star Americans. England, however,
never took kindly to the game. Spalding, who was
head of the famous sports-goods manufacturing house
of A.. G. Spalding and Bros., was 06 when he was
given out at San Diego, California.
* * * *
“No Ball” : Regarding the late G. R. Haz-
litt’s cricket career it is said (B. 4/11/’l5) that his
form in the disappointing 1912 tour “was not grati-
fying, his best score being 35 and his bowling aver-
age 19.” Admitted that his hatting was awful (7.66
for 38 innings), but he justified his place by gather-
ing 101 wickets at an average of 18.96 —an excellent
result with a fielding team not A 1 by a long chalk.
Hazlitt’s best effort in that tour was seven for 25
in the second innings of tlie Test match at
Manchester. In Australia his best performances were
nine for 104 for N.S.W. v. South Aus. at Sydney m
1911, and eight for 99 for Vic. v. South Aus. at
Melbourne in 1908. He was only 17 years of age
when he dropped into the Victorian XI. and at 18
was in the Australian XI. v. England at Sydney in
1907.
* * * *
“Pat O’Riot”: The late and truly-mourned
G. R. Hazlitt is mentioned (B. 4/U/’l5) as one of
the few cricketers to represent Vic. and N.S.W.
against each other. This recalls the strange record
of Percy McDonnell. He played for Vic. until his
work (lie was a bank manager) took him to Sydney ;
then for N.S.W. until the crust-quest landed him
in Brisbane, when Bananaland had him in the field.
To top off, he played for Australia against England.
“Vancelot”: Arrived in Australia last
week, en route to Maoriland, Englishman S. S.
Smith, the left-handed all-roufider who was mother
and father to the Northamptonshire Eleven in the
days before the Kaiser went- gunning. _ Smith was
originally an importation from the West Indies,
but acclimatised very quickly and took up the run-
ning from F. It. Foster as the chief amateur run-
getter. A clumsy-looking hat, he was always safe
for a score, and after a big innings would often go
out and howl till the cows came home. His present
intention is to sit on a high stool in a Maoiiland
bank, but he will probably turn out for some club
or other * *
One of the greatest surprises in tlie
cricketing experience of IV. G. Grace came his way
on May 27, 1878, at Lord’s, when the first Australian
Eleven to visit England played its opening game
against a Marylebone team. Little was expected from
tlie Australians, and when Grace and Hornby went to
the wickets to open play the comparatively few
spectators settled down to enjoy a great leather-
hunting performance by the well-meaning “kaw-
lonials.” Grace took strike, facing Allan. The first
ball he walloped to leg for four, and a good-natured
laugh rippled around the ground. The second ball
was bowled on to the same tempting spot, and was
punched by thy big man on the same journey as
before. But it reached quite -a different destination.
Midwinter, following the working of Allan’s mind,
had moved to intercept the ball, and it very
obligingly lobbed into his hands. That shook some-
life into the surrounding dovecotes. And when the
Englishmen were all bundled out for 33 there was
more excitement ■ than there is nowadays when a
Zeppelin pays its disrespects to Britain. It was a
bad batting wicket, but despite Brilliant bowling and
fielding the Kangaroo ..sprang oft' his tail to the
extent of. 41. Grace was jubilant, reckoning that
in the second innings Marylebone would set the vise-
tors an impossible main, lie faced Spofforth. Tint
first ball, a fast one, was stopped ; the second, same
action but slow delivery, wrecked the champion s
timber. An almighty shout of surprise arose, and
in a continued clamor wickets fell as fast as men
walked in to defend them. The innings closed ior
19 runs, leaving the Australians 12 to win, and they
got them for the loss of Charlie Bannerman’s wicket.
In that game Boyle took nine wickets for 17, a'
Spofforth 10 for’ 20. That day Lord's was the
christening place of Spoff. as “the Demon Bowler.
*** ' *
“Leg Bail”: Amongst tlie matches played:
by the 1873 team of English cricketers (of which
W. G: Grace was a member) was one at Bathurst
(N.S.W.), then the only country town possessing a
turf wicket. Contrary to expectation, the batting
display looked for from Grace was cut very short
by a youngster named West, just out of Newington
College. West (who had been a bowling pupil of
Joey Coates, that old-time postmaster of the art)
secured Grace’s wicket in both innings before tin-
old man had scored double figures. lehabod may
now be written over the portals of Bathurst cricket,
but the old Western town has turned out some great
players. Turner and McKibbin are the best-known
of "her bowlers, and Bplmor’s mighty liitling is
hallowed in tradition.
* * * w
Here’s a quaint arrangement. J- A'-
Crawford, who earns a crust these days teaching the
youth of Dunedin (M.L.) to smite sixes, finds him-
self this season without his team of Colts to lead to
victory. Most of the Colts are trying to score oft
the Turk ; and\Crawford lias been given the job of
playing on Saturdays for any team in the first-
grade competition that the Association decides upon
at its weekly meeting. So he battles for a oifrcrenf
side each week-end. The team that be assists to
victory this week bv smiting 271, not out, be helps-
- annihilate next week by capturing 22 wickets
for seven runs. He seems to enjoy it, and, certain!}.
it’s an interesting experiment. #
Details of the great struggle between ,
young Johnston and McLoughlin for the tennis cham-
pionship of U.S.A. show how confidently the new-
comer outplayed the “Californian comet’’ in their
four-set match. One critic wrote that the 20-year-
old youth “probably had the most terrific struggle
before McLoughlin succumbed to superior speed ami
staying power that was ever- witnessed in a national
championship tournament. McLoughlin in the last
six games, worn down to the point of exhaustion,
reeling on his feet, gave one of the greatest exhibi-
tions of unfaltering courage in the face of almost
certain defeat that has ever been seen on a court m
this country.” Johnston appears to have been
superior in speed of stroke, eye and foot, in fiendish
ingenuity, judgment and control of nerve. In waiting
for the moment when an opening would present itseu
lie proved himself a master of Court craft. Scvera
times, with McLoughlin rushing to tlie net for the
vollev, the new champion would delay _ making
his shot until that fraction of an instant which drew
his opponent out of position.” Tandy, too, dm
McLoughlin attempt to confuse tlie youngster bj
changing the pace in bewildering manner. .John-
ston amazed the older man by retrieving most o!
these short shots and scoring aces on his own
returns. Clearly Uncle Sam has something special,
in the family.
According to a letter written to The Bulletin
by an American enthusiast, Johnston’s success
was due to a straight, well-placed, very hard
serve, with great pace m lus ground stiokes
and volleys. He has often been spoken. ° f
as the best of the Californians on ground sttgkes,
being very accurate and attaining great velocity, n
spite of Iris lack of weight, by a very perfectr and
sweeping follow through.
*■■***
“Jibe” : Sydney officialdom in a periodi-
cal hurst of, righteousness recently decided on a
campaign against betting upon the races o
the Sailing Club and the Flying Squadron. Lac.i
Saturday two or more steamers follow these races,
carrying mild punters whose only hope of making
a haul is by -striking a double. The odds against
very long, but lucrative if landed. This oigy o
gambling and rushing head-on to the Devil has been
c'oing on for many years —long before Ciegoij
Wade’s amended Gaming Act restricted betting to
the racecourse —and there was no interference unti
Saturday. Then the water police rushed one of
the sightseers’ steamers and arrested seven persons
for illegal betting. Subsequently they were
fined, five of them £lO and two of them
(assistant clerks) £5. If this form of wagering is to
he stopped the effect on the revenues of the clubs
will be serious, because the percentage of people who
follow the races for the simple love of the sport is
not enough to pack a 2-h.p. catamaran. Hitherto the
theory has been that the Gaming Act was ineffective
on the water. The best solution of the difficult},
apparently, would be for the disturbed clubs to
induce Parliament to declare Port Jackson a race-
course. „ „
* * *
Tlie Murray Aunger cycle co. in Adelaide
seems to have been the first in Australia to actually
start shell-making. Governor Galway and a Minis-
terial party set. the pill-for-Bill machinery going,
and expressed regret that the State railway shops at
Islington had not been equally quick off the mark.
(Continued on page 39.)


Why Suffer from Indigestion when My
Exercises Permanently
Cure It?
Indigestion is not caused by tlie food you eat. It
is purely the result of a stomach that has been
ill-used —that has been shamefully neglected—that has
been allowed to rust through the want of proper
exercise.
3fy Health Exercises for b; nisliing indigestion
quickly build up and strength on the muscles which
govern the stomach, and get tvery._part of the bods, •
in proper trim.
I Teach Physical Culture by Post.
Head this report from one of my pupils:—-
‘Vi am evreising regularly, and am feelin-
much better, in health already'. One thing lam
pleased about, that is, losing indigestion, which
I have had no signs of lately. The exercises are
very easy to understand, with the diagrams and
explanations. I do not regret taking the Course.”
What- my Health Exercises have done for others
Hay will do for you. Write for a copy of my book-
let, -Health and Strength from Self Culture,” which
uiller particulars, cost of tuition, etc. Just
cut out this advertisement and write vour name and
address across it. I’ll know what vou mean.
Enclose three penny stamps for postage.
ĝj
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
444 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
THE
I
WLc cpnc/tan
Ride it to work-
Ride it for fun
Write for
Catalogue 11 D.”
HENDEE MANUFACTURING CO., 109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MY NEW CATALOG
IS JUST OUT
] want every man who enjoys a GOOD smoke
to send for a copy post free. It is admit-
tedly the best catalog' of its kind issued, and
illustrates various grades of Cigars, Cigarettes,
Tobaccos, etc.
“CLUB ROYAL”
CABINETS
are a particularly good smoke, being made
from the finest Havana Leaf, and their fine
mild flavor and pleasing arotna will satisfy
(ven the most critical smokers.
Put up in Handsome Cedar
Cabinets of 50 20/-
Postage on 50 in N.S.W. . . -/9
Inter-State 1/2
Sample Packet of Five,
Post Free 2/0
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
g
“Keep Smiling.'
Jn other words *
-Shell
*~cBenzioe
WiMSM
A Motto for Every Day
HAPPY THOUGHTS
TOBACCO makes
Happy Men —
Get Busy !
Happy Thoughts is
sold in three strengths,
Plug or Cut-up ( 2oz.
and lib. tins') 1
Business Announcements.
AGENCIES. —Sound, reliable firm desir-
ous of securing good agencies this State.
Apply first instance: “Make Good,” G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
I.egal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
QUEENSLAND, TOWNSVILLE.
1915 No. 90.
MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
MR. JUSTICE SIIAND.
Between JOHN BAILEY Plaintiff and
MARIA MARTHA BAILEY Defend-
ant and JOSEPH LEBER Co-defend-
ant.
To the Defendant Maria Martha Bailey
wife of John Bailey of Mount Molloy via
Cairns in the State of Queensland Teamster.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on
the twentieth day of August 1915 com-
menced against you and the abovenamed
Joseph Leber and that the Plaintiff by his
Writ of Summons claims a dissolution of
his marriage with you the said Maria Martha
Bailey and by his petition filed in this Hon-
orable Court on the 20th day of August 1915
tiie plaintiff alleges that you the said
Maria Martha Bailey committed adultery
with the abovenamed Joseph Leber on the
15th December 1899 at Port Douglas and
also between that date and the 31st Decem-
ber 1908 at Port Douglas Sydney and Port
Melbourne and elsewhere.
AND TAKE NOTICE that the Court lias
by Order dated the 29tli September 1915
authorised service of the said writ and peti-
tion on you by insertion of this notice not
less than twice in each of the following
newspapers: The Age (Melbourne, Vic-
toria), The Australasian, the Sydney
Bulletin and Cairns Post.
AND TAKE NOTICE also that you are
required within thirty days after the last
insertion of this advertisement to cause an
appearance to be entered for you at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Townsville and that in default of
your so doing the plaintiff may proceed in
this action and that judgment may be given
against you in your absence.
Dated this twenty-ninth day of October
1015.
CHAS. S. NORRIS, Registrar.
Connolly & Suthers, Solicitors, Townsville.
Town Agents for E. B. Steele, Solicitor
for Plaintiff. Cairns.
NOYES BROS.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
(Sydney) Limited
499 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
/
Selling Agents for . /■
f /
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Steel Works,
Newcastle, N.5.W.
THE HIGHEST STANDARD
ĝj
of footwear excellence is fully upheld in
every pair of
RIGNEY SHOES.
In quality, style, price, wear and every
detail Itigney Shoes are sure to give you
satisfaction.
We illustrate a TAN WILLOW CALF
DERBY SHOE, Brown Clotli Insertion
Tops. “Non-Tread-Over” Brand.
Price - 326
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY-
And at City Buildings* Edward Street, BRISBANE.
DUNLOP
OROOVED.
m
BEST
FOR
CARS
mi
A
BEST ]
•FOR
nOTOR
CYCLES
T
k: '
JPlf
<Q
rm
OUBBER
ST"DDED.
(DUNLOP)
l MOTOR TYRES
have proved themselves the most Reliable
and Economical for Cars and Motor
Cycles. The strength of Casing, Quality
of Wearing Tread, and thorough work-
manship in these big mileage Tyres
ensures you getting the BEST SERVICE
at the MINIMUM COST.
UST POSTED ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBJER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
Wellington, Christchurch,
N.Z.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
A paragraph in the papers reintroduces an old
friend, but a dead one, like so many more of mine,
Mrs. Ford, the wife of the old keeper of the light-
house at Cape Otway, is gone—at 93, they say.
From 1849 to 1879 they had the lonely job. Once
a. year they used to come up to Melbourne and lay
in a supply of literature, etc., and arrange for further
supplies, which were forwarded to 'Queenscliff as the
nearest depot. In the 'fifties I was in the business,
and had the pleasure of the couple's custom. Ford
was not of the rough, shell-back type which in the
earlier days got the job .of lighthouse keeper. The
Otway beacon was erected in the mid-’fprties by
Superintendent Latrobe. Close to the lighthouse, on
a pleasant flat, were built comfortable homes, with
garden patches, for the keeper and his assistants, and
the life was not nearly as lonely as might be
imagined.


Just the Pure,
Fresh, Fragrant Juice
of Fully-ripened
Lemons —
Sweetened just right—
that’s
ĵ
“LEMOS”
SQUASH
There is no beverage more
welcome or more beneficial, in
enervating climates, than
BROOKE’S SQUASH
Nature’s Own Refresher!
g
'm.
%
lltl
\\ lIVN*
'Sil
*
\X
‘pass*
isp
K£fe9Hs
Hi
* V“‘ fu\ v
a
xtrvfasur
=> =
<o
Wfv,
Lu4\\~
z°
Ifflr
„,in
■JC
a a
°o
II
O
il ii.ii
9.0
O;
?QC
m wo
’"Of
AO
""""inum
: "% ! € zz
s \
<S>
u
.. ’'«
~ “““11-i I ■
Di
(/)*
' / /.&SS


ssl
This £l4 Machine
With S Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
10 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
23 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
THE POLI-SHINE
Self-Feeding Polish Mop
Made in Australia.
Absorbs Dust as a sponge
absorbs water.
Detachable Fringe.
Adjustable Handle.
Price : Mops, 6 6 ;
Extra Fringes, 3 -
Polish: 4oz.
bottles, 1 6.
120 z., 2/6.
ĝ
A
LABOR-
SAVING
NECESSITY.
SIX HOURS
WORK IN ONE.
Cleans 8 Polishes
in One Operation.
POLUSHINE MOP CO.
48 HUNTER TREET, SYDNEY.
MUSCULAR BACKACHE,
The muscles of the hack do Urn heavy work
of the body. "When they arc overworked or
ill-nourished they ache, and people who are
looking for trouble begin to worry about
their kidneys.
Backache may be due to lumbago, which
is rheumatism of (lie muscles of the back, but
more backaches are caused by overstrain,
overwork and muscle starvation due to thin
blood than-:by anything else.
Dr. Williams’: Pink Pills build up the
blood, and sufferers from backache would do-
well to try this treatment before giving way
t->.worry over a fancied organic disease. Best
and the tonic treatment with Dr. Williams'
Pink Pills will correct mosl forms of back-
ache, even rheumatic.
For people who work too hard or dance
too much and sleep too little, better habits
and a course of treat men I with Dr. Williams’
Pink Bills are all that are needed to drive
away the pains and aches that are warnings
of a coming breakdown.
Two books, “Building Up the Blood” and
“Nervous Disorders,” will he sent free, if you
air- interested, by the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Sydney. You can get Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills at the nearest chemist.*
Choosing a Laxative.
In treating chronic constipation, harsh
cathartics should be avoided. A mild laxa-
tive' should be used until regular habits are
established, and then gradually discontinued.
All laxatives are not equally safe and
efficient. Some act quickly, but in the end
increase the constipation. Others cause in-
testinal colic, inflammation of the bowels
and nausea. Oil and salts should not be
regularly used.
I’inkettes, the little pink laxative ovals*
ar< safe under any and all conditions, do not
conflict with 'other medicines, and form an
ideal laxative t;o keep in the house ready for
use when required.
\Ve want you to try them, and will send
a free trial sample if you send your name
and address, mentioning Tin-: Bulletin.
On sale everywhere at Is. per bottle, or
post free from the I)r. Williams’ Medicine
Co.. .Sydney.*
□r B. Allen’s (U-SA
m
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
—for Motor-Cars
and Motor Boats
- : V :-v
■
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
—for furniture:
the standard Polish
gjhg
Johnson’s
Prepared Wax
■ for
all Floors
ġj h
Johnson's Wood Dye
—for colouring
*ll woods
May We Send
You Postpaid
a Tin of
Si
m
—enough for polishing a small
floor, piano, several pieces of
furniture or a motor car ?
Please use the Coupon below-
JOHNSON’S Prepared Wax isasplen-
J did and complete finish and polish for
Floors
Linoleum
Woodwork
Desks
Pianos
Victrolas
Furniture
Golf Clubs
Motor Cars
Over varnish, shellac, oil and French
polish it imparts a velvety, protecting
finish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is in paste
form, clean and easy to use and very
economical. It gives a hard, dry and
artistic finish..
Every housewife who takes pride in
keeping her furniture attractive and
her home sanitary needs Johnson’s
Prepared Wax.
is for the artistic colouring of ail
woods. With it inexpensive soft woods
may be finished so that they are as
beautiful as hard woods.
With Johnson’s Wood Dye you can complete
work promptly. It is very easily applied, very
economical and dries rapidly. Unequalled for
finishing new furniture, woodwork and floors,
for staining reed and wicker work, and for
refinishing old work.
Made in seventeen shades, including Mahog-
any, Early English and several shades of
browns and greens.
Johnson’s Artistic Wood Finishes
are for sale by Paint Dealers and
Ironmongers everywhere.
USE THE COUPON for a free copy of our
1/- Book, “THE PROPER TREATMENT OF
FLOORS, WOODWORK AND FURNITURE,”
and a generous tin of Johnson’s Prepared Wax
—sufficient for polishing a small floor, several
pieces of furniture or a motor car. This book-
let, which is offered gratis, is the work of fam-
ous experts—it is beautifully illustrated in
nine colours, and is full of valuable ideas on
home beautifying.
I'-'M I ho i i>u|>'»i I! oncv 10 liny or our Australian Distril.ulors:
SYDNEY -Holdsworth, MfcCpherson ft Co. (wliol.), «. 1.. u<?«
and Co., Ltd. (wliol.), Mark Eoys Ltd., F. Lassetter ft Co.
MBLBOL RNE —G. L. Geo .V Co.. H. J. Cordev Propv. Ltd.,
Jas. I-lardie & Co.
ADELAIDE—King- ft Co., Weymouth Street.
BRISBANE-—Jas. Sloan ft Co., JR. S. Exton ft Co. Ltd.
PERTH—Jas. Eastwood Ltd., Hamer & Co.
AUCKLAND (N.Z.) —Hill, Plummer ft Co. Ltd.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.)- — 0. L. Gee ft Co. Ltd.
CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.)—G. L. Gee ft Co. Ltd.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON. “The Wood Finishing
Authorities,” Factory: Racine, Wisconsin. U. S. A.
W M. S. FISH, Australasian Agent, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
1 ' w
, **
■
5-r-i
ppf"
, fv:!;: ;v;.,«r : ,,.
s HIS
n
Mp-
<
To S. C. Johnson & Son \ C
(Address Care of Nearest Distributor)
I enclose 6d. for a generous tin of Johnson’s Prepared
W ax and for a free copy of your 1/- Colour Book.
Name
Address
My Dealer’s Name,
The ' ! Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than anv
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pockei,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage: with the '"ladder''
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
PO««Tf»EN.
'SJdUOIfVIs
11 ® *<? Pl°S
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO.. London, VV.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255a(ieorge St., Sydney
g j
7
Tf any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to Hi®
Manager, who will quote-, you price .for. it.
Traquette and Woorak (notwithstanding:
all the complaints about the cow-likeness ot the
latter) are a notable pair of fliers that have sus-
tained their reputation from early youth into middle
age. As two-year-olds they were the respective cham-
pions of Vic. and N.SAV. As three-year-olds the.'
were the fleetest gees of their season —-when the
spirit moved them. And this season, as four-year-
olds, they are still the representative fliers, each in
its own State. Woorak is less trustworthy than the
big marc with the raking stride, but his action is
more machine-like, and his barrackers swear that at
his best he is the faster of the two. Anyway, they
have maintained their joint supremacy as sprinters
for two years whilst occasional rivals have bloomed
and faded. Their sprinting capacity extends to 10
furlongs sometimes, but goes no further. Traquette's
attempt to win Williamstown Cup ill furlongs) tin-
other Monday was brilliant up to 10 furlongs. Then
she lost ground, and both the unlucky Carlin and
Aleconner (last year’s winner) mil slaved her.
Carlin is a striking example of the plucky- sort of
speedy horse that fails very gradually after going
10 furlongs. Something less Ilian a flier and more
than a sprinter, lie won the Doncaster last autumn
under an easy weight, but in the Epsom mile six
weeks ago he couldn’t go quite fast enough to gel
on terms with Woorak. in the Metropolitan < i
furlong-s) he finished fourth. Again he was fourth
in the Caulfield Cup after looking like a winner:
and even in the Melbourne Cup he could score a
fourth, being a remarkably .plucky battler under
difficulties. In the Melbourne Stakes (10 furlongs)
be was overtaking Traquette fit the finish, and failed
by a neck only, and in the Williamstown Cup (11
furlongs) he ran a good second to Carlita, who was
giving him Oil). Corporal Wren and friends must
have found the honest Carlin a very expensive
animal to follow. In seven successive races (includ-
ing the Eclipse Stakes) he was three times placed
and four times fourth.
“B.B.”: Dozing over ;t Sydney paper last
Monday 1 came across this:
“At the Police Court this morning J. Zeb. Izrael,
aged 54, was charged with using a prominent city
club for the purpose of betting on a horserace. Mr.
W’iggs, who appeared for the prosecution, stated
that defendant carried on a very extensive business
as a bookmaker, and thousands of pounds were
wagered with him regularly in the most barefaced
defiance of the Act. Izrael, who pleaded not: guilty ,
explained that his business was conducted on lines
which had the approval of the Church and
loading politicians. In dismissing the case hi-
Worship remarked that, he had himself done business
with defendant. (Laughter.)"
•lust there I woke up and read the paragraph again.
It was somewhat different, and merely set out that
a tobacconist in a -mill way had been charged with
using his shop at Itandwick for the purpose of bet-
ting on a race. Prosecuting counsel said “it was
not believed that defendant had been carrying on
Letting on a large scale, while the wagers were
mostly for small amounts (one shilling). There wa-
ne objection to the money seized being returned to
the defendant with the exception of 10s.’’ The Beal
fined the little tobacconist £2O. in the alternative
three months’ imprisonment. The day they si-
about- the day when dreams come true—-is still fat-
off and dim. In fact, 4 believe it’s a fraud.
: Tod Sloan in his just-issued auto-
biography, _ for which he invites an admiring public
to pay 155,, describes his half-accidental discovery
of the famous monkey-on-the-stiek seat: “One day',
w hen 1 and Hughie Penny, who was then a successful
Jockey, were galloping our horses to the post my
horse started to bolt, and in trying to pull him tin
l got up out of the saddle and on to his neck. Penny
started laughing at the figure T cut, and then I
laughed louder than he, but I couldn’t help noticing
that when 1 was doing that neck-crouch the horse’s
stride seemed to be freer, and that it was easier for
me, too. Before that 1 had seen a jockey named
Horn* Griffin riding with short stirrups and leaning
over on the horse. As he was the best jockey of tin
day: I put two and two together, and thought there
must be something in it."
"Y.Z." : A lady in the little picnic we
formed to do Eleming/ton on Cup day became in-
fected with the appalling mania, and insisted on
putting five shillings on something. She did not
know what the bullion was to be put on, and she
didn’t care —she simply had to do what other people
were doing-, which is the way of women. I accom-
panied her to the nearest, vociferous Hebrew, and
adding ss. put half a quid on Carlita. As the world
is now aware, w-e lost. On a return journey to the
elms we drifted by the same bookie once more. The
lady glared at him in hot indignation. Tip was
still yelling. “Bliss mv soul, why the man isn’t
->n.i-fied lion !" -lie said.
“F.II." : Another argument for the tote
was provided at Williamstown (Vic.) races, when
trainer P. T. I ley wood was fined £25 by the
“stipes" for failing to scratch N.vTston for the
Maiden Plate. At one stage of the betting- Nylstou
was second favorite, but failed to start. The books
bagged a nice bit. With the tote in action the
Xylston money (less 10 per cent.) would have been
returned to the betting public in the form of a
bigger dividend on the winner, instead of going to
buy more peroxide for Mrs. O’Moss.
“D.M.R.” : Horses whose names com-
mence with P seem of late years to have a lien over
the Melbourne Cup. Tn the last decade they have
been successful on six occasions. In 1900 Poseidon
landed the stake; in 1909, Prince Foote; 19U, The
Parisian; 1912, Piastre: 1913, Posinatus; and now
Patrobas gains the goblet. Since 1861, the year
when the event was first won, the alphabetical index
is headed by the same initial letter with eight win-.
A comes next with seven, B, C, G and M, five; D, I.
and T, three; N and W, two; and H, K, Q, 11, S, V
and Z. one each. I, O and U have never won the
race, but have been remarkably prominent in the
betting. Owners whose names commence with C
have been the luckiest. They have collected the
prize money on eight occasions. Fortune has beamed
on M and W six times : D, five times; F. .1. B and
T. four times; L, S, three times; G and P twice;
and I, O and K have handled the hoodie on one
occasion each.
George Gray has at. last: succeeded in beat-
ing both Stevenson and Inman in matches for money
by force of tlie deadly winning-hazard stroke. The
young Australian has proved the futility of the older
men’s efforts to out-play him. Stevenson and Inman
in turn surpassed themselves as all-round billiardists
and tacticians, but they couldn’t stop the youngster
from playing his special stroke like a machine. Tn
two breaks against Inman the tireless hazard-striker
scored 600 or more “losers” off the red. Probably
15 per cent, of his total score of 18,000 points
was made in the same way. The veterans are better
performers than Gray in every other respect, but
there are limitations to the possibilities in ail
billiard play save hazard-striking from “balk.” For
a while nervousness spoilt the accuracy of Gray’s
vigorous stroke when he was pitted against the two
top-notchers. Now that he has fairly knocked them
out there is no reason why he shouldn’t go on beat-
ing them more and more easily every time. One
day he will make a break of 5000 without shifting
from the bottom end of the table. He will continue
to go off the red into a middle or top pocket until
the unfortunate marker is too tired to roll the bah
back to him. His arm, trained from childhood to
deliver an unbroken series of sharp blow's at regular
intervals, must be as strong as a steel piston rod.
* * * *
Melbourne suburban newspaper on the
passing of a local celebrity: “He was a great sup-
porter of athletics, and was interested in all the
rgar-laying competitions.”


r%A yys
Jfv /l
Beautiful Clear Complexion and
Healthy Liver Regained in
about one week.
MISS B. BROWN, 30 Cavendish
Street, Stanmore, writes and confirms
the same on oalh: —“My complexion
was sallow and sickly-looking, and, worse
than all, a large number of pimples
made their appearance all over my face.
After taking a dozen of 'Fisher’s Beauty
Pills for the Liver I lost my headaches
and the pains in my back, and slept
well. I took more Beauty Pills, and
shortly the pimples disappeared, and in
a few days my complexion and eyes were
perfectly bright and clear.”
Fisher s Beauty Pills
for the Liver
ARE EXTENSIVELY USED BY
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN DESI-
ROUS OF HEALTHY LIVERS AND
CLEAR COMPLEXIONS.
Remove Pimples and Sallow Com-
plexions. A safe remedy for Indigestion,
Headache, Skleache, Backache and
Constipation.
All Chemists and Stores, 1 - per bottle.
FISHER & COMPANY,
Chemists,
337 George Street , SYDNEY.
F.46.8.P.
SOAPKO
It Surpasses Soao
Toilet and Motor in
TABLETS.
Household in BARS.
SOAPKO CLEANSER
(in Canisters), BEST and
CHEAPEST on Market.
ALL PURELY AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE.
SOAPRA PROP’Y, Box 685, G.P.0., Adelaide.
JASON
UNDERWEAR
British made
from Australasian Wool.
ifiianriiMi:ia
CROWS MOUSTACHES
UICKLY !
jgjgj
The Military are
setting the fashion
for growing the
Moustache again.
Civilians must follow
suit. Capillarine is
an unfailing Mous-
tache-producer, and
produces results in
double-quick time
PRICE 10/6 JAR - POST FREE
Craig & Aitken
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands .of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WOY', N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading .Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Suppi-y
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the work!.
BEFORE THE MIRROR.
By “JEANNETTE.”
“Jeannette,” the well-known writer on Beauty Culture and author of “The Book of Beauty,”
will be pleased to help and advise any reader on matters of the toilet. Queries should be accom-
panied by a stamped addressed envelope, and directed to “Jeannette,” c/o “Before the Mirror,”
43 Gray's Inn Road, London, W.C., England.
These are undoubtedly days of exceptional nervous strain for one and all of
us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow over the
lives of many of us women, and while, perhaps, a few —the more stoical among
us—can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we may all. with a little
care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results of worry from being notice-
able in our appearance. To these fortunate few this little chat will, however, be
as interesting and instructive as to those who stand in real need of help in toilet
matters, and may be the means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown
method of retaining, or regaining, that beauty of face and figure which is the birth-
right of every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned _ below are at present
not generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
A Beautiful Complexion by Natural Means. —
The secret of a perfect complexion lies in the
continual renewing of the outer cuticle of the
skin. This is Nature’s own method. The
outer skin as it becomes coarse or shrivelled
must be remove-.., and an opportunity given to
the finer one beneath to show itself. It is
because the old. dead skin is allowed to remain
on the face that so many women, and even
young girls, suffer from pimples, blotches and
sallow dull skins. To remove, by absorption,
the dead outer skin and with it all blemishes,
the use of metcolised wax is universally re-
commended. ordinary face creams being
powerless for this purpose. Smear the wax
over the face and neck, rub it gently into the
skin, and leave it on all night. In the morning
wash it off. using Pilenta soap and warm
water, when all the dead skin will be removed
with the wax. Then apply a lotion to prevent
any trace of greasiness being noticeable and
to give a peach-like bloom to the skin. A
lotion to do this can be made up quite cheaply
from the following recipe. Take one ounce of
cleminite and dissolve it in four tablespoonfuls
of hot water. Place in a bottle, and when cool
apply to the face with the finger tips, allowing
it to dry on the skin.
To Increase the Growth of the Hair. —Few
women give enough attention to the hair,
which, if it is to be kept in good condition,
requires systematic brushing, regular sham-
pooing, and a tonic for at least two or three
months in each year. The hair should be
brushed every night for from five to ten
minutes, and the scalp massaged. When a
tonic is to be applied it should be dabbed into
the roots immediately after the massage, while
the scalp is still warm and glowing. To make
a simple and inexpensive lotion which will in-
crease the growth of the hair take a quarter
of a pint of bay rum, and add to it one ounce
of boranium. Shake well and allow it to stand
for half an hour, then strain, and add suffi-
cient water to make half a pint.
Superfluous Hair, and How to Remove It.—
Superfluous hair is a real trial to those who
daily see the growth which disfigures their
whole face steadily increasing, for nothing so
completely destroys a woman’s claim to good
looks. To remove it quickly and permanently
take a little phemiuol and mix with a little
cold water. Dust the skin, from which the
hair is to be removed, with some powdered
alum, then apply the pheminol paste with a
bone knife. Leave it on for two minutes, then
wash it off. If the growth be very strong two
or more applications may be necessary to re-
move it, but this treatment will eventually so
weaken and destroy the roots that the trouble
will be banished for all time.
To Remove Blackheads.—Dissolve one effer-
vescing stymol tablet in a glass of hot water,
allow the effervescence to subside, then dip a
small sponge into the liquid and mop over
the face. Allow it to remain on for a few
minutes, then wipe off with a towel, and the
blackheads will be entirely removed. To pre-
vent them from reappearing use a stymol tab-
let in the manner described twice a week.
How to Shampoo.—Before shampooing the
hair dip the Angers into a little pure olive or
almond oil. and thoroughly massage the scalp.
Then dissolve a teaspoonful of stallax granules
in a cup of hot water. Fill a basin with warm
water into which the ends of the hair can fall,
and shampoo the stallax mixture into the
roots in the usual way. Then rinse and dry
by fanning with a palm fan.
To Wave the Hair.—To wave the hair do not
use waving irons, as these are most injurious
to the hair, causing it to fade and turn grey,
and to become harsh and brittle. Get two
ounces of silmerine at any chemist's and damp
the hair with it, then either plait tightly,
tying the ends, or arrange it in waving pins.
The Trials of the Stout Woman. —The stom
woman is not only at a disadvantage in ap-
pearance, but she is always uncomfortable
physically and seldom in really good health
while she remains too fat. To remove obesity,
without injuring the general health or alter-
ing the usual diet, a few clynol berries should
be eaten occasionally, and a glass of hot water
sipped after each meal. This combined treat-
ment will work wonders in a very short time,
and is a most pleasant as well as effective
remedy.
Grey Hair.—To restore the color of grey or
fading hair take one ounce of concentrated
tammalite and mix it with four ounces of bay
rum. apply to the hair for several nights,
using a small sponge, and the hair will gradu
ally resume its original color. When the
desired shade has been obtained, the tamma
lite lotion should be used about twice a week
Apply it to the roots with an old toothbrush. [4
The Dining-room in the Model Cottage, Furnished by
Marcus Clark & Co., Sydney Town Hall, October 25,1915.
DINING-ROOM 15ft. 6in. x 13ft.
1 Wilton Pile Carpet Square, lltt., 3in. x lztt. £l4 O
7 Yd«. Art Felt (Surround) 6/6 2 5
4 Pairs Casement Curtains, complete \sdth Brass
Rods 4 10
5 Short Muslin Curtains, with Brass Rods
Top and Bottom • 1 2
6 Oak Mission Chairs, Movable Seats, Uphol-
stered in Best Steer Hide, and 2 Oak Carvers’
Chairs 14 10
1 Oak Mission Style, Buffet, 4ft. wide 8 10
1 All-Oak Screw Extension Mission Dining Table.
opening to 6ft. x 3ft. 6in 0 10
1 sft. Oak Mission Sideboard ( with plate rack),
Lead Light Cupboards below 18 10
£7O 2
Marcus Clark
and Co., Ltd.
Sydney and
Branches
gj gj
An Odorless
Breath
is but one of the many advances that
amtf&fflf* A '™> s; s
follow its night and morning
use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the
Manufacturer.
(Dept. A),
G. ARNOLD
6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) £ 3
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re••• contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
i ,r >--
South' of Ireland: Twenty sworn state-
ments by 20 reputable archbishops concerning the
10th Division won’t alter the fact that the AA'ar
Office had to go outside Ulster to fill the Ulster
(36th) Division of Kitchener’s New Army. And,
anyhow, what has become of 84 per cent, of the
12C,000 “Ulster volunteers” who made all sorts of
warlike pretences just prior to the real blood-and-
hair act? R.AV.J.: The Australian naval pro-
gramme was decided upon by the first Fisher Ministry
in 1909, and everything of consequence that has
been done since then must also be credited to Labor
Governments... .AV.B. (M.L.): You can’t beat a
drum in verse... .C.H.H.: Idea is right, but there
isn’t enough paint and varnish... .James J„: Cheerful,
but the theme is 01d... .Howard AV. (Q■) : Too rough.
. ... .H.E.M.: Ponderous humor, and the prose is a
trifle du11.... Nick B.: It has been overworked
already.... Marcus P.: Latter half of it is promising.
... .Laurie Foster: Please send address to accountant.
L.K.F.: Both miss.... Bellerive: A song for summer:
... .G.S.C.: Story moves very slowly... .C.P.S.:
Tough.... No. 096: Swore off that dreary sort of
thing many years ago. .. .F.W.P.: Spirited enough,
bur crude... .F.J. (Q.): Revives fond memories of
dear old “Queen of the Earth” and other drawing-
room yells of 20 years ago.-.. . M.C.: Where’s your
poet’s license ?.... P.: Anonymous cream-puffs not
well made... .James S.: Don’t want that sort... .Pat
Rcbas: You’re not a winner... .Platypus: Too old
now... .Vernon K.: Afraid the theme is too heavy
for you... .B.B.: Dream on in the basket... .C.E.IL:
What are you talking about? It is usual to attach
name and address to MS., and unsigned contributions
which are also incoherent get short shrift.... Hal-
dane: Flung out. .. .E.M.E.: Hardly enough finish.
. ...P.L. (Westralia) : They don’t score A.W.D.
(N.Q.) : Bill’s epic doesn’t arrest attention. .. .AVirra
'W.: It flickers too much....C. Melvaine: Constantly
receiving similar complaints, as are most papers....
E. Jones: The idea was that the old man was still
all right in spite of the party dissensions which
must be so amusing to the enemy... .Karee: Don’t
jam your lines like that. Leave at least one-fiftieth
of a half-inch for the sub.’s pen to move... .R.P.R.
(Malta): Thanks; good wishes... .John D. Nash
(U.S.A.) : You, too. .. . Jaques: No; but much
obliged, all the same. .. .8.E.F.: It is very good of
The Times to say those things. But in one respect
the paper is wrong. The war has left The Bulletin
with fewer matters to reconsider than any other
paper wc know of. For instance, High Protection,
universal service, unification and Federal control of
the railways, very restricted borrowing (so that the
nation might not be up to its oars before the time
came when it would have to borrow or burst), an
Australian navy, local manufacture of munitions,
abolition of Party Government,. State control of the
liquor business, segregation of venereal subjects—
all these things The Bulletin has been battling
for for years. The war has shown so many of them
to be vitally necessary that scores of this paper's
former newspaper opponents are now barracking for
them, too. And it won't be very long before most
of them will barrack for one or two other things
on The Bulletin's platform—taxation of land
values, for example.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.W.: That Kaiser gag is already a veteran....
Allan AV.: Two outers.... Dudley J.: Your art is too
young yet. .. .L.G.G.: Not buying any lions or par-
rote to-day. . . .D.C.8.: You put in a fearful lot of
work, but make some, elementary . • -E-K.
(Q.): Very rough. One of Thu, figgres *Sat a sideways
nostril, like a rabbit’s burrow. Study hard—you’re
young enough to have the time. .. .Evolution of A.:
Buried your poor little idea... .L.C.M.: A diagram;
of no value... .D.S.C.: Both unsuitable.... Miss
C.J.: Too crude, a- 1 they wouldn’t reproduce
Sydney L.T.: Poor gag and an indigent drawing.
“N’lmporte” throws a sidelight on the
German preparations:—
“Fax” (B. 7/10/’l5) seeks information re yacca
gum. When at Kingscote, Kangaroo Island, two
years ago, I saw a large iron shed for the storage
of the stuff, which was bagged like wheat. I was told
that the shed belonged to agents of the Nord-
Deutscher Lloyd. The quantity exported annually,
was not less than 3000 tons, except just before the
war, when it reached 4000 tons. The total amount
exported was probably not less than 50,000 tons.
The price at Port Adelaide varied from £3 to £4
per ton. Germans, it was reported, held a mono-
poly, and were charging Russians up to £3O for
it. Dissolved in methylated spirit yacca gum makes
good indoor varnish, but the Germans, it was under-
stood, used it in making picric acid for explosives,
as well as in vulcanising rubber and coloring wine.
(It is deep ruby red.) In preparing it for market
yacca is chopped up and sifted or “jigged” into
coarse and fine. One man if good at the work can
prepare a ton daily, but the cost of carriage to
Port Adelaide is high. Local buyers are still adver-
tising for supplies. One getter uses a patented
process employing steam, and claims to extract all
the gum.
“Footstick”: The charge of “attempted
suicide” always seemed to me to betray an
absence of sense of humor; for why should
an earthly court meddle with one who by
his very act had indicated his preference for
a higher tribunal? But Adelaide lias bet-
tered the old, bald indictment. In a recent
case one Herbert Paul, who in a fit of
depression wrote a note telling his landlady
that she would find his corpse in his room,
was charged with having “violently and
maliciously threatened in writing to do him-
self some grievous bodily, injury.” He was
bound over to keep the peace; and the Court,
I hope, went outside, and violently and mali-
ciously threatened to kick itself.
OUT AMONG THE SNAKES.
’Tis not a life of roses a-
Plodding along the track
For miles along the dreary roads
AVith a swag upon your back ;
In the winter damp and chilly
You get stiff rheumatic aches
And in summer ’tis risky
To camp among the snakes.
They don’t tour for recreation
And although people cal! ’em scamps
There’s many a good and honest men
Among the roving tramps;
A-ploddirg with the bluey
Is not all jams and cakes
There’s no feather beds to rest upon
Out among the snakes.


‘‘Yes, sir. I’m ‘General Electric/ I have the honor of
commanding the Light Brigade the lightest of the light
brigades the Osrams. They’re wiry little beggars, these
Osrams drawn wire, you know and as bright as they make
’em. And I flatter myself they can do more work on less
current than any other light troops in the world.
“Of course, they need the switch, but when they get it
by Jingo, don’t they shine ! ! In action, sir? Never out of
it, and stand many a jolt and nasty jar too, yet they’re always
bright and cheery—to the very last.”
Lighting expenses can only be kept to
the lowest limit by using exclusively
Osram Drawn Wire Lamps proved to
be the most economical in current con-
sumption as well as the strongest and
the most lasting. If yon are not using
Osram Lamps at present your electric
light is costing you more than it need do.
Osram Lamps are made entirely by
British Labor in a British factory
at Hammersmith, London. Over 1500
British workpeople are employed there
turning out over 10,000,000 lamps
a year. The Glass Works which make the
bulbs for Osram Lamps are situated at
Lemington-on-Tyne.
•V-
-05 RAM
O S RAM
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. LTD
Magnet House. 257 Clarence St., Sydney.
Branches
MELBOURNE 590 Bourke Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. ... 8 Willeston Street.
Sole Agencies
fBRISBANE ... Norman Bell & Co., 83 Eagle Street.
\ ADELAIDE ... Colton, Palmer & Preston Ltd., Currie Street.
“S.S.”: I have good authority for it that
Kitchener’s real mission is to depose Con-
stantine and declare George Reid King of
Q rease>
... ’. r, ... „ ama
Kissie Smith m the name ot complain
ant m a Western District case
a uf lDS rp a H?” ng iteallv it is Kis.sie’s srod-
able liberties. it is Kissie s god
parents who shou d b . .
The decorous proceedings of the Tas-
manian Assembly were pleasingly varied
the other night when .T. T. Wliitsitt
announced his intention of “scattering the
teeth” of one L. Broinowski. or (alterna-
tivelv) of knocking them down his throat,
It carried members’ thoughts back to the
-ood old days when two hon. members had
a rough and tumble on the floor; but as the
man with the removable teeth had merely
shown himself in the mostly milk-and-mush
columns of the Mercury, nothing came of
the present threat.
F . .
The Australian Piffence Department is
spending about £1,000,000 a week; but as
things were a. bit upside down and inside
out at the beginning, the greater part ot the
expenditure was put under the strict control
of a Board of business men. This body con-
sists of Mr. Maguire, chief clerk of the
Central Administration ; Captain Wilson,
director of equipments; J. F. Lahiff, senior
ordnance officer ; Major Ormiston, secretary,
Later on it is expected that the spirit of
reform will be extended, and that the Minis-
ter will be in a position to make an £ -
ment something like this . .
It having been discovered that additional business
men are required to carry on the commercial transac-
tions of the Defence Department, we have decided to
place these responsibilities in the hands of a joint
committee consisting of the brigadiers, colonels and
majors, all of whom have been recalled from the
Front. Their places in command of the fighting
’SSJ&JXttJaRA'' 1
As The Bhleet.n has always said, devotion
to common-sense can easily become a fetich,
and the idea that a military man cou ie
his country the best service by handling m -
tary affairs was for a time in dan ?ei
being adopted.-. Howevei, the
has passed, Md it is seen clearly now that a
military man- can often be better employed
doing something for which he has no qualifi-
cations and has had no training.
Some months ago the shareholders in
i. ~ r v ~
Mort s Dock, Austialia s biggest s. P-
surgery, were hopefully agitated to read that
the big cargo carrier Multah had crashed
on to Bramble Cay (Q.), but their agita-
tion was less hopeful when the crippled
vessel staggered into Brisbane River to
await owner’s orders. As Bananaland isn’t
capable of tackling the job of thoroughly
repairing a big, badly damaged vessel, the
question for consideration was whether the
Multah was to be patched up sufficiently to
leave under her own steam, or whether she
would go off in tow. If the former she
would crawl up to Singapore, where colored
labor is cheap; if the latter, to Sydney,
Eventually the British owners decided on
Sydney, which means a five-figure bill from
Mort’s and heaps of opportunity for a strike
or two to while away the time.
“Ex-Gent”: It isn’t the sea that ever
daunts an Englishman. A fireman’s bril-
liant shore-leave bender in Wellington
(M.L.) ended at the police station, where he
was searched. In one pocket was found a
discharge from The Empress of Ireland and
in the other a discharge from the Lusitania,
both dated immediately after the disaster’s to
the steamers. No Germans need apply for
the wave-ruling job while we have hearts as
stout as these.
“The Wanderer”: The other day I saw
the whipping-stool that used to do duty in
Port Macquarie (N.S.YV.) Gaol. It is not a
particularly inviting-looking stool either. Its
smooth, glossy appearance leads one to believe
that it was pretty frequently used in the
days when the lash licked the back of a man
whenever officialdom felt that way. The
owner of the gruesome furnitui’e is T. Dick,
of Port Macquarie. The old gaol has been
partly pulled down, and the remaining parts
seem anxious to tumble down. But a few of
the cells remain—reminders of the dark old
days when Lake Innes was the hub of the
local universe, and Port Macquarie was the
home of soldiers, warders and manacled
wretchedness.
Fisher says he hopes to return to Federal
politics when his time is up in London. But
Australia will have changed much in five
years. So will Andrew. And they probably
will not have changed the same way.
“T.0.M.”: Charles Lewis, of Toowoomba,
and his family deserve the honorable men-
tion (B. 28/10/T5), but they are behind
in the running for the enlisting champion-
ship. The winners are the Neyland fam-
ily, of Birchip (Vic.). There are nine sons,
and seven of them are now collecting scalps
in Europe, while of the remaining two, one
is cui-sing his luck in having to wait and
take off his harvest before calling on Abdul,
and the youngest will be. found on the door-
mat of the recruiting office at daylight on
his 18th birthday. The father, as sound
as a bell, and an expert bushman and horse-
man, has also offered to fight, but was re-
jected for ingrowing teeth or something. Is
there any just cause or impediment why the
blue ribbon should not be handed over?
“J.G.”: Vic.’s latest railway line is just
about ready to commence business. Start-
ing at Elmore and finishing at Cohuna, it
runs through country between the Echuca
line and the Murray and the Kerang line.
It man turn out to be a payable venture,
but it moves off with a lot of practically
non-producing big estates hanging on to both
sides. For the best part of 20 miles gffter
leaving Elmore scarcely a house is to be
seen, the whole countryside being taken up
by the Burnewang Park Estate, of 40,000
acres, inhabited by about 20 persons; the
Burnewang East Estate, of 36,000 acres,
carrying a total population of about 12;
and the Kama,rooka Estate, of about 15,000
acres, occupied by about half a dozen. It is
only after passing this last-named estate that
the wheat and cow country is reached. Still,
it is a great comfort to know that the line,
put down with borrowed money at hard
interest, will raise the value of the three
big estates by about £2 or £3 per acre.
“Mulga”: Re “S.T.S.’s” question (B.
21/10/T5) as to what man knows Australia
best. How about “cattle-king” Kidman,
who has seen practically every corner of it?
Also the brothers Bill and Jack Rose;
drovers, who know every billabong from
Adelaide to the Gulf and from Brisbane to
Wyndham, and have visited other nooks and
corners in their spare time? Incidentally
Bill Rose was a great believer in the future
and possibilities of the Northern Territory.
But of course he was no authority : he was
merely talking from first-hand knowledge.
“Hamer”: “J.R.S.” (B. 11/11/’l5) may
be right in naming a family of 31 as the
Australian record. But I doubt if any
place in Australia ever had a better record
than a block of Paddington (Sydney) pos-
sessed a decade ago—the block bounded by
Regent-street, Rennie-street, Oatley-road and
Park-road. There was one family number-
ing 24, another 22, a third 19, a fourth 18,
a fifth 17, two families of if) and eight
others 10 or more strong. Fifteen families
totalling 220 young Australians is a pretty
good record for any locality.
The day of the Big Union has arrived.
An amalgamation bringing together the
Miners’ Federation, the National -Union of
Transport Workers and the National Union,
of Railwaymen has been ratified in Britain,
something like a million and a half men
being banded in the new organisa-
tion. It remains to be seen whether the
Big Union will be big enough to keep petty
industrial disputes in the background while
all the energies of the nation are required
to suppress the madman of Europe.
Ten strikes were running on one recent
day in N. S. Wales, where such things are
strictly forbidden by the Law. One affected
beer, and that was so tremendously im-
portant that it was soon settled; three
directly affected the wax’, which is of
much less consequence; a fifth arose
through an objection to a ganger and
another to a non-unionist blacksmith; two
others were really quarrels between bodies
of workers; the ninth was mostly an argu-
ment as to whether an eight-hours’ day
meant 48 hours or 44 hours a week. In
addition, there were the usual coal-mine
stoppages, but they are too numerous to
notice unless they reach big dimensions. The
tenth was provided by some doctors, who,
with the idea of showing that all men are
brothers and can act alike, had struck work
in connection with a hospital because they
did not approve of the lady the committee
had appointed as matron.
“Orion’.’: Is this typical of what is going
to happen? The Richmond (Vic.) City
Council was lately in need of a hall-keeper,
and the list of applicants was finally thinned
down to two, one of them a returned soldier,
the other a prominent member of the local
Labor body. As recruiters the Mayor and
several councillors had made themselves blue
in the face declaiming their fierce determina-
tion that returning soldiers should have pre-
ference in public appointments, yet the very
first public job they had to give away it
was Billjim who didn’t get it. He got three
votes instead.
Australian aviator Hart, who has been
trying to have his services as a flying man
accepted for the war, has given up hope of
getting away with an Australian force. So
in a week or two he goes to England, where
he hopes to get into the thick of it early
next year.
Minister for Labor Estell told the N.S.YV.
Parliament in effect the other night that
the present penal clauses of the Arbitration
law are useless. Well, what does Estell pro-
pose to do about it? Or doesn’t he propose
to do anything, but just let the unions ex-
tract by Force what they can’t get by
Reason? If that policy is good enough for
Estell, Black might try it, too. It would
save quite a lot of money to sack the police.
'.Those who are too old to go to the war
might be put trawling.
Erasmus is quite dead, but lie is still
quotable in spots. Just 400 years ago,, on
leaving Cambridge University, the learned
thinker wrote: —
Tt is the people who build cities, while the madness
of princes destroys them. Kings who are scarcely
men are dubbed “divine”; they are “invincible,”
though they fly from every battlefield; “serene,”
though they turn the world upside-down in a storm of
war; “illustrious,” though they grovel in ignorance
of all that is noble; “catholic,” though they follow
anything rather than Christ. Of all birds the Eagle
alone has seemed to wise men the type of royalty;
a bird neither beautiful nor musical nor good for
food, but murderous, greedy, hateful to all, the curse
of all, and with its great powers of doing harm only-
surpassed by its desire to do it.
“H.A.D.”: Apropos of King O’Malley and
the attendance-book (B. 4/11/T5). This is
how he put it to one of the administrative
officers the other morning: “I want you to
understand that if the ’Postle Paul comes iu
here from Damascus at five past nine, he’ll
sign on in red ink the same as the rest of
them.”
“Harrison O.” : The urgent need for Gov-
ernment supervision of raffles, entertainments
and sundries organised (allegedly) for
charitable or patriotic purposes is empha-
sised by the balance-sheet of a recent “patri-
otic” concert. It was a Sunday performance
by massed bands, avowedly in aid of the
Soldiers’ Rest Home, and given on the
M.C.C-. As the public rolled up in great
style and it was announced that the takings
amounted to £152 18s. 6d., the Red Cross
Society, which controls the Rest Home, threw
its nurse’s cap in the air and made a glad
noise. A wait of some weeks followed; then
a balance-sheet was produced which showed
that the disbursements in connection with
the affair were £133 19s. 3d.! The total in-
cluded such items as “contributions to four 1
bands and conveyances, £ll 8s.”; “cost of
music, £3 55.” ; “hire of costumes and flags,
£lO 165.” ; and a grant to the “hon. sec.” of
£l5! So the amount available for the
Soldiers’ Rest Home is £lB 19s. 3d.! All
things considered, the Red Cross people may
think themselves lucky, for if there had only
been an assistant “hon. sec.” they might have
been asked for a few pounds to make good a
deficit.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: II MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Commissioners—•
R. A. WARDEN (President). W. H. O'M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAYINGS.
DEPOSITS received from Is. upwards.
INTEREST paid at 3:j per cent, per annum
on all balances up to £5OO on accounts
opened under the conditions of Government
Savinas Dank Acts, and up to £2OO on
accounts opened with the late Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Deposits guaranteed by the Government.
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS.
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable bv instal-
ments extending over ol years. Interest 5
per cent.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGH-
OUT THE STATE.
POST OFFICES are NOT NOW Agencies
for this Bank.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAY'IES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. ,T. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Ollice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Offlee: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30t,h June, 1915) .. £1,195,831
RESERVE FUND £65,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Thread needle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sr.v, LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton’
Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.; Herrert R.
Lysagiit, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throngliout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth!
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world, C, If. C, SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund... 190,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ;
James Love, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager —AV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout'Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking go.
of Sydney, [united.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . 1,780,000 0 0
Reserve Capital ~ .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,780,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Kater. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Ivnox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs,. Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brexan, Esq.
General Manager; 11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Hire hi n Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager; F. A. Scrivener.
Brandies throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)em Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up . . . . . . $92^295
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
business.
The Colonial Mutual tile
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments aau
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office: . \
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office fob New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping &cv
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA R N GL AN D
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLKY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
.Geared Turbint
. Triple-Screw.
. .Twin-Screw .
15.000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12.130
12,129
12,124
12.077
12.036
9.023
5,282
Fstt «l ' v ith Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
us Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Mi ß > C Sy.r- r r,x-f? iliri ” s from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Trl» BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with al! United States and Canadian
Kail ways.
*St earners sail from Wellington:—
MAITAI, MOANA,
Jail. 6.
Dec. 9.
'Connecting Steamers leave Sydney:—.
DEC. 2. DEC. 30. '
STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE
JHE PEARL OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
■
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACIvAY l
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(*Transhippin°; for
this and other
Queensland ports). )
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 20.
COOM.V (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 24.
Leaves Sydney Nov. 27.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dee. 1.
Leaves Sydney Dec. 4.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S. A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 27.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, eic., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports,
Every Three Weeks
IX SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERI CA-C A N A D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Svdnev:—
NOV. 20, DEC. 15, JAN. 5, JAN. 26.
Apply:— OC E A NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
rabaui
?<v,
YP,. ! go,
a, *
AY«
. »■'*
r %*)a»
BRISBANE
10k D
YOKE
mm//.
cIBOURN
,4
, ' NORFOLK
l> •
ÜBES
Holiday^
bruises
Java.singapore
& Pacific Isles.
burns Pmlp& C9tp
Send for Pamphlet*
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALKS.
The Hon. Sir Charles lv, MacKellar, Kt.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfiill, Esq., M.D.
M.L.C.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORS: —WiIIiam Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Thread needle St., E.C.
346 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States. New 'Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world"
•T. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field ot unbounded scope to the investot. the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars :
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU. Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
gj g
JM* Australia
SYDNEY |
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at «
per annum «
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELI., bepury Governor. June, 1915 DENIS V MILLKK. Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up.. .. .. ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits. . £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
; The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is the only Trustee Company empowered by
Act of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
Directors.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACIvELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BIiADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq
It. M. I’ITT. Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry T
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.
North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER.
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers’
there connecting with one of the Companv's un-to-’
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £8 8s; 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED)
EXPRESS PASSESOER SERVICE „
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
'SI *o»j| pi[B
' A ° s ‘viooaiv ? r<t
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
l'A KING A, Nov. 20.
27.
MORI ALTA, Dec. 4.
Saloon Passage Tickets ,
the first Port of call with ntw » 11 teiclianareable after
on all services subject to eomlitinM Stat S-S on,pat,i i‘ ,S
» ■PPlioUon o a nh“ , ffipJ V iv(SS ! ’
G. S. YIII.I, & t 0... LTD.,
The Vancouver Route
TA A It,VI ZEALAND, |<'i,ii \ vr>
HONOLULU.
AC ( E DER ATED SERVJC’E
AUSTRALIA, NEWZEAIAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-ATJSTRAEASIW if
LINE.
tn conjunction with Canutlinu Pacific lihhv-M-
-THE “ALT,-RED ROUTE" to ENGLAND
a.w KA^MST^iPPKD KSl 'vi^sm T ’ -KK:
“ ETWEEN JUSTE S^™iS.™' ?
SAILINGS :
SAX
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain cverv
P a !!-n co " v f n I ,en °e nt the new anil palatial
jtand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
r&tes are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION ST HAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS. '
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And AH Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between
Australia and United Kingdom via Suez
Canal, Cape of Good Hope, Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers,
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large, airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Deck-.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
Fare to London or Liverpool, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, Etc.,
apply to
Birt & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane; Turnbull,
Martin & Co., Brisba. e; Mcllwraith, McEacharn
and Co. Ptv., Ltd., Melbourne and Newcastle:
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide; H. Jones
and C'o.. Ltd.. Hobart.
Calverts
toilet Soap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap ot tne
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in waim
climates.
(In 3-tabbt boxes.)
Sold bv Local Chemists and Stores,
hide byF. C. Calvert Co ., Manchestei, '?•
Thk
Bulletin takes your fancy "'rite to tin
Manager, who will quote you
original.
' price for the
214 Beorge Street, Sydney.


THE BANK of AUSTRALASIA
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
.. ..£2,000,000
being used
. . 2,750,000
. . 2,000,000
£6,750,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT of the DIRECTORS of the BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
With the Accounts for the Half-year to 12th April, 1915.
Presented to the Proprietors at the Half-yearly General Meeting, held on
THURSDAY, 7th OCTOBER, 1915.
REPORT.
The directors submit to the proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 12th April last, with the profit
account for the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and
Australasian rates and taxes, and after making provision for bad and doubtful debts and other contin-
gencies, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £208,777 16s. 5d.
To this sum must be added £114,575 8s. 6d. brought forward from the previous half-year, making a
total of £323,353 4s. lid., out of which the directors have declared a dividend for the half-year at the
rate of 14 per cent, per annum, or £2 16s. per share, and a bonus at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum, or
12s. per share, together £3 8s. per share, free of income tax.
The dividend and bonus will absorb £170,000, and the directors have further, appropriated £40,000
to the reserve fund. There will then remain £113,353 4s. lid. to be carried forward to the next
account.
The dividend and bonus will be payable in London and in Australasia on the 8fh October.
Since the date of the last Report, Agencies have been opened at Brunswick (Melbourne), Victoria,
and Grafton, New South Wales, and the Branch at Berry, New South Wales, has been dosed.
LICHFIELD, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 27th September, 1915.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ( £500,000 is invested in 21 per cent. Consols, the remainder
in the business of the bank)
RESERVE LIABILITY OF PROPRIETORS UNDER THE CHARTER
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from 12tli October, 1914, to 12th April, 1915.
Undivided profit, 12th October, 1914 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £284,575 8 6
Less: Dividend and Bonus, 20th March, 1915 .. .. .. .. .. .. 170,000 0 0
£114,575 8 6
Profit for tlie half-year to 12th April, 1915, after deducting rebate on
bills current at balance date (£12,456 6s. 2d.), and making provi-
sion for all bad and doubtful debts and for other contingencies .. £409,783 17 9
LESS:
I. Charges of Management—-
Australasia —Salaries and allowances to the staff,
including the Superintendent’s Department,
and 204 branches and agencies
General expenses, including rent, repairs, sta-
tionery. travelling, etc.
London —Salaries
General expenses .. .. .. ..
II. Rates and Taxes—•
Australasia .. .. .. .. £18,794 13 6
London . . .. .. . . 23,187 1 2
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which deduct:—•
For transfer to Reserve Fund
£118,499 8 4
26.288 9 9
10,674 2 .8
3,562 5 11
£159,024 6 8
£41.981 14 8 £201,006 1 4 £208,777 16 5
323,353 4 11
40,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
. . £283,353 4 11
BALANCE-SHEET, 12th APRIL, 1915.
LIABILITIES.
I>n.
Circulation.'. .. .. .. £258,793 0 0
Deposits . . . . . . . . 20.099.952 17 4
Mills payable and other liabilities,
including provision for conlin-
gencies .. .. .. .. 3,159,818 15 4
£24,118,564' 12 8
Capital ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve fund.. 2,750,000 0 0
Profit account,
undivided bal-
ance.. .. 283,353 4 11
—— 5,033,353 4 11
£29,151,917 17
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion. Government notes
and cash balances
Loans at call and short notice ..
British Government securities . .
India Government securities and
other investments
Bills receivable, advances on
securities and other assets
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand and London
Cr.
£7,137,665 4 6
620,000 0 0
1,065,469 16 5
8S1.146 13 5
19,427,302 14 7
20,333 8 8
£29,151,917 17 7
R. W. JEANS, General Manager.
F. II. BLOGG, Accountant.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified
the transfers from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg' to report
that, in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair , balance-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a
true and correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs as shown by the books. The investments were
valued, so far as could be ascertained, at market pric or under.
London, 22nd September, 1915. WELTON, JONES AND CO., Auditors.
JOKES, TRICKS, PUZZLES, NOVELTIES, etc.
Write for our New Catalog. A Novelty in itself. Sent Free.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIFE.
A most useful article for anyone. Can be carried
in the vest pocket. Puzzle to open and shut.
Post Free, 1/3.
THE OVAL
MATCH BOX.
A beautifully-made match-
box, oval in shape and nicely
plated. A nice size for the
pocket. A splendid puzzle,
and made with :a ring for
the end of watch chain.
Post free, „l/3.
The two articles together, post free for 2/3.
ĝj
H. L. Hutchinson Ltd. —New York Novelty C 0.—708-710 George St., Haymarket, Sydney
HE’LL APPRECIATE A RAZOR
\<w^
He'll appreciate it better than any other Xmas Gift you can give
him—-especially
IF IT’S A “PLUM.”
No so-called Safety Razor could ever ensure so easy a shave as the
“Plum.” It retains its keen edge, requires but little stropping, and
leaves the face like velvet.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep this razor in perfect order for two years, f ee of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/
All the Above Post Free.
This line makes a lovely present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
m
■SiH
m
A
■mmi.
*
s
AN D
’ T
PRICE tC®E?
90 KING ST
HOW TO
GET FA
nr*
New Preparation Makes
THIN MEN AND WOMEN
Plump and Healthy.
2/6 PACKAGE FREE
1:;
“ Look at those skinny people.”
We make this generous offer to every
thin, scraggy, emaciated person who hap-
pens to read this advertisement. We
particularly invite those who have been
sufferers for many years from lack of
flesh to accept our offer of a FREE
TRIAL PACKAGE of SANA-VETA
the great English tissue-builder. We
make no absurd claims for this remark-
able preparation, we merely ask you to
give it a fair trial in your own home, and
we venture to say that you will „be
astonished and delighted with the re-
sults. To give it a fair test get your
correct weight before commencing the
treatment, and at the end of 7 days
weigh yourself again; the results will
speak for themselves.
There are no drastic rules with this
treatment, you just eat what you like
and when you like, it is convenient: and
easy to take, and is perfectly harmless.
SANA-VETA is not a cure-all. but a scien-
tific preparation which acts directly on
the digestive organs, thereby enrichinsr
and assimilating all food taken into the
body, thus making good healthy flesh and
filling out all hollow and scraggy parts
of the body where flesh is wanted.
There is absolutely no reason why any
thin person should not be able to add as
many pounds to their weight as their
height demands (but please note that
SANA-VETA does not make super-
fluous fat.) The Proprietors of this
unique preparation are so confident
of its flesh-forming possibilities that
they are prepared to give away
ten thousand free trial packages and
stand by the results. Send to-day for a
full 2/6 Free Trial Package and see what
wonderful results can be quickly obtain-
ed. Enclose four stamps to cover cost of
postage, packing, etc., and we will send
you the package by return of post,
securely packed and free from obser-
vation. Address : The Sana-Veta Co..
Suite S 3, ITS Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
FREE COUPON
Cut out this coupon and enclose with your letter. Write you l
name and address distinctly and fully. Enclose four stamps t(
cover cost of postage, packing, etc.
THE SANA-VETA CO.
(Suite 83), 178Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALTHOUGH so
necessary,the
salt you eat at
meals costs the
least of anything
on the table. So
why not have the
best—
CEREBOS
SALT
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
HU
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
gjgj
I!' any illustration appearing in Tt?e
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Elastic Sides
that won’t
stretch-out after
a few weeks’
wear.
ghj
Price:
Black, 16/6 pr.'
Tan, 18/6 pr.
WE PAY THE POSTAGE,
Next time you need
Riding* Boots, buy
“WALLABY
EMPERORS.”
They are soft and light. They
are strong and durable. Made
in Queensland from genuine
Wallaby Hides, fitted with
comfortable elastic sides that
will not perish or stretch after
a few weeks’ wear.
SEND FOR A PAIR ON APPROVAL, STATING SIZE AND COLOR PREFERRED.
PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED
Toowoomba. BRISBANE. Townsville.
Missing: Friends.
JAMES JAMES, of Sydney (many years ago asso-
ciated in land transactions with the late A. M.
Momsen, F. R. Bretnall. and others), his legal repre-
sentative or any person knowing of his whereabouts,
please communicate with Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany Limited, 2, 4 and 6 Spring Street, Sydney.
I WI, LAWRENCE JOSEPH, who left
England in the month of March, 1911,
and wtfht to Sydney, Australia, is requested
to communicate with PERCY SHORT,
Solicitor, Donington House, 50 Norfolk
Street, Strand, London, with reference to
moneys and income to which the said Law-
rence Joseph Iwi is entitled under the will
of his late father.
ITZ'S
■CIDER
PORE sparkling apple juice
Interstate Agents.—
SYDNEY: Tucker & Co.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
ADELAIDE: AY. P. Aulcl & Co.
PERTH: Philip Coyle
TOAVNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns,
Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.
HOBART: J. Ferguson & Co.
LAUNCESTON: J. McKenzie & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Heddrick & Co.
IN
BANANA LAND
“Condamine” : The crack Longreach shear-
ing tally for this season was put up at
Terrick, where 40 men shore 7796 in the
day; average, 194 per man. A small team
at Winton averaged 268 per man.
“Myall”: What would the pioneers who
laid the foundation of the great flocks of
Western Queensland have thought of this? At
the Brisbane wool sales of October 19 greasy
wool brought up to 18|d. per lb. This was
paid for a line of crossbred, grown by J.
Sutton, of Megine, Roma, and is the highest
price obtained for this class of wool in the
Brisbane or Sydney markets. The old bri-
gade were content with a mere 6d. or 7d.
“Cleveland”: The Minister for External
Affairs, in reply to a question, stated that
the Director of the Tropical Institute at
Townsville is an Austrian by birth, natural-
ised on May 27. 1914; that he receives a
salary of £1000; that he has done, and is
doing, excellent work, and no apparent
reason exists why his agreement of service
should be terminated. No reason whatever'
That there were, at the time the appointment
was made—and are now, for that matter —
any number of good Britishers equally
capable of handling the job, was of
course an excellent reason why the
job should have been given to an alien!
That the nation of which the Director is
still a subject—notwithstanding his natural-
isation —is causing Australia to pledge
its very boots in protection of its
freedom is a first-rate argument for paying
an enemy subject £2O a week! But as
this same enemy subject has been per-
mitted since the outbreak of the war
to take on the duties of Resident Medical
Officer of the Townsville Hospital—a job
which has hitherto called for the full atten-
tion of a resident doctor —the Minister might
as well explain what he is doing for his
£lOOO at the Tropical Institute.
The N.g.W. State railway system makes
a bid for the passengers who do the trip
between Sydney and Brisbane, by providing
a new express, which will cut out many
stations and three hours, halting only at
Hornsby (21 miles), Werris Creek (234
miles), Armidale (338 miles), Glen Innes
(402 miles and breakfast), and then the
border. From there the hurry-up rests with
the Queensland railways, which have not
yet co-operated, and progress still
resembles that made by a funeral led by
dead horses. The most pleasing feature
about the innovation is that the long no-
stop distances are made possible by engines
of Australian manufacture, reckoned to be
equal to anything in the world; and the
extra-sumptuous carriages were also made
on the premises. The caravan is a fine
advertisement for Australian industry --aiid
a squelching i*etort to the , people who men-
tion :-little things that cannot be done in
ffi'e’-Comm on wen Ith.
On November 7 four residents of Mary-
borough gave up the struggle with the
North. Their aggregate ,age was 297 years,
the eldest being S 2 ~*and the youngest a
paltry 64.
, The trouble isn’t confined to the South;
it flourisheth in the North, and is a shame
upon the face of the land. The balance-
sheet of the Brisbane Charity Organisation
Society, just published, shows that the cost
of distributing £205 was £- r i7o. Salaries and
commission got away with £354 and rent
and office expenses £ll5. Verily, charity
covers a multitude of/‘skins.”
“T. 0.1.” : There were strikes in the Courts
before Judge Cooper’s day. In 1844
Alfred Clieeke, afterwards a Judge, was
Crown-Prosecutor at Quarter Sessions in
N. S. Wales, which then included Queens-
land. At the first sitting of the Court of
Quarter Sessions he hung up the business
for three days, refusing to prosecute because
the Leg. Council, on a constitutional point,
refused to vote his salary. The Governor
named the Clerk of the Peace, Edward
Rogers, to conduct prosecutions ; but it was
found that Cheeke’s commission, being under
the Sign Manual, could not be superseded.
Cheeke, seeing that he had the enemy beaten,
came forward and finished the job, satisfied
by then that the Council would do what he
reckoned the, fair thing.
The Government has taken steps to pro-
tect the minah in the interests of the sugar
industry. The bird is not an Australian,
although it has as good a claim as the great-
grandchildren of most naturalised citizens to
be classed as a native. It was first intro-
duced into Queensland from Victoria in 18S2
to deal with an epidemic of locusts in the
Herbert district, its reputation being that
' 5t not only kills locusts and beetles, but also
devours their eggs. Victoria is supposed to
have got the minah from India. It is a
hardworking member of the community, any-
how.
TIME AND SPACE.
SMALL BOY: “Please can I go out?”
IRISH TEACHER (from Glasgow): “Ye cannot. Ye should have gone out before ye
came in.”
“Rangan”: “I landed here on Australia’s
historical day, under fierce rifle and shell
fire, having to wade ashore through water up
to the armpits, and race for cover. The
first days were awful —blood, bandages, dying
and dead men, but not a groan. For three
days and two nights I did not lie down.”
An extract from a soldier’s diary? No, a
few sentences from a letter of the late Dr.
Richards, of Mount Morgan. The Doctor
further advised his wife not to believe the
reports of his death (which were numerous),
as they were “greatly exaggerated.” The
letter arrived four weeks after the writer
had been “buried at sea.” There are heroes
besides those who carry a rifle.
“Hamer” : The Ryan Government threatens
to be consistent, anyhow. In establishing
a Committee of Public Works on the same
lines as that of N. S. Wales it provides no
room for representatives of the Leg. Council.
Immediately the Bill made that clear the
House of Fat roared “Whaffor?” Ryan, in
effect, pointed to the death-warrant in the
Council Abolition Bill, introduced last week.
“But we’re not dead yet,” wailed the
Fossils. “Can’t help it,” says Ryan ; “you’re
dead as far as we’re concerned, and we’re
making early preparations for the funeral.”
The Scrub Pool.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Well wc knew that evil pool.
Hidden deep in darkest scrub;
Prickly thorn and poisonous shrub
Hemmed it round, and foliage cool
Met and formed a covert high,
Shutting out the flaming sky.
There no friendly beast would drink,
There no sunlight ever caine;
Monstrous growths without a name
Crouched around the water’s brink.
Bulbous lilies, red as blood,
Burst in splendor through the mud.
And things foul and beautiful
Squatted near the treacherous slime;
Green and golden snake's would climb
Round the fallen logs, and pull
Screaming frogs from secret holes
In the rotting blackwood boles.
And basking lizards still as death,
With horned backs and jewelled eyes,
Fished with colored tongues for flies,,
While through the water, whose foul breath
Stained the stagnant air around,
Mud-eels moved without a sound.
There the winged fox made its home
There the night-hawk found its prey;
Hidden from the light of day
Fungi frothed in scarlet foam,
And orchids big as parrots won
Pride from the forgotten sun.
Well we knew that haunted spot 1
Evil’s self was prisoned there,
Kept from soiling purer air,
Kept in secret shame to rot —
Till boyhood’s vision broke, and hurled
Beauty and Evil through the world.
QUEENSLAND.
VANCE PALMER.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 13, 1915.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
All this week the Recruiting Committee
has been scratching round town with its in-
effective old rake, and every day a small body
of troops has marched through the'streets
a: noon extending an invitation to the man
on the fence to join the. procession. One
day Andrew Fisher took part in the show,
and had a stand at Albert Square, where
he’ orated. Other pitches were occupied by
other politicians, and there were large anil
enthusiastic attendances of sightseers. On
Wednesday Charlie Morris, president of the
Q.T.C., harangued the racegoers, anu to-day
Premier Ryan did likewise. In the various
churches, too, clergymen are on the stump,
comedians put urgent calls to war into their
turns, newspaper writers toil overtime in
the great mission and to-night at the Exhi-
bition Hall the Governor-General waved his
arms at a fine, healthy, Britons-never-shall-
be-slaves crowd. If we weren’t all so busy
in these patriotic duties I’m sure we’d make
quite a respectable show in khaki.
In opposition to this circus the Peace
Society and Adela Crankhurst have been
running a show at the Centennial Hall.
Addie demanded that the war should be
rung off. She’s a querulous young lady,
and complained bitterly afiout the fighting
suffragettes being whacked by London
policemen. But apparently, she has. forgiven
the German hogs for what they did to hap-
less women in Belgium.
Miss John lent moral support to Adela,
but made no speech. Miss Thorpe, how-
ever, a pretty Quakeress from Tasmania,
said a few generalities. She is, of course,
an apostle of peace, but one can forgive the
Quakers a lot. If they prefer martyrdom to
violent defence of their lives and wives, and
venerable grandmothers they at least are not
afraid to go wfliere the bullets fly and the
shells crash. Their field ambulances and
hospitals have saved thousands of soldiers
from death.
This morning more than 3000 troops
marched through the city. They are a
fine lot, and stirred the throngs to cheers.
The G.-G. took the salute at the G.P.0.,
and afterwards paid his compliments at
the camps.
Every day about 40 blushing warriors
arrive at the Technical College. They
are learning cooking. So many and
so bitter have been the complaints as to the
unholiness of the camp “tucker” that a
harassed department has taken this way of
closing the discussion.
A children’s fete in aid of the Servians
and the Poles was held in Mr. Morrow’s
grounds at Taringa to-day.
At the meeting of the National Council
of Women yesterday Mrs. J. S. Kerr read
a paper on the care of the feeble-minded.
Public Instruction figures show that about
4.5 per cent, of the children examined fire
mentally defective. One cottage home has
been started near Brisbane, but something
ought to be done on a larger scale. There’s
a chance here for the N.C.W.
The races to-day were well attended and
there -was some tasteful dressing. Mrs. T. J.
Ryan wore white and a becoming hat with
touches of pink. Alice Morgan was in black,
with a large, shady hat. Mrs. O, A. Morris,
wife of the president of the Q.T.C., wore
white and a blue hat. The C. A. Morris
pair and the I. J. Moores distributed free
tea to parties of comfortable unemployed,
and Munro Ferguson, president of the Aus-
tralian Governors’ Union, was fed by the
committee of the Q.T.C.
The Osterley carried a number of Queens-
landers south in search of cooler weather.
Professor A. J. Gibson, who has been work-
ing too hard on recruiting and munition
committees, was ordered a spell, and his wife
went with him. Artist Godfrey Rivers and
his wife were also on board. So was Mrs.
Rivers’ sister, Miss Barton. By the way,
Dr. and Mrs. Doyle have not yet left for
Tasmania, but they will be on the wing soon.
I gave them too long a handicap last week.
Mrs. Harry Mills, of Warra, who as
Hilma Ohman fired the hearts of our bache-
lors, is in town with her two babies. Her
husband has put his Gft.-something into a
khaki suit.
Next Saturday the Automobile Club will
give its annual pleasure run to poor and
crippled children. All institutions for young-
sters have been invited to join the frolic, and
if anyone knows of any afflicted kiddies in
private homes he (or she) is requested to
mention them to the secretary.
Lena Hammond and her students are to
give a concert next Saturday night in aid of
the wounded soldiers’ fund.
Lizette Parkes and her sister have gone
back to Sydney. ’Tis said that she prefers
measles to melodrama, or words to that
effect, and departed rather than play in
“Mary Latimer, Nun,” which is at present
engaging the attention of the Amusements
Co. Olive Wilton, who would be much nicer
if she would not imitate Muriel Starr’s hasty
and agonised utterances, is playing lead.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The up-country paper put it this way:—
At about 3.30 this (Friday) morning a fire alarm
was received at the central station, a number of
men under Superintendent Morrison turning out,
but their services were not needed, the house being
a mass of flames.
A well-known ex-politician of Queensland
keeps on getting flattering notices in Italian
musical journals concerning his “most beauti-
ful vocal gifts” and his proficiency in the
“bel canto.” Lo Staffile of Florence and
the Rivista Teatrale Melodkammatica
both predict for Vernon Redwood a brilliant
career, although they are, slightly at variance
as to his origin, one locating his birthplace
in Queensland, the other in Maoriland.
The old speeches of a politician will bob
up in the most improper places. Now that
Andrew Fisher is safe in a billet of six or
seven thousand a year (all told) his Gympie
friends recall a speech he made on August
25, 1893, when Sam Griffith was hoisted
into the Queensland Chief Justiceship at
£3500 a year. Said Andrew: “When we
consider that £3500 is more than the average
man earns from the time he begins work till
the undertaker takes charge of him, it seems
too big a sum to pay every year to any man.”
From the Gallery :
Ryan’s leadership promises to mark an advance in
State politics. He not only holds his team together
as one man, but his personality gives him a complete
grip of the Assembly. Theodore, as Treasurer, is an
able lieutenant, in calibre not one point lower than
his chief. He is the coolest and most diplomatic
Minister and perhaps the most enthusiastically sin-
cere in his work. Hunter is mild-mannered and
rather inclined to placate. He always seems to fear
that his intentions may be misjudged by his own
party, though really no one doubts his honesty'.
Fihelly is the Minister who throws the most acid
about, and his youth seems to be a standing offence
to the Opposition. If he were more adroit he might
make greater headway, but the onlooker enjoys
witnessing the results of his thrusts at the enemy’s
vitals. Lennon is apologetic, though he holds the
House when he wants to make progress with a Bill.
Bowman is seldom'fn the House, much to the regret
of everyone. Huxham is a handy man about the
place, and his business acumen is • being used to
advantage in the Home Department, where he is
Bowman’s coadjutor.
- -
To its already wide range of Collins’s
diaries the big Glasgow-Australian firm has
added several new and attractive bind-
ings for the 1916 editions. Over 120 differ-
ent sizes and styles of “memory ticklers” are
now published by this firm, from ladies’
three-days-a-page dainty midgets to the sub-
stantial office volumes with their compre-
hensive informative sections.


I
1
:::
■
m
mm
m
■
AM
/
lor’ci Mchomv f
•/eepet^f > vM lfaP
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
THE above reproduced portrait drawing: of Lord Kitchener, Secretary for War, is
one of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History. The
series, specially drawn for us by W. Jardine, have been reproduced on the finest art paper,
and retain the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, being entirely free
from advertising, are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward the complete set
to any address within Australasia or New Zealand on receipt of 66. t n postage stamps to cover
cost of mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, PJ.S.W,
i
K,Y


i^!^iiii[S!ll|:|!!l!!li!n!^
si
I
-**rk
F&i
*t ft
I
m
:
wm
M
\
The Most
Wonderful of all
Polishes 8 Cleaners
“BON AMI” is more than a
perfect polish, it is the finest
cleanser known. Apply a thin
lather only.' It attacks and
loosens all dirt and tarnish,
leaving it free to be just wiped
off. On all: metal and enamel-
ware, windows, mirrors, baths,
paintwork, Silver- and kitchen-
ware, the finest glassware,
porcelain, brasswork, “BON
AMI” produces an absolutely
clean and sparkling surface.
“BON AMI” does not injure
the hands, but leaves them
beautifully clean.
Obtainable at all leading Stores
and Grocers.
“Like the chick that's nenvly hatched
Bon Ami has hewer scratch's!*''
m
flßki
Hake£6toil2Mfeeklu
Belling our new unequalled PETROL
table and hanging lamp for lighting
city and rural homes, stores, halls,
ana churches. Most powerful light
known. ABSOLUTELY SAFE.
COSTS % PENNY A NIGHT
More brilliant and many times
cheaper than gas or electricity. Guar-
anteed five years. Everyone a possi-
ble customer. No experience neces-
sary. Exclusive territory free.
Write for prices today.
SUNSHINE SAFETY LAMP CO.
Bldg., Kansas City, Mo., U, S. A,
ĵ
Ray’s Hair Dye,
c mm
"VVheri Grey tfaar begins
to -show, rejuvenate
your ap p earn nee
witn
RAY’S
dye;
Harmless and In-
stantaneous. 5
33 differeijtshades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9,
&& POSTED.
MAMME LEIGH.
22 ® 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND.
■
| |j| '.-
WMfiSm
MILFORD SOUND, NEW ZEALAND.
Avoid the Hot Weather by Visiting New Zealand.
Steamers leave Sydney twice a week—steaming time, 31 days.
Return fare, £l2/15/-
Special Tourist Excursion Tickets on Railways.
All Lines, £l3; —or South Island, £S; A'ortli Island, £B.
Full information and Literature Supplied Gratis at the
New Zealand Government Offices:
Sydney, N.S.W.—Bull’s Chambers, 14 Moore Street.
Melbourne, Vic.—Dominion Chambers, 59 William Street.
Caille Perfection Marine Engines
8-H.P. Unit Plan f
Two Cylinders,
Reverse Gears
and H.T. Magneto,
Salt-water Outfit,
£6O
ft
* x
8-H.P. UNIT PLANT.
All Sizes Engines in Stock suitable for Canoes, Pleasure Boats and Workboais.
DETACHABLE ROWBOAT MOTORS.
Write for Catalogues to Sole Australasian Agents—
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
51«53 Druitt St., Sydney
60 Queen St., Melbourne
INEXPENSIVE XMAS GIFTS
gĥ g
FROM THE
TREASURE HOUSE.
Seekers after useful but inexpensive Gifts
•naturally turn to Stewart Dawson’s, whose
selections at this season of the year comprise
so many appropriate Gifts within the reach
of moderate means.
OUR BOOK OF XMAS
NOVELTIES
is an excellent solution of the Gift problem,
and will be sent Post Free for the asking.
THE PURSE ILLUSTRATED
(P 1956) is best-quality Silver-plated. Size
ilin. x 3in.
PRICE 11/6.
Others at 10/6 and 14/6.
Also in Solid Silver from 22/6 upwards.
Stewart Dawson’s
Strand Corner,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, vSydney
Arthur Jones, who goes away from
Australia with the rank of Corporal,
is a unionist who has seen harder fighting
for his principles than most. He was one
of the few clerks who dared to join the
Shop Assistants’ Union and give evidence
about the conditions of those then much
sweated people—evidence which startled
Sydney pretty considerably. Later, when
the - Clerks,’ Union, which is now big
enough to talk, was formed, Jones became
its first secretary, and battled against boy-
cott for the best part of a year without pay.
His father was an old soldier, and he has
four brothers who have already seen the
field of fwar.
Eight wards are represented in Melbourne
City Council, each of them returning one
alderman and three councillors. Eight
councillors retired at the end of last month,
having reached their time-limit. Of these
seven were re-elected without a struggle.
The eighth, Thomas Davey, who had been
2r years in the Council, was unsuccessfully
opposed on Guy Fawkes’ Day b,y Albert
lienowden. Polling: 2 to 1 in Davey’s favor.
When giving thanks for victory, Davey men-
tioned that he had been opposed only twice
previously. What a record of political blue-
mould !
The Vic. Railways Commissioners are
endeavoring heroically to make ends meet
and earn their recent rises of salary. Among
other things, they ran special trains from
the country on Cup morning. One was
despatched from Maldon; but unfortunately
someone forgot to advertise the arrange-
ment. So it carried one passenger—a lady.
The locomotive was not seriously damaged,
anyhow, so there was a saving in the re-
pairs bill.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :—•
More or less even the habit of being a Judge runs
in families. John Stephen became a Judge of the
N.S.W. Supreme Court in 1825 ; Alfred, his son, was
appointed in 1839, and became Chief Justice in 1844 ;
and Mathew Henry, his son, followed to the Bench in
1887, and was Acting Chief Justice from 1902 till
1904. Mathew Henry still lives, aged 87. Other mem-
bers of the Stephen family have occupied seats on the
Bench in other States and in Maoriland. James Wil-
berforce Stephen, son of Sir George Stephen, Q.C..
was a Justice in Victoria, 1874-81. A relative of
his, Frank Stephen, was City Solicitor and father-in-
law of Chief Justice Madden. Frank Stephen’s father,
who was the eldest brother of Alfred, Chief Justice
of N. S. Wales, was one of the Judges of the Supreme
Court of Maoriland. W. M. Manning became a
Supreme Court Judge of N.S.W. in 1876, and retired
on a double pension in 1887 ; he had been a Judge
1848-9 but resigned. Ilis nephew, Charles James
Manning, was u Judge from 1889 to 1896. In 1827
James Dowling came out as a Puisne Judge, and be-
came Chief Justice in 1837, and died in 1844. His
son became a District Court Judge and Acting Justice
of the Supreme Court. Ilis eldest son is a solicitor
still in practice in Sydney. There were two Forbeses
also —father Chief Justice; son on the District Court
Bench of N. S. Wales. A grandson of the Chief Jus-
tice is also a N.S.W. solicitor. William a’Beckett
became a Judge of the Supreme Court of N.S.W. in
1844, and two years later went to Port Phillip as
Resident Judge. He afterwards became Chief Jus-
tice. His nephew Thomas a'Beckett became a Puisne
Judge in 1886, and is still on the Bench. Edward
Eyre AVilliams was a Judge of the Vic. Supreme
Court from 1852 to ’74, and his son Hartley was
appointed in 1881. Justice Holroyd (V ie.) is the son
of a London Insolvency Commissioner and grandson
of a. Justice of, the King’s Bench, described by Lord
Brougham as “high amongst the greatest of any age.”
Local industry is beginning to hold its
head up in Maoriland. A big pottery works,
opened at Milton some years ago. was suffo-
cated by too much import; but the business
of dragging baked earth from Shermany
having fallen down dead, a new company
is overhauling the plant and talking about
supplying all the pottery the Isles require
and probably doing a little exporting for a
change. But the co. hasn’t explained
whether the directors have noticed some of
the price-lists published at Yokohama.
“Canuck” : Melbourne has so far failed to
make much effort to manufacture the many
and various goods it used to import and hag
to do without now, but there is still a trifle
of enterprise in the city. A young friend
lately decided to get married. He is a modest
tradesman, who fondly fancies he has suc-
ceeded in the search for the “bonzer tart,”
but his mate, who toils for a suburban news-
sheet, put in a par. notifying his chum’s
approaching marriage. Then for several days
the postman discharged cargoes of circulars
and letters at him. Photographers earnestly
desired the privilege of “taking” the wad-
ding group; caterers told of the beautiful
breakfasts they were prepared to lay out;
taxi-garages offered their vehicles; the State
Tourist Department called his attention to
the beauties of various resorts ; the solemn
Australasian forwarded a printed sheet for
him to fill in, giving particulars of his
and the bride’s parentage, - careers, habili-
ments, accoutrements l , proposed days at
home, future residence, locality of honey-
moon, names of officiating clergymen, best
man and bridesmaids; and a pram manufac-
turer got in early with an illustrated book-
let. Melbourne isn’t dead yet, but it’s a
pity some of its energy couldn’t be turned
in better directions.
“F.C.” : If you interfere with nature she’ll
take her revenge. Yet it is hard to say
what else you can do sometimes. Of late
years Victorian fruit-growers have been
mystified by the irregularity of’their crops
—gaudy shows of blossom producing but
little fruit; heavy “settings” failing to
mature; half-grown fruit and blossom show-
ing simultaneously on the same trees and so
forth. The chief reason is that the bee is
the brehardist’s best friend, and he has been
killed by poisonous sprays, Yet the
orchardist must spray, and do it -while
the • blossom is on, or he will, Vget
no fruit. He doesn’t, as .yet. need
to spray plums or quinces, but the bee
didn’t learn to confine himself to these blos-
soms, so he is dead. And.-if he had done so
in couldn’t fertilise tire‘poisoned blossoms ;
so there it is, and the fruit-grower dunno
where he are. Anyone know a poison-proof
substitute for bees?


: : : :
r
“Hi
*
‘ill
<TS
<2
%
ss
§8
SBe*
vT, C
tA
f.V
wxs
iS
*<s
v<*
w,\, %
iif ~- x - > -
&
: ; : ; :
inn
r&
iNbIQESTION!
Right there is your most important life organ —the breeding
place for germs of dangerous diseases, which, if neglected, may
ruin your whole future life.
At the least pain or sign of any disorder of your digestive
organs, make up your mind quickly and ward off dangerous conse-
quences by taking Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver.
The first dose will give relief, aid digestion, drive away the
cause of your pain, cleanse your bowels, and their continued use
will restore you to perfect health.
There is no better medicine for Indigestion, Biliousness or Con-
stipation, than
CHAMBERLAINS"IABLEIS
Jfa*- The Stomach & Liver.
m
THIN WOMEN
ANY WOMAN without full bust development lacks the
one essential that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of
proper bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt cellars”
quickly take from a woman the bloom and freshness of
healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot
in so far as natural development is concerned, but science
has found a way to correct your deficiency. Even though
you have never been full-bosomed, and have been attenu-
ated all your life, if you suffer from no wasting disease
your bosom can be fully developed and your weight
increased to normal. .. .There are to-day hundreds of
women who were once thin, flat-bosomed, hollow-cheeked
and generally scraggy in appearance, and suffering the
effects of anaemia and defective digestion, who are now
for'the first time in their lives, healthy, full-bosomed and
pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood as the result of a few weeks’ continuous
treatment with
DR. FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect Its efficacy is beyond
question,—and its use is no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have
gained up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measurement up to eight
and ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers relief and development to the
thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever possessing a
presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food-treatment that adds weight and
permanent development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case
accepted.
WE HAVE HUNDREDS OF LETTERS LIKE THESE:
Manager “Flesh-Food” Co., Gym pie, Qld.
Dear Sir, —As a nurse, I was very interested in your Flesh-Food treatment, and
was greatly surprised at the wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote you
I was only skin and bone, and I have good cause to be thankful that I wrote you for
a free sample, for I feel certain now that I am one of the very best advertisements
you could possibly have, as I am developed in every way satisfactory to myself, and
1 have waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in its effect, and 1 am now glad
to say that your splendid treatment has done absolutely all you claimed it would,'
my weight and measurements being ample.—l am, yours gratefully,
MRS. E. WINGROVE.
LET US INCREASE YOUR
WEIGHT AND MEASUREMENTS
flany cases have gained over 2
stone in weight and from 6 to
10 inches in measurement.
Falliere “Flesh-Food” Co.. Mt. Gambier, S.A.
Dear Sirs, —I am very pleased to tell you of the delightful
results in my case with your splendid treatment. If you
could see me to-day you would readily realise how much
cause I have to be more than satisfied with the results
when comparing my appearance with what it was.
I have gained in weight, and my measurements have
increased just as you said they would do, and my health
has improved marvellously.
Many, many thanks for your kind care and attention, and
your splendid remedy, and you can depend upon me .to
always recommend its use. ?
Yours very gratefully,
EEDA PEAKE UNGER,,
DID ADD CLAIMED FOB IT.
m
m
m
Manager Falliere “Flesh-Food” Co., Glebe Point, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —I am not taking any more Flesh-Food. It has done all you claimed it would do,
and I thank God that I have found at last a treatment that has made a new woman of me. I
now weigh over ten stone, and my flesh is hard and firm.
I haive spoken to many women of Flesh-Food, and told them how it restored me to perfect
health after years of weakness and attenuation.
My husband joins me in thanking you for what your kind care and treatment has done for
me. Yours truly, E- CROMWELL.
Manager Falliere Co., Hekeia, N.Z.
Dear Sir, —I am well pleased with the results from using Flesh-Food and thn
general improvement in my condition, for which 1 thank you very much indeed, for.
my husband and I are both well pleased.
From the very beginning I improved wonderfully—the giddiness that had,
bothered me for years disappeared, as did the rheumatism from my legs. Both of
these troubles had caused me much severe suffering.
My limbs were thinnest, and they began to noticeably increase first of all, ending
in a nine-inch increase in my hip measurement. A general development now became
noticeable, and my chest and bust filled out.
I had now gained all I needed-—a full stone in weight. As I have lost neither
weight nor measurements since ceasing the treatment, I consider the results per-
manent. Yours very truly, Mrs. H. HODGES.
gj ĝjg
SAMPLE FREE.
We publish an interesting book on the subject of
attenuation and development, and will send same and a
SAMPLE TREATMENT FREE OF CHARGE upon receipt of 2d. stamp to pay
part postage. All communications are treated as strictlj' confidential (5807)
FALLIERE CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
" THE. CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
ĵ ĝ
In Every Pair of
ABBEY SHOES
you get STYLE that is correct,
COMFORT that is permanent, and
WEAR that is satisfactory, there-
fore if you want footwear-satisfac-
tion buy ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate a very High-Grade
Tan Willow Elastic Side Boot,
specially made for farm and
station wear. It is very smart in
appearance, a long-wearing boot,
and most comfortable.
Price - 28/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for our New Catalog:.
ABBEY.
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE id scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the'gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROOTCE TOMPSTTT x- cn . at n
DAIMLER
g ğj
h
rn* DAIMLER COMPANY w?
COVENTRY. ENC?. AN&.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, Londou, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Your
Engine
will only
produce its
maximum
power
with proper
care and
attention!
m
m
I
#!
therefore you need
Plume Benzine
the fuel that takes more air;
keeps the engine cool and clean;
gives maximum power, and more mileage
to the gallon than any other benzine,
whilst
Gargoyle Mobiloils
ensure frictionless running.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand
LADIES’ WRISTLET WATCHES
at £5/5/- each we have sold by hundreds,
and good value they are, but we now
want to popularise
OUR £lO/10/- “Fx & R” WRISTLET.
WHY?
Well, it is phenomenal value.
It is a rarely fine f -plate lever movement.
It goes with profound accuracy.
It has the latest word in watch improve-
ments.
It is jewelled wherever there is hard wear.
It has a compensation balance.
It is in fine gold throughout, and in many
designs.
It is a watch we strongly recommend to
our best customers.
It is guaranteed for 15 years, ind kept
in order without charg-’ breakages
excepted—for two years.
Absolutely reliable. ‘‘Fx & R” fully-jewelled Lever
15ct. Gold Watch, with heavy expanding 15ct. Gold
Bracelet, from £lO/10/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
WS,
m
\\\ \ \
t\\\\
\ \
Sr
CSC
da
m
/rt'/iVs
A
a/
&
7>//
kfmHzm
‘jus&w ' au aM,
m
MM
0)11)
R.'
n
w,
one
Have melody ’mid the roses these delightful, dreamy, drowsy
Summer afternoons.
“His Master’s
Voice”
“GRAMOPHONE”
(Registered Trade Mark)
brings you the world’s BEST music in all its original purity and
charm.
—but be sure you get a “GRAMOPHONE.”
“His Master’s Voice” dealers are always pleased
to play the various models for you.
Instrument catalogue, record lists, and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD
163 PITT STREET
SYDNEY.
g
Registered Trade Mark.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 4th November, 1915.
Tenders for Three Electric Capstans for
Haulage Appliance for Cable Cleaning
Machine, H.M.A. Naval Establishments,
Garden Island, Sydney.
T| LENDERS will be received, subject to the
.I conditions of tendering, until 12 noon
on Monday, 29th November, for the supply
of three (3) Electric Capstans for Haulage
Appliance for Cable Cleaning Machine,
H.M.A. Naval Establishments, Garden
Island, Sydney.
Delivery to be free on wharf, Garden
Island, Sydney.
Further information may be obtained on
application at the offices of the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne;
the Naval Store Officer, Garden Island, Syd
ney ; or at the Naval Staff Offices. Brisbane,
Largs Bav (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
1 COMMON WEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Defence,
Head-quarters,
Melbourne, November, 1915.
Australian Survey Corps. Vacancy for
Draughtsman.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as
Draughtsmen in the Australian Survey
Corps.
SALARY: £230 per annum, with annual
increments of £lO up to a maximum of
£3OO per annum.
FULL PARTICULARS AND FORM OF
APPLICATION may be obtained from the
Military Commandant, 2nd Military District.
APPLICATIONS close on 29th November,
3915.
Missing Friends.
JO SI AH BELLCHAMBERS, DE
CEASED.—If the next-of-kin of the
late George Bellchambers, who formerly re-
sided at Edward Street, Norwood, Adelaide.
Australia, and who died on the 12th of
January, 1870, will be good enough to com-
municate with the undersigned they will hear
something to their advantage. BROMLEY
& HYDE, Solicitors, 121 Stamford Street.
Ashton-under-Lyne, Lancashire, England.
t> E ARTHUR GEORGE KEItRISON.
XV) also known as ARTHUR KERRISON.
late of Christchurch, in the Dominion of
New Zealand, Laborer, deceased.
Will any person knowing anything of the
whereabouts of POLLY KERRISON and
ANNIE NEWTON (nee Kerrison) daugh-
ters of the above-named deceased ; or of the
children of Annie Newton, kindly communi-
cate with
THE LOCAL DEPUTY PUBLIC
TRUSTEE,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
RE the Estate of MARGARET POWER
or MARGARET ELIZABETH
POWER, late of 252 Colombo Road, Syden-
ham, near Christchurch, New Zealand,
Married Woman, deceased.: —Will any person
knowing anything of the whereabouts of
Thomas Patrick Power, issue of the above-
named deceased and -Patrick Power, kindly
communicate with The Local Deputy Public
Trustee, Christchurch, New Zealand.
TFIO DANIEL GOULDING, formerly of
-X GEORGETOWN, OAMARU, N.Z.,
Contractor, who is supposed to have left
N.Z. about four years ago, and whose present
whereabouts are unknown, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
Pursuant to the directions of the Honor-
able F. R. Chapman, a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, under Section 25 of
The Public Trust Office Amendment Act
1913, you are hereby called upon to send in
to the undersigned on or before the Ist May.
1916, your claim to- the estate of MARY
ANN GOULDING, late of Georgetown afore-
said, Spinster, deceased, who died on the
23rd February, 1914, Intestate, failyig which
such estate will be distributed among the
persons entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
Dated at Wellington, this Ist day of
November. 1915.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Business Notices.
txjc/ima
Cures ECZEMA.
No matter how this terrible disease manifests
itself, either dry, scaly or mattery, it quickly
vanishes under the wonderful influence of EXZERMA.
Exzerma is a liquid compound, is non-poisonous,
and cures Eczema with amazing rapidity and
thoroughness.
The worst and most obstinate cases are cured in
two weeks.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
or by - -
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.


SOFT WHITE HANDS
Under All Conditions If You Use
Cuticura. Trial Free.
The Soap to cleanse and purify, the
Ointment to soothe and heal. Nothing
better, purer, sweeter or more effective
at any price than these emollients.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
“3-in-One”
Oil
KEEPS EVERYTHING
SPIC AND SPAN !
It prevents rust or tarnish on
metal surfaces indoors or out.
Polishes finest woodwork. Cleans
glassware. Lubricates perfectly
the most delicate mechanism.
Saves wear and tear at friction-
points.
Adds years of life to Musical
Instruments, Bicycles, Firearms,
Furniture, Typewriters, Saddlery,
Tools and all light Machinery.
“Three-in-One” Oil
is free from grease, acid or alkali.
It is highly refined.
Invaluable for general use. On
sale everywhere.
Free Sample Bottle and
“Three-in-One” Oil
Booklet on request.
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 L HARRIS ST.. WELLINGTON. N.Z.
ğh
The Experienced Cyclist
tet> oul with unfailing confidence
in the Tyres that catty him whea
they're
MIET m
CYCLE TO
Made by the Founders of the
Rubber Industry in Australasia
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
ALL STATES and NEW ZEALAND. [2
Have Yon a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopelpss,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Trv the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
British Prices, 1/1 X A and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
IV. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS. etc.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
The Best Bonus Paying: Life Office in the World.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OF CASH SURPLUS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1915.
All participating- policies issued in tlie Ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
SHARE in the CASH BONUS to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus divided for the one year 1914 . . . . . . £1,034,346
Yielding Reversionary Additions to policies of about . . . . £1,800,000
Total Bonuses distributed since inception of Society . . . . £19,810,000
Now is the time to effect an assurance or a further assurance on your life, so as to reap the benefit of
this year’s Cash Bonus.
Write for full particulars to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or any Distrct Office or Agent of
the Society. RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., ' H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager and Actuary. Secretary.
ĝj
g
ĝj
THERE is something- most satisfactory about
having- on the right shoes for the occa-
sion in hand. One feels comfortable,
smart, confident. And for any and every
occasion nothing could be more suitable or more
charming than patent leather, which always
looks well and goes so beautifully with every
colour and every fabric. Indeed, this little
shoe here illustrated will add no small share
of smartness and tone to one’s spring suit or
summer gown. And it is only one style of
many equally desirable, equally charming. For
Bostock shoes, besides being the last word in
smartness, all have a certain individuality which
sets them apart amongst ready-made shoes,
gives them the personal quality and the dis-
tinctive tone of shoes made specially to measure.
Bostock No.
P 6377
gj
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostoek.”
Sold at all leading stores. Look for
the name “Bostock” on the soles.
r, ■{
& "m
% w
lUliiiiiiimiiiiiiiuillli
Ijllgjjj, J
ESe
i
mm
This high-class safety
razor will be sent free
to your friend on service.
Every purchaser of a “7 o c!ock
Safety Razor receives a voucher which
entitles him to have an exactly similar
set sent as a free gift from himself to
any friend in the Army or Navy.
The only safety razor at less than 22/6 that can be stropped
without removing the blade. It is stropped in the way
illustrated. A single touch puts it into stropping or shaving
position. It is equally easy to clean just a rinse and a wipe
with the towel. Ask your dealer to demonstrate it and give
you further details of the above offer, which is only available
for the duration of the War.
Heavily silver - plated
razor complete in hand-
some case with strop in
hinged partition, and 6
finest lancet steel blades
(as illustrated).
Price in Australia, 12/6
Price in New Zealand,
13/6
Managing Agent
for Australasia :
RALPH ABERCROMBY.
Denison House,
3S2Qeorge Street, Sydney.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia
gjĝj
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Stingo”: “T.W.A.” (B. 21/10/’l5) is
barking np the wrong tree about planes.
German jack-planes are no more made in
Germany than turkey red is made in Turkey.
If “T.W.A.” examines the next one he comes
across, it’s 100 to 1 he’ll find it’s branded
either “Mathieson” or “Ward and Payne.”
Still, that’s no reason why they shouldn’t
be made locally, for surely some Australian
timber is as durable as European beech,
which is what they’re now made of. A
genuine enemy manufacture which should
be grabbed by local enterprise is nail-bits,
which are exclusively made in Germany.
Immense numbers are sold, and they’re easy
enough to manufacture.
* * * *
“W.C.M.” : To-day I opened up a consign-
ment of lamp glasses from Sydney. Usually
these glasses (for kerosene lamps) are im-
ported from Belgium, Germany or the
U.S.A.; but as the two former sources
are closed and the latter is unreliable, the
boss had to get local stuff or lose his trade.
Put the local stuff alongside the imported
glass, and the difference, which is noticed
at once, is all in favor of the Australian.
The glass is clearer and cleaner, and the
goods are about Is. 6d. a dozen cheaper.
They arrived packed in strawboard cartons
(also made in Sydney), and carried to Bris-
bane without a single breakage. On imported
glass and crockery ware at least 5 per cent,
lias to be added to cover smashes. The
same firm also sent samples of glass jugs,
and if the order is as of equal quality foreign
stuff will be cut out for good. But just
one word to Australian manufacturers:
number the cases to correspond with the
invoice. I had to open up all these cartons
to identify the contents, and then repack
them to send up country.
* * * *•
“O.B.”: A tip for reinforcements —Aus-
tralian soldiers are wanted at the Darda-
nelles but not Australian silver. I went
aboard a big liner to buy some cigars, and
the fellow in the canteen handed me my
money back, saying it was no good—it was
Australian silver. He would take English
white money, but not ours. Fortunately I
could ante-up a sovereign. Others who
hadn’t any sovs. had to go and swap Aus-
tralian money for English before they could
buy anything. The Egyptians didn’t like
the Too and emu coins at first, either, and
used to juggle them back as change; but
they are not so scared now.
■*#-**
“Toolsmitli”: Re “Austin S.” and his
lament or discourse on axes (B. 28/10/T5).
The trouble is not altogether in the temper-
ing, but is mostly in connection with the
forging. Most axes on sale are machine-forged,
and are consequently unreliable. No matter
how skilled the temperer it is absolutely im-
possible to set an axe to stand on edge if it
has been badly forged. Why no one has
started the manufacture of tools in Australia
is a puzzle, for, as “Austin S.” suggests,
there’s money in it. Meanwhile I’ll have to
continue taking any old thing until I can
save up enough to get to America, where
they make good tools for themselves and
rubbish for fool-people who stick to the
importing policy.
“Warre”: Now that the prices of jute
fabrics are soaring, the brokers, no longer
satisfied with their id. per doz. com. on corn-
sacks and “brans,” are making a demand for
1 per cent, on sales. With cornsacks at
4s. 6d. per doz., as they were a few years
ago, the ha’penny was all right, but at Bs. 6d.
the 1 per cent, means doubling the brokerage.
The farmer is the only person vitally inter-
ested. because he has to pay all charges ; and
he generally knows nothing about these little
conspiracies. So the chances are he will do
nothing, though the jute jugglers are already
making far and away larger incomes on
the trafficking than the largest wheatgrowers
in the State. When will the farmers know
enough to co-operate in buying?
“W.C.M.”: “Cripps Clark” (B. 21/10/T5)
is rather previous in casting scorn upon my
scheme of co-operative shearing and wool-
selling. In working out the details of the
scheme I had taken into account the facts
pointed out by “Cripps Clark.” namely, the
difference in breed and qualities of sheep.
But it should be remembered that similar
sheep on similar country produce similar
wool ; also, that country suitable for cross-
bred sheep is not always suitable for merinos ;
and that consequently the breed of sheep in
a district of, say, a hundred square miles
does not, as a rule, vary much. A large
station finds no difficulty in selling its wool
in bulk. Why, then, should a number of
farmers over the same country find diffi-
culty in doing likewise? It is simply a
matter of oookkeepmg, as a record of the
numbers of bales and the names of the
owners would be kent, and the advantage of
selling 20 bales of first-combing wool under
one brand asrainst 10 lots of two bales each
under 10 different brands does not need to
be pointed out. It is simply an extension
of the principle adopted by a station which
wants to gauge the value of each paddock.
A CASH TRANSACTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The burglar went to Cohen’s place,
And crept the kitchen window through,
And ’gan to chouse the chosen race —
In simple truth, to “Jew” the Jew.
He gathered Cohen's pile of cash,
And Cohen, splenetic and rash,
Sat up in the connubial bed,
And sprinkled curses on his head.
The burglar turned with iron will
The angry Hebrew to inspect,
And said if Cohen wasn’t still
He’d perforate his intellect.
But Cohen’s wrath passed all belief,
And still he cursed the Gentile thief,
Whose “gun” was turned then on the bed—
“He holds a full hand!” Beckie said.
Now, Cohen knows when he is beat.
His maledictions ceased to spout.
He did a duck beneath the sheet,
Whence presently a nose peeked out,
And as the burglar turned to go
Said Cohen meekly, “Half a mb.
If dis is peesness, be a gent.—-
For cash dedued me den per cent.”
VICTORIA.
SILAS.


GUNS and RIFLES
~ of Reliability and Accuracy.
■a.—-a
J
c>
as
810. “WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Him Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
?L CL
or guard, rubber heel plate,
lit 2^lb.
19 6
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear si
Postage—l /G N.S.W.; 2/S Inter-State.
22 6
WE STOCK .. -
EVERYTHING FOR EVERY
SPORT
“Goods right Prices right.”
SPORTING REPAIR WORK A SPECIALTY.
gj
817. “ITHACA” Arms Co.’s Hamtner/ess
D. B. B. L. Pigeon Gun,
12-°augo lop lover, dense Trogan nitro steel, 32-inch barrels, both
choke, cross bolt, high, file-cut rib, pistol-grip, chambered for
2, : in. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitro; weight, 71b. to 711 b.
Delivered 16/6/-
YVe can supply the above gun in 16-gauge, at £6/10/-
gj
812. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Mode
10 shot Join, round barrel, plain trigger, straight
action, for short. lons* or long rifle cartridges.
1 ostage—2/- N.S.W. ; 3/8 Inter-State.
nip, slide
47 6
SWEET CROP
Smoking
Mixture.
Really
Delightful.
Sample Tin
1 - post free.
GUN AND
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Specialty
Send for our Price
List of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
all Sporting Goods.
Post Free Anywhere.
gj
828. BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over
all 38 Jin., weight 3flb., handles short or /t
long cartridges, *" “
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.; 2/S Inter-State.
ST
Stevens' “FAVORITE,”
22 Calibre Kim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel, ease-
hardened frame, solid breech block, take-down l
action. open front and rear sights, weight 4}lb. m
We can supply the above Rifles, fitted with Beach Combination front Sight and
Vernier Rear (as illustrated, 40/-
22WRF, 25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/0 each extra.
Postage—l/0 N.S.W.;
g
89. “ Winchester " Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Mottei,
for 22 short or long rim fire euriridros, 21 in.
Heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, holt action, ladder rear sight,
length of rifle over all, 37-Jin., bead from sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish : weight, about 41b.
Postage —l/0 N.S.W.: 3/2 Inter-State.
26/ -
MIcR Simmons
HAYMARKET
•SYDNEY*
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports’ Depot: 119 KIND STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
fhd
< TH £ i —A
-
Forest Devil.
SAVES THE LABOR
OF MANY MEN!
Do away with the old, slow, muddling ways
of clearing your land. Buy a Bunyip Forest
Devil-—it will soon pay .for itself.
This simple invention lays low huge trees,
uproots logs, stumps, casts aside boulders
and greatest obstacles quickly, simply and
effectively.
Experience has shown, and our numerous
testimonials prove it, that the Bunyip Forest
Devil has no peer amongst inventions most
useful to the man on the land.
Send for details to
John Cooper & Sons
287-289 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY: Local Agents, CLUTTERBUCK BROS.,
26-3 S City Road.
BRISBANE : Local Agent, A. H. BISSELL,
95-7 Eagle Street.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
/
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EORGE HOTEL
St. Hilda, Mel bourn®.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From lo - per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
lIANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running- day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Cgstlereagh Street, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 9s 6d posted. Mkrrie
England, 6cl. How to Gut Rich, is posted. Dr, Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is (id. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle; of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List.) Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/0.
joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handvbook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling p,y Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) 1s„
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 41s posted.
Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ns. Not Guilty (Blaten-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses.
Is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining. 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/8.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowlers Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycooks Guide, Is 6d
@L
B
■
a
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.**!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS- LO\ E,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions.
1« posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards. Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; po3t Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Carp Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d Posted. Letter Writer up-,
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made jhasv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ,
Is posted. Cabinkt Makers’ Handybook. Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is Sd. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver's Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women's Secrets, is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I s ve got it.
Don’t he fooled into paying more.
Comp-are my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OE MY STOCK CAN
ISE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my.
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER. OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
\NY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, u
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Blsii Songs, Is 3d dosg. Dr. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
.Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGKRSOLL’S WORKS, Sd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cuevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfaddf.n’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers andSugap,-
Boilers’ assistant, Is 3d. Tiie Wife's Handhook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyxa-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is Dost. 200 Old-Time, Songs (words and music com!
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY’,


Another Triumph for
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
n
Mr. IL DRYDEN
(from a photo.).
“For some considerable time I have
been a great sufferer with Bladder and
Kidney Complaint that has made my
life almost unbearable with its many
painful and ever-constant symptoms.
Scalding, Gravel, Bilious attacks, Head-
aches, Dizziness and Pains all over the
body, allowing me no proper rest night
or day, till I was practically worn down
to a skeleton,” writes Mr. H. Dryden,
96 Leet St., Invercargill, N.Z. “1 was
continually using so-called remedies of
many descriptions with no good results,
and, till I started Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills, I was in a very bad state indeed.
Your Gin Pills have, however, proved a
friend indeed to me, as from the first
few doses I started to improve, and in
a very short time they have completely
cured and eradicated all the above pain-
ful symptoms, and permanently cured
me of a most painful, trying and dan-
gerous malady, and I shall recommend
them on all possible occasions, and
always keep a supply in the home.”
WILL MAKE THE BACK AND
KIDNEYS YOUNG AGAIN.
Do you know that Backache. Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Bladder
Troubles, Headaches. Tiredness, Sleeplessness, and that “Run Down” Feeling are
the results of weak and diseased Kidneys? Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills will make your
Back and Kidneys young again. They are specially prepared Backache and Kidney
Pills, entirely different from any other remedy, and infinitely more efficacious. They
are giving relief in numberless cases where many less efficacious remedies have been
tried in vain.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are procurable at all Chemists and Storekeepers, in two
size Glass Containers, small size containing 30 pills at 1/0, and large size containing
05 pills at 2/0. If not obtainable locally, will be sent post free upon receipt of price
in stamps or postal note by the Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., 15 O’Connell St., Sydney.
DrShgldon’sl
GliL
<5
PILLS
For BACKACHE
m Kidney Troubles.
The Jol^rwells
The Jolly well pair
With joy declare
The game of golf's
Beyond compare.
With might they strive,
They putt and drive.
With Bogey score
They both arrive.
In from the links.
They play high jinks
With "Rex” Camp Pie
And cooling drinks.
“What are we to do about these High Food Prices?” one
woman asked Mrs. Jollywell, and she said: “We eat
“Rex” Camp Pie
The Newest “Rex” Product
♦
and other “Rex” Canned Delicacies. They’re Meat in the
most nourishing form —but they cost less. Also they ai’e
ready to serve.”
“Rex” Camp Pie is cooked and flavored by the famous “Rex”
Chefs, whose Pure Foods are now sold by all Grocers.
Impossible to describe it. Certainly it is better and quite
different from anything else of the kind. Get a Tin and try
it.
Serve it hot or cold at any Meantime or Picnic=time
with or without Salad. Needs no preparation.
Ask your Grocer to=day for a Tin.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are—
‘Hex” Ham Hate.
•Rex” Veal and Tongue Hate.
'llex” Fork ltrawn, lib. tins.
•Hex” Hork Sausages, lib. tins.
•Rex” Hork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
•Rex” Bigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
•Rex” I.iineh Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
•Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
‘Rex” jLuncheon Cheese, in Decorated Tins and Opal
Boreelain Jars of British Manufacture.
“Rex” Brand Hard, for eooking purposes, in lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “REX” HAMS and BACON,
Packers of “ REX ” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS.
&
£
X
R
BMMI
Dates.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON the narrow white-pine counter in
their little wooden boxes,
With a Turk’s head on the cover, or
a burnt-in turbaned Arab,
With the smell of cheese and sawdust and
a tin of broken biscuits,
And the snub-nosed, fair-haired shopman in
his dingy hessian apron.
And the haggling, fat-faced woman with her
skimp of hair and ear-rings,
And the squalling, grubby baby, clawing at
its sister’s ringlets,
And the sister eyeing sadly mounds of “con-
versation” lollies,
As did Eve the Eden apples. .. .Fades the
shop and drab-faced shopman,
And the haggling, fat-cheeked woman, and
the Eve in lmlland pinny.
And the smell of cheese and sawdust. . . .
Comes a dream of palms and deserts.
And the terraced homes of Biskra. Far
away the An res mountains
Purpling all the pale horizon, while the
brown and rippling Wadi
Wets the hot mouth of the desert, and the
naked mirage dances,
Shameless, to the feet oil Allah. Evil-eyed,
the tawny camels
Snore and snarl and labor onwards, laden
with gay, striped burnouses.
And the little wooden boxes, filled with
dates which I am buying!
From the wide streets and the gardens of
this town of old Algeria,
To the white glare of the desert and the
singing of the sandstorm
By the trees the Frenchman planted, goes
a load of magic carpets,
Where eternal flowers blossom with no fall-
ing of their petals !
Out of blue and tender shadows, past St.
German fort and barracks,
Such a horrid reek of camels, such a horde
of sweating drivers!
Creak of cord and jerk of baggage. Older
than the Christian’s Bible
In the manner of their passing, go these
vessels of the desert
With their turbaned, swarthy drivers and
" their large, ungainly swaying—-
God told Adam lie could fashion just one
creature for his garden :
Adam tried with ’prentice fingers.... and
there sprang to life the camel!
Dwindling into vague horizon through the
thin, grey palm-leaf shadows.
Dwindling into burning sunsets and in plea-
sant lilac mornings,
Past the brown of Biskra Wadi, to Sahara
and to Te 11....
Snap of string, some crackling paper, and a
few pence on the counter;
And I hurry from the . shopman bending to.
his hessian apron.
With his closing, “Thank you. Madam,” for
I feel that I am guilty.
Paying only for these boxes, who have
bought a wide, white desert
Blue mirage and purple mountain, and a
caravan of camels.
And a street of terraced houses, and a bale
of striped burnouses,
And a pack of magic carpets. l r et I did
not cheat that shopman !
lie would label such goods “Fancy,” calling
“Forward !” to his fellow.
And with thumb of indication, and a stern
preoccupation
In affairs of greater moment, point me to
the “Next Department!”
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The “Ta Ta!” Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Till'] Battalion of the Aus-
tralian Infantry Brigade trailed
up Elizabeth-street toward the troop-
ship in Wool 1 00111 00100 Bay. Its progress
was strangely different from the proces-
sions at the beginning of the war. when
the whole city flocked to cheer, and bands
led the way, and toy flags fluttered from
rifles, and the troops sang “Tipperary” and
laughed and waved their bands, swinging
gaily to the Quay. Dreadful casualty lists
bad come streaming back since then, filled
with the names of thousands of those laugh-
ing, singing boys, who marched singing and
laughing to suffering and death, and whose
blood is the seed of Australian nationhood.
No cheering crowds now thronged the
route. All news of military movements was
strictly censored, and only the relatives and
intimate friends of the soldiers had learned
the secret of their going. It was these
chiefly, who, crowding in, formed the narrow
lane through which the troops passed. So
'•lose was the press that in places the
heavily-laden men could scarcely thread
their way. Love broke down all military
formation. In vain the mounted police
widened a passage: the elastic lines stretched
apart as the troopers passed, only to tighten
again on the broken ranks. The soldiers
themselves were indifferent to the outward
form of discipline at that keen moment of
parting. Yet it only yielded place to the
nobler discipline of the soul. Their Aus-
tralian eyes—blue, bleached steel-grey and
puckered in endless sunshine —looked straight
ahead, seeing quite clearly the end of their
journey. Tt was no picnic they were going
to. Gallipoli was not Clontarf. How finely
they passed from us. with their whispered
words of comfort to speechless women, their
cheery hand-grips, and nodded “So longs.”
The formation of their courage remained
unshaken in the fierce ordeal of those last
■'Good-byes,” and we have since learned
how far it carried them in their great charge
at Lonesome Pine.
Never before had Australia seen such a
procession. Weighed down with baggage
and arms, the men passed slowly by. Yet
their burdens had little to do with their
pace, which was set by the feet of clinging
women, mostly grey-haired, with lined faces
and fixed unseeing eyes, and lips biting back
the tears—for the boy’s sake—just till he
hud seou tin* lust of her. Motlier-love tri-
umphed over all lesser loves: it was her
right—hers only—to go with him to the very
brink, as her sleepless thoughts would still
follow him in the darkness beyond.
Here and there a sweetheart strutted
behind mother and son, with Bill’s rifle on
her shoulder. It was Bill's cute way of
getting rid of her, and what did he care
that she was quite happy and satisfied and
flushed with vanity, her greedy little eyes
glancing everywhere for anybody's notice!
But she didn’t matter; mere sweetheart
never does —nor mere wife either ; it is only
the mother that counts.
A profound spirit of sympathy drew the
on-lookers together. They spoke freely to
one another in low tones, like old friends.
They themselves had become a part of that
spiritual pageant, and great thoughts of duty
and sacrifice were taking vague shape in
many a half-awakened mind. Gallipoli
“Ta ta I Ta ta ! Ta ta ! Ta ta !”
It was really a shameful interruption- —
like foul language in a consecrated place.
Men turned, and stared a moment at the
speaker ; women glanced, and glanced away.
Yet, having looked, one and all seemed re-
conciled to the jarring discord. It appar-
ently satisfied the men that the speaker was
(Oily a woman, and the women that —she
was a. woman.
She certainly was: the group of tram-
conductors just behind her recognised the
fact instantly, whispering and smiling to one
another. Beally, she was what is called a
“fine” woman —that is. a. tall, redundant
mass of youthful flesh, tightly braced and
stayed to ovcr-emphasise her emphatic sex.
Her face, with its clear skin, low forehead,
bright eyes and great mouth and jaw. was
the sort that most easdy subdues the young
male. She was well-dressed —not over-
dressed—no. certainly not a “bad” woman ;
the experienced tram-conductors (who were
merely waiting for their blocked trams, and
so had time for such thoughts) realised that
fact at once. By all appearances she was
just an average young woman, joyously
dreaming the dream of her adorable self, till
sin* should awake to find it an adorable baby.
“Ta Ta ! Ta Ta !”
Her voice was high and clear, and carried
far in that silent throng. From the moment
she pushed to the front till the last soldier
had passed she kept on repeating that one
phrase—as only parrots and women can re-
peat themselves —in exactly the same tone,
with exactly the same set expression. The
conviction grew upon the mind that the
persistent monotone was not human speech
at all, but merely the rhythmic outpouring
of an over-mastering emotion. During the
forty minutes in which a thousand men
passed by she said, “Ta Ta!” fully five
hundred times. Personally the men were
nothing to her, apart from their glances, for
which she clamored. Her ceaseless throaty
note suggested neither greeting nor farewell
It was not human speech at all; it was her
sub-conscious love-call, uttered not only to
attract the soldiers, but also embracing the
crowd—the city—the universe.
Never did croaking huckster cry his wares
in the market place with so little effect, yet
her serene faith in her own perfection never
flickered. Occasionally she caught the eye
of some motherless boy; if he smiled she
grabbed his hand as he passed, but never
once did she turn her eyes to follow him:
she was there to be seen, and he had seen
her. There was an end of it —she had no
use for blind backs.
“Ta Ta ! Ta Ta !”
The horrible monotone never ceased. Her
soulless eyes saw nothing of the splendid
pageant of self-sacrifice sweeping by. In the
tense silence her ears heard nothing but the
shuffle of male feet. If intelligence be the
distinctive trait that sets humanity above
the brute, then that handsome, well-dressed,
respectable, excited young woman was not a
human being at all. Her humanity was
blotted out by insurgent sex. Without doubt
she had been a human daughter, and would
evolve into a human wife and mother—nor-
mally. she doubtless was a woman. Bui.
standing there, she was that horror every
man knows, and dreads, and pities, and
shields—sheer female, and that only—sex
running amok—a river in flood —-a fire
beyond control
“Ta Ta ! Ta Ta !”
A dripping tap—a runaway alarm-clock- —
a cackling hen—a heat-wave—a duststorm —
a suffragette—a
“Ta Ta ! Ta Ta !”
In short, a “Ta Ta ! woman.” Her offen-
sive clatter was more alien and repugnant to
the human mind than the strident shrill of
the sun-struck cicada, or the night-long croak
of breeding frogs.
“Ta Ta ! Ta Ta !”
Sex, and nothing but sex. she stood there
in the midst of that spiritual world, naked
and unashamed
“Ta Ta ! Ta Ta !”
flirting and preening her sex plumage
“Ta Ta !”
and uttering her evil note
“Ta Ta !”
at such a time
“Ta Ta!”
like an obscene bird on a wayside cruci-
fix.
Once only did she vary her cry. A short,
sturdy, middle-aged man wearing spectacles
stood near lief in the front rank. - Beside'
him. but in the second rank, was a grey-
faced woman in black. She stood silent and
lifeless, while he. leaning forward, peered
intently down the line of approaching
soldiers. So they stood, waiting and watch-
ing for a long time. At last, he suddenly
turned and dragged her, almost roughly,
beside him.
“Ta Ta ! Ta Ta !”
A tall, gentle-faced bov drew near, march-
ing alone. He stopped a moment by the
grey-faced woman; she put her face up to
his; he kissed her. She spoke nut one word,
nor did she show any emotion
“Ta Ta ! Ta Ta !”
Then the little man reached up and kissed
the boy’s cheek ——
“Ta Ta! Ta Kissiu’ a man! Well,
I never!”
The boy passed on with bowed head : the
two stood still, gazing after him. They took
not the slightest notice of the female’s re-
mark ; it seemed not to have penetrated their
(Continued on next page.)


ĝj
Urgently WANT MORE ZAM-BUK
for their Cuts, Wounds and Sore Feet
REMARKABLE LETTERS FROM THE FRONT
“A pot of Zam-Buk out here is like a loaf of bread to
a starving man. On the retreat from Mons we had a
forced match of 37 miles, and not a man who used
Zam-Buk on his feet fell out.”
In these graphic terms a Distinguished Conduct Medallist, Lance-
Corporal J. P. Delaney, 2nd Royal Irish Regiment, expresses his
warm appreciation of Zam-Buk, in a letter dated Nov. 24. He
adds: “I can safely recommend Zam-Buk to everyone as being the
best healer on the market. P.S. —Please excuse writing and
pencil, as I am writing this from the trenches, and I cannot
tell when or where the next shell is going to drop. The
Germans are sky-larking again with their ‘Coal-Boxes.’ ”
In my opinion every soldier should have a pot of
Zam-Buk in his kit when ‘trekking,’ as Zam-Buk
is the most valuable addition to
his marching powers.”
Thus writes another Distinguished Con-
duct Medallist, Private A. Mutlow, of the
2nd South Staffs Regiment. In his pen-
cilled note, dated Dec. sth, from “Some-
where in Prance,” the gallant
private adds:—-
“I am a constant user of your
Zam-Buk for chafed legs (from
which I suffer on long marches).
I brought a pot out here from
Aldershot, and I may
mention it is in great de-
mand among my comrades
who are likewise afflicted.
Zam-Buk is also very
effective in the case of
galled feet and blistered
heels.”
“We soldiers are al-
ways glad to see a pot
of Zam-Buk, for it is
the best of all ‘First-
aids.’ Zam-Buk is
one of our best friends
out here.”
This is from another
winner of the coveted Dis-
tinguished Conduct Medal
—Sergeant It. Munday, of
the historic Ist Royal
Berkshires, who adds:—
“We use it largely for sore
feet when on the march.
Zam-Buk is the best thing
for sores, etc. It has also
proved very beneficial for
sores on the shoulder
caused by a pack-strap.”
•a
■n
X
*
•o'*
3^
“I wish we had more Zam-Buk sent from home—
it would be much better if Zam-Buk were sent
instead of so much tobacco.”
Thus Private E. Westfield, No. 9896, “C” Company, 3rd Worcester
ltegiment, which corps Sir John French singled" out for special
praise.
In his letter written from the trenches, on Dec. 7, the gallant
private adds: “We find Zam-Buk the best remedy for sore hand 3
after trench-digging, and for frost-bite, cracks "and cold sores,
because our hands get very bad out here. My chum, Private Ward
(8089), had a large pot of Zam-Buk sent, arid he let us share his
till our friends sent us more,”
7’amßuk
SOOTHES AMD HEALS
Zam-Buk is ob-
tainable of all
chemists and
stores, and is
exc e 11 ent for
Eczema, Sun-
burn, Sore Feet,
Fleers, Piles,
Poisoned
Wounds, etc. 1/G
and 3/6 per pot,
of all chemists
and stores.
gj
Hats capS
AND
HELMETS
of all First-class Hatters
throughout the Commonwealth.
The name TRESS stands for the height
-9
of English fashion and quality.
Makers—Tress & Co., Ltd., London, Eng.
Wholesale Agents—Cox & Mailer,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Christchurch,
3**
•3k
RW.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
“P RIM AX” and “BONA X”
CARTRIDGES—KYNOCH made I
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
in- qualities, “PRIMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a 2£in. case \
sold on the Australasian market, while >
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of D
any individual cartridge in the world.
Always specify KYNOCH Ammunition |
when ordering from your dealer.
British Made Throughout.
[i.
world of spiritual tears. Nor did the crowd
seem to hear—except one of the young tram-
conductors, who, with his eye on the seduc-
tive abomination, came to her support with
a joke.
The little man heard the male voice : he
turned squarely round on the group, his dry
eyes blazing behind his spectacles.
‘Tie’s my only son !”
That was all. But his sudden action, his
great voice ringing with indignation and
suffering, shook the very heart of the crowd.
The conductor blurted out a frank apology.
A gentleman standing behind the little man
laid a hand on his shoulder. At that moment
every human being seemed to draw away
from the handsome, well-dressed, respectable,
excited young female, as from something non-
human—monstrous.
“Ta Ta ! Ta Ta !”
She alone realised nothing—felt nothing.
Even that father’s cry, tingling with the
passion and sacrifice of his soul, could not
penetrate her deaf, dumb, blind universe of
sheer sex—sex implacable and bestial —sex
that forever over-runs the defenceless fron-
tiers of woman’s helpless self, battering
down the ramparts of her mind, and blast-
ing with fire the temple of her soul——
“Ta Ta ! Ta Ta !”
What did she care! How could she
care? It is a dreadful truth that no
woman in her prime is always her-
self ; too often she is only hersex. That
is when the mind of man, infinitely
pitiful, says she is “not quite herself.”
Clearly this Ta Ta! woman was not a
human being at all, as children, and men,
and mothers are human. She was just vital
force, unconsciCus of any law but the law of
itself —the force that never lets weary
matter rest, but is forever agonising it into
new and strange forms of organic life. She
was the fertility of soil —the sunshine that
opens the flower and swells the seed-pod—
the warm spring wind that scatters the
pollen. In fact, she was just the handsome,
well-dressed, respectable, excited young-
woman so familiar to—and with—us all, who
joyously says “Ta Ta!” to her bed-ridden
brain five hundred times in forty chattering
minutes —with the victorious smile of a
large mouth and sound teeth.
The Ta Ta! woman’s mind is—by the
mercy of God —serenely blind to the tragedy
of herself, and all the activities of her four
inised brain are ancillary to her imperious
purpose. Man’s mind is the tyrant of his
self. Its “dark lust to learn and suffer” for-
ever drives him into the wilderness, where
devils tempt and angels minister to him.
But woman’s mind is the subservient hand-
maiden of her sex —a slave that, to gratify
her lightest whim, flouts reason and derides
truth. It flatters her vanity and ignores
her limitations. It whispers that the horror
of her sex is “mystery,” and the vacuity of
her mind “intuition.” It assures her that
she really sees herself in fashion plates with
legs eighteen inches longer than the stumpy,
real things, a body writhing in the most stylish
throes of cucumber, and feet that never were
on land or sea. Yesterday—in the history
of mankind—she learned to read, and was
greatly annoyed to find that man had
written nothing worth reading. However,
that didn’t matter; she instantly brought
forth her own literature-while-you-wait. As
she had neither time for thought, nor
thought for time, she wrote it by “intui-
tion.”
So there are now two distinct worlds of
literature —that is to say, there is litera-
ture and there is the Ladies’ Circulating
Library. The former reeks of tobacco and
thought: the latter exhales a subtle per-
fume of bad grammar and putrid construc-
tion, and consists of the eternal repetition
of “he” and “she,” in the eternal “Ta Ta !”
manner. Marie Corelli is the Shakspeare
of this world : she has gone to live at Strat-
ford-on-Avon, which sufficiently explains
why the Immortal Bard died in such a hurry
300 years ago. There is also a prolific Rosa
Something whose brain litters books with
thrilling titles like “Wee Wifey.” Ten to
one the shopgirl who takes your seat in the
morning tram without saying “Thank you”
will instantly open a book. You think she
is reading? Not at all. Romance —which
is her pretty word for sex —has swallowed
her up. The hero, with the devil-may-care
blood of William the Conqueror boiling in
his veins, is openly playing false to his
plighted Frontispiece in a Bondi smoker.
Not for the painted lips of that cold, ugly,
affected thing is the chaste kiss quivering
under his glossy moustache at the end of
the second section lingei'ng on the lawn. It
is firmly pressed on a really rosebud mouth
opposite the Jewish Synagogue. She closes
the book —her eyes: she is rapturously wee-
wifeying through honeymoon Switzerland
along Elizabeth-street.
The male mind —that is, the sexless
human mind —wandering into the “Woman’s
Column” of any daily paper, instinctively
draws back with a startled “I beg your
pardon.” Not only are the ideas mere
female in deshabille, but their mode of ex-
pression is so feminine, so strangely im-
pregnated with sex, so foreign to man’s
detached and sexless way of thinking! With
a mouth too full of pegs for utterance the
editress hangs out on every clothes-line the
dainty underlinen of her mind, to flap and
balloon and pirouette in the wanton wind
of masculine humor. And she is such a dear
old thing all the time—so surely modest in
her flaunted immodesty. Her articles seem
all the whiter for being—so to speak—
dipped in blue. Yet the fact stands, that
all feminine literature (except that written
to express maternal emotions) suggests to the
curious male mind an inferior translation
of some ancient volume describing the
strange manners and customs of a primitive
and extinct race.
Man with' difficulty realises his infinite
tenderness and pity for his afflicted mate.
It has become second nature in him to avert
his eyes from the intermittent anarchy of
her being, and to soothe her soul’s revolt
against her tyrannic sex, with such con-
siderate euphemisms as “hysteria” and
“nerves.” That we may fix in our minds —
as by ft flashlight—the fact of this chival-
rous forbearance of man toward woman, let
us briefly reconstruct the scene we have
just witnessed, changing only the sex of the
chief actors. And let us all, true men. true
women, hold fast to this great truth, staring
us in the face —that the one and only law
that can ever safeguard woman is the “man-
made” law he relentlessly imposes on his
own soul—the law of infinite patience, and
pity and tenderness and love for sex-
distraught woman.
Here is an imaginary newspaper account
of the scene that did not occur.
A HEARTLESS RUFFIAN.
RED CROSS NURSES TERRIFIED.
Yesterday morning, while a bevy of Red Cross nurses
were passing up Eiizabeth-street on their way to the
hospital ship, a handsome, well-dressed and apparently
respectable young man pushed excitedly up to the
girls and kept on shouting “Ta Ta!” at them in a
loud, bass voice. The leering grin on his face was
most offensive. The onlookers, among whom were
many friends and relatives of the startled nurses,
were in no mood for such horse-play, and a tram-
conductor instantly knocked his hat off and told him
to “shut up! - ’ But he persisted in outraging every
decent feeling, and when a stout, motherly, be-
spectacled old lady kissed one of the nurses he
bellowed out: “Kissin’ a woman! Wei! ! I never!”
A moment after he grabbed a girl's hand. Then the
storm burst! The police rescued him with great
difficulty, and he was removed to the lock-up in an
ambulance.
Obviously, if the sexes be equal, “man-
made” law is grossly unjust to man. Are
man and woman equal? Equal in sex? —
in intellect? In so far as each subserves an
ordained purpose, most assuredly they are
equal; in their sum-total of vital force they
are equal. But their intellects differ as
widely as their sexes. With woman, her
specialised sex is everything, taxing all her
physical powers throughout her prime:
what is left of her mind is but a toy—a
recreation. With man his specialised brain
is everything, taxing all his physical powers
throughout his life; his almost superfluous
sex being, so far as he is concerned, a fleet-
ing diversion involving no personal dis-
comfort or responsibility whatever.
Immutable law has set aside woman for
childbirth and man for thought-birth, and
while woman loves children there can never
be any “great woman question.” While
woman loves children, she may be trusted
to deal with the “militant feminist”—that
vile abortionist who secretly murders the
dream-chikl that stirs in every virgin’s
heart. While woman loves children she
will cling close to the father of her child,
with him fearlessly fronting eternity, each
with love for the other’s strength, each with
tears for the other’s weakness —and the
gates of Girton College shall not prevail
against them.
DOWELL O’REILLY.
Devil Denny.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Devil denny came yestermorn,
Click o’ the gate as he strode
within,
Brush of his breeks on the dewy thorn,
And he chuckled our Annie beneath the
chin.
Devil Denny sat down to dine,
Flung to my mother a full-blown rose,
Drank to her health in our best old wine.
And gaily bussed her beneath the nose.
Oh, he broke the bread and he cut the
haunch,
Though never a stiver had he to pay ;
And he filled his pouch as well as his
paunch.
And never a one of us bade him nay.
The beaker was drained to be filled again—
Hey, Denny was young, but the wine was
old!
And it loosed his tongue from the bridle
rein,
And his eyes were bright as the tales he
told.
Merry his ouips of the road and field !
Hey ! the flitches rocked to the laugh o’ the
man—-
Of round-bellied squires who ran as they
squealed
When his broad shoe helped them along as
they ran!
And mother and Annie knew no alarm
When Devil Denny was middle o’ three,
For each of ’em fitted a curve of an arm,
And each of ’em burdened an opposite knee.
Oh, blithe is the path that a rogue may
tread,
How a smile can cover the scowl of a knave !
And Devil Denny threw back his head,
And Devil Denny he tipped us a stave.
“Ho, I travel by night an ’ I bide by day;
Find me a hedge or a house on the lea,
And I make me a home where I happen to
stay,
Though the hat on my head is my own
roof-tree !
“Bishop or beadle with purse and pelf,
Each is my gain, though Eve nothing to
lose;
With never a helper I help myself,
And live all alone on the heels o’ my shoes.
“Eve a tongue for a jest and an ear for a
joke,
A kiss for matron as well as for maid:
Eve a heart that is simple for simple folk.
And for those I hate Eve the edge of a
blade.
“I carry my life in the grip o’ my fist,
Since Life be given for better or tcorse;
An’ I take full toll of its joys, I wist,
Ere I fling it aside like an empty purse.
“King o’ the day an’ knave o’ the night,
Yet never teas king so merry as me,
For T lead them a dance to my heart's
delight,
Till I kick up my heels on tlve strangle-
tree!”
The red-coats clattered within the yard,
The sergeant cursed with a hand on his
sword;
But Mother she lied to him brave and hard,
While Annie she lied in the name o’ the
Lord.
Till cliekitty-clut! they rode away ;
We heard them gallop for many a mile.
Oh ! Honest people come every day ;
The Devil can come only once in a while!
MAOBILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


Vi
r i
r
■mmMx
A Fair Question.
Have You Tried the
Best Practical Hethod
of Eliminating Your
Belt Losses ?
WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES
will Overcome Your
Difficulties.
Write To-day for Booklet
B.M. 310.
The
ouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne vZealand Offioe: 93-lo7jFeatherston St., Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
STOP THAT LEAKING JOINT!
USE
LASCARITE
SHEET JOINTING
This Jointing is MADE IN ENGLAND, and is UNEQUALLED for High
pressure and highly Superheated Steam, Ammonia and Acids, also Gas and
Motor Engines.
Sample sent on application.
The Austral Engineering Supply Company, Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Onoto Pens
12/-
upwards.
are the only Standard 12/-
Fountain Pen* All British Made
by a British Company with
British Capital ana Labour.
Thomas d e La Rue & Co. Ltd. London.
Man'Vgirife Nonmav ft vki,r .s. Li>Na..-i jjks r. Sydkf y
Dinnefqrd's)
Magnesia j
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S"
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
ĵ
Tlie Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
on, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION-
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin snotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2/9.
FOR 42 YEARB
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
4irect from them bv post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removesthe effects of Sunscorch
ARE, YOU n
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
ITS IN YOU/? OWN HANDS
\
n
/
V
■l^/1
L
L
»
TO ENJOY GOOD HEALTH
BY TAKING
BEECHMPIUS.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers ot Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original ant! Only Genuine
Oonv
evincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMIBTS.
Prices in
England—
l/li, 2/9 & 4/b.
tffUcrodf*
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Beet Medicine for
SOUOHS, GOLDS, ASTHMA, and In
me oouffh of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aota Ilka a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
gj
THE FAMOUS
Schebler Carburetter
has conclusively proved this season
(1914-15) at its home, in America,
that it is
The Best Carburetter
SCHEBLER Equipped Engines
won World’s Records with
CARS
“Stutz” Road Record
75*03 miles
per hour.
BOATS
Baby Speed Demon ”
53*55 miles
BICYCLES
“ Excelsior”
1 to 100 miles
SCHEBLER is also the equipment for the
CURTIS FLYING BOATS
and the KINNARD HAINES PLOUGHING TRACTOR, the American Champion.
A Carburetter showing such Efficiency must be Economical.
Catalogues and all information fre«*.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, Sole Agents for Australasia. [2


Mangrovite
Tanned
Sheepskin
Vests.
gj
Superior Quality.
Short, Clean Fleece.
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
Tanner and Manufacturer,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only),
Tel. 2898. Near G.P.O.
&
Agents:—*
Pipe or Bolt Threading
OSTER
Power Screwing Machine
Here is a machine with brand-new features,
which means to the user that he can perform
all the many pipe-threading jobs in ordinary
use—pieces long or short, straight or bent,
over or under size, also ISolts, Nipples, etc.,
on the one Machine without any difficult or
complicated change in the equipment. Cali
or write for our descriptive booklet, “Thread-
ing Tools,” which tells you more about it.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
It is the Power
Yoor Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
'JP.
rfgSgjLSgrj
Be
Sure
v and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole Agents —
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
Is “Economy”
Your
Watchword ?
If so you will be deeply
interested in the increased
steaming power of your boiler,
the more satisfactory working
of your engine, the greater
efficiency of your whole plant,
and, further, the big reduction
in your fuel bill, all of which
can be accomplished by the
adoption of
Newall’s Magnesia
Sectional Steam
Pipe Coverings and
Plastic Boiler
Covering
the EXCEPTIONAL EFFICIENCY ox” which has placed it
FAR ABOVE ALL OTHER MATERIALS.
The above claims are not merely “idle words,” but are all
clinched by FACTS in evidence of which we might mention
that Newall’s Coverings have been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments, and have been used throughout
Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses, in addition to which we have
orders on hand for the insulating throughout of Perth, Melbourne
and Canberra Power Stations.
Should further argument be necessary, we append the comparative
covering capacities of Newall’s Plastic Boiler Covering and ordinary
asbestos.
lewt. ordinary asbestos will cover 40 gq. ft. jc lin. thick.
lcwt. Newall’s Plastic Magnesia, will cover 100 sq. ft. x lin.
thick.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth,
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Flaming,
Patent “ Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
USTURTEVANT BLOWERS
High-pressure Blowers
Planing' - mill Exhausters
Monogram Fans
Steel-pressure Blowers
Multivane Fans
Electric “ Ready -to - run '*
Ventilating' Sets
for direct and alternating current.
W?."* sole Agents for the B.F. STURTEVANT
COMPANY, and carry full line of their product.
Write for catalogue No. .195 to—
fgh
H. P. GREGORY (& GO..
Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
22S^'>--,¥
MU,
NAT SEMI-DIESEL
MARINE or STATIONARY.
Sole Australian Agents:—
WARBURTON, FRANHI, Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
4k
ail
tnp
Kb
him"
illlll!.
HI Hi" 11
(mUi'HiiiiijiimiiiiniiiiiiiimiMlill
lllk?
tti iiii in
i
Airslil
II ltt|||||lillH IJ|inuiJ>*'(
g
ĝh
ASTHE BRITISH EMPIRE
ISA POWER FOR JUSTICE
STRENGTH,& REPUTATION
SO THE LISTER
ALL BRITISH
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINERY IS A POWER IN
SHEARING FOR EFFICIENCY
k ECONOMY& QUALITY A
SUB-AGENTS?
MITCHELL & CO, PROPY. LTD.,
W. footscray, Melbourne,
Vic.
BURNS. PHILP & CO. LTD..
Townsville,Q.
MALIOCH BR
Perth, W.A
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD.,
Hobart. Tas.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Brisbane, Q
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS’
CO-OP. UNION. LTD.,
Adelaide. S.A.
ON THE ONE HAND
UNBURNT Refuse
Result—FLlES, SMELLS,
SICKNESS, DIRT,
TYPHOID.
Prices and Particulars
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
■ ■
HRioc;
GAf2EA'OE. •
DK,sTftucitiß
ON THE OTHER HAND
All Refuse Absolutely Destroyed
in an Australian-made
GUTHRIDG DESTRUCTOR
EMsißmMswnumii mm mnmmmmmmmmmsmmmmmmsmmmmmmmmmmmm
NO FLIES, NO SMELLS,
Health-Giving' Cleanliness.
install One in Your House NOW,
IT COSTS LESS THAN A DOCTOR,
EQUITABLE BUILDING, SYDNEY
