

the Veteran ot wmsKies
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney.
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New Soutn Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always avadable.
E MONEY
-
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
MS W- MONT. DE PIETE D SI C? UP
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH J4.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. n d
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
giUiiiMiijiiß
lb
N, E- W._so^r
s==j)
COhSIRCiaT CHAMBfnS MT/A KS W MOWT OE PtETE OtPOStT «. IHYtSTWtWT C?l™
8,8
Supplied by the bottle, case or gallon at
wholesale price.
COnnoISSEDRS
Richardson’s
Wine & Spirit Stores
68 Market St.,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE.
nAMS&BACOH
S.Hb.
fasffasf
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
L
TABLETS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBA.K.T.
an*
jjadleg’s Orient fiotel.
Vj
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber=cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
H
I
T
E
SL
iTW
mm
&
If you never seen a White Malthoid Roof we should like to tell you where you can see one
the nearest to your home. There are so many scattered about Australasia now that it will
not be a difficult matter for you to inspect this most satisfactory of all roofing materials, I
ACTUAL USE. Of course, we can send samples and booklets.
U-4
O •.
w
J'*’
1 ■I
W 5
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Manufacturers of Amiwud, Challis House, Sydney.
D. 3. EVANS, x
Australasian Rep./
HOPPER waccons.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
fasf
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L-“
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers,
Bridge Builders.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS &
CHALUS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. [2
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
IELIDON SPA
** It is a dream of the Physician realised,” so says a medical
man of Helidon Spa* HELIDON SPA is Nature's Eliminant.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents ,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
Tol. 30.—N0. 1830.]
[Thursday, March 11, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


RECENT FICTION.
Delano’s Land of Content.
Forman’s The Blind Spot.
Schaick’s Sweetapple Love.
Dowdall’s Joking Apart. ,
Robinet’s The Forest Maiden.
Hamilton’s Yes.
Overland Red.
Bower’s The Gringos.
Dixon’s The Victim.
Sterrett’s The Jam GirL
Lincoln Kent Knowles’s “Quahang.”
Dudeney’s What a Woman Wants.
Grogan’s A Drop in Infinity.
Perrin: The Woman the Bazaar.
Andrew’s The Eternal Masculine.
All at 3/6 per volume. Posted 3/9.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROP'T'Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KILL THAT FLY!
The house fly is the great carrier of disease,
and is aptly called the TYPHOID FLY.
TRADE MARK.
MUSTDIE
The Great Insect Destroyer, is certain Death
to Flies, Mosquitoes, Fleas, Bugs and all
Insects.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, 9d. per tin; or forward 9d. in
stamps to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1620
G.P.0., Sydney. [1
The Red Page
Grave-Clods from Thomas Hardy
GOD’B FUNERAL.
I saw a slowly-step ping train —
Lined on the brows, scoop-eyed and bent
and howr —
Following in files across a twilit plain
A strange and mystic form the foremost bore.
And by contagious throbs of thought
Or latent knowledge that within me lay
And had already stirred me, I was wrought
To consciousness of sorrow even as they.
The fore-borne shape, to my blurred eyes,
At first seemed man-lUce, and anon to change
To an amorphous cloud of marvellous size,
At times endowed with wings of glorious
range.
And this phantasmal variousness
Ever possessed it as they drew along:
Yet throughout all it symbolled none the less
Potency vast and loving-kindness strong.
Almost before I knew I bent
Towards the moving columns without a
word;
They, growing in bulk and numbers as they
went,
Struck out sick thoughts that could be over-
heard:
“O man-projected Figure, of late
Imaged as we, thy knell who shall survive?
Whence Game it we were tempted to create
One whom we can no longer keep alive?
“Framing him jealous, fierce, at first,
TF# gave him justice as the ages rolled,
Will to bless those by circumstance accurst,
And long-suffering, and mercies manifold.
“And tricked by our own early dream
And nfed of solace, we grew self-deceived,
Our making soon our maker did we deem,
And what we had imagined we believed.
“Till, in Time's stayless stealthy swing,
Uncompromising rude reality
Mangled the Monarch of our fashioning,
Who quavered, sank; and now has ceased to
be.
“So, toward our myth’s oblivion,
Darkling, and languid-lipped, we creep and
grope
Sadlier than those who wept in Babylon,
Whose Zion was a still abiding hope.
“How sweet it was in years far hied
To start the wheels of day with trustful
prayer,
To lie down liegely at the eventide
And feel a blest assurance he was there!
“And who or what shall fill his place?
Whither will wanderers turn distracted eyes
For some fixed star to stimulate their pace
Towards the goal of their enterprise?”....
Some in the background then I saw,
Sweet women, youths, men, all incredulous,
Who chimed as one: “This figure is of straw,
This requiem mockery! Still he lives to us!”
I could not prop their faith: and yet
Many I had known: with all I sympathised;
And though struck speechless, I did not for-
get
That what was mourned for, I, too, once
had prized.
Still, how to bear such loss I deemed
The insistent question for each animate mind,
And gazing, to my growing sight there seemed
A pale yet positive gleam low down behind,
Whereof, to lift the general night,
A certain feio who stood aloof had said,
“See you upon the horizon that small light —
Swelling somewhat?” Each mourner shook
his head.
And they composed a crowd of whom
Some were right good, and many nigh the
best ....
Thus dazed and puzzled 'tioixt the gleam and
gloom
Mechanically I followed with the rest.
LAMENT.
How she would have loved
A party to-day!—
Bright-hatted and gloved,
With table and tray
And chairs on the lawn
Her smiles would have shone
With welcomings... .But
She is shut, she is shut
From friendship's spell
In the jailing shell
Of her tiny cell.
Or she would have reigned
At a dinner to-night
With ardors unfeigned,
And a generous delight;
All in her abode
She'd have freely bestowed
On her guests... .But, alas,
She is shut under grass
Where no cups flow,
Powerless to know
That it might be so.
And she would have sought
With a child's eager glance
The slip snowdrops brought
By the new year's advance,
And peered in the rime
Of Candlemas-time
For crocuses... .chanced
It that she were not tranced
From sights she loved best;
Wholly possessed
By an infinite rest!
And we are here staying
Amid these stale things
Who care not for gaying,
And those junketings
That used so to joy her,
And never to cloy her
As us they c10y!... .But
She is shut, she is shut
From the cheer of them, dead
To all done and said
In a yew-arched bed.
EXEUNT OMNES.
Everybody else, then, going ,
And I still left where the fair was?....
Much have I seen of neighbor loungers
Making a lusty showing,
Each noio past all knowing.
There is an air of blankness
In the street and the littered spaces;
Thoroughfare, steeple, bridge and highway
Wizen themselves to lankness;
Kennels dribble dankness.
Folks all fade. And whither,
As I wait alone where the fair was?
Into the clammy and numbing night-fog
Whence they entered hither.
Soon do I follow thither!
A POET.
Attentive eyes, fantastic heed,
Assessing minds, he does not need,
.Nor urgent writs to sup or dine,
Nor pledges in the roseate wine.
For loud acclaim he does not care
By the august or rich or fair,
Nor for smart pilgrims from afar,
Curious on where his hauntings are.
But soon or later, tvhen you hear
That he has doffed his wrinkled gear,
Some evening, at the first star-ray,
Come to his graveside, pause and say:
“Whatever the message his to tell,
Two thoughtful ivomen loved him well."
Stand and say that amid the dim:
It will be praise enough for him.
—From “Satires of Circumstance” (Mac-
millan, per Sydney Boob Club).
©
Thomas Hardy has at least added a new
phrase to the English language. “Life’s
little ironies” is firmly fixed in our speech.
Satires of Circumstance, the title of his
latest book of verse, deserves a similar per-
manency. Hardy, the last of the Victorian
giants, survives, almost unwillingly. Yet
the last year has seen him married again,
and The Dynasts actually produced on the
London stage, an artistic and dramatic suc-
cess. And, having apparently nothing else
to do, he goes on writing verse—the one form
of literary labor for which he is least fitted.
The last infirmity of his mind is poetry,
jagged, crude, pessimistic poetry that is
nothing but closely and inconveniently packed
thought. Hardy’s beliefs have one by one
faded with the advance of age. He does not
believe any more in immortality—not even
in the immortality of God. Hardy is now chief
mourner at God’s funeral. And, even if
there were a God, Hardy has doubts whether
He would blow the last trump.
Ha, ha. It will be warmer when
I blow the trumpet (if indeed
I ever do; for you are men,
And rest eternal sorely need).
Hardy’s spirit will not haunt any grave
mound. Whether spirits haunt places
depends solely (and scientifically) on
whether you want to be haunted:—
And there you’ll find me, if a jot
You still should care
For me, and for my curious air;
If otherwise, then I shall not,
For you, be there.
You take your choice. Hardy leaves you
no other escape from his drab logic. Life
is full of little ironies, the inherent cussed-
ness of things, and circumstances are dis-
tinctly satirical.
As well cry over a neio-laid drain
As anything else, to ease your pain!
This reduction of all the beauty and all
the yearning of life to cemeteries and sani-
tary arrangments, this reduction to the
absurdity of a soulless logic, leads Hardy at
times almost to Bellerivean heights of stark-
ness and the heavy thud of bathos. Hearken
to this Bellerivean plaint, almost in the
mood of our great Australian master of the
drab:—
THE NEWCOMER’S WIFE.
He paused on the sill of a door ajar
That screened a lively liquor-bar,
For the name had reached him through the door
Of her he had married the week before.
“We called her the Hack of the Parade;
But she was discreet in the games she played;
If slightly worn, she’s pretty yet,
And gossips, after all, forget.
“And he knows nothing of her past;
I’m glad the girl’s in luck at last;
Such ones, though stale to native eyes,
Newcomers snatch at as a prize.
“Yes, being a stranger he sees her blent
Of all that’s fresh and innocent,
Nor dreams how many a love-campaign
She had enjoyed before his reign!’'
That night there was the splash of a fall
Over the slimy harbor-wall;
They searched, and at the deepest place
Found him with crabs upon his face.
Advisedly we say that that never in “Belle-
rive s most stagnant moments has he
achieved the bleak deadness of this. But it
is time Hardy stopped. If he writes any
more books of verse it will be impossible to
distinguish pupil from master, and “Belle-
rive will have a right to complain about
breaches of copyright. But how “Bellerive”'
would have gloried in those crabs!
The Mathematician’s Mind
The late Henri Poincarfi, .the French
mathematician, possessed, it is generally ad-
mitted, a remarkable scientific mind,
“marked by characteristics of swiftness, com-
prehensiveness, unexampled lucidity, and the
perception of recondite but fertile analogies.
His philosophical writings are not those of
a professional philosopher.” Science and
Method (Nelson; 65.) is a collection of his
essays that will appeal- especially to mathe-
maticians —indeed, there are chapters that
will appeal solely to that curious sub-species
of mankind; but there is much of general
interest to be gleaned from his delightful
pages, especially his analysis of the mind of
a mathematical genius such as Poincarg was.
Poincarg confesses that he was absolutely
incapable of doing an addition sum without
mistake; and he is convinced that he would
make a very bad chess-player. And this is
how he wrote his first treatise on “Fuchsian
functions”—whatever they are or aren’t.
“For a fortnight I had been attempting to
prove that there could not be any function
analogous to what I have since called Fuch-
sian functions. I was at that time very
ignorant. Every day I sat down at my table
and spent an hour or two trying a great
number of combinations, and I arrived at no
result. One night I took some black coffee,
contrary to my custom, and was unable to
sleep. A host of ideas kept surging in my
head; I could almost feel them jostling one
another, until two of them coalesced, so to
speak, to form a stable combination. When
morning came I had established the existence
of one class of Fuchsian functions. I had
only to verify the results, which only took a
few hours.” Further discoveries came sud-
denly, at inconvenient moments—not when
Poincare was deliberately and fruitlessly
seeking them, but spontaneously.
“One is struck by these appearances of
sudden illumination, obvious indications of a
long course of previous unconscious work.
The part played by this uncohscious work in
mathematical discovery seems to me indis-
putable. Often when a man is working at a
difficult question he accomplishes nothing the
first time he sets to work. Then he takes a
rest, and sits down again at his table. Dur-
ing the first half-hour he still finds nothing,
and then all at once the decisive idea pre-
sents _ itself to his mind.... The rest was
occupied with unconscious work.... the rev-
elation came during a period of conscious
work, but independently of that work, which
at most only performs the unlocking process.
.... These sudden inspirations are never pro-
duced except after some days of voluntary
efforts which appeared absolutely fruitless, in
which one thought one had accomplished
nothing. .. .These efforts, however, were not
so barren as one thought; they set the un-
conscious machine in motion, and without
them it would not have worked at all, and
would not have produced anything,.. .The
unconscious ego plays a most important part
m mathematical discovery The subliminal
ego is in no way inferior to the conscious
ego; it is not purely automatic; it is cap-
able of discernment; it has tact and lightness
of touch ; it can select and it can divine. In
a word, is not the subliminal ego superior to
the conscious ego?”
Poincarg suggests that the part played by
the preliminary conscious work is to set the
subliminal ego at work, to stir it up. Let us
add that the method for getting mathematical
inspiration is exactly the method used for
poetical inspiration. The ideas come as the
result of the poet brooding on his subject, as
the result of his attempting to write down
his ideas. The poet sets his unconscious
mind at work; _ and if he insists sternly
enough, steeps his mind in his subjecf long
enough, his subliminal ego will do the work.
And then all he has to do is to write it down
and polish it....and fatuously take credit
for it.
The Literary Agent
“Bil-1 Bowyang” has been stung:—
When I read the advts. and prospectus of the
American and English literary agent—and I have a
dozen different specimens before me as I write —I
am impressed equally by the omnipotence and benevo-
lence of the man. It is clear that he holds editors
and publishers in the hollow of his hand. He assures
me that manuscripts from unknown writers receive
little or no attention when submitted by their
authors, whereas they are promptly accepted
when submitted by him, because his judgment is
always relied upon! He tells me that he never
handles a manuscript unless he is practically sure
that he can place it; that all the leading editors
send to him for what they require, and that they
even accept from him the very manuscripts that
they have previously rejected when submitted by
the authors! He undertakes to guide authors and
to revise their work, though I have yet to learn
that his own name is known as a successful author
or writer. In some cases, he even announces that
he charges no fees; and I am wondering how he
manages to pay the rent of his office.
Now I want to say at once that there are agents
and agents. A few—they can be counted on the
fingers of one hand —are of the highest reputation,
and have among their clients many of the most suc-
cessful authors of the day. Such agents are of
genuine value to the literary worker, for they hon-
estly and efficiently promote his interests. They
not only relieve him of all business worries, but
they find increased openings for his work, and
obtain the best prices for it. It is not too much to
say that many well-known authors largely owe their
success to their literary agent. Albert Dorrington
once admitted that his literary agent put him on
the high road to success. But it is with the other
type of agent that I propose to deal.
When in London some 18 months back I noticed
the advt. of one of these gentry, which appeared
in several papers. He announced himself as a
“practical author,” whatever that may mean. As
a matter of fact I ascertained that he was the
author of one unsuccessful novel which he paid
the publisher to produce. In answer to an inquiry
he sent me a long letter, in which he boasted that
he placed MSS. with a long list of magazines men-
tioned. One of these was not in existence—but that
is a mere trifle. He further gave a long list of
publishers with whom he placed manuscripts. I
made inquiries of one of these, and learnt that he
had not even submitted a manuscript to them! His
fees were also interesting. For a novel he charged
a guinea for reading, two guineas for revision, and
one guinea for offering it to publishers—a total of
four guineas. He hastened to add that he charged
no commission in the sale of the work, and would
probably not concern himself about it. Another
agent, who has been established for many years,
charges a fee of five guineas before even looking at
the manuscript. Apparently it is a matter of
complete indifference to him whether it is good or
bad. In the latter ease, it is his method to wait
for some months, and then write to the author
saying that he has submitted it without success tc
a number of publishers, but that he has now found
one willing to take it if the author will contribute,
say, £5O towards the cost of the first edition. If
the author refuses, the manuscript is returned to
him. If, however, he swallows the bait, the agent
arranges with one of the smaller publishers to take
it on the terms mentioned, and he deducts a com-
mission of 10 per cent, when forwarding the author’s
cheque to the publisher.
One agent has struck out a line of his own. He
inserts advts. in various papers, somewhat to the
following effect: —
“TO AUTHORS —Publisher requires MSS. of all
kinds. Highest prices given. No fees. Address,
‘Publisher,’ care of, etc.”
I have made inquiries about this chap. When
the author writes, he receives a reply from a small
flat in the London suburbs, announcing that Mr.
, literary agent and publisher, will be happy
to arrange for the publication of his manuscript.
There will be no fee whatever, but a deposit must
be paid to cover out-of-pocket expenses, and the
manuscript will be revised if necessary. Strange
to say, it nearly always is necessary to revise the
MSS. that reaches this practitioner; and this is
where he comes in. He charges a pretty stiff price
for work which he has no qualifications for under-
taking. The next step is to let the manuscript rest
for a time—possibly to recover from the revision—
and then the proceedings follow those we have
described above. When I was in England a lady of
my acquaintance sent a story to this agent and
paid the “deposit.” Very shortly afterwards she
asked for its return. A letter came from the agent,
saying that he had already offered it to some ten pub-
lishers, who names were given. This was an obvious
lie on the face of it, for there had not been sufficient
time for ten publishers to consider the manuscript.
My lady friend was therefore not surprised, when she
made inquiry of one of the firms mentioned, to learn
that they had not even heard of the manuscript.
Another agent in London contrives to combine
the functions of both publisher and literary agent.
Manuscripts that reach his hands are rarely offered
elsewhere, but, after picking up any odd guineas
that may be available for reading and revising, he
offers to publish the work himself if the author
will pay half the cost of the first edition. Needless
to say the amount suggested as “half” covers the
entire cost of production and leaves him a handsome
margin of profit as well.
I could relate many more curious facts, but the
above will be sufficient to warn the Australian author
who intends to send his work abroad, to avoid all
literary agents who boast of their successes; those
who profess to charge no fees; and, above all,
those who do not rely mainly for their remuneration
upon a commission on the proceeds of the sale of
the work.
A. Safroni-Middleton, author of Bush
Songs and Oversea Voices (Long, 3s. 6d.),
judging from'certain press-critiques in Eng-
lish and U.S. publications, has a reputation.
For instance, he is “a really original Aus-
tralian poet,” and “promises to occupy a
place in the foremost rank of the few rising
British Colonial poets.” We learn, also,
that he was once a violinist at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, and that for a time he
“became a boundary rider.” Possibly he was
a good violinist and an excellent boundary
rider; but he is certainly a poor poet. His
work is careless, uninspired, and full of the
out-of-date melodrama in verse that doubt-
less still appeals to overseas critics as the
real “colonial” thing. Thus he presents the
real Australia: —
Out on the wide domain we slept, as independents
do!
Beneath a big-leafed tree, all in a row!
Penniless seafaring men, the tigers in the Zoo
At midnight roared, oft woke the sleeping show.
We’d hear the ferry siren’s hoot, out o’er the silent
bay.
My pillow was an old cheese-cutter hat.
The baronets and M.B.A.’S in rags beside us lay,
With hungry, dreaming eyes in moonlight sat!
Good enough, perhaps, for England—Robert
Bridges has set on record his appreciation of
an earlier volume —but modestly we demand
something a little better, even a little more
grammatical, for inclusion in our Aus-
tralian fellowship.
“L.D.”: May I speak on the side of the
“heretics” in opposition to “Montalex”? No
good English poet, not even The Bulletin,
insists on a rime to the eye as well as to the
ear. I find that The Bulletin accepts with-
out comment such sets as “tried —cried —
wide,” “warn —morn,” “years—beers.” I hold
that these rimes are similar to the much-
talked-of “morn —dawn” pair ; if anything,
the ear is less offended by the last than by the
others. The ordinary educated Englishman
who is not conscious of his pronunciation
makes no difference between “awn” and
“orn.” If questioned, he would say that he
pronounced the “r” in “morn,” “farther,” etc.,
but he has long ceased to do so except in
theory. English has gradually dropped the
more difficult consonant sounds, such as the
“w” in “wrong,” the “gh” in “night,” and
now the “r” in “farther.” Poetry may resist
such changes and call them cockneyisms; but
it will soon be forced to recognise the last as
well as the two first.


JL
~a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
JSiL
••
• ®
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR THE
PERFORATED
RAZOR HONE.
The secret of Easy Shaving is proper Honing.
The PERFORATED RAZOR HONE puts into
the hands of every man the secret of Automati-
cally producing that perfect, Smooth-cutting
Edge which makes shaving a pleasure-
The regular row of holes in the Perforated Razor
Hone have an undercut effect, shearing the wire edge
smoothly off.
Why the Perforated Hone
is so Easy to Use.
As the razor-edge gets thin and sharp, a Wire-edge commences to form, but as the
razor is drawn slantingly forward across the regular rows of holes, their deftly-
rounded edges have a sort of undercut effect, shearing the Wire-edge smoothly
off as fast as it forms, and dropping it as fine steel dust into the holes.
Give six strokes or a hundred —you simply can’t hurt your razor if you keep it
flat on the hone, which is a specially hard but very fine stone; it leaves a
smooth, keen cutting edge that is a revelation even to a barber. Perforated Razor
Hones will last a lifetime.
Price 3|- By Post, 3(4
Anthony Horderns’
FOR THE
GEM JUNIOR
Safety Razor.
m
%
ha
GE
jT
\v
£
THe Man Who Uses tHe
GEM JUNIOR Safety Razor
MAKES SHAVING EASY.
GEM JUNIOR blades are as thin as an edge-holding piece of steel can possibly
be rolled. They can be sharpened time and time again, because they ! re tempered
to receive an edge and to hold it when they get it.
THE GEM JUNIOR FRAME has a new BAR feature which carefully
spreads the skin so that the stubble is forced out far enough to give as close
a shave as can only be secured with any other razor in the world by going over
the face twice.
THE GEM JUNIOR SET is packed in substantial Plush-lined Box, and in
addition to the Silver-plated frame and seven blades, includes a stropping handle.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, 5/-; by Post, 5/3.
EXTRA BLADES, 2/1 per Packet of 7, Post Free.
I
OLD BLADES Made NEW
Save your old blades. After they have passed beyond the stage
of revival by means of the ordinary strop, the Safety Blade Expert
can renew the keen edge of the hand-ground blade with the
patent power high-speed machine specially designed for Safety
Razors. It sharpens any Wafer Safety Razor Blade.
ANTHONY HORDERNS' PRICE-1/1 Doz., 7d. Half-doz., Post Free
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
VALUE IN BOOKS
Everyman’s Library of Standard Literature.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly what its
name implies—a library for the professional man,
the business man, the young man, the student, and
all lovers of literature. There are over 700 titles
to select from in the EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY,
embracing the works of foremost authors in the
realms of Fiction, Poetry, History, Theology,
Travel, Biography and Essays of famous writers.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is under the
general editorship of Professor Ernest Rehys,
and contains the best works that have been
written in all times and tongues, from Epictetus,
Cicero and Plutarch down to Dickens, Scott,
Ruskin and the other great Literary Lights of
the Victorian Era.
Each volume in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
is uniformly bound, and printed in large, clear
type on specially made paper, and many are
illustrated.
800 l
Sectional
hold
Anthony Horderns’ Price:
Cloth, 1/-; Full Leather, 2/-
Postat/e 2d. volume extra. Full list of titles post free. Send Is. 2d. for a
sample volume. The value cannot he surpassed.
Handsome Oak Bookcase (as illustrated) specially designed for Every-
man’s Library, made in Fumed Oak, and fitted with novel interlocking
device, to allow for extension. Top Section, 6/-; Base Unit, 6/-; Book Section
(to hold fiO vols.) 8/6.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
RING ALBERT’S BOOK
A Tribute to the Belgian King and People from
Representative Men and Women throughout
the World. Entire Proceeds from Sale of the
Book go to the Belgian Relief Fund.
KING ALBERT’S BOOK contains perhaps more illustrious names than have
ever before been inscribed within the covers of a single volume. Statesmen
(beginning with the Prime Minister and the President of the French Republic),
eminent ecclesiastics, soldiers, sailors, scholars, preachers, teachers, authors, artists
and composers from nearly all the great countries of the world —Great Britain
and its wide Empire—have contributed to its pages, each giving of his own kind —
the statesman an inspiring message, the soldier and sailor a thrilling word of
cheer, the preacher a word of comfort, the scholar a word of wisdom, the poet, the
artist and the composer an uplifting and kindling song story, picture or piece of
music.
Rarely in the long history of hooks can it have occurred that some of the
highest representatives of so many great races have drawn so close together in a
common cause. Rarely has literature presented a more significant sign of world
brotherhood than KING ALBERT'S BOOK provides.
Merely as an autograph album KING ALBERT’S BOOK is, perhaps, one of
the most interesting volumes ever issued from the press, for every contribution
bears its author’s name at least in facsimile; but the value of its substance
transcends even the distinction of its form. Great events call forth great talents,
and many of the contributions to KING ALBERT’S BOOK are of an excellence
that has hardly ever before been attained by their illustrious authors.
KING ALBERT’S BOOK is a quarto volume of ISO pages, printed in the
best style, containing a signed Photogravure portrait of King Albert, many plates
in color as well as in black and white, and bound in substantial cream white
cloth.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, 3/-
Postage in the Commonwealth
sd. extra.
ANTHONY HORDERN h SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


•An
■
• .>:
3
&
WINCHESTER
20, 16 AND 12 GAUGE
Lightweight Hammerless
Repeating Shotguns
The Winchester Model 1912 is the strongest, safest and
most perfect repeating shotgun ever made. In either of the
three gauges in which it is made, it is lighter, better
balanced and more correctly proportioned than any other
repeater. Its Nickel steel construction, solid breech,
and its cross-bolt trigger lock make it strong and safe.
This gun has a smooth and easy action, a simple
take-down system, and its shooting qualities are not
excelled by the highest priced double guns. The 20
gauge weighs about 5Y\ pounds, the 16 gauge about
6 pounds, and the 12 gauge about 7 pounds.
If in the market for a shotgun, don’t fail to
Tyook Over a Winchester
. Model 1912 at Your Dealer’s
ll I
for
M farm
Ho
McPhersons
Proprietary Limited —*
(ESTAB. I 860).
Melbourne
HHsg?
have you a Copy of our Latest Tool Catalogue ? If not,
fill in and post form below and receive one by return mail.
Please send me your 300-page Catalogue of Farm,
Home, and Workshop Tools.
Name
A ddress
B.
Proprietary Limited,
554=66 & 582=88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
BAA.
FITTINGS
“THOROUGHLY
BRITISH”
V.WS
S:
- v
r t
'M'l
Cl
ITS the accuracy of every part of
B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle that makes
the machine run so smoothly and
with so little effort, and more than
that, the wear on the bearings is so
slight that a B.S.A. Bicycle will last a
lifetime. No matter what other machine
you get or what price you pay
YOU WILL NOT GET
BETTER VALUE THAN A B.S.A.
Beside, think of the time when you
will be cycling with friends riding
B.S.A’s-—you wouldn’t like to be riding
a cheap "pattern” machine would you?
Certainly not! Then have a B.S.A.
B.S.A. Handbook Free.
D. Y. RENNIE, (Representing B.S A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
B.S.A CHEAPEST IN THE END
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN (& SONS LTP.
J
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
in
rf
m
m
m
THE BEST
jSMOKE
is
VELLOW
ASTER
i*i TOBACCO
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works : Birming-ham, England.
Bnifli
These series of
Pens neither sciatch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
fasf
TRADE MARK
SPLENDIL 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra. long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/0. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted \\
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel bai _=,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENI
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special P n ce>
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORIIE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. lakes
long. .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holi a.
Price. 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Larsrast Imaortars of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


“3-in-One Oil”
Will Stop the Squeak!
/ A few drops make creaking,
nerve-racking hinges wo;k
quietly and easily.
“Three-in-One”
LUBRICATES PERFECTLY.
T REDUCES FRICTIONAL
WEAR AND TEAR.
PREVENTS RUST, VERDI-
GRIS, TARNISH.
It is a clear, light, highly-
refined Oil that cleans out all
dirt from minute crevices.
. Never gums nor cakes.
Most stores sell
“ 3-in-One” Oil.
Send a Post-card for Free
Samp'e Bottle and instructive
Booklet.
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
Harris St., Wellington, N.Z.
M
6
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days' Free
Trial . Best British-inade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters. Variable-Speed Gears,
BiS. A. Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook's
Saddles, etc.
/
[latest
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
I Tyres and accessories at half usual pricec*
Write at once, using sufficient postage, fo*
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
fasf
Prompt Shipment 8 Safe Delivery
Guaranteed. No Advance in Prices
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES-
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
ISB
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
Great Danger of
Insedl Bites.
DOCTOR’S ALARMING STATEMENTS.
Protect Yourself Against Ordinary
Dangers by using
NEV-A-BITE
“There is no question,” says a leading
specialist, “tjiat insect bites may lead to great
danger to health, and have been known to end
fatally.”
This alarming
statement, which
has appeared in
the influential
newspapers of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
bites from mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
to worry about.
It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect
bite might set up
such serious in-
flammation as to
cause blood-poi-
soning, and —-as everyone well knows —blood-
poisoning may lead to even the amputation of
a limb.
One has only to glance at the illustration
given here of the mosquito to realise what
terrifying poison-injecting parts this insect
has. It is absolutely necessary, not only for
the woman who desires to keep her complexion
in its natural condition, but also for the pro-
tection against more serious dangers, to secure
some reliable preparation which will prevent
insects from biting.
The best form of treatment of mosquito bites
is prophylactic, or preventive. The application
of a little of the Nev-a-bite lotion to the
forehead, neck and the instep (when openwork
stockings are worn) reduces the probability of
mosquito-bites to a. minimum.
Nev-a-bite is a perfectly harmless pre-
paration, and serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
Nev-a-bite can be obtained at 9<J. per
bottle. Postage 3d. extra from—
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY
Manufacturin’ Chemists. MELBOURNE.
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects.
♦
I
BONSIHfSTMB
m
WISH MOSS
I
I
m
m
m
mm
■
■
-
mam
TSfJTO CsTT!
'3 PMMTM MMppi
4;
It is a good policy to keep in the home
a Cough Remedy of Proven Merit. She is
a wise mother who insists upon getting a
Skilfhlly Prepared Medicine.
has stood the Test of Fifty Years. Those
who use it are amazed at its Wonderful
Curative Properties.
wm
'■ r
$
TABLETS
36
PRICE 3/6. N
m.
m
' •
7 *ll mixw M3Hd SljllViNOD X3T9VA H7V3
I) (ipeacuiwoc) Si.3TBVl^
fTOlopieqda)!
Ik 9/c 33i«d
MS
•r&y;
r-
I|6
GET RID OF YOUR
PAINS AND ACHES.
36
(4001)
Would you like to be rid for ever of the racking pain and
aches from a bad head—from NEURALGIA, NEURITIS,
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO and the various
nerve pains that make your life miserable ? Use KEPHALDOL.
(MADE IN AUSTRALIA.)
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. PRICE 1/6 and 3/6.
jlilSJ
L~rnr
u Stockings & Socks
for Men, Women and Children.
British Made from Australasian
Wool and British Branded
By wearing you not only support the industry of the “Old Country,”
but you get belter quality, better designs, longer service than the “ made-in-
Germany” hosiery.
JSSZS makes are branded—unquestionable proof of honest value, also the maker's faith in his
own goods. There’s a design ior every taste, a price for every pocket.
Every stocking and rock is work-perfect and faultless in mode, whether dressy or plain. And every
pair have that inimitable &SS2S silky finish, so soft and soothing to the most delicate skin.
When you buy stockings tor yourself or members of the family—remember are
all British and Guaranteed. Your Draper or Outfitter can supply you. In-
sist on and resolutely refuse any other.
Sole .Manufacturers— The Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
Aas2
<i>
Tobacco
j
36s
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
[ the Tobacco Habit if
i they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
| ten minutes for To-
’ bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for grood. It not destroys the
craving:, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating:
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp anfl we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Kb CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1801.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold bv ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, «nd SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collin*-st., Melbourne, Vic.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Saints and Sinners.
I love a sinner who loves his bath,
I doubt a saint if his cuffs be soiled;
No man need fear for the aftermath
Whose heart is sound and his linen boiled.
Though sinners be sinners and saints be
saints,
Some sinners are truthful, some saints
deceive,
And none is so black as his neighbor paints
And none so white as he makes-believe!
I love a sinner who owns to sin—
The gods themselves were a sinful race—
I doubt a saint when his blood runs thin;
A warm heart goes with a fearless face.
I dread the gaze of the faultless man
Who pricks my sins with a virtuous sword ;
Sin won sweet guerdon since sin began,
But virtue, I’m told, is its own reward.
I’ve loved true women and loved true men.
And loved them more for their splendid
faults;
If one died sinning we grieved—and then
We buried his sins in the churchyard vaults.
If all the world on its knees confessed
I’ll warrant the sinner were loved the most!
And who shall say whom the gods love best?
What man is saintly enough to boast?
The sinner’s creed is a kindly creed —
None is so black as the saintly paints;
The world were a dreary old place indeed
Were all men faultless and women saints!
N.S.W.
W. M. W.
The Black Cat’s Serenade.
Come away,
Tiger-lady
Wild and gay !
The night is shady.
Quick, when all the world is sleeping,
Over the hill the moon is creeping.
On your fence
Here I climb,
Untuneful rhyme,
Making tense
Like a minstrel masquerading—
Wo'n’t you hear my serenading?
Have you stirred
Unespied?
Yelvet-furred,
Onyx-eyed!
Claws of ivory, silken tresses.
Ears are rent for your caresses.
The watch-dog throttles ;
Children squall,
On the wall
There’s broken bottles.
Home-life’s fraught with apprehension,
In the bush we scout convention.
Milk is sweet,
Fine is fish ;
But what’s cooked meat
In a dish!
Bush cats tire of such tame feeding.
We’ll have morsels warm and bleeding.
Through the waste
Rabbits scud.
Soon we’ll taste
Living blood.
We’ll go a-hunting, px-owling, snaring—
Look! through the trees the moon is
staring.
Now the moon
Is shining o’er us,
Tiger, soon
The world’s before us.
Jungle beasts, we’ll snarl at sorrow,
Christian cats we’ll be to-morrow.
victoria.
LOUIS ESSON.
Not All the Dead are Buried.
Not all the dead are buried! I can see
Dead men all round me —sad and sorry
husks
Who breathe from force of habit wearily
And on good food ply artificial tusks.
In most of us there’s something dead, but
these
Are wholly dead, and should be put away ;
A Stone Age man the job would surely
please;
But they must linger on until their Day.
Some have themselves destroyed. Some Cir-
cumstance
Has slowly killed in his remorseless style;
For them life holds no roses or romance—
Joy wins from them at most a twisted smile.
The world belongs to Youth, and Youth
alone #
Should own the world —that is, the"surface
part.
Let each dead man retire beneath his stone
And hide away his dead and dusty heart.
Grey-bearded youths skip round with relics
that
In years are young and still appear to thrive;
But just because a body wears a hat
And walks, it is no proof that it’s alive.
Not all the dead are buried! When I see
Them walking round and putting up a bluff
That they’re alive, it fairly maddens me;
I hate such futile false pretence and guff.
Old custom binds. The dead and standing
weed
Must not be mowed, however great our
need.
How I would like to swing Death’s hissing
blade
Amongst these jobs! It would be good for
trade!
n.s.w.
The Giggling Undertaker.


The Home With Electrical
Helps is a Happy One
All the hard, back-breaking, body-
wearving housework is eliminated by
Electricity. You can wash, iron,
sew, sweep, cook, keep cool in Sum-
mer and warm in Winter, have lights
when and where you want them. No
danger of lamps overturned or ex-
ploding. YOU can have all these
benefits with a
“ Lister - Bruston ”
Automatic Electric
Lighting Set.
No town supply is needed. Let us
tell you the full particulars. Ask now.
i i *
N B
?s ;t» 1
i «
8 H
m
AGENTS: N.S.W.-W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
OUEENSLAND—WINCH COMBE, CARSON. LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —CLUTTER BUCK BROS., Adelaide.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you'll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Watson “Switchon ” Electric
Lamps Give Triple Light
■ " and no increase in your monthly bill foy currem. “SwitchonV’ radiate
this extra light through their strong metal threads. They are replacing
other lamps elsewhere. All sizes of “Switchon’s” in stock. May we
execute your order? “Switchon’s'’ are British made throughout.
The New “PROJECTOR” Lamps
with special ’ shades, are ideal for office, factory, show-case and window
lighting. We have every size, and quote on bedrock. We also stock all
sizes of “Osram” Lamps. Whenever your need is anything- Electrical turn
W. G. WATSON <& CO., LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything: Electrical,
279 Clarence Street; 426=430 Kent Street, SYDNEY
(Just round from the Town Hall),
Victoria: Geo. SMITH MORISON, Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng,
Insbt on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.
Godsends for
Grain Growers.
Farm Implements which work well
on starting and continue to do so
for years without costly repairs.
fasf
The “Sunrise” Stump
Jump Disc Plough.
Unequalled in Yankee Grubbed
Paddocks or wherever the
land is not completely cleared.
i
The “Sunflower”
Disc Cultivator.
The famous “one way” disc.
Reduces to a fine tilth a
larger acreage per day than
any other implement. (Also
made in Stump Jump style.)
m
ms
jliiwl
The “Sunshine”
Spring Tine Cultivator
All sizes to 30 tine (cutting
10ft.). Built with ample
strength forthe work. Afamous
fallow stirrer and weed killer.
Ask for “ Sunshine Farm Implements," 48 pages, illustrated. Sent post free on request.
H. V. McKAY-Sunshinc Harvester Works
Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
102 Spencer Street, MELBOURNE.
56 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
PERDRIAU
Australian-Made
TYRES
mean
More Miles and Increased
Riding: Comforts.
IN TWO STYLES—
SPECIAL HEAVY THREE-RIBBED,
PLAIN ROUND TREAD.
EVERY TYRE FULLY GUARANTEED.
PERDRIAU
RUBBER CO.
270 George Street, SYDNEY
105 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE
67a Gawler Place, ADELAIDE
307 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Special Heavy
Three=Ribbed Tyre.
55?
When Cleaning Leather
Use Shi-noleum because it quickly imparts a
brilliant enduring lustre. Perfect for suit cases,
Gladstone bags, school bags and tan boots.
It has no equal as a Uinoleum and Furniture
Polish and gives a finish that is appreciated by
housewives and visitors. It is easy to use-
economical, too.
Insist on Shi-noleum. If not in stock at your grocer's,
send his name to The Paget Manufacturing
Co., LTD., log Regent Street. Sydney, and a free
s sample tin will be sent you.
BRIGHTENS UP THE
FLOORS * FURNITURE
SIEMENS
Incandescent Lamp Works: Dalstone. London.
First
&
Fore
most
r
□
lamps
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
Works Limited.
Head Office —London.
59 William Street, MELBOURNE.
42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 36.—N0. 1830.
THURSDAY, MARCH 11, 1915.
Price Gd.
A German scientist announces that he lias dis-
covered a process for producing nourishing tood
for human consumption out of common straw. .
— Cable. I
REGinENTAL-SURGEON EISEN- 1
BEINEN (to private Holzenkopf, !
who has reported on the sick j
list): “ Yes, marked symptoms
of pneumonia; how’s your •
appetite ? ”
PRIVATE HOLZENKOPF : “ Fairly |
good. Fact is, last night I ate j
up my straw bed, then slept |
in the snow, got a chill—and I
here I am ! ”
CAUSE AND EFFECT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. tter Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas ..umber, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this member is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
' ithout stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or t ansmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
H but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
■ which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cap-3-
to-n, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. ---Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co.. Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. F. Lenehan, 535
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen ■ City News Co,,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
Woz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed), in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Sioz. to lOoi., 2id. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 11, 1915.
ON THE DISADVANTAGE OF BEING A
CENTENARIAN.
Every now and again some romantic maiden-
aunt, rummaging among the family archives,
comes upon her great-grandfather’s birth
certificate ; and, assured that she has found
the title deeds to life of her still garrulous
grandparent, supplies the correspondent of
the local newspaper with the information
that the old man is in his 107th year. The
old person concerned, who is really 81, feels
his ancient limbs totter under him ; and con-
vinced by his rheumatics that he ought to
be 107, identifies himself with his own father
and wears the blushing honors of his mythi-
cal longevitv before the admiring neighbors.
Then-the local newspaper stars the item and
prints a column article on John Smith,
the father of the district, incidentally setting
forth the health-promoting qualities of a
locality in which old men simply cannot
die from natural causes, but must, in
desperation, talk themselves into a belated
grave. So the crop of centenarians con-
tinues to ripen, and the four-score limit set
by Holy Writ is scoffed at by all but the
insurance companies. Curiously enough, no-
body who insures his life ever lives to be a
hundred.
In spite of the infirmities of the flesh and
the fact that Nature seldom provides a
third set of teeth, extreme longevity might
have some advantages. The man of science
wjho set out on some stupendous astronom-
ical calculation at the age of 30 might have
a chance of working out his sum if he had
70 good years in which to chase his eternal
logarithms. The man who determined to
save a million pounds out of his wages as a
grocer’s assistant (as the writers of.self-
help books who still have a tram-fare at
GO suggest he should) would be getting well
ou towards the realisation of a 500th
part of his ambition before the curtain was
rung down. With the assurance of a good
half-century in front of him, even a middle-
aged man might sit uncomplainingly in the
corner of an all-stop suburban train and
read the daily paper's opinion of the Labor
Party. Besides,. Dy living a full" ten decades
a man could attend in turn the funerals of
practically all the people who really ought
to be dead; and any legacies, peerages or
other matters in which he had a reversionary
interest would be certain to fall to him be-
fore the finish. As against these obvious
advantages, however, there are a number
of items in the debit column. Chief among
them is the disappointment which the future
alwavs holds for those who imagine that
human progress has its wheels oiled and
goes forward on a straight road. The man
born when the dying roar of the guns of
Waterloo seemed to proclaim the settled
peace of outworn Europe, would be feeling
sick and sorry indeed as his century of life
ebbed to the wail of ruined Belgium. The
man who had felt in his earlier days the
throb of the great Chartist movement, and
had seen afar the millennium for labor
which was to come with the equal franchise,
would wonder sadly as he gazed upon the
Holman Government and its works. Then
again, there is the point made in the old
Greek fable of Tithonus, for whom the
lovely Eos obtained the gift of going on
living without stipulating that he should
never feel more than 20. Tithonus had a
rough time of it after his last tooth dropped
from his immortal gums and fell clattering
to the marble floor; and when old age got
in its finest work on him, he was far too
busy trying to think out some way in which
he could achieve a coffin to bother about
politics or pugilism or poetry or any of the
other things that amuse the regular, dying
population.
These melancholy reflections are provoked
by a recent speech made by Andrew
Fisher, at Kyneton, Victoria. The Prime
Minister stated, without changing color or
showing any other sign of shame at his own
inefficiency:—
Ho had no hope of seeing a uniform railway gauge
within the next 10 or 15 years. A- strategic line
for military purposes could, however, be cheaply
built from the back of Adelaide to Brisbane. It
was for the people of Australia to say whether they
were prepared to make the sacrifice for the sake of
setting their house in order.
The bringing of the railway gauges of the
Commonwealth to one uniform standard has
been recognised for a very long time as
one of Australia’s greatest needs. Again
and again the matter has been reported on,
referred to committees of politicians, re-
ferred to State Premiers in conference, re-
ferred to commissions of experts for further
report, and faithfully promised by all sorts
of people in authority as a matter of
urgency. And now the Prime Minister
calmly assures us that we shall have another
10 or 15 years to wait before the thing can
have any hope of accomplishment. The
assurance is lamentable. Even if we were
content to wait the full term, what guaran-
tee have we' that another Prime Minister
will not then arise and tell us to keep
hoping? In 15 years time the Federation
will be nearly 30 years old, and the stand-
ardisation of the railway gauges was one of
the things which was regarded as a natural
corollary of Australian unity. Indeed,
while the broken gauges remain to remind
us of the old clumsy “colonial” methods and
absurd “colonial” boundary lines, the Federa-
tion is not complete. Would Andrew
Fisher have us believe that his grip is so
weak and his ability so small that he cannot
contrive to bring the State Governments
into line and have this comparatively simple
work carried out? In other countries, private
railway corporations have combined for
purely commercial reasons and carried out
the standardisation of their gauges in in-
credibly short time without any great fuss
or commotion. To secure railway uniformity
is one of the first serious steps towards an
effective system of defence and one of the
easiest; yet Andrew Fisher stands off and
looks at the proposal as one so stupendous
that it must be reported on and referred
back to commissions and committees at least
a dozen times more before a plate-layer can
possibly be set to work. Yet, almost in the
same breath as that in which he tells us of
his helplessness afid despair, he suggests
the construction of what he is pleased to call
a “strategic railway” from the back of
Adelaide to Brisbane! While the line to
connect Oodnadatta and Pine Creek is in
doubt and the simnle readjustment of the
existing railway gauges is still 15 years off,
in the name of all decency why suggest
making another railway? What go<->d pur-
pose could such a railway serve? Why not
make a railway from Broken Hill to Alice
Springs or run a chean line from Newcastle
to Westernport? not do any old thing
that doesn’t want doing as an excuse for
shirking those things that are necessary and
urgent? The present hour when State poli-
ticians are bursting with alleged patriotism
surely offers the best of all onnortunities for
coming to a final understanding about the
railway gauges. The State person who, when
half the world is on fire, would throw diffi-
culties in the way of Australian safety, re-
veals himself as a fool or a traitor to the
best interests of his country. Knowing this,
if he had any grit at all Andrew Fisher
would put on the screw now and secure a
system of uniform gauges, not in 15 years,
but in 15 active and purposeful months. ' A
statesman would, see and seize the oppor-
tunity. But Andrew Fisher is not a states-
man. He is not even a large politician. The
public believes him to be honest. But
something more than honesty is required of
the man who has the job of running Aus-
tralia. It was probably honesty on his
part—honesty of his peculiar brand—that
made him .practically admit that there was
no hope of dealing with the railway gauges
until he was superseded by a better man;
but it was the sort of honesty which makes
moderately hopeful people tired and robs us
of all regret that the span of life is com-
paratively short. While gangs are swelter-
ing to make that strategic railway to carry
war-goats from Port Augusta to Brisbane
the invader may land somewhere with an
axe, and make us regret that the span is
even as long ht it is.
* * * *
Yet witli anything like a fair deal Aus-
tralia should offer the centenarian more
than any other country. The possibilities
of this white man’s continent, complete
within iitself sand rich with a wealth that is
practically limitless, are such as to fire our
dreams. The man who is 50 to-day and who
could secure a tenancy of the house of life
for another half-century ought to see such
progress as would keep him young with
ever-growing expectation. He should see
population flowing north and west along the
lines «f great permanent railways, built at
once for the purposes of defence and the
strategy of trade. He should see new ports
thronged with the ships of all the seas ; vast
areas under cultivation yielding an ever-
increasing harvest; busy factories, clean
and sanitary, where well-paid workers
turned out all the wares that an advancing
civilisation demanded; cities wholesome and
sweet and gay as the sun and wind that
chased the pestilence from them; a strong
fleet at sea keeping touch with a strong
fleet in the air; a citizen army composed of
all the nation’s manhood, orderly, disci-
plined, resolute for peace. AH these things
he should see; but before he can see them
he must discover a leader whose imagination
will soar high enough to enable him to think
of putting two steel rails a few inches closer
together, or a few inches wider apart, in less
than 15 years. With such a man found, the
disadvantages of being a centenarian will
be greatly reduced.
TRADE AND THE DEBT AND THE
EVERLASTING LEAK.
Though vague noises about “collaring
German trade” are audible throughout the
land, something more than a suspicion exists
that the phrase has a meaning very different
from what it pretends to imply. The aver-
age citizen naturally enough assumes the
idea behind it all to be that Australia should
so direct her industrial affairs as to conserve
to herself the trade hitherto carried on
with an enemy. He imagines that the coun-
try, having learned through war the inex-
pressible folly of its casual methods in the
past, is determined to end the practice of
dragging nearly everything it produces and
the bulk of what it consumes across the
sea in ships; that the reason for this reso-
lution is not that the German is a Hun
and a disturber of the peace and a pirate in
a spiked helmet, but that the whole business
of foreign trade, as this country knows it,
has been shown to be economically unsound
—a source of loss, waste and embarrassment.
But the citizen who assumes this is assum-
ing too much; for behind all the clamor of
the moment can easily be detected the
characteristic note of the importer, the in-
dent agent and the drummer. What these
people want is not the conservation of trade
for the benefit of Australian workmen and
manufacturers, for the employment of Aus-
tralian capital and skill, but to collar on
behalf of other foreigners and oversea phil-
anthropists the commerce hitherto cornered
by the enterprising Teuton, and now lying
round in ruins for someone to seize upon.
Uncle Sam is after this all over the world;
John Bull is considering the matter from
the point of view of the world’s carrier and
an imposing creditor. The obvious duty of
Australians is to get busy on their own
territory. If they merely transfer to Chicago
the business which fell down dead at Ham-
burg, what will they have succeeded in
collaring? Yet it is just this futility
that the disguised Freetraders behind the
ambuscade of patriotic meetings want Aus-
tralians to perpetrate.
* -v* * •
Not only is the campaign for extension of
foreign trade in new directions being in-
dustriously prosecuted under the pretence
of a great friendliness for Australian indus-
try, but veiled arguments against the theory
of internal development are beginning to
find furtive expression. These are clothed
in varied raiment. For instance, while it is
difficult to unearth any direct denial of the
expediency of developing Australian manu-
factures —indeed, the attitude of the foreign
trader for the present towards this project
is one of detached, inactive benevolence —
easy discovery can be made of piebald sug-
gestions calculated to foster the idea that an
expansion of manufacturing at this stage
of proceedings would be an act of disloyalty
to our friends and relations —that when the
war is over Australia should take pride in
sending copious orders in certain directions
and laboriously flinging into steamers, for
transport to England and elsewhere, piles
of all the raw material it is possible to
gather together. In the Freetrade dailies pon-
derous sermons having neither beginning nor
end, but based upon a veiled text of this
character, may be read. An argument en-
countered the other day was a double-
barrelled one to the effect that if Australia
reduced her imports so as to have a balance
on exports, the credit so obtained would be
useless, as the money could not be spent;
further, a reduction of imports would cause
a fall in exports, since each was the comple-
ment of the other. This is probably meant
to be a Freetrade poser for Protectionists,
the point being that a country selling a
million pounds’ worth of material to an
over-sea customer and buying back only half
a million pounds’ worth must find itself with
a credit of half a million which cannot be
employed. Applied to Australia the theory
is as moth-eaten as the cerements of
Pharaoh. This country is heavily in debt
and has each year to pay by exports an
enormous interest bill. Now. the certain
effect of reducing imports would be to'cause
a transfer of this debt from the foreign bond-
holder to ourselves. In other words, the
accumulating margin in our own favor would
be employed by the holders of the credit to
buv back our debt, with two inevitable'and
■welcome results —(1) the interest, instead of
being exnended abroad, would be paid within
the country itself, and (2) each year an in-
creasing sum would be available for employ-
ment in internal development and for the
extension of local industries. That has
been the experience of Germany and the
United States. A reference to the move-
ments of Australia’s debt shows that during
the succession of fat years in which our ex-
ports exceeded imports a steady fall took
place in the volume of our debt to London ;
but when imports began to snow the
exports under, the debt went back to
Cohen. The country was in the latter
case realising its securities to meet the.cost
of the piles of imported merchandise our ex-
ports were inadequate to pay for. Great
Britain built up her financial supremacy
by selling more than she purchased, using
the capital sum thus realised for extending
her manufactures, reducing her debt, paying
for the national obligations with cash instead
of loans, and lending to other countries.
No reason exists why Australia should—not
do the same. There are a thousand reasons
why she should.
* * * *
The foreign trader, with bis eye always
on the beautiful spectacle of men tearing
boxes out of a ship and filling the conse-
quential hole up with things dug out of the
earth or with piles of dead animals, refuses
with a dogged, unreasoning persistency to
admit tha*t Australia can do what other
countries have done. He declines to regard
trade as anything but barter, and in his in-
most soul believes that the commerce of the
nation should foi* ever remain like that of
some bf those islands where the natives hand
over the local nuts and sucking pigs in re-
turn for brilliant-colored trousers and jew’s
harps. The notiop that these people might
use the nut and pig on the spot and make
their own pants and musical instruments
seems to him wholly absurd. But to the
reckless nigger there must assuredly come
reflection and repentance, when, after having
borrowed from the large-hearted trader the
material for laying down railways and roads
to bring the nut and pig to the seaboard, and
making racecourses and building a bridge
which has been washed away, he finds him-
self with a bill for interest, his pants worn
out, his jew’s harp in ruins, and only suffi-
cient surplus vegetation and pork to get rid
of the bailiff for another half-year. The
plain, commonsense plan for that afflicted
son of Ham to follow is to set honestly to
work to produce as much nut and pig as
his lands will yield for the sustenance of
people who desire these things and for him-
self ; to forswear the imported pants of
the foreigner, and make his own clothes, and
be satisfied with the musical instrument
turned -out • b.V'liis own hands. Then he will
begin, to see solvency ahead of him; to have
the wherewithal to redeem the faded p.n. of
painful* memory; to be able to. pay for his
railway and his bridge—and in course of
time have the cash to lend to some other
benighted ; ass who is squandering his patri-
mony, in the bad old way.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The First Lesson of the War.
Unless civilisation is prepared to strain its
resources to - the uttermost, Belgium as a
nation goes out, not because her big enemy
will not in the end be defeated, but because
the people of the small country will be all
dead. This means in plain language that
while Germany violated her trust, Britain
was untrue to hers. Having guaranteed the
integrity of the small nation, she should have
been ready to support that guarantee. Had
she established 'compulsory military service
even as late- as when she discovered with cer-
tainty ‘what the designs and intentions of
Germany* actually were, there can be very
little doubt that the Belgians would still
have bread ' to eat and roofs to cover them.
It is very probable that the Germans would
never haye invaded Belgium at all. It was Bri-
tain’s unreadiness and nothing else that gave
the German his opportunity; and but for
Belgium’s own pluck and resource there is
no telling how far he might have succeeded.
It is very little use saying that the war will
begin in May, and that Belgium will then
be avenged. The dead cannot be avenged.
The hideous carnage may go on until there
is as little left of Germany as there is to-
day of Belgium ; but still the horrible fact
will remain that Belgium has been ravaged
and ravished because it trusted Britain and
Britain was not ready. In matters of war
and defence let us learn the first lesson: the
thing that should have been done the year
before last can never be done the year after
next.
Andrew Fisher and the Democracy He
Doesn’t Serve.
When he was in Maoriland recently
Andrew Fisher said that “the democratic
platform must come from the people—not
from the leaders.” If the Prime Minister
really believes this, why not make some
attempt to act upon it? There is only one
way in which a legislative platform can
come from the people, and that is by the
Referendum with Initiative. The Refer-
endum with Initiative is devised to enable
any large section of the public to have a
vote taken upon any proposal by the general
body of electors ; ■ and when once a proposal
has been* carried, it is mandatory upon the
Government and>. Parliament to effectuate it
by legislation. 4 , The introduction of this
machine is one *of the steps towards the
abolition of party government, and the prin-
ciple of it has been endorsed by the Labor
Conference and placed upon its platform.
Now Andrew Fisher says that the people
must* have* the, framing of legislation ; but,
though he has been v in office on and off for
11 years, he has never made any attempt to
place the power in the hands of the demo-
cracy. Why? The simple answer appears
to be that" the Prime Minister does not
really believe in democracy, and that his
words spoken in Maoriland were only the
usual clap-trap with which Laborites are
kept jigging. This further illustrates the
remarkable fact that, while the party com-
pels the obedience of its rank and file, it
does not insist to any extent upon its leaders
doing the work they are appointed to do.
Labor leagues are declared bogus when they
take a line of their own, but the Prime
Minister is not declared bogus when he
neglects the direct orders of the organisation
he professes to serve. The Referendum with
Initiative would formulate a platform for
all Australia exactly as the Labor Confer-
ences do at present, but with a difference.
When the Labor Conference commands, men
like Andrew Fisher can shirk and shuffle
and get out of doing the things they are told
to do; when the Referendum issued the order,
prompt obedience to that order would be
compulsory. That is why the Prime Min-
ister and' his colleagues persistently forget
that the proposal is on the Labor platform.
They don’t want to obey the democracy.
Choking Justice with a Tangle of Tape.
A really shocking illustration of the law s
delavs and ofpthe manner in which a point
of procedure, elementarily simple, can be
smothered a _zareba, of seals, parcn-
ments and hocus-pocus, has been afforded
the world at large and Australia particularly
in the case of the steamer Birkenfels, Th
vessel, a German, sailed from New York-
prior to the outbreak of war carrying cargo


for Australia. Coal aboard running short
on the voyage, the Birkenfels put into Cape-
town for supplies. War had then been
declared, and the steamer was promptly
seized. There was not a pennyworth, of
material aboard for anyone in South Africa;
so the obviously common-sense course was
to send the vessel on in continuance of her
voyage, under whatever surveillance or
control might have been considered
expedient. Afterwards, the cargo having
been delivered to consignees in the ordinary
way, the vessel would be available for dis-
cussion by the Admiralty alone or in con-
junction with the Commonwealth and
Union Governments. But, instead of send-
ing the vessel on, the official known as the
Admiralty Proctor at the Cape insisted that
all Australian owners must prove their
claims before the Courts there, acting
through attorneys. Costly cable communi-
cations were made with London and Aus-
tralia; and after Capetown had spent three
months writing and reading correspondence,
waiting for more news, and generally behav-
ing with expeditious leisure, the Admiralty
got the hang of things and ordered that the
Birkenfels was to go on. But the .Proctor,
representing the Red Tape of the situation,
was not done with yet: he filed notice in
the Courts of intention to apply to have
condemned all the cargo on which claims
had not been made. More delay ensued,
and after a month the Courts approached
the weary old problem again, and Wigs
paraded in great force with their attendant
attorneys, and Bills of Costs expanded like
Zeppelins preparing for flight. After pro-
longed argument the Court came to the con-
clusion that it had no power to do what the
Admiralty wanted — i.e., to send the ship and
cargo on to Australia- —but had authority
to do what the Admiralty Proctor asked,
viz., to condemu certain cargo. Then the
Court adjourned, leaving everyone concerned,
except perhaps the Proctor, with a mournful
feeling that things were so mixed that it
would be better to drop the whole business
and scuttle the ship in the dead of night.
What has happened since is only a matter
for speculation ; but possibly the Admiralty
finally got to grips with the Proctor, or
called him off, or rolled him up in a man-
damus. Anyhow, the latest information is
that the Birkenfels is coming on with her
eight-months-old cargo and a blister for
costs big enough to be mistaken for a hay-
stack. When this kind of thing is possible
it looks as if the Admiralty would be all the
better were somebody to stir the Prize
department with some very pointed remarks.
The spectacle of cargo from a neutral port,
consigned to part of the Empire, being held
up at another part with the persistence
shown by a second-hand merchant affecting
the seizure of a washerwoman’s time-pay-
ment mangle, would be wildly humorous were
it not the cause of great loss and
embarrassment.
The Hero: A Daily Tragedy.
[For The Bulletin.]
Scene: The drawing-room at Kitchener-
ville, home of Henry Smythe, President of
the Shell Cove Empire League. Afternoon
tea is just over. Mrs. Smythe gazes across
the harbor in a stricken manner, and fur-
tively mops her eyes. Miss Alma Smythe
weeps near the piano. Mr. Smythe, with
lips compressed, and an air at once sad and
proud, lights a cigar.
Mrs. Smythe : And you think, Henky,
there is no hope—he has really done it?
Mr. Smythe : I can only tell you, my dear,
what Blogson told me on the tram. It was
common talk in the warehouse after lunch, I
believe. A portion of the staff rendered the
National Anthem when the news came
through... .They agreed that it was just like
him.
Mrs. S.: Ah, Henby, they knew him bet-
ter than we did. And yet—why not? My
father was in the Volunteers for a time, and
uncle Herbert really got his first start, as
you may say, as an army contractor. In a
sense, we have always been a military
family.
.Miss Smythe (indignantly tearful) :
Mother, I’m surprised at you! Absolutely
encouraging it. As if there weren’t thou-
sands of working-men whom nobody would
miss, without taking what the dear Bishop
called only last Sunday “the flower of the
nation.” Oh! it is croo-ooel. (Breaks
down.)
Mr. S. (with a pathetic attempt at cheer-
fulness) : Come, come, girl! Bear up ! Bear
up ! No tears when he comes back ! That
is not the welcome that the boys who are
saving the Empire exnect.
Mrs. S. (infected by her daughter's grief):
It’s all very well for you to talk, Henry.
You’re a man. But for us women —Oh! it’s
awful. And him an only son, too. (Weeps
tempestuously against a life-size statue of a
negro in Jamaican planting costume.)
The sun sinks behind the hills. Mr.
Smythe continues to smoke. The ladies
sniffle. A maid enters to clear away the tea-
things. She picks up a cup and saucer,
stands for a moment with distorted features,
drops the crockery on the floor, bursts into
loud, hiccoughing sobs, and exit hastily.
Mrs. S. (miserably): She has a good
heart, Henry.
Mr. S.: She understands! Would you
iexpect other than sympathy? Noblesse may
not oblige in her station in life, but these
people understand in their poor way the
case of others. (He smokes with more
furious pride than ever. A dog howls
ominously outside.)
Mrs. S.: Fido !
Miss S. (lachrymosely): Poor little Fido.
Mrs. S.: I wonder if he, too, feels.. .. ?
Mr. S. (looking out of window): Those in-
fernal boys next door have been throwing
stones at him again. If I get hold of the
young hounds
A ring is heard. The inmates of the draw-
ing-room start, and gather together.
Mrs. S.: It is him.
Mr. S. (gently): He, my dear.
Miss S.: He’s forgotten his key again.
A shuffling noise is heard without, indicat-
ing that the crockery-smashing maid is ap-
proaching once more.
Miss S.: It’s Muriel going to open the
door.
Mrs. S. (suddenly inspired): Hold! (To
Muriel, who appears in a dishevelled con-
dition) : Stop ! I, his mother, will open the
door for him. It is a duty to him and to his
country. Exit.
A hand- outside strikes up “Sons of the
Sea." Mr. Smythe stands for an instant to
the salute. His daughter watches him with
shining eyes. Simultaneously enter Mrs.
Smythe and her son Cyril. Cyril is a
well-set-up youth of 25. He is a second-
grade cricketer, and a budding politician,
with strong views concerning the Labor
party's disloyalty to the Empire.
Mr. S. (advancing and clasping the boy's
large and capable right hand) : Well, mother,
is the news true?
Miss S. (wildly) : Speak, mother, speak!
Mrs. S. (with the cold fortitude of the
Roman matron) : Let Cyril tell his own
story.
Cyril: Father, mother, Alma, it is true.
This morning at 9.30 I joined the Shell Cove
Rifle Club —three drills per week and find
your own uniform.
Mr. S.: f My brave son!
Alma : ■! Cyril !
Mrs. S.: t. My gallant boy !
The maid, Muriel, who has been standing
tip stage with the tea-things, drops the entire
tray and exit hastily, sobbing. Mr. S. seizes
his son's right hand; Mrs. S. casts herself on
his right shoulder; Miss S. hurls herself on
his left shoulder.
Curtain.
J. B. D.
Socialism and Soft Jobs.
“10-2-4’s” discourse :
Socialism is a great institution —when it is run
in the right spirit. The Socialism of Germany, for
example, has done more to make that nation the
formidable machine it is than all Essen. Australia
suffers from Socialism run on individualistic lines;
just as a bank would suffer if it were placed under
the direction of an I.W.W. enthusiast. The chief
trouble is that States and municipalities alike regard
the public purse as a substitute for the almshouse.
The Bondi (Sydney) Surfing Sheds, which are in
the hands of the. Waverley Council, exemplify the way
a municipality conducts its Socialism. On Saturday
afternoons and Sundays the fringe of the ocean re-
sembles a disturbed ant-heap. Surfing sheds are
not expensive to run. They don’t consume corn or
petrol. The wear and tear is inconsiderable. They
don’t' take much cleaning, and the repairs bill is
small. Hence there should be big money in them.
Yet they are not sensationally profitable. One reason
is that they are run on the almshouse principle. I
used them on a recent week-day. In and about the
receipt of cash were a number of well-set-up youths,
of fighting age, whose absurd collective job it was
to take tuppences and hand oyer towels. On this
day, as on the countless others when I have used
the sheds, an aged man could have done all the work.
As a matter of fact, at the Private Enterprise baths
on the south side, a white-whiskered old concessionaire
performs the feat, and apparently prospers on it. But
municipal councils don’t do things on those lines, and
so long as the public remains apathetic they never
will.
A principle which taxpayers should insist on in
Socialistic enterprises is that no able-bodied men
under middle age should be employed on dead-end
jobs. It is bad national economy to have youths
who are sound in wind and limb opening gates or
handing out bathing costumes or issuing railway
tickets for a living. Each person so occupied is
one more producer lost to the country, and one
more obstacle in the way of the elderly man, the
injured ex-soldier, and others whose job-range is
small. Socialism would do a lot to justify itself
if its enterprises paid its owners better and more
frequently than it does. It would do still more if
it figured, where possible, as a refuge for those
whom it is the State’s duty to support.
Blither.
From a recent issue of Sydney Worker :
When this war is over another shall begin. It
will be a war, not for the dominance of a caste,
but the sovereignty of a whole people; not for the
gratification of hate, but the realisation of fraternal-
ism. And it won’t be fought with the weapons of
violence. The workers don’t need bullets when
they’ve got brains. “This country belongs to us,”
they say when they come back from the war.
“Haven’t we just saved it from destruction? Get off the
land which is ours by all that is sacred to humanity.
Down with these monopoly fences! Away with
these insolent notices—‘Trespassers will be prose-
cuted I’ ”
It is fairly serviceable industrial guff when
poured out hot from a platform, but it
doesn’t stand the cold test of print. In the
first place- the workers alluded to haven’t
saved Australia. A lot of them haven’t even
tried to. Australia has been saved by the
natives of Belgium, France, Russia, Servia
and Britain. If the principle of spoils to
the victors applies, the Commonwealth should
be divided up, not amongst the gallant lads
who are now roosting beneath the shadow of
the Pyramids, but amongst a horde of mostly
low-wage foreigners for whom the unions
have little use. The downing of the mono-
poly fences and the abolition of the law of
trespass is another glowing impracticability.
It is the sort of reform that cuts both ways,
and kicks from either end. It raises the
problem, not merely of Cecil’s sheep-run
and Ronald’s cattle-ranch, but of Bill’s
front garden and Jim’s bull. Also Herb’s
goat. If, as an outcome of the war, Parlia-
ment decides that there shall be no more
sheep-stations, there will logically be no
more backyards. The householder will be
liable to find poor men slumbering in his
fowl-house and rich men using his shed as
a garage. His poultry will have to live in
the dining-room by night, and be shepherded
vigilantly by day. That is to say, these
things would happen if the insane situation
anticipated by the Worker ever came to
pass. Of course it never will. Meanwhile,
the expression of such flagrant Ben
TiLLETT-isms by the press mouthpiece of the
workers renders the cause ludicrous and dis-
creditable among sober-minded and intelli-
gent people, which is the class from which
Labor derives its best recruits.
■ «
Sweet Lavender.
One of the many neglected industries of
Victoria —not to mention the rest of Aus-
tralia —is flower-growing for the production
of essential oils; and because it is neglected
the local manufacturers of “toilette re-
quisites” have a grievance against the Law
which, in this particular case, seems honestly
desirous of doing its best for the local
gardener. Rectified spirits of wine, costing
about 335. per gallon in the open market, is
available to manufacturers of scents, etc., at
10s. per gallon, provided at least one-third
of the essential oils used by them are dis-
tilled from Australian-grown flowers. The
manufacturers’ trouble is that they can’t
obtain the necessary vegetable supply. Obvi-
ously they might grow perfume plants them-
selves sufficient to yield all the essential oils
they require; but the fact remains that they
have left the gardening job to other people,
and the other people do not worry about it.
So the local manufacturers of “toilette re-
quisites,” being stuck-up for lack of local
products, reckon themselves hardly treated
by the Law in being forbidden to use more
than two-thirds of imported oils, seeing that
their goods must compete against artfully-
composed and profusely-advertised brands
from abroad. A certain quantity of lavender
flower still is raised for commercial pur-
poses, but it barely suffices to supply the
perfume-makers with their quota of native
oil, so there is none left for the other manu-
facturer. Whatever humor there is in the
situation depends upon the recent movement
for brightening the lives of Victorian felons.
Formerly the governor of Pentridge Gaol
devoted three or four acres of the prison
grounds to the cultivation of sweet lavender.
With that supply there was enough essential
oil to go round. His successor, however,
eradicated the odorous plantation, and con-
verted the acres into a football ground. The
“jugged” citizens thus enjoy their recrea-
tions on the site of a blighted industry, as
it were. Again, no doubt, the men whose
supply of essential oils was thus stopped
l should have taken measures to ensure a
larger production. Yet. even so, from their
point of view thev have a grievance: their
manufacturing business—and manufacture
is really their business —is at present para-
lysed by a law which under existing con-
ditions benefits nobody.
+.
As a fresh cause of trouble descends upon
the N.S.W. Ministry every morning, the
sudden resignation of Carmichael, who
only lately returned from a luxurious
European tour, has attracted little more
than passing notice. It would require the
enlistment of the whole weary outfit for
service in Turkey to cause anything like
real astonishment. Carmichael’s nominal
reason for throwing up his job is resentment
at not being nominated by Holman as
acting-Premier during the absence from Syd-
ney of both that young man and deputy-
leader Cann. This is only part of the story.
Carmichael has resigned mainly in conse-
quence of a hankering after the limelight
and partly in order to dodge the falling
brick. Since last election he has been easily
the most garrulous politician in Australia.
He has talked morning, noon and night—
about education, the price of apples, how
to cook cheap meals, the fructifying influ-
ence of loans; of unemployment, the Ger-
mans, music, painting, literature; about
anything and everything under the sun. He
even burst into the arena of defence and
started forming rifle clubs. All this
has, of course, been gall and wormwood to
other members of the Cabinet. Exactly
what Carmichael was after no one seemed
able to fathom, except those discerning
cynics who understand how sweet a morsel
notoriety may be to men of a certain tem-
perament. Like jealousy it feeds upon itself.
Carmichael, of course, had visions of
achieving speedy greatness or having it
thrust upon him; but these became rather
clouded lately. Reversionary interests were
obviously being acquired by others; so a
partly-disgruntied Carmichael, to cover a
deep chagrin, and anxious to get farther
into the front of a rather confused picture,
decided to make his dramatic bolt. The
situation thus created is, in view of the
Caucus vote at last meeting, when George
Black was selected as Minister for Agricul-
ture, one of particular interest for Holman,
since it may place the discontented section
of the party in a majority. The certain
thing, however, is that, whether this be the
case or not, the house of cards cannot be ex-
pected to stand up much longer.
♦
When the N.S.W. Unnecessary Commodities
Commission was appointed, the Holman
Government announced that the capitalist
had been scotched at last, and for the future
he would have to ask the Commission’s leave
before advancing prices. To back this up,
the gullible public was told that the Com-
mission had issued a circular informing pur-
veyors of foodstuffs that at least seven days’
clear notice of any intended increase in
prices must be given, so that the validity
of the reasons advanced might be considered.
All hot air! Any day almost you can still
read things like this: —
One of the leading Sussex-street houses yesterday-
advanced the price of cheese -Jd. per lb. For special
brands they wanted Bd., and for ordinary prime
loaf from the South Coast 7j|d. per lb. They justi-
fied the movement by stating that prices in both
Melbourne and Brisbane were higher than they were
in Sydney, and that production in the cheese manu-
facturing districts of New South Wales was rapidly
declining owing to the dry weather.
No application to increase the price of
cheese was made to the Necessary Com-
modities Commission by these Sussex-street
people; yet neither the Government nor the
Commission has taken any action. It looks
as if the Young-Man-in-a-Hurry, knowing
that he has annoyed some wheat farmers by
his Acquisition Act, throws a sop to another
lot of farmers by allowing the people in the
child-sweating cow country to squeeze as
hard as they like.
One of the results of our muddled process
of fixing wages is showing itself in a disin-
clination amongst young Australians to take
to skilled trades, or to continue in them
when the journeyman stage has been reached.
Awards have been so made that workmen
engaged (say) as laborers can in many
cases command wages nearly as high as
those of a tradesman, along with greater
privileges and, as a rule, more em-
ployment. The unskilled laborers can also,
if they are physically well developed, get
the higher wages straight away instead of
having to accept something much poorer
during a period of apprenticeship. Nearly
all the Unions dealing with the affairs of
workmen in the more skilled branches of
industry possess a disheartening record of
men who have broken their indentures or
abandoned, the trade after working for years
at it, in order to seek the wages and con-
ditions of the unskilled laborer —a deplor-
able business, because it means that the
country is losing the benefit of these men’s
skill, and is thus handicapped in its struggle
to be something more than a wood-and-water
joey for the foreign manufacturer.
If ever there was a case of accepting
“respectability” as an excuse for crime, it
seems to be that in which a foreman printer
was tried at Millicent (S.A.) for “larceny
of the sum of £lO 3s. 9d., moneys belonging
to” the local racing club. According to the
undisputed facts —which this paper takes
from Adelaide Register (l/3/’ls) —having
the job of printing the totalisator tickets,
the accused simply printed and pocketed
extra tickets on every horse in each race,
and then collected dividends on the winners.
When called to account, he remarked : “I do
not know why I did it, as I was not in need
of money,” and offered to refund. On which
the two amazing Justices
commented severely upon the offence. Accused was
a young man, .and for several years had been receiv-
ing a salary that more than sufficed for the needs of
himself and his wife and family. Yet without rhyme
or reason he had elected to raise money by mean
and despicable underhand work. They could not
understand the man’s action at all. In view of the
fact that restitution was to be made, and that
accused had been dismissed from his employment,
they inflicted a fine of £lO, in default three months
imprisonment. The fine was paid.
From which it appears that, in Millicent,
to have no excuse for a crime is the best of
all excuses; also that a deliberate fraud is
fairly safe if you are rich enough to part
up a similar sum to that involved —in other
words, to lay level money against being
found out. The Bulletin lias no wish to
see any first offender of the kind in gaol:
but in this case the first offender escaoed
gaol because he had money in his pocket.
He escaped, not because gaol would be a
bad experience, but because he was rich
enough to buy his freedom. The Attorney-
General of South Aus. might do worse than
have a word or two with the Justices who
dispense such “justice” at Millicent.
Extracts from the sworn evidence of eye-
witnesses :
Paul Verlinden, wine merchant, of Aerscnot.
Towards seven o’clock in the evening we were
herded together four by four. Four men had to
come forward and the soldiers shot the group,
feigned death and escaped by hiding in a potato
field. I noticed that they afterwards visited the dead
and gave the finishing stroke to one who still lived.
I counted 41 corpses next day.
Mrs. Vansteenwinkel, of Hofstade: I saw a woman
dead on the high road. She was about 50 years old.
A bayonet had been thrust through her body. Her
name was Lisa, but I cannot produce the corpse.
Harold de Hemptinne, Count, of Ghent: At three
o’clock in the morning of the 26th August I saw in
Sempst, near Malines, a man from whom two legs
had been cut off up to the knees by the Germans;
he was charred. I also found another one whose arms
and legs were cut off; he was charred. I came
across a boy of less than 14 whose body was riddled
with bayonet thrusts.
Xavier de Ribaucourt, Military Chaplain (6th
Army Division) : On the 25th day of August I ascer-
tained that in the village of Hofstade, near Malines,
an old woman of about 60 years of age had been
killed by a dozen bayonet thrusts as the Germans
drew back before the carabineers. She still held a
needle and a cotton in her hand with which she had
been sewing. We found her in her house.
A British Consul: In a small village which has
been entirely destroyed by fire, situated between the
railway viaduct of Antwerp and Elewyt, I witnessed
the following during the last attack which waS made
on the 26th August, 1914. In a small farm an old
man was attached by the arms to the rafter of the
roof of his house. The body was quite charred.
Only the head, arms and feet were intact. Farther
on, a little boy of about 15 years of age had his
hands tied behind his back, and the body was rid-
dled with stabs of German bayonets.
Joseph Rymen, of Schaffen-lez-Diest: We discov-
ered the feet of a person whom they had buried head
downward. In this way we found Gustave Loots
and Jean Macken, already mentioned. According to
the declaration of Mrs. Loots, these people must have
been buried alive.
Incidentally a preposterous Gerhog doctor
named Moll, with some reputation as an
alienist, calls these and worse atrocities the
“collective illusion” of a nation united in a
savage desire to injure Teuton prestige!
♦
In the bad old days the army in the field
was considered fair game for every soulless
commercial thief, and many a poor wretch
of a soldier was done to death by the
contractor at home whose life and income he
was trying to preserve. Now it is no longer
safe to rob and cheat the army —at least,
not on the grand scale that made fortunes
within, the space of a few months. Not
only! has the attitude of the stay-at-home
citizen changed to one of real solicitude, but
a more efficient age lias produced the
Kitchener type of army officer, and with
him ,an organisation which makes systematic
swindling a very dangerous game to
play, The men in the field having been
preserved at last from the very potent enemy
who used to attack them with rotten food,
rotten boots, rotten ammunition and all the
rest of it, the ghouls have been forced to
look for another unprotected victim. And
where did they find him? Why, right there
in the safe, law-hedged cities —the patient,
bovine citizen! There was no black-browed,
souare-jawed Kitchener to look after the
citizen —only a rabble of parrot politicians
and a tangle of laws that any dishonest fool
could dodge round; so, as we have seen
within the past few months, the screw has
been applied in a hundred ways to the stay-
at-home by mean-spirited traders who, hav-
ing been forced to pay an extra ha’penny,
snatch another penny from their helpless
customer and, being challenged, impudently
plead that they are only getting their own
back. These are the slinking jackals of
trade; but there are also the arrogant un-
nameables who. at a time when thousands
of brave-hearted people are dying of starva-
tion, would see the fat stock they are unable
to export driven down a steep place into the
sea rather than that the price should fall.
The exact epithet for that type of huckster
has yet to be found.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing: the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA.
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS—From 11/6 Day;
£3 10s. Week.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag, or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the '“ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder .is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
PO««TF»EN
Sold by all
Stationers. ;
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale' only):
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
fasf
'A'lWy
nvj
tJOH
VIIVW
Q
&3±<&
With the allied warships battering in the
front door, Russians hovering rqund in Ar-
menia, Greeks clamoring for action, and Bul-
gars moving mysteriously about in the rear of
things, the days of the Turk become more
painful and the nights more tightly filled with
apprehension. What may be in store for the
other combatants in the immediate future js
at best a subject for speculation, but it seems
impossible to doubt that tlje misguided alien
who covers the back of his head with a red
hat has got through the early doors to a place
of woe and tribulation. A circumstantial
story that the wretched Sultan, on applying
to the Austrian for assistance to repel the
Unbeliever, was curtly told to look after him-
self probably contains the truth; for the
ancient Hapsburg has about as much on his
own hands just now as he cares to think
about, and will find a still larger helping of
unpleasantness if the allied fleets join hands
across the Bosphorus. Such a happening as
this would, of course, compel the Balkan
States to sit up and fix bayonets and take
notice of things from an entirely new point
of view. Meanwhile the Bear continues to
embrace the German in Poland and the
Austrian in Galicia. Every effort to shake
off the unfriendly hug is doggedly resisted,
and mighty armies still writhe in sanguin-
ary conflict half-way across the map of
Central Europe. Yon Hindenburg’s losses
in the last series of battles are stated to have
been enormous; and Germany can’t afford
such breaches in her lines. From the
western theatre of slaughter all that floats
to the outside is the distant sound of guns
muffled beneath the military communique
and the nebulosities of official recorders.
Neither side is winning much or losing much.
News that the German is not getting enough
to eat should be held over for later con-
sideration. The main question a few
weeks hence will be whether he is getting
enough bayonet pushed through him.' The
Kaiser’s scheme for blockading Britain by
blowing up the universe generally doesn’t
n npear to have seriously disturbed anyone
during the week, and as for his apoplectic
order that another effort be made to burst
through to Calais —well, it was a long way
to Calais before, but it is a long, long way
further now. In England recruiting is
said to be satisfactory, strikes are in full
blast, and the newspapers are warning the
nation that the time to cock-a-doodle-do has
not yet arrived. News of these strikes
nrobably srive our old friend Bill much more
comfort than President Woodrow Wilson’s
cablegram about many-happy-returns.
Still another fund is being started in Eng-
land. An appeal is being made for
garments for 2000 Belgian women and girls who
expect to become mothers. ... funds or clothes,
chiefly sleeping and bed jackets, chemises, petti-
coats, stockings, etc., and old shirts.
These 2000 terrible cases are in south-eastern
districts of England. Nothing is known of
the numbers in the entire United Kingdom,
m France and still in Belgium. One of
the most repugnant features of this form of
German culture is that thousands of its
heirs will be British-born.
A side-issue seriously affecting chemists
has been raised in connection with the treat-
ment of venereal diseases in N. S. Wales.
When the British Medical Association
talked to Health Minister Flowers recently,
one of the deputation, who obviously was
not speaking out of his turn, suggested that
it should be made a “penal offence for a
person other than a legalised practitioner to
deal with a venereal case.” This proposal,
which bore the innocent appearance of being
merely a desire on the part of the B.M.A.
to drive the quack to honest work, was
promptly and earnestly “quite agreed” to
by the Minister. But the quack was onlv
half the target on which the doctors hail
their guns trained. At present hundreds
of cases of simple venereal disease are
treated by reputable pharmacists. One
Sydney chemist of good standing admits to
(>0 patients weekly; and he is probably quite
right in claiming that if qualified pharma-
cists didn’t treat simple cases in their early
stages for a few shillings, many an indiscreet
youngster wouldn’t be treated at all.
N.S.W. Full Court sat one day last week
to hear what Gent. One had to say about the
disappearance of certain funds. Tie had
been solicitor to the estate of a deceased
person, and to him certain ladies (nuns)
had paid moneys amounting to £ll,OOO for
the purpose of discharging a mortgage. Of
this money £7OOO. instead of being handed
to the trustees, had apparently been ad-
vanced to a wildly speculative concern, and
about half thereof had disappeared, the final
result being that the ladies are still in law
indebted for £5OOO to the estate. Then
there was another hiatus connected with
“the Smith estate.” After hearing what
the Judge in Equity had discovered and
what Gent. One had to say, which wasn’t
very much, their Honors remarked that it
didn’t seem the way for an officer of such
an honorable court to play cricket. So the
name of Arthur Deery was struck off the
roll.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “High Jinks”
Criterion “Bought and Paid For”
Adelphi “Lady Godiva”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Gondoliers,” etc.
Royal “Seven Keys to Baldpate”
Princess's “The Christian”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou I ulier-Brennan Vaudeville Co.
Olympia & National Hoyt’s Pictures
Auditorium War Pictures
♦ .
“The Silver King” departs from Sydney
Royal on Friday night. On Saturday the
sugary “Beaucaire” will be revived, and
Julius Ivnight, a-fire with love, will tremu-
lously invite his cold, proud Mary Carlyle
to melt and lean her head on his ardent
chest. And instead of sensibly giving him
the cold shoulder, she will melt as desired,
and all will be happiness and perspiration.
** * *
With tears in their advts., the J.C.W.
people announce that the highly successful
“High Jinks” must cease at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, on Friday, March 19, in order to
clear the stage for the hotly-named “Cinder-
ella,” which is due to panto, on the following
evening.
According to some deceased suburban hor-
ticulturist, call an onion a half-brick if you
like, and it will still bring tears to your
eyes in spite of you. Similarly, call ye old
bellowdrama by a fancy name, tranship it
from 1915 back to 1050, put it in a fancy
costume and make it say “Verily, odds
bodikins, ye know not what ye ask, gad-
zooks,” and it is bellowdrama all the same.
Such is the case with “Lady Godiva” at Syd-
ney Adelphi. The villain may be Algar,
Earl of Northumbria, but his brass headgear
and his lace shirt front can’t hide the tall
top hat, the frock coat and the immaculate
trousers of the 1914-15 villain ; and though
you label the heroine Lady Godiva she weeps
just as well, is maltreated to the same extent,
and comes out triumphant in precisely the
same manner as Mary Martin, of the “Time :
the Present” show, who sniffles through
three unfriendly acts and then kisses ’er
lovin’ ’usband in the fourth. But, although
it is bellowdrama, “Lady Godiva” is a cut
above most of them. The costumes and
setting alone would account for this; but
the company also rises to the occasion. To
be tied down to a “bad girl” series for months,
and then to get on to something worth while,
must be like taking off a pair of tight boots.
The result is that “Lady Godiva” threatens
to be a big success. Miss Oriel Hotson
(Lady G.), Gwen Dorise (Lady Aldwyth,
her sister), Rutland Beckett (Algar) and
C. R. Stanford (Unwolf) will be mainly
responsible if it is. And when Godiva’s
horse becomes more accustomed to the sur-
roundings, it, too, should be a valuable asset.
“LADY GODIVA," AT SYDNEY
A DELPHI.
The artist missed the deputation's request ,
but arrived in time to hear the king's refusal
Judging by the dejected appearance of the supers
it had reference to a beer tax.
Fred Niblo and Sydney will mingle fare-
well tears to-night (Thursday) at tne
Criterion. After that, a season in Mel-
bourne ; thence back to U.S.A. On Satur-
day the theatre will be the address of Muriel
Starr, playing “Bought and Raid For.”
# * * 5.
The cycling Westwoods, now at the Tivoli,
bring the pick of all old turns plus a supply
of fresh ones. They do all that; but the
pair bring more new goods than the average.
George Mozart, Laura Guerite, Dooley and
Sayles and Odiva continue on the pay-sheet,
and if they get as much as they are worth
the Mclntosh is just now paying out a good
deal more than usual.
The authorities having declared the “Lucky
Number” Carnival out of order, a pinch of
skill has had to be blended with the mess
of luck to be served up at Sydney’s White
City to-night (Thursday). Under the new
arrangement a couple of dukes in ordinary
attire will parade the amusement park
armed each with a £lO cheque, which will
be handed over to the first he- and she-male
doinandiijg it. If this prospecting for a
tenner does not provide enough excitement
for one night, the visitors can turn to the
regular thrills, which will be in full gallop
—including “Fighting the Flames, and the
Leap of Death.” At the end of this week
the Leap will move on to make room for
another sensational turn.
$ ❖ *!»
Another consignment of Sydney pictures:
Lyric : “The Man from the Sea,” being one of the
few cases wherein the sea does give up its dead,
although the corpse isn’t as dead as expected.
Colonial: “The Scorpion Sting,” a fearsome thing,
evidently written by a German, wherein an un-
fortunate murderer has the option of getting (1)
married or (2) hanged.
Empress : “The Poor Folk’s Boy,” concerning a
monish lender and the family he busted. A de-
lightful little allegory, maybe, N.S.W. being the
busted family. Willie Holman in that case is
the pretty Pomeranian poodle that leads the blind
old man to the pawnshop. Unfortunately Holman
was busy explaining something when the picture was
taken, so he is not in it.
How Laay Godiva appeared to a theatre lull
of peeping Toms at Sydney Adelphi.
The performance of the “Yeomen of the
Guard,” with which the G. and S. Co. opened
the return season at Her Majesty’s (Melb.),
on Saturday, was always its most satisfac-
tory performance, ar.d this time was a little
better than before. Although none of the
principals, bar tenor McKeown, sang as effect-
ively as they acted, it can be pleaded for
them that no previous co. has played the
second act nearly so well. Just now they
are reverting to “lolanthe.” On Saturday
they do “The Gondoliers,” after which “The
Pirates.”
* * * *
The long day of “Bought and Paid For.”
at the Melbourne Royal, closes this (Thurs-
day) evening, when Muriel Starr, Millward,
Harrison and Dorothy Davies will make
their last appearance in Melbourne, says the
advt. Niblo is coming back, and is to rattle
his bunch of “Seven Keys to Baldpate” on
Saturday.
* * * *
A lot of mud has flowed down the Yarra
since Anderson first staged “When London
Sleeps,” but its revival at Melb. King’s last
Saturday was almost as amazing as
ever. No intermediate melodramas have
produced their thrills with finer audacity
than the yarn of the Circus Queen who
bestowed her priceless heart and thumping
big legacy on the Star of the Air. When
that spirited lady (or somebody like her)
walks from a burning roof-top by way of a
George Mozart in a burlesque of toe "Post
and Peasant ” overture at Sydney vuo[?].
telephone wii-e, she seems to have tested
Providence about as far as it will go; but
her final rescue from incineration puts the
lid on her pot of luck. She is about to be
grilled sacrificially at the feet of a brazen
idol when her young man emerges from the
interior of the heathen deity and pulls her
out of the steam. In all the annals of stage
gallantry no other hero has been quite so
opportune. Guy Hastings puts in some
hard work as this dauntless David, and
Miss Wilton is the indestructible Queenie
who makes him happy. Temple Harrison
is the comic relief man who feigns to be a
lady of easy virtue at a den of infamy run
by the villainess, and Cannam is the in-
credible Bertie who mistakes Harrison afore-
said for a soiled dove. And there are others,
including the emphatic Vox in the character
of the' Crookedest Captain in Christendom.
'i* ❖ 'l'
At Melbourne Princess’s this week the
Willoughby management is revealing the
loveliness of George Cross in the tattered
Ouidaesque frenzy, “Under Two Flags.”
George pictures Bertie Cecil lioyellieu, and
nobly incurs the responsibility for his
brother’s crime with the same old kiss-curl
on his blameless brow. Also he brings the
high-heeled boots and other familiar effects
to Beauty’s aid, and for about three hours
revels in military upholstery and borrowed
height. Miss Vera Itemee, as Cigarette, in-
dulges in an evening’s intoxication on
George’s glaring charms, and finally sacri-
fices her life with a noisy grandeur that
leaves no gunpowder to be desired. Chat-
eauroy, the Black Hawk, who stifles the
hero’s _ high ambitions with petty persecu-
tion, is a rather unkempt-looking ruffian,
perhaps correctly presented by R. Bellairs
as a case of soap deferred and a haircut in
abeyance. A refreshing contrast is Lord
Rockingham (Ronald Riley), whose forged
signature pushes the lamentable Bertie into
exile. Every day is washing day with Rock-
ingham, and even out in the Algerian desert
he maintains the freshly starched and ironed
appearance. J. J. Ennis is the blithering
old Lord Royellieu, puffed out with the pride
of excessive caste, and Frank Neil officiates
as Rake, the. vociferous shadow of the lead-
ing man. Miss Bowman is a graceful misfit
in the part of Lady Guinevere, and Miss
Jean Robertson is a singularly dull bird as
the “Silver Pheasant” that George Cross
finds so much to his liking. Next Saturday
the beauteous actor will try some Quayle on
toast as John Tornado in “The Christian.”
* * * *
At the Tivoli, Melbourne, a new turn
-—Thorne and Leopold—was added last
week to a bill which otherwise is mostly
Follies, plus Rickaby. The Follies continue
to suggest that a little scenic setting and
chorus go a long way towards infusing
variety into a. vaudeville show. Alfredo, for
instance, carries more weight as a violinist
in a garden scene than if he were merely
a with no background to speak of.
Monte Wolf, the rag-timer, was down with
indisposition last week, and his substitute
left much to be desired. Monte leaves a
good deal, but the locum tenons surpassed
him in that respect. An important recrdit
to the Tivoli forces is promised in the person
of James Corbett, formerly of the prize-ring,
but now of theatrical circles.
** * *
The Fighting Forces of Europe in their
kinemacolored habits as they live, are mak-
ing eight appearances at Melb. Auditorium
this week. The incidental male vocalist
(McGowan) who sings “Call us and
we’ll soon be there” is now bracketed with
Miss Beatrice Higginson. who warbles
“Your King and Country Need You.”
Melbourne Bijou continues to resound to
the clatter of Amurkan wooden-mat dancers,
Rowley and Tointon and the Wells and
Eclair trio being alleged specialists in this
somewhat monotonous form of activity. The
Three Newmans score points with trick-
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though Gilbert’s wit may quit the s.age,
And Sullivan’s chaste music be
Belittled by a future gauge
Of operatic levity,
New cynics shall, unthinking, quote
Some lines the flippant poet wrote,
And plagiarists, with pompous ptan,
Repeat the art of Sullivan.
The theme of “Woman, Wine and Song”
By those twin spirits was tabooed ;
They never turned the list’ning throng
To thoughts lascivious or lewd.
The dead musician charms our soul
With plaintive strains, or sweetly droll
And daffodils ’midst nettles wave
On Gilbert’s literary grave.
They offer, in a form unique,
Good mental food for maid or child—
Refreshment to the men who seek
A well of humor undefiled.
In Gil. and Sul. we taste the truth
Which age distils from dreams of youth.
In tuneful song and pungent wheeze
Abide eternal verities.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


Australians
BE PATRIOTIC. DRINK—
The World can offer no better Natural
Mineral Water than Koomah—wh ch
conies direct from the famous Rock Flat
Springs, Cooma, N.S.W. A Natural
Mineral Water from your own country.
Agents: E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD.,
Purveyors to Vice-Royalty,
Ballarat, Melbourne, Sydney, Katoomba
fasf
Australia’s Very
Own in Natural
Mineral Waters.
;
90 KING ST
SYDNEY
mm ■ ■
mm
tni'iimnuniii'f/Wf,
A
111 l
r.
yean
m‘>
f/f! & \ yv
IT’S GOOD FOR
THE CHILDREN.
The desired result can
be obtained by putting
a couple of drops on
the pillow at night.
This must appeal to all
parents.
The most efficacious preparation
for the. prevention and cure of
colds yet placed on the market.
A couple of drops on a handker-
chief inhaled through the nose
is all that is necessary to effect
immediate relief.
Price, 1/6 BOTTLE,
ASK YOUR CHEMIST !
If he hasn’t got it write to
A. P. MILLER g SON,
• HOBART
POST
FREE,
TRY YAZETHA
—you won’t want any-
thing better. Its popu-
larity is 'growing
rapidly. We can show
heaps of testimonials,
but take our word for
it. - •- '
biking novelties; Clark and Young are dog-
gedly sustaining a reputation for refined
vocalism; while Armstrong and Howarth
are featured in a whir of patter and song-
and-dance items. Next Saturday Carrie
Moore reappears, and a large part of the
programme will be gwen up to the reckless
behavior of a pantomime co. in a two-act-
stravaganza, “Little 80-Peep.”
“The Square Triangle,” the principal
sermon at Hoyt’s National and Olympia
(Melbourne) this week, is based on a text
which sets out the folly of a leisure mis-
spent in the decollete society of the very
naughty. “Merely Mother,” an equally long
discourse, is an improving dissertation on
neglected filial duties; while “Through the
Firing Line” is a successful attempt to stage
war with a blood-soaked Belgian back-
ground. Among the topical literature “The
Clowns of Europe” earns loud sounds from
the populace for finishing in precipitate
allegory the chequered career of Kaiser
AVillie and his witless heir.
In a Melbourne timber-yard :
Hans Heysen, showing some more pictures at the
Melbourne Athenaeum, is still practising forestry
with diligence. Gums in all sizes and atmospheres
are limned with a magical deftness and feeling for
color that sets the critic combing his thoughts for
the necessary gracious superlative. Several old
friends, including the massive “Sunset Haze” and
“AVhite Gums,” have not lost their power to make,
you wide-eyed; but there are forests of new saplings
shimmering under bright skies, or showing daintily
through mist like the shapely appointments of a
Summer girl. Two or three excellent pictures are
lent by Melba, one conspicuously rich study, “After-
glow,” revealing the typical gum-strewn scenery
turning pink in the fag-end of a golden afternoon.
Some striking chalk drawings lend variety to the
display; and a taking set of pastels demonstrate a
hlue-shirted bloke in various stages of tired feeling,
* =!■• * * ;
Adelaide was just hungry for theatres
after a quite unusual lack of them, and
manager Fanning’s only difficulty, on bring-
ing along (he Andersonian “Sinbad.” has
been to avoid getting fined for overcrowding
the Royal, even in its rebuilt and
more commodious state. The low-comedy
is, astonishingly, in the hands of women, ;
iind the innovation is successful, Maggie
Moore and Maud Fanning oqgh); §6 have a
strong scene written-in just for the two of
them, as it is, they meet only once, and
that chance is mostly wasted. Single-handed
they score heavily. Burgess is a new and
pleasant comedian, but some of the other
men never succeed in being funny, hard as
they work. Despite cold evenings, the
Strollers —who are shortly to give other
cities a chance—are doing' well. So are the
old-established Dandies, for whom Cuthbert
Lose does some clever character-acting, and
Maiguente Leroy, with Collins and Browne
some good dancing. Glenelg is having a-
week-long Patriotic Carnival, with shows on
sea and land. The most striking thing in
sight in pictures is Haddon Chambers’s old
(flptain Swift.” filmed at West’s. Tivoli
and King’s remain obstinately closed.
. A Cheer up Society” has been formed in
Adelaide. It seems to have something to
do with the war and soldiers; but this need
not exclude the Peake Ministry from mem-
bership.
“De Yid”: South Australia is divided
against itself in the matter of pray-
ing. One-half the population is prov-
ing hard for rain. The other, the
country half is imploring the Lord
to hold up the flood-gates till the last
ot the summer heat has gone, otherwise thev
know they will have a quick growth of
early grass promptly scorched to powder,
lhe Adehude half wants to see the reservoir
mied. Not only are householders forbidden
to water their gardens, but they have been
urged to refrain- from using the plunge-bath
and to content themselves with a basin and
sponge. The knowledge that they can pro-
bably wash themselves much cleaner that
way takes nothing from the miseries of the
cold tubber. It is three months now since
the Waterworks Department declined to
make any further connections to either the
sewerage or water-supply systems in the
Metropolitan district. This means that quite
two-tlnrds of the building trade has been
hung-up. There have probably never been
so many skilled artisans out of work in the
State since the drought of the early ’9o’s.
“Physical culture” doesn’t get anything
special in the way of an acivt. from the sud-
den death of Royd Garlick, the Maorilnnd
Government s big-muscle expert. The
most remarkable thing about the voung man
was the tremendous political squabble his ap-
pointment produced a- year or +wn back
AT POVERTY POINT.
“UNDER TWO
FLAGS," AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
A war scene.
Louis .T. Lohr (the father of Marie)
returned to Melbourne the other week, and
is now receiving his old friends at a beautiful
big house adjacent to the Cyclorama. Un-
fortunately the business that brought
“Daddy” back to town from the sandy
reaches of Inverloch was his health, and
the roomy domicile aforesaid is the new
private hospital associated with St. Vin-
cent’s. There is an operating theatre on
the premises, but Lohr, having wearied of
the life, is not going to give a show
there. As a matter of fact, he is getting
better. It was no easy matter for such a
very good fellow to get much better, but
Lohr managed to do it.
K.B. ’: There are no passengers in the
musical comedy co. recently organised by
h rank Greene and Victor Prince. Besides
the principals, the girls of the co. have
youth, beauty and ability'' enough to make a
good Australian take oath that his country-
women are more alive than any other women
m the world. The co. is on its way to the
Victorian western district with a joyous
thing called “The Beauty Doctor,” for which
•u ' • i oUter and , w y nne Jones are respon-
sible. A metropolitan season is threatened
later on.
Baritone Robert Parker, who was Wotan
m the now disbanded Quinlan Opera Co.,
will be heard shortly on the Australian con-
ceit platform. His first showing will be in
the Melbourne Philharmonic concert at
Raster, when he will have the part of Peter
in Klgar’s “Kingdom.”
“Brevier”: This happened at a vaudeville
in Broken Hill, where three shifts in
the 24 hours are a feature of the landscape,
lhey were a pair of “sketch artists,” and her
part was that of an actress just returned
home from the theatre accompanied by a
show manager with a good offer in his hand.
V\ hue they are discussing terms in the
drawing-room the girl draws his attention to
the tact that she is married. “Then ” re-
plied the spider, leaning over the table, “if
you re married, where’s your husband?”
ihere was a pause whilst he awaited the
answer, which came from the gallery:- ‘‘Go
on, you’re all right—lie’s on night-shift.”
“UNDER TWO BLAGS"
The noble
Bertie
prepares
to die like
a man.
George Cross as
Bertie Cecil,
the hero, in
trouble.
“Mid-Channel”: “H. 0.” (B. 25/2/’ls) is
radiant over J. M. Barrie’s adoption or the
Shaw method of describing his scenes and
characters. When a play resembles a novel
then it isn’t a play. Shaw gives quite a
couple of pages in introducing his scenes.
Here’s a sample from “Capt. Brassbound’s
Conversion.” A man and a woman enter.
After 12 lines spent on the man, this goes
on for the woman: “The lady is between 30
and 40, tall, very good-looking, sympathetic,
intelligent, tender and humoring” (his dia-
logue ought to indicate all this), “dressed
with cunning simplicity”—(the following
is just tripe) “not as a business-like, tailor-
made, gaitered tourist, but as if she lived
at the next cottage and had dropped in for
tea in blouse and flowered straw hat. A
woman of great vitality,” etc., unto the 15th
line. With his scenes—even interiors—you
have to wade through a morass of this stuff.
Now take an instance from Pinero, always
graphically brief in the description of his
scenes: “Iris is a beautiful woman with a
soft, appealing voice, and movements- in-
stinct with simple grace and dignity.”
Another: “Lady Orreyed is a pretty, affected
doll of a woman, with a mincing voice and
flaxen hair.” Just one more: “Zoe is a
charming, animated, bright-eyed woman
wearing some costly furs.” In his scenic
descriptions Pinero avoids anything this way:
“This being the interior of a house which
might be expected to possess (2) tennis
courts, (3) motor garages, and (5) or (6)
acres of date-plum plantations.” That is
Shavian. “H. 0.” calls Pinero’s description
telegraphic and cataloguey. Which is the
better —a telegram giving a graphic outline
of an occurrence or a long-winded rigmarole
in letter form which leaves one wondering
what the devil it is all about?
“Harrison O.”: “Moana’s” excuse for
those Yankee dramatists who expand ideas
suitable for 15-minute sketches into three-
and four-act plays is too thin. He alleges:
“The one-act plav is just about the most
difficult literary product to plant anywhere.
Unless the one-acter is of the slapstick
variety suitable for impolite vaudeville, it
is as hard to get rid of as a turned-up nose.”
The reverse is really true. One-acters of
the right sort have not been in so great
demand for many years, owing to the in-
vasion of the .’alls by stars from the “legiti-
mate.” As these and a host of smaller fry
want one-act playlets, work of the kind has
lately been turned out by Shaw, Pinero,
Edward Knoblauch and J. M. Barrie; and
none of it that I have met is of the slapstick
variety. In any case the dramatist who, by
padding, makes what should be a one-act
play into a four-acter is no more entitled to
respect than the grocer who mixes sand with
his sugar.
Harry Plimmer, who has again got into
harness, and with Winter Hall takes a com-
pany to Maoriland, is the grandson of a tough
old party who landed at Wellington with
Captain Cook or Tasman or someone, and,
pitching his ti-tree whare on the beach, re-
fused to shift until the wind blew him up
among the hills. A newspaper office now
stands . where the old man’s garden was;
but Plimmer’s Steps remain a crooked in-
convenience for neighboring goats. Plim-
mer’s company will include Beatrice Day.
Cert Boswell, Nellie Calvin, Muriel Dale,
Cyril Mackay, P. Plimmer, Latham and
Harry Halley.
“P- . Gram”: The fatuousness of the
“criticism” of the daily press was painfully
shown in the latest Sydney notices of the
Julius Knight season. Irene Browne, who
“supports,” was recently credited with
“making the hit of her career as Berenice in
‘The Sign of the Cross,’ a performance her
Nellie Denver could not possibly come up
to,” or words to that effect. As a matter
of fact, it is as Nellie Denver and in similar
parts that Irene finds her level. As a melo-
drama heroine she might make good. As a
Patrician of liome—Heaven forbid ! The
only woman who looked and walked and
acted like a patrician in the “Cross” re-
vival was Dorothy Cumming, even though
she was cast for the thankless part of
Ancaria, who was bold and bad and danger-
ous to know.
“C. Ockney”: Sydney has many oppor-
tunities of viewing the pro. and pro-ess at
close quarters. M. and Madame Grease-
paint are constantly to be met at tea-fights*
out-door. processions and White City cele-
brations, and the public must have grown
familiar by now with the open-air make-up
of all its favorite mimes. But yet another
chance presents itself of rubbing shoulders
with the mummer—the so-called “profes-
sional matinSe.” Ostensibly the morning
show is given, “in response to many requests
from the artists at the various theatres.”
The announcement continues naively: “The
public will be admitted at the ordinary
prices.” When “professional matinees”
were introduced in England (I believe Wil-
son .Barrett was the culprit') the general
public was rigorously excluded, and it took
its matinee on the doorstep of the theatre
watching the stars go in. But nowadays it
would seem the pros, in front of the cur-
tain are as much nart of the show as those
behind, which, all things considered is
deuced cheap at “ordinary prices.”
“E. 0.5.”: Re picture shows in the Pacific
Islands (B. 25/2/’l5), an enterprising drink-
dispenser at Port Moresby < Papua) runs
one adjacent to his pub on three nights a
week. A seat (canvas , deck chair) costs
3s. Floor is of concrete; roof, the glittering
and elevated sky. The lighting is by elec-
tricity, which also generates cold storage.
Died _ recently, in Maoriland, David Scott,
who built his own monument in many light-
houses that blink around the bitten coast
of the shivery islands. Born in Tasmania
73 years ago, he was schooled in M.L. and
served an apprenticeship to shipbuilding in
Sydney. When the Gabriel’s Gully gold rush
set in. Scott headed back to M.L. and
entered the service of the old Panama Ship-
ping Co. From that he passed into the
Marine Department, and, later, went to the
Public Works Department as a railway-
bridge inspector. In 1880 he was back with
the Marine Department, and took charge of
lighthouse construction and maintenance.
jThe lights at Cane Campbell, Cuvier
Island, Pencarrow. Nugget Head, Akaroa
Head, Cape Maria van Diemen. Palliser
Bay, Mokohinau, East Cape and Hikurangi
Point were nart of the family born and
reared under his roof.
Another Crimea veteran heard the Last
Trumpet a few days ago in Southern Maori-
land. Captain Sydney H. Davies was a son
of Admiral George Davies, and followed his
father to the ocean in 1851. He served with
the Black Sea fleet, the naval batteries
before Sebastopol, and the land forces (16th
Foot) during the unpleasantness with Rus-
sia in ’54-’56. At the close of hostilities
Davies went to Canada, thence to the Dis-
united States to whirl into the Uncivil War.
He joined the Confederate army, served!
with “Stonewall” Jackson and became
assistant Inspector-General to Heath’s Divi-
sion. When Lee surrendered, Davies adven-
tured to M.L. and butted into the war with
the natives. He earned the M.L. medal in
that disturbance ; and when the trouble was
over, there being no other shindy handy, he
settled down to the quiet life.
THE FIDDLER ON THE COAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a wizened old fellow,
And he came to us there in the rain,
As we lounged on the Duchess, waiting
For the midnight Sydney train.
He said: “I haven’t a penny;
I’ve only my fiddle here.
Will you give me a ride to the city
For a tune, Mr. Engineer?”
It was dark and wet at the Junction,
And Joe swore, clear and true:
“We haven’t no time for music;
We’re only the engine-crew.
But climb up there on the tender,
And hang on tight when she rolls”
, And that’s where we put the fiddler,
Up on the dirty coals.
With the midnight mail behind us,
We heard the town-clocks chime,
And v the throb of her spinning drivers
Soon quickened to racing time.
Her hoarse, deep whistle echoed
And rang as we raced along,
AVith the galloping side-rods singing
Their brave old galloping song.
But into the well-known measure
We heard strange voices weave—
Sounds of jovial laughter,
Sorrowful sounds that grieve.
Then Joe, by' hiS: shining levers,
Swore-: “You may eat me whole,
If it isn’t that fiddler fellow,
Fiddlin’ up on the coal.”
Shovel, to flaring furnace,
I coaled the old girl well—-
The diier of all the ranges,
Fast, and sound as a bell.
And the red glare showed the fiddler
Like a little, earth-stained mole,
Swaying so, to her swinging,
AAld/fiddling up on the coal.
A } J
Sweet and cleaiAas our whistle
Echoing dowJKa glen,
His strings niglL burst to give us
“Thte Marchjdf the Cameron Men.”
Then he played us “Tipperary”—
It’s a long, long way, no doubt;
But,it wouldn’t be far to travel,
If we let thd Duchess out.
' “Daddy, good-night! Dear Daddy”—
’.Twas a wailing tune he played.
Thrbugh the yell of her wheels' Joe heard it,
As he rattled her down the grade.
Faster than regulations,
He let the long train coast;
And we galloped her up the incline
To the strains of “The Washington Post.”
Then Joe stepped back from his levers,
Crunching the coal he strode.
Said he: “Come down, old fellow,
I reckon you’ve pulled your load.”
And that’s how we came to the city,
Which is mostly the wanderers' goal,
With the little fiddler sleeping,
And only the rain on the coal.
N.S.'W.
WILL LAWSON.


The Famous Australian Navy Serge
Sac Suits
Made to Measure
63/-
Absolutely the best value ever offered in Suits.
Made from our Famous Australian Navy Serge,
indigo dye, which is woven by The Australian
Woollen Mills expressly for David Jones Ltd. This
is a splendid quality; fine, soft Botany Twill Serge
that will not shine, a beautiful, rich blue that will
not fade, and will retain its lustre to the last. The
trousers will not bag at the knees. Made to your
exact requirements— THßEE GUINEAS.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
David Jones Limited
Opp. G.P.O.- SYDNEY
m
H
i
lIMi
ML!
fasf
An Odorless
Breath
A
is but one of the many advantages that Pebeco provides.
Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer, healthier gums,
and a high standard of mouth health all inevitably
follow its night and morning use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Free
for three penny stamps, on application to tne
Manufacturer.
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. A), 6 O’Connell St., Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY.)
[3
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
John Bull is tightening the blockade
against food on its way to Germany. The
professors of economics at the University of
Berlin have issued an appeal to the popu-
lace to eat potato bread. Any Sunday,
now, in Germany, the popular hymn is “The
Wheat By-and-Bye.”
About the German scheme of furtively
dropping explosives on old-age pensioners
and retired butlers in England, W. T. Bull,
who lives close handy at Great Winchester-
Street, London Wall, E.C., writes: —
“G.D.” (B. ’29/10/’l4), commenting upon the
efforts of Count Zeppelin and the Butcher of Berlin
to put the fear of the Almighty (Bill’s junior partner)
into the inhabitants of this isle, mentions that
insurance against damage by hostile aircraft was
being arranged at eighteenpence per cent. At the
time his remarks were penned the figure was 0.K.,
but the first series of cold shivers having passed,
bomb-risk insurance has slumped heavily. Even
though the rate has come down with a run, it is
difficult to find premium-payers. You can now get
an insurance effected at one shilling per £lOO,
while if you show signs of breaking off the dis-
cussion and trusting to luck and Kitchener’s anti-
aircraft corps, you will be offered a sharp reduction
to close the business. The fact is, a Zeppelin is an
ungainly craft which cannot easily be handled un-
less weather conditions are ideal, while the excellent
target offered by the big sausage makes a gunner’s
mouth water. Further, its range of effective action
is hopelessly limited. When 250 miles from home
the elongated cigar must hop back or be prepared
for trouble. The main German base is at Cologne,
about 175 miles from the Smoke. It is rumored
that at places outside the prospective area of de-
struction insurance brokers will make a present of
a policy to all and sundry, just to pretend to them-
selves they are busy. But don’t believe that!
Lloyd’s men give nothing away, except their pals.
■****
A really brilliant romance-writer has been
told by an Adelaide police court that she was
applying her talent in the wrong direction.
Mrs. “Mary Nellie Smith” had claimed a
maternity bonus, E. M. Franks registered
the birth, and Mrs. Murry was the lady who
attended professionally ; also Kathleen Gray
witnessed the claim, and a Mr. and Mrs.
Birmingham gave a kind of general support.
The whole crowd:—including the alleged
mother —had no existence except in the
super-heated imagination of the prisoner,
whose name bore no resemblance to any of
theirs. She put in her best work when, being
visited by a suspicious official, she told of a
half-sovereign lent to “Mrs. Smith,” which
she had little hope of ever seeing again. She
even hinted a dark suspicion that Mrs. Smith
was not properly married. After which the
careless, artistic temperament led her into
the obvious error of applying for the mater-
nity bonus on her own account, in a hand-
writing which was already familiar to the
Department. In court she admitted every-
thing, and a clever counsel, throwing the
blame on her husband and five hungry chil-
dren. got her released as a First Offender.
THE MYSTERY.
THE KIDDIE: “That’s funny!”
THE JOHNNIE: “ What's funny?”
THE KIDDIE: “Why, that's some of auntie’s face paint on your nose."
DIPLOMACY.
PATRIOTIC AUSTRALIA : "Vell, I dink vs beat dose Germans easy, eh! vat?"
“Vagabond” from the trenches: —
The part played by the London mo-bus in the war
is a side-issue worth remembering when Australia
considers the development of street transport. Few of
us care to think now of what the British Expedition,
ary Force would have done in the early days without
those ’buses. Later all sorts of motor-lorries and
carts were commandeered and rushed to the Front;
but right at the awful start it was the
mo-bus that the chief transport Wallah had
to depend upon. Hundreds, of ’em petrol-
led off in a long string from London to Plymouth
and other West Country ports, whence they were
shipped over by steamer loads; and ever since they
have been carting food and forage, ammunition and
troops, all over France and Belgium. One meets them
here, there and everywhere, some of them still with
the old legends up, others coated in drab “service
dress,” a barrel of petrol hoisted on the doorstep,
and an extra rain-shield rigged over the driving seat.
Whatever arguments there may be In favor of the tram-
car for street traffic, it is obvious that it isn’t much
use for rushing troops or stores around the country.
Not only the ’buses themselves, but the men at the
wheel can be made use of at their own particular and
tremendously important job. On the other hand, I
wonder just how many Australian tram-drivers are fit
to tackle any job required by an army in thi field.
They would probably be like their own trolly-cars—
mighty useful on the lines; quite useless off them.
•# * * *
“Huffin Guffin”: As I write this, sheep on
the banks of the Wannon River, in Western
Victoria, are feeding from lopped branches
of sheoak. I have never seen small stock
fed thus before, though in the late ’7o’s I
saw bullockies sneaking oak for their cattle
from the squatters’ trees. Bullocks in those
direful days would travel miles to the sound
of the axe. So would the station hands —
to catch the bullockies and give them their
kind regards or something. But feeding
sheep on sheoak in Western Vic., within a
few miles of the Henty country—it’s a whole
essay on the drought.
* * * *
A new terror has been added to the life
of the Sydney wowser, and to that of the
mild ginger-beer-drinking citizen who is not
a wowesr. This is the arsenical
bottle. The sudden death of one man, and
the violent illness of several others, after
having drunk ginger-beer, resulted in an
examination* of the pots that had contained
the tipple, when it was discovered that one
of them still contained enough arsenic to
kill two men. The" evidence of an officer
of the Health Department was that the
bottle-Washing machine in the ginger-beer
factory was “not working properly,” and
that “owing to the pressure of water not
being sufficient” it was possible that a
“hardened rim of some sediment” (arsenic
or any other pleasant tonic) might remain in
the bottles before the ginger-beer was put
in. Yet, although the Coroner said “there
is no doubt, of course, that the arsenic must
have been in the bottle before it was washed,
and remained in during the time it was
washed through some apparent defect in the
machinery,” he declared that there was “no
criminal 'liability against anyone.” This does
not. of course, mean that there is no civil
liability and, therefore, the relatives of
the dead man may have something to
say, as well as the persons who just escaped
death, after being violently ill. But that is
not enough: society ought to take a hand
and create a criminal liability, if it doesn’t
at present exist.
* * * *
Sydney publicans, who a few short months
ago filled a large hall, and, having flung out
two or three recalcitrants, passed a resolu-
tion to push the price of irrigation upwards,
cementing this decision by the solemn roar-
ing of “God Save the King,” are now torn
asunder by recriminatory gibe and provoca-
tive reproach. Having passed the resolution
that the democratic pot should be fourpence
and whisky-and-soda sevenpence, Bung
rushed back to the seat of custom, altered
his cash register, issued emphatic instruc-
tions to his nymphs, and stood back to take
the consequences—in cash. But ere the
sun had set backslidings were reported ; and
next day there were definite rumors in select
circles that a pot might still be had for
the . serviceable thrum. Fierce warnings
against blacklegging were thrown at every
Boniface in the metropolis suspected of a
wavering loyalty; yet within a month
another scrap of paper had been thrown to
the . winds, and most hotels were working
again on the old schedule. Now all of them
have been ordered to fall back, wherefore
the suppression of thirst is undertaken with
promptness and despatch all round at
the former tariff. But though the parched
manhood of the city has viewed without
emotion this hasty re-adjustment, woe and
lamentation only can be heard from the
council room of the trade serangs; and mur-
murings about “regret mingled with aston-
ishment,” “disloyal blacklegs,” and “disaster
and ruination” are rumbling like the rever-
berations of eternity.
FIRST AID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sat alone in the bush to-day and a tree-top wind
went by,
And the fragrant peace and cheep of birds, unseen
in the branches high,
Took me back again to that dim stream where our
luck we used to try.
’Twas little we caught in those still depths but the
golden perch of Peace,
And the long, long thoughts, the restful thoughts,
chat give to the heart release,
While the willow leaves came whirling down, and
the Earth bade Sorrow cease.
Oh, not abroad in the crowded street, or home with
the babes and wife,
Shall a weary man find strong, clear thought to
nerve him for further strife,
And arm him against the word of hate that wounds
like a Gurkha's knife.
Come out! Gome out to the wordless trees that
straight to your heart will croon !
Come out! Come out from your dusty books!
Away to the bush, you loon!
Nature, your mother, awaits you there with peace
as her wondrous boon !
Do you think you’re done with the Earth for good,
you pile of breathing clay!
From dust you came —to the dust you go ! Away to
the trees ! Away !
And Red Cros3 Nature will bind your wounds as
she’s binding mine to-day!
N.S.W.
BASE HOSPITAL.


k
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £525,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; H. M. STRACHAN, Esq., Vice-Chairman; EDWARD
TRENCHARD, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER. Esn. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD
SYDNEY OFFICE, GO PITT STREET. Manager, R. S. Gregson; Acct., F. Cleave.
Branches In Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bish operate, E.C.
fasf
A PEAPES ANNOUNCEMENT
The installation of our modern workroom, with its splendid equipment of
labor-saving devices, will mark a new era in Economic Tailoring.
Now, despite rising cost of materials and sundries, we are able to produce
to your measure suits that express the very-latest tailoring ideas —suits
that have a hand-finished effect, and quality far above the ordinary—at our
usual prices of
The saving of outlay, and the betterment in style, thus effected, should
interest you in our new season’s patterns, which will be sent, with self-
measurement form, on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
From “Member of the Town Planning
Association”: —
“O’Do,” who writes (B. 25/2/’l5) accusing the
various town-planning associations of inaction, has
evidently been frustrated in some nefarious plan
to subdivide pocket-handkerchief allotments. Either
that or it is to “O’Do’s” interests to decry a move-
ment which, in its onward sweep, is defeating the
rascally efforts of those who would stifle their fellow
men in tenements unfit for use as dog-kennels. '1 he
various town-planning associations are composed of
honorary officers and noble-hearted men and women,
who see in the movement the quickest and surest
means of ameliorating the conditions of life in the
sunless under world. They do not race about the
country soliciting town-planning jobs. But their ad-
vice is always freely given to tho- e who seek it. In
the case of Manly (N.S.W.) a complete scheme was
prepared for the local council, llecently the clauses
in the N.S.W. Local Government Amending Bill
relating to town-planning were reviewed by the
Council of the Association, and certain suggestions
made were appreciatively acknowledged by the Govern-
ment. A start had to be made somewhere and some-
low, and the N S.W. Association decided that the
wisest policy in the beginning was to educate the
masses to a higher appreciation of the benefit of
town planning. This line was pursued in the first
"MOST
UNFORTUNATE.
“Oh, Charley , I can't find my diamond ring
anywhere.”
“I found it! It came off in the pocket of the
trousers I was wearing last night"
year of the N.S.W. Association with gratifying re-
sults, as the annual report will prove. In the future
its work will be mapped out in a manner calculated
to secure the most! necessary reform of the time. So ,
the Association twill go on building up, and, no
doubt, treading ibtethe corns of the “O’Dos” and
other despoilers.
* * * «•■ *
Sydney police arfe conducting a campaign
for the suppression of street orators of the
Socialist persuasion, and several offenders
have been fined under new traffic regulations
for “speaking in a public street, thereby
attracting together a number of persons in
such a way as to inconvenience other per-
sons in the street.” These men are enthusi-
astically “taking out” the alternative. The
Socialists, who would probably object to
having their meetings suppressed in any case,
absolutely refuse to move off while the Salv’
Army is allowed to give its testimony pn
the opposite corner. Last week a large body
of police, instead of issuing summonses
against the street orators who refused to
move on, arrested them on the spot and
incidentally gave a fine imitation of the
manner in which a heavyweight John Hop
can overpower a loquacious miscreant of
nine stone. The Socialists are now threaten-
ing a “fill the gaols” campaign, the idea be-
ing to burst the prison walls by the pressure
of martyrs within. Meantime the Salv’
Army continues to occupy the other corner
and exhort its dear brother to come to Glory
and throw in a sprat and make the collection
up to a bob.
* * * *
The Rhenish Zeitunc 4 admits that Eng-
lishmen possess many of the German’s best
virtues. In fact, everybody seems to possess
them- —except the Germans.
From a puddle in Flanders :
In The Bulletin of October 22 (it’s a long way to
Tipperary) a writer propounds the theory that the
attempts of British tars to save the enemy who is
struggling to keep his nose above a watery grave,
after having enthusiastically blown the said enemy’s
ship to Glory, “has vividly illustrated the British dread
of death by drowning.’’ I wonder what sort of patent
“dread” the writer would label the heroism that
brings the V.C. to British privates who leave the
shelter of the trenches to bring in wounded Germans!
There’s a much easier explanation of this save-your-
enemy spirit than any theoretical land or water
“dread.” It is simply the inherent sporting instinct
which prompts a boxer to hold out his hand and hoist
his opponent to his feet and say something nice and
soothing after having spent an hour or so fren-
ziedly trying to knock him into the middle of next
week and out the other side.
* * * *
“Sr” : The Hobart railway station is to be
rebuilt. It is also proposed to replace the
one at Launceston as soon as a deep-water
pier is fixed. The northern town has at
present the clumsiest and most dilapidated
railway outfit in Australia. Viewed from
the front it looks like a col-
lection of bankrupt coffee-
stalls, and from the side it has
been mistaken for a stack of
second-hand palings. Hobart’s
station is only a degree better.
The engineer’s office is in a
sort of dog kennel. The man-
ager inhabits an independent
cottage on the boundary-line
between two smells —the creek
and the gasometer. There is
only one siding where a train
of decent size can put in ; if
that is occupied by any other
old steam ’bus the
train has to sleep
out among the trucks
on a side line and
there discharge pas*
sengers. But to im-
prove things means to
change things; and
Hobart is so afraid
of change that, there
is bound to be a row
—just as there would
be if it were pro-
posed to put lavatory
carriages on the
Island’s one “ex-
press” or provide a
railway - refreshment
room en route. True,
the train stops for
refreshments; but to
get them you have to
cross a paddock and
a road and breast
the bar of a way-
side pub, and maybe get your pocket picked
in the process.
* * * *
“Pint Pot” imparts the odor of sanctity
to beef* —
About nationalisation of the pub business (B.
25/2/’l5). In an unofficial way the Church, or a
section of it, has given the movement its blessing.
In England ecclesiastical approval has only got as
far as “disinterested management” by public trust
companies, three of. which have been in existence
for some years. The Archbishop of Canterbury and
a number of lesser gaiters are among the trustees,
and Earl Grey, who was one of its initiators, enthusi-
astically boosts the movement. The memorandum of
association limits dividends to a maximum of five
per cent., which is Steadily paid, and no person may
hold more than 200 shares. Surplus profits are used
to acquire new licenses, improve premises, provide
gardens and sports grounds in connection with the
pub where possible, and generally make the house
attractive. Managers are allowed no commission on
sale of alcohol, but- lare given handsome bonuses on
tea, coffee and other non-intoxicants. The trust
companies, combining as they do a moderately good
investment with a moral aim as a salve to the
conscience of the pious investor, are going ahead
rapidly—or were before the war broke out. One of
their troubles is that they find it hard to get hold
of pubs except in country localities; and that they
are opposed tooth and nail by the official “temper-
ance” organisations. In Australia the Anglican
denominational paper has gone farther than private
trust control of pubs, and has barracked straight
out for municipal or State ownership. Much con-
troversy has raged among the elect, but the paper’s
policy is making headway. In Melbourne L. V.
Biggs, chief of staff of the Age, carried the matter
last December before the local Anglican Synod, and-
strove to get that body to ask the Government to
insert a question at the forth-coming local-option poll
which would enable voters to express their opinion on
the matter of municipal or State control as well
as on continuance, reduction, or no-license. His attempt
failed, owing to the opposition of the “temperanee”
fanatics and their followers, who rallied to support
Bung as cheerfully as they unfailingly comfort Ikey
in the shadow of the tote. But a strong minority
of the Synod was with Biggs, and the storm which
arose in a heated debate is still raging over the tea-
cups in clerical circles. The Church usually opposes
reforms until they are adopted, and then says that
in reality it approved them all along; and
probably when Bung has been nationalised, the
Church will conveniently forget all the hard things
it said about nationalisation, and will point to the
attitude of its denominational paper (much abused at
the time) as evidence that it led the way towards
the reform.
THE IRON CROSS.
In a case just heard before the Melbourne
Divorce Court it appeared that the petitioner,
when a sailor on H.M.S. Torch, married
the lady at half-past eight at night, being
then under strict orders to be back on deck
by 12. The main reason for the hasty pro-
ceeding seems to have been that the woman
wanted a wine license, and couldn’t get it
while single. The Torch .left for sea that
night with the bridegroom aboard, and on
returning the lover found his lass had flown.
That was 14 years ago, and she had re-
mained, flown ever since. The Court said
Yes, and the long stern chase was over.
There seems to be attached to this story a
moral about the folly of marrying a woman
because she wants a wine license. It looks
almost as reckless as to marry a poor girl
because she is “lonely.”
The employees of the N.S.W. Govt, work-
shops at Walsh Island (Newcastle) have been
showing how easy it is for men really earn-
est over the matter to find an excuse for a
strike. The first trouble arose through the
authorities insisting that the men, on disem-
barking at Newcastle from the ferry, should
walk over a gang-plank instead of jumping
ashore. The men said they didn’t see why
they should have to walk a gang-plank at
one end of a journey and not at the other;
so when the ferry reached Walsh Island
one morning they refused to go ashore until
a plank was provided. As there was no
plank to provide, and the men continued to
refuse, they were taken back to Newcastle
and lost a day’s pay. Meantime the authori-
ties chased round and secured a plank; and
the men returned to work next day with a
glorious feeling that they had vindicated
the imperishable principles of gang-planks
and Unionism. But not for long. After
another week or so the men on arriving at
the island one morning discovered that a
steamer was at the wharf they usually
landed -a't; wherefore they were taken to
another wharf. Although the other wharf
was just as good looiung as their own, and
the gang-plank was quite substantial and
respectable, they nailed their colors to the
mast and themselves to the ferry—and lost
another day’s pay. It seems to be a splen-
did thing to lose a day’s pay.
Anglican Archbishop Clarke, barracking
for his side in Melbourne the other day:—
Surely after 20 centuries of Christian experience
the world knows enough of its blessings to make it
worth our while to tight for tuun. So the wasie ot
life, of treasure, is justified, because it is in the
cause of Christianity itself.
But the naughty sceptic wants to know
how it happens that, after 20 centuries of
Christian experience, the most Christian
nations are now more active than ever at
the pagan pastime of cutting one another’s
throat. When archbishops, and other lead-
ing Christians justify war on the ground
that the cause of Christianity is to be
benefited, by the wholesale slaughter of
Christians, what comment is left for the
heathen ?
THE BUSH RANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
See the narrow gash cut through the trees,
And the riflemen prone
On the flat ledge of stone
Taking aim at their indolent ease.
Note the targets that swing at a wrench
Of unseen hands that wave
Little flags in the grave
In the gully—the newly-cut trench.
Hear the echoing shots and the whir
Of the bullets that lust
To be tearing flesh ! Dust
Spirts behind the black “bull.’’ “Hit it, sir!”
In this gully of peace that the sun
Has left for the day
They are learning to slay.
Hark ! the forest is mocking the gun.
“With the steel and the fire that you get,
With your! toil and your tears
From my heart”—-so Earth sneers —
“You must fight for me, fight for me yet !
“Loud your vomiting guns and vain boasts;
Yet the fruit of your toil
But enriches my soil,
And I swallow in silence your hosts!”
Thus the Earth, while the bullets that lust
From the markers’ trench lash,
When the long rifles crash,
A whiff cf inconsequent dust.
N.S.W.
CARTRIDGE.


Distribution of bread on the ticket
system has been inaugurated in Berlin.
The Kaiser and his family have been
placed in the same condition as the
most menial servant.—Cable
3 e ' w j>
?>a.Ke/
It is for Dr. Rentoul either to point
out the site of the “camp of evil," as
reasonably requested by the constables,
or. as a Just man and a fair controver-
sialist, to remove the stigma of implied
antruthfulness which he lays upon the
police.—Melb. paper
'V^o v i^ ir7 2 >
<*&tr
i^ev d Renlot*l —' WhaT l y° M ?•
Wtoeres Ins
bXQ w ‘ n 2> s • r
CITY CHILLING WORKS.
> AUSTRALIAN TENDERS REJECTED.
After over two hours of animated and
at times heated discussion, the City
Council decided, by a majority of onfc
♦hte, to accept the tender of an English
Arm for the suppy of a chilling; plant
,fcr the city abattoirs at a cost of
£!S,l<»O. — 'Age.”
"ff/e lii
AT THE CAMP.
“Derrink. my friends, is a greater curse than the enemy’s
guns, and you can’t fight if you’re not physically ftu
Look at me. I don't require alcohol to aid me in the
fight."
Mr. Peacock has intimated to the
Prime Minister his intention of seeking
permission to depart from the agreement
arrived at last year, and obtain addi-
tional Joan money for the purpose of
carrying on works to absorb more of the
laborers who are out of employment.
—Melb. paper.
'RgStlonphililf
THE WEEK AS VINCENT SAW IT.


fasf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
m
TO
H.M, THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
■MV
■TOP NOTCH"
£toryc TV
<scotrtfTiWs
&<Tin})4i
, .
THE “TOP NOTCH” SCOTCH.
“RING GEORGE IV.”
WHISKY.
A UNIFORM STANDARD of QUALITY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
William Goldwyer, a resident of Cottesloe
W.A.), went for a stroll on January 20, and on
February 21 woke up somewhere in the Darling
Ranges to find an inquisitive dog barking at him.
Where he had been, or what he did in the interval
he doesn’t remember; all he can faintly recall is
that he had water now and then, and all the time felt
horribly sleepy. Four years ago, in South America,
William was stung by a tsetse fly, and he has been
liable to be a pilgrim in Dreamland ever since. Before
setting out on these expeditions he suffers first from
weakness, then from loss of will power, and next
from an irresistible desire to sleep. There are the
makings of an ideal politician in him.
One of the industries that booms through
the war is the manufacture of —what do you think ?
barbed wire! Millions of miles of it have been used
for defensive work in Belgium and France, and much
jnore of it will be used for entanglements before the
war’s ended. Factories in U.S.A. are working at
tremendous pressure to supply the Allies, and sevei’al
new mills have been rushed up. But that hasn’t
kept the price down; so the peaceful person who
wants to build an ordinary fence these days uses the
stuff without spikes in it. Whereat old Poley and
Strawberry give the Kaiser three cheers.
* * * *
“Torch”: “De Oriel” and “ILS.” make
me weary in well doing with their talk about midget
post-offices. Herewith my entry. The post, money-
order and telephone office at Tangambalanga (Vic.)
is so small that when you want to use the ’phone the
postmistress has first to edge herself outside to give
you room to enter. This in a township that has a
daily-mail service, two pubs, (where you can pass the
time while waiting your turn at the ’phone), two
banks, two stores, two blacksmiths’ shops, bootery,
bakery, butchery and butter-factory.
DAVE COMMITS SACRILEGE.
COW COCKY NO. 1: “ There's young Dave off
for the doctor again. His wife’s pretty
crook.”
DITTO NO. 2: “Got no time for that waster.
The day she was said to be dyin’ I arst
him when he was goin’ for ther doctor to
drive my heifer quietly to the six-mile
paddock, an’ he says, 'Ho, damn yer
cow.'”
“Lagani-Namo”: The missionary at
Mekeo (Papua) caught young Aipiana ere the wicked-
ness of his ancestors had manifested itself. In due
course he was baptised and renamed Josepha (Joseph).
Some time later, the padre, journeying through the
bush, happened on a hunting party gorging on a
wild pig. As it was a Friday and most, of the
hunters were his parishioners, the pilot felt disap-
pointed and angry. Whilst the father still roundly
denounced them, Josepha leapt to his feet and con-
fronted his pastor. “What for you speak altogether
hoy bad? I bin tell you this one (indicating the
repast) he no more pig. I no lie. That, time I
small boy along mission, name belonga me Aipiana ;
by-an’-bye you puttem water on top alonga head,
then me no more Aipiana. Proper name belonga me
Josepha. I bin do ’em this feller (pig) all-a-same.
First time, true, he pig; but, I savvy no good I
kai-kai pig alonga Friday. I bin puttem plenty feller
water on top this feller, and I tellepi altogether hoy
him no more pig —him plxi.”
ON PRINCIPLE.
SUITOR: “Sir, I trust you will object to my marriage with your daughter.”
HER OLD MAN: “Good heavens! Why?”
SUITOR: “Because, if you do, I think she will consent to have me.”
“Tsactuo” : Keloids or scarification marks
are most important among the dark-skinned tribes
of Papua. They are usually formed_by cutting the
skin and inserting the chewed leaf Of a-certain plant
to prevent the edges from uniting.- A daub of wet
clay is placed over all. The juice of the Sesuvium
portulacnstrum is sometimes used to produce suppur-
atiou and ensure a more
or less raised scar. In tlie
Papuan Gulf powdered
clam-shell is used for the
same purpose. The majority
of the scarifications seen
above the breasts of the
Fly River women are
made with the idea that
they prevent the breasts
becoming pendulous, and
in many tribes a woman
is not marriageable until
she is treated. Keloids
are cut among the Fly
peoples as clan badges on
the men : . also, they are in-
flicted as mourning signs
and for decorative pur-
poses. When a boy kills his
first turtle or dugong his
sister often cuts a scar on.
her arm. In the estuary
of the Fly conventional re-
presentations of centipedes
are cut on the women's
legs as charms against these crawlers. On the north
coast keloids are usually mourning marks, though
occasionally they are tallies of illicit love affairs.
“See th’ Dane”: Micky Doyle was a
young bush black-and-white artist with a tremendous
admiration for Norman Lindsay and Father Ryan,
P.P. When he “did” the Day of Judgment in the
daring Lindsay manner, he made his friend Father
Ryan the central figure, and gave him a special body-
guard of angels to keep off the clutching d —d souls.
(There were a lot of d—d, and most of them
strongly resembled unpopular residents of the dis-
trict.) But the finest touch of all was the bicycle.
Father Ryan had had his new motor-bicycle stolen
by some sacrilegious thief at the last agricultural
show, and Micky, with a fine sense of the fitness of
things, had drawn an angel holding a bike at the
foot of the central cloud-throne. An August Finger
was pointed at the machine, and on the margin of
the drawing was written in a scrawling boyish
hand, “Come ye blessed Father Ryan and take the
new bike which I have prepared for thee!”
“The Pariah”: The Victorian Cressy,
phonetically misspelt after the battle, dates back to
the days before the gold rushes. For years the large
landowner sat on its chest, and it breathed with ex-
treme difficulty. As soon as the last of the estates
was cut up the place boomed, and land in the town-
ship recently brought £5 a foot. In the <>ld days
Cressy was the 'last camp of the bullockies and team-
sters who hauled wool to Geelong from parts ’way
back. The Wooadyaloak River here has some large,
deep pools, going to 20ft., and a few trees (unique
in this part) gave shade. Sustenance, in 10-gallon
kegs, was supplied by a Frenchman named D’Auverg-
nay. His memory is kept sweet in the name of the
only pub—Frenchman’s Inn. D’Auvergnay had no
bar. He handed out the liquor through a sliding
window, and the plains resounded with the howls of
wassailing bullockies.
* * * *
“Biddy B.”: The New York Evening
Journal settles any argument about-sheep-shearing
records. This way :
Tlie world's sheep-shearing record is 2394 in
nine hours.
And it isn’t likely to be broken for some time either.
The man who can do more than 44 sheep per minute
for nine hours on end is a ringer. In Australia we
don't reckon it a fair thing to try to do more than
41. And then we knock off half-way through the nine
hours for a cigarette.
INJUDICIOUS.
PARSON : “ We intend praying for rain at our
.morning service to-morrow, Mr. Fallow,
so I expect to see you there!”
FARMER: “ Well, as a old ’and in these parts,
Mister, I reckon I wouldn’t do it while
the wind's in this ’ere quarter.”
THE BAR ROOM PATRIOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Following Lord Kitchener’s advice, ' a number of
patriotic people have resolved to refrain from Heat-
ing soldiers to intoxicating drinks.
Why, ’ow’s she goin’, Bill, ole sport?
I thort I knoo your dile!
My oath! You look the proper sort!
That khaki soots your style.
I never ’eard you’d joined, yeh know—
It makes me feel / want to' gor
Must be a year or more, I s’pose,
Since last time we two met ;
All’ then, to see you in them clothes —
Can’t realise it yet!
I’m proud to think a friend o’ mine
Is off to biff the German swine !
You look slap-up in that rig-out.
We ort to celebrate —
I feel it’s up to me to shout;
But —can’t he done, ole mate!
For I ’ave took a solum vow:
I never shout for soldiers now.
No, Bill; you mustn’t take offence;
You’ll understand, I think.
I’ve come to see there ain’t no sense
In buyin' soldiers drink.
I loves me country an’ me king;
An’ boozin’ soldiers ain’t the tiling.
An’ yet it’s sich a time ago
Since you an’ me ’ave met,
It’s sorter ’ard to let you go
Without one little wet.
Say, come in ’ere, an’ you can take
A soft-un, jist fer ole time's sake.
Well, Bill —’ere, Miss! Don’t you attend
To customers in ’ere?
A lime-an’-soder fer me friend ;
An’ mine’s a long, cool beer.
Ah, Bill, you stick to that soft stuff ;
Chuck booze, an' you’ll he right enough.
Well, ’ere’s a g0!....My oath, that’s good!.
Best beer I’ve ’ad to-day. . . .
Yes, Bill, I ’olds no soldier should
Drink all ’is brains away.
I’m patriotic, that I am ;
To fight on beer ain’t worth a damn.
Now, Bill, look ’ere, you take my tip—
I know that German lot —
An’, when you meet ’em, let ’er rip,
An’ prod ’em in the —wot?
Wellj jist one more. Mine’s beer tliish time.
An’ Bill, ole frien’, you shtick to lime.
’Ere’s joy !. .. . Wot was 1 sayin’ ? Oh !
Them Germans allush funk
The bay’nit; Take my tip, an’ go
Fair for their stmrimicks—plunk !
Jish stick ’em in the 'Ere, Miss, ’ere!
Give ’im the soft oine! Mine’s the beer.
See, Miss, I don’t booze sojers now.
They shouldn’t drink the sthuff !
Me conshuns, Miss, it won’t allow—
’Right, Bill ; don’t cut up rough. .
I’m proud to let the ’ole bar ’ear
1 wouldn’t buy no sojers beer.
I wouldn’t buy no cursed drink
Fer any fightin’ bloke!
Wot? Torkin’ loud? Well, do yeh think
I’m ’shamed o' wot I shpoke ?
I stansh on principle, by Gosh !
’Ere, ’ave anurrer lemin squash.
Oh, yesh ; I’ve ’ad a few lev-day.
Thish makes —eighteen er so.
But I don’t ’ave to 1 go away
To fight no rotten foe! v
Go fer their stummicksh, Bill, ole man !
Jist prod ’em—-why, ’ello ! ’Ere’s Dan!
’Ave one wi’ ush, Dan. Yoursh a beer?
Yes, mine’sli a wot-o, Jim !
Lesh innerjooce my cobber ’ere —
I’m buyin’ squash fer ’im.
’E’s sojer.... Took a solum vow:
I don’t — {hie) —shoush fer sojersh now.
I jist been tellin’ sojer frien’
Them Germans got no— — whash?
Orright, Dan ; mine’sh a beer agen.
. Me frien’ ’ere’sh drinkin’ squash.
Yeh mustn’t buy no beer fer ’im —-
Unpa’ri— {hie) —. Whash you think, Jim?
It ’urts me feelin’s, all er same.
Bill'sh ’listed !. . . .Orful sad !. . . .
Pore Bill! That fightin’sh rotten game.
Go fer their stummicksh, lad !
Sharge wisher bay’nit, ev’ry time!
An’ take my tip— you shtick ter time!
’Ere'sh to Aushtralier, ev'ry time!
I doesh my lirrle bit
Be buyin’ only squash ’n' lime
To keep er sojersh fit.
Fine, pa’ri-otic effort. Wot?
’Ere’s to er blokesh wash gettin' shot!
Aw, I kin shtan’ annurrer, Jim.
Yesh, mine’s a long, wet beer.
But don’t you buy no beer fer 'im,
’N’ get ’im on ’is ear!
I never shoush fer sojersh now.
Unpari-pari sholum vow!
Wash savin’, Bill? Wash ’at I ’ear?
Yeh don’t i rant me ter shout?
You been teeto'ler fer a year!
Well, ’ash a fair knock-out!
You mean er shay... .lernme buy lime,
Wile you... .in joyed it all er time!
You mean or shay you thort it ni’esh
To take yer ole pal in?
You lemme make shelf-sacrift'esli,
Wile you stan’ there an’ grin!
Wash? Goin’, is ’e? Let ’im go!
Ni’esh sorter bloke ter fighter foe!
1 wouldn’t shoush fer sojersh now —
Not fer a million poun’!
I bought ’im lemon-squash, ther cow.
And then ’e takesh me down !
Go fer the'r stummicksh? ’lm? No fear!
Down wish en Kaiser! Mine'sh a beer.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident & Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
fasf
Insure in the
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid-up ... 82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents wanted. Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Martin’s Bills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
BRISBANE'S LEADING HOTEL
The Gresham
ts under new management and has
been made right up to date, having all
the most modern improvements.
The Sewerage System has been in-
stalled on an elaborate scale, which
overcomes Brisbane’s greatest menace.
Proprietor,
T. M. AHERN.
Bueomq end Snell WQ outre rmpoaaMt
Pf
©1
45'
roiPLtv \\ cuo3mo
emasculatob.
™s“ SAFETY"
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding:.
Postage Free 45/-
My "Hints on Castrating"
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Ranis, or
Boars.
Other patterns of 3Q/. to 50'
Emaseulators from
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It’s FREE
“The Reefer” : Some years ago a wizened-
up morsel of humanity from Tipperary had a crowd
of niggers sluicing for gold on a Papuan field. Dis-
covering a husky Orokiva stealing, Irish Tim
attempted to chastise him. He might just as well
have tussled with an elephant. Presently this
dawned on him, and he bethought him of his big
countryman Paddy Henncssy, located in a distant
gully. Snatching a pencil and paper he wrote: —
Dere Hinnissy, —Th’ bearer of this has been
thievin’ ’n’ given me a dale of tlirouble, plese giv
him a good batin.
The offending boy was then despatched with the
epistle. He got back late the following day, very
stiff and tender in ivuts, and very chastened in
temper. Thenceforward he was the best boy in
that party. Some months elapsed. One day the
boss discovered that he was out of matches. The
store was a seven-days’ journey for a native, so
Tim, with another great effort, and not without
many blots, wrote asking Hennessy to send some
matches by bearer. Thinking it would be a pleasant
change from the sluicing, Tim called the . Orokiva
boy to carry the note. But when the boy heard
the destination, he back-pedalled, and made no bones
about what he thought of friend Hennessy. “What
for you very wild along me this time, Taubada ? I
no stealin’. I bin work very good all-e time. What
for you sendem me along plurry Paddy?”- “I’m not
wild, me bhoy. This feller letter he tellim Paddy I no
got matches ; p’raps he sendem some.” The Orokiva
stood now on one log, and again on the other,
screwing his toes in an agony of apprehension.
“Taubada [master], 1 too much fright. This time
I savvy fashion belong white man. He sendim boy
along plurry letter. Plurry letter he tellem nother
feller friend, ‘More better him makum plenty plurry
fight to boy.’ No good. Plurry Paddy ’e wild
like plurry alligator. ’Spose I go, close up I finish
[die].” “No! No! Me bhoy, 1 tell you true, this
letter he no talkem fight—-he talkem matches.”
“Well, Taubada, more better you showem me first
time.” (Tim does ■so and translates it word for
word.) Suddenly, as he secs a big blot, the boy
plants his finger on it, and interjects: “Ha! Tau-
bada ! No good you gammon me! What name thin
idler?”
*’* * *
“Petifi”: The waters that came down at
Ladore weren’t a circumstance compared with the
Murrumbidgee when it romped past Wagga
(N.S.W.) the other Sunday. During the previous
couple of days five or six inches of wet descended
upon the watershed higher up the river, though
only a few points fell on Wagga itself; and just
before dawn things began to happen. With a rush
and a boom a bank of water, six feet high, white
and phosphorescent in the starlight, swept down,
carrying sheep, rabbits, fences, logs, p.n.’s, hay-
stacks, mortgages, pigs, signs of wet weather, and
sundries. Fish galore struggled in the murky tur-
moil, and the populace with one spontaneous accord
went a-eatching them. The hauls made that
Sabbath morn will be lied about at great length
by the Oldest Inhabitant three-quarters of a century
to come.
KIND INQUIRIES.
"'Ullo, Bill; 'ow's yer 'orse?"
"Fine, thanks."
"An' 'ow's yerself?"
“L.N.” : “Boys” with their hair bleached
a straw-yellow are to be seen at most parts of the
South Sea Isles, i have never been able to satisfy
myself whether the youths do it out x>f flashness or
„ , ...
simply to rid themselves of encumbrances., nomen
. .. T . . , , , „
never do it. Lime ,s Postered on thickly for
several weeks, and the hair becomes alternately green,
slate-blue, livid -gingei, and finally yellow. tis
a long way better than peroxided hair, but I don t
suppose Hossie would care to display the inter-
mediate colors of the process.
CASTE.
DISRUNTLED SOUL (in the background): “A bloke ain't in it these days ’less he's got
a bloomin' uniform on him."
“Kiltie” : The black cormorant, commonly
known as the shag or diver, is prolific on the Macleay
River (N.S.W.) flats; and nobody, except tourists,
lias taken much notice of him until recently, when
he developed a new habit. In a stretch of dead
timber he and the missus built hundreds of nests,
Old timers say they have, never before known these
fish-birds to have their villas above ground-level,
Would you kindly pass the naturalist?
“Iveeser” is quite frank about it:—
What between the clamor for more Protection and
the barks for Freetrade and the blood-curdling
stories of atrocities in Flanders published by the
daily rags hereabouts; what with the bursting of
the Queensland boom and men walking about, looking
for work, tucker and beer, my brain got over-heated
with it all. So I went to the nearest pub and
drank a,long beer—it mightha’ been more—-and aero ;
planed home to bed and dreamed that Australia had
declared war on the Emperor of Freetrade and we all
(except the Freetraders) went to the front, armed
with prickly pears and ticks, and smashed the Syd-
ney at Cocos Islands. We roamed the seas for munce
and munce and munce in Snowy Baker’s Stadium
trying to intercept the ship oil which Griffiths
Bought’em and Co. were coming out from Noo Yark,
but just as we were hoisting the N.S.W. Labor
party’s official diver overboard to look for the policy
Holman said he hadn’t lost, 1 opened my eyes. A
red-bearded face was at the window. “Wot yer
doin’ there?” I asked; “sneakin’ me tea?” “Not
on yer life; but have yer seen wot these Ger’ogs ’ave
been doin’?” and he came in and cut off both my
hands and one foot and started to read the full,
true and particular account of the war as printed in
the Bundaloo Bloodstain. That was three weeks
ago. He’s been reading it ever since, and says he
won’t give me a dropper booze till the war’s over
and Andy Fisher’s opened a pub in the Territory.
“Trapper”: “R.B.H.’s” find of U 3 baby-
snakes inside the corpse of ma snake is no record.
On the Goulburn River, just out of (Vic.), my
mate shot a female crawler of the tiger persuasion.
When we had completed operations with the- tin-
opener 32 young devils came out and started off in
32 different directions. I dunno where they were
going, but they didn't get there.
“Eddyson”: This is the story of Garran
who went on the land. Garran was a city worker
with an ambition to throw off the serfdom of
slaving for wages, and be a man on his own land.
He saved, and screwed, and married, and still
screwed and saved, while he studied theoretical
farming. Then he went with the pioneers a little
further out than The Limit, and built a house on 300
acres of Gippsland gum country, just where the
Hungry Ranges begin to swell up from the flats.
Garran declared war, and charged the massed enemy
with his axe, and one by one the gums fell before
him for a year without seeming to make any differ-
ence. They had been in occupation two years be-
fore his wife went for a walk alone. Mrs. Garran
was 28 and pretty. She was bred in Adelaide,
and had small love of the bush and its glories.
Two yards from a beaten track she was as helpless
and flurried as a sick chicken; and the hush at
Moryet was towering high and hopelessly tangled
with supplejack, and spider fern, and gross under-
growth of sapling, and bracken, and stinkweed
scrub. Great gorges ran into the range, too,
deepening as they ran, their sides set thick with
heather and slim white gums, their depths a net-
work of ferns and sickly shrubs. These gorges
had tributary ravines, dark and choked with growth.
The whole formed a maze that taxed the skill and
endurance of the hardest and craftiest of the old
bushmen. After the second day Mrs. Garran’s
chances seemed hopeless; but Garran hung on, and
Hutchinson, the surveyor, stood by him for two
days more. When the blacktrackers confessed them-
selves beaten, and the widely scattered neighbors
gave up even thinking of getting the bones of
Annie Garran, Steve Garran continued the search.
He had mapped out the locality into sections, and
he gave one day to each; and all day long he
fought his way through scrub, and fierce opposing
creepers, like some insane animal on a scent. Steve
also had abandoned hope of finding his wife alive;
but he swore to find her body or die. Six months
later hd was still hunting, and all about Moryet
and The Limit they said he was cracked, and called
him “Mad Garran.” He looked the part; gaunt
as Death and brown as a Lascar, ragged, hairy and
half-starved. One day, returning from the search,
he found a letter lying on his kitchen table, where
some passer from The Limit had left it. It bore
the Sydney postmark, and was poorly written and
very short. It ran: “You needn’t hunt for yore
wife. I saw her in a theatre here larst night
with a bloke what was your friend; Hutchinson
his name.” The letter was anonymous. Garran
gave up his search. He sold his land, and re-
turned to wage-slavery in Melbourne. Within a
year he married again, and nine weeks after that
they found the body of Annie Garran tucked well
under an over-hanging flat rock in one of the seven
ravines, where she had crept for shelter, and where
she had died, probably from snakebite, the Coroner
said. And Steve Garran, comfortable in his new
surroundings, with no ambition left to be a man
standing on his own land, wonders and wonders
who his friend and anonymous correspondent of
12 months ago was.
* * * *
“Wandi” : Among the busy nomads of the
bush the tailor does as well as any, but he has to be
as careful about his cuts and flits as his shop brother
in town. Nothing talks like a tad-fitting suit. It
condemns its maker wherever it goes. Usually the
needle and scissors expert travels in a tilted cart, in
which he carries a few rolls of tweeds and serges,
lhere is not much variety, but then there is very
little variation in the-dress affected by the workers
where he moves. Stockmen and drovers mostly adopt
one style, and, to a large extent, other groups do the
same thing'. Therefore, the tailor, when he has been
round once or twice, knows exactly what is required.
He stops wherever he gets an order. Often he finds
a week or two s work from the manager of the run
or the manager’s wife. At such times he is saved the
trouble of cooking for himself, for he has his meals
with the station-hands. At shearing sheds and mus-
tering camps, also, he enjoys this privilege. He in-
cludes dyeing and pressing in his operations, especi-
ally if he is a married man, and has his wife travel-
ling with him. In this case they take in mending,
and that is a big lift. Prompt cash is not always
necessary, for when the wandering firm works round
periodically payment is collected from reliable cus-
tomers on the next or succeeding trip. As the round
may occupy at least six months, accounts are often
outstanding for a year or more. For convenience,
when the firm has plenty of work to do, a temporary
workshop is rigged up with a tent fly. Under this
the sewing-machine, standing on the grass, is worked
early and late. The Factories Act does not intrude.
The man generally works in the vehicle, though in
calm, warm weather he sometimes sits on the ground
in the shade of a tree. Providing they haven’t chil-
dren to carry with them and care for, it is not an
unpleasant life for either man or missus—except in
wet weather, when cooking and travelling have often
to be done under the most disagreeable circumstances.
Not all the members of this trade are equipped with
vehicles and machines. A number tramp the roads
with their worldly possessions slung on their backs.
I heir main work is strapping and repairing, of which
they get a good deal to do at the sheds and on small
mining fields. Now and again they make a suit of
clothes, when the material is provided. They also
make oilskins and fur caps, and when no other work
is obtainable they turn their hands to the stitching
of waterbags.
“Bill Bowyang” : Coming back to the big
trees, I have seen a log of cedar 25ft. in girth.
Ten years ago a blue-gum was felled at Little
•lilliby, Wyrong, near Newcastle, which yielded
265 railway sleepers, each measuring 7ft. 6in. x
Din. The ironbark of Queensland and N.S.W. also
grows to a great size, and the black-butt of the
same States has furnished specimens 300 ft. high and
45ft. in circumference. The red-gum of South Aus.
furnished a specimen, grown at Mount Lofty, over
200 ft. high by 25ft. in girth. A tree at Mount
Bavv Baw (Vic.) was 326 ft. high and 25ft. Tin. in
girth, Another in the Otway Ranges, the top
broken off, was 290 ft. high and 32ft. in girth.
Another of the same species was 219 ft. 9in. in height
and of- the Reidian circumference of 48ft. 6in. All
the girths were taken 6ft. from the ground. The
crowning specimen was found stretched on the
ground in the Berwick Ranges: it was 300 ft. from
tip to toe, and 81ft. round the waistcoat.
WHERE OLD BILL TUCKER SLEEPS}.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There isn’t any sculptured dome,
Nor any ornate railing round
Old Billy Tucker’s final home,
But he will slumber just as sound ;
He never had a taste for swank ;
He loved the primal heights and deeps—
And there grow sun-dews on the bank
Where old Bill Tucker sleeps.
His name is on a wooden post;
He wouldn’t wish it otherwise.
No marble slab his deeds shall boast,
Nor granite glow with gilded lies.
He held himself as of the crop
A mystic Nature sows and reaps f ~
And Rest has settled down, to stop
Where old Bill Tucker sleeps.
His view of life was plain enough—
To always take the open track ;
To lepd a hand when times were rough ;
To crack a joke when skies were black.
His scorn was for the renegade,
The paltry soul that schemes and creeps.
No wonder Peace should haunt the shade
Where old Bill Tucker sleeps.
But we have got his epitaph
Engraved, within, upon our hearts,
His cheery words, his kindly laugh,
His wit to turn the word that smarts.
And may our slumber be as sound,
When Death has got us all for keeps,
As that beneath the grass-grown mound
Where old Bill Tucker sleeps!
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


WOODROW WILSON, TAXIDERMIST.
"I ’ V e got to turn this durned bird into a dove somehow!”


HYGEIA
Shaving:
Stick.
In
Hygeia
oil-foam
hard
bristles
grow soft
Mother’s
Friend.
PEDIC POMADE for the HEAD
Strikes Infesting Vermin Dead.
EVERY SOLDIER AND NURSE should carry a
box of PEDIC POMADE. Kills Vermin on man
am l horse. Ensures perfect cleanliness, heals
sores, wounds, broken knee, saddle pills. Prices
posted to Egypt: Small, 1/4; Large, 2/6,
Extra Large, 4/2. Sold bv all Chemists and
Stores. Sydney Agents: TALBOT’S, 206 George
Street, and Washington. Soul, who will will pack
•"-and post on receipt of amount. —
r °H.M
THE
Wherever you so, the world over, leading men
HATS. They are unequalled in quality, style,
comfort. ALL STORES.
wear Vv OOUitOW
durahality and
m
LEWIS &
WhITTY
MAKERS
Q
'■ V " -■ '•“
TINO
m m
vtsstiimZh
,■ vv..»
tain
TO REDUCE WEIGHT.
£lOO IN CASE OF FAILURE.
HOW ANY FAT PERSON CAN
QUICKLY REGAIN A SLENDER.
WELL-FORMED FIGURE.
Every fat man or woman can now reduce
fat to normal without dangerous drugs, oils
or acids, tiring exercises, weakening diets,
irritating bath salts or other harmful old-
time methods. Certain harmless sea plants
extract known as Salith leaves actually dis-
solve all excess fat and prevent more fat
from forming, so that a permanent weight
reduction is produced without leaving
wrinkles or flabbiness even in the most
obstinate cases. Do not think your case is
too difficult or abnormal. No matter how
fat you may he. no matter what your age.
sex or condition of health, nor how many
things yo.u have tried without success, get a
bok of Salith leaves from your chemist to-
day. take them as directed, and watch your-
self grow thin. Proof of the remarkable
value of Salith leaves is shown by the fact
that £lOO will be paid to the first man or
woman weighing over 20 stone who can
satisfactorily prove that after following the
Salith leaves treatment as directed, his or
her weight is not reduced. Salith leaves are
not expensive, purely vegetable and are
guaranteed perfectly harmless. Weakness
and lassitude quickly disappear, and you
feel more vigorous right from the start. Stop
when you 'mvo reduced as much as desired.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A C. Thompson and Frank Thompson,
brothers of the sitting M.L. A. for Ityde
(N.KW.) and sons of .1. B. Thompson, who
sat for Queanbeyan in 1877-81, have re-
ceived commissions in the Bth Bo.val Dublin
Fusiliers. The Thompsons have been for
three-quarters of a century connected with
Bathurst. The original Thompson was first
postmaster at that town, and gave the post
over to his son. A\ . G. Thompson. Between
them the two held the office for something
like 70 years.
Ilarvey Finlayson. killed in a motor-
smash in Melbourne last week, was the only
son of J. 11. Finlayson, formerly editor of
the Adelaide Register, and now lingering
on in S. Aus. in broken-down health. The
junior had a varied career, going through
the Boer war when very young, then acting
as vet. on the Aeneas Gunns’ Arafura station
ia the N.T., and ending as a motor agent in
Adelaide. He was on a brief visit to Mel-
bourne. and was driving his own car when
it skidded and upset.
A Melbourne paper, an effusive admirer
of the High Commissioner, quotes a London
post-prandial orator to the effect that George
Reid is "‘a king among men.” King of
Grease, presumably.
James Westley, Melbourne solicitor, is
dead, aged GG. The theatrical profession
found in him a stout friend, and often he
espoused successfully the side of the per-
former against the management. Mr.
Westley acted as agent for French, the
printer of plays, and brought many a per-
spiring amateur up with a legal jolt in the
eye for author’s fees. His daughter, Mrs.
Davey, was Mayoress of Melbourne before
the arrival of the Ilennessys.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
The first white child horn in Port Phillip was William
James Hobart Thorne, who arrived November 25,
1803, at the Collins Camp, just inside Port Phillip
Heads. On Christmas Day, underneath the gum-
trees overlooking what is now Sorrento, after
Chaplain Robert Knopwood’s sermon, Lieutenant-
Governor Collins handed the little son of the Sergeant
of Marines to the parson and stood god-father. In six
weeks time the whole settlement —excepting William
Buckley and another, who had decamped—removed to
the Derwent, where Collins built a city. The Thorne
child was named after Lord Hobart, Secretary of
State.
The last- survivor of the Birkenhead,
wrecked on February 2G, 3852, is dead. He
was a corporal, name o’ Smith, and during
tile historic catastrophe saved the life of
Captain Lucas. Now, G 8 years after, Smith
goes to prospect the place lie formerly
dodged. I.ike many of his gallant old tribe,
he died in a workhouse. If he’d only stayed
away from the Birkenhead and written a
Poem about what took place, Smith would
have made a better finish.
Dead at SS, Frank Bullen. who wrote
“The Cruise of the Cachelot” and other
stories. Early life was spent as seaman
before the mast in whaling craft and other
vessels in the Southern Seas. In later years
he had the post of a minor clerk at the
meteorological office in London, kept a small
shop for a time with his wife, and was
generally wholly miserable and hard up. A
lecturing tour of Australia eight or nine
years ago failed, and Bullen returned to
England in deeper gloom than ever. Then
cirrhosis of the liver gripped him, and the
last watches of the big-hearted seaman were
those of a hopeless invalid.
BILL’S NEW ALLY.
Dr. .1. P. Kennedy, formerly of Levin
(M.L.), who died in London recently, had
unique experiences of the old boom-and-burst
days in that distressful country. Lie started
to earn a crust in the M.L. Treasury in
Vogel’s time, and became private secretary
to that exnensive juggler. Presently the
wild-cat Midland .Railway between Christ-
church and Westland was born, and Vogel
gave Ivennedv the job of secretary to the
big co. behind the project. But building
the railway through the Alps proved too big
a contract for it and it died. That was
80 years ago, and the Government has been
struggling to finish the line ever since.
Kennedy eventually went to Edinburgh and
studied medicine, returning to practice in
Maoriland. A while ago something fatal
gripped him and he hurried Fogwards. to
consult a specialist. But Death refused to
let go.
Cecil L. Ilartt, whose black and white
work is familiar to Bulletin readers, has
decided to draw the German’s blood instead
of his picture. The man he hopes to serve
under is a Light Horse lieutenant who has
written many an interesting par. for the
“Aboriginalities” pages.
THE BABY-KILLERS.
THE STORK: "Well, this job's no sinecure
with those things about."
The death of the German Crown Prince is
again reported.
Who for his Fatherland has died
Is as a hero glorified.
How shall they ring his name in rhymes,
Who’s died for home a dozen times!
The McKinnon Pass on the famous Mil-
ford Track in Maoriland was crossed the
other week by a six-year-old tourist named
Horn. A kid of that age who takes on a
60-mile stroll over a rough track with a
mountain pass thrown in is a fairly tough
Maoriland sample.
The first white child born in Westralia
was a daughter of Lieutenant J. S. Roe.
Surveyor-General, who immigrated on
Christmas Day, J Slil). The baby afterwards
became Mrs. S, P. Phillips.- Her parents
arrived on .Tune 8. 1821), in the ship Par-
melia, which brought the first Governor,
James Stirling, and his family, with officials
and intending settlers to the number of 69.
The Rev. J. B. Wittenoom was the first
chaplain to the settlement. Roes and Wit-
tenooms are still persons of consequence there.
Mrs. Adrian Porter,-daughter of the late
Ilenniker Heaton, announces in the London
papers that she is editing a life, of her late
papa, and appeals to his friends for letters
and personal reminiscences. It may be a
bit difficult to reconstruct the .pushful Hen-
uiker’s early Australian career in accord-
ance with latter-day requirements. There
are, for instance, people still living in many
townships of N. 8. Wales who would think
it no harm to say that Heaton was travel-
ling canvasser for the Town and Country
Journal; but that wouldn’t: suit the sub-
sequently-aristocratic Henniker’s earnest de-
sire not to have his baroneted name associ-
ated with such a plebeian pursuit. After
marrying into the boss’s family, his idea
was to get into the House of Commons as
M.P. for an Irish Nationalist constituency.
His wife and Mrs. Dwyer Gray, wife of a
leading Irish M.P., who was proprietor of the
Dublin Freeman’s Journal, had been old
friends in Sydney, and he thought he could
work it that way. He wrote a beautifully
illustrated book about Rome, and presented
copies of it to all the Irish R.C. bishops.
He also subscribed liberally to the National-
ist funds in Dublin. All in vain! There
was too much of the Sassenach and too
little of the brogue to suit any Irish con-
stituency. So he transferred his subscrip-
tions to the campaign fund of the Carlton
Club, and got a nomination for Canterbury.
The sleepy old cathedral city had recently
come in for some handsome legacies from
the wealthy Dr. Beaney, of Melbourne, a
native of the place; so Canterbury was
favorably disposed towards an Australian
candidate, and Ilenniker got in. He was a
wretched speaker; but he had a good deal
of ohl Sam Bennett’s money to play with,
and he showed considerable shrewdness in
specialising on postal reforms —a fertile but
previously neglected field, which he worked
with excellent results for the public and
much kudos for himself. He made some
enemies, among them old Saul Samuel, long-
time Agent-General for N. S. Wales in Lon-
don, who detested him. According to the
gospel of Saul, Henniker’s first job was in a
Melbourne livery stable. He was plain
John in those days; afterwards—well, any-
one who knows of the picturesque vocabu-
lary of Saul of Sydney can guess what his
enemy was afterwards.
The Town Clerk of Melbourne. John Clay-
ton, prepares to retire. Though incorporated
nearly three-quarters of a century ago. the
city has had only four clerks. The first,
John Charles King, an Irishman from Ulster,
held office until 1851, when he was sent to
London as an anti-transportation delegate,
and did good work. On his return he
entered the Assembly, subsequently joined
the Nicholson Ministry as Commissioner for
Works, and died within a month. The next
clerk was William Kerr, founder of the
Argus. He was a man of great general
ability, but in finance a dreadful muddler,
llis capacity in this respect forced him to
sell the paper, and at a subsequent date
(1856) to resign the municipal billet. 11 is
successor, Edmund (Jerald Fitzgibbon. found
a wilderness in the way of books and accounts
to set in order. Kerr was always in deadly
opposition to John O’Sharassy; yet when
hard times came Big John made him railway-
station master at Sunbury. Fitzgibbon
ruled for 35 years, and retired only to take
the chairmanship of the Metropolitan Board
of Works. “Fitz” had studied for the Bar.
and was admitted ; but he never held a brief,
excepting for the corporation, lie married
a daughter of tin' wealthy Micky Dawson,
of Phoenix Park. Brunswick. John Clayton
followed him in 1891. but has been all
through overshadowed by tin* memory of the
masterful man In' succeeded.
“Jules”: None of the papers seem to
appreciate the feat of Captain Oswald Watt
in winning the Cross of the Legion of Honor
on the battlefield. After the Medaille
Militaire. which the President of France
conferred on Joffrc the other day. it is about
the highest military decoration the Republic
bestows. The achievement of the Civil
Cross is, of course, an easier matter. Cap-
tain Watt, by the way. has behaved remark-
ably in other directions. lit' is one of the
few Australian peace-time soldiers who have
gone to the Front, and the only one who has
been there from the beginning. Also lie
is the only ex-AJI.C. who has done any-
thing notable so far, except get killed or
wounded. Other Australians who have dis-
tinguished themselves are Sydney Pickles,
the famous airman, who was half-killed last
year; and Captain Bex Osborne, of the big
N.S.W. station-owning family.
W. M. Forwood. managing director of
Forwood. Down and Co. in Adelaide, has
been celebrating the 50th year of his connec-
tion with the ironfounding firm. He and a
fellow - workman.
Down (now
dead), took over
an unsuccessful
little “Colonial
Ironworks” in
Hind ley - street
and built it up
into a big eon-i
eern. the North-
ern T e r r i t o r y
gold-mining boom
giving them their
first big chance.
Mining machinery
is still a big item,
and they have a
branch at Kal-
goorlie. but they
specialise also in
railway bridges.
Five Forwood
sons are mana-
gers of the vari-
ous departments
—including the
Westralian —and
there seems to be
enough hereditary
talent to make
this somewhat
risky experiment
a success. The
father is presi-
dent of the
Chamber of Man-
ufactures, which
claims to have
proved that S.
Aus. is something
more than just
the wheat State.
SENATOR JACK
BARNES, of
V[?]cria.
Six-year-old gibe by FI. G. Wells at the
Kaiser: —•
He professes a violent and gibtesque Christianity
w ith a ferocious pro-Teutonic Father and a negligible
Son.
To-day, though, Wilhelm seems to have some
doubts whether the Father is quite as good
a German as He should be.
THE INVALID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the song service held in the Y.M.C.A. marquee
on Sunday evening, Mr. E. E. Wright, field officer
at the Kxpeditionaries’ training camp at Broad-
meadows, launched a “clean lip” campaign.... with
the following brief pledge: “I promise always to
endeavor to use only clean language, and to influence
my comrades to do the same!”
The pale young man he comes to me,
An’ chats me good an’ fait';
“The langwidge that you use,” ses he,
“Pollutes the good, clean air.
Why don't yeh chuck sich silly rot.
An’ line-up with the Clean Lip lot ?”
But, square ’n’ all, I got no use
For them poor, shrinkin’ guys,
Who, at the sound of coves’ abuse,
Turn pale, an’ rolls their eyes.
To use the fancy swears I hear
Conies natural as sinking beer.
Beef an’ blood-gr:. ;y’s light in' food,
Not milk; but, all the same,
I (ome to see there ain’t no good
In this erook-langwidge game.
An’ so a little vow I made.
An’ joined their swell Clean Lip Brigade.
’Twas ’ard! But sternly I pursoo'd
Me course; an’ wore a frown
Thro’ swallerin’ me speech unchewed,
An’ chokin’ curse-words down.
Oh, dear! It was a dreadful stunt,!
Then, gracious me, I hit the Front!
A feller in the firin’ line,
Tied up with sich a gag,
Who has to curse by look an' sign,
He fair gets out the rag.
An’ so, 1 ses, each time I shoots,
“I'll teach you, you—you —-you —you brootsl”
I don't care wot the goodies say,
It’s cruel, fightin’ dumb!
To curse a bit, once in a way,
Believes ver feelin's some.
I kills four men in fair, clean fight,
An’ seven extra out er spite.
All’ then there come the bay’nit charge.
The blokes to left an’ right
They all was cursin’ fine and large,
But I keep mum, an' fight.
I plunks a square-’ead in the wind—-
“Annoying fellow; there!” 1 grinned.
With that a great, big ’ulkin' chap,
Comes at me with a sword
(The thing / needed in that scrap
Was just one little word).
“Haw! You—you person,” I begun;
But, while I talks, he gets in one.
Fair in the chest I gets that swipe,
An’ crumbles in a heap,
An’ starts to think the time is ripe
To ’avc, a long, deep sleep.
“You are intensely rude,” I said—•
An’ so they leaves me there for dead.
They invaierds me ’ome, although
The wound gives me no cares.
The cause of my complaint, I know,
Was bottlin’ up me swears—-
Congestion of me “Damns” denied :
It made me feel all swelled inside.
The pale young man lie comes to me.
“Ah, friend,” he says, “how now?
Your lips are clean, I’m pleased to see,
An’ you ’ave ken’ ver vow!”
“Me lips is bonzer,” I replied,
“But, ’strutli, me throat is scarified!”
VICTORIA.
C. J. D.


fasf
Value
and
Satisfaction
“Monopole”
Cigars


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUS CO 9 Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag, Line Excavators.
Sole Agents WILLIAM ADAMS (EX, COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane. Pertb.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Standard Fire and Marine Insur-
ance Co. (Maoriland) :
Written To Re- Rc-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1902.. £15,938 10 p.e. = £7500 £2OOO £6,438 £56,644
1903.. 18,307 10 ~ ~ 7500 —• 10,807 67,451
1904.. 12,715 10 „ ~ 7500 5,215 72,666
1905.. 12,953 10 „ .. 7500 5,453 78,119
1900.. 11,570 10 .. 7500 4,070 82,189
1907.. 12,697 10 ~ „ 7500 5,197 87,386
1908.. 8,180 10 „ ~ 7500 680 88,066
1909.. 12,573 10 ~ .. 7500 5,073 93,139
1910.. 20,610 111 .. •• 8312 12,298 105,437
1911.. 18,512 111 .. ~ 8500 10,012 115,449
1912.. 19.801 12' ~ ~ 9000 10,801 126,250
1913.. 23,170 13 ~ ~ 9750 13,426 139,676
1914.. 18,925 13 ~ ~ 9750 500 8,675 148,351
The co.’s interest on investments amounted
to f 10,O7(i: so all the underwriting profit and
a bit besides was put to reserve, where of
course it will be available for payment of
claims. A co. which is as moderate as that
in its own demands deserves the good opinion
of people with fire and marine policies to
place.
On the other hand, The Bulletin is quite
prepared to admit that a co. which has to bite
something out of the underwriting profits in
order to pay a 13 p.e. div., might be quite as
worthy of three cheers. The mean assets of
the co. for last year totalled £234,000. De-
duct £35,000 for non-interest earning assets
and you get £199,000, which brought in
£10,070, = a shade over 5.0. c. all round. Of
the total £115,965 is tied down to mortgages.
£58.719 is in unspecified debentures, and
£17,318 is in offices and other property. Of
the investments that leaves only about £9OOO
in deposits. Admittedly an insurance office
can more safely lend its money on fixed
mortgages than a bank can lend deposit money
on the same security. In this case, for in-
stance, besides the £9OOO of deposits there is
about £35,000 of agents’, .balances and till
money. During the first half of the year
about £40,000 net of premiums will also come
in. Thus by that time it will have £75,000
available; and if the co. is struck
by June 30 with £75,000 of claims
it will have dreadful luck. But, all
the same, an insurance co. is liable
to have dreadful luck ; wherefore the tying-up
of so much money in mortgages and deben-
tures strikes this paper as a bit too risky.
It is quite true that it is Maoriland’s habitual
practice; and it is quite true also that Maori-
land sheep and farm country is better security,
as a rule, than Australian, because the Maori-
land security can be relied upon to at least
earn the interest, whereas the Australian
security may be struck by drought which will
not only knock out all hope of profit that
year, but by wiping out the stock will affect
the profit for years to come. Still that
doesn’t make the Maoriland mortgage
liquid, and it is the non-liquid nature of
security that is liable to cause trouble to
cos. which must pay out large sums quickly.
Nevertheless, as suggested just now, this
applies less to the Standard than to many
other M.L. institutions.
Further Standard comparisons:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66.5 p.e. 30.7p.e.
1900 .. 55,475 29,830 15,285 53.8 „ 27.6 „
1905 .. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54.2 ~ 33.2 ~
1910 . . 73,370 36,593 23,760 49.9 „ 32.4 „
1911 .. 80,767 42,021 28,526 52.0 „ 35.3 „
1912 . . 90,441 47,792 31,476 52.8 „ 34.8 ~
1913 . . 100,663 50,777 36.123 50.4 ~ 35.8 ~
1914 . . 112,056 62,928 39,283 56.1 ~ 34.9 „
The loss rate was stiff; and that may be
accepted as the result, direct and indirect,
of the war, helped by the Australian drought,
which has added, as usual, to the inflamma-
bility of many risks. Considering the aver-
age loss rate, the expense rate is by no
means low. It is, however, rather astonish-
ing to find that it actually fell last year in
the face of a substantially-increased premium
income. Maybe the co., which deals largely
in marine lines, took a considerable amount
of war risk. If it didn’t, and if the increase
was ordinary business, then the co. did sur-
prisingly well to get it without paying a lot
for it. As for the future, the interest earn-
ings are likely to be larger rather than
smaller; though losses may be a bit heavier
than usual this year. Altogether, assuming
that nothing happens to require swift reali-
sation of securities, the war, so far as can
at present be foreseen, will not do the co.
enough damage to call for a crutch or even
a piece of sticking-plaster.
Tooiteys, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery.
Sydney:— '•%
Net. ' , -To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serve*.. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
July, ’O7 . . 13,471 5 p.e. = 10,000 3,471 9.104
•s. & e *
" serves.
Jan., ’OB.. 19,964 5 ~ „ 10,000 9,964 860
July, ’08..13,977 5 ~ ~ 10,000 3,977 4,837
Jan., ’09..18,796 5 ~ ~ 10,000 8,796 13,633
July, ’O9 . .17.545 5 ~ ~ 10,000 7,545 21,178
Jan., ’lO.. 19,911 5 ~ ~ 10,000 9,911 31,089
July, ’10..20,025 6 .. .. 12,000 8,025 39,114
Jan. ’ll ..22,756 6 ~ ~ 12,000 10,756 49,870
July ’11..20,398 6 ~ ~ 12,000 5,39 S 58,268
.Tan. ’12..26,867 7 „ ~ 14,000 12,867 71,135
July ’12.. 24,086 7 ~ ~ 14,000 10,086 81,221
.Tan. ’13..27,750 7 ~ „ 14,000 18,750 94,971
July ’l3 ..23,487 7 ~ ~ 14,000 9.487 104,458
Tin ’l4. 33 120 S ~ „ 16,000 17,120 121,578
■Tulv ’14..27,360 8 „ ~ ,16,000 11,360 132,938
Jan.’ ’15..35,692 8 .. 16,000 19.692 152,630
"The machinery and plant have been main-
tained in a high state of efficiency, and all
expenditure in connection therewith has
Deep defrayed out of current revenue as
heretofore.” The “maintenance” has been
something more than is generally meant by
the word: improvements and additions have
been frequently included. Probably the
plant is thus worth more than it was six
months ago; nevertheless, ostensibly to pro-
vide for depreciation, £5OOO has been writ-
ten off profits. Even with that deduction
and a similar one in the preceding term,
enough profit was shown in the past 12
months to pay a dividend of just on 16 p.c.
Vo doubt this result was helped by the in-
creased prices recently charged to the
publicans, and. by them passed on to the
public. But that help couldn’t have been
of much consequence, since the charge for
calling up spirits wasn’t increased until
three weeks before these accounts closed.
Running back over the past few fat years
these figures are seen :
•Jan., July, Jan.,
1910. 1911. 1915.
Liabilities, lee* cash . . C 34,172 £87,980 £73,511
Breweries, hotels and plant 939.588 413,175 416,953
Stocks 54,611 78,321 72,310
Book debts 107,661 172,921 180,377
Gross profits on brewings, etc. 51,226 77,035 97,961
Rent and interest .. .. 6,410 9,021 8,852
Management, wages and
charges . . . . . . 33,724 53,696 66,121
Total assets less liabilities five years ago
were £467,589. To-day they are £596,131.
Vo capital has been got in during the period.
Thus Tooheys, Ltd., has paid its dividend,
paid for “maintenance” as above mentioned,
and in five years has added £128,542 to its
net assets. That is something over £25,000
a year, or enough to- pay an additional 6 p.c.
1 tow much of that was surplus net profit
depends, of course, upon the depreciation of
properties not covered by renewals, etc.; but
the chances are that, as a lot of value was
added which never went on to the balance-
sheet, there isn’t much to deduct from that
6 p.c.
That covers five very profitable years.
The next, five are not so certain; the five
beyond that are more uncertain still.’ True,
though always under fire, the trade is as
prosperous as ever. A few beer-pumps here
and ihere are silenced; and immediately, as
a rule, their business strolls along to another.
Thus the brewery and wholesale man haven’t
suffered: on the contrary, they seem to
flourish on what was intended to poison them.
But whether the future developments will be
so innocuous remains to be seen. In Britain,
since the war. hours of business for pubs
have been cut into hard: and S. Aus. is just
trving to follow suit. That will be bad for
Bung and the brewer, too. Meantime, how-
ever, it is fairly clear that the general public
isn’t disposed to commit burglary on Bung’s
premises. If, as a necessary preliminary to
State ownership, it decides to gradually clear
Bung out, it is pretty certain that Bung
will be paid to go, as in Victoria —even
though, indirectly, he has to provide the
purchase price himself.
The Melbourne Steamship Co. :
Added Noini-
Gross to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
it iL .£. t.
Dee., ? 06 9,187 5 p.c. = 3,750 5,437 29,519
June, '07.. 18,202 3 5 „ „ 11,250 6,952 36,471
Dec.. 'O7. . 13,117 74 „ ~ 5,625 7,492 43,963
June, ’OB.. 15,899 10 ~ ~ 7,560 8,399 52,362
Dee.. 'OB.. 14,008 10 ~ „ 7,500 6,508 58,870
June, '09.. 13,405 8 „ „ 6,800 6,605 65,475
Dec., '09.. 13,869 8 .. ~ 6,800 7,069 72,544
June, ’lO.. 15,488 S „ „ 6,800 8,688 81,232
Dec., ’30.. 16,749 9 ~ „ 7,650 9,099 90,331
June, ’ll.. 16,978 9 .. ~ 7,650 9.328 99,659
Dec., ’ll.. 12,968 9 ~ „ 7,650 5,318 104,977
June, ’12.. 17,900 9 „ ~ 7,650 10,250 115,227
Premiums on new shares.. 6,800 122,027
£5OOO written off .. .. 117,027
Dec., ’12.. 8,715 7 p.c. = 6,843 1,872 118,899
June, ’13.. 20,107 8 „ „ 8,160 11,947 130,846
Dec.. ’13.. 21,164 8 ~ .. 8,160 13.004 143.850
June, ’14.. 16,966 7 „ „ 7,140 9,826 153,676
Pref. Ord.
Dec., ’14.. 17,409 Gp.c. Bp.c. = 8,463 8,946 162,622
The co. used to be in £lO shares, which
originally were divided up among the three
firms that were amalgamated. During the
past term the £lO shares were split up into
ten, and 20,000 6 p.c. cumulative pref. shares
were issued at par. The gross profits in-
clude sums added to two depreciation
reserves. The past half-year’s history in that
respect has been as follows: —
June, ’l4. Dec., ’l4. Inc,
Depreciation Reserve . . £93,352 £100,352 £7OOO
Special Renewal Fund . . 9,000 9,000 —-
Share premiums . . 6,800 6,800
Insurance and General . . 34,934 36,256 1322
Unappropriated .. ... 9,590 10,214 624
Total.. £153,676 £162,622 £8946
So £7OOO of the profit has been transferred
to the Depreciation Fund. Now, the
steamers, tugs, city freehold, engineering
works and even the furniture are taken in at
cost; they represent £391,860 of the total
assets of £462,269. Out of revenue the co.
pays for repairs and renewals; it may pos-
sibly pay also out of revenue for some im-
provements made in the coitrse of renewals.
But this Depreciation Fund apparently has
to provide for the replacement of ships as
they become out of date. How much ought to
be thus put aside to provide for wear and
tear which isn’t covered by patches it is
impossible to,„say. But- if £7OOO was a
fail’ thing to write off, then the true profit
last half-year was £1946 more than the
dividends called for: and it has to be noted
that, though div. was paid on the pref.
capital for a few weeks, not only that money
hut a good deal besides was represented by
a new vessel which couldn’t have earned
anything to speak of.
A five years’ survey may yield some-
thing more definite: —
Dec.. 'O9. June, ’l4: Dec.. 14.
Steamships and other
non-liquid tisets .. £231,382 £347,352 £401,416
Liquid assets . . 37,003 62,379 60,853
Liabilities .. .. 19,255 44,416 63,830
In five years lint co. has spent £170,034 on
steamships, etc., and lias changed a liquid
surplus of £18.348 into a deficit of £2977 :
and meantime it has got in £36.853 of capi-
tal and £6BOO of premiums. The total of
those four items is £84.978. In other words,
the co. has got £84,978 from outside, and
has had £170,034 to spend: so, in addition
to a small amount written off, perhaps for
depreciation of stores, the co. has in five
years earned (1) its dividends; (2) what-
ever it has spent on repairs and renewals;
and (3) £85,050 which has been available
for replacement of worn-out ships, etc.
That £85,050 is at least 50 p.c. of the book
value of the ships as at Dec., 1909; and as
that is more than enough to cover deprecia-
tion, it can be said very confidently that
the dividends have been more than earned.
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Syd-
ney)
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
rrofits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
■June, ’07.. 7,546 10 p.c. = 4580 2,960 33,580
Dec., ’07.. 6,287 6 ~ ~ 2752 99 3,436 37,010
June, ’OB.. 5,635 0 „ ~2752 99 2,784 39,800
Dec., ’OB.. 4,996 6 ..2752 2,244 42,044
June, ’09.. 6,458 6 „ „ 2752 - 3,706 45,750
Dee., ’09.. 4,627 6 „ „ 2752 1,875 47,625
June, ’lO.. 12,230 12 „ .. 5504 6,726 54,351
Dec., ’lO.. 12,125 12 ~ ~5504 0,621 60,972
June,’ll.. 11,449 12 ~ ~5504 - 5,945 66,917
Dec., ’ll.. 14,145 10 „ ..7338 6,807 73,724
Transferred to capital, £55.038 .. 18.680
June, T 2.. 25,252 11$ p.c. = 8164 17,088 35,774
Dec., ’12.. 14,165 114 ~ 8164 6,001 41,775
June, ’l3. . 15,138 114,. ~8164 -- 0,974 48,749
Dee.. ’13.. 16,589 114 „ „ 8898 7,691 56,440
Transferred to capital, £18,340 .. 38,094
June, ’l4. . 14,211 114 p.c. = 8898 6,313 43,407
Dec., ’14.. 14,549 114 „ ~ 889 S 5,651 49,058
After you have absorbed the table The
Bulletin is bound to say that it isn’t sure
the meal will do you much good. This may
suggest why;—
Dec.,'o4. Dec.,’l3. June,’l4. Dec.,’l4.
Liquid assets . . £42,267 £119,07.3 £92,883 £78,970
Liabilities . . 31,188 25,495 65,980 60,325
Surplus ..£11,079 £93,578 £20,903 £18,045
In 12 months the co. has sopped up about
£40,000 of its liquid assets and added nearly
£35,000 to its liabilities; which really means
that it lias put over £75,000 into the busi-
ness. Much if not most of it has gone
into improved facilities for cold storage, in-
cluding the purchase of the freehold of the
co.’s principal iceberg factory. It does not
follow, because a co. could make a good
showing with £116,284 in “freeholds, lease-
holds, plant, property, etc.,” as at June, 1013,
that it should do equally well now when
the corresponding entry stands at £204,426.
Still the co. hasn’t thrown up the business
which has been so profitable in the past.
The little comparison printed just now
shows that in the nine years between 1904
and 1916 the co. added £82,499 to its surplus
of liquid assets. It not only paid its usually
handsome dividends and. added considerably
to its plant, but it also put by in cash and
liquid assets an average of over £9OOO a
year—a result far better than you would
expect on looking at the first table. The
new purchases are not likely to reduce the
profit, unless (as is not impossible) the
management makes the fatal mistake of now
neglecting the small things from which the
old profits were extracted.
# * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart,
Tas.) :
To Re- Ro
Proflts. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1900 .. £3497 C p.c. =£3402 £95 £8,056
June, 1907 . . 4734 6 „ „ 3402 1332 9.388
Dec., 1907 . . 3637 6 „ „ 3402 235 9,623
June, 1908 . . 4698 6 „ „ 3402 1290 10,919
Dec., 1908 . . 3298 6 „ „ 3402 10,815
June, 1909 . . 3823 6 „ ~ 3402 421 11,236
Dec., 1909 . . 3092 6 „ 3442 10,886
June, 1910 . . 4871 6 ~ .. 3442 1429 12,315
Dec., 1910 . . 7135 6 „ 3402 3733 16,048
June, 1911 . . 3190 6 „ „ 3402 15,830
Dec., 1911 .. 4064 6 „ „ 3402 662 16,498
June, 1912 . . 3444 6 „ „ 3402 42 16,540
Dec., 1912 . . 3602 6 „ „ 3402 200 16,740
June, 1913.. 4180 0 „ „ 3402 778 17.518
Dec., 1913.. 4665 6 „ „ 3402 1263 18,781
June, 1914 . . 7018 0 „ „ 3402 3616 22,397
Dee., 1914 . . 6362 6 „ „ 3402 2960 25,357
The last is one of the best half-years the co.
has had; which looks as though some body
might chip in with a good word for the
Kaiser. Somehow patriotism and beer react on
one another. You shout for the Empire and
then you w r ant to shout for yourself; and
after you have shouted twice for yourself
(and a friend, for the sake of appearances)
you will shout for the world. Also there
has been the indirect result of William’s
outbreak: something has been added to
Customs duties, and the man who drinks
German lager is a person bad enough to
kick his saintly grandmother to death and
dance on her grave. So “the local trade
has been exceedingly good, and that with
the mainland show's a satisfactory increase.
The newly-imposed Customs duties should
tend to promote a still larger trade with
the Australian continent.” Hooray !
The co. can do with the extra profit; for,
on paper, its position hasn’t been satis-
factory :
Dec.,’o4. June,’l4. Dec.,’l4
Mortgages and deposits ~ £98.835 £89,575 £87,675
Overdrafts, etc. .. .. 32,357 23,547 22,766
Hotels, properties, etc. .. 186,625 181,578 184,195
Stock and plant .. .. 38,866 41,512 36,158
Rook debts, etc. .. .. 22,474 24,876 27,974
Cash and liquid assets .. 1,662 76 77
Capital (w’hich was written down some
years ago) is £lOB,OOO. Liabilities total
£110,441. Thus the co. has more of other
people’s capital than it has of its own risked
in the business, excluding the reserves. And
no less than £184,195 is freehold brewery
and hotel and other property—more than
five times as much as there is in stock and
plant. The trouble is the co. has a big area
of land which is bringing in little or nothing:
and though some day it may be sold, in small
blocks at a profit, the attempts to get it off
haven’t so far been very encouraging. The
drain of interest on borrowed capital repre-
sented by this dead property makes the
brewery part of the business look less profit-
able than it really is. In addition to the
estates the co. lias a pretty big holding of
hotels: mid it is doubtful whether a proper
amount is written off to cover the deprecia-
tion of these premises. This is another way
of saying that it isn’t safe to assume that
the profits are really a farthing more than
the published accounts allege.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. (Syd-
ney) was formed about the middle of 190!).
A deficit of £7462 to begin with represented
patents and other goodwill items, phis pre-
liminary exes.: —
Towards De-
Loss. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
June, 1919.. £l9 Nil £7066
Goodwill items, £36 .. ’ 7102
Profits.
Dec., 1910.. 1830 10 p.c. = £B9B £932 6170
Goodwill items, £ll .. 6181
June, 1911.. 2447 10 p.c. = 1085 1362 4819
Goodwill items, £2B .. 4847
Dec., 1911.. 1592 10 p.c. = 1370 222 4625
June, 1912.. 3221 10 „„ 1500 1721 2904
Goodwill items, £B6 . . . 2990
Dec., 1912.. 3349 10 p.c. = 2160 1189 1801
Goodwill items, £4 .. 1805
June, 1913.. 3364 10'p.c. = 2500 864 941
Goodwill items, £43 .. 984
Reserves.
Dec.. 1913.. 6374 10 p.c. = 2950 3424 2440
Goodwill items, £B6 .. 2354
June, 1914.. 6682 12*p.c.= 4108 2574 4928
Goodwill items, £35 . . 4893
Dec., 1914.. 665 5 p.c. = 1750 3808
But that, last lino, though it follows the
co.’s own figures, hardly does the co. .jus-
tice, since £1192 spent in removing the
Sydney plant to the new works up the Lane
Cove River was charged against a revenue
which was also naturally impaired by the
upset due to shifting camp. Still even if
allowances are made for the actual cost of
removal and the temporary higher costs,
etc., due to the change, there was a bad
shrinkage in profits. The directors admit
that the war treated them badly; but the
State Governments “are energetically
pushing ahead with very extensive water-
supply schemes, necessitating the use of
immense quantities of piping, and the direc-
tors anticipate that wood pipes will be
utilised to a very large extent.” Certainly
it is a fact that, by the grace of the British
Government and with the assistance of the
Commonwealth Government and the banks,
there will still be loan money to splash up
for 12 months or so; after that —what? It
can't go on. The construction boom is
simply being flogged to keep it going a little
while longer. The future is therefore likely
to hold some lean seasons for this co. For-
tunately its capital is small —£70,000 —and
a modest turnover would yield it bread and
butter. Liabilities on Dec. 31 were £23,423:
but on the other side stocks and book debts
alone amounted to £66,553. so the financial
position isn’t uncomfortable.
North Broken Hill, Ltd., which till
recently was the X.B.H. Mining Co..
which was in its turn a reconstruction of a
co. formed 10 years earlier: —
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 'O6. .£50,692 25 p.c. = £17,500 £5,986 £63,799
June, ’07.. 54,167 00 „ 42,000 16,225 59,741
Dec., ‘07.. 50.690 50 .. ~ 35,000 19,655 '55,770
June, ‘OB.. 27,870 20 .. .. 14,000 12,619 57,027
Dec., ’OB.. 30,293 20 .. .. 14,000 13,034 60,286
.Tunc, '09.. 27,305 20 .. .. 14,000 13,096 60,495
Dec., '09.. 31,764 20 .... 14,000 17,550 60,709
New share premiums, £35,000 .. 95,709
Tune. 'lO.. 50,120 35 p.c. = 28,000 22,783 95,040
Dec., ’lO.. 73,179 40 .. .. 35,000 26,328 106,897
•Tune, ’ll.. 62,201 60 .. .. 52,500 12,662 103,936
Dec., ’ll.. 98,708 70 .. .. 61,250 12,168 129,226
June, ’12.. 101,663 93J .. ~ 93,750 11,910 125,229
Dec., ’12.. 175.993 220 „ .. 220,000 17,200 64,022
Assets written up and all reserves capitalised.
Capital increased from £200,000 to £600,000.
June, ’13.. 142,018 20 p.c. = 60,000 3,265 78,753
Dec., ’l3. . 152,596 40 „ „ 120.000 1,f,25 109.424
June, '14.. 183,845 50 „ 150,000 143,269
Dec., ’14.. 56,216 Nil 199,485
Happy co. this! Six months ago it neglected
to credit itself with a casual £31,468 “value
of products produced prior to June 30,
1014”; also it credited itself twice over with
£10,807 refunded by the N.S.W. Commis-
sioners of Taxation. In the accounts now
published the past half-year’s profit is
swollen by the consequent £20,661; but in
the foregoing table the amount is credited
to the previous term. Probably some of it
should belong to a still more previous term ;
but at any rate none of it rightly belongs to
the period just past. The errors and ad-
justments illustrate what The Bulletin
has said many times—that in concerns of
this sort the figures are at best approxima-
tions. For instance, on any given date this
co. under normal conditions has probably
20,000 tons of ore more or less on the way to
the commercial-product stage. Some of it
is only partly broken down, some is broken
underground, some is in reserve at the sur-
face, some is sauntering through the mill.
What amount the co. credits itself with in
respect of this stuff is largely a matter of
policy or liver. And then there is the un-
realised commercial product. This co., for
instance, has a quantity of slimes. A while
ago slimes, though they are rich in metals,
were more of a nuisance than an asset. Then
someone discovered something, and Owen.
Mcßride and others discovered other things
and slimes are probably worth £1 per ton
to-day. In the present case, the markets
having been closed, it was necessary
to include as an asset, this half-year,
the concentrates, etc., which have been piled
up; and that couldn't very well be done
without debiting this half-year with the
quantity brought forward from the previous
half. Hence, n<> doubt, the discovery of the
error, which probably isn’t quite so much
of an error as it is made out to be.
Because there are more estimates even
than usual the present accounts are worth
even less than usual. Contracts for the sale
uf the lead concentrates were suspended
automatically by tin l declaration of war.
From that date the North has worked only
half-time, its output going to the B. 11.
Prop.’s furnaces at Port Pirie instead of t<*
German buyers. But products have banked
up: it is only recentlv that much of a
market was found for lead. Consequently,
whereas in the accounts published six months
ago no product is shown as being on hand,
there are now concentrates, refined metal
and bullion valued at £121.810 after pro-
viding £31.312 for smelting costs and reali-


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
DIRECTORS.
WALTER .C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M.L.C.
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
M.L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0
Uncalled Capital 950,000 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 70,000 0
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0
0
0
0
0
THE LARGEST and STRONGEST TRUSTEE
COMPANY IN AUSTRALASIA
Acts as
Trustees of Wills and
Settlements.
THE CHARGES ARE LOW,
and the Management is in the hands of Experts.
A Booklet setting out its Methods and Charges vyiM
be sent on application.
2,4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from .Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United State's of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday ' for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 8/-
New Zealand.. 4Jd.
1/6
{!)d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4- ~1/2
i 7d. (minimum
i 1 1/8, 20 words)
IT. B. A. .. .2/4-to 2/8' i/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minhnum
111/8,20 words)
'• Argentine, .'-Brazil,' Chili and Peru, JV'est
Indies, Central Aiheriea And other rates on
application. Cable’ forms, Deterred and
w|ek-end llegiilations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC* CABLE BOARD,,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney.. Tel. City 1340 (3 lines).
40S Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2585.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific, V
77 fcitt Street, SYDNEY^
“1 find it better for heavy work and cheaper in the
end than any other belting I have used —and I’ve used
many.” These are words from the letter of a user
of “Pioneer” Leather Belting. You have his experi-
ence to guide you and our quality guarantee to back
you in putting “Pioneer” on every drive in your
factory—“Do it now” —order from our nearest office
and ask prices of “Pioneer” pump cup, hydraulic
ram and hat leathers, filleting, flexible coupling, raw
hide gears and belt laces. “Pioneer” goods are
made onlv by J. C. Ludowici and Son Ltd. Sold in
Victoria by Geo. Russell Pty. Ltd, Flinders Street,
Melbourne; South Australia: J. McKell, Timpson
Street, Port Adelaide; Queensland: Queensland
Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane ; West Australia Horace
Summers, Howard Street, Perth; Broken Hill: Geo.
C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
* * * *
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Neweastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.vv.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage,* Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth.*
* » * *
Kfficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Ilecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should he worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [ l
* * * *
Extract from The Review, London, December 5.
1013, re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Ltd.: —“Life policies alone do not appeal to some in-
dividuals. Therefore, the Society’s combined accident
and sickness policy, if fully advertised, should meet
with the acceptance deserved. This is a branch offer
ing much scope for energetic development. This
office, we are sure, will press forward and transact a
much larger business of this kind in coming years.
It is an interesting office in every way, being
thoroughly equipped to carry on its work with the
maximum amount of good for its policyholders.”* 13
* * * *
PIONEER AVOOD PIPE is not affected by chemical
action. It lasts indefinitely when continuously carry-
ing fluids heavily charged with minerals or acids.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
contractors to all State Governments, 57 York Street,
Sydney (Head Office).*
* * * *
The Australian Provincial Assurance Associa-
tion, Limited, Head Office, Denison House, Sydney,
has set out to place its Personal Accident Depart-
ment on the same prominent and substantial footing
as it has placed its Life Assurance Department.
This Association has devised a scheme by which first
and second-class risks may effect a substantial
economy by placing their Personal Accident Assu-
rance with it, and is prepared to send representa-
tives to explain its policies and premiums, or post
proposals to any intending assurer who will communi-
cate with Head Office, or any of its branches. This
class of insurance has already become very popular, and
the extra inducements offered by the A.P.A. should
accelerate its popularity. The business of the A.P.A.
in all departments is going ahead by leaps and
bounds with a considerable and steady decrease in
the cost ratio. The policy of this Association is
progress, combined with economy, and by adhering
to this policy there is no doubt as to the success of
the Association, which, as the name i ndicates, is
purely an Australian office and deserves the support
of Australians.*
The unparalleled success of the “Hornsby” Suction
Gas Plant is amply demonstrated by the large num-
ber of country towns using this power for generating
their Electric Light. To date there are 50 towns in
New South AVales and Victoria lighted by their
plants. Thoughtful up-to-date users of power should
certainly obtain full particulars from If. Hornsby k
Sons Ltd., of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.* [4
* * * *
George D. Meudell, oil wells sharebroker, 8 Scott’s
Court, Collins Street, Melbourne, executes orders in
shares of oil wells companies on commission.*
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information, Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Large size Blake Crushers, McCully Gyratory
Crushers, Mining and Smelting Machinery—made by
The Power and Mining Machinery Co., U.S.A. Repre-
sented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Head Office,
Sydney.*' # #
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Paten:
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Thirty years’ practice . Write
us for Inventors’ Guide..*
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay?
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling fi
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemical v at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars'. ,H. R.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sidney :
and 443 Bourlce Street, Melbourne.* .»
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
sation charges, together with another £6OOO
for slimes under contract of sale. Obviously
till the concentrates, refined metal and bul-
lion are sold and settled for nobody can say
exactly what they will fetch ; and the varia-
tions are liable to be very great in such
markets as those for lead and spelter. Iso
hint is given as to the prices which the
metals are assumed to be worth. It is pos-
sible, however, that a fairly liberal value has
been assumed, seeing that £lO,OOO has been
formally passed to a Contingency Fund,
making it £50.000 altogether. The main ob-
ject of this fund is no doubt to protect the
estimates, so that the co. may be able to
write off something in case it has taken
credit for too much. Incidentally, the
£lO,OOO put to the Contingency Fund and
another £lO,OOO credited to Depreciation
and General Purposes Reserve are both in-
cluded in the table as profits. Nothing else
appears to have been written off to cover
wear and tear. The half-year’s profit of
£56,216 is therefore an over-statement, even
provided that only fair values have been
taken for silver, lead and zinc. Also the re-
serves are not true reserves. They very
rarely are in the case of a mining co.
Making the adiustments necessary owing
to fhe errors previously mentioned, the posi-
tion as to surplus of liquid and semi-liquid
assets has of late been: —
' Dee., 1913 £208,460
June, 1914.. 231,886
Dec., 1914 274,803
That shows a gain of £42,917 for the past
six months. The difference between that
and the nominal profit shown in the first
table is made up almost wholly of money
spent on the mine and charged to capital
account (£1738), ditto spent on plant
(£5350), and slimes under contract of sale
(£6000). Assuming that the valuation of
ihe products on hand turns out just right,
the £42,917 is much nearer the true
profit for the half-year than £56,216
is. Considering the fact that costs have
necessarily gone up on account of the inter-
mittent work, that isn’t so bad either. As
102,735 tons of ore were milled, it means
nearly 9s. per ton; and as manager Weir
estimates that he has 3,000,000 tons in
reserve above the 1400 ft. level, that would
give £1,350,000 =£2 ss. per share, plus the
9s per share of surplus liquid assets. In
the past seven years tlie B. 11. South has
paid divs. equal to 10s. per ton; and tlie
B. H. North can do as well. As the mine
certainly doesn’t peter out at 1400 ft., where
the lode is as much as 134 ft. wide, the pre-
sent market of £2 4s. per share isn’t extra-
vagant.
Finally: “The negotiations for the pur-
chase of 'the Port Pirie smelting works have
been advanced sufficiently to enable the re-
presentatives of the B. H. Prop., B. IT.
South and North B. 11. to announce that
a mutually acceptable basis has been found
for the completion of the transaction, sub-
ject to agreement of details which are now
being considered. The directors anticipate
that this important matter will be finalised
at an early date.” This of course refers to
the proposal to form a co. to take over the
B. H. Prop, outfit at Pirie.
# * * *
A figure which wasn’t as plain as it should
have been led to a miscalculation in con-
nection with the South Broken Hill (B.
4/3/T5). The ore in reserve, 3,350,000 tons,
was taken as a million tons less, which
meant a difference of just on half a million
in the .probable profits, equal to nearly
£2 10s. per share—taking the past seven
.(•ears’ experience as a guide. On the
2.350,000-ton basis the probable profit
worked out at something over £B, including
the cash and other assets in hand. The extra
tonnage brings the figure up to £lO 10s. —
always on the assumption that the past
seven years’ experience as to values, recov-
eries and prices will be averaged in the
future.
* * * *
The Victorian Government has perhaps
better facilities than any other State for
sounding the money market': Bail lieu, for
one thing, is a Minister. It is significant,
therefore, that, instead of waiting till the
beginning of next year to arrange the re-
newal of the li-niiilion loan falling due in
April, 1916, the Government invites holders
to act now, and pocket an extra ? p.c. this
year. There should be no difficulty about it.
Apart from the fact that Victoria has been,
comparatively speaking, only a moderate fre-
quenter of the pawnshop, investors begin to
realise the benefits of putting their own or
trust moneys into security which is free
from State income tax. Just how rapacious
the State income-tax collector can be, and
promises to be for the next few years, may be
judged from the fact that in N. S. Wales
the Commissioners are making demands for
two years’ tax on insurance reversionary
bonuses. They are demanding, in other
words, a cash payment on account of a debt
that isn’t collectable for perhaps 30 years.
* * * «
From George Blakemore: The Bulletin
(4/3/T5) asks what I would put in the
place of the labor conditions attached to
mining leases. In crude outline, this: —
1. A modification of the United States mining- law
applying to tenure of mining- properties, the prin-
cipal modification being that the title shall be lease-
hold, forfeitable on non-payment of rent.
2. Each leaseholder to spend in improvements not
less than 2s. 6d. per acre each six mouths for a
period of four years. Non-fulfilment of the improve-
ment clause to be met by cancellation.
3. At the end of four years the rent not to exceed
lg, per acre for the first 80 acres and not more than
6d. per acre for all additional contiguous acres held
by the same person or company.
4. The rent to be assessed by the Warden at the
time of the issuance of the lease, the assessment to
be based on reports of the officers of the Mines
Department. The Warden to have the power to
defer rent charges for any part of any 12 months.
5. To make up for the loss of revenue from
clauses 3 and 4, a tax of i p.c. to be imposed on
the net profits made by every person or company
extracting any class of commercial metal or mineral
from the earth, this to include all stone quarries.
6. An Advances to Mines Board to be formed and
endowed with £250,000 at least per annum (which
sum must be spent) to take over the present Pros-
pecting Vote and to make advances to mines in the
early stages of their development, such advances to
be made on reports and recommendations from the
Mining or Geological Departments. Advances to
be a first charge up to 50 p.c. of the net profits if so
ordered by the Board.
7. Simplify the present methods of pegging and
applying for leases on Crown or private property.
8. Give tlie miner the same rights in law as the
ordinary citizen has.
Summed up these proposals mean security
of tenure except by the miner’s own act,
protection from attacks of the secret in-
former and hlackmaUer, no rent if the show
is poor and struggling, a tax on the net pro-
fits of mines which can afford to pay, and a
wise monetary assistance to promising
mines in the early days of . their
career. If these ideas were adopted in
a modern Mining Act, it is safe to pro-
phesy a restoration of the mining industry,
and in the revival, labor must benefit. The
present; laws are a garotte to the industry.
* * * *
The Southern Cross battery at Ardlethan
has put through 150 tons for Coot’s Bygoo,
bulking 2 p.c., and 100 tons for the Outcast
tributors. bulking 3 p.c. There is no cham-
pagne in that. The White Crystal, which
hasn’t power to run the whole mill, has been
putting through the seconds—pretty good
proof that there are no firsts. The Car-
pathid lias had very fair developments, but
costs are, as hitherto, very high. Of the
others Ardlethan Options and the Champion
(for which a l-192nd share was sold in
Temora in the boom time for £600) have a
couple of men apiece. And that’s about all
there is left of Ardlethau’s glory.
* t * *
Y Water, the Melbourne-owned show with
the best modern dividend record in the New
England group, looks like having a new
life. Lately, on all the information avail-
able, it was a question whether it was worth
while going on. It would just pay with the
tin market normal, but the co. would have
to depend on abnormal prices for profits.
So far something like 3,000,000 yards have
been taken out, averaging about l jlb.; and
the plant called for complete reorganisation
to do good work in the future. Unfortunately
on the old figures the unworked side was
reckoned to be worth three-quarters of a lb.
at most, and it was doubtful wliethei that
was worth the risk. Recently, as the side of
the property hitherto attended to will be
worked out by the end of the year, il was
judged a fair thing to close-bore the other
part. The result, checked and re-checked,
is a good lib., with a much bigger yardage
than was anticipated. As for some unex-
plained reason the co. had a big tonnage of
tin on hand when the war started, the pro-
ceeds at present fine prices, with the cash
in hand, will pay the heavy expenses of
reconstruction. The plant has ahead of it
as good ground as any it has bitten through.
This, however, will last only till about the
end of the year. Then the other side will be
tackled, and there (say) 4,000,000 cub.
yards are waiting-—about 25 p.c. more than
the co. has thus far handled altogether. But
as indicated up above, the average value
will be probably Jib. per yard less; and all
that |lb. comes off the profits.
* * * *
Great Cobar has received this message
from the receiver in London: ‘’Proposals
for re-opening the mines agreed to by com-
mittee of debenture holders. Application
being made to court for directions and
approval.” Manager Hogan Taylor adds:
“Particularly warn men not to rush here
on that announcement, as it may be many
weeks before the Court disposes of the matter.
When money is available only a few men
(who are already bespoken) will be needed
for six weeks to get things in order.” The
co. has applied for three months further sus-
pension on the Chesney and Cobar Gold
Mine leases.
* * *
A Victorian crowd is interested in the old
Swallow’s Nest mine, near Mount David
(N.S.W.). This show has had a profitable
past in a district where many proposi-
tions have been tried and most of them
found wanting. At one time it produced
a lot of gold and paid handsomely; and as
a low-grade show of the easily worked and
fairly reliable order it is the best in the
district on present appearances. Mount
Gossan, Breakfast Creek and Swallow’s
Nest are all instances of Victorian mining
men going further afield. In that their
principal aim is legitimate prospecting,
their influx into N. S. Wales is admirable.
Breakfast Creek, near O’Connell
(N.S.W.), is to resume crushing, after a
prolonged hang-up owing to scarcity of
water. This show, which is Victorian-
owned, is shaping fairly, with enough gold
to pay its way; but the water supply is very
bad. Sooner or later, if prospects continue
to be encouraging, the question of a much
larger claim, with better catchment area,
will have to be faced. •
Until Edna May came along Black Range
was the ray of sunlight in Victorian adven-
turing in W.A., the yield from 238,283 tons
being 221,7270 z. gold. As £243,718 has
been paid in dividends, the mine has given
a profit of over £1 per oz. won. The co.
still has £12,000 cash in hand for the direc-
tors to play with. Their present intention
is to stop shaft-sinking, withdraw plant from
the bottom levels where the quartz is no
good, and gut the rest of the mine. Black
Range therefore will soon become a has-been
with a good record to look back on. Accord-
ing to present advices, the Elisha to this
mining Elijah is to be the Pinnacles, near
the Day Dawn, over which a working option
was taken a long while back. Ilans Irvine
has left the Board, and so has had a free
hand to pick and choose in the Edna pad-
dock.
* * * *
With seven or eight others, Ilans Irvine
has taken an option over the Myrtle, Edna
West and Edna Main claims, next the Edna
Central (W.A.). Coupar, of the Black
Range, was reported to have given the leases
his blessing. Whether that was tittle-tattle
or no, the mere whisper that Hans Irvine
had collected another good thing meant the
flotation in 10 minutes of a 65,000 share co.
of 10s. each. Vendors took 17,500 fully pa ids
and £6OOO cash, and the public loaded up
47,500 contribs. at ss. each. Thus ended
the second lesson. The first was taught to
the crowd who, walking for months over
the blocks, never' grabbed one option. The
third lesson will form the subject of a later
par.
* * * *
The Queensland Mines Department lias
recommended a £16,000 subsidy, spread over
two or three years, to sink a deep shaft on
the Iguana reef at Croydon. The shallow
levels of the field are pretty well exhausted,
so the new venture is a matter of life or
death. The Government is to pay half the
cost.
* * *
Vulcan (Q.), which had £4032 cash when
last half-year opened, had worked the bal-
ances down to £1152 by the time it closed,
as well as drawing on general stocks. And
there isn’t much to show for it—only ore
broken valued at £l7OO net. Practically
throughout the half-year the mine was all-
but closed, and no sales were made. War, of
course. What prospecting was done con-
tinued to hold out little hope of regular
bodies in the bottom levels: at 1200 ft. rich
ore was struck, but it was only a patch. The
best prospects are still at 750 ft., where there
is a good body in virgin ground waiting for
the pick.
* * * *
Lode Hill (Q.) is suffering from an
altack of boulders, iron sand and expect-
ancy. Solid unloading in Melbourne for a
week foreshadowed a low yield. So. the stern
eye has again been east on certain rotund
gentlemen who are thought to know a good
deal more about what’s what at Lode Hill
than the directors seem to do.
* * * *
Chiltern Valley, under old John Cock, is
doing its second dash on a brand-new ((in-
stitution. It starts with 14,710 sq. fathoms
to operate on. Having proved that the
wash opened up in cross drives averages
nearly an ounce, a good beginning has beeu
made. The gutter is 700 ft. wide, theoreti-
cally what it ought to be, for a narrow lead
at Rutherglen has generally spelt scoured
ground and little gold. John Cock has dug
along with one shift for six months to get
the lower level and the escape drive well
ahead. Now the water is coming out he is
casting about for men and cash to hustle on
to the dividend stage. To date over £1.000,000
of gold has come out of Chiltern Valley
puddlers under John Cock’s rule, so he
ought to know his mine.
* * * *
Suffolk United, Bendigo, always puts a
crowd or two of tributors on to help up calls.
Minister Brown, of the Mines Department,
now wants some more men put on. and
the co. isn’t demurring, though some of the,
tribute conditions exacted by the Government
are stiff. The co. itself has been poking
about between 1000 ft. and 1670 ft., but has
grubbed out very little that is payable. The
temptation exists to come up to 800 ft. and
go after the shoot of stone on which New
Moon is working to the co.’s boundary. No
work has been done south above this point,
so there is plenty of room for a decent
development in the old mine.
• * * *
Before the end of the year Mount Lyell
expects to increase its output, and has
already made a start to increase its furnace
capacity. Its average for the last 12 weeks
(1712 tons blister) pans out 2.16 p.c. cop-
per, with ss. worth of gold and silver. Those
people who are always talking of Australia’s
onerous labor conditions are invited to
examine Lyell’s return, which shows an
average extraction of approximately 325. per
ton (copper at £6O) and a handsome profit.
Last half-year Mount Bischoff raised
51,533 tons, which is less than half the usual
quantity; 48,354 tons were sent to the mill,
and 3179 tons were rejected because of ex-
treme poverty. The return was 194 tons
concentrates, . worth slightly over UU p.c.
metal. The smelter also treated 913?. tons
of ore on public account for 040 tons of tin.
The average from purchased ore (mostly
stream tin) was thus u shade over 70 p.t-.
Bischoff required to treat more than 400
tons ore to produce one ton pure tin, so last
half-year it figured as a \ p.c. proposition.


11l
CiKUlirCUjt** l4
Peering!
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. JBlB.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
WENTWORTH HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
The Most Luxurious and Comfortable
Hotel in the Southern Hemisphere.
Elegantly appointed, with prompt, efficient
service and elaborate cuisine, this palatial
and perfectly-conducted modern hotel satisfac-
torily meets the most exacting demands of
the travelling public.
SPECIAL TERMS.
Until further notice, from 10/6 per day and
from £ft/ 3 / - weekly.
Garden Cafe, where luncheons or dinners are
served Table d’hote or a la carte. Orchestra
every evening, from 7 to 10.
Booklet On request.
WENTWORTH HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, * SYDNEY.
MRS. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
Caps
flic
Mot
pi
rs±
E
mmmmm
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, March S, 1915.
My Dear Arini, —
Actually a fund has been started in
Sydney that lias nothing to do with the
war. “To recognise Mr. W. A. Notting’s
public services in connection with the Har-
bor foreshores” a meeting was held at the
R.P.A. Yacht Club’s rooms the other evening,
and the club led off with £2O. Years and
years ago the crew of the yacht lolanthe
tried to land on a scrap of Harbor fore-
shore, and was driven off". 'The scrap which
the yachtsmen, who were in trouble, had
dared to thus violate was sacred Private
Property. The circumstances are misty now ;
but I know the crew or some of it was
drowned. That gave Mr. Netting his mis-
sion in life. Not another foot of Harbor
foreshore should be sold by the State if he
could prevent it; and the State should buy
back every handy lot that came into the
market.
Mr. Notting at the time —he was a printer,
I think—had no following at all. He was
a pen writing letters in the wilderness —a
voice crying out upon the waters. But he
never missed a chance to push his crusade
a few yards nearer his Holy Sepulchre; and
by degrees he got yachtsmen interested, and
then hundreds of good land-lubber citizens
who saw that the people had precious little
access left to their Beautiful Harbor. He
thus created a public opinion on his pet
subject so strong that not only were the
foreshores that remained public property
jealously preserved, but a good start was
made at Vaucluse to recover some of what
had been lost. A man like W. A. Notting
isn’t apt to become a millionaire; but he is
more apt than most people to wear himself
out. Something of the kind has happened;
hence the grateful R.F.A. Yacht Club has
got to work in order to say “Thanks” in the
most unmistakable manner.
A wedding party has done something new.
The other day. when Dorothy Taylor was
married to Leslie Waterhouse, of the Vickery
clan, at Lindfield, her sister was in hospital
as the result of a lost appendix. So, the
ceremony over, the bridal party in full force
and regalia visited Miss Polly, and exchanged
condolences and congratulations. The con-
dolences—to make things quite clear—were
left with the lady at the hospital.
The Artists’ war fund show will have
been opened by Governor Strickland before
you get this weekly reminder that you’re
seven days older. In the same Cause a
conversazione occurs in the melting atmo-
sphere of the Royal Art Society’s tabernacle
on Wednesday evening.
The art students of both societies are
putting their wits together to arrange a
series of tableaux for the benefit of the
Patriotic cash-box at Easter, or thereabouts.
Some of the Gallery pictures are to be
reproduced. There is, of course, no escape
for that hardy annual, “The Sea hath its
Pearls”; and the Awakening of Australia,
when navigator Cook dropped anchor in
Botany Bay, will follow two living pictures
in which the Dutch and French make no
serious attempts to stir the sleeping con-
tinent.
The Arts and Crafts disciples have given
their best wares to the artists’ war-fund
exhibition. Rhoda Wager’s filigi’ee silver
work is shown at its best in a glass case;
and Mildred Creed, with beaten brass com-
forts for the suburban villa, Florence Leist,
Olive Pink, Mrs. Soderberg and Violet
Teague are other notable contributors. Roll
up! Evei’ybody gets something handsome
for his one to five guineas, paid on the nail.
As the show is valued in cold figures at
£2OOO, the Red Cross fund should swell
visibly in a day or two.
Miss Nicholls, secretary of the Hobart
Art Society, has written to the organisers
of the N.S.W. Artists’ motor-lorry fund,
asking for details. Tasmania and Queens-
land are both throwing out feelers, and are
likely to come along presently with similar
attacks on the public pocket.
Barrister Bert Norris has persuaded
Bessie Lane Mullins to say “yes,” and con-
gratulations are pouring in to both parties,
as they say in bush classics. The girl is
the eldest daughter of John Lane Mullins,
whose popularity with artists and writers
in this town keeps him busy. If he isn’t
heating up a subscriotion list for some
impecunious literary genius on the wing to
other shores, you can easily locate him as
the person who keeps calm on an artists’
committee. Miss Bessie’s young man is a
son of the late R. A. Norris, a one-time
manager of the A.J.S. Bank. Years ago
John L. Mullins and Norris perc used to
hunt in couples when they started off to run
to earth some art trophy. Now the folds
of the old friendship are to be caught up
within a wedding ring.
The Admiralty lady whose lot fell in such
strenuous times is booked to leave for
Britain in a week or two. There is a
hankering to get nearer the lighting line on
the part of various naval officers’ dames,
and the flitting is likely to go on. Still, we
yet have with us the redoubtable Miss Hen-
derson, who can run the entertainments for
seamen’s wives in the most firm and gentle-
manly manner, so Mrs. Able Seamen has no
cause for tears.
Dr. Bobart, who came to Australia years
ago as surgeon on H.M.S. Dart, and return-
ing to England did more important medical
work for the navy, died at Neutral Bay
last week. He must have been almost the
first Australian medical graduate to put on
a naval surgeon’s uniform. Lately, retir-
ing from the sea, he settled on the South
Coast. He was a good Australian ; and though
Bulletin sub-editors wished he had had a
better writing master, they always wel-
comed his pretty numerous contributions.
Died last week, John Creed, LL.B., son of
Dr. Creed, M.L.C., and a member of the
N.S.W. junior Bar. After giving up
the pursuit of briefs, he did some
tutoring in the Outback. then was
municipal librarian at Broken Hill, and
finally was in the service of one of the
big • mining cos. Incidentally he was the
husband of Louise Mack, the literary lady
who remained calm enough to powder her
nose when shells screeched over her hotel
in Antwerp.
News comes this way of Australian artist
Itupert Bunny and his French wife, who
are likely to leave their beloved Paris in
July—for a while, anyhow. Art is having
a deep sleep in the usually gay city. The
Bunnies meanwhile devote their time to
the patriotic cause. Madame is helping to
nurse the wounded; Rupert is working at
the American Club, which is doing ambu-
lance work and being generally a good
Samaritan.
Mrs. Trefle, widow of the late Minister
for Lands, left Sydney for Melbourne by
Sunday night’s express. Thence she goes
to Launceston to spend a month or so with
brother Mick Shelley, who is reckoned one
of the best-looking Irishmen in the Jam
Island.
A committee has been formed to provide
some memorial of the popular Trefle. The
preliminaries are in the hands of the Aus-
tralasian Provincial Press Association, of
which the deceased Minister was a conspicu-
ous member—he part-owned a newspaper at
Temora, you remember.
A preliminary meeting in connection
with the State’s special Belgian fund, with
Premier Holman in charge, was held in the
Executive Council Chamber. The notice
convening this gathering was so vague that
about 1400 women stamped off to the Town
Hall to look after their end of the business.
The gentle Cullen dame meanwhile cooed
softly over the 30-odd who were at the cor-
rect address, and who wanted to know if
Woman was going to be s-s-slighted on the
new committee. Ladies with countenances
as soft as corrugated iron loudly demanded
their Rights. When their ruffled plumage
had been stroked the right way, three mem-
bers of our sex were chosen to sit with Man
on the Committee. Lady Cullen, Mrs. W.
A. Holman and Mrs. A. B. Piddington are
the triplet. Chief Secretary ,T. 11. Cann is
president, and Percy Hunter and W. Beavis
are hon. secretaries. The committee, which
is strengthened by financial advisers such as
Russell French, T. A. Dibbs and Richard
Teece, will leave no available shilling un-
turned.
Chief Secretary Cann has just had his
own personal troubles; news came to him
last week of his father’s death in Northum-
berland. The old miner had lived to see
one son Speaker, Treasurer, Chief Secretary
and a few other things in this State, and
another son'a member of Australia’s Parlia-
ment. Yet they had no advantages to start
with. The present Chief Secretary was at
work underground as soon as the' law would
let him go. What education he ever had he
picked up on the way. But he inherited
from somewhere the knack of saying the soft
answer that tnrneth away wrath. Nobody
else in the Ministry can purr quite so
softly.
A Sydneysider just back from the South
says Melba is A 1 again, after a hurried
call for the doctor while she was staying at
the sub-regal Stanleys’ crib. Visions of
appendicitis haunted the singer, till author-
ity decided that it was only a severe chill.
A draught, that cut across the singer’s
shoulders like an iced knife while she
warbled at Geelong for the Red Cross is
blamed for the misadventure. Melba is now
booked to leave Australia on April 14. But
there is nothing definite dragging at her on
the other side, and she may linger here till
May. In October, her TJ.S. tour begins.
Daughter-in-law Eileen is a great success,
and the George Armstrong menage runs on
velvet since her advent.
The first Jap journalist to come this way
for news, T. A. Shafto. left Sydney for
Maoriland on March 3. He represents the
Asahi Shimbun, otherwise the Morning
Sun, which goes to press in Tokio and
Osaka, and is the biggest independent news-
organ in Japan. Mr. Shafto says he is on
the trail of progressive legislation, and is
interested in those M.L. laws that seek to
put butter on the poor man’s bread. Also,
lie means to inquire how Woman handles
her vote in the Dominion.
The youngsters who go to Hebrew schools
in this city are working overtime for a
bazaar, whose profits are to go into the
tattered Belgian hat. Donations in money
or kind will be received with enthusiasm by
the lion. secs.. Louis S. Lowenthal, Alpha,
Ocean-street, Bondi; and Fanny L. Hart,
7 Council-street, Waverley. The sale occurs
in the Oddfellows’ Hall on March 24 and
25.
The struggle for a crust still leads us on.
Whangarei, a . pleasant little township
perched on the top, of Maoriland, has just
handed out a taxi-driver’s license to a local
maiden.
Our Aides are proving themselves true to
type. They are only carpet knights till the
opportunity shows the way. Of Governor
Stanley’s staff, little Captain Gale has lost
an arm. Captain C. B. Wilson merely com-
plains that the shrapnel interferes some-
times with shaving. Mr. Wilberforce’s per-
formance was short and sharp. From Lon-
don to the trenches —an hour in the mud-
then back to the base with a fractured leg.
Ilarry Talbot, lately of Queensland, is doing
good work. Captain “Tommy” Curwen is
reported to have become engaged to a widow
and done equally brave things in the trenches.
Captain Kirkpatrick, who accompanied
Lady Fuller on her last visit to Australia, is
reported killed.
11. N. Southwell, formerly Paling’s con-
cert manager, writes from London that the
theatres are keeping full, though managers
take pleasure in gloomily prophesying that
“it cannot last.” For that poor reason, per-
haps, they are going to very little expense.
Yet “the queues are as long as they would
be if the shows were good,” says “Southie”
—though that’s not to say that they will
last as long. For his own part he went, on
Christmas Eve to see Tree’s “David Copper-
field.” Christmas in the grey old city was
exciting by reason of the hurried visit of
soldiers on leave from France for 48 hours
or so. “Such reunions in England were
unique, and naturally the war was the chief
topic. In London, where of late years snow
is rarely seen, it came down softly for a day
and made even the smuts turn pale.... The
systematic cleaning of the streets here is as
mysterious as it is effective. I never see
anyone doing it, yet it is done all right.”
The Willie Cooper dame has been vigor-
ously attacking the Cardigan vest question,
and piles of these knitted comforts are reach-
ing the right people through her efforts.
Eva Benson, the Westralian girl who won
the Hackett prize given by the Society jof
Arts in Perth, is doing well in England. She
lately won a bronze medal, the highest awgi'd
for modelling, in the National Competition
of the Art Schools of the Empire. Eva is
new turning seriously to sculpture, and
recently chiselled a satisfactory bust of
Winthrop Hackett, the Perth newspaper
proprietor who was over in Sydney lately,
looking a very much older man, by the way,
than before he went through the long arbi-
tration case touching the interest of late
partner Harper in the West Australian.
Surgeon-Colonel Ahearne, of the Army
Medical Corps, till lately chief medical officer
in North Queensland, was booked to lecture
on “The Australian Expedition” when the
last mail left London. The proceeds were
for one of the gaping war funds. The
Queensland man, who joined the Northern
defence force in 1882, took a precocious ex-
perience to his Australian billet. In his
whiskerless youth he saw service in the
Franco-Prussian war as a medical student
attached to the Anglo-American Ambulance
corps.
Travelling military kitchens have caught
the fancy of most housewives in this State.
State Commandant Wallack had to say
“Thank you very much” for three of them
the other day. Mrs. John Waugh (on
behalf of the Women’s Liberal League,
which drinks tea in the Queen Victoria Club)
and Mrs. H. W. Fell (as voice of the North
Sydney branch) were sponsors for two.
Mrs. Burnell was godma for the third, which
comes from the Parramatta end of the
League.
Katoomba bowling rink is not so rushed
by womenkind as are the Waverley greens,
where the hosts gallantly provide afternoon
tea for thirsty onlookers of the petticoat
persuasion. Still, Katoomba rink is having
a few Wednesday afternoon visitors of our
sex, who tie themselves up in gossamers to
see Papa do his worst with the fat round
balls. Wednesday is the day when the
suburbs go to the mountains to wrestle for
the Peacock Cup. Burwood came out on top
at last week’s outing. Mr. Reggie Dean, a
well-known Waverley bowler, who has been
staying on the adjacent hilltop, has been
putting in his spare time at the Katoomba
rink where the breeze slips round the
shoulder of the mountain. Dean, senior, now
gone over to the quiet majority, was one of
Sydney’s early auctioneers, in the days when
his firm, afterwards Bradley, Newton and
Lamb, implored you to say whether you were
all done near the site of the S. M. Herald
office.
The Allen Taylors’ roomy bungalow at
Leura was bought a while ago by Mr. Lou
Davies. Mrs. Lou was one of the moneyed
Spark family; but hubby lias plenty of am-
munition of his own to fire at the wolf at
the gate. Some time ago, you may remember,
he bought, the Arthur Allens’ waterside nest
at Port Hacking —the place where so many
honeymoon couples used to bill and coo,
though none of them ever billed like the
honeymoon boarding-houses.
Chief Justice Cullen, of the N. S. Wales
Bench, is promoted to “Lord Chief Justice
of Australia” by the Windsor Magazine.
He and Admiral Patey were making swift
strides across the local sod when the camera
caught them. But unless the war-dog is un-
expectedly agile, the Judge will win. His
coat-tails always fly ahead of the crowd
homeward bound from the Mosman ferry.
Squatter Pegler, of South Australia,
a hearty-looking old gentleman with a
Daddy Christmas beard, motors where other
folks take train or Shanks’s ponies. He fell
in love with our Blue Mountains some time
ago, and had a run up the other day to see
if they were in the same place. He petrolled
over from S. Australia, as usual, and showed
no signs of wear and tear at the end of his
long journey.
Engineer Sydney Williams, of Rockhamp-
ton, and a couple of daughters, have been
holidaying at Leura. Mrs. Richard Binnie,
the Point Piper lady whose knitting needles
are working overtime, is just descending to
town from the same chalet. Solicitor Fitz-
gerald, a Brisbane lawyer, who is off to
England in the Nestor, has been breathing
mountain air also.
Now that Josephine Cohan, who is Mrs.
Fred Niblo off the boards, is going to leave
us we can look back on her succession of
elegant frocks with a minor pang of envy.
Except sometimes. For instance, it has for
months fallen to the lot of Josephine to fre-
quently star in plays that had a snowstorm
falling from the flies. That meant furs, a
heavy coat and a large muff in a tempera-
ture as grilling as that of any place you can
think of. “Seven Keys to Baldpate” kept
her dressed for blizzards for a very big slice
of our present summer. Still, she bore up
nobly, and wore fur hats at the saucy angle
that went with the stage freeze.
The tartan breaks out in several new
places in the Autumn fashions. The after-
math of the French admiration for the Hie-
lander’s kilts is a minor frenzy of plaid
with floral designs added to the homely
Scotch background. French names com-
plete this entente cordiale in fancy silks.
Another old friend of the lady with the long
burse is the heavy brocade, with velvet blobs
stamped promiscuously over its flowered
folds. The latest veils, I notice, just come
to the tip of the nose, and slice the counten-
ance in two pieces.
The Red Cross Produce Depot, 215
George-street, wants tobacco for Tommy
Kangaroo and his friend Atkins, who are at
the Front. Walking sticks, stout enough to
help a wounded man limp on the road to
recovery, are also asked for.
A Goulburn correspondent sends a fear-
some list of Manchester goods that a local
linen tea dragged out of a Town Hall gather-
ing for the hosnital there, The youthful
Mayoress, Miss Lily Betts, supported her
father’s efforts to cast a mild glow of fes-
tivity over the display of sheeting and ban-
dages. Music was contributed by a good-
looking Goulburn girl, Nora Conolly, who
uplifted her voice presumably in a song of
thanksgiving. At the piano was Archdeacon
Bartlett, the cleric who is accused of being
both useful and ornamental.
Artist Ethel Phillips Fox has just had
a reminder that her 1914 subscription to
the Paris Autumn Salon is due. She is a
member of that august body, which is mak-
ing over to the French war funds all the
cash it can scrape together from last year’s
subscriptions.
For an out-door fete in aid of the Belgian
Fund how would a croquet tournament go?
If players dressed in the crinoline period
the effect would be helped. Even Mountain
golf links so far unbend as to give the
wooden mallets house-room. So players must
be fairly plentiful, if crinolines are scarce.
Miss Maud Tighe, a sister of Harry
Tighe, who now pursues the inky way in
London, is returning to Sydney after a nip
to war-scarred Europe.
Governor Strickland recently tore aside
the drapery on a memorial fountain to the
late .T. K. Chisholm at Camden. The Chis-
holm family, like the Macarthur Onslows,
got in early on good pastoral land there-
abouts, and so avoided the rush and the
modern land-ballot papers.
lours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


'"milP"
ui'ii* ■ .*".!• Wiwh*
“’"’’.'..'■‘....n ii-T ,,(, !UR i., - .
mu
••Miill';,,i,:: :
!l!iHi»"" ..niliijj.i
nSIIH'
kill V>
aw «aP" w
mu
lii.ijiun"
iiliinW
W'\W'
wmrn'u
PHOTOGRAPHY.
How to Start this Excellent Hobby.
THERE is no need to wait 1 ill you visit Sydney before starting the
most fascinating hobby of photography. First of all send to
Harringtons for their 400-page Catalogue. It contains particu-
lars of all the best makes of Cameras and Photographic Supplies....
THEN, having selected the Camera that interests you most, and looks
a likely one to suit your requirements, write to Harringtons for a
specimen picture taken with it
WHEN you finally decide on a Camera you are entitled to
Harringtons’ Free Instruction Course
either personally or by correspondence. It does not matter whether
you “purchase a 5/- Camera or one at £2O, the offer of assistance
remains the same. You buy the Camera Harringtons give the
Instruction.
386
GEORGE STREET,
lIP
SYDNEY.
Also at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide; Auckland (N.Z.), Wellington (N.Z.).
HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
VICE-REGAL
I
fasf
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT
Christening Presents
IN SOLID SILVER.
Silver-mounted Oak Bowl,
with Silver-mounted
Hornspoon,
ALSO A LARGE
VARIETY OF SUITABLE
GIFTS IN IVOBY.
Baby's Silver Brush and Comb and
Powder Spi inkier, engraved with
‘‘Nursery Rhyme” Pattern, in case,
Silver Sp >on & Pusher,
in case,
£l.
SUGGESTIONS: -
Spoon, Fork & Knife .. in case
Spoon & Fork (only) .. „
Serviette Ring:
Egg Gup and Spoon .. „
Cup and Saucer . .. „
Mug „
Mug, Fork & Spoon .. „
Rattle
Selections Forwarded
on Approval.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE
ON APPLICATION.
13 HUNTER ST, SYDNEY ; 116-118 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
LONDON AGENCY:
32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET W.
NELSON 1915 BANKER
'
-w
■ri
> K
(.1
v;
ii
**£*»—* i
I
;;:
l
l .1
-. i
i
ll
f
;: i
:
J I
.. .
The Indispensable
Carbonating Pl&nt
for the live and
progressive Hotel-
keeper, Caterer, etc.
Are you satisfied with results?
Pace the question ! Are you
making the best out of your
business? I)o you know that
with the help of the 1915
“BANKER” you can make
cordials for £4 that would
cost you £2O from the manufacturer?
That’s the Reason Why the “BANKER” has
become so popular. Hundreds of Hotelkeepers, etc.,
thunk the “BANKER” for their financial position to-day.
It's wovt.h your careful consideration. The big money saved is as
good in your pocket, as in the manufacturer’s. Put a stop to unneces-
sary expenditure. Make your own cordials —of the highest quality.
Don’t defer this most important matter. Write to us at once; we will supply you with all
the information necessary to start you going. £lO will land a Complete Outfit at your place.
NELSON’S CONCENTRATED FRUIT JUICES.
The immense popularity enjoyed by NETjSON’S FRUIT JUICES, recognised as the
Standards for purity and excellence, make it desirable for every Fountain-Drink Supplier (for
his own interests) to supply none other. If you have not already tried them, make a point of
doing so without delay. They are the finest obtainable.
NELSON S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Also TURBOT BUILDINGS, TURBOT STREET, BRISBANE.
SUTHERLAND & CO., 632=4 BOURKE STREET, MELBO J. N
Ye Olde
British
“Broadwood
Piano. . .
US
THE BEST FOR OVER 200 YEARS.
We are aware of the large number of
makers that claim recognition for the
Australian musical public—but they are
either German or French Pianos.
A great revival has recently taken place
in England in favor of THE BRITISH-
.MADE PIANO, of which The "Broad- \
wood ” holds the highest place for quality
of construction and tone. V
For over 200 years " Broadwoods ” have
been recognised as the finest British Pianos,
WE CAN HELP YOU TO PURCHASE
by allowing full value for your old piano
and the easiest of terms to pay off the balance
of the new one. Write for Catalogue*
Note our address: —
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
45 York Street* Sydney (opp, Wynyard street).


FARMER’S CATALOGUE
of Awtemai aad Winter Fashions
Farmer’s Autumn and Winter Catalogue is now ready for distribution amongst our Country
Patrons. The correct mode of the moment is faithfully interpreted by a showing of the most
favored styles for Autumn and Winter wear, and in addition much space is devoted to Household
Requirements and General Merchandise. As a means of enabling distant residents to shop
satisfactorily and with economy, its importance cannot be over-estimated.
Country Residents wishing to possess a copy should write for it without delay. We send
it Post Free.
Farmer’s Pay Carriage on Fashion and Drapery Goods to any part of Australia.
FARMER'S
PITT, MARKET
□a s a
an a a
SYDNEY
GEORGE STREETS
a n d
SPECIALIST EXPLAINS CAUSE OF
STOMACH TROUBLE.
valuable advice to sufferers.
“There are many different forms of
stomach trouble,” said a well-known special-
ist recently, “but practicallv all are traceable
to excessive acidity and food fermentation.
That is why the results obtained from the
use of drugs are usually so disappointing.
Admitting fermentation . and consequent
acidity of the food contents to be the under-
lying cause of most forms of indigestion, it
naturally follows that the use of a reliable
antacid, such as the pure bisurated magnesia
which is so frequently prescribed by physi-
cians, will produce better results than any
known drug or combination of drugs.
Accordingly I almost invariably advise
those who complain of digestive trouble to
get some bisuratcd magnesia (note the
name carefully, as other forms are unsuit-
able for this purpose) from their chemist,
and take half a teaspoonful of the powder,
or two 5-grain compressed tablets, with a
little water after meals. This, by immedi-
ately neutralising the acid and stopping the
fermentation, removes the cause of all the
trouble and insures normal and healthy
digestion.”*
r‘4
Autumn Modes!
The , newest Military Styles in
Race Gowns, Frocks for clay or
evening wear, etc., made to order
in smart, distinctive designs.
Special self-measurement forms
posted on request to countrv resi-
dents. Trousseaux a Speciality.
Mau d Page,
Sydney’s Leading Costumiere,
Cor. Liverpool & Castlereagh Sts.,
’Phone—City ‘3694 SYDNEY.
PAULINE et CIE,
of THE CENTREWAY, MELBOURNE,
announce THE OPENING OF THEIR NEW
SHOWROOMS at 3rd FLOOR, DENISON
HOUSE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
on TUESDAY, MARCH 16,
where they will show their
Latest & Exclusive Millinery Models
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, March 8, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Thursday was a day of days for racing;
also it was a day of days for bookmaking,
the unexpected happening with the usual per-
sistence. Women put on the loveliest clothes
they could beg, buy or owe for. The most
expensive shops say they had a record early-
morning- sale of hat models and fancy shoes
and stockings. The numerous vice-regal
party took turns in the box. Lady Stanley
tied a big pink straw hat under her
chin —you know what I mean —and
talked to Frank Suttor, whose white
moustache turns up at an almost Kaiser-
esque angle. He is here, from Sydney, on a
visit to the M.-F.’s. Lady Helen took two
pretty Bail lieu girls into the box for a yarn
at an ‘‘off” quarter of an hour. The Bail-
lieux mostly sat in a good-looking family
row. They all danced a sort of family taran-
tella, and shook hands with each other when
Wallacliia won the last race. They had gee-
gees travelling for all the big things, and
this was the first catch. The red and drab
of the Syme stable had two extraordinary
wins, and the Symes were wreathed in smiles.
Mrs. Geoffrey wore black chiffon velvet in a
flare, and a gold-silk-lace collar like a cava-
lier’s cape The newest collars are almost
a garment in themselves. Mrs. McAllister, a
daughter of David Syme, had her peggy-bag
weighed down with winnings. Perhaps the
ghost*of King David would condone the once-
I'orbidden gambling—the bawbees that fell to
the family were so many.
Mrs. Kenna, from Sydney, wore a cool
black dress covered with small silk roses and
a cute veiling of black net. It was a master-
piece of expensive simplicity. The Doctor-
had on. the loveliest silk socks, with old-gold
stripes, and his trousers amounted to a poem.
Mrs. Sternberg brought her sister, Mrs. Har-
ris, who is visiting from Maoriland. The
Harrises- “steward” Riccarton racecourse at
Christchurch, and have a palace with a
racing stable “up the Papanui-road,” where
all the Christchurch mansions are.
Mrs. “Glenlotli” Pete, down from her near-
the-Murfay sheep-run—she says she'll never
have faith in a blade of grass again—wore a
duck of a white turban (Indian model), and
fixed up a theatre party with her friends to
end the gay race-week. It is an awful thing
«o be a drought-afflicted station-owner.
The Melbourne girl who recently married
Rich Thompson, of Carleon (N.S.W.), wore
white cloth of a marvellous cut, and her hus-
band had on a proud look. The two have
just finished a Murray-Darling motor-e/nß-
steamboat trip, and sandwiched in the
Autumn races before surfing at Lome for
Master. These rich people have hard work
to get away with Time.
The Walter Bruntons are over from Syd-
ney. He is wearing spats. She also exhibits
a number of most expensive garments. The
aged William Cooper (Bart.) brought his
rheumatism along, or else found it here wait-
ing for him on his arrival, and could only get
round the betting-paddock with a stick.
Melba, in transparent black and an ex-
pensively simple hat, opened Hans Heysen’s
show in the Athenaeum Gallery last Thurs-
day. Local artists and noble folk for-
gathered like equals, and murmured their
admiration like persons of similar clay,
while the Star mentioned, in about seven
sprightly words, that Hans came from Den-
mark, that he was a genius, that he had
never been on speaking terms with Bill the
Awful, and that all his painting was guar-
anteed pure Australian. She wound up
with a half-strangled higli-kick that swished
the black expensiveness into its proper
place, and then skipped off the dais. Melba’s
v< ait hf ulness positively makes you gasp.
She looks young and fresh enough for white
muslin and blue bows. Among the best of
the Heysen pictures are a group lent by
Melba showing Coombe Cottage, some of
Melba’s turkeys and her pet gardener in
pastel. The marble verandah came from
Kurope with the moss ready grown on it,
but the turkeys are home made.
Australian Cup Day sagged socially to a
small crowd of tailored women who were
not afraid of spoiling in the wet. A tre-
mendous dust- and rain-storm made a chilly
tunnel of the grandstand and blew into the
teeth of the horses coming up the straight.
Governor Stanley and visiting Governor
Galway were the only vice-regals who ven-
tured out, and so they had their choice of
corners of the box. Mrs. Tye’s Anglo-Saxon
fairness was set off by beautiful furs. Mrs.
Monash tried to forget her military sponsor’s
absence in the joy of a peacock-blue kilted
coat; and there were times when she ap-
peared to be succeeding. Mrs. Alderman
Jeffries, in navy blue, and the daughter
who always wears a kiss-curl were present,
and went thankfully to their appointed
places at the Croker tea-party. The racing
men were all there, my dear —quite a change
from the usual allowance of one he to 20
shes at the tea-scramble. There probably
was quite a lot of betting and noise in the
paddock, as usual —but the women let it
severely alone and troubled never a bookie
with a surreptitious half-crown. They
huddled on the stand and kept within diving
distance of the blessed spot, where blue
noses and tossed switches can be rectified
at a moment’s notice. The Fergusons
stayed at home —possibly to help to get the
dinner ready. Their visitors are legion, and
an added crowd was invited for dinner on
Australian Cup night. Colonel and Mrs.
Legge were guests. Mrs. Legge has just
returned after a two years’ absence in Fog-
land. Miss Eadith Walker, from Sydney-
side, has been rewarded for the loan of her
home to the Mofergs by a shakedown and
numerous meals at Government House. The
Powers and the Caseys and the Everard
Brownes turned up as a matter of course.
Melba was asked, but did not go, being well-
nigh exhausted with her Patriotic efforts.
Champion Stakes Day was a riot of
men. The women were so few as to be
hardly visible to the unglassed eye. Nothing-
but plain, drab-suited men. Not an ostrich
plume in their bowler hats; not a spangle
on their costumes. Still there were a few
gracious exceptions. Lady Helen was
there—the only female vice-regal in evidence.
A number of Falkiners arrived in a gleeful
manner, but they became palpably peeved
when Land of Song met its second defeat.
Mrs. Everard Browne gave a lunch party, at
which several choice merinoes and high-class
crossbreds from up Riverina way were
present. The Jack Winter-Irvines also trans-
pired. ‘Dewar” Thiel brought his hand-
some wife and daughter. A tearing north wind
blew angrily out of a dull copper sky, but
Mrs. Guy Jones insisted on wearing her new
black chiffon muff. Hiskens, of Moonee Val-
ley racecourse, turned up alone. His wife is
in Banana land.
Mrs. Hugh Denison wore another-fetching
frock. It was of black corded silk, and the
out —well, there, my dear, words fail me.
With this costume she affected a smart black
hat. The Fred Smiths, also of Sydney,
worthily represented the vast Smith family.
Bachelor Sadlier —he who haunts racecourses
and the steps of the Australian Club—went
about with his arm in a black sling; and
when friends asked him if he had
returned from the war he moaned that lie
had broken a sinew. Theo Marks’s pretty
wife wore the trickiest dress, like a bolster
of blue cloth, and above it a pill-box hat.
There were vine leaves and libations at
the Savoy on Saturday night. “Sports”
fresh from Flemington clustered in bunches.
Barry Lupino seized a chance, and became an
auctioneer. A walking-stick and other equally
useless articles were auctioned on behalf of
the badgered little Belgians. From owner
to owner the stick, etc., strayed, bringing-
each time a shower of cash. Lincoln
Plumer aided and abetted in the philan-
thropic plundering.
A Mr. Brown, of Suva, has been “doing”
the races very thoroughly. He came to Mel-
bourne to meet his wife and an adopted
daughter, both just returned from poor old
Europe. The trio did all possible things
well, and some things even better. For a few
brief days the name of Brown blazed in our
minds; but it is only glowing now. It is no
use trying to burn a name like Brown on
Ihe public memory.
Hugh Denison and his wife are over from
Sydney. But they say they came to get
cool —not to look at the races. Mrs. Deni-
son proved this by spending one of the “big”
days walking up Fern Tree Gully. Her hus-
band put in the time golfing. But Fleming-
ton has seen some of liis wife’s frocks. On
Australian Cup Day she hid from the rain
under the trees in a smart khaki tailored
dress. It had the newest kilted bustle-
basque. and the small turban that went with
it was the smartest thing out that day.
Dolly Castles was at most of the recent
races in tan fixings and fair hair (fixture).
Sam Hordern chuckled like a good business
man over the fact that his horse Onager
nearly paid for itself on its first day out.
lie gave the oft-quoted Mr. Connelly £lOOO
for the animal just before the lucky meeting.
Enid Whiting Waters, from Sydney, has
been haunting the races in good clothes. Her
husband is going to the war. The motto of
the average wife nowadays is: Let us dress
and be merry, for to-morrow we shall have
the hump and not care much how we look.
Melba intends getting out an Australian
gift book in aid of the Belgians, and is busy
extracting promises of contributions- from
local writers and artists.
Napoleon Boffard proposes to sing half a.
dozen ardent French love songs at the Cafe
Francatelli on Friday afternoon, March 12.
He will then take round his belltopper on be-
half of the Belgian Fund, and if, at the end
of his pilgrimage, the garment is not full, he
will publicly bound upon it, and leave the
premises, showing signs of annoyance.
In aid of the Queen Victoria Hospital for
Women and the Red Cross Funds—a Demon-
stration ! This is the resonant trumpet-call
of Prout Webb’s niece and Miss Lorimer,
of the Open Air Gymnasium. Lady Helen
Munro Ferguson is taking a personal' interest
in the show’, and so is the Mayoress: and
both of them will be there on March 19. It
is to be at the Auditorium. The girls will
fence, and pose as Grecian statues, and wear
snappy, short, white, kilted skirts instead of
the usual physical culture bathing-gown rig.
Men will be allowed to buy seats as a great
privilege.
The Brighton Ladies’ Swimming Club
splashed this year on behalf of the Bed
Cross Fund. There were no men present,
but the shrieks of schoolgirl barrackers tore
the air in a fairly satisfactory manner. A
yellow-haired flapper named Ethel Crau-
ford swam off with the championship, out-
classing Lily Beaurepaire by a nose. There
is a damp future ahead of this girl.
One of Sydney's recent popular naval
brides, Georgia Vaughan Lewis, daughter of
the late Parliamentary chatterbox, J. C.
Neild, is booked through for London. She
goes in hopes of snapping a honeymoon with
her husband during a vacation from his
North Sea watch. They had only a few
hours (or was it minutes?) together after
their Avedding. .
( Nesta, the youngest Clarkelet of the Mount
Sehank family, came to a pretty definite
arrangement Avith a young man during the
voyage out. lie is a son of Mars, return-
ing from the Front to his Sydney people,
slightly damaged.
At the. M.C.C. Tennis Tournament at St.
Kilda on Saturday l’at O’Hara Wood, aa'lio
has taken the local equivalent of the “King’s
Shilling-,’’ displayed a pair of stout khaki-
encased legs. In this costume lie Avatched
brother Arthur, partnered by Meryl Wax-
man, easily demolish their opponents.
Esther Fair bairn, in sombre black, which set
off her tawny thatch, Avas in to see her
friend Mini Pearson, of Kilmany Park, play.
The Pearson chick is just back from London,
where she presented her heart to a man in a
Hussar regiment.
There Avas, a party last Friday at the
liepertory Theatre Club, and all the brain-
sturm attended. Mrs. Crowther hostessed and
supplied the necessary tea for the invited
guests, Avho brought their Patriotic sewing.
When the function Avas fairly started the
crash of needles Avas audible even in the
blizzard of small talk. Miss Alma Palmer,
a flapper star of the Albert-street Conser-
vatoriuni, played Mozart till she nearly
burst with pride. The clever youngster has
composed some songs, Avhich Avcrc gently
dealt with by Mary Campbell. One lone
soldier took the floor in khaki. lie was a
Bepertory actor once, with skyscraping am-
bitions ; but now lie is going to the Front,
Avhere only the rattle of the Maxims will
remind him of the applause he used to Avin.
Mrs. Dr. Vance has gone to Tasmania for
the “birthday” of her father, Philip Fysli.
The patriarch has reached the 80tli mile-peg.
hen she. left, the idea Avas that the entire
Fysli family should motor to Brown River,
and drink the inevitable bumpers on its
mossy bank.
There was good fellowship and popping of
corks the other afternoon AA'hen the office
pals of Dal.gety’s avoo! expert, Frank Guth-
rie, bade him an re voir. He is leaA r ing to
take up the managership of the firm’s Gee-
long office, vice Mr. David Aitken, who died
some Aveeks ago. Frank Guthrie knows as
much about avool as any other expert in Aus-
tralia.. and his knowledge is backed by
vivacity. Mrs. Guthrie, a fair, pleasant
little lady, is much liked, notwithstanding
that she Avields a deadly club at bridge. She
is a Maorilander and a relative of theatrical
entrepreneur Beynolds Denniston.
Mrs. Kathleen Watson Deardon. avlio has
supplemented her “Litanies of Life” with
"Later Litanies,” tells the story against her
genial self. At Yarraman (Q.), where she
abide! h nowadays when she isn’t a visitor
to Melbourne, she offered prizes to the two
“best sorts”—boy and girl—in the local
State school. The winners were to be chosen
by ballot of pupils—one youngster, one vote.
A pert little Gladys, being congratulated
on Avinning the girl election, assumed in-
difference. “I’m not a bit proud,” said the
young dissembler. “I suppose the prize will
be one of Mrs. Deardon’s ‘Liberties of Life’
—and Avhat's the good of that?” However,
the rcAvards of popularity Avere big books,
Avith pictures in them. Later Gladys,
arrived at the age of flapperdom, Avill- pro-
bably grab all the Liberties of Life that
mother doesn’t absolutely prohibit.
Eben Gould, a favorite bachelor-doctor
AA'ho makes the pulse of Society beat faster,
is giving up his resident job at the Homoeo-
pathic Hospital and lighting a red lamp in
the vice-regal suburb of Malvern.
Claude Kingston, organist of the Collins-
street Baptist Tabernacle, is engaged to
Mabel Thompson, Avhose father is an English
alderman, but will probably recover from it
some day. The fiancee is a sister of Mrs.
F. C. Spurr, so there is a stained-glass
radiance over the joyful incident.
The Girl in the Taxi, whose cab-fares are
noAV paid by husband Tom Beynolds, the
proud owner of SAvedish Lad, is settling
down to the flatted life. The pair are
snugly fixed at Cliveden Mansions.
Alice, one of the three bonny daughters
of Mrs. Watt, of hereabout, is now Mrs.
Goode. She has not forsaken the stage, but
is still “turning” in vaudeville as though
untouched by the cares of matrimony.
Mrs. George Cliirnside is coming back to
Melbourne by the Orontes, bringing her
daughter Audrey with her. Audrey is the
girl who was reported to be driving her own
motor-car at the Front. The story was
afterwards said to be greatly exaggerated.
Many are glad that Mrs. George is coming
back. For one thing, they keep abdut the
best cook in Melbourne at Airlie.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Wattle Day League demonstration on Satur-
day was in aid of the Motor-Ambulance Fund.
Scout-craft, physical drill, first aid, and children's
musical marches occurred at the Jubilee Oval in
the afternoon. In the morning a sale of patriotic
badges' earned over £lOO. The Public Service
passed the same day collecting boots. They raked
in nearly 4000 pairs. The boots are to be distri-
buted by the Patriotic Fund committee. There is
not much wrong with the Empire when you find
people going round boot-oh-ing ,i'or it in large
numbers.
Ten per cent, of the cash proceeds of -our. Tennis
Tournament next week is to go to the Belgian
Fund. The Governor will not only preside at tin-
luncheon on the opening day and distribute the prizes,
but he intends also to play in some of the matches.
The “Cheer-up” Society arranged a welcome on
Friday for the S.A. marines who have returned
from Papua, and at the same time opened a
marquee which has been reared at the back of the
City Baths as a kind of clubroom for use by mem-
bers of the contingents that are in camp.
The Sportsmen’s Battalion looks like coming to
pass. It may raise the awkward question: What is
a sportsman? How about bookies and barbers and
tobacconists? They all simply revel in sport. I
suppose the solution will be the fact that none of
them are likely to arouse discussion by attempting
to go to the Front.
Gwen Williams (daughter of Dr. W. I).,
now at the Front) lias been playing "lead”
in the Fog in a new scandaldrama dealing
with the backstairs history of Napoleon and
Josephine. Gwen, one of Charlotte Hem-
ming’s pupils, was given a small part by
Matheson Lang when the “Third Floor
Hack” was passing here, and went with the
co. to S’Africa.
Elocutionist Lilian Prichard's latest en-
gagement is of a pro-matrimonial nature, the
other party being young Alan Mitchell., son
of the R. J. Mitchells, of Warracknabeal.
The fiance is with the Expeditionary Force.
Dublin papers report the wedding of J. T.
Donovan, LL.B., one of the Irish envoys
who visited Australia a year or so back, to
Miss A. Ralph, of Auckland (M.L.).
Father OMlara, of Xewrv. extracted their
“I wills” in the pro-Cathedral, Marlborough-
street.
G. Bray Gordon, here with “Bunty Pulls
the Strings,” has left Graham Moffat’s com-
pany and is off to the trenches.
The baritone of the elegant Rebottaro is
but rarely heard nowadays; the explanation
being that the Signor lias gone in for poultry
farming on a large scale at Cheltenham,
where he spends a good deal of his time.
Once in a while lie leaves his nest and does
the Block. 'But he always has his pockets
full of fowls, and any musical girl who
yearns to have a word with him must talk
of roosters’ top-notes if she would hold him
for as long as it takes to produce an egg.
George Fairbairn and his male relatives
are determined to be well prepared for the
worst. The ex-politician drills his people
enthusiastically, and makes the-same sort of
sounds as the professional drill instructors,
who bark at'influential suburbanites by star-
light wherever there is room to line up.
From “Rosna,” in London:—
The ex-Gippsland writing lady, Mary Grant Bruce,
and her Major have had more than their share of
worry these baleful times. After rushing back to
Britain to rejoin the colors, Major Bruce was
ordered off to the Royal Dublin Fusiliers; but a
germ attacked him, and lie was forced to stay be-
hind for an encounter with London’ surgeons. lie is
now at Teddington, convalescing with relatives who
are mourning a. son—another Major Bruce.
Judge Cliomley’s daughters, having let the
Toorak house, are thinking of going to Eng-
land to join sister Mary, who mixes the pap
for the Victoria League.
The Repertory Theatre Club will move to
the Snowden Theatre, just over Prince’s
Bridge, next month. The women of the
Club, by the way, have formed a Red Cross
centre, and meet every Friday to sew for
soldiers.
An ex-Victorian, now in London, who
struck it rich in the West, and was on the
eye of wedding with a moneyed Australian
girl, is now wondering dazedly why lie intro-
duced his donah to his pal. His pal had
very little money, but he possessed a litle
and the lady fell in love with him or it.
Presently the man who only had money got
his ring back with a polite note explaining
that the sender had decided to keep the ear)
from busting.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Sentry : “ Halt! Who goes there ? ”
Johnnie Walker\ “Friend.”
Sentry. “Advance and give the countersign.”
Johnnie Walker-. “Born 1820; still going strong”
Sentry. “ Pass, ‘Johnnie Walker,’ you’re all rio-ht”
JOHN WALKER Of SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND


A SYDNEY BOOKING OFFICE
for Queensland’s Exclusive
■
I
Hotel DANIELL,
BRISBANE,
is situated at 42 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
(directly opposite Hotel Australia).
’Phone No. City 6849 for particulars, or call, or
send your address and our representative will
call on you. _
I'ROPRIETED BY WIN FOWLES.
Should our boys help in carving the
Turkey the royal brand should preside.
Every loyal heart is at its best Avhen in-
spired by the wise spirit of King George IV.
top-notch Scotch.*
\P
\0
sc
.0A V
ce s
fO
sfr
o‘
0^
eP
o*°
jP
W*
FADS!
The public who have been using an Inter-
nal Lubricant in the shape of some form of
Mineral Oil or Petroleum Jelly to relievo
Constipation are finding out that this whole-
sale Lubrication of their internal organs is
destroying one of Nature’s most vital fluids
—the Bile. Nature finds its work being-
done by a foreign agent, grows less and Jess
active, and at last ceases to put forth any
effort. This is the effect produced by the
use of an Internal Lubricant. It destroys
the natural movement of the bowels, because
it supersedes the flow of the Bile, and, there-
fore, the taking of Liquid Paraffin in any
of its forms is a source of future danger
to anyone so foolish as to be carried away by
this most unfortunate fad.
To put it as clearly as possible, the Liver
can be compared to a big sponge full of
holes. It becomes covered over with a slimy
substance, and these holes or ducts from
which the Bile flows become stopped up.
consequently the Bile is forced back into
the system, producing two direct results:
(a) a derangement of the entire system, and
(b) Constipation, because the Bile cannot
act on the waste matter in the Intestinal
Canal, and it remains in the system. This
is what is commonly known as a Torpid
Liver. Something is wanted to get at the
cause—something that will act on the Liver
and open up these ducts. Not something
that will simply carry off the waste in the
system, leaving it in just the same state to
repeat over again just what: has taken place.
No poisonous mineral product will take the
place of the Bile given each human being by
an All-wise Creator to carry the waste mat-
ter out; of the system, and aid in the diges-
tion and assimilation of our food. People
resorting to this mineral oil. either in igno-
rance or not, and practically saying, “We
have no further use for the Bile, we have
something to relieve Constipation, that is all
we care’’—will pay for their ignorance or
impudence in thinking they can improve on
the Creator’s work.
Sometimes Nature only requires a little
assistance _ to get over an obstruction, and
if something is used to merely give that
assistance and not usurp all Nature’s func-
tions and take the entire operation out of
Natures hands, then valuable help is being-
rendered. This is where the invaluable pro-
perties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
apparent. They do not usurp Nature’s
functions, destroying all their natural
activity, but when Nature needs help to
carry its often too heavy burden, caused by
overeating and drinking, then Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills assist Nature. They act
on the stomach, and. above all. on the Liver,
causing the stopped-up ducts to release tin-
flow of Bile that has been withheld. It is
this flow of Bile that causes the bowels to
act, and any remedy that ignores this fact
is causing damage to the great human
mechanism. It is the constant and regular
flow of Bile that aids in the digestion and
assimilation of food, and when this flow
ceases from any cause the system at once is
affected throughout, and Constipation, of
course, the inevitable result.
For nearly a century Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills have been in use as a remedy for
liver ailments. They get at the cause. They
open the ducts and allow the Bile to flow,
aiding and assisting Nature, not in any
degree superseding or weakening the natural
functions. A pill occasionally produces
regularity and good health, and with reason-
able care regarding overtaxing the digestive
organs with either food or drink, a healthy
condition can be maintained. This is the
secret of good health in man. woman and
child, and there is no getting away from it.
Any fad that is based on the principle that
it can take the place of the Bile is a fraud
and a danger, and should be speedily put
where it belongs—back into the oil tank for
lubricating machinery, not into the human
system.*
POLITICAL
POINTS
’That line’s a'.little previous, but it will be
all right.-—IT.K ' / i
BIRDS OR A HEATHER.
Fearful crudities by the Turks are reported.
Fifty Armenians were stripped and compelled to leap
into an abyss at the Devil’s Gap. This was continued
until one Araienian carried a Turk with him. Then
the remainder were shot. Two hundred and fifty
Armenians were massacred at Tamvot, and the
women carried into captivity. — Cable.
Bi.udwurst Bill : “Ach, mein friendt, your
hand! I could not have done it better
meinscllnf. ’ ’
Dear Bulletin, —Isn’t it about: time we
started to call them the Vague Convention
Rules? —Yours wearily, Moana.
Though members of the Holman Ministry
have been keeping laboriously silent about
the totalisator, George Black, who joined the
team only a few days ago, seems to reckon
that the subject would be all the better for
an airiug. Therefore in his first speech as
a Minister he gave the totalisator a blessing
and said that the bookmaker was “a parasite
who could be easily dispensed with.” These
observations suggest that Black has summed
up Holman’s recent remarks about “the
people Avlio were supporting the totalisator
for bad reasons” and finds them mere muddy
drivel.
The whooping noises made over the result
of the Federal election for the Grampians
seat were without point, seeing that Salmon’s
victory makes no difference —the Govern-
ment’s majority in the Reps, is still nine.
The Grampians is one of the seats always
tottering, and a hundred or two votes will
push it either Avay. Stewart in his two
attempts nearly shoved Mans Irvine out;
but the extra few votes to, do the trick were
lacking. Then, last election, Jolley, bring-
ing his talents 'as ail"’, advocate to bear,
gathered in the few extras, and the job was
done. This time Salmon got the balance
on bis side, but nobody knows better than lie
that he will have to fight every hour to hold
it. His majority was gained in two centres
—lnglewood and Wedderburn —which are
both infested by cow and wheat, cockies
whose only Joss is.cheap labor ; and it is a
hard job to keep that lot sweet.
THE SEE-SAW IN THE EAST.
THE KAISER: “ Ach! He goes down when
"the pressure is against, him, but always
"hepcopies up again, and always he comes
nearer. ”
Victoria, which has /been the sanest of
all the Australian States during the recent
borrowing. orgy, deserves to have no diffi-
culty in couvei/tmg : per cent. Troasijry
bonds which Will mature,on All Fpojs’/Day
next year. The Governipe.nt’s .•proposal to
holders is that they should 'confe ytlpiig 'at
once and accept 4 per cent, stock or deben-
tures dated April, 1915, and maturing in
1927. That would give them not only a
half per cent, extra for the new term, but
a half per cent, more for the unexpired
period of the old term. Practically all the
million and a quarter or thereabouts con-
cerned is held in Australia. In the way of
giving itself its own IOU —which is better
than giving it to anybody else —Victoria has
done well during the last 10 years or so.
Between June, 1901. and June, 1914, it
increased its .State debt by £16,058,451 (N.
S. Wales plunged to the extent of £47,935,000
in the same period), and the Southern "State
actually reduced its foreign public debt by
£5,372,235.
That strong man with the rigid backbone,
Victoria’s Mines Minister J. Dry Brown,
has taken a grip of the devastating dredge
business, and all is now well. A year ago
•the companies were notified that they would
have to fulfil the conditions of their leases —-
mostly as to re-soiling—or quit. They ig-
nored ,the .information. The MimSfiCr then
decided to stand Am,moi;e nonsense, ; antl gave
them..seven days’’notice to carry out their
contracts,; .in default, forfeiture. The
days passed casually, like . the previous 370
or thereabouts. Then Dry Brown, realising
that lie had given them every reasonable op-
' portunity, resolved —to send an officer to
the companies to explain exactly what the
Department would be pleased if they would
do.
The farmer gets to the right place at
times. Thus the Ilopetoun wheat growers
lately decided to assure the Peacock Govern-
ment of their firm conviction that the Price
of Foods Board had “played into the hands
of speculators, to the ruination of the very
people whom it was appointed to protect,” by
first fixing the price of wheat, which in-
duced farmers to sell, and then abolishing
the limit, so that farmers needing seed had
to pay exorbitant prices. In other words,
the farmers who had wheat to sell were
inveigled into selling it at a comparatively
low price for the benefit of the dealers, and
then the farmers who didn’t have wheat were
obliged to pay a high price for seed, also for
the benefit of the dealers.
From official returns published by Maori-
land’s Labor Department:—
In Maoriland it costs a man over £3O to go on
strike, and not in one case in five does he get the
thing he struck for.
The Department’s calculations cover a
period of 20 years. Out of 144 strikes in
that time the employees were fully successful
in 25. the employers got the best of 84, and
compromises were arranged in 32. The big
recent waterside and miners’ strike cost the
victims £236,602 in wages! And that is
all they got out of it except a sore head and
a bad taste in the mouth, and perhaps a
suspicion that arbitration may have points
in its favor, after all.
The fight for a portfolio in X. S. Wales
has been renewed through the resignation of
Carmichael. One of the most persistent
battlers is W. C. Grahame, member for
Wickham, who polled well last time. lie
might have better chances if he did not pull
strings so obviously. The new favorite is
John Storey, the member for Balmain. He
has been in Parliament since July, 1001,
and is rather a modest man, as politicians
go. Stuart-Robertson, who ran Black
within two or three votes at the last selec-
tion, is still eager; but .he talked too plainly
after his last defeat. Dunn, who used to
be a school-teacher, is also in the shop-
window, labelled with a placard to remind
the caucus that ,the vacancy to be filled is
the Education office.
Thus the Angus of , a recent date:—
A candidate should be viewed with respect, if for
no other reason than that lie is. offering to serve his
country.... Why apologists .of one party should
regard the candidates, of another party as personally
detestable passes comprehension.
Which only shows that the Annus is much
in the habit of outrunning its own compre-
hension, inasmuch as its general politi-
cal attitude is that there is no creature <>n
earth more obnoxious than a Laborite offer-
ing his services to his country, unless it be
a Laborite .whose offer of service has been
accepted by his country.
According to one of the Sydney dailies,
the.officers of the Licensed Victuallers’ Asso-
ciation have been pointing out that “dimin-
ished profits [due to the new duties] mean
actual ruination; in many instances to from
£l5O to £2OOO a year, and a direct loss in the
selling value of hotels, as they, like other
trading concerns, are sold at prices based
upon annual net profits. An hotel with a I<>
years’ lease sold, say, six months ago upon
.the then profits for say £lO,OOO might
.. . .fall considerably in selling value.”
'This accounts for some of the milk in the
cocoa nut; but it is surely an outrageous
thing that the .trading monopoly granted
by the .State to. the holders of licenses to
sell grog should by reason of its cheapness
create special 'values which may be specu-
lated in over a term of years, and be then
actually turned against the public as a
means of exploitation.
Being invited to reconsider the determina-
tion to import £15,000 worth of engineering
work rather than give ,the job to an Aus-
tralian firm, Melbourne’ City .Council last
week decided to stick to its earlier decision.
This while. Glasgow-engineering firms are so
rushed with “war” work !thatthey are im-
porting artisans from America .to help get it
done. But possibly the machinery the
Council wants isnft going to be imported,
after all. Just before the decisive vote was
taken one inquisitive .barracker for Aus-
tralian industry asked for an assurance
from the foreign/tenderers that the material
was nd,t in Australia already: whereupon
“disorder” ensued and the vote was taken
.and the Council adjourned in a violent
hurry. By the way, several of these im-
porters’ barrackers declared themselves
“Protectionists to the backbone, but not Pro-
tectionists run mad.” Is that sort of Pro-
tectionist satisfied if its wives and daughters
are no't madly virtuous, but merely virtuous
enough provided the counter inducement
isn’t too’ strongV
THE VULTURE APPEARS.
Hot criticisms have been passed in the House of
Commons on the charges made bv contractors and
agents for services. rendered to the War Offite. To
date the commission paid to an agent for buying
timber has amounted to £15,000. — Cable.
“II” writes as one aggrieved :■ —-
I don't want to abuse “Bill Sheep” (B. 25/2/‘l5).
I only want to point out a few of his inaccuracies about
the work of the N.S.W. Wheat Act. David Hall did
make prompt arrangements to keep the price of flour
down. Hence it costs only £ll/17/0 in N.S.W. as
against £lB/10/- per ton in Victoria, and a four-lb.
loaf is Bd. here against lOd. in Victoria, where
there is no restrictive legislation. Further William
can sell his wheat not only to “three enormously
rich firms,” but to 40 other firms which are not
enormously rich, but buy whenever the wheat is
presented, and pay spot cash.
Holman states that the meeting of State
Premiers in April “will really be a con-
ference on finance.” Six Premiers on their
loalisome, as it were.
In his latest observation about the sug-
gested “strategic” railway into Queensland,
Prime Minister Fisher uses 5(1 words to
illustrate how greatly such a line would
“facilitate commerce,” etc., to every one
word employed in reference to the military
usefulness of the project. Now, what is the
strategy —to fish with two hooks or with one
hook and two baits?
’NEATH THE SHADE OR THE
PALM.
Looking ahead, the great problems of the future
lay in the Pacific. To-morrow tiie centre of trade
and polities will be there. This means additional
responsibility to the Commonwealth and to the
Methodist Church.
-—Statement at Methodist Conference.
Three or four Federal members have been
sent white feathers by anonymous corres-
pondents. Of course they are all Labor
members. One acid Minister’s comment is
that the Ladies’ Political League is moult-
ing.
SAID THE [?]ISER TO THE SPY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Now tell me what can England oo?’*
Said , the Kaiser .to the Spy.
“She cap ,do .nought, your Majesty—
-1 'on rule the sea and sky.
Hritannia’s clay of power is done;
Her path,of peace is plain;
And she da re never throw a. troop
Across the Strait again.”
The '.hjahjcfr sent hjs- mivji.ty host,
W ith in indyaijee,
To set hjs seal, on'. Paris -first,
Vnd, . ciijd. .of France,
'riieir/.jguns^vveil;/'hearjl in Paris streets’,-
A n.d trgmblMg .'EurSpe heard.
They’re sdaggepiiig ■ back in Belgium now-
Vyt no word.
“N’oyviHalite,,vvhat cap England do,?”
Sajd ,to the, Spy i
“She.;.cau/do .ripyght in the farther seas
W here her / possessions lie !
Her coloiijes are .arming- now- ■
They .Afdy wait .your aid!”
“I'll .send uhy ships,” the Kaiser said,
“And IjjAvill choke her trade !”
■ V : . •
The his .cj'uisers forth
To do their worst, and best;
And one made trouble in the North,
Another in the AYest”.
He sent a squadron to a coast
Where .treachery prevailed—•
Gra’merev,! They were .stricken hard
On seas that Raleigh sailed!
“Novv tell me what can England do?”
Said the Kaiser to the Spy.
“Her ports are all unfortified
And there your chances lie!”
Vi?- sent jiis ships to Scarborough,
And cabled them, back again.
The Blucher lies in Channel ooze
AVith seyen hundred men.
“Oh tell We what can England do?”
Said the; Kaiser, to. the Spy. A •
“She can’,t .‘hold -Egypt tOV.-a day-r- • '*
I have ,jt from On , Hisshe’
And,,®) tjjh\ Kaiser pa hi./the Turk
To -put tfie matter
And/England’s ;Que,eij Egypt now, ...
A lid boss”, of Turkey ? tom f #R'T-
“Nowptell me /England , do i l >t A • \J
SaicLtho Kaiserdo-Ujc Spy. mP*#*
You ,spe that neither of them Anew?'' .
Much move than,you or I.
But the little thing that’s troubling- me
As the pregnant weeks go by
Is what, the deuce shall England do
When the Kaiser hangs that Spy!
N'.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


SAMES, VICTOR PIANOS and
ESTEY ORGANS.
VICTOR
PIANO
Academy Model
Upright Grand.
This is a Piano we
have no hesitation in
recommending for use
in any climate. “It
seems to revel in hard
work." The third
pedal adds years of
‘'life” to the Piano.
Write for Free Cata-
logue and Prices.
! II
ill
' I « III!
UMinini iiiiiiii.
There’s no reason
why yon should be
with o u t a ne w
Piano or Organ if
you take advantage
of our system of
Easy Time Pay-
ments. Every in-
strument we sell is
fully guaranteed
for Tone, Touch,
F tnish a n d
DURABILITY.
SAMes
EST E Y
ORGANS
have no equal.
Model 532 is of the
best quality right
through, and has 11
stops, 2 full 5 octave
sets of Iteeds, with-
Divided Couplers.
Price £32. Easy
terms.
“The. Estey Booklet” is post free to any
address on request, also catalogues of
Pianos, Player Pianos, Violins, Banjos,
Accordeons and all other known musical
instruments. When writing, please men-
tion which particular instrument you are
interested in. We are Sole Agents for
Sames, Victor Pianos and Player Pianos;
also Estey Pianos and Estey Organs.
ES T EY
ORGANS
have no equal.
Model 1442 is a most
suitable Organ for
home, church or school
use. It has 6 stops,
5 octaves, and is fully
guaranteed.
Price £l7 10s. Easy
terms.
PALINGS,
338 Georg'e St., Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Lismore, Toowoomba.
SAMES
PIANO
Undoubtedly
“England’s Best.”
Made of the finest
possible quality
throughout, it is re-
markable for its beau-
tiful and mellow
“singing” tone. It is
a Piano that will give
you, with reasonable
care, a lifetime’s use.
Catalogues are free.
Easy terms arranged.
fasf
POILITE
Asbestos Cement Sheets and Tiles.
Genuine British Made.
“POILITE” is the most up-to-date, the most serviceable, and the most satisfactory building material on the market,
of all other building materials because of its many distinct advantages.
“POIIjITE” SHEETS for Walls (inside and out). Ceilings., Partitions, etc., are attractive in appearance, as cheap as
proof, and as durable as stone. Supplied in the following sizes: 4ft. x 4ft., oft. x 3ft., Bft. x 4ft., and 12ft. x 4ft.
It is rapidly taking the place
weatherboard, fire-proof, ant-
A Cottage erected with “Poilitc ” Sheets inside and out.
M
■
f am.
-
xm*
iSSSfe
“PoiWttf i Sheets are ideal for inside walls and ceilings.
“POILITE” ROOFING TILES are light in weight, thus allowing the y-oof framework to be of much lighter construction than that required for
slate roofs. This means a considerable saving. They are Guaranteed British Standard thickness.
“SEYON” PATNT for “PO LITE” Sheets gives the BEST results. No priming Coat needed.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE “M.”
NOYE
■
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence St., Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PROPRIETARY LTD., 499-501 Bourke St., Melbourne
■Selling Agents—J. W. R. GARDAM, Perth.
CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
,imY. f><>
if


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents; RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Just one taste of B.L. will prove its high quality.
BULLOCH LADE <“BL”)
Is Good Whisky, and is Good for You.
Is Obtainable Everywhere, but Equalled Nowhere.
ALWAYS SEE S.V.O. WHITE LABEL.
From entranca hall to roof lounge
“Scott’s” combines sumptuousness,
comfort and convenience. “Par
Excellence” Cuisine —Private Attend-
ance, ’Phones-—Orchestra. Single
Rooms or Private Suites, including
Bedrooms, Sitting-room, Bathroom, etc.
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Telegrams: “Scott’s,” Melbourne.
Government Notices.
PROSPECTUS.
Victorian Government
Loan Conversion.
Under the Authority of Act No. 2026.
Interest at Four per centum free of
State Income Tax.
Principal and Interest payable in
Melbourne.
Redemption Fund of Ten Shillings per
centum will be provided annually.
Act Xb. 1982 Treasury Bonds 3-?* per
cent., maturing Ist April, 1916 £1,248,500,
of which .... £1,060,000
is offered for conversion.
Applications will be received at the Revenue and
Pay Office, Treasury, Melbourne, until the Ist day of
April, 1915, from Holders of Hi per cent. Treasury
Bonds due Ist April, 1916, for the surrender and
conversion of such Bonds into—
(a) Four per cent. Victorian Government De-
bentures under Act Xo. 2026. bearing date
Ist April, 1915, and due Ist April, 1927, or
(b) Four per cent. Victorian Government In-
scribed Stock under Act Xo. 2026, bearing
date Ist April, 1915, and maturing Ist
April, 1927.
Conversion will be at the rate of .£lOO of De-
bentures or Inscribed Stock for each £lOO of
Bonds surrendered, and will take effect from Ist
April, 1915.
Interest at Four per cent., free of State Income
Tax, will be payable on Ist April and Ist October
in each year, the first half-year’s interest to be
payable on Ist October, 1915.
Applicants must specify which Security is re-
quired, and in the case of Debentures the Denomina-
tion desired.
Stock may be inscribed in the name of—
(1) Sole proprietor;
(2) Joint proprietors not exceeding four (4) ;
(3) Corporations.
In case of joint proprietors the principal can be
dealt with only on the signatures of all the joint
holders.
Interest may be paid—
fa) to the proprietor on application at the Treas-
ury or at any Treasury Office in Victoria;
(h) by cheque posted to the proprietor’s registered
address;
(c) by payment into the proprietor’s account in a
bank at Melbourne.
Applications addressed to the Honorable the Trea-
surer, accompanied by the Bonds with the interest
coupons for the unexpired term attached, must be
lodged at the Treasury, Melbourne, on or before the
date named.
Receipts will be given for Bonds lodged, for con-
version, and pending the delivery of Debentures or
inscription of Stock the rights held under the
receipts may be transferred either wholly or in part
on application at the Treasury.
Members of recognised Stock Exchanges of Aus-
tralasia will be allowed Brokerage of One-half per
cent, upon all conversions applied for through them.
Brokerage will be payable on lodgment of the Bond-.
Forms of Application may be obtained at the
Revenue and Pay Office, State Treasury, Melbourne,
where a copy of the authorising Act may be in-
A. J. PEACOCK.
The Treasury, Treasurer of Victoria.
Melbourne, 2nd March, 1915.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
It is hard to explain why the Australian
Gup in the past 16 years has only twice been cap-
tured by a horse of the best class. Up to 1900,
when La Carabine got liome, the winner was a top-
noteher as often as not. Five successive winners
were Malua, Trident, Carlyon, Loehiel and Dread-
nought. Bobadil (1899) was the last of the brilliant
three-year-olds to win the race; and Tartan, who
was a five-year-old when he carried 9st. 51b. to the
fore, was one of the “quality.” But since Tartan
the 10 winners have, with the exception of The
Parisian, been handicap horses that never got a
reputation as first-class performers. This year there
was nothing of proved or probable excellence in the
field save De Gama, and lie, giving a lot of weight
to the other 15 starters, just failed to get a place.
Lempriere, the six-year-old gelding from America,
with only 7st. 41b. to stop him, took the lead as soon
as they got going and kept it to the end of the long,
long journey. His time was good enough, considering
the wind that blew across the course, but he never
put in any great work. He ran to the front and was
the stayer who stayed there, whilst AVishing Cap,
starting very slowly as usual, was the stayer who
worked his way from the tail end of the field into
second place at the finish. AVhen there were still
two miles to go Wishing Cap was any number of
lengths behind the leader, and lie couldn’t make up
the ground in the 31 minutes left for racing.
So Lempriere won by a length, without being
pressed for a final effort. Which was just as well;
for probably there was no superfluous steam left in
him. The Yankee had won. his race in the first
furlong, whereas AVishing Cap could only win the
second prize ( £500) in the last 100 yards. No
matter how long the journey the gee that can come
along from the start has a big pull over the slow be-
ginner.
The Bourke Handicap (seven furlongs), run on
Australian Cup day, is a chance for the sprinters
that have had a bit, or two bits, of bad luck in the
Newmarket. Traquette was one of the unfortunates
on the previous Saturday, and Golden AVire also got
a “rather bad run.” They finished first and second
in the Bourke Handicap, beating, among others, Gigan-
dra, Philio, Amator, Dhul’dul, and Miss Meadows, also
Achernar, who ran no better than before. lownit
was the only one of the Newmarket stars that came
out for the longer sprint, and the extra furlong and
51b. extra weight seemed to stop that honest battler
when the pinch came.
The results of certain races on the first
three days of the V.R.C. meeting added fuel to the
enthusiasm with which the rank and file of V.R.C.
members voted for the totalisator at last Friday’s
gathering of the Club. The “boil over” for the
Loch Plate, for instance, had made a lot of soreness,
and there was no ointment in the press announce-
ment that Land of Song’s jockey when questioned
by the stipendiary stewards “admitted that be rode
a bad race.” AVhat sort of race the jockey of
Carlita thought he hue}, ridden was not stated, though
its “badness” was ecjpally apparent to. the crowd.
The betting on the Lobh Plate may, of course, have
been influenced by the news,. that Mr. Norman Fal-
kiner, the owner of the favorite, wanted to scratch
his gee after the scratching time had expired, and
was refused permission by the V.R.C."stewards. Any-
how, Land of Song’s price went from 4 to 1 on to
5 to 2 on before the start, notwithstanding his satis-
factory showing in the preliminary canter. Evi-
dently the owner’s misgivings about the animal’s
fitness to run were not justified. The race was an
extraordinary opportunity for the pacemaker.
Ilayston was really the sorest horse in the field, and
he couldn’t gallop for nuts until he had gone a mile
or more. One has to presume that the experienced
riders of the “waiting” horses didn’t know how
slow they were going. Haystdn gradually shook
off his soreness and improved his pace, and then
Carlita, apparently, was unable to recover more than
five of the lengths which had been conceded to the
slow leader. Land of Song overtook Carlita and
made a belated effort to reach Ilayston, but the
despised outsider had a neck to the good. as they
passed the post. One bookmaker, not the biwest
of the fraternity, won £3900 over the Loch Plate
(four starters) and £5OOO in all on his day’s
betting. Some of his clients, no doubt, were among
the crowd of A r .R.C. members who carried a Tote
resolution next day. ■
The conclusion to be drawn from the two w.f.a.
races he might have won with different handling is
that Land of Song is at present the best horse in
Australia at any distance beyond a mile—presuming
that his disposition lias not been, soured. A willing
horse will not remain amiable if be is repeatedly
“messed about.” Indiscreet riding has tliusfar cost
liis owner a lot of stake money, not to mention the
backers and their many thousand quids
However, the poor books did very nicely out of
the w.f.a. racing at the meeting. On the first
day the St. Leger and Essendon Stakes winners
were favorites at two to one’ on, and 10 to nine
on respectively, but . the beaten second favorites
were freely backed at only ■ three to one and 10 to
nine against. Lesbos, the odds-on favorite for the
Sires Produce Stakes, was beaten. On the second
day there was only one w.f.a. race, and the odds-on
favorite was beaten. In the C. M. Lloyd Stakes
(third day) the books laid five to four Mountain
Knight, seven to two Blague, and nine to two Jolly
Beggar, and they were all beaten. In the Loch
Plate the betting'was five to two on Land of Song,
seven to two against Carlita and 12 to one Pistoi
King, after four to one had been laid on the
favorite; and they were all beaten. There was one
w.f.a. race on the fourth day, the market being
seven to four De Gama, two to one Land of Song,
and seven to one Bon Ton at the start, though the
punters had mostly invested their money at five to
four and six to four on one or other of the hot
favorites. And those three horses were beaten. An
immense proportion of the money wagered at the
meeting must have been profit to the poor books
who are now, with the warm approval of trainers,
lookers and sharps, raising a big Anti-Tote AVar
Fund.
When Warstep won the Dunedin (M.L.)
Gup the other day, carrying 9st. 1.31 b., she lumbered
the biggest weight that any winner has ever carried.
The record has hitherto been held by Lurline, who won
away back in 1874 with 9st. 91b. Only on five previous
occasions has a racer burdened with 9st. or over
been successful in the event; yet, in spite of her big
load, she went out a hot favorite. Her mother. Step-
dancer, won the same race twice in succession—in
1906 and 1907. The daughter has put up a fine
record this season. She ran a dead heat with Indigo
in the M.L. Cup and won the Auckland and Dunedin
Cups.
* * * *
Tlie racers in Westralia this season must
be a moderate lot if Dollar Dictator, the latest Perth
Cup winner, is one of the best. The imported
may be very good for his size, but he is only a pony, and
not a thick-set pony at that. In the Australian Cup
race it seemed absurd for fine big lumps of horseflesh
like AVishing Cap and Lempriere to be receiving
weight from Dollar Dictator. The little ’un
struggled along gamely under his Bst. —which wa3
not more than his AVestralian performances had
earned —but probably he couldn’t have won if he
had met the big ’uns on 141 b. better terms. Pre-
vious _ AVestralian champions in Jolly Beggar and
Artesian impressed one with their size when they
name along as strangers; but D.D. suggested that a
couple of hard bumps would settle his chance under
Any conditions.
* ..... * * *
A record for the Wanganui (M.L.) Cup
was established;the other day by Master Lupin (6st.
81b.). He made the trip, one mile and three-
quarters, in Smin. 0 3-ssee.—about a second better
than the previous best.
*.r % *
Another record for the Quaking Islands
was shattered last week by C. G. Dalgety’s profitable
AVarstep, one of the best mares seen on a M.L. course
for a lopg time. Recent victories in the South
brought her winnings up to £4650 —the biggest
amount in a season by any horse in M.L. To date
AVarstep has won £7570.
A. E . IT ARCY, Captain of the Australian
Golf Club.
Harold Hardwick, who had already won
some fame and several silver ornaments as an
amateur boxer, became a professional at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. The first thing he did
was to shove his left violently under the nose of Les
O’Donnell, bang him hard on the jaw with the right,
and welt him three times more on the same place (or
thereabouts) before the round ended. O’Donnell
went to his corner with a badly damaged face and.
the crowd began to consider the quickest wax- of
catching a tram. But, contrary to these early ex-
pectations, the disturbance raged over the whole
20 rounds, partly because O’Donnell is a tough pro-
position, but mainly because Hardwick boxed at
times wildly and didn’t know enough to finish liis •
man when be had him at his mercy. Many of his
blows were badly timed and liis attention too much
directed to O’Donnell’s head. The ninth round
should really have ended matters. O’Donnell, who
had been given a fair dose of punishment up to that
stage was severely assaulted in this round and only
survived through Hardwick’s slackness at the critical
moment. So the pair boxed on, O’Donnell with the
greater resource, Hardwick with the more skill.
The ex-amateur got the verdict and deserved it.
Both men were very tired at the end, Hardwick
particularly so.
Taking all things into consideration—the fact
that it was Hardwick’s first ensrae-ement with a pro-
fessional, that he was not as hard as he might be,
that the whole environment was novel, and that 20
rounds of stubborn fighting is mighty hard work —
Hardwick did very well and may confidently be ex-
pected to show considerable improvement later on.
The best that can be said about him now is
that be is a promising recruit, who on the first test
showed exceptional coolness. On the other hand, lie
doesn’t look the fighting animal; opposed to an
opponent having a more dexterous left than
O’Donnell he would certainly meet with many rude
remonstrances.
Hardwick, as an amateur athlete, spread
himself over many branches of sport, and his tracks
are plainly visible. In the swimming bath he won
the 100yds., 220yds., 880yds. 1320yd5., and mile
N.S.W. championships, and the 100yds., 220yds.,
440yds., 880yds. Australian championships. For
many years lib shared with Cecil Healy the 100yds.
record of 57sec. With the gloves Hardwick over-
shadowed the amateurs of his day, and, besides
being master of Australian heavyweights, he thumped
the world’s honors out of Hazell, champion of Great
Britain, a few years ago in London, in 2min. 33sec.;
and Julius Thompson, Canadian champion, on the
same occasion in 2min. 35sec. The lusty Australian
weighs 12 stone in his bones and is but 25 years of
age.
* * * 7.
There was a casual and abrupt encounter
on Saturday night at Brisbane, between Australian
Jerry Jerome and the African boxer Storbeck. Hav-
ing got the preliminary first round over, our aborig-
inal brother, studiously intent on being discourteous,
slammed the guest of the evening on the jaw with
his bony left. The said guest went down wallop.
Simultaneous with the thud, the referee commenced
to call the count. Storbeck rose at two, but appar-
ently it was merely to bow his acknowledgments, as
he promptly resumed liis lowly seat and, of course,
was disqualified. The crowd seemed to be annoyed,
judging by the uproar that ensued,
* * * *
N. S. Wales’ speediest cyclists tore away
with the two championship events during the first
night’s racing at the Sports Ground, Sydney, under
the management of the N.S.AV. Cyclists’ Union. S.
Burtinshaw won the mile and A. F. Taylor the five
miles. The mile was run off in four heats and final,
and starters included representatives from Victoria,
Queensland and Tasmania. Of the heats, N.S.W.
riders were first and second in each, excepting the
third, which was won by A. McDonald, of Victoria.
Burtinshaw vanquished competition in the final in
2min. 24 2-ssec. C. Hooper (N.S.W.) was second.
McDonald had the bad luck to be brought down when
he was going well 150yds. from home. For the five-
miles go there were 12 starters, and they rode bunched
the whole way, pacing prizes going, for the most
part, to the Queenslanders. Taylor whipped past the
judge first by half a wheel. McDonald (Vic.), E. T.
Byron (N.S.AV.) and Burtinshaw (N.S.W.) followed
in that order, with merely inches separating them.
Time, 13min. 9sec. There was another compressed
finish in the'half-mile inter-State handicap. The
sprint of W. J. Riordan (Q.) was like the prompting
of conscience or the wings of lightning. He flew
past a winner by a few inches from F. Kaltenbaek
(N.S.AV.) and M. AV. McMahon (N.S.AV.). The
dash, lasted 58 4-ssec.
* * * *
In winning the mile championship Burtin-
shaw brought his total of Australian cycling cham-
pionships to eight, thereby equalling the record
hitherto held by Percy Berry, of Queensland. Berry
crossed the “retirement” mark years ago, but, old
Mother Rumor notwithstanding, the N.S.AV. pedaller
looks like keeping busy long enough to land another
track “best.”
* * * *
The ancient smell that lingered round the
term “amateur” in connection with pedal-cycling is
arising in Victoria now from the motor-cycling- body.
Riders whose living is earned from the trade are
being allowed to appear upon the tracks against
competitors who are there solely for the sport.
Naturally, jthe so-called amateurs from the trade shops
Have ready means of gaining advantages over ordinary
riders, and this unfairness can only tend to disin-
cline o.r’s to take part in competitions. Control-
ling clubs are invited to. figure ouj for themselves
what that will mean eventually.
* *• * . *
The first section of the N. S. Wales
Amateur Athletic Association’s championship compe-
titions at Ashfield (Sydney) on Saturday was satis-
factory evidence that the spring has not gone out
of Ma’s youth nor the muscle become slack in her
younger men. Some of the battles - were strenuous
and stirring. Even a glutton for excitement had a
satisfying serve in the quarter-mile championship
and the mile-walk championship. The former was
the glass which reflected the speed brilliancy of A.
F. Thorpe (South Sydney Harriers). In liis heat he
led the way home in 53 4-ssec. Forty minutes later
he fled over the distance, in the final, in the rattling
time of 50 3-ssec. He had hardly got his bellows
in working order again (a 20 minutes’ spell) when
he lined up for the mile championship and won with
ease in 45 l-ssec. The mile-walls provided a great
tussle between A. AV. Pickard (of " the police) and
H. T. Dent (South Sydney Harriers). The former
was the holder of the- "title and just managed to
keep it. Six min. 57sec. Other championships
contested were 100yds. sprint, snapped by G. E.
Hansel (East Sydney A.A.C.) with half a yard to
spare in 10 2-ssec. ; putting the shot, AV. J. O’Reilly
(Police A.A.C.), 38ft. 7}in.; running high jump,
R. Sidman (E.S.A.A.C.), sft. Sin. ; 120yds. hurdles,
J. AV. Fraser (S.S.H.), 16 2-ssec.; throwing the
discus, F, J. Morgan (E.S.A.A.C.), 101 ft. 5 5-Bin.;
and running hop, step and jump, H. D. Hinchey
(S.S.A.A.C.), 41ft. 6in. The Decathlon events were
a disappointment. • •T.'"'Maher (E.5.A.A.0.) is lead-
ing from the only other two athletes who signed
on for the contract of disclosing the all-round
champion. He won the running broad jump, 100yds.
and pole vault. AV. Biden (Y.M.C.A.), a novice,
was first in hurling the javelin. It was picked up
131 ft. 6in. away. Maher threw into second place
—l2sft. llfin. "
* * * *
Victorians are cheering up over the find
of professional athlete R. McKenzie, who at Sheppar-
ton, recently, arrived first in an 880yds. handicap
(from 38yds.) in lmin.. 49sec., and second in a mile
(from 25yds.) in 4min. 15 3-ssec. —which is excellent
travelling. Money is behind a venture to include
McKenzie in the triangular match over 880yds.
between AV. F. Trembath and A. Dormer at Auck-
land (M.L.) ; and unless the watches were sleeping
at Shepparton, the Victorian Ought to be adjacent
when the cotton is brbken.
**: * *
Queensland’s long agitation to be allowed
to take the field in the [Sheffield Shield contests wasn’t
furthered by its team’s showing in inter-State cricket
this season. N.S.W., with a half-powered outfit,
defeated, the Northerners at Brisbane and Sydney,
and Victoria passed them out on the home ground.
One excuse that the Bhnanalanders can advance for
their weak play is that when they develop a strong
arm —such, for instance, as that of Ironmonger or
McLaren—-the Southern States seduce it. It’s a
pity, because evenly-balanced State elevens would
tend to revive interest in a game which for want of
it is fainting.
* * \ ' *• '• .* V ~
In Adelaide district cricket, two districts
are exactly equal after playing eight matches, the
reputedly unbeatable Eajst Torrens, who beat the
Adelaides, having lost to Port Adelaide at each
time of meeting. Ports are now a good third to the
other two named, who tie for top place. This is
all for the good of the game, the on-topness of "East
Torrens during the-past few seasons having tended to
become as monotonous as in the old days of the same
club, when it was called Norwood, and had Lyons,
Blinman and both Giffens in its team.
Some bright items from the ruck of Syd-
ney first-grade cricket on Saturday. Batting —Collins,
111 for Sydney against Balmain, 64 from boundary
wallops; McLean, 111 (coincidence that the two top
tallies of the day should be 111) for Gordon against
Glebe; Chamberlain, 93 not out, for North Sydney
against University—a dashing and stylish exhibition;
K. V. Minnett, his club mate, who contributed /7
before being run out; trifling scores of 40, 50 and
60 were made all over the- fields. Bowling—One hat
trick, by Randell, for Middle Harbor against Central
Cumberland; Coffey, four for 15, on behalf of Sydney
and against Balmain; Grimmett, who assisted t o
make things miserable for Balmain to the tune of
four for 55; Dupain, for Western Suburbs, four
Waverley residents at a cost of 35.
* * * *
,T. N. Crawford, now earning a crust as a
cricket coach at Dunedin (M.L.), has brought along
in first-grade play a team called The Colts, made
up of promising young players drawn from all the
clubs in the whusky and haggis metropolis. So far,
this lot, which Crawford captains, lias had a vivid
record, for out of 14 matches played it has won 13
right out, and drawn one. No need to be vehement
in saying that it is leading for the championship
—points, 27; nearest rival, 21. A lot of this
success, of course, is due to the howling of Crawford,
who generally ends up the afternoon’s work with
six or seven wickets for between 20 and 30 runs,
in fact, the slump in timber since he went into the
business is only equalled by the slump in Maoriland
pawnshop prospects.
*• * *
The rival sculling camps on the Parra-
imitta River —Kemp’s fit Abbotsford, and Towns’s at
Gladesville —are exchanging vigorous challenges. A
match between Alf Felton and Charlie Towns, and
another between Syd Keinp and Ford are at the
signing-up stage; while the challenge of lvemp and
Miss Kemp to Pearce and Miss Pearce (holders) for
the mixed double-sculls championship, plus a purse
of £lOO, will be decided on _ April 10. Other marine
disturbances in the offing include Billy Ripley v.
Ben Tlioroughgood, for the State heavy-boat cham-
pionship; and George Paddon ri. George Jack. The
sculling business is merrier than it has been for years.
* * * *
“Alf’' O’Brien, secretary of Sydney
Musicians’ Union, has a camp on the shores of Botany
Bay, called Bikarena, in memory of the days
when its owner was a mighty pedaller—lie carried
off a Sydney Thousand once. A big event amongst
Botany Bay sailing men came off recently, and
O’Brien decided to be in it. He Secured a boat
which had been rotting on the rocks for some
months, sewed it together with string, put some
glue into it, and entered the contraption for the
race. The Botany fishermen laughed at the ancient
Bikarena, and gave it last chance in the procession
and the limit start. But the leaky affair, with the
bailer-out, the mo§t important member of the crew,
and Sydney’s premier harpist handling the strings
of the jib, sailed a winner.
• * * *
Maorilanders are claiming a bowls record
at Inverkegville. One A. Fyfe (a first-year player)
and A. S. Froggatt, in handicap doubles, scored 45
to 0 in 14 beads. Their opponents reckoned that
the time was ripe to have something cool with it,
and the game ended without further argument.
* * * •»
Comes another bowls achievement from
Maoriland —where the game is more popular than
anywhere else in Australasia. In the wide-spread
Wellington district the mother club is named the
“Wellington,” and from it have sprung a large
family. For years past one Of the great days is
that upon which the. parent club provides a rink to
meet a representative l'ink from every one of the
younger, associations. This year 16 teams from
both sides met on a recent Saturday and the old ’un
won by a margin of 133. This is the eleventh year
in succession that ma lias beaten the children, and
she says if it isn’t something in the way of a
world’s record, things are not what a body has a
right to expect.
(Continued on page 28.)


Increase Your Strength by My Postal Course
in the privacy of your own room you
may quickly improve your health and in-
crease your strength.
My Health and Strength Exercises have
won unstinted praise throughout Australasia
for their thoroughness, and the wonderful
results they have secured.
Bead these letters
“I feel splendid, never felt better in all
my life. Thanking you for the good your
Course has done me.”
—C.W.E., Maryland, N.S.W.
“I have put on over a stone in weight
since I began your Course.”
—North Unley, S.A.
That will give you an idea of how much
you can benefit. I recently added a number
of new exercises to my Course —exercises
which were discussed and demonstrated
during my conferences early this year, with
MAX MULLER, the celebrated Danish
Physical Oulturist; with the great EUGEN
SANDOW, and with BERNARR McFADDEN,
the leading American Exponent of Physical
Culture.
These new exercises are the latest and
best work of modern progressive specialists
in development of the body, and ridding it of
the ills brought about by neglect.
My illustrated 48-page booklet, “Health
and Strength from Self-Culture,” fully de-
scribes my system and gives cost of tuition.
It’s very interesting. You ought to have a
copy. .Tust write your name and address
on this advertisement and post to me. I’ll
know what you mean. Kindly send three
penny stamps for postage.
s ■ H
warn
mm
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
392 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
fasf
HEAR
LATEST 8-TONE
Mears Ear-phone
The final triumph of the inventor of the first successful multi-tone
Ear-phone. IF YOU ARE DEAF, this perfected instrument will enable
you to hear DISTINCTLY, PERFECTLY.
Eight Tones 1 8 different adjustments to suit every condi-
tion of the ear. Instantly changed by a touch of the
' finger. Just as easily and as satisfactorily regulated for
the hearing as field-glasses are for the sight. Thus ensur-
ing perfect hearing in all degrees of deafness.
reproducing nrincidp IliohW ..i The Mears Ear-phone is based on the microphonic sound-
that degree Sii, ordfXy h U in * e “i. ifleB * he „ fai A ,te l to just
in the vest nocket or nimied tn m B3 on ’ or ln the C,lurch or Lecture Hall. Comfortably carried
Australasian svnx4 v f „ Cal , an J U f ree > or. write for full particulars.
*__ Irala3 . la P. ®SPNEY: A. E. Slade, Bernard’s Buildings, 387 George Street,
Bm L SR°i wp NE ri i? all ?^ ay & Down ’ Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins Street.
a. fe. &LAUE, BRISBANE: Carl Zoeller Ltd., 246 Queen Street.
Bernard s Buildings, ADELAIDE: Chas. Balfour, Central Chambers, Charles Street.
HOBART: Chas. Davis Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
A ICELAND: Clem Bartley, 8 Ponsonby Road.
387 George Street,
SYDNEY.
I ° 1 UIIWIIUJ' XVUd.U,
Meats Ear-phone Co. Inc., 45 West 34th St., New York, U.S.A.
My—
Eminencia
Cigars,
MILD IN FLAVOR,
DELIGHTFUL IN AROMA,
LOW IN PRICE.
The proof of the above
is in the smoking.
Let me send you a trial
box of 25, and, if they
are not entirely to
your liking, return
them, and I will only
charge you for those
smoked.
In boxes of 25’s, 6/-;
50's, 11/6; 100’s,
22/6.
Postage on 25, 6d.;
50, 9d.; 100, 1/-
Inter-State, Sd., 1/2
and 1/8.
Write for a copy of
my Catalog, “A Dis-
criminating Smoker’s
Guide.” It will inter- i
est you.
Actual Size.
AM. SOLOMON,
“CIOAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“SHELL”
BENZINE
AGAIN insisted on
by
Sir Ernest Shackleton
for use in
The Imperial Antarctic
Expedition.
1915
INDIAN BIG TWIN.
There are to-day 100,000 Indians of the
Big Twin type on the road. No single Model
of any Motor-Cycle has behind it such a his-
tory of satisfied riders as the Indian Twin.
Call and see what the New 1915 Models,
built especially for Australian roads, are
made of. Complete range of sectional parts
in the various stages of manufacture.
Don’t let them fool you about such make-
shifts as -“Floating Saddle Posts” or “Spiral
Springs” making a “Spring Frame.” The
Indian Cradle-Spring Frame is protected from
imitators by patents and high cost of produc-
tion. AVhen riding an Indian von have the
satisfaction of knowing that whatever you meet
on the road cannot touch you for speed, relia-
bility or comfort.
CATALOGUE “D” ON REQUEST.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
HOTELKEEPERS! HOTELKEEPERS!
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR! NO BOTTLE-WASHING !
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever ar.d mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET* SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
ft" m
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
SYDNEY
WOOL, PRODUCE, AND CRAIN
SALESMEN
YOU HAVE NO DIFFICULTY
iss3
in setting a shoe to fit your foot at the
RIGNEY SHOE PARLORS. We have
positively the finest assortment of men’s
high-grade footwear —the newest shapes,
makes -and styles, in quarter, half and full
sizes.
The illustration shows a Tan Willow Calf
Three-Button Shoe. Smart American Shape,
Brown Cloth Insertion Tops, “Non-Tread-
Over” Brand. Best English manufacture.
Price - - 32/6
Also in Patent Leather, 32/0 and 357-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of Our Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,’’
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Something refreshingly novel in the way
of statuary has been erected by the A.W.U.
in the cemetery at Stuart Mill (Vic.) over
the grave of Donald Macdonell, ex-Cliief
Secretary in the N.S.W. Government, and
general secretary of the big union. The
monument consists of a huge 10-ton mass of
Harcourt granite in the rough. The inscrip-
tion on a bronze medallion tells Maedonell’s
story briefly, and concludes with Roderic
Quinn’s lines: —
He has mounted his horse and smiled farewell,
And rides where the shadows fall.
Honor him, men of the Western sheds,
Honor him, honor him all.
“Y.Z.”: Since the days of poor, plucky
little _ Judkins what may be called gas
morality has been somewhat neglected in
Melbourne; but recently another exponent
of the gospel has cropped up. He is carry.
ing on his crusade in a small paper of pious
tendencies and on public platforms wherever
suburban opportunity offers. His cry is
‘‘more light!” the idea being that the Devil
is to be outed by gas jets, and that the
way to Heaven is illuminated by vapor
which passes through a meter, All our
sands, Paddocks, and waste places are there-
fore to be flooded with light, and iniquity,
which goetli in darkness, will leave for the
hills. All that is necessary to convert even the
camp at Broadmeadows into an Eden, minus
apples and reptiles of all sorts, is a more
liberal application of gas. In short, the
main road to Paradise is the gasmain, and
the Bright and Shining Light so frequently
referred to in Scriptures is obtainable at
about 4s. per 1000 ft.
Rev. HENRY WORRALL’S
EXPERIENCE WITH
DUNLOP
MOTOR
CYCLE
TYRES
Read This !
The Manager 19th February, 1915.
Dunlop Rubber Company, Melbourne
Dear Sir, —You will be interested to know that a little more than two
years ago, I had my 2 % h.p. motor cycle shod with a pair of your 26 x 2% in.
covers and tubes. They have given me the greatest satisfaction. One cover
and tube has run over 11,000 miles without a puncture. They give promise
of many a journey to come. During the period mentioned, the tyres have
travelled over some of the roughest roads in Victoria and New South Wales,
including a trip via Warburton over Mt. Matlock through Wood’s Point
along the valley of the Goulburn to Mansfield, and back through Kingdom
Gap and Healesville to Melbourne. I have had several runs to Geelong,
Ballarat, and other towns, including Kyabram ; and last week I travelled the
great overland route from Sydney to Melbourne
without a single tyre or tube trouble. As my
machine has to carry nearly 15 stone weight,
I think this fact, coupled with the details
given herein, is the strongest evidence as to the
durability of your Company’s workmanship.
Yours sincerely,
Rev. HENRY WORRALL.
Use “Dunlops” keep them
well inflated, and you ean have
the same satisfaction.
OBTAINABLE
THROUGH
ALL AGENTS
List on Application.
THE DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
MELBOURNF
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
BRISBANE
PERTH
WELLINGTON
CHRISTCHURCH
a a
A
JHC


ACTRESS TELLS SECRET.
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair and
Promoted Its Growth with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview, made the following state-
ment: “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum, a small box of Orlex Compound,
and joz. of glycerine. These ingredients
cart be bought at any chemist’s at very little
cost. Apply to the hair twice a week until
it becomes the required shade. This will
make a grey-haired person look 20 years
younger. It is also fine to promote the
growth of hair, relieves itching and scalp
humors, and is excellent for dandruff and
falling hair.”* 12
Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
All the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
Is an adequate food— a real nutriment.
ROWLAND’S MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural hair-health
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND’S
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores , Chemists, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or similar name.
HAVE YOU a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer. Can
be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/1 and 2/9.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.
Agents— LONDON, E.C.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL.
PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
m
■HI
mms
%
KITZS
CIDER.
In preparing your Motor Car for
Summer Travelling don’t forget a
“ nOSG lEL”
TWIN=COLOR
MOTOR RUG.
Made in Color=tones to match the
Car! Superbly Beautiful and
Luxuriously Comfortable.
Sold at all
the Best Shops.
[2
HAVE you
SEEN
the New Moonstone Plaque
Jewellery ? It is the last
word in designs in London,
Dainty to a degree and in most
exquisite and refined taste.
The centre of each ornament is
a Moonstone, dulled with a
Diamond or other jewel in its
m
m
WS -ijf*
JJlorious square Moonstone and fine White Diamonds, set
Platinum, with Platinum Expanding Bracelet, full
choicely cased, £2B.
in solid
length,
centre','and then this is sup- - ... ,
ported by Diamonds or Whole Pearls, set in exquisite, lacelike designs in Platinum.
We import the setting, and then set them with Diamonds, Rubies or Pearls in Sydney.
We thus save air duties on the gems, and so we are able to quote our famous low prices.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 8 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES—STRICTLY CASH.
m
UM
LJJ
mil
;
m
m
i
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
Gd. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
Tiie Manager.
Exclusive Agent
Wanted
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames and novelties
in art goods. Excellent
opportunity for any
Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is very re-
numerative. You may
charge good prices for our
. portrait novelties. No ex-
perience required. We will scnd free of charge, our
book of instructions and general catalog. We furnish
bank references. 20 successful year 3 m the export
business is our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co.
1029—D-10 W. Adams St.. Chicago, 111.. U- S. A.
fasf
SOAPKO.
It Surpasses
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR IN TABLETS;
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS.
Send Six Penny Stamps for Box containing Sample
Manager, o£ each kind ’
SOAPKO PRQPY., Box 685 G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
BRITISH BRINE,
BRITISH MEN, I
BRITISH BRAINS, I
make |
« s ,
THE BEST the I
World can produce. 1
HURD’S High-class
American iStationery.
Hurd’s American Stationery is used in all social circles where
dignity and good taste in correspondence are essential. The paper is
of exquisite quality—in a number of delicate shades —and packed in
special Presentation Boxes, containing Envelopes, Paper and Cards,
tied with Ribbon to tone.
In any of the following shades: Bluite, Dresden White, Orchid
and Steel.
m
**- —- -
fv
' -
J ~
C 356.
A neat Presentation Box of
HURD’S Stationery—
-27/6, post free.
C 346.
Presentation Case of HURD’S
Stationery—
-11/6, post free.
Our Catalogue illustrates other desigus and prices in this
exclusive Stationery. May we have the pleasure of posting you a
copy ?
STEWART DAWSON’S
Strand Corner,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“0.K.”: After the Australian Cup race
nmeh the same nasty things were said as when
Posinatus won the Melbourne Cup, the violent
eleventh-hour backing of Lempriere being adduced
as evidence in support of the nasty things. In short,
Rumor, who sometimes speaks in a raucous voice
and carries a black bag, declared that, whilst the
nags that would have beaten Lempriere couldn’t do
it, some that might have done so wouldn’t try.
Much the same influences that operated in the Posin-
atus case, it was said, were responsible for the end-
to-end victory of Lempriere. Rumor, the offspring
of Suspicion—Disappointment, is often an awful
liar, but it imparts so vile a stink to horseracing,
and the name of the alleged head stinker is so
notorious, that the - V.R.C. stewards can no longer
affect ignorance of the odor. They really stand
charged with permitting the lare-e majority of the
patrons of their show to be hoodwinked and plun-
dered by a little clique of wire-pullers whose high
priest is undoubtedly very astute. The Tote would
do much—if not everything—to ensure better condi-
tions for the public, quite apart from the fact that it
pavs a dividend on the second horse. No schemer,
however astute, can get the “cream” of the Tote
market, seeing that the market yields no cream. The
Tote registers no bogus bets for the bamboozling of
punters, nor does it bet, bogusly or otherwise, on
the horses whilst they are running. Bookmakers,
who sometimes do a bit of roguery on their own
account, are oftener the feeders of roguery, outside
punters and sanguine liorseowners being the producers
of the food which the books distribute. The Tote
would rid the racecourse of bookmakers and give
the public two chances to get a draw after each
race.
* * * *
In the grandstand reserve at Flemington,
just before the Australian Cun was run, two one-
legged men were noticed walking tog'ether and a
superstitious punter (not that any are non-
superstitious) wanted to know the prophetic mean-
ing of it. What tip did the two timber-pronped
sports suggest? Somebody’s inspiration was Winni-
peg, and the man who was looking for signs and por-
tents went and dropped his sugar on that animal.
The much-fancied Naxberry, which missed
the ’bus at the V.R.C. Autumn meeting, got his
fancy name this way. His owner and trainer, Burn,
rode Grafnax and Briberrv in their palmy days; so as
a moniker for the Positano colt, he joined the tail
end of the names of the famous jumpers.
* * * *
Edward Cutts —“old Ted” in the affec-
tionate memory of all Maoriland racing men—
weighed out for the Final Stakes the other day at
the home near Christchurch from which he had led
winners and losers for well nigh half a century. A
Maitland (N.S.W.) boy, Cutts took service with
Henry Redwood, away back in the dim ages of the
past, and crossing to M.L. was for many years
associated with that fine old man in training and
racing. Later he set up as a public trainer at
Riccarton and never lacked patronage, for Cutts
was a horsemaster of rare skill and a man of sterling
honesty. For a generation or so he trained for
George Clifford, and the relationship only ended
with death. The best horses Cutts ever trained
were probably Mata and Sir Modred. The best he
ever owned personally was Dudu. He brought Nelson
to Australia and saw that good, honest galloper
just snuffed out by Trident in the Australian Cup.
Another Cutts—but that was “Johnny”—rode for
John Tait in the N.S.W. Leger in 1847, and had
the mount on Archer in the first two Melbourne
Cups.
* * * *
In the midst of clamoring for athletes to
.quit, the playing fields and get into the Great Line,
S. M. Herald recently published a cablegram which
bracketed the deaths of General Gough, V.C., in
Flanders, and Kenneth Powell, at Ypres. In expla-
natory notes it was set out in five inches of close
type that Powell was one of England’s best tennis
players and a hurdler of some renown. Gough was
mentioned in five lines as having fought for the
Empire in three continents and won the highest
decoration for valor. The Herald’s interpretation
of V.C. is, apparently, Very Commonplace.
*• * *■ *
Much of the recent success of Britain’s
Flying Corps is due to the new “tabloid” bi-plarie
now in use. It is a very light, small affair, looking
like a dragon-fly, and not a great deal bigger ; but it
carries a well-protected 80h.p. engine and can do
up to 114 miles per hour. This gives it pace and
to spare over Germany’s Taube ’planes, and makes
it very difficult for anti-aircraft guns to hit.
* * * *
Despite the fact that the laudable craze
for drilling threatens to jostle such game-players as
have not listened to the call from Europe, N.S.W.
Rugby League is preparing its winter programme
with vigor. Additional grounds are being sought
and the grade competitions are to be even more
encouraged by subsidy this season than last. Also,
teams from Maoriland “land Queensland will assist
the industry. Last year £26,700 passed through
the hands of the League, which is £7OOO better
than the record of 1913. The chief incomes were
£12,426 “gate” from the Northern Union tour in
Australia, and £10,798 from the competition turn-
stiles. A profit of £1757 was made on the English-
men’s tour. The officials reckon it would be a pity
to waste money that lies around loose like that.
Incidentally about 130 League toeballers have thrown
away the jersey for the soldier’s tunic.
* » * *
During 18 years of district football (Aus-
tralian rules) in South Aus. the Port Adelaide team
has been six times premiers, eight times runners-up
and three in the third position. Last season its
senior combination booted through all matches (14
in the State competitions, one against the Victorian
champions, and one against the combined repre-
sentatives of six other S.A. clubs) without defeat.
That performance stands on its own ; but to glorify
it “Ports” had an average of over eight goals per
match to spare. Finally, in the glorious 1914 sea-
son, the team’s goal tally reached double figures in
13 out of 14 matches. Hats off!
THE IRREDEEMABLE TOTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And when all is said the totalisator must be ad-
mitted to be quite as mischievous as the bookmaker.
What harm can the latter do the individual or the
community that the machine is not capable of' doing ?
—Presbyterian parson, opposing the tote in a sec-
tarian paper in Melbourne.
The tote is a malignant thing,
- Its morals most infernal.
You'll see this engine vile, a-wing
At evil to outdo the Ring,
Depicted in a journal
Devqted as a rule to drones
fn pulpits, and to musty bones,
And tea, and toast, and currant scones.
The tote will dog our children’s feet,
And head them off from Zion ;
The elders it will slyly cheat—
Far better for a saint to meet
The usual ravening lion.
’Twill bribe the jockey on the job,
Delude the average man, and rob
The smartest Alee and the yob.
’Twill lure the owners on to lose
By many cunning courses;
’Twill make its way by subtle ruse,
And with the drugs that sharpers use
Will hocus helpless horses.
The vilest book, when all is done,
Has fear of the Hereafter, son—
Alas! the vicious tote has none!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


HALL’S,
The
Leading'
Home Furnishers
£l2/7/6
THE “M.\SI)A” SIDEBOARD, sft. wide, fitted
with effective Deadlight Cupboards and Barge
Bevelled Mirror.
There is everything in our large
warehouse for the complete fur-
nishing and equipment of the
modern home, and the selection of
goods is large and varied enough
to satisfy your requirements, and
to meet your wants in regard to
prices. We invite inspection of
our magnificent display of General
Household Furniture in specimen
furnished rooms.
We illustrate a few designs of
Solid Oak Mission Furniture.
£l3/15/-
THE “FANCOURT” SIDEBOARD, sft. wide,
with Barge Bevelled Mirror and Pretty Pan-
elled and Beadliglit Doors.
All Goods are marked in
PLAIN NET
CASH PRICES.
£4/10/-
THE “HALIFAX,” 4ft. CIRCULAR-
TOP SOLID OAK TABLE.
A copy of our Large Illustrated
Catalogue and Furnishing Esti-
mates will be mailed free on request.
A. HALL <a CO.,
The Reliable Home Furnishers
561, 561 a, 563, 565> 567 George Street, Sydney
fasf
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
, A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y<ni. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia-
URING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
I‘lios is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle
handy. Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days come round.
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
To play or
sing perfectly
To study your voice as you use it in singing,
in conversation and in speaking; to study
your performance as an instrumentalist; to
increase your earning power as a salesman;
there is nothing can aid you so much as the
Edison Home Recording Outfit. Merely sing,
speak or play into it, and it reproduces your
eftort exactly, enabling you to detect and
eliminate all faults. Tt is better than a
teacher!
t sed extensively by clergymen, lawyers, actors
and public speakers i to the hostess, it sug-
gests innumerable novel forms of entertain-
ment.
“lo hear ourselves as others hear .us: Confi-
dences concerning the modefh Blarney Stone"'
is the title of -a -booklet giving full details
of this excellent equipment. it contains
many interesting points, and is valuable to
those who aim to succeed as singers, speakers
or instrumentalists.
Mrite for this booklet at once—NOW.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364=372 Kent St., Sydney
OR LICK’S malted
milk
MALTED BARLEY—WHEAT & MILK r"
Are the constituents of Horlick’s Malted Milk. These nutritive elements help nature
to build up the human frame and bring back health, strength and energy. After
a cup of Horlick’s, an increase of mental and physical power is at once noticeable.
There is nothing to equal Horlick’s as a Delicious Food-Drink.
GET HORLICK'S AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN ,
CAUTIO N
I
TS INVM-
SZjS
—^<9
AITtO .
Be WITT’S—THE ONLY “PROOF-CURE” FOR
PAINS IN THE BACK.
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Stone, Gravel,
and other Kidney & Bladder Troubles.
It seems as though a wave of desolation and destruction is sweep-
ing over the whole of Australia. Letters have been received during
the last .week from places as far apart as Port Macquarie. N.S.W.,
I Premantle, W.A., as well as hundreds of other smaller towns
; and villages in Australia.
Almost every one of these letters asks for
information. Every one of these people writes
asking what is the meaning of these aches
and pains in various parts of the body, which
everybody seems to be suffering from. Other
people are complaining of stiffness of joints
and acute backache, with a nasty taste in the
mouth first thing in the morning, constipa-
tion, puffiness under the eyes, and a general
feeling of weakness and irritability. In some
cases these pains have become so bad that
they have changed into specific complaints,
such as Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago.
Sciatica, Cystitis (Inflammation of the Blad-
der), Stone and Gravel. Every one of those
people is the victim of a disease which is
rapidly becoming the curse of the country—
kidney disease.
This fell complaint is carrying on its awful
work in every part of Australia to-day,
and hundreds of people are dying every week
who should be. alive and well, if thev had onlv
taken ordinary precautions. Surely' the above
is an index as to how serious kidney trouble
is if it is neglected. Finally, it becomes too
late, for kidney disease is often the forerunner
of deadly Bright's, Disease, which, as every-
body knows, is fatal in, almost every case.
The greatest.and most successful kidney
remedy that has ever bedn. introduced is De
Witt's Kidney and Bladder Pills. There is a
secret to this wonderful success—the secret
is that these -wonderful little pills -go right
straight to the very root of the trouble, they
go direct to .the kidneys themselves—what is
more, they prqve it inside 24 hours—guaran-
teed. And the cost is so small.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder |*ilTs can be obtained at any of
/
'Os
>2*
A pain “just
as though my
b a c k w i 11
break” means
kidney trouble.
'^ as , Ilin S ton H. Soul, Pattinson & Co.. Ltd.. Sydney,
ijongmore s llic Melbourne Pharmacy, Bourke Street, Melbourne and
two and in <f bMf e Hm tS ' at ? /9 ' and 5/0 >'cr lai '« e box. The 5/0 size is
—o an<l a half t,,nes as large as the 2/0 size, and contains enough
doses to last you three weeks.
-try your nearest chemist, but if you have
any difficulty in obtaining be Witt's Pills
send the price of the package required to
oil her of the firms mentioned above, and the
goods will be sent by return, post free. If
.'on continue to suffer pain and misery you
do so unnecessarily. '
. < ■
every case.
To cure Kidney Trouble of any kind
you must positively get rid of the
cause —the poisonous Uric Acid. Ke-
rn cm her, to do this, a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the
a] id not through- the bowel’s as
most Kidney Pills do. When you see; the
1 line change to a muddy bluish color—•
a feature which distinguishes De Will's
Pills from all others—you know be-
yond all doubt that they have put their
healing touch on the right spot-jtlie
kidneys and. the .bladder A wonderful
pill—straight to the kidneys—that is
ibo reason why Do Witt’s give sm-ii
amazingly quick relief- every time.
T £ permanent euro follows in' alnlost
Uook for that blue color.
De WITT’S
and
PILLS
Sole Proprietors: E. C. De WITT & Co., Ltd., London,' W^England.


If You Need aTonic,You Need
the Best Tonic!
And the best tonic is Sanatogen! That was
definitely proved by the official award of the Inter-
national Medical Congress, held in London in
August, 1913.
The special jury of the Congress, representing the
cleverest physicians in the world, gave their highest,
possible award (the Grand Prix) to Sanatogen -and only
to Sanatogen —selecting it from all other tonics and
nutrients !
You Need Sanatogen.
Do you fully grasp what this means
to you ? Where your health is con-
cerned, you cannot safely experiment
with inferior or doubtful preparations.
If you need a tonic, you need the best
tonic ! Therefore you need Sanatogen.
Sanatogen is the one tonic which
commands your absolute confidence, be-
cause it has the confidence of the whole
medical profession. Over 19,000 signed
letters from practising physicians show
that Sanatogen is of the greatest value
in various conditions of ill-health, in-
cluding Nervous and Wasting Diseases,
General Weakness, Poverty of Blood, Im-
paired Digestion, and Faulty Nutrition.
Begin to take it To-day.
Sanatogen is the one thing
which you can depend on to bring
about a real improvement in your
health —and especially in the health of
your nervous system. Send this
coupon today for a Free Booklet,
which fully explains its nature
and uses.
Chemist's, from 2/6d. per tin.
You can buy Sanatogen at any
&
n
■ a#
W
V. i,
a
*
M
■ 1
: ' ■
m
% '*
/
L
I
Grand Prix
International
Jtec/icalCongress •
fias been a Warcbecb to
sSANAIbGINi
Sir Edward Grey addressing the Inter-
national Medical Congress.
Sir FREDERICK MILNER,
a member of the Privy Council,
says:—
“ Sir Frederick Milner was much
run down when he took Sanatogev ,
and it certainly proved successful. It
seems both to nourish and give
strength."
Madame SARAH GRAND,
authoress of “The Heavenly
Twins,” etc., writes: —
“/ pin my faith to Sanatogen
because it certainly restored me to
health after the worst nervous break-
down I ever had."
Mr. HENRY ARTHUR
JONES,
author of so many famous plays,
writes:—
“ Sanatogen is a very valuable,
food and nerve-tonic. I have several
times taken a, course of it when run
down , and always with good results.
Sir CHARLES A. CAMERON,
C. 8., M.D.,
Medical Officer of Health and Public Analyst,
Dublin, etc., writes:—
“ Sanatogen is an excellent nerve-food of the
highest nutritive value, containing a large
amount of organic phosphorus in exactly the
form in which it can be easily absorbed.
The Sanatogen Co., „ _
17 Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a Free Booklet, “ How
to Live Healthily.”
Name
Address - *
S. 13/647,
Business. Robbery, etc.
“Hornet” : I lent my only surviving watch
to my wife to-day, and, needless to remark,
she dropped it. It was only the fourth she
had smashed within 12 months; which was
no doubt why she told me.l was a perfect
brute when I suggested that we’d better tell
the time iu future by a sun-dial. Going into
town, I met my neighbor the jeweller, and,
seeking for comfort, asked him if all women
were as clumsy. “Clumsy !” lie shouted, and
made the typist in the next seat jump.
“Clumsy! Good Heavens, yes!. If a woman
comes into my shop and buys a watch, its
odds-on she’s back with it inside a week.
You know what she’s done—she’s shoved it
off the mantelpiece. But you can’t tell ’em
it’s their fault —that would ruin business.
No, you’ve just got to listen to their rot and
then give ’em a new watch. 1 reckon there s
only one thing that's clumsier than a woman,
and that’s a cow !”
* * •» . *
“Caught Again”: Some of these hawkers
seem to know all the points in the game. I’ve
just been shown one. A few minutes after
the wife went out the other morning, while
I mended tin* fowdhouse in peace, a hard-
faced person appeared and announced that
“the lady” had directed him to leave some
vegetables. Being told to produce tin* goods
the li.f.p. disappeared, to stagger back a few
minutes later with a sack of potatoes. Fear-
ing the missus had gone daft I expostulated,
but was assured that there was "no ipistake.
Next the dealer rolled in three pumpkins,
and, after wiping the sweat off his face,
wheeled up a miscellaneous collection of peas,
onions and cabbages. Finally he opened his
countenance and remarked “Seventeen bob.
Cursing such unprecedented extravagance,
for we’ll never get through the pile of pro-
duce now on hand even by eating hard three
times a day. I paid the ruffian off, only to
learn soon after, from the expostulations cf
an angry girl, how neat the take-down had
been. Wliat she had done was to order three
shillings’ worth, but the smart Alec with
the ornate cart, encountering a simpleton m
old pants repairing a chicken run, sized up
the possibilities with great accuracy. Im
not grumbling, but if anyone happens to have
a bulldog with a taste for vegetable hawkers
I’m a cash buyer.
“Floradora packing” was introduced to
the Victorian Fruit Commission by a witness
who knew the business. Having received a
consignment of fruit, the agent hires experts
to repack it so that he has six cases for
every five lie has received. He pays the
grower, of course, for five cases, and the
grower is no wiser. That is Floradora Pack-
ing, and it makes everybody happy, especially
the agent.
•* * *
“Milo”: The manufacture of casein is
another Australian possibility that was flat-
tened out by the war. A factory was estab-
lished at Byron Bay (N.S.W.), where the
article was manufactured from butter-milk -
the only place in the world where that waste
product was successfully utilised for the pur-
pose, it was said. The future of the mdustiy
looked shiny, because butter-milk could be
ha'd almost for the taking away. But Ger-
many was the only buyer; and since Arma-
geddon started there has been no market at
all. Casein is used to deceive the public by
making it believe that the keys of its im-
ported German-made piano are of pure ivory,
and that the handles of its cutlery are of the
same material. Some day this country will
build all its own pianos and make all its
own cutlery, and then it will be independent
of Germany for a market for its compressed
butter-milk. Just now, however, the infant
is lying unconscious, and the milk that it
should be feeding op is being pumped out into
Byron Bay.
. * * *
“By Gum”: On: the subject of the box-
making “ring” in . Victoria there is some
misconception. Fruit eases are always made-
from off-cuts; if there was any money in
cutting the cases direct from log timber
plenty of the hardwood mills would have
taken it on long ago. If the orehardistswant-
to get even with the ring let them do as
the cow cookies did in N.S.W. —put up a
factory of their own. The ring will fight, of
course, but it only remains for the consumer
to keep loyal to his own co. and Pirate
Enterprise will come round with a cordial
invitation to call off the dog. The Co-op.
Box- Co. of N.S.W., Ltd., is turning out a
first-class butter case at a reasonable price;
and the local ring has sawn hunks off its
price list.
„ * * *
“.T.F.H.”: An advt. in London Times
offering “a good bonus for a Foreign Order’
has been attracting attention and evoking-
unfavorable comment. It has transpired
that there is—or was, before the war an
agency in Germany for the supply of these
Orders. It issued price-lists in the usual
commercial manner. The Order
was a Persian one —the “Sun of Nasr-ed-
din” —'Which could be bought for £25, and
entitled its purchaser to the prefix
“Chevalier.” The Turkish “Order of the
Osmanieh” could be got for £3OO. There
is no actual quotation list, but money enters
largely, if indirectly, into the acquisition of
British “Honors” also. In England. titles
are bought by large contributions to party
campaign funds. In Australia they have
been gqt by lending money to chronically
impecunious Premiers. An old-time Gover-
nor of Victoria was asked to recommend
squatter Samuel Wilson for a knighthood
on the ground of his services in the acclima-
tisation of salmon. “That’s not good
enough,” said his Ex.; “let him do some-
thing striking.” So the W ilson Hall of the
University of Melbourne came into being,
and the squatter got his K.C.M.G.
“Billbo”: I recently read in an English
newspaper that owing to the briskness m
the aeroplane-building industry there is a
great demand for Australian timbers witb a
high twisting efficiency. If that is the trut
let me introduce the hitherto-despised Blac
Sally” (Eucalyptus stettulata). This tine
ber's liability to warp, while a disadvantage
for many uses, may specially quality it roi
use in aeroplane construction, and also toi
building that other war-like implement, the
tennis racquet. Bushmen, not being banco
to aeroplane or tennis-racquet factories, as
a rule, use the wood as mere fuel.
* ** * * *
“Moana” : As Mhoriland millers are com-
plaining bitterly about the “dirty” character
of the imported wheat, it looks as it the un-
happv country accepted a consignment ot
tribulation with the grain. One lot was
found to contain as mtich as < lb. of rubbish
per sack. Even in the most “dirty” wheat pro-
duced locally. 311 b. of rubbish is considered the
limit Several cheerful optimists have been
explaining that dirt doesn’t matter much in
wheat which has to be milled, but as a lot of
the stuff is being sold to farmers for use as
seed, there is likely to be an expansive crop
of new thistles, strange weeds _ and other
imported catastrophes blooming in the Ivicß-
etty Isles bv next summer. As the t ali-
"fornian thistle which over-runs big lumps ot
country,in the South Island was imported m
Massey should see to it that
all imported wheat; used for sowing is win-
nowed or graded first.
* +■ - T * *
“The Desolating Gold Dredge” is a stereo-
typed headine in the only Melbourne daily
(the Age) which protests against the
accursed thing. It still goes'on yielding half
an ounce of gold to five acres of desolation,
while the Vie. Government continues;to do
nothing, as before
“Carl” : lie ambled into tbe studio wear-
ing ordinary clothes and a suit-case. He asked
for the dressing-room, and presently returned
arrayed in a bishop’s full-dress uniform-
silk'bands, tassels; everything except the
spurs. He was struggling with the collar.
“Can I help you?” I* asked. 2So thank
you,” he replied. “The d—d things too
small.” When I had got back on the rails
‘is it were, I murmured that it did me gocd
to hear a leader of the flock use human
language. He seemed surprised. 'block
l )0 d —d !” he remarked. When I had photo-
graphed him in three positions lie explained
that he belonged to Snip and Co., and 1 lie
photographs were to be sent to a distant
client. “We used to send out things like
this on appro.,” he said, “but we found that
frequently they were worn for a few days,
perhaps. ' and then returned. So now’ we
display the goods by photo. It’s just as good
for customers vdio mean business, and it s
better for us.”
CHIFFON’S PRIVATE ARMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W hen the British Empire'echoed with the ringing
call to arms,
It was Mister Caesar Chiffon —he that drapes the
female channs —-
Who arose and talked the loudest of “the Lion s
Austral cubs”
And a duty to the Empire nobly done in rifle clubs;
Then, he spoke of marksmen steady and the horror
of a foe
Who by trenches of Australians would be quickly
sent below,
Till the men of Chiffon’s counters, to the very last
galoot,
Were on fire to get some rifles and commence to
drill and shoot.
Now the colonels and the majors were as busy as
could be
Drilling soldiers for the export trade-in soldiers
oversea ;
And the rifle clubs were booming, also banging at
the butts,
Ho that no one paid attention to old Chiffon’s
martial knots ;
Till the smart old advertiser (here you’ll note the
master-rub!)
Formed with grave official sanction “Chiffon’s
Empire Rifle Club.”
Then for patriotic service he was lauded in the
press
Next to all the bleeding cables! What his joy was
you may guess!
But the genius of old Chiffon (in his time he’d
used the Flag
Till that symbol fine was cheaper than a housemaid’s
dusting rag)
Didn’t stop at minor triumphs. While his rivals
gnashed their ads.,
He arranged a morning muster of his valiant
draper-lads;
And he posed before them proudly on the city
training-ground,
While an unsuspecting colonel on inspection strolled
around.
Then, the stern proceedings over, “Captain” Chiffon,
stiff as starch,
Turned his little army shopward and commanded
them to “March!”
Down the streets they promenaded, keeping step
like soldiers true,
And the clerks and early shoppers to the kerbs and
corners flew,
While the drum kept tap-lap-tappuiy very bravely
in the lead ;
’Twould have made a stone-dead city' sit up straight
and take some heed.
“There go Chiffon’s rifle-clubmen,” said the people
as they passed,
And the Chiffon Imgler-eashboy blew a long and
stirring blast
On the brazen thing that dangled from the cord
about his chest,
As the swelling “Captain” muttered, “Well, of
ads., this is my best!”
There were followers in thousands as they drummed
and bugled by ;
“Captain’’ Chiffon breathed in spasms and a tear-
drop dimmed his eye.
“This is splendid (Keep in step there l ) This is
genius ! Lord, it’s fine 1
(Halt!)’ 1 lie stopped them and he dressed them
in a stiff, attentive line,
With their stern young faces staring at the useless
gauds that shone
In the windqws stuck with placards shouting 1
“Chiffon's sale now on.”
There's a moral hero for soldiers who distrust
commercial brag
And the tradesman’s trick of pinning little ads.
upon the Flag.
x.s.w.
SERGEANT-MAJOR.
Though Peacock vow With won! and pCn
That streams shall be protected,
Atld sltidgets vile be punished whbn
Their sludging is detected,
"the schemers, o’er the fence or hedges
Are slyly jubilating—
They wink their eye at Peacock s pledge,
For all the time their dirty dredge
The land is desolating.


■ill
il
*
A
\
(}
£
¥,
/.
a
t
1.1
0
BREATH
h m
&
&
<7,
:::
as
©
it*
:::
*
&
M
%
&
&
vT, «
cr
c
* <5
g;
%
4V
8»
c/:
S-.U'
«e :
!?!:!:
?::
I::;:
::
Good looking, tastefully dressed, nice manners, but —a bad
breath. This has caused the social and business failure of
many men and women, and always will, for a bad breath is
highly disagreeable to those with whom he or she comes in contact.
Those who are in perfect health are never afflicted with bad
breath. It is a result of some disorder of the digestive system,
such as indigestion, constipation or liver trouble.
To sweeten the breath take a course of Chamberlain’s Tablets.
They cleanse the stomach and stimulate the bowels to perform
their work, thus clearing the system of all foul matter that causes
bad breath. Be sure and get the genuine
CfIAMBEBLAIfcTABLEIS
Jof- the Stomach & Liver.
mm
mm
lohe
WATWORTH CO.’S
TI-SARRIN
-»s
LET US SEND YOU
BY RETURN POST A
POSITIVELY TAKES FAT OFF. SAFE TO USE!
ABSOLUTELY HARfILESS.
FREE SAMPLE
There are many
reasons why you
should get rid of
all that EXCESS
FAT
Excess fat injures your health, impedes your move-
ments. and makes you the joke-butt of your unfeeling
normal-weight friends. People who are excessively
fat never feel well and vigorous like normal folks. You know this is true.
People who have been fat and are now reduced to normal, think other fat people
ridiculous. Excess fat, also, impedes the heart action, rendering its functions
difficult, and interferes with the breathing. Not alone does excess fat injure your
health and endanger your existence, it absolutely destroys your figure and makes
you a ludicrous sight. Why do you stay over fat?
“TI-SARKIN”
positively removes excess fat
and will restore your spoiled
figure to genteel and pleasing proportions, and is always a sure and lasting cure
for obesity and corpulency. A few doses improves your breathing wonderfully, and
the course of treatment will cure you. It is the only successful and at the same
time harmless fat-reducer that has ever been discovered. Its efficacy has been
undeniably demonstrated in thousands of successfully treated cases. It is totally
and absolutely non-poisonous, and can in no wise work any injury to the general
health, even, though it often reduces excess weight by as much as a pound a day.
On the contrary, improved conditions in the general health become noticeable in less
than a week after its use is begun. Guarantee given.
TI-SARKIN” is not a patent pill sold regardless of individual
symptoms , but is a scientific treatment in each special case.
Obesity cannot be cured bv drastic purging pills. Don't use them.
Sandgate, Queensland.
Manager, Watworth Co.
Wear Sir, —When I wrote you in July last my nieee
was rapidly improving under your treatment. She was
then over 15 stone in weight, but has since been reduced
to truly genteel proportions, and is now a very pleasing
figure. She continued her usual diet while under treat-
ment and was in no way inconvenienced, and I am
truly grateful to you for the result, for before the
treatment she was absolutely devoid of any semblance
of a figure, a burden to herself and friends, and un-
happy generally. She has reduced considerably over
three stone, and her health lias improved to a splendid
extent.—Yours respectfully, M. CRAMB.
GET A FREE SAMPLE.
It does not matter how far away you live, we can treat you
and reduce you successfully by post. We want you to see what
hundreds say of “Ti-Sarkin” after using it. We want you
to know 1 all about it.
SEND 2d. STAMP FOR FREE TRIAL. If you cannot 'call,
send a 2d. stamp and let us send you a free sample and a very
interesting booklet on the subject of obesity. We will post
same to you in plain package, and free from observation. IF
YOU CAN CALL, we will weigh you privately and supply all
particulars. LADY ATTENDANT and private rooms for inter-
view's. Write or Call to-day.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily. Saturdays till 12.
THE WATWORTH CO.,
1903 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
(580
i
i
i


Combination Case * o’clock Cake
Forks, Teaspoons and Sugar Tongs, Pure
Silver-plated, complete in Silk-lined Case,
10/6.
—as imssmt
POSTAGE
PAID
TO ANY
ADDRESS.
Oak Cutlery Canteen, containing |-doz. Table Knives, -l-doz.
Dessert Knives, 5-piece Meat and Game Carvers, finest Sheffield Steel,
Xylonite Handles, l-doz. Table Forks, l-doz. Dessert Forks, J-doz.
Table Spoons, l-doz. Dessert Spoons, l-doz. Tea Spoons, 1 pair
Sugar Tongs, and 1 pair Silver-plated Knife Rests.
In A Quality, £9/9/- B Quality, £B/10/- C Quality, £7/10/-
Good Cutlery
l ■
A. SAUNDERS
The House with the Largest Variety of A 1 Up-to-date Goods. Write for Free Catalog.
' " """ -''•mmmmOmmm' J U _ ' u
3 Piece Carving Set, Stag Handles, Silver-plated Ferrules and Mounts, finest
Sheffield Silver Steel Blade, complete in Velvet-lined Case, 15/6.
CAT-
ALOG
FREE
6 Pairs Dessert, Knives and Forlts, Pure Silver-plated,
Carved Xylonite Handles, Hand-engraved ’Blades, £2/10/-
CAT-
ALOG
FREE
807=817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Cutlery Set, comprising 4-doz. Table
Knives and Forks, Finest Sheffield Steel,
Xylonite Handles. Complete in Case,
Polished English Oak Cutlery
Canteen, lined throughout, containing
1 doz. Table Knives, 1 doz Dessert Knives,
5-piece Meat and Game Carvers, Finest Shef-
field Steel, Xylonite Handles, 1 doz. Table
Forks, 1 doz. Dessert Forks, 6 Tablespoons,
12 Dessert Spoons, 12 Teaspoons, 6 Egg
Spoons, 4 Salt Spoons, 1 Mustard Spoon,j i 1
Butter Knife, 2 pair Knife Rests.
In A Quality, £l7/10/- B Quality, £l5.
C Quality, £l2/10/-
Cornflour Blancmange.
INGREDIENTS: I>4 tablespoonfuls cornflour, 3 tablespoonfuls
NESTLE’S CONDENSED MILK dissolved in % pint water.
METHOD: Mix the cornflour in a basin, with sufficient cold milk
to make a smooth paste. Put the remaining milk into a saucepan, when
boiling, pour on to the paste, return to the saucepan, boil for eight
minutes, and pour into a wetted mould. Serve with custard sauce.
TRY THESE RECIPES THIS WEEK
Snowball Pudding
INGREDIENTS • ? uin s s -
(Prepared as per label PP^rJCl^f^’ 5 CON ° ENSE() »U
METHOD • WflcK fk
1»ile tender and has ahsorbed'lihbf “jjj“f '* “ ""'lk until it is
to cool and set. When co J il i"'» some li„| e
,nul - ' ter ” anJ with jam or stewed
m
fasf
1
QUEEN CAKES.
Ingredients —6 ozs. flour, 3 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. candied peel, I lemon rind, 2 tablespoonfuls Nestle’s Con-
densed Milk, mixed with I gill water, 3 ozs. sugar, 3 ozs. currants, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking powder.
Method —Sift the flour, add grated lemon rind, currants, and the peel chopped fine. Cream the butter and sugar,
and add the eggs and milk alternately with the dry ingredients. Well grease some moulds, and bake 13 minutes.
SULTANA SCONES.
Ingredients —I lb. flour, teaspoonful carbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, teaspoonful
salt, 2 ozs. butter, 4 ozs. sultanas, x /i pint Nestle’s Condensed Milk mixed with water (as per label on tin).
Method —Mix all the dry ingredients well together, rub in butter, add sultanas, and mix into a light dough
with the milk. Roll out, cut into scone shapes, brush over with egg, and bake in a hot oven.
gassy!
ESTLBiJ
COND£NSf
nest mms m


When you’re oil upside down
AND RIGHT YOURSELF


Banking, Public Companies, Sc.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Heal Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Oommi ssi oners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 3A% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
B.v order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES. Seoretarv".
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1914) .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £55,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 178,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ;
James Love, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Bankincr Co.
o
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,755,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,755,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater. M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dirbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane,
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)ero ItzhU.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING.
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000.000
Preference Shares . . .. . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up .. . . .. .. . . 500.000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia,
land, Fiji,
tain and Ireland, and other places.
New 7,ea
Great Hri-
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial (Ijutual [iie
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA JE.N GLAN D.
ORMONDE.
ORAMA
OBVIETO .
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA .
ORONTKS .
OMRAII
iCICgiajJUV. itCVV itilU iUAUi X
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi.ace, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
MARAMA,
10,500 tons displacement, 6500 tons register ; the
largest, newest and finest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Sails MARCH.
Following Sailings: APRIL, MAY.
Panama Pacific Exhibition now open at San
Francisco.
Around Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
by Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line or via
Japan and China.
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney March 13.
COOMA (4000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 17.
Leaves Sydney March 20.
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 24.
Leaves Sydney March 27.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
Leaves Sydney March 20.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. COOMA (4000 tons) leaves Brisbane every Friday
at 10 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at GLAD-
STONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting at
TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports as
far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
March 13; April 10; May 8; June 5.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO..
4 4 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To PAPPA and PACIFIC ISLES.
To Papua.
To Solomon Islands.
To the New Hebrides.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
; $ 11
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
m
DIRECTORS
£3,500,000
£2,500,000
£3,500,000
£9,500.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORS: —William Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepheard Edgeeliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office— 29 Threadneedio St., E.C.
347 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world.
■T RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
- QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting; Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land oilers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU. Brisbane.
T. C. TIiOISDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
CommoiwaltWife Bank«flustmlia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for a.ll
General Banking Business
ir ihc
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON w
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated an I collected,
betters of credit issued to any parto. tile world. iSills negotiated or forwarued for collection Hanking and
Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kim: 'orn and abroad
Current accounts opened, interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approve-, securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO 2000
Post Offices
I in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL. Deputy Governor. DENIS >N MILLER. Governor.
5a
WM
E. BURNHAM’S
Celebrated KALOS
Toilet Preparations
Kalos Skin Rejuvenator (Skin Food)
prevents wrinkles.
Kalos Fairy Fluff Face Powder, deli-
cate and adhesive.
Kalos Chin Mask reduces double chin and supports
sagging muscles.
Kalos Perfumes and Toilet Waters, “Blue Violets”,
"Lily of the Valley”, “Lilac”, etc.
Write for Free Booklet, “Beauty’s Charm”
Attractive offer to representative
dealers throughout the world.
E. BURNHAM
Established 1871
G 138-140 N. State St. Chicago, U. S. A.
'EORGE HOTEL
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
March 13 and April lit.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
WOLLOWRA, March 13
TNNAMINCKA, Mar. 27.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUIL.L & CO., I/fD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, '" ASs’D
FINEST VESSELS TRADING BETWEEN AUS-
TRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT:
SAILINGS:
•Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February, 1915.
AROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning: from San
Francisco by Union S.S. Co.’s Royal Mail Line or
via Japan and China.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STRAM SNIP COMPANY OF N.Z., Ml).
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” "Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables. , x |
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,;
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Ana A!i Por*s.
■yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING;
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFFfI
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND ‘ RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murvvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. — First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. fid. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:-
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up \. £545,634 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,476 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 0 0
£780,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day Asst. Man.: E. H. MattheWs.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, Loiuion,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From IG/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DTNING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM^
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


m
ft
v v*
ELECTRICITY’S HUNDRED USES.
Using Electricity for lighting only is like using a telephone in the evenings and
neglecting its daytime convenience.
Electricity has a hundred uses in addition to lighting—at the turn of a switch this mar-
vellous force produces a flameless heat in scores of heating and cooking devices like those
shown above. Electrically-heated cereal cookers, frying-pans, grids, boilers, hot-plate
ovens and ranges, are a few more of the many modern electrical conveniences manufac-
tured by the GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.
That the GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. has made it possible for you to cook by electricity
is due primarily to “Calorite,” a metal alloy which transforms electricity into heat as
effectively as the metal filament of the Mazda Lamps turns electricity into light.
“Calorite” only is used in the heating devices manufactured by this Company.
Write us for illustrated Bulletin, “Heating & Cooking.”
Australian General Electric Company
Mazda House, cr. Wentworth Avenue & Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Cr. Queen & Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
Agents
{PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Currie Street.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward and
Charlotte Streets.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Auckland, Christchurch,
Dunedin, Wellington.
h
'm.
“Employ
us.”
*1
“ I have thou-
sands of sisters
in service , all
doing well.
Their masters
and mistresses
are delighted I
with their *
smart , quick .
reliable work
and scrupulous
cleanliness
The Onoto is the best pen
to employ, because it simpli-
fies writing. It fills itself
instantly -- without mess or
bother writes splendidly
and cannot leak.
Onoto
The pen to possess
Price 12/- and upwards of
all Stationers. Jewellers, and
Stores. Booklet about the
Onoto Pen free on application
to Thos. de la Rue & Co.,
Ltd., 204, Bunhill Row,
London, E.C., or the Man-
aging Agents for Australasia,
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
50 York Street, Sydney.
His Master’s Voice
ONE
A'Theatre at Home » 1£
for 110
By applying that term to The Mahogany “Monarch Senior” (illus-
trated below), we do not over-describe the instrument.
It is the most handsome of the external horn models. Its carrying
power is remarkable, and the purity of its tone such that even the
most tremulous notes of vocal or instrumental music are clearly and
faithfully reproduced.
It has the patent Gooseneck and
Exhibition Sound Box, Cabinet
of beautifully-polished mahogany,
nickel-plated fittings, horn of cross-
banded mahogany, with 22-inch bell.
This machine and “His Master’s
Voice” Records will bring the
world’s BEST music to you—music
that you like to hear over and over
again.
Price £l6 Everywhere
Instrument catalogue, record lists
and ■ name of nearest accredited
dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
fasf
Td I*
7
This wonderful pre-
paration develops
a thick hair growth
on the upper lip. If
other preparations
have failed—don’t
despair—try Capil-
larine. It nev-er
fails to give good
results.
TRY A JAR—IO/6 JAR, post free.
Craig: & Aitken,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
SUEPHOEINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear bv applying
SUEPHOEINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2/9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOEINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema.
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch


fasf
BLACK ■ 16/6
TAN - ■ 17/6
We Pay Postage.
—get a pair of
“WALLABY
EMPERORS”
=== next time you buy =
Riding: Boots
With every pair of “Wallaby Emperors” there
is a long-service solidity, and a comfortable, easy-
fitting guarantee.
They’re made from genuine Wallaby Hide; fitted
with elastic sides that don’t stetch out after a few
weeks’ wear. f" , r A.
Send for a pair on approval. *
KINDLY STATE YOUR SIZE.
A copy of the new issue of our Commonwealth
Catalogue (Series 5) is free to you. Write for it.
PIKE BROTHERS
Toowoomba
LIMITED
BRISBANfi
Townsville
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg 'Whisk lor a minute. Result-
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: YVEBSTET & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
Extract from a letter written by a Bunda-
berg breach-of-promise plaintiff to her faith-
less swain:—
The Governor-General of Australia was here this
afternoon with his wife and party to tea, and he
took such an interest in me and wanted to know if
I were a Dane. He told Mrs. v? he admired my
face. He thought I had such afctfjee face. Of course
he is a married man, and I woirld rather he would not
when he is so much above me. I would
rather he was my own class; but he is not the
only man who thinks I have a pretty face. Mr.
Higgins also said I had a good face. But darn
them, they are no good to me. I don’t really believe
you have ever -told hne I had a nice face; but you
, have told me nicer things than that.
It is satisfactory to know that the
G.-G.’s (.or was it ex-G.-G.’sV) afternoon-tea
compliments, paid through a third party,
didn’t turn the young woman’s head. Re-
membering the : G.-G.’s married state and
aloof position, she bracketed him with
Mr. Higgins, and “darned” them both.
Brisbane jobbed away its street-tramway
rights and thought, because it reserved the
right to buy the works at market price at
the end of a certain period, that it had fully
protected itself. Certainly it is a good thing
that the co. will not be able to squeeze com-
pensation for “disturbance”; all the same,
In a recent Northern breach-of-promise
case the Judge alluded to the plaintiff as a
“bonny, wholesome-looking girl whom any
honest man might feel proud to make his
wife.” Of course she got a verdict. How
it would have gone with a pug-nosed young
woman with freckles and a squint Heaven
Only knows. Yet the bonny, wholesome-
looking girl is clearly less damaged by a
breach — any honest man would be proud to
make her his wife —whereas the freckled
derelict, having missed her one chance,
would probably be a derelict for ever.
W. H. Ryder, most courteous and able of
Queensland’s older Under-Secretaries, is
dead. He came from Prince Edward’s
Island and drifted nearly 50 years ago into
Queensland journalism, thence into the State
Printing Office, and finally into the Civil
Service. At a time when Bananaland’s
superior officials habitually snubbed mem-
bers of the new Labor party, Ryder won
the distinction of being the only Under-
secretary who treated them all with invari-
jable courtesy. If he, too, has not met with
la kindly welcome, something worse is known
of the old man up there than was ever
whispered about him down here.
From an interview with ,T. G. Appel, who
threw up the post of Home Sepretffyy and
Minister for Mines iir the Denham Ministry
last week :
I am not prepared to eat dirt all the days of
my life! It is not my nature to wait to be kicked
out!
The Premier has of late become a very autocratic
individual indeed. He has treated his colleagues
like junior clerks, and I hope in tendering- my resig-
nation that I have set an example to tliose_ .of the
party to which I belong who find themselves similarly
situated. /
Evidently the fear that something heavy
is going to fall on him is fraying' Denham at
the edges.
From London :- |
There are two bishops in Rockhampton—one Angli-
can, the other R.C. —and there’s going to be a row
when they meet again. The Anglican shovel-hat
came to London to see if he could pick up a casual
£30,000. He wanted the money partly to build a
hostel for “girls from the faf-away bush.” These
Church of England flappers come down to Rockhamp-
ton, it seems, for their education, and are dependent
on lodgings in the town; and as some of their
parents are suspicious of such lodgings, they send
their girls to the R.C. convent. Then: “The sisters
of this convent simply lay themselves out to w : ". the
girls over to their religion, and will take them for
less than half the money that is paid by Roman
Catholic parents.” Excusing himself for coming to
London to cadge money for building a boarding-
house for squatters’ daughters, our beloved brother
told a meeting of the Church Home, Westminster,
that Central Queensland produced a large amount of
wealth, but “it all went to England.” The rector
of Mount Morgan, who acted as echo to the Gaiters,
confirmed the statement. Here is another argument
in favor of a thumping absentee tax. With that or
some other means of persuading Australia to keep
for local circulation the wealth it produces, the Com-.
monwealth would be saved the ignominy of sending
its Church of England bishops on perpetual begging
expeditions to London.
The Rockhampton Harbor Board is call-
ing upon the Heavens to witness its abso-
lute stony-brokenness and how much it
deserves extended borrowing powers. The
sum of £832,495 has, it seems, been spent on
“improvements,” and as about half of that
total was borrowed money, fixed charges are
staggering. Interest and redemption cost
£18,500; management and. maintenance,
£10,000; deficiency on the Port Alma rail-
way, £B5OO. As a result of the millstone of
£32,000 a year which the “port” has tied
to its neck, the Fitzroy River has a depth
of 14ft. at low water; Port Alma flourishes
in the midst of a salt-pan where no one can
live; and all labor has to be taken down
from Rockhampton. The consequent cost
of handling cargo, especially if the boat does
not arrive until a couple of hours after it
is expected, soars out of sight, as all labor
has to be paid from the time of leaving
“Rockie” until it returns. The one bright
spot in the whole mad assortment of “har-
bors” owned by Rockhampton is Broad-
mount. At that place there is a splendid site
for a town, which is probably the reason
why it and its first-class wharves are prac-
tically desefted. Within a stone-throw of
this hopeless muddle and clash of money run-
ning to waste is Gladstone, which has the
finest natural harbor in Queensland, and one
of the best in Australia, but given over to
the dismal curlew and the riotous oyster.
Queensland has several such madnesses.
Bowen dreams on the shore of a splendid
natural harbor, while Townsville, next door,
is shovelling good hard coin into the ocean,
in the attempt to make a harbor out of a few
stones end a mudbank.
LUX TENEBRIS.
SHIFT BOSS: “ Here’s a candle, Mick. Thoust'll be wantin' it d’rectly, laad! ”
NEW HAND (about to go below for the first time): “ Share , an' what the divil would I
be a antin' a candle for, and it broad day?"
it is finding out that an arrangement under
which it buys the works at a tair valuation
can be a big curse too. The other day
manager Badger, at the opening of a new
line, frankly adjnitted that half a dozen
others ought to be built; but naturally the
co. will not build them and be out of
interest on the cost during the period of.
construction, and then work up a traffic
(probably at a loss) just for the sake of
handing them over to the “local authority.”
Badger knows he has a grip, and
is squeezing out concessions; and Brisbane
for its original folly will have to make a
bargain with him or go without a lot of
conveniences.
The Brisbane police recently called the
roll at a gambling room in that city, and
went through the pockets of those on parade.
The collection panned out something like
this: Jim, nothing; Sandy, 3d. ; Moseis,
£lB 7s. 9d. ; Bill, Is. 3d.; Tom, 9d.; Israel,
£27 11s. fid. and a two-headed penny.
Providence doth still watch over the Chosen.
There was a smell of a horrible under-
standing the other day when the Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board considered ten-
ders for the year’s printing and bookbinding
and found no less than eight firms’ esti-
mates identical to a penny. The Govern-
ment Printer’s price was the lowest; but the
Treasurer “desired” that its tenders should
be withdrawn. Also the Government Printer,
having been “directed” to cease doing such
work for this semi-Government Board, told
the members that they would have to get
printing of certain plans (previously en-
trusted to him) done elsewhere. Naturally
the Board wants the biggest value for the
public’s money, so the Treasurer is to
be asked to reconsider the matter and let
the State office do the work. Meanwhile
the tenders are hung up, while Private
Enterprise smiles confidently and hangs
on to the strings.
“Itan”: Several of the members who sit
behind Denham are as wild as March flies
about the way they were dished lately.
At the beginning of the year a meet-
ing of the party was called to decide
whether Digby should continue to hold
the reins. It was just an ordinary
plain caucus. There were 22 malcontents.
Digby promised to reconstruct the Cabinet.
This implied the removal of several portfolio
holders. Hope of getting one or other of
these jobs placated the 22, and Digby was
put on the throne again. It now transpires
that there will be very little, if any, re-
shuffling, and as Digby has the vote of con-
fidence about his person he doesn’t bother.
But, all the same, the day of wrath
approaches. It will take more than _ dis-
qualification of the nomad to save the situa-
tion for the butterman.
“Politicus”: Some worthy people in
Southern Queensland are advocating the
abolition of the fairly numerous German
schools. I’ve lived in so-called German dis-
tricts and can truthfully say that the prin-
cipal effect of the German schools therein
is to breed a holy hatred of the Fatherland’s
language. Children of Deutscher parents
going to and from the local Deutscher school
never talk German, but use good Australian
all the time. When they quarrel their fav-
orite term of insult is “Squarehead” or
“Sausage.” Young Australians of German
parentage will brag of many things, .but
never of their Teuton blood.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 5, 1915.
My Bear Thargomindah,—
There has been an epidemic of matrimony
symptoms this week. Io Qualtrough, one
of Brisbane’s popular and ornamental
daughters, has accepted the usual sign of
her future monopolisation by Harry Benson,
a Sydney-sider whose business it is to buy
wool. A similar souvenir has been accepted
by Phyllis Webb, one of Dr. Webb’s many
chicks, at the instigation of Arthur Ward,
a doctor on the staff of Brisbane General
Hospital. The third incident of the kind
signed up Meta McKenny, daughter of tlie
late “handsome Charlie” McKenny (once a
well-known squatter), to Spencer Finlay,
whose father is Dr. Sinclair Finlay, of
Hunter’s Hill, Sydney. The prospective
groom encourages bullocks or sheep to sprout
and multiply in Queensland.
Victor Fitzherbert. for some time a well-
execrated villain at the Theatre Royal, and
now a member of the Buckler-Paget co., was
to-day united in wholly bondage to Dorothy
Gill, a pretty girl-export from Maoriland.
The breathless event of the week, socially
speaking, was the marriage of My Feez, only
child of Feez, K.C., and Mrs. Feez, to Jim
Henry, the mining man, whose sister, by the
way, is the handsome Mrs. Doyle. Veteran
Canon “Tommy” Jones secured the knot
in the little Anglican church at Indooroo-
pilly. The bride viewed the proceedings
from the sanctuary of a delightful fluffy
gown of white and silver and pink, and a
veil which was caught with a wreath of
tiny beb6 roses. Little Alison Cameron (her
cousin) and Miss Jean Ross Munro and
Ella Sydney Jones were the bridesmaids.
They graced pink and white crinoline-y
gowns, while wreaths and veils added to the
general effect or incidental picturesqueness.
Mr. Story and Eric Doyle kept the groom
alert throughout the performance. The
feast Was at the Feez home. Mr. and Mrs.
Henry are going to live in Sydney.
Among the host of well-dressed women at
I lie wedding, Mrs. Ross Munro was among
the best-upholstered. She blossomed in a
creation of gold satin and black lace, with
touches of rose on the corsage. It was the
gown she showed to Queen Mary at Court.
Her coat was of gold and silver brocade,
and her black-plumed hat would have kept
a Belgian refugee in cigars for a month.
Dorothy Curran, who three years ago
packed her fiddle and went to the London
Royal Academy of Music, returned to
Queensland by the Orsova last week. She
won an extension scholarship, but through
the Kaiser’s nastiness there was some hitch
which prevented the studies being gone on
with.
The Arts and Crafts Society of Queens-
land, which has begun its year’s work, will
hold its annual exhibition in September.
One of its aspirations is to be able to do
something in the line of the Women’s Emer-
gency Corps in England, and provide
employment for artistic and needy gentle-
women.
The Methodist Conference has been
shaking its cotton brolly at Satan all the
week, letting up on the Old Gentleman only
twice in order to attend At Homes. Ori
Thursday the kindred-souled W.C.T.U.
dashed to the front during another At Home
and begged all present to refrain from
“shouting” for soldiers. As the gathering
mostly consisted of doleful parsons and
frigid deaconesses there didn’t seem much
danger. Still, you never know.
A bunch of imported domestics arrived
this week, and were met by stranded house
wives struggling to hire them. But the
oversea Mary Anns were not to be caught
easy. They mostly refused to close with
offers until “some more came along.” Wages
of £1 and 255. weekly were demanded, with
a proviso that the miss.us should do the
washing. The sooner someone explains to
the State-subsidised aristocracy of the broom
and the dustpan that what we want out
here are people who don’t mind working for
their pay, the better for all concerned,
The Queensland Red Cross Society has
forwarded £2OOO to Lady Helen Ferguson,
who is stake holder for the British Red
Cross ditto. The week before, £650 was sent
along to buy a motor-ambulance.
President and Mrs. A'. W. Bale enter-
tained a party of guests at the Clayfield
bowling green to-day. Another frivolity was
a basket picnic up the river, organised by
the rowing clubs.
Yours ‘affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JAME.
The taking back of Ken Grant into the
_ , r „ h : np< . i« an awkward not to sav
Denham Cabinet is an awkward, not to say
humiliating, climb-down. Grant, who is
personally a popular fellow, was got rid
ot some years ago on a flimsy pretext
an error of which his re-appointment is the
correction. However on the present look ot
things, the honor will not exactly die of
senile decay.


JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH’S
TRUE. HAIR GROWER
is the Most Extensively Used Hair Preparation throughout the Civilised World.
Besides being a True Hair Grower, my preparation quickly removes Dandruff and stops Falling Hair and Itching.
and gives it a lustrous and beautiful sheen.
It makes the hattr^ row strong antl healthy
> 20,000 SAMPLES TO BE GIVEN A. WAY <
** ‘o- "■>' — How 1 -Jon-f IS& tSSrtS
iat I
at ■
ke
Miss DA I »S'Y D'iVfSl (from a photo.)
%i
Labrador,” 217 Macquarie St., Sydney.
To Mr. John Craven Burleigh,
Dear Sir, —Your True Hair Grower is a wonderful
preparation. I have used it with great success for
falling hair, and also find that it imparts a delightful
texture to the hair, making it soft and silky, and
bringing out all the natural color with a vivid
brightness.—Yours truly.
(Signed) DAISY DAVIS.
Mr, A. CARLSON (from a photo.).
c/o Mrs. M. Tobin, Boarding House,
Florence Street, Pt. Pirie, S.A.
Mr. J. Craven Burleigh,
My Dear Sir, —I thank you for your letter and offer.
I am very pleased to state that my hair has improved
wonderfully since I got the last supply of your
remedy. I am quite satisfied it is a True Hair
Grower. My scalp is now full of fine, silky hair and
I still have 21 boxes left, so I won’t need any more
I am recommending your True Hair Grower to all
my friends. lam sending you the last photo. I have,
as I sent all the others to my friends and people, to
let them see how my hair has grown. You can
publish this if you please.—Yours truly,
A. CARLSON.
[ Was Bald
and Grew New Hair to its
present length in 40 Days.
«UE
spr
MR. CRA VEN BURLEIGH.
(From a recent photograph.)
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business man.
My hair began to grow thin about the time I reached the
age of thirty. When I had reached the age of thirty-five
the top of my head was quite bald. I had considerable
pride, and sought for something to cause renewed growth.
I invested in every preparation that 1 could see or hear of,
and here let me say that not only did I try all the English
so-called restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many sover-
eigns and considerable time—yet the hairs came not. I had
given up the idea of ever growing hair again. One after-
noon, while enjoying a brief business respite by an Alpine
trip, I fell in with an old collegiate chemist, whose hair was
particularly plentiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished
he could spare some of his hair for my benefit. This led
him to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a for-
mula and suggested that I have a quantity of the compound
prepared. I did this a few days later. I was astonished
to see the hair coming forth after several applications, and
within six weeks my head was covered with a firm, yet
soft, growth of hair. Since then the hair on my head has
been as luxuriant as when in my school days. Having
arranged for the legal right to do so, I have for some time
been privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people who,
have actually grown new hair through the medium of my
true hair-grower. I do not pretend to say it is the only
hair-grower in the world—l am not interested in decrying
others —but I do assert that it is the most reliable, anrii in
the end by far the cheapest.
Mr. W. J. 7 j TOCKL EY (from a photo.).
*W-
m
John Craven Burleigh,
l.en»flf a T n ir ’“ I ha^ e , to tl,ank you for the great
benefit I have received m using your True Hair
(,rower with great success. My hair has grown
splendid. I wish you could see it. I will have no
hesitation in recommending your True Hair Grower
to my triends and acquaintances. Thanking you
once again.—Yours truly, W. J. STOCKLEY,
Cobalt, off Bagwt Street TV. Broken Hill’.
Miss RITA HUDSON (from a photo.
U
*9
.. , , „ liindeslarne, Burrawang, N. S. Wales
iur. John Craven .Burleigh,
Dear Sir, —I am enclosing: herewith one of my
photographs, to grive you some idea how my hair has
improved since using your True Hair Grower,
tselore I commenced its use my hair was falling in
handfuls and I was also greatly troubled with
dandruff. However, I am glad to say that my hair
has now stopped falling, the dandruff has completely
heen removed, and my hair has grown much thicker
and longer. My friends are astounded at the differ-
ence m my hair, so I have a splendid opportunity
o singing the praises of your wonderful preparation,
vou can use this letter and my photograph in anv
way you think fit, and you can rest assured that I
wia do all I can to induce my friends and acquaint-
ances to give your treatment a trial. —Thanking you
_T yoi, I-C TtT'TA, HITPSON.
New Preparation Causes Big Stir Among Hair Specialists
Hair troubles, like many other diseases, have been wrongly diagnosed, and altogether Tnisrm<w«f<wi / rni,„ "
~ , ~I ? a ir. tr oubles, like many other diseases, have been wrongly diagnosed, and altogether misunderstood The haii- ,
?L th s„ l l Ca L P ! a i ld , wholly dependent upon its actiom The scalp is the very soil in which the hah is'nroduSd t0 p be ‘ for the reason
good to treat the stem of a ulant min, „ ? produced, nurtured and grown, and it alone
should receive the attention it results are to be expected. It would do no earthly good to treat the stem of a plant with pI n Produced, nurtured and grown, and it alone
ttended to. Therefore the scalp, in which the hair grows, must receive rhl TfS “? akl “f it: grow and become more beautiful
e me attention it you are to expect it to grow and
-the soil in which the plant grows must be attended
become more beautiful
T « , . . _ - it* i .\j vajjci,t it tu uruw ana
toss of hair is caused by the scalp drying up, or losing its supply of moisture or nutriment; when baldness occur* m , ,
(a plant, or even a tree, would die under similar conditions) ' scalp has simply lost all its nourishment leaving
thercase is to feed and replenish the soil or scalp, as the case mar be and v™,.
nothing for the hair to feed upon ya muni., or even a nee, woum aie unuer simuar conditions) ''— "'-“‘r ounpiy xosr an its nourishment leaving
should. 1 ”' " atnral lhmg d ° “ eitherCoSe “*° '“ d and rel> ' eniSh the ““ « ■“>*• - **> «« be. and ,„ur crop will grow and m „ lttplj , „ intended ”
lan to £ Sp dCr “ effe " “ P ° n the hair g “ a " d “ SSUeS the 1* « onl, named, fa the hair even discovered that is simi-
It penetrates the pores quickly, and the hair soon shows the effects of its wonderfully exhilarating and life m-cw
~ offer . 18 , a straightforward, honest proposition from a business man to sensible men and women The ,nI!;t C f Dg Qualities.
tion itself, not in the advertising. If you will write to me I will send you a TRIAL BOX of the JOHN CRAVPN rttbt wmS 1 ® HAIR OROWER is in the prepara-
offer because I want YOU to know just what my True Hair Grower will do. I was bald; it cured me and it has oi RITE ,TATR GROWER. I make this
FREE TRIAL COUPON _
BALDNESS, DANDRUFF, FALLING HAIR, ITCH ING etc
Cut out this coupon, send it with three stamps to cover postage, and I will immediately post a trial box of my True Hair Crovtrr
JOHN CRAVEN- BURLEIGH, Dept 7x, 192 Caulereagh Street. Sydney; also Dept. 7x, 41 Queen sTeet Auckland.


A hard
cough
grips you harder every day
you neglect it. SCOTT’S
Emulsion is the right remedy
the only one that eases
the hacking cough, soothes
irritated membranes, heals
inflamed tissues, promotes
strength and builds up the
system to resist dangerous
after-effects and further
attacks.
But, if you decide to try
SCOTT’S, be sure to insist
on the one and only genuine
Ui
TRADE
1874
MARK
1914
scorn
Emulsion
with the fishman trade mark
on the package.
Wilea
CHeaper
and
Australian.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd
All Shares & New Zealand
© ©
ttilea
CHeapen
and.
Australian.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd
All Scares & New Zealand
Letters Copied Wwie Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure* a' perfect letter and a {
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10? x
8§ post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin! x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
pnvplone sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
w
POORLY painted houses are decaying
and deteriorating in value all the time
—slowly but surely. Good paint costs
no more to put on than poor paint. One
of the best investments you can make is to
have your house painted with Berger’s
Paints. They have 154 year’s reputation
behind them and are renowned for good
appearance and hard wear. Ask your
painter to use Berger’s Paints & Varnishes.
“B-P” Berger's Paint (prepared) is guaranteed
to work easier, cover more surface, look better and
fasf
wear longer than any other paint.
“Matone”is a really wash-
able matt wall paint.
“Enamelac” is the highest
grade of enamel paint.
“Varnol” give# enamel finish
at paint price.
s
Paints
& Varnishes
Qet Colour Folders and Particulars,
together with name of local
Agent, from Head Office:
18 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
Ask to-day
for your
colour folder.
I
§
WEAR WELL EVERYWHERE Bl
UNDER THE SUN. ■
Lewis Berger & Sons
(Australia), Ltd.,
18, Young St., Sydney,
Makers of Painta, Colour*
Varnishes at
HOMERTON, LONDON.ENG.
Since 1760.
fasf
THE FAMOUS
Schebler Carburetter
has conclusively proved this season
(1914-15) at its home, in America,
that it is
The Best Carburetter
SCHEBLER Equipped Engines
won World’s Records with
Stutz ” Road Record
75*03 miles
per hour.
BOATS
“ Baby Speed Demon
53'55 miles
per hour.
BICYCLES
“ Excelsior ”
1 to 100 miles
SCHEBLER is also the equipment for the
CURTIS FLYING BOATS
and the KINNARD HAINES PLOUGHING TRACTOR, the American Champion.
A Carburetter showing such Efficiency must be Economical.
Catalogues and all information free.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, Sole Agents for Australasia. [2
SHAVE WITH A “PLUM”
\-
Then you will know what shaving satisfaction means.
S>6e “PLUM” RAZOR.
has a blade of finest .steel, with a keen edge that shaves easy every
time. You could not wish for a more efficient razor—it glides over
the face and leaves it soft and clear. As practical tradesmen we know
the edge required to give the best results, and therefore you can always
rely on a “Plum.”
SEND YOUR ORDER TO-DAY—IO/6 post free,
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- Thisiline makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG &l AITH.EN
054 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
GET BUSY.
START SPEEDING UP.
Blunt tools soon make a man blunt. Be
sharp—what you want is Danks’ Ball-
bearing Treadle Grindstone. No handle to
turn —by using your feet both hands can be
devoted to the delicate work of sharpening.
As easy as riding a bike down hill—nothing
to get out of order —one of the greatest time
and labor savers for the man who uses
cutting tools. Reliable and good.
Price 37/6.
John Danks & Son
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
THE SPECIAL HOUSE FOR TOOLS.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
[Near Liverpool Street),
391 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
£
%
%
Jj
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G.J.P.: You’re very dull this morning.
The sketch was a protest against the wealthy who,
with all their money-bags, dropped a mere dole to
the starving Belgians. It was the “tightness” of
Fat that made Lady Strickland’s fund so compara-
tively beggarly.... S. Smokestack: It’s an aged and
hoary advertising dodge....L. B. Hotehin: Send it
to the Boys’ Own Annual Spider: Write to the
Postmaster-General.... Uloola: Yarn stale as the
buns of yesteryear.... D. Dragon: Why should you
suppose you were “Queenslander” any more than
“Bellerive” ? You weren’t, anyway. His questions
were answerable. Yours are not. ...W.E.D.: Prac-
tice hard and often; in particular, practise at
getting quickly to the point. . . .W. E. McL.: Edward
Hanlon’s rowing-weight varied between lOst. 41b. and
lOst. 101 b W.H.: Thanks; we drink to his safe
return... .Paddymelon: (1) Don’t know why you
should bother about the other pen-name. It’s quite
distinct. (2) Par not of space value. .. .F. 8.: Daily
paper errors of that kind don’t interest Australia.
....Marc Antone: Not parallel; doubt the report,
anyhow.... Nemo: No; there is none to get, owing
to the mongrel tariff which isn’t big enough to
protect the paper-making industry. Also,, there is
no Australian-made printing machinery of any con-
sequence. Australian ink is available and it is
used; and excellent stuff it is. Now go and exer-
cise your wit on the Labor Government which per-
petuates the low tariff... .Camp: Can’t reproduce
those verses... .A.C.T.: Yes, the Christmas number
was a special and should have been ordered in ad-
vance. ... S.H.M.: (1) The second trial opened
on March 11, 1901 ; (2) first trial was
before Justice G. B. Simpson, the second before
Justice Owen; (3) Justice Simpson passed
certain strictures upon the prelate... .Mrs.
A.G.P.: “Drought” was posted back Dec. 3,
“Bonfire” Feb. 3.... Marion Mcß.: Ask for “Art
of Versification and the Technicalities of Poetry,” by
R. F. Brewex - . About fis Peter B.: Sort of humor
that makes us perspire. ... Sam S. You put your
foot through the language... .F.W.D.: The usual
“first attempt” is like the new marksman’s “sighter”
—misses the bull’s-eye by a comfortable margin....
D.,T.C.: Basketed by all hands with a deep-throated
British cheer. The Religious Editor, having neither
rifle nor bugle to pay the last honors, fired the office
boy over the grave and sounded someone for a loan.
.... B. Cos: It is all over with the poem. Tie a
bow of crape on your pen... .C.J.0.: Poured out.
. ...D.M.R.: Both fai1....8. Shoe: Story isn’t quite
what we want.... Fern Leaf: All condemned....
S. : Your cold baked meats made the basket look
even more uninviting than usual. .. .J.J.R.G.: If only
the Kaiser could be induced to linger a moment under a
tottering tower made of all the bad poems he has
inspired! Nock T.: We can’t help y0u....R.
King: Your humor resembles heavy-weight lifting... .
Caesar: You must be out of practice. This last con-
tribution cannot compare with the stuff you wrote
in Rome long ag0.... Captain Cook: (1) The Maltese
are Caucasians. They are the descendants of an
old Phoenician colony, but have strains of Norman
Italian and French in their blood. They are in no
sense “colored people.” (2) Commissions are ob-
tained in the Commonwealth forces by competitive
examination through the' ranks. The subjects vary
according to the arm of the service selected. Write
to the authorities for a syllabus of the arm in which
you wish to serve. (3) He can be elected, but he
cannot sit.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.H.S.: Ideas mostly too complicated. Those
that didn’t perish that, way have senile decay
R.L.: Both poor things, and the French joke is over
the edge. .: .Z.J.C.: The lion is a respectable bird,
but the solemn idea belongs to the Dundreary-
whisker period. . . .Miss E.L.M.: Tiny drawings of no
value... .J.D.J.H.H.: You can’t draw. ... J.C.8.:
The club drawing gag was recently used in a set of
verse. It isn’t brilliant work; and we are still
wondering why you introduced a back view of
Wilkins Mieawber into a modern scene Henry
G.: Your letter: “Dear Sir, —Would you please let
me know: What you would give for a picture of a
man standing in ten feet of water reading a news-
paper and holding an umbrella over himself. It is
a novelty of my own. If this would be worth your
consideration kindly let me know at your conveni-
ence.” We will let you know in five years’ time.
This sort of thing requires deep consideration....
W.V.: Seems to be a mixture of spotted dog and
sausage. You have heaps to learn... .B.G. (Q.):
Idea not saleable.
“Mil”: “Jermyn Street” (B. 25/2/’15)
shows us the real horrors of war. The
vanquished German may pick up a lot of his
trade as people forget the crimes of Hog-
many ; German workshops may be busy
again, and German fields may grow corn.
But “never again in Europe will the elderly
junker, at any rate, taste the best cham-
pagne.” Neither shall he drink the velvet
clarets of France; he may be even exiled
from the best play-houses in Paris; and
Longchamps and Ascot may refuse to let
him see great races, even if he offer real
money (I don’t think). He shall not hunt
in “the Shires,” nor see the Dublin horse
show, nor shall he be one of the climbers at
’Enley or at Cowes. Having no sculptors,
he must buy his sculptures from England—
'which orders them from Rome mostly, and
forges a name such as Jones or Bull to the
statues produced by fifty-shilling-a-week
Italians. He must drink only Johannis-
berger and Marcobrunner —which are wines
not hard to take—and he is done with
gwouse and partwidges, and has seen his last
of pheasants “coming over on a high wind.”
Death and ruin he may bear with that
stolidity, which in the German is stupidity,
though in his cousin the Englishman it is
stubborn courage; but when gwouse and
partwidges are taken from him the iron will
enter his neck. But this is too cold-blooded,
too cruel. The Germans are bad enough,
but only a fiend would threaten to rob them
of hunting in the shires and shooting at
pheasants “coming over” on hot air, or high
wind, or whatever these devils of sportsmen
call it. Practically German life is to be
reduced to the horrible conditions of exist-
ence in Australia—which is 10,000
miles from the shires, and unable to do a
week-end at the Dublin horse show—and
to threaten to reduce Germany to the level
of Australia is “really quite too shocking.”


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
;'</ • 'j • . t
i ?</ if PfcsS
'*»*4 i < < \ t 1 K.t fV-». *• s.'->
•tr v
\
S 4.
TT
-.1.H
\
.y
WS
i
ft?
\
i*
y
8=
m
\Z,J
n
vV
km
Wu
s*£s
i
.CM 1
ws.
mt
wu
m
Q.
«3
... r
rw'-’?
4>f
05
S
Site
\
fit 4
1
M>o
y^.fV
&
1&
Ns
y<*
in
AV(/
fit
sy&s.^
JMI
si
■N;
751
\
05
V:y
2*
%
z-
sV
Kc
sj
ZkdL
■S£i'
A
as;
•to
s\7£?*
■S3
sestet
.• >T y^/
//■&
wi»
*J2I
-ft
>"■
*S*Jr
-Vs
■y~s+^
5*
.x
■s2kf..A
s y
rV
n
yy
titiSfjx?, t>y
yzMjyyjys
, t£
//
:.fc:
V
•"t-'-.-tfAC
4v>‘
*■
-i*' > r
4£f
yt,.<
id H
v>- .
99
Boot PolisK
O
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
l -
Now is
Convalescent too
Ev’ry day he’s
Wheeled around
To th e nearest
Training ground.
Soldiers greet him
"‘Glad you’re well.
$■ , • •■■■■•■ ,*
“ How’d it happen
(. i
Bursting shell
c!>
Answers Chunder.
“Bet they’ll sing
“When we ‘COBRA’
Them next Spring ! ”


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
fasf
Every
Careful
Dresser
appreciates the high-class appear-
ance of Abbey Shoes. Their com-
fort and long-wearing qualities are
equally as satisfactory as their
appearance.
The illustration shows our latest
model in a Choice, All-Patent Derby
Bal. PRICE 32/6. v
Also in highest-grade. Tan Willow-
Calf, 32/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings. C
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G. P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “Tbe Fnlletin” Office. Svdnev.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governimr Director HUGH D. McINTOSH,
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
JIT OLI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
GEORGE MOZART, in his Thumb-nail Sketches.
ODIVA AND HER SEALS AND SEA LIONS.
LAURA GUERITE, a World Star Comedienne.
FRANCIS DOOLEY, assisted by CORINNE SALES.
AND MANY OTHERS.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson’s.
’Phone 9942 for Reserves.
T IVOU THEATRIC, MELBOURNE.
1 EVERY EVENING.
TIVOLI FOLLIES,
including:
J. W. RICKABY, ISABELLE D’ARMOND,
JACK CANNOT, ALEX. YAIvOVLENKO,
ALVARETTO, REGO * STOPPIT. VERA PEARCE,
THORNE & LEOPOLD.
Box Plan at Glen’s. Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6 and 1/-.
E R M A .1 E S 'l' V ’ S. S Y D N E Y
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD,,
H
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.,
Matin6e: Wednesday.
High-speed Hilarity at the ■ Musical Jollity, in
Three Acts,
HIGH JINKS.
Produced by HARRY B. BURCHER.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
/'RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
** Lessee ........ FRANK MUSGROVE.
SATURDAY, MARCH 13.
MURIEL STARR, CHARLES A. MILL WARD,
WILLIASI HARRIGAN & DOROTHY DAVIES,
In the Great American Success,
BOUGHT AND PAID POR.
Plans at Paling’s.
Day Sales White Rose.
-|-HE WHITE CITY, SYDNEY.
Now Dispensing a Unique Brand of Solid
Enjoyment to All-comers.
FREE ATTRACTIONS.
BAND CONCERTS.
BALLROOM.
* CARNIVALS.
Arid . a .Host of Theatres,
Entertainments and Shows.
Nightly, 7.30 to 11. Admission 6d.
T. H. ESLICK, C.E., General Manager.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
George Willoughby Ltd.’s entirely new Dramatic Co.
in the most picturesque play of all Historical and
Costume Dramas,
LADY GODIYA.
War Prices: 2/-, 1/6,' 1/- and 6d.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES.
* In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs oPthe world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11.a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. R\rrington Midler. General Manager.
AMMUNITION
“PRIM AX” and “BON AX”
CARTRIDGES—KYNOCII made
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
ing qualities, “PRIMAX” being -the
highest-grade cartridge in a 2 Jin. case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world.
Always specify KYNOCH Ammunition
when ordering from your dealer.
British Made Throughout.
r “vu
4
fv£s?
m
R.W.
Tricks, Puzzles, Jokes, Novelties. THE PHANTOM CAMIRICK -
Write for New Catalogue—Post Free.
WIRE PUZZLES —All Hinds.
Six different. Puzzles for’ 2/-, post free, or
1 2, all different, for 3/6, post free.
V NjS
Five cards are shown. Anyone mentally
selects three. The five cards are now dropped
in a hat. Performer picks out the two cards
not selected. Someone puts hand in hat to
bring out the three selected cards, but they
have vanished, the hat being quite empty.
Very bewildering and easy to work. Post
free, with full instructions, Bcl._
Handkerchief can be used instead of hat, if
desired. We can supply a set of 6 different
card tricks, in addition to the above, for
3/3, post free. •
Our New Catalogue, which is Post Free, is a Novelty in Itself.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.- New York Novelty Co.
708-710 GEOF TIE STREET, HAYMARHET, SYDNEY
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office, Sydney.
WE SPECIALISE IN ALL KINDS OF TOYS.
H
Kit MAJESTY’S THEATRE. M EI,BOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 13.
Brief Farewell of Gilbert and Sullivan Opera Co., in
THE GONDOLIERS,
for three nights and matinee.
PIRATES. OF PENZANCE & TRIAL BY
JURY.
WEDNESDAY. MARCH 17.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Theatre royal Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 13.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN,
In the Famous Mystery Farce,
SEVEN KEYS TO BALDPATE.
PRICES: Dress Citcle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
IRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Geo,
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 13.
Willoughby, Ltd., present Hall Caine’s Famous
Educational Drama,
THE CHRISTIAN.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d.
Plan at Pianola.
A UDITORIUM, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Evenings at 8. Matinfies Wed. & Sat. at 2.30.
“WITH' THE FIGHTING FORCES OF EUROPE.”
Direct from Scala Theatre, London.
WILLIAM J. SHEPHARD, Sole Proprietor of the
Australasian Rights, announces
LAST NIGHTS. LAST NIGHTS,
of the Great War Picture in Ivinemacolor.
“WITH THE FIGHTING FORCES OF EUROPE.”
The Auditorium being previously booked, this most
successful season must close on the 17th.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- 1
B
IJOU THEATRE, M E L B O U R N E.
FULLER- BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER..
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON. 2.30. - EVENING AT 8.
THREE NEWMANS, ARMSTRONG & HOWARTH,
KELLY -& POLLOCK. WELLS * ECLAIR TWINS,
ROWLgY & TOINTON, CLARK & YOUNG,
THE . GLARINGS, etc.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-. II- h 6d. Matinees: 1/6, II- & 6d.
PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
, THREE BIG SHOWS.
OLYMPIA, Princes . Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE.'Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
B 1 j; C II & C A K K O L L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Hpati Offick: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
M-
K*r
50s#
Hi
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact, Best lacquer brass,
2jin. dia., Solid Leather Case.
Printed Instructions, POsTHD
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
fasf
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received trom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
*S3Svj
/ Famed for 40 Year*.
Best remedy lor Asthma,
Hay Fever, Rose Coid, or
ord nary Cough,
x Soid in Tins by ail Chtmtsu and Starts
throughout Australasia .
‘ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out.' ' Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its accion is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be. prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in 'the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
Ah! The
Pleasure and
Convenience
of Motor-
Boating!
Don’t envy the
possessor of a
costly motor-boat.
Enjoy your outings
afloat —dispense with the drudgery of rowing; be comfortable, be speedy
by installing the simple, small, yet strong
t#
-
tH
■
m :zjm
i
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
Sizes,
VA, 2,
!33shp.
The Evinrude Motor is compact
and easily transported. It will drive
any rowboat 8 miles an hour. 25,000
Evinrude Motors are in use in salt
and fresh water. 9 Governments have
adopted it for economy and service.
Steered by the propeller—• no rudder re-
quired, but supplied if desired. Reversible;
battery ignition or MAGNETO, and auto-
matic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
Descriptive Booklet Post Free.
H. A. GODDARD, 404 Queen Street, Brisbane.
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
*8 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Cliife Street, Fremantle.
Remington Chambers, Opp. G.P.0., Auckland.
fasf


FOR FACE
ANDHANDS
re*
; .«* •• j
CUTICURA
SOAP
And Cuticura Ointment are
world favorites because so
effective in restoring the
natural purity and beauty
of the skin, scalp, hair and
hands when marred by un-
sightly conditions.
Samples Free by Mail
Cuticura Soap and Ointment sold everywhere.
Liberal sample of each, with 32-page book, sent post-
free. Address R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
ash’s
I WOVEN
I NAMES
For
marking
linen
Your name is neatly woven in fast Turkey
Red on Cambric tape so that your Linen,
Clothing, Handkerchiefs, etc., are per-
manently marked by simply sewing the
name on. Prevents articles being mislaid
at laundry. Note the cost is small: —12
dozen 7/6 ; 6 dozen 5/-; 3 dozen 3/6.
Obtainable at all drapers and outfitters or
woven samples sent free on application to
J. & J. CASH LTD.,
346-50 Flinders Lane, Melb.
Always ask
for CASH’S
So simple
fasf
JT
IWfIiLSII
Icy-Hot
Bottles
DOTTLES
Keep Hot ThingsHot24 Hours
Or Cold Things Cold 3 Days
LT OT or cold
drinks when
needed, while up-
country-hunting,
motoring, picnic-
ing; while in
town - for early
morning shaving
water, coffee, hur-
ried meals. Keep
baby’s milk at
right temperature,
or invalid’s food
hot or cold all
night, without
heat, ice or bother
of preparation.
ICY-HOTBottles .for water, tea, milk, soup,
etc. Pints, 5/6 up, Quarts, 11/ —up. Nickel
Plated, Pints, 8/6up; Quarts. 15/—up. ICY-
HOT Carafe takes place of unsanitary water
bottle. Quarts, 22/ — up, with specially pro-
tected neck, 30/ up, ICY-HOT Jars for
hot stews, vegetables, frozen ice cream. Can
also be used for beverages. Nickel plated,
Pints, 15/ —up, Quarts ,28/6 up. Also ICY-HOT
Lunch Kits. Inner glass bottle within metai
casing protected against
breakage, easily sterilized
and cheaply replaced if
broken. Liquids touch only
glass—absolutely sanitary.
MADE IN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA FROM
AMERICAN MATERIALS
Look for name ICY-HOT
on bottom. If your dealer
does not stock it, we mail
direct, prepaid, on receipt
of price.
Send for Catalogue No. 159
Dealers are invited to
write for special terms.
The ‘ICY-HOT’ Bottle Co.
Fadory; Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot
Jars
Icy-Hot Carafe
Quart, 3-Pint,
4-Pint, 3-Quart
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
19
Deßeszke
W/r A 'nut / ’(-htn
m
Australian
Established 1549.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
. or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Uebentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. SWAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borroweis the privilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the. loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. It. J. Black,M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C.; Adrian
Knox, Esq., It.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick. M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A.. F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 11. W. APPERLY. Secretarv.
fasf
ASK for Bostoek featherweights, the most lux-
urious of shoes. Lightness is their distinc-
tive feature and quality their charm. They
are. the cream of imported shoes. True to their
description, they are as light as a feather on the
feet, and exactly meet the growing, but in this
climate perfectly reasonable, desire for dainty,
pliant shoes.
Bostoek featherweights are always interesting,
whether on the foot or in the hand. The skilful
work, conspicuous in every pair, never fails to
command one’s admiration.
Beautifully made from the choicest of leathers,
they are obtainable from the leading shoe stores.
Special shipments have recently arrived, and
ladies should call before the choicest styles are
sold.
■
■
■
mm
■
■
Style P. 6388
None Genuine unless stamped “BOSTOCK.”
i *»!■
XT*
“5 minutes make the
difference between
victory and defeat!”
—LORD NELSON
THIS is an age of Petrol. Swift action, swift
transport, will be a deciding factor in the
present titanic upheaval in Europe.
In an important engagement it is easily conceivable
that immortal Nelson’s dictum will be signally
exemplified in the present struggle. Motor-
haulage of field-guns has proved very successful in
manoeuvres. How successful it will be in actual
warfare we are yet to see.
In all questions of motor traction the fuel plays a
vital part.
Pratt’s
Motor Spirit
•
is used by War Office and Admiralty for motor-cars, aeroplanes,
seaplanes, and on the waters for petrol-driven craft. The choice of
Pratt’s Spirit for this important work is a significant tribute to its
sheer merit and consistent reliability. Pratt’s also enjoys the
complete confidence of our Allies, who are using it in enormous
quantities.
In Peace as in War, Pratt’s Spirit is the motorist s first and final
choice because of its unrivalled power and purity.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
The Inky Way.
J.0’8.”: The first person to have a civil
claim determined in Australia by a jury
was one Hall, editor of the Sydney Monitor.
The Act making this possible came into
operation in March, 1830, and the frequently-
prosecuted Hall at once rushed into the
Supreme Court with a claim for damages
against the magistrates who had convicted
him of harboring convicts. Wentworth
appeared for plaintiff, who secured £lO
damages. Hall’s next case was an action
against Holy, superintendent of convicts,
claiming damages for trespass; and again
the plaintiff got a verdict— £25. His next
flutter before a jury was against Rev. Ralph
Mansfield, editor of the Government
Gazette, and 12 impartial persons awarded
him 40s. Hall’s successes rejoiced “the
rabble,” but “society” was much grieved.
What. “society” thought of it was pretty
well indicated by Judge James Dowling,
who, in directing on the first case, warned
the jury against “the licentiousness of the
Radical press.”
* X- *
From London: Owing to decreased advts.
and increased costs 212 German newspapers
have thus far disappeared, and about a
hundred in England. The statistics of
London book production in 1914 show that
1941 novels were issued,, as compared with
2285 in 1913. But naval and military books
naturally made a big jump—B9 to 295.
Religion and theology also seem to benefit
m war time—B93 to 1020. Poetry and
drama made a slight advance —582 to 590.
Political economy bounded from 394 to 598.
Essays slumped from 576 to 691; children’s
books from 809 to 727 ; biography and his-
tory from 015 to 593, and travel and adven-
ture from 388 to 348. The figures were, of
course, enormously helped by a very buoyant
Spring.
+ * * *
An editor in kilts is a fearsome example of
misplaced humor. The Bulletin’s wildly-
imaginative story, supposed to have been told
in Berlin concerning the attack by a Turk
and an Afghan on the Broken Hill excursion
train, was solemnly reprinted in the Otago
Daily Times (Dunedin, M.L.), as having
emanated from the Wilhelmstrasse, and was
held up to the ridicule of all good Scots as “a
sample of the news the Germans are fed on.”
Next this yarn will be passed off at Balclutha
as a recipe for haggis, or directions for mak-
ing a sporran.
* * * *
The French censorship continues extra-
ordinarily rigorous. Clemenceau, most
caustic and biting of journalists, had his
paper, The Free Man, suppressed for ex-
cessive candor. He promptly brought out
another, The Fettered Man. That, also,
speedily failed to give satisfaction to the
censors. It came out the other day with
two columns completely blank with the ex-
ception of the signature, “Georges Clemen-
ceau’—all that was left of the leading
article when the censor had done with it.
* * * *
The last line in the report of a deputa-
tion to Chief Sec. Murray (Vic.) published
in a Sydney paper quoted an observation
by that sleepy gentleman, “They do some
funny things in Sydney.” The headline fol-
lowing made the next article read on with
great appropriateness. “Most abominable,”
it exclaimed; and proceeded to give details
of the extent to which abortion is practised
on the shores of the finest harbor in the
world. The stone-hand does the right thing
sometimes.
* * * *
The art-critic of London Times, in his
notice of Bill Dyson’s collection of war car-
toons in the Leicester Square Gallery,
acclaims William as the “best of living
English cartoonists.” The critic (Humphrey
husband of the novelist) emphasises
Dyson’s power of “drawing in epigrams,”
and thinks the artist’s new victim, the
militarist, suits him better than his old one,
the capitalist. Ward’s idea is that it is the
quieter form of irony that hits Fatman
hardest, whereas nothing is too extravagant
for German militarism —“and Dyson draws
the madness of it as no other English artist
could.”
N.S.W. Education Department has given
encouragement to home-grown versifiers by
including “Selections from Australasian
Poets” in the English set for second year
students in secondary schools. Altogether
there are selections from 46 Australasians,
including eight women (Dorothea Mackellar,
by the way, is spelt Mackella) and most
of the corps of best-known Bulletin
writers.
A self-centred little place, London. When
a German-haunted club there, calling itself
the Athenaeum, was closed by the authorities
early in the war, Sydney Telegraph took
the cable as referring to the Athenaeum, home
of bishops and other respectabilities. This
bloomer is now being read in London, and
has caused howls of delight. One paper
calls it the most “monumental of howlers.”
Of course the Telegraph might have
avoided the mistake; “Jeames” instantly
pinned it down in The Bulletin. But
to confuse a club on the other side of the
world with another club of the same name
in the same city, is a thing that could seem
“monumental” only to a place as self-
centred as London is.
* ■ * * *
“Pica de Vinne”: In Egypt another Aus-
tralian soldiers’ paper is promised—this one
a regimental daily, edited by Private J. W.
A. Bradford, the type being put together by
a comp, formerly of Petersburg Times
(S.A. V. Lance-Corporal W. A. Fry, late
editor of the Hevtesbury Reformer, and
Private A. B. Glasson, part-proprietor of
Warracknabeal Post, are to be “the staff.”
They have an assortment of type and an old
machine. The chief difficulty is to secure
paper. Bradford was formerly editor of
Quorn Mercury and other S. Aus. country
papers.
* * -X- *
“Megatherium”: In the day when what
Hilaire Belloc calls “the noble army of the
misprints” shall receive recognition, let not
the cable mutilation miss its meed of praise.
As in all things else, the simplest is the
best, and Morning Pest for Morning
Post still holds its own for neatness and
despatch.


fasf
“THE CERT” D.8.8.L. GUN, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever 30in.
steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap
fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b 37/6
Same Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt £2151.
Pncfao'n nn nno Hnn 9/Q NI S W • /9 Tntnr.Qtoto
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-gauge top
action, solid
case hardened
locks, decar-
bonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6Bb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary
Double Barrel Gun. AutO-EjcCtOr, 25/- 1 Non-Ejector, 22/0
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.; 4/8 Inter-State.
fasf
fasf
The “Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock,
case-hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 384 in„ weight about 41b. A
splendid gun for use in Orchards. Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City Sports Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney ; &at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
£l/15/.
GUNS that give Satisfaction,
The BEST HOUSE for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK.
©
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
and all Sport-
ing Goods,
Post Free
Anywhere.
National Arms Co.'s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener
cross bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels,
pistol grip, walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about
6flb. to 71b.; of 16-gauge, 6Jlb. to DELIVERED
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge at 12/6 extra.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
£3/12/6
©
9
The “Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Ivrupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full
choke, 12-gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7-jlb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£77-
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OP PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
[3
Tube
Threadingl
is easier and
quicker with
OSTER
Bulldog Die
Stocks
■
Eight unusual features are combined in
every tool. Ask your dealer about them.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
4] CLEVELAND, OHIO, USA.
For Sale by
Leading
Dealers in
AH Cities.
r_
=c
m
m
P 5
9*3
6*
a
At night
and again
in the morning
your teeth ought to have that
thorough antiseptic cleansing
which is so readily provided r
by the use of j
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrie
England, Gd. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Sii.knt Pr.iknd, Is 6d. Nkd Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God ’and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
Rritish 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
i„ 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. ’ Australian Pastrycook s Guide, Is 6d
0
f
m
■
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TAIIv,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 100 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married- life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in'its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS- LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gambi.krs’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Tiie White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Lifk in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
AH these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. §®P"Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OE MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FKOM THIS ADVT.
Write for my...
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Or. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems,- complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2s. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s pos;ed.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors. Is 2d. Moore’s Univkrsai
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound. 10s 6d nosted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY


MISS HOPE HUNTER
a Beautiful Advocate for
REXONA
m
Rexona Proprietary Company,
SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs,
Like many of my com-
panions in the profession, I
am a strong advocate of
Rexona Ointment and Soap.
Rexona I use for my skin
after my nightly swim and
after any outing in sum*
>mer or winter. Also for
any chance cut or abrasion
I may get.
I always use Rexona SoJvp.
It is perfection itself for
both skin and hair. Using
it I need no dressing for
toy hair, which always
keeps soft, shining and
silky. Wishing Rexona
and Rexona Soap always
the success both deserve, I
am,
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) HOPE HUNTER.
Miss HOPE
HUNTER.
( From, a Buchnet
■photo.)
Miss Hope Hunter is one of the most beautiful Austra-
lian Show Girls ever seen on the stage. Her sparkling
face, tall and lithesome figure have been much admired
by the many thousand patrons of the J. C. Williamson
Company, Ltd. This beautiful and talented young lady
is a firm believer in Rexona, the Rapid Healer, and
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap.
Everybody’s Using It Now!
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who
values a pure and healthy skin. Rexona will at once heal all the minor
injuries to the skin, as well as the more serious ones, and Rexona Soap
protects the user from disease, and insures both health and beauty.
Rexona Scan is sold everywhere at 1/- per tablet, and Rexona is supplied
only in triangular tins at 1/6 and 3/-
O
0
o
THE RAPID HEALER
Mahomet,
the Great Prophet,
is quoted as having said, “If I should wish a fruit brought to Paradise
it would certainly be the fig.”
But there are now more things in Heaven and Earth, Horatio, than
were dreamt of in Mahomet’s Philosophy.
A tin of
“REX”
HAM PATE
will be found to figure in quite a lot of folks’ ideas of the seventh
heaven of delight.
It has a taste that signifies at once that it is made from good “Rex”
Ham, with the addition of pure Spices. The result is a most
flavorsome Sandwich Treat.
Try “Rex” Ham Pate for Sandwiches to start with.
Many different ways of using it will suggest themselves
to you once you make its acquaintance.
Sold by all Grocers. Ask for “Rex” Brand, please.
OTHER “REX” CANNED DELICACIES ARE:—
Veal & Tongue Pate, 31b. tins.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork & Beans, 131 b. tins.
Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, 11b. tins.
Lunch Tongues, in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Bex” Luncheon Cheese in decorated tins only.
Sheep Tongues in Jelly, 111), tins,
and
REX
Butter in lib. tins, especially put up for
Campers.
“BEX” FRESH SMALL GOODS procurable
at all Grocers and Small-goods shops and
carts in Brisbane and District, and Bendigo
and District only.
Saveloys.
Strassburg Sausage.
Veal German Sausage.
White Puddings.
Black Puddings.
Pork Sausages.
Frankfurt Sausages.
FOCGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacons,
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products,
Makers of “Rex” Small Gobds.
- 1
M
A Tale of Wet Enthusiasm and
an Over-modest Mermaid,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
is the law of air and sea
By ancient constitution set:
However frolicsome she be,
The pinkest mermaid must keep wet.
She lifts a happy,. laughing head,
And gazes at the iand and sky;
at she would instantly be dead
If once the whole of her got dry.
The selfsame law has made it plain.
While waves shall beat and seaweeds
wreathe,
A man can never long remain
In water without air to breathe;
And this is why a love affair
Is short, though often damp and sweet,
When persons of the upper air
With dimpled ocean maidens meet.
One evening, sitting in the sea,
just as the pleasant moon arose,
A pretty mermaid came to me
And pinched me oil my strong, wet toes.
She was a giri with happy hair,
All greenish gold about the tlilmat,
As exquisitely pink and fair
As anything that keeps afloat.
We had a most delightful hoUh
We sported round the weedy rocks.
I kissed her lips beneath the shoWer
Tossed from her dripping moon-bright
locks.
She was a thing so much alive,
Stich Wonder-laughter lit her face,
I gambolled with her, dive for dive,
Ahd Won the prize in every race.
Thereafter, frequently we met
Oil morns or nights or afternoons.
Together we beheld the set
Of many stars and suns and moons ;
We saw the same utensils rise,
And often, sitting in the spi-ay,
The wild love dawning in her eyes
With rapture took my breath away.
She told me stories of her home,
Of seafldngs set on corai thrones,
Of weed and shell and blanching foam
And rainbow iights o’er seamen’s botteS.
And once she told me of a ship
Nine fathoms deep at lowest tide,
Where minted coinage Used to drip
At seasons through the broken side.
I thought a lot about that tale.
I knew those coins were good to own,
But ail that liquid green and pale
Above the treasure made me groan.
Nine fathoms is too steep a dive
In any ordinary way
For one who cares to keep aiive,
Or hankers for the light of day.
And yet I dreamed that practice might
Make me so used to hold my breath
That I could get that gold, despite
The ancient law of life and death.
So Kate —that was my mermaid’s name—-
Taught me all diving tricks she knew,
Till, as a master of the game,
I hoped my skill would pull me through.
Then, on an evening calm and cool,
1 deemed the prize was in my reach.
Kate met me in a small, blue pool,
Just half a mile from Bondi beach.
The merry dimple on her chin
Played come-and-catch-me as she smiled,
And through the wave we sped to win
The gold some old, lost Spaniard piled.
Down, down the sea-slope sliding green,
Hand linked in hand, we swiftly fell;
Dim through the soft wet twilight seen
Were floating weed and wrinkled shell.
She led me slantwise to my prey
I vaguely felt the metal round,
Crusted with barnacles it lay
In canvas bags with leather bound.
Coins broken from the larger store
Seemed scattered thickly all around,
Discolored on the ocean’s floor
They glimmered softly pound on pound.
But time was short. We could not stay,
Lest, scant of breath, my life should cease ;
We rose to greet the garish day
Bearing a mighty bag apiece.
I filled my tortured lungs with air.
’Twas good to look on sky and land ;
Kate splashing ’mid her soft wet hair
Balanced her treasure in her hand.
Then arm o’er arm we raced ashore,
Parting the pliant evening wave,
To hide the plunder that we bore
High in a small sea guarded cave.
Almost we reached the chosen place,
When, suddenly, I chanced to note
Upon the shoreward water’s face
The swift appearance of a boat.
A large boat driven mad with oil,
It rushed across the seascape fair,
Sent by some evil fate to spoil
Our ready landing anywhere.
For how could we who swam so far
From haunts of men at once explain,
A lady naked as a star,
Bearing the wealth of ancient Spain?
Clad though I was from neck to knee,
I scarce could give a reason fair
Why I should thus come in from sea
Beside a girl with greenish hair.
We lay and floated with the tide,
Trusting Our forms would pass for weed ;
But that confounded boat espied
Our toes and thought we were in need.
So, till the darkness gathered round,
We had to race and duck and dive,
Till I was very nearly drowned
And little more than half alive.
But in the end We gained the shore,
Two miles from where we meant to land,
And that large treasure that we bore,
In spite of all, was still in hand.
We ran across a strip of beach
All soft and warm beneath our feet ;
Then two girls with a boy for each
Came down and cut off our retreat.
A keen breeze stirred the pulse of night,
Along the shore we heard it sigh,
And soon that girl of my delight
From rosy head to foot got dry .
Without some clothes she would not fgce
Those eight keen eyes upon the sand,
And so to save her from disgrace
I simply sat and held her hand.
The wavelets made a gentle swish,
But that was fifty yards away,
She faded like a jelly-fish
That short of moisture cannot stay.
Oh, heavy was this heart of mine
To see her wilt and melt and go,
My sweet companion of the brine
That lived and kissed an hour ago.
Still, there was all that treasure left
To give me comfort as I lay
Of love and decent clothes bereft—
I hugged it till the break of day
Tlleh in the time of dawn and dew .
I said one loud explosive “damn,”
For morning only brought tp view
Brass buttons made ill Birmingham.
N.S.W,
PAT O'MAORI.
Colonial Experience,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was a blazing hot day on the open downs,
and Dick Wells, crouching under the
scanty shade afforded by his saddle and
cloth hung on the wire fence cursed the
station, the flies, the heat, the whole of
Australia with fine impartiality. He had
just finished his lunch, which consisted of
dry bread and meat, and a huge hunk of
brownie, washed down with a quart of tea.
Ilis horse stood fastened to the fence,
stamping his feet at the flies, and chewing
the top of the post in a dispirited way.
Dick had only partially finished his work
of repairing and straightening up a section
of the six-wire fence, and was waiting for
the heat to abate a little before he resumed
the job.
He gave way to a fresh outburst of pro*
fanity on discovering that he had lost his
pipe; and peevishly flung his tobacco and
knife as far as he could in the long grass.
The motion of throwing shifted him slightly
from where he sat, and he recognised some-
thing hard under him. It proved to be the
missing pipe.
Feeling that nothing mattered much, and
that the situation could not be exm-egged in
mere words, he scrambled slowly to his feet,
and went in search of the tobacco and knife.
After a quarter of an hour’s search he found
the knife, but his best efforts could not bring
the tobacco to light again.
Disconsolately sucking the empty pipe he
was returning to the shade, when he spied
a horseman riding towards him along the
fence. The newcomer was a tough, wiry,
ginger-whiskered man of about 50, who
greeted him with a brief “Goo’-day. Hot,
isn’t it? Got any water to spare?”
Dick returned his salute with, “Goo’-day.
It’s a fair cow. There’s the water-bag.
You’ll find a drop in it.”
“Wot possessed you to pull up here fur a
camp?” said the newcomer. “There’s a
good shady creek about four miles on ; and
plenty of water. I wuz just makin’ fur it
meself.”
“I didn’t camp here for a sunbath,” said
Dick. “I’m repairin’ the blanked fence.
The overseer says the boundary riders on
your place mus’ ride round with their eyes
shut, as you never seem to do any repairs to
the boundary.”
“Oh, ’im,” said the ginger man. “’E
thinks a boundary rider ort to carry a crow-
bar and shovel in ’is saddle pouch. I
worked fur ’im fur two munce, but ’is col-
lars wuz too tight a fit fur me. ’E give me
one ’undred and forty miles of fence to ride
one day, and told me to make a good job of
it. 1 wuz a week doin’ it; and w’en I
finished it I give ’im notice. ’Ee’s mad as
a snake.”
“Got any tobacco?” said Dick, “I lost
mine somewhere along the fence.”
Ginger threw him his plug, and proceeded
to make a fire to boil his quartpot with bark
pulled off the posts. He also pulled off his
saddle and cloth and hung them on the fence
for shade, but hobbled his horse out.
“Been on Wyandra long?” he qderied.
“Three munce,” said Dick. “It ain’t
much of a place to work on, but it’s about as
good as most others. I’m tryin’ to save up
a few bob, and I’m goin’ down to see the
nex’ Cup run, and if I can make a bit of a
punch I’m off to England again. This
flamin’ country ain’t fit fur a white man to
live in. I’ve been in it seven years, and I
hates it worse every day.”
“I’ve been in it all my life,” said Ginger,
“and me father before me, and I don’t see
nuthin’ wrong with it. You blanked new-
chums think becos the beer ain’t laid on to
every paddock on a stashun that the country
is a fair dog ’ole of a place. Wot wuz you
doin’ in England?”
“Nuthin, ” said Dick, “but me old man
wuz a butcher in Manchester, and ’e ’ad a
pile of money, and a fellow ’ad a good time.”
“Umph,” grunted Ginger. “I ain’t s’prised
at you wantin’ to go back. You wuz ■ a
blanky ijit to leave it in the fust instance.”
“I ’ad to,” said Dick. “Wuz goin’ into
(Continued on next page.)


v
c
-MU
Urgently WANT MORE ZAM-BUK
for their Cuts, Wounds and Sore Feet
REMARKABLE LETTERS FROM THE FRONT
“A pot of Zam-Buk out here is like a loaf of bread to
a starving man. On the retreat from Mons we had a
forced march of 37 miles, and not a man who used
Zain-Buk on his feet fell out.”
In these graphic terms a Distinguished Conduct Medallist, Lance-
Corporal J. P. Delaney, 2nd Royal Irish Regiment, expresses his
warm appreciation of Zam-Buk, in a letter dated Nov. 24. He
adds: “I can safely recommend Zam-Buk to everyone as being the
best healer on the market. P.S.—Please excuse writing and
pencil, as I am writing this from the trenches, and I cannot
tell when or where the next shell is going to drop. The
Germans are sky-larking again with their ‘Coal-Boxes.’ ”
In my opinion every soldier should have a pot of
Zam-Buk in his kit when ‘trekking,’ as Zam-Buk
is the most valuable addition to
his marching powers.”
Thus writes another Distinguished Con-
duct Medallist, Private A. Mutlow, of the
2nd South Staffs Regiment. In his pen-
cilled note, dated Dec. sth, from “Some-
where in France,” the gallant
private adds: —
“I am a constant user of your
Zam-Buk for chafed legs (from
which I suffer on long marches).
I brought a pot out here from
Aldershot, and I may
mention it is in great de-
mand among my comrades
who are likewise afflicted.
Zam-Buk is also very
effective in the case of
galled feet and blistered
heels.”
“We soldiers are al-
ways glad to see a pot
of Zam-Buk, for it is
the best of all ‘First-
aids.’ Zam-Buk is
one of our best friends
out here.”
■3
v;'
it<Vv
tr;
It
f
si!
c~,
This is from another
winner of the coveted Dis-
tinguished Conduct Medal
—Sergeant R. Munday, of
the historic Ist Royal
Berkshires, who adds: —
“We use it largely for sore
feet when on the march.
Zam-Buk is the best thing
for sores, etc. It has also
proved very beneficial for
sores on the shoulder
caused by a pack-strap.’’
Every soldier at the Front needs Zam-Buk urgently. There-
fore you can do him no greater service than by sending him a
pot of this ever-ready healer. We will send them free__of_postage
for you, on receipt of postal note or stamps for the quantity you
wish to go forward, and the name, number, rank and regiment of
each soldier to whom the Zam-Buk is to be sent. This applies also
to sailors and marines.
A special staff will see to all supplies of Zam-Buk being sent
off promptly and well packed without any .extra charge, and with-
out any further responsibility to you. The sender’s name, if re-
quired, will be sent with each pot. Address all orders to the Pro-
prietors: 0. E. Fulford (Australasia) Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
fasf
SOOTHES AND HEALS.
Zam-Buk is ob-
tainable of all
chemists and
stores, and is
exc e 11 ent for
Eczema, Sun-
burn, Sore Feet,
Ulcers, Piles,
Poisoned
Wounds, etc. 1/6
and 3/6 per pot,
of all chemists
and stores.
The flagic Art of Beauty Culture.
SOME HOME RECIPES.
By RITA MOYA.
A comnlexion that appears clear, fresh and natural is as necessary to the smart woman
as a modish gown. More attention should be given to keeping the skin ‘fat than m u
details of dress. The face, constantly exposed to wind, dust, fatigue and strain, requires
regular and watchful care. One great cause of complexion troubles is the frequen u.
greasy, inactive preparations which clog the pores and prevent the natural throwing
of waste matter. My repeated advice is to avoid made-up cosmetics, and to use only
ingredients. The various aids to beauty which I recommend are simple, and if not alieac >
at hand, can be procured from any reliable chemist. If he has not. what you require, ,
can easily obtain it for you from his wholesaler. Only let me advise you to insist o
ing the original ingredients, and not to accept some made-up preparation insteau.
About Shampoos. —To quote an eminent
London beauty specialist: “The slimy egg
cannot dissolve the scalp impurities, but only
adds to the trouble by completely choking the
pores with animal matter.” The substance
sticks and decomposes, thereby causing the
hair to assume a dead, “dull color.” I heart-
ily endorse every word. Avoid eggs (and
soap, too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful of
stallax in a cup of hot. water. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in your hair, will
clear and prevent dandruff, and leave that
flue, fluffy effect so much sought after. It
also removes excess oil or greasiness.
Complexion Secrets of an Actress. —In a re-
cently issued volume bearing the above title
the author says: “Continual use of grease
paints, rouge and the like, has ruined my
comnlexion. My skin -was colorless, wrinkled,
coarse and punctured with large pores. In
America I heard of the virtues of mercolised
wax; my first experience with this marvellous
substance convinced me it was more valuable
than all the cosmetics combined. Now, when-
ever my complexion begins to go wrong, I get
a small quantity of mercolised wax at the
chemist’s, spread on a thin layer of it before
retiring, washing it off in the morning. The
wax, after a few such applications, seems
literally to absorb the worn-out cuticle, when
a brighter, healthier, younger looking skin
appears.
Face Fuzz. —Many women know how to re-
move superfluous hair tempdrarily, but to
banish it for ever is quite another matter. As
regards depilatories, I must say that there are
very few good ones. They nearly all irritate
the skin, and even then only give temporary
relief. Powdered pheminol acts in a wonder-
ful manner, and the recommended treatment
is designed not only to immediately remove
the ugly hairs, but to also permanently des-
troy the roots.
Scanty Eyebrows and Fashes. —What a
wealth of expression can be given to an other-
wise plain face by fine arching eyebrow's end
long curling lashes! Much care should be
exercised, however, in choosing a P?. m . a<^®.^° r
promoting the growth of either, as ft is pi a■ -
tically impossible to keep the lids tightly cl°._
when treating the lashes. Mennalme has t e
advantage of being perfectly harmless, and at
the same time a healthy stimulant to the la
follicles. Its use tends to darken the new
growth, which presumably is what most
women desire.
Is Powder Necessary?—l say emphatically
No! There is a simple lotion which can be
easily and cheaply made at home, and it is
at the same time both effective and beneficial
to the complexion. Cleminite is a splendid
substitute for face powder, which is at tne
bottom of many complexion troubles, tmt
about an ounce from the chemist s and dis-
solve in four tablespoonsful of water, the.
result is a fine clear liquid, which instantly
gives the face, neck or arms that peach-liKe
bloom of perfect health. There is nothing to
equal it for greasy skins, and the result lasts
all day long under the most trying conditions.
Try it for the next dance.
Falling Hair.—How often one hears the
lament: “I have tried everything on the
market, and my hair comes out in handfuls.
Not so surprising either yhen you come to
think it over. Hair tonics to be effective must
be fresh, and there is no earthly reason why
every woman should not make her own lotion
at home. The finest vegetable tonic I know
of is made by mixing a packet of boranium
with 1-pint of bay rum and adding sufficient
water to fill a half-pint bottle. This lotion
rubbed briskly into the scalp sets the hair
roots tingling with new life, and will, if per-
severed with, give you back your crowning
glory.”
For Pale Faces.—Some folks are naturally
pale, and I see no harm whatever in adding a
little color to the cheeks if so desired. Rouge,
however, is always obvious, and to people or
refinement somewhat vulgar. There is a sub-
stance, however, known as powdered colli-
andum, which gives a perfectly natural color,
and at the same time defies detection. Apply
a little with the finger tips. You will be
pleased with the result I feel sure. [4
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
gallopin’ consumpshun, and an interferin’
fool of a doctor told the old man it was
hrough drink and ’e ’ad better send me to
a dry climate or I’d peg out inside a year.
There ain’t nuthin’ to complain of on the
score of dryness in this dam’ place. It’s
been mostly as dry as ’Ell everywhere I’ve
been, but I’d rather ’ave died of gallopin’
consumshun than ’ave come ’ere if I’d only
’ave known as much then as I do now.”
Ginger rose and made his quart of tea and
returned to the shade.
“Is this, the on’y game you’ve taken on
since you come to the country?” he inquired.
“No,” replied Dick; “it ain’t. Up to a
few weeks ago it wuz the on’y game I ’adn’t
taken on. I’ve ’ad a go at everything;
from runnin’ a billiard table to offsidin* fur
a Chinaman cook; from tea tastin’ to bul-
lock-driving. I put in three munce cane-
cuttin’ near Bundaberg once, and made
better money there than I made anywhere,
and then they’ll tell you that a white man
can’t cut cane. I wuz on’y a chummy, and
not too robustious, but I made 15 bob a day
and tucker easy. I ’ad enuff saved up that
time to take me back to Manchester, but
done it all in, in one night, at a two-up
school. It’s a rotten country, all right.”
“W’y, wot are you growlin’ about the
country fur? You say you made good wages
—more in one day than you’d make in a week
in England, and then you blames the conn-'
try becos you wuz bass enuff to lose it all
gaffin’. Strike me fat, some of you imported
blokes is the limit. You live on ’oof parin’
soup and ’ominy in England, and go into
gallopin’ consumshun frum starvashun; and
then you come out ’ere w’ere the mutton is
fairly snappin’ at you as you ride along, and
you ain’t got a good word fur the country.
I wouldn’t mind bettin’ if you went to
’Eaven, w’ich as old Euclid says is ridic’l’us,
you’d complain becos there wuzn’t any
devils there fur you to ’sociate with. Wot
else wuz you at?”
“Fust thing I took on w’en I come out
wuz a job of waitin’ in a resterong in Syd-
ney,” said Dick. “I wuz told that ’arf-crown
tips to waiters wuz quite common in Orstra-
liar. I wuz there three weeks, and I didn’t
get more than ’arf a crown altogether in tips
the fust week. The next week I got five
bob, and the next week I got the sack, and
ten bob wuz deducted frum me wages fur
breakin’ a pile of crockery. After that I
wuz pencillin’ fur a booky, but I think ’e
mistook me fur one of those ’ere phenomenil
litinin’ calculators. ’E wuz the most sar-
castik man ever I met. Then I got a job
drivin’ a milk cart in the subbubs. Wuz
gettin’ on all right at that until the ’orse
bolted one morning and upset the cart,
breakin’ off both sharves. ’E wuz headed fur
the Blue Mountains w’en I seen ’im last.
Of course the boss blamed me fur it, instead
of the mongrel dog wot ’eeled the ’orse. I
tried to explain, but ’e wouldn’t listen. I
’ad to summons ’im to get me week’s wages.
’E wuz a fair cow.”
“But,” interrupted Ginger, “do you mean
to say your old man sent you out without
any dough?”
“Oh, I ’ad five ’undred quid w’en I landed,
w’ich I wuz supposed to buy a dairy farm
with ; but I mostly done it in on the little
’eifers in Sydney in the fust month, and ’ad
a slap-up time, too.”
He was silent for a while as he dreamily
pictured some of the Sydney “ ’eifers.” and
the good time he had had. Then he re-
sumed :
“After gettin’ the kick-out as milk-o I
come to Queensland as rouseabout fur
Young & 00. to Milo. Went wool snatchin’
on the board. I reckon I run 40 miles a
day fur three weeks at Milo shed. I wuz
too tired some nights to go to sleep, but
the tucker wuz good. I’d ’ave seen the shed
out, on’y my gallopin’ consumshun didn’t
like opposisliun. and I ’ad to quit gallopin’
up and down the board. I told the boss of
the shed I wuz too delicate fur a long
distance runner, and asked ’im to put me
at something easier. ’E said ’e ’ad ’is eye
on me fur some time, and reckoned it wuz
more laziness than delicacy wot I wuz
troubled with, and paid me off. I wuzn’t
much upset, as shearers are a lot of blanky
savages anyway. After that I ’ad a trip on
the road with sheep. If it ’ad been anybody
else I’d ’ave laughed at myself offen at that
game. Fust thing w’en I got the job the
drover asked me if I could ride; and me
thinkin’ ’e meant sit on a nuiet ’orse I said I
wuz a good rider. ’E told me to jump on
’is old moke and run the mob of ’orses back
to the camp frum w’ere they wuz feed in’.
I knew how to climb up, as I ’ad offen
scrambled on old Milk-0 in Sydney. After
I got on I knew wot the boss and the other
blokes wuz smilin’ about. That pig of a
’orse seemed to bunch ’is four legs up in a
heap, and put ’is ’ead down w’ere ’is front
feet ought to be. Then ’e sprung about five
feet in the air. snuealin’ like a hog. The
girth broke, and I airyplaned off with the
saddle. I started to rouse some about rotten
gear, until I seen the boss fittin’ a new
girth. Then I told ’im I ’ad jinked me
back, so ’e gave me a quiet old moke wot
used to reach round and grab me by the
leg if I sat on ’im w’en ’e wuz stamlin’
still. About the second or third night we
wuz camped on a little, narrow creek with
only a little water in it. The boss told
me w’en I went on watch to be careful no
sheep got out. It wuz about a ’undred
yards frum one calico wing to the other,
and I’m walkin’ up and down along the
front with a whip ready to chase back any
sheep wot would try to break away, till
the boss sang out that I needn’t be doin’
so much blanky trampin’ about keepin’
everyone awake. I ’ad to watch two hours,
and towards the finish I could hear sheep
bleatin’ like fun the other side of the creek,
but didn’t think nothin’ of it till I called
the nex’ man. ’E wuz generally pretty
’ard to wake, and I ’ad to call ’im three
times and in the finish pull the blankets
away frum ’im before ’e seemed to wake
properly. ’E sat up and wuz pullin’ on ’is
boots grumblin’ to ’imself about ’ow cold
it wuz. Then all of a sudden ’e listened
and give a yell of, ‘All aboard. All the
blanky sheep are out.’
“The boss and all ’ands jumned up like
mad and off. There wuz on’y about a
’undred sheen left on camp out of about ten
thousand. The rest of them ’ad been cross-
in’ the water all the time I wuz on watch,
and it wuz them I could ’ear bleatin’ up the
paddick. We got them all again that night
and about a thousand of the stashun sheep
with them, and we ’ad to lose a day and
take them to a yard and draft them.”
“I s’pose the boss chased you right oiu
west over that lot,” said Ginger.
“ ’E surged a bit at fust, and the other
blokes cliiaeked me a lot, but the boss said
afterwards it wuz ’is own silly fault fur
not tliinkin’ to tell a dam’ importation that
w’en sheep wuz bleatin’ it wuz a pretty good
sign they wuz gettin’ out somew’ere. I done
three trips with ’im altogether and ’e wuz
pretty good. I might ’ave been with ’im
yet on’y fur a strike fur ’igher wages on
the last trip, w’ich the other cows made me
join in; and I wuz fool enuff to let them
persuade me to be the spokesman. The
strike didn’t last more than as long as it
took the boss to tell us wot ’e thought of us,
and the other cows all went on again at the
same rate of wages, and poor Pilgarlic got
the kick out as an agitator, an ungrateful
sw r ab, and a galvanized Cockney. I wrote
to me old man then and asked ’im to send
me a ’undred at once, as a feller ’ad asked
me to join ’im in a big butcherin’ business
in Rock’ampton, and I ’adn’t quite enuff
money fur a ’alf share in it. ’E sent me
the money too, and also sent me some books
on butcherin’. I swapped the books in Long-
reach fur some of Nat Gould’s yarns, and ’ad a
bonzer time in Rocky fur a month or more
on the cash. W’en it wuz done I went down
to the cane-cuttin’. After I ’ad been taken
down fur my sugar money I wrote to the
old chap again for another ’undred. I told
’im my partner ’ad got killed in a railway
accident, and I ’ad bought some ’eifers with
the cash, but they ’ad all died in a drought,
and I was a rooined man again. ’E wuz
evidently gettin’ advice frum ’is brother wot
wuz always sayin’ I wuz a useless young
dog, and wouldn’t come to no good ; becos ’e
wrote and told me ’e wouldn’t send me any
more money, but if I wuz well and strong,
and wanted to go ’ome ’e would send the
money fur my passage to the manager of a
bank in Brisbane, and ’e would see me on
the boat and buy my ticket.”
“Well,” said Ginger, “if your old man ’ad
sense enuff to be a butcher in Manchester
I should think ’e would ’ave ’ad sense enuff
of ’is own, without drawin’ on ’is brother’s
lot, to reckon you wanted a kickin’-strap
pretty badly. Do you booze?”
“Well, I generally ’as a feed of beer fur a
few days w’en I ’its a town fust,” said Dick.
“Once w’en I wuz in the sugar country I
palled up with a railway man ’oo wuz frum
Manchester. ’E wuz porter at a small
stashun on the North Coast line. I used
to often go doAvn to the stashun w’en ’e
wuz on night duty, and take a bottle of
whisky with me. One night we started
drinkin’ whisky and playin’ euchre w’ile ’e
wuz waitin’ fur the train w’ich wuz due
about two o’clock. We both got full as
ticks, and rolled under the table in the office.
The train came along, and, of course, the
signal wuz against ’er. She blew ’er whistle
till she nearly busted ’er boiler, and waited,
and waited, blowin’ like smoke every few
minits. Presently the guard came along
carryin’ a lamp and swearin’ like mad. ’E
fust tried to wake the night officer, ’oo told
’im ’e ’ad made it spades, and not to be
lookin’ at ’is ’and. Then ’e tried to wake
me, but I told ’im to go to the Devil, as I
wuz seasick, and ’oped the ship would sink
with all ’ands before mornin’.
“’E left us then, and went over and
rooted out the stashun-master, ’oo wuz in
bed at ’is own place. ’E wuz a big, angry-
lookin’ Scotchman with such a short temper
that it wuz ’ardly worth callin’ a temper at
all.
“ ’E let the train through fust, and then ’e
come to the office and poured a bucket of
water over the porter, and shook ’im until
’is boots flew off. ’Avin’ got ’im on ’is feet
’e come to me and took me by the ’eels and
dragged me out of the office. ’E poured a
bucket of freezin’ cold water over me stum-
mick, and w’en I got up ’e booted me out of
the stashun yard, liftin’ me over the fence at
the finish. Until ’e put me down and I ’ad time
to look round. I thought it wuz an escaped
elefant wot wuz bellerin’ and kickin’ be’ind
me. ’E 'ad the nerve then to tell me to
come and see ’im in the mornin’ w’en I wuz
sober, as ’e ’ad a conshense wot wouldent
allow ’im to maul a drunken man about as
much as ’ed_ like to.”
“Did you'go back?” inquired Ginger.
“Go back ! Did you ever ’ear of Daniel
breakin’ ’is way into the lions’ den again
after ’e got out? The porter was suspended,
and ’e wanted me to go and explain to old
McDougal ’ow it wuz all my fault. But ’e
could ’ave sacked the whole of the railway
staff, and I wouldn’t ’ave gone near ’im
again. After that I wuz billiard-markin’ in
Maryborough, but that game wuz too mono-
tonous. and I found I wuz gettin’ too fond
of suckin’ at the beer pump. Then I got a
job with a blacksmith, and ’ad only been
three ’ours with ’im, w’en the ’and ’ammer
I wuz usin’ knockin’ old bolts out of a
waggin slipped and ’it ’im a crack be’ind
the ear and outed ’im. I stayed long enuff
to see ’e wuzn’t killed, but I didn’t wait fur
my cheque. You see, I ’ad ’it ’im on the ’and
earlier in the day, and ’e made a grab to
’eave the anvil at me ; so there weren’t no
sense in waitin’ to apologise to ’im.
“After that I done some wharf-lumpin’
in Rocky, and wuz cleanin’ out tram lines fur
a w’ile. Then I got a job to come out to
Longreach with a mob of rams on the train
and prod them with a long stick w’enever
they wuz lyin’ down. They give me a lot of
trouble, and I poked one feller’s eye out.
There wuz one wrinkly-necked, concertina
old chap amung them wot insisted in lyin’
down. ’E ’ad ’orns as thick as me leg and
a cunnin’ look in ’is eye. ’E knew me again
w’en ’e saw me, as ’e nearly drove me
through the end of the truck w’en we wuz
gettin’ them out at Longreach. ’E broke
two ribs and put me in the ’ospital fur a
week. I got this job soon after, and ’ere
I’m stoppin’ by the grace of God and the
goodwill of the boss and overseer until nex’
October, w’en I’m off to Melbourne to see
the Cup ; and now, if you’ll stop and give me
a ’and fur an hour or two we’ll finish that
fence to-night.”
“It seems to me,” said Ginger, thought-
fully, “that your life’s been a bit crowded.”
MANWELL DAVIS.


Westiftghouse Pumping Set
Direct Coupled “Westinghouse” Cross Oil Engine
and Centrifugal Pump.
A SELF-CONTAINED UNIT SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR—
mm
•**«
s
n M
€ •
and other work.
The Engine operates without
CARBURETTER or
VAPORISER, has no delicate
mechanism to get out of order,
and is automatically governed
and lubricated.
Write for Particulars to
ise Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Concord West, N. S. Wales
" fi
TWO GOOD LINES FOR STEAM USERS
fasf
WOT a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon to be applied
to the internal surfaces of boilers like a paint. Absolutely prevents pitting and
corrosion and the deposit of hard scale. Used regularly by the New South
Wales Government Railways and Tramways, Sydney Municipal Council, and
many of the Largest Steam Users in Australia.
AULD’S REDUCING VALVES.
The World's Standard Reducing Valve for Steam, Air or Water. Simple and
Reliable. Hundreds in use in Australia, We carry heavy stocks of all sizes.
ALSO AGENTS FOR—
Engelbert’s Famous Oils, Nichols’ Boiler Feed Pumps,
Stirling Water Tube Boilers, etc., etc.
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
What a Beginner Says:
“I like Remington - UMC arms and ammu-
nition because I am a beginner and want
to start with the right material.
My friends have told me that I
must have perfect confidence in the
arms and ammunition I use because
it means a great deal to know that
it is my fault when a bad shot is
made. I find 1 am improving right
along and believe RemingtonrUMC
cartridges hit where 1 aim, and
that’s why I use them.”
All Beginners Should Use
fasf
Remington Arms—
Union-Metallic Cartridge Co
New York Londor
Catalogs free
fasf
ft
JOIN THE RANKS-”
<a
Q
'ff
2
0
3
m
a
y.
OF THOSE WHO TAKE
BfEfflAM'Sto
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
l/ti, 2/9 & 4/b.
Made in England.
fasf
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
’he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
JlNNEFORD’S
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
■yOU begin to
i look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A !
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
fasf
&
A
I
THE BEST DRINK
IN HOT WEATHER.
Large supplies have lately
arrived from London.
OF ALL STOREKEEPERS.
fasffasf


MANGROV1TE
r
LEATHER
LTI
is the ALL AUSTRALIAN BELT.
In buying it you are not trading with the
enemy, nor adding to the profits of foreign
shareholders.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:—
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, SYDNEY
(only). ,
‘ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
.-\v
Pipe or Bolt Threading
with an
Oster Power-Screwing Machine
Have you realised what a saving a Power
naH.ine would mean on your work? Hand
Storks are satisfactory for the cutting of a
few threads, but a Hoy and an OSTEE
POWER MACHINE will do as much in a
day as several men operating Hand Stocks.
Osters have exclusive features that appeal to
ail users. Write for our booklet on “Pipe
Threading,” which fully describes them.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts..
f:
£
S
g,
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole Agents—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
The
Importance
of
Efficient
Insulation I
The importance of efficient insulation, in many cases, is not realised. Great
care is shown in the selection of a steam plant to ensure the greatest economy,
yet the insulation which is of equal importance is in many cases partly neg-
lected. If you strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of your
engine, why not make certain that it is not wasted again through faulty in-
sulation? The claims we make as to the exceptional efficiency of Newall’s
Coverings are fully borne out by actual test. and. further, by the enormous
sales, including repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has been used once Newall’s have been tried.
The Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses are insulated throughout with
Newall’s Coverings, and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ther prove our claims. The innumerable advantages of this material over all.
other forms of lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleased to mail you along with samples.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA SECTIONAL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., *2 Pitt Street,
N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, F/uming,
Patent “ Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
ers-Buffalo Grinding Machinery.
&
Grinders that Grind and
Sharpeners that Sharpen.
Automatic Knife Grinders.
Automatic Knife Grinder's
and Saw Sharpeners com-
bined.
Automatic Saw Sharpeners.
Trim, Neat Powerful and
Rigid Machines.'
Prices quoted for immediate
delivery from stock, or for
indent.
Catalogue sent on application.
H. P. GREGORY <&
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Nat Semi-Diesel Oil Engines
MARINE OR STATIONARY,
Works on crude Residual Oil or Kerosene.
Most simple and economical. No valves, timing gear or water spray.
Prices for Marine outfits, complete with Reverse gears, Shafts and
Propellers on application,
DELIVERIES FROM STOCK.
Sole Australian Agents
WARBURTON, FRANK.I, Ltd..
307-309 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
isfec,
DANGAR. GEDYE 6C° Sydney
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA
2TE!
u
SUB-AGENTS
MITCHELL & CO. PROPY. LTt,
W. footscray, Melbourne,
Vic.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Townsville.
MALLOCH BROS
Perth, W.A.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD.,
Hobart, Tas.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Brisbane, S. & C. Queensland.
SOUTH AUSTRAUAN FARMERS’
CO-OP. UNION, ITD.,
Adelaide. S.A.
■
& “:!4'
Dynamos, Motors, Peebles Lacour
Patent Motor Converters, Alternators.
'
LONDON
t.
Transformers, Arc Lamps,
Switchgear, Cables, etc.
PLEASE ADDRESS ENQUIRIES s-
PROMPT ATTENTION.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney and Melbourne.
GORDON FAINE LTD #> London Bank Chambers, Brisbane.
