

——the Veteran of Whiskies
2E*. G. TSS.INS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUC IIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of’ SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
a aiaid
J.NOW M'S U
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite Rational Amphitheatre.
And at
Telephone: City 0325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
paaßßa
I I
'.828; *■
!®!esi|l; irii] ■ .tejl ?ra:l arß'eSs!!!S{p!l:as
m
mmSmmi
srrss:ssres
HI
ii
IiUMWMUJo^JfLW^vM
tMaMlFTOk^bna-ati«FM^i}lß3BM.rigassgaifi.
nia
ñ
Used m plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
ill
AND SUNBURN
Made in Australia bj/
FSumckstemhsc?
SYDNEY.
ń
HultoiV
Piiseo^ic.' 1
Harness Bacon
'JoXA" -4£e
ň
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
NANSENS
J
m
?or INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
Entirely BRITISH,
and the World’s BEST!
PALMER CORD
TYRES.
Interesting; Catalogue free from
The Silvertown Rubber Co.,
279 George Street, Sydney.
WHITE
ROOFS
A White Malthoid Roof is proof against
Rain, Wind, Fumes, and all changes of
temperature. It is absolutely depend-
able. We’d be glad to send Booklets,
Illustrations and Samples so that you
can know its worth.
The Paraffine Paint Company,
(D. S. EVANS, Australasian Rep.)
Challis House - SYDNEY.
THE CLYDE ENGSNEERINC COMPANY L-
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL. 8c AGRICULTURAL. ENGINEERS,
RAIL-WAV ROLLING STOCK OF ALL. DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAQiJrtETAL & FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8c MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
SHREDDER DISCS.
HASFIELD
Stone-Breakers
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. 1
ROAD-MAKING
MACHINERY.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Ciean
Freshness to the Mouth.
~—
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
The Bulletin
Yol. 36.—fto. 1868.]
[Thursday, December 2, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW FICTION
Maugham's Of Human Bondage.
Westcott’s Hepsy Burke.
Orczy’a Bronae Eagle.
Dehan’s Man of Iron.
Chambers’ Athalie.
Galsworthy: Freelands.
Rinehart’s K.
Mackenzie’s Guy and Pauline.
Williamson’s Secret History.
Bradley’s Splendid Chance.
Bacon’s Open Market.
Porter's Michael O’Halloran.
All at 3/6 per vol.; posted 3/9.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP'T'Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOT
MAN POWDER.
*1
I •
v'f'-j
.*
9d. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
RILLS ALL INSECTS.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie” Dept. H.,
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, and
sample tin will be sent post
free, or forward 9d. in stamps
for full-size tin.
BUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
Little Verses by Nettie Palmer
THE MOTHER.
In the sorrow and the terror of the nations,
In a world shaken through with lamentations,
Shall I dare know happiness
That I stitch a baby’s dress?
So: for I shall be a mother with the mothers,
I shall know the mother’s anguish like the
others,
Present joy must surely start
For the life beneath my heart.
Gods and men, ye know a woman’s glad un-
reason,
How she cannot bend and weep but in her
season,
Let my hours with rapture .glow
As the seams and stitches grow.
And I cannot hear the word of fire and
slaughter.
Do men die? Then live my child, my son,
my daughter!
Into realms of pain I bring
You for joy’s own offering.
A SEAFARONG.
To icalee this summer morning
And feel the boat move lightly,
The sea a silken wonder,
The far cliffs rising whitely,
A stretch of sea to cover
Before I meet my lover.
To catch the light of sunrise
Flung on the seaward ranges,
To see above Kiama
The heights all gleams and changes,
To guess their forests gleaming,
Their fern hung cataracts streaming.
To move along this coastland
Where silver gulls are wheeling,
The prow with rush and ripple
Still to the northward stealing
That when the daylight’s over
I there may meet my lover.
To hear our voices faintly
Because the sea has held us,
To feel the glory bringing
Strange comradeship to weld us,
As happy pilgrims faring
To some great joy for sharing.
To see far breakers flashing
By league-long cliffs and beaches.
Until, the coastline breaking
In countless radiant reaches,
My heart will rise and hover
With joy to meet my lover.
From “Shadowy Paths,”
by Nettie Palmer.
Nettie Palmer’s muse is a modest one,
Australian-born. She has something femin-
ine to say, and her voice is pleasing, deli-
cately modulated, and lyrical. Shadowy Paths
(Euston Press, Euston Buildings, London,
N.W.) strikes no new note in our Austra-
lian gamut, but it is a singing note, worth
hearing. Unfortunately this volume shows
no deepening of emotion or widening of
thought since her first essay in verse, but the
delicate standard set is maintained.
The Australian Attitude
It used to be a comfortably leaning one —
against a verandah-post. There was a
reason for that Australian attitude: the
Australian had a verandah-post to lean
against. The verandah is not a character-
istic portion of the flora or fauna of other
races. The outside peoples put down (and
pull up) sun-blinds. These are very gay and
picturesque when the sun comes out. But it
mostly doesn't come out. And there are no
verandah-posts to support them. But in
Australia a permanent iron verandah is
necessary because of our permanent iron
sun. And before the Australian could lean
against his verandah-post he had to dig the
hole and erect that post. And having pro-
vided the verandali-post the Australian had
a right to lean against it.
But, wait! It was usually the Aus-
tralian’s father or grandfather who dug the
necessary hole and planted the necessary
post. And it kept him too busy, providing
verandah-posts, to allow him any leisure to
lean against his own handiwork. But the
son or grandson found the landscape so
planted with verandah-posts that he saw no
use in attempting to erect any more. So he
leant against the nearest post. He was not
exactly lazy; really he was accumulating
energy, for which he found no immediate
vent.
For the Australian was living in a world
that did not suit his temperament at all.
You see, the modern Australian is The True-
Born Englishman—the only one extant. He
is the direct descendant of the Elizabethan
Englishman—the Englishman who made
England. That ancestor was pirate and
freebooter, with no nice sense' about playing
the game with scrupulous fairness to the
other bloke. He was out to win. Reckless
and carelessly courageous he mopped up the
world, for himself —and England. He
boasted, and proved his boast. He was un-
tamed, extravagant, unexpurgated; he was
the Immortal scallywag of the world, with a
humorous touch of the blackguard In him.
And he builded England for Elizabeth, and
us.
He builded England—too well. He made
her too secure. He bred from his proud
loins a race of shopkeepers, and set them up
in a little shop—to breed and in-breed other
shopkeepers. Nobody dared molest his de-
cendants; and even in their shop-keeping
there was the strain of adventure and world-
wandering that he had put so profitably
into his piracy. The shopkeepers, in their
turn, mopped up the world. They brought
their captured galleons of groceries tri-
umphantly home from all the seven seas.
And though something was stirring in the
world outside, wars and revolutions, they
cared not. secure in their island shops,
bringing their captured galleons of a world-
trade home.
Yet, here and there, an Elder Son was
born who refused to serve behind that high-
piled counter. He ran away, scornfully
leaving his inheritance to the youngsters.
He ventured far, urged ever on by that itch
of conquest in his Elizabethan forefathers’
blood. And so he came to Australia, and
found a new continent to conquer. It kept
him busy—but not at shopkeeping. He
planted a new race in an empty continent;
he planted verandah-posts in the sand. He
was too busy to afford the time to lean
against them. He left his sons, his grand-
sons, the ease and the leisure to lean. They
leaned because, though there was plenty of
hard work for them to do, all the exciting
work of the pioneers had been done. And
there was in the veins of this direct de-
scendant of the Elizabethan Englishman a
distaste for shopkeeping, a dislike to mere
uninspiriting labor. He wanted to ravage his
continent as his ancestor had ravaged the
oceans. And he found his continent full of
barbed-wire fences, and his cities thick with
verandah-posts. So, dissatisfied, he leaned,
waiting for something exciting, something
Elizabethan, to turn up.
And, thanks to an equally dissatisfied
bloke in Germany, it came. The invasion of
Belgium swung back this tame world into
the spacious days of Good Queen Bess.
Upon the seven seas the sinister black flag
was once more unfurled. The Australian left
his verandah-post; he had found something
congenial to do. He found it in Gallipoli,
and he did it with the ancestral delight in
facing tremendous odds. He was not doing
his duty: he was out for fun. Here were
real things to be done: battle, murder and
sudden death; and he tackled his stupendous
task with an Elizabethan light-heartedness
and an Elizabethan zest.
He found himself fighting beside his
younger brethren, the shopkeepers that he
had somewhat contemptuously left behind in
the shop. And they could fight, too. The
long, almost ignoble, security had tamed
their souls; but at the call, the old smoulder-
ing fire thrilled their veins. Their courage
was equal to his, but different. They had
an element of dour doggedness foreign to the
Australian’s reckless indifference. They
didn’t growl: their vision was more limited;
they were content with less. Give Tommy
his cigarette, his girl’s photograph; his
music-hall song, his lollies and his tea, and
Tommy would go anywhere, do anything;
it was all in the day’s work. But the Aus-
tralian brought to his job an element of
artistry, a deep, untroubled joy, a careless-
ness about discipline, an often fatal reck-
lessness, a “be-damned about everything”
attitude, and a facility in curses as pic-
turesque as that of the Elizabethan free-
booters. This was what he had dreamed
about when he was leaning against that
verandah-post; this is what he would dis-
cuss when he came back to lean against
that familiar post again. This was the life.
It wasn’t his duty; it was his joy. It was
the game for which he, of all races, had
been prepared and tempered and fitted —the
game of the True-Born Englishman.
And Gallipoli Betty, in the intervals of
writing to Gallipoli Bill, took to the game
with the same joyous spirit. She knitted
socks with the same delight that she had felt
when shooting the breakers. She slaved
in the Red Cross depots with the persistency
with which, afore-time, she had hunted for
dress-material bargains and made her own
frocks.
And those of us who couldn’t go took to
the new game with the same reckless light-
heartedness. Australia had to prepare for
her wounded, and how did she do it? With
a doleful foreboding? No, with a laugh!
This race made of Australia Day—one
State contributing three-quarters of a mil-
lion pounds by one supreme effort —a car-
nival and a f§te. Had any stranger visited
Sydney on that day would he, by any pos-
sibility, have guessed that here was a city
engaged in raising funds for her maimed
and shattered and desolate soldiers? No;
he would have found a great city en fete,
half a million enjoying a gigantic carnival,
showering sovereigns like confetti. One
would have thought these joyous, excited
citizens were celebrating a national victory
or indulging in a mad orgie: there was no
shadow, of war upon their gaiety. They
were throwing their money into the hat,
and in the act they found a reckless joy.
It was all such a lark!
And so, thanks to the Australian atti-
tude, Australia goes light-heartedly along,
the one happy country in a world sub-
merged in gloom. The heavy clouds of
sorrow' have obscured our sky; there are
thousands of weeping mothers and mourning
brides: but the racial cheerfulness, like our
sun, is high above all personal griefs. It is
incurable, our optimism. And it is idle to
deny that its manifestations are sometimes
foolish. We talk of economy, and spend
as lavishly as ever; Premiers still keep car-
nival with pawn-shops; High Commissioners
gaily ride out on camel-back into the
interior; new storeys are placed on new
public buildings; we shut the pubs one short
hour earlier and establish new beer-gardens
at the gates of Government House; we im-
port famous musicians and, as solemnly as
we can, we discuss the absorbing question of
altering our musical instruments to the Con-
tinental pitch—forgetting that very soon
that continent might not be sufficiently in-
tact to possess a pitch at all; and on Allies’
Day our girls masquerade in fancy costumes,
we flag our city as for a victory, we build a
bazaar in our main thoroughfare and crown
a queen of carnival!
J*
The younger son never knows when he is
beaten; the elder son would know—and
win. Both attitudes are of inestimable
racial value; both will win this war.
The War
The value of J’Accuse, by a German, pub-
lished by Dr. Anton Suter, of Lausanne,
does not lie in the alleged nationality of its
anonymous author, but in its brilliant indict-
ment of Germany as the criminal-in-chief
responsible for the present trouble. The
English translation (Ilodder and Stoughton,
per Dymock’s Library) is a closely reasoned
work of over 400 pages. The author’s patri-
otic purpose is to bring back the German
nation to a condition of national sobriety, to
awaken his compatriots to the discomforting
realisation of their crime and their blood-
guilt. In the preparation of his damning
brief the author proffers evidence “written
by Germans in the German language.” In
no other work on the war has the ground
been so carefully covered: the slightest
detail. becomes tremendously significant, and
even in the omissions in the Austrian and
German official excuses the author finds the
finger-prints of the murderer. He even finds
humor in the mailed fist. He points out that
for days after Germany had declared war
upon Russia —days during which Russia
and Germany were actually at war —Aus-
tria and Russia remained at peace. “The
Austrian and Russian Ambassadors remained
quietly in the capital of their enemies, and,
who knows, may even have continued nego-
tiations. The mobilised condition of their
armies did not disturb them in the enjoy-
ment of the comforts of peace. Surely noth-
ing equally insane has ever occurred in dip-
lomatic history. The two chief duellists
have not yet crossed swords, but the second
of one party has already attacked the other.
If in the six days between August 1 and
August 0 Austria and Russia had after all
succeeded in arriving at an agreement—a
consummation.... which could easily have
been realised but for the provocative inter-
vention of Germany—where in that case
would have been the sense of Germany’s war
against Russia? It would have been a sort
of war in the air, a tilting against wind-
mills, a war without any substantial
ground.”
It is as impossible to summarise within
the limits of our space the terms of this
tremendous indictment of Germany as it is
to count the number of times that the author
proves the German Chancellor guilty of delib-
erate lies. And for every item the author
has his circumstantial evidence, usually
written or spoken by one of the criminal
gang. The reader may doubt the nationality
of the author, but he cannot doubt the facts
nor dissent from the sentence of the court.
d*
In a remarkable article in October Fort-
nightly, A. E. P. B. Weigall diagnoses the
Hun mind. He proves the German to be,
in his method of thinking, as remote 'from
-the rest of civilisation as an inhabitant of the
planet Mars. The actions of the Huns are
governed by a code which does not, even
distantly, resemble our code. The Hun is a
slave to the cancer of logic—sheer, inhuman
logic. “The Germans see things as they
are; we see things as they ought to be. The
Germans are inspired by the doctrines of
unqualified intellect; we are inspired by the
dictates of what is called ‘heart.’ ” The
German admits the horrible facts of life;
we discreetly cover them up. Behind all
our food-supply, for instance, stands a hor-
rible fact, the slaughter-house. We try to
forget the slaughter-house. We disguise our
food. We call pig’s flesh pork: the Huns
call it pig’s flesh. “We enjoy our beefsteak
because we shut our eyes to the manner in
which it was obtained ; the Germans enjoy it
because they have learnt to look at the
slaughter-house with complacency.” So
they call a spade a spade, and a stomach a
stomach. “There is no people in Europe
which refers in such undisguised terms to
the functions of the body which we are wont
to hide. Human beings, they declare, are
but animals ; and a really civilised people can-
not any longer refuse to face facts because
they happen to be nasty... .There is no na-
tion... .which is inure boldly bestial... .Man,
say the Germans, is born of human passions;
then surely it is logical to admit their exist-
ence and their important rOle in life.” Hence
43 cases of rape recorded in Germany to
every one case recorded in England, 12 cases
of incest to each one in England, and the fre-
quency of “Eulenburg” scandals. Hence,
too, the subjects that the German artist de-
lights to paint: “Pregnant women; hairy,
amorous men; fat matrons suckling their
babies; sweating laborers.”
Our civilisation tends toward an increasing
regard for human life; but Nature does not
regard individual lives as precious, so why
should the Germans? Death is not a
tragedy; it is an inevitable part of Nature’s
process—then why worry over death? Hence,
340 murderous assaults in Germany to every
one in England, hence the attack in massed
formation. Human lives—their own lives,
still less Belgian lives, do not matter. Hence
the atrocities.'
• Honestly, the Huns consider our objections
to the sinking of passenger ships without
warning as due to our conservative method
of reasoning. They honestly laugh at us'
as the world's old fogies. “To them we are
like the early Victorian rural classes who
objected to the introduction of steam loco-
motion. Modern warfare, they contend, is
essentially the imposing of every kind of
horror on the enemy until he is so morally
outraged and dazed that his physical powers
of resistance are destroyed.” The idea of
a fair fight, of fair play, smacks of primitive
barbarism. The Huns indignantly repudi-
ated the English calling a certain chivalrous
Ilun officer a “sportsman.” A Ilun paper
thanked God that the German army did not
contain such an abortion as a sportsman on
its rolls. No German officer could be such
a fool as to subordinate the scientific busi-
ness of his profession to sentimental consid-
erations. So we are fighting against a type
of cold, logical intellect that does not admit
the existence of a heart. We are fighting
against beings as revolting as the octopi of
Wells’s Martians. According to the Huns,
it is we who are the barbarians: we still
attach a meaning to such terms as “sports-
man” and “man of honor.” They are a
people without a soul —and proud of that
fact. They honestly believe they are fight-
ing for the good of the world and the benefit
of the human race. “Logic told them that
our civilisation was bound to go under before
the onslaught of theirs; and they find that
after all materialism is likely to break itself
against the mighty walls of an ideal. They
hate us because just as we think their point
of view degrading, so they think our atti-
tude toward life obsolete, and they are irri-
tated by the solidarity of an Empire united
merely by a mere bond of heart.”
The Kaiser, quite honestly, is always call-
ing upon his God. “the good old German
God”; but, and significantly, neither Wil-
helm nor anybody else in Germany ever men-
tions a man called Jesus.
«
Australian caricature, the one department
in art in which this continent stands on
equal terms with the world-masters, receives
a welcome recruit in David Low. Hop, Phil
May, Will Dyson, Vincent and Low ; a record
equalled by few papers in the world; and
though The Bulletin does not claim that
it taught this quartette their art, it has had
the honor to give them their chance to
develop their talent. Caricatures by Low,
collected from The Bulletin and other
sources (Tyrrell’s, Limited, Castlereagh-
stieet, Sydney), is a limited edition at one
guinea—and worth it. It contains nearly
400 caricatures of Australasians, ranging
from State politicians to the mysterious per-
sonage, supposed to be the Emppror of Aus-
tria in retirement, who sells bootlaces on a
vacant block in George-street. There are
also four colored insets, one of which, that
of Henry Lawson, will henceforth deco-
rate the bare brick wall of this ofiice.
Naturally mere politicians bulk largely in
this collection, but temporary vice-regal
visitors, assorted bishops, judges, Gents
One, aldermen and members of the Inky
Way, the public services and sport make up
a survey of this continent and Maoriland
remarkable for its comprehensiveness. Every-
body who is anybody, and lots who aren’t,
will find themselves genially flayed herein.
Low puts no malice into his portraits: any
victim who cannot laugh over his idiosyn-
crasies thrown on the screen is as humorless
as Kultur. And his art is remarkably
varied: he escapes monotony by varying
from perfectly “straight” portraits to essays
in farce. Indeed, his art is so young yet
that he has not developed a line that could
be always identified as a “Low” without his
signature. For his subjects determine his
style. Here and there he has horribly
failed; but the majority of the caricatures
will be instantly recognised—-by everybody
but the victim. There is only one fault that
this page finds. Low has caricatured nearly
400 persons, and his edition is limited to
250 copies. What are the other 150 subjects
going to do about it?
Madeline E. King, whose black-and-white
work is well known in Sydney, forwards a
charming book of pen sketches entitled
Sydney. There is strength in these draw-
ings, and though her drawing of foliage is
occasionally niggling, this is but a slight
defect in a series of pictures of Sydney
buildings evidencing artistic power and sin-
cerity. Such a volume is valuable as a
Sydney souvenir. (Printed by J. Andrew,
Ph ill in-street. Svdney.)


w a
ANTHONY HORDERNS' for LADIES' LINGERIE.
Write for our Price List of Ladies and Children’s Underwear. It illustrates the great
economy afforded by ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES, and Customers
are assured that the LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING we offer is made of Selected
Materials, and finely finished to secure perfection of shape and comfort in wear. New
Designs are continually arriving, and this inflow of novelties results in the best assorted
stock in the land, and of far better value than be obtained elsewhere.
m.
~BN
f \
vtx;
js62o
No. E62o.—The Celebrated W.B.
51 Model; suitable for'the usual figure,
very low bust, extra long over hips; in
White and Grey; sizes 19in. to 30in. 6/3
r ~ - *1
IC-J
.4
■;• : Q
Mi
No. 1866.—Lady’s Nightgown, in fine
White Mull, handsome yoke of Wire Valenci-
ennes Lace, inlet with Insertion, Beading and
Medallions, smart half sleeves 287-
May be had in cheaper-quality materials—
-21/-, 257-
No. 1939.—Lady’s Nightdress, in fine-
quality Mull, square yoke, handsomely trimmed
Valenciennes Lace, Insertion, Ribbon bows, very
finely tucked, smart short sleeves 25/-
: v^
m
mm
L-.'-
2rr
No. 3538.—Lady’s Knickers, in fine White
Longcloth, wide knee frills of Swiss Embroidery,
Beading and Ribbon bows 4/11
No. 277.—Lady’s Knickers, in fine Madapo-
lam,' extra wide frills, handsomely inserted with
Valenciennes Lace, Beading and Ribbon
bows , 4/(j
m
m
-
■
m
I
3i6
m
%
E 621
ter
m
£5OO
\\
w-
■-'
S53^S
EJO#
£3/7
W
& ■
M
£625
a
£53/
£3O/
£302
No. Esol.—World-known Model, the
Celebrated “S.H.” Corset, medium
length, low bust, extended hips; in White
and Grey Coutille 4/3
No. Esl6.—Rustproof Corset (War-
ner’s 667), in White Batiste, for medium
and stout figures, medium bust, double
skirt 8/11
No. EsoB.—Bust Improver, made in
White Net; a wonderful improvement to
slight figures 2/9
No. Eso9.—Perfect Mode (W.B.
J 49), for full and stout figures; White and
Grey 7/9
No. E62s. —The “Millie” Corset, for
Maids; boneless, spoon busk, particularly
adapted for figure development 2/9
No. Es3l.—The “Blanche,” for grow-
ing Girls, all whalebone, straight busk; in
strong Grey Coutille 4/3
No. E62l.—Reduso Corset (W.B.
787), for stout figures only, very strongly
made, in White and Grey; sizes up to
361 j- 15/9
No. E517.—-Brassiere Bust Bodice, a
decided improvement for stout figures; in
White only 3/g
Other qualities up to 4/11
No. E502.-—Smart Waistless Corset,
in fine White Batiste, suitable for all figures;
sizes 19in. to 30in 4/g
£S/t
No. E 5 1 I.—P.D. Motl e 1,
3015, for Young Ladies; full
length 12Ain., in White Coutille;
sizes 19in. to 30in.... .. 6/11
JZ 3J 9
No. E 519. —P.D. Veritas
Model, of medium length, slightly
high at bust line, Military hips—
Sizes up to 30in., 10/9; 30 to
36in., 12/6.
•Vi
v-
m
& 6/o
No. E6l9.—Smart Model
(W.B. 174) , an ideal Corset
for tall, slender Ladies, gives per-
fect freedom to the figure 9/9
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m
Repeating Rifles
In choosing a rifle for any purpose,
its reliability and accuracy should be
carefully considered. Winchester
rifles enjoy the highest reputation the
world over for reliability, accuracy,
strong shooting qualities and finish.
They are made in all desirable cal-
ibers from .22 to .50, and in eleven
different models. From these a
Winchester can be selected that
will meet any shooting requirement
THE GRAND PRIX, the highest honor, was awarded Win-
chester Guns and Ammunition at the Panama Exposition.
Ask for the Brand
WAVEfiLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS.
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
5 DEALERS s
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
ANTJBILIOUS
ills
A Reputation
of over 100
years.
A tried and trusted family medicine,
prescribed by medical men for the
common ailments of everyday life,
such as
ACIDITY,
INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS,
SICK HEADACHE,
DISORDERED LIVER,
These famous pills cleanse and regulate the
whole system, leaving it fiee from all
impurities. T o use them always is io keep
yourself in perfect health—the bowels f ee,
lhe liver active, the head clear, a d the skin
and complexion free from blemish
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes.
Price, 1J- and 2/6 .
JAMES COCKLE & Co., 4 Great Ormond Street, London, Eng.
CHEAPER ThAN
EJecfrieity, Owl os, Acetylene or Kerosene.
iIERnTHAN All.
as
dlt
m
m
£
*
■
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott 8 Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye 8 Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram 8 Son {*££
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Works : 269 Toorak Road
Melbourne.
m
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
m
Works: Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS
Revolvers and Guns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK
Kal REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open, blued, fi-
ber ed, complete with pooch. PRICE, 27/6. D.B.BJ* Hammerless
GUN, W. W. Greener wedge-fast croesbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers, auto-
matic patent safety snap action, pistol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib.
MONTH’S TRIAL. Usually £lO/10/-. REDUCED TO £7/5/-. D.8.8.L
GUN, walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
choke, right modified, rebounding locks, solid strikers. W. W. Greener
patent wedge-fast crossbolt. MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6. D.8.8.L. GUN
—'FARMER’S FRIEND —12-gauge, choke bore, pistol grip, English walnut
stock. PRICE 45/-. Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
40 yards. PRICE 20/- REMINGTON special miniature range RIFLE,
heavy barrel, very accurate, same as used in nearly all City and Suburtssi
Ranges, 25/- Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
SMALL ARMS CO
Importers and Indentors,
229-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE-
M
mm
mm
The Nerve Medicine
for
Professional People
is
CLEMENTS
TONIC
There are certain classes of pro-
fessional duties that worry the nerves
because of the strain upon them,
dental work particularly. This testi-
mony to Clements Tonic has been re-
ceived from Miss M. Griffith, Mar-
rickville Koad, who has for a number
of years been associated with profes-
sional dental surgeons as assistant,
and her opinion is, in consequence, of
a valuable nature. She writes,
12/3/’l5
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“Owing to the trying professional nature of my duties in dental
surgery, I found myself at times very much run down and nervous.
Although never in real bad health, yet I had need of a good medicine, and
I found in Clements Tonic a splendid Sveak-nerve remedy’ and promoter
of appetite.
“Whenever I need it I use it, and always find the greatest benefit
from its use.
“You mav use this testimonial as vou wish.”
“(Signed) MISS M. GRIFFITH.”
Never be without this medicine if you are run-down or have Weak Nerves,
Bad Digestion, Poor Appetite, or Constipation. It tones up the human system
rapidly. ....
In cases where the nerves are shattered through exhaustive business studies,
fever, influenza, wasting illness or brain fag, this is beneficial in its
results in regenerating nerve power. It is declared to be rich in those health-
creating properties that ensure bodily health and strength.
All Chamists and Stores sell it everywhere. Get it to=day and get well.


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the Uric, acid ( the poison) right out ot
the system.
The. proper way for this to bo done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
he taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in’l)e Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ling every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der? and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of Be Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —all chem-
ists sell them—and you will, within a very
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
8100d —like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When yon see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies, equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy. Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color —a feature which distinguishes
Dp Witt’s Kidney and BlafMer Pills from ail
others —you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—-
that, is why Do Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —-every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
M. Planes on a 7 rear old-Bufcfchmsde
Stesi. Mead'.'Models Su?erbe
# GOV ENTRY FLYER i
Rode I&iles isa . 3©s Bays
(officially authenticated l . Beat over 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cycles,
KfftAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN TEARS.
Dunlop. Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc,
test. 35 yrs>
latest
Moaeib
3~i
MEAD
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carriage
Paid to your port. Ten Days' Free A rial.
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices. Write for irra© Art Catalogue*
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Wanted, .
CHrCicS COniPMf,
C£>e»t B A 252 tiViißPOOli
WAR
Prompt Shipment 8 Safe Delivery
Guaranteed, No Advance in Prices
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES-
VAL. U. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES-
.lust wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
t’n now. Z. 16. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
~2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes out ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the svstem the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.
Mr. Frank Ford ( Blaclcall P. 0., Q land)
writes: “l teas a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but alter taking your treatment for V, days l
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now."
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
•m
3
Bonnintftorrs
IRISH 6 MOSS
For Children
Nothing is more irritating than the continual
coughing of children. Unchecked, a cold so
quickly spreads to others. To instantly re-
lieve, and quickly cure COUGHS, COLDS
or WHOOPING COUGH, give the child-
ren “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss.” Take none
but—
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTOM’S
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “ Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
Rheumatism
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts; and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 175+—
160 years ago.
m
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
Per Bottle.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gallipoli, 1915.
The sun flares down,
And comes the night with its deep sleep
And sweet forgetfulness.
It matters not how went the fight,
Or if they won or lost;
But here and there, lit by sad stars,
A sleeping boy stirs restlessly,
And smiles, and dreams again
Of rain-green bills.
Under the burning sun they fight and fight.
The struggling line strains ceaselessly. It
breaks....
And forms again.
And all the time, along that valiant lino,
Too-wearied boys drop down like flics.
They lie there in the sun.
And underneath soft southern skies,
Where half the world seeks peace in sleep,
Now and again a mother starts
And wonders why she woke.
MAOBILAND.
LAURLE FOSTER.
When the Door Was Opened!
The Kaiser stepped up to the door.
Pulled hack the bolts- and out came War!
War looked about him. "Now,” said he,
“Who shall I take along with me?”
lie saw a gallant regiment—
He beckoned them, and off they went.
lie saw some citizens at work.
“Come on !” said War. ‘'You mustn’t shirk!
“If you would die, as you’ve free.
Take up your guns.and follow me!”
He met a sailor, home in port.
“Aha!” said War. “Come on, old sport!”
The sailor promptly gave three cheers:
"I've been expecting you for years!'’
War saw an old man in his shop,
Who begged to be allowed to stop ;
And to his plea War made reply :
“I’ll come back for you by-and-bye.”
War found a widow with her son:
She pleaded : “He’s my only one !”
War cried: “T can’t help that, you know;
For I am War, and he must go!”
And next War saw a child at play.
He stooped and snatched its life away.
He found a maiden fair and sweet.
And trampled her beneath his feet.
He saw a horse of noble breed,
And left it on the ground to bleed.
He saw some cattle, sheep and goats,
And drew bis blade across their throats.
Tie found a church with spire,
..And left it in a cloak of .ire.
He came upon a fair-built town,
And with his heel he stamped it down.
He strode across the country-side,
And where he trod all green things died.
A splendid bridge the river spanned ;
War broke it underneath his hand.
Then, turning from the land again,
He worked stark ruin on the main.
He saw a lofty ship that drave,
And straightway sank it in the wave.
He saw a little, humble bark,
And overwhelmed it in the dark.
A raving fiend with fury blind,
His monstrous bulk oppressed mankind,
Which yet must groan beneath his sway,
Until once more lie’s locked away.
Meantime, unnumbered curses pour
Upon the wretch wjio let out War!
n.s.w.
EDWARD NEWTON MAcCULLOCH.
By the Way.
You’ll forget in a day,
Though our kisses were more than sweet;
Ere the gold of the gold be grey,
Ere the poppies wilt in the wheat,
We’ll break from the ropes of sand,
Nor reck of the puny smart,
And I’ll go back to the dear grey-land
And my own sweetheart!
The red of the rose is blown.
Shall we weep for the perished musk?
The soul of the day is flown.
Shall we tryst with Death in the dusk?
Shall we fret for the faiths that stand?
Nay, dreamer and dream depart—
And I’ll go back to the dear grey land
And my own sweetheart!
You’ll forget in a day
That yesterday’s rose was born.
Lo! she'rides with the wind away
To the call of an elfin horn '
Maskers at Fate’s command,
’Tis finished —so. .. .smile and part—
And I’ll go back to the dear grey land
And my own sweetheart!
VICTORIA.
RIMEA.
The River.
Somewhere in the dark the river goes,
Feeling its way by the quiet streets,
Catching the gold that a blown lamp throws,
Sucking a garden's rooted sweets,
Gurgling down by a dreary lane,
Beneath a culvert and out again ;
Trapped, some squalid quarter in,
Flowing broken and sick as sin;
Then out of the town with a silver rush
To the star-still sweeps of the onen bush !
QTIEENSI-AND.
M. FORREST.


PERDRIAU
SAND
SHOES
jVtade
in
JJusiralia.
STOCKED BY ALL SHOE STORES.
'!• a
OUR REGISTERED BRANDS ARE:
“MARATHON”
Highest grade, white duck, white moulded
rubber soles, with non-conductor inner soles.
“SEAGULL”
Best white duck with white rubber rolled
edge soles.
“ 5. R. W.”
White Duck, with white-moulded rubber soles.
“ SUNBEAM ”
Stout White Duck, with black moulded rubber
soles.
MANUFACTURED BY
PLRDRIAU
RUBBER
Co, Ltd’.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE
PERTH BRISBANE.
|S
'LOCAL
m
V®
.PATRIOTISM
I Your
Aim? c
Then have a«9HOT
at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco. *
±
i
X
S 3
I
hm
mm.
<£>
w
■Mi WKSm>.
£fF\tV
-■>l
w*ss* WfcKS
An Eagle on a Globe
Circular Saws
Manufactured by Highly-skilled Workmen.
From Best Sheffield Crucible
Cast-Steel Plates,
Size Gin. dia. to 54in.
SAW REPAIRING A
SPECIALITY.
Engineers
“Ultra Capital”
and “Capital”
High - speed
Twist Drills.
We carry Large Stocks.
In Sizes: “Ultra-Capital,”
Jin. to 4in.; “Capital,”
Jin. to 2in.
Contractors to tlie
N.S.W. Govt.
m
TOOL STEELS ■ —“Ultra Capital” and “New Capital” High-speed Steels,
Carbon Steels, Double Extra, Best Warranted, and Warranted qualities
MINING STEEL . —Octagon, Cruciform and Hollow Sections.
Write jor Full Particulars, advising for what purpose Steel Requirea.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Go. Ltd.
Sheffield, England.
Australian Offices—
-379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street, Fremantle.
K N
Mie Model Store
BROADWAY, SYDNEY
orvwmqasa^^
V
u
Are You
Building,
Renovating,
Painting,
Plumbing,
Repapering
Do You Need
Building' Materials, Paints,
Wallpapers, Mantels S Grates,
Baths and Sanitary Ware?
If so,
It would be to your advantage, both on the score of COST and
SERVICE, to obtain quotations from us.
In the matter of cost, the saving would mean not merely
shillings, but pounds—more and more the bigger the job in
hand.
Take the first step Now. Write for our New
CATALOGUES
dealing with Mantels, Paints, etc. Send no money—these
Catalogues are free and willingly given.
GRACE BROS.
The Model
Broadway,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 36.-Iso. 1868.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1915.
PjUCE GO.
DESPERATION.
It is reported that Germany has mobilised its last reserves, and is still short of men, wherefore the final class of the Austro-Hungarian Landsturm has
been called up for December 6.
THE KAISER: “Gabriel, lend me your trump! The dead must fight tor me!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the \\ bite .Man.
Printed and published by William Macleod oi
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, or
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at OHI F e ti;
Co., 21f George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Austialia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 Gs. Gd. per annum you can have 'Uni
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week fo
year, including Special Christmas Number, p • V •
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed and
all Business Communications to be addressed, to me
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fUi THe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence column
all contributions submitted, whether in the ]oim of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short fates
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, sag,
1000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictlg confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return U will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Pei-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Any ne supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — He., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. I'he conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg: Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., '/'/1 Hastings Sired,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco ; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. ; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bag City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co" Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. F. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
-Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Raima, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route , 1G0.z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet—otherwise: Soz., Id.; Bioz. to lOoz., 2id. :
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz,, Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
jJuT jß'crfZdv/L
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1915.
A DRAIN WITH A LEAK IN IT.
Ir takes the Australian States no more than
live years to get rid of £20,000,000 of public
money on “education, science and art.” An
immense sum is also contributed annually
by the population in fees to private schools ;
the Universities suck up a large revenue
from students and the investment of bene-
factions ; and the denominational schools
involve their supporters in further outlay.
Lumping it all, Australia one way and
another spends somewhere between five and
six millions a year to “educate” the child,
llelatively to population the bill is, perhaps,
without parallel anywhere in the world—a
matter of no particular moment, though,
because the Australian youngster requires
all the education the Old Man can give
him, for the youngster is going to have a
big job on hand when he gets into trousers,
and unless he has a well-trained brain and
hand he will find it mighty hard work.
His share of the reversionary interest under
the will is a large item called Debt; also a
partnership in a whole continent, sparsely
peopled, of which the undeveloped resources
of wealth and national strength can only
be measured by the degree of courage, skill
and enlightenment that may be brought to
bear upon their utilisation. Australia is
fertile, rich in minerals and climatically
one of the most favored spots on this poor
old earth, possessing all the elements neces-
sary to make it the home of a vigorous
race. Yet there are other places in the
world that are fertile and highly mineral-
ised and have endurable climates, and in
some of them the human race has
rotted to decay. And there are places that
are bleak, sterile miseries where men and
women have flourished and grown in
strength and done the things that really
matter. It is not the place that counts
most in this business, but the kind of place
the people make it, the direction ol: energy
into the right channels, the recognition
of opportunity, (lie education of the local
youngster to grapple with his environment
and stand up on both feet.
Five or six millions a year spent on the
education of about i oo,ooo young Austra-
lians is a big thing. Does the country get
full value for it? No one can tell. It is
conceivable that it might get equally good
results from half the expenditure or it might
get such tremendously better results by
spending an extra £1726 15s. Od. that this
Commonwealth would be a great, shining
example to the rest of the world. But as it
is impossible to take a footrule or a clinical
thermometer or a column of figures to
measure or reckon or cast up the. value of
the moral and material harvest derived from
all this ploughing and harrowing and fer-
tilising in the educational field, the problem
can only be handed on to posterity, along
with the statute book, the Murray waters
and the multitudinous p.n. But there is no
particular reason why the Australian citizen
of to-day should not make an effort to dis-
cover whether he is going on the right lines.
Tip to a certain point education merely con-
sists of acquiring a mass of raw information
which forms the foundation of all know-
ledge. A lawyer, a surgeon, a farmer, a
teamster, a miner, even a member of Par-
liament—all must first learn to read and
write and use figures. But that is, ot
course, not education. It is. so to speak,
merely the set of tools with which the indi-
vidual will work to gain real knowledge.
The test of a national system of educa-
tion is certainly not to be found in the
illiteracy tables, but is rather to be looked for
in the degree of thoroughness with which it
fits the youth of the country for the prac-
tical work of life. It is, for instance, no
sort of use laboriously turning thousands of
kids every vear out of an educational sausage
mill on the off-chance that they will get a
job in which their preliminary instruction
will prove useful. Such happy-go-lucky
principles lead straight to wood-and-water-
joeyism. If the Australian child is not to
be trained to get out of the rut, then lie
might just as well —perhaps better —-spend
most of his time playing cricket. It is the
business of Australian statesmanship to so
direct public policy that Australia may get
the utmost good out of the five or six million
a year spent on education —or 10 millions
if it is necessary. Up to the present this
is just what it has neglected to do. It
seems content to piously regard the expen-
diture on schools as bread cast on .the waters.
That there is an industrial side to the
matter is apparently not considered worth
attention.
* * * *
Now what will the Australia of to-morrow
want most? Clerks and shop-assistants or
engineers and chemists? Cart-drivers and
stevedores, or men skilled in industrial pro-
cesses relating to wool and metal? Handy
men ready to take any job that comes then-
way, or men trained to do the work which
Australia now pays foreigners at the other
end of the world to do? Farmers with
knowledge of cultural methods and the eco-
nomical use of land, or hayseeds, with
copious whiskers who are mostly soil-and-
seed-wasters ? Any intelligent golitlnna
could answer these questions on sight, and
his friend the native bear could explain that,
unless the Australian system of haphazard
education is made to minister to Australia s
requirements, the Australian kid is going, to
see, like his elder brother, nearly every job
in the Commonwealth requiring special skill
and education mopped up by individuals
hurriedly imported from somewhere ovei the
sea. To what extent, for instance, did the
expenditure of nearly six millions last veai
on “education, science and art, ’ strengthen
Australia’s capacity to capture the trade ot
Germany or even hang on to the trade the
Iluh had hurriedly dropped i It led the
young Australian mostly to a dead-end. and
the remaining kid was pushed to universities
where the principal industry is the turning
out of lawyers and M.A.'s and B.A/s, and
producing an occasional scientist who more
often than not has to take a Government job
at wages a laborer would reject. Meanwhile
the failure to apply scientific methods to
manv Australian industries is the cause ot
immense economic loss to the nation and
of downright waste of useful materials.
A SCHEME OF VOLUNTARY
COMPULSION.
Conscription masquerading as a volunteer
movement has at last arrived. Afraid to
face the one bitter word of contention, the
British Government has adopted Lord
Derby’s scheme, which in essence is forced
military service, with the pressure applied
by strange devices and through devious chan-
nels. instead of in the direct and simple
fashion in which real democrats are sup-
posed to prefer to do their business. Aus-
tralia, closely following the British lead, has
undertaken to raise an additional 50,000
men by a similar scheme, and the squeeze of
the new recruiting machinery may be ex
nected to be felt almost immediately by
those of military age. Briefly put, the plan
of operations is to divide the community into
sections according to age and fitness, and
then to invite it section by section, as re-
quired, to join the ranks of the army. If a
man responds to the invitation at once he
is welcomed; if he offers to do so at a futuie
date that date is noted and he is required to
keep his promise; if lie offers an excuse for
declining service that excuse is looked into
inquisitorially and may be either accepted or
brushed aside as insufficient; if he refuses
altogether life at home is apparently to be
made as little worth living as possible, the
State then taking the place of the flapper who
now hands out white feathers. At the same
time the outer door is barred and no person
of military age is allowed to leave the coun-
try without a passport. T In' difference
between such a scheme and straight-out.con-
scription is. on the face of it, one of Tweedle-
dum and Tweedledee; but in reality it is a
difference that counts much, for the new
plan is tricky, underhand and evasive, while
real conscription goes straight ahead to its
honest goal without subterfuge or pretence.
ft was always the pride of the British race
that it scorned evasion and sham, and sought
to do all its work in the light of day; and
what is true of British tradition in this
respect is still more true of Australian senti-
ment. W. M. Hughes is following a
British lead in announcing the method of (he
new recruiting campaign, but he knows, as
■ill men know, that the plan in its essence is
entirely un-British, as well as subversive ot
all Australian ideals. The bonfire of Lurope
is a big one; the position of the Allies is
insecure; the recent failures of English arms
are conspicuous. And for that vei.v leason
it is the more necessary that m the call foi
new and greater armies all things should be
done openly and above-board and in accord
with the feeling of the people who must bear
the burden. Conscription Australians could
understand, and, despite a small but noisj
section who curse it in the name of democ-
racy, failing to understand that it is the
most democratic of all military arrangements,
there is little doubt that as conscripts called
to service young Australians would accept
their duty cheerfully and do it efficiently. But
that men should be asked to volunteer undei
compulsion—for that is the paradoxical idea
of the new scheme —is sure to cause a sense
of irritation which is helpful neither to the
soldier nor to the cause he fights for. Beyond
all doubt the straight and open course would
have been the best in point of effectiveness
as well as the safest and most pleasant.
Britons never thought much of the rack and
thumbscrew methods, and are not likely to
do so now.
* * * *
Among the worst features of the new plan
is the suspicion it casts upon the whole
military system, and the openings it leaves
for favoritism and wire-pulling. The com-
munications to the possible recruits under
the scheme must be of a semi-private nature,
and their replies and excuses are for that
reason open to differential treatment.
Already, rightly or wrongly, there is a wide-
spread idea that military qualifications
and services and proffers of service are
not judged severely on their merits;
and this feeling is bound to be intensi-
fied when pressure of the sort indicated
begins to be applied. While the might-
be recruit is nominally free to go into camp
or stay outside as he pleases, there are
bound to be inequalities and injustices that
will gall and rankle. What is accepted as
a valid excuse in the case of Percy may be
dismissed as of no importance in the case of
Bill ; and Bill and his relatives will have
a grievance which will not be easily for-
gotten. Under straight-out conscription the
chances of that sort of thing would be dimin-
ished. Then Percy and Bill would both
be under compulsion to serve in the army of
their country, and any plea for non-service
would have to be considered openly and on
its merits. In plain fact, the Derby-
Hughes Devil-take-the-hindmost plan is nega-
tive, while conscription is simple, positive
and direct. The former denies the right
of an able-bodied man to loaf while the house
is on fire, and says that he shall be coerced
into action; the latter asserts his duty to
help in the protection of his own property,
and calls upon him in plain terms to perform
it. In the negative scheme there is scope
for malingering and evasion ; in the positive
scheme there is practically none.
* * * *
Still, the new plan is coming into opera-
tion, and the best must be made of it. The
point which the war has reached is so criti-
cal, and the need of men so great, that
almost any means of filling the ranks are
better than none. The pity is that, after
so may failures, due mostly to the disinclina-
tion of leaders to look facts squarely in the
face, the recruiting reserve of Australian
fighters should be exploited in an unneces-
sarily clumsy and unsatisfactory way.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Vague Invitation to Arise and Do
Nothing.
The old “Imperial” commonplaces still
come rumbling over the cables. One day it
is Rosebery speaking. The next, Milner.
The day after, Curzon. And the sound of
it all is very fine and large, and the mean-
ing of it all is very vague and nebulous. There
are many sentences about the time having
arrived, or being likely to put in an appear-
ance presently, for reconstructing the Empire
and welding the scattered communities closer
together. Then the language tapers away to
feeble platitude about nothing in particular,
and the problem supposed to be under review
falls down where it was before. But we
know quite well that it won’t be abandoned;
by-and-bye other people will hurry along
and pick it up and make more remarks
about it in a solemn tone, and others will
say “Hear, hear,” and great bewilderment
will prevail as usual. It would be a very
acceptable relief if the individuals who
periodically make noises in reference to this
business would say what they want —or, at
any rate, give a reasonably coherent indica-
tion of it. Schemes without number for
achieving “Imperial unity” have been put
forward and hurriedly pushed into a pigeon-
hole, because examination in detail have
shown them to be mainly projects for acquir-
ing a little limelight and a lot of chaos.
A few place-hunters and posers, most of
them alarmed at the spread of democratic
thought, have trifled with the business for a
day or two. and after raising a few super-
fluous cheers have faded into obscurity with-
out having explained themselves or their
alleged mission in terms anybody could
understand. Therefore this paper would
again suggest to Rosebery and co. that in
Australia there is no sort of enthusiasm for
mere words about the Empire, or any
anxietv to be stampeded into relationships
that would affect the status of Australia as
a free, self-governing country. There have
never been many Australians who looked
forward to the Commonwealth becoming part
of an organisation such as full-blooded Im-
perialists yearn to create, and the number
will probably be considerably less at the end
of a year or so. Wild talk about “Australia
henceforth taking her place in the counsels
of nations” is without point, if by this it is
meant that Australia has in . future to
become interested in the carving up ot
Africa and preserving the balance of power
in Macedonia. The war has done no single
thing to alter the fact that job
is here. But it has done this other thing :
it has shown that the present connection is
quite sufficient for all practical purposes.
So far from the Great Disturbance being an
invitation to “Imperialists” to meddle, Aus-
tralia's and Maorilaud s and Canadas pait
in it is really a command to them to let
well enough aione.
The Pickpocket Patriots.
Maoiuland was asked to lend the Govern-
ment a couple of millions the other day, and
rushed forward with offers of double the
amount. Whereupon the cheerful lou
Ward announced that lie would play this up
in “public works” because John Bull was
providing half a million a month to meet
local war outlay. Even if the stout little
baronet cannot see the indecency ot this,
surely the Dominion is not equally demora-
lised. This war is not over yet by a long
way. Already it is shaking the finance ot
every belligerent country to the. boots. The
s’de that can hold out longest will wm. h or
his part John Bull is faced with the stag-
o-ering job of finding over five millions a (lay.
And Ward, while he is tapping the hard-
pressed old man for a half-million a month, is
actually floating local loans to build a cul-
vert at Ngatgapunaiawalii and a bridge at
Maungaparihawiki. Ward and Massey
and the rest of them are great warriors
when they see a chance of shouting their
patriotism, but their frequent yells to that
effect would sound better in John Bulls
ear if the vellers were not at the same
moment pulling at his pocket so shamelessly.
Toasted Cheese.
When turning down the offer of a job as
N.S.W. Commissioner for Irrigation m
order to get into khaki. ex-Miuister for
Education Carmichael said: —
I do not believe those people are right who sav
that members of Parliament should not be eligible
for public appointments.
Probably not; but The Bulletin has no
doubt whatever that the fewer individuals
who are pushed or dropped or thrown from
active politics into jobs for which the tax-
payers find the cash, the better for the coun-
try. Nor has it even a shadow ot doubt
that the appointment of party heelers and
suckers and hangers-on, merely because they
may be of a certain unclean use to the
politician, is a scandal on the name of
democratic government. Take the case ot
Carmichael. Why was this job ottered
him? Because of his outstanding qualifica-
tions, or because the persons in whose power
it rested to make an appointment felt that
it was politically desirable for Carmichael
not to be on the premises? The answer is
easy. There are probably 500 men
in Australia better fitted for the job than
Carmichael. But that didn’t matter. They
were not looked for. They were not
wanted. The main thing on hand was to
side-track a restless, adroit, ambitious indi-
vidual who might at any moment become
dangerous. Therefore he was offered the
toasted cheese. He might have made a good
Commissioner. The Bulletin expresses
no opinion on that point. What it does say,
however, is that most decent men will think
better of Carmichael for having turned his
back on the cheese, and less of the wire-
pullers who were using the public funds to
buy the bait.
♦
The Wasters.
During last week 7432 persons leaped to
their feet in Australia and made loud re-
marks about “economy,” the jangle of words
including a sermon from llolman on the
great nourishment to be derived from “loans
and a deluge of nonsense from other quarters
about the virtue or immorality of “spending.
Most of these people appear to. have been
afflicted with the delusion that in speaking
about economy they were addressing them-
selves to some esoteric problem of great pro-
fundity. Yet it is all simple enough. Aus-
tralia lias been for years and years on a wild
jamboree with borrowed cash, frantically
importing huge quantities of goods with the
proceeds and not producing sufficient to pay
the bill. Now when most of the cash in the
world is wanted for the big shooting match.
Australia is called upon to think about get-
ting sober, for that is what economy means
—that Australia shall live on her production
instead of the production of other countries,
secured on tick. Talk about balancing pu
vate economy by public expenditure, and
about the duty of everyone to keep on buy-
ing or to knock off beer or riding in a tram-
car, or to live on bandicoot —it is mere
blither. The only kind of economy that is ot
any value is the brand that will force the
host of parasites who have flourished on the
great national borrow and bloat to turn to
honest toil; that will shut the door on the
flood of imports still pouring in; that will
produce the commodities required by the
people of Australia and their creditors. I his
is a job for the politicians; but they are in
such a tremendous hurry to tackle it that
most of them have gone into hiding, or are
busy talking a cloud of words about some-
thing else. In the meantime their own reck-
less extravagance is an outrageous offence
against the nation, and their whining cadge
to Britain a shameful spectacle. Here they
are, while snivelling about economy, spent
ing money more furiously than they e\e
did before; wringing more and more trom
the public pocket; giving sanction to fulthei
huge additions to the cost ot government
an hour when the burden of a gigantic "
debt is being added to the load .already
accumulated, and when the countiy is i -
rapidly stripped of its manhood. In me
“Buried at Sea.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Golden clouds on Samothrake;
Brazen cliffs, apd purple wave.
And one' trawler creeping slowly
With its cargo <|i the brave,
With the best and bravest freighted,
Stark and sheeted, iron-weighted,
Slipping swiftly, bending lowly,
To their ocean grave !
Starlight on dim Samothrake ;
Lambent shrapnel on the shore.
Snarling Maxims vigil-keeping
And the Dreadnought’s deeper roar!
Deep they sleep who won our glory,
But their names shall live in story,
When the last great gun is sleeping—
Live for evermore!
DIE DARDANELLES.
JACK SOAMERS.


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
The Christmas Edition
of THE BULLETIN, 1915,
will be Published on
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1915.
EXTRA AND SPECIAL ISSUE.
The Ordinary Issue of The Bulletin
will be published on the usual date.
public affairs of Australia to-day there is no
vestige of economy; no sign of repentance
for the gross extravagance of the past. And
ve t while it is from the workers of Aus-
tralia that the cost of this orgy of waste
has been filched, it is to them that the
fllchers and wasters are shouting precepts
about a form of economy that would be
futile even if it were possible.
——
Cost o’ Living and a Few Other Things.
Two years ago Justice Heydon, of the
X. S. Wales Arbitration Court, came to the
conclusion that £2 Ss. was the living wage
and should be the basis of awards. The
other day he discovered that the cost of
existence was £3 35., and his Honor was so
staggered by the figures that he decided it
would be dangerous to fix wages accordingly.
Therefore, so to speak, he threw his job up
iu despair, and “handed the problem on to
the Government.” And the natural impulse
of the Government will be to rush round and
see if it can borrow a few millions some-
where to advance to copper-mining com-
panies, or to use in putting up some new
buildings or tearing down old ones. This
would keep a certain number of men em-
ployed for a while; and as thousands of
other workers are leaving the State for the
trenches, the remainder eouhl probably get
along somehow. Meanwhile the time seems
to he about ripe for considering Justice
lleydon. If it was a fair thing for the cost
of living to he a factor in fixing wages a
year ago, what are the circumstances which
now justify the Court in saying that to give
men enough wages to live on is dangerous?
It seems to this paper a lot more danger-
ous to give them less than enough, anyhow.
And if the Court is going to take up this
attitude of fearfulness about the statute it
has to administer, then the whole business
collapses; for with workers going out on
strike every day, and the Arbitration Court
publicly washing its hands, the arbitration
system merely becomes an expensive joke.
Meanwhile there is at least some hope ; for
the Government has a wild-eyed scheme for
borrowing half a million to buy out all the
retail bakers in Sydney and (after borrow-
ing some more to patch up the bakehouses
and ovens) starting to sell bread at a
ha’penny a loaf cheaper than Private Enter-
prise. As this would result in the average
worker’s family saving about (id. a week on
bread, it will be seen that the hiatus between
£2 Bs. and £3 3s. is receiving close attention.
And as the aforesaid worker’s family will
certainly be taxed another shilling a week
to meet the loan interest on the current
year’s borrowings, everyone will be greatly
dissatisfied and nothing will have been
accomplished. Which is the end of a quarter
of a century of borrowing and bloating and
developing our great natural resources!
The Forest Timbers of Tasmania.
Consider once more the conservation and
development of our great natural resources.
The Tasmanian Government has sold at
£l, at 10s., and sometimes less per acre many
thousands of acres of land covered with mag-
nificent timber. The selector has ringbarked
the timber and sent it up in smoke. In
many places the game still goes on: in
others the Government has pulled up to have
a think. One of the latter places is Tyenna,
less than 50 miles from Hobart as the crow
crawls. Several thousands of acres have
there been practically given away, and now
two experts have estimated, in an official
report to the Minister, that there are over
15.000 acres left, which carry an average of
50.000 superficial feet of commercial milling
timber per acre. Allowing 20 per cent, for
waste, this leaves over 000,000,000 feet of
timber, of which much is “Tasmanian oak”
and other valuable cabinet-making wood. At
the ridiculously low price of ss. per 100 ft.
the lot would be worth £1,500,000, or £lOO per
acre. If the Government could net Is. per
100 feet as profit or royalty, it would rake
in £300,000, or £2O per acre, and even a
penny per 100 feet would bring in nearly £2
per acre. The figures as to the quantity
of timber seem steep, but the estimate was
made after a careful investigation by the
Chief Inspector of Timber and a practical
sawmiller. The Government’s present idea
of dealing with this asset is to put in a two-
penny-halfpenny mill to cut 25,000 feet of
timber per week, at which rate the forest will
be cut out. in 500 years or a little less. Of
course there is an agitation for “opening up
the land to the settler,” aud if someone does
not wake up this forest will go the way of
others just as good, and politicians will talk
about the progress of the country. Mean-
while Australia is importing timber by the
shipload from Puget Sound and various other
places on the far side of the world, and the
State Government of the Speck which con-
tains this forest and scores of bigger ones is
drawing from its timber lands the absurd
revenue of £4500 per "year in timber licenses
and leases, and is wondering why it lias
such a job to make both ends meet.
Attorney-General David Hall’s notion of
abolishing Private Enterprise in the baking
of Sydney’s bread has roused the usual oppo-
sition in the usual quarters. Sosh is held by
interested persons to he a beast of prey
whether his paws are dipped in flour or en-
gaged scratching out bricks, and the old cry
that the Government can’t manage things as
well as the individual is heard again. There
is, of course, no reason why a big State
bakery to feed all Sydney should not be a
financial success. Theoretically it ought to
be. The saving in carts and horseshoes and
drivers ought to ho very large. But the
present Government has exhibited such a
genius for wasting money that nobody can
hand over a cherished theory with aught but
fear that the poor thing will be butchered to
buy another few votes. And there is a fur-
ther doubt. At present the bakery business
is of mixed merit. Some very inferior bread
is sold and some very excellent. Some people
like the bad bread best; others prefer the
good. If the bread we get is not to our lik-
ing, or the baker’s boy has dirty hands (as
he usually has, to the shame of his
employer), or the cart arrives too bite, or
persistent mistakes are made in the bill, we
can sack the baker and get another. But we
couldn’t sack David Hall even if the dough
was delivered raw in old coal sacks. If the
Government would make mock of its
theories and start about ten bakeries under
different managements with special bonuses
for the one that secured most business, and
penal servitude for all connected with the one
which came lowest on the list, we might get
good bread and get it cheaper; but the
scheme which the discredited N. S. Wales
Labor party is supposed to be discussing in
whispers in some dark cellar, though in
theory it is all right, looks its though it might
be full of indigestion in practice.
»
A sort of half-promise has been given that
the habits of debt-collecting agencies in X. S.
Wales will he legislatively restricted. The
need for some action was instanced by a
recent case, in which an agency in pursuit
of a substantial “collecting fee,” as well as
the amount of the debt, carried its bluff to
the extent of getting a summons out against
the defaulter. As a matter of fact he had
only defaulted to the extent of refusing to
succumb to the agency’s disguised robbery ;
for when it had refused to accept the bare
debt, he had gone direct to his creditor and
handed over the money. The bluffing agency
has of course no right to add any charges as
against the debtor, its reward being solely
the commission that its client, the creditor,
has agreed to pay. Nevertheless “cost of
collection” or “interest and expenses” is gen-
erally added, in a desire to collect a double
commission, and in the not altogether ground-
less hope that the person who is influenced to
pay a debt by a threatening letter will like-
wise be influenced to _ pay “fees.” The
agency in. the case mentioned did not appear
in court, and nothing would have been heard
of the circumstances if the solicitor who had
been engaged by the defendant, anxious to
earn his costs, had not inquired bitterly if
there was no redress against the firm that
had made his presence necessary. The Court
made some remarks, but said there wasn’t.
A year or so ago the Law sat heavily on
the practice of sending out blue papers that
purported to be processes of Court as a final
threat to recalcitrant debtors: and if the Law
cannot sit on other bad habits, the Legisla-
ture should help it to find a seat.
♦
The X. S. Wales prospecting vote has this
year been cut down from £15,000 to £lO.OOO.
Whether or not it is intended as such, it is
a belated acknowledgment of the failure of
the system. The principle of giving sub-
stantial aid for the encouragement of legiti-
mate mining enterprise may he commended :
at any rate it has as much to commend it
as has the granting of assistance to other
industries by bonuses, etc. But the X. S.
Wales system of apportioning the assistance
is wrong. The Board controlling the vote
has to keep within strictly-defined lines,
which do not embrace any large project. It
is a perpetuation of the old-time plan of
doling out £5O here and £5O there —a system
invented by politicians for vote-buying pur-
poses. The ancient prospector whom it
might have benefited to some extent no
longer exists, or if he exists he does not
wield pick and shovel. He may still indulge
irx the fascinating dreams of the fabulous
richness of the extension of the old lead,
but the beneficent old-age pension relieves
him of the necessity to delve in quest of it.
All the other States apply the principle on a
broader basis. In Victoria there is appro-
priated annually £25.000 for companies and
may be granted a loan up to £lO,OOO with
or without security. In the former case a
first mortgage is given over the mining
lease, a bill of sale over the machinery, and
an agreement to pay within three years ; it
granted without security, only an agreement
t j repay is given. A co-operative party may
be granted up to £250, an undertaking being
given to repay before dividing any profits.
It is not claimed that this system returns
any direct profit to the State; it was never
intended that it should. An aggregate bal-
ance-sheet over a series of years would show
a big deficit; yet the timely assistance which
would enable a struggling company to tide
over a temporary difficulty and work up to
success might show more than a counter-
balancing indirect advantage. Until Hol-
man's recent plunge as a State mining
speculator in the Cobar deal this had been
persistently ignored by X. S. Wales politi-
cians. Whatever may be said about that
particular case the principle underlying the
grant is far more defensible than that on
which the prospecting vote has hitherto been
doled out.
♦-
“The Old Soldier’s” verdict:-
General Mimio was probably right when he
recommended that military operations in Gallipoli
be discontinued during the winter, llis opinion is
certainly worth more than that of the politicians
at Westminster, and now that operations have been
begun against Bulgaria from the Salonica base it
would be a breach of all the rules to keep two
armies so near together under independent com-
manders. They ought to join their forces, and
mutually support each other. Circumstances have
so completely changed since Bulgaria took a hand
that both the Dardanelles and Constantinople arc
now of secondary importance. The argument for a
readjustment of positions is strengthened by the
fact that the Gallipoli Peninsula is so narrow that
it offers no facilities for offensive operations, while
its rugged surface and the small front of operations
it allows are all in favor of the Turks and their
German allies.
The Wages Board lately constituted to
deal with the conditions of N. S. Wales clerks
has already granted a number of exemp-
tions, and there will probably he more. The
most notable so far apply to banks and in-
surance offices. This will not, however, pre-
vent a further application for a separate
Board to deal with the employees in such
places; or their conditions may be dealt
with through the Federal Arbitration
Court —which, considering that banks and
insurance offices are mostly Federal in their
business, would be more satisfactory.
Solicitors’ clerks and architects’ clerks are
excluded by the Act from jurisdiction. Some
very bad sweating, of a systematic sort,
exists in all the excluded employments; and
though it is therefore unfortunate that
these are beyond jurisdiction, the Act
at least gives a very large number of
hungry citizens a chance of getting their
conditions improved, as the shop assistants,
who were still more sweated, did years ago
through the same benevolent agency.
♦
A MINOR evil of the voluntary military ser-
vice system is that it breeds prigs. A cer-
tain type of young man as soon as he enlists
is filled with a tremendous self-righteousness
and exudes contempt for those who exercise
the right given them by the voluntary sys-
tem . of staying at home and making the
nation’s songs, boots or porous plasters.
Nobody knows better than those who have
been through the mill that everybody who
enlists is not necessarily the noblest of
beings, any more than every male of mili-
tary age who fails to do so is of necessity
a cur and a blight upon the landscape. The
fit man “without encumbrances” who joins
the forces is doing no more than, in a pro-
perly-constituted democracy, he would be
required by law to do. and for doing which
he would have no more excuse to “swank”
than a man has who pays any other tax. It is
to the credit of the average Billjim that
he sees nothing specially noble in enlisting,
and he doesn't feel disposed to preach to
those who hang back. But there is a class
which, as soon as it gets into uniform, is
overcome with admiration of the nobility
of the course it has taken, and points to
itself as a splendid example for the nation
to gaze on and applaud. Such a man may
bo a hero, but even heroes can be objection-
able. If we had universal service the chance
for him to show his heroism would remain,
but the opportunity to be objectionable about
it would no longer exist.
From an Australian at work in the Panama
Canal Zone:—
State-ownership, being well-directed, is panning
out all right here. It got a fair start to begin
with, as Vested Interests were unable to get their
beaks into the dish while the canal was in process
of formation, everything in the Zone being strictly in
the hands of United States Government officials. The
Zone authority collects canal dues, attends to
pilotage, provides bunker coal, runs an enormous
ship-chandlery business (supplying everything that
a ship requires, from frozen mutton to a patent
log), maintains a hospital, publishes a weekly paper,
the Cax.Uj Uncori>, and even takes on laundry work.
Canal employees are supplied with all they require
—at a cheaper rate, by the way, than is charged to
ships passing through. Prices even to the ships
compare very favorably with those charged in other
ports of the world. It is one of the most compre-
hensive experiments in State ownership at present
on trial. Private Enterprise finds that it is alto-
gether unable to compete, so steamship agents, coal
agents and other parasites are getting very lean.
Recently these unnecessary evils have been raising
their voices to high heaven (otherwise Washington,
D.C.), declaring in tearful -tones that it is impossi-
ble for them to pay their laundry expenses, to say
nothing of meeting tucker and tobacco bills, and
calling loudly on high heaven (meaning Washing-
ton, D.C.) to put an end to the monstrous monopoly
of the Panama Canal (which is really the United
States Government). Up to date high heaven (which
is to say Washington, D.C.) has turned a deaf ear
to the would-be fat-man’s supplication. It has done
more. Gko. W. Coethals, Governor of the Canal
Zone for the U.S., has intimated to shipowners and
shipmasters that “the employment of agents on the
isthmus is not only unnecessary but frequently results
in delays which might otherwise be avoided.” In
view of this warning, with freights up in the sky
as they are at present, and ships’ time corres-
pondingly valuable, the chances of Private Enter-
prise doing much or any business are exceedingly
meagre.
In Victoria, where over 500 cases of menin-
gitis, resulting in 200-odd deaths, have been
recorded since the disease was made a noti-
fiable one in August last, the Health De-
partment has at last decided to do something
terribly drastic. On the recommendation of
the newly-formed Medical Committee it is
distributing a leaflet! Briefly, this sheet
states that the symptoms of meningitis are
“sliiverings, fever, headache and vomiting,
with the head drawn rigidly back, and often
a dark, measly rash.” Hospital treatment
consists in the “use of special serum.” Pre-
ventive treatment involves the isolation of
contacts (so widely neglected by the power-
less Health Department), "the general prac-
tice of disinfection of the nose and throat,”
with good ventilation and “the avoidance of
overcrowding, especially in ill-ventilated
places.” For the throat-disinfecting “an
ounce of permanganate of potash crystals in
a pint of water makes a strong solution,”
and a teaspoonful of this in a tumbler of
water is the correct thing for use with a
spray-producer, or as a gargle, night and
morning. “Every cold,” furthermore and
particularly, “should be looked upon with
suspicion and cured as quickly as possible. ’
All of which is no doubt excellent; but the
people who spread meningitis around don t
bother about such recommendations. “The
disease in August,” it is stated, “did not
spread nearly so widely among civilians, but
if has persisted much more obstinately
among them because the measures adopted
by the military authorities have not been
adopted generally by civilians.” Exactly !
The horror has persisted for the simple
reason that the civil authorities haven’t the
power to make civilians adopt the measures
effectively employed among soldiers. Ihe
State Parliament is too busy drawing its
£4OO per annum, or wrangling about Minis-
terial jobs, to attend to a little matter like
this.
♦ ;
The Commonwealth is paying G. Keid £OO
a week to be High Commissioner in London
and Andy Fisher is getting £OO a week
while he is staying in Australia, and the
arrangement would look . better it it liad
never been made. Also if the explanation
offered by Hughes, that Fisher “is a man
who lias' no private income and has ceased
to be a member of Parliament,” is to be the
test of the thing, it would be very much bet-
ter for Fisher if his grab at the screw a
long time before he tackled the job had not
been made the subject of discussion. -Lhe
reason Fisher hastily dropped the billet of
Prime Minister and ceased to be a member
of Parliament was that a strategical move-
ment to the rear with the Referenda pro-
posals had become a rather pressing neces-
sity. But because Fisher had manoeuvred
himself into a difficult party position is no
reason why he should have seized a laigc
increase of salary before lie was doing any-
thing to earn it, nor was it any justification
for imposing two £OO a-weekers on the pay-
sheet at one moment. Fisiier’s rapacity
over this billet does him little credit. If a
politician on the other side of the party fence
had under similar circumstances shown
equal reluctance to detach himself from the
public casli-box for two or three months,
Fisher would have delivered a sermon about
greed. And he would have been right.
♦
“Rifleman” : With the blazing eye of pro-
phecy, I can see the stay-at-home Australian
of some months or years hence standing
abashed before regiments of hard-bitten sol-
dier-travellers, who have been seeing things
for themselves from the inside and growing
more and more fiercely patriotic as their
education progressed. They will return to
this rich, isolated and industrially backward
country with new ideas and ideals, and the
old. slack order of things won’t satisfy them.
The stay-at-home who neither fought nor
planned for the future will seem to them the
most hopeless kind of person, and they will
convict him of laziness and incompetence
every time they encounter him in a tram or
see him coming out of a bar. It will be
impressed on him at least twice a day that
he had a great opportunity and missed it,
that his civilian garb is the badge of shame,
and that the raggedest scarecrow in war-
worn khaki has a perfect right to shoulder
him off the footpath. It really won’t be
worth while being a civilian in those times.
In the angry days to be, the mere possession
of a wife and family won't be sufficient ex-
cuse for the shirker of national responsibili-
ties. Domestic ties don’t prevent a real live
community getting ready to practise the arts
of peace.
♦
Was <T. D. Fitzgerald, of the Holman
Government, expounding to the Leg. Coun-
cil the new ethics of Labor when in refer-
ence to the early closing of pubs lie observed
that “we must not punish individuals who
have built up businesses under the protec-
tion of the law”? Perhaps it doesn't matter
much; but even coming from a member of
the Holman Ministry the words are ominous
reminders of the decadence of the Labor
party. Labor made no such snuffling
appeals when the early closing of.
shops and factories was up for debate;
nor did it ever show itself parti-
cularly solicitous about individuals and
their pockets when it approached reform in
A Song of Famine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS not made where the hammers leap
And the white-hot steel in the furnace
glows;
Out of tlie dark of the primal deep
Through naked shudders of death I rose.
Stark in the desert I reared my flag.
With a vulture croak for my battle-cry;
And still from the world's green peace I drag
My tortured victims afar to die.
Proudly they marched in their strong array,
Banner and lance and plume and gun.
What to me was the shot-torn fray?
Bloodless my triumphs were fought and
won.
Bose through the years the pride of men.
Tilth and vineyard and home and mart.
Glory of song and might of pen.
While swathed in my sands I dwelt apart.
Laughter borne on the desert wind
Scorn on my throne and my kingdom set.
“Laugh,” I cried, “in your wisdom blind.
But your wisest children shall call me
yet!”
Bose a. horror of blood and tears,
Bed death trampled the world at will;
And the trembling kings in their doubts
and fears
Forged the death that the death might
kill.
Wailing, borne on the desert wind.
Crept and murmured about my throne.
Death from your forges, ye people blind.
Is it all the war-craft your years have
known ?
Suddenly out of the dark they called—
“Come to us. King, in our hour of need !
The place of the foeman is thunder-walled.
And under his lightnings our people bleed.”
Stern I rose at their shuddering cry.
Mighty in arms abroad I strode ;
What to me were the bolts that fly?
What were the trenches that barred my
road ?
Hard at the throat of their foe I gripped.
White grew his face where the war-clouds
rolled,
Cold the sweat from his forehead dripped
As he strove to break from my close-locked
hold.
Master am I where your strong arms failed ;
I have heai-d your bidding, the strife is
done.
Where your legions halted and leaders paled
My ancient arms at your call have won.
What is my guerdon in years to he?
Will ye pay me toil for my faith and toil :
Oh. haggard nations that called to me.
I claim my share of the victor’s spoil.
n.s.w.
GRORGE STREET.


The eleventh issue of Australia To-Day,
the annual of the Commercial Travellers’
Association, has just been published. The
supplement reproduces the painting by
Penleigh Boyd which was awarded the
Wynne Prize (1914) of the Sydney Art
Gallery, and the contents include the usual
good “boost” of Australia.
Missing: Friends.
ANXIOUS Parents want Address or
When)bouts of ADOLPH THOMAS
O STAR A, Electrician, formerly of Manches-
ter, England. Information gratefully re-
ceived. OSTARA, 24 Corporation Street,
Manchester. Letter awaits him at Sydney
Bulletin Office.
4/r ACDUFF, WILLIAM BRETTEL,
it» son of George and Martha Macduff,
formerly of Giadesville, New South Wales,
please communicate at once with National
Trustees Company, 113 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONES
Famous all the World Over as “the Instruments that NEVER Break Down!
m
POPULAR SERIES.
10-inch, 3 - (n.z., 3/6)
12-inch, 5/- <n.z., s/e)
DOUBLE-SIDED.
&
COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONKS
HORN MODELS
Prices
from
75/- to £l5/15/-
HORNLESS
Prices
from
80 - lo £45
NEW ZEALAND, £5 to £5O
m
m
CELEBRITY SERIES
from
10-inch, 5/- (n.z., 5/6)
12-inch, 7/6 (n z-. »/->
DOUBLE-SIDED.
COLUMBIA RECORD
They Wear TWICE as Long as Any Others !
regard to industrial conditions. Fitz-
gerald’s language is the language of the~
dollar and of nothing else —the plea that is
raised by every monopolist in every country
whenever his pocket is threatened. It is
also foolish in another direction, for the
liquor trade is the one business in N. S.
Wales on which the public is specially autho-
rised to use the axe. The trade lives not
under threat of “punishment” but of abso-
lute extinction by popular vote every three
years. The Bulletin regards early closing
as futile tinkering, and looks upon the
wowser and a certain class of Bung with
equal disfavor, and insists that the nation-
alisation of the liquor trade is a better re-
form than any other yet submitted ; hence it
would like to hear Fitzgerald explain plank
No. sof the Labor platform. It deals with
the nationalisation of monopolies.
♦
The Long, Long Wrestle.
Winter has leaped into the trenches from
the Baltic to Gallipoli, and the soldier is
now as busy wrestling with wet feet and a
damp shirt as he is with the enemy. In the
Balkans the mercury crawls to unusual
depths, and someone has remarked with an
air of authority that this is a good thing
for the Allies. It may be so; but it strikes
this paper that it would have been a long
way better if the Allies had arrived on the
scene ahead of the frozen rain, and had
made themselves comfortable before the Hun
got his thump in on Servia. And a terrible
thump it has been—-a ghastly illustration of
what war means to a nation under the har-
row. Apparently the army has been broken
into fragments and the population driven, a
starving, wretched herd, into the mountains
and southward towards Greece. Belgium,
Boland, Servia —what a trinity of misery
and woe! And while Kultur is thus glut-
ting itself, the Turk is apparently letting
himself go in Armenia, so that in some dis-
tricts human life has been there almost
exterminated. Yet with all this infamy de-
manding that justice be handed to the per-
petrators on the end of a bayonet, with the
enemy still presenting an unbroken front
and still powerful for evil, there are people
talking comfortably of peace and dron-
ing about the struggle for ascendancy being
almost over. The Yankee mountebank
Ford, who was lately howling advice to the
United States people to “tie a tin-can on the
tail of the Anglo-French Financial Commis-
sion, and hunt it back home,” and is now
embarking on a circus voyage to
Europe for the alleged purpose of “getting
(he boys out of the trenches before Christ-
mas,” is, of course, only advertising him-
self according to his old methods But there
are apparently in all countries, Britain as
well as Germany, influences at work to get
the towel thrown in. That the Hun, who
started at his top, should be feeling that
way, is not surprising; but that Britain,
Russia and France, who haven’t yet reached
their top, should even consider Teuton terms,
is unthinkable. To beat him flat will be a
tremendous. task, probably involving every-
thing that is meant by a war of attrition;
but to spare him any part of what this
implies, for the sake of sparing ourselves,
would be the madness of suicide. In spite
of what has happened in the Balkans the
Allies have their hand on the brute’s throat,
and if they hang to him long enough they
will surely stifle him. The German knows
it, too. The chief factors in determining the
time it will take us consist of our courage
and resolution, and their offspring, recruits.
.
In a signed letter F. E. Strangward, mana-
ger of the Commonwealth Pottery and In-
sulator Works at Blackburn (Vic.), makes
charges that ought to set P.M.G. Webster
moving. Strangward states that early
this year his company got an order from the
Post Office for 150,000 insulators at 3Jd.
each, on condition that the company’s books
were inspected by a departmental auditor.
The goods were duly supplied in four months,
at a cost of 3.674 d. each, less per cent,
deduction on account of “defects.” None of
the “defects,” however, were returned, and
Strangward says the Department used
them with the others. Next, a tender for
200,000 was accepted, at 3fd. each f.o.b. Mel-
bourne. The co. supplied and paid carriage
on them, but about 7 per cent, were rejected
on account of chips and other faults. These
however the Department re-packed and sent
to other States, then carefully deducted
their value from the account. Of another
lot supplied at 2.55 d. (German price) the
Department deducted 23,500 as defective, yet
afterwards coolly put them in use. Tenders
were called in October for 100,000 insulators,
and as the.ico.’s works are now idle it lately
inquired about this lot, only to learn that
the “Department has a year’s supply in
hand.” What the Department’s game is
Heaven knows, but there is a suspicion
that it is buying Japanese insulators at the
tendered figure—2-kl. each. This may suit
the Jap. manufacturers, but it is up to
Webster, P.M.G., to explain wherein lies
the advantage to Australia, seeing that the
Jap. co.’s books aren’t audited, neither does
it pay war tax, income tax, land tax, muni-
cipal rates nor minimum wages, while the
Commonwealth Insulator Co. does all those
things.
Dear Bulletin,— My friend Smithson is
having more trouble with the men he engaged
to build his new house. It is a large man-
sion, to be constructed regardless of expense,
and he has about 100 alleged tradesmen em-
ployed under a foreman and seven or eight
sub-foremen. The edifice is progressing with
a gradualness that has driven him hopeless;
but he, unfortunately, engaged the men for
three years and can’t sack them till then.
His present trouble is that some of his
youngsters have contracted typhoid, and
the doctor has ordered him to leave his
present abode immediately. He inter-
viewed his foreman and desired him to
hurry up and put the roof on the new house
so that he might get into it. The foreman
consulted the sub-foremen, and particularly
the foreman plumber, and then assured
Smithson that there was no time to put
the roof on before, the Christmas recess, but
that the whole staff would take off its coat
and bog into the task of putting one
sheet of iron over a corner of a bed-
room. Smithson tells me that this is really
a great favor, and that he is expected to be
duly thankful and to consider himself hon-
ored. Seeing that these foremen get over
£lOOO a year apiece, and the tradesmen £0
a week each, I consider Smithson is ex-
pected to be grateful for dashed little. I am
reminded of this by reading that Victoria’s
Health Minister McLeod is introducing a
short Bill to amend the Health Act, so as
to cope with the meningitis outbreak.
McLeod says the Health Act is notoriously
useless, but there is no time at present to
amend it in the many directions needed. —
Yours, F. C.
Answering a question asked in N. S.
Wales Assembly by T. Waddell, Minister
for Labor Estell made this humiliating con-
fession without anything in the way of
apology:—
No. of strikes .. . . .. .. . . 300
No. of employers fined for breaches of the
industrial law . . . . . . . . 2909
Fines inflicted .. .. .. .. ..£2013
Fines paid .; £1987
No. of employees fined (including unions) . . 50
Fines inflicted .. .. .. .. ..£2592
Fines paid . . . . . . . . . . Nil
Estell is a member of a Government which
has taken its solemn oath to uphold the law
without fear or favor and without respect
to persons. _ There. was a time when it
wasn’t considered either honorable or holi-
est to take a solemn oath and not keep it,
but party government has got politicians
over such foolishness.
Suggested Christmas box for that slaver-
ing murderer, the Kaiser: A coffin, with
this wish—“A bury Christmas.”
“Alamon”: At Pine Creek (N.T.), while
the hotel girls were on strike for better
treatment and higher wages, unionists were
picketing the State pub to prevent meals or
drink being served —and incidentally were
obtaining their own supplies at the Chinese
restaurant, a place run by Chow labor at
Chow wages. The unionist of the N.T., who
would not be seen dead in the same street
with a non-unionist white man, employs
Chinese tailor, Chinese laundryman, Chinese
storekeeper, Chinese cook and Chinese sly-
grog-seller. He also employs native labor
and howls like a poisoned dingo when the
Government orders that the blacks should
receive higher wages and better treatment
in . the way of accommodation. In short,
unionism in the Territory is a perfect hog
for consistency.
“M.A.”: Sydney. ’Varsity Senate has
bowed its conservative old head and decided
to abolish those archaic relics of the educa-
tional system, the Junior and Senior exami-
nations. Ex-Minister George Beeby passed
death on them when he inaugurated the
public-school system of Intermediate and
Leaving Certificates. The secondary public
schools, and more particularly certain pri-
vate schools, objected to send their pupils to
the University through the same channel
as the common or garden public schools,
and they managed to persuade the Senate
to cling to the ancient Junior and Senior
as an alternative route. Whatever chance this
mistaken policy had of success was spoilt
by the common-sense of teachers and parents,
who failed to see the use of compelling
pupils to go through a curriculum which
the public schools escaped. Something like
a passive strike took place, and realising
the foolishness of it all the Senate has wisely
discarded the useless system.
( J. T. Whitsitt, the stormy petrel of the
Speck’s politics, has been stirring up the
Defence Department on the subject of
returned Tasmanian soldiers and their
treatment. He alleges that they are kicked
about from pillar to post, have a hard job
to collect their pay, and get very little help
from the various patriotic funds to which
the public has subscribed. He also alleged
that when the public sent fruit and beer on
board the transport for the troops
the soldiers didn’t see the fruit and had the
privilege of paying for the beer. Of
course the official reply is that everything
is all right. It always is.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Old Guard”
Criterion “Nobody’s Widow”
Royal “Kick-in”
Tivoli ... Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Garden The Dandies
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MEh BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl in the Taxi”
Royal “Stop Thief”
Kino’s “The Bold Sojer Boy”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mcl ntohi's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
George Titheradge’s health has been far
from satisfactory of late, and the theatrical
people are going to tender him a compli-
mentary souvenir performance at tier
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Friday afternoon,
December 10. This year of war is the
fiftieth of good old “Tith’s” connection with
the stage, and everyone concerned wants to
make his jubilee and farewell a memorable
artistic and financial success. The generous
Australian playgoer, who has time-and-again
exulted in "Tith’s” art, may be relied upon
to attend to the financial side.
Florence Young will not run away to sea
any more after Friday night. "The Old
Guard” is timed to march into Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, on Saturday, so "Paul Jones” will
have to scuttle the ship on the preceding
evening.
TIVOLI FOLLIES, SYDNEY.
Eileen Watson and Alex. Yakovlenko in a
Pierrot Dance.
“Kick-in” seems to be playing a game of
theatrical baseball around Sydney. It
started at Her Majesty’s, moved on to the
Criterion, and Saturday will witness a dash
to the Royal. Its pitch at the Cri. will be
taken by Muriel Starr in “Nobody’s
Widow.”
At last! “The Waybacks” leave Sydney
Royal this week (last night Friday) and
move on towards Brisbane.
The Tivoli Follies (1015-10 vintage), with
lI.M. Vera Pearce in the lead and Arch-
duchess Thelma Raye close handy, came back
to the Sydney house last week-end. The
show they provide is light and bright, and
blows past like verbal thistledown. The
shortest turn lasts about 35 seconds, and is
practically an acted two-line joke; and there
are others that arrive and depart within two
minutes by the producer’s stop-watch. No
one performer has a mortgage or holds a sea-
son ticket. Each arrives, leaves his
or her sample of entertainment, and -'departs
smartly, carefully ignoring the clamor for
more—if there happens - to be any clamor.
There is plenty of good comedy, and the
performers are all young enough to enjoy
their featherweight jobs, dresses and stage
setting.
* * * *
Try _ the open-air cure. Brauscombe
specialises in it with the Dandies at his
depot, Bayswater-road, Sydney. Hundreds
of testimonials from ex-sufferers of that
tired feeling.
“The Price of Thomas Scott,” played by
the Repertory Co. at Melbourne Athemeum
on Saturday night, is the tragedy of ,a small
man driven by wowserism to shut the finer
instincts out of _ his life. Thomas Scott
is a draper with a moribund business
and a couple of offspring whose feelings are
all against the harmonium recitals which the
old man regards as suitable pleasures for
the young. Leonard, the boy, has j.n idea
of acquiring the higher education in the
hope of beating his chances of becoming a
draper and drowsing thus to the end of his
days. Annie, the girl, wants to be a fashion-
able milliner. Knowing these things,
when T. Scott is offered £5OO for
his decayed residence by a Dance Hall
Syndicate, he has a generous impulse
to sell and satisfy his children’s de-
sires for a wider existence. But Scott’s
Nonconformist conscience gets to work over-
night, and he becomes appalled at the pro-
spect of a site long devoted to the service of
the Lord resounding to waltz music and the
giggles of cuddled girls. So he refuses the
offer and decides to hang on and be a semi-
bankrupt to the grave. Elizabeth Baker,
who furnished a more interesting drama in
“Chains,” celebrates Scott’s dull triumph
in three acts of plain and desultory dialogue.
Barring Scott, the characters are only just
vital enough to appear as details in a genre
picture with Thomas as the central figure.
Thomas’s morality, of course, is only a
bundle of “Don’ts,” but under Gregan
McMahon’s care he represents the artistic
mean between imbecility and heroism. Miss
Isabel Handley as Annie Scott is the only
one in the play who shows herself dutifully
conscious of the fact that her dad’s sacrifice
is akin to martyrdom. The other members
of the family and their friends are appar-
ently of the opinion that the old man’s
refusal of 500 golden goblins is merely a
bit of puritanical posturing. Those parti-
cular characters are played passably enough
by Mrs. Fanny Fowler, Miss Doris Fitton,
11. E. McMurtrie, Harry Lindgren and Ber-
nard Bradley; while Frank Keon is a red-
faced outsider who appears as a sort of
human pendulum, swinging, ethically speak-
ing, between the circus and the church.
* * * *
“High Jinks” finishes a good fortnight’s
run at Melbourne Majesty’s to-morrow night.
On Saturday “The Girl in the Taxi” will be
repeated, and an apparently respectable
father and son will again express (£ieir
mutual embarrassment at discovering one
another in the role of Nuts.
Friday will be the last night of “A Pair
of Sixes” and the marvellous pill for which
T. Bloggs Johns invented a purple overcoat.
On Saturday the programme at Melbourne
Royal will be “Stop Thief,” another alleged
shriek of mirth from Amurka.
Bunty is Pulling the Strings for the final
six nights of the Graham Moffat season at
Melbourne Princess’s. Miss Jean Clyde, who
played Geordie Pow’s guid lady in “A Scrape
o’ th’ Pen,” now manages the Tammas Biggar
household with a stronger suggestion of
flinty wisdom and fewer of the affected fem-
inine graces than distinguished her prede-
cessor in the role. Bunty, in fact, has
become a housekeeper in whom the desire
to rule can be as effectively illustrated by a
flying flatiron as by unremitting verbal per-
suasion. David Urquhart appears afresh as
Weelum Sprunt and continues to lament that
in his dealings with his awful Aunt Susie
meek words must be the better part of diplo-
macy. Graham Moffat again wears the wide
breeks of Tammas Biggar; and Abie Barker,
as son Itab, keeps the relationship perfect
by donning a garment that is obviously the
offspring of his feyther’s. The crinoline of
SYDNEY TIVOLI FOLLIES.
The singing mutes — Rcgo. Weems, Welch
and Cannot.
an ugly, unregretted past enables Mrs. and
Miss Moffat to get themselves up as Eelen
Dunlop and daughter Teenie; and Nan Tay-
lor is once more the vinegary spinster, Susie
Simpson. Next Saturday apparently the
Princess’s will be closed, and will remain so
for two or three nights. On Saturday.
December 11. Julius Ivniglit is to open in
“The Three Musketeers.”
“The Bold Sojer Boy,” staged _at Mel-
bourne King’s on Saturday, is an ingenious
Amurkan bellowdrama made topical by the


m
HENKES’
SCHNAPPS
Holland’s best production—an absolutely ideal tonic.
Awarded many gold medals for purity.
m
P O LI-SHI N E POLISH.
A Deodoriser
Kills Germs*
FOR CLEANING AND POLISHING FURNITURE, PIANOS, LINOLEUMS, HARDWOOD FLOORS
LEATHER WORK, AUTOMOBILES, WOODWORK &c ’
D °« S vnu o L le »nf„« Sti V 7 i Urfa , Ce - Restores Varnish to its original brilliancy.
SYDNEY PRICES: 4oz. bottle, 1/6 ; 12oz. bottle, 2/6; quart tin, 4/Q; A-gal., 6/0; 1 sal 13/6
From all Leading Stores or
POLI-AHINE MOP CO., 48 Hunter Street, Sy dney.
ACENTS—Melbourne : Ceorge Ramsay & Co., Flinders Lane Brisbane: Fray's Boweher, 105 Eagle Street.
TASMANIA
The Summer Resort
of Tourists.
m
m
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
Proprietors:
Trustees Estate of the late George Adams.
iiig'Hfield
—The Latest in Hotels.
Remodelled & Refurnished
New Winter Garden
Spacious Dining Rooms
Cuisine—highest class
Entirely New Management.
Tariff—63/- to 75/-
All Correspondence to be directed
to the Manager.
inclusion of a German spy and a bit of
military drill by wounded soldiers from the
Dardanelles. The warriors, however, have
no visible connection with the story, whereas
the spy is a leading- feature who goes about
seeking what plans he may devour. He is
particularly keen on getting the drawings of
an alleged dynamite gun held at a Yankee
frontier post, and he is aided by an under-
done villain named Captain Thorndyke,
whose main occupation apparently is to hate
“A PAIR, OF SIXES,” AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
The Stenographer
(Elma Royton).
Harry Sweeney as
the, bookkeeper.
Allen Doone and make Doone’s girl his prey.
Thorndyke and his German acquaintance are
a pair of sad jokes, but they are reasonable
human beings compared with the aged
Colonel who obligingly points out the hiding
place of the gun tracings to the Kaiser’s
minion and leaves the blighter to do his
worst. Doone himself is not altogether
happy or entirely rational as a soldier who*
endeavors to hide his identity under a uni-
form that makes him look like a member of
Sousa’s band. The part doesn’t allow much
scope for effusive Hibernian business, and,
in fact, Doone is the most unsatisfying hero
on whom the heroine (Miss Keeley) has
lavished her young affections during the
present season. Miss Keeley maintains her
record for smiling sweetly and keeping the
local fashions up to date, and Miss Bash ford
is another lady for whom the dressmaker has
burnt the midnight oil. As for the terrible
spy (J. Vincent White), he shouts for the
Kaiser in a brogue’.that won’t'he denied;
while the only difference between the Colonel
of Frank Cullenane and the Captain of Tom
Buckley is that the former is temperamen-
tally stupid, whereas the latter needs a bottle
of whisky to get him down to the mental
level of his superior. Onslow Edgeworth,
as the evil Thorndyke, is a picture of stiff,
unbending wickedness as heretofore.
* * s!: si:
Coy De Trickey, the bogus niggali song-
stress with the flashing smile and flowing
hair, makes a robust addition to this week’s
noises at Melbourne Tivoli. Walter James,
another of the tribe of hobo comedians, is
also heard ; and Jim Harkins’s loud and
wearisome confidences leave a lot of his lady
partner to he desired. The clever Nolan
jugglers and the rope-spinning damsel. Hazel
Moran, win this paper’s esteem, and the
charming contours of the athletic Miss Nadje
capture its bald-headed admiration.
*
Montambo and Wells, comedy balancers,
have a prominent place on the hill at Mel-
bourne Bijou. Lydia Carne, -who gives rapid
impressions of local theatrical stars, is also
noticeable ; and Little Verlie, a new infant
contortionist, at least succeeds in arousing
the commiseration of the audience. Among
a number of others are George Whitehead,
the baritone vocalist, and ventriloquist Max,
who has returned for a brief season.
#* * *
The star subject at Hoyt’s Theatres, Mel-
bourne, this week is “The Deep Purple,’*'
wherein the Yankee cinemactress, Clara
Kimball. Young, is cast among crooks and
incurs intense disfavor by marrying the
dandiest of the gang. Another item of deep
feminine interest is “Variety,” and two or
three striking war-gazette films command
the attention of all the sexes.
The friendly duel, Knight v. Starr, has
worked to an end in Adelaide. The lady
at the Royal gave the frivolous, on-the-edge
bedroom comedy, “Nobody’s Widow,” and
was for once seen in a merry mood, which
becomes her. Palotta and Stirling and other
clever people dropped in to help the polished
Millward. The sterner “Under Cover”
marks the close. Knight showed well at
the Tivoli in “Paid in Full,” though Des-
mond’s old part does not fit him as well as
some. Styan came in to play the old sea-
dog in this piece. The new Modern Amuse-
ments Co. continues its Tivoli" season with
the old “Held by the Enemy,” played by
Harry Roberts and Co. Maximo’s tipsy
wirewalking. Alice Pierce’s imitations, and
Bailey’s faithful hounds are at the King’s.
Branscombe.’s Dandies retire into the Exhi-
bition on the occasional nights of storm,
and Jack ’Waller now reinforces his Ideals
t o. at Austral Gardens. Among the pictures
Wondergraph is showing the splendid
Panama Exhibition series, and the Pav. a
Midnight at Maxim’s film, which is not as
risky as it pretends to be. The Appendreena,
Adelaide’s old-standing amateur dramatic
co., revived “His Excellency the Governor”
for this year’s performance, and moved into
the new Norwood Town Hall, which claims
to hold more people than any other Adelaide
building barring the Exhibition. Chief hon-
ors went to Miss Ethelwyn Robin and Miss
Zoe Reid as the strongly-contrasted heroines.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Peewit” : There has been much talk and
writing about an occurrence at the Little
Theatre (Sydney), and as to the meaning
and origin of the term “getting the bird” ;
and not one who has gaily pranced in with
his little lot has given the right definition.
The expression is very old. It was originally
“getting the goose.” I )oes not the poor old
acrobatic clown in Dickens’s “Hard Times”
say despairingly: “I was goosed last night”?
lie meant that he was hissed. Everybody
knows, or should know, that geese are star
hissers, and the phrase probably originated
in some unsuccessful performer alluding to
a hostile audience as “a mob of hissing
geese.” Gradually “goose” was changed
into “bird,” and lias stuck at that.
“A PATR OF
SIXES,” AT MEL-
BOURNE ROYAL.
Tony the, salesman
(Gerald Harcourt).
“HIGH JINKS.”
AT HER MAJ-
ESTY’S MEL-
BOURNE.
Colonel Slaughter.
Died after a very short illness, Arthur
Francis Russell, the well-known Melbourne
dentist, and governing director of Hoyt’s
Picture Theatres, aged 51. Mr. Russell was
known to every “pro.” in Melbourne. For
years he ran side-shows in Melbourne and
took companies to country towns. Then,
reckoning that dentistry would flourish, he
went to the U.S.A. and returned with a
diploma which enabled him to achieve a very
big business. Next he scented big profits in
pictures and got in early there too, building
up an amusement business which must be
well up among the first half-dozen in Aus-
tralia.
“Oh Oh”: Seems to be something in
“11.0.’5” contention that the ’Murkan plays
we see here are mostly elaborated sketches
' —°ue good act and the rest padding. The
latest, “Kick-In,” now being done in Syd-
ney, when put on at Proctor’s, Noo Yark,
was a single-aeter with only four characters.
The. author, Williard Mack, played in it.
Finishing early in the evening he had plenty
of time to go and have a look at “Within
the Law.” One can suspect, after sitting
out his present elongated version, that he
took a notebook with him.
“Rab Cilbup” : At this time, when Billjim
is setting new standards of heroism for his-
tory, and the young Australian is proving
himself the finest fighter in the whole men-
agerie, the presentation of Young Australia
in “The Waybacks” amounts to a calamity.
Here is a family outback, the type of the
majority of our recruits, and the only char-
acters that are worthy of respect are Dad
and Mum. These are, despite their farcical
exaggerations, real, honest Australians. But
their family ! Not one of them is of any
use- outside an asylum. One girl is a gaping
fool; the eldest son is a thin weed whose in-
tellect is as weak as his body ; and the only
other son who attracts notice is obviously
“wanting.” Farce is all very well; but
farce that is provided by individuals who
ought to be in Callan Park is not only pain-
ful but a slight upon Australia. An Eng-
lishman wandering into the theatre and see-
ing an Australian audience shrieking with
delight over this representation of a typical
bush family would naturally wonder where
Australia gets its heroes from.
“W.A.R.”: What is the matter with the
Firm? Long ago it imported from the land
of Crook Melodrama a play that had a long
run, “Within the Law.” Since then these
people have been trying to discover another
play with similar possibilities, and naturally
they looked for it. in the same place. But
none of the long succession of TJ.S. dramas
has succeeded in staying anything like that
distance. At the present moment one of
the heads of the Firm is returning from the
neutral country of his birth with a suit-case
packed with this fleeting sort of play. Yet
if Mr. Ward had merely looked nearer his
adopted home lie would have found a play
that, following the example of “On Our
Selection,” looks like running for ever. Dur-
ing the stay of “The Waybacks” in Sydney,
the following imported plays died, or were
born and died Her Majesty’s: “Potash,”
“The Man who Stayed at Home” (revival),
“Paul Jones” (revival). Criterion: “Stop
Thief,” “A Pair of Sixes.” and the decease
of “Kick-in” is announced. Only one play,
“Potash,” had a decent run; but “The
Waybacks” is still coining money. I
am not saying that “The Waybacks”
is a great play; but what manager
cares whether a play is great as
long as the box-office receipts are big. and he
is saved the expense and trouble of putting
on something in its place? Evidently Aus-
tralian audiences like Australian play's, even
when they are as awful as “The Waybacks.”
Possibly, after the war, the Firm might dis-
cover this fact. If not, what about discov-
ering a new Firm?
“Mid-Channel”: Please allow me to add a
soft note to the concerto about high and low
pitch. There isn’t much doubt who should
throw the towel in, “E.N.M.” or “R.F.” The
artificial effect produced by the high pitch
has had a fair innings and been clean bowled.
There is no need to add a list of further
dissenters to that already furnished by
“R.F.,-” but the case of G. Grossmith .and
“I Have a Song to Sing O” will suffice.
The low pitch with which Australia is yet
unfortunately not acquainted has a-distinct
charm in itself, while the other is something
like a speaker who has been “tuned up” to
liis task with sundry nips. The vendor of"
the cheap piano grins behind his hand when
some innocent enthusiast asks for an instru-
ment “with a high pitch,” for he knows that
when the said pitch has climbed down the
instrument is scrap-iron. Vocalists are
trained to the low pitch because of the ex-
treme delicacy of their organs and the differ-
ence a semitone can make in the range of
their voices, and brass instruments must be
tuned accordingly to minimise their harsh-
ness.
“R.F.” starts to wind up the musical-pitch
debate P
A final word on my side, leaving- the opposition to
have the last one, if so inclined. “E.N.M.” reminds
me of the song, “If the Missus Says It’s Black—
Well, It’s Black!” Undeniable facts and incontro-
vertible arguments are alike of no avail against the
impregnability of his arrogant dogmatism. “I
heard, 1 maintain ; therefore it is so. and everybody
else is wrong.” In talking about “dead celebrities”
and “a legion of ghosts” he displays the same
sublime disregard of actualities, inasmuch as out
of the dozen persons I named nine are still alive;
and, anyhow, living or dead, the opinion of any one
of them would carry more weight than that of a
dozen “E.N.M.’s.” Now for “W.J.5.,” whose imper-
fect knowledge of the English language is plainly
responsible for his lofty assumption that I don’t
know what I’m talking about, and am guilty of
a grievous error. The word “virtually,” which I
used advisedly, means “in essence or effect, although
not in actual fact” ; and how many people would be
capable of perceiving any difference between the key
of C at the low pitch and the key of B half a tone
higher? Or between the notes C sharp and D
flat, virtually, though not actually, the same? Not
one in a thousand, “W.J.S.” included! I quite
agree with him that Sir 11. J. Wood, being a prac-
tical musician and not a scientific theorist, has pro-
bably never studied on the lines laid down by
“W.J.S.” The same shameful ignorance can also be
attributed to Puccini, Verdi, Gounod, Mozart, Handel
and sundry other benighted souls who unfortunately
did not have “W.J.S.” for a mentor.
“Van Eck”: King, of Brisbane, will need
a trickster to trump him. For a couple of
years, more or less, he has been proving that
stock drama is a profitable investment. In
fact, he is so sure of it that after having
possession of the Theatre Royal for the
aforesaid period he now takes over the
Brisbane Tivoli for a long season, and is
going to run drama against himself, and,
incidentally, shut out opposition from the
best-equipped theatre in Australia.
“C. Ockney”: In its latest Sydney pro-
duction, “Paul Jones,” as well as having a
woman “leading man,” boasts, I note, a
woman producer. Well, and why not?
Lovely woman can manage most things
when she sets about it, and stage-manage-
ment and producing should be well within
her compass. Lena Ashwell in London
—always associated with “advanced” ideas
—is running a new play at her theatre, the
Kingsway (“Iris Intervenes”), for which
she has a staff largely composed of mem-
bers of the sex to which I have the honor
not to belong. No man is employed as a
mummer or on the business side of the house
who is eligible for active service, also there
is a woman stage-manager, the limelights are
worked by women (oh, to be the handsome
juvenile gent.!), and women are employed
to do the lighter part of the scene-shifting.
(Continued on page J/9.)
Australian black-and-white artist Corporal
Cecil Hartt has relieved the anxiety of
friends as to the extent of the injury he
received on Gallipoli. Writing from Lon-
don he reports that, although he still has a
limp, he is improving so rapidly that he
expects to be back in the battle smoke very
soon. Meanwhile he finds the attentions
showered upon Australian soldiers in Eng-
land almost embarrassing.
The Women Workers’ Union in Sydney
lias started a promising little activity iii
conjunction with the war. holding a con-
tract for supplying the Defence Department
with shirts for soldiers. The purpose of
the Union is. to provide employment to
women who, either through age or disability,
would lie sweated on the ordinary factory
rates. Requiring no profit, the union on a
4oi hours’ week manages the business well
and has the good word of the Department,
particularly so from the fact that no article
has yet had to be rejected. Mrs. Kate
Dwyer is the godmother of the scheme.
December birthdays: Dick Butler, S. Aus.
ex-Premier, 65 on 3rd; Dr. Charles Mac-
kellar, politician-friend of the State children,
71 on sth; Dr. George Brown, South Seas
missionary, 80 on 7th; Prof. E. J. Nanson
(Melb.), 6-) on 13th; Justice Sly (Sydney),
(>G on 17th ; Alfred Catt, S. Aus. ex-legisla-
tor, 82 on 19th; Joe Carruthers, 58 on
21st; Lewis Cohen (many times Mayor of
Adelaide), 66 on 23rd; Robert Philp' (Q.),
64, and Dugald Thomson (formerly N.S.W.
Federal member), 67, on the 28th.'
f/• Pittman, permanent head of the
JN.S.W. Mines Department, goes out at the
end of the year. He has been an officer for
over 30 years, and is said to be retiring in
protest against some recent Ministerial
actions, which have been taken in direct
opposition to official advice. Pittman has
proved himself past-master in the art of
drafting non-committal reports. The only
thing that he ever wrote very definitely
about was the Milburn Creek copper mine,
which, for the purpose of adjusting compen-
sation, he valued at a big figure. Whether
or not. that figure was justified was not
determined, as the mine was neveiY again
worked as a producer. Although his name
was not in the slightest degree involved in
the political scandal the episode made him
wary—almost absurdly so.
“Petifii” : N.S.W. Chief Secretary George
Black has instructed country pub in-
spectors to oppose Bung’s license unless he
keeps the back premises in a state of decency.
It Black goes ahead, Biljini will carve his
name in gratitude on every sliprail he for-
gets to put up behind him during his voy-
ages through the Commonwealth. From
the Beginning the country pub’s conveni-
.^ ve b< r en well, there’s no need to
tell Biljim what they have been, because he
knows; and there’s no use telling your habi-
tual Towny, because he simply' wouldn’t
believe.
Lord Jersey, who died last May, leaving
property valued at £790,000, apparently
died with bitterness in his soul against
the impertinence of a democracy which
dares to tax the property of its betters. He
left instructions to his heir to deduct 10 per
cent, from all legacies to employees, on
account of “the heavy duties which will fall
as a burden on my estate ; and I desire that
it shall be impressed upon each person that
the burden imposed by Government renders
this deduction necessary.” After which
vinegary thrust at the nation which had
been fat-headed enough to allow him to hold
so much that he never earned, the noble
earl haughtily climbed the golden stairs, and
claimed a martyr’s crown or half-crown, as
the case may be.
THE UNAPPRECIATED PRO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlie situations are tremendous, the scenery is im-
mense, and as for the business it is magnificent ; but
one i/iisses the applause.— Extract from a letter from
an rotor well known to Melbourne and Sydney, now
at the Front.
’Tis well to wear a uniform,
And bear a bonzer gun,
To pose amid the battle storm,
And see the foenuin run :
But when one’s done his little bit,
And made a most decided hit
’Tis vain to pause
For the applause.
I stand upon a giant rock,
The smoke is in my hair,
And valiantly I make a mock
Of Germany’s despair.
I shake a bayonet in the breeze.
No more such things the high gods please.
I'm sad because
There’s no applause.
They say I play a noble part,
And 1 don’t doubt it’s that ;
’Tis one to touch the vulgar heart,
And I have lots of fat.
But vain is all the business, vain
My graceful posing ’mid the slain.
It' never draws
The least applause!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


English-made Horsehide
SHOOTING-BOOTS
THESE boots are made of genuine
English Ilorsehide (the toughest
of all leathers), and specially
treated with a non-greasy preparation
that renders them perfectly water-
proof. Round toes and welted soles,
very strongly sewn. A boot we
thoroughly recommend for comfort
and hard wear. A pair of these will
outlast three pairs of ordinary boots.
In all men’s sizes, 37/6 pair.
!!7<: PAY CARRIAGE.
37/6 pi.
m
David Jones, Ltd.
Opp. 0.P.0.,
SYDNEY
ECONOMY.
THREE or four
1 tins of Cerebos
Salt are sufficient
to season at table
ail the meals of an
average family for
a whole year.
CEREBOS
SALT
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Batl)
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
THE FALLING MAN.
HE: “In point of fact I'm a tumbler by
profession .”
HEBE: “Circus or aeroplane?”
An old ship with a record is now a coal-
hulk at Cockatoo Island l Sydney Harbor).
On her second baptism she was the Kal-
goorlie, but. in her palmy days she was the
Melrose Castle, trading between Britain and
Cape Town. Thirty-five years ago, while
nearing South Africa, she was the scene of
a historic shooting, which ended in a hang-
ing at Newgate. Town Councillor James
Carey, a building contractor, of Dublin, had
organised the conspiracy which ended in the
murder of Lord Frederick and
Mr. T. IJ. Burke in Phoenix Park. Under
an assumed name he took passage for the
Cape on board the Melrose Castle. The
"Irish Invincibles.” however, scented him
out, and Patrick O’Donnell was deputed “to
do the job.” Pat hanged for it. after trial
at the Old Bailey.
“The Old Soldier”: So the War Office has
definitely abandoned the issue of puttees
for wear in the trenches. I am not sur-
prised. I remember how they came into use.
We used to wear them as a protection
against leeches in the marshy districts ol
Lower Bengal and Assam. The original
puttee was a long, narrow strip of Bhotea
blanketing woven from the wool of the
Himalaya sheep. It was quite well known
to the liillmen (who invented them) that
puttees wound tightly round the leg and
kept on all day, interfered with the circula-
tion of the blood. That seems to have been
only just found out at the War Office. There
was another sort of puttee made of the same
sort of wool, but felted ; this was for wear
among the snow on the high passes during
winter. It was worn with a very thick felt
boot, which was by far the best thing _ (n.
the kind I have ever known for crossing
sncwfiekls. Even the best leather very soon
gets saturated when walking in deep
snow, while the felt retains (he heat and
prevents frost-bite. By the way, I doubt
very much whether thick wool-felt is not a
better protection against cold than sheep-
skin or fur, of which we are now making
winter vests.
* * * *
After a special effort by the Victorian
police, through female agents, the hoof ol:
the Law has descended upon three Mel-
bourne fortune-tellers, all women. One ot
them, a well-patronised, rather expensive
practitioner, has a neat little suite, where
tlii- wallpaper, both in the ante-room and
the ante-up room, is up-to-date and grease-
less. Everybody knows this one. Another
of the soothsayers keeps a registry office in
the neighborhood of the Argus’s den. Both
of these have been in their present locations
for many years. The third, catering for a
different class, was discovered in Bourke-
street. Each of the prophecy-mongers was
fined a fiver, with five guineas costs; and, in
performing his sad duty. P.M. (loldsmilh .
mildly remarked that “in future the
penalties would be more severe.” That s
what the P.M. always says, before
proceeding to let the vulture down with a
fine like a feather. What’s a fiver to a
future-reader with a fashionable stand.' 1
* * * *
“Legionary” : The remark of the \ ictorian
brigadier McCay, that “the Australian boys
seem to like it,” reminds me. After the tup-
penny-ha’penny S’African trouble, many of
the adventurous irregulars loathed the idea of
coming back to the led-
gers and counters they
had left behind them in
Australia. Hence, when
they reached the S’Afri-
can ports on their way
home, they eagerly
sought news of wars or
revolutions in other parts
of the world. At that
time the most promising
area of trouble was in
South America, and the
Consul for the troubled
State was soon besieged
by mobs of tall, war-bit-
ten strangers who wanted
to fight for his Govern-
ment if the wages were
high enough. When the
proud representative of
the Andes told them how
many dollars he could
offer, there was a flight
of broad-brimmed bats
skyward, and all was
congratulations and re-
jo ic i n g—u nt i 1 some
trooper with a turn for
finance harshly an-
nounced that the blanky
Andes dollar was worth
just about one-third of
the ordinary, respectable
dollar. That burst the
dream, and soon they
were all aboard their troopships, going home
like lambs to the jobs and the girls they’d
left behind them.
John Carey, master of the Union Co.’s
Mapourika. has convinced a Maoriland
nautical Court that the Almighty was to
blame when the ship struck Clay Point, near
the treacherous French Pass, where Pelorus
Jack used to live, on November 6. The
inquiry hinged on the possibility of light-
ning affecting the compass. At the time of
the grounding a severe electrical storm was
raging. The course set was one which should
have put the Mapourika clear of trouble, hut
the actual course was IT points off the
one which the skipper believed he was
following. This was attributed by an expert
to a deviation in the compass caused by the
vessel’s'unusually high iron masts collecting
large quantities of electricity from the atmo-
sphere. The Court adopted that view and
held that Carey’s compass had been rendered
temporarily a very useful thing for getting
into trouble with.
THE RETORT MARTIAL.
MAG (patronising): “Don't sec yer gettin' many darnces, Liz."
LIZ. (with scorn): “What chanct! All MY friends arc at the war."
“Jobber,” from a hospital in Egypt:—•
It, is much the same here as it seems to be every-,
where else—nurses are expected to pig in anyhow.
At one Australian hospital the sisters had mentioned
to the matron that they had no place other than
their bedrooms (and, as far as I know, no sister has
a room to herself) in which they could entertain
visitors, or spend any time , before going on duty.
They were reminded that when they volunteered
they knew they must be prepared to “rough ’ it,
and a lot of other guyvcr. Matron was certain that
the sisters wouldn’t take one of the rooms for their
own use when there might be a rush of patients
and the poor soldiers would have to sleep in the
passages, and so on. That was- the end of the
matter as far as the sisters were concerned. But
a few days after this oration all the beds and
patients were moved out of one of the brightest
wards and bunged in elsewhere ill order that the
ward might be turned into a dining-room for
officers! Those same officers have a fine sitting-room,
and some of them have a bedroom each. 1 know of
other hospitals where each doctor has his own
room. I also know of a hospital where the sisters
have had to sleep in passages on account of lack of
space, while almost elaborate comforts were supplied
to male officials. I'm glad to say that most of us
feel uncomfortable about it. Our drawing-room
manners are nothing to speak of, maybe, but the
hardest Australian “hard case ” at any rate knows
what’s a fair thing where women are concerned.
“Bill O’Costs”: In these dull clays when
clients are shy I sit, on the hard benches of
the criminal court and study the faces of
those twelve Bulwarks of Popular Liberty,
the dozen good men and But sit with
me and observe them get to work. They
have listened to the evidence, to the Crown
Prosecutor and to the prisoner’s counsel and
are filled with the north wind. Now his
Honor is going to explain it all. This
type of Judge has a set formula and never
departs from it: —
Gentlemen, the prisoner is charged with larceny—-
that is, the taking and carrying away of the pro-
perty in question without the consent of the true
owner and with intent to deprive him of the pro-
perty therein or possession thereof. [Pause to let
this, soak in.] You will consider the evidence with
a view of satisfying yourselves whether it conforms
to this definition'. Now it is my duty to review that
evidence, and direct you for your guidance in your
determination. [“Now it's coming,” thinks the
earnest juror, all attention.] The evidence may be
considered in two divisions. Upon the one side you
have the evidence of the prosecution and on the
other the testimony for the defence. If. on the one
hand, you believe the Crown witnesses, you will have
no hesitation in finding the accused guilty, but if,
on the other hand, you credit the evidence of the
accused you will, with equal assurance, bring in a
verdict of not guilty. The prosecutor says the
prisoner stole his purse. The prisoner says he
found it. Which of these statements is the truth?
It. on the one hand ——
And so on the gentle see-saw rocks through
all the evidence, and the jury, being fat.
elderly and full of dinner, goes quickly to
sleep. That judicial method has, at least,
the merit of not being irritating. But listen
to another Judge. lie is SO or so and
brimming over with misdirected energy, but
diffusiveness and irrelevant parentheses dog
his footsteps. After an elaborate re-
arrangement of his seat and his wraps and
a. tussle with his notebook be finds the
starting post:- — ;
Ah —gentlemen of the jury, the prisoner is charged
with —eh —er —the indictment —yes, the indictment
filed —er —laid bv—ah'—the indictment of the Hon-
orable the Attorney-General [he is always particular
about titles] is one of—charges the prisoner with—
with [wild scrambling; with the note-book and
papers]"—-where is the indictment? [He has had it
in his hand all the time, hut that’s nothing*.] A
very distinguished Judge, the late Lord Hiatus, once
observed that an indictment —[yarn of no particulai
interest sandwiched in] —Eh? Oh, yes, here it is.
The indictment charges the prisoner—urn- urn—-
[laborious perusal of the document for arf a mol
—urn —ah —with receiving the same knowing it to
have been stol —Eh? What? Oh, yes, that s the
second count.
And so on and so forth. These luminously-
befogging “directions” to juries make me
think with admiration of a summing-up of
old Judge Boucaut. now retired. It is the
only one I ever beard worth reporting m
full :—-
Gentlemen, tlie c|iiestion is: Did he steal the watch?
Consider your verdict.
MAGNNIMITY.
THE WIFE: “ Creature, yon have been hiss-
ing my husband."
THE OTHER : “My dear woman, if I thought
you were going to make a fuss about it
you could have done it yourself."
“FIOHTISU SOLDIKRS FIRST!"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the transport Marquette was torpedoed, the
Maoriland nurses on board refused to take prece-
dence in the rescue boats, crying, “lake lighting
soldiers first!”
In unheroic days before
'('lie splendor and the shame of war,
With stoic calm ourselves we bore
When danger on us burst;
When some might live, but more must die,
The men stood resolutely by,
And came the good old British cry,
“Women and children first! ’
When death was close men played the game;
No thought of self, no panic-shame!
But steadily the order came
Instinctive, unrehearsed ;
When men the dreadful choice must make
Whom death should spare and whom should take,
They shouted, for their manhood s sake,
“Women and children first!”
The women and the children went
To rescue-boats, but ill-content —•
Many a woman’s heart was rent
That she was thus accursed ;
Her sex and weakness to her gave
The right to reach a living grave,
While son or husband died to save
Women and children first.
But now in war, in danger’s face
Ready is she to take her place,
The daughter of a fighting race,
No more in sex immersed.
When the Marquette sank she stood free,
Proud of her new-found chivalry,
And gave this cry to history,
“Take fighting soldiers first!”
x.s.w.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


FIAT
CARS for ECONOMY
and RELIABILITY.
This Graceful 4=Seater Touring
Car completely equipped for
the road ; 5 Sankey Wheels ;
One-man Hood; All Tools.
m
m
QARRATTS LTD
A LICK McNEIL, Gen. Manager.
173-175 Elizabeth Street
148-150 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY.
&
£7
"AERO-CRASH” Washing Suits
—AGAIN AVAILABLE AT PEAPES.
Delayer! shipments have for some time prevented us from advertising these
very popular Summer Suits. They have now arrived, and are in every way
up to the standard of our previous productions.
Aero-Crash is a cool, porous cotton material of light Biscuit shade. Tt is
excellent for washing, and will not easily soil. Made in S.B. Sac Style,
with two or three detachable buttons, vent back, and three patch pockets
outside. Trousers have plain bottoms.
Ready to Wear, 25/-
Please state chest, waist and inside-leg measurements. New catalogue sent
on request.
PEAPES CO. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitter*,
309 &l 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Judge Murray, of Papua, has discovered
a village up yonder where the local nigger
follows the narrow path of righteousness
behind the missionary with much agility:—
There is no crime at Boianai ; no child ever
dreams of staying away from school. The houses are
well built, the people are clean, the village streets
and roads are kept scrupulously in order, no rub-
bish is seen lying about, everyone has plenty of
food, everyone seems contented, and everyone seems
to have work to do and to enjoy doing it.
The Bulletin knows another place:—
There is any amount of crime there, about a dozen
beaks sitting every day to keep the law in motion.
Thousands of kids play the wag and roll naked on
the sands by the sad sea waves. Most of the houses
were erected by Jerry Builder, Ltd. ; the people are
sprinkled from head to iieel with filth swept up by
the wind from the streets; rubbish blows about all
over the place; everyone howls about the high price
of food, is violently discontented, and enjoys work so
much that he is generally going’ out on strike. Also
the atmosphere is violently assailed every ten yards
by 17 assorted smells leaping from stekandeoyst
emporiums, pursued by 46 other aromas. The
traffic is under such good control that when a citizen
wants to cross a road he springs six times from under
the wheels of sudden death before reaching the oppo-
site kerbstone, where he slips on a banana skin. Fur-
ther, the citizen is hourly pursued by dishevelled
people for the loan of tuppence and has his ears bom-
barded by brass bands, barrel organs, conqertinas
and lone-hand cornets that have nearly learned “Tip-
perary.” When at night he wanders into an open
space to commune with the stars the first thing he
sees is a fiery exhortation to try a fresh sort of pill,
and when in anguish he looks the other way flaming
letters 10ft. high tell him that his king and country
want him. Whereupon he rushes into a picture-
palace and gazes at a Yank drama, falls into a pub
and consumes a liquid of foreign origin, kicks him-
self into bed, and doesn’t get any sleep until the
mosquitoes have finished supper.
Ana yet if it came to a choice between living
in that blameless village of Papua and loaf-
ing round in the other place—well. The
Bulletin reckons it would stay at home in
sin.
* * * *
There are still a few excuses left. To
the lady’s usual unpleasant accusations in
the Melbourne Divorce Court the other day
the gentleman replied that he had put up
with a greyhound in the connubial bed for
six years; and then he got another lady to
help him in his rebellion. The Court ex-
pressed no adverse opinion about the rebel-
lion, but decided that it ought to have been a
single-handed affair, and granted a decree.
* * * ,-X-
-“J.R.”: “Chug” talks doubtful history
about the Huns (B. 11/11/T5). It’s a
question whether they came from Asia at
all. The Magyar language-'which it is sup-
posed they spoke is very like those the Fins
and Basques speak now. Attila, their king,
whom Kaiser Bill likes to call “Etgell,” was
really king of that part of the Hungarian
plain between the Dan-
ube and the Theiss, and
it was as likely as not
pressure from the Mon-
gols that set him and his
followers in motion
against Western Europe.
They must have been a
curious mixture of races,
largely made up of Mon-
gols and wild Slavs from
Pagan Poland and Pagan
Prussia. As for Gor-
mans, how many real
Germans are there in the
German Empire of the
present day? There are
none living east of the
Elbe, and if you come to
analyse the pedigrees of
the German princes you
will find that most of
them are Vendisli, which
means Sclavonic, just
like their people. The
reigning families of the
two Macklenburgs are
certainly so; and as for
the population, only
one Prussian province—
Westphalia - is really
German. The rest, Pom-
erania, Brandenburg, Sil-
esia, are pretty plainly
Sclavonic, while the two
Prussias and Posen are so thoroughly Polish
that the very school children have quite
lately gone on strike against getting their
lessons in German. The people talk Polish
in their homes, but the Prussian steam-roller
is being driven over them, even to the extent
of forcing them to sell their lands whether
they like it or not into German hands.
* * * *
A returned traveller says that the Austra-
lian War Contingent Association in England
gets eucalyptus leaves from Ireland, and puts
them under the pillows of wounded Kan-
garoos “who cannot hope to recover, so that
as they pass into another world they may
have at least the aroma of the homeland from
which they came, and to which they will not
return.” This paper gives the Association
(of which George Reid is president) due
credit for good intentions, but wishes it
would make a more sensible use of
the gum-leaves. When men who are not
hopeless are in such need of bucking up. ii.
seems plain foolishness to make Australia’s
most characteristic scent stand for a kind of
death warrant.
“Carfax” : That war-census card on which
the National Council of Women is taking
a census of the Ma State is evidently the
result of deep thought. For instance, among
all the questions asked the least space for
reply is left opposite to the query: “Have
you had any training or previous ex-
perience in any work?” For Mrs. Carfax
there is about Mn. to write; and what I
want to know is where she is going to put
this: —
Yes I have. I had a thorough college-training
in the theory of domestic economy and hygiene, and
quitted school with full knowledge of the rationale
of scrubbing, the flesh-forming value of certain pro-
teids and the warmth-producing values of sugar and
starch. Since then I have gone through a 27 years’
practical course in the following subjects—cleaning
windows, washing floors, cooking meals for seven
people out of enough food for three, hanging pic-
tures, rearing babies, ironing shirts, curing colds,
patching old clothes, turning last year’s winter cos-
tume into a summer blouse, feeding the fowls, keep-
ing an eye on the gas stove, dealing with Chows,
mending a husband’s socks, putting children to bed
(also getting them out of bed), engaging washer-
women, removing fruit stains from tablecloths, ex-
tracting splinters, renovating straw hats and enter-
taining relations. I can make jam, pickles, lemon
syrup, ox-tail soup out of chops, also slip-bodices.
1 can make a log of mutton last three days and a
pair of shoes six months and a currant cake as long
as I keep it locked up. In answer to the question
whether my time is fully occupied I beg to state
that it is only occupied from G a.m. until 10 p.m.,
and that during the remainder of the evening the
time hangs so heavily on my hands that with the
exception of having a bath and brushing my hair
and reading the paper and putting the cat out. and
placing the jug ready for the milkman and tucking
the kids in and making a man shift over a bit, I’ve
got absolutely nothing whatever to do. If I could
be of any use in driving a tramcar or in the fire
brigade please let me know any evening after 10.
P.S.: Any evening after 10 I won’t be in.
* * * *
Front somewhere in Gallipoli:—
The Colonel had scarcely put his whistle to his lips
to order the charge when the first of our lot sprang
over the parapet. He was a mere boy, and grinned
back at the others. “Last out, lousy!” he cried, and
swinging round, went laughing on. In 20 yards he
was down, drilled clean through. By God, it made
me weep, the sight of that kid playing in battle
with men as if he were romping at school with
children.
A picture for the National Art Gallery:
“Last out, lousy !” Of course, it won’t be
tackled ; but none will better express the way
of Australia.
PUTTING HIM IN HIS CLASS.
“Oh, I may put a pound on a horse now and
then, but I’m no gambler.”
“That’s what I told father. And he said,
'Oh, that's quite likely, for a gambler
sometimes wins. '”
The lady was asking a sergeant about the
character of a man who wanted employment
in one of the military invalid homes. Was
he experienced? “Why, look here, Miss,”
the sergeant says. “He’s got seven kids, and
never had a doctor once.” And yet he didn't
get the job.
SHE MISTOOK THE MISSUS.
MISTRESS: “ Goodness , Miranda! Don't eat all that custard."
MIRANDA: “Oh, mum, didn't you tell me to put it where the flies can't get at it?"
Maoriland is getting fairly close to tlie
edge with its circus tricks for raising cash
to help the I [empire. It was on one of the
mail trains running down from Palmerston
to Wellington. Accompanied by an elderly
man who looked as if he knew better long-
ago, a flapper went from carriage to car-
riage. She was fair and fresh and plump,
with glad, diaphanous rags, and her escort
invited all and sundry to kiss the vision in
the sacred name of patriotism. The oscu-
lation was quite reciprocal, too, and the
dear girl had pulled in about £l2 when she
got to the last carriage. Then she gathered
up her petties and ran back through the
train and gave everyone a free show —of
riding pants and putties. Her name was
Bilk
That ancient abomination, the Hobart
Gaol, part of which dates hack beyond 1830,
is now the subject of inquiry by a Parlia-
mentary committee, which wants to find
out whether it would be better to tinker it
up, to reconstruct it, or to shift the pris-
oners into the country. Home of the evi-
dence ought to be a pretty effective warning
against crime. The drainage runs down
open gutters when it does not soak into the
floors, and what is left of it goes into an
open drain outside for tile benefit of
citizens generally. One witness deposed that
prisoners were kept for 20 or 22 hours at a
stretch in cells with 300 cubic feet of air
space, equal to 10 x G x 5, and that by the
end of that time ’‘the stink in the passages
was enough to knock a man down.” Appar-
ently he wasn’t imaginative enough to speak
of what it was like inside. The workshops
are saturated with filth and practically
without ventilation. Then the old thing is
so insecure that the more active guests
have to be put in chains to keep
them from climbing out into fresh
air, What is most staggering is that
according to the evidence everyone has
been agreed for about 25 years that con-
ditions were absolutely rotten, but nothing
worth mentioning has been done to improve
them.
* * * *
The Law brayed more loudly than usual
in Adelaide Insolvency Court the other day.
A bankrupt had been examined at great
L-ngth in chambers, and when the proceed-
ings came out into open court it was found
absolutely necessary to read aloud all evi-
dence previously taken. There were 700
type-written folios ; and Judge, two counsel
and the Official Receiver took turns at the
gabble. The farce lasted the whole of the
working day, and nobody was a bit the wiser
for it all, though a few people were a little
richer and a great many a trifle poorer.
A SLIGHT BALLAD RE THE UNDESIRABILITY
OF LOVE-LETTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dearest, let not your raptures flow
In ink o’er any writing-pad,
Tear up the scribbled lines that show
What joys have made your bosom glad ;
One cannot always hide away
The reams where love rhapsodic lingers,
And I’d not have them fall a prey
To mocking eyes and prying fingers.
While our romance hath other scope,
Let not the bliss Dan Cupid doubles
Embark in any envelope
To sail upon life’s sea of troubles,
To strike, perchance, some alien coast,
The savage haunt of hoary sinners
Who’d make unseemly haste to roast
Our tender hearts to grace their dinners.
Ah, if the screed that throbs and burns
Kept love unfaded for all season!
But Time’s a nasty wretch who turns
On such the cold, white light of reason;
And in its glare the baby word,
The pet name sweet as garden honey,
To critic eyes will seem absurd,
Or, frightful thought!—extremely funny.
Old letters tied with lilac bands
You crave, to stir emotions gentle:
But sentiment like this demands
A reader duly sentimental.
And, sweetheart, though of placid mood,
’Twould irk my wandering spirit after
If strangers read our scrawls with rude
Remarks and loud, derisive laughter.
Nor does this sum the bitter end
Of lavish use of pen and pencil;
Since first Egyptian lovers penned
(In pre-impressionistic stencil)
Long yarns about “the tie that binds
Twin soul to soul with bonds immortal,”
Men have been prone to change their minds
And veer away from Hymen’s portal.
Who shall record his words profane,
His blind, unmitigated fury,
AVho hears his passion bleat again
To edify a judge and jury?
And many a maid, with vain regret
For foolish letters nigh demented,
tlas sorrowed long, with lashes wet,
That pens and ink were e’er invented.
And oft the phrases passing fine,
The verbal rockets that we utter,
Miss fire within the written line,
And, tongue-tied, Cupid seems to stutter.
So, darling, let the love we prize
Be ne'er to scented notes committed
The “sonnet shining in the eves’’
Is just as nice—and never writted.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Two more German cruisers were re*
ported sunk during last week.
Germany has revised the system of
supplying the Front with men. Two
men previously discarded as unfit
1 for service have been called up and put
through a rigorous physical training.
Und I remem'p-er ven der '*'s^2''?^
-aid chj^^OTwre^
" d P. irvießJrlt*- lfl
it-fg f fcrxn'T
"So art? accelpted , iss Vt" ? Howl
(jjid you mafiach doT?
rfta one-lurked recruit*.
* Der doctor 'told t-ne all stout {
<der
me vjevi 1. yp£ sueHirr mil-
-I*^s
Asked to preserve Poland’s art trea-
sures, the Kaiser replied: “Poland’s
ancient treasures are small and material
things, and you must not complain if
they disappear. , Germany >vill furnish a
coat far more complete than any Of your
old rags.”
Several embassies are lri‘ receipt of
reports that the Kaiser, in the effort to
secure a separate peace with Russia, has
offered Constantinople in consideration
of the Czar’s withdrawing from the war.
ihe sulTart: .. ,
d er capital
VoT do ? "
the Kat&er ■• 'Ho^-e*
„
JdSer-
/
✓ * qer^>
Pence suggestions Said to emanate from
the Kaiser mention £400,000.000.000 as
« likely Indemnity-from the Allies.
s. l
Vy donci yer ,
IV r
King O’Malley has set up a suggestion
box in the Home Affairs Department.
Above the box is the following notice:
“Notice is hereby given that a bonus of
£5 ss. is offered to officers of the depart-
ment for suggestions leading to distinc-
tive improvements in methods, decen-
tralising or doing away with red tape
and increasing the economic efficiency,
of the department.”
Ex - iWsTer Arch'baU .
an cK-mmi^ter
o| Home (1 (1
»aiojlH- '>ke 'To
knouo whether I can
todse a V
*Uf6 economic.
" ^,s> °^[ K:e ■
THE KAISER AND THE KINK


OFF TO HIS REAL BUSINESS.
A meeting of 300 delegates from seven unions, including the railway men, demanded the withdrawal of the restrictions on the London hours for the sale
of liquor. The meeting hinted that members' wculd "down tools” if the restrictions were enforced. —Cable.


For TOOTHACHE insert
one or two drops of full-strength
Hean's Essence
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh and Sore
Throats dilute to a pint by adding
water and sweetening.
Wanted Lady Home Workers
£1 weekly and upwards may be
earned in spare time at home. Dainty,
fascinating work. No teacher required.
Suitable town or country. Send Sd. (in
stamps) for BOOKLET and particulars of our
offer.
TORCHON LACE CO..
229 b Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
BOATER!
v
?
m
V '/
m
ra&m
World-Famed
for their Unequalled
Excellence in Style,
Quality, Comfort & Value.
LEV/IS&WHITTY
'4
Uwpf
Me
OUI\NE& SYDNEY.
HYGEIA
Shaving;
Stick.
XtfV€RX
\7
Face and
razor
agree
with
Hygeia
oil-foam.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul.
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist. Southampton."
KOBAN
KING OF
ROWBOAT
MOTORS.
Runs Excellently Without Vibration,
PRITCHARD BROTHERS LTD.,
Engineers, Launch
and Boat Builders,
North Sydney, N.S.W.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Luck? Fate? Sergeant Fred Fergus, a
N. S. Wales soldier, passed tlie tests of the
First Battalion in Egypt and the trenches
of Gallipoli, escaping from even Lonesome
Pine with but the loss of an eye. Then
reaching Melbourne from the base hospital
at Weymouth (Eng.) he sat down on the
sill of a lift-well in MeKillop-street to rest.
Two minutes later they took a mangled
corpse from underneath.
ARTIST FRED MeCUBBIN discourses on
atmosphere ( Vic. ).
Luke Murphy, who died lately at St.
Kilda (Vic.), aged 82, was one of the oldest
settlers in Gippsland. He arrived in Victoria
60 years ago, and went to Port xilbert, where
he met and married an Irish girl named
Margaret McCaffrey. The pair moved opt to
the place now called Sale, on the Thomson
River, and Luke Avent in for farming of all
sorts. He has left a remarkable family—-a
crowd of sons: three of them barristers, tw T o
of them surgeons, one a dentist, another a
grazier, the eighth a merchant. There
is just one daughter.
When the war commenced Dr. George
Cuscaden, principal medical officer of the
3rd Military District, Avas given the job of
sorting out the Victorian doctors who vol-
unteered for active service abroad and of
looking after medical arrangements gener-
ally in his State. Until lately the P.M.O.’s
billet has permitted private practice; but
owing to the piling-up of work th* Defence
Department recently advertised for ail
officer to give his Avhole time to the business
until the end of the war. There were
several applicants; but, as Colonel Cusca-
den, able and affable, had proved himself
one of the best salary-earners in the service,
he remained in his own shoes. _ Cuscaden is
a Collins-street surgeon of ancient repute, a
member of the Faculty of Medicine at Mel-
bourne University, and likes to have the
accent on the second syllable.
ADELA PANKHURST TALKS PEACE.
Died in Sydney a few days back, H. C.
Deliner, brother of The Bulletin’s old con-
tributor F. S. Delmer. Born in the Fly-
si eck 41 years ago, Deimer graduated at
Melbourne Uni, and for some years was a
schoolmaster at Geelong College and Sydney
Grammar School. About nine years back
he joined his brother, then professor of
English at Berlin University, and became
English lecturer at the German Military
Staff College, where he had as his pupils
many of the younger Hun officers who
exhibited their kultur in Belgium lately. Del-
mer resigned his position before the out-
break of war, and returned to Australia as
master of modern langiiag.es in the Stab'
High School, North Sydney. Kidney and
heart trouble closed the story. The elder
brother is at present interned as a prisoner
of war in Germany. Another brother is
master of a steamer on the Australian coast.
The Bulletin regrets that it won’t hear
anything for a while from its friend “Avis,”
the man who under that name or no name
at all has written so many good pars from
the Persian Gulf —including the delightful
story of the performance of Shakspeare with
variations at Busra. “Avis” —otherwise
Captain Thomas W. White (he never minded
anyone knowing it) —was reported missing
in Mesopotamia early in November; and the
Arabs “presume he is a prisoner of Avar.”
This paper knows no more enthusiastic
young soldier. Catching the complaint Avhen
a junior cadet, he joined the Garrison Artil-
lery at North Melbourne as soon as he could,
(nd got his crown and flags for signalling.
Then he moved to the Signalling Corps;
then in thirst of more experience he trans-
ferred to the infantry, and got his commis-
sion. Later, he \\ r as area-officer at Bendigo
and at Carlton, and filled in spare moments
learning to fly at Point Cook, being one of
the pioneer pupils. White left for the neigh-
borhood of the Garden of Eden with the
Australian Flying Corps about nine months
ago. His father —long in business as a lock-
smith in Little Collins-street, Melbourne,
died recently.
Of all the Duntroon military college boys
who went with the first four infantry bri-
gades only one is still in action: all the
others have been killed, wounded or in-
valided. The survivor is G. F. Wootten, a
captain at 21, and twice mentioned in dis-
patches.
Australia owes a special and personal
grudge to the Hun air-murderers now. In
a recent raid they caught two Kangaroos
as they came out of a London theatre
between the acts. The men in question were
Pte. Rogers, of Orange, and Pte. Rowell, of
Adelaide, who had both mended nicely after
their Gallipoli smasli-up and were out on
furlough. The bomb injured Rogers’s left
hand so badly that it had to be amputated,
and Rowell was so damaged that he had to
be returned to hospital.
Adelaide is recalling that the late Robert
Barr Smith, besides founding Elder, Smith
and Co., had a big hand in the start of the
Adelaide Steamship Co., the Bank of Adel-
aide, and both Moonta and Wallaroo copper
cos., and did a lot towards building up the
pastoral industry in every mainland State
except Westralia. Among his more striking
benefactions were £9OOO to the Adelaide Uni-
versity library (and £lO,OOO is on offer for a
University residential college), £lO,OOO to
build the" spires of the Anglican; Cathedral,
and £2OOO towards the new bishopric of Wil-
lochra; £2300 to clear the Trades Hall from
debt; a steam lifeboat for Government ser-
vice on the south-east coast; Clement
Wragge’s observatory on the summit of
Kosciusko; and minor gifts innumerable and
generally unknown to the public. Mr. Barr
Smith started the cremation movement in
South Australia and was a steady sup-
porter of it; so the great crowd that
gathered round the family vault at Mitcham
saw only the urn containing his ashes, car-
ried by his only surviving son.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” reads the ser-
vice :
John Macpherson has gone over, at 87, the result
of a fall out of a Sydney tram-car. John was Scotch,
and years ago was book-keeper to J. 1!. Holdsworth,
wholesale ironmonger, when he had his store at the
corner of Market and George streets. Old Tom
Puck land was his neighbor. When J. 11. Ilolds-
worth died, Edward, his son, succeeded to the busi-
ness, and took into partnership his uncle Henry
Holdsworth and John Macpherson, the firm being
then Holdsworth, Macpherson and Co. Mr. Mac-
pherson and his family, have been connected with
it ever .since. In a manner of speaking, the
Waverley Cemetery was part of the family, for John
was mayor of the borough when' the municipal coun-
cil projected it. The burial-place was designed as
a source of revenue for the municipality; but the
scheme went agley, and the Government insisted on
all the income being expended within the grounds.
In recent years the old man had a seat, with fees,
upon the Water and .Sewerage Hoard as representa-
tive of the Government. Probably he hadn’t made
a fortune. Comparatively few men do in his line.
It" isn't like the fluff trade where there are no
standard prices. The ironmonger can’t-charge 2000
per cent, on cost price for a pot on the ground that
the pot has a handle just’a sensation different from
all other pots.
LAUGHTER IN GERMANY.
The flag-waving and other patriotic demonstrations
which invariably take place all over the country
when the German staff reports a new “victory” are
by no means spontaneous on the part of the public.
It is, in fact, a standing order in most German
cities that on such occasions every householder must
display bunting.— Cable.
His Nibs : “Smile, you ——, smile.”
Maorilaud heroically resisted the tempta-
tion to import something the other day when
it handed Percy Muter the job of actuary
to the State Life Insurance Department in
succession to the late Morris Fox. Muter
was born at Invercargill in 1868. and joined
the office as a cadet at Christchurch. He
began to climb steadily with his eye on the
job he now holds, and in four successive
years passed the four stiff tests necessary to
qualify for fellowship of the English Insti-
tute of Actuaries. He was the first to get
the F.I.A. degree by exam, in Australasia.
The first man to take a horse and cart to
the top of Kosciusko passed out recently ar
Sydney. E. 11. Taylor, who did it, came to
Australia as a lad in 1850 from his native
Worcestershire, and for some time snatched
type in the S. M. Herald office. After mining
at Araluen (N.S.W.) and elsewhere he
joined the N.S.W. Trigonometrical Survey
in 1880, and had a hand in the triangulation
LOW, whose hook of caricatures has just
been published, on the way to his favorite
w ickedness —afternoon-tea.
of practically the whole State. His marks
still stand on the summits of the best-known
hills on the Blue Mountains, and the afore-
mentioned trip up Kosciusko was made Tor
the purpose of placing a cairn on the highest
point of 'this continent.
Dead in S. Aus. (1) J. W. Cairo, leather-
merchant and frequent Mayor of Port Adel-
aide, aged 67; (2) W. If. Cammell. for half
a century everything in the S. Aus. Customs
Department, from assistant-landing waiter
to Comptroller-General; (8) John Desmond,
originally of Warrnambool (Vic.), but Gov
eminent vet. of S. Aus. since 1899, and
known all over Australia as an authority
on anthrax, swine-fever and plague.
'Siah Thomas, who used
to be Postmaster-General,
was overtaken by Nemesis
.in Melbourne last week.
Hesitating in the middle of
Swan s t o n-street as to
whether he should go to
Parliament House or the
Methodist Book Depot, he
rashly decided on the
book depot, and was imme-
diately knocked endways by
one of the red motor-vans
of his former department.
The driver loaded him on to
the bags and delivered him
as first-class mail matter at
the Homoeopathic Hospital,
where he was re-sealed and
re-stamped and sent to his home address
little the worse for being mutilated
.*• ■ „ T
lrl transmission. If he and but chosen
a pub, like .an ordinary politician,
instead of making for a Metliody book-
shop, this par. would never have been
writtel] , Qn the other hand, if he hadn’t
been connected with Methody bookshops he
would probably not have been in Melbourne.
It was facility in speech learned as a “local
preacher” in Methody pulpits that gave him
111 . the Assomation at Broken
HllJ > ancl P a ™d llis -W to Parliament,
G. S. Kingsell, who used to he in the
N. S. Wales Justice Department and after-
wards went to Fiji and wrote some good
stuff from there, recently left London for
France as a lieutenant in the Army Service
Corps. He will work with Indian troops, hav-
ing acquired some of Brown Brother’s tongue
while growing coolie sugar. Kingsell reached
England on October 6, and the things he
had learned in Fiji gained him a commission
inside a fortnight.
A THOUSAND FRIESOS AND NONE.
[F OR TH E BUL LETIN.]
I saw him march in the line to-day,
And never a girl had he;
And he sailed to the Great Grim AVar away,
The clown of his company.
They’d crowd his tent in the camp at night
AVhen the long day’s drill was done:
For the ready .jest on his lips was light
Who’d a thousand friends and none,
I heard him laugh in a bar last week,
A laugh that the footlights know
AVhon the limelight glares on the painted cheek
Through the tinsel sham and show.
I saw him stand by a grave last year—
lie thought that be stood alone—
And the under world through his eyes looked sheer
From a face like a face of stone.
I saw him smile as he passed me by—
For he saw me and went his way—
And how should ho wear for such as I
The smile that he wears to-day ?
For my face was “plain” for a brave man’s bride—
He left me as brave men dare—
And the other girl lived and the other girl died
Because her face was fair.
T saw his face when the moonlight shone
One night by the wind-tossed wood,
And once ’neath the stars when the moon was gone,
And I thought that the lines were good.
And once when the skies were weeping sad
To his sick-room door I crept,
And the lines were good, and the lines were bad,
In tiie lamplight while he slept.
I saw him march through the streets to-day
And on through the wharf’s wide gates
(There’s a face for the woman that loves, they say.
And a face for the woman that hates),
And the memory of the dead past stood
In the living present’s stead:
And I wonder now will the lines be good
On his face when he is dead.
I saw him march in the line to-day,
And never a girl had lie;
I saw him sail to the war away,
The clown of his company,
The saddest man where many are sad,
With the good-bye cheerings done.
In the Legion Lost of the Good-and-Bad
AA'ith a thousand friends and one.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


hi/ii. /,
ml
%
m
( LL 5
e-
ITS
0
flf an invitation in the shape of a ‘HavelocK’
fill comes your way, don’t decline it. You
won’t forg'et the Name—you won’t forget the
Flavour-AND YOU’LL WANT MORE.
Special HavelocK Smoking' Mixture
3 Strengths: Mild, Medium, Full In 2-oz. Airtight Tins
THE LAST WORD IN
ClmK)
PIPES
400
p,peQ Ua r anteed
i&'J,
LMN
■
m
SB
HaS^r.v;


IRRIGATION.
We carry large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation " ork.
Also
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUS CO 9 Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agents-WILLIAM ADAMS <&. COMPANY LIMITED)
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Western Australian Bank ;
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£££ £ '
Sept.. 1908.. 21,457 20 p.c.= 17,500 3,957 404,769
Mar., 1909.. 25,238 20 „ „ 17,500 7,738 472,507
Sept.. 1909.. 27,429 20 „ „ 17,500 9,929 482,436
Premiums on new shares . . 27,024 509,460
Mar., 1910.. 27,945 20 p.c.= 19,189 8,756 518,216
Premiums on new shares .. 12,976 531,192
Sept.. 1910.. 27,200 20 p.c.= 20,000 7,206 535.398
Mar., 1911.. 29,000 20 „ „ 20,000 9,066 547,464
Premiums on new shares . . 71,820 619,284
Sept., 1911.. 28,110 20 p.c.= 23,939 4,171 623,455
Premiums 011 new shares .. 18,180 641,635
Mar., 1912.. 35,349 20 p.e.= 25,000 10,349 654,984
Sept., 1912.. 36,488 20 ~ „ 25,000 11,488 603,472
Mar 1913 . 37,404 20 ~ ~ 25,000 12,404 075,876
Sept.’, 1913.. 33,052 20 „ ~ 25,000 8,652 684,528
Mar., 1914.. 34,907 20 ~ ~ 25,000 9,907 694,435
Sept., 1914.. 29,955 20 ~ ~ 25,000 4,955 699,390
Mar., 1915.. 27,488 20 ~ ~ 25,000 2,488 701,878
Sept., 1915.. 27,209 20 ~ „ 25,000' 2,209 704,087
There isn’t much to spare (here. Still, if
the management has decent inner reserves, it
does tip' right thing in keeping up the old
rate. Westralia lias been having such a
wretched time that when a concern can pay
the old dividend, it would be pretty cruel to
button up its pocket. Fortunately the com-
ing harvest promises very well, and if wheat
isn’t going to bring a phenomenal price, it
will at least be profitable.
Shareholders who have been getting _ a
20 p.c. div. would certainly not be actually
drowned in sympathy if 2 p.c. w r as cut off.
But though there are a few people who may
he getting 20 p.c. out of this investment,
there are three times as many who are
getting only about 7 p.c. In 1890, when
present general-manager Holmes left the
family’s pet donkey behind in S. Australia
and went across to take charge, the paid
capital was £60.000 and the formal reserve
fund £64.620. To-day the paid capital is
£250,000 and the formal reserve fund
£680,000; and the bulk of that large addi-
tional reserve has been provided by pre-
miums paid on new capital issues. The
20 p.c. is therefore an entirely deceptive
figure.
No changes of serious consequence have
occurred during the year : —•
Liabilities.
Sept., ’l4. Sept., ’l5.
Notes.. .. £12,546 £12,045 Dec. £5Ol
Bills, etc. .. 147,385 161,152 Inc. 13,767
Free deposits . . 1,199,729 1,171,136 Dec. 28,593
Fixed deposits. . 1,233,624 1,274,066 Inc. 40,442
Assets.
Advances . . 2,402,070 2,456,956 Dec. 5,114
Liquid assets . . 1,027,604 1,001,030 Inc. 33,426
Premises . . 78,000 V 9,500 Inc. 1,500
The policy appears to have been to merely
stick to old customers; and that was right
when resources had to be conserved. Cur-
rent-account money has naturally been
drawn on; just as naturally fixed deposits
have increased a trifle, because so many
people reckon that the safest thing to do
with money just now is to let somebody else
take the risk of investing it. Practically all
the money this bank has thus accepted is in
hand; liquid assets represent just over 40
p.c. of the liabilities. The depositor is even
better protected by the large size of the
capital and reserves in proportion to lia-
bilities. Put it this way: the liquid
assets are £1,061,030, and the bank owes
£2,618,399; so it owes £1,557,369 w’hich is
not represented by liquid assets. And to pay
that £1,557,369 it has £2,456,956 of ad-
vances and £79,500 of premises. A West-
ralian security demands rather harder look-
ing at than most, 'partly because mining
districts are uncertain cattle, and partly
because agriculture isn’t a proved success
iu many parts of Westralia where it is
being tried by people who are borrowing to
make the experiment. But giving all that
in, this bank’s depositors are protected by a
quite unusual margin.
Henry Tones Co-operative. Ltd., which
owns “shares and interests in jam-manufac-
turing and fruit cos. and timber mills” :
To Rc-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1909 - £3,418
Reserves.
1910 ..£44,761 71 p.c.= £37,500 £7,264 3,846
1911 .. 49,048 71 ~ ~ 37,500 11,548 15,394
Premiums 011 shares .. 91 15,485
1912 .. 49,645 71 p.c.= 39,375 10,270 25,755
1913 . . 55,071 7f „ ~ 41,250 13,821 39,576
Premiums on new shares .. 198 39.774
1914 .. 59,989 71 p.c.= 45,375 14.614 54.388
1915 . . 67,342 71 „ „ 45,375 21,967 76,355
Bonus . . 5 ~ ~ 30,250 . . 46,105
The shareholder opens his mouth and shuts
his eyes and trusts the directors with the
spoon. What’s in it he doesn’t know;
what’s behind it he doesn’t know.. It isn’t
intended that he should know. This co.
doesn’t make jam. It merely owns all. or
virtually all. the shares in numerous cos.
which do make jam. The shareholder who
really owns the jam has thus no right to
push his finger into it.
The co. was a perfectly legitimate—in
fact, wise—attempt to cut out a lot of
unnecessary expense, and thus save waste.
Of course, there was a hit of a row about
it, and a noise has been made now and then
since. But this is certain: the basis of the
thing is right. Neither the producer of the
raw materials nor the consumer of the fin-
ished goods can be benefited by waste. If
there are half a dozen buyers’ agents chasing
for fruit which one could comfortably
handle, and half a dozen travellers trying to
sell jam which one could comfortably sell,
somebody has to pay the wages and the
exes, of the superfluous 10—either the grow-
ers or the eaters. And there were other
things. N. 8- Wales was flooded, say. with
apricots while apricots couldn't be had in
Tasmania; and vice versa as to, say, rasp-
berries. Instead of the N.S.W. jam co.
carting up raspberries from Tasmania to be
presently perhaps carted back to Tasmania
and offered as jam. it is now possible for the
fruit to be used lip where it; is freshest, and
then distributed, with the result that not
only is money saved, but a more wholesome
article is produced. The public ought to
benefit. Whether it does benefit depends
upon the management and the respect it
lias for the country’s anti-trust law’s. So
far, there is no doubt this co. has had a
very healthy respect for those law’s. lii
fact, Henry Jones, the chairman, is almost
“nervy” on the subject.
This co., as before remarked, isn't a jam
co. : it is an investment co. But that
sort of evasion doesn’t count for much. If
the co. were really suspected of using its
powers to unduly sweat either producer or
consumer, such little subterfuges w’ouldn’t
avail for very long. Meantime the arrange-
ment has this result: it prevents the public
(including competitors and shareholders
alike) knowing anything worth knowing
about the concern. The investments are in
“at cost” ; and the assets consist wholly of
“shares and interests” in these cos. and
amounts owing, by them —dividends and ad-
vances. On the surface, no goodwill is dis-
closed. But this co. may have paid £50,000
for 50,000 £1 shares in a subsidiary co.
which lias only £25.000 worth of assets. As
a matter of fact, in the first £400,000 of
capital issued £91,500 w’as goodwill. The
capital is now £605,000. Goodwill may have
been increased by subsequent purchases;
or it may have been reduced out of profits:
or large reserves may have been ..accumulated
by subsidiary cos. It is, by the way, signi-
ficant that the directors say: “The profits
of the South African business havfe fully
confirmed anticipations, and enable a contin-
uance of the policy of building lip a sub-
stantial reserve in that country.” It may
be handy some day to have a business in
S’Africa. You can almost smell it coming:
“In consequence of the profits from the
S’African business, the directors are able to
distribute a bonus of” so-and-so. Two
conclusions, then, seem inevitable: (1) As
to capital, nothing of any value regarding
the assets can be gathered from the balance-
sheet. (2) As to the profits, they are no
doubt very substantial; but the-management
will strike trouble if it attempts to pay any-
thing but moderate dividends, though much
may be done, no doubt, by timely bonuses.
# ' * * *
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd.,
w’oolbrokers, etc. (Sydney):—
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, selves..
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1904.. 8,845 7 p.c. = 7,000 2,000 17,648
1905.. 11,778 7 „ „ 7,000 4,778 22,"426
1906.. 14,805 7 „ 7,000 5,000 2,805 25,231
1907.. 17,767 7 ~ „ 7,000 5,000 5,767 30,998
1908.. 13,568 7 ~ ~ 7,000 3,000 3,568 34,566
1909.. 17,721 8 ~ ~ 8,000 9,721 44,287
1910.. 23,295 10 „ ~10,000 —' 13,295 57,582
1911.. 20,074 10 „ ~ 10,000 10,074 67,656
1912.. 18,019 10 „ ~ 10,000 8,019 75,675
1913.. 18,559 10 „ ~ 10,000 8,559 84,234
1914.. 15.198 10 „ .. 10,000 5,198 89,432
1915.. 13,181 10 „ „ 10,000 3,181 92,613
That last line is very good, considering (1)
the war, which so disturbed the market
early in the season that large quantities of
wool usually sold in Sydney were sent to
London, to be on hand in case of a spurt;
(2) the disturbance of the frozen-meat
trade, through the commandeering of all
available mutton; (3) the drought, which
has affected the offerings in both wool and
stock markets, and is going to affect them
for some time to come. Fortunately from
the co.’s point of view’, fat-stock sale com-
missions have been very juicy on account of
the phenomenal prices, so the. profit for the
year has been fairly well maintained. There
w’as actually less of a fall than in the year
before; and the recent shrinkage, seeing
that we. know what il is due to, is less dis-
turbing than the persistent and distinctly
unpleasant fall in profits which bad occurred
previously.
The most comfortable feature of the whole
business has been the wide margin of profit
in excess of the dividends. In 10 years
the shareholders have collected £89,000 ; and,
besides £13,000 that has been written off,
£70,187 has been put by. Thus very nearly
as much has been left in the business to
strengthen it as has been taken out. What
has been done with the undivided profit the
next table shows :
1900. 1010. 1914. 1915.
Debts due on
mortgage ..£78,000 £45.000 £45,000 £45,000
Other debts . . 115,605 104,052 60,900 74,117
Freeholds ('cost') 179,514 179,514 190,626 190,626
Leaseholds —■ 10,486 10,486
Advances, etc... 173,082 170,634 153,733 164,131
Compare the position with that of In years
ago, and you will see that, while advances,
etc., are only about £9OOO less, and though
over £20,000 has been put into store and other
premises, no less than £74,000 of debt has
been paid off. And while that by itself w’ould
he a very excellent performance, no doubt
something still more has been done; for it
is pretty certain that some of the advances,
etc., in 1900 have been written down. In
other words, they have been realised at a
loss, and the loss has been made good out of
current profits. This paper isn’t going to
swear that all the £164,131 at present on the
books would fetch 20s. in the £ if the securi-
ties had to be quickly realised. Apart from
the war. the drought in the North and Nor-
W’est and in Queensland is a terribly serious
business, from w’liich the losses are going to
be enormous; and it is quite possible that
some of the £164.131 is represented by dry
bones bleaching alongside a drier waterhole.
But no depreciation that is at all conceiv-
able could wipe out the reserves, and reach
the capital. And all of that capital is repre-
sented by tangible things: none is repre-
sented by goodwill, though nobody would be
foolish enough to say that the co.’s business
isn't w T orth a lot of money. For tw’o or
three or even more years profits may be
depressed; beyond that the future looks
cheerful enough, always provided that there
is a reasonable explanation of the fall in
profits from 1910 onwards.
* * * *
The Go-oterative Assurance Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Added to
July, Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit. -Deficit.
1911 .. £3,000
Sept.,
1912 .. £4,441 £lO4 £16,625 £12,288 15,288
1913 .. 10,074 167 15,107 5,200 20,488
1914 .. 14,370 1229 17,725 4,584 25,072
1915. .. 14,282 1461 14,257 1,430 26,508
The figures for the year are a shade better,
hut there is not the improvement you might
assume from the fact that the deficit for the
year was only £1436 as against £4584 in
the preceding year. In this matter the actu-
aries, who were asked to make a sort of a
report without making an actuarial examina-
tion, don’t put things quite as explicitly as
they might. They say :
The total cost of management has fallen not only
in actmil amount blit ulso in proportion to income.
The amount of shareholders’ capital spent in excess
of all the insurance revenue during the past three
years has been: 1913. £5200; 1914, £4584; 1915,
£1430. The movement is in the right direction and
rapid.
Now'', that whole £1436 might have been
wiped out (his year and still the movement
might not have been in the right direction
at all. Before you know whether the £1436
is a bhiter figure than the £4584 you must
know the amount of new business secured in
those tw r o years respectively. As a matter
of fact, while new-business (Ordinary) pre-
miums in .1914 were £4454, in the past year
they were only £2878. Further, so- many
lapses have occurred during the year that,
according to the. actuaries, “the amount at
risk is slightly less now than one year ago."
Further, though capital has been drawn
upon to the extent of only £1436 during the
year, it must be remembered that liabilities
have been accumulating on the policy con-
tracts. These liabilities have never yet been
valued, hut will be at the end of the current
year. This paper has. no basis on which to
estimate the amount that should have been
accumulated to meet the claims and matur-
ities. Instead of a total deficit of £26,508,
the co. has probably thus far gone to lee-
ward to the extent of at least £40,000. That
would mean that it ought to have £14,000 in
hand towards meeting -its obligations. For-
tunately, owing to its considerable share
capital, it has that much and a good deal
more. Loans on mortgage and cash repre-
sent over £28,000, This paper repeals that
it has ho idea what sum the co. ought to
have accumulated; but the amount can
hardly yet be £28,000. So far, therefore, the
policy-holders are quite safe. Whether they
will be safe later on. depends upon future
results. And whether shareholders will lose
their money or get fat depends upon the
same thing. They have put up £56,894, of
which probably £40.000 or more has gone.
That may be recovered, and big profits made
by-and-bye—we do not know’. We can only
say more or less positively how things stand
at present.
These young life societies put the post-
mortem-ist in an awkward corner. It seems
like baby-murder to kill them: it goes
against the grain—of this paper, anyway —
to speak kindly only of the corpulent old
affair, and not give a youngster which may
by-and-bye turn out better than any one of
them a chance. But in a matter of life in-
surance how can a writer take the risk of
recommending anybody to have anything to
do with a concern which hasn’t proved itself,
which has all its fighting to do, which may
possibly go hung, which certainly won’t be
able to work cheaply and pay good bonuses
for many years? A man may unquestion-
ably be a public benefactor by taking out a
policy in one of these new concerns, seeing
that he may thus be helping to establish
something better than the present best. But
if he looks at the matter from the purely
selfish point of view, the struggling infant
must have a cold time.
Mo sgiel Woollen Factory Co. (Dune-
din. M.L.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-.
Oct , Profit. Dividends Off. serves, serves.
1903 .£7.272 7 p.c. = £5842 £l5OO -—£1.9,498
1904 .. 667 34 „ „ 2921 - 17,244
1905 .. 3,312 .34., „ 2921 328 £63 17,307
1006 .. 2,483 24.. ~ 2086 552 - 17,152
1907 .. 5,093 4",, „ 3338 1695 60 17,212
190 S 7.073 5 „ „ 4173 2746 154 17.366
1909 7.230 54., „ 4590 2500 140 17,506
1910 9 845 6“ „ „ 5007 4500 33S 17,844
1911 . . 8.466 6 ~ „ 5007 3000 459 18,303
1912 .. 11.827 7 '",, ~ 5842 5500 485 18,788
1913 10 428 7 ~ ~ 5842 4500 86 1.8,874
1914 " 9’450 7 „ .. 5842 4000 18,482
1915 . . 12,937 7 „ ~ 5542 5000 2095 20,577
These M.L. woollen mills have had the
time of their lives. One of them explained
the other day that they really were not
charging more for their wares, but were
now’ able to keep going hard and make the
increased profit by reason of greatly-in-
creased turnover. Apart from military re-
quirements. which had been heavy, it was
explained that the disturbance of shipping
had given the local product a better chance
than it ever had before in the local
market. This co. is silent about the causes
of the extraordinary profit, and merely ven-
tures the opinion that “the directors believe
shareholders will consider the results satis-
factory.” Well, even the Mosgiel Co. can
do with a thick slice of good luck. In the
past 13 years the dividends have averaged
only ?. p.c. • p.a., and the reserves are not
£lOOO more now’ than they were then. A
fair amount of profit has of course been
written off; but depreciation of woollen-
mill plant is rapid, not merely that the
machinery wears out, but it lias to be
s.‘rapped or a more modern competitor gets
the business. Still the eo. has done what
some others haven't been able to do —it has
at least maintained its mill, and apparently
increased its business a bit, without going
into debt. Twelve years ago it owed
£24,281. To-day it owes only £12,346, and
has approximately the same value in assets
apart from the mill plant. The co. seems
thus to have been rather more than holding
its own after distributing the dividend
before mentioned: and, though profits have
been uneven, it has plainly been, on the
average, doing much better during the last
half-dozen years than in the preceding six.
The Mount I,yeti. Mining and Railway'
Co. (Tas.) :
Dividends and Written Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves,
v £ £ £
-Mar.. '07.. 282,938 321p.c.= 205,074 11,515 635,250
Sept., '07.. 150,025 35 ~ ~220,551 11,740 553,590
Mar., 'OB. . 141,730 20 ~ ~126,168 9,723 559,429
Sept., "08.. 168,130 17-1,. ~110.364 12,006 605,189
Mar., ’09.. 141,683 174., ~110,372 10,153 626,347
Sept.. '09.. 165,081 174,. ~110,300 9,930 661,198
Mar.; ’lO.. 131.506 174 „ ~111,094 10,076 671,534
Sept., ’lO.. 106,274 174 „ ~110,594 10,147 657,067
Mar., ’ll.. 100,022 124 „ „ 79,282 9,964 667,843
Sept., ’ll.. 83,775 124 „ ~ 80,098 9.468 662,052
Mar., '12.. 31,596 Nil 11,082 682,566
Premiums on new shares, £21,685. . 704,251
Sept., ’12.. 122,009 124p.c.= 80,922 9,608 735,730
Mar., T 3. . 5,014 Nil 32,738 708.006
Sept., T 3.. 53,462 Nil 32,249 729,219
Premiums on new shares, £738 . . 729,957
Mar., ’14.. 72,812 121p.c.= 80,424 14,455 707,890
Sept., ’14.. 40,724 10 „ .. 04,460 11,417 672,?37
Mar., ’15.. 115,480 Nil 80,383 707,834
Sept., ’15.. 158,509 10 p.c. = 64,460 20,123 781,760
The war-price of copper was responsible
for the half-year’s remarkable profit. Six
months ago there were 1294 tons on hand.
This, taken into account at £6O per ton,
actually averaged £BO Bs. Id.; so over
£34,000 of the profit credited to the past
half-year came from the surplus realised
on the previous term’s output. Of the past
six-months’ production 2072 tons were sold
at £B7 13s. 10d., and that meant another
£40,000 more than an average market would
have yielded. The current half-year should
show equally good results, because 1937
tons remained on hand, and have been taken
into account at the usual £6O, whereas elec-
trolytic copper is now up to about £95.
If tilings go smoothly at the mine, the cur-
rent half-year, helped by the surplus from
last half-year’s copper, should show profit
in the neighborhood of £200,000, or 3s. per
share.
Meantime Ihe mines are developing splen-
didly, and the prospects for the co.’s side-
line, superphosphates, are excellent owing
to the bountiful wheat harvest which will
be reaped in four States. Last season,
following upon the general drought, thou-
sands of farmers sowed without fertilisers.
Next Season they will feel themselves in a
position to use them. There no doubt is a
good profit in this business; hut the co. has
never shown it separately. As for ore develop-
ments, no estimate of reserves has been made
for the present report, and the former half-
year’s figures are repeated, with the recent
North Lyell extractions deducted: —Mt.
Lyell, 1,791,479 tons; North Lyell,
973,210 tons. During the past 12 years,
during which 2,900,016 tons have been
treated from Lyell and 1.366,989 tons from
the North, 325. 9d. has been paid in divi-
dends ; and on Sept. 30 there were assets
valued at £409,031 in excess of liabilities,
equal to (say) 6s. 6d. per share. Lyell
ore is of lower metal values than the aver-
age hitherto treated ; but North ore contents
have varied hardly at all. Costs are more
than they were ; hut the increase has been
checked by the Mt. Margaret electric-power
scheme, which is giving great satisfaction.
The dividends paid have averaged nearly
10s. per ton; the profits for the past 12
months have exceeded 12s. At 10s. per ton
the reserves would be worth 21s. 6d. pet-
share ; and to that must be added the value
of the ore proved in the bottom level of the
North during the past half-year and the
liquid assets. The market values the
shares at about 235. 9d.; and it has often
put a higher price upon smaller reserves and
poorer prospects.
Broken Hill Block 10. one of the
Barrier silver-lead-zinc propositions :—-
Profit. Divs. Profit. Divs.
Sept.,’os £114,340 £15,000 Sept., ’ll £11,479 £lO,OOO
Mar., ’O6 46,804 60,000 Loss.
Sept.,’o6 49,625 30,000 Mar., ’l2 8,851 10,000
Mar., ’O7 61,945 55,000 Profit.
Sept.,’o7 65,786 50,000 Sept., ’l2 36,049 10,000
Mar.,’oB 12,256 30,000 Mar., ’l3 16,861 20.000
Sept.,’oB 22,080 5,000 Sept., ’l3 37,481 20,000
Mar., ’O9 39,284 10,000 Mar., ’l4 17.467 30,000
Sept., ’O9 28,844 20,000 Loss.
Mar.,’lo 3,422 20,000 Sept., ’l4 4,692 12,500
Sept.,’lo 15,243 15,000 Mar., ’l5 16,846 Nil
Mar.,’ll 28,991 10,000 Sept., ’l5 9,892 Nil
Block 10 didn’t have enough ore left to go
into the co. which was formed to take over
the B. 11. Prop.’s smelters; and as that
plant can’t cope with the output even of the
four interested cos., of course Block 10
hasn’t been able to get its ore iu there. Nor,
in spite of all the talk about the development
of new markets and so on, has it been able to
find a buyer for either its lead concentrates
or its zincy tailings. Hence mine and mill
have been shut down all the half-year, and
the loss show’ll above is made up as follows:
Repairs and maintenance, £4329; manage-
ment. £1216; depreciation. £4083; income
tax. £10S0; less interest and sundries, £Bl6.
This loss is exclusive of any that may (or
may not) be made out of the Misima
(Papuan) option which general-manager
Ward is now testing. (He, by the w’ay,
fell down one of the workings the other day
and damaged himself considerably.). So far
£4853 spent on options is taken in as an
asset. The new property looks more promis-
ing than it did at the start, and two or three
months should decide whether it is worth
the money the option syndicate wants for it.


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even at the highest speeds.
m
SPECIAL FEATURES:—
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “ flashing over.”
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller, and
materially reduces the strain on the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia :
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STfiEET, MELBOURNE.
U4WMu«W l n^d
When you know you have been using a good
article, and probably using it for years, you are not
easily persuaded into trying something else. This
accounts for the success of “Pioneer” Australian
Leather Belting. Engineers and Mining men have
used it so long' and with so much satisfaction that
they will not bother experimenting with other makes.
“Pioneer” is reliable. Try it and see. Made only
by J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York Street
(opp. Q.V. Markets), Sydney. Sold in the other
States by Horace Summers, Perth, W.A.; Queensland
Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane, Q’land; G. Russell
Pty. Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vie. ; J.
McKell, Timpson Street, Pt. Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will bo as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. — Advt.
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete ; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.— Advt. [3
Extract from Joint Stock Companies Journal,
London, 15th September, 1915: “Insurance.—-
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society. The Acci-
dent Branch—in which the policyholders have the
unusual privilege of sharing in the profits by means
of a system of bonuses —is steadily progressing in
the magnitude of its operations and the amount of
of its profits. It is in the Ordinary Branch, how-
ever, that people in this country are interested.
It is the backbone of the whole thing; and in all
respects it presents an appearance of strength
and vigor which promise still better things to come,
despite war and all its troubles.”— Advt. [2
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine,
vinegar, acids, oil, cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 100,000 gallons.
They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
and State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office.) — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? Tf
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Com-
pany op Australia, Limited.- — By mutual consent
Mr. Francis 11. Snow has retired from the above com-
pany, and the Ore Purchase Department at Bridge St.,
Sydney, has been closed. Sellers of ore should now com-
municate direct with the Works, Port Kembla. —Advt.
The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte
Street, Brisbane, are Specialists in Road Building
and Shire and Municipal Machinery, also “National”
Gas and Oil Engines, and “Robey” Steam Engines.
—Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * -* *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus. Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, AVeights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., S O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
vVe-areßoanto
VJSCR BCNEVtim.
Insure in
1.0.A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid=up 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£543,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 o
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 o
£782,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
msUiMaaiMmSUUus^iim
Meantime, though the co. has pretty well got
to the bottom of the mine in Broken Hill,
there is still a comfortable surplus of £59,824
in the office, chiefly fixed deposits.
The directors of Arthur Rickard and Co.
Extended. Ltd. (Sydney), are finding out a
few things about published balance-sheets.
For many years The Bulletin scoffed every
six months or so at the accounts of the Hay-
market Land, Building and Investment Co.,
whose 40s. shares were mostly quoted at a
trifle over a pound. The Rickard Co. about
a year ago bought the other co., and, in
spite of warnings, “relied on the balance-
sheets and on the certificates of that co.’s
auditors that such balance-sheets were true
statements of the affairs and position of the
co.'' Now, long after the completion of the
purchase, a special audit “discloses the fact
that for a number of years past the Hay-
market Co. has been carrying on its books
secured balances which should long since
have been written off and in respect of which
it holds no security. Such writing-down will
entail a loss of £20,074” —which of course
the Rickard Co. will have to bear. As a
matter of fact, a published balance-sheet
doesn’t as a rule set out the true position of
a co., and rarely pretends to. All that audi-
tors usually certify lo is that tlje summary
is in accordance with the books*; and from
the books nobody can tell whether a property
alleged there to be worth £lOOO is really
worth that or something else. The pub-
lished explanation is therefore a poor excuse
for what looks like a bad bargain; and there
ought to be a strict inquiry into the whole
transaction.
* -x- *
( F>. H. Block 14 is the president of the
Gleaners’ Union. Ten years ago the mine
was so nearly worked out that it wasn’t
worth giving it a sulphide plant, yet the co.
has been paying dividends ever since, though
it has wasted a lot of money on other shows.
Last half-year, though it wasn’t able to sell
any of its small reserves of sulphides, it
made £4358 net. That wasn't enough to pay
the usual sixpenny dividend and the interest
on pref. shares (they carry 10 p.c. p.a. and
come in for dividends along with the others ) :
but there is still over £42,000 in the bank to
draw on for help, and other more or less
liquid assets worth £15,000 in excess of lia-
bilities. The co. has all these years been
poking around (lie upper levels looking for
little lots of carbonate ore—which the smelt-
ers snap up—and finding enough to keep the
pot boiling, though it lives from hand to
mouth. But it is steadily costing more money
to find the good stuff; last half-year total
exes, were £2 Is. Id. per ton as against
£1 17s. 2d. the previous half, notwithstand-
ing that “exploration work was kept as light
as possible.” For years the co. hunted around
for another mine; but it has given up the
search. There is £30,000 pref. capital, be-
sides 100,000 ordinary shares.
The consistent Yerranderie (N.S.W.)
silver field is to have another producing
mine. The Peaks, after years of prospect-
ing, has located the main lode at a depth
of over 700 ft. on the underlie. The solid
mineral is 28in. wide (a big lode for Yerran-
derie), and assays over 200 oz. of silver and
11 P to 40 p.c. lead. The great drawback of
the field is the high cost of cartage. The
fertile Burragorang Valley in itself ought
to justify the construction of a light rail-
way from Picton, and connection with the
mines would not be a costly undertaking
and would probably lead to the establish-
ment of a central smelting works on the
field. Coal is abundant in the locality, and
unlimited supplies of limestone and iron-
stone for flux could be obtained from the
Mittagong district.
* * * *
Insufficient votes were recorded at the
B. 11. Junction North’s meeting to give the
directors increased borrowing powers, so a
9d. call has been made. But the market is
holding up fairly well, because there are at
last sensible negotiations to sell the lease.
* -X- * *
Mount Baring, in the Oberon district
(N.S.W.), has again closed down, except for
a couple of men underground. This show,
which is an exceedingly patchy one, occurs at
the junction of the clay slate and felsite
country; but its nature is such that if it did
not occur at all the mineral wealth of N. S.
Wales would not be materially affected.
Its auriferous patches being no good, and its
more numerous other patches considerably
worse, while its gold is largely silver, its
proprietors invariably end up with much
more knowledge and a good deal less cash.
Enough money has been spent there to make
a mine of it if Nature had not been so
nearly out of gold when she constructed it.
It is, however, a constant starter.
lodide (N.S.W.) presents a more hopeful
prospect in the shallow ground. The rich
gold-silver vein discovered by tributors in
No. 1 level is still holding out, and what is
considered an important development is that,
instead of lying on a horizontal floor x it is
now pitching at 45deg., indicating a chance
of its living down. A shoot of gold-bearing
ore has been located at the 90ft. level. Over
a width of 30in. this assays load 13 p.c.,
silver 300 z., and tgold 3oz. 18dwt.
Raker’s Creek, the S.A.-owned Hillgrove
property which still holds the record as the
largest dividend-producer among N.S.W.
gold-mines, exists now practically as only a
golden memory. The mine is being worked
in a desultory way by tributors and by the
company in old levels. No further deep ex-
ploration seems to be contemplated. During
the past half-year the company crushed 43
tons for 2900 z. gold, equal to (ioz. 15dwt. per
ton, and tributors got 7780 z. from 180 tons,
or 4oz. Bdwt. per ton. The operations showed
a loss to the co.
Great Fingall (W.A.) has loaned portion
of its closed-down plant for the manufacture
of munitions, and intends to devote the next
six months or so to deep development and
adding to ore reserves. So far, about 45,000
tons have been extracted from what is
known as the new shoot below No. 14 level,
and returns have aggregated over £70,000.
Long-distance trucking and double haulage
have, however, proved so expensive that in-
stead of making a profit the co. has shown
a loss of £7OOO. Between the Nos. 18 and
19 levels prospects are fairly good, and in
some sections first-rate; and by the time
the mill gets going again the management
hopes with the aid of increased reserves and
improved working conditions to. once more
make a profit.
Fremantle Trading Co., formerly Fre-
mantle Smelters, Ltd., is about to resume
operations on its Northampton lead mines.
It also proposes, with Government backing,
to purchase ore from surrounding leasehold-
ers—an arrangement which will get over
that difficulty of finding a ready market
which has hampered local lead-production
since the war began. The co. has not yet
reached the div.-paying stage, but still has
hopes. An inflated metal market will of
course help.
* . •* * * •
“Bullant” Mclntyre's great gold hunt
(W.A.) has turned out poorly, and
Christmas will probably see the end of it.
The idea was all right, but the trouble has
been to get the men comprising the expedi-
tion to work systematically. Ilad each
couple of prospectors been, sent out to test
the wilderness in their own little: tinpot Way,
perhaps the result would have beeti different,
but in its present form the scheme is un-
workable. Meantime the promoter sits on a
black stump outside of his humpy and
dreams, of what may still be.
Mount Morgan’s blister is becoming more
gilt-edged than ever. The latest return
shows G2l tons copper and 10,2590 z. gold.
So a ton of copper contains £7O worth of
gold. But it isn’t anything to rejoice over,
for it means that the copper contents of the
ore have fallen while the gold contents have
been maintained. The last return shows
18,G5G tons smelted and 14,046 tons milled :
total, 32,702 tons. That means well under
2 p.c. of copper.
The Queensland Government is giving
attention to the Great Fitzroy, near Rock-
hampton. The mine is low-grade, averaging
less than 24 p.c. copper, but with the metal
at £BO that means 40s. per ton. Add 10s.
per ton for precious metals and the total
value is 50s. But deducting concentrating
and smelting losses, the actual yield is back
to 40s. again; and costs must be screwed
down if the mine is to pay. Fitzroy is, how-
ever, capable of producing from 150 to 200
tons of blister copper per month; and the
State can’t now afford to let £15,000 a
month go to waste if ends can possibly be
made to meet.
* ' -X- * *
Three of the Power family, helped by
Percy Pigott and Frank Powell, run the
Mount Cuthbert, Cloncurry. Powell, sen.,
is on the mine as general manager, and
W. H. Corbould is consulting engineer. The
co v having got its railway, has begun to
smelt at Mount Elliott’s Selwyn plant.; but
want of timber for underground use has
forced the co. so far to rely on dump
material for the smelter. It is said that
this isn’t averaging much over 5 p.c., partly
on account of leaching. Directly levels are
fixed up the grade of ore shipped should
improve, and then things will move pro-
perly. The co. on August 31 had a cash
balance of £14,50G and sundry stores £6972.
It owed £59,G00 on debentures. Now the co.
has to face the cost of its own smelting plant
as designed by W. H. Corbould. This will
result in a long bill. Hence the need to ship
as much rich stuff as possible to Selwyn.
Not satisfied with already holding a dozen
separate properties, the co. has taken an
option over the Orphan lease, east of Mount
Elliott’s Dobbyn claim.
The second big wash-up is in hand at
Cock’s Pioneer, Eldorado (Vic.). Starting
in mid-July and finishing on November 20, a
paddock of 240,000 cub. yds. of drift was
This is a higher plant efficiency
than was counted on, and the yield looks
like a tonic for Arthur Moline, who has
been bullocking so hard at his job that, he
needs one. Roughly 240,000 cub. yds. gave
up 23250 z. gold and 38 tons tin oxide, and
there are four tons of gold-bearing concen-
trates to be treated. Already the mathe-
maticians are figuring out costs and profits.
Gold at £4 per ounce gives £9300, and tin
oxide at the safe figure of £75 per ton
means £2850. The total value of products
recovered to date is therefore £12,150, or a
shade over Is. per cub. yard. With the
four tons of concentrates thrown in, the
dirt will go just a shade over Is., against
10kl. for 385,000 cub. yds. for the four
previous clean-ups. As there has been less
timber to worry over in the bottom, costs
should not be above 7d. Supposing the
profit to be sd. per cub. yd., that works out
at £5OOO netted for a 34 months’ campaign.
A year’s working profit on that basis would
be over £17,000. As administration costs
oughtn’t to be £2OOO annually, the div.
could comfortably be over 3s. a year. Should
the four tons of stuff on hand yield propor-
tionately, the gold return for the run just
ended will be 2500 z. more, or another Id.
per cub. yd.
It is still a tough job to find out exactly
where the New Langi Logan stands. Toole’s
half-yearly confession seems to switch the
wash off the 2oz. rails and send it down on
the loz. siding. So far as plans show, he
hasn’t rushed out to the east side of the lead
but lias kept prodding away on the western
reef. Late samplings shape up to 25dwt.,
and Toole isn’t such an ass as to move off
a run of gold when he strikes it in a lead
like the Langi. llis best foot is put forward
on the Cathcart gutter, where he has a
sampling record of 2foz. per fathom against
174dwt. on the Langi lead. There, too,
water is light, and the gutter of the right size
to collect profits from quickly. Toole’s
trouble is not that his income for the half-
year was made up of calls £12,713 and gold
only £1241, but that he caju’t yet shove into
the wash. If lie could get properly at the
Cathcart gutter he ought not only to hunt
the co. off the call-list, but be able to get
the east reef drive off No. 2 shaft out to the
Langi gutter. With that going and the main
south drive carried farther along from No. 1
shaft he could have the water under com-
mand, sample a block of the big lead and
discover the real worth of that gutter.
* * * -jf
Pernatty, the big S. Aus. copper-leaching
proposition, reports its first consignment of
precipitate to Wallaroo. There seems to
be no question as to the magnitude of the
ore-deposit; but, despite occasional reports
of faces assaying up to 20 p.c. copper, bulk
quality is comparatively low. It is a metal-
lurgical problem—how to get a maximum
extraction at a minimum, cost. In this re-
spect the management is to be credited with
a policy of hasten slowly. The existing
plant is purely experimental, but is so
designed that should it be successful it will
be a unit of a large installation. The prac-
tical men assert their satisfaction with re-
sults, but this satisfaction does not seem to
be reflected in Adelaide, judging by the life-
less market for the stock. Adelaide is
nothing if not a boom market; but apart
from the preliminary flutter it has shown
no disposition to excite itself over Pernatty.
* * * *
At last Tom Husband has been allowed to
print the tragedy of. the Briseis in 1914.
Against profits of £37,728 shown in 1913, a
loss of £4266 has to be exposed ; so the co.
stepped back in the year nearly £42,000.
That may not be all, for unless the invest-
ments of the London directors were fluked on
to the market before the war there will pro-
bably be a pretty stiff shrinkage in the re-
serve investments of £50,000. The year’s
results were, due to drought, war and smash-
up of the metal market for months after the
Huns attacked the Allies. Half-time had to
bo worked everywhere on the mine, and with
less work done costs ran up out of recogni-
tion. The big job ahead is to get rid of the
basalt crown on the Ringarooma Hill, Some
of this stuff costs 2s. 6d. a cub. yard to shift.
Still the nozzles are slowly wearing the mass
down, and with the Krushka Flat again
giving fair returns,'finances can’t be so drab-
colored as when the curtain rang down on
1914.
* * * *
From the people who own it: —•
Speaking- of the Papuan oil-field Tite Bulletin
(2/9/’l5) said the Petroleum World is “published
ia the interests of the oil rings.” This is the exact
opposite of the truth. The Petroleum World, with
its weekly and daily, has a policy distinguished by
its rigorous opposition to any aggrandisement of
the large oil corporations at the expense of others.
Two examples maj' here be briefly mentioned: —
(1) When a cosmopolitan combination of some of
the largest oil interests secured privileges in Trini-
dad inimical to independent concerns, we strongly
attacked the Home Government for the grant of
those privileges; and but for the fact that, without
breaking faith, the Government could not go back
on its decision, those privileges would undoubtedly
have been curtailed.
(2) The Standard Oil interests, the largest “oil
ring” of all, engaged in a public controversy with
us a year ago—the only instance on record where
they adopted such a course, at all events in the
United Kingdom. They retired considerably the
worse for the encounter.
It was with the desire of issuing a warning before
it was too late, and of saving the great oil wealth
of Papua from the fate (say) of the Trinidad oil
industry, that the article in the Petroleum World
was written.
Then Heaven save the Papuan field from
its disinterested friends! The Common-
wealth’s policy was to keep the oil rings
out, and work this field itself. The
Petroleum World, however, said: “Only
the .Standard Oil, the Dutch Shell Co., Lord
Cowdray’s group or the Burmah Oil Co.
can possibly properly develop this great oil-
bearing area.” From this we are to assume
that (lie Petroleum World is unfriendly to
the great oil rings. The Bulletin accepts
its friend’s statement that it is so. But it
shows how the English language varies in
shades of meaning with latitude and longi-
tude.
* * * *
Among recent cables' is a statement that
the Anaconda is producing zinc by an elec-
trolytic process. The first serious Broken
Hill attempt to make spelter was by that
method; in fact, the Sulphide Corporation
was primarily formed to work Ashcroft’s
Process, and the Central mine at Broken
Hill was merely a side-line. But it turned
out to be far too expensive, and after it had
cost the co. well on to quarter of a million
one way and another, it was abandoned.
Ashcroft himself, however, never lost hope,
and was recently working on it in England.


Heeling's
Cojo
en
en
Est. 1818.
a .■* u
mm
SHEERING“
cherry br*s
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
DAIMLER
m
m
sotor Carriages
oOPiffiBCltt Yeiibees ~
Aaaeumm Tractors
daimleTcompany «*
COVENTRY, EN6IAN&.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
In use since 1596.
CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Enfc
insist on “Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.
SINCE 1679. SINCE 1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, Novum beb 21), 1915.
My Dear Ahini, —
The jubilee of the Parliamentary Labor
party tailed off in a concert at the Toavu
Hall. Empty galleries and a thin attend-
ance on the ground floor gave the performers
a hearty reception from the echoes that lie
in wait for such occasions. Premier Holman
and J. D. Fitzgerald trod softly to their
seats as the National Rifle Reserve band Avas
about to blare Auber’s overture, “Masa-
niello,” which it handled with spirit. Mrs.
Slapoffski supplied samples of her top notes,
Dick Ryan tried the “Heroes of the Darda-
nelles” on an audience that wanted more,
organist Arlom thundered on the big instru-
ment, and a. ucav soprano, Miss Evans,
shoAved promise of better things.
Labor’s effort to attract a crowd at the
Agricultural Grounds on Saturday after-
noon fell flat. War funds come so far first
now that trying to gather in coin for other
purposes is a forlorn hope. Buxom Lady
Doris Blackwood, who is staying Avith the
Stricklands, was Avith the State Governor’s
small party at the carnival.
Papuan’s long Excellency Murray is re-
covering from a badly-sprained ankle. He
met the mishap in the Backblocks, and had
to be carried for miles till the cavalcade
came to a horse and the fringe of civilisa-
tion. His Ex.’s eldest son Terence, by the avu.v,
has just been gazetted Captain. Young
Murray has seen a good deal of service for
his 24 years. Noav he’s back in France after
convalescing in England. As I told you
before, he gave Philippa Kitchener, a niece
of K. of K., an engagement ring a Avhile
ago. The wedding is to take place Avhen the
youth gets his first leave.
Mrs. Murray is likely to come this way
any day from Hobart. She Avants to help
a small son, Pat, spend his Christmas holi-
days.
Some day something good may happen to
the old barn knoAvn as the Blackfriars
Training College for Teachers. It may be
burnt down or bToAvn away. Meanwhile the
students swelter under its iron roof in sum-
mer and shiver in its tireless rabbit-warren
in winter. Occasionally they have a drop-
tools afternoon, when the temperature gets
high in the nineties, and they take tram to
town to there meditate on the palace that
houses their Education bosses.
In this unlovely old Blackfriars shed there
was a first-rate exhibition last week. The
Art work, mostly of the bold poster style,
that hung round one burrow, chiefly
done by pupils of J. C. Wright, was
an unusually strong exhibit for a
students’ show. Two young artists,
Misses Young and Bennett, were both
humorous and decorative in their dash-
ing color friezes—“ The Forty Thieves” and
a comic Bunny family sketch. Art needle-
work, in which the early Victorian child’s
handiwork —often embroidered with tears —
was imitated, proved the deathless fame of
cross-stitch. Miss Wark, the slim young
schoolmarm in charge of this department,
which dovetails in with that under Miss
Marsden, is keen to get Australian bird-life
into silken stitches. Furniture made by
the male students formed solid islands in
a small ocean of kindergarten cardboard,
backed up by Montessori relief.
The Teachers’ Training College, by the
way, has a grievance. It can get no official
assurance that students AA T ho are specially
adapted to teach one subject Avill not be
dumped into a school that does not seem to
have ever heard of their extra qualifications.
An exceptionally clever Art student may
Avilt amongst the three R’s, and a profound
scholar in algebra may be anchored to pupils
Avho dote on fine needlework.
To the list of wounded ex-A.D.C.’s has to
be added the name of Pollock, Avho was on
Lord Denman’s staff for a while.
The suggested memorial to Nurse Cavell
in Sydney xvi 11 probably be designed by
Theo CoAvan. At present, though, the idea
is not whipped into form.
A Mecca of Avomen last Aveek Avas the
“Baby’s Kit” exhibition held in a building
in Jamieson-street. It displayed complete
sets of garments to be forwarded to the impe-
cunious baby of our Allies in furrin’ parts.
Really a Hordern grandchild or any other
gilded Pink Toes couldn’t Avish for anything
more complete or comfortable. There must
be some exquisite needleAA’orkers and knitters
and designers amongst our voluntary
Avorkers. Most of the outer garments Avere
fashioned from scraps and remnants given
by Red Cross or the shops, but the piecing
work was done with such skill that you’d
think the workers had a limitless choice of
the best. And as for accessories for Baby !
One lady who had gifted her old evening coat
now saw it as a beautiful cot-quilt and lined
with blanket. Selvedges of flannel were
crocheted with giant needles into mats for
baby feet. Truly woman in wartime is
desperately designing and hath sought out
many inventions.
Colonel Bob Owen came home the other
day to a vociferous welcome. The eldest son of
the late Percy Owen, of Wollongong, Colonel
“Bob” has always been popular in the
South Coast. Years ago he went into the
British army as a youngster, then retired
and filled a soldiering billet in Maoriland.
In the intervals he used to trek home to
see dad and the cabbage-tree palms.
Wounded at Gallipoli, he is now convales-
cent after a civic reception in his native
town.
The Bush Nursing Association, which
Lady Dudley made such a good fight for, has
just Avon the D.S.O. at far-away White
Cliffs. The lonely opal-mining camp hasn’t
had a doctor since the war nearly killed the
gem trade, and diphtheria played a coward’s
trick and fell on the town when it had no
red lamp burning. All it had Avas Nurse
Collins, one of the bush sisterhood. But she
Avas as good as an army corps and a mile of
trenches; and Avhen a doctor, posted out from
Broken Hill, arrived, she had already saved
eight lives and Avas beating the enemy across
the Momba Plains. Three other patients
Avere lost after the Government doctor came ;
but that, it seems, Avas the end of the epi-
demic.
Perth’s Anglican shepherd, Archbishop
Riley, arrived from Melbourne the other
morn. The long, wiry-lookirig cleric, who
is a friend of the vice-regal Stricklands, was
pounced on by Private Secretary Finn when
lie shoAved his gaiters on Central Station.
Asked if he’d rather rest and have a snack or
go AA r ith his Ex. to the Red Cross depots, his
Reverence chose “socks” for a start. The
Perth visitor is known as a good sport in the
West, and is on quite friendly terms with
race-club secretaries and other sinners.
In Melbourne one notices the heavily-
embroidered veils worn by the comparatively
smart, and the very short skirts of the ultra-
fashionable. The latter vagary is about the
only sartorial excitement a Sydneysider can
pick out in Collins-street. Evening duds of
the fresh-air cut of peace-time have been re-
modelled. Fairly high at the back, the
theatre gowns that float in from the Best
Suburbs are mostly meek enough to pass
muster at a Y.W.C.A. party. Arms still
gleam through a film of transparency, so
the sacrifice has some compensations.
The death of Cecil Lamb, formerly of the
Permanent Force here, removes a once-jaunty
personality. He was killed by pneumonia in
England, whither he had gone to try and. get
into the firing-line. His widoAV, who lives
in N. S. Wales, is a sister of Dr. Stewart
McKay.
“Bertie” Adams, of Chatswood, is making
a London success in the name part of the
frisky comedy “Mademoiselle Champagne.”
The Adams family have a turn for musical
fluff. A brother of Bertie’s wrote the pre-
ceding lively “Scarlet Rhapsody” Avith satis-
factory results.
Lieut.-Colonel Robertson, lately at Thurs-
day Island, notes a considerable drop in the
thermometer. He was recently promoted
and takes the command of the R.A.G.A. in
Victoria. In consequence, the tall soldier’s
headquarters are at Queenscliff, where a
wintry wind races round the fort eight
months in the year. War-time having
thinned out the subaltern staff, the big
house that used to be the officers’ mess, on
the crest of the cliffs, is being spring-cleaned
for the C.O. and his family. A bungalow
cot, facing the Rip, houses the two lone
subs, Mr. Kelly and Mr. Brown, who occa-
sionally trip this Avay on duty.
On December 11 Joan of Arc will toss her
plumes at the Theatre Royal. The proceeds
of this matinee Of Mrs. Boult’s drama go
towards Christmas sugar-plums for the kid-
dies of fallen soldiers. Gifts in kind will
be Avelcomed vociferously at Siddeley Cham-
bers, Hunter-street.
By the Christmas Eve mail craft Mrs.
Reggie Davis and family, from Scone, will
float to France to join Dr. Reggie and his
car. Mrs. “Banjo” Paterson’s small sister,
Miss Walker —one of the Tenterfield crowd —
goes as company, Avith a hope of somewhere
seeing one of her three soldier brothers Avho
is invalided to England.
A sprig of the Limerick family-tree was
cut off at the battle of Loos after doing some-
thing very gallant. He Avas a Pery—Syd-
ney and Brisbane knew him as “Laddie”
,—and when in these parts, where he mar-
ried, mostly drove a pen for the Bank of
North Queensland. Kitchener sent the
mother his admiration and regrets in the
same envelope.
lima Elliott, the Sydney girl Avho had a
long innings as pupil of Madame Christian,
is said to have as many engagements at con-
cert work as she can get through in England.
And Carrie Lancely, the Gore Hill soprano,
is rushing through a dizzy round of patriotic
concerts in London before packing up for
home and gum-trees.
Cement, sugar, chaff or any similar hessian
bag will be accepted by the Sandbag Commit-
tee at4s3Pitt-street. Alter them first to sched-
ule size, 14 inches by 33 inches. And for good-
ness sake make the seams overlap an inch,
so that the Front won’t be disturbed by bags
on the burst. Leave six inches open down
the top seam. Then ask the boy of the
household, who always knows where the
string goes, to spare you about two feet of it
for each bag. It isn’t necessary to fill
them with soil.
Alice Currie, a Sydney girl with a voice,
is singing at drawing-room entertainments in
London. She camps with Ruth Bannister,
the wood sculptor. Ruth’s mamma pours out
the tea.
Lieutenant Maurice Lenehan, who left
with an artillery lot, put the usual question
to Zelma Robertson before he went. The
girl is the only daughter of the George
Robertsons, of Woolwich. The young man’s
brother Eric, who did his bit at the Front,
is getting well in Randwick Hospital. The
youths are sons of Colonel Bob, who divides
his time between the law and eighteen-
pounders.
The woolly Bloxhams, of the Western
Plains, are threatened with an artist in
their family. Cecilia is a promising young
student, whose brushwork added to the
receipts of the English stall in Martin Place
on Allies Day.
“Tryphena” Doughty, once on The
Bulletin staff, is again in the Inky Way.
This time it is as one of the owners of a
Grimsby paper in the Cold Land. A step-
son, Wilfred, edits the journal.
The Last Post sounded on Gallipoli for
Frank, eldest son of the Frank Coffees, of
Chatswood, Avho are on the Wouldn’trow
Wilson side of the Pacific at present. Frank,
junior, who supported the twin stars of a
lieutenant, was attached to one of the Vic-
torian battalions. In peaceful times he was
on the writing staff of one of the Melbourne
dailies.
The robust Major Stanley Ryrie and his
missus came over here from Melbourne on
Friday. The pair feel kind of dislocated;
they had made final fixings for a trip abroad,
he to the war, she to Egypt, when the
authorities called everything off. They told
the Major he was most wanted to train men
nearabouts. Mrs. Ityrie’s cousin, one-time
fluent Hilda Flood of Sydney, is matron of
a private-house hospital in England, while
her husband, Colonel Percy Owen, does six
months in India on some engineering ex-
cursion.
The Peace Society this week had Dr.
Strong, the Melbourne theologian, to preside
over its cooing. “Business as usual” is the
motto of this society, which still offers a
bun and a glass of soda to the mad bull of
"Europe.
The Mosman Macleod girls have laid aside
their steel sock-spikes for a spell and taken
on the spinning of the yarn instead, with the
real thing in wheels, same as the chorus
sings to in “The Flying Dutchman.” The
covering of Mary’s lamb when it reaches
their hands is really snow-white, but before
getting into circulation it is spun, skeined
and dyed khaki with the juice of our own
gum-leaves. There’s pure Australian for you.
Gordon Inglis, a former Sydney press-
man, is now a lieutenant in the Grenadier
Guards, “somewhere in France.” Boyd
Cable, another Australian writer, who has
had over 12 months in the trenches, has at
last been invalided to England with a gas-
tric trouble. He wears his two stars with
an artillery lot.
The Free Kindergartens are dodging the
measles and working up their light infantry
for the usual pro Christmas show days.
Before getting back to Melbourne Lady
Helen had a look at the Training College in
Liverpool-street and the Surry Hills school.
The Training College, by the way, has an
interest of its own in its new quarters. The
big, old-fashioned house that now shelters it
used to be the home of the late John Rae.
To this old public servant’s facile pencil
Sydney owes many sketches of what it used
to look like when Darlinghurst was “the
bush,” and its few residents found it o’
nights by the light of lanterns.
Nurse Hay, who matroned at Clarmore
private hospital, is bound for active service
in one of the war-area hospitals. She goes
as a plain “sister,” but if some of the big
surgical guns at the halting place discover
her identity, it’s even money they’ll promote
her on the field, so to speak.
The Federal Income Tax Department in
Sydney is good for the liver but bad for the
temper. The box into which the fateful re-
turn may be dropped is at the top of in-
numerable stairs. The lift can take about
12 out of a possible 50 who make the pil-
grimage. It might seem a simpler arrange-
ment to put the box at the street-level, b«t
that’s merely a woman’s stupid idea.
Literature isn’t written these days—it is
dictated to typistes by stout business men
who want to persuade some little “general”
to pay 12s. 6d. and get her hair made glossy
or her tallow skin converted in one week to
blush rose. A friend who has temporarily
given up housekeeping and sent the maid
home for a holiday has been engaged weed-
ing out of her employee’s mail the obvious
shark-circulars. The Yankee shark with the
miraculous hair-raiser was the most raven-
ous with his demand for one week’s wages
for his rubbish ; but there were also jewel-
lers and drapers—particularly drapers. One
firm of very eminent ragmen sent an envelope
full of tears and sobs begging to know why
Miss Broom liadn t favored them with her
esteemed orders, and promising the sack to
any employee who hadn’t guessed what she
wanted and leaped to get it. a a hat a howl
there would be it the liquor-sellers chased
custom into every suburban hole and corner
in this way! But the temperance movement
hasn’t yet touched the drapery trade,
Maudie Telfer, who went away from Syd-
ney with the Quinlan Opera Co., has gone
into vaudeville. So has the Westralian
soprano Lulu Benstead, the times being out
of joint for high-class trills. Pianist Carl
Budden Morris, a' former pupil of Yvonne
Charvin, is making a crust at teaching iu
London, with occasional appearances at the
keyboard.
Dorothy Gumming, the Sydney girl v is to
play Anne of Austria in the Julius Knigln
revival of “The Three Musketeers” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, with Olive Wilton as
Miladi.
Adela Panlckurst’s recent explosion hero
on mueb the same lines as the familiar
shrieks of a year or two ago. Then the
attack was on man in the abstract—par-
ticularly if he wore a policeman’s hat. Now
the oratory foams over man in the con-
crete—the man with the gun who is fighting
for you and me and the Pankhursts. Some-
how the voice of Adela, which races like a
boarding-house bell, can’t convince a Peace
Army to materialise. But she might pick
up a wilted brigade at the street corners.
“Australian Flora in Applied Art” is the
title of Curator Baker’s latest contribution
to the T ec^ n ! c ; Education series. I"
women who dabble in handicrafts this book-
l?t 1S specially useful. It devotes itse
the service ot the waratah for deco i -
purposes. Queeu of the Australian bus <
the gorgeous red bloom can, it seems, be <
with brilliant results for everyt ing bu
trimming a saint in a stained-glass window,
Captain Thompson, of the Malwa, who
was at the TV omen s Commonwealth Patii-
otic Association lunch, gave Austia a - a
chutney a first-class testimonial. All those
around him heaiffi lie said it was the be.
xxx the world. It is made entiiely of fiu .
couldn t be a better judge of -
stuffs, I should say, Ilian a Top log of t
Perhaps the biggest surprise of the lunch
was the fact that the tea and coffee served
was Australian grown. The first came from
S.A.; the second from Queensland,
The Libby Hordern baby quits its grand-
mother Monie presently, and, in care of two
nurses, will travel to join its parents m
London.
The Theatre League has lost one of its
early members—F. C. Grimsby, who is
buckling on liis bandolier for service.
The Norton Russells are still in London,
camping near the chimes of Westminster.
*l, u, .
, Now that the Old Guard base k \.
border for Her Majesty s, its ancient:militarj
miHmcry woHh a gasp f
men dld fight 111 gcai th< t . e
look something like a clothes-horse and
something like a Christmas we k o
How the y dld xt we don t P retcnd to know,
Reg Roberts? who bas been dieting for the
g ood Q f b j s figure, looks quite juvenile under
a mi ] itary to que of a high tea-cosy pattern.
The Melbourne cast is altered. But Derek
Hudson still slouches through a fine vocal
e ff o rt with the stooped shoulders of an over-
grown scbool kid
m v „ j.
The Handicrafts had a warm-up m the
Art Society’s rooms the other hot afternoon.
rj be receiß sb ow, though smaller than some
that pred eceased it, was rather better in
q Uadß y. A display of raffia Avork and some
seasonable efforts in repousse leather were
S p r j n kled with fine needlework. Cleone
Grackneirg enamelware and the leather
dg which Mrs E . S ansom and Molly
fe amberger exchanged for cash were good
se ii erg
A , „ a
f Raffia work, guaranteed .to be a. seda
tor war-battered serves, the ciaz o
moment. In the first rush to weave baskets
enthusiastic woman took a few lessons hei-
sel.f ’ the , n T ! et to work to te f k . the f J? n '
valescent Kangaroo. Now she is taking
th business * lore seri ously. Red Cross
depGts are being ri d dl ed with female raffia
students, who sit at the feet of some expert
and f ee j tbat they’re going to put another
bn ttress to the Emmre
> -S!
for January 19. I unas go to wipe on: tne
deb t ; or som e of it. The design of this
bu ji d j ng) with its Australian-Moorish garden
i ngb j e t he hollow quadrangle, is worth a
j t >s a br illi a nt change from the painful
p i geon . co t e architecture that stifles our best
suburbs
’ ' ~ . . ,
lor some time the oldi linen sent nto th.
Red Cross depots sufficed foi the to o
Dardanelles. The supply has, however, begun
e m db “ dles a ; e cal i ed f or bv
various committee?
n e Eiii
bile Governor Sveet-Lscot, j ,
mi his way to England, Ins 5 8 France
Lieut. Leslie S. E., was ku x
was only -1.
.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
VICE-REGAL
m
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
RINGS.
DAINTY GIFTS FOR CHRISTMAS.
ENGAGEMENT RINGS,
DIAMOND 3 STONE,
£2l 0 0
DIAMOND CLUSTER,
£2O 0 0
nr
DIAMOND FANCY,
£0 0 0
DIAMOND HALF HOOP,
£3G 0 0
DIAMOND HALF HOOP.
AIT 0 0
The stones selected for
the Company’s stock of
Rings are of the highest
standard of quality.
All diamonds are mounted
in platinum, and the
settings are strong and
durable.
DIAMOND
£lB
STONE.
0
DIAMOND SINGLE
STONE.
£5 0 0
GENTLEMAN’S BLOODSTONE
AND SOLID 18-ct. GOLD SIGNET,
£3 15 0
DIAMOND FANCY,
£7 15 0
FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT
ON ALL CASH TRANSACTIONS.
m
m
NEW.ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
LADY’S BLOODSTONE
AND SOLID 18-ct. GOLD SIGNET.
£1 13 0
SHOWROOMS
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
LONDON AGENCY: 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET W,
WTv<
- Avs
9
Pf
st
Corsets
\
In Every Quarter
of the Globe
Warner’s are recognised
as the leading corset
wear for style, comfort
and durability*
Perfect fitting-, they
mould the form to
graceful lines, and
improve every
figure.
Perfect comfort
and freedom of
movem e n t,
giving ease in
any position*
Every Pair
guaranteed
not to Rust,
Break or
Tear.
Models to suit all types of
figures. Strongly boned
corsets for full figures, and
lighter styles for those
requiring less support.
All leading stores stock
Warner’s.
s
mi
■H
H
MR
Ms
ms§
©
•••••
WF' /
V’
*• /
v-r
i*S
C£rts
mm
£V§§
. \.
'iv . ■;.:
Y)i*
iw
r /
;;
r
€6
9«
! ItS
/
m
DANISH
"Judge by die Taste.
HENRY OISEN 8 CO. FTY.LTD.. 255* George Si rett.
BROWN 8 CO., 21 Ung Street, Sydney—Joint Agent*.
m
Lipton’s
Tea.
By Special Appointment to Ilis Majesty the
King, Purveyors to the late Queen Victoria
and King Edward the Seventh, the King and
Queen of Italy, the King and Queen of Spain ,
and to every Viceroy of India for the past
23 years.
THERE can be no better recom-
mendation to the virtues of Lip-
ton’s Tea than the fact that in
India, which is the greatest Tea-pro-
ducing country in the world, Lipton’s
Tea has reigned supreme in the Viee-
Regal Court for nearly an ordinary
working lifetime.
Lipton’s colossal organisation has
been described as “The business on
which the sun never sets,” and Lip-
ton’s Tea as “The Pride of Five Con-
tinents.”
A Medical Opinion of
Lipton’s Tea.
Read what Dr. N. E. Yorke-Davies, the
Famous Nerve Specialist says regarding
Lipton’s Tea:—
“It has also other advantages besides the
excellence of its quality. It comes from a
British Dependency, and is prepared under
British auspices. It does not pass through
the hands of natives, but it is manipulated
after it leaves the gardens entirely by
machinery of the most up-to-date character.
Of all the teas grown throughout the
world Ceylon teas are the best,” and the
finest Ceylon teas are grown on the Lipton
Estates, as they are entirely free from
Tannin or anything that could be injurious
to health.
We can supply grocers and farmers with
thousands of original chests at 2d. to 3d. per
pound under contract prices which will be
paid during the next twelve months.
Lipton’s Red Label Tea.
Lipton’s Yellow Label Tea.
Lipton’s Green Label Tea.
Lipton’s “At Home” Tea.
Lipton Ltd.
Head Office for Australia:
SYDNEY-414 KENT STREET.
BRISBANE—S 29 Petries Bight.
MELBOURNE —378 Flinders Street.
NEW ZEALAND—Customs Street East,
Auckland.
Also, SOUTH AUSTRAI.IA, WEST
AUSTRALIA, and all over the world.


Farmer's Stylish Panamas
ARE PERMANENTLY POPULAR.
In selecting a Panama you follow the trend
of Fashion: At the same time you get the
maximum of comfort, and, by shopping at
Farmer’s, you get the utmost value in
GENUINE Panama Hats.
We illustrate a very fine quality of South
American Panamas for Men, closely water-
woven from thin, firm straws, and finished
with all widths of brims from 2J
to 3 inches. The whole hat is
finished off with Unfading Black Silk
Band and real leather Sweat Band.
As illustrated.
21/-
OTHERS AT 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, to 42/-
CAIiBIAOE FREE to an// part oj Australia.
FARM ER ’ S -SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
a
*-
i
PAULINE et CIE
ANNOUNCE
SPECIAL REDUCTIONS in ENGLISH
and FRENCH MODEL MILLINERY.
All remaining “PAULINE” Models also
reduced.
3rd Floor, Denison House, George St.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 24th November, 1915.
Sale of Trade and Customs Launch,
“Golden Fleece.”
TENDERS will be received until noon
on Wednesday, Bth December. 1915,
for the purchase of the Trade and Customs
Steam Launch “Golden Fleece,” as she now
lies at the port of Sydney.
Full particulars regarding the launch can
be obtained from the Collector of Customs.
Customs House, Sydney, and arrangements
for the inspection of the Launch can also be
made.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
Launch ‘Golden Fleece’ ” on top left-hand
corner of envelope, and addressed to the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; or to the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, care Naval Staff Office, Edgecliffe,
Sydney.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
t a invysTiiN.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, November 29, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Lady Helen is going to start the small-
hospital ball rolling on Saturday, when slm
will open the Higliton Home for convales-
cent fighting-men at Balwyn. "The moral
effect of these small hospitals,” according to
a medical writer on the 600 similar 80-bed
places established in Great Britain since the
war, “is quite satisfactory. There is no
doubt that the mental attitude of the soldiers
in the small hospital is better than that of
those in the large hospital.” Higliton (lent
by the George Doerys) is to be kept going
on a 20-bed basis by the local Red Cross and
the municipality of Camberwell; and the
opening is in the nature of an advertisement
of the fact that a dozen or more beds can be
put in it' the cash is forthcoming.
The Madden dame was lately presiding
over an Edith Cavell meeting, when some
of those present ventured to revive the silly
statue project. Thereupon the lady-presklent
rose and swung her peggy-bag violently—a
characteristic action when she’s agitated.
“Statue!” she remarked explosively.
“Statue! There are statues everywhere!—
crowds of the hideous things—all over Mel-
bourne!” The meeting breathed hard
through its nose, and, duly chastened, tried
to think of something else.
Vice-regal Malvern is now holding smell-
ing salts to'its nose and trying to think hard.
The new mayoress is president of the local
Red Cross Sewing society. At her meetings
you can have tea if you like to pay—-which
is a hateful way of getting anything. When-
ever her predecessor called the girls together
for sewing, there were cakes and straw-
berries and not hi »{/ to pay. The benefac-
tress gave the tea out of her own bag,
y’know, and always had a pretty collection
of Society’s first line to help with the eating.
The cream-puffs these women nibbled proved
good investments, because money for the
good cause fell out of their clothes every
time they reached for more. Of course
directly the free food stopped—at any rate,
the Malvernites don’t seem to get the same
thrill out of their Red Crossings now.
The Hennessy dame is starting an ener-
getic she-campaign against German goods.
She is contemplating a pledge-roll in which
women will promise on their best hats to
give first preference to Australian and second
lo British goods in all their shopping. Hip,
hip, hooray; but wouldn’t a serviceable
tariff save a lot of .well-meant fussing?
When Mrs. John Sanderson started her
series of musical parties in aid of Lady
Stanley’s Fund, the black-panelled mush-
room at Brie Brie was filled with Toorak’s
hest and baldest. The hostess warbled
sweetly to a Harold Elvins accompaniment,
in a white frock, scrambled over with black
lace, and with a red rose tucked
in her belt. Amongst the audience
were Mrs. Fritz Hart, snuggled up
in furs, and handsome Eva Robert-
son, her dark hair well dressed and some
good diamonds peppered over the corsage.
But Mrs. Ronald Murray was smartest of
all, in a- black-and-white arrangement.
Towards the end of the show, friend Cornish,
ihe host’s brother-clubman, expressed a few
tactful regrets for the host’s absence, ex-
plaining that he was away in the mountains
struggling with whooping cough, or croup,
or something absurd.
On Saturday afternoon Mr. and ; Mrs,
Rutter Clarke surrendered Merriwa,
L’oorak, for a fete in aid of the French Red
Dross funds. Tlve word was passed round
that one of the French hospitals had been
abandoned for lack of money, and all the
good Australians present got out their
eheque-hoolcs to keep the disease from
spreading. The Merriwa gardens are beau-
tiful, and tramloads of people answered the
call. The Bells, Crevellis, Langdons and
Ccwpers peddled things to eat; Mrs. Tren-
ery had charge of the raffles; the Alstons
and the Milnes got rid of bags and baskets;
and the Davis girls ran a parcels delivery
—a brilliant idea designed to save people
from being seen with bundles of merchandise.
The show raged till far into the evening
with concerts and theatrical showettes.
The two Norman Armytage boys are on a
military sick-list issued from Malta. Mrs.
Norman and daughter Edna, who had just
returned from a Bananaland trip, are hur-
riedly repacking their steamer-trunks. One
of the invalids only knew that a commission
had fallen on him when he woke up in the
officers’ end of the hospital.
Mrs. Artie Staughton has brought her
little family down from the country for in-
spection by Gran’ma Winter-Irving. The
little group consists of three small girls and
an infant sister. Mrs. Winter-Irving’s two
younger daughters, Florence and Laura, are
in Germany, and there must be little com-
fort in the war news for their mother.
Admiral Bridges will be looked after by
daughter Olive while his wife escorts daugh-
ters Alys and Marjorie to London to see
brother Jack off to the fighting ditches in
France. Marjorie fluttered about Melbourne
Hospital for a while and picked up some
useful knowledge; but her nursing education
stopped short when she contracted tonsilitis.
The widow of barrister Purves is closing
down her Toorak home and going to London,
accompanied by the only unmarried daughter.
One of the Purves sons has beeu killed, an-
other is missing, and a third has been
wounded.
Willie McCulloch was fa rewelled by liis
sporting friends the other night, before going
in search of military glory. Willie held a
commission some years ago in a smart
British regiment, and only gave up soldier-
ing for pastoral pleasures when he married
Edie Smith, one of the erstwhile belles of
Melbourne.
Melba’s son, George Armstrong, and bis
attractive wife left by the Makura to join
mother in California, where she has taken
a house for the summer and whoops the
praises of her surroundings. Meantime.
Coombe Cottage reposes somnolently in its
holland covers.
And here is little sister Adelaide: —
The Mawson collection of Antarctic and Javanese
pictures, which has been on view at the Society of
Arts Booms, has been purchased for £250 by the
Public Schools Floral and Industrial Society. The
Society is going- to exhibit them, of course.
(*. 11. Angas returned by the Mooltan. Mrs.
Angus is still in England. One of her two sons is
in the artillery,, tic. other in\the Naval Flying Corps.
The Edward...l law kers are in Sydney, for the mar-
riage of their .eldest daughter, Frances, to one of the
officers,' of Deniliquin.
Mrs. Herbert Woodham, who was a Beresford and
has been here for a month or so, returns to Rangoon
in early December. . Her husband’s people were
booked to go hack to England at about the same
time, but their plans are altered and they stay here
for the early part of the summer.
The widow of the late John Darling died at Nor-
wood during the week. She was a daughter of the
late Alexander Dowie, and one of her daughters is
Mrs. F. W. Young, wife of our Agent-General.
Colonel David Fulton, who left here with the 3rd
Light Horse, and was wounded early in the day at
the Dardanelles, has convalesced in England and is
on his way hack to Gallipoli.
The sad news has come through from London that
Mrs. Philip Robin, whose husband was killed at the
Dardanelles, has died, and with her the infant son.
Adelaide knew her as Miss Nellie Honevwill, and her
marriage only took place after the arrival of the
Australian Expeditionary Forces in Egypt.
The Lancelot Stirlings’ eldest son has a commis-
sion in the Grenadier Guards. Of his two brothers
one enlisted as a trooper in the 3rd Light Horse,
was invalided with enteric to England, and, later,
received a commission in the artillery. The other
left for Egypt a few weeks ago with the Ist Aus-
tralian Remount Unit. His uncle served under
Botha in the South-West African campaign ; a
cousin, Miss Mary Stirling, has been Working at a
soldiers’ canteen at Rouen ; and a sister, whose, hus-
band is at the Front, is busy in a London military
hospital.
Tattersall’s races at Victoria Park on Saturday
were, from a feminine standpoint, a very drab affair.
Muriel Starr and some of her co. provided the little
excitement we got.
The Elder Scholarship for pianoforte-study has
gone to Merle Robertson, of Rose Park. She takes
her 17 years off to the London College of Music.
Yet another “Button Day” occurred on Friday,
when the Y.M.C.A. made an appeal to the public for
help and got £lOOO. The amount of Y.M.C.A. note-
paper the boys send home shows that the organisa-
tion reaches right up tb the -firing line.
Sandbag Day- and Nurses’ Day are the next fix-
tures —the latter in connection with the Edith
Cavell Army Nurses’ Fund, which was launched at
a meeting at the Victoria Hall on Thursday after-
noon, with Dr. London in the chair, and Lady Gal-
way as chief speaker.
Blanche Francis and her pupils were responsible'
for a good exhibition of wood-carving during the
week. The exhibits ranged from a three-piece bed-
room suite to mere carved stands for the umbrella
father forgot to return.
Exit from Adelaide streets “Patsy” Weldon, a
crippled beggar, who has long been one of the city’s
best-known figures. He is getting old, and the
police, finding him “not a fit subject to be at large,”
withdrew the toleration extended up till now to his
proffered box of matches and his rattled tin. Patsy
declined to go to “the Destitute,” so the S.M. thought
two months’ gaol and .“some other institution” to
follow would be the kindest thing.
The balance-sheet of the three-day Government
House fete, published promptly, showed total receipts
£.8772, with a little more yet to come in.
Expenses £522 —just under 6 per cent.; and that
mostly went in the erection of the Old English
t illage, which drew £l2OO at the gate. The net .
profit,-well over £BOOO, is to be divided between the
Red Cross and the Belgian Fund.
Andrew Fisher, who goes to take Reid’s
chair at the dinner-tables of Empire, lias
handed over Oakleigh Hall to the military
authorities for use as a convalescent war-
rior’s home. It is very good of him; but
somehow the convalescing Australian war-
rior isn’t rushing these homes. If he hasn’t
a home and a mate can possibly push him
in anywhere, that’s where he goes nine times
out of ten.
George Chirnside’s Audrey, who has been
hurrying about Cairo entertaining wounded
soldiers with motor-rides, book-reading and
so forth, is now in hospital herself. She
has gone down with measles, and is in a
private hospital at Port Said. Mother is in
Australia, but Dad is somewhere handy, so
she won’t be neglected.
There; is not too much neutrality about
some Swedes. The son of Dickson W aern,
the Swedish Consul in Melbourne, has been
studying in Dad’s land, but is coming back
to enlist with the Kangaroos.
A note from “Bosna.” in London: —
Travelling on the Continent is a desperate enter-
prise nowadays. Mrs. Langdon Parsons and daughter
Muriel, of Adelaide, who have been marooned here
since the war began, decided that they would like
to look at Europe on the way home, and set about
the intricate business of hunting passports. The
French Consul didn’t object to their glancing at
France, but when they mentioned Switzerland his
hair stood on end and his collar nearly burst with
anxiety. Further, he put his official foot down with
a firm hand, so to speak, and said “Xo" many times.
As a favor they were allowed to go on to Italy,
with many warnings as to the fate of those who
will travel in war time. But as their quarters in
London had been in the very centre of the Hun’s
favorite bomb-lrurling grounds the warning fell
slightly flat. You may expect them in a fortnight
or so after you get this.
Katherine Prichard, the prize-novelist damsel,
goes home to Melbourne and mother a week after
this. Her book “Pioneers” is going to be specially
filmed for Australian production, and ought to make
a good thriller, as it has plenty of indent and
good Australian color. Its author has spent
five busy and successful years journalising on this
side and . lias earned her holiday.
The second Rupert Clarke daughter Aimee was
married to Lieut. Charles -Gerardy" of the Grenadier
Guards, on October 19. The benedict is the only
son of the people who own Wriglitington Hall,
Wigan, and is a cousin of Lord Gerard. Further-
more, the family owns a private chaplain who
coerced Hymen for the occasion. The bride wore
a white chiffon frilly garment festooned with small
pink and white rosebuds, and her step-sister, the
Grey-Eger ton maiden, aided her through the cere-
mony. A formal reception was not held, but some
of the peerage and a sprinkling of Australians
witnessed the show.
That was a beautiful' entertainment at
the recent Exhibition carnival when the
Ambulance Gup was decided. There was
an overflowing entry and the thing had to
be run off in several divisions, the nags
being draught-horses, requiring plenty of
room for rolling; while the jocks were
mostly social first-flighters. Such excite-
ment —whip and spur and language ; whoops
and howls and screams from the multitude;
crash of hoofs upon the unyielding turf of
the well-worn Oval; the climacteric roar as
old Blossom lollops past the winning-post,
a good top-lip in front of the field. And
then the moans of the dying punter who has
placed his all upon the second horse- —and
lost.
Hundreds of the hest (and least employed)
damsels attend daily at the Wirtlis’ Park
Rest House to do two-hour housemaid shifts
for the dear wounded soldiers. The chief
want of the establishment is soldiers to rest
in it; and the sweet volunteers stifle their
yawns with pale hands that smell of yellow
soap. Can’t the wretched Government pass
a regulation compelling all soldiers to rest
for an hour every day?
The Repertory Club has been devoting
itself to drama in national compartments.
Russia, Italy, France and Belgium having
been artistically- worked, the clubbers pro-
pose to hold an Australian Day on December
3. Th& m.usic will be Australian, someone will
sing Louise Clarke’s of secretary
Ethel Castilla’s “Summer,” an Australian
plaflet will be run off, and some home-grown
verSe declaimed.
The volunteer lady-helps who were given
jobs in the various Rest Homes are getting
rather out of hand. The matrons are train-
ing them at present—putting the soft-pawed
pets through a course of scrubbing, dish-
washing and dusting, so that they may be
doinestic.-yA.B.’s when the expected rush
comes. Slime of the damsels think it “just
too horrid" to scrub and sweep and sweep
and scrub, and have never a wounded hero
to, set their dainty housemaid caps at. A
lot of them volunteered under the impression
that they would soon be posing in uniform,
putting a few flowers in delicate specimen
glasses, reading poems to suitably attentive
V.C.’s and taking them for motor drives.
Cory few of them are enthusiastic about
the practical work, and some of the feather-
heads openly declare that matron should
not ask twice girls to do such things.
The Bateses of Balwyn lent their house
and grounds for the usual purpose last week.
This time the Victorian Neglected Children’s
Home was bracketed with the Lady Stanley
apiig'M. .Tollh .Madden, vice-regal understudy,
made - thn usual complimentary noises. The
mayoral Mcßeatlis were helping, also the
neighboring Best dame and the Tom Hogans
from over the White Horse-road. Mrs.
Hogan held up the populace to the extent of
£6O for personally baked or burgled cakes :
and fie Best lady and a tribe of pretty girls
(it’s sno use collecting grandmothers for
these jobs) ran a work-stall very success-
fully. Mrs. McEacharn, Mrs. Baxter and
the Bates daughter managed the flower
shop. The result of it all was £7OO in good
hard coin and overworked bank-notes.
The Repertory Theatre on Saturday night
gave Elizabeth Baker’s “The Price of Thomas
Scott”—which ought to be called “What
Price Thomas Scott?” The audience
v.as composed of Highbrows aud yearn-
ing young things with nice* complexions
and dimpled shoulders. But the fine
performance of McMahon enthused them
all. One business man, however, aud-
ibly criticised the whole business. “Scott
couldn’t cry off bis deal!” objected
this expert. He didn’t know what Privy
Council powers a dramatist has.
A Harper batch and some Grimwades
blessed the show. The Tooraketty Langfords
sat in a bare-backed and well-groomed rank
Miss Cochrane and Miss Grey looked with
professional eyes at the millinery of the
draper’s daughter. Eardley Turner was
somewhere about, and the spectacles of Archi-
bald Strong gleamed in the front row. Hugh
McCrae, who occasionally fills a part him-
self, was another onlooker. A wowserian
touch was heroically attended to by a
woman-player. In the Chief M owser’s ab-
sence, the Scott girl and her young men
clear the living-room for a romping dance
on the carpet. As the girl whirled in a
waltz she showed nondescript stockings, and
dull, flat-heeled footwear below old-fashioned
petticoats trimmed with ugly braid.
Fritz Hart made a considerable hit on
Saturday afternoon with his production of
Henry Purcell’s opera “Dido and /Eneas.’’
Hart wanted to show what a power there is
in English music, and preparations had been
going on for months to that end. Sir Hubert
Parry, of the London College of Music, lent
the full score and orchestral parts, and added
that he was violently interested in the Aus-
tralian experiment. The precious scores
were sent out by different ships, so that even
if the U-boats got a chance, there would still
be hope of some of the music reaching here
safely. A large orchestra was called
together for the treat at Her Majesty’s
Theatre, and Melba’s special pupils sang the
leading roles. The chorus of students num-
bered quite GO, and, as they are nearly all
the musical pets of rich families, the big
audience was a full-furnished one.
Mrs. Oswald Syme and sister Miss Rowe
occupied one box. Mrs. Geoff. Syme. with
white furs about her black mourning garl*
had another. Mrs. Sanderson, in blue, was in
an adjacent pen, and Mrs. Fritz Hart
divided her time between a box and behind-
the-scenes. The John Maddens made a pro-
minent row, and Mrs. Dwyer entertained
a party of 80 people. Vera Bedford, Ran-
dolph’s daughter, was the Queen, and was
magnificent in voice and costume. She
was "in Grecian draperies of gold and amber
with a close-fitting head-dress swathed in a
hanging veil. You are, all going well, going
to hear a lot about this young Australian.
Mrs. Withers is now showing some of
daughter Marjory’s clever work in Collins
House. Surrounding it is a line collection
of the last paintings of the late Walter
Withers. He worked to within two days of
his death, and the stuff he left behind is
well worth looking at. Radcliffe, a man
with an exquisite collection of paintings,
has persuaded the widow to part with her
husband’s last landscape, which was done in
defiance of the doctor. “Complete rest’’ had
been ordered ; but one day the invalid was
missing from his couch in the Hltham coun-
try house. After a long, resultless search
they found him in a patch, of gorse
bushes with a finished sketch —the. last he
was ever to do. Marjory is going to
achieve something as a portrait painter. At
the show two pictures have been bought by
people unacquainted with the sitters, and
merely for their excellent technique.
A thoroughgoing patriotic club recently
had to purchase a piano, and, in pursuance
of its recognised policy of giving preference
to Australian-made goods, and failing them
to the manufactures of the British Empire,
it bought one wearing the stamp of a Leipzig
maker. Several English-made pianos were
offered, and fine instruments are produced
iu Australia, but the Hog article was £5 or
sd. or something less money.
On a recent Saturday afternoon one of
a band of flappers who have been carrying
on the white-feather foolishness in a sea-
side suburb saw a sturdy-looking young man
sunning himself in a deck-chair on a front
verandah. He had a rug wrapped round
his knees, a cigarette in his mouth and a
magazine in his hands. The damsel strode
on to the verandah and thrust a white
feather into the youth’s hand, with the brief
salutation, “Cold feet!” The sun-bather
grinned. “Well, one of them is, I guess—-
it’s buried in Gallipoli,” he observed, and
from beneath the rug thrust the stump of a
leg. The maiden begged the youth’s pardon
and a glass of water almost in the one
breath.
One of the Wi'rths is building some tall flats
in St. Kilda-road, in which no tenant will
be allowed to keep bears. A sedate and
long-established villa which occupies the
ground next to the soaring pile has reared
a green lattice fence nearly 80ft. high. It
makes me think of an old maiden lady blush-
ing behind a fan.
A big chiffon store is selling straps for the
correction of double and treble chins. The
harness is disguised with ribbons and
attached to iace boudoir caps. Last
week a young assistant, intent on mak-
ing a sale to an over-nourished matron,
remarked innocently, “The wife of our
managing director wears one.” Pro-
bably she does; but I felt glad for the
young man’s sake that the loyal shopwalker
was out of range for the moment.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Sr
I .V
n
FW
i UK
m
M\m,v h
vmixi
M fw,
Vf
V s
m
j
iM
Iffln
iff \ i .
if ti i :
V- -V
fimll
A' t-
A
£
4
feslfei
* m
1/
/
1
■
/ //
i
/ n
i :
m
■ if
mfm
i
r
MM
f/F Jr'i
/•■it
i
t /
1 / // /
SfA /.//
/>
TheVightftan IX LLOYD GEORGE Mg
Chanc&llQP fheExchequer?
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
THE above reproduced portrait drawing; of The Right Hon. D. Lloyd George, M.P., is
one of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History. The
series, specially drawn for us by W. Jardine, have been reproduced on the finest art paper,
and retain the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, being entirely tree
from advertising, are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward the complete set
to any address within Australasia or New Zealand on receipt of 6d. in postage stamps to cover
cost of mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
i. WH


m
THERE'S PLEASURE IN EVERY WHIFF.
2oz. Tin Mixture, 10d.
Since It Costs No More to insist on having Zanetic
in your Penduplicate books, why not enjoy the per-
fect, permanent peneopies obtained with such a
minimum of effort? ft' any difficulty in getting
supplied, either books complete or the sheets alone
furnished by S. B. Zanetic, Zanetic Works, Leicester
England. ZANETIC is ALL RTiITISH : contains no
foreign dye.*
OPENfi
, &
CLOSED
Portable
Folding
Organs.
“FOLD LIKE A
SUIT CASE."
For Camp, Church
or Home.
Used by Chap man-Alexander Missions, Dr.
Mawson’s South Pole Expedition, Military and
Seaside Camps.
PRICES.
“Wonder” Folding Organ, £5/10/-
“Marvel” Folding Organ, £6/10/-
“Gem” Folding Organ, £9/10/-
Sole Agents for Australia: —
SUTTON’S,
220 & 292 Bourke St,
MELBOURNE.
BALLARAT, BENDIGO, GEELONG.
Clay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE was a liew-made mound of clay.
For the man was dead and done.
And his wife stood by at the close
of day—
His wife and another one.
They talked to each other about him there.
Of the things which they now would do.
Since he had gone where he could not care —
And the man had believed her true!
She said she had “better put up a stone”
To make “some sort of a show.”
And the dead man lay in the dark alone,
And shivered with hate below.
The time went by, and she came once more.
“I am sick of it all!” she said.
“Life is a cell with a bolted door.
And I long to be with you—dead.”
Many a fierce and broken word
She spoke then bitterly.
And the dead man’s bones lay there, and
heard,
And {dickered about with glee.
VICTORIA.
E. M. H.
Caste.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“fll HAT’S another young feller as has
I done himself in,” said the barman, as
the young man who had hurriedly
entered the pub went out again with a bottle
of ale.
“I used to notice him here having a
drink,” I said ; “but he only seems to come
in for bottled stuff now.”
“That’s it,” assented the barman. “He got
married last week.”
Fred was an ancient friend of mine. lie
had been for years at a club I frequented
until a disagreement with one of the officials
terminated his long service. A little too
much of the liquor he was supposed to serve
was the cause of the . disagreement, and as
I was responsible for at least a portion of
the liquor I felt I ought to get him another
billet. On my advice he called at the Angel
of Hope, which, being the last licensed pre-
mises in my district; held me in some
esteem : and I arranged the interview so
that, about three minutes after he entered, I
followed, and was surprised to see him. The
surprise enabled me to comment on his dis-
appearance from the Club, and gave me the
opportunity to express my anger at the
shabby treatment accorded an old and valu-
able servant at the instigation of an official
whom I grossly libelled as a man lacking in
judgment. Then I asked him to have a
drink, which gave him an opportunity of
ordering something soft, and the trick was
done. So Fred got the job, for which he
always entertained a feeling of gratitude,
displayed mainly by filling my glass to the
brim after the foam had receded, and giving
me the news of the neighborhood.
“And that’s why you say he’s done him-
self in, eh?”
“Well," said Fred, “that’s my way of put-
ting it. But he kids himself everything in
the garden’s lovely. It was a sort of
romance, too.”
“What, married his boss's daughter?” I
asked.
“Well, not exactly,” answered Fred. “That
there young fellow’s wife is the daughter
of a grocer!”
“The daughter of a grocer!” I repeated.
“Jusso,” he said. “A pretty tinpot
grocer, too. Still, ihat doesn’t prevent him
having his class pride. You see. I happen
to know all the parties, through my daughter
giving music lessons to her younger sister,
and through him and his mother living next
door to us, and through him coming in here
sometimes, when he was pretty dog-sick at
the way things were going, and drinking
a bit, and talking, lie's only a greengrocer
with a run, you see.”
“Have one,” I said, putting down a coin;
and Fred filled the mugs.
“Simkins—that's liis name: Joe Simkins
—he’s a good bit struck on dances, and once
or twice he meets the . girl—Thelma Brown,
as her name was then, She’s a fine bit of
goods; and Simkins shows what he thinks
of her by taking all the dances he can get.
Of course he can’t take too many, because
another chap’s bought her ticket and it ain’t
etiquette: so finally he buys a ticket for
her himself, and dances all the evening with
her.
“Then she takes him home and intro-
duces him and he hangs up his hat for her.”
“They became engaged?” I ventured.
“No, they don’t —he just hangs up his
hat. That’s a sort of preliminary, so to
speak, to see if anything is doing. After
that thev get courtin’. Then, if the family
approves they start to keep company—
they’re engaged, if you like it better. You
see, several chaps can hang up their hats for
a girl; but once the courtin’ starts it’s the
square thing to let a fellow have a clear
field.
“Of course, until it’s courtin’ serious, the
family don't worry much; and Simkins,
having had the word from Thelma, keeps
quiet about the greengrocery; but at last
he has to explain just what lie is and all
about himself; and he ups an’ says that he
wonts to keep company with the girl.
A COMMON REFUGE.
HE: “Mrs. Verifast says the war has robbed her of everyone .”
SHE: “Yes, poor thing! Her husband went to get away from her, and the other man
went to get away from the scandal .”
“Joe said afterwards that he noticed they
turned kinder cold, but it didn’t strike him
so much just then. They said it was a seri-
ous step, and they would have to consider
the matter carefully, but they’d let him know
next evening. Joe comes along here simply
oczing happiness, shouts drinks, and tells
me he’s going to be married.
“But when he goes along the next night
he gets a surprise. There’s no Thelma, but
there’s pa, ma and auntie waiting to explain
matters. Pa looks uncomfortable, and the
fat seems to be oozing out in perspiration;
but lie’s pompous and self-important. Ma
is cold and dignified; and auntie is there to
sustain the family honor, and inclined to be
indignant that a greengrocer should aspire
to marry into a family that’s been grocers
for generations.
“ ‘Of course,’ says the old man, ‘I regard
you as a most estimable young man—a most
estimable young man’
“ ‘But.’ adds auntie, ‘a greengrocer!’
“ ‘You must realise that it would be a
come-down for my daughter!’
“‘I dunno,’ mumbles Joe. ‘I make good
money, and I make it myself. There’d be no
need for Thelma to look after a shop.’
” ‘That’s just where it is,’ says the old ’un.
(I’ve no doubt the hint, which Joe didn’t
mean, of course, about the way his women
had to help in the shop, cut a bit.) ‘You
have no standing, young man.’
“ ‘lf you really loved my daughter.’ said
his missus
" ‘You would not ask her to make the sac-
rifice,’ finishes auntie.
“So it went on. Joe says it was surpris-
ing what they'd got 'to know about his people.
They knew that his sister worked in a jam
factory; and though Thelma herself went to
toil, she was a machinist in a hat factory,
which is ,a different thing. It wouldn’t have
been so bad if the sister'd been in a shirt fac-
tory or something like that; a girl in the
hat business miglit, with a bit of condescen-
sion, have a sister-in-law in that! But in
a jam factory! It’s only a degree above
pickles!
“Joe finally asks to see Thelma, and learns
that ‘she’s listened to reason’ and gone away
with relatives, an’ in a huff he leaves and
comes down here to get drunk and talk
about what lie’s goin’ to do with her old
man.
“Just as he’s going on like this he
gets a letter from herself which makes all
the difference. She’s heart-broken, she says.
She had to stand the entreaties of her family
for a whole night before she yielded and
went to stay with her auntie; and she only
yielded because she felt he could win them
over. Anyway, she had been expecting to
see him down at the factory day after day,
and as he hadn’t come she felt he must be
trying to forget her.
“Joe did what most young ’uus would do:
he rushed his run through next day and
was down at the factory waiting to meet
Thelma when work finished. You can under-
stand what the meeting was like: but when
they sobered down a bit, she won’t listen to
his idea that they should marry in spite of
all her people. She’s under twenty-one, any-
way; but Joe’s willing to marry her and
take the risk of her people going sore, n
she’ll take the risk of swearing she’s, of age.
But she can’t bear the thought of breaking
with her people and showing ingratitude;
and finally it’s arranged that he must culti-
vate her parents, and try to bring them
round.
“So he calls and tries to make himself
agreeable; but a cold time he has. First, he
tries to win favor by taking along something
special in the way of asparagus; but he
cottons to the idea that that reminds ’em
he’s a greengrocer. Then he takes a pipe for
the old man, or a cushion for the old lady:
but always, just when they seem to be get-
ting to tolerate him. they think of carrots
and cabbages and the social gulf there is
between them. So lie gets no forarder; but
as Thelma’s not about, and they don’t know
he’s meeting her, they don’t mind him being
at the house now and then.
“Old Brown, who never had much of a busi-
ness, was hard hit when butter got scarce.
The people he bought his butter from had
short supplies, and, to get every penny of the
price allowed, they sold for cash, and so
scooped the usual discount. Brown, having
a credit custom, found it difficult to scrape
up the cash; and a rival grocer who got
plenty of butter used it as a draw, and that
made matters worse.
“That’s where Joe comes in. He has a
good few quid stuck away, and he knows of
a chap in the country he has fruit deals with
who has a few cows, and is making butter
and selling it retail, joe buys the whole lot,
paying outsize prices for his fruit to bring
the deal within the law —and hawks the lot
up to Brown’s.
“ ‘There y’are, Mr. Brown,’ says he.
“Joe says he’d just as soon make a present
of it; but Brown insists on paying. Directly
the notice boards about the butter are out
Brown’s old custom flocks back, with a lot
more, and he has whip's of money coming in.
“‘Hey, Mr. Brown,’ says Joe, after he'd
dumped the butter ip to the shop. ‘What
about Thelma?’
“ ‘My dear Simkins,’ says Brown. ‘l’m
sorry, of course, about that; but I really
thought that you had realised the insuper-
able objections.’
“Still, though he was up against caste, Joe
had hopes ; and when Brown comes to him
with the cash for the first lot, and says:
‘.Joe, my boy : do you think you could manage
to get me another lot of butter?’ he says
again :
“ ‘How about Thelma ?’
“ ‘This is a matter of business —pure busi-
ness. Joe,’ says Brown. ‘About the other
we might talk some other time.’
“ ‘But,’ says Joe, ‘butter’s not my -business.
It’s out of my line: and it takes a lot o’
trouble to get. I’ll let you know to-morrow
night. Seven. I’ll be here. A man wouldn’t
mind taking trouble for anybody who’s going
to be his father-in-law,’ he added, as lie went
off.
“When he meets Thelma next evening
after five she tells him she’s got a telegram
that she’s to go home; and she’s at the gate
when he arrives. They go in together, and
Joe says: ‘Mr. Brown. T’l] have that butter
for you to-morrow.’
“ ‘Thanks. Joe,’ says Brown. Then he
comes over like a heavy father in a play and
takes Thelma’s hand and passes it over to
Joe. ‘There’s another thing, Joe —this ! I’ve
thought very seriously over matters, Joe. We
live in a democratic age when a man can rise
and make himself —anything. I know your
heart is gold. Let us remember —
Kind hearts are more Ilian coronets,
And simple faith than Norman blood.’ ”
I laughed. “So they married, eh?”
“Oh, yes; they married. And he’ll get
more’n he wanted,” said the Prophet. “Every
man who marries does. When one of the
ordinary bust-ups occurs, his Thelma’ll make
him happy by telling him how she came down
in the world by marrying him!”
ILAMER.
The Door.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lOYE shut the door and laughed at me:
i Love shut the door, the golden door.
Shut out the song of leaf and bee.
And silken footfalls on the floor;
Love shut the door of Hope on me:
“Not any more....not any more”....
Love placed the cover on the draught,
And weighed it down with lead and stone.
Oh, then ’twas I who turned and laughed—
Love cannot take his wine alone!
For by my lips across the draught
The bubble of a kiss was blown!
Love shut the door and laughed at me....
Ah, foolish boy ! He has forgot
'Twas I who piped the honey-bee
To snare his music for the spot;
'Twas I who set the sheltering tree,
And tilled the garden plot.
Love shut the pearly door of dreams,
The door that once swung fair and wide.
To show a fountain’s rainbow-gleams,
A lily like a bride.
Love’s empty arms clasp only dreams —
’Tis I who laugh. . . .outside!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


TRADEMARKS
This Name amd
Trade Mark
YOUR Guarantee.
THE difference between a high-grade bicycle and its cheap
and shoddy imitation is very apparent on the road, but in
the showroom it is not so easily detected by the intending
purchaser. However, there’s always one safe course to take ; in
selecting your new bicycle see that it carries the B.S.A. name
and trade marks. They are a guarantee of highest quality
material, workmanship and finish. Bicycles built of B.S.A. Fittings
are known the world over as the “ Perfect in Every Part” bicycles,
and you can rely on the B.S.A. Bicycle you purchase being of
the same high quality which made the B.S.A. great reputation.
¥
FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT
BICYCLE
When choosing a new bicycle it is not sufficient to base
your opinion on surface finish alone. The shoddy bicycle
relies solely on outward appearance, but the real test of
value comes in actual service, and this is where a bicycle
built of B.S.A. Fittings reveals its high quality. In its
construction nothing is omitted which will increase com-
fort, speed and durability. Only selected material and
skilled workmanship of the highest standard are admitted,
and every part is guaranteed interchangeable. A B.S.A.
is always a sound investment and has over a quarter of
a century’s reputation behind it.
B.S.A. Handbook free from
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS : : : MELBOURNE.
\
S 3
/
y


1
v'
THE INVISIBLE
NECK REINFORCEMENT
MEANS DOUBLE WEAR.
THIS TAB
SLEEVE
LIFT MEANS
COMFORT.
WILL YOU WRITE FOR OUR
NEW MEN’S WEAR CATALOG?
Shirt Economy.
It is hard to say how many shirts men
discard through the neckband breaking- away
and worn cuff edges, but if you become a
wearer of the
DOUBLE-LIFE SHIRT
you will g-et more shirt satisfaction than
ever before. We have specialised to make a
Shirt to give the utmost possible service.
The Re-inforced Neckband and patent sleeve-
lift ensures double life and added comfort;
and, above all, the long-wearing- properties
mean true economy.
These shirts are perfectly cut and made in
our new Cot-Taffeta, cream ground with
fine black or blue woven stripes-—-a material
which represents the utmost in style and
quality.
Write for our special Folder of Patterns.
4/6
Here’s Marvellous Value.
Post Free tp Any State.
4/6
CHAS. LANE & CO
PTY.
LTD.
The Mail Order
House for Men,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
the TOP NOTCH’’scotch
INGIEORGE
WHISKY.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
THE HAT TRICK.
FIRST COUNTRY BLOKE: “You look out, Bill. W’en I was in Sydney I lost me noo
hat! Some cove took it an’ left an old ’tin in its place.”
ŚECOND C.B .: “ Them coves needn’t think they’ll beat me. I’d know me ’at anywheres.
’cos I put me intrails in the linin’.”
“8.M.H.”: I know the blood-sucking flies
that “Jaques” (B. 4/11/’l5) curses, and this is
how I balked their attacks on my dog’s ears: I
thinly smeared the flaps with Stockholm tar. As
for the eyes, try an outward application of castor
oil. Mallee mothers have a good word for it.
“Cleveland”: Hold my hat while I get
into this flying-fish argument. I was feeling my
way from Chittagong to Akyab (Amman Coast,
Burmah) in the S.E. monsoon season, and any sailor
who has been there will know what that means.
For the benefit of those who don’t know I may say
that it was as thick as pea-soup, and the only
guide the mariner had was that ascertained by
periodical casts of the patent lead. I had been
taking these every 15 minutes, and was just getting
ready for another cast, when the Lascar who was
holding an electric torch gave a yelp and spread-
eagled on deck. The torch broke, and the deep-sea
sinker bolted with about 500 fathoms of wire line.
In the darkness I was unable to find the brake, but
in fumbling round I connected up the winding-in
gear without knowing it, and when I came to again
it was daylight. It appears that the “admi” who
had been holding the glim had been smitten under
the left eye by a large flying-fish, and I 11 bet that
nig. carries the mark to this day if he has not been
gathered to the breast of Mohammed. The cause of
the trouble was picked up under the wheel gratings,
and measured 9Jin. ■
“Karoo” : The fellah of Egypt uses very
similar methods to those of our Binghi. He goes
after water-fowl by swimming slowly, with his beau-
teous countenance hidden by a bundle of rushes, and
grabs the unsuspecting ducks by the legs, and after
basely drowning them, puts them in a dill.v-bag
worn at the waist. He climbs date palms by walking
up the trunk supported by a vine rope under his
shoulders, and, further, uses the early ’Gyptian boom-
erang, the nep’ta, for bringing down birds on the
wing; but this boom, does not come back. Also, he
catches birds by net throwing.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The turn-to bell must ring
pretty early for the ant. I made up my mind to
catch him going (6 work once, when 1 was in-
habiting a seaside camp, and chose for observation a
scrap of food upon which a gang had been engaged
the previous day. Half an hour before dawn I
inspected the fragment, and saw that work had not
commenced, but when, on the very second of dawn-
ing, I had another look, two or three gangs were
busy on the job. Obviously the Working Ants’
Union hasn’t yet struck the idea of demanding that
travelling shall be done in the boss's hours. By the
way, if you stand a tin of jam or anything similar
that has been attacked by the little pests in a
saucer of water the ants get off in a way that to
me was mysterious until I saw some of the insects
make a bridge of themselves across the water. Over
this their brethren passed, the units in the bridge
then breaking up one by one and lighting out for
home and mother. Only one ant was drowned in the
“Palmerston”: Does a blackfellow ever
get bitten by a snake? Other experienced bushmen
agree that they have never heard of Binghi suffering
that way. All the same, although he eats the original
co-re., the abo. is more frightened of him than of
debil-debil.
NOT A SEA FISH.
“Come overland?”
“Don’t suspect me of coming by submarine, do you?"
“T.F.”: The Ma Slate is not a laud of
milk and honey, but there are spots where fruit and
vegetables thrive without the watering-can. At
Trial Bay (the old prison on the mouth of the
Mrcleay River) passion vines cover the SOft. myrtle
trees, and the ripened fruit can be gathered by the
bagful; further up the river common lemons provide
shelter and a thirst-quencher for the traveller by the
wayside. On the Richmond the roadways are
fringed with yellow' guavas and cape gooseberries,
while further inland gardens planted in the long
past, and forgotten, are a blessing to surveyors and
bushmen. In good seasons, on the upper reaches
of most of the North Coast rivers, there is fruit in
abundance growing wild for the plucking thereof. But
the most remarkable of all the Ma State’s vegetable
plots occur far back in the (sometimes) arid West —-
not “the West” of semi-suburban Bathurst that the
Sydney daily papers talk of, but the real West beyond
the Darling - . In there, on favorable sand-patches,
early explorers dropped melon and pumpkin seeds,
and even to this day you can find fruit, though the
over-stocking of the country with rabbits and sheep
wiped out the best of the wild gardens 20 years ago.
* * * *
“Hay”: Out West-of-Darling the blacks
were never worried very much about food supplies,
there being, generally speaking, both variety and
sufficiency, especially when the Darling overflowed
and tilled the wide lakes. Ducks abounded, and this
v'as one method of making a catch. In the early
morning when the birds were up the creeks feeding,
all hands would start out taking with them a large
net made of shredded sinews. This they would fix
across the creek where it entered the lake. One or
two expert hunters would then be left on each side
of the stream while the rest would get behind the
ducks and drive them down towards the open water.
When the flock reached the mouth of the creek the
Binghis stationed by the net would throw a curious
boomerang-shaped piece of bark, which, when hurled
upwards, had the appearance of a hawk about to
snoop. Then the startled birds, diving headlong
into the water, were enveloped in the net and shortly
afterwards were enveloped in Binghi. The recipe
for cooking them was to encase each bird in a soft
clay plaster, and bake the pie in hot ashes.
“Mujik”: Charlie, who kept the stables
in that queer little country town in Maoriland, once
reckoned the time was ripe to make a forward move.
So he bought a second-hand hearse on time-payment
in the city and added it to his rolling stock, all
burials in the district having previously been con-
ducted with the help of an elongated waggonette
and a black table-cover. He told me about it one
night when Harrows passed us or. the road. “See
that blighter?” he said. “Yer wouldn’t think he
was worth twenty thousand, eh?” No, I wouldn’t.
He didn’t look worth taking notice of. Where did
he get it? “Get it!” said Charles, disgustedly.
“Why, from his ole man, of course. And, take it
from me, he won’t drop any by extravagance. Look
’ere! The day the ole man died, round he comes to
the stables and tells me about it. ‘We’ll ’ave to
bury ’im, Charlie,’ he says. I said I thought he
might as well. ‘I want to do the right thing,
Charlie,’ he says. So I says, ‘Ri’ buck.’ And then
he wants to know how to do it. So I tells him to
go round to Plane the carpenter and get a coffin.
‘Oh,’ he says, ‘l’ll make one in the mornin’. There’s
some kauri boards on the place.’ ‘Oh,’ I says.
‘Yes,’ he says, ‘but how about drivin’ it?’ ‘Well,’ I
says, ‘yer can ’ave wotever yer like now—there’s
the ole waggonette, and I’ve a new ’earse.’ ‘ ’Earse!
Wot, a real ’earse?’ he asks. ‘Yes.’ ‘And ’ow much
will it be, Charlie?’ he asks. ‘Well,’ I says, ‘it’ll
cost five and twenty bob, ’cos I’ve got ter put a
couple o’ ’orses in.’ ‘And ’ow much is the waggon-
ette?’ ‘Oh, that’ll be ’arf a quid.’ He stood there
thinkin’ it over for about 10 minutes, and then he
says: ‘Well, Charlie, that ’earse is dear. Yer know
the ole man was always pretty careful, and I don’t
think he’d like to think I was doing it too gay, so
if yer send the waggonette up after dinner, I’ll
’ave him ready.’ And so ’e did —and I never ’ad a
customer for that ’earse for six months after. The
worst spec. I ever made in me life. It’s no good
trying to send things ahead with people like ‘Arrers
about.”
* * * *
“Dry Shave”: I hate having to court-
martial “Panhandle Pete,” but the first three of his
“bright new expressions”—“old Mighty,” “cushy”
and “jammy” (B. 28/10/’l5) —have got senile decay.
They may be just out of the refrigerator to Billjim.
but Mr. Thomas Atkins has long included them in his
vocabulary. Maybe “Panhandle Pete” has run across
the following: “Square-pushing,” to signify the Sun-
day best, and applied generally to a damsel or a new
uniform: “dekko,” meaning “have a look” or “let
me see,” according to the tone of voice used; “poul-
tice-walloper” for an Army Medical man; “walla.”
tacked to every species of male, such as “the ser-
geant-major walla,” “the ammunition walla '; “work-
ing a ticket,” to express shamming sickness in order
to get discharged unfit; “teek,” which is to say O.K.
To the average British Tommy, especially if he had
seen service on Indian or Egyptian stations, the fact
of these expressions not appearing in Webster would
condemn that venerable and learned gentleman as
“puggled,” or deficient ’■ the mental department.
MEMORIES.
WIDOW McCRAE : “Oh, you roarin', ragin'
sea! wHOI do yes remoind me so or
poor Hugh wid his wages we a Saturday
noight?”
“Myall”: Can any Abo. correspondent
trot along a horse to beat this performance? Belar.
a stock horse bred on Weribone station (Q.), trav-
elled from Talavera woolshed to Roma and back
again, a distance of 114 miles, in a bushman’s day;
that is, from sunup to sundown. The old fellow
humped a mere 12st. of bone and muscle on this occa-
sion, and finished the trip apparently none the worse
for his exertions. 'This spurt was all the more meri-
torious as Belar had never known the luxury of corn
and chaff. He was a crack camp horse in his time,
and there were few, if any, that could give him a
lead in cutting out a beast.
(Continued on page 26.)
ARCHITECT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I don’t know if ’twas Bill, or Jim, or Tom who
started it,
Or if the Boss was in the swim—it matters not a
bit.
They all were there at Stiffner’s pub, the Dry Hole
Creek elect,
When Bill said it was “Archie Tect,” and Jim said
“Arky Teat l”
There was no Daniel Webster there to put the matter
through
(And Daniel used to drink himself, if all accounts
are true) ;
But, had the Unabridged been there for all hands to
inspect,
James would have had it “Arky Tect” and William
“Archie Tect.”
Tom said—l think he started it, I’m pretty sure he
did—•
That “Arky” was a nickname that this chap had
when a kid ;
But still those two mates argued it and gave the lie
direct;
And some took sides with “Archie Tect” and some
with “Arky Tect.”
They' fought it out by Dry Hole Creek, where
nothing comes amiss;
And men have fought on redder fields for lesser
things than this.
The constable was referee —and liked it, I expect—-
(His name was Archie lirossington, it wasn’t Arky
Tect).
They fought it out by Dry Hole Creek, like bushmen
of (lie land,
Until they both were blind; and then the seconds
took a hand
And fought until the constable called on them to
reflect—
And none knew if ’twas “Archie Tect” or if ’twas
“Arky Tect.”
K.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.


MURDOCH’S
Two-piece Sports Suits
Ready to Wear, 25[-
m
m
m
m
m
m
will answer your holiday needs admirably. Made
in our own workrooms from shrunk Egyptian
Tussore —good washing and wearing fabrics.
Suits are unlined, with French seams, yoke and
band sewn down at back, three button lapels, four
patch pockets (two bottom ones with flaps).
Trousers have side and hip pockets, hip straps,
belt loops and cuff bottoms.
Light, cool and comfortable—they are ideal for
Summer wear —in sizes to fit an} r man.
CALL AND LET US
FIT YOU TO-DAY.
Send height, chest, sleeve and insictTleg measure-
ments to Desk R if you can't call.
Get A “Murdoch” Blazer —8/11
For lounge, holiday or sports wear, one of these splendid value Blazers
will prove attractive. They are well made and splendidly finished,
with piped edges of colored cords. Secure one of these exceptional
values —you’ll be pleased with its serviceable, comfortable features.
DON’T WAIT ORDER NOW
Write Desk 11 if you can’t call.
ARE YOU
A
SMOKER?
Call and re-
new yo u r
supplies in
our Tobacco
Kiosk.
MURDOCH’S
IN PARK STREET LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
“Australia’s Mammoth Men’s Wear Store.”
We are the Soda-Fountain
Supply House of Australia
i
*
&
' "T , jjj**'-
1
i IMi
M/f;
:a **z~rij>*.*vx*~,
and can meet all your Trade Require-
ments better and cheaper than any
other house.
We carry an especially large stock of
the best goods for your benefit, enabling
you to buy tlic best of the world’s pro-
ducts —rigiit here in Sydney —as much
or as little as you please, and be sure ot
immediate delivery.
The Summer Season is just commenc-
ing. Start it with NELSON’S SPECIAL-
TIES, and you’ll make sure of BIG
PROFITS.
Don’t hesitate to-order a full stock of
NELSON’S CONCENTRATED FRUIT
JUICES —you’ll regret it if you do. The
public taste has been captured by the rich,
luscious fruitiness of these drinks, and
will turn you down if you don’t supply
them with what they like.
Ice-cream Freezers.
We have a big lot of these—just what
you want for the Summer Trade. The
most reliable you can get. Quick,
Economical and Efficacious.
Also a consignment of FREEZERS,
SLIGHTLY WATER-STAINED, both
Hand and Power.
20-quart capacity, £l4, with fast and
loose Pulley.
40-quart capacity, £2O, with fast and
loose Pulley.
These are tremendous value; they’ll be
snapped up quick, so be sharp.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at TURBOT BUILDINGS, TURBOT STREET, BRISBANE.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
A Letter
from a
Young Lady
to her
Mother
about
The Aeolian-Vocalion
“THE INSTRUMENT THAT CALLS FORTH HIDDEN
BEAUTIES FROM YOUR RECORDS’*
Vocalions are sold only at Pianola Hall from £25
EASY TERMS OF PAYMENT ARRANGED
Write to us for illustrated catalog BL.
e Pianola Company
384 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE
m\
kli l l*
m 1
W^W'lZl
m
Vs
*• n
V • v
%
9*#
■*£>
"It was so realistic, that
/ got quite excited , and
caught father by the
shoulder
Hotel Australia,
November, 10 1915.
Dearest Mother,
Father and I called at Pianola Hall to-day, to change our Pianola
rolls, and arrange for a fresh supply to be sent up to Goulburn. The
Manager invited us to hear the new musical instrument the Pianola
Company have recently put on the Australian market the Aeolian-
Vocalion. Mr. Brown—the Vocalion Manager put several disc records on
the instrument; the tone is wonderful! during a flute solo called The
Wind in the Trees,” it was so realistic, that 1 got quite excited and
caught father by the shoulder. Dad bought one of the £35 models, and a
lot of beautiful disc records. It will be home with us on T hursday, so
there is a treat in store for you all.
f
Your loving daughter, Meg.


fOODRICH
V TYRES
DuvalsCo.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
475 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE.
BEST in the LONG RUN
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
SOAPKO
It Surpasses Soap.
Toilet and Motor in
TABLETS.
Household in BARS.
SOAPKO CLEANSER glgSig^lSSJ!
ALL PURELY AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE.
SOAPKA PROP'Y, Box 68$. G.P.0., Adelaide.
c o '
"MORRISS 1
IMPERIAL
°INTMEN*
m
Obtainable »I 1 Chemists and Stores
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Condamine”: What is the hardest tree to
kill? I reckon two Queenslanders would take beat-
ing. One is known locally as rosewood and the other
is the pomegranate or Taroom tree, a beautiful vege-
table resembling an orange, and an excellent shade.
I have ringbarked," fallen and burnt down rosewoods,
and have not yet succeeded in killing one in five
years. The other specimen I have cut out a foot
below ground (there were no roots to this depth),
and green shoots promptly appeared next year.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: On the road to Gun-
dag-ai from Nangos Creek (N.S.W.) a most estimable
clergyman met a bullock-driver with his heavily-
loaded waggon bogged fair in the middle
of the road. The b.d.’s vocabulary was vile.
The clergyman was shocked. “My friend,”
said he, “you should not use such loose
and lurid language. Prayer is better than pro-
fanity. Providence could easily shift that team for
you.” The bulloclcy drawled: “That’s orlrite. Any
fool could shift th’ bullocks. What I’ve bin tryun
to do fer the larst four bowers is to shift the
bullocks and th’ waggon.”
* * * *
“Private Gumboil, J.P.”: Talkin’ about
flies in Gallipoli, Red Tracey and me live in the
same “wazza” or dug-out. Next door is Pip Dailey
and two others. The wall between us is clay half-
way ; an’ the top is made of sanu' ags. The clay
part projects a foot forward in front. At evening,
when the “strays” and shrapnel are quiet, and we
dine outside, we often use the clay ledge for a
resting-place for one of the courses until we’re
ready. It’s nice an’ high and nothing can get
knocked over. Now, someone had handed Red a
tin of golden syrup which was much yearned after
by our neighbors on either side. In the first open-
ing the tin got well mucked over with stickiness;
and when Red had helped himself, he stood it up on
the ledge between the wazzias. During the usual
contest between us and the flies over each mouthful
of our meal, neither of us noticed anything. But
later, on looking up, we found the tin of syrup had
gone. We begrudgingly had to suspect that Pip
Dailey and his cobbers had pinched it, most likely.
Red got up and stepped round to question ’em.
Pip’s cobbers were sitting there in the twilight,
talking. They told Red to go and get his head read
again—they hadn’t started tea yet. Also, they told
him what to do with his blanky syrup when he found
it. But Red wasn’t satisfied, and lingered about the
front door. Suddenly he stooped down, dived his
hand into a water-tin that stood against the dividin’-
wall, and, disturbing' a million flies, triumphantly
drew forth a tin of golden syrup. Then they started
talkin’ to each other. The two blokes looked sur-
prised, and said that it must have fallen in un-
beknown. The O.C. sent word along that if they
didn’t stop the row he’d have them dealt with. Just
then Pip came back with the .stew, and passed some
remarks about the flies. Next night at tea-time,
while Red was belting into the syrup, I went down
lo score a drop more tea, and coming back walked
up with Pip Dailey who was taking the odorous
stew to his wazza. While Pip was placing his dixie
on the ground my eye caught something wrong with
the syrup tin on our ledge. It was moving, slowly,
slowly. It raised itself, and began to move towards
Pip’s side of the partition! As soon as it passed the
boundary it slowly descended into the water tin.
ONCE BIT, TWICE SHY.
AGENT : “Then we’ll consider it settled.”
ACTOR: “But — ,er —what about the con-
tract?”
AGENT : “Oh, that’s all right. A verbal con-
tract ’ll do.”
ACTOR: “ Laddie, listen. The last time I
had a verbal contract I drew a verbal
salary!”
]' or about 12 seconds I was too flabbergasted to
move. At last 1 went to tlie tin. A million flies
rose sluggishly up as I put my arm in. Standing
there in water just high enough to lap the lid was
our golden syrup pot. As I drew it out I was
speechless; but I heard Pip talking to the , flies
that suddenly swooped down on his stew. From
the inquiry that followed it was evident that when
the flies smelt Pip’s stew they thought it was time
to quit the syrup. Deliberately moving off the ledge
they descended into the water tin—which they knew
was always near empty by that hour of the day—
and the gentle lap of the -water sufficiently loosened
their sticky foothold to allow them to tget free and
ready for Pip’s stew.
SWEETLY REASONABLE.
SHE: “Yon lazy ’ound , you ain’t got the
manners of a ’og.”
IT: “I dcssay I ain't, but I’ll try an’ culti-
vate ’em, if yer like.”
“Quidam” : When I was about eight years
old my father had a cattle-station on the MacKenzie,
back from Rockhampton. This was far inland then ;
in fact, when we went there the railway was only out
to Dingo, but had crawled as far as Blackwater
when we returned. Fever, droughts and bankruptcy
seem to have been the usual lot of the squatter then,
with fat bullocks at 30s. or £2 each on the stations.
Tucker was very rough, and almost every old bush-
man out that way suffered from dyspepsia. One
other circumstance sticks in my mind. There was a
tree growing in or near the brigalow scrubs, and
cattle used to eat the leaves and grow fat on them.
It was then known as the “cattle-tree,” and it was
an acknowledged fact in the district that whereas
horses were doomed if the grass supply ran out,
cattle could always weather a drought by retiring
into the scrubs, where they would keep mud-fat on
these leaves. I remember there was one near the
head-station; my brothers and I used to chop
branches off it and feed calves on them, and all round
that tree at night you could see the white waist-
coats of hundreds of scrub wallabies trying to take a
little higher bite. They had it pruned as smoothly
as the goats prune a poinciana tree in N.Q. What
tree was it, and would it grow elsewhere? As far
as I can remember, the leaves were slightly boomer-
ang-shaped and dark green, having a varnished
appearance, and when crushed up a sticky, glutinous
juice was set free. Can any Abo.-expert place it ?
* * * *
“Tiaki”: An ancient convention of the
Maori was the kaihaukai. This was a summons to
partake of and admire the stacks of kumara, cabbage,
taro, koko, kereru and other tucker. A certain
amount of potted homo was also on hand for the nobs,
said homo being preserved in his or her own fat and
canned in a taha or gourd. A series of these picnics
ended in Henare’s then usual pastime—battle and
cannibalism. Twenty-five years ago, in the vicinity
of Te Ivaha and other out-of-the-way East Cape
places, the chiefs of the Ngatiporou would ask the
crowd to “haw-a trink.” “How many rum you kot
’ini?” he would inquire of the publican. “Oh, 40
gallons.” “I take-a te rot,” was the answer.
Henare te Poroporo once bought out the whole of
the stock of the Grand Hotel; he also appropriated
a parcel of liquor just landed on the beach. Then
the picnic began. The shouts of some of the gold-
fields days were mere whispers compared with
Henare’s vociferation.
“Bad Australian”: When the Outback
Australian kills a bullock or cow he uses up
a few pounds in the camp-oven or frypan
and dumps the remainder into pickle; con-
sequently he is living the greater part of his
time on salt-junk, and between the junk and
the soda-and-aeid damper
he soon finds himself pro-
specting for a remedy for
indigestion, or worse. The
South American works on
a different plan. He doesn’t
have any harness cask, but
rips the animal into strips
like saddle-straps,
sprinkles the strips
with just enough
pepper and salt to
make them palat-
able, slings them
over a fence or a
sunbeam or any-
thing that comes
handy in an al-
most treeless land,
and in a day or two he
is the possessor of several
sheaves of “eharqui,”
which can be eaten as it
is with a handful of
parched maize or “gal-
leta,” or boiled to make
soup or stew. Flesh dried
in this way loses very
little of its nutritive
qualities, and I have
known men to live and
thrive for weeks on straight
meat of this kind, with
nothing to counteract the
effects of an exclusively
flesh diet except an occa-
sional pot of “yerba
mate,” the South Ameri-
can substitute for tea.
During many years in
South America I have
never seen a cask of corned
beef. A small supply is
kept in some of the pubs,
but it is of Amurrikan ex-
traction and lives in a
“calm.” The gaucho al-
ways uses unleavened
bread, very similar to the
true Australian damper,
and when he cooks freshly-
killed meat he sticks a
“sprit” through it and
toasts it before or over the
kind of hot ash-heap that
Billjim uses to bake his
•damper; but I have never
known him to include a “banjo” in his kitchen.
Sydney Zoo has bought a pair of mallee-
fowl from Bellchambers, of Humbug Scrub (S.A.),
who reckons he is the only Australian keeping this
bird alive by active breeding work. For years they
would not breed in captivity ; but now-, by reproduc-
ing their natural scrub surroundings, he has per-
suaded them to abandon race-suicide and go through
the. whole performance of pit-digging, hotbed-filling,
laying, mound-building, and keeping enemies off dur-
ing the two months that the buried half-pound eggs
take to hatch.
* * V v • • * „
■ “Wandi”: One of the first things taught
young Binghi is how to swim. At first mother
takes him out under her arm, or clinging to her
neck, letting him go in shallow water; or she swims
out with him on her back, now and again diving
from under him or shaking him off. By-and-bye she
throws him far out and leaves him struggling as
long as he can keep his head up ; then she plunges
to the rescue. When he is able to swim he is
taught to dive for mussels; then -to locate distant
objects on the surface .while swimming under water;
and to acquire the duck habit of escaping observa-
tion while in water. Diving, in, he swims carefully
under a bunch of weeds, where he remains with just
his nose above the surface, without making ripples
or bubbles. Tie has also to learn to enter and get
ouc of water without leaving tracks behind him.
The art is specially necessary when there is a hostile
person close in the rear. A white man would jump
in and swim away as quickly as possible, leaving a
track on the water that would be visible to the
trained eye for minutes afterwards. If there were
reeds or lilies near the shore the track would remain
for a day or a week. The aborigine usually dives a
long way down or up stream, rarely leaving directly
opposite the spot where he entered ; not infrequently
he gets out on the same side. Water-tracking enters
very much into the children’s games, and they soon
develop cunning. One will swim across a lagoon
leaving a perceptible track on the water, then dive
stealthily back, and, whilst the pursuer swims over,
creep out behind some screening' reeds or rushes.
Others will walk backwards to the water and walk
out of it at another place in the same way. The
expert pursuer detects the ruse by the difference in
the impressions of the toe and heel. Diving from
trees, where there is time for the resultant marks to
disappear from the surface of the water, and climb-
ing out by means of an overhanging limb of another
tree, are also practised, the object being to break
the track and so gain valuable time. The
boy must familiarise himself with the foot-
prints of all living things, and be able
to tell a fresh track from an old one. The
convergence of footprints indicates the position of
a waterhole, and the age of the tracks tells whether
water is still there or has dried up.
* * * *
“McNorth”: Asa most unpleasant place
to live in, and an equally unpleasant spot to die in,
let me nominate the village of Biota (Papua).
15 is situated on a mangrove- and nipa-fringed
tributary of the Ufafa River, and its curse is mos-
quitoes. The winged torments are there in millions.
Food must be eaten under a net, and one cannot
remain in one position for any length of time. The
wretched things keep one’s arms going like flails.
Now and then that little black acrobat, the anopheles
—the disease-carrying mosquito—comes along and
carefully selects a likely spot to inject bacilli of
malaria. The natives are more or less immune, but
whites never become accustomed to the pest. At
Biota there is a gaunt, fever-ridden priest of the
Mission of the Sacred Heart. Ali day long he
flicks himself with a horse-tail swish in the endeavor
to gain a little respite from the flying torture. He
has been there for years, and has suffered like this
all the time. Yet he sticks to what he believes to
be the good work of enlightening our brown relatives.
It is not necessary for a hero to be a soldier.
“F.H.R.” : I saw a bushman covering his
hut with stringy bark t’other day, and learned some-
thing new from him. He had the sheets turned
with the sap towards the sky, and explained that
moisture in the bark soaked down to the sap for days
after rain, thus tending to rot the sheet. But
when the sap side was exposed to the sun it took on
a hard, polished surface that would turn a bullet, let
alone rain or hail.
* * * *
“Sry Fluke” : The wallaby has made him-
self at home in half a dozen of Maoriland’s East
Coast islands. The lava slopes of Rangitoto, the
round volcanic island at the entrance to the Waite-
mata, are all a-hop with the Australian, and on
Kawau Island, llori Kerei's old home, now a week-
end trippist’s resort, he competes for a crust with
the owner’s sheep. Hori Grey introduced the animal
to Kawau back in the ’6o’s. The old man used to
chuckle wickedly over an Exeter Hall yarn concern-
ing him and liis wallabies. The tale went that a
reverend brother, holding forth in a tabernacle,
described in heartrending accents the piteous condi-
tion of the Maoriland heathen, brown and white, and
brought groans of horror from his audience when he
announced, “And most frightful of all, my brethren,
I am informed on the most reliable authority that
an ex-Governor of the colony is living in sin on an
island near Auckland city with a whole harem of
Australian wallabies!” Present narrator will not
brook contradiction, for Hori lierei told him that
tale.
NOT SO BAD, AFTER ALL.
“Can’t see your ship! Come, you’re not as
bad as all that.”
“You don’t (hic) understand' —my (hic)
ship’s a submarine.”
“6 & 8”: Is not “Uloola” (B. 2S/10/M5)
misled by the similarity of the flower, confusing the
variegated with the Scotch thistle? The former is
eagerly eaten by stock, and many a good bullock
has thrown the seven from a bellyful of it —“burst”
is the colloquial way of describing the cause of
death. I have never known stock to touch the
spiky Scotch plant, which is far more uncommon than
the variegated variety.
A SKINNER!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, skinnin’ rabbits was the,theme;
Bill held the ears of all the throng
As he told of a wond'rous scheme
Of his to make a tally long—
He skited how his matchless power
Peeled ninety bunnies in an hour!
“Bah!” sniffed the ancient of the crowd.
“Up on the run where I was bred
I knew a chap who did us proud—
He skinned an’ threw ’em o’er his head ;
So slick he was —to this I’ll swear—
A skin was always in the air!”
The ancient took the monster scone
The cook had proffered as the prize,
And bit and chewed till all was gone.
Then said: “I tliort that would surprise
Yous blokes!....’Ow did ’e work th’ thing?
’E hep’ one ’angin’ on a string!”
victoria.
RITA SUNYASEE.


\
,J u"
4 r:-v.
• j s
s
msz
; ry>v» a
**
Tt.
•C? :■ *^~**«*m f ,
,>l7 s*#*' ;Wll
I
la
* ■ •- -
-i
#
mi
w
M
m
rf % t
■Ti L >
In the futu re,
sec the wine is


TO “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
The Motor in Australia, 16 Pitt Street, Sydney,
pays standard price for motor, motor-bike, aero-
plane or motor-boat jokes for illustration.
suml
uwti#
i
V-
fy
i / lll!!!!!“ l,//
mn
X\y\
wm
.
US'
m
wjww
*w/
m
A
BH
&
■ H £=^
a
■
mm
00.C9
mm
Fractured Motor
Cylinder*
Possibly the cylinder has been broken, or the gear case or differential boxes or steering wheel. „ c “n<f four° biX-n
get a new part at heavy cost, or that your car must be laid up a lengthy period Simply tahejo, oralofy-Acetylene
parts to a garage which has an Oxy-Acetylene plant, and the damage will be put right i „ , ~ anyone to Dersuade you that
process will weld anything or any part, and make it as good as new in a “brace of shakes Do not allow anyone to
the breakage cannot be repaired, and that you will require to buy new parts, it is not . }
welded stronger than ever. AND THIS, TOO, AT VERY SMALL COST. , , ~ f 4.t lp garage if
A broken cog can be welded and new teeth cut in the matter of minutes. Ask the foreman at tlm \ ell
he knows of the Oxy-Acetylene process. If he does not, find a man who does. Ring 01 wnte u ,
U Mlt e f/\RAGE PROPRIETOR, —If you have not yet got a plant you should hasten to get one. W ith our
toi for P«; 4 or.K~.hlp lo, ™«jhlc P™*
remember vour clients expect you to do their work with the latest appliances. So that if " otl “, ° A
dav desert you for the bigger works in the next street, you will know that your opponent works with the Oxy-
day y°” t J ]ene wel( f i | g and cutting process. It is a simple plant, is < easily portable and, * «**^*®& o
MR FARMER —If vou have a broken machine or blade, take it to an engineer or macKsmi n
has our plant and’he wfl? repair it for you inside a few minutes. Write to us, and we will advise who
haS o Block roNoe.SSlisnhowosUa0 No e . SS l i s n how 0 s U a featured motor cylinder. No. 2 is the mended article after treatment with
° Xy Any ty Engineer who is not fully conversant with this process cannot be said to have yet mastered his
business, and should at once write us for catalogues and all printed matter. _
Following are a few of the broken and worn machinery_ parts our process will.makenw .again.—
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes Steering Wheels, p , y „ >
Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn Keyways in Shafts. Pieces welded to broken Geais
alld Brolcen 6 of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild Steel, Brass, Copper,
Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other process.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd., B , «S3 , ££?sSa
Agents— MELBOURNE s Fyvle & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street ; BR'SBANE : Evans, Deakln Co.,
172 Edward Street: ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street,
PERTH: Ceo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Murray Street
Finished Job After
Treatment.
The Inky Way.
“T. 0.1.”: The London Observer, now in
ita 124th year, is the oldest Sunday paper
in the world. Its price in 1815 was CM.;
to-day it is 1C pages Id. It was the Ob-
server, started in 1791, that made the first
important development in publishing illus-
trated news. The murder of William
Weare, by John Thurtell and Hunt (the lat-
ter, coming to N. S. Wales for life, lived and
died at Bathurst in a Government billet),
and the Cato-street Conspiracy gave it an
extraordinary chance. It continued to illus-
trate with success until the business was
divided in 1842 by the establishment of the
Illustrated London News.
* * *- *
“D.F.” : Robert L. Murray, who ran the
old-time Tasmanian publication, the Aus-
tral-Asiatic Review (B. 28/10/T5), was a
man of many parts. He was one of Tas-
mania’s first lawyers, and was among those
licensed to plead when a Supreme Court was
set up in Hobart about 1825. He was a
vigorous and forceful writer, but his Re-
view was rather too ambitious for those
times, and did not last long. Murray got a
grant of a good lump of land near Hobart.
# * * *
Will Dyson lias brought out in London a
new collection of cartoons under the title of
“Conscript ’Em.” The Star in reviewing it
refers to Dyson as “one of the most vigorous
and certainly the most gigantic of our modern
cartoonists,” and it advises those English-
men who think to “circulate this splendid
arsenal of satire and scorn, of argument and
exposure, as widely as possible.”
* * * *
“Sam O’Var”: The trouble that Ivan is
giving the Huns is nothing to the anxiety he
brings to the cable sub-editors. There is a
Russian General by the name of Russky,
alias Ruszki. alias Russki. who is busy
putting a head on bull-necked Von
Ilindenburg, and there is a kind of
Government Gazette in Petrograd
known as (he Russky Invalid, which
at intervals bucks up the Bear. Evidently
the Argus has confused the two, or else
thinks that the Russky Invalid, now that
the Turk is sitting up and taking notice, is
the real Sick Man of Europe. Anyway, in
its cable columns on 16/11’15, the Argus
says:—•
The "Russky Invalid” regards the Balkans cam-
paign »ns only "an episode.” “It is not there,” he
remarked, "that the fate of the nations will be
decided.”
The Age quotes the same remarks, but attri-
butes them to “General Russky, in the course
of a statement to press representatives,”
and heads them “General Russky Confident.”
So are the worried subs. —I don’t think.
* * * *
Jack Whear Roberts, an old Hansard
man, writes: —
My versatile friend George Meudell says (B.
18/11/’l5) that as a shorthand writer he was
"crumpled up” by Boh Clark (Bendigo), who
rattled off 200 words a minute. The genial Bob
was certainly a glib talker, but the terror of those
days in point of speed was John Mclntyre. Angus
Mackay, though much slower, was the most trouble-
some man to report by reason of his vocal defects
and his didactic diction. Doubtless for a sustained
effort Deakin is the fastest talker in Australia, but
I question whether he, in his “finest frenzy,” can
clearly and disconnectedly articulate more than 200
words a minute for 10 consecutive minutes. The
trained shorthand writer is not deterred by his
flamboyant flapdoodle, but the shorthand reporter is
often puzzled to extract any sense from the grandilo-
quence.
I vote Edmund Barton the most difficult man to
report accurately—that is, in his quiet, unim-
passioned, semi-conversational mood, as distin-
guished from the oratorical-fireworks mood. Not
only is he rapid but he avoids conventional phrases;
you dare not anticipate the terms in which he will
complete a sentence; you have to keep in close touch
with him lest he crumple you with some unex-
pected, unusual phrase or get you hopeless!}' befogged
with parenthesis within parenthesis. If, in the mood
which I describe, Barton were to talk 200 words a
minute for, say, 10 minutes, lie would have the most
expert Pitmanite tied in a knot. I have a vivid
recollection of a “turn” which I had when he was
Speaker in the N.S.W. Assembly. It was a ruling on
an important point of procedure which Barton had
had a day to consider; he had it all in the “back of
his head”; it was all legal abstruseness, and he
rattled it off without a pause for 20 minutes.
Curiosity prompted us to count the words in Han-
sard, and they worked out an average of 185 per
minute. It is not long since that the then “Chief,”
Chas. Robinson, told me that this “turn” still held
the record.
Of curious “turns” the best that I remember is
one of half an hour in the N.S.W. Upper House, in
which that delightful old bookworm, Charles Camp-
bell, hurled chunks of six different languages at me;
as type was non-existent for two quotations they had
to be cut out in wood by an engraver. My most
amusing experience was associated with Dan
O’Connor. He had prepared for a great oration on
the Stuai’t Land Bill. My “turn” should have been
half an hour; but the Chief, knowing Dan’s abso-
lute ignorance of the subject, his penchant for repe-
tition, and for piles of words “all sound and fury
signifying nothing,” asked me to do the whole
speech. It lasted four hours, and all of it that was
intelligible and to the point was conscientiously
recorded. On the day of publication Dan rushed
into the office in a most irate mood and demanded to
know why his speech had been so “ruthlessly
slaughtered.” lie had turned up a speech of I’arkes’s
of an hour, and had calculated the space which his
speech of four hours should occupy in proportion;
but of course instead of being eight times as much it
was only a trifle over three times. He had forgotten
that he had sent us the MS. of the speech for verifica-
tion of quotations. It was not until this was pro-
duced and he was shown that it would not have
occupied twice the space of Parkes’s speech that lie
was appeased. No one can be harmed now by the
statement that the MS. of Dan’s speech was in the
free, flowing handwriting of W. B. Dailey. Had the
“speech” been published in that form it would have
been a masterpiece of clearness, conciseness, and com-
prehensiveness to Dan’s credit.
‘•s T.S.” : Eighty last week, John VS at-
scn, of the Border Watch, at Mount ham-
bier (S.A. t. Any other Australian news-
paper-proprietor carrying on active personal
business supervision at that age?
■a- <s*
“0.C.C.”: Some years ago the S. M.
Herald, with becoming modesty, printed
(on the leader page) an interview with a
returned professor who said that the three
greatest paper's in the world’ were lin-.
Times, the New York Herald and the > ■
M. Herald! On November 19, Idlo ton
the leader page), one of the three greatest
papers in the world printed this gibberish.
Regarding the franchise provisions in both
measures, which have been the subject of so mu
discussion, Mr. Griffith said that they would be
obtained in both Rills, neither of which would be
passed if the Parliamentary franchise were exeieised.
It would be really unkind to say which
paper did this; hut I may indicate it as the
groat journal which referred the other day
to certain “contortions” of Zangvvill s writ-
ings by the U.S.A. papers. (N.T».—lt scm
still can’t guess it, let me add that it is the
paper in which ships frequently run on to
“unchartered rocks.”) # #
“Sheila”: George D. Meudell (B.
18/11/’l5) thinks Deakin the speediest
speaker ho over followed. I have taken
Deakin, but did not find him as fast as the
late Engineer-in-Chief of the Melbourne
Board of Works, William Thwaites. _ The
old man would sit, martyr-like, listening to
the opposition of members to a . much-needed
proposal of his, and then, having the right
of reply, would rise and let it go. On
such occasions recording Thwaites was like
erasing Woorak. _
THE DIVINE AFFLATUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A doleful, atrabilious bard
Was William Henry Jones,
Who ground out verses by the yard
All “groans,” “alones” and “moans” ;
He’d sigh of cemeteries drear,
And blasted hopes, and wasted beer,
Till all was blue; or fleer and sneer
In sour, afflictive tones.
But, strange to say, each dismal rhyme
Found favor ev’rywliere;
Admirers called them “grand,” “sublime,”
And Jones a genius rare.
So eagerly they sought his stuff
He couldn’t write it fast enough,
And rival poets got the huff,
And, bard-like, tore their hair.
On Mrs. Jones this state of things
At last began to pall;
She cherished strange imaginings,
And begged Jones to tell “all!”
And “as he quarried out each slab
Of gloom it gave his wife a stab
To find her lord so glum and drab—
Her gladness turned to gall.
Forthwith she hired a specialist,
Who snorted, and said: “Hum!”
And sounded Jones, and squeezed his wrist
And epigastrium,
And then declared his gloom arose
From liver. “Bile, I diagnose;
An operation I propose,
Or else he must succumb 1”
They chloroformed the moody man,
And with precision then
They altered his digestive plan,
And sewed him up again.
Galvanic batteries o’ nights
His torpid liver put to rights,
And gave Instead electric' lights
To guide his fervid pen 1
Again at verse did Jones perspire,
But vainly “sigh’d” and “died” ;
He couldn’t twang the mournful lyre
No matter how he tried I
And so the public turned him down,
And editors began to frown,
And beg him not to play the clown—
They read his jokes and cried 1
But though they might delete bis stuff,
They couldn’t stop his pen,
l or unabashed at this rebuff,
Jones started off again.
Now all the dailies print his lays,
His readers smile at ev’ry phrase—
He writes the rhyming ads that praise
Blue Blobs for Bilious Men!
qUKENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
“Bill Bowyang” : A line from my dug-out.
Our battalion (ISth) quickly made a name
for itself. It’s grand to light beside our
boys and the Maorilanders. They are as
full of punch as a swarm of Hayed devils.
I saw M.L. artist Booth’s 'grave the other
day. It is marked with a wooden cross.
Yesterday I heard that Bat McGill, _ the
navvy poet, is in Gallipoli, but put little
faith in the rumor, as he was in Flanders
some months back. An Inky Way battalion
could easily be formed here. Every second
Cornstalk you meet has some story he “must
tell The Bulletin.” There’s a busy time
ahead for the sub-editors.
PRESSURE OF OTHER MATTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A copious writer for the press,
A freelance flaneur fine am I.
What splendid things those words express—
A scribe who has no master nigh ;
A genius who with his pen
Dissects the souls of living men!
’Tis said my style is quite unique.
For verse I have a happy turn;
My prose displays a caustic streak;
I write the words that breathe and burn.
I'm printed often in the dents
Between display advertisements!
Sometimes I half a column get,
Sometimes a poem from my pen
Five inches long is really set,
And printed, too; but this is when
The tame photographer has grace
To leave the scribe a little space.
More oft the prose that is my pride,
The clever verse, the epigrams,
For process prints are cast aside,
For football crowds, and pens of rams,
And dames that to a wedding flocked.
Behold how genius is blocked 1
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


PELACO
'J "
I3H
*
\ *
M
\
m
\\l A t ; ,f %
r ,
v: ' ■
,
•j- *
' ■
•Hr
M mfm
•UrUrl ■ : ’r
:' 1 -
■
M K j/ r
. • /
<iii || v _
- .
■
- * v ~' ' ;
%- § :
... - .... -mMSS:-
m \ .. I:?.
%' ; .
m
* Z
MADE
*'*'’'?* ' ' ' '
Wm I sal
■ ■ : \
mm
:
z
.2:,::
PINHMi!
■
MB
0
'mm..
/ mw & M
J h«Zf S J
-■'j
■
■i ;.-- •- .IN
!
Is 1 j
pp
111111
- ;
.%~ * c


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hand Bag,
Black Morocco Leather, Leather Lined, Nickel
Frame, 20/-
GIFTS
FOR
CHRISTMAS
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wallet, Real Black
Morocco Leather, Silk lined, Silver Corners, Lock and
Shield, 12/6. Real Crocodile, 25/-
GIFTS
FOR
ALL
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hand
Real, Fine-grain Morocco,
Pleated Front, Leather Lined, £2.
A. Saunders’ Silver-
mounted Hairpin
Roller, Cut Glass Bottle,
1/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
Chain Bag, in Solid
Silver, Strong Mesli, Pol-
ished Frame, £3/3/-
Silver-plated ditto, 32/0.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Silver Purse, Plain Design, Hand
Burnished, Leather Lined, Centre Division and Mirror, £3.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Wallet, Black Morocco
Leather, Sterling Silver
Mounts' and Shield, com-
plete with Calendar,
13/6.
A. Saunders’ Scent
Pump, Cut Glass Bottle,
Solid Silver Top, 17/6.
In Nickel, 4/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush, Plain Design,
Hand Burnished; pure quality, extra long Bristles, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Cigar Case, Solid
Silver, Hand Engraved, Gilt Lined, 357-
Ditto in Silver Plate, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
OPP. RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Ebony Hand Mirror, Solid Silver
Mounts, Bevelled Glass, 25/- Brush to match, 20/-
&
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2-tin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/-and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
NOTICE TO READERS.
TF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
ffie'fyxzlZdvn.
214 George Street, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over SO en-
graving's, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, Gd. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
iihk’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Nkd Donnelly's Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
.Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyrook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor. Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. All ST, Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s Gd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. ’Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, lls : Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
ford) 9d The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God ’and My Neighbor, Gd. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is Gd. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/8.
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is nosted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Gd. Australian Pastrycooks Guide, Is Cd
1
«
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FCfOTE.
Plates. 36 Chronios. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is od.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River., 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is post-ed. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator. Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date. is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made East, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. ugfEstablished 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL, IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
EE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of tiif.
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
Bistort Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGBRSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarp. Macfadden’s Works, all at ss' posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. lOONkw
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyantr,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


A
Special
Appeal
Bed from birth on the 'AUenburys' Foods.
Mother and Child.
Baby (> l / 2 months.
on Behalf of Baby
Naturally a Healthy Mother
should feed her own child, and no cause, save inability,
should prevent her doing so. But there are many
mothers , who, though willing, cannot wholly or even
partially, nurse their children. Either they have no
milk for them, or it is poor in quality and deficient
in sustenance.
The Question then arises
what food should be given to Baby. Carefully consider
this highly important point. Remember, that the
right food, given at the proper age will lay a sure
foundation fox’ future health and happiness. Ordinary
cow’s milk is totally unsuitable as a food for young
infants; it is acid, contains indigestible curd and is
frequently swarming with dangeroxis germs, especially
in summer time. FarinaceousFobdsmustnotbegiven,as
a child under seven months of age cannot digest starch.
A Satisfactory Solution
of the difficult problem of feeding children by hand is
provided by using the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. Prepared
as directed, these pure Foods closely resemble healthy
mother’s milk in composition, nutritive value and
digestibility. They are the outcome of prolonged
scientific investigation, carried out with all the l-esources
of wide manufacturing facilities and experience.
Decide to use
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. By so doing the many serious
ailments which folllow the use of unsuitable food will
be avoided, and Baby will be equipped with sound
health and strength.
The Method of Simplicity and Certainty
4&llenbimjs Foods
MILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2. MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From birth to 3 months. From 3 to 7 months. Front 7 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks (Malted).
A useful addition to baby’s dietary when io months old and after.
3Pr- Write for tree book “ Infant Feeding and Management "
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market St., Sydney
▲
MARINE MOTORS
Built for service.
Low fuel consumption and cost.
Will run on Kerosene or other
light oils.
All sizes from 2 to 30 h.p.
send ran our large catalogue.
American Engine Company,
504 Boston Street, DETROIT, MICH., 11.5. A.
SPECIAL AGENTS.
C. I). WHITING & CO., Adelaide, S.A.
I’AGE CYCLE COMPANY, Townsville, Q.
B. B. HUNT & COMPANY, Auckland, N.Z.
Cable
AMECO.
••
:0
Q' :
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing: .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O’Connell St.
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agrents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Ere., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
Firestone
Non-SKid Tyres.
For the hard road —for the hot pace —for the long
grind—for true economy and service .
THE success of Firestone Tyres has proved that the motorist
can have comfort, safety and the “ most miles per shilling/'
Firestone Tyres are preferred because of highest quality at the least
cost—as the greatest value, even though there are “cheaper” tyres.
Lhe rubber iii them is supremely good. It has the quality of greatest heat-
r^ Sl / : - ance ’i.° » rea * est wear endurance. Every Firestone Tyre contains an extra quantity
of this extremely good rubber.
lhe JSon-skid ettermg is an imprint of safety. On every highway of the world it
challenges the need of other anti-skid safeguards. It holds the standard for endurance
and economy, the letters prevent spin or skid in any direction, they radiate the heat
. V jad tnctiOD, perfect traction with gasoline economy, car-protection and
comfort beyond contradiction.
Firestone Tyres are made by specialists in the largest
exclusive tyre factory in the world. This year’s Firestone
output has increased 7S per cent. Firestone are tyres of
greatest strength, sturdiness and safety—
for the Price of Only Ordinary Tyres.
Leading dealers everywhere endorse Firestone quality, and
motorists praise Firestone service.
ill?
ji*
pH
Bn
TO DEALERS.
A Firestone Representative—from
the factory at Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.—
will shortly make calls on dealers and garages In person. Inter-
ested people may make appointments by writing to Firestone
Tyre & Rubber Co., C.P.O. Box 2521, Sydney.
Messrs. GRIMLHY LID,,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Distributers, N.S.W.
FIRESTONE TYRE & RUBBER CO.,
Factory : Akron, Chio, U.S.A.
Manufacturers o. Pneumatic and Solid
Tyres; Motor Lorry Tyres; Fire Engins
Tyres; Rims, Tyre Accessories, eto.
We are
prepared
to supply
all sizes of
pneumatio
tyres.
u
There
Are Three
Standard Sizes
of .22 calibre cartridges—the short, long and
long rifle.
The Remington UMC .22’s are just as carefully '
made as the larger calibres, and all three sizes may
be used in the Remington .22 Repeater without
I mechanical adjustment.
Your dealer has them
We shall be pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interest-
ing information for shooters. Wht i writing, send us the
name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co. i
Woolworth Building, New York City
1). I>. BRYANT, Australian Representative,
P.O. Box 686, Melbourne.
m
Contractors to tlie British and Colonial Governments.
O sizes in one tool —
® the best all-round
die-stock you can own.
OSTER
BULL-
DOG
Die-Stocks
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
For Sate by leading Dealers in all Cities.
Australasian Representative : Charles Wright,
Box 251 C.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
11l
OSTER
BULLDOG
No 1041
i" to 2"
8 Sizes. '
' '' : *■ 1 'r ?


‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
NRf
\ s
gM
4*v,
ill
8r
3
iw
&Bi§ii
«N<
N
/■>
M
ra
«>«!=**
f
4
3
4/ sftk
ill
to
Vi?
ill
PMI
Ti
r
§
tlpli
<2-~4
*Bl
111
L/
K
2;
rn,
N>
MM
&r
WW
m
/
■■-■
f
r
sgm.'
m
STS:
'.A
&
mm
>
9e
v>
%
*#£s
4
4.V
*
SS:
fisSSKS
'■■ ■■,<' is; v ; ■■ v<^Si,/
ft.
m
■£>
.
*«*
X
1 0
' * ; " .4
eotSr*
osiissWiSoM
-a- 4? r* 1
ft
■ '.■■::
»J
it
m
*V«g
0o
:
C(o'
<~~-
4?
if
’M
y
SfiK
K
BBS
.4
si
£Sfc
/r-«"C> /»>
“Cobra,” Sfte Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Knows a funny
Trick or two.
And when any
Joke is done
Chunder makes
Another one.
As the Turks
Rush down like sin
Chunder loads his
Gun with tin.
When the “COBRA”
Empties fly,
Turkey gets it
In the eye.


FOR ALL
OCCASIONS
where High-grade and Correct
Footwear is essential
ABBEY SHOES
are recognised as THE footwear.
We illustrate ope of our latest
models —A GLACE KID HAL.,
with Patent Leather Toeeaps.
Price - 23/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage e’xtra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
_ throughout Australasia.
Hotels, &e.
G
EORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 1b - per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney,
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
Aggregate Balance-sheet of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, 30th September, 1915.
LIABILITIES.
Motes in circulation £369,481 0 0
Deposits, Accrued
Interest a n d
Rebate . . -10,202,977 18 6
-£40,572,458 IS 6
Bills payable and other liabilities
(which include reserves held for
doubtful debts and amounts at
credit of Investments Fluctua-
tion Account, Officers’ Fidelity
Guarantee and Provident Fund,
the Buckland Fund, and amounts
due to other banks) .. .. 9,729,074 3 3
Paid-up Capital. .£3,500,000. 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 2,550,000 0 0
Profit and loss,
£336,065 10 8
l. rs ft interim
dividend to
June 30,1915,
£87,500 0 0
248,565 10 8
6,298,565 10 8
£56,600,098 12 10
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding credits, as per contra 1,151,169 13 2
£57,751,268 6 0
ASSETS.
Coin, bullion and
cash balances. .£10,5 13,750 0 9
Australian Com-
monwealth notes 9,411,623 0 0
Fiji Government
notes. . . . 8,442 0 0
Notes of other
banks.. .. 5,423 10 0
Money at short
call in London 1,220,000 0 0
Investments —•
British a n d
Colonial Govern-
ment Securities 5,029,758 17 0
Municipal and
other Securities 431,000 0 0
Due by other banks 198,010 2 0
Bills receivable in
London and re-
mittances in
transit.. .. 3,192,326 3 5
£30,040,333 19 2
Bills discounted and loans and
' advances to customers .. .. 25,784,704 18 8
Bank premises . . .. .. 825,000 0 0
£56,600,098 12 10
Liabilities of customers and others
on letters of credit, as per contra 1,151,169 13 2
£57,751,268 6 0
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, 30« h September, 1915.
Cr.
To Interim Dividend for Quarter ended
30th June, 1915, at TO per cent,
per annum, paid in terms of
Clause CV. of Deed of Settlement £87,500 0 0
Balance proponed to be dealt uith as
follows: —-
I'o Quarter’s Dividend
to 30th Sept.,
1915, at the rate
of 10 per cent,
per annum ' .. £87,500 0 0
.. Augmentation of
the Reserve Fund 50,000, 0 0
. Balance carried for-
ward .. .. 111,0(55 10 8
248,505 10 8
£330,005 10 8
By Amount from last Account . . £105,135 14 C
„ Balance of Half-year's Profits
after deducting Rebate on Cur-
rent Bills, Interest on Deposits,
paying Note and Other Taxes,
reducing valuation of Bank
Premises, providing for Bad
and Doubtful Debts, and fluctua-
tions in the value of Invest-
ment Securities : and including
recoveries from Debts pre-
viously written oft' as bad 230,029 10 2
£336,065 10 8
Dr.
RESERVE FUND, SOth September, 1015
Cr.
I'o Balance . . .. £ 2,000,000 0- 0
(Of which £750,000 is invested
in British Government Securi-
ties, and £500,000 in those of
States where we are repre-
sented—in all, £1,250,000.
The balance is employed in
the business of the Bank.)
£2,000,000 0 0
By Balance
~ Amount
£2,550,000 0 0
from Profit and Loss.. 50,000 0 0
j£2,600,000 J>
By Balance
. . £2,000,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager. HARRINGTON PALMER {
W. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant. S. E. LAIDLEY |
Audited, 18th November, 1915.
Auditors.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
5*
POST FREE
Military Watches
from
21/-
We hold the Largest Stock
of Luminous and Plain
Dials in N.S.W. Only the
BEST MAKES STOCKED.
PRICE & CO. LTD.
... Watchmakers and Jewellers ...
90 King St., Sydney
and South Grafton
*yi
Vi
W!
: . ■:•
-v- ; '
wr
What Will
He Bring?
Ask yourself what would be
the most acceptable Christ-
mas gift for the home-folk —
what would return you the
most interest (musical inter-
est) for your outlay? Un-
doubtedly an “His Master’s
Voice”
GRAMOPHONE
instrument. The “GRAMOPHONE” (Trade
Mark Registered) is the one instrument capable
of reproducing CORRECTEY, without harsh-
ness or loss of tone, the human voice and
instrumental music.
There need never be a dull hour in the home
where there is a “GRAMOPHONE.”
Prices: £6/10/- to £65.
BRITISH MANUFACTURE.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
Registered Trade Mark.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
AN UNTAMED TERRITORY. The
Northern Territory of Australia. By
ELSIE R. MASSON. With Illus-
trations and Maps. Extra Crown
Svo. 6s.
The New Witxess: “An interesting volume.
....The author has written in a fresh and
attractive style and her conclusions are original
and arrestive.”
BY RUDYABD KIPLING.
FRANCE AT WAR. By liUDYARD
KIPLING. lGino. sewed, 6d. net.
SIXTE ENT 11 TllO USANI).
ORDEAL BY BATTLE. By F. S.
OLIVER. Svo. 6s. net.
The Dailv Telegraph : “This strong, manly
and determined appeal to the nation’s manhood
and common-sense is bound to do good.”
WITH THE RUSSIAN ARMY. Bv
ROBERT It. McCORMICK, Major
Ist Cavalry, Illinois National Guards.
With Maps, Charts and Illustrations.
Extra crown Svo, 6s. net.
STEPHEN GRAHAM’S
NEW BOOK.
THE WAY OF MARTHA AND THE
WAY OF MARY. By STEPHEN
GRAHAM, Author of “With the Rus-
sian Pilgrims to Jerusalem,” “A
Tramp’s Sketches,” etc. With Fron-
tispiece in Color. Svo.
A further study of life and religion in
Russia.
LETTERS FROM A FIELD HOS-
PITAL IN SERBIA. By MABEL
DEAIIMER. With a Memoir of the
Author. By STEPHEN GWYNN.
Crown Svo.
ESSAYS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.
A First Guide towards tin* Study of
the War. By STEPHEN PAGET.
Extra crown Svo.
THE CALIPHS’ LAST HERITAGE.
A Short History of the Turkish Em-
pire. By Lt.-Col. Sir MARK SYKES,
Bart., M.P. With Illustrations and
Maps. Svo. 20s. net.
“THE GRAPHIC” PICTORIAL
MAP OF THE DARDANELLES.
Every Fort, Hill and River clearly
shown, and every landing made up to
.Vug. 7 carefully marked. Size, 12 x
20 inches. Beautifully produced in
Color. 6d. net.
BY AUTHOR OF “THE CROCK OF
GOLD.”
THE ADVENTURES OF SEUMAS
BEG: THE ROCKY ROAD TO
DUBLIN. Verses for Children. By
JAMES STEPHENS, Author of
“The Crock of Gold,” etc. Crown Svo.
3s. Gd. net.
I POSE. By STELLA BENSON.
Crown Svo. ss. net.
This book is in the form of a story, though
the story is the least important part of it.
It is a medley of wisdom, whimsicality, vivid
description and quick perception, with many
shrewd sayings and unexpected thought scattered
throughout its pages. As the first book of a
new writer, of a very amusing kind, it may be
expected to attract considerable attention.
THE KINGDOM OF THE WIND-
ING HOAD. By CORNELIA
MEIGS. With Illustrations in color
and in black and white, by FRANCES
WHITE. Crown Svo.
SCIENCE OF DAIRYING. Bv W.
A. G. PENLINGTON, M.A., Science
Tutor, Auckland Training College,
N.Z. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.
Agricultural Gazette : “A valuable text-
book for the use of secondary and technical
schools.”
STORIES FROM NATURE. By J.
A. FLETCHER, with Illustrations.
Is. 6d.
Mr. Donald Macdonald writes in the Argitk,
Melbourne: “It is one of the best nature books
for boys and girls that I have yet seen. Miss
Fletcher has a knowledge of nature and the love
of nature. She knows what children like, and
she has given it to them in this illustrated
book.”
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
Volume.
NEW LONG NOVEL.
By 11. G. WELLS.
64S THE RESEARCH MAGNIFI-
CENT.
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD’S
NEW STORY.
649 THE EXTRA DAY.
The Standard : “Mr. Blackwood has never
written a more delightful tale of childhood than
this, never one in which he has shown as com-
pletely his power of entering into the fancies
and imaginations of children.”
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all Booksellers.
MACMILLAN £CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


sw
N
D
Y
rs
El. Y
OPENING of the SUMMER GARDEN!
The Wentworth Hotel Summer Garden is now in full swing, and, as
in previous seasons, has quickly become the rendezvous of the elite.
Delightfully cool and comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons. Dinners,
Afternoon Teas and Supper Parties and all open-air functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find The Wentworth Hotel most popular.
The appointments and service are superb, and compare favorably with
the best hotels in Australia. Terms on application.
Mrs. MACIAJKCAN, Manageress.
DERIVED RELIEF
FROM BILIOUS ATTACKS AFTER
COURSE OF DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS.
“I used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
some time ago,” writes Mrs. Jane Riley, of
Werris Creek, N.S.W., “being subject to
bilious attacks and very severe headaches.
I am pleased to say that after taking a
course of your remedy I derived great benefit.
You may use this testimony for publica-
tion.” — Advt.
m
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
APPOINTMENT
m
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
m
POLITICAL
POINTS
ON THE HOLY MISSION OP COLD FEET.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
The chairman declared that conscription was a
serious menace to trade-unionists. There was one
objection which all members shared with intense
fervor —namely, their belief in the sanctity of
human life.- — Cable.
The sanctity of human life
Is such we dare not strike a blow
Or march to fields of doubtful strife
Against the crimson-handed foe.
Our flag of peace still stands unfurled,
Conscription earns our blackest curse;
Though murder, redden half the world
To slay the slayer would be worse.
We take this high and holy stand
Against all threats of march and drill,
While calm and leisure are , on hand
We are not going out to kill.
The women wail, the children cry,
Loud ruin works through smoke and flame—
Well, let the tortured wretches die,
The friends of peace are not to blame 1
The battle surges to our door,
The nation’s needs grow more acute.
Our various failures' we deplore,
But still we. must decline to shoot.
Our high religious sense remains—
Let who will pay the painful price—
No blood the snowy emblem stains
On our loud shield of cowardice!
n.s.w. GEORGE STREET.
Some inquisitive member of the Vic.
Assembly lately asked the value of goods
bought outside the Commonwealth by the
Treasurer’s department last year, and found
it was £15,325, against £10,000 spent on
Australian goods. For this defiance of Par-
liamentary instructions the usual excuse
was offered —the goods weren’t obtainable in
Australia, though among them were such
articles as paper, ink, timber, etc. What
this country can’t produce, apparently, is a
patriotic Government. When it can, the
other things will follow all right.
SO IRRITATING.
GLADYS: “ Muriel had a horrible experience
this morning .”
GARRY: “Indeed! In what way?”
GLADYS : “She was rescued from drowning
by another girl.”
“No economies of the individual are of
any value unless they are compensated for
by corresponding expenditure by the Gov-
ernment,” says the amazing Holman. So,
unless you have a spendthrift Government, it
won’t do you any good to save up for
thunderstorms, earthquakes and other acci-
dents ; and to cut down the butcher’s bills
in order that you may presently give your
child something extra in education, or your-
self a shelter in old age, is all folly and
futility. What an economist to have at the
Treasury!
“Gratuity’s” refieetion: —
The N. S. Wales Government generously votes
large sums of money to purchase annuities for the
widows of J. L. Treflg and J. R. Dacey, who died
while holding Ministerial office. This action is in
startling contrast to the usual Government attitude
towards its servants. There are hundreds of cases
of N.S.W. public servants who have been denied
compensation after years aud years of service—worse
than denied, for in dozens of cases where aged offi-
cers have established a claim at law to the con-
sideration of the Government, the “Crown” has
chivvied them from Supreme Court to Full Court,
from Full Court to High Court, and from High
Court to Privy Council. Remembering dozens of
cases where the Government has thus exhausted the
resources of devoted servants, it is no wonder that
the Public Service should resent the special treat-
ment accorded in these two cases. Apart from any-
thing else, if a Cabinet Minister drawing £l5OO a
year deserves Parliamentary assistance in providing
for his dependents, how can the Government expect
the ill-paid rank and file to do without it?
N. S. Wales Works Department made an-
other champion under-estimate in reckoning
that the cost of the Litligow sewerage system
would be £20,000. When the dawdling was
all paid for the bill mounted up to £53,000;
and instead of the township paying £1062
per annum and working itself out of debt in
00 years, it will have to pay £2170 every
year and wait 100 years before the mort-
gage is lifted.
The erection of Hobart’s new railway
station lias been postponed on account of
early closing at the pawnshop. Of course
the existing kennel ought to have been burnt
down long ago; but imagine the demented
condition of a country which knows only
one way of getting the cash to put up a
place to get into a train from! The pre-
sent station was secured by a loan which
has never been paid off, and now the Speck
has to cadge some more to put things wrong
again.
William is shifting the world. At the
annual conference of Victorian benevolent
societies the other day these two really
epoch-marking things happened: (1) The
president, Mrs. George Henderson, officially
reported an urgent need of practical meas-
ures to keep the Australian infant alive in
greater numbers. (2) A resolution was
passed urging the Government to start a
foundling hospital or subsidise similar coiv
cerns, and in either case to “recognise the
existence of a class of irresponsible mothers
by providing that children be received into
such institutions without their mothers and
without questions.” If the benevolent ladies
will now do the necessary Minister-pestering,
instead of sitting comfortably back on their
excellent resolution, something may yet be
done by the State to save an army corps
that will otherwise be buried in the dead of
night in back-yards occupied by “kind
ladies.”
From the annual report of the President
of the N. S. Wales State Children’s Relief
Board
One point to which he desired to give prominence
was the continuance of the grave danger to infant
life owing l to the insertion of advertisements in the
daily press by persons offering children for adop-
tion, and by others expressing their willingness to
take such infants. He could not too strongly
emphasise the necessity of taking prompt measures
to remedy this defect of the Act.
This matter is, of course, a scandal, aud
the “respectable dailies” deserve all that
may come to them through a tightening-up
of the law. All the same, if the “kind
motherly person” is shut out of the daily
paper, the Law may merely multiply
another harpy, the abortionist, unless it
grasps the social nettle by founding State
institutions where the “unwanted” infant
may be left and no questions asked. The
healthy infant who isn’t wanted is liable to
be wanted very badly in the time that is
coming.
From a responsible Tasmanian :
It becomes clearer than ever that this policy of
“Hush!” is being used to save the incompetents (and
maybe worse) of the Defence Department. The other
day Whitsitt made charges in the Assembly here
about the treatment of returned soldiers. Pearce
forthwith sent Senator Jim Long to Hobart to hold
an inquiry. Long came down, held a three-hours’
Bitting (from which the press and the public were
excluded), and went back again, observing that he
would make a report to the Defence Department
some old time. Either Wliitsitt's charges were not
worth bothering about or they deserved a proper
inquiry, According to Whitsitt himself the whole
thing was a farce; Long just heard the statements,
not given on oath, of the people who chose to come
along, and closed the thing down as soon as he
could, refusing to hear a word about anything but
the specific cases Whitsitt had brought out in
Parliament on November 17. Since then Whitsitt
claims to have collected a batch of other eases in
which the hungry families of soldiers have had to
wait months for their pay, and where men who have
enlisted have not got a fair deal. But these he
couldn’t go into. Long’s instructions appear to hive
been, “Go into nothing that you can find any excuse
for not going into, and don’t go into anything a
step farther than they drive you.”
N.S.W. Premier Holman has a pile
of important business to attend to these
strenuous times. For example, the other
night he was compelled to complain that
John Haynes had “made offensive refer-
ences” to two Government supporters by
calling them “Labor members.” Said Hol-
man : “In Parliament the parties are known
as Ministerialists and Oppositionists, and it
is out of order to describe members as of
a certain party.” The Speaker promised
to “keep the matter in mind, and if neces-
sary rectify it.” So it’s “offensive” to be
called a Labor member now. is it? Well,
perhaps it is. But it wasn’t before Holman
was the Labor party’s leader.
OBVIOUS TACTICS.
“The Turks are as thick as peas! What
shall we do?”
“Shell them , you idiot, shell them!”
Sydney Telegraph lately focussed its best
intelligence on the position caused by the
war in Britain, and saw it this way :
The boom in the munition-making trades and in
all trades connected with the equipment and trans-
port of troops has enormously increased the incomes
of certain sections. By the re-spending of this
money on an extravagant scale other businesses are
boomed and wages and profits forced up. But the
money is not earned in the economic sense of the
word. Real wealth production, instead of being
increased, suffers a serious decrease.
Then the Telegraph solemnly warned Aus-
tralia that it was drifting the same way,
and told it how to save itself. By a High
Tariff that would encourage real wealth
production, of course ? Oh, no! By “eco-
nomy”—that is to say, by putting your
hands in your pockets and keeping them
there. How that is going to produce any-
thing “in the economic sense of the word”
naturally wasn’t explained.
Peacock has intimated that next
session sport will be specially
taxed to raise revenue in Victoria,
but his Government still refuses to
legalise the totalisator. Opportuni-
ties for raising revenue from sport,
apart from racing, are not promis-
ing. Football was very sick last
season, and is likely to be sicker
this, inter-State cricket is at a
standstill, and ping-pong, poker,
croquet and badminton do not seem
to be weighed down with financial
possibilities. Of course, a surcharge
on race tickets would realise a fair
sum, but at the expense of patriotic
funds, to which most big clubs are
giving all their profits as long as
the war lasts. Certainly such a
tax would not realise anything like
the sum that could be raised by the
State from the tote. It is a fat-
headed idea to tax horse-racing,
which we are constantly told is a
noble sport “marred by the objec-
tionable element of gambling,”
while treating the said element as sacrosanct.
The attitude of the wowser, from whom in
this matter Peacock takes his cue, is as illogi-
cal as anything could be. While he demands
that other forms of alleged “vice”—beer,
wine, spirits and narcotics —shall be taxed
heavily, he lifts his hands in horror at the
bare suggestion of a tax on gambling.
From where the p.n. grows among the
kowhai and raupo:—
There would not be many howls in Maoriland if
the Government decided in favor of conscription.
The call for compulsory service is growing each week,
and is particularly strong in Dunedin, because the
boys of the oatmeal breed are very low
down in the district recruiting figures. Wel-
lington district is providing half the recruits,
and there the opinion against one area being
called upon to make up for the slouchi*
ness of another is accumulating. Massey, the half
Premier, refuses to commit himself until the result
of National Registration is known, but is filled with
a great windiness about what he will do “if neces-
sary” ; from which it appears he is ready to hitch his
waggon to anything.
The Leather Trades Review has printed
“the remarks of an entirely disinterested
person in regard to the splendid service
given by Australian boots.” Here is one ot
the remarks:—
The boots supplied by the Commonwealth arc a
revelation.... Some idea of the quality of the Aus-
tralian soldiers’ boots may be gathered from the
fact that the English “Tommies” only too glad
to exchange their boots, which cost 17s. 3d., for the
Australian article, the contract price for which was
11s. 3d.
Britain, of course, has “banged, barred and
bolted the door” on tariff reform; and the
young man who thus declared England s
policy has gone off to the Front. Yet it is
possible that some of the old fellows left
behind may get a crowbar at the bolts aud
bars, after all. Six bob a pair extra on
each pair of boots is a frantically high price
to pay even for the luxury of Frectrade.
As soon as the intention of certain Vic-
torian legislators regarding the introduction
of a Totalisator Bill was made public, re-
presentatives of three or four churches
hastened to start an opposition campaign,
and the same is now being conducted with
feverish energy. According to the daily
press, a deputation has been arranged to
wait on the Premier for the purpose of urg-
ing him to come to the assistance of its pal,
the bookmaker. The Pencillers’ Association
is helping Archbishop Clarke in bis good
work, the Fielders’ (undenomina-
tional) is lending its immoral support to
the Presbyterians, while the Bagmen’s
League (more or less affiliated with the
Council of Churches) is doing its little bit
to show Methodism how the anti-tote trick
should be worked so as to look really
righteous.
The most dreadful facts disclosed in
Winston Churchill’s account of his steward-
ship were (1) that, when Belgium was
pleading .for help to defend Antwerp, he
(Churchill) “took the responsibility of send-
ing the naval brigade, despite its want of
training, because the situation was des-
perate, and they were the only men avail-
ahle”; and (2) that on November 30, 1914,
he “offered Kitchener facilities for trans-
porting 40,000 men, but was informed that
no army teas available.” That was the
nation which had accepted Germany’s chal-
lenge and was fighting for its life against
trained millions! And when it is all over,
how is Derby’s scheme, followed in Aus-
tralia, going to improve matters? That
plan will only produce an army during a
war, whereas it is obvious that the need is
for an army ready to throw instantly
against any person who may begin trouble
in the future.
FREEZING.
“Bill, do yer ever find readin' the war news
gives yer cold feet?"
Something will have to be clone to sup-
press these people who are spoiling our shib-
boleths. Not only are shells being made
in Australia, but an engineering firm at
Castlemaine (Vic.) is now turning out the
plant to make them with.


What shall I buy christmas?=
HIS is a problem over which much thought and care is expended, and
yet the giver is not always satisfied that a wise selection has been made.
It is so easy to purchase a present which will not give real pleasure or
prove of practical use. and will only be added to a collection of similar
articles. To avoid causing disappointment this year select for the children
A New Piano at PALING’S
If you do so it will prove to be a sound investment and
one that will give lasting pleasure and satisfaction for
many years. You positively cannot get better value.
CHAPPELL, SAMES,
ESTEY g VICTOR
Pianos.
SOLD ON EASY TERMS IF REQUIRED.
Pianos Taken in Exchange at their
11 Utmost Honest Valuation. ————
S i^MEs
faj
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free on request.
Please write for one to-night.
Should you be
thinking of a
PLAYER Piano
THE VICTOR
PLAYER is a
most delightful
instrument and
contains all the
latest scientific improvements
known in the Player world :—Auto-
matic Tracking Device, Six Point
Motors, Automatic Loud Pedal,
Divided Tracker Board, and many
other achievements. These instru-
ments are so easy to manipulate
that even a child can play one.
m
W.H.PALING & CO.UsL
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Newcastle, Lismore. 338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■
Li
i
t|4slCN
///V
VM.
f/
This British-made
CAMERA
stands out
as the Best Value
ever offered in
Folding Roll=Film
Cameras.
FOLDING ENSIGNS
Folding Ensigns embody all the attractive Features
of the more expensive Roll=Film Cameras and sell
at half the price.
The “Folding Ensign” Daylight Loading Roll Film
Cameras are made on very neat lines, with just the essential move-
ments.
The Cameras are very light and compact. In finish and
appearance thev are excellent. British Made.
Loading and unloading is particularly simple, and can be done
verv quicklv.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
Seasoned Wood Body, Ebonised Baseboard,
Morocco Leatherette Covering, Leather
Bellows, Reversible View Finder, Focussing
Scale, Infinity Catch.
“2 MB Folding Ensign,” with Achromatic
Meniscus Lens and Ensign-Junior Shutter for Roll
Films, 2-lin. x 3jin
.‘<3l4 Folding Ensign,” With Achromatic Menis-
cus Lens, for Roll Films, 3Jin. x 4jin
“3MA Folding Ensign,” with Achromatic
Meniscus Lens, for Roll Films, 3]in. x5l in. (P.C.) _ _
All the above Cameras are obtainable fitted with Rapid Rectilinear
Lenses, at slightly higher prices.
£1 2 C
£1
£2
2 0
lIP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Iso at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland & Wellington
Send for a Copy of our New Camera MADE.
Latest Prices.
IXTURE
mam
£
Famous
over
40
Years
Winter maladies assail you at all times and in all
p aces. GREATHEAD’S MIXTURE, however.
is known as a most potent remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS. SORE THROATS,
INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, Etc., Etc.
Tonic as well as a remedy. Sold everywhere.
Buy
Your
Bottle
To-day
the
ORIGINAL
AND ONLY
GENUINE
PHOSFERINE
I/-2/6-4/&
of all Chemists
Sold
OSSBBSIIR
ocpoTV >•
, iriit —m«Sf
■*pateu»gfiscsaa^-aa(«:
3tiM3B*»W
Wg^rtt. It
*‘— V-'t- 'fj/i- -;'-ii ' c .o^*' v
£"csSisS^
gS|§|g
SSs-®
y^&ss
Ausfralaaia
A and l"he
brilfsh
Empire ff
If served
with a sub-
stitute not
bearing the
name Ashton
& Parsons
Ltd., post the
package to 408
Collins St., Melb.,
when the genuine
article will be for-
warded and the cost
of postage refunded.
A PROVEN REMEDY
FOR
iN ERVOUoNESa.
I7SIDI GESTION,
AAT,®7VU J=v.
Supplied by ROYAL COMMANDS fff
the: royal family
tl. / M The Empress of Russia.
fI.M. The King of spam,
H. M. The King of Greece,
H.M. The Queen otßoomania,
ETc. ETc. E7E
PHOSFERinC
tnsares Vigorous
HeaJrh and gives
Slfengrh and Energy*
*
ffbe <Bran& prior? of
sb c ®r£*r of tbc fjoepital of St. 3obn
of 3cruMlem. in JEiifllanb.
+
lady s'locgett 20th July, 1915
Messrs. Ashton 6 Parsons, Ltd.,
Gentlemen,
We are requested by the Com-
missioners of the St. John Ambulance
Association at Havre and elsewhere
to supply, for use in the Base
Hospitals, 1,000 2/9 bottles of
Phosferine.
They inform us that your remedy
is in constant requisition by the
Field Hospitals, and from the reports
they receive, it is held in high
esteem as a Tonic possessing valuable
recuperative qualities.
X shall be obliged by your imme-
diate attention, as it is necessary
to get the Phosferine forwarded to
France as quickly as possible.
(Lady) Helen S. Sloggett.
P. S.—You are quite at liberty—
to use this as you think fit. 4 jjjjr


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LIHITED, Redfern. Sydney.
Whenever YOU visit Melbourne he sure
to stay at “Scott’s.” For comfort,
sumptuousness and convenience no other
hotel can compare with it. Private-
attendance-'phones in all rooms, and Hot
and Cold Water in Bedrooms. Single
Room or “Private-Suite” Accommodation.
SCOHS HOTEL
Collins St Melbourne
Telegrams—“ Scott’s,” Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Despite war, mourning, drought, high cost
ot' living, and the lamentations at the closed door
of Uncle’s pawnshop, entries for important summer
handicaps in Sydney show a considerable increase,
Viiliers Stakes enticed 78 against 65 in 1914 :
Summer Cup, 04 against 39, and Carrington Stakes,
70 against 63. Tatt.’s Cup shows the only drop—4 2
against last year’s entry of 48.
A. J. Noud. dead at Brisbane, was one of
the most widely known Queensland trainers. Among
other events lie won Q. Derbies of 1913 (Signal Lamp)
and 1914 (Fcgbell), Brisbane Cups (llaidee and
FightawavA and three Queensland Cups (Drake, Signal
Lamp and Fra sea). lie knew enough about the
business to get a job as trainer of the winged steeds
in Peter's chariot or the prads of Revelation that
are to have hair like women and tails like bald-
headed scorpions.
“Wanderer” : Things had not been going
too well with him, but lie had to get to Tamworth
meeting somehow, and Tamworth was a long way off.
So lie stood on the railway station and pondered, and
was pondering hard when a Salvationist came and
stood near-by. Good enough ! Lord knows what sort
of tale ho told, but lie borrowed the cap of glory
for ’arf a mo' in exchange for his own cady, and as
the train pulled up got to work —quick. Sighting
a brace of Chows in a compartment lie pushed his
head in. “Tickets, please!” Both were for Tam-
worth. All-li’. Later on two Chows were having
a violent argument with Red Tape. When he got to
Tamworth he borrowed a quid, hacked a couple of
winners, and felt that things were coming right at
last. A man has to get round somehow.
A peculiar incident occurred at Menangle
Park (N.S.W.) race meeting on November 25,
owing to the starter sending away the field in the
Flying Welter, a six-furlong event, from the seven-
furlong- post. When the horses returned to scale
every owner but the winner’s entered a protest, and
the stewards ordered another rare with -all hots
to stand. It was a triumphant entry that the winner
of the first flutter made when it again landed home
with its nose well in front and its tail waving three
cheers.
* * * *
“481” : While in camp in Ma’adi, my mate,
Boh llodd, and myself were order <1 to patrol the
rifle range. We had for our section a flat, sandy
stretch behind a long, low hill. Now, Boh was
always under the impression that his chestnut was
faster than my brown, an opinion from whhh l
differed. We argued the matter until Bob
offered to race me to an old stone hut
a quarter-mile away, for 50 piastres aside. We
got away to a good start, and after a very close
finish I reckoned 1 had just about won. Bob thought
otherwise. We rode slowly back, arguing the matter,
and as we approached the hut Bob gasped suddenly:
“Holy wars! Here’s the Adjutant.” Out from the
hut he came and cantered up to us. “What are you
two men doing- here?” he snapped. “Patrolling the
rifle range, sir.” replied Bob. “Patrolling he
damned,” roared his Nibs; “when were you ever
taught to patrol at full gallop?” Then, turning to
me: “What were you racing along like that for?”
“For 50 piastres, sir,” I said, trying him on a new
tack. “Oh. that’s it, is it? Very well. I’ll send
for you both after lunch. Carry on now, and don’t
he so damned enthusiastic in your patrol work.” He
then rode a wav, turning, when about 30 yards off, to
call out, “The brown horse just won.” AA'e were
never sent for and T pocketed the piastres.
* # * *
Desert Gold. T. IT. Lowry’s brilliant All
Black —Aurarius filly put another Maori land record
against her name at Riccarton the other day by
bolting with the Oaks in 2min. 35 2-ssee. The
previous best was Martine’s 2min. 36 4-ssec. in
1910. Desert Gold is proving herself a wonderful
speed horse. Last season, as a two-year-old, she
started 12 times, got six firsts, was not once un-
placed, and bagged £3665 in stakes, which is the
most ever collected in Loan Land by a nag of that
age. This season as a three-year-old she has, within
four weeks, started five times and scored five
firsts. She won the Hawke* Bay Guineas in a cantor,
the Wellington Champion Plate, the M.L. Derbv in
record time, the M.L. Oaks in ditto, and the Stead
Memorial Gpld Cup, beating AVarstep at weight-for-
age.
“.Twosp”: People who feed gold to the
tote have been wondering who pays the war tax
which Ward of Maoriland has imposed on dividends.
After a great -de il of pen-chewing-nnd-'learned dis-
mission it has been decided that the backer of a
loser contributes nothing, because his money is irre-
vocably gone, and onlv the dividend-catcher sub-
scribes. But actually, of course, the position is
that the winner pays the tax with the loser's money.
The winner doesn't pay at all, but) is merely a collector.
After you’ve thought that out get on to this: At
the Canterbury J. C. gailops and the Metropolitan
Cluli’s trots the total tote investments were £302,358,
which easily beat the previous year’s £280,8254.
Out of this figure the State collared as its ordinary
rake-off £7558 155., and for its war tax on dividends
£6BlB 15s. So that the punters had £13,377 10s.
clipped off their collective weekly wages. A smile
here from Mr. Isaac Odds. At the same time the
owners, who grabbed £28.100 in stakes, of which
the punter provided £22.678 10s. through the club’s
percentage, handed over to the war funds £ 291. This
shows us what a fine game 'racing is for the punter
and also for the gentleman who can lay the field
without depriving himself of any percentages or war
taxes.
* * * *
“Moana”: It’s not often that a stable
goes the whole bank account in a big handicap with
a rank outsider and scoops the pool, but the crowd
behind Sweet/I’ipperarv did it in the Welcome Stakes
at Riccarton (M.L.) the other week. This filly hails
from Hawke* Bay, and consequently little was known
about her in the City of the Plains; but the stable
knew what she could do and staked a pile of cash
on her c-hance. The boy who rode her, C. Oarmont.
threw every penny he had on to the tote. In spite
of this the prad went out as only eighth favorite.
The jockey took her well to. the front at the start
and stayed thef-e. The stable must have collected
nearly all the cash in the machine.
* * * *
“F.II.”: Another argument for the tote.
At Epsom (A’ic.) on November 20 the country horse
Moidart won the Second Division Handicap. Moidart.
was “nominally quoted at 50 to 4 in the ring.”
which is to say that nobody backed the nag. But
where the tote is in action no horse ever goes out
without a few supporters. The racing public is wise
to the fact that the tote does something quite extra-
ordinary in divvy-paying-; lienee there is always a
section willing to subscribe a bob or two towards a
syndicate ticket on even the most shaggy outsider.
“F.II.”: A horse which was left on the
board at a recent Williamstown meeting was not
started. In a par. (15. 18/11, 'I-3) I remarked that
‘‘the books bagged a nice bit.” Whereupon
“H.W.IV’ wrote thus in his haste (15. 25/11/’l5) :
“Was ‘F.II.’ serious when he referred to punters
losing their money ? If ‘F.II.’ doesn’t know lie ought
to that if tlie horse a man backs dots not start the
money is returned.” My critic's testimony will never
be supported by that of the more ripely-experienced
sporting fraternity. If I back a horse at a stated
price, the bookmaker simply bets that my nag won't
win. The animal may get paralysis before the race
(six cheers from Isaac), or break his neck on a piece
of banana-peel when coming out of the birdcage (yells
of joy from Tim O’Solomon) ; but that won’t affect
my contract with the odds-layer, except that the
contract is at once determined to my detriment.
There are, however, two conditions under which the
bookmaker has to refund on a scratched horse: (1)
If the bet is made at starting-price, since there
c-an’t be a s.p. without a start; and (2) if it can
lie shown that the horse backed at a stated price was
actually' scratched prior to the bet having been
made.
ft * * -x-
After McGoorty had operated on Mick
King at Sydney Stadium on Saturday for the tenth
time of smiting, the police inspector held up his
hand; then Arthur Scott, the referee, leaped into
fhe line of fire and the towel fluttered gently to
the floor. Mick was done to a turn; his hands
were down ; his wits had been knocked a mile or so
away by that last swinging hit he took on the point.
It was a painfully one-sided affair. King is, of
course, an immeasurably better boxer than McGoorty,
but. as his hits are never more dangerous than those
of a housemaid armed with a feather-duster,
McGoorty simply treated him with indifference. And
the punches that Mick got in return for his mos-
quito-shifters were hard and direful and many, and
kept him on the run. The man who cannot exchange
smites with McGoorty is merely turning himself
into cold meat by getting into the ring in his
company.
EDDIE McGOORTY chews gam.
Another sorry hiding was distributed to
the ancient Ilughie Mehegan when Frank O’Connor
took off his shirt at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night. As early as the second skirmish O’Connor’s
right began to lob home regularly, Mehegan’s
smother being as effective as a mosquito-net would
he against whales. The unpleasant performance
continued until the seventh, when the has-been, bat-
tered to a standstill, dropped on the stroke of the
gong and a courageous second heaved in the towel.
When ilughie realised that the flag he usually nails
to the mast had been dipped, heavy blue smoke
curled up from his corner and the air was laden
with the smell of burning sulphur. O’Connor looks
as if he will have his pockets bulging with cham-
pionships before he is much older.
Mick Paul on signs of the times: Thoug'i
present-day champions seem to prefer to look for
fight in the peace-loving U.S.A., some of the old-
timers are off to show the Turk that they still have
a punch about the premises. Jim Barr, of Sydney,
for one, is training for the real thing. His last go
was against Casey at the old National (Sydney) 10
years ago. He had previously weathered two 20-
round disturbances with Boh Turner, then light-
weight champion and at his best. James lost the
first on points, while the second was called a draw
by the referee and a darned shame by some of the
crowd.
* * -» *
“Nyreir’ : When Jack Lester came to
Australia in 1911, under the wing of Tahmmy Burns,
he, was heralded as the White Hope. He proved a
black frost. He was a flash fellow, and, had a mania
for motor-cars. He was also a whale on breaking
nails with his teeth and straightening out horse-
shoes. A “prominent person” who hoard of this
made arrangements for Lester to give an exhibition
in Sydney, to which several other important person-
ages were invited. A well-known pressman bought
the horseshoe. Lester arrived, and, after being-
introduced, proceeded to get busy. The veins
stood out in his forehead like rope, and he
turned the color of an incandescent lobster. Pres-
ently he let loose a string of hot-cross prayers, where-
upon two or three visitors left the room. The pug
had a rest and then renewed the tug-of-war. Foiled
again, he prayed fervently, whereupon the remainder
of the visitors fled. Said the pressman, “Say, Jack,
you’re not as strong as a goosethat’s only a thin
shoe.’’ “Don’t know what’s the matter with me
to-day,” replied Lester. “I do,” replied the scrib-
bler; “you’ve been trying to straighten out a shoe
made of steel.” “Hell!” yapped Lester, as he
bounced out of the room furiously. There was
“nothing- doing” for the photographer who was
engaged to take Johnny in his feat-of-strength act
that day.
»- * * *
Charleville to Sydney pigeon race (600
miles) this year was most disastrous. Altogether
i 00 birds were freed, and of these only eight reached
the lofts, and only one within schedule race-time.
I lie loss is chiefly due to the foolishness of holding
the event while bush fires obscured everything with
smoke and haze. Strong wtsterly winds, which blew
birds into strange surroundings, did the rest.
“D.”: When the Rev. F. F. Waddy’s team
toured Ceylon two years ago they had several funny
experiences. In the second match against the Cey-
lonese XI, Armath, the latter’s best batsman, had
only scored a few runs when, going out to a. googlie
from “Biscuit” Arnott, ho missed it and was so
easily stumped by Ted Long that the latter simply
threw up the ball without appealing. The batsman
scrambled back to liis crease and stood there, where-
upon Long appealed. “Not out,” said the umpire
(a big tea-broker). The batsman continued, made
59, and won the match for his side. When button-
holed by Long subsequently the umpire admitted that
the batsman was out when the bails were knocked
off. “But when you appealed his foot was behind
the c-rease.” Teddy did not say his prayers that
night. That umpire was “off” and there were
several applicants for the job. One fellow declared
that he knew all points of the game and had acted
in all the best matches. “But,” lie said, “there is
one thing 1 must tell you—l never no-ball a man
when he makes: his first break; I only warn him.”
“Is that so?” said Long (Arnott tells the yarn).
“Well, what would you do if the bowler howled a
batsman with his first no-ball ?” The umpire scratched
his head, and replied, “I’m damned if I thought of
that.’ By the way, it took Teddy Long three weeks
to make four runs during that Ceylon tour. He is
now in the ranks, and scoring much better.
* * *
“Coot’ : In ono of Iho matches W. G.
Grace played against the great r diversities, he hap-
pened to fail badly in each innings. In the evening
lie was the guest of one of the dons, who invited the
cricketer to attend service in the University chapel.
Bad did so, and, as it happened, the concluding
hymn was No. 28 in “Hymns Ancient and Modern.”
The great stress that the choir laid on the lino, “The
scanty triumphs grace hath won,” made the irrever-
ent undergrads grin, and even the great batsman
forced a smile. That’s the yarn, anyhow, and if
it isn’t a fact, the following is. Upon W.C.'s visit
to Australia with Lord Sheffield’s XI, Melbourne
youths disapproved of several of his actions in the
field, and showed their disapprobation by greeting
the somewhat pot-bellied champion . with cries of
“Watery Guts,” thus playing upon the champion’s
initials as well as his corpulency.
It looks as if all the good wicket-keepers
have gone to-(lie war. “Sundries” reached double
figures in each first-grade match played in Sydney
on Saturday last. ’Varsity gave Red fern 37 (second-
top score), and Mr. S. ran up in other matches
totals of 33, 30 and 26.
* -X- * .v.
“Billy” Hart, ihe Parramatta bird, is off
io join oilier Australians in the aerial business
somewhere in the war-zone. Hart some time ago
offered his services to the Defence Department to
inaugurate an aerial flotilla; but the Department
had its hands full, and the offer lapsed. Hart is a
limb of a family which lias had a footing in the
old town further hack than the oldest inhabitant
can remember, and still keeps its signboard up in
the timber business.
* # # #
A pair of good goers in X. S. Wales’
sporting bodies: (1) National Rifle Association, which
has supplied 3326 men for tlic battlefields, of whom
97 _ have been knocked out : (2) the Rugby Union,
which has given 1581, of whom 70 are slain or dis-
abled. Salute!
* * * *
Harry Green, of N. S. Wales, holder of
many amateur sculling championships, has joined
Hie artillery. His record includes Australian Singles
in 3912, and N.S.W. Singles in 1912 and 1914; a
seat in N.S.W. champion four-oared boat of 1912
and 1914, and inter-State eights of 1913 and 1914.
Last season, with Sydney Enterprise Club, Green
won the singles and stroked the fours and eights in
the State championships.
A strong nor’-easter last Saturday was
responsible for a surprise in the general handicap
of the Sydney Flying Squadron, the hitherto-uns.ic-
cessful Rosetta landing the double. Accidents” ppt
some of the best-known boats out of the race, while
several were disqualified. Despite the recent police
raid on the sailing-race bookies, the follow-the-boats
steamers were crowded as usual.
Fish sports are recording the presence in
N. S. Wales waters of large numbers of a giant
species of “toadie,” hitherto seldom met with.
Experts identify this toad-fish as a nuisance common
only in Japanese waters. It’s following the trade
flag presumably.
-* * * *
“Moana” : McLoughlin, Uncle Sam’s red-
haired tennis hurricane, has had two doses of un-
diluted disaster lately. First of all, after smiting
his way to the final, he was outed by the new
youngster Johnston in the U.S.A. championship.
Then he got through to the final in the big Newport
Invitation Tournament, only to be blown away by
Williams. Considering that the Yankee crowd made
a god of Mac after the last Davis Clip struggle and
cold-leaded Williams for having lost the utensil, the
latter is probably feeling particularly good at pre-
sent. McLoughlin is reported to be feeling the,
reverse, for his countrymen, as usual when a cham-
pion goes down, are chewing their cigars dubiously
and are beginning to remark: “Was this guy ever a
gol-derned champion, anyhow?”
“Cleido” : W. Robinson, who says lie will
run any man living from 100yds. to 800yds., gave a
further taste of liis quality the other evening at
Flemington (Vie.). In a heat of the 85yds. sprint he
started off the 4yds. mark and conveyed himself to
the tape in 81- lOscc.—exactly even-time. The track
is not a particularly fast ono, and as the season is
quite young he will probably show something special
before it terminates, lie has any number of winning
performances from 75yds. to ' 880yds. (including
Stawell Gift, 1914) io his credit in the best of
company, is a non-smoker and a close follower of the
King. He never dopes immediately before an im-
portant run, as so many topnoteliers do. Writer
remembers a prominent sprinter absorbing nearly a
pint of whisky in warming up for a. final. Veteran
Postle, who is a sort of trial horse these days,
wants to debate the question over 75yds. to 120yds.
with Robinson, and, conscription and accompanying
Urcumstances permitting, be will be given the
chance.
* * * *
.1. .T. IVoIs he is in the limelight of Sydney
amateur athletics this season. Recently the Botany
athlete won four club championships; and at the
Labor sports on Saturday showed the soles of his
feet to the field in the 440yds. handicap. From the
10yds. mark he reached the terminus in 53see.
A school with a mighty athletic record
is Marist Brothers’, Christchurch (M.L.). Its Rugby
team has annexed the North Canterbury Schools’
Championship for the sixth year in succession, and
lias done the same trick 11 times since 1900. Last
season it played nine matches, and accumulated the
staggering tally of 437 points to its opponents’
three. Needless to say, it was undefeated. In the
last three seasons it has run up 952 points against
six, and has bagged on an average 43 points per
game without losing a match. In one game it helped
itself to 100 points to nil. The school also holds
the cricket banner and the Wood Shield for athletics,
and in 1912 and 1913 it provided the Canterbury
swimming champion.
* # v *
In a recent raid on some two-up premises
in Sydney, one of the 33 men arrested was a juvenile
of 72. Hope was still doing its eternal spring in
his tough old heart.
The “find” of Sydney swimming season
is A. Ifuie, a youngster from Manly. A week ago
be sprinted over 100yds. in 58 4-ssec., and on Satur-
day, from scratch, finished third over 150yds. in
Imin. 39sec. Young Huie gets his speed from an
imitation of the famous kick of Duke Ivahanamoku.
Incidentally, the Longworth family has a young bro-
ther about whom big things are prophesied. Dad
says he'll better Billy.
“Will G. Buck”: One of tlie finest beaches
in Australia is at Port Douglas (JST.Q.). It is, and
has been for years, the registered course for the
racing club there and the running track of the local
athletes. Also, it is a splendid speedway for
motor-cars. When the tide is out the sand is as
hard as an ordinary bicycle track. While you’re
trying to think of another as good will somebody
tell me the address of the best and safest surfing
beach in Australia?
“Vic.” : Great sport! Deer have largely
increased in South-East Gippsland (Vic.). Snake
Island, close to the Corner Inlet entrance, and near
Welshpool railway station, is over-run with them.
A week’s sporting trip is arranged by the Vie.
Government Tourist Bureau. Parties up to five will
be allowed from December I this year to May,
1916 —permit of £2 per party—to shoot deer on
this island. Each squad may shoot up to 10 head
of deer, and possess the carcases. So venison is
likely to be on Melbourne tables. Good
sea-fishing for schnapner, ilathead and whiting;
and fine angling in Agnes River, five miles from
Welshpool, where rainbow trout and black fish abound.
“Peri-Winkle”: There is some ill-advised
talk in Vie. about again officially opening the duck-
slaughter season early next year, now that the swamps
and natural haunts of the wild-fowl have filled after
the rains. Last year wild duck was off the menu,
and the authorities might well wait another season
or two to give the birds a chance to marry and mul-
tiply, despite the desires of the “sports,” cartridge-
retailers, and city holiday-makers. The dock is
becoming scarcer every year, and soon the species
will be a rarity. The proposal to restrict the
number of victims a shooter may bag is a wise one,
but it is almost a generation too late. Close seasons
are the true remedy.
■X- * X- X
“Rag”: The Fremantle-Sydney motoring
record of 28 days I hr. 52min., put up by Birtles
during 1912, with a little Metz car, has been blown
out. A Westralian party, P. W. Armstrong, 11.
Eraser and T. Collins, in a 6-cylinder, 40-h.p
Studebaker, has flogged over the 3000 miles in eight
day,; 23hr. lOmin, averaging 320 miles a day.
The machine, passengers, gear and petrol weighed
24 tons, and petrol consumption was a gallon for 15
miles. That’s good business. Near the top of the
Razorbaek some rubber tubing between engine and
radiator burst, and nearly all the water was lost.
Reluctantly the motorists had to fill the machine’s
guzzle with two bottles of beer and several of
gingcrale.. Naturally, she never went better. Moral:
Ncvef go motoring unarmed.
x *
“II.S.”: Ford, the automobile man. one of
the warmest Yankee millionaires, refused to go in
for the Anglo-French loan, and said his company
would withdraw its deposits from any bank which
subscribed. His chief partner, Couzens, thereupon
resigned. Ford has reconsidered liis position, and
says he will take £200,000 in any Canadian war
loan. This restores pence in the firm. When the
co. started, _oidy-%UT'ybars ago, Couzens was a mer-
cantile .clerfir at £360 a year. Ford was no better
off. j, v jdpt‘zeasy who had saved £BO, borrowed £2O from
his- sister and £IOO from his einplover. With the
help of a note for £3OO he took £SOO stock in the
little new company*. His salary there was £SOO,
and F&rcl’s £6OO.- Couzen’s ...sister, for her loan of
£2fl;V.has received £9400 in cash dividends and
£ lO.fiOf)" in stock. Reckon up from that how the
others stand.
Tlie financial story of a mucli-discussed
motor-car eo., from the Canadian Monetary Times :
“Ford Company of Canada. —Net earnings of this
company for the present year are estimated at
53,000,000, or 300 per cent, on the capital stock.
Authorities in Detroit, who are in close touch with
the company*, express the opinion that a stock divi-
dend between 600 per cent, and 700 per cent, will
probably be announced this fall. The regular divi-
dend is 40 per cent, cash per annum.
“The company has a record for making distribu-
tions in stock, and its present capital, $1,000,-600,
represents a growth from 5125,000 in 1906, through
the declaration of stock dividends.
“Through agreement with Henry Ford, tlie com-
pany sells Ford products without competition in
Canada and the British colonies, which includes Aus-
tralia, India, British South Africa and Maoriland.
It does not, however, sell in the British Isles.
“In 1912 Ford Motor Company of Canada sold
6300 cars: in 1913 it sold 11,000; in 1914, 16,500;
while this year’s business, notwithstanding adverse
conditions in many parts of its field, will be close
to 25,000 cars.”
Now, why can’t Australia? * i „
X ‘ * ~ X : f *
A good run was recently taken out of a
B.S.A. big 4:1 at the opening meeting‘of the Pioneer
M. C. Club, held on Brighton Beach, Christchurch
(M.L.). Tn the 20 miles open handicap F. V.
Thomas secured first place and absolute fastest time,
covering the distance on a soft sandy* beach with
four turns in 20 minutes 38 seconds. Oh the same
machine he secured first place in the 10-mile open
side-car race. In Westralia, too, in the 150-mile
T. T. Race, B.S.A. machines secured first and second
places in the side-car event, beating previous records
by over one hour.
X X *
All the Yankee motor-car manufacturers
didn't want to “tie a tin-can to this joint Anglo- '
French Commission and chase it back to Europe.”
John N. Will.vs, who builds the Overland ears, was
the second-largest, private contributor to the War
Loan floated in N’Yarlc. He took up £200,000 worth.
Corporal Adam Dobson, the well-known
Maoriland Soccer rep., was one of the first to be
called out under the new Munitions Act. He was
about to board the troopship with the Bth Reinforce-
ments when he received orders to proceed to
Dunedin, where he is to serve his country at the
Roslvn Mills, as a specialist in woollen stuffs. Of
course, Dobson was disappointed. But he set to work
to cheerfully serve bis country in the prosaic way
in which it had decided that he could serve it best.


You Will Be Surprised
How you can build up your strength by a Course
of Physical Culture under my Postal Instruction.
The results you will secure even after the first
month’s tuition will be sufficient proof of the effici-
ency of my methods.
Learn a good system, such as mine is, where every
movement is prescribed for the reason that it will
effect improvement rapidly and permanently.
I simply study your individual Physical Shortcom-
ings, and then may out a course to meet your
requirements.
Head tin's extract from a pupil's letter, after two
months’ training:—
“I have gained 91b. in weight, and my chest
has expanded liin. Indigestion and constipation
have entirely disappeared, and 1 feci much fresher
in tlie morning than ever I did.”
-—11. M., Riverstone, N.S.W.
So be guided by the experience of others. Re
wise in time. Write for a copy of my profusely-
illustrated Booklet, which fully describes and gives
cost of tuition of my Course of Physical Culture
by Post. Just write your name and address on this
advertisement and post to me. I know what you
mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
scyc
REG. L.
(“Snowy”)
BAKER
445 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
Ride it to work-
Ride it for fun
&
Write for
Catalogue “D.”
HENDEE MANUFACTURING CO., 109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Try My
“Three C’s”
Hand-made
Cigarettes
They are of the very
highest quality, mild
in flavor, and will give
the greatest satisfac-
tion to all who appre-
ciate the BEST in
Cigarettes.
No. I—Russian.
If you are fond of
Russian Cigarettes, you
will enjoy this one.
-jib. Boxes (about
100) .... 5/-
No. 2—Virginia.
Smokes mild and sweet.
Plain, Gold or Cork-
Tipped.
jib. Boxes (about
100) .... 4/6
No. 3 —Egyptian.
A very popular smoke.
Made from a choice
blend of Turkish To-
bacco.
jib. Boxes (about
100) .... 5/-
No. 4—Turkish.
The best Turkish Cigar-
ette ever offered at the
price
jib. Boxes (about
100) .... 57-
POSTAGE :
jib., N.S.W., Cd.
Inter-State, Bd.
MY NEW CATALOG
is just out, and will
prove of great interest
to every smoker. Write
to-day for a copy.
A. M. SOLOMON
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 Pitt Street, Sydney
Actual Sizes.
No. 1. No. 2.
RTIA
No. 3. No. 4.
:■ J iU
“Smoke-oh” : If Butxetin writers ever
forsake the “legitimate” for sordid commercialism,
the advertisements of the future might read like
this: —-
“Bellerive” docs a last favor :■ —
A DYING WISH.
Inside a humble cottage stood
A family round a bed,
In sorrow gazing upon
An old man soon to be dead.
His son he callest to his side
And asketh with a sigh,
“One smoke of ‘HAPPY THOUGHTS,’ my son,
For soon I hast to die.”
“GVllan Park” has a great idea: I could stop this
war as easily as a State Premier can ask for
another loan. I’d get every available aeroplane
loaded up with “HAPPY THOUGHTS” Tobacco, to
be dropped over the enemy’s lines with the message
“More where this came front.” The enemy would
desert in thousands —surrender in millions —to get
another helping of the joyous weed. Then we could
easily mop up the few that would be left, or drop
some more tobacco.
“Den” re-writes “The Australaise” :—-
Fellers of Australia,
Blokes an’ coves an’ coots,
v Shift ygr carcases,
Move' yer boots.
'Stop yer grousin’,
Cut yer snorts,
Fill yer 1 pipes up
With “HAPPY THOUGHTS.”
“The Religious Editor” sends an epistle: Brethren,
eschew riches, if you have none; tread the paths of
virtue, if you must; and always keep your tobacco-
pouches filled with the sweet and fragrant HAPPY
THOUGHTS. Blast these matches! —-Advt.
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
WELL
18
NATURE’S
BEST.
'■ y
mm
Sii
&
mm
&m
7
■ ■
m
m
mi
'wmm
m
ss mm.
mm
t&mk
S*stf3sfc«3«
Ifeifc
few
gjgg|g
»> ;1; 3
3ljBßfi
iwytP
i
ife
g»g
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNO; It (perfectly gas-
igfat) CARTRIDGE —the highest
hiss imported into Australasia. It is a
uperb cartridge for match shooting, being
used by the best shots. The speeiallv-deep
brass head ensures perfect ejection. 2J
inches long.
Always specify KYNOCH “ P.G.”
when you want the very best.
All British
Manufacture.
2]
Cfi
NOYES BROS.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
(Sydney) Limited
499 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Selling Agents for
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. La.
Steel Works,
Newcastle, N.^S.W.
RIGNEY SHOES FOR MEN
The popularity of RIGNEY SHOES is due
to all-round merit, and not to the perfection
of any single feature. That is why they
are the choice of the well-groomed man.
The illustration shows a PATENT CALF
OXFORD SHOE, latest perforations. A
High-grade, “Made-to-order” style.
Price - 27(6
In Black and Tan Velour Calf,
25/- and 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY-
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
DUNLOP
GROOVED
BEST 1
•FOR
MOTOR
CYCLES
BEST
•FOR
CAPS
Ist-
,Zi
T
U L f
<Zj
i-iti
RUBBER
STUDDED.
DUNLOP)
MOTOR TYRES
have proved themselves the most Reliable
and Economical for Cars and Motor
Cycles. The strength of Casing. Quality
of Wearing Tread, and thorough work-
manship in these big mileage Tyres
ensures you getting the BEST SERVICE
at the MINIMUM COST
LIST POSTED ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
Wellington, Christchurch,
N.Z.
This is from a man who can’t keep still: —•
When will some progressive railway man introduce
an express train to Australia ? From Melbourne to
Adelaide is 483 miles, and the alleged express stops
25 times between the two cities. In a run of 17
hours 26 minutes those stoppages amount to 125
minutes, Say two hours five minutes. Surely all
that time need not be wasted. I've done non-stop
runs in France, Britain and Yankeeland, where
water is sucked up while the train is moving and
mailbags are received and delivered. Several such
trains do 60 miles an hour rigid, through. But. the
Adelaide express stops at little towns about the
size of last year's peanuts, and the passenger trying
to sleep is regaled with half the local gossip and all
the local jokes. One does not advocate the sole use
of dumb porters, yet I think they ought to be " told
not to be so beastly noisy in the centre of the
night.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
mmm
Your
Engine
will only
produce its
maximum
power
—with proper
care and
attention!
therefore you need
Plume Benzine
the fuel that takes more air;
keeps the engine cool and clean;
gives maximum power, and more mileage
to the gallon than any other benzine,
whilst
Gargoyle Mobiloils
ensure frictionless running.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand
GAILLEI9IS MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR-
The motor that yon do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
High-tension Magneto in Flywheel. Im-
proved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Hotors with
Battery and H.T. flagneto Ignition.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
Delivery of any of the above from stock.
Sole Australasian Agents «
m
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
m
Dinnefqrd's
Magnesia
ns
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affectm^
Xmas Goods
are simply rolling in, and one is inter-
ested to know what are their character-
istics in this year of war.
Extraordinary as it may seem, this
year designs show greater progress and
more artistic excellence than in previous
vears.
The war impress is visible in the
severity of designs, but beyond that is
true merit of artistic conception and
values. . _ , , .
The great depression in England in
the Silver and Jewellery branches appears
to have acted as a spur to higher efforts.
The variety of selection is great and
prices are a surprise in values —especially
in diamond goods.
Heavy sterling silver-mounted Brush
real hand-drawn bristles and Comb,
plete in case
Less !!0 per cent, discount ..
and
com-
-32/6
6/6
26/
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES—:CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
n and 25 HUNTER STREET.
m
&
r
v^W
i i
B@KIQa
DC
Cologne
J.CE . ATKINS ON-
BBSs
Oaj r> 9>.
NO
! \
If
you took out
each stopper
before deciding
WHICH WOULD BE
YOUR CHOICE?
You wou Id find that
Atkinson’s English Eau de
Cologne is just the type of
perfume that a woman of taste
would instinctively prefer.
And you would be right.
For Atkinson’s English Eau
de Cologne is the finest in the
world. For over 100 years it
has been distilled in London
by a Bond Street House of
world-wide reputation.
Look for the name of A ! kinson on every bottle of Eau
de Cologne you buy, It enables you to pick out what
you want —the best.
ATKINSON’S
BRITISH
Eau=de=Cologne
J. & E. ATKINSON,
:4. OLD BOND ST.. LONDON
44
No. 24.
**
m
m
9
m
m&
*/>s&■
When father got the hand-painted slippers
what he said was —
not, intended for the ears of the well
meaning donor.
Father has been hoping that someone
would have the “ gumption” to send him
an Onoto pen, so as to make easier the
task of putting into diplomatic language
his letters of “thanks” to those who
“ remembered” him at Christmas.
Have you ten friends or relatives for
whom you want to select a worthy gift
—a delightful gift—yet a gift of lifelong
usefulness ?
Get ten Onotos !
To fill an Onoto one simply withdraws
the “head.” dips the nib into the ink,
presses back the “head,” and the Onoto
is filled. Mo need of a filler. And no
fear of leaknge.after the Onoto is filled.
A simple turn of the “head'’ renders
the Onoto a sealed tube. Even if carried
upside down in the pocket an Onoto will
never leak a drop.
That’s why Father said :
WHY DIDN’T THEY SEND ME
AN
Onoto
The self-filling safety fountain pen
The Onoto is All British Made by a B itish Company, with I riti h Capital and
labour. It is designed to last a lifetime, and is guaranteed by its makers.
Price 12 /-. and in a variety of more elaborate styles for presentation purposes, m
handsome cases, of all Stationers, Jewellers and Stores. Booklet about the Oneto pen
freeon appSion to THOMAS DK LA RUE & CO LTD., 322CBunlnllRow, London,
E O or the Managing Agents for Australasia, NORMAN BAKER & LONGHLRSI,
50 York Street, Sydney,


Instant Relief
for Sore Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS. CARTER WRITES For years my feet
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
“Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4s. (triple box contains three t’mes the Is.6d. size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
“My feet just
ache for ‘Biff’ ”
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being-
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopelpss,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Trv the great British Remedv:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned . Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
British Pi •ices, 1/1 and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
VV. H. SOUL PATTINSON k CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS. etc.
m
f
The Experienced Motorist
Vnowi lull well the superb quality and
wearing-worth built unsparingly into
every inch of
MNCTGUB?
MOTOR TYRES
Mado by file Found*** ol lb*
Rubber Industry in Australasia
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
ALL STATES and NEW ZEALAND. [3
KITES
CIDER
Interstate Agents.—SYDNEY: Tucker & Co.;
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.; ADELAIDE:
W. P. Auld & Co.; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co,; GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.;
HOBART: J. Ferguson & Co.; LAUNCESTON:
J, McKenzie & Co.; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M,
Heddrick & Co.
Johnson's Prepared Wax
—for Motor-Cars
and Motor Boats
Mm*
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
—for furniture:
the standard Polish
Johnson's Prepared Wax
—for
all Floors
Johnson’s Wood Dye
—for colouring
all woods
ll II jl II II
I if
w*
May We Send
You Postpaid
a Tin of
MU
ft
■I
—enough for polishing a small
floor, piano, several pieces of
furniture or a motor car ?
Please use the Coupon below-
JOHNSON’S Prepared Wax is a splen-
did and complete finish and polish for
Floors Desks Furniture
Linoleum Pianos Golf Clubs
Woodwork Victrolas Motor Cars
Over varnish, shellac, oil and French
polish it imparts a velvety, protecting
finish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is in paste
form, clean and easy to use and very
economical. It gives a hard, dry and
artistic finish.
Every housewife who takes pride in
keeping her - furniture attractive and
her home sanitary needs Johnson’s
Prepared Wax.
H
is for the artistic colouring of all
woods. With it inexpensive soft woods
may be finished so that they are as
beautiful as hard woods.
With Johnson’s Wood Dye you can complete
work promptly. It is very easily applied, very
economical and dries rapidly. Unequalled for
finishing new furniture, woodwork and floors,
for staining reed and wicker work, and for
refinishing old work.
Made in seventeen shades, including Mahog-
any, Early English and several shades of
browns and greens.
Johnson’s Artistic Wood Finishes
are for sale by Paint Dealers and
Ironmongers everywhere.
USE THE COUPON for a free copy of our
1/- Book, “THE PROPER TREATMENT OF
FLOORS, WOODWORK AND FURNITURE,”
and a generous tin of Johnson’s Prepared Wax
—sufficient for polishing a small floor, several
pieces of furniture or a motor car. This book-
let, which is offered gratis, is the work of fam-
ous experts—it is beautifully illustrated in
nine colours, and is full of valuable ideas on
home beautifying.
Post tht; Coupon at once to any of our Australian Distributors:
SYDNEY- —Holds worth, Macpherson & Co. (whol.), G. L. Gee
and Co., Ltd. (whol.), Mark Foys Ltd., F. Lassetter & Co.
MELBOURNE—G. L. Gee & Co., H. J. Colder Propy. Ltd.,
Jas. Hardie & Co.
ADELAIDE —King & Co., Weymouth Street.
BRISBANE —Jas. Sloan & Co., R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd.
PERTH —Jas. Eastwood Ltd., Hamer & Co.
AUCKLAND (N.Z.)—Hill, Plummer & Co. Ltd.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.)—G. L. Gee & Co. Ltd.
CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.)— G. L. Gee & Co. Ltd.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, “The Wood Finishing
Authorities,” Factory: Racine, Wisconsin, U.S. A.
WM. S. FISH, Australasian Agent, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
To S. C. Johnson & Son _ \ 0
(Address Care of Nearest Distributor)
I enclose 6d. for a generous tin of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax and for a free copy of your 1/- Colour Book.
Name ..
Address
My Dealer’s Name,
BajO'i
Smokers and
Non-Smokers
~ ! TWTJifrn TOOTH PASTE the best remedy for any
SS/rSe Jt? It make* your tM sweet and
fragrant, and restores tinted teeth, without injury, to
their natural color. Pebeco is a complete and ideal
health course for the mouth and teeth.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test Iree
for three penny stamps, on application to the
Manufacturer.
G. ARNOLD
(Uept. A), 6 O'Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.)
Iney.'
m
If any illustration appearing in Ti:s
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you pri -e for it.
Even the G.-G. pokes borak at us: —•
It will be just as well to crush Germany before
the world is crushed with debt; and it will be a
new world we shall find if we cannot manage to
borrow in pursuance of our usual policy. We must
crush Germany and leave a little money to be got
at the end of the war.
Victoria’s wide-awake and strenuous
Department of Health has put up a record;
the Camberwell Council on April 5, 1911,
sent in an application concerning a nursing
home, and the cyclonic Department has just
intimated that the matter will receive
attention.
“John P.”: It’s not often that anyone is
accused of being 120 years old, but a
wrinkled Maori named Houe Puruwhare. alias
“Johnnie Bull,” who passed over in Tara-
naki (M.L.) the other day, pleaded guilty
to the charge. As usual lie had mislaid his
birth certificate, and everyone who could
make an affidavit regarding the matter be-
ing extremely dead the evidence consisted of
unreliable rumor. The ancient brown man
always declared that he had personal know-
ledge of a famous raid made by the warlike
Waikatos on Taranaki in 1820, and that
he was then a young man “with hair on
his face.” That would make him well over
110 years; hut probably what he knew about
the celebrated exploit was told to him in child-
hood years after it happened. Still, lots of
people who made a hobby of digging into the
old chap’s past believe that he was 120 years
old. Lots of people believe anything.
Chief Justice John Madden, of Melbourne,
must be rather sorry to remember that in
liis Waxcellency capacity he once journeyed
to Europe and back in a German mail boat.
At the time it was only a matter of satirical
remark. Now it is a matter for speculation
as to how a leading State official came to be
captured by a German State-subsidised
steamship company for advertisement pur-
poses.
Colonel “Spo” Smith, who has been men-
tioned in despatches and got the C. 8., took
up the command of the 12th Battalion
when Colonel Clarke was shot down shortly
after the landing on April 25. In civilian
life he had a job in the Commonwealth Bank
at Hobart and put in liis spare time coach-
ing rowing crews when he was not out with
file Field Engineers.
N.S.W, Town and Shire Clerks have as
good a record as any for jumping into
khaki. Arthur Barnes, clerk at Ulmarra.
was killed on April 25 at the landing ; and
amongst others who have gone are Captain
C. A. Cork, Casino; J. J. Hackett, Coota-
mundra; W. R. Haigh, South Grafton; L.
W. Adams, Granville; W. It. Talbot, Yan-
eo; Lieutenant W. .J. Richardson, Bulli;
W. E. O’Halloran, Yalloroi; G. G. Yeitch,
deputy, Granville; A. G. Searle, Woollahra;
and W. G. Devitt, Randwick. In one shire
there was so strong a desire to retain the
services of a valuable officer, who was
married and had children, that three
councillors offered to enlist in his stead. The
Council argued with him ; but apparently he
got the best of the discussion, for not only
did he enlist but he took the three aldermen
with him.
“Ripley”: “Boris” (B. 11/11/’ls), who
quotes chapter and verse to show where the
Kink gets his O’Malleyisms from, reminds
me what a fine, typical Australian this Min-
ister is. On a Tasmanian political cam-
paign, just before the Big Blaze started, In 1
worked off yards of “The Great Illusion.”
He soaked his audience in the Angell’s logic
—but never a word of where he got it from.
Then he went on to suggest that the Aus-
tralian navy should be either “commercial-
ised” or put on the scrapheap. A few months
afterwards the Sydney sinks the Emden!
“Cape Y.”: Away up on the summit of
Australia is a well-to-do Chinese who would
rather be mistaken for an Irishman than be
made a mandarin of the first grade. When-
ever he has worked himself up by recalling
the glorious end of Robert Emmet or wants
to impress some visitor, he directs his
almond-eyed Eileen to “play ‘The Wearing
of the Green,’ and make your poor old
father’s heart bleed.” This provided the
little port with a good stock joke, till a
proud relative of one of the Irish kings came
ashore to buy a few odds and ends and over-
heard what he considered was a foul insult
directed at himself. Forthwith a long
fathom of genuine wild Irishman steeple-
chased over the store counter and made poor
old father’s nose bleed.
At the bidding of local Australian Society
the available handful of Australians and
Maorilanders lately rallied at the Manhattan
Hotel, New York, shook their pocket-books
and gathered several hatfuls of money for
the wounded Kangaroo. Mrs. J. C. William-
son and Mrs. Hugh Mclntosh were on hand,
and Premier Holman’s wife had a speaking
part like P. E. Quinn, who does something
or other for the Holman Government in the
land where the Notes come from.
What a tenderness the hottest Laborites
develop for everything vice-regal when they
get into office! The Tasmanian Labor Gov-
ernment shoved into this year’s estimates
the following new little item: “Maintenance,
upkeep, repairs and supervision, Govern-
ment House grounds, £160.” It was left for
Liberal members to point out that this was
a bad time to give an indirect boost to the
Gov.’s salary, and that if his Ex. was too
poverty-stricken to keep his grounds in
decent order Ministers should say so straight
out. Then the item, blushing to be dis-
covered, hurriedly fled.
“Harrison O.”: Those who talked of Pri-
vate Enterprise being in as good a position
as the Government to provide, vessels in
which to ship the Australian wheat harvest
were promptly silenced by Prime Minister
Hughes. When the wheat-pooling scheme
was decided on Hughes got into touch with
the British Government and pointed out
that unless Australia could realise on its
harvest it might be hqrd put to it to finance
its share of Armageddon. The result was
that 14 transports were at onye released to
carry wheat, and the Admiralty appointed
two of the best-known shippers in the Cold
Country to go into the matter and supply
as many more vessels as can be spared for
the job. One can See the bigwigs of the
Admiralty doing this for Pirate Enterprise,
I don’t think!


COOLING
as the Sea
Breeze.
ALOK
is a delicious and refreshing
Beverage and Tonic for old and
young, for man and woman.
On your Holiday trips—yachting
—swimming—seaside, and coun-
tryside-—be sure and take a
bottle of Alok, which has no
equal as a wholesome summer
drink. It refreshes and sus-
tains.
Sold everywhere at Clubs and
Hotels, 0(1. a Glass with
Sodawater. Chemists, 2/6
and 3/6 per bottle. Hotels,
3/- per bottle.
FISHERY
Chemists,
337 George Street, SYDNEY.
F.126.A,
nZ
il
A ARNOTTS
Adorn
CREAM WAFERS
A new delicacy to eat with Ices and Stewed
Fruit —Delicious crisp fingers—just half the
size of our ordinary wafers —so dainty and
appropriate.
Ask for “Adoras” at Restaurants, etc.
Keep a tin in the house, too, for
home use.
Two shapes—Diamond and Plain —
both perfect.
AT ALL GROCERS.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—•
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring ana
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J- PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Hake£6tofl2Weeklu
MS)
earn
Mxm
Belling; our new unequalled PETROL
table and hanging lamp for lighting
city and rural homes, stores, halls,
and churches. Most powerful light
known. ABSOLUTELY SAFE.
COSTS % PENNY A NIGHT
More brilliant and many times
cheaper than gas or electricity. Guar-
anteed five years. Everyone a possi-
ble customer. No experience neces-
sary. Exclusive territory free.
Write fqr prices today.
SUNSHINE SAFETY LAMP CO.
-fg Factory Bldg., Kansas City, Mo., U, S. A.
BEFORE THE MIRROR.
By “JEANNETTE.”
“Jeannette,” the well-known writer on Beauty Culture and author of “The Book of Beauty,”
will be pleased to help and advise any reader on matters of the toilet. Queries should be accom-
panied by a stamped addressed envelope, and directed to “Jeannette,” c/o “Before the Mirror,”
43 Gray’s Inn Road, London, W.C., England.
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and all of
us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow over the
lives of many of us women, and while, perhaps, a few —the more stoical amongst
us—can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we may all, with a little
care and foresight, succeed in preventing the results of worry from being notice-
able in our appearance. To these fortunate few this little chat will, however, be
as interesting and instructive as to those who stand in real need of help in toilet
matters, and may be the means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown
method of retaining, or regaining, that beauty of face and figure which is the birth-
right of every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present,
not generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Wrinkles, and How to Remove them. —Worry,
late hours, or the passing of old Father Time
may cause those ugly little lines which so
detract from the freshness and charm of a
woman’s face; but the cure is always the
same. Feed the tissues beneath the skin, and
massage them with a reliable skin food,
which, while nourishing the fatty tissues,
will not coarsen the skin nor grow hairs upon
the face, as so many inferior creams do. To
remove the wrinkles bathe the face with hot
water, wipe it dry; then, while it is still
warm, smear a little mercolised wax over the
whole face, carrying it well down on the neck,
and, with the tips of the lingers, rub it gently
into the pores, working in an upward and
outward direction. Wipe off any superfluous
wax, leaving a little on the skin all night.
In the morning wash off with warm watel-
and Pilenta soap. The use of the wax not
only feeds the skin but removes the dead,
outer cuticle, giving the fresh, young skin
beneath an opportunity to breathe and show
itself.
Beautiful Hair—How to Shampoo. —Whether
the hair is luxuriant and glossy, or thin and
lanky, depends very largely upon the care
bestowed upon it. To keep the.hair in good
condition it should be shampooed once, in
every two or three weeks. Before shampooing
massage a little pure olive oil or almond oil
into the scalp, then mix one teaspoonful of
stallax granules in a cup of hot water, fill a
basin with warm water, into which the ends
of the hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax
mixture into the scalp in the usual way.
Rinse, and dry by fanning with a palm fan,
or in the open air, if the weather permits.
Should the hair be naturally very greasy, the
oil massage should be omitted. Stallax can
be bought at any chemist’s in quarter-pound
sealed packages; it keeps indefinitely, and one
one package contains sufficient for twenty-five
or thirty shampoos.
The Question of Powder.— Powder should
never be used by anyone with a tendency to
wrinkle, for it fills up the lines on the face,
and tends to deepen and accentuate the wrin-
kles. In the place of powder, get about' one
ounce of eleminite from any chemist, and. dis-
solve it in four tablespoons of warm water.
Place it in a bottle, and apply to the skin with
the finger tips, allowing it to dry on the face.
This gives the skin a soft, peach-like bloom,
and prevents that unbecoming, greasy appear-
ance which is the bane of many a woman’s
life.
A Tonic for the Hair. —During the spring and
early summer, the hair generally needs a little
stimulant to its growth, in the form of a
tonic. To make a simple and inexpensive one,
at home, take four ounces of bay rum, and
add to it one ounce of boranium. Shake thor-
oughly, and leave for thirty minutes, then
strain, and add sufficient water to make half
a pint. At night, massage the scalp for ten
minutes, then dab the mixture into the roots
with a soft sponge. Five minutes’ brushing
in the morning will he found beneficial in giv-
ing an added gloss to the hair
To Wave the Hair.—Hot irons, when employed
to wave the hair, pot only make it harsh and
brittle, spoiling color of fair or auburn hair,
but induce a tendency towards greyness. To
give a wave to straight hair, damp it with
silmerine and either plait, tying the ends, or
arrange in waving pins for a short time. A
couple of ounces will last quite a long time.
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads. —Blackheads
are absolutely fatal to beauty, for they give a
coarse, dirty look to the face which no cos-
metics can ever hide. The way to remove
blackheads quickly and effectively has only
recently been discovered. For many years
those who suffered in this way were restricted
in tlieir diet, denied sweets, and had to suffer
other privations. Modern science lias, how-
ever, provided a simple, effective and quick
remedy. Dissolve one stymol tablet in a glass
of hot. water, and when the effervescence has
subsided, dip a small, soft sponge into the
liquid, and bathe the face. Leave for a few
minutes, then dry with a towel, and the black-
heads will come off. For a greasy skin, bathe
the face three times a week with stymol. and
spray with cold water every morning, using a
vulcanite throat spray.
To Reduce the Figure.—With the present
fashions, even more than with the tight skirts,
it is imperative that the woman who wishes to
look smart should be slim. To reduce one's
weight without injuring one's health is no
easy matter, and can only be done by taking
some specific which will counteract the natural
tendency towards putting on flesh. A few
clynol berries, eaten regularly, will speedily
transform the fat, ungainly figure into one of
slim and' graceful proportions, without any in-
convenience whatever, and in a very short
time. Clynol berries are quite pleasant to the
taste, having a marked peppermint flavor.
To Restore Grey Hair to its Original Color. —
Streaks of grey, whether in fair or dark hair,
are always unbecoming, and prove a cruel tell
tale of age. IF is not generally known that
an ounce of tammalite, which can be bought
at any chemist’s, mixed with four ounces ».
bay rum, makes a most satisfactory lotion for
restoring grey hair to its natural color. Apply
the lotion night and morning with a soft
toothbrush, and, after a few days, the hair
will be found to be gradually returning to it-
original shade.
Superfluous Hair—its Cause and Cure. —Super
fluous hair is invariably the result of using
inferior soap or bad face creams. To remove
the hairs, apply a little powdered pheminol
mixed to a paste with cold water and applied
to the skin with a bone knife. The skin
should be dusted with powdered alum before
applying the pheminol, and the paste removed
after being left on for two minutes. This
treatment is recommended not only to remove
the growth temporarily, but to eventually kill
the roots. [2
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS
MADAPOLAMS and DRILLS
Have a guarantee if they will see HORROCKSES’
name on Selvedge that they are getting the very
best that the Old Country produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeeper*
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 3
The Best Bedroom in the Model Cottage, Furnished by
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd., Sydney Town Hall, Oct. 25,1915.
•m ■ %
& -
—-
i m
m
mm
m *
BEST BEDROOM, 15ft. x lift. 9in.
1 Wilton Pile Carpet Square, lift, x 12ft. . . £l4 5 0
6-1 yards Art Felt (Surround) 6/6 2 2 3
2 Pair Casement Curtains complete with Brass Rods 2 0 0
4 Short Muslins with Brass Rods Top and Bottom 0 18 3
Oak Bedroom Suite, comprising:—-
sft. Wardrobe, 2 Bevelled Glassi Doors, 3ft. 6in.
Washstand, Marble Top; 3ft. 6in. Toilet
Table (with Wing Mirrors) ; Oak Towel
Morse; 2 Oak Bedroom Chairs, Upholstered
Seats 33 10 0
4ft. 6in. Oak Bedstead with Ware Mattress,
Kapok Mattress (6-inch Borders) ; Kapok
Bolster and 4 Pillows ■ 10 1
1 Oak Bedside , .. 1 1
2 Cane-seated Bedroom Chairs. 10/- 1
£OO
vl ©CilOt
Marcus Clark
and Co., Ltd.
Sydney and
Branches
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufflciently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Job: No, it was one of the Melbourne
dailies that did that. A leader-writer had written
“Jesus Christ.” A rale of the office was that, to
save over-running in correcting a galley; a
Christian name might be contracted to a mere
initial. The comp, followed the rule in this case,
and the explosion next' morning lifted 57 slates off
the roof. .. .F.P.S.: Good; you’re the very sort of
man we want to hear from.... Dilemma: We didn't
say it was purely Australian. We didn’t say it was
anything. German goods are barred from advertise-
ment. The authorities inquired into this particular
article and declined to bar it. That is all about it.
....Huffin: It wasn’t lleay who perpetrated that
fake. Luckie, afterwards Assistant Commissioner of
the M.L. State Insurance Office, was the culprit....
Tiillef: Put your name on your copy... .M.11.C.:
Yes; but keep the sandpaper and elbow-grease going.
....J. Graham: You have nothing to complain
about. What you have overlooked is that your
widow would have got ClOO at least if you had
died the day after the first premium of 365. 4d. was
paid. You didn’t die; but the society took the risk,
• and there are scores of other policy-holders who do
die. How do you think an insurance office is going
to meet the claims on, those policies? Certainly the
old Mutual of Victoria wouldn’t have done as well
for you had it remained in the business....,
Ikey M.: Guilty, your Honor. We killed it —and
we feel no remorse... .Leastan: Decent try....
A.G.S.: Not quite enough in either.... Tom R.:
Sorry. .. .Lois I.: Bit conventional, and it lacks
finish.... J.R.M.: Don’t want it, thanks.... John R.
(Q.) : Always glad to hear from you that you’re
alive. But afraid something terrible happened to
the verses... .Red Clay: Potted.... Elsie G.: No,
damme!... .Drummer: Leave it to the girls—they’ll
find a way.... Florence A. II.: Nothing arresting
about them.... Wilder: It can’t go the distance and
suffers from the oldest complaint known to litera-
ture—the idea is not new... .E.G.C.: We can’t sing,
and we would rather be prosecuted than dance to
your piping.... Kooloowin: “At Dawn” is rather
fluffy, don’t you think ?.... Dan L.: Very faint, far
jingle... .Ex-Gent: Two gentle failures... .W.J.L.
(Q.) : Stop! the traffic constable wants to see your
driving license. . . .W.R.: Battle verse really has no
fight in it... .F.A.F.: The poem’s pulse is weaker
than j.you think... .Charles F. (M.L.) : Can’t make
use of them in any way... .Beothung: Unsuitable.
No name,or address on MS A.M.C.: You don’t
remember' interestingly... .W.N.L.: Your story re-
minds us of three yelping dogs pursuing a fire
engine. .. .Eileen J. (S.A.) : One pint of noble
thoughts received. Should say you are 10 years old.
.. ...E.F.E.: Quite so; but why make a song about
it?....N. Lawrence: Don’t want the sad, sweet
lament, and the diluted purple-ink story glimmers
so horribly that we refuse to read it... .Warra: He
heard his stomach call just before the tiger-snake
bit him to death. Then—•
Austral nights with moonlight shining
Often paint a picture sad,
Moonlight saw the woman’s pining
For the. husband that she had,
Saw her peer along the clearing
In a wild and wistful way—
Knew her broken heart was nearing
Violent sobbing and dismay.
... .Britannicus: Depart with your cursed indelible
pencil! We’ll put up with it from men on war
service, but from nobody else... .Gertrude J.: It’s
rather wooden-legged verse... ,E.L. (M.L.) : Work
off your little jokes direct on the War Office....
G.T. (V.) : Hopeless... .R.A.8.: Where’s that draught
coming from? ...Ethel D. (W.A.): You don’t reach
that top-note... .P.E.L.A.: Kittenish little thing... .
Watchman: It wgs a cheerful scrap of thistle-
down... .J.T.K.: Windy poem, full of hard words.
TO ARTISTIfe (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Bart: Beef-strike gags at this day! Got
any topical jests about Rameses?., . .F.A.T.: Try to
improve your drawing. ~ .Freida L.: Very smudgy
production... .V.M.F.: Suggestions of no value.. ..
F.K.K.: Both miss.... Bryce II.: Now administering
oxygen to the gag before sending' it home in a cab.
It is in a fearfully weak state... .Cap-&-Brusli: Yes,
promising. But beware of being a mere imitator.
“Two Seas" wants a State Glioulery De-
partment
The politicians seem to have overlooked the high
cost of dying, especially in the country districts. A
private ghoul when summoned to put the dead out
of sight charges as much as he thinks his client can
pay without having to sell his boots. One can argue
with any other tradesman about his bill, but for
some reason or other an argument with a ghoul is
not considered respectable. In any case, the be-
reaved is not in a fit state of mind to hold his end
up in a barney. -The other day I asked a man in
the business to explain his awful charges, and he'
did ■ it by accusing the deceased of clashing
with the annual picnic of the Amalgamated Society
of Ghouls. It seems to me there ought to be a law
or something to compel these people to rejoice in sec-
tions. Anyhow, what is the matter with making the
waving feathers and the crawling plate-glass show-
room and the polished cedar (silver mounts) a
State or municipal monopoly? Incidentally the
writing of obituary verse and in-memoriam notices
could be turned into a sideline. This would provide
a job for the chaps who were lately composing
pamphlets about the irrigation settlement at Yanco.
One of the men who have scented war
profits in Sydney met with a most unfor-
tunate accident the other day. He wired
to Blayney (N.S.W.), to the mother of a
soldier, in the soldier’s name, urgently re-
questing that £6 should be wired him at
once. It was only his rotten luck that the
man he was supposed to be was at home on
leave. Naturally when the man who should
have been away, but wasn’t, inspected the
telegram from himself, lie asked the police to
clear up the mystery, and a detective
attended to the rest of the story. Hints
dropped at the hearing of the case suggest
that the defrauding of soldiers’ relatives has
grown into a fairly large thing—almost a
iiysiness, in fact. The easy plan to defeat
the rogues is for every soldier to fix up a
simple telegraphic code with his people before
he leaves home. Then when the young
man finds himself pushed for money, and
wires “Parsnips.’’ or something of the sort,
mother knows that. £?> will greatly oblige.


K
The ADJUSTMENT ELEMENTS
OF THE TYPE 1-14 METER.
01
The regulating or adjustment
elements of a Watthour Meter
control the speed of the meter so
that it will register the load
correctly under widely-varying
load conditions.
The continued accuracy of a
meter depends more upon the
permanence of the damping mag-
nets than upon any other one
thing. The two C-shaped magnets
used in the Type i-t4 Meter are
manufactured from the highest
cr>
grade of steel, specially hardened,
magnetised and aged. The perfection of
the process by which these magnets are
produced has been developed in the com-
mercial' production of ten million magnets.
In ordinary service these magnets are
absol utclv perm ane n t.
KHjOWOTT HOURS
The full load speed of the
meter is regulated by moving
these magnets nearer to or further
from the edge of the moving disc,
O O 7
thus increasing or decreasing the
magnetic drag. This adjustment
is made by a micrometer screw,
which gives a fine regulation with
a wide range of adjustment.
The friction compensation or
light load adjustment is regulated
by the “ light load plate” which
carries a small copper punching
under the potential pole. The
plate is moved laterally by a micrometer screw
to secure the desired compensation.
The permanence of magnets and the
simplicity and convenience of adjustments
are two of the many good points of Type
I-14 Meters.
9
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Cp. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Etc!., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chns. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
Agents —
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Olivej, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
gemaißj
Hm
i s
did
imt
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from os.
Gd. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
I
///
\
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
Shipped in British, vessels. M
Montserrat
Lrirne Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
Ivans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd. — Liverpool & London.
*€
ALKA
t»
PERFECTION IN DESIGN,
MATERIAL and WORKMANSHIP.
“SKANDIA”
The DETACHABLE OUTBOARD MOTOR.
>* m
Unequalled
Compression.
Cost of
Running:
3d. oer hour.
2 yi B.H.P.
Both Engines are
Guaranteed for
12 Months.
The Latest Improve-
ments.
Patent, Self-locking
Steering Device.
Propeller turns with
Rudder, which means the
most effective steering
possible.
High Tension (water-
proof) Reversible
Magneto Ignition, of
the very best make.
Submersible Parts
made from best bronze;
rust-proof.
Remarkable Simplicity.
Highest Efficiency.
Perfect Reliability.
Unexcelled Durability.
“The ‘Alka’ will propel you
through life.”
NO Water Drip.
NO Cams, Valves or Gears
to get out of order and to repair.
NO skilled labor neces-
sary.
Automatic Ignition.
Runs on Crude Oil, at less
than 6d. per gallon.
Running Expenses less than
half of those of Benzine Engines.
Fuel Economy higher than
that of any other Crude Oil
Engine on the market.
Designed for continuous
hard service.
More than 50 “Skandia” novv
running in Australia and the
Islands.
We always STOCK these Engines.
Arrange for a demonstration, or write to-day for Catalogues and Prices.
(state Service and Horse-power needed.)
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
Sole Representatives for Australasia
and the South Sea Islands,
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY
Marine, Stationary 8 Portable Engines.
Unequalled in SIMPLICITY,
ACCESSIBILITY
RELIABILITY.
DURABILITY
;
and
ECONOMY.
From 4 to 600 H.P.
03


Hanking, Public Companies. &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners —
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O'M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS received from Is. upwards.
INTEREST paid at Si per cent, per annum
on all balances up to £5OO on accounts
opened under the conditions of Government
Savings Bank Acts, and up to £2OO on
accounts opened with the late Savings Bank
..of New South Wales.
Deposits guaranteed by the Government.
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS.
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest 5
per cent.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGH-
OUT THE STATE.
POST OFFICES are NOT NOW Agencies
for this Bank.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES. Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 fieorge Street.
.Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.!
ATITHORISF.D CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th .Tune, 1915) .. £1,195,831
RESERVE FUND £65,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
I.ON DON OFFICE: 37 Tlireadneedie Street, E.C.
PI RECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Si.v, LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
IjVsagiit, Esq. ; George F. Tod.man, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. At. C. SHANNON. General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ;
James Love, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.
Gen era i, Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. 1,780,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,780,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen. Esq. .. Chairman,
lion. IT. E. Eater. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses. M.L.C.
Sir Thomas Hughes, K. 8., M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dirhs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: AV. L. Docker, Eisq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massik.
Mead Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South AVales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
gank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares. . . . . . 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
, Pqid-up . . . . . . 992,295
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, ami
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial mutual [ife
assurance society LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Life. Assurance, Endowments ami
Annuities without Mutual Liability: also
... Accident, SicKdiess and Industrial Assurance.
- 11-ead Office:
4M) '& 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
- Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to ; Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible. . ,
Premiums moderate and without restriction/as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wai.es :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine
ORAMA . .Triple-Screw. .
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw ..
OSTERLEY . . .. ~
OTRANTO . . „ . .
OTWAY . . „ „ . .
ORSOVA . . „ „ . .
ORONTES
OMR AH . . „ .. . .
15.000 Regd. Tons.
13,000 ~
12.130 ~
12.129 „
12.124 „
12.077, ~
12.036 „
9,023 ~
8,282 ..
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads: Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi,|ce, Svnxfiv.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
TIIROUG I [ BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with al! United States and Canadian
Railways.
’‘‘Steamers sail from Wellington:—
MAITAI, MOANA,
Dec. 9. Jail. 6.
‘Connecting Steamers leave Sydney:—
DEC. 2. DEC. 30.
STEAMERS STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE,
“THE PEARL OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, Sidney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
CANBERRA (SOOO Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 4.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 8.
Leaves Sydney Dec. 11.
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 1
Leaves Sydney Dec. IS.
MELBOURNE )
(Transhipping for i*
S. A. and TV.A. ports) J
SOUTH.
T-OOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Uee. IX.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
america—cana da
and
GREAT BRITAIN
SAMOA-HO NOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO. U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
I ntercha liveable Tickets,
Sailings from Sydney:—
DKC. 15, JAN. 5, JAN. 2(1, FF.B. 10.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Special Christmas Cruise j
to Papua & Rabaul
S.S. "MARSINA,” December 15.
Calling at Brisbane, Cairns (Barron Falls),
Port Moresby, Saniarai, Woodlark Is. and Rabaul
A TRIP REFLETK WITH CHARMING SCENERY AND
SURROUNDINGS.
SPECIALLY REDUCED ROUND TRIP
FARE, £2O.
(Deck Accommodation 10%‘ Extra.)
Send for full particulars to
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817-
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
. £3,500.000
• £2,550.000
. £3,500,000
£9,550.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacK'ellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.’
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORS: —William Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepbeard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
316 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world.
.. .T. -RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy anil Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office: 279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
T. C. TRORDSON, Director.
A. MGBTOX, Local Director.
Commonwealth
m
3sank of ßuotralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
£r a ".i
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
prPnSSu
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
.TaMES KELL. Deputy Governor. June. 19V* DENIS 'N MILLER. Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £15,865
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Companv acts as Executor, Joint Executor. Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is the only Trustee Company empowered by
Act'of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
Directors.
The lion. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BHADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
U. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable .on
application to . JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS. by” Harry J.
Weston— “WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regm
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLKAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE :o and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOU MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Pee.
and Jan. li>.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORI ALTA, Dec. 4.
• RUPARA, Deo. 11.
PARINGA, Deo. IS.
Saloon Passage Tickets arc interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions,, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company's Oilice.
G. S. YUIIdL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CAN ADI AN -AUSTRALASIAN RM.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING TIIE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT,
SAILINGS :
t'l'win-Screw. "Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
tie luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOIV OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between
Australia and United Kingdom via Suez
Canal, Cape of Good Hope, Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers,
Twin tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large, airy Cabins and spaejous Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
Fare to London or Liverpool, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, Etc.,
apply to
Birt & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane; Turnbull,
Martin k Co., Brisbane; Mcllwraith, McEacharn
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne and Newcastle;
Elder, Smith k Co., Ltd., Adelaide; 11. Jones
and Co., Ltd., Uobart.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as ‘‘the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1 /?,. Free sample posted.
ROCICE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
IF any illustration appearing in Tin:
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote yon price for the
original.
214 George Street, Sydney.


nestles
CONDEN&HP
ONTO®.
Mimnuii Lohdqh
HOW TO MAKE DELICIOUS
ICE CPE AM
Economical J^fres/iino
l£
iiSTlfi
URE
i%ED
IMPROVED COLD
PROCESS
try this Recipe
for Ice Cream
NO COOKING REQUIRED
Protected by Provisional Patent No. 8940.
ICE CREAM
"JD each large tin of NESTLES
Sweetened "Condensed Milk add two
(2) Milk tins of cold water previously
sterilized by boiling (i.e., two (2) parts
water to one of Nestles Milk). To
this mixture add 17ozs. Nestles
Pure Thick Cream. Colouring to suit
(about 4 drops) and one or two (2)
teaspoonsful of best quality Vanilla
Essence (according to strength), pinch
of Table Salt.
For convenience of adding salt mix
1 oz. fine salt with 1 lb. Icing Sugar ; add
14 teaspoonful of this mixture to each
tin of Milk.
Place the whole of ingredients in
Freezer, pack closely with Ice and Salt
in usual manner, and churn until frozen.
Time.—Twenty minutes. Churn quickly
for first 7to 10 minutes. This makes
2 Quarts of ICE CREAM.
tfadewiih'
/.HILKtCRE^T
\
n t, v/
#
EASY TO MAKE
H
&
IMPROVED COLD 1
PROCESS
try th6s Recipe for making
Ices or Iced Delicacies |
NO COOKING REQUIRED
Protected by Provisional Patent No. 8940
ICES
"PO each tin of NESTLES Con
densed Milk add 2 Milk tins of cold |
water previously sterilized by boiling (ie., |
2 parts water to 1 of Nestles Milk), if
colouring to suit (about 4 drops) and one |
or two teaspoonsful of best quality Vanilla f
Essence (according to strength), pinch of if
Table Salt
For convenience' of adding salt mix |
1 oz. fine Salt with 11b. Icing Sugar,
add % teaspoonful of this mixture to f
each tin of Milk.
,1
Place the whole of Ingredients in j
Freezer, pack closely with Ice and Salt
in usual manner, and churn until frozen.
Time—Twenty minutes. Churn quickly
for first 7 to 10 minutes. This makes
2 Quarts of ICES.
Am Edison Phonograph
will add to your home
happiness this Christmas
There is no better time for you to introduce an Edison Phono-
graph into your home than at Christmas.
It will amuse you on Christmas Day and every other day in
the tfew Year and the years that follow; it will play the music to
suit your mood, and please the taste ol every member ol the
household; it will play every masterpiece from ragtime to opera—
and all between.
Your home will not he complete, this Christmas, if there is
not an Edison Phonograph.
They are priced to meet the requirements of every purse, and
you should select, one at an early date.
The Horn-type phonographs are priced from £3/10/- to £lB/10/-.
The Amberolas —concealed horn phonographs —are beautifully designed
instruments, worthy of any home, and range from £B/10/- to £-!•>.
Then there is Mr. Edison’s newest invention: The Diamond Disc
Phonograph, costing from £2O upwards. It is described by notable musicians
as “the finest musical instrument in the world.”
In all. the Edison Phonographs offer an exceptional range to select
f rom —each one being an entirely satisfactory instrument, designed tor a
certain demand.
Call on your Edison dealer for full details—or write direct to us for
descriptive literature, mentioning the class of instrument you are interested
ill.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street,
Sydney.
wsTtrr j PSSST&
mii
bH
.-1-E
N
Q
\
The
Amateur
Mechanic
The
Handyman’s
Encyclopaedia
IF there's anything to be made or mended you can find how bes'
to do it in this handy work for handy men.
Whether it’s a Model Monoplane you wish to build, or a
Gramophone or an Arm Chair; whether it’s the Piano, a Motor
Car or your Watch that wants Repairing, there are simple, plainly
put instructions, free from all technicality, that will tell you how (
it should be done.
Six thousand Illustrations, helpful and Educative, lend valu- ,
able assistance.
The Publication is in Four Volumes, and Contributed to by
over 20 Experts—Specialists in the various Home Handicrafts.
It is needed in every Workshop, and its Price is within
easy purse reach of all.
Send the Coupon for an Illustrated Prospectus. It will give
you all particulars of our offer to deliver it for a First Payment
of Half-a-Crown, the Balance being paid by a few Monthly
Subscriptions. There is absolutely no obligation to buy.
r'
Publishing C? tit
m FLINDfRS ST /iELB&VR/SEr.
19 MV/NTER STREET Sy&NEy /
ANh AT APfLAIPE AW7 LW&N.
/#
.u
,-^r
/£,
■¥
/p
r
O
The
Standard
Publishing
Co. Pty- Ltd.
100 Flinders Street,
Melbourne;
rmd 19 Hunter Street,
Sydney
Please send me without any obligation
to buy. your Free Prospectus of " The
Amateur Mechanic"
Mention r f HE. BULLETIN, 125.
L‘


economy
in war-time-
Wim& !* S 8
National duty lies in personal economy. For the s-uou or
e tiinpii'e, for the safeguarding of our Homes, economy in a. time
ke this helps to win Victory. The truest thrift is to make certain
Of quality m everything you buy. That, is why the
“DUNCLIFFE”
should be your Ila- It is inexpensive, it is British throughout,
therefore there s no question about the quality.
SEND FOR YOUR SIZE ON APPROVAL.
You incur no obligation.
10/6
“Dreadnought”
Grey, Drab,
with black band,
and Fawn.
Light, neat and
good-looking.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED,
Toowoomba BRISBANE Townsville
Biilgaria is now neck-deep in the melting-
pot What will be left of her after Russia's
fixed draught furnace has operated, wonders
that royal spirit, King George IV. topnotch
Scotch. — Advt.
in
m m
msm a?
n£Hm
The British Brand protects you
against foreign-made inferior goods
44 ** 9*
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
No German or other foreign make can compare with
this best British brand, for fineness of finish andsilky
comfort. Australasian pure wool is used in the
manufacture of Jason, by the world's best
hosiery makers —the people of Leicester,
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the Jason
I abonevery pair. Drapers and Outfitterseverywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Eng.
a » 6 5 ©
IN BANANA LAND
Bananaland Treasurer lias crashed in with
a heavy State income tax on top of the Fed-
eral ditto and a very proper land tax. The
exemption runs up to £2OO a year; after
that taxable income is divided into five
classes—•
(Vi Individual's .income from personal exertion.
(2) Individual’s income from property.
(3) Income by a company in ordinary business.
(4) Ditto by a company controlling" a monopoly
or working a public utility.
(5) Income of absentees.
The bigger the income the stiffer the tax.
So far as cos. working public utilities are
concerned a new principle is adopted—there
will be a tax of Is. in the £ up to G per
cent., and a super-tax running up to 3s. in
the £ on dividends of 17 per cent, or more.
\\ hy a co. having a “monopoly” should be
taxed more heavily than an indivi-
dual with one isn’t at all clear. It
is far better, as in N. S. Wales
not to . tax the co. at all, but to tax
the individual shareholder. A. co. may be
made up of 100 people without a Fatman
among them ; on the other hand, the biggest
batman in the country may escape stiff taxa-
tion by always playing a lone hand and
never subscribing any capital to companies
wnoso object is to mine or manufacture
something, or otherwise develop the country.
The Ryan Government has its own notions
of what is a decent thing. It handed over
the Government boat Lucinda to the Adela
Panklmrst crowd for a picnic down the
Bay, whereat a lot of stop-the-war ideas
weie broached and a Yankee poem was dis-
tributed e.ntitled : “I didn’t raise my son to
be a soldier.” Brisbane boasts a good few
score mothers who did raise their sons to be
soldiers, and if there are any picnics about
these are the women for a loyal Government
to entertain —not the Pankhursts. What
have these women done to deserve any public
attention —except from the police?
. Apropos the demand of Queensland
judges to have an open account for expenses,
this letter was once received by a Northern
boniface:—-
on H thA H m 0r Mr " Jus i ice .,r — will arrive at yours
1 ’ am ,- W)H require the best balcony
100 m, with corresponding sitting-room, private table
and competent attendance. His Honor drinks
' claret ’ both of which may be
o tamed from Messrs. , the agents. His Honor
"Hi bring ice.
Which was a friendly thing of his Honor to
do.
Justice Real threatened the other day, as
•1 warning to the Bar, to cut off two days’
fees from counsel because the case appeared
to liim to have been unnecessarily prolonged.
All right. And now what about the time
that chattering Judges waste—more of it in
Queensland than in any other State of the
Commonwealth ?
Andrew Hunter, who, with Professor
fckertchley, is credited with having sug-
gested the famous Channel-net scheme to the
naval authorities, is seriously ill.
Wren drops out of the Daily Mail, and
ssnarpe, M.H.R., founder of the Standard.
comes in. There is also to be a new editor
—Alf Buchanan, of the Age— and most
likely a new name.
Itan ’The drought has found a new use
tor the prickly-pear curse. In some districts
the settlers, driven to desperate straits for
green vegetables, are using the young leaves
as food. They cut them into strips, and
after boiling serve with salt and pepper. It
is declared that in one district there are
hard-up settlers who are forced to make the
vegetable the chief item on the menu.
Bananaland’s military authorities have
been given a lesson in thoroughness by the
women of Brisbane. A letter was received
at headquarters to say that 200 sandbags
would arrive during the day. While the
typiste was writing a brief thanks two
lorries came groaning to the barracks. They
carried the sandbags and each bag teas filled
with good Australian earth.
NIGGER THEOLOGY.
MAGISTRATE: “You Christian, Toly?"
TOBY: “Dunno."
MAGISTRATE : “Where you go when you die?"
TOBY: “Me go ’longa Mission Station, mine thinkil."
Wrote old Dr. Lang in the Empire 50
years ago :
It is somewhat remarkable that the only natural
harbor of first-rate character in Queensland should
have been virtually ignored by the Government and
people of that colony. Such, however, is the fact.
For whoever hears of Port Curtis in connection with
Queensland? Both Government and people seem to
say in the words of the song, “Oh, no! We never
mention it.’ We are willing to do anything to
compel Nature to give us harbors at Moreton Bay
or Keppel Bay where Nature never intended to give l '
us one. But Port Curtis —a harbor confessedly only
second to Port Jackson—we make no account of it
whatever. We almost wish we had never heard of it.
And Queensland hasn’t got over that in-
sanity yet.
Queensland Commissioner for Health
strongly recommends the enforcing of
the State’s admirable legislation for the
prevention of venereal disease. Dr. Elking-
ton goes further and advises compulsory
insurance against the red plague so as to
insure free treatment at night clinics. But
Bananaland is stuffed, chock-a-block, with
admirable Acts that every Government in-
sists on dodging.
Advt. from a northern paper:—
Caution is hereby- given that persons found shoot-
ing trapping or otherwise destroying wallabies,
bandicoots, bears or carpet snakes over two feet
long in my paddock will be prosecuted, for since
the rise in beef and the closing of butcher’s-
shops, I require all the said stock for my own
use. .
If lie can only get some English pickles and
Indian chutney and Yankee asparagus,
things won’t be so bad as they are in Servia,
anyhow.
-Llie railwaymen have been doirg their
little bit. To date 856 of them have gone
into camp and those who have remained at
home have parted with £15,698 to various
funds.
The incredible has again occurred in
Queensland. In the ballot for the Alton
Downs railway 92 persons voted for the
scheme and 93 against, and the line was
therefore- rejected. Israel never heard of
such a thing before.
Brisbane is not far from a water-famine,
llie supply of the liquid that some people
drink neat is almost down to the 1902
drought-level, but with this unpleasant dif-
ference, that now there is 40 per cent, more
population to supply.
Bananaland is making a great mistake: it
is just about to limit the appointment of its
Auditor-General to a term of seven years.
Thus a man’s appointment is to be made
contingent upon the favor with which he can
get_ himself regarded by Ministers and other
politicians; whereas the Auditor-General’s
present job ought to he to get himself
thoroughly disliked among politicians by
telling the truth about their finances.
From a Brisbane Courier 50 years old
this November :—■
We were shown a nice sample of sugar made from
yellow canes grown by Captain Hope on his Cleve-
land plantation. The crushing machinery consisted
of a blacksmith’s vice, a saucepan, a billy and a
small perforated box for drying the juice. Value
of sample shown about £32 a ton.
The crudeness, of the apparatus was as con-
spicuous as tthe pluck of the operators.
Bananaland’s Labor Government didn’t
take long to make up its mind to jettison
the futile Guaranteed Railway system. In
the nine years that the plan' led a miser-
able life, 87 lines were built. Of these six
paid the required 3 per cent., 18 squeezed
? ut a fraction of interest, and the remain-
ing 13 failed to yield even working expenses.
The outstanding amounts against these lines
total £168,000, and the guarantors will have
to unload the burden with as much piety as
they have about them.
“Politicus”: Meddling with food stocks
and prices is a ticklish and. risky business
for any Government. Queensland bakers
are compelled by the Government to use
very inferior flour at £l9 7s. Gd. per ton,
while the price of good flour down South
lias been £ll 17s. Gd. per ton. Best Adelaide
wheat can be landed in Brisbane at £lO 10s
per ton c.i.f. ; but if the State Ministry
tai s importation it stands to lose
£20,000 on the stocks of the wretched Bar-
latto-Russo wheat still in hand. Hence dear
wheat, clear bread, and a fine object-lesson
iu State muddling.
The Substitute.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Offices are being filled with girls in place of males
who have gone to the Front. —News item.
She sits before her ledger, sedate and sweet and
wise;
She takes no heed of anything but what’s beneath
her eyes;
Her brother’s on the Tiger, her cousin’s off the
Nore,
Her dad is at the Dardanelles, her lover’s at the fore.
So free and independent she trips along the street,
Intent to earn her dollars she stirs her pretty feet;
No more the household handmaid or toy of tyrant
Man,
She’s out to show the carpers how much a Woman
can.
The ink is on her fingers, her pen’s behind her ear;
And in her eye, I fancy, I sometimes see a tear;
Hut level is her headpiece, and in her bosom true
She wears a lasting image of one who’s said adieu.
Her mind is on the business, her heart’s away in
Fra nee,
And ev’ry morn it’s further off with French’s last
advance ;
And if the shrapnel strike him who heads a gallant
crew,
Alas ! I sadly fear me, ’twill strike a lassie, too.
Her brother’s on the Tiger, her cousin’s off the Nore;
Her dad is at the Dardanelles, her lover’s at the
fore;
She sits before her ledger, sedate and sweet and
wise,
Hut ciphers aren't the only things that swim before
her eyes.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 27, 1915.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
The hospital ship Ivanowna, due to-mor-
row, has Capt. Melbourne, of the 9th Bat-
talion, on board. A soldier who lost his
arm at Gallipoli told me that “every man of
the 9th who could walk” would be on the
wharf to make the captain feel at home
even although there were no trenches handy.
Killed in action, Lieut. C. H. W. Thom,
youngest son of a Maryborough family. The
young man used to belong to the Water Sup-
ply Department’s staff of engineers.
Noel Marlay, recently manager of Ara-
bella station, who is off to pot Turks, has
placed the half-hoop on the acquiescent finger
of Stella Richmond, daughter of Mr. Rich-
mond, of the Westbrook Experiment Farm.
Major Macfarlane is back again on mili-
tary business, and, incidentally, recovering
from a wound.
Ernest Simkin, formerly of the Courier
writing staff, has got into dungarees, which
is the first stage on the road to khaki. His
two brothers are already somewhere in the
great disturbance.
Bananalanders generally, and Health
Commissioner Dr. Moore in particular, are
filled with unbrotherly love over the in-
effective measures taken in N. S. Wales to
prevent smallpox spreading from Newcastle
to the Northern State. Dr. Moore visited
the port that has coal dust in its ears and
curses in 50-odd languages to make a f- '
inquiries, and discovered that patients had
not been isolated, but were merely urged i,.
a, friendly sort of way to stay at home.
The Brisbane Women’s Club held its
annual meeting on Thursday. After a most
exciting ballot, in which Miss Martha Burns
and Miss Freda Bage looked like making a
dead heat for the presidency, the former
sprinted and won by a single vote. But
every woman present firmly refused to be
made secretary. Perhaps the length of the
annual report frightened them.
The Fiveways branch of the Crftche and
Kindergarten held a sale of work to-day.
which Mayoress Davey, wearing dove grey
with touches of shell pink, blessed before
going mi to a Red Cross affair at East Bris-
bane.
.The Christmas toy fund, run by the Patri-1
otic committee, grows apace. At least eight
Christmas _ trees are to be laden for the
youngsters pleasure, and if there is any sign
of a shortage in their satisfaction VI vege-
tables wfill be torn from the virgin bush and
decorated with Japanese and other imported
toys. Talking of Christmas trees, there’s
another that mustn’t be forgotten—the big-
one for the Children’s Hospital.
The Brisbane Amateur Operatic Co. pro-
duced “The Cingalee” to-night, and will
keep it going for a week in aid of various
funds. Mrs. E. R. B. Jordan as Nanoya.
George Webster as Chambuddy Ram, Mrs.
Harris and little Miss Osborne were the best
o! a. very good cast. The costumes were a
ciedit to Mrs. Hunter, of Sydney, who stage-
managed the show. Mr. E. R. B. Jordan
put the orchestra through the customary
evolutions.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
One of Labor’s first jobs when it assumed
control was ta *eell_off some “permanent and
reproductive” derelicts. The other day
tenders for the sale of the dredge Groper
were opened. The out-of-date mud-raker was
not rushed,! although a couple of extra boilers
• a m set of compound engines were thrown
m. The first two tenders read £35 and £5O
respectively. Restoratives were called for
and the other tenders opened. The dread-
nought finally went at £370. Heaven only
knows how-jnuch of Cohen’s good money it
represents.
The butchers of Brisbane the other day set
out after the blood of Minister for Lands
Hunter. The retail price of salt meat had been
fixed at 3d. and 31d. the lb., and the butchers
saw red. Hunter listened to their expostu-
lations and their threats to close the shops.
Ihen he had his say. The Government had
obliged the meatworks (much against their
will) to sell frozen meat to the retail shops
at between 2d. and 3d. The retail shops
bought it up by the ton, yet the public could
not buy frozen meat anywhere. (Here two
or three of the butchers nearest the door
slipped out.) Prime fresh briskets, how-
ever, were exceedingly plentiful at 7d. to
'VI. The deputation shuffled its hat, mut-
tered something that sounded like “Wasn’t
me, and adjourned sine die.


ARDATH TOBACCO CO., Ltd., LONDON
HIGH CLASS CIGARETTES AT MODERATE PRICES
CIGARETTES
NEW N ? 333 I') for 6° NEW
THE RED PACKING
to the repeated requests from
smokers throughout the Common-
wealth of Australia for a really high class
Virginian Cigarette at the popular price
of 10 for 6d., we have decided to place
on the market our new RED PACKING
STATE EXPRESS No. 333.
These are manufactured from the
purest natural Virginian Tobacco, in
Britain’s gieatest and most hygienic fac-
tories, and possess the distinctive qualities
of all the famous State Express productions.
We confidently ask all connoisseurs to give
the State Express No- 333 a thorough trial,
knowing that as far as quality, fragrance
and flavour are concerned, only the com-
pletest satisfaction can result.
tate Express Cigarettes are obtainable of all High Clas
Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
•map 5
lIIIIM
ms
m
j
i
-V
vs
it
fi
vT
O
0»
C
-:. O
<T
LC
o®
*0
r. Q
CP
CP
S. O'
Vo
-m
4f J|?
.o
<0
OTHER STATE EXPRESS PRODUCTIONS
STATE EXPEESS Virginia No. 555 10 for 9d.
„ „ „ De Luxe 25 for 2/3
„ „ „ His Majesty 25 for 2/9
„ „ ~ listerias 10 for 1/-
STATE EXPRESS Virginia My Darling 10 for 9ci.
„ „ „ No. 999 10 for 1/-
„ „ Turkish H.R.H. 30 for 2/9
„ „ „ No. 1 10 for 1/-


ms
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
IO YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
*»
*sr
to
%
on
o
gSELS
AROMATIQUES
pour bain
One tablespoonful
scientifically “ softens an entire
bath of the hardest water, and leaves
upon the skin a delightful and
lingering fragrance. Ihe youthful
clearness of the
skin is preserved
to old age by the
daily Bath of M orny softened water.
"Chaminade” Bath Salts.
5/6, 13/6, 30/-.
"Jun- Roses” Bath Salts ] ai in/i
“Yesha- Bath Salts > 241'
“Violetta" Bath Salts J h '
Rose-Verveine, Cologne or
Lavender Bath Salts, 3/-, 7/-, 17/6.
The Queen says: “An Aura of frag-
ranee surrounds the woman whose
Bath-room Ritual is miniftered to by
Morny.”
The MORNY FINE BATH & PERFUME PRODUCTS
are retailed in Sydney by:—-
Civil Service Co-operative Stores of N.S.AV., Ltd.,
152-154 Pitt Street ; Farmer & Co., Ltd., 221-229
Pitt Street; David Jones Ltd., George Street; Las-
settcrs Ltd., George Street; Pattinson & Co., 427
George Street; Washington 11. Soul & C'o., IGO Pitt
Street; 11. A. Rose & Co., 1-19 King Street.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia: —
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
3ft Pill: Street. Sydney.
:
* I
k
%
im
Dr B. Allen’s (U-SA)
tor
GREY
WALNUT hair
Ut
Free OH! &
A few words on 3 Half-
penny Post-card will bring a
FREE
SAMPLE BOTTLE
“3-In-One”
Easily the best Oil in the
World for perfect lubrication.
Cleans meial surfaces.
Prevents rust and tarnish.
Polishes .fine furniture.
Removes stan s from veneer.
Brightens gla sw r e.
Splendid for saddlery—leather
and metal.
Try “Three-in-One”
Oil at our expense and prove its
worth to your own satisfaction !
Write for Free Sample Bott'e.
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 K> HARRIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ru*-
Ray’s Hair Dye.
V*
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
DYE,
[ Harmless and In-
t stantaneous.
03 different shades.
Post pattern of
f hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH.
Try
this!
Lift the outer walls of the nostrils as shown above. Then inhale vigorously t the
nostrils. Afterwards exhale, also through the nostrils. Do both, of ho w ihe nalai
nostrils wide open. The result will be nothing less than a surprising mtlrtlonofhowthtw
air-passages can be enabled to convey an increased supply of oxygen to the respir y g
HAVE YOU GOT
CATARRH ?
If you have a dropping of phlegm into the throat,
If your nose is stopped up,
If crusts form in your nose,
If you are easily susceptible to coldn,
If you suffer from frontal - headacheo,
If you have noises in the head,
If your hearing is affected,
If you have to clear your throat and expectorate often,
If a change in the weather affects you,
If you are a victim to shortness of breath,
If you sneeze frequently,
If your sense of smell is affected,
If you have a heavy, tired feeling on awaking,
If you suffer from a husky throat,
If you are affected with any of the above symptoms,
the chances are that you are suffering from
Catarrh. It is an exceedingly dangerous com-
plaint, and is so insidious that the sufferer hardly
realises how serious is his or her condition until
matters have reached an almost chronic stage.
Catarrh often begins with a cold in the head, but it never st °P s ' tller ,®;
The simple cold becomes a protracted one, while tne discharge from the
nose grows more profuse and uncomfortable.
The inflammation extends to the throat and bronchial tubes causing
hoarseness, a tickling sensation, and an aggravating cough. Itie matter
that is continually dropping hack into the throat finds us. wa in to the
stomach, resulting in a distressing form of dyspepsia, nausea, and loss of
appetite and strength.
The catarrhal poisons are absorbed into the blood, and all the membranes
of the body become infected. What was supposed to be a purely local
disease has become constitutional, deep-seated and chronic, and may
eventually result in Deafness, Bronchitis, Asthma, Neuritis, Catarrh of
the Stomach, or that dread scourge of the human race, Consumption.
A Semple Bottle of “KAT-AR-AH” INHALANT
FREE to SUFFERERS.
“Kat ar-ah” Treatment for Catarrh is based on scientific P r j nc, R lefl «
and aims at the curing of the trouble on an entirely new and logwal
basis. I know it is- right by personal ex P enen f7; ,l “ e mi beS t T „ n
Remedv in existence, and I am ready to prove it to you. Hundreds
acknowledge its worth. No matter how many remedies you may have
tried do no g t consider your case hopeless until you have tried Ivat-ar-ah
Treatment.
In order that you may prove the value of this Treatment t°,your °vvn
satisfaction I will supply you with a trial bottle of “Hat-ar-ah nt
FREE OF CHARGE. It will give immediate relief to the inflamed
membranes, clear the head, convey health-giving, purifying and ger -
destroying medicated air to the affected parts, and cleanse the nasal
passages of the accumulated mucous. I will also send you a copyof -
new and interesting booklet Catarrh-its Cause, Symptoms and
Treatment.” Be sure to mention this paper when writing gne your
■full name and address*, and enclose 3d. in stamps to cover cost of Postage.
Send to-day. The trial bottle will be sent you by return mail. HER BEK i
HERDER, 22 Daking House, Sydney,
m
m
ENJOY AN
EASY SHAVE.
Why cut your (ace about and spend double
the time in shaving when
The “PLUM” RAZOR
is such a pleasure to use ’? The blade is
tempered to such a nicety that all the science
in the world can’t make it keener.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep this razor in perfect order (or two
years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
I’air in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITH.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Business. Bobbery, etc.
“Glen”: “Hori” (B. 11/11/T5) alleges
that the Edina has “retired from business.
There is, on the contrary, many a kick m
the old girl yet. A few days ago she was
at Portarlington, which is a neat, little
farming and boarding-house seaport near
Geelong. It was the intention of the cap-
tain to leave behind him on the wharf a
waggon-load of furniture (£280 worth, in-
cluding the waggon) which had just been
taken off: the vessel. The old girl decided
differently. With one of her mast-stays she
caught tiie waggon in an affectionate grip,
pulling the whole caboodle off: the wharf
into 12ft. of water, amid the ohs of almost
the entire population—a noteworthy effort
for an old sea-lady of 61.
“Y.Z.”: What class gets it hardest as a
result of the war? I nominate the keepers
of popular boarding-houses. The distressed
dame engineering a hash emporium and
bedding-down place catches it coming and
going. To begin with prices have gone up
to such a preposterous altitude that keeping
boarders is an expensive hobby; and, to
follow on. the war has made such extensive
demands on the ranks of young men that
there are scarcely any boarders left to
keep. Mrs. Ashley has opened her heart to
me. “I dunno what I’m goin’ t’ do, I’m
sure. The war’s taken all my young men
with any profit in ’em. Them that’s left is
all the hungriest, which eat a body out of
house and home. Mrs. Spicer and Mrs.
Brown, keepin’ boarders, ha’ noticed the
same thing. It's the light eaters is goin’
to the Front, the big feeders you couldn’t
shift with a cart ’orse.”
* * * *
“Eko”: Some men do make sacrifices in
the cause. In connection with the Aus-
tralian War Loan, the cash can be paid by
numerous instalments, but interest for the
first half-year will be allowed on the total
amount. This patriot placed his total in
the Savings Bank and got interest on his
balance there; paying it by instalments to
the War Loan he got interest for the whole
amount there. So for part of his capital
he got a 7i per cent, return. And in face of
this, he waved his paunch and boasted that
he was doing his little bit for his country.
I told him he was doing his country for his
little bit.
“Mulga”: I’ve earned a crust for years
with the axe. and I can assure “Austin S.”
(B. 2S/10/T5) that the bushwhacker’s im-
plement to-day is much superior to what it
was not so very long back. The old favor-
ites, the “Kelly” and the “Collie King,” have
been superseded by the “Collins” and the
“Plum,” the latter undoubtedly the best
tempered and best balanced axe of the lot.
The whole trouble is caused by a great
number of men who take on scrub falling
not knowing how to grind an axe according
to the timber. An experienced axeman has
three methods of doing up his “Douglas. ’
For hardwood he grinds it “short” ; for soft
wood, “long”; for medium timber the
“round” or “half-moon” grind from corner
to corner, this being the favorite in brigalow
and belah scrub. Also, no axe will stand if
not smoothed off with an oilstone after
embracing the grindstone. I say "hear,
hear” to manufacturing axes in Australia,
but the tariff fence will want raising to offer
any encouragement.
“Hiphen”: There is. or was. a horse-
trough outside a pub in Brunswick (Vie.),
upon which was painted: “And what’s for
you?” Of course, that left the rider or
driver no option but to climb down and_
AN ADVERTISEMENT-WRITER'S SPRING SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They tell me it is Dryad-time amid the mossy
glades,
That Zimmeroons are frisking in the fern,
That all the pipes of Spring are fluting down the
cool arcades,
And in the calm lagoon the planets burn.
I'm a prophet of the practical, and dreams are not
for me,
Two sonnets and a rose don t make a Spiing!
She comes in wooden cases from the markets oveisea,
A tangible and lovely offering.
My banjo bids her welcome with its twankey,
Yankee twang;
The lute's been “tinned" a century or less;
But stanzas dearer far than ever worthy Homer sang
To ladies is my “Iliad of Dress ;
Nor do I sing of Truth, for Truth's been naked far
too long—
The doom of vulgar nudity is sealed.
The fount of all my fancy and the tenor of my
song
Is the sweet lure of the less-than-half revealed.
The lure of filmy blouses that are cut decollete—
Oh, pretty neck to kiss as white as milk !
A dainty skirt light-lifted as she trips across the
way,
Betraying ankles wonderful in silk.
A yard or two of voile can give a glory to a thigh ;
A lacy petticoat can play its part:
Whilst a pair of satin slippers lightly, lightly
stepping by,
Can tap a wireless message to the heart.
So as High Priest of Appearance on the altar steps
of Town
I chant the mystic Offices of Dress,
And make a daily preachment from the gospel of
the gown,
And give an offertory to the press ;
All npidens are Madonnas whilst the corset keeps
its trust —
Remember, ’tis the shell which shapes the egg ;
A yoke of lace insertion gives enchantment to the
bust,
And oftentimes the stocking makes the leg,
To the country-side its cattle, 0 my children of the
street—
’Tis mostly muddy where the grass is green!
So here are pretty carpets, and my labor is
complete,
For all the world is gay with crepe de chine.
The breast is in the bodice, and the arm is in the
sleeve,
Yet the bodice and the sleeve are everything;
Man likes to seek his woman in the land of Make-
believe,
So the bodice makes her Goddess of the Spring.
MAORI LAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


nr
M
ili
vt
A#,
Of?
A - ?
Vi-
HIM
&
>®
Jl
m
9».
v^XTO'V
v>v£\v
n
£ T >p
// *
$
&
3^
31
i?
KS
sss
8S
6H*
S?
\J
C
s
N
&
waMm
2«is!
WOF?K
When you can’t work, feel all run down, under the
weather, blue, irritable, sick all over, it is a sign that your entire
system is clogged up with the dangerous poisons of dyspepsia,
biliousness and constipation.
To obtain quick relief give yourself a thorough cleansing
out with Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver. Their
action is quick, yet mild and gentle. They strengthen the bowels
and tone up the whole digestive system.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will make you feel like a new man —
bright, cheerful and fit for work. There is no safer or better medicine
known for all stomach and liver troubles and constipation than
CHAMBEBLAINSIABL
jfar the Stomach Liver.
No Woman Need Stay Thin or Undeveloped!
m
ANY WOMAN without full bust development
lacks the one essential that creates a perfect
appearance. Lack of proper bust development,
hollow cheeks and "salt-cellars” quickly take from
a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy
womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot
in so far as natural development is concerned, but
science has found a way to correct your deficiency.
Even though you have never been full-bosomed,
and have been attenuated all your life, if you
suffer from no wasting disease your bosom can be
fully developed and your weight increased to
normal.... There are, to-day, hundreds of women
who were once thin, Hat-bosomed, hollow-cheeked
and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering
ihe effects of anaemia and defective digestion, who
are now, for the first time in their lives, healthy,
full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the
full vigor of robust womanhood, as the result of a
few weeks under
DR. FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD.
Flesh-food is totally harmless in every respect.
Its efficacy is beyond question, and its use is no
demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have
gained up to six pounds a week, and an increase in
bust measurement up to eight and ten inches is
possible. Flesh-food offers relief and development to
the thousands of chronically thin women who have
despaired of ever possessing a presentable figure. It
is a nerve and tissue food-treatment that adds weight
and permanent development to attenuated women.
Guarantee given in every case accepted.
WHAT A WELL-KNOWN NURSE SAYS.
Manager. Gy’mpie, Queensland.
Dear Sir, —As a nurse, I was very interested in your
Flesh-Food treatment, and was greatly surprised at the
wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote to you
I was only skin and bone, and I have good cause to be
thankful that I wrote you tor a free sample, for I feel
certain now that I am one of the very best advertise-
ments you could possibly have, as I am developed in
every wav satisfactory to myself, and I have waited a
good while to prove if it was lasting in its effect, and I
am now glad to say that your splendid treatment has
done all you claimed it would, my weight and measure-
ments being ample. I am, yours gratefully.
MRS. E. WI-NGROVE.
Let us Send You Scores of
Testimonials to show what
WE CAN DO FOR YOU.
DIP ALE YOU SAID IT Wol'U>.
Gidginbung, via Temora.
The Manager,
Dear Sir, —I will need no further treatment,
as it has done for me all you said it would
do. 1 have gained the necessary weight, also
bust measurements required, and my health
is wonderfully improved; in fact, you would
not take me for the same person as I was
before using your remedy.—l am, yours
sincerely,
MISS M. HART UNO.
MOKE THAN SATISFIED.
Reefton, N.Z;
The Manager,
Dear Sir, —Having been away I have not pre-
viously replied to your communication, and
am now glad to say that I do not require any-
more “Elesh-Food," as I am more than satis-
fied with the result. You really would not
know me now if you had seen me just before
taking the treatment, Thanking you for your
kind services.—Y T ours truly,
CAROLINE lANSKLOW,
Mt. Gambier, S.A.
Manager,
Dear Sir, —I am very pleased to tell you of
the delightful results in my ease with your
splendid treatment. If you could see me to-
day you would readily realise liow much cause
I have to be more than satisfied with the
results, when comparing my appearance with
what it was.
I have gained in weight, and my measure-
ments have increased just as you said they
would do, and my health has improved mar-
vellously.
Many, many thanks for your kind care and
attention, ami your splendid remedy, and you
ran depend on me to always recommend its
use.—Yours very truly,
BED A PEARL UNGER.
The Manager, Emerald, Q.
Dear Sir, —1 do not think 1 shall need any
more Flesh-Food, as 1 have gained satisfac-
torily in weight and measurements, and my
health has never been better. Thanking you
very much for all your kind attention to me.
—I remain, your faithfully,
F. 1632. Mrs. H. MCDONALD.
FREE SAMPLE
We want you to know what “Flesh-Food”
is. and will gladly give you a free sample.
Send 2d. stamp and let us forward you a
free trial sample and our instructive book,
“Lovely Woman,” on attenuation. All
correspondence is confidential and private,
and all our literature is sent closely covered
and free from observation. Write at once.
Call if convenient. Lady Attendant. Hours
10 to 4.30 daily. [ASOB
FALLIERE CO.,
1103 Ash Street, SYDNEY,


When Prime Minister Hughes publicly
appealed to Australians to be sparing with
the sugar he only succeeded in flustering
consumers. As a result, suburban grocers
have been swamped with orders from house-
keepers who only saw in the appeal a hint
of shortage. In turn the grocers snowed-
under the wholesalers with orders, and
already the distributing trade is disorganised.
It is this sort of thing that explains the Ger-
man “ticket” system. The adoption of the
system did not necessarily mean a dearth of
meat, bread, etc., but it was the means taken
by the careful Hun to put a stop to the
prodigal waste threatened when every citi-
zen looked after himself by doubling his
ordinary stocks. It’s a pity (he German
takes things so seriously. Why cant lie
adopt Australia’s happy-go-dammit methods
and get blown-out at an early date?
Among the 37 candidates who want to be
Senators and are scrambling for the N.S.W.
Labor nomination, is J. F. Coates, who ran
against Miller for Bathurst in 1910 and then
earned from The Bulletin the recommen-
dation of being “a good Australian and a
capable platform orator.” For a man who
has never been in Parliament, Coates has
done a lot of things for his party. He and
the late J. L. Trefle framed its land policy,
so far as N. S. Wales is concerned, and it
was he who, in the face of J. C. Watson’s
opposition, pushed through a motion in 1911
requiring the selection of State Ministers by
Caucus, Coates’s idea being that this was
at least the half-way house to a completely-
elective Ministry.
“Two Seas”: In our N. S. Wales town-
ship the other evening Alderman Splodger
was addressing the brethren who had
assembled to decide whether the Sabbath
banana should be allowed to decay until
Monday:—
I have no doubt at all that this terrible war was
sent as punishment for our Sunday-trading sins.
That settles the question in one act. Aus-
tralians now know what they are fighting
for ; so On with the Scrap !
Am usenien t».
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
THE MERRIEST SHOW IN SYDNEY.
TIVOLI FOLLIES
of 1915-16.
EVERYTHING NEW AND DOWN TO DATE.
Plan Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
-piVOLI ~ THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
VAUDEVILLE ~DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
MATINEES AS ABOVE.
Plans at Glens and Tivoli.
ue r Majesty’s, Sydney.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
NEXT PRODUCTION,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 4,
THE OLD GUARD.
FOR ELEVEN NIGHTS ONLY.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., announce
THE FAREWELL SEASON OF
MURIEL STARR
in
NOBODY’S WIDOW.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 4.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
HEA T R E ROYAL, SYD N E Y
Lessees PHILIP LYTTON LTD.
Representative GEO. L. MERRIMAN.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE BIG BOOM.
'PHILIP LYTTON presents
THE WAYBACKS, AT HOME AND IN TOWN.
The Lord loves a truthful person, so don’t pretend
that there ever was another Australian comedy sc
bright and hearty and good as this. The Way-back
Family is staying out this week in response to a wide
and insistent public demand ; but the season must
positively close on Friday night. Popular Prices:
3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Booking Fee, 1/-. Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTI
W. Baiikinuton Miller, General Manager.
H E GAR I) E - N TIIEA T R K
BAYSWATER ROAD,
DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY.
Direction E. BRANSCOMBE PTY. LTD.
AN ENTIRELY NEW
DANDIES CO.
EVERY EVENING (Wet or Fine) AT 8.15.
Prices: 2/- & 1/-; Reserved, 2/6.
DANDIES’ SUMMER LOCATIONS:
RED CO PERTH, AV.A.
VIOLET CO ST. HILDA, VICTORIA.
ORANGE CO MANLY, N.S.W.
PINK CO ADELAIDE, S.A.
SCARLET CO BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 4.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present their new Farce
Comedy Co. in
STOP THIEF.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
E R MAJESTY’S T HEAT RE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of
THE NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO. in
THE GIRL IN THE TAXI.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Amusements.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALLEN DOONE
in
THE BOLD SOJER BOY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
UOU THE A~T RE, M ELBOURNE.
FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
MABLE AND MALFE, THE TWO COLLIERS,
LES TEODOROWICZ, MONTAMBO & WELLS,
LYDIA CARNE, FRANK LANK & ALICE, LITTLE
VERLIE, GEORGE WHITEHEAD, CARLTON MAX.
Prices: 2/6, 2/- & 6d. Matinges: 1/6, 1/- & Cd.
OYT ’ 8 PICTURES. MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince's Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
I R CH & CARROUU
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route,. appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we [have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
[[rad Office : ROTI-IWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE
The Practical Typewriter
Only 10/6
mm
Writes equal to many £35
;n»aehines. So sisuple that »
child oanlise it. yet
good enough for busi-
ness correspondence.
Send for specimen of
I its work, you will be
surprised. Delivered
fur 10s. 6d.,
a with full instructions.
Union Go.,
299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
If you jove your Wife you will make her a
m
FIRELESS COOKER
\ “saves 80 per cent, of Fuel, halves the Cook's labor.
f° no no trouble, no danger, no spoilt
food. It makes tough meat tender and preserves
the goodness and flavor. Anyone can make a
I Fireless Cooker. Send Half-a-CPOWR
for Complete Drawings and full Printed
Directions, with Hints and Suggestions and
a good number of Recipes. The cost of
making a good-sized Cooker is less than 5/-
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St.. Mclb.
Medical.
THE USES OF TONICS.
Tonics are remedies which gradually re-
store tire various bodily organs, muscles and
nerye cells from a lax and sluggish state to
one making them capable of normal activity.
Tonics impart a sense of increased well-being
and strength. They are not to be confused
with stimulants which may give an immedi-
ate false strength. There are tonics for the
nerves, blood and stomach, but undoubtedly
the most useful is one having a combined
effect and generally benefiting the sys-
tem. Tonics are the most widely usefr' of all
medicines. In all forms of weakness, when
energy and vitality are needed; when the
blood is thin and weak and when the nerves
are run down and have lost their tone, a
tonic is prescribed. Amongst tonics the best
knrrwn is the much spoken of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. These pills have established a
high reputation as a blood-builder and nerve
tonic. They make the thin blood rich and
red, carry nourishment to weak and inflamed
nerves, increase the appetite and make diges-
tion normal, correct sleeplessness and most
forms of headaches. Try them for any
trouble caused by thin blood or weak nerves,
such as anaemia, rheumatism, neuralgia, sci-
atica, lumbago, indigestion, sick headache or
St. Vitus's dance.
Free. —A useful booklet, “Diseases of the
Bipod,” will be sent free to any applicant
who sends a request to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney.—Advt.
Pinkettes for Constipation
Pinkettes, the new ■ laxative, are of special
value in the treatment of chronic constipa-
tion. They correct this unnatural and
dangerous condition by assisting the slug-
gish bowels and torpid liver to regain their
normal activity, so that the use of an open-
ing medicine will not be a constant necessity.
Pinkettes are entirely vegetable ; free from
any habit-creating drug: a safe medicine to
have always at hand in every home, and as
good for children as adults.
Send your name and address on a post-
card, mentioning The Bulletin, and you
will be sent a free trial sample. On sale
everywhere, Is. per bottle, or from The Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australr. la Ltd.,
Sydney.— Advt.
COMMONWEALTH
m
OF AUSTRALIA
£10,000,000 4i per cent. WAR LOAN, 1925
PRICE OF IB3UE, PAR.
THE LOAN IS TO BE UTILISED FOR WAR PURPOSES ONLY, and will take the form of
either. INSCRIBED STOCK or TREASURY BONDS, at option of Subscriber.
Both CAPITAL and INTEREST will be a CHARGE on the CONSOLIDATED REVENUE of
the COMMONWEALTH.
BONDS and TRANSFERS FREE of COMMONWEALTH or STATE STAMP DUTY and
INTEREST FREE OF INCOME TAX.
STOCKS or BONDS will be accepted at PAR in payment of Commonwealth PROBATE and
SUCCESSION DUTY. The Stock is an authorised TRUSTEE INVESTMENT.
TREASURY BONDS issued in denominations of £IO, £lOO, £5OO, and £l,OOO, or
STOCK INSCRIBED in amounts of £lOO and multiples of £lO over £lOO.
REPAYABLE AT PAR ON 15tii DECEMBER, 1925.
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF-YEARLY. A FULL HALF-YEAR’S INTEREST WILL BE
PAYABLE ON 15th JUNE, 1916.
INSTALMENTS payable as follows
£lO per cent, on application. £l5 per cent on 29th February, 1916. £2O per cent, on
31st March, 1916. £25 per cent, on 23th April, 1916. £3O per cent, on 31st May, 1916.
ANY OR ALL OF THE INSTALMENTS MAY BE PREPAID.
APPLICATIONS must be accompanied by a DEPOSIT OF £lO PER CENT., and will be received
at any? Branch of the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, or may be forwarded through
Head Offices and Branches of ANY BANK, STATE SAVINGS BANK, or any member of a recognised
STOCK EXCHANGE, or any POST-OFFICE where Money Order Business is conducted.
INSTALMENTS pa\able through the same sources.
PROSPECTUS and APPLICATION FORMS MAY BE OBTAINED FROM ANY BANK, STATE
SAVINGS BANK, or POST-OFFICE as above. SUBSCRIPTION LIST CLOSES 31st JANUARY, 1916.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Ist December, 1915.
«
THE JOKER’S SQUIRT BOUQUET.
A neat bunch of violets. Ask your friends to
-inell the violets, and to their surprise they receive
i stream of water in the face. Post free, 1/-
JOKES, TRICKS,
Puzzles, Novelties,
Write for our New Catalog.
A Novelty in itself. ~Sent'N f f&e.
WATCH MATCH-
BOX.
N118;!—W a t c h
Matchbox, nickel-plated,
engraved in imitation of
semi-hunter watch,
diameter two inches.
a
Post free, 1/3.
The Two Articles together Post Free for 2/-
H. L. Hutchinson Ltd.- New York Novelty C 0.—708-710 George St. p Haymarket, Sydney
No Gift is too Good
for Your Soldier Boy
Therefore, Ijuy him an “ANZAC” LEVER, the finest Active-Service Watch on the market.
m
The “Anzac” Lever
FOR THE MAN ON
ACTIVE SERVICE,
75;-
THE BEST ACTIVE SERVICE WATCH
we have ever had the pleasure of hand-
ling. Solid Silver Case, 15-jewel screw-
out nickel movement; absolutely dust-
and damp-proof. It has luminous hands
and figures for showing time distinctly at
night. Also leather regulation covered
Military Wristlet.
MILITARY LEATHER BELTS, to hold
stamps, letters, cash and valuables, vari-
ous styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15/6, 21/-
WRITE FOR LIST OF PRESENTS FOR
SOLDIERS.
STEWART DAWSONS
STRAND CORNER) 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Notices.
BE
CRITICAL
as critical as you
like over the services
you require from
Calvert’s Carbolic
Tooth Powder.
For the efficient cleansing
and antiseptic properties this
dentifrice possesses, make it
easy to maintain that standard
of cleanliness, which satisfies
people who want their teeth
to last well and to look well.
0
m
VjCARBOLICJ
0
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,Manchester,Eng.
[(gPILLdRINEI
I CROWS MOUSTACHES j
I
j
j
j.
QUICKLY ! j
The Military are set-
ting the fashion for
growing the mous-
tache again. Civil-
ians must follow
suit. CAPILLARINE
is an unfailing mous-
tache-producer, and
produces results in
double-quick time.
Try a jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE
Craig & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
{The CHEAPEST TABLE SPOONS and FORKS?
BRIGHTLY PLATED ON HARD METAL. Good
appearance and wear better than the best.
Having secured a Large Stock of these
Excellent Table Spoons and Forks mnch
under cost/ wt are selling them at these
Marvellously Low Price* i—Six Table
Spoons or Forks 1/6, or Twelve 2/6 , 6of
each or 12 of one kind; or Twelve Spoons and
Twelve Forks for' 4/6- We pay carriage.
The UNION COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth St., Mclh.
0
AMU
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
Write for sample, sending 2d, In
stamps, to Hutchinson & Co., 26,
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W. or
Shariand & Co., Ltd., Lome St.,Auck-
land, and Dixon St„ Wellington, N.Z.
ASK FOR
HORLICK’S AT THE SODA FOUMTAIM.
w Medical
.< Opinion
Is unanimous that
Horlick’s Malted
Milk contains all the
essentials of a Per-
fect Food-Drin
(Milk, Wheat and Malt). It
easily digested, very nutritious,
and most palatable.
K' X


DISTRESSING PIMPLES
Removed by Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. Trial Free.
Smear them with the Ointment. Wash
off in five minutes with Cuticura Soap
and hot water and continue bathing
for some minutes. Repeat on rising and
retiring. These fragrant super-creamy
emollients do much for the skin.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
ILEVj
Always
Reliable
Eley ‘4lO ‘Universal'
Hfll
m
m
kki
gj
111
Eley
‘ Universal ’
A Light-Brown
Cartridge,
loaded with 3
drs.T.S. Black
Powder and
1§ oz. of shot.
Eley
‘Fourlong’
A - 410 bore
2* in. Indian
Red Gaslight
Cartridge,load-,
ed with Eley
(33 gr.) Smoke-
less Powder
and No, 6 or
jjsxnaller shot. /
m
m
Eley *3B
Automatic
For Webley
& Scott or
Colt Auto-
matic Pistols.
Eley *3BO
Automatic
Hammerless
For Webley &
Scott or Colt
Automatic Pistols.
>.G
uJ
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L?. D LONDON
Runs on Alcohol,
m
Aguardiente, lium and
similar liquids, anywhere
without elect ricit y,
springs or batteries.
Superb construction. 12-
inch blades. Adjustable
roller bearings. Reliable.
A proved comfort. Prompt
delivery to any part of
the world.
KEEP COOL.
W. J. H. STRONG, 114 North Jefferson St.,
CHICAGO, U.S.A.
STOPS FALLING HAIR.
This Home-made Mixture Stops Dandruff
and Falling Hair and Aids Its Growth.
To a half-pint of water add: —
Bay Rum loz.
Orlex Compound A small box.
Glycerine loz.
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used. A
half-pint should be enough to rid the head of
dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. It
stops the hair from falling out, and relieves
itching and scalp diseases.
Although it is not a dye it acts upon the
hair roots and will darken streaked, faded
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair, and makes harsh hair soft
and glossy. [2
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
The Best Bonus Paying Life Office in the World-
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OF CASH SURPDUS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1915.
All participating policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
SHARE in the CASH BONUS to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus divided for the one year 1914 . . . . . . £1,034,346
Yielding Reversionary Additions to policies of about . . . . £1,800,000
Total Bonuses distributed since inception of Society . . . . £19,810,000
Now is the time to effect an assurance or a further assurance on your life, so as to reap the benefit of
this year’s Cash Bonus.
If'rite for full particulars to the Head Office, 87 l’itt Street, Sydney, or any Distrct Office or Agent of
the Society. RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager and Actuary. Secretary.
SI
Wm
THE woman who tries Bostock shoes for the first
time realises, as soon as her foot slides home,
that here is something different, something
easier and more flexible, than anything she
has yet dreamed of. Then, when she steps out in
them, what an exultant feeling she has of lightness,
buoyancy and freedom. On the top of this, too, there
is that delightful confidence and assurance that conic
of being well-dressed and knowing it. For Bostock
shoes are always designed with one eye on the
fashions of the day and one eye on the ultimate sat-
isfaction of the wearer. The result is shoes so well
fitting and so easy that they feel just like one’s best-
loved old pair, yet so dainty, so original, so
thoroughly well made that they look and. after quite
a lot of wear, continue to look the newest and smart-
est things imaginable.
Bostock Nfo.
P 6472
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Rostock” on the soles.
831
-2
This safety razor shaves you smoothly
because it keeps its blades sharp.
It is the only safety razor that strops itself. It takes
only 12 seconds to strop the blade—you simply slip
the strop through the razor and move the razor to and
fro —that’s all—no skill required. It is equally easy to
clean —just a rinse and a wipe with the towel nothing
to unscrew or take apart.
STANDARD SET (No. 1).
In handsome velvet-lined leather-covered case as illustrated. Contains
heavily silver-plated self-stropping razor, one dozen blades, and first quality
horsehide strap complete.
Price in Australia - - 22/6
Price in New Zealand - 25/-
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia—
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House, 382 George Street, SYDNEY
Auto'Strop
ktToK
“Mid-Channel”: “Private Boxer” (B.
18/11/’l5) fears that it will surprise readers
to learn that J. C. Williamson rejected Ethel
Turner’s “The Sundowner” on the plea that
“Australians don’t care for Australian plays.”
With an isolated exception or two there
isn’t any doubt about it. They don’t. A
great proportion of present-day playgoers
belong to the stinking-fish brigade. Pass
them out something stuffed with cheap
Yankee slang and they’ll throw their arms
around it. They seem to make the cult of
the Yank their special worship. They wear
baggy trousers and square-shouldered coats,
have their hair cut d la Connecticut,
don bunion-shaped boots —and then imagine
themselves just it. They talk of “going
some,” of such and such a lady being “some
girl,” and allude to the half-crown as an
“ ’arf doller.” These are the chaps who roll
up at the box-office with their cash. Put
on “good stuff” and they stay away with
great emphasis.
“J.F.H.”: Every revue in London must
have a “Beauty Chorus” —an indispensable
adjunct, even though its component parts
don’t always suggest loveliness at first sight.
The Comedy Theatre in deserting the legiti-
mate drama for the all-pervading revue craze
has gone one better with a “Super-Beauty
Chorus.” But it discloses just the same old.
old collection of recruits —obvious shop-girls,
and parlor-maids, and domestic servants,
mostly, like those who supply the ordinary
beauty choruses, and who would be far
better off in their old billets.
Aggie Thorne, whom the Fred Niblos took
back with them to the U.S.A., is said to have
been booked for a part in the Blossom-
Ilerbert comic opera, “The Princess Pat.”
Old man Thorne ran a hotel at Shepparton
(Vic.) at the time his little Aggie was quali-
fying for entrance to stage life. She learned
her letters at the Windsor Convent and won
an Ormond piano-scholarship which took her
to the University Conservatorium, where she
chose singing as her second study. It was
this that presently obtained for her an open-
ing with the Royal Comics, not long before
her unfortunate marriage.
“Harrison O.” : While the Benighted States
have bred some first-class short-story writers
—E. A. Poe, Bret Harte, Ambrose Bierce
and O. Henry—it has failed to produce a
really great novelist, if we except Henry
James, a naturalised Britisher. Similarly,
looking back over years of suffering, I can-
not recall an Amurkan play which has risen
above' the ordinary, although there have been
dozens that would have made capital one-
acters. “A Pair of Sixes” is a case in point.
The author had material for a snappy short
story or curtain-raiser, and put it into a
three-act farce which, even with the enthusi-
astic assistance of a couple of intervals, lasts
only from 8.20 to 10.20, and drags a good
deal at that. The home of ,the quick lunch
would seem to be the natural breeding ground
for the one-act play; but the Yankee drama-
tist insists upon sandwiching one act of
drama between a couple of acts of padding.
Instead of basing short plays on short
stories, he jumbles together several short
stories—as in “Potash and I’erlmutter” and
“Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford”-—or else takes
a single short story, as in “Alias Jimmy
Valentine,” and hammers and stretches it
into three acts of thin melodrama. The
result is that American drama counts for
about as much as Woodrow Wilson’s Notes.
“Christian B.”: I have never been to
Poland, but I once recited in public about the
decline, slump and thud of the country. It
was at a big schools’ demonstration in Mel-
bourne Exhibition, and one of the awful star
turns was the recital —by 3000 small boys
shrieking in unison—of that stormy and
heart-rending poem, “The Downfall of
Poland.” Our conductor was a tall, severe
clerical person, and lie directed our united
yelp with a long white wand. After the lapse
of years, the only line I remember is, “And
Freedom shrieked when Kosciusko fell.”
After five hundred thousand rehearsals the
brighter spirits got into the way of render-
ing it thus: “And Free (damn!) shrieked
when Kosciusko (HellI))’ There was such
a lot of howling left over and so much be-
lated shouting that no one was ever caught.
Never before or since have I heard “Hell!”
yelled as loudly as it was on that occasion,
though I have heard the revivalist parson
bellow it frequently, and have also been pre-
sent when it was alluded to by the funny
man on the stage.
“Yarra Ben”: Australian playgoers had
much to thank the late George Edwardes
for; but the remembrance of one undoubted
“bloomer” still lingers. He foolishly billed
the crowd which arrived here something like
11 years ago, playing “Three Little Maids”
and “The Girl from Kay’s,” as a “Gaiety
company.” It was incorrect to start with, and
unfair to the public. The pieces were light
and slight (very slight) musical comedies,
or rather “comedies with music,” which had
never been done at the Gaiety, and the
“star,” George Huntley, had, so far as I
know, never appeared at the world-famous
Strand house. And the attenuated chorus
was far under Gaiety form. Of course
the company badly disappointed patrons,
and it was hardly to be wondered at that
the trip was not a booming success. Which
was rough luck for Huntley, one of the best
character comedians that ever set foot on
these (or any other) shores.
DULY QUALIFIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The picture-play “producer” puffed
A large cigar and spoke.
“You may,” he said, “be, as you say,
The finest Hamlet of the day”—-
He blew a cloud of smoke—
“ But movie-mumming, you will find,
Needs gifts of quite another kind.”
“Just so,” Adolphus boomed; “but I,
With confidence, aver
This moving-picture work to be
Less strange than you might think to me;
For I of acting, sir,
Without an audience, have had
A long experience, by gad!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


834. ‘TIITC CERT” D.B.R.L. GUN, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever 30in.
steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap
fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b 37/6
Postage on one Gun, 2/0 N.S.'VV. : 5/2 Inter-State.
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-gauge top
action, solid
case hardened
locks, decor- ~ .
bonised steel barrel, 80in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about 0-Jlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary
Double-barrel Gun. AutO-EjcctOr, 25./- 1 Non-Ejector, 22 6
Postage —2/6 N.S.IV. ; 4/8 Inter-State-
RRjgiiini
m
82. The Continental 5.8.8. L. Gun,
410 gauge, improved walnut action,
stool barrel, walnut stock, pistol grip,
weight about 531 b
(Postage: N.S.W., 1/9; other States,
35/-
NS
HAYMARKET
•SYDNEY*
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
uend for our
Price list of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
and ali Sport-
ing Goods,
Post Free
Anywhere.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST HOUSE for
GUN REPAIR WORK
■
all kiads of
Smoke “SUN O L”
Tobacco. Dark or
Light. Plug or cut.
2ox. pkt. lid., or
11b. 6/6 (post free).
833. National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener
cross bolt, extension rib, left full, right modilied choke, iiOin. special steel barrels.
pistol grip, walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about
6flb. to 71b.; of 16-gauge, 6a lb. to Glib. DELIVERED
£4.
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge at 12/6 extra.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
u
828.
The tl Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Ivrupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full
choke, 12-gauge shot, 82 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about <-010.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£7171-
No More Grey Hairs
New Discovery by prominent London Hair Specialist. Restores original
color to Grey, Faded or Bleacbed Hair. A Simple, Safe and Harm-
less method tbat is not a Dye and tbat does not stain tbe sKin.
TRIAL
BOTTLE
OFFERED
FREE.
o
WHAT
A
DIFFERENCE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
OFFERED
FREE.
What
, Hnr***«r* t And this photo was taken only 5 years ago . I'm glad I followed Johnson’s example, and used John Craven
t difference . B ' /ei ' hs Natural Restorer , for there is now no sign of a grey hair in my head,
that it has bean given the appropriate name of the
Natural Restorer, and, further, a leaflet has been published which fully describes this
marvelloustriumph of Science over Time. Should your hair be grey, or white, or grow-
S g«v thU 3t i« inst what you ought to read It. shows you how to bamsh evew
sign of Greyness without the unsatisfactory use of artificial stains. THE NAIURAL.
RESTORER is so clean and pleasant to use that clients are astounded.
Until ttie discovery of this preparation, grey-headed men and women had only two
choices:—3. To paint their hair with a stain. 2. lo allow’ their hair to remain g \.
Both alternatives are objectionable. Sticky stains are obnoxious to most people. Thej
aie easilv Tetectobk? They are messy to use. They “run” when you wash your hair.
Thev often rol the hair, and cause it to fall out. Sometimes even they set up skin
SLe Yet to remain is to become old. You do not carry your birth certificate
written on vour forehead. Therefore the world judges your age by your looks. And
directly vour hair turns grey everyone jumps to the conclusion that you are manj
years older than you really are. Why remain grey any longer? There is not the
slightest need.
Thousands Already Benefited. . ,
Thousands have benefited by this preparation—men and women of all ages ana
positions in life. Letters of enthusiastic appreciation and delight are received daih.
The following are just a few typical examples of spontaneous expressions of gratitude.
Baclc^ to Natural Restorer has made my hair its natural color.”
Splendid.
Glebe, Newcastle. —“I think it is splendid for the hair, restoring the color, and
making it soft and glossy.”—Miss .
Restored in a Marvellous Way.
Newtown.—“l am pleased to inform you your Natural Restorer has restored all my
white hairs in a marvellous way. 1 have not written before, as 1 wished to see if it was
lasting. Tou may certainly use this if desired.”—Mr. .
Quite Returned to Natural Color.
Balmain. —“My hair has quite returned to its natural color. lam very pleased with
results. Tt has also stopped it from falling out.”—Miss .
All Grey Hairs Disappeared.
South Kensington.—“ The first bottle of Natural Restorer was very satisfactory
indeed, and all the grey hairs have disappeared.”—Miss ———■.
Effect Quite Wonderful.
Liverpool.—“ The effect was quite wonderful, and in less than three weeks quite
restored the color of my hair. I have recommended it to my friends, and they also
have quite restored the color of their hair."—Miss .
These letters are convincing enough, are they not? And they number thousands.
You, too, can benefit in the same way from (lie marvellous color-regrowing power of the
Natural Restorer. In one week the restoration of color to your hair will be sufficiently
advanced to satisfy you of the wonderful powers of this new treatment, whilst in two
or three weeks, as a rule, complete restoration is effected.
5000 SAMPLE BOTTLES OFFERED FREE.
Headers are offered an opportunity to test this remarkable preparation free of charge, but are advised to make early application, and thus avoid the
possibility of disappointment, as the number of sample bottles allowed will soon be distributed, and this offer may not again be repeated.
SEND THIS COUPON TO-DAY.
JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH
(Room V, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please send me ly return post a sample lottle of your Natural Restorer
Name
p enclose three stamps to cover cost of postage and ‘packing, etc.
Address
State


Digest What
You Eat”
-Nf
4
Perfect Digestion Means Perfect Health.
sasi sns(& ppt.fX
nonrishment. There is do way to nourish tjie body except through the stomach.
The stomach must be kept healthy, pure and sweet or the strength will go down
and disease will result. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are the remedy that
everyone should take when there is anything wrong with the stomach.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are tho only digestant or combinations oE
di-estants that will digest ALL classes of food. hen you take Dr. Sheldons
Digestive Tabules everything you eat tastes good, and every bit of the niumnent
that it contains is assimilated and appropriated by the blood tissues. Did
you ever hear of a man or woman being .sick or weak who could eat.heart!y, : and
who enioved tlieir meals? Every man, wipmaii or child who is sick, puny 01 weak
can soon eat heartily and enjoy every meal if they use Dr. "Sheldons Digestive
Tabules.
MAKE YOUR STOMACH STRONG 8 HEALTHY.
J&JWSoEb"S?7W t&V S»r= » J! S ana SS So tta'V? BULKS
SSSWto nolo lire tcolt. «0.. will (orgt nil AoESTED 'S' aTil” o?S bo
o. ,r cii 11 if von keep on taking them, just as thousands upon thousands of other stomac^,s aAC een
by the sole and delusive use of DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TAPULES.
®»Shelbons
i»r
t
Tke
Among a band
Of Bathers tanned
The Jolly wells lunch
Upon the Sand.
She learns to swim,
Well-taught by him —
In Bathing Suit
She's graceful, trim.
Dainty victuals untold
In the hamper behold,
“Rex” Products again!
Palate treasures unfold.
“Rex” Ham Pate
Favorite Among'
iSandwich Fillings.
The little fellow with the usual turn for asking ques-
tions said: “‘Papa, what becomes of the good little
calves when they dieV”
Whereupon Papa replied : “If they are very, very good they
become chicken croquettes.”
No doubts about the fate of good little pigs—they have to be very,
very good before they become
“Rex” Ham Pate.
A Government Veterinary Officer inspects every carcase immediately
after killing, and passes it free from disease.
Equal care marks every step in the curing of the “Hex” Ham, and
the subsequent process of cooking and packing.
<i j\ex” Ham Pate is ideal for Sandwiches. AsK your
Grocer for a Tin to-day.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are—
“ Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, in ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ l'eet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex" Luncheon Cheese, in Decorated Tins and Opal
Porcelain Jars of British Manufacture.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
Foggitt,Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “REX” HAMS and BACON,
Packers of “ REX ” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS.
&
E
R
X
BUN»
A Song of Sydney.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLEAR-CUT, tile bills are lifting
Blue peaks to evening skies,
And, grey and soft as twilight,
The dreaming harbor lies.
Far up the misty valley
The snow-clad mountains loom ;
The hillsides brown are royal
With rangiora bloom.
And, warm and slow, the west wind
Blows in from sunset seas ;
The sounds of swaying cordage
It makes among the trees —
Aye, o’er the western ridges
The sweet sea-wind wends down
To croon of other waters,
To sing of Sydney Town.
It sets the senses dreaming
Of lights beyond the bars
That sunset’s gleams are shaping
To screen the jealous stars.
Oh! dreams are only shadows,
Yet, like a dream come true
Are thoughts of you, O Sydney ;
Of happy thoughts of you,
Resting beside calm waters,
Or, with a woman’s whims,
Bidding the ocean breakers
Sing you their evening hymns!
In twilight’s gloom, you falter
To swoon in night’s embrace,
While fairies deck with jewels
Your gown of filmy lace.
Oh, Sydney in the starlight’s
A dream no clamor mars ;
Her myriad lamps flash heavenward
Their challenge to the stars ;
And o’er the tide her ferries
Like radiant shuttles go;
With threads of gold they flutter,
For ever to and fro.
Lights, red and blue and yellow—
And green and white and gold—
Her hands, that scatter jewels,
What largesse must they hold !
A-down the west wind lonely
The Manly boat-bells chime,
And shoreward sounds the cadence
Of bells that chant of Time.
The dawn-lights, shining seaward,
That start so far away !
The path of golden glory
That ends in Coogee Bay !
The sheen of copper gleaming,
As Day, with brazen hoofs,
Marches through Night’s dominions,
Gleams on a thousand roofs !
And, like an organ rolling.
The surf’s hoarse undertone
Tells of the night of wonder
When it. sang on alone.
There is no sunburned desert,
Nor lonely ocean swell,
Where Sydney’s call is heard not
By those who love her well.
The blue-crest of the ranges
A beauty rare reveals ;
The snow-clad mountains beckon ;
The misty vale appeals.
The royal rangiora,
The fragrant gorse and broom
Have filled my air with sweetness,
Yet there is always room
For that warm wind that whispers
And sings among the trees,
Because it tells of people
I love across the seas;
Of dreams that are but shadows,
Yet are as dreams come true;
Such as I dreamed in Sydney,
With you, and you, and you.
MAOKILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Mysterious Lodger.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ABELL rang violently on the gloomy
landing, and a loud, imperious voice
intoned the words: “Send up the
attendant, somebody! Tell Mrs. Blatters to
send up the attendant!”
There was a scuffling far down in the
basement, and a badly-rattled servant with
her cap over one ear darted out of the
kitchen and clattered upstairs, wiping her
hands on her apron as she ran.
At the head of the stairs the landlady
in black silk interrupted her headlong flight
and sternly demanded the reason of her
hurry.
“It’s Mr. Carsback, Mrs. Martin,” gasped
the girl. “ ’E’s singin’ out f r th’ ’tendant!”
“What does he want nowf"
“I dunno,” muttered the girl.
“Has he been calling me Mrs. Blatters
again?” persisted the sombre landlady.
“Yes, ’e ’ as ,” replied the girl; “’e called
yer that not two minutes ago.”
“Did you tell him that my name was Mrs.
Martin?”
“Yes, I’ve told ’im three times now, mum.
But ’e don’t seem t’ take no notice.”
The bell on the second landing rang again.
“Send up Mrs. Blatters!” commanded the
voice of the lodger.
Mrs. Martin seized hold of her funereal
skirts with both hands and went slowly up
the stairs with a dreadful air of deliberation.
The awe-stricken maid followed reverently
in her wake. , ~ _
Arrived at the lodger s door the landlady
tapped smartly with her beringed fingers and
remarked in a deadly cold voice, “Will you
be good enough to open the door, Mr. Cars-
bftek
There was the sound of a chair being
pushed back, then four slow, creaky foot-
steps. The door opened and a slim, studious-
looking man of fifty, dressed in black, with
a rather unkempt grey beard, stood bowing
stiffly. .
“Mrs. Blatters, I see you have arrived at
‘‘Before we go any further, Mr. Carsback,
T desire to inform you that my name is not
Blatters.! .It is Martin.” .........
Carsback stared angrily through his gold-
rimmed glasses. “That doesn't matter! I
always call my landladies ‘Mrs. Blatters’ —
ii saves time!”
"If you will be good enough, sir”-
“My lirst landlady was called Mrs. Blat-
ters, and I adopted it as convenient, and I
cannot be bothered learning the names of
people I may never see again.”
“I refuse to be treated in this way ! If
you can’t call me by my proper name,
then”
“One moment, madam ! My name for all
grocers is Dadley—l don’t like it as a name,
but my lirst grocer was called that!”
“Mr. Carsback! I will not be insulted in
this way! Either you call me by my proper
name or else you must go!”
“Hush!” thundered the lodger command-
ingly.
The landlady sprang back smartly.
“What’s the matter?”
-/(-/” hissed the lodger, finger on lips,
and eyes goggling.
The landlady sh-h’d.
“The cranes are about to nest!” whis-
pered Carsback confidentially, and shut the
door in her face.
The rattled landlady thought it over for a
minute and then, plucking up her courage,
knocked smartly on the door.
“Mr. Carsback ! Open, if you. please ! I
want you to explain what you said !”
The door opened explosively and Cars-
back stuck his head out for long enough to
say: “Impossible! Mrs. Blatters, I never
explain anything I have said —it always
sounds stupid!” Then lie shut the door.
The landlady turned about and went
downstairs, where she found a group ol
scared-looking lodgers waiting for particu
lars. ,
“And what do you think of that? she
asked when she had done. “Fancy .lm
allowing a man of that sort to come into
the house!”
"I think his mind must be affected," said
the pale young woman with spectacles.
“Overstudy or something, you know.”
“But he spoke quite rationally when he
was engaging the room—couldn’t have been
more gentlemanly.”
“I suppose it comes and goes,” murmured
the girl drearily. .
“We’ll just have to humor him, ’ said the
landlady miserably. “Don’t tell any of the
others at present—that Mr. Bodger, for
instance. I’m sure he would lose his tem-
per. Sh-h ! Here’s Mr. Carsback now ! ’
As the grave-looking man came down the
stairs the group melted away; but almost
immediately the drone of the dinner-gong
called them from their refuges to assemble
in the dining-room, where ten small tables
were already laid. Mrs. Martin hovered
anxiously about the doorway as the lodgers
came in, and sighed with relief when Cars-
back obediently took the chair she pulled
out for him at a small table in the far
corner, Presently Bodger, the uncrowned
but full-whiskereu king of the house, arrived,
and the landlady rustled to her place, where
a plate of soup was rapidly getting cold.
The diners had just settled down, when a
deafening spoon-and-plate clatter broke out
at the table in the corner. The startled
lodgers, wheeling round on their chairs,
found the ncw-comer on his feet. “Am I
to be left here like a dog?” he roared, glar-
ing round about him.
The agitated landlady rose in a wave of
black satin.
“Mr. Carsback! You must not make these
stupid remarks!”
“Am I to be left here like a dog ?” thun-
dered the embarrassing diner, striking a
sort of Budget-speech attitude.
Mr. Bodger rose in his place, beard
bristling and fury in his eye. “Go outside,
sir!” he thundered back with a lordly wave
of his hand.
The effect was instant and startling. With
a low howl the new lodger dropped to table-
level, and, using only finger-tips and toes,
scampered out of the place like a monkey,
his bouncing coat-tails waving a flippant
adieu as he went down the steps into the
warden.
The sympathetic girl gave a little shriek
and fainted in her chair. As the boarders
nearest her started to render first-aid, Bod-
ger looked angrily about him. “Where did
that fellow come from?”
Mrs. Martin looked at him appealingly.
“He arrived this morning, Mr. Bodger! He
seemed quite gentlemanly then —I hadn’t the
least idea he would be so rude.”
“Rude!” echoed Bodger. “God bless my
soul, the man’s as mad as a March hare!
You’ve onlv got to look at him to see he’s
mad! I tell you what! I'm not going to
sleep in the same house as a lunatic! I
don’t want to have my throat cut in my
sleep.”
A startled murmur ran round the room.
“Oh, Mr. Bodger, now! I don’t think
he’s as bad as all that! Perhaps he’s only
joking!”
“Yes, yes!” chattered the boarders. No
need to be alarmed, Bodger. The chances
are he’s only joking.”
Something utterly mad, dressed in a frock-
coat and pants, but otherwise dog-like, ran
in the door, and in and out amongst the
tables. “Onlv joking!” repeated the face
of it. “Just doing it for exercise, you know.
When it had arrived at the vacant chair
it straightened up and became a human
being again ; then, sitting down, it spooned
up the almost cold soup with great relish,
while the other lodgers giggled and con-
ferred together.
Mr. Bodger for his part sat with solemn
eyes protruding—he was obviously at burst-
ing point. “D —d impertinence!” he kept
muttering to himself. “Pitch him out neck
and crop! Mad as a March hare!”
As soon as he had finished his soup the
amazing Carsback wiped his lips, looked
Bodger in the eye, and remarked in an easy,
conversational way: “And what do you
think of the weather, sir?”
Bodger’s only reply was a snort.
The inquiry was carefully repeated—in a
venomously polite tone this time. “Pardon
me. sir, but I asked you a ouestion. W hat
do vou think of the weather?”
Bodger stared insolently at the questioner
and then carefully drew a paper from the
tail-pocket of his coat and unfurled it before
his face. He hadn’t read more than two
lines when a flying loaf of bread tore the
/Continued on next page.)


KICKED BY A HORSE - '
Flesh Laid Open Painful, Inflamed Wound
Perfectly Healed by ZAM-BUK.
THE power of Zam-Buk is nowhere more highly
appreciated than among the busy toilers on
farms, sheep and cattle stations and outback
selections, where the workers —a hundred or two
hundred miles from medical assistance—need
this unique and reliable Balm to cleanse and
“sweeten” their wounds, and prevent “gather-
ing,” festering, inflammation, poisoning and
disease.
It may be at the plough; in the workshop;
while splitting, fencing, branding, mustering or
shearing; or in the homestead itself —the hands
receive nasty cuts and burns, and the body and
legs painful bruises and abrasions, which require
the immediate soothing, healing, antiseptic
powers of Zam-Buk to prevent festering or
poisoning, and ensure prompt and perfect heal-
ing. ;Zam-Buk thus enables the worker to con-
tinue his work without inconvenience, or loss of
time and money.
Illustrating Zam-Buk’s pain-killing, purify-
ing properties is the case of Mr. John Bent,
of 31 Sydney Street, Collingwood, Melbourne,
who says:—“Two years ago I was kicked by a
horse on the left side of my face, the hoof
catching me near the cheek bone, laying the
flesh open and leaving a gash an inch deep.
Matter flowed from the wound, which became
very much inflamed. The side of my face
swelled to an enormous extent and the pain
si
Mr. BENT, whose
f/ashed cheek was
healed by Zam-Buk.
was excruciating'.
“Being fully aware of the sterling healing qualities of Zam-Buk, I
obtained a supply and dressed the injury with it. The effect was
marvellous, for the pain was very much subdued and the smarting and
inflammation eased. I continued the dressings with Zam-Buk, which finally
drew out all inflammation, reduced the swelling, and in a few days’ time
completely healed the wound. Zam-Buk grew beautiful, new healthy skin
over the place where the gash had been.
“We always keep a supply of Zam-Buk in our home, for it is a splendid
balm to have handy where there are children, who are constantly hurting
and cutting themselves.”
ZAM-BUK Is excellent for Eczema, Piles, Ringworm, Ulcers, Bad Legs,
Sores, Guts, Burns, Bruises, Scalds, Itching, Abrasions, Proud
Flesh, Sore Backs, Peeling Skin,
k Pimples, Blisters, Children’s Sores,
Ringworm, Barber’s
Rash, Scalp Disease,
Sore Feet, Boils, Fes-
tering Sores, Sweli-
ings, Sprains,
etc. Sold by
all Chemists
and Stores
Lat 1/6 and
3/6 per pot.
k
Hi?
553
*o
The
Perfect and
Ever-Ready Healing
Balm and Skin-Cure.
Keep a
Pot on a
Handy Shelf*
iiiinniiiiiiiiniiMUiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
mi
Hat s capS
AND
HELMETS
of all First-class Hatters
throughout the Commonwealth.
The name TRESS stands for the height
of English fashion and quality.
Makers—Tress & Co., Ltd., London, Eng.
Wholesale Agents—Cox & Mailer,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Christchurch,
-9
m
m
m
Choose a “ Swan.
9 9
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The "Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
The <f
Swan Safety
J
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Cat&w&ue free on request. . ... . r Sold by all Stationers
MAdIE, TODD & CO., London and Branches. and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE; S Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
loosely-held sheet from his hands and
flashed with it into the garden beyond.
“The weather!” shouted the thrower to
the unmasked reader. “What do you think
of it? Tell me at once!” His right hand
with a plate in it went up and back.
“Don’t you throw that at me!” shouted
Bodger, terrified and holding a tea-cosy
before his purple face. “Drop that, I tell
you!”
“Oli-h!” wailed the lady boarders. “Tell
him what you think!”
“Yes, tell him, Mr. Bodger!”—this from
the landlady.
“Somebody take that plate from him !” in-
sisted Bodger in a tremendous voice. The
roomful shrieked at him to tell and get it
over.
“ Hush!” It was the lunatic demanding
silence with imperious gestures. lie had
put the plate down, and seemed to have only
one desire in the world —to restore peace
and quiet.
“Confound you!” stormed Bodger, whose
courage was returning. “Why should we
‘hush’ when you tell us?”
“Because,” answered Carsback, sweetly
reasonable, like one who humors fools,
“because the cranes are about to nest!”
Then he sat down.
Bodger shook a hairy fist at him. “Don’t
you try any more of your d—d nonsense on
me!”
“You know,” said the now-seated Cars-
back, leaning his bead on bis elbow and
addressing the room generally, and ignoring
Bodger, “my people intended me for the min-
istry, but I walked away to sea and was
never heard of again. 11 hut is that gentle-
man there standing up for? What is he
muttering about?”
“This is all humbug and play-acting!”
trumpeted Bodger. “All these monkey tricks
and nonsense—they’re all play acting!”
“I don’t know what be is talking about!
Does anybody know what he is talking
about?”
“More of it!”
The landlady rose making semaphore signs
at Bodger. “Oh, please don’t excite him. Mr.
Bodger! I’m sure he would be all right if
you didn’t excite him so!”
“Yes!” yelped the boarder pack, “you
excite him too much ! Give him a chance
and he'll be all right!”
Bodger at once became apoplectic. “Well,
what am I to do? Am I to let him throw
things at me?”
“You wouldn’t answer him, Mr. Bodger !
You know you wouldn’t answer him When
lie spoke to you !”
“Yes, and you held the paper before you,
old man !”
Bodger rose to his feet. He looked as if
he couldn’t have breathed any longer in a sit-
ting position. “Am I to sit quietly here,” he
stormed, “while a man runs about on his
fingers and toes like a dog? Am I to answer
the impertinent questions of lunatics?”
“Sh-li!” (This from the terrified land-
lady.)
“Thank you, Mrs. Blatters!” boomed the
lunatic, who had been listening gravely.
“My name is not”
The lunatic waved liis hand. “I have dis-
posed of that question.” Then, settling him-
self to listen, he commanded: “Continue,
Bodger!”
Bodger choked with surprise and grasped
at his hand. “I —I—l’m d —d if I will!”
He then sat down as it' lie never intended to
get up again.
The lunatic was promptly on liis feet.
Glancing round at the speechless company,
he announced : “Would anybody else like to
say a few words before I put the motion to
the meeting?”
Mrs. Martin rang the handbell violently.
“Bring in the second course,” she com-
manded, when the scared-looking maid
appeared at the door.
“But is it allowable, Mrs. Blatters? I
have doubts whether the standing orders per-
mit the second course to be introduced at
this stage!”
“Sit down!” shouted Bodger and the two
other men-boarders who bad risen with him,
and rather to their surprise the lunatic did
so. The law clerk, with a meaning side-
glance at the crestfallen and preoccupied
figure at the side table, muttered something
about “ringing up,” and left the room. The
soup-plate collecting was then performed in
a buzz of nervously subdued conversation.
Bodger sat and gloomed ferociously alone.
The venturesome one or two who tried to
enter into conversation with him he repulsed
rudely; he considered the house had treated
him unjustly—had, in fact, tried to sacrifice
him to a homicidal maniac in the interests
of peace and quiet. So he took it out in
bad temper.
The tinkle of the telephone bell was heard
faintly from the hall.
During the distribution of second-course
orders the maid created a slight diversion by
asking hoarsely what was to be done with
the loaf tli’ gen’l’man had pitched at Mr.
Bodger.
“Where did it fall ?”
“In a rosebush, Mrs. Martin.”
“If it is quite clean,” said the landlady
with a meaning look at the thrower, “bring
it in again !”
“Bring the loaf to me!” commanded the
lunatic sharply.
Bodger pointed a fat forefinger at him,
“You’ll have a slice, my friend !”
“Bring the loaf to me, girl!”
“Sit down!”
But the lunatic didn’t sit down this time.
Instead he took out liis watch, looked at it
closely and remarked gravely. “I think the
cranes are about to nest now!”
Bodger cleared his throat ferociously and
shot a look of inquiry at the law-clerk, who
had returned unobtrusively from the tele-
phone and slipped into his seat.
“Well?” asked Bodger impatiently, after
the law-clerk had vainly tried to signal his
message silently with his eyes and lips. The
expectant boarders subdued their knife-and-
fork play to catch the reply, spoken as
quietly as possible.
“Been looking for him for hours. Attend-
ant coming down in a car now. Here in a
few minutes.”
“H —m!” growled Bodger, and went on
with his dinner. The boarders sighed their
relief and went on with theirs —quietly, as
though any sudden noise might break the
spell.
And presently when the people in the
dining-room looked and sounded just like
any other scratch crowd of feeders, the
hurried whirring of a motor was heard at
the gate and scuffling feet hurried up the
garden path.
“In there!” rang the voice of the cook;
and in through the door leading into the
garden came a humble-looking little man,
very red in the face and perspiring profusely.
“So there y’are!” was his first greeting to
the disgraced Oarsback. “I bin lookin’ for
you all over the place!”
Carsback rose from his chair, a look of
pained remembrance on his face. Putting
his hand to his brow, he muttered “I forgot!
—I completely forgot!”
“Just like you!” retorted the newcomer,
slily distributing outrageous winks to the
onlookers.
“Yes, I forgot we had an appointment to
burn down the Synagogue!”
“Well, ’ere I am, Mister James, with a
car full of hile and kindlin’! If you get
your ’at now an’ come quick we may be jest
in time!”
“Then we will go at once ! Are the cranes
nesting yet?”
“Not yet, sir. But if you come along now,
sir, I think they might settle down. They
bin missin’ you, them cranes ’a've.”
“I’m sorry! I don’t know how I came
to be detained here. Mrs. Blatters, why
have you detained me here?”
The landlady waved her hands at those
nearest the door. “Get his bag and hat, for
goodness sake! They’re in his room!”
Three people rushed to do her bidding.
“Mrs. Blatters! Why have you?”
“Never mind about that, sir i We’re off
now, any’ow!”
“Yes.” boomed Bodger, “and thank Heaven
for it!”
“Go outside!” shouted the lunatic in exact
imitation of the dog-ordering senior lodger,
who went purple in silence.
“Now, sir! Now, sir! Don’t you fret
yourself, sir! We’ll never git to the Sinner-
gog in time if you fret yourself! Thank
yer, miss!.... Now, ’ere’s your ’at an’ bag,
sir! Now we’re right!” As he led his
charge to the door the landlady drew near
expectantly.
“Th’ doctor’ll fix up with you. missus!”
he whispered over bis shoulder. The pair of
them went down the garden path slowly, con-
ferring together secretly. When they were
comfortably seated in the car and the
chauffeur had started his engine the warder
had to shout to make himself heard. So
it happened that part of his last speech
reached the watchers on the verandah.
What they heard was: “The ol’ ijit with
the _ whiskers, sir? Yes, Mister James.
Orright, we’ll come back an’ murder ’im
next Wednesday night.”
KODAK.
Feet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The city’s a-rattle with pattering feet.
On roadway and pavement, and over
The doorsteps of shops where they’re
retailing meat
Grown juicy on cowslips and clover
The feet pitter-patter; and some are so
neat
That they seem to reproach a poor sinner
Who shabbily slinks down the populous
street,
Down-at-heel, on the way to his dinner.
There are feet long and slender that coax-
ingly please,
And teasing wee feet shod in ticklesome
threes.
There are feet with high insteps and peril-
ous heels
Of a style that the mood of the wearer
reveals.
There are shoes so demure, such an arrless-
ness glows in ’em,
That the veriest cynic might kiss the pink
toes iu ’em.
There are feet spick and span, each an im-
pudent dart
Well chosen by Cupid for wounding the
heart.
There are feet move one’s naughtiest
thoughts to contrition,
And feet that would fire the worst sluggard’s
ambition.
Ah, ladies, dear ladies, have mercy ! for, oh,
Your feet pitter-pattering trouble me so,
And a maddening melody exquisite steals
To my heart with each tap of your insolent
heels!
Feet! feet! winsome slight feet,
Tippety-tappeting over the street!
Life is a vapor. The thought oddly rankles
Here, as the trim, inaccessible ankles,
Each of ’em eager to whisper and coo,
Flash all about in a naughty to-do.
Would you be sure that*She’s perfectly
sweet.
You, doubting Thomas? —Well, look at her
feet.
If they are tricky and dainty and slim,
Make no delay but get into the swim.
(Love is a flyaway. Fate is a limb.)
Feet that are weary and toilworn go hv,
Thumpety-thud !.. . .Thumpety-thud !
Uppers bent over and laces awry,
Sullenly trudging swish-swish through the
mud.
Tragic, ripped seams with pale flesh peeping
through.
Feet going— ichere? Does it matter to you?
Out of our sight, you disconsolate feet,
Blotting and spotting the prosperous street!
Tippety-tap ! Tipjiety-tap !
Love, you plump fiiscal, you are a good
chap!
Why should we care, while we’ve fire in our
blood,
For the'poor feet that go‘'thumpety-thud!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


An Economical Portable Outfit
CONSISTING OF
A WESTINCHOUSE “GROSS” OIL ENGINE
A
W
MOUNTED ON A
STEEL GIRDER
UNDERCARRIAGE.
The Engine has NO
delicate Mechanism to
get out of order, and con-
sumes the MINIMUM
amount of kerosene
per B.H.P.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8.0.5 to—
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.
I Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Me vZealand Office: 93-107, Featherston st., Wellington.
m
TWO GOOD LINES FOR STEAM USERS.
fIPEXio
* ® Registered
HOT a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon to be applied
to the internal surfaces of boilers like a paint. Absolutely prevents pitting and
corrosion and the deposit of hard scale. Used regularly by the New South
Wales Government Railways and Tramways, Sydney Municipal Council, and
many of the Largest Steam Users in Australia.
AULD’S REDUCING VALVES.
Ihe World's Standard Reducing Valve for Stfeam, Air or Water. Simple and
Reliable. Hundreds in use in Australia. We carry heavy stocks of all sires.
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
Engeibert’s Famous Oils, Nichols’ Boiler Feed Pumps
Stirling Water Tube Boilers, etc., etc.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Calverts
iletSoap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-tablet boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester. Eng.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bbitish Austbal-
asian. (id. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Bbitish Austbalasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information -without
charge.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SUEPHOEIN E
which renders the skin snotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2/9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
ISulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them bv post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
_ THE WORLD.
Sulpholinequickly removesthe effects of Sunscorch
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WOY, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
m
m
m
Cures
ECZEMA
Testimony of Mr. M. J. Hassett, Hotel Sydney, Pitt St.
Bth Jan., 1915.
It is with a feeling of deep gratitude that I write
to tell you of the relief I got from using your valu-
able remedy. I have been suffering severely for
some time with Eczema. I got treatment from two
doctors, several chemists and- several patent medi-
cines that were recommended to me. They all failed
to cure me. I was eventually recommended to try
your valuable skin cure. I got relief after the first
application, and now 1 am very pleased to say com-
pletely cured. I have very great pleasure in recom-
mending your valuable skin cure to any person who
may be in need of it.—Yours truly, M. ,T. HASSETT.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, or by
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. [3
£
0
>*
l*}
<
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chaing leather
understraps. * The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we. think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
snid swHiaag
ISO! 3A|
1
>1
m :
m
m
m
m
yy?
m
mm
&
m
r:. i
$
033
$
Mi
m
m
m
mm
is
1
Is
II
re
(Sr
1
,1 M
m
SK
0
©
I
a vyj
prffrr.y*
;
>4
£8
tens*
©■V
t &
i
£g
Sa r*rfc3::HfcMS&
v 'i
JS
3
1
m
mm
:, i
v'O _»
m
k. lift
vir-iv..,.-.'.; V^y
I
|d"l3H HQ
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original antl Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
m
m
Checks Fever-
ishness,
effectually
cuts short all
attack* el
The
SPASMS and COLIC.
Best Metilolne for
OOUQHS, GOLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘tie oough of BROHCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION. W '•
Aota like a charm In
DIARRH(EA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray's English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness's) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "W atari and Cordials.
Petrol Unions
from 7d. each.
We Cater to Supply the Wants of
THE PETROL COMMUNITY.
No matter what Fitment you require for
THE EXPLOSIVE ENGINE we can fix you up.
OUR STOCKS COMPRISE:—
Crease Cups
from 9d. eaoh.
Petrol, Oil and Air Cocks,
Valves, Lubricators,
Grease Cups, Strainers,
etc,, etc,, etc.
a
o
□
All kinds of Copper, Brass,
Iron, Tin, Aluminium and
other Metallic Sheets,
Tubes and Fittings.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues—
Free.
Petrol Btrainers
from 4/- each.
Priming Cocks from 1/3 eaoh.
Sole Agents for the SCHEBLER CARBURETTER
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
o
C
Extra Air Cocks
from 1/9 each.


Mangrovite
Tanned
Sheepskin
Vests.
<=po
c *=
*■ \-yi* : i
Superior Quality.
Short, Clean Fleece.
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
Tanner and Manufacturer,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only),
Tel. 2838. Near G.P.O.
ca
$
(d.7.l hi
A
T
m
step
SAFETY FIRST —
What Does it Mean ?
It means that you should never take risks
with your own or other’s safety for the sake
of saving: a little time or expense.
As applied to the selection of grinding: wheels
Norton Grinding Wheels
are thoroughly tested before leaving the fac-
tory, and careful selection of the most suit-
able wheel for the work reduces the risk of
accident to a minimum.
Agents carry a ik.rge selection of wheels, all
grains and grades. Apply:—-
PARKE 8 LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
It is the Powei
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts,
to
T*
SsD.
JE
an( *
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sot.r Agents
Jas, Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
TH E
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
;£ ■
MOULDED MAGNESIA BEND,
OPEN & CLOSED ON PIPE.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STRBcT, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
m
High-pressure Blowers
Planing' - mill Exhausters
Monogram Fans
Steel-pressure Blowers
Multivane Fans
Electric “Ready-to-run”
Ventilating Sets
for direct and alternating currant*
We are sole Agents for the B.F. STURTEVANT
COMPANY, and carry full line of their product.
Write for catalogue No. 195 to—
m
fi.
P. GREGORY ea
Engineers and Machinery Merchants!
CLARENCE STREET, S'
• 9
ff
i®
' M
m
NAT SEMI-DIESEL
OIL ENGINES
MARINE or STATIONARY.
Sola Australian Agents
WARBURTON, FRANK!, Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
DANGAR. GEDYE 6C° Sydney
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA
y
&Jiy
yj^
■■ ILJ
Ul
mi?
SUB-AGENTS:
MITCHELL & CO. PROPY. LTD.,
W, Pootscray, Melbourne,
Vic.
BURNS. PHILP & CQ. ITO.,
Townsville.
MALLOCH BROS.,
Perth, W.A.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD.,
Hobart, Tas.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, ITD.,
Brisbane/ Queensland.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS'
CO-OP. UNION, LTD.,
Adelaide. S.A.
ROCK DRILLS
CHERSEN
FOR AIR.
FASTEST CUTTING
SMALLEST CONSUMPTION
LOWEST UPKEEP
LARGE STOCKS.
ENQUIRE NOW OF
m
GIANT
FOR STEAM.
SIMPLEST, MOST CONVENIENT.
BlocK shows Drill mounted on
Quarry Bar.
Indispensable to Contractors, etc.
N QUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building, Sydney; and London.
