

hfdh
R. Car. WATKINS &Z CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Secondhand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MOISEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5 W- MONT DE PIETE D SI C? LX®
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And a{ Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
t 159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
B i
"""iftyijSd
U
BOBA-fiX.
—auvss-
fjadley s Orient (jotil.
SINCLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
RICHARDSON’S
Wine & Spirit Stores,
259 LIT. COLLINS ST.,
NEXT SWANSTON ST.
158 RUSSELL ST.,
NEXT BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE. [2
5f
|TTQW
| ;
C 3
CO
oef
CO
UJ
s
fdhfd
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for th§
digestive organs.
■
HANSENS
u
%
hfd
INDIGESTION
an* DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class, Prize Medals.
Entirely BRITISH,
and the World’s BEST!
PALMER CORD
TYRES.
Interesting Catalogue free from
The Silvertown Rubber Co.
279 George Street, Sydney.
t
I
II
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
This Perfect Panelling
is made in two kinds—plain or grained.
Rooms that are to receive a coat of paint or
other coloring are panelled with Plain
Amiwud. Grained Amiwud has a hardwood
finish, perfect in grain and color. May we
send you samples of both —and booklets?
The Paraffine Paint Co.
(D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager),
Challis House Sydney.
w
IWII
□
n
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S . V. O.
HADFIELD
Stone-Breakers
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, /WIARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. 11
ROAD-MAKINi
MACH
RY.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE.
Is Australian Owned as well as Australian Made. Contains the right proportion of Chlorate
of Potash to use. 1/- per large tube* 1/3 Post Free. On dozen lots we pay postage.
Sayers, Allport Propt., 55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
OPALOID.
The Bulletin
Vo]. 36. 1859.]
[Thursday, September 30, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW FICTION
Kyne: Lout? Chance.
Greene's Ore Clear Call.
Porter’s Martin O’Halloran.
Stone’s Betty Wayside.
Giesy: All For His Country.
Hav’s Man Who Forgot.
Erskine’s Girl of the Blue Ridge.
Bogg’s Sally on the Rocks.
Fowler's Patricia.
Lincoln’s C.O.D.
London’s Jacket.
Tarkington's Turmoil.
per v<
At GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROPT
■i Posted S/9.
LTD., 238 PITT STREET,
Hudson’s
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG
FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, AND
THE PREVENTION OF CON-
SUMPTION.
A. The Larynx, or Organ
of Voice.
B. The Trachea, or Wind-
pipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes
of a Dissected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one of the
Lungs.
The MEDICAL
PRESS AND
CIRCULAU
says:—
“These Ju-
jubes should be
of Special ser-
vice to Lec-
turers, Public
Singers, Speak-
ers, and in-
deed to all
who are called
upon to use
their voices fre
quently for pro-
longed periods.”
hfd
Sold Everywhere, in Tins,
English Fiction
The Red Page
How much of The Inheritors and
Romance, the two novels upon which Ford
Madox Hueffer collaborated with Joseph
Conrad, is due to the former writer we do
not know, though Hueffer has somewhere
admitted that the most famous passage in the
latter novel, with which that work concludes
—a passage usually quoted as one of the
finest examples of Conrad’s prose—was
written by himself. But the Conrad-llueffer
Romance seems pure Conrad; and as a
work of art it falls not at all below the level
of the undiluted Conrad. Now, in The Good
Soldier, by Ford Madox Hueffer alone
(Lane), we get some explanation of the
excellence of the collaboration of these two
novelists.
Hueffer tells his story backwards,
sideways, any way. With justification: “I
have, (i I am aware,” says his puzzled narra-
tor, “tojd this story in a very rambling way
so that it may be difficult for anyone to find
his path through what may be a sort of
maze. I cannot help it When one dis-
cusses an affair —a long, sad affair —one
goes back, one goes forward. One remem-
bers points that one has forgotten, and one
explains them all the more minutely since
one recognises that one has forgotten .to
mention them in their proper places '’and
that one may have given, by omitting them,
a false impression. I console myself with
thinking that this is a real story, and that,
after all, real stories are probably told best
in the way a person telling a story would
tell them. They will then seem most real.”
A writer gets his effects in his own way.
This method undoubtedly achieves Hueffer’s
effect. .
These people are real; their tragedy is in-
evitable. We meet four people, a leisured
United States husband (the- narrator) and
his wife, an English military officer and his
wife. Ordinary, typical people living the
ordinary lives of moneyed people sojourning
in Europe. Yet beneath their conventional,
placid existence there is being played a re-
markable drama of the deepest tragedy.
Captain Ashburnham looked the ordinary
Englishman. “His face, in the wonderful
English fashion, expressed nothing whatever.
His eyes were as blue as the sides of a cer-
tain type of match-box. When you looked at
them carefully you saw that they were per-
fectly honest, perfectly straightforward, per-
fectly, perfectly stupid. But the brick pink
of his complexion, running perfectly level to
the brick pink of his inner eyelids, gave them
a curious, sinister expression—like a mosaic
of blue porcelain set in pink China. And
that chap, coming into a room, snapped up
the gaze of every woman in it, as dexterously
as a conjurer pockets billiard balls. It was
most amazing.” There you get a hint of
the tragedy. Ashburnham was a sentimen-
talist ; he couldn’t resist a woman—nor
could she resist him. That was why Leon-
ora, _ his correct English wife, never spoke
to- him in private; that was why he was the
lover of the wife of the unsuspicious
American for so many years. But
the drama is much more complicated than
that. There were others. He was no
villain, either. A decent sort of chap, kind
to puppies, little children, drunkards and
women. “He could not bear to see a child
cry. Perhaps he could not bear to see a
woman and not give her the comfort
of his physical attractions.” “He should
have married a barmaid who drank and
knocked him about. That would have cured
him.”
The bright, chatty Amei*ican woman, we
gradually learn, had a record behind her
that surprises the reader almost as much as
it surprised her husband. “Well, there you
have the position—the husband an ignorant
fool, the wife a cold sensualist with imbecile
fears, and the blackmailing lover. And then
the other lover came along.” It is only after
a hundred pages, so ramblingly (and so
naturally) does the narrator get to his facts,
that we “have the position.” And then the
fifth person comes in—to complicate the
tragedy so extraordinarily that the play must
perforce end like Hamlet, with a general
slaughter and clearing away of the remains.
“For there was a great deal of imbecility
about the closing scenes of the Ashburnham
tragedy. Neither of those two women knew
what she wanted. It was only Edward who
took a perfectly clear line, and he was drunk
most of the time... .It was the conventional
line. Conventions and traditions I suppose
werk blindly but surely for the preservation
of the normal type Edward was the
normal man, but there was too much of the
sentimentalist about him, and society does
not need too many sentimentalists. Nancy
was a splendid creature, but she had about
her a touch of madness. Society does not
need individuals with touches of madness
about them. So Edward and Nancy found
themselves steam-rolled out and Leonora
survives, the perfectly normal type, married
to a man who is rather like a rabbit
So those splendid and tumultuous creatures
with their magnetism and their passions—
those two that I really loved—have gone
from this earth There was about Nancy
a touch of cruelty that made her desire to
see people suffer. Yes, she desired to see
Edward suffer. And, by God. she gave him
He 11... .Mind, I am not advocating free
love in this or any other case. Society must
go on, I suppose, and society can only exist
if the normal. if the virtuous, and the
slightly-deceitful flourish, and if the pas-
sionate, the headstrong, and the too-truthful
are. condemned to suicide and madness
Yes, society must go on; it must breed, like
rabbits. That is what we are here for. But
then, I don’t like society—much.”
The Good Soldier is not only a brilliant
book and an absorbing book; it is the real
thing, done with the naked sincerity of a
Conrad, and almost with Conrad’s power.
Hyssop, by M. T. 11. Sadler (Constable,
per Dymock’s Library), is a tantalising
first effort. It is emptily clever, uselessly
brilliant. Sadler gives, at wearisome
length, the youth and Oxford experiences of
a young man who never seems to get to
grips with life. The talk is foolishly smart,
and it is mostly talk. The hero takes him-
self with a seriousness that the reader does
not share. And the talk ranges over every
surface aspect of modernity without ever
penetrating to reality. These young Oxford
men weary us: they would be better employed
wearying themselves by hard work. Two
girls drift into the story, and out again.
And only in the concluding chapters- do we
get any semblance of a plot: it seemed,
three-quarters through the novel, as if the
hero would make his exit talking. And,
anyhow, the plot comes to nothing, except
that the hero “almost laughed at the folly
of his own idealism.” This page was too
tired to laugh.
Douglas Goldring we know as a poet:
his Streets have been quoted by this page.
His first novel. It's an 111 Wind (Allen), ex-
cellently' promises. Adrian is a young man
who decides to enter the Church. He got
only as far as to become a lay-reader when
Cora intervened. “What was he to do with
this poor girl whom he had led astray?
Should he ask Cora to marry him, and
devote his life to trying to make her happy?
It struck him that this would be the chival-
rous thmg to do. But perhaps Cora would
nobly refuse: she was so generous.” She
was.
‘“Forgive you,’ she echoed. ‘Why, what
on earth for? Because you gave me a good
time last night? What the ’Ell d’you mean?
... .Oh, I know. S’pose you want to marry
me, or give me fourpence for me blighted
life, and all that.... Girls ’ave grown up
some since you was born, Adrian. I’m not
ashamed of myself....! wouldn’t ’ave gone
out with you if I ’adn’t liked you. And why
shouldn’t I ’ave a bit o’ fun now and again?’
“ ‘But your pal, Cora,’ stuttered Adrian in
dismay. ‘lt-isn’t fair to him.’
‘ Cora’s face became black with anger.
My Gawd, what conceit!’ she cried. ‘Do
you mean to tell me that Bill, what I’ve
known for donkey’s years, is going to upset
’imself because I’ve ’ad a bit of fun with a
chap I’ve known for a few weeks? The
likes of me are good and bad, same as the
likes of you; but, thank Gawd, we aren’t
such bloody fools !’ ”
No wonder Adrian “felt scalded into a
certain manliness.” He -decided that Cora
was not moral, but she certainly had her
own code. The trouble was that "it did not
happen to be the one he had just been
engaged in teaching Cora was, perhaps,
as near being right as the Church News.
But when he kissed Rose, who was his
correctly-brouglit-up cousin, and Rose re-
turned his embrace “with an almost disquiet-
ing abandonment,’’ he had similar qualms.
“He had always understood that girls (of
his own class, at all events) were passion-
less creatures, requiring untiring efforts to
awaken them to more than a tepid affec-
tion. ’ No wonder that “as he drove back
his conscience gave him hell.”
Then he meets the incomparable Eliza-
betli—see page 202 for the description of
that kiss. The innocently Bohemian life
led by Elizabeth and her friends, into which
Adrian is admitted, is delightfully pictured ;
but when the gentle Rose, who is rather like
Ann in Man and Superman, manages to in-
trude, the innocence vanishes. And, during
Elizabeth’s absence, Rose annexes Adrian,
lie makes matters worse, just as he had
done with Cora, by becoming remorseful
The delightful Elizabeth, who is far too real
a gill' for such a man, loathes his contri-
tion. Why couldn’t he beat her, catch her
by the throat, and say he wasn’t going to put
up with anv of her faintin’ nonsense? In
one way she would not have oared how many
young women he flirted with during her
absence if only 7 he had been man enough
cheerfully to acknowledge them, to tell her
not to be silly about it, and that he loved
her furiousiy and best of all. This flabby
exhibition of grief, this maundering about
sin (contemptible, worm-crawling word’)
sickened her, and made her love die in her
heart. Why did he stand there looking con-
trite, saying nothing? Why didn’t he box
her ?” aiS ’ ° r k 6r f° be Quiet, or laugh at
Goldring is the first novelist to seize upon
a large thing like the war and utilise it for
the climax of his novel. In the near future
there will be a long procession of literary
heroes, who will find a way out of their
troubles and a neat solution of the plots
in which they figure, by enlisting for the
lront. Adrian already leads that procession.
Adrian, of course, was writing a novel • but
he lacked a sense of proportion. The great
literary lion who visits him—a portrait done
-inmost delightfully malicious manner
“There will be a European war in a fort-
!V,r 'y mei \ T ll be slain b y hundreds of
thousands: whole populations will be terror-
lsed and decimated. The importance of the
small emotions of neurotic young men and
women will then be dwarfed, and 99 per
cent, of the fiction that is produced will
automatically cease to matter! You will
of Proportion then and your
g isto, for a,l art that doesn’t strike down to
the very heart of things will be swept away.”
And when the war came Adrian found the
comparative values of everything in life had
changed. W omen, for instance, were com-
pletely unimportant. They belonged (unless
they made themselves useful) to the light
side of life, which had been swept away. ...
‘Art’ seemed a laughable life’s occupation
in the face of so much reality. How could
any man set himself for hom-s to try to
describe the emotions and psychological pro-
cesses of utterly unimportant men and
women of his creation (which is just what
M. T. H. Sadler does in Hyssop), when
there was real work afoot?... .He was sorry
for Rose; he loved Elizabeth dearly; but for
the moment he had other things to occupy
him.”
So he enlists, and Elizabeth realises that
her morbid Adrian “was a man now; ab-
sorbed in something almost more important
than his love for her.... And he would
manage her. He would stand no nonsense.”
A delightful book and a wholly delight-
ful Elizabeth. Let’s hope Goldring keeps on
writing novels.
The atmosphere of the story is musical.
Louis Stone herein ha's pictured with genuine
craftsmanship the musical side of Sydney.
He knows Paling’s and the Town Hall con-
certs: and his musicians are probably first-
hand studies. In this admirably-written
love-story Louis Stone has set before us a
strata of Sydney life with knowledge and
sympathy. That is his real achievement in
this plehsant tale.
This curt method achieves a certain
grapbie realism in the opening chapters on
Marys fathers selection. The description
of the drought, by means of the matter-of-
course enumeration of a number of minor
details, culminates in an overpowering im-
pression of reality; but when the author
1 !-J ° f sume I’ rosai c method to city
I,IS , 1S to ° diff use and hazy. The
worth while bU Vn°- the P er tiuacrous reader
interest to tie n««“effort oTb. M^wi?
H&IU?* Lm ° f ,he i ““ *■ I-*-*
“John P.” supplies an example (asked
for B. 12/8/’l5) of the Australian art ef
compression:—
Years ago a wild controversy arose in The
Bulletin concerning immigration. I conceived an
idea, and carefully embalmed it in three sheets of
typewritten “copy” for The Bulletin, The germ
sentence, “The best immigrant this country can get
is the one that is born here,” was carefully hidden
in the middle of it. The Editor wrote that he
rather liked my stuff, but warned me not to be dis-
appointed if it were “cut down a bit.” Two weeks
later my slab appeared. My whole three pages were
printed in two lineal “The best immigrant this
country can get is the one that is born here.” That’s
the best bit of sub-editing and compression
per blue pencil that I know of. Also it was a
lesson to me, and its effects haven’t worn off yet.
[Hardly I This page cut 108 words out of the above
par. as submitted.]
Australian Fiction
Louis Stone has not written another
Jonah; he has written a very pleasant Syd-
ney love-story. Betty Wayside (Hodder and
Stoughton, per Dyinock’s Library) is a tale
of young love in Paddington, somewhat
loosely written with a lingering over detail,
sometimes extraneous, that occasionally re-
sults in dullness; but it is a delightful story
of the troubles of young love, sure to be
righted in the last chapter. His hero and
heroine are, indeed, little else than embodied
youth. Louis Stone gives each a talent —
else there would be no story; but it is their
hapless love affair, their trivial misunder-
standings, their quick jealousies and recon-
ciliations, their false pride and pleasant sen-
timentalities that are their author’s chief,
and loving, concern. He seems to say:
“Don’t take these young things too seriously.
Smile at them kindly, sorrow for them
without tears, remember it will all come
out right in the end. They are so young.”
“The next minute they reached the house,
and Betty opened the gate with infinite pre-
caution. Then she stepped inside and, shut-
ting it again, smiled at Walter over the ram-
part of wood. This was the customary atti-
tude of the Paddington girl to young men on
a first acquaintance. A further stage of
intimacy permitted farewells to be said
on the front step and the doormat. A third
degree, admitting to the privacy of the gas-
box, was regarded as an engagement by the
neighbors.”
But even stage 1 possesses possibilities for
intrepid Paddington youth :
“‘I don’t wane thanks from you,’ said
Walter; his voice was curiously husky.
“T didn’t quite catch what you said,’
whispered Betty, bringing her face danger-
ously near.
“For a moment they stared at each other in
a profound silence, and then across the
wooden rampart of propriety their lips met
in a long, long kiss.”
And when “Betty knew in her heart that
she had made another conquest” (not
Walter) she also knew “that the blue dress
suited her to perfection.” So “she sat in
the car with a dreamy expression in her
eyes, a picture of youth and'beauty, and in
five minutes she had made a fair estimate of
the materials, the taste and social standing
of the wearer, the cut, style and probable
cost of all the dresses within eyesight.”
And even when the hero scorns her: “Torn
with indignation and pity, she was unable to
give more than a passing glance at a Paris
model hat which a woman opposite was wear-
ing.”
Evidently they have souls like that in Pad-
dington—and in most other places. And
when she goes out with The Other Man Betty
notes vvith pride that: “The other men were
smoking pipes or cigarettes, and the cigar
stamped her companion in her eyes as a man
of Jeisure and fashion.”
So, gently Louis Stone rails at young love
and its ideals. But his laughter is kindly,
as is ours. He has a fondness for eccen-
trics: nearly all his minor characters are
touched with eccentricities, lovingly de-
tailed. And though he brings both hero and
heroine to grips with reality, we know that
there will be wedding bells, and not only for
them, in the last chapter.
2 he Lure of the Land, by E. M. Weetwood
(Lothian, Melb.), is probably a first effort:
at least it has most of the faults and some of
the energy of a newcomer’s first sustained
essay in fiction. This is a story of a coun-
try girl who is driven by the drought to
Melbourne, where she becomes a typist, saves
money, buys and sells suburban allotments,
and develops into a successful business
woman; but ultimately is drawn, by the lure
of love, back to the country she had so un-
willingly left. There are two men who love
her—the smart, capable city youth, who from
an office-boy rises swiftly to the chief posi-
tion in his office* and the big, slow, good-
hearted man who sticks to the land. Like
Bptty \\ ayside, Mary has little passion in
her; but her love-making is hardly men-
tioned. The author writes in a vein of
realism, setting down doggedly and in
terminably the trivial conversations and
trivial doings of the heroine, and leav-
ing the reader a little fogged about the
ciiaiactor and identity of the many other
characters. Indeed, in the opening chap-
ters it takes the reader an effort to distin-
guish between the men and the animals men-
tioned. Nothing is explained. E. M. Weet-
wood assumes that we know exactly whom
the various men and animals are.
Literary Taste in the Fo’c’s’le
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The only visible evidence of an occupant
m the top bunk was a hairy forearm and
fist that projected out beyond the canvas
curtain and supported a dilapidated book
The remainder of the watch below was
rapidly becoming restless for lack of occupa-
tion and was apparently dredging its col-
lective mind for revolutionary suggestions,
lhe port watch s “boss,” whose positiou of
leader was based more upon violence of dic-
tion than muscular ascendancy, became sud-
denly delivered of a brilliant idea, and bv
means ot extravagant gestures silently pi c-
tuted its working to his interested audience,
lie knelt in his bunk and with outstretched
arm thrust a huge palm-needle up between
the boards of the reader’s bunk. For one
tense second the silence was*oppressive*
'Hell! roaied the owner of the punctured
cuticle, and two eyes surmounted by a
tangled thatch of red hair glared over the
side of the buuk.
"‘Hi Mick! Wot the blazes yer readin’?”
said the tormentor. “Ain’t yer finished it
yet? Wots the yarn about?”
“It’s a dam fine yarn,” replied Mick. “Pity
you blokes don’t read some of ’em instead of
those blood-curdlin’ ’orrors. It’s about a
bewtiful girl wot goes into a trance an’ sees
er spirrit lover.”
“Strewth!” ejaculated the “boss,” and
continued melodramatically. “’Old me ’and
wile I faint. Blimey! Must ’ave been a
spirrit lover wot bit a ’oie in me oilskin
pants_ last night—only I calls ’em rats!
Spirrit lover! W atto, Gertie, does yer ma
know yer out?”
“Ho!” snapped Mick. “Think yer funny,
don t yer. Let me tell yer this writer’s one
of the best wot ever wrote. Nice polite
interferin’ swine, ain’t yer?”
“Listen ter Prefessor Mick.” said the
“boss,” overjoyed with the success of his
attack. “Prefessor Mick will now give us
a lecktoor on spirrit lovers. The woman
wot wrote that’s a dam idjut. Don’t ’e kid
’imself ’e’s a blasted stewdant!”
The Corellian enthusiast reverently laid
down the book, evacuated his bunk, and
smote the scoffer violently on the nose. Then
commenced a battle of literary vindication
which from a spectacular point of view
exceeded the onlooker’s expectations by a
considerable margin. For ten minutes an
extraordinarily virile bundle of swinging
arms and waving legs oscillated across the
planking, to an appreciative accompaniment
of profanity from the non-combatants. The
contest abruptly terminated in the scoffer’s
ejection out over the washboard on to the
fore-deck.
“On yer knees,” commanded the victor.
“Spit it out.”
The dethroned “boss” knelt outside with
his gory features framed in the doorway.
“Blokes,” he grunted. “I yereby ’nologise
fer ’avin’ called Mary Corelly a dam idjut
—cos she aiu’t, an’ The Romance of Teta
Worls is the best yarn wot ever was wrote
—S’welp me God!”
One of the finest tributes to a writer that
I ever heard in my life.
HAROLD LINDSAY.


A.
m
aee
pR<3CTIG3LINEXPENSIVE(a3TS
at Anthony Horderns’
w
A
S si
22 L
M 82
S 79
27/e
S 78
2 %
5 80
0;
27/ 6
75
S 7/
42 A
S 76.
Anthony
Horderns'
Summer
Fashion
Portfolio
will solve
the
problem of
iconomically
conforming
to the
prevailing
modes.
Write for
a copy,
post free
on request.
No. SBl. Tussore Silk Coat, 'Vide Belt, slightly flared
Skirt, Raglan Sleeves, can be fastened high at neck. .. . 22/6
Similar design, in Natural Crash • 11/6
Also No. 428, same style in Mercerised Poplin, in shades of
Navy, Mole and Biscuit 25/6
No. 3182. — Useful Coat, in Natural Tussore Silk, straight,
loose make, convertible Collar, new loose sleeves.... • • 27/6
No. 879. — Maternity Coat, in Navy, Cream or Black Sicilian,
pleated from deep, pointed yoke to foot, wide, set-in sleeves,
turn-back cuffs 24/6
No. S7B. Stylish Coat, of Black Satin Charmeuse, smart,
box-pleated back, wide Belt at sides, Military Collar, turn-
back cuffs; fastens at side with Braid Ornament.... 45/-
No. 575. Up-to-date Coat, Of Natural Tussore Silk, new
flared Skirt, smartly belted below waist, Raglan Sleeves, Mili-
tary Collar 27/6
No. 576. Practical Motor Coat, of Striped Poplin, straight
cut, Raglan Sleeves, may be worn open or closed at neck,
finished Belt at back 21/-
No. 577. Distinctive Coat, Of Natural Assam Silk, deep
American yoke, Magyar effect, Military Collar of Fancy Striped
Silk, smartly finished shaped empiecement of Self below
waist 427-
No. SBo. — Serviceable Coat, of fine light Panama Cloth,
deep Collar and wide revers of Fancy Silk to tone, wide, set-
in Sleeves, in shades of Rose, Saxe, or Biscuit.... 25/6
Fifteen
Shillings
expended
at the New
Palace
Emporium
will go
further
than a
Sovereign
spent
elsewhere.
Be Wise 1
Pop your
Orders in
the post.
The Graceful (Jharm of fKe Riller Skirf
at Horder^’
<r
S 51
M 54 S 5 3 _ . ,
35/g 34/e
n
M 52
M 56
M 55.
29/6
59/6 37/ 6 2/g
No. S5l. — Dressy Coat and Skirt, of Natural Tussore Silk;
long Basque Coat, belted arid shirred on hips, new stand-up
Collar of fancy stripe Velvet, finished at front with ball crochet
buttons; full Skirt, belted at waist 45/-
No. Ms4. — Dainty Floral Voile Robe, in Black, Navy,
Mole or Grey grounds, with small Helio, Rose and White
designs; the Collar, Vestette and Cuffs arc of fine Organdie
Muslin, Black Velvet bow at throat; Skirt has deep, shaped
yoke, from which falls the long tunic 35/6
No. Ss3.—effective Coat and Skirt, in Ivory or Black
/Japanese Silk; the Eton Coat is finished shaped band of self;
French Collar has pointed-over Collar of Floral Silk; full Skirt
made with wide folded belt at waist 34/6
No. Mss.—Attractive Voile Kobe; the Bodice and Under-
skirt of plain White Voile, Collar and Cuffs caldc stitched;
Shoulder Straps and long Tunic are of fancy Check Voile,
AVbite ground, with mixed Pink, Blue, Hclio and Black
Check 29/(1
No. Ms6.—Very Dainty Robe, smartly designed in plain
and floral Japanese Silk; the Bodice, with smart roll Collar, is
of floral Silk, with plain Silk Sleeves; Tunic is of plain Ivory
Silk on floral foundation, plain, folded Waistbelt, with floral
buckle 37/6
Xo. >ls2.—Smart Coat and Skirt, of Ivory, Navy or
Black Japanese Silk; the short Coat, pleated from waist, has
waistcoat front and French Collar of self; Skirt is box pleated
at front, and gathered into belt at waist 59/6
Xo. Mso.—Useful Coat and Skirt, in Natural Tussore
Silk; Sports Coat belted at waist, step Collar and turn-back
Cuffs of self; high-waisted Skirt has inverted, lapped seams at
front 32/6
Also in Cream, Navy or Black Japanese Silk (Coat pleated from
waist), No. 1001 37/6
All Costumes in sizes 23in. to 30in. waist.
Trices for Extra Outsizes (32in. to 36in. waists), or Special
Measures, On Application.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricXneld Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TVWCHESTER
Repeating Rifles
For Hunting, Target Shooting Or Protection
In choosing a rifle for any purpose, its reliability and
accuracy should be carefully considered. Winchester
rifles enjoy the highest reputation the world over for
reliability, accuracy, strong shooting qualities and
finish. They are made in all de-
sirable calibers from .22 to .50,
and in eleven different models.
From these a Winchester can be
selected that will meet any shoot-
ing requirement.
IF YOU WANT A GOOD RIFEE
BUY A WINCHESTER
y
■
-rs
*
m
;
■ .
: : v/.
BRAND
/
THE PIES REVERSE GEAR.
The GIES is built in three sizes of the enclosed and open type, so that it
is the best-fitted reverse gear for the greatest number of power boats. It is
the simplest reversing mechanism made. The few parts it has are all inter-
changeable, as they are jig made to accuracy. High-grade materials and first-
class workmanship, combined with right design, make the GIES the most depend-
able reversing device on the market.
GIES Gears are not an exper ment, they 'are the result of
i o vears’ experience in building reverse gears exclusively. Over
30,000 satisfied customers are our best recommendations.
kKALERS: We wish to seeur responsible dealers wherever
we have no representation. We feel certain that reliable
importers will want to represen: the GIES line, once they have
investigated its merits. The GIES offers any dealer a com-
plete line of reverse gears to fit any make of engine. Rightly
priced and widely advertised, th ■ GIES will be a quick-selling,
money-making line to handle. Write for our special dealers’
rp-onnsition to-day. Cable Address :
GIES GEAR CO., Detroit, Mich..U.S.A.
GEESGEAR
DETROIT.
$
r?k
c)
the
James Cockle
(rjsixt#ecrr\ .Q)
[UK HIS OHO PREPARATION
4.Grual Ormond Streei
Qto
viOjre
Oreat
Bn!
+
ANTJBILIOUS
A Reputation
of over 100
years.
A tried and trusted family medicine,
prescribed by medical men for the
common ailments of everyday life,
such as
ACIDITY,
INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS,
SICK HEADACHE,
DISORDERED LIVER.
These famous pills cleanse and regulate the
whole system, leaving it free from all
impurities. To rse them always is to keep
yourself in perfect health —the bowels f ee,
the liver active, the head clear, and the skin
and complexion free from blemish.
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes.
Price, 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & Co.. 4 Great Or.rr»ond Street, London, Eng.
CHEAPER THAIS
Electricity, Coal Gas, Aceryiene or Kerosene,
M BETTER THAN AH.
I*
m
M
.
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott 8 Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye 8 Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram 8 Son
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Works: 269 Toorak Road,
Melbourne.
yAJEN TE£)
THROUGHOUT
tyCYfOVLX&l
©;©
M
“ they say 1 am mightier than the Sword!”
“ Only the soldier needs the sword noivadays, blit everybody
has need of me , for I am the Onoto—peerless among pens.''
The Onoto simplifies writing. It writes with smooth pre-
cision from first to last. It is the one really satisfactory
self-filling pen.
Onoto
the “trusty” pen.
The Onoto is British made. It is designed to last a lifetime ; and is guaranteed by its
makers.
Price 12/- and upwards of all Stationers , Jewellers , and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen
free on application to THOS. DE LA RUE 6° CO., Ltd., 181 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Managing Agents
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST , 50 York Street , Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK— Best for all Pens.
m
Wm
X
m
u
U
The Nerve Medicine
for
Professional People
is
CLEMENTS
TONIC
There are certain classes of pro-
fessional duties that worry the nerves
because of the strain upon them,
dental work particularly. This testi-
mony to Clements Tonic has been re-
ceived from Miss M. Griffith, Mar-
rickville Road, who has for a number
of years been associated with profes-
sional dental surgeons as assistant,
and her opinion is, in consequence, of
a valuable nature. She writes.
12/3/T5
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“Owing to the trying professional nature of my duties in dental
surgery, I found myself at times very much run down and nervous.
Although never in real bad health, yet I had need of a good medicine, and
I found in Clements Tonic a splendid ‘weak-nerve remedy’ and promoter
of appetite. •
“Whenever I need it I use it, and always find the greatest benefit
from its use.
“You may use this testimonial as vou wish.”
“(Signed) MISS M. GRIFFITH.”
Never be without this medicine if you are run-down or have Weak Nerves,
Bad Digestion, Poor Appetite, or Constipation. It tones up the human system
rapidly. -
In eases where the nerves are shattered through exhaustive business studies,
fever, influenza, wasting illness or brain fag, this medicine is beneficial in its
results in regenerating nerve power. It is declared to be rich in those health-
creating properties that ensure bodily health and strength.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere. Get it to=dav and get well.


Australia Riddled with
Deadly Kidney Disease
ALMOST EVERYBODY COMPLAINING.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands of people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradu-
ally getting a firmer and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease : Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing
in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, pufliness under the eyes—■
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak-or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don't waste a single hour. Go to your
pgsil
Kidney&BladflerPiiis
|4 These Pills also act on the h yen %
'\ . NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE >
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing touch on the right
spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A won-
derful pill—straight to the kidneys—that is
why De Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief —every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or how badly
you have suffered.
$
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Leaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received trom Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout. Australasia.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE-
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr.. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W-,
writes: —
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Soz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke ; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i
Bonnington’
Jubes
For the VOICE *
THROAT <SL LUNGS
Possess many of the unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss.
They afford immediate relief ir. ease of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Less of Voice, Iluskiness,
Spasmodic Cough, BronehialTrouble etc. Whilst soothingnvnd antisepticin their action,
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or oilier harmful substances.
'c.l
9V.
'Ms#
s
sir
-S-
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S .TUBE A are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public wiliaiso find
them 1 he best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington & Co., Ltd.
17s) HARRIS STREET - - SYDNEY
. x
A CHARMING FIGURE
Within Every Woman’s Reach
The lack of a well-rounded, nicely-formed bust deprives a woman
of four-fifths of the charm that would otherwise be hers. . . .Are your
cheeks sunken and hollow ? Have you deep lines around your mouth
and eyes? Are your arms thiu and scrawny? And is your chest flat
and your bosom undeveloped? Do your Shoulder-blades and the “salt-
cellars” that form at your throat make evening dress almost a tragedy?
Are you so thin that your clothes merely hang on you?
MliS. Y. GRAHAM, of Stanley Street, Richmond, tells in the fol-
lowing letter of her release from the thraldom of poor development
and deficient figure:—-
- “Your treatment is wonderful, and I have to thank
Dr. FAhIiIERE’S I'’L<ESH-r'OOD for not only restoring
my health, but for building up my figure and develop-
ing my bust to my entire satisfaction. I am better in
every way from its use, and it did exactly what you
claimed it would from its use, and even more quickly than you stated.”
In many cases bust measurements have been increased by over ten inches, and the gain in
actual weight—equally distributed over the body in generally deficient cases—has been over five
pounds weekly; Some other cases have shown an increase in weight of even a pound a day. The
average bust increase desired is about six inches, and is readily accomplished. Results guaranteed.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to attenuated women. We have not space here, but
if you will write or call, we will give you hundreds of testimonials from grateful, happy women.
LET US SEND YOU A FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
We want you to know just what FLESH-FOOD is, and will gladly give you a free sample.
Send a 2d. stamp, and let us forward a free trial sample and our instructive book on attenuation,
“LOVELY WOMAN.” FLESFI-FOOD is put up in tablet form, and can be secretly taken if de-
sired. All correspondence is confidential and private, and all our literature is sent closely
covered and free from observation. Write at once. You are placed under no obligation what-
ever to buy because you send for sample. It is ABSOLUTELY FREE. CALL IF CONVENIENT.
FAEEIERE FLESH-FOOl) CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY'. [1822,}
%
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Rheumatism
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 175+ —
160 years ago.
uschen Sal'
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
63, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
Per Bottle.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Impression.
The slanting sun lies on the floor
In pools of light that hold the heat,.
And in the dusty, shadowed street
The padding mules go by the door.
The bamboo trees are softly etched
Against the luminous, hot sky.
And in the light a bird floats by
With folded feet and wings outstretched.
And in the creeping, silent gloom
A negro boy with dusky face
Moves like a shadow from his place
And like a ghost slips through the room.
MANILA, P.I. G. J,
A Trench in Gallipoli.
Pale turquoise tints steal over as the morn
Gives back to each dark shrub its restful
hue;
Then a soft breeze, which catches up anew
The wild thyme’s fragrance, stirs the ripen-
ing corn
And bathes tired eyelids like a cooling balm.
While straining ears hear faintly, far away.
The Turkish watchdog’s matutinal bay.
We speak in whispers. It is very calm.
The Eastern blue takes on a deeper tone;
Dim stars expire, and all the air is still.
Then, by some chancing eddy lightly blown,
The stench of corpses reeks across the hill.
GALLIPOLI.
GEOFFREY CUMING.
The Dead Pixie.
The pixie shivered in the field ;
The air was warm and summer sweet;
The bearded harvest stalks would yield
Their wonted toll of ripened wheat.
The poppy’s crown of crimson gay
Crinkled with mirth to last its day.
But: here no bending reaper sang.
No sickle glinted sharp and keen ;
For through the summer world there rang
The harsher voice of a machine ;
And swift and terrible as doom
The chattering teeth bit stalk and bloom.
The forest of the standing grain
To pixie feet was bane and snare.
Banting some open space to gain
He ran and ran he knew not where,
And, close behind, that voice of fear
Was ever in his trembling ear.
Prone in the weed at last he lay.
The hurricane of death passed o’er,
Sharp fangs of steel that none could stay
The smitten bread-field overbore;
And who could dream a pixie’s pain
Was smothered in the falling grain?
The dreamer shivered in the world.
The air was warm, the sky was kind,
But bolts of ruin madly hurled
Tore their red furrows through the wind,
And loud destruction and amaze
Tangled the path of nights and days.
Where should he run? No open space
For calmer thought his soul might know.
The world had on a stranger’s face
All blackened with machine-made woe;
And harsh and near through smoke and
flame
The rolling dream-destroyer came.
Sudden he leaped from dreams awake.
Some primal instinct in him rose
To march with death and fiercely take
A vengeance on the dreamer’s foes.
He died, breast forward to the pain.
That larger dreams might live again.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The New Way Home.
Last night I found a new way home,
A star-way like a street;
I scatteredn-ound me as a foam
The star-dust with my feet.
It was a way most glorious
Through which I gaily jumped,
Unheedful of the dark, dead worlds
That here and there I bumped.
They swore at me most fearful oaths,
Each useless world I rammed ;
And thus I know that dark, dead worlds
Are regions of the damned.
But they were few ; I bumped them hard
To hurl them out afar,
To drive them from the company
Of each well-lighted star.
As all the stars swung on in space
Of course / also swung,
And leaped and fell, and spun around,
The giddy spheres among.
Yet still it was a merry path ;
My head in ether swam.
So light my feet seemed that I scorned
To take the astral tram.
I saw it pass, its stars aglow,
And heeded not the cry
To get aboard ; I laughed and said :
“No, thanks ! I’d rather fly !”
So on I p->ed—on such a path
What need for any cars
Until I slipped and fell upon
A pile of loosened stars.
They dropped around me as I fell;
But straight and true I fled.
For when I wakened with the day
I found myself in bed.
I don’t know quite how I arrived,
But, scorning wifely talk,
I am determined once again
Upon the stars to walk.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


AUSTRALIAN MADE
m
m
•s
iasS-'.v
,
■
y4IS
is
-
3
■
mas
mm.
r~
3
s
Si
as
i*
%
m
j
pal
B 1
si
58S8B8M
PERDRIAU
RUBBER GARDEN HOSE
“Quality” should be the object of
purchasers of Garden Hose.
The higher grades are without a
doubt, cheaper in the end, on ac-
count of the greater durability of the
better grades of rubber and fabric.
We make Three Grades
“WATERSHED” A special red garden hose of which
we are the originators. Stands wear
better than any other
“CATARACT” A High-grade Black Rubber Hose.
“ PROSPECT ” A Good Rubber Hose at a low price.
Samples of the Grades and Price List Post Free .
Obtainable through Storekeepers or direct from
PLRDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 GEORGE; STREET, SYDNEY.
105 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE-
-69 GAWLER PLACE. ADELAIDE.
Also BRISBANE and PERTH.
BREEZE
WHEN REQUIRED 8 PLENTY OF IT.
ELECTRIC FANS OF EVERY KIND
AND SIZE IN STOCK.
RELIABLE FANS THAT GO AND
KEEP GOING ON SMALL RUNNING
COST.
BATTERY FANS AND WATER-
DRIVEN FANS FOR COUNTRY USE.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR OUR PRICE LIST.
Electrical Utilities Supply Co
605 George Street, SYDNEY,
Opposite Anthony
Hordern & Sons.
Phone: city 1487 FO r EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL.
4
%
ms.
\
&
That deep
mirror-like lustre
is desired by every housewife —and quickly
obtained by using Shi-noleum.
Shi-noleum gives linoleum the most bril-
liant shine, is non-slippery and a wonderful
preservative; saves work, improves the pat-
tern and is economical.
Try it yourself. Sold by all leading store-
keepers.
Sample free on request. The Paget Manufacturing. Co.
Ltd., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
hfd
Little Bo Peep kept losing her sleep
As the cost oj living kept rising.
“Rex” Ham Pate she tried,
“Now our Suppers,” she cried,
“Will be cheaper and more appe-
tising.”
r*
m
a
Don’t lose your
sleep trying to think
out something new
for Lunches or
Suppers.
“REX” HAM PATE
is cheaper than ‘meat and more appetising. It comes to yon
in an easy-to-spread consistency, and being just good, cooked
ham, ground fine, and seasoned with pure Spices, it is very
nourishing and easily digested.
Suitable for all kinds of Sandwiches, either alone or with
Sliced Eggs, Cucumber, Tomato, Lettuce Leaves, Anchovies or
any other Sandwich dressing.
Sold by all Grocers in Handy=sized Tins.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are—
“ Rex” Teal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 12lb. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, in decorated tins and Opal Porcelain Jars of
British Manufacture.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
RE
Foggitt, Jones 8 Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams ami Bacon;
Packers of “ Rex ’’Pare Food
Prod acts.
REX
Bp , - , IjSf ■
■llllill
" ■ ■ll i I
■lll
■ i
M
siiii
n
Mill ■
WHISKY
A WELCOME
PRIZE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 3G.-No. 1859.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1915.
Price 6d.
“NO! I DON’T WANT TO GO AWAY.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleoii, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 Gs. Gd. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
Idle Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable ), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed, When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin cart be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., MR Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City Neivs Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; lE. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
IJong Kong.
Ceylon. —lP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Pamia, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
Iooz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, IGozf.
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz.. Id.; Sioz. to 10oz., 21 d. :
10oz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l/oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
JTuTSStrfleZz/n.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1915.
ANOTHER JOSS OVERBOARD.
They are all going, those fetiches which
John Bull has made his gods, and they are
being ground very small under the heel of
his boot. Party Government has been found
out and dragged down. Private Enterprise
in the control of railways, munition works
and equipment factories has been proved a
menace to national safety. The individual-
istic system of defence, which depended on
the personal choice of the citizen whether he
would fight for his country or sit at home
and read what the newspapers had to say
about the disturbance, is admitted even
by its former advocates to be bad in theory
and rotten in practice when submitted to
the test of decisive war —the only test of
an army that ever was worth tuppence.
And now the fantastic old joss labelled Free-
trade, which sat with winking eye and
tongue in cheek in the town hall of Man-
chester, has been seized by a foreign-trade
Treasurer and cast out for additional ill-
treatment later on. The reasons that have
at last quickened the nation to reject the
ruinous doctrine are not based on mere
theory, nor do they spring from the unclean
intrigues of warring partisans. They are
reasons emerging from the evidence of incon-
trovertible fact. Freetrade was at all times
a cause of economic weakness and Social
degradation to Britain, but more particularly
so of later years, since other nations got
abreast of her with mechanical appliances
and technical skill. As a national policy
in time of war, with savings, investments
and credit disappearing in smoke, it would
simply have led to Chaos. At no
time can a country afford to make itself a
dumping-ground for the industrial products
of other nations. When it tries to do this
while chasing round for every sovereign it
can find to repel an enemy, then it has a foe
behind as well as in front. John Bull
sending money across the sea for hats and
pianolas and watches while he was strug-
gling to find the cash for shells and rifles,
desperately straining his credit and bank-
balance in the effort, was doing something
which even hardened foreign traders like
Asquith and McKenna have been com-
pelled to admit disastrous.
* * * *
Nurtured by Protection and strengthened
through the development of expanding mar-
kets while European countries were exhaust-
ing themselves by war, Britain found herself
at the close of the Napoleonic campaigns
the commercial entrepot of the world. She
built up an enormous connection during the
immediately succeeding years, partly by rea-
son of her manufacturing skill, her maritime
supremacy and the spread of trade, and
largely through securing the custom of
countries whose industrial life had been
annihilated by the prodigious wars of the
time. In a quarter of a century she had be-
come the clearing-house for Europe, Asia,
Africa and America, the drift of the rural
population from the soil of Britain to her
slums and factories was complete, the
national investments abroad began to grow
• —and then the gates were thrown down ! The
food supply of the world was open to the
people of England, and they settled down
in the comfortable belief that the remaining
inhabitants of the globe would go ahead
shipping raw materials to London and Lan-
cashire, drawing finished products in return,
discharging the debit balance by borrowings
and gold. For a time all went well. .John
Bull prospered amazingly. He added new
territories to his domain, shipped machinery
and clothing and boots and all the rest of it
wherever these things were wanted, and
imported his onions and his bread and his
meat from other countries. But all
this time other people were getting
busy, and in their aeony and poverty were
slowly building up industries for themselves.
They opened training-schools and labora-
tories, and in time launched ships, and while
supplying themselves with goods from their
own factories commenced to compete with
Bull and Co. in the markets of the world
and in time also in the market of England
itself. The British Freetrade doctrine of
buying in the cheapest market, applied at
first to raw materials for manufac-
ture and food, underwent expansion
to include finished products, and John
commenced to shave himself with a
German razor, and wear Yankee boots,
and drink out of a Belgian glass—all
because they were cheaper than the equiva-
lent things he could make himself. Thus he
began to lose his home trade; and as the
foreigner worked long and hard and often
lived on the smell of an oil rag John found
his oversea trade beginning to shake at the
knees, until during the last ten years its
history has been like this
Imports. Exports.
1905.. ..£565,019,917 £407,590,527
1910.. .. 678,257,024 534,145,817
1914.. .. 697,432,649 525,720,311
What has kept him solvent is that
he has earned a great deal of money as a
carrier and has had a very large income
from investments abroad. But this has in
great part merely stimulated the tourist
traffic to Switzerland and the Rhine, and
maintained an unproductive, parasitic class
who remain to browse at leisure on the pro-
ceeds of investments made from the earn-
ings of other days. So far as the industrial,
work-a-day life is concerned —that on which
national strength and hope depend—Britain
lias been going steadily to the wall, the
cheap and well-organised foreigner, equipped
with the most modern machinery, undersell-
ing the British workman on his own dung-
hill and under-cutting him in other countries
while protecting himself against domestic
competition. So an increasing number of
British people have lived in a degraded
penury while work has been sent abroad;
rural England and Scotland have become
the preserve of American millionaires and
retired stock-brokers; whole sections of
trade have passed into the hands of aliens —-
all the inevitable result of a policy rejected
by every other nation on earth. Its mad-
ness has been the wonder of observers abroad
and, latterly, the subject of quaking appre-
hension even to the British people them-
selves, who, had it not been for the fraud
called Party Government —an institution
born in a London pothouse during the mon-
archical intriques of the Stuarts —would
in all probability have swept the evil away
long before war compelled them to do so.
The belated awakening of Britain to the
significance of the alien motor-car and the
reliable watch at half a crown a dozen and
the exotic hat is of special significance to
the, infatuated remnant of Australian im-
porters, who have made life hideous by their
cackle that what was good enough for the
Motherland was good enough for this be-
nighted country. As it turns out that Bri-
tish Freetraders have broken their Joss into
750 pieces, perhaps the demented followers
of the cult in Australia will now get busy,
too, and help the timid defenders of Austra-
lian industry to make up their minds about
the direction in which their duty lies. For
there is even more need of action in Young
Australia than in Old England. Apart from
the fact that England has made a start
while mostly we are at scratch, there is the
still more telling fact that we are nearer a
vast supply of fiercely competitive labor, the
cheapest in the world, and in many respects
the most ingenious.
THE FLAG ON THE COW’S HORN.
A cow with a small Union Jack on its horn
recently paraded a, Sydney suburban street and
attracted the attention of the daily paper’s
local correspondent. It was a fraudulent
cow, openly stealing public grass and wan-
dering illegally on public footpaths in search
of an unguarded private gate which might
give it opportunity for still darker crimes.
Yet in these days of patriotic fervor how
could a beast so decorated be challenged?
Even when stuffed full of choice pansy
blooms and home-grown asparagus the flag
must still be its protection. How could so
British a cow be driven as a felon to the
common pound? Which thing is a parable
and an allegory and may even be connected
with a lesson in political economy.
The war which still drags its wounded
length over the fields of Europe and even
wags a sore tail in Australia has called
forth a vast amount of genuine, wholesome
patriotic feeling—the kind of feeling that
shows itself in restraint and willingness
for self-sacrifice for the public good. It has
enabled quite a large number of people to
discover themselves and to find out that
under their top-dressing of civilised caution
they possess a layer of rugged, honest, primi-
tive emotion. The discovery has been both
painful and costly, but it is something to
the good that it has been made; and the
world is younger for the private hatred of
the Kaiser by men who never hated any-
thing well before. To these people the flag
of Australia and the flag of Britain mean
more than they meant in the smug, quiet
years which are gone; but there are others
—and they are many and full of noise—to
whom the patriot emblem means exactly
what it meant when it gave the marauding
cow a charter to browse on John Smith’s
lilies. There is nothing so easily exploited
as patriotism, and the exploiter never fails
to hear the call of his country if it has a
pocket worth picking.
* * -» - *
Tt is quite natural that persons of acqui-
sitive habits and uneducated consciences
should rally to the flag. In the oldest tri-
bal days the flags and standards of the
peoples were invented to frighten possible
victims. The skull and cross-bones of the
pirate were merely a survival of the weird
eagles, dragons and other fearful things
which could strike terror to the heart of a
simpler world. Under the ugliest flag
marched the Boldest Thief; and three paces
behind him, that he might miss the swing
of his mighty club, crouched the Cleverest
Thief. For the Cleverest Thief knew even
in those rude days that the Boldest Thief
was his natural prey. Now, while very
appropriately Germany keeps as her emblem
a distorted and stiff-necked eagle, Britain
waves her mild standard of three crosses to
indicate, possibly, that she will be crucified
three separate times in three distinct
fashions before she will yield one point to
the enemy. So the menace of the flag
remains; and though the Boldest Thief has
reformed and become the Bravest Defender
of Right, the Cleverest Thief still keeps his
place three paces to the rear. To rally to
the flag is his natural instinct. He could
not find it in his heart to be elsewhere;
for patriotism, properly worked, can cover
almost as many things as the best advertised
brand of charity.
*• * * *
Australian patriotism up to the moment
of the present war was always in the shadow.
The men who did the real work of the coun-
try were always loyal in their devotion to
national ideals; but the men who owned
most of Australia’s soil and handled most
of Australia’s cash had no praises for the
land that had increased their girth. Until
the war broke out they affected to despise
Australia and things Australian. They
were opposed to our forming a citizen army
when the scheme of universal service was
drawn up. They tried to sneer away the
notion of an Australian navy. They were
against the unity of the Commonwealth, and
heartily endorsed all State Spites that might
work injury to the Federation. Tliev de-
nounced the idea of a White Australia. As
a plain fact, they were against every patri-
otic movement from its inception until under
stress of war they were converted as swiftly
as the ancient German heathen, who sought
baptism with enthusiasm only when they
saw the glint of Christian spears. These
sudden conversions are always to be pro-
foundly distrusted. The men who were
patriotic Australians before the war are
likely, to be patriotic Australians when the
war is over. The men who became patriotic
only under the war-stress are as likely as
not to reel back into their former sins. Yet
it is the pseudo-patriots who make most
noise and who are foremost in the. hunt after
those Germans with whose trading arrange-
ments they were until quite recently so
much in love. It is pleasant and easy work
chasing Teutons in Bourke-street and Mar-
tin-place, and who can doubt the noble
patriotism of the hunters! No doubt allow-
ance must be made for some genuine Changes
of view. The Commonwealth will when all
is over have some sterling evangelists to
preach Big Australianism, drawn from the
ranks of those who were once State Spiters
and black-labor advocates. But in more
cases the flag on the cow’s horn will wave
just as long as it seems popular or profit-
able to keep it there and not a moment
longer.
* * * *
It is the business of the truest patriotism
to see that no gate is left open to this cow.
If the animal does not want to wander into
gardens—if the patriot does not want to
backslide —there will be no objection ’ to
closing the gate. In any case. we. cannot
take risks. The national strain is already
great: it is going to be greater. Australia can-
not afford to be exploited to the value of a
penny piece either from within or without.
Those who make our laws and administer
them must therefore see to it. and
see to it now, that every effort of
Australian muscle and brain is directed
in such a way as to benefit Aus-
tralia. Now and not hereafter the exploiter
must be checked. In a word, the marauding
cow that wanders abroad with a patriotic
flag must be driven to the pound, and eyery
gate must be banged .against her patriotic-
ally-bellowing sisters. If this is not done
now we shall find it very difficult to get it
done when the war is over and the iron of
the war-time patriot has grown cold.
THE THIRD GENERATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Above the desk at which this is written is
the photograph of a young man with the brow
and eyes of Peter Lalor of Eureka. The
steadfast and wistful gaze is fixed on some-
thing far away—it may be on a regiment
of Spaliis tirelessly marching over African
sand, for he was once a soldier of the For-
eign Legion of France, this man of 30. His
firm yet sensitive month, a thought depressed
at the corners, is that of one in whose
sense of humor pathos predominates: He is
of Irish blood. Cheek bones and chin, though
well defined, are boyishly rounded still. He
wears the mess-dress and badges of an officer
of Australian infantry, and on his shoulders
are a captain’s stars. He is, on the Regi-
mental and Gradation Lists of the Austra-
lian Expeditionary Force, and in the hearts
of compatriots for ever, Captain Joseph
Peter Lalor, late commander of D Com-
pany of the Twelfth Battalion of the Third
Brigade. He fell shot through the head on
Sari Bair at high noon of April 25, the day
on which the Australians stormed the hills
of Hell to make good their footing on Galli-
poli. Seven Turks he slew in his last fight,
and his body lies in the little stone-strewn,
wooden-crossed graveyard at the head of
Shrapnel Valley, whose brief epitaphs
announce that here was Australia’s Ther-
mopylae.
Of the square mile of Turkish earth that
his comrades hold at the place they have
christened, after the Australian and New
Zealand Army Corps that won it, Anzac —
of that scant space of conquered land, less
than six feet is his. For, like the grand-
father who came to Australia to found the
line under the Flag of Stars first raised by
the rebellious miners of Eureka, Lalor was
of small stature. The'grandfather’s height
is, indeed, a matter of official record. After
the Twelfth and Fortieth Regiments had
captured the Stockade at Ballarat on that
December morning of 1854; after Lalor,
wounded almost unto death, had escaped to
a hut in the ranges from the slabs under
which a pikeman had hidden him ; after his
arm had been amputated and he had found
refuge from the law, the Government of
Victoria offered a reward of £2OO for his
arrest. In the notification of that reward
his height was given as sft. l|in. The
money was never claimed. Instead, Peter
Lalor, the one-armed rebel, lived to be
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Vic-
toria, and to-day his statue stands in bronze
in the main street of Ballarat.
Then with the Dardanelles Expedition
came the day and hour of the Third Genera-
tion. There is a fourth—but its represen-
tative is a lad hardly beyond babyhood, who
some day shall read how his father died.
Bred true to the traditions of the Lalor
line, Joseph Peter, who, born in Richmond,
Victoria, had served under the French
tricolor in Algeria, saw and seized his
chance. He joined the Expeditionary Force
with a battalion composed of South Aus-
tralians, Westralians and Tasmanians.
After the infernal helter-skelter' of the
landing in Gallipoli, Lalor and others of
the 11th and 12th Battalions pushed then-
way inland up a rough, scrub-covered gully,
capturing on their way a sniper who had
approached so close that Lalor could have
touched him. Reaching the top of the cliff
the Australians found that their commanding
officer, Col. L. F. Clarke, of Tasmania,
had been killed, and Major [name suppressed
by an intelligent censorship], of Wes-
tralia, severely wounded while going
to his aid. After a gasping rush for cover
the companies were formed up to meet a
counter-attack* and Lalor took command.
The advance party sent to hold back the
Turks while he dug in was shot down to
30 men, but pushed on, and, reinforced by
Captain [name suppressed by a censorship
which is still intelligent] and a handful of
the Eleventh, held a shell-smitten hill until
came the order, “Retire by threes from the
right.” Under shrieking shrapnel, those in
the advance fell back through the scrub—a
very grove of death —on to Lalor’s position.
This was separated by a gully from a spur
whose possession promised a better field of
fire. Three times the spur was rushed by
battered, breathless soldiers who had been
fighting since four o’clock that morning;
and three times came orders —afterwards
proved false —for their retirement. At the
fourth attempt the hill was held ■ and the
firing line formed anew. Then Turkish
machine-gun fire and shrapnel began to
smash the line to pieces. Figures were
dimly seen in the scrub ahead; but hardly
had the tortured Australians begun to exact
savage revenge when with the order to cease
fire came word that they were Indian
troops. Sceptical now, Lieutenant [name
suppressed by a censorship which continues
to be intelligent], one of Lalor’s subalterns,
standing man-height clear under fire, put
his glasses to his eyes and found that the
“Indians” were Turks, and were firing on
the Australians.
The fight resolved itself into isolated com-
bats of marksmen. It was while stemming
a Turkish charge at noon that Lalor met
his death. Butler fpught on until half-past
five, filling his pouches and those of the men
near him with cartridges which he took
from the ammunition-belts of dead comrades.
Then, badly wounded, he dragged himself
to the beach for reinforcements.
If any saw Lalor die they have not
survived to tell the tale. His body was
recovered by a party under Lieutenant
[name suppressed by a censorship which is
just as intelligent as it was before],
to whom the manner of his death was
made plain. .He was found with a
bullet in his head, an empty revolver in
one hand, and the other clenched on the hilt
of a blood-stained sword. Around him were
six Turks whom he had shot, and across his
body lay that of a seventh —a man of mag-
nificent physique-—whom Lalor had slain
with the blade. His body looked small, men
say, beneath the great bulk of his enemy—
but truly it was the habitation of an in-
domitable soul.
By such a deed as this Lance-Corporal
Albert Jacka, also a Victorian, a lad of
21 years, in the Fourteenth Battalion, won
the Victoria Cross —for he too slew seven
Turks, five with the rifle and two with the
bayonet. Lalor is beyond the reach of
Cross or Order. Yet he leaves Australia
his epitaph, pencilled for such as may follow
after by Bernice Lougiirey. his widow’s
sister, attached to the Red Cross at Alex-
andria. Writing to the mother of Captain
Lai.or. whose younger brother, sometime
medical-officer at Duntroon Military Col-
lege, is joining the colors to take up the
duty that now devolves upon him, she says,
quite simply, “I’m glad to know that he went
out just that way. It would have been the
way he would have chosen.”
Wherefore these words are written,
beneath his eyes now fixed fop ever on some-
thing far away, in memory of one whose
death adds to the glory of tlm name he bore.
KETTLEDRUM.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Made in Australia”—By Whom?
The question of trade brands lias not thus
far had the Australian attention it deserves.
For one thing many influential shopkeepers
have been most interested in suppressing it.
So long as the locally-made article is
merely branded “Made expressly for
Gammon and Spinnage,” a fanatic of the
Free trade order can be politely assured tha-t
the article was born abroad, whilst a patriot
who asked for an Australian product can be
furnished with the same goods, along with a
warning against buying any save the very
best Australian stuff, stamped with the
Gammon and Spinnage guarantee. Thus
it has come to pass that, whereas the, name
of many a foreign manufacturer is familiar
to persons outside the trade, the average
Australian may go clothed from head to foot
in local manufactures without knowing
whose goods he is wearing. The only manu-
facturer of solids who makes a point of
introducing his name to the tip of the con-
sumer’s tongue is the biscuit maker. Even
the jams in many cases profess to have been
grown expressly for somebody or other’s
famous emporium. The movement, in favor
of the “Made in Australia” stamp - should
have been accompanied by a demand for
individual manufacturers’ brands. In wear-
ing apparel, for instance, we need the
specialising of various “makes” in order
that manufacturers may be subjected to Ihe
laws of comparison. Some manufacturers
deserve all the fame they would soon get if
their products were branded. Others de-
serve to be snuffed out unless they supply
fairer value; and the requirement of a manu-
facturer’s brand would compel them to do
that. Moreover, the branding of all goods,
high-grade or low-grade, would protect the
public against opportunist shopkeepers who
get exorbitant profits where they can. 'And
it would in a measure protect small shop-
keepers against the tyrannous importer-
manufacturer combination, which feeds them
with all sorts of foreign goods from the
warehouse on condition that they never
“cut” the prices of goods obtained from the
local factory, though those prices could
bear a lot of cutting. The public, as
workers and consumers, is entitled to all
the benefit it can get from the develop-
ment of our industries. But as matters
stand, the public does not and will not
get it. Bad manufacturers are able to
keep going because the public never finds
them out, whilst the best manufacturers,
enterprising men with a talent for organisa-
tion and a strictly moderate appetite for
profits, get less encouragement than they
merit. Middlemen stand between the public
and the local manufacturer and throw a
veil of secrecy over his identity, or tell down-
right lies about him. A partly-sophisticated
customer is assured that this is the Austra-
lian manufacturer whose goods are well
spoken of, which is usually not the case;
and Australian industry suffers accordingly.
In any case, the name of the firm that makes
the very best goods in that particular trade
is not likely to be known to the customers
at all. Nor will it ever be generally known
iuit’l Parliament orders all Australian goods
to bear the manufacturer’s stamp.
7-*
Why Not Have a Murder or Two to
Start With?
G.-G. Ferguson burst out last week at
Adelaide with an idea for setting up Chairs
of Forestry at the Universities, training
students in the care of forests, setting aside
land for tree-planting, and all the rest of it,
the general notion being that Australia
should grow her own timber and knock off
dragging heaps of wood over the sea. There
is nothing to be said against this except that
it hitches the bullocks up to the waggon
with their tails the wrong way round. That
the manner in which the timber supplies of
the Commonwealth have been handled in the
past and are still being handled forms a
story of atrocious waste, is one of the
pleasant local commonplaces Governor-
Generals soon become acquainted with. But
the need of the moment is not for elaborate
schemes through which the Australian citi-
zen would be able to get a degree as a Master
of Stringybark or Bachelor of Blackbutt, but
for someone who will arm himself with 15
razors and a French 75, rope up all the
past and present Ministers for Lands to be
found, and slay the whole blessed lot. Then
the atmosphere would be comparatively clear,
and the matter in hand could be dealt with
free from embarrassment. But the time for
the university and the Licentiate of Eucalyp-
tus would still be far off. It is no use talk-
ing over nebulous propositions for planting
forests while forests are being swept away
in smoke; nor about encouraging the growth
of timber while the destruction of timber is
going busily forward. Neither is it profit-
able to make expansive remarks about set-
ting aside land for growing trees while tree-
covered land already set aside is being either
reduced in area by proclamation or covered
with ashes as quickly as axe and fire can
do their work. For people to ramble about
the benefits of re-afforestation while magnifi-
cent trees are being hacked down in every
direction is to show preference for blither
over common-sense. The timber resources
of Australia are of vast value, but they are
being mossed away through the operation of
private greed and public muddle with as
much unconcern as if forests could be grown
as quickly as cabbages. In N. S. Wales
the awful Government in existence has lately
cut down the forest reserves from 7,500,000
acres to 5,000,000 acres, and has simul-
taneously maundered in the newspapers about
“everything proceeding smoothly.” In 1909
the control of ringbarking was vested in the
Forestry Department with a. view to dimin-
ishing the waste of the past. This is now
declared to be “harassing” : so the restric-
tions have practically all been removed, and
when all the timber on a lease has been killed
the Government will send the lessee along a
supply of seedlings to plant out, in order
that the timber supplies may be preserved!
And this frantic act of tomfoolery has been
applauded by the daily press as rattling good
business. Now The Bulletin puts it to
Donald Craufurd Munro Ferguson, as
man to man, and asks him which Australia
wants most —multitudinous Chairs of For-
estry or a pair of strong, honest hands to
save the timber we have?
—♦ *
The Importance of Falling Down Dead.
Prime Minister Fisiier has expressed his
intention of “mentioning” to the Governor
of the Commonwealth Bank that a consider
able number of the staff of this institution
consider they have reasons for protest
against the manner they are overworked.
Fisher has also remarked that he did not
think there were anv reasons for serious
complaint, and that, anyhow, he had not yet
heard of anyone falling down dead in the
bank from excessive toil. The Bulletin is
not in possession of all the facts in connec-
tion with this matter, but it has very strong
suspicions on the subject, for three reasons —•
(1) the majority of Australian hanks are
notoriously parsimonious in respect to them
staffs: (2) no denial is given to the state-
ments concerning night work being very fre-
quent: and (3) when representations were
made on the subject by the men concerned
they were informed that “if they didn’t like
}t they could eo to the Front.” Such a reply
is characteristic of a weak man with a bad
case. It is the sort of thing that used to be
said to wharf-laborers and seamen and
miners, but has nowadays fallen out of
fashion so far as they are concerned. And
it is one that would not have been used in
this case if bank and mercantile clerks were
free from those preposterous notions about
unionism of which lawyers and slaughtermen
and journalists and doctors and coal-lumpers
long ago purged themselves. Andrew Fisher.
they might profitably observe, didn't want
to know how many members of the A.W.U.
had fallen down dead at their work lately
when that organisation told him to get a
move on with the Arbitration Act amend-
ment. These men can talk strike in a loud,
aggressive manner, and back the talk with
action. As the clerks can’t, apparently their
only way to get a sympathetic hearing is to
expire in a body.
+.
Clean Serum.
The Federal Government is in charge of
quarantine; therefore the Federal Govern-
ment should manufacture all serum and
lymph for vaccination and inoculation. This
simple proposition was put before the Minis-
ter for Customs last week by a deputation
which alleged that the impurities in the stuff
at present in use are causing unnecessary
suffering. Rightly or wrongly, the public
feels that the doctors have not been entirely
frank in their statements with regard to cer-
tain serious outbreaks of disease in the mili-
tary camps, and there is a strong suspicion
that a lot of the trouble is due to dirty
serum. Whether this is so or not. there is
no doubt that there are at least minor im-
purities which cause distress that could be
avoided with comparative ease. An up-to-
date Federal laboratory for manufacture
and investigation would be in every way
worth while. It would reassure the public;
it would give confidence to the recruit that
in offering himself for service he was not
going to be dangerously wounded before get-
ting a sporting chance to stop a Turkish
bullet. Really enthusiastic advocates of
dirt are not numerous in Australia; and the
proposal for increased cleanliness which is
now before the Minister for Customs could
hardly be opposed even by a belated and can-
tankerous States Spiter. But if the thing
is to be done it should be done at once: it
is now, while young Australia is passing to
the Front, that the benefits of the institution
would be most felt. It is to our infinite
discredit if we poison the blood of even one
Australian at the moment when it is pulsing
with enthusiasm in a great cause.
A French Leaf for an Australian Book.
“Charles Walker” on the old Curse: —
Randolph Bedford on the Water Waggon (B.
20/8/' 15) makes a mistake when ho brackets Prance
with Italy, and says they are the two most sober
countries of the earth, though his remarks would have
been correct 10 years ago. France's backsliding and
the attitude of the drink reformers thereto is of
special interest to us who want Australia to have a
better system of drinking.
It was absinthe that did it. Up to 30
years ago drinking in France was almost en-
tirely confined to light beer and wine so light
that only a glutton could get anywhere near drunk
on it. Since a genius discovered absinthe—-a matter
of over 40 years back—France has moved more or
less rapidly towards alcoholism. The law, which
until a few weeks ago permitted every householder
in the country to distil enough alcoholic drink for
himself and family without tax, gave the movement
a rapid shove, till now France consumes twice as
much strong drink per head as any other country.
Statistics show the results. There are twice as many
inmates of lunatic asylums in France now as there
were 30 years ago, and 20 per cent, of the inmates
get there through the absinthe bottle.
It is true that the, manufacture and sale of ab-
sinthe has been prohibited since the war,, but the
damage has been done —the people have acquired a
taste for strong alcoholic liquors and a distaste for
the light wines and beers of the country, and the
war prohibition has merely turned them from ab-
sinthe to other distilled concoctions.
Bedford says you don’t see drunken men about
the streets in France. True, not even in the poorest
quarters. This arises from the fact that even the
poorest class of Frenchman never quite loses his self-
respect. On the other hand, there are large districts
in France where it is hard to find a working-man
really sober at any hour of the day, and it was only
a question of time when the same would have been
true of Paris. Imagine Melbourne or Sydney with
whisky, gin and brandy at a penny a glass!
The French Government would have liked to place
a heavy tax on the production of strong alcoholic
drinks, but it is the same old tale —“vested inter-
ests,” which have waxed fat on the distilling indus-
try, fight more or less dirtily against any movement
to put a limit to their business. Fortunately the war
will have a big say presently. When that is over the
Government will undoubtedly put a heavy tax on
distilled drinks for the benefit, of revenue, and this
will result in placing the curse within narrow bounds
by making it. too expensive for at least the work-
ing-man.
What all drink reformers in France desire is to
lead the people back to the wholesome and compara-
tively harmless light wines and beers which were
formerly consumed. Not Prohibition. No French
party will have that—not even the most rabid tem-
perance people, who are quite satisfied (o have a
France as it was before the introduction of absinthe
and kindred drinks gave the people their first taste
for heavy alcoholic drinks.
+
A Leak with a Moral in It.
“W.A.R.” sends it on paper splashed with
grease:—
This is the' tale of Bill, an employee of the North
Shore (Sydney) Gas Co., where the strikes come from.
Bill was a good trades-unionist. lie enlisted and
went to the Front. Ii was at Gallipoli that he
showed his devotion to the sacred cause of trades-
unionism. He was a brave soldier, and might have
been promoted to lance-corporal if a sudden thunder-
storm hadn’t occurred. When the rain came down a
stream of muddy water found its • way into the
trench. It was a good trench in many ways,
but it hadn’t been constructed to cope with thunder-
storms. As the stream grew in size things in the trench
became very unpleasant for Bill and his mates.
The officer noticed that if the torrent of water were
not diverted from the trench, it would flood it and
render it impossible to be held against the Turks.
Already the hand-grenades were being rendered use-
less ; and just then hand-grenades were as necessary
to the eopiforr of Bill and his mates as—well, say,
as gas is to the inhabitants of North Shore. So the
officer briefly told Bill to drop his rifle and do a
little road-maintenance work on fhat liver. Of course,
diverting the ftood'wilis a dangerous job; but it
wasn’t because of its danger that Bill refused. He
remembered that lie was a good trades-unionist. His
job was to fight the Turks: that was what he had
enlisted for ; that was what he was being paid his
-wages for. He was a soldier, not a culvert navvy.
Nevertheless, lie wouldn’t have minded black-legging
to that extent, especially as he was getting very wet,
if the officer had only spoken to him politely, and
asked him to do it as a personal favor. Bill didn't
make any allowance for the fact that there wasn’t
any time just then for elaborate politeness. And the
officer didn’t make any allowance for the fact that
Bill was a good trades-unionist. So Bill naturally
refused ; and the officer, after stopping the leak him-
self and getting a bullet through his shoulder,
ordered Bill to be arrested for refusing duty. Sub-
sequently Bill was found guilty and ordered to be
shot for mutiny. But the Colonel decided to give
Bill another chance, and merely sent him for a
week’s profound thought in the confinement of the
guard-room, which consisted of a paddock surrounded
by barbed wire.
Of course, when his mates found out how bravely
Bill had stuck up for trades-unionism, they struck
work in the trench, and refused to kill another Turk
until Bill was released and re-instated. Some of
them insisted upon the degradation of the officer to
the ranks and the promotion of Bill to his position ;
but after a talk with the Colonel they generously
decided to waive this legitimate claim. Ultimately,
however, they consented to the Colonel’s suggestion
that the whole matter, including Bill’s promotion
to major-general, should be referred to the Arbitration
Board. Meanwhile they picketed the trench and re-
fused, politely but firmly, to allow any of the other
soldiers to defend it. The next day the trench was
dry again, and the Turks gratefully occupied it with-
out opposition. By the time that the Arbitration
Board had got to Bill’s ease his week in the pad-
dock was up, and his mates triumphantly escorted
him back to the trench.
Unfortunately, this victory for trades-unionism was
of little practical value, though its moral effect must
not be overlooked, since the l Turks turned a machine-
gun upon the heroic attackers and wiped out the lot.
There is a moral somewhere in this tale, but 1
haven't had time to discover it. I live on the North
Shore, and have been too busy trying to cook sau-
sages for a family of 11 for breakfast, lunch and
dinner on a “Primus” that, like Bill, lias gone on
strike.
+.
The sudden stoppage of the gas supply of
the Northern Suburbs of Sydney last week
over some wretched little dispute affecting
one mau is another reflection on the present
N.S.W. Labor Government. If Labor was
more certain of one thing than another it
was that it could prevent large sections of
the public being hurt by trivial industrial
disputes. Yet, after four years of power, with
a Parliamentary majority which would enable
it to do anything, the Government has given
the public no protection, and the com-
munity is more liable to be inconvenienced
than ever it was. If the present law does
not give the workman assurance of a fail-
deal without striking, then the Government
lias failed in its duty to the workman. If
it does give the workman that assurance,
then in permitting him to strike the Govern-
ment has failed in its duty to the general
public. It has made an obvious mess of
things, anyhow.
“8.J.H.0.” tells how the Defence Depart-
ment hustles: —-
In possession of the Defence Department is a docu-
ment that deserves a place in an Australian national
museum.' It is not a declaration of war or of inde-
pendence,, but relates to a gallon-and-a-half of methy-
lated spirits. Somebody in the Defence Department
decided on November 26, 1914, that the spirits were
necessary to the successful prosecution of the war,
and a requisition was prepared for the supply of the
stuff by a Melbourne firm under contract to the
Department “as soon as possible.” After the requi-
sition was made out four days were allowed for
the ink to dry, so that the paper reached the Ordi-
nance Branch on December 1. The Ordinance
Branch, apparently, was busy packing its bag at the
time, for the requisition was not marked “approved”
until January 21. At this stage the document rested
and was not received by the firm for which it was
intended until February 8. But four gallons was
the smallest quantity of spirits the firm could
supply, and an intimation to this effect, together
with the requisition, was sent to the Ordinance
Branch on February 9. There the requisition re-
mained awaiting final consideration until August 17,
when somebody altered “11 gallons” to “4 gallons,”
and returned it to the spirit vendors. By this time,
however, the firm had ceased to be a contractor to
the Department, and the weary old requisition again
fell with a tlmd into the Department’s letter-box on
August IS. At this stage, it would seem, a con-
sultation was held, and it was decided that the
spirits were not now absolutely necessary to the
safety of the country, and nothing further was done.
The document is therefore now living in retirement
in a nice, comfortable pigeon-hole, bearing, like
jewels on its bosom, the impression of eight (8)
rubber-stamps, and with the intimation in bolii
type round the hem of its skirt: “It is particularly
requested that all accounts he promptly rendered.
In the case of delay in the payment of accounts the.
head of the Department should he communicated
with.”
How is it that the Argus is still able (o’get
her little drop 'of gin after 0.80 pan.? At any
time betwen midnight and dawn the old lady
can foam at the month when it comes to the
discussion of anything Australian, but cnly
the benevolence that cometh of much Old
Tom can explain the high philosophy of her
manner regarding the terrible delay- of con-
scription in England. All she can remark'
is that “the temperament of the people musjt
receive due consideration. . . .The-'ivoluntary
system may Suffice, after all, and,even if a
risk be taken in depending on this, it may
be better to take that risk than to provoky
internal'"-strife.” Yet the inebriated old
harridan .yells for conscription for foreign
service for Australians, although _she' fougM
venomously against conscription for the
defence of Australia, and she never ceases Id
shriek against the Referenda, which arj?
directed to the further protection of the Aus-
tralian at home against the kind of shop-
keeper and fopd-forestaller who have weak-
ened the English masses life.,their, present'
apathy. Any dereliction of duty, in faVt, is
decent, to Argus if only if be English :
even this dereliction is excused on the ground
of “the-temperament of a people.” But that
merely condemns the temperament—the kink
which leads a people to refuse to arm. The-
mselves even when pursued by Prussian
gorillas.-
A Song of Australian Wool.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The increase of our woollen manufactures is one
likely result of the present effort to capture German
trade. — Weekly paper.
This is a song of wool,
Of tlio white fleeces from the sheep of Lach-
lan,
Of the fine staple of the Darling Downs,
Of the strong “combing” of the Tasmanian
■flocks,
Of the delicate “clothing” from the lands of
the hot sun,
Of the yolky treasure that falls over the arm
of "the toiling shearer,
Of the first item in the income of the Aus-
tralian soil.
Yea, it is a song of wool —pure wool—and
the folly of wool-gathering wits.
Behold the merino ram in the pride of his
fleece!
The wrinkles of him are as the folds of
summer cloud;
The horns of him are curled like the tendrils
of the cucumber;
The eyes of him are lost in wool that he
cannot see.
Lo, he is a type of Australia,
For her eyes also are blinded by much wool.
She lifteth her head,
She looketh forth,
But the landscape of her vision is wool.
Yea, all she seeth is wool behind and before !
Lo, the wool that is ours!
The wool that I wear upon me behind and
before!
The wool that Cissy wearetli below and
above!
It is Australian wool,
Yet Australian looms wove it not.
It is wool of many wanderings;
It is wool of much folly.
The sheep grew it;
The shearer barbered the sheep;
The wool was here ;
I was here.
The time was ripe ;
Yet might I not wear that wool.
Why?
Is it not clear to all?
Is it not plain to the multitude?
The wool was untravelled ;
It was young and inexperienced ;
It had not made the Grand Tour;
It was unacquainted with cities;
A long voyage was necessary for its health.
Without these things how should wool be
worn ?
Lo, the education of the wool!
Ten thousand miles it went in one ship.
Ten thousand miles it returned in another
ship.
The buyers played w T itli it in the market;
The spinners fondled it in the factory till it
grew thin with much merriment;
The weavers set it to dancing with the
shuttle;
They wedded it to shoddy cotton and painted
it that none might know.
Then it returned in the web and bolt;
Then it looked upon the sun of its infancy;
Then it was fit for an Australian to wear.
And its education was at my cost and
charges.
It was I who paid for its travel,
For its rest and for its play.
Yet was it none the better for going away ;
Yea, it was rather the worse by reason of
the cotton with which it was unequally
yoked.
Therefore am I a fool, and a great fool,
To pay for . that which is without use or
profit.
Yea, I am a great fool.
Now let us cease suddenly to be great fools;
Let us establish a college for wool in our
own land ;
Let it be taught all that it should know;
Let it be trained in all wise fashions;
Let it be amused and let it laugh;
Let it spin on the bobbin and dance with the
shuttle;
Let it be matched in marriage with wool
only.
So shall I have pride in the thing I wear,
For the cost shall be less and the product
better,
And Jim Smith shall have a job as tutor
of avool even here in Australia.
So shall the song of wool be complete;
So shall the song of folly be ended.
And if any man can, by the aid of a gimlet,
axe, or other surgical instrument, com-
pel Andy Fisher to understand this
thing, his name shall be great among
the people.
AAvake ye that are as the merino ram for
blindness!
AAA'ake and pull the wool out of your own
eyes!
N.s.w.
CURSE O' MOSES.


WHISKY
THE OLD SMUGGLER
hfd
rp
B
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... In ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
r
&
L
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
A
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
INSURANCES EFFECTED FORr—
Fire, Personal, Accident, Hailstone, Dive Stock,
Workmen’s Compensation, Plate Glass, etc., at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: Corner Pitt and King Streets, Sydney. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
1 hough it would be the maddest thing in
the world to knock off work to throw up our
hats, we can at least say this for our encour-
agement : that while the Allies are a little
closer to Constantinople than they were six
months ago, the German is a little further
away from Calais; and during the past
week, while in Gallipoli we at least
have held our own, the enemy in
Prance and Flanders has been pushed back
an appreciable distance. At what cost the
success has been achieved is at the moment
as doubtful as the significance of the mili-
tary advantages gained. Any substantial
advance made by the Allies at the points
attacked last week would, of course, neces-
sitate a reconstruction of the German line,
since tfle enemy front running from Rheims
to Arras would be seriously imperilled. The
movement of the German line is the bar-
ometer by which any tactical ascendancy
gained by the other side can be most surely
measured. While the world is waiting for
information on this subject, the allied
nations have at any rate the satisfaction of
seeing that their troops are numerous and
strong enough to give the Hun so severe a
handling that he has thought it necessary
to issue lying reports on the painful subject.
Eastward the Russian annears to be pulling
himself together, and though the informa-
tion is fragmentary and confusing it seems
reasonably clear that the German is meet-
ing with an unexpectedly tough resistance,
and will find the snow coming into his boots
while he still has an awkward job on hand.
The position in the Balkans is just plain
chaos; but that the Bulgar will stab some-
body during the next few days, and that
thereupon blood and hair will fly furiously,
appears as certain as anything can be at a
time when uncertainty is the principal fea-
ture of everything. Our own Australians
in Gallipoli are apparently being given a
breather. They want it badly enough,
ecpecially as there is desperate work ahead
of them. There are more improbable things
than that the storm centre of the whole mad
busines.s will be right around them during
the winter months.
Cable:—
Paris, Monday Evening.—The new offensive is con-
tinuing. The Champagne gains have been main-
tained.
Hie ! Hie !! Hooray !!!
J. M. Baldwyn, a 37-year-old Australian,
who has just been appointed overseer of the
Celestial out-station at Melbourne Observa-
tory, in succession to Baracchi, is a native of
Carlton, where the football premiers come
from. After a brilliant innings at Melbourne
University, where he won a sheaf of scholar-
ships, he went to Cape Town, and later to
Potsdam to indulge in stargazing. About
nine years ago he was made Baracchi’s chief
assistant, and he has been spying on Mars
and Venus from the building in the Domain
ever since.
By way of variation from the stifling
monotony of censored war new y s Melbourne
has got a mystery of which the reports are
full and varied, and speculation about it
unabridged. Early in August Jessie Stir-
ling, aged 16, of Footscray, advertised for a
situation in the country and a few days
later a respectable-looking man called, said
he was gardener to Mr. Davis, of Nambrok,
near Sale, and had been commissioned to
engage a girl as housemaid. Conversations
with her parents ensued, and, everything
appearing in order, the girl accepted the
country job, was seen off with the man by
her parents, and duly reached. Sale. Next
morning a wire was received saying every-
thing was right and she waS leaving for
Nambrok at once. She did, in fact, drive
away in a jinker with the man, in the direc-
tion of Nambrok, and actually passed
through Fulham, a few miles out; but
nobody can be found who has seen or heard
of her since. On the following rporning the
man returned the turnout to the livery
stable, said he was going to Melbourne, and
allegedly did go. And that is the last that
was seen of him.
After a varied and fairly vivid career,
political and legal, Norman K. Ewing, K.C.,
leader of the State Liberal party in Tas-
mania, has, by the grace of a Labor Govern-
ment, found a haven on the Supreme Court
Bench. Born at Wollongong (N.S.W.j,, the
son of a clergyman, he was admitted to the
Bar in Sydney, but rushed to Westralia as
sooh as he could raise enough cash. After
four years in the W.A. State Parliament he
went into the Senate of the first Federal
Parliament, but after spending a good part
of two years travelling to and fro across the
Bight he resigned. Next he flitted to Tas-
mania and tried for the Senate again, but
missed, and fell back on the State Parlia-
ment. Ewing never took State politics very
seriously, but in the bankruptcy of brains
that fell on the Parliament after Solomon’s
death he got the job of leading the Liberal
Opposition. He has had a big practice as a
lawyer, especially since Crisp, his only pos-
sible rival for the leadership of the Bar,
was raised to the Bench a little over a year
ago. ’Sonor is 45.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Potash and Perlmutter”
Criterion “Stop Thief!”
“The Barrier”
Little Royal Strollers
Palace “The Waybaeks”
livoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Garden The Violet Dandies
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Zoological Gardens Open Daily
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Paul Jones”
Royal “Undercover”
Princess’s “The Rosary”
£ ING ’ S “Playing the Game”
Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
livoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Auditorium .... “Damon and Pythias” (Photo-play)
The wild and whirling things that are
nightly occurring at Sydney Criterion have
been labelled, for some inconceivable reason,
“Stop Thief!” This brisk and furious vaude-
ville turn has also been termed a farce;
though it is more like a conjurer’s sleight-
of-hand exhibition. The chief interest of
the audience is the ancient delight of watch-
ing the innocent volunteer from the audience
who climbs on to the stage and on putting
his hand into his pocket discovers the miss-
ing gold watch or guinea-pig. The audience
waits in a fever of pleasant anticipation
for the moment when the conjurer’s victim
will put his hand into his pocket. At the
Criterion there is a whole company of
victims, and before the play is over every
one of them is found in possession of the
stolen goods.
* * * *
The old idea of an expert thief mas-
querading as a detective is utilised by the
author of “Stop Thief!” for the creation of
a tumultuous succession of laughter-raising
absurdities. Jack Doogan and his actorn-
plice Nell gain easy admittance to the resi-
dence of Mr. Carr. Nell is engaged as a
maid for the daughter of the house, whose
marriage is to take place on the morning of
her arrival. It is the wedding presents that
the thieves are after. Nell, installed, sum-
mons Doogan, and their plans are unex-
pectedly facilitated by their discovery that
Carr and the bridegroom both believe them-
selves to be kleptomaniacs. Valuables dis-
appear with marvellous rapidity, only to
reappear in the wrong places, as the thieves,
in the fear of the arrival of the police,
hurriedly rid themselves of the stolen pro-
perty by disposing of it on the persons of
the family. And all through the two klep-
tomaniacs believe themselves the unconscious
thieves. The farcical situations get the
easy, uncritical laugh; and the concoction
hurries so fast and is so inextricably
tangled up that nobody has time to remem-
ber what caused the laugh. “Stop Thief!”
is a typical example of the modern U.S.
farce, where the stage business is infinitely
more clever and more ludicrous than the
dialogue.
“THE BARRIER,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Winter Hall discovers that he is “wanted ”
by Reynolds Denniston.
The company that produces this con-
jurer’s entertainment is a capable and even
one. Of the newcomers, Fanchon Campbell
had nothing to do that could not have been
done as well by an Australian actress ; and
Tom McLarnie shows himself merely the
possessor of a robust personality and a
voice that would prove useful to the person-
age whose act comes on when the audience
is waiting for its motor-car to be hailed.
Beatrice Nicholls is a modest acquisition
in the ranks of imported comediennes. She
is dainty, piquant, and evidences, as far as
her opportunities have allowed her to be
judged, the possession of distinct dramatic
ability. John Webster is a farcical comedian
who, though not a Niblo, is able to present
that now stereotyped sort of part with a
convincing effect and a contagious sense of
humor. Gerald Harcourt, as the absurd
bridegroom, has no such forceful person-
ality, but his comedy is intelligent without
being very funny. Edwin tester's quaint
conception of the worried Mr. Carr must
rank as his most delightful effort, rlumpton
Wilson’s dramatic abilities have few chances
in the part of an impossible cleric ; Arthur
Greenaway, in the part of the bridegroom’s
friend, was on Saturday night too delibe-
rate for the furious pace of the farce. There
is also an assortment of daughters, repre-
sented by Esther Mitchell, Elma Royton and
Katie May, and these may be callously
lumped together as pleasant ornaments in
parts that do not call for anything but nice
girl.
“THE BARRIER ,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
’Poleon (Cyril Mackay) brings a present of
an evening dress to Necia of the Mining
Camp (Olive Wilton).
There was once a small boy who used to
provide himself with a stub of pencil and a
bit of paper every time he was taken out by
the ladies of his family. The small boy’s
idea (he was careful never to disclose it to
any of his cheerful elders) was to carefully
take the name and address of any bad man
who might dare to insult the ladies under
his charge. The full-grown brother of that
sanguine child is now cutting much ice in
“The Barrier” at Sydney Royal. He is the
young military policeman who is in charge
of the Flambeau mining camp, and the offi-
cial wad of blue paper with the names and
descriptions of the local desperadoes pro-
trudes at all hours from the chest pocket
of his tunic. He never by any chance re-
members the description of a “wanted” man,
but has to tear the official inventory out of
his Boy Scout costume and check the wait-
ing suspect point by point. The unwritten
laws of the great American six-shooter
game, whereby a “bad man” must never
suspect a policeman of being armed, and
must hold up his arms when challenged by
same, enables this blue-eyed child in uni-
form to get through the evening without
being murdered. Directly a “bad man” is
disarmed and released snarling, he goes away
and buys a new gun or has the old one
returned to him behind the scenes, and the
drama begins afresh. If the present Euro-
pean war could be conducted on the same
principles a great saving would be effected.
The show bristles with pocket artillery; yet
there is only one corpse (killed “off”) and
one “bad man” severely wounded.
Cyril Mackay, as ’Poleon Doret, the
French-Canadian miner in the fur hat, has
most of the fat and earns it. Olive Wilton,
as Necia, the false-alarm squaw, deserves
second place. She pushes over the adoring
’Poleon in the kindest manner in order to
wed the rather stolid policeman from proud
old Kentucky, who is Reynolds Denniston
thinly disguised. Arthur Styan, as an
upper-class villain with a horrible man-kill-
ing record, is restrained, tidy and impres-
sive ; but Reginald Kenneth, as his whisky-
stricken A.D.C., overdoes the bottling and
the hoarse voice which is supposed to go
with black-hearted villainy. Winter Hall’s
bleak frock-coat manner is wasted in the
part of John Gale, the storekeeper. Leo-
nard Stephens, as No-Creek Lee, looks the
embittered and preoccupied old prospector—
though he often, doesn’t sound like it, and
the three hireling claim-jumpers are too
clown-like for serious drama. The show is
well mounted, and dawn at Black Bear Creek
reminds the present writer of the time (many
years ago) when he used to get up early.
Sj: *
“Potash and Perlmutter” are now com-
fortably fixed at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
where the advertisement says they intend to
go on for ever. But ain’t Abe and Mawruss
goin’ to have a fire sometime?
* * * *
Ella Caspers took all the Sydney Tivoli
trenches at her first attack on Saturday. At
first a bit nervous over the experiment, the
fine concert artiste sang brilliantly a long
operatic selection, and, being heavily en-
cored. gave five more assorted items, finish-
ing with the popular weakness, “Somewhere
a Voice is Calling.” Incidentally, the male
accompanist deserves credit and publicity
for his finished work. Hector Goldspink,
late of the Quinlans, also screed well with
the sort of tenoring the house hasn’t often
listened to. The other girders of a fine bill
are Mary Elizabeth, Edgar Warwick’s Bur-
lesquers, including the versatile Miss Fane;
Frank Stafford, with his cheerful outdoor
turn; Costers Duncan and Godfrey; Jack
Birchley, the garrulous body-contortionist;
Kajiyama, the writing-contortionist; and
Betty Donn, the little lady with the pocket-
soprano voice. Finally, there are Desmond
and Dalton, two smart patter merchants.
Mary Law, violinist, is the reinforcement
for the coming week-end.
* ❖ * *
The same harassed female is laboriously
making her way “From Mill Girl to Million-
airess.” It happens every evening in 2f
hours at the Adelplii (Sydney), and the
managerial advertisement asserts that the
prices suit all. Good old “Robbery Under
Arms” is to go off pop on Saturday evening.
* * * *
The Branscombes’ new Garden .Theatre,
situated in Bayswater-road (Sydney), near
where the George Musgrove venture did not
come to light, is to be opened on Saturday.
The Violet Dandies will do the entertain-
ing. One innovation, show starts at 8.15
p.m.; another, a garage for your motor-car.
If you haven’t got a motor-car bring the
curate’s mother-in-law. But you’ll have
to pay for her.
* * *
Since The Bulletin broke the news that
to-morrow night’s performance by the
Strollers at the Palace would be the last
given by the co. in Sydney, other arrange-
ments have been made and the show will
be continued for two weeks at the Litth
Theatre. First appearance, Saturday after-
noon next, D.V. (Delectable Vaudeville.)
# * * *
At the Palace (Sydney) another home-
grown comedy-drama is to he given a run.
Phillip Lytton will produce an adaptation
of Harry Fletcher’s stories, “The Way-
backs,” on Saturday. The piece has been
well received where the Waybacks come
from.
* * * *
The Sydney Repertory Society will pre-
sent to-night and the two following nights
a triple bill, comprising Barrie’s delightful
“Twelve Pound Look”; “Pearls,” by Stan-
ley Houghton, the author ot the Society’s
last production, “Hindle Wakes” ; and “The
Dove Uncaged,” by E. Hamilton Moore.
The latter two are first performances in
Australia. The season will run at the
Bijou Theatre, 29 Elizabeth-street, and is
for subscribers only, as no money can bo
taken at the doors.
s|s sjs
This week’s Sydney movies■
Crystal Palace: “The Loyal Rebel” —a first-class
Eureka Stockade production by Australasian Films
Ltd.
Empress: “The Man in the Attic” —a thrilling
mystery story featuring Wanda Radford, another
Australian who has reached the top-storey in picture-
acting. . .
Lyric : “When the Fleet Sailed”—an entertaining
two-reeler by the Thanhouser Co., which would be
much more exciting if it had been played by the Yon
Tirpitz Co.
Colonial : “Victorine” —a music-hall medley of
knife-throwing and glad-eyes. The eyes easily main-
tain their eminence as champion heart,piercers.
$ $
Had “The Quaker Girl,” at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.), been intended to run for as long
as it could, and not for six nights only, The
Bulletin might have felt called upon to
strew some verbal roses in its path. Flow-
ers of speech that bloom in the spring would
be not out of place in this connection; for
“The Quaker Girl” is one of those rare in-
stances of a pleasing musical comedy im-
proved in the revival. Talking of floral
tributes, the property dahlias or what not
wherewith the maids of the Quaker village
pelted Princess Mathilde (Gladys Mon-
crieff) on her return from church seemed a
fitting recognition of her “O Time, Time”
number. Miss Moncrieff’s singing in the
first act was a particular pleasure. If she
were permitted to warble after her three-
days’ honeymoon as sweetly as she warbles
previously, her lack of royal dignity in
manner and deportment would escape criti-
cism. Miss Cadman is quite the right sort
of Prudence for the name-part; also Minnie
Love plays Phoebe, the soubrette, with
charm, intelligence and artistic abandon,
which is a lot to say all at once. Maggie
Moore easily presents the real old motherly
Madame Blum whom Grace Palotta of yore
was unable to suggest, and in the other
women parts Addie Lennard, Ethel Morri-
son, Alice Bennetto and Connie Milne do
very nicely.
* * * *
Of the men, Leslie Holland is the same
festive, freakish Tonv Chute as before,
whilst Bantock is again the dour Nathaniel
with a “d—d disinheriting countenance” and
a rooted objection to fleshpots. The later
arrivals in the cast are Roberts, as a some-
what bank-holiday exponent of the inter-
rupted bridegroom; Andrews, as the
thwarted police inspector with a studied
limp; Derek Hudson, as the baritone Prince
whose one thought is to lure nice girls to
the ball; and Phil Smith, as the godless
youth who kicked over the Quaker traces.
Maggie Dickinson is Holland’s agile partner
for the Champagne Dream dance (which
seems to have a temperance-moral madness
in its method), and the chorus and the
orchestra are giving invaluable assistance
most of the time. The chorus ladies, by the
way, are specially interesting during their
Quaker period when they make strange,
waving movements with their arms expres-
sive of piety and innocence, as though they


co,,
( C*«Ocrea«h Street, Sydn«:
M Ad-jlaiSrißreek arfs>t>&*<
CORNELL LTDs M*'*«J*
BBN
rthe
THE WORLD FAMOUS BRAND
RED STAR
WHISKY
SYDNEY
TIVOLI THEATRE.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
FROM OCTOBER 2,
At Special Sessions, commencing
10.30 and 11.30 a.m.; 12.30, 5 p.m. and 12.30 p.m
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES,
JACK
JOHNSON
V. JESS
WILLARD.
FIGHT FOR THE HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION-
SHIP OF THE WORLD.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
These pictures—a duplicate copy—will be shown
at Brisbane Tivoli from October 2, and at the Mel-
bourne Tivoli early in November.
LET ME TEACH YOU TO BECOME A
ENTRILOQUIST
I will send FREE full particulars showing how to learn this fasci-
nating art to anyone interested. Nothing to beat
it as a money-maker and fun-producer. Anyone
can learn. No special throat needed. Thousands
of-pupils causing rollicking laughter as a result of mv free offer.
Write todav to RAY W. WILTON, Dept. 7, Kent & Druitt Sts. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Free
&
were swimming in grace. Next Saturday
(Oct. 2) “Paul Jones” will be revived, with
Florence Young in the character of the
pirate who robbed Peter to pay Paul.
** * *
At Melb. King’s there will be no more
Happenings to artless Mary from Moses’s
Island after Friday of this week. The story
is worth two dozen ordinary graceless melo-
dramas. It has touches of human nature
on the surface of its simply-impossible situa-
tions, and a sentiment which draws the tear
to the eye like vivisected onions. But seem-
ingly the spiritual virtues of “What Hap-
pened to Mary” discommend it to a public
that loves “On Our Selection” for its sordid
realities. On Saturday the Bert Bailey
team introduces “Playing the Game” to
Melbourne.
# #
The spoofsome thrills and fancies of
“Under Cover” will keep Muriel Starr and
the others busy for one more week at Mel-
bourne Royal before “Nobody’s Widow” is
ready.
Fadher Kelly is back again in “The
Rosary” at Melbourne Princess’s, and is
bringing his blarney into play in the service
of the Church as heretofore. In the hands
of Harrington Reynolds his Riverince re-
mains the same old agreeable comforter and
guide whom the pious beheld with approval
some time back. As the coufounder of the
bould, bad man, the good priest shows com-
manding power; while as a distributor of
maxims for the poor in spirit he combines
the majesty of Bruce Smith with the ease
of a penny-in-tlie-slot device. An entirely
fresh company serves as the butt of the
Rev. Reynolds’s platitudes in this unpre-
tentious revival. Vivian Edwards as Bruce
Wilton waves the gun of an allegedly out-
raged husband with more force and decision
tha;i his predecessor in the part; but Miss
Valentine Sidney is a less successful Mrs.
Wilton. According to a new man named
Hodgson Taylor, Kenward Wright, “the
Serpent in the Lovers’ Eden,” is only a
polite worm trying to look like a snake.
His bread-and-butter manner would never
pass for the equipment of a canoodler who
comes audaciously to the aid of frail Beauty
in distress. As the calf lover, Charlie, for
whom Miss Iza Millet as Kathleen is an
uninteresting playmate, William Thomson
see-saws between ecstasy and despair. Miss
Ethel Buckley looks near enough for the job
of the _ foolish slavey; but between Frank
Reis’s idea of “Skeeters” and the part itself
there is a great gulf. The scenery, how-
ever, is good, and the general appointments
represent a plain statement of the luxury
that Bruce Wilton’s millions would presum-
ably buy.
* * * *
An addition to the Follies programme, at
Melbourne Tivoli, since last week is massive
Ida Barr, described in the advt. as equally
red-lieaded and clever. The splendors of the
advt. lend new importance to the Follies.
One is invited to think of Cannot as having
“spontaneity for his bulwark.” What one
notices is that the spontaneity always occurs
under exactly the same circumstances as
before, and is fixed and immutable as all
bulwarks should be. Also the statement
that Yakalenko. invented “the Twenty
Guinea Look” is mysteriously impressive.
“WHAT HAPPENED TO MARY,” AT
MELBOURNE KING’S.
Edmund Duggan as
Richard Craig.
Billy Peart, the
storekeeper (Jack
Lennon).
But Isabelle D’Armond’s fifty-shilling legs
stxdke the present writer with more force
than any of the other items, and lie reckons
that her profitable transactions with an in-
visible husband, when she gives herself £4OO
to make him go away, are droll efforts of
imaginative art.
Hs * & *
Melbourne Bijou this week shows a large,
emphatic person named Stevens who has
patented a chair-balancing act, and has
come out from Amurka to tell us all about
it. Two other newcomers are Laurence
Johnstone, a quiet and effective ventrilo-
quist, and Carl Merlyn, a bogus conjurer
with some funny perversions of standard
feats of magic. Maud and Gill, Piquo, Ward
Lear and others remain as entertaining. as
before; and Ray de Vere has taken to singing
before a red curtain, presumably in the
hope that her moderate voice will show up
better.
“WHAT HAPPENED TO MARY,” AT
Fred Macdonald, the
tony dresser of the
island.
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Bert Bailey as Cap[?]
Jogifer.
“Mawson’s Antarctic Exhibition,” now
having its first run in Adelaide, quite fairly
calls itself “unique.” The photographs, by
Frank Hurley, enlarged into two-foot pic-
tures, show all the forms of ice, with pen-
guins, petrels and sea-elephants taken at the
closest quarters. In particular the penguins
—most human of creatures —have every
appearance of posing for the camera to
illustrate love, anger or overpowering curi-
osity. _ Any picture can be bought for a
sovereign or so, and there should be a big
demand. In the centre of the room are
sleeping-bags, tents and packed sledges, the
star exhibit being the little sledge that Maw-
son dragged during his grim, lonely struggle
for weeks after the death of Ninnis and
Mertz. (This is promised to the Royal
Geographical Society in London, where it
will be treasured with the relics of Living-
stone and other big explorers.) Near it are
the foot-coverings he made at the same time,
a theodolite being smashed for its screws,
with which to give the feet a grip. As side-
lines there are shown mineral specimens,
fancy foods, plumes and sealskins, and eggs
—some of these last being practically unique,
and valued at anything up to 25 guineas.
It is a fascinating show, and should have
good houses all over Australia.
Shep Camp, a new Williamson importa-
tion from the U.S.A., is a comedian with a
figure resembling Bunny of the “pictures”
and a face seemingly made of indiarubber.
Appearing first at Adelaide Royal, he brings
out all the fun of “The Travelling Sales-
man,” the leading part in which he has taken
over from Niblo, though he does not sug-
gest the fascination which works double
quick on the heroine. But perhaps that is
not his fault. The heroine is now Charlotte
Ives, and only when these two get together
does the American atmosphere have a
chance. The other players haven’t a twang
among them. Marian Marcus Clarke is the
only one to score at all heavily. The same
co.—barring the lead, played by lan Mac-
laren —felt much firmer on its feet in
“Within the Lines.” It is a strong all-round
crowd, one after another putting in a bit
of good work. In particular, Roy Red-
grave’s down-but-not-out English “waster,”
complete in every shade, goes into one’s gal-
lery. Manager Myers, of Adelaide, has now
taken this co. on to Westralia. Elwyn
Harvey is doing “Godiva” at the Tivoli.
Modern melodramatic methods, even to the
missing “papers,” are freely transnlanted to
the Middle Ages; but it is a fine, robust
play, and the Bad Man who goes to it look-
ing for developments suggested by the title is
disappointed. A “Dickens Fair,” lasting
several days, brought out clever studies in
the costume of the period. The main feature
at the King’s is a loosely-constructed
musical-comedy by Victor Prince, in which
Charles Zoli, dropping the whining type of
song in which lie. had specialised for some
years, shows himself a capable comedian.
Thomas Couehman, just dead at Brighton,
aged 84, was at one time Secretary for Mines
i‘.i Victoria, following the martinet Brough
Smyth, author of “The Aborigines of Vic-
toria.” When the Public Service Act, 1883,
came into force Couehman was made a mem-
ber of the first Board, his colleagues being
Colonel Templeton snd Professor Irving.
He had been in Victoria since ’52, and in
the days of volunteering earned the title of
Lieut.-Colonel.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The J.C.W. firm’s decision to revive “Paul
Jones,” with Florence Young again in the
name part, recalls that Marion Burton, who
played Paul to the Yvonne of Nellie Stewart,
and afterwards swapped parts with her in
“Boccaccio,” at the old Melbourne Opera
House a quarter of a century ago, is still
going strong. She was lately the star attrac-
tion at one of Carlyle Smythe’s weekly con-
certs for the Australian wounded at Hare-
field Park (Eng.). On that occasion she
met several Tommy Kangaroos who remem-
bered her as Paul, and one who was in the
choir of the Melbourne Philharmonic when
Marion and Charles Santley sang in “The
Messiah.” It is stated that the singer .is
still fair to look upon, and that her voice
retains the velvety quality which helped to
make her so popular in “Jones,” “Boccaccio”
and “Norma.”
T. J. Lambic, dead in Melbourne,. was
for many years a well-known member of
the musical profession, and associated with
most of the leading societies. He conducted
the choir at St. Francis’s Church for 14 years,
and for a long time perpetrated the same
offence at St. Ignatius Church in Richmond
(Vic.). He was 71. Brother S. W. Lamble
was a prominent basso years ago, but like
his brother became a teacher.
Herr Albert Friendenthal, the Teutonic
piano-pounder who visited Australia a few
years ago, and found the people only mildly
impressed, is getting even by abusing Aus-
tralians in German papers. He is dis-
gusted with our lack of kultur. Our morbid
gravity appals him. But it is our avarice
that excites his withering contempt. “The
human species of Australia would not lift
a finger to save a man’s life unless well paid
for it.” Dear, dear! It looks as though
we had the effrontery to ask a German
musician to pay his hotel-bill.
“Kaniva”: Geo. Dean, the evergreen, is
at present touring Tasmania with patriotic
songs and illustrated effects. Geo. Dean
burst on Melbourne originally with Geo.
Musgrove’s first venture, “La Fille du Tam-
bour Major,” when he appeared as Gregorio,
the gardener. That show started on Boxing
Night, 3880, and ran four months.
“Busk”: Last night I saw at a picture
show “Behind the Scenes,” with Mary Pick-
ford in the lead. Well done in its way, but
why do theatricals, in stage productions,
nearly always cry stinking fish about their
own profession? Invariably, whether on the
regular stage or in pictures, the profes-
sion is represented as depraved. . I
cannot understand such deliberate pandering
to ignorance. In “Behind the Scenes” it is
represented to be awful for a girl to prefer
the stage to a quiet existence on a farm.
Surely this old-fashioned nonsense is played
out. The stage is utterly misrepresented op
the stage. As soon as you see the ballet
girls’ dressing-room, prepare for an exhibi-
tion of vice. This is frantically absurd. If
the stage has to be displayed, why not have
an eye to the glories of honorable service to
the public?
Dunedin (M.L.) lost one of its best-known
singers the other day when Jim Jago passed
over. His fine baritone had for many years
been given employment on the concert stage.
James was a printer by trade, and years ago
joined a light-opera co. in Australia. But
he didn’t like the glare and blare of the
theatre, and soon bolted back to wrestle
with the printer’s devil again. Death reaped
him after a long spell of ill-health.
“0.K.”: The financial success of Mcln-
splosh’s “Follies” is a convincing testimonial
to the possibilities in a name. The Follies!
It suggests mirth and merriment, without
dropping a hint of mediocrity. Also, it pro-
mises red baize covering to the corridors, and
a wild farrago of flags in the auditorium.
People flocked to a revival of the feeble
Follies at Melbourne Tivoli who hadn’t
been attracted by the really nrst-elass vaude-
ville programme of the previous weeks. As
a matter of fact, the bill that nobody talked
abopt was twice as clever as the Follies
programme, but it had no peg to hang a
bluff on. The name does it. The. full stage
setting for the profusely-advertised show
may help to push the delusion home, and the
quick changes of items (with no encores to
delay the procession) may drive dull thought
away; but the name is the magnet. The
public came with a rush before they knew
exactly what i,t meant, and they rushed again
even when they knew that it didn’t mean
much.
The word went round that the revival
of “Paul Jones” in Melbourne would be
glorified by the appearance of Barry Lupino
—who isn’t a droll comedian, anyhow. Then
word came that the pantomimist would not
appear. Theatrical intelligence is mostly
a contradiction of previous statements that
didn’t matter.
“0. Ockney”: There is one thing I ad-
mire about “Harrison O.” and that is his
cool cheek. In his best Yarra-bank form he
says (B. 23/9/’l5) I “calmly assume that
the voice of the Cockney is the voice of
God, amt that the reception of a play here
will merely duplicate its London experience.”
Of cotirse I assumed nothing of the sort.
What I assumed was that unless plays had
successful runs in England they were never
likely Ho be staged by Australian manage-
ments, And I pointed out how poverty-
stricken was the land at the present time,
proving the fact by some statistics. “Har-
assing” complains that it is “obviously un-
fair to quote war-time failures,” but I also
quoted war-time successes. The successes I
mentioned, however, happen to be American
plays, which are anathema to the cultured
“O.” I am not concerned just now with his
opinion of the “Yankee dramatist,” but
when he speaks of “London successes of
recent years” and includes amongst the
“booms” “Jack Straw” and “John Chilcote,
M.P.,” I tell “Harassing” quietly, but none
the less emphatically, that he doesn’t know
what he is talking about.
“J.F.11.”: A contributor to the Era says
Henry Irving, a few days before his fatal
seizure at Bradford, mentioned that he had
long desired to visit Australia, and was
arranging to do so at the end of the provin-
cial tour on which he was then engaged. On
being chaffingly asked whether. he intended
taking all his company and their wives that
tremendous distance, Irving replied: “Why
not? I could not rest if I knew that I had
parted husband and wife, and I will never
do so as long as I live.” This recalls to me
that at the outset of his career Irving was
invited to accompany his first friend and
stage preceptor, William Hoskins, to Austra-
lia ; but after some hesitation he decided to
try his fortune on the English stage. Had he
gone he might, like Hoskins, have settled down
at the Australian end. On sailing for Syd-
ney, where Hoskins made his debut as Car-
dinal Richelieu, he gave his young pupil a
letter of introduction to the manager of the
Theatre Royal, Sunderland, and there Irving
made a not-particularly-promising first ap-
pearance. But the grit was in him, and
after a hard struggle he reached the top.
Some years ago I contributed an article on
Hoskins to Chambers’s Journal under the
title of “Sir Henry Irving’s Tutor.” Irving
was delighted with it, and sent me a most
appreciative note to say so. ; :
“Kodak” : I think I must be going mad.
Or perhaps only my eyes are. I halted before
the moving-picture hoarding which was
decorated with a poster of a lady pointing a
revolver at a gentleman who was being
throttled in a drawing-room. A number of
other ladies and gentlemen (you could tell
they were ladies and gentlemen because they
were in evening dress) were hovering in the
background and looking as worried as one
might expect. I had been staring at the
picture for some time before.. I noticed that
the throttled gentleman had great beads of
sweat on his face. Then I perceived that
the heroine was sweating pints. “Most
realistic,” I thought, as one of the beads
rolled right off the lady’s face and splashed
on the footpath. At this stage I noticed
that it was raining.
“Montalex”: Admiralty authority (B.
16/9/T5) is not required for the effacement
of the Plimsoll mark, because, though the
Merchant Service Act provides a £lOO
penalty for any skipper “who shall conceal,
alter or remove any of the said marks,” it
adds, “except for the purpose of escaping
capture by an enemy.” The reason for the
removal from the ships now coming into port
from the other side is probably that, as
regards an enemy’s aim, a clue to the ship’s
anatomy might be afforded by the “deck-
lines”- —white on a dark ground, or black
on a light ground —“painted longitudinally
on each side, amidships, and indicating the
position of each deck which is above water.”
A shell to the Plimsoll disc might fairly be
regarded as a punch to the craft’s solar
, plexus.
“Public Servant”: Driven by the clamor
for help from various departments _ as a
result of so many of their officers going to
the wars, N. S. Wales Public Service Board
is advertising for temporary girl assistants
for metropolitan offices at £1 a week. Each
Young Thing, who tq be eligible must be
between 17 apd 19, must produce a Junior
University exam, certificate. In other
words, she is to he a young person of. the
well-educated, superior type; but being
handicapped by being born a female she is
to get no more pay than a junior male mes-
senger who has just enough education to
enable him to count his fingers.
Died a few days ago Fred C. Wainwright.
for half his lifetime of 61 years general
secretary of the A.N.A., and in that capacity
concerned mostly with it as a friendly
society. He was the genial guide and
friend of many an amateur lodge-secretary,
and a genius in evolving order _ from the
chaos into which friendly societies’ books
have a habit of falling. Austin Wainwright.
for many years his father’s lieutenant, will
probably succeed him.
THE MUMMER’S PARADISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia is an ideal place for actors. —Recently
returned U.S. performef in N’Yark World.
Though anger gleams in ev’ry eye
When list’ning to some murdered speech,
The victims can but sit and sigh
That living should have soared so high—
With eggs as much as tuppence each
A mime’s beyond a critic’s reach!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON.


Solid Leather Suit Case
This Suit Case is a typical example
in value and economy of “made by
David .Tones" goods, showing superi-
ority in construction and finish, also
a big saving in' price by the elimina-
tion of all but the Manufacturer’s
profit.
Made of selected Cowhide, well
tanned and highly polished, light but
strong steel frame; carefully sewn,
fitted with two inside straps. Com-
fortable, secure handle, two niekclled
lever spring locks.
Lengths 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
Prices 28/« 32/- 35/- 37/C
ire PAY CARRIAGE.
for 28,6
DAVID JONES LTD.,
( gutiigj v/anxm)
jtnoiAd&d"
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY
ns m
One
Seven
AJ/oe
-noNvaa si 3NION3D 3HX
JpARVIOLAfo
IxERFUMERY O
An ExQuh/fe/y refined and
Lc/jcorloas /01/ef wafer.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
Two inquests on September 23 disclosed
evidence rather out of the ordinary in re-
spect of a pair of suicides. One belonged
to Joseph Stout, a Ballarat man of 62, who
hanged himself to a rafter with a rein. In
his pocket was found a farewell message
which might serve as a model to imitators.
Even Antonine, who, with the one word
“Aequanimitas,’’ turned his face to the wall,
did not much surpass him. He wrote: “I
don’t want any hearse, mourning coaches or
followers. Nuff sod.” A library of epitaphs
is conveyed in those last two mis-shapen
words. The other inquest was the property
of Mrs. Kathleen Kelly, of Sydney. She
also hanged herself, the only discoverable
reason for her action being that she was
greatly worried by the preparation of her
war-census card. Still, she won’t be the last
person the census will drive to distraction —
or destruction.
* * * *
Headings of an article in the Age:—
A Story of the Sea: Deplorable Plight of Viva’s
Crew. Crusts and Coffee for Eight Days. Men too
Weak to Work.
One would expect to read of shipwrecked
sailors rescued after long buffeting in an
open boat. But here was nothing like that.
The barque \ iva, ('apt. Kirkwood, had come
from Chili to Melbourne without any un-
toward happening other than mildly adverse
winds. She had been 93 days on the trip
instead of the usual 70 or 80; but as only
<(> days’ provisions had been shipped instead
of the 160 days’ demanded by Chilian law.
the sailors when they reached Port Phillip
Bay were too weak to work and refused to
hoist the anchor —which refusal cost them
a day s pay and four hours’ imprisonment
each! Thank Heaven, Australian law is
stiong enough to deal with recalcitrant
sailormen. Some day it will be virile enough
to correct a mean-souled shipowner.
* * * *
Egypt is not the only place where there
has been muddle in connection with the
treatment of wounded Australians. The
following is a letter typical of several re-
ceived from England. It is written from
King's College Hospital, dated August 9,
and signed by a sergeant of the Ist Brigade
of the Ist Division of Australian expedi-
tionaries:—
Dear Bulletin, —I am a Sydneyite and was
w-ounded at the Dardanelles and brought to the
abote address. On arrival here we .were supplied
with an addressed card, to send to the records office
with full particulars of our case. A fortnight has
now elapsed and we have hoard no further news.
Many of us are without money. I drew £1 since
the 11th of April, and have nearly spent the lot.
Many would cable home for a pound or two, but that
also costs money. V e have all something owing to
us, and have our pay books here also, but the chance
of getting any looks rather blue. Tile only place to
which we can appeal is the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia Office, 7-2 Victoria-street, Westminster, S.W.
But we are told they are not on the ’phone, nor can
they give us any- information. Our neglect is made
no less easy to bear by the knowledge that the
official representatives of the Canadians and Maori-
landers visit them at our hospital, arrange their finan-
cial matters, and transact any little business thev
may require. We Australians alone are left to
struggle through as best we can. For myself I am
glad I shall be soon out of this and back in the
fray once again.
We have no complaint whatever against the hospi-
tal. It is splendid. And the English people are
very good and kind. They make a great fuss over us
when they find out that we are Australians—and we
are very proud men to admit it!
Now who is to be grilled? For a start, lie
being the responsible officer, what has the
High Commissioner to say why he shouldn’t
be?
THE TEST QUESTION.
“Oh, I expect you would make any woman a good husband. But what sort of a widow
would you make her?”
LANGUAGE.
McTAVISH : “Do you play yolf?”
RACY MAN : “No, but I have heard it plat ed.”
“Harrison O.” : By his fearless exposure of
Red Cross bungling in Egypt Dr. (Colonel)
Springthorpe has won lasting unpopularity
in those “influential quarters” in which Dr.
,T. W. Barrett, who is held partly responsible
for the muddle, has always had so strong a
pull. The Fergusons especially consider
it was “bad form” on the part of Spring-
thorpe to bring the affair under public notice.
Her Ex. speaks icily of him as “a
subordinate officer.” But he was never Bar-
rett’s subordinate. Springthorpe was one
of the first doctors selected by the Defence
Department for military service, and was
appointed Lieut.-Colonel; whereas Barrett
was at first turned down, but later volun-
teered to go at his own expense, and was
given the rank of major. Dr. Springthorpe’s
honest criticism (which he, of course, knew
would earn him personal unpopularity) de-
serves something better than to be described
by an imported Governor-General as “the
outpourings of an individual.” The out-
standing facts are that Springthorpe has not
been attacked either in his medical or in his
military capacity, and still holds his job;
while Barrett has been relieved of his
military duties, and is reported to have re-
signed liis position in connection with the
Red Cross in Egypt. Some idea of the
size of the muddle may be gleaned from the
action of Adrian Knox and Norman Brookes
on their arrival in Egypt in cabling, for “six
business men” to be sent out immediately.
Any amount of gubernatorial whitewashing
and sneering cannot sub-edit the acid out
of that comment.
* * * *
St. Arnaud (Vic.) is very sore about the
state of affairs in Gallipoli. It was one of
several townships that went wild with
delight when the “forcing” of the Darda-
nelles by two small cruisers was reported
weeks ago. The shops were closed, and the
school-children marched up and down the
main street, led by the town band and the
Mayor and councillors. Figuratively speak-
ing, the poor civic dignitaries have been
robed in sackcloth ever since., and the town
drummer knows that he ought to be banging
his instrument with his muffled head. Still,
St. Arnaud feels sore in big company. Ber-
lin probably feels just the same way. A
long war is a terrible lesson on the vanity
of shouting before the guns have ceased going
off.
•* * * *
“II.T.”: Neither drill nor the Turk
has altered Billjim much. General God-
ley, commander of the Maorilanders,
in passing through one of our saps,
accidentally bumped against an Aus-
tralian who was hard at work with a
pick. “That’s the seventh who’s
bumped into me this morning,” grunted Bill,
as he went one giving the clay more pick.
“I don’t seem to be very popular here,” said
the quiet-mannered Godley, as he moved on.
Major was going the rounds of the out-
posts one night in Egypt. Getting outside
the lines he attempted to return. Australia
challenged. “Halt! who goes there V”
“Major ,” was the reply. “Gotter pass?”
“No ; but”- “Well, shove off while yer
luck’s in.” He shoved off —quick.
* * 4 *
“Napper”: The Defence Department
simply pours out money. It lately accepted
tenders for 128,000 fur felt hats at 80s. per
doz. Now, wool felt hats, equally durable
and as light, and made here of Australian
material, were used in the S’African scrim-
mage and would cost 445. per dozen. The
difference on this contract alone amounts to
about £lO,OO0 —enough to buy 60 machine
guns, which would hurry along the end of
the war a lot more than any number of fur
felt hats will.
THE RECRUITING SERGEANTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Twenty-four from Blue’s Point
Sailed to War away—
Twenty-four from our Point
Enlisted in a day.
Twelve for their country
Went to risk their lives,
And twelve sailed to glory
Because of their wives!
Many great recruiters
Sound the nation’s call:
But the Wives of Our Street
Are greatest of all.
Bells ring from London,
Bells ring from Rome;
Bells ring from Petrograd,
And bells ring from Home;
Beils ring from Paris—
That feared the city’s fall —
But the Wives’ Tongues of Our Street
Are loudest of all 1
Ma ny great recruiters
Sound the nation’s call ;
But the Wives of Our Street
Are greatest of all.
All the Front a-frozen,
Or a flaming Hell;
Grey sky or lurid,
Shriek of passing shell;
Shocks like an earthquake
Where “Jack Johnsons” fall—
lint the Wives’ Tongues oj Ovr Street
Are dreader than all!
Many great recruiters
Sound the nation's call;
But the Wives of Our Street
Are greatest of all.
An old mate of my mate’s
(How the lists increase!)
Sailed to the Front to
Get a little peace—•
Little peace and quietness,
For (you and me between)
His wife, like the rest, is -
A super-submarine.
(Many great recruiters
Sound the nation’s call;
But the Wives of Our Street
Are greatest of all!)
He was doing nicely
Somewhere out with French,
Or with lan Hamilton,
Happy in the trench ;
Roasting or freezing,
Where guns never cease,
Burrowing and dodging—
But his life was Peace!
(Many great recruiters
Sound the nation’s call,
But. the Wives’ Tongues of Our Street
Are grandest of all.)
Only the shrieking shell,
Like a haunting “pome,”
Now' and then reminded him
Vaguely of home;
But remembrance made him glad,
That his leg was free;
Till at last he got it,
Badly in the knee.
(Many great recruiters
Sound their country’s call,
But the Wives of Our Street
Are greatest of all.)
Now the bloke is back again,
Back from shot and shell,
Back from sounds he learned to love—
Back again to Hell!
Maimed and at the mercy of
The tongue of his wife,
And the neighbors’ poisoned tongues —•
And Sich Is Life.
Many great recruiters
Sound their country’s call.
But the Wives’ Tongues of Our Street
Are damnedest of all!
N.SAV.
HENRY LAWSON.


Build up
after Illness
by faking
caEUM
m
Of all Chemists*
tyosm?' 1/3. 2/9, 4/6.
Angler’s Emulsion is both healing and
■strengthening. Soothing to the entire mucous
tract “-throat, lungs, stomach and intestines
—an aid to appetite and digestion and a most
nvigorating tonic and restorative, it is
invaluable for restoring proper tone to the
digestive functions and for building up health
a,nd strength after illness or when run down
from any cause. Pleasant to the taste and
absolutely harmless, it may be taken with
certainty of benefit. It is endorsed by thf
medical profession.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
Angier Chemical Co.. Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney,
I
—J
THE IDEAL PANAMA
for the Holiday—and after.
A shapely style, having character that endures —a tool, light,
shady hat, carefully made from the genuine South American
straw; a hat that will take much of the discomfort out of
Summer days; that will roll up for your bag or pocket, and
come out fresh and uncrumpled; in fact a SUPERIOR
Panama.
25/-
Brims: 2lin. to 3in. Bands: Jin. to 2in.
Neat, even-plaited, medium crown, with centre ridge.
Please state size when writing.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE PRODIGAL SON.
MELCHISEDEC (to would-be son-in-law):
“But, mine yong friendt, haf you any
expegdations?”
PRODIGAL : “Only some veal! Mine fadter
has yoost cut me off mit a fatted calf.”
“’.T.F.11.” from London :—•
“Archbishop of Canberra and Sydney!” How
does the mother-city of the Commonwealth like this
junior partnership? It is the suggestion of the Aus-
tralian correspondent of the Guardian, the leading
Church of England paper. Apparently he thinks the
rival Carthlicks will chip in and annex this double-
barrelled title, so he urges the Anglicans to “iden-
tify their Primacy” with the new Commonwealth
capital as soon as possible. But the Carthlicks only
smile. They long ago passed the title on to the Dry
Blowers, a branch of the Hard-shell Baptist sect.
The cabled news of a few days back about
the blowing up of the big Russian munition
factory near Petrograd is vei’y belated. As
long ago as July 22 the correspondent of the
New York World in Russia got past the
Censor there with a story of what had been
going on. Factories not only at Petrograd
but also at Moscow, Novgorod, Tiflis, Odessa
and Sebastopol had all been more or less in-
jured by incendiaries bribed with German
gold. Consequently when the Hun fell en
masse on the Bear, retreat was compulsory;
and to save even the retreat fi’om worse dis-
aster immense supplies had to be laboriously
shifted from the western front to the Rus-
WHEN THE HONEYMOON IS ENDED.
SHE: “My dear, good man, have you nothing new to say?”
HE: “ When a woman says that she doesn't really want the saying ho be new but only a
new fellow to say it.”
sian via Archangel and Vladivostock. These
are available now, and you can already
notice what is happening. Also, in July pre-
ference was suddenly ordered in the U.S.A.
for Russian orders. Germany played a big
and desperate game, but it didn’t quite come
off. Nat Harper, a well-known Westralian
mine-manager and politician, just back from
Siberia and Japan, saw streams of trains,
day and night, running east empty and west
loaded with munitions. At Omsk, the cen-
tral recruiting station in Eastern Siberia, he
was told bv an officer who had come from
the Front that the supply of shells had a
while previously dropped to less than a
quarter of the number required, but that
with improved supplies they had begun to
slowly strangle the assassin enemy who had
devised this systematic blowing-up of fac-
toi’ies as part of his campaign.
“Billy Blue”: Another historic property
passed through the sausage machine of the
land salesman when the Raby estate, near
Liverpool (N.S.W.), was lately subdivided
and sold. This estate was originally a
grant of 3000 acres to Alexander Riley, who
arrived in the ship Experiment on June 25,
LSO4, with a letter from Lord Hobart to
Governor King saying that Riley “has had
a liberal education and is to receive a civil
appointment and a grant of land.” A job
was accordingly found for him in the Com-
missariat department in Tan Diemen’s
Laud, at Port Dalrymple. now called Laun-
ceston. In January, 1809, Paterson, his
chief, came to Sydney to take over the gov-
ernment during the detention of Bligh. He
brought the protege along and appointed
him his private secretary. It was
while holding this office that Riley
received the grant, which he called
Raby, after Raby Castle, in Cavan
(Ireland), whence he came. Later on Mac-
quarie gave him, D’Arcy Wentworth and
Blaxcell the contract for building the Rum
Hospital in Macquarie-street, in payment
for which they had the monopoly of import-
ing rum for a fixed period. Incidentally,
Riley greatly improved the Raby estate,
and made it one of the finest farming pro-
perties in the colony. He even took a trip
to Europe to purchase for it sheep, cattle,
horses and goats, and when he was gone his
son, W. E., added to the fame of the estate
and its high-class Saxon sheep.
Said the Porcupine to the attacking
Cattle Pup: “How absurd in One so Young
and Inexperienced to attack a Strategist
whose Tactics have been embraced by the
foremost military Nations of the World!”
And without more ado he proceeded to Dig
Himself In.
When Germany, getting so hard up fox-
cotton for use in bomb-making, strips off its
underclothing, it will no doubt make a new
boast:—•
Der Allies soon veel haf to quit—-
We’ve staked our blessed shirts on it 1
From London: —
Governor Stanley, of Victoria, will find many can-
did comments on his sister Venetia in the latest
Church of England papers. Venetia is the girl who
accommodatingly agreed to become a Jewess prior
to a synagogue marriage, because if she didn’t her
young man would either have had to give her up
or forfeit some hundreds of thousands of pounds,
his father, the late Lord Swaythling, the million-
aire banker —the head of the Montagus—having stipu-
lated in his will that any son marrying a non-
Jewess must drop his share of the swag. The Angli-
can papers are shocked at the levity with which
Venetia threw over Christianity in order to secure
a paltry quarter of a million. The Church Times
points out that the banker’s intention was to compel
the son under the severest pains and penalties to
marry a genuine Jewess. Yet “a mere hypocritical
act of conversion legally suffices.” The Times adds
that the moral is the “futility of testamentary pro-
visions which offer strong temptations to insin-
cerity.” Governor Stanley’s sister is now a nominal
Jewess. She has smashed a wineglass and done all
the other things customary at a Jewish wedding;
but everybody knows, or thinks he knows, that she
was only playing in a comedy for a big stake. At
any rate, now that she and her husband are secure
in the legal possession of the spoils, she is under
no obligation to enter a synagogue for the rest of
her natural life —and it is a thousand to one she
doesn’t.
* * * *
Where are the people who said Dustberra,
the Capital, was dry? A few days ago the
whole district was flooded beyond the expec-
tation of the oldest inhabitant. So wide
were the waters that some prominent official
was unable to wade out and reach Aus-
tralia, and could only sit down by the roar-
ing rivers and relieve his feelings by saying
what he thought he would like to do with
the Kaiser. All this should fill us with
hope. Some damp day when all the party
politicians are gathered together the wetness
may rise in sudden fury and drown them—
whips, Hansard, arguments and all. Failing
this, they may die of thirst when the drought
lays its fiery finger on the Cotter’s trickle
and wipes it dry as the crackling lid of
Sheol. Dustberra is a place where anything
may happen. It may even be necessai’y,
after spending vast sums on a water-supply,
to spend other vast sums to put every build-
ing on stilts and provide it with lifebelts in
case of sudden flood.
* * * *
South Aus., like Queensland, is thinking
seriously of abolishing class distinctions on
railways—suburban, at any rate. So far
the Railways Commissioner has merely re-
ported to Parliament that the matter is
“well worthy of consideration.” Admittedly
these things are very much a matter of
habit. Nobody dreams of having two classes
oix a tramcar; on the other hand, in some
parts of Europe—and quite handy to us in
Java —the railways have four. Steamers
mostly have several, too; and there really
seems no reason why the railways shouldn't
have them—if the people who use fife extra
conveniences are prepared to pay. The
trouble is that they mostly are not prepared
to pay anything like enough.
The Turk will be getting it directly with
an apologetic “This way, please.” The Shop
Assistants’ Union of Sydney claims 437
members in or on their way to the fighting
line, and the union doesn’t sweep in all the
young men of the fluff trade by a long chalk.
Unless only the assistants who have the
sense to be unionists have also the courage to
enlist, quite a big slice of lan Hamilton’s
army must have been stung to valor while
making desperate charges in the haberdash-
ery department.
The Mayor of Sydney has prom-
ised the Australian Historical
Society to preserve old names that
mean something. It is time some'
intelligence was shown in this mat-
ter. There is a little lane at the
back of the Victoria Markets lead-
ing from York-street to Clarence-
street! which now is called “Mul-
lens.” Some fool-official only
knows why. In the original subdi-
vision it was “Broughton Place,”
named after the old deputy Com-
missary-General—one Avho made
early history. He arrived with
Governor Phillip, and in Mac-
quai’ie’s time was appointed a mem-
ber of the first Supreme Court.
Broughton had a grant at this spot,
and on it he built a handsome resi-
dence (the first thereabouts),
which he called Albany House, lie
died in 1823, and his widow let the
place to Major Frederic Goulburn.
the first Colonial Secretary of the
Colony, who resided there till he
retired in IS2G. Albany House
was then leased to Sidney Stephen,
a barrister, the eldest son of Jus-
tice Stephen and brother of Chief
Justice Alfred. This Sid n e y
Stephen was the second barrister to
be called to the Bar in N. S. Wales.
In the late 30’s, the house was
opened as a pub by one Levien and
called the Pultenay Hotel. In ’43
the City Council rented it as its
first Town Hall, and camped there for 11
years. Now, what recollections does the
other name —Mullens —call up?
* * * *
By way of showing what they are pre-
pared to do in the sacrifice of wages, the
N.S.W. South Coast miners went short of
£2OOO which could easily have been earned
at the last pay (24/9/T5). The sacrifice
is the more notable because the mining in-
dustry has only just recovered from a slump
which caused its employees to be beggars
for employment—employment which of
course Holman provided out of loan money.
One mine did get in 11 days in the fortnight
—the first full pay after 17 weeks’ strike.
Two others got 10 days, one having lost a
day through a strike because an employee
was disinissed without due notice. One lot
of men Jost five days over the omission of
SELFISHNESS.
BILL (coming on his mate engaged against
odds): “Note, why couldn’t yev sung
out to a bloke! Do yer think this
bloomin’ war’s run for you on yer own?"
two miners’ n,lines from the quarterly
cavil; and when their disgust over that was
pacified they “did in” another two days
over a small question of “places.” Similar
trivialities interrupted work elsewhere. The
State runs' Arbitration laws and expensive
courts of ' the Labor party’s own creation
for the purpose of settling these disputes with-
out losses of wages and other drains on the
community ; but the Southern coal-miner, who
fancies that he has to be a sturdy disunionist
to show that he is a good unionist, is not going
to throw away the precious right to lose
wages—£2ooo worth at a time —as a guar-
antee of good faith or something.
THE LAST JOKE OF ABDUL FEZ.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the suggestion of German officers the Turks
are marching the same column of British prisoners
round and round the different quarters of Con-
stantinople, on different days, so as to impress the
populace.— Cable.
A humorous johnny is Abdul Fez,
If one may believe what the cable says ;
In Constantinople, to music’s sound,
He’s marching his prisoners round and round;
Men from the trenches,
Britons and Frenchies —-
Marching ’em over the same old ground!
There’s great entertainment at Yildiz Kiosk —
Huge crowds gather before Omar’s Mosque—
Tiie squares and bazaars, and even the slums
Are packed with glad people applauding the drums,
And baggy-kneed soldiers,
With guns on their shoulders,
Who guard the procession as onward it conies !
There are Tommies from Lancashire, Yorkshire
and Kent,
And Scotties the Land o’ the Heather has sent;
There are blioys from Tyrone, Tipperary and Clare,
And Gurkhas and Sikhs with their dignified air;
Jack Tars and marines
Also grace the gay scenes,
And stalwart Australians and Maoris are there 1
Oh, the joy of the crowds as they watch them
advance!
Hear the hoots and the yells—mark each gesture
and glance
Of fierce hate and scorn; ’tis the Turks’ triumph-
hour,
For these are the proofs of the Mussulman power!
Hark ! Yussuf and Zfflah
Cry “Wall! Wall! Bismillah!
Ya-Allali-it-Allah! Deen! Deen!” to the Giaour!
And are they downhearted? Their language is
shocking!
If you listen you’ll hear, ’mid the fury and mock-
ing,
Strange words, sotto voce, which murmur and
rumble;
And the prisoners’ bearing is far, far from
humble—•
Heads up, backs like lances,
Contemptuous glances,
Grim mouths —it’s a wonder the Turk doesn’t
“tumble” I
Their faces are cold, but their hearts are white-
hot,
As their guards order Halt l at some favorite spot
Where the spawn of the city, opprobrious and
shrill,
May glut its weak anger and gaze to its fill—
A trick that these vermin
Were taught by the German,
Who calls it “imposing the conqueror's will!”
Let Islam exult in its poor little way;
Let Islam exult for its brief little day ;
Even now, while it laughs, yelps and points in
derision,
The prisoners see, as in prophetic vision,
A navj r encroaching,
An army approaching,
Right and Might, joined for once, to make final
decision.
There shall come mourning to Yildiz Kiosk,
And much supplication in Omar's old Mosque;
And those who, to music and martial sound,
Went marching their prisoners round and round,
Shall yet bewail them,
When the Huns fail them,
And the guns of the battleships shake the ground 1
N.S.W.
E. N. MACCULLOCH.


MUST HE USE THE WHIP?


“WHERE THE CARCASE IS.”
Mr. Haynes strenuously objected to members of Parliament drawing expenses for recruiting tours when they already free railway passes. One member of Parliament had drawn £4 for three days' hotel expenses.- Daily paper.
“It is only reasonable,” said Mr. Holman, “that men going into the country on recruiting campaigns should have then expenses paid. They give up a great deal to undertake the work."- Daily paper.
THE OTHER CROW: “Want help, (lo you? Well, you can’t expect me to chase around getting help for you unless I'm paid to do it."


Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid=up 82,500
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
AVON
II;
trade mark
THe TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
zs>
THE
Wherever you go, the world over, leading men
HATS. They are unequalled in quality, style,
comfort. ALL STORES.
wear VvuoxmOW
durabality and
rr
hfd
MAGNESIA FOR DYSPEPTICS.
SPECIALIST RECOMMENDS IT
INSTEAD OF DRUGS.
“Only those in constant touch with suf-
ferers from indigestion and dyspepsia can
fully realise the harm done by the improper
use of drugs and artificial digestants,” re-
marked an eminent specialist recently.
“Personally I rarely advocate the use of
drugs in the treatment of digestive or
stomach troubles, for in practically every
instance I have proved the underlying cause
to be excessive acidity of the stomach and
consequent fermentation of the food contents.
Therefore, in place of the once widely-used
drugs I invariably recommend the use of
magnesia to neutralise the acidity and stop
the food fermenting, and the wonderful re-
sults I have obtained during the past three
years convince me that there is no finer
treatment for indigestion, dyspepsia, etc.,
etc. It must, of course, be clearly under-
stood that I do not employ or advise the use
of such forms of magnesia as citrates,
acetates, sulphates, etc. —these would often
do more harm than good ; nothing but pure
bisuratecl magnesia—the form prescribed by
physicians—should ever be used to neutralise
stomach acids. This is not at all difficult
to obtain—in fact, I find that most chemists
now stock the preparation in tablet form in
addition to the ordinary powder. Half a
teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia in powder
form or two compressed tablets taken with a
little water after meals will usually be
found quite sufficient to instantly neutralise
the acidity and prevent food fermentation,
thereby ensuring painless, natural digestion
for even chronic sufferers.”*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
11. T. Sparks, just dead in South Aus.,
only missed by a feAV months being present
at the proclamation of the infant State in
1836. A Government roml-maker, he had a
hand in constructing the Victor Harbor
breakwater and some of S.A.’s biggest
bridges; but his most cherished recollection
Avas of voyaging down the Murray, on a
return journey from the Suoav.v River dig-
gings, in a boat made by himself out of bark.
THE ABBREVIATED DRESS.
The German authorities threaten to take stem
measures if the dressmakers do not adopt fashions
that require less material. — Cable.
THE BULLETIN hears from an unofficial
source that the Crown Prince has been
appointed chief censor of fashions.
(B^^23/9/'j 5 ) 11 * S ® ,ou^emont s new AA-ife
De Rougemont says he is 68, but the lady he has
made his missus, Thirza Cooper, says he doesn’t look
it. The ceremony took place at a West End registry
office, where Thirza described herself as a financial
agent carrying on business in Regent-street, and con-
fessed to a couple of previous matrimonial adven-
tures. Her first husband suicided, and she divorced
the second three years ago. “Strikingly handsome,”
the registrar’s clerk said; but Australia may judge
of that for itself when presently the pair arrive
“in connection with a highly interesting discovery,
the nature of which must be kept a profound secret
for the present.”
“Nibbidard”: Dr. Robert Charles Lind-
say, of Gres wick (lie.), died last AA r eek, a
jovial medico of the old school, leaving Aus-
tralia a set of kindly memories and a family
of famous artists. Educated at Dublin Uni-
versity, lie came to Victoria in 1863 as
medical officer on the immigrant ship Red
Rose, and settled in Creswick in the follow-
ing year. His wife Avas a daughter of John
Williams, the martyred missionary, and
from such a strain something unusual might
be expected. Genius burned highest in
Norman, the third son. Percy, the eldest,
noAv living in Melbourne, paints landscapes
and designs posters Avitli a benign eye on bis
successful younger brothers. Lionel is best
known by his etchings and his landscape
work, while the signature “Ruby Lind” at
the foot of many a dainty piece of black and
Avhite tells Bulletin readers that the
equally-dainty girl who married Will Dyson,
the caricaturist of kaisers and of kings." and
noAv rocks a cradle of her oAvn, has not for-
gotten the land of her birth. Mary Lindsay
has been highly praised for her artistic
ability, and a younger son found success in
Ncav York as a costume designer.
GROSSLY IGNORANT.
THE ONE: “I tell yon I vas an Australian!
Ty, I vas born here, yes.”
THE OTHER: “Well, yer a blanky ignirant
cow, anyhow—yer carn’t tork the lang-
widge yet."
“General Inkpot’s” despatch :
“Jock” MeLachlan, ex-.M.11.R., Maoriland, just
dead, was not, on the surface, an engaging person-
ality. Rugged, dour, blunt, frequently so-so, Scotch
to the core, and kindly at heart, ho made his mark
on a Parliament and a country in which, at one
period, strong, true, honest, sincere men were the
rule. Despite a notorious weakness, he represented
for years the no-license constituency of Ashburton,
and he never pretended that he would put in the plug
to save his seat. There are very few of his kind left;
none in M.L. Parliament. Most of the present mem-
bers would faint if they saw, as I did, a Jock
MeLachlan put his stockinged feet up on his desk
and go to sleep after telling Seddon what he thought
of him. He was 75 when he died.
Another son of the late “Money” Miller
passed out in Melbourne the other day.
Burly Albert, a avol l-known figure on the
turf, disappeared three months ago; it Avas
William Henry, the eldest, avlio closed his
innings last AA r eek. William Henry Avas a
very quiet old capitalist, xvho managed,
among other things, the fine properties
Avhich his astute millionaire dad bequeathed
to the harmonious family. As a contributor
to the spread of that wealthy circle, the late
W. H. deserved praise, for he followed in
father’s footsteps and left four sons and
five daughters to console his widow.
October birthdays: Artist-poet Hugh
MeCrae, 39 on 4th; Miss Rose Scott, of
Sydney;, 68. and general-manager R. G. Sticht,
of Mount Lyell, 59, on Bth; Louise Mack on
10th,; retired Vic. Justice Hartley Wil-
liams. 72, John GaA r an Duffy, 71, and Laiig-
don Bonytlion (Adelaide Advertiser), 67,
on 15th; James R. Fairfax (S. M. Herald).
81 on 17th ; Louis Stone (author of
“Jonah,” etc.), 44 on 21st; Tas. Geologist
IV. 11. Twelvetrees, 67 on 26th; Elliott
Lewis (Tasmania), 57 on 27th; ex-S. Aus.
Judge j. Penn Boucaut, 84, and poet J. B.
O’Hara, 51, on 29th; Queensland lawyer-
politician A. J. Thynne, 68 on 30th.
JUDGING DAY AT THE ROYAL ART SOCIETY, SYDNEY.
John Mitchell Purves, a big Australian,
passed out last Aveek. He Avas a son of an
early Presbyterian minister, and Avas born
at Port Macquarie 68 years ago. Educated
locally, he was an M.A. of Sydney, and for
the past 17 years ornamented the post of
Esquire Bedell at his University. After
starting life as a farmer on the Clarence
River, he Avas persuaded by the late E. C.
Bait to join him in business at Sydney.
The firm of Batt, Rodd and Purves, real
estate agents, thus came into existence about
35 years ago, and Mr. Purves continued in
it till he died. He represented the
Clarence for many years, but was defeated
by the recently-deceased Macfarlane at
about the time the writing appeared on the
Avail announcing the impending doom of the
“dry dog.”
“Nemo”: Dr. John O’Mahouy, the Avell-
known R.C. priest of Launceston, died
a few days ago, and a lot of people
are mourning. No Tasmanian priest has
been so universally loved. He Avas an Irish-
man all over. At the St. Patrick’s Day
banquets in Launceston he was always ex-
pected to sing “God Save Ireland,” and ho
did; and after that there Avere usually loud
cheers and calls for “a comic song.” Father
John had a nice store of these, and he would
always produce one in Patrick’s honor.
When smallpox broke ’ out in Tasmania
some j'ears ago and the patients Avere iso-
lated, he went into quarantine Avitli them,
suav to their Avants, and cheered their con-
valescence. In 190 S Archbishop Delany got
the authorities at Rome to make Father
John a Doctor of Divinity. But that didn’t
matter —he just remained “Father John.”
Though he Avas a powerful preacher on pub-
lic as Avell as religious subjects, he always
wrote his sermons and read them from the
MS.—and fine literary efforts they Avere,
many of them.
“D. O’R” drops a Avreath on the grave of
his friend :—-
Major McManamey, of Sydney, killed at. the Dardan-
elles, was one of the best. Problems of existence never
worried him ; he was content to live his life as it came
along, and never wasted the joy of his heart or the
sunshine of his smile in fevered pursuit of what the
world calls “success.” At the University he scored
brilliantly, not as a means to an end, but merely
because he found the higher mathematics amusing.
In his day he was a great Rugby footballer —casu-
ally, without effort. Whenever the ball didn't hap-
pen to come his way, he happened to be where it
was. In fact, whatever he achieved seemed due
solely to the happy accident that he was himself.
When he was called to the Bar* no one doubted
that he would win distinction in the courts. And
so lie did—in his own delightful wav. For years
he remained the bravest, brightest-smiling junior
that ever lost a case. Dunder-headed juries refused
to listen seriously to one who looked like a merry
schoolboy explaining a riddle. They biffed him out.
Was he sorry ? Only for his client. -
So he settled down to a more or less haphazard
practice of his profession and the monotony
of “coaching.” His humor was ns refreshing to the
boy with brains as it was alarming to the jury
without, and he was always busy. For many years
coaching and military work were his only recreations
(work was recreation to him: the only thing he
could not do was twiddle his thumbs), and in the
old Ist A.I. Regiment he knew his Red Book as well
as he knew his men. He had ail the qualities of a
leader, and the people who loved him have no need
to wait for the story of his death.
Last week the Crown Prince was reported
dead. This week he is said to be mad. It
depends on your nationality Avhether you re-
gard this as an improvement or a relapse.
Retired from N. S. Wales police, after
33 years’ service, James Mcllattie, senior
detective, the man who was instrumental
in consigning the murderer Butler to the
gallows-commodore. Mcllattie when shown
a photograph of the wanted criminal recog-
nised it as that of a member of the crew
of the American barque Swanhilda which
had not long sailed from Newcastle bound
for ’Frisco. The detective Avas sent in pur-
suit aboard a convenient mail steamer,
reached the Golden Gate first, bagged his
bird and brought it back to Sydney.
HUGH MAHON.
Minister for External Affairs.
Dead in Adelaide, at 87, .T. G. Forster,
manager of gold mines in the old days when
S. Aus. used to believe it had such things,
and a strong Radical of the old school, lie
advocated a State Bank long before it Avas
founded, and helped to form a Liberal Asso-
ciation at a time Avhen it Avas fashionable to
be “Gonseiwative.”
JELLICOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
0 War, that sears the hearts of men
And leaves them naught but faith,
Turn thou their homely thoughts again
To that stark battle-wraith
Whereon one clear-eyed fighting man,
Whose signals whip the breeze,
Rehearses still his battle plan,
The duellist* of the seas !
Marked down hv England for her own,
His guns her only shield,
110 sternly guards her seaward throne
With thunderbolts concealed.
And none may share his vigil brave,
And none may read his heart ;
For, master of the shot-lashed wave,
He walks alone —apart.
Aye, master of his chosen men,
And ruler of his ships,
They can but guess what irks him when
He broods with close-pursed lips ;
For though his lightest word is flashed
To those who understand,
In close-shut rooms his dreams are dashed
And shirkers stay his hand.
One iron year of war has passed,
But at the meeting place
No boasting challenger is grassed
With blood upon his lace.
But for the lagging coward he
Has hopes each lonely hour,
And watches well the empty sea
From battlement and tower.
They hope like wolves to drag him down;
Submerged and still they wait
To snatch from him his victor’s crown
There at the seaAvard gate ;
But when he speaks, all undismayed,
llis smoking mammoths plod,
Lite patient brutes for death arrayed
To Avalk the seas with God.
And who can doubt his English guns
Will brand with blasts of flame,
And God’s own wrath upon the Huns
The coward’s endless shame !
But till the storm of steel can break,
And sailors’ dreams come true,
lie lives with Nelson and with Drake,
With Hawkins, Frobisher and Blake—-
For they are fighting, too !
X.S.AV.
E. O'F.


There is Sentiment
in Business.
These past few weeks have witnessed a NaAion-wide effort to arouse tine
patriotism of the people....to stir the national sentiment of Australians to
the point of action.
On the one hand the appeal to the young men has been, and still is, to
join the ranks of those whose blood is being shod to keep us a Nation of free
people.
On the other hand, those of us who must stay behind are asked but fairly,
■ to make it our business to see that those of “Our brave boys” who come back
are provided with work and wages, and the dependents of those who do not—
out of our wealth.
And-this is how Business and Sentiment may be joined with a result of
practical value
Believe us.. . .there IS sentiment in business, and if we are io do our
plain duty, there must be a strong and enduring Australian sentiment in
favor of Australian-made goods first of all, and after that for goods of British
origin, made within the Empire.
let every Good Australian state his
Preference for Australian Goods.
Eor nearly half a century we have urged Australian people to
wear Australian wool. . . .but always for the reason of its superior
goodness and better value.
To-day we urge you to mix sentiment with your business, to
weigh the added reasons for your preference, and to buy Australian
Goods.
AUSTRAL APPAREL FOR MEN
of all-Australian Manufacture.
“Austral” Apparel for Men provides the best evidence that the
Australian-made is as good as the best, and better than most of the
imported kind. Take “Austral” Tailoring, for example.
The high-grade Tweeds and Worsteds of all-Australian Wool
are the product of Vicars’ famous Marrickville Mills....an
unquestioned assurance of good quality.
The range of patterns and pleasing weaves and textures allow
for the widest possible choice. .. .and to suit the most exacting
taste.
And the tailoring itself bears splendid testimony to the skill
and craftsmanship of Australian Gutters and Tailors.... such as
will earn your lasting satisfaction.
Send for Samples To-day
To any address throughout Australia.... free of charge and postage
paid... .and without obligation to purchase unless you wish to, we gladly send
samples ‘ and patterns of Australian Tweeds, together with our big Art
Catalogue of Men’s and Boys’ Wear.
All you need to do is to'fill in vour name and address, cut out and mail
the coupon below. The patterns will get to you by return mail.
484 to 490
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Pioneer Distributors Goods
3 to 17
ROYAL ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
m
%
n
t w
%nmp
m
i
dL
Ml
I
3
»S 8
'■
Im
w
Jhisfraimn
Messrs. Go wing Bros.,
Please send me Patterns of Australian Tweeds and
Price List of A astral Suits to measure.
B. 30/9/’l5.


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS.
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
New Zealand Insurance Company Limited
PREMIER COLONIAL COMPANY.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Sickness, Workmen's Compensation and Ge-nera!
Insurance, 79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Like the previous four, Scaddan’s fifth
budget announced one deficit and anticipated
another. It differs, however, from the others
in that it does not even pretend to say where
the money is to come from to square things.
In five years the total shortage has risen
from nothing to £1,261,240 ; and if Scaddan
is right in his estimate, which he hasn’t
been to date, this sum will by June 30 next
have increased to £1,502,428. Great credit
was taken by the Treasurer for the economies
he had effected during the past 12 months,
lie spent only £2,521,000 of loan money, or
£332,000 less than he might have done. The
things he economised upon are worth men-
tioning. He saved £Bl,OOO by not building
railways authorised, £35,000 by not procur-
ing rails and fastenings for such railways,
£17,000 by not getting railway stock for
which loan money was authorised, and
£78,000 by not supplying the Agricultural
Bank with capital. Less loan money was
certainly splashed up last year in any
of the previous four, but this was simply
because the State couldn’t get it to splash.
Moreover, £602,000 of this loan money spent
in “Advances to Settlers" was mostly used
for the reduction of the deficit, as the bulk
of it went in payment to the Treasurer of
land rents and water rates owed by destitute
farmers. In other words, Scaddan borrowed
money and called it revenue. To help the
State to overcome the results of his finan-
cial drunk, he now suggests the dropping
of sinking-fund payments. Westralian
loans, except one, carry a sinking fund of
1 p.c.; the one —raised to build the Gold-
fields’ waterworks—carries 3 p.c. The
State’s total indebtedness is now over
£37,000,000, while the sinking fund accumu-
lations amount to £4,068,000, and are in
the hands of trustees who will this year
want £265,447. Scaddan proposes to ask
them to take Treasury bills or inscribed
stock in lieu of. cash —to be redeemed by
some future loan. This of course makes the
sinking fund a farce; but then it is a farce
in any case. As to retrenchment, Scaddan
sorrowfully announced that he may have to
sack a few civil servants. The idea of
running his numerous industrial concerns
in a business-like way hasn’t occurred to
him. Or if it has occurred to him he isn’t
game to put it into execution.
# * * *
The Brisbane Electric Tramways In-
vestment Co.: —
Dividends,
, '' N Re-
Dee., Profits. Pref. Ord. serves.
1905.. - £17,334
£ £ £
1906.. 24,961 5 p.c.= 17,812 2 p.c.= 7,500 16,983
1907.. 32,669 5 ~ ~.17,812 4 „ ~ 15,000 16,840
1905. . 39,858 5 .. „ 17,812 6 „ ~ 22,500 16,386
1909.. 47,977 5 ~ ~ 17,695 8 „ ~ 30,000 16,668
1910.. 77,014 5 „ „ 17,656 8 „ „ 30.000 40,026
1911.. 87,705 5 ~ „ 17,656 8 „ „ 30,000 86,075
£75,000 of reserves capitalised .. 11,075
1912.. 56,362 5 p.c.= 17,656 8 p.c.= 36,000 13,781
1913.. 92,998 5 „ „ 17,656 8 „ „ 36,000 53,123
1914. .115,251 5 ~ ~ 17,656 8 „ „ 47,649 103,069
Some of the figures in the last line may
have to be revised later on: it is not quite
certain whether the pref. div. (with tax)
amounted to £17,656 or £17,305. If the
latter, then the dividend on ordinaries con-
sumed £48,000. The co. owns all but a few
of the shares in the Brisbane Tramways Co.,
Ltd., the concern which actually owns the
tram system. One result of this little bit
of finessing is that the shareholder really
doesn’t own any share in the trams, and
can’t demand the disclosure of tramway
affairs. However, this co. presents certain
figures, from which the following is com-
piled :
Ex- Dlvi- Re-
Dec., Receipts. ) tenses. Profits, dends. serves.
1906. . £141,677 £82,525 £59,152 £50,000 £25,674
1907.. 159,111 88,489 70,622 57,000 39,296
1908.. 178,510 94,964 83,546 65,000 57.842
3 909.. 199,263 105,082 94,181 75,000 77,023
1910.. 222,580 115,695 106,885 106,000 77,90 S
1913 . . 253,970 129,284 124,686 110,000 92,594
1912.. 254,838 162,305 92.533 80,000 105,127
3913.. 316,244 191,936 124,308 116,000 113,435
3914.. 348,406 194.960 153,440 144,000 122,881
Of the £144,000 shown as paid by the Tram-
ways Co. for the past year, the Investment
Co. (the one in which the individual share-
holders are interested) received £143,904.
Add £685 for interest, etc. ; total revenue
£144,589. This went as follows :
Divided among shareholders .. £65,305
Management . . . . . . 3,649
Debenture interest.. ~ . . 18,689
Reserves .. . . ~ . . 56,946
Total £144,589
Of those reserves only £49,946 is shown in
the first table, £7OOO having been put into an
accident insurance fund which is not
reckoned as a reserve, though perhaps it
ought to be. It will thus be seen that a
profit was received from the Tramways Co.
sufficient to pay a further 8 p.c. to ordinary
shareholders. And that profit was re-
ceived from the Tramways Co. after the
latter had not only paid for all repairs, etc.,
but also put by £lO,OOO towards future re-
newals, bringing the fund for that purpose
up to £120,000. From this it looks as
though the £143,000-odd received from the
Tramways Co. was actual net profit, after
providing for reasonable wear and tear. If
so, it shows what the Investment Co. could
do in the way of dividends if it was really
inclined that way.
As against tliis present extraordinary
affluence the ordinaries have to consider their
risks. They come in only third for the
profits. Ahead of them are, first, £450,000
of 44 p.c. debentures and.then £375,000 of
5 p.c. cumulative pref. shares; and that\s
£825,000 to keep in bad times and good
alike. Probably they don’t worry about it.
Still there is this to remember: even 1 p.c.
less earned by this money in bad times cuts
£8250 off the ordinaries’ profits. In other
words, when there’s a big swag of debenture
and pref. capital, carrying a fixed rate of
interest, it is almost inevitable that the
surplus profit, available for ordinaries, will
fluctuate violently; wherefore the investor
who reckons that the surplus profit shown in
good times will continue in all sorts of
times is very liable to fall in badly.
The co.’s rights run to 1921; and the
undertaking may then be acquired by the
public at a fair price, with no consideration
for goodwill. Numerous proposals have,
however, been made to get rid of the co. prior
to that date. The curse of the present
arrangement is that the co. naturally won’t
develop new lines which it wouldn’t be able
to hold long enough to make the expenditure
worth while.
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Aug., £ £ £ £ £
1905.. 1,884 3 p.c.—- 2,916 2,277
July,
1900.. 6,313 51 „ ~ 5,000 1318 3,590
1907.. 8,498 5 ~ ~ 5,000 3498 7,088
1908.. 10.373 £ 5/8/4 „„ 5,417 4956 12,044
1909.. 10,618 5/16/8 „„ 5,834 1400 3384 15,428
1910.. 12.655 7/8/4 „„ 7,083 2448 3124 18,552
1911.. 14,123 7/18/4 ~ ~ 9,233 1026 3864 22,416
1912.. 16.936 9/11/8 ~,,11,979 1813 3144 25,560
1913. 10 ~,, 12,500 1500 3451 29,011
1914.. 18.077 10 „ ~12,500 1500 4077 33,088
1915.. 14,442 10 ~,,12,500 1942 35,030
Profits have shrunk a bit, but the co. will
do remarkably well if they don’t shrink a
good deal more than that. No matter what
harvests and wool-clips we may have, things
are not going to be what they have been
during the recent borrowing boom. True,
Victoria has joined in that boom with less
enthusiasm than any other State; but even
in Victoria it has been felt. And you can’t
beat a borrowing boom for producing that
easy-come-easy-gd spirit which encourages
the retailer to mark his Spring millinery
£5 ss. instead of a normal £4 10s. Except
under boom conditions this co. really
couldn’t expect to make 15 p.c. on its capi-
tal. considering (1) its comparatively poor
reserves, (2) the fact that it has £103,625
in real estate. That is to say, apart from
the £40,000 it owes on mortgage, it has
£63,625 of its own capital in a city free-
hold —just about half of its total of
£125,000. A co. can’t reasonably expect
gilt-edged security like that and a 10 p.c.
return too. Mutual Store’s shareholders
have been exceptionally fortunate in having
both during the past few years ; and if this
doesn’t continue they will have no cause
to grumble. So far as the other balance-
sheet figures are concerned, they have moved
the right way during the year. Book debts
(£28,222) are smaller, and stock has also
been reduced, the two movements permitting
a substantial reduction in liabilities, which
now total £59,330, as against £69,726 12
months ago.
* * * *
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne),
manufacturers of foodstuffs :
Added Reserves
to Re- (Nomi-
April, Loss. Dividends. serves, nal).
1904 .; £15,420 Nil £25,604
Profits.
1905 .. 10,658 Nil £10,658 36,262
1906 .. 12,140 11 p.c. = £1,824 10,316 46,578
1907 . . 12,209 24 „ „ 3,648 8,561 55,139
1908 .. 2,234 24 ~ „ 3,648 53,725
1909 . . 9,696 21- ~ „ 3,648 6,048 59,773
1910 . . 12,167 3§ „ „ 5,473 6.694 66,467
1911 .. 17,169 54 ~ „ 8,209 8,960 75,427
1912 .. 24,454 6g ~ „ 10,034 14,420 89,847
1913 . . 15,769 71 .. ~ 11,214 4,555 94,402
1914 . . 27,727 9 ~ „ 14,749 12,978 107,380
1915 . . 33,105 9 „ „ 16,523 16,582 123,962
This belated table is dropped in mainly for
purposes of record. The co. has done excep-
tionally well during the year. At May 1.
1914, it had nearly £lOO,OOO in raw materi-
als and manufactured stocks, and there
seems to have been a nice penny in that,
since, owing to the war, the co. was freed
to a great extent from foreign competition,
and was able to put up prices to correspond
with the higher cost of production at cur- •
rent market prices for raw materials. On
May 1 this year it had £129,768 in raw
materials and manufactured goods; and
presumably it has taken all sorts of care in
making its valuations that it has not set
the values higher than the goods will com-
mand after a good harvest. It seems pos-
sible that the very circumstances (including
scarce and dear freights) which kept out
competition last year may help to glut the
local market this year. As for the reserves,
which now seem to represent about 13s. per
share —both prefs. and ordinaries —it has to
be noted that the balance-sheet still reckons
as an asset whatever was paid originally for
goodwill. In fact, the most unusual plan is
adopted of including at the original price
(£145,500) all the assets taken over by the
co. 27 years, back, including machinery and
plant. Possibly some of those assets —real
property, for instance —have appreciated:
but it. is a mystery why those that have -
depreciated have not been written down. A
10-year movement is shown hereunder:—
Liabilities.
1905. 1913. 1914. 1915.
Capital. . .. £145.953 £157,578 £174,688 £189,398
Overdraft .. 46,875 67,061 36,151 55,369
Mortgages, etc. 16.512 12.080 11.000 11 000
Other debts.. 11,844 41,815 47,949 50,704
Assets.
Original purchase 148.500 148,500 148,500 148,500
Other properties 28.756 71,657 71,603 76^747
Book debts .. 25,470 48.567 50,759 53’750
Stock.. .. 54,542 109,940 116,177 161 073
Cash .. .. 178 176 355 286
Liabilities now are £117,073; 10 years ago
they were £75.231. Increase £41,842. Add
new capital got in (pref. shares), £43,445.
Total £85,287. With that £85,287 plus
undivided profits the co. has added £47,991
net to its properties and plant, £28,280 to
its book debts and £106,531 to its mer-
chandise and rolling stock. It is a record
of very solid progress, the excellence of the
figures being mainly due to the firm hand
which was kept upon dividends while the
co. was working its way out of the shoal-
water it got into a few years ago.
Wentworth Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney), was
formed in April, 1912, to purchase the free-
hold of a well-known city hotel, extend the
premises and carry on the business. For
goodwill (including license) £8750 was paid
to the vendor, and £lOBl went in preliminary
exes. The co. thus started with £9831 of
capital unrepresented by tangible assets.
Subsequent proceedings:—
In Reduction
April, Profits. Dividends, of Deficit. Deficit.
19X2 .. £9831
1913 .. £3464 Nil £3464 6367
1914 .. 1682 Nil 1682 4685
Loss.
1915 . . 634 Nil 5319
That loss for the year is made up this way :
Profit on working’ account .. £2078
Less Administration .. €446
Interest .. .. 1259
Depreciation .. .. 1007
Total deductions .. .. 3312
Loss as above .. .. £634
The depreciation includes nothing written
off leases, license and goodwill, which still
represent £6820 of the share capital of
£35,000. The liabilities total £25,179. That
constitutes part of the trouble. The vendor,
working in her own way, made a very com-
fortable thing out of the business. Then
people who didn’t know as much about it
as she did came in; and, as so often happens,
\vhat was good and big enough for private
ownership wasn't good and big enough for
a co., and all sorts of “improvements” were
made at great expense. On top of that
came cumulative advances in hotel wages,
cheerfully conceded by an association con-
sisting mostly of non-residential pubs which
don't have to pay them ; and then the war
as a final knock-out. Still, in normal times
there ought to be room for half a dozen
Wentworths in Sydney. If there isn’t room
for them, there isn’t room for any hotels
at all. But they will probably never be
much of a mint. It is the frowsy beer-
bar that coins the money.
The N.S.W. Fruit Exchange Co-opera-
tive Co. (Sydney) :
Toßg- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904 ..£1027 lOp.c. = £406 £621 £8,142
1905 . . 1386 10 „ „ 500 886 9,028
1900 . . 1397 10 „ „ 500 897 9,925
1907 .. 1498 10 „ „ 500 998 10,923
1908 .. 1551 10 „„ 500 1051 11,974
1909 . . 1778 124 „ ~ 625 1153 13,127
1910 . . 1908 124 „ „ 625 1283 14,410
1911 .. 2318 20 „ „ 1000' 1318 15,728
1912 . . 1954 20 „ „ 1000 954 16,682
Reserves transferred to capital, £15,000 1,682
1913 .. 2471 74p.c.= 1500 971 2,653
Premiums on new shares .. 15 2,668
1914 .. 2498 BJp.c.= 1750 748 3,416
1915 . . 2529 74 „ „ 1500 1029 4,445
There is no reason to suspect that the in-
creased profits shown for the past year were
not real hard-cash profits; but, partly in
view of the fact that the co. still owes
£4500 on mortgage, and wants to get rid of
it in three years, it very wisely decided to
reduce The dividend a trifle. This compari-
son shows even better than the foregoing
table what solid progress the co. has made :
1905. 1913. 1914. 1915.
Debentures and other
debt .. ..£15,182 £7llB £6444 £5588
Liquid assets .. 9 1526 1178 1102
Excessofliabilities £15,173 £5592 £5266 £4486
Ten years ago the capital was £5OOO, and
no more has been called in. Therefore the
dividend (nominally p.c.) is really equal
to 30 p.c. Yet, though the dividend has been
so affluent, the profits have been so much
more affluent that twice the full amount of
the paid capital has been paid off the co.’s
mortgage debt in 10 years. Against that
there may be a bit of depreciation to come
off. The freehold property cost £29,680,
and it still stands at that in the books. If
it is worth now less than it was worth 10
years ago, then of course the true surplus
profits are less than the figures shown above;
from them you must deduct the extent of
the depreciation, whatever it is. But it
is safe to say that, however municipal mar-
kets may affect the co. in the future, so far
it has done amazingly well.
01- * -X- *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quin-
lan, Gray and Co.. Ltd. (Brisbane) : —-
Added Nominal
to Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1902.. £9,026 Nil £9,026 £10,276
1903.. 7,499 5 p.c. =£3750 .3,749 14,025
1904.. 4,311 5 „„ 3750 561 14,586
1905.. 3,983 5 „ „ 3855 128 14,714
1906.. 4,177 5 ~ „ 3855 322 15,036
1907.. 5,025 5 „„ 3855 1,170 16.206
1908.. 5,106 5 „ „ 3855 1,251 17,457
1909.. 6,369 5 „ „ 3857 2,512 19,969
1910.. 7,478 5 „„ 3857 3,621 23,590
1911.. 7,329 5 ~ ~ 3960 3,369 26,959
1912.. 15,667 7$ „ „ 5989 9,678 36,637
1913.. 10.057 10 ~,, 7920 2,137 38,774
1914.. 18.672 10 „„ 7946 10,726 49,500
1915.. 15,303 10 „ „ 8003 7,300 56,800
That table goes back to the time when the
co. did a bit of cleaning up and wrote off
nearly £25,000 of reserves at one wipe.
But, apparently, that didn’t do all that was
necessary, and a good deal of the profits
made round about 1904-5-6 seem to have
gone in the same direction. Four years ago
the management appears to have decided
that there was no need to sock away any
more money; and a tremendous change
came o’er the scene. Disclosed profits more
than doubled themselves at once. Tlainlv
this is another case in which the outsider
is at the mercy qf the insider. And it is
no use growling; the insider merely has to
say that he must protect the shareholders
from the enemies of the Trade, and the
shareholder is ready to swallow the super-
stition that the game would be all up if the
truth were known about his investment and
brewing cos. in general.
In this case, for instance, we can only
guess that assets were so overvalued a few
years ago that undisclosed profits were
used to write them down. Further, there may
still be a large amount of capital repre-
sented by the intangible item “goodwill,” or.
on the other hand, that item may be included
in the list merely for convenience
sake. From the look of the first table you
would guess that business had increased
splendidly in recent years; yet compare
revenue for 1900 with that for 1915 in tins
next table, and you will not find much
change. What you may also notice is that
12 or 13 years ago half the capital was
written off; and the co. may have been
again saving up trouble for itself by going
considerably into debt of late to buy
property: —
1900. 1910. 1913. 1914. 1915.
Capital . . 150,075 77,147 77,272 77,847 78,287
L i a b ilities
(less cash
balances) 111,013 00,751 57,651 87,918 89,083
Premises,
plant, etc. 141,535 90,965 96,436 129,682 130,033
Hotels .. 57,165 15,700 8,700 18,700 26,450
Stocks and
debtors .. 76,809 59,202 72,617 70,961 72,395
Revenue . . 33,358 29,601 28,788 38,357 35,316
Expenses .. 22,377 22,026 18,193 19,685 20,013
The position may be summarised this way :
1905. 1914. 1915.
Liabilities ..£63,728 £100,048 £96,015
Liquid assets .. 50,792 83,091 78,727
£12,936 £16,957 £17,288
Liquid assets include stocks. So any sur-
plus profit made during the past 10 years
(and nominally there has been a great deal
of it) has almost all gone into property
(chiefly apart from hotels, the holding of
which is still comparatively small) and
plant. Perhaos it is all right, but one could
be surer about it if the co. had been saving
up in something more liquid or more visibly
revenue producing; for, as shown above, the
revenue now is very little more than it was
15 years ago. Altogether the position is
obscure, though it is doubtful whether it is
anything like so good as one would judge
from the margin of profit left after paying
the 10 p.c. dividend.
North Broken Hill, Ltd., which til!
recently was the N. 8.11. Mining Co.,
which was in its turn a reconstruction of a
co. formed 10 years earlier: —
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
June, ’07.. 54,167 60 p.c.= 42,000 10,225 59,741
Dec., ’07.. 50,690 50 „ „ 35,000 19,655 55,770
June, ’OB.. 27,870 20 „ ~ 14,000 12,619 57,027
Dee., ’OB.. 30,293 20 „ ~ 14,000 13,034 60,286
June, ’09.. 27,305 20 „ „ 14,000 13,096 60,495
Dec., ’09.. 31,704 20 „ ~ 14,000 17,550 60,709
New share premiums, £35,000 95,709
June, ’lO.. 50,120 85 p.c.= 28,-000 22,783 95,046
Dec., TO.. 73,179 40 „ ~ 35,000 26,328 106,897
June, ’ll.. 62,201 60 „ ~ 52,500 12,662 103,936
Dec., ’ll.. 98,708 70 „ ~ 01,250 12,168 129,226
June, ’12.. 101,663 93f „ ~ 93,750 11,910 125,229
Dec., T 2.. 175,993 220 „ ~220,000 17,200 64,022
Assets written up and all reserves capitalised.
Capital increased from £200,000 to £600,000.
June, T 3. . 142,018 20 p.c.~ 60,000 3,265 78,753
Dec., T 3.. 152,596 40 „ ~120,000 1,925 109,424
June, T 4. . 183,845 50 ~,,150,000 143,269
Dec., ’14.. 56,216 Nil 199,485
June, T 5.. 75,724 10 p.c.= 30,000 245,209
As in the case of every other Broken Hill
mine whose accounts have been published
lately, the nrofits here are little more than
a guess. Twelve months ago the balance-
sheet did not show any metals in hand ; they
were all sold as the mills produced them.
Then, the German markets being closed, the
co. made a smelting arrangement with the
Broken Hill Prop., and subsequently joined
in the scheme to purchase the latter co.'s
Port Pirie works. This has meant banking
up products; and on June 30 “metals in
course of realisation and concentrates in
transitu and on hand” were estimated to be
worth net £181,910. In one respect the co.
has been fortunate: it hasn’t had to pile
up its zinc “tailings” pending the discovery
of a foreign market. De Bavay’s Co. (Amal-
gamated Zinc) has taken all the current
output, in pursuance of the old agreement;
and apparently it has been able to keep up
payments. At any rate, the co.’s “sundry
debtors” as at June 30 owed £38,910, which
is only about 50 p.c. more than the corres-
ponding item 12 months ago. Unsold metals,
the directors say, have been valued at £lB
for lead and 2s. for silver; and as the pre-
sent prices are £24 and Is. llfd. the co. has
allowed a big margin. Seeing that by this
time much, if not most, of the metal which
was in stock on June 30 will have been
marketed, there will be a pretty big surplus
profit to tack on to next half-year’s figures.
All things considered, the six months’
profits even as guessed at when the accounts
were made up were nothing to be mournful
about. True, they were only about half the
average for the four half-years before the
Wild Hog got loose. But set two things
against that. First, the past half year
carried a non-recurring expense of £12,040
in connection with the £200,000 of deben-
tures issued to pay for this co.’s whack of
shares in the new smelting concern. The
issue was at 3 p.c. discount; the co. makes
that discount good out of this half-year’s
revenue, and also charges it with £6040 of
exes. And in the second place, the output
of ore was reduced to 123,455 tons as against
156.020 tons in the first half of 1914, the
reduction being due to the fact that the Pt.
Pirie smelters couldn’t keep the mines going
at their full capacity, and no market for
the possible surplus could be found abroad.
On this latter point the directors say: “All
efforts to sell lead concentrates in the U.K.
have failed. The particulars of Broken Hill


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can bast be obtained b3 r the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
booklet on application.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed £9,300,000
Annual Income Exceeds ... £1,400,000
The Company is distinguished for
FINANCIAL STRENGTH
and
ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
It is not generally known that some of the finest
manufactured goods in the world are produced in
Australia. It is a fact nevertheless. “Pioneer”
leather belting- has competed successfully against all
comers in all parts of the world, not only at ex-
hibitions but in practical working tests. That is
why “Pioneer” belting and “Pioneer” leather fur-
nishings for every engineering use are purchased by
those discerning users with whom efficiency takes
first place. “Pioneer” goods are obtainable from the
sole manufacturers: J. 0. Ludowici & Son Ltd., -117
York Street, Sydney; and in the other States from
Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., 148-150 Albert
Street, Brisbane; G. Bussell P’t’y Ltd., 454-460
blinders Street, Melbourne; J. McKell, Timpson
Street, Port Adelaide; and H. Summers, 9 Howard
Street, Perth; and G. Dempster, Broken Hill.*
* * * ■*
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South AVales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Peril).*
*• * * #
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [3
* * * *
Extract from Tub City Review, London, January
17. 1914, rc The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd.: —“This led to the appointment by the
Lieutenant-Governor of Victoria of certain distin-
guished actuaries to investigate the affairs of the
Society, with the result that we anticipated. Those
gentlemen reported that at the date of their investi-
gation (December 31, 1911) the Society was sound
and solvent and able to meet all its liabilities
immediate and prospective, and they expressed the
emphatic opinion that the charges of fraud, dis-
honesty, mismanagement and incapacity made
against the directors and managers were wholly
unjustified.”* [4
PIONEER WOOD PIPE, in constant use, retains
its whole efficiency indefinitely, costing practically
nothing for maintenance. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co.. Ltd., contractors to all State
Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney (head office).*
*• . * * #
The Australian Provincial Assurance Associa-
tion Ltd. —This office issues special Accident and Sick-
ness Policies for doctors, dentists, chemists, all other
classes of professional men, graziers, farmers, and
nurses. The Association’s Perfect Policy, which in-
cludes all sicknesses, is the most up-to-date contract
of its kind, and is worthy of consideration when this
class of protection is required. The A.P.A. has a
very wide range of Combined Benefit Policies pro-
viding Endowment benefits at a selected age, capital
sum assurances in event of prior death. Lump sum
benefits for Accidental Death or permanent disable-
ment. Weekly compensation in the event of accident
and sickness. Full particulars will be supplied on
inquiry at the head office of the Association or any
of its branches.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * •
In addition, to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mcphan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Com-
i’any of Australia, Limited. —By mutual consent
Mr. Francis H. Snow has retired from the above
company, and the Ore Purchase Department at Bridge
Street, Sydney, has been closed. Sellers of ore must
now communicate direct with the Works, Port Kembla.'
* * * *
“Robey-Leplastrier” Road-Building Machinery
means big saving. One shire in N.S.W. saved last
year £4OOO. Sixty shires equipped already. Apply
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., head office, Sydney.*
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * # *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure- Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,660 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,451 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 80,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. =s-a
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canmn Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobei
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Chaliis House, Sydney
production have been widely advertised
throughout the U.lv. without a sale result-
ing.” If Australia hadn’t built up its own
lead-smelting and silver-refining business it
would to-day have been just as help-
less in regard to those two metals as
it is in regard to its zinc. For Britain lias
lost its grip of its once-great lead-smelting
industry just as thoroughly as it has lost
the spelter business. That curse of Free-
trade has brought Mother nearer to her
deathbed than w T e care to think.
*• * * *
The N. S. Wales Government lately had
the chilled cheek necessary to offer B. H.
Water Supply, Ltd., less than £2OOO to get
out; and the money, it is explained, is_ not
for rights, but for tools, etc., Works Minister
Cann, who isn’t a dishonest man by_ in-
stinct, evidently can’t see the scandal of the
whole business. This co. was granted the
right to construct waterworks at Broken
Hill. In return for the right to supply
water to mines and town for 28 years it
agreed to hand over the whole under-
taking to the State at the end of the period
without payment. Recently the Government
(why doesn’t matter just now) carried out
another scheme, and obliges the public to
take that water. In other words, Parliament
made a bargain by which it secured the ex-
penditure of a very large sum of money
in return for certain business concessions;
and the expenditure having been made, the
Government deliberately destroys the conces-
sions. The Bulletin holds no brief for the
Broken Hill Water Supply, which has been
more warmly criticised here than, so far as
it knows, in any other paper in Australia.
But it does hold a brief all the time for
fair dealing and the honest performance of
contracts. The morals of this transaction
are the morals of cardsharpers.
■*-***
“Stannum” and some deals in tin: —
The idea of putting an export duty on tin con-
centrates in order to encourage Australia to do its
own tin-smelting looks just the thing on paper. But,
though most of the tin-scratchers of N.Q. are fairly
eood Australians, they are not keen on being handed
over to the tender mercies of the Australian tin-
smelter. At present there is some competition in
ihe North, and when the buyers for export are com-
peting the miners occasionally get something near
value. But there are other occasions, and the follow-
ing examples will illustrate what may happen to the
tin-getter when the export buyer has been outed.
A party of miners took a tribute at Koorboora.
The trouble commenced as soon as they had a crush-
ing. According to agreement the co. had the right
lo buy the concentrates at current rates. When the
parcel was cleaned up the co.’s manager gave the
tributors the usual statement and an offer of £74 15s.
a ton (note the 155., implying that the price had
been worked out to the last shilling) for firsts and
£44 10s. for seconds. This was sent to another
firm’s Herberton branch for a quote. No reply hav-
ing been received after eight days’ waiting, the firm
was rung up. It replied that it would not quote at
Koorboora or Irvinebank. An assay was then pro-
cured, and a quote obtained from Sydney on that
assay. It figured out at £lO a ton net more than
the Koorboora offer. The party saw the co.’s manager
to arrange about shipping the stuff to Sydney. He
asked what price they wanted. They put the- price
for firsts at £Bl, and to their surprise he closed the
deal the next day. How much more he would have
given is, of course, known only to himself. The pro-
ceedings were conducted throughout on best-approved
catch-as-catch-can principles. The metallic contents
—which might be expected to form the basis of the
bargaining —were never mentioned from first to last,
and neither party knows the result of the other’s
assay unless from outside sources.
Another party had an offer of £7B 10s. for firsts
and £46 for seconds. This lot was sent to Sydney,
and realised £9l 10s. for firsts and £67 for seconds,
notwithstanding a big drop in price in the mean-
time.
Like cases could be cited almost indefinitely. Sup-
porters of the tax will object that these things need
not lie. The writer knows that, but they are; and
while they remain the tin-scratchers are not likely
to enthuse about the proposed duty.
It is all very interesting; but what has it
got to do with an export duty? These
crimes against the tin scratcher occur
without an export duty. Neither of the
Northern buyers referred to were Australian
smelters. Both were buying for export.
Impose an export duty, and there
will be enough ore available to keep
one or two more Australian tin-works going,
and the resultant competition will be all to
the tin-scratclier’s good.
* * * #
Amalgamated Zinc talks gaily about a
“potential” profit of £155,000 from ship-
ments of 49 p.c. zinc concentrates aggregat-
ing 70,000 tons. Only the first little lot of
500 tons has been paid for, but no less than
33,000 tons are due for delivery to U.S.A. or
France within a few weeks. After all,
£155,000 for 70,000 tons is only £2 4s. 3d.
per ton, and that isn’t too much for a con-
centrate intrinsically worth £24 10s., with
spelter at £5O. Still, the treatment co. doesn’t
get all the benefit of the high price. The
payment to be made to the mining co. is
usually also governed by the price realised.
Once more Coolgardie’s hopes in regard
to Tindal’s have been demolished. The chair-
mans announcement at the recent meeting
that the show had been sold privately for a
substantial figure was taken to mean that
it was going to be reworked, and flags were
hoisted over the local pubs and stores. Now
word has been received that the purchasers
only want the plant, and intend to remove
it and clear out.
*• - # * *
Chaffer’s (W.A.) has passed away, and
its remains have been handed over to the
liquidator. Secured creditors may get all
or most of their money, but the unsecured
(mostly local traders and wages men) will
probably get little except a black-bordered
invitation to the burial.
* * * #
Edna May Deeps (W.A.) has got the
Edna May shoot, and _ The Bulletin’s
Westralian mining man is awarded another
feather for his hat. Judging by the angle
of the bore it is the north-eastern or poorer
section of the reef that has been cut in
Deeps ground, but the other and richer por-
tion will be there lower down, if it is any-
where. This means that the Edna May
will lose it in another couple of levels, and
that the Deeps probably has a good future.
But the Edna May has a complete treatment,
power and pumping equipment and is strong
financially, while the Deeps has no equip-
ment to speak of, and will have to raise a
big sum of money to deepen the shaft to the
required depth, develop ore and instal plant.
Scientific and economic mining seems to
demand an amalgamation between these two
properties, otherwise everybody concerned
may fail to make the money that is there
for them to make.
* « *• *
Privately-owned Fenian, at Meekatharra
(W.A.), has got ore worth £5 a ton exposed
at the No. 0 level, and a drive is being ex-
tended on it. To date something like
140,0000 z. of gold has been dug out of this
show. A big proportion of this wealth has
been paid in dividends, but as the owners
keep the amounts distributed to themselves
it is impossible to say how much.
•* * * *
Good reports are heard regarding Sons of
Gwalia (W.A.). The intrusive diorite which
threatened to smother the lode 200 ft. above
has disappeared in the footwall at the present
bottom level, and values are again all right.
As, however, the co. pays only 2s. a year
in dividends, and is disinclined to make any
attempt to pay more, the market is not
likely to be much affected by the improve-
ment that has taken place in the mine.
* * * *
A new manager from London recently took
charge of Great Fingall (W.A.) and B„ M.
and Co. are, it is stated, now only nominally
in control. The ore left in the show can be
mined cheap enough, but haulage for several
hundred feet up the inclined internal shaft,
trucking for a long distance along the 13th
level, and then raising through the vertical
shaft to the surface makes profitable Work-
ing difficult, and more often than not impos-
sible.
* # * #
Associated Northern (W.A.) has drilled
horizontally from* the bottom workings in the
Victorious (Ora Banda) mine without result,
and is now boring at a depressed angle to
test the ground at greater depth. If it
gets nothing there the shutters will go up
very shortly.
* * * *
As it could neither sell nor ship ore, Fre-
mantle Trading Co., alias Fremantle
Smelters, Ltd., has closed down its lead
mines at Northampton (W.A.). The Gov-
ernment has offered financial assistance, and
thus fortified the co. in trying to get some
additional capital on its own account. If
successful it intends to repair its Fremantle
works and smelt there.
•X- * * *
Melbourne has become interested in two
ventures at Linden (W.A.). One, the Olym-
pic. has been acquired under option for £4OOO.
The first return from this show in 1913 was
only £76 from 37 tons, but since then 156
tons taken from a depth of 30ft. have yielded
£1750, and appearances are said to be first-
rate. The other property, the Devon, has
one crushing of 2000 tons for £6170 to its
credit, and this was obtained at a depth of
50ft. Linden is somewhere near Lake Carey,
on the east side of Mount Margaret, and as
a field for the man without capital is badly
handicapped by water in large quantities at
a shallow depth.
* * * *
There is still some bloom on Mararoa, of
Norseman’s (W.A.) ; so W. A. Bladder, the
Adelaide sporting man, slides into the board
room. The old mine has been busy pulling
plums from the flat shoot picked up when W.
Henderson was hunting for stuff to make up
reserves. This hoard counts up to 10,000
tons of a recoverable value of 335. 6d. per
ton. Less than six-months’ work this; but
Henderson is so cautious that when he says
six months you may be sure he can root out
an extra bit. As no work is done at Nos. 9
or 10 levels it looks as if there isn’t profit-
able ore there, and No. 8 is so beastly low-
grade that it can only pay with a sweetener.
The sweetening lies in the footwall make
off No. 6 level, plus what is raked in from
the No. 7 north intermediate. Outside the
Mararoa, Henderson has just about got
things in trim on the Hardy Norseman, and
so will go ahead with his north drive there.
The shoot is proved for a length of 140 ft.
to be sft. wide, and it goes down to about
60ft. below 175 ft. The next level, at 275 ft.,
will tell if the shoot lives down —a thing
that isn’t certain on the Norseman line. If
it doesn’t go down enough stone is still in
sight to pay back purchase money, provide
costs, and give a leetle over. Excluding
the Hardy, the Mararoa looks like having
Bs. in divs. in its own mine. On June 30
its cash and stores were, roughly, £lO/500,
and the debts, say, £lOOO. It was due to
part up £5OOO for a shilling div. in August,
and liquid assets therefore are about
£ll,OOO. Thus ss. in cash and ore is
assured. The difference between that sum
and the market price of shares represents
the gamble over the Hardy Norseman and
the belief in Bill Henderson’s ability to
squeeze more stone than his reserves out of
the Mararoa itself.
* * * *
This is how the Ajax Central, Daylesford,
has worked out: —
Calls and interest .. £1,202
Gold and pyrites .. .. 149,534
Total receipts .. .. .. £150,730
Dividends .. .. .. £G9,000
Wages .. .. .. 42.265
Plant, fuel, stores .. 27,416
Cash 4,554
Directors’ fees .. .. 582
£143.817
Odds and ends and in hand .. £6,919
The figures show not only cheap mining but
also low board fees and poor salaries. Yet
nobody can claim that there hasn’t been
close oversight—both on the mine and on
the market. Nowadays Ajax Central has
settled down to the drudgery of a lOdwt.
show, and much economy has to be exer-
cised to keep divs. up and shares steady.
The bank of the mine lies between Nos. 2
and 7 levels. Both the Ajax and Western
lodes carry a fair tonnage of stone to come
and go on, and occasional flat makes or
saddles help the crusher to thresh through
a decent monthly tonnage. Practically 20s.
i.i divs. came last half-year from each ton
handled. The programme now is to go west
at 1060 ft. to cut the Ajax and Western
shoots. But it doesn’t do to rely on what’s
there, for Daylesford mines have a spotty
reputation below 800 ft., though in such
faulted country a saddle may lie anywhere,
or a new shoot make in the main lodes.
South German, Maldon, gets its best gold
under the fault at 900 ft., and the Central
has a good reputation overhead.
* *- * #
Edward D.vason Pty., Ltd., professional
general managers, are responsible for reviv-
ing the Maude and Homeward Bound Glen
Wills mine, which once refuged in Peacock's
roost. Aid has been tendered by the Mines
Assets Purchase Co. This co. is credited
with smiling when Teddy Dyason smiles,
which is mostly when he thinks he has a
soft snap on like a Greenfinch flutter. Maude
Reefs is the name the show poses under to-
day, and with a bit of capital to chase up
the work of the old co., the tributers and
the mining parties. Dyason Pty. expects to
win 25,000 to 30,000 tons worth 60s. above
No. 5 level. Costs they set at from 30s. to
355. per ton, and a slap-up 20-head mill is
t:o rake profits out of this reserve. With the
battery comes the Gippsland-Ivanhoe lease,
payment being made for it in 10.000 paids
to the Mines Assets Purchase Co. The co.
has secured A. S. Lillburne, late of the Cas-
silis, to run things at the mine; so with
Dyason and Day tligre are brains about.
As there is a register of 50,000 shares, and
the mine is in the mountains, it is just as
well to have such a triumvirate.
* * * *
Some time ago Great Boulder bored at the
1200 ft. level of its Magdala (Stawell) option
and then stopped, pending the draining of
the deeper workings. It has now started
drilling from the 1300 ft. level of the Ex-
tended shaft of this old Victorian mine, and
will do some more at the 1400 ft. main work-
ings when the water has been lowered below
that depth.
* * * *
The State mine at Argent Flat, started
mainly to prevent the bottom falling right
out of the Zeehan (Tas.) field, gets a nasty
knock from the report of the Parliamentary
Public Works Committee. This body finds
that £16.000 or so has been spent in putting
a shaft down to 150 ft. and scratching aoout,
and that it will take another £BOOO or
£lO.OOO to go down to 300 ft. and do enough
development work to test the country. The
Government has a sleeping partner in the
British Zeehan Co., and according to the
committee the co. has the big end of the
stick in its agreement. It has kept the
best part of its leases and given the Govern-
ment the least promising part, and now it
can sit tight and do nothing while the Gov-
ernment sinks a shaft which will enable the
co. to work its part of the leases. Then if
by any marvel the Government does find
something w’ortli while the co. can resume
the whole thing at three months’ notice,
paying the capital cost and interest at 4
p.c. The committee hopes that something
can be done to terminate this one-sided
agreement, but the British Zeehan Co.
seems to have the Government where the
wool is short.
* * * *
The latest information from North Lyell
encourages the view 7 that the big co. will
have this remarkable ore body on its own
side of the boundary for a good while yet.
The depth of the latest development is
1200 ft. vertical, and the lode appears to
have straightened up. It certainly has not
got the flat underlay that wrnuld take it
across the boundary at 1300 ft. Still that is
only half the depth of the Wallaroo (S.A.),
which is raising ore from 2670 ft.; So the
Blocks Co., if it can stick to its job, has
yet a fighting chance.
The S. Aus. Oil Wells Co. is feeling good.
The manager reported the other day “fairly
definite showing of oil in blue shale at
1163ft.”—which seems to be the nearest
Australia has yet got to the actual discovery
of petroleum.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 3//.)


Charles
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
(Hi
HE PLUS ULTRA
*
I
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
How to Have a Clear
Complexion.
It is quite easy even in a hot climate like
Australia to prevent the wrinkling, drying
and blotching effect of the dust and heat, but
it is absolutely necessary to use a pure soap
without any added coloring matter or excess
of soda. Puritol Wax Soap is such
a soap, with just a little fine per-
fume added. and some Puritol wax,
which has such a reputation for keeping the
skin soft and for removing pimples and
blotches. A very fine film of the wax is left
on the skin after using this soap, which
effectually protects the skin from heat and
dust. Its healing effect is well known on
blotchy skins, and undoubtedly many of the
fine complexions are due to the use of Puritol
Wax Soap.* [I
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE-
MOET (SL CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
COGNAC
gSTB?
1795
BRANDY
OTARD
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, September 27, -'ll)! 5.
My Deai: Arini, —
The vice-regal tour of the Northern Rivers
was a triumphal progress ballasted with
local hospitality. A cloud of dust ou the
horizon heralded the Lismore residents’
welcome. The whole countryside came forth
on wheels or on horseback. Six hundred of
the wheels were attached to motor chariots.
Daughter Mary’s golden hair and blue eyes
are said to have made some havoc amongst
such young men as remain at home. But
the Northern Rivers’ girl has been a strenu-
ous recruiting agent, ivho asked for nothing
from the State for “expenses” ; and the elig-
ibles who remain behind with Strawberry
and Spot are few. Lismore, which boasts
a Conservatorium. of Music, had its musical
festival in the midst of the sub-regal visit.
Fritz Hart, the nimble musician with the
ecstatic coiffure, was adjudicator.
Goold-Adams, of Bananaland, met his
fellow-member of the Governors’ Union at
Tweed Heads; but his wife had to stay
home and nurse her influenza. Chairman
Macgregor, of the North Coast Co-op. Co.,
bailed up the visitors at Byron Bay and fed
them on butter and pig statistics. At Mur-
willumbali the State-school youngsters pre-
sented his Ex. with a fervent assurance of
their loyalty, and respectfully asked him to
mention it to King George. The gardens
of the Tweed side were stripped of their
semi-tropic blooms to dress the local' School
of Arts for an evening reception. Mayor
Kirby and his wife were diagnosed under
the "shade of immense baugalow palms in
this Arcadia.
During the crowded visit to Lismore, Gov-
ernor Strickland had a chat with the Italian
Dr, Franchesci, and daughter Mary was
able to add to the conversation by chipping
in with remarks in the liquid tongue of the
old doctor’s native land. Emma, the musical
daughter of the Franchesci, who is not long
home from her studies in Europe, had tea
with the visitors.
Greatly daring, Lady Edeline Strickland,
who is too much of an invalid for long jour-
neys, has decided to share his Ex.’s forth-
coming flight through western towns. If
there is no change of the present date, they
leave town on October 0. Narrabri, the Pii-
liga Scrub. Collarenebri, Wee Waa and
Walgctt will be wedged into this tour.
Major George Hutton, who left an A.
de C. job with Lord Liverpool at the beginning
of the war and led the Nelson (M.L.) meu
at Gallipoli, lias been wounded and inva-
lided to London. His fiancee, Marie
Rhodes, of Ch.ch., had a cable to say he
is mending. She is putting up peti-
tions that the repairs will take a long time,
for recovery means going back to Turkish
inhospitalities. Hutton is a cousin of Lady
Liverpool, and bride-to-be is a daughter of
Mr. Arthur Rhodes, the barrister, who
loyally lent his house to George V. and
Mary Regina when these Personages were
in M.L. in their Yorkling days.
Mrs. Andy Fisher dashes Australian wine
over the nose of the Brisbane on Thursday.
Handsome colored mounts of a cruiser
foaming through the ocean, with a sprig of
wattle and suitable bunting on one side, are
souvenirs of the christening.
The news that housemaids’ brooms and
buckets have been banging round Admiralty
House has caused a mild throb. The Fair-
guson and his lady are to shelter there for
a few weeks.
The bad news came through last week
that young Henry Talbot, formerly of Gov-
ernor Strickland’s Help Department, is a
prisoner in Bavaria. To add to his woes
lie has to move about on crutches.
Esk Sandford, ironmaster William Sand-
ford's younger son, has got a commission in
the Royal Naval Air Service. .Most candi-
dates take a month to first acquire the
necessary pilot’s license; Esk captured his
in eight days, after sailing 3500 ft. above
headquarters at Eastbourne. But, then, the
new airman had dabbled in aviatics with
Hart a while ago. Volunteering early
when things flared up in Europe, he left Syd-
ney with the Rabaul Expeditionaries, but
came back home with malaria, and soon
after made for England to see what offered
in the aviation line. As there were nearly
500 others waiting to get commissions in the
Flying Corps, he aimed at the Naval Air
Service, and brought down a lieutenant’s
job. From an English point of view a
lieutenant’s pay for active service in the
clouds is good—fs a week, in comparison
with an infantry subaltern’s lordly screw of
7s. 6d. per day.
An elegant sample of smartly-togged
Indian soldiers marched past Ilyde Park
the other day. The huge Subadar-Major
was a step or two ahead, with a British
officer, Lieut. Hastings, to give him a lead.
I he uniform of these visitors, who came as
a guard, is in a light-weight buff shade.
It doesn’t slop about, and, except for the
turban, looks just the thing for our own
boys in summer.
Mrs. Fred Flowers, the retiring lady whose
husband is Pi'esident of the Leg. Council
has just left for the other side. 'Young
Flowers, who is in England, goes to the Front
in a few weeks, and mother and sister hope
to be there in time to say good-bye. Miss
Emmie Hardy, a local heiress of some avoir-
dupois, arranged a spread at Farmer’s to
speed the travellers.
By the Osterley the Willie Cooper dame
and her sister, Mrs. Macnamara, left for
Europe. It is not much of a time for a
pleasure cruise, so t>.e Sydney baronet and
son Gerald stay home to meet the local
taxes. The lady of the Cooper household is
going to bring back a British grand piano
to replace a four-legged alien of enemy
extraction. And, though she might get an
Australian grand, I’ve no doubt she thinks
she s magnificently patriotic.
Lire Brigade rally was the most lively
show of last week. Owing to limitations of
space a comparatively small squad of visi-
tors were invited. Leg. Councillor Flowers,
as Chief of the Fire Brigades Board, sup-
ported by Chief Secretary Black, led Gover-
nor Strickland through the engines and hose-
pipes in the headquarters’ front premises,
liie National Anthem had fainted away long
before his Ex. could be torn from the macliin-
ery, and the police band then piped softly
Somewhere a Voice is Calling”—an appro-
priate item at a fireman’s party. Later, the
vice-regal hand passed over the long-service
medals. Superintendent Sparks, roofed by
a silvery helmet, stood at attention near the
official pen, while his boys ran a ladder that
reached to the ground-floor of Heaven, and
gave other stirring exhibitions of fireman’s
manoeuvres.
The opening of the new workshops, which
followed, was garnished by various official
remarks. Flowers, M.L.C., handed his Ex.
a silver-mounted fireman’s axe, shrined in a
case made from a chip of the hulk of the old
three decker Nelson. A programme de lu.ee
of the day’s doings was presented to Miss
Strickland while father felt the edge of his
axe, and another to Mrs. Flowers. While
souvenirs, made on the premises, were going
round, a handsome leather wallet purse was
passed to Mr. Black. The new owner
graciously remarked that he never carried a
purse, and usually arranged his money in his
various pockets. Prof. MacCallum would
have jumped at this gift, for he invariably
pulls out a satchel when he searches for a
tramfare. After his Ex. had once more care-
fully felt the edge of liis new axe the button
was pressed that opened the workshop doors ;
and there was a joyful whir of the wheels
of a new Australian industry.
The Ulimaroa on its last, trip brought
oa er Mrs. Blomfield, wife of the first lieu-
tenant of the Melbourne. She attracted a
good deal of attention in Wellington (MX.)
because of her prolonged stay at the Chinese
Consulate. The C. Consul and Mrs. Blom-
field are so cultured that report says they
can converse in all languages and correspond
in cuneiform characters. When war broke
out Mrs. Blomfield’s daughter was at school
in Belgium, and her only son is at one of the
numerous Fronts. The lady resumed sea-
journeying by the Osterley.
The Bernard Tripps (well-known shep-
herd kings of Canterbury are the Tripps)
left by the Manuka for home and summer
last Friday. They have been wandering
about the continent most of the winter.
The wife of our home-grown Admiral
Creswell happens to be here for race week.
Of course no one is officially supposed to
come to see the Horse. But there’s a steady
inflow of over-thc-border visitors all the
same. By way of atonement, most of the
lady trippers will dive into the Red Cross
depots at frequent intervals.
Edgar Downes, of Brownlow Hill, in the
Camden dairy district, is now adjutant or
something with the N. S. Wales Expedi-
tionary Force. He is the young squire who
married Isabel Maddrell, of Braidwood.
Miss Diana Downes, aged four months, stays
with mother and grandma at Brownlow Hill
til 1 daddy comes marching home.
Came back in the Makura, Mrs. James
Hope, the silvery-voiced Victorian, who
used to spray oil on the stormy water of
women’s politics. She has been with a
married daughter on Long Island, U.S.A.,
and hurried over the Murray to console
another chick whose hubby is off to the war.
Julian Ashton remarks, sotto vocc, that
the Sydney artists have tried to do their bit
to help. They have raised over £2OOO with
their handiwork, and are also financing beds
in the military hospital and other havens.
After painting their patriotism with a brush
many are also nailing it up with a bayonet.
Now, since they %iust live, they are offering
some of their wares for their own benefit.
This week brings the first amalgamated
show of all hands for years—the suggestion
of Mrs. Paul. You will find it at Grace
Bros.’ galleries.
The marcel-waved tress that lies on the
forehead of big George Parkes was the
envy of mere women the other afternoon.
It was a showery day function, and the
ordinary feminine forelock was limp and
dejected. The Chamber of Commerce man
is a nephew, I fancy, of the late Henry. He
hasn’t the same leonine locks, but what he
has he knows how to keep in curl better than
Uncle did.
Ecclesbourne, once the home of the late
Hr. Norton, an amateur landscape gardener
and keen botanist, is even now famous for
its shrub and bloom. Mr. Willie Norton,
who reigns in father’s stead, and his wife
put this gorgeous bit of Double Bay in the
hands of a battalion comforts committee
the other afternoon. The W. G. Laytons,
who are related to Mrs. Norton, lent their
aid. The inspiring spectacle of a Deputy-
Town Clerk strolling around embracing an
armful of baked dough captivated the fancy
of other strollers; and the financial situation
was improved by the company paying three-
pence apiece to guess the weight of the
goods.
• Parson F. G. Ward, who succeeded the
Rev. Champion as Anglican shepherd at
Canberra, goes forthwith to the Front as a
chaplain.
Artist Florence Rodway is finishing
pastel studies of .Tames Ashton's four bovs.
They’re divided into two long panel por-
traits, with a pair of brothers on each. The
Ashtons have no girl to keep the boys in
order, and they can’t contribute a son to
the struggle, for the eldest is only 16.
William Vicars, the Marriekville woollen
magnate, gave away his only daughter Mabel
to Dr. Rupert Furber, of Stanmore, the
other evening. Parson John Ferguson tied
tlie knot in old Stephen’s Church, which has
housed a steady procession to the altar of
late. The ’moon is spent amongst the cab-
bage palms of the Coast.
Mrs. Francis E. Joseph, wife of the
Joseph who used to abide at Fairwater,
Double Bay, has just come into the
Lour Estate .in Forfarshire. At least
the. House of Lords has only recently
decided that the lady can succeed her
cousin, the late Colonel Carnegy. The
ancient property was probably fenced
about the year 1173. The Hebrew name of
Joseph must now be scotched into Carnegy
to fit the moth-eaten deed.
Coogee lias had a five days’ campaign for
cash in aid of St. John Ambulance fund.
At the opening, of the fete in Baker’s pic-
ture-show premises Mrs. Clark, the Mayor-
ess, stood on the small central dais to declare
that the door was ajar, and her Mayor con-
firmed the statement from, behind a large
posy. Success instantly began to buzz under
the iron roof; and on Saturday night the
premises wore several sizes too small. The
tramway men made a big display on that
afternoon. Any suburb that isn’t sure
whether it can run a good patriotic robbery
ought to ask T. Henderson. G. Hawkins,
Gertrude Upton and C. C. Fox how to get
going.
For race week the black lace hat that
throws flickering lights and shades on the
face is to be a popular revival. The flimsy
headgear will be fortified by the new parasol.
On the diaphanous chiffon hats a small, inch-
wide verandah of tulle extends beyond any-
thing that can be called a brim.
John Hopkins, who originated the
“Queen” side-show business in Maoriland a
couple of years ago, is combing out the
details for the Sydney Allies’ Day commit-
tee. The J.C.W. firm is thinking of putting
up Dorothy Brunton. ’Varsity boys went
in to see manager Tait to try to clinch the
matter, but the Firm isn’t sure that the
Sydney pet will be back from M.L. in time.
The vaudeville people will probably join to
nominate Vera Pearce. Nellie Stewart is
the choice of a big meeting at Paddington.
Sydney Undergrads, suggest Amy Castles.
Flo Young is mentioned with approval by
Woollahra. and the Masonic Club is bar-
racking for Mrs. Frank Buckle.
A committee met the other day in the
Town Hall to organise the stitching of
sandbags—a work that is being done in
many schools and villas. Mayoress Rich-
ards presided over numerous women and a
stout hessian sack —the latter a blameless
treasure to be imitated. Mr. Harvey, the
enthusiastic lion, secretary, gave a rosy
description of bags that could be made by the
thousand at 3fd. each; and Mr. R. Stanton
and Mrs. Carmichael are the lion, treasurers
who. will say thank you for any offerings.
Which, by the way, is more than the Defence
Department is liable to do when the bags
get that far. Some time ago, when the cry
first came from Gallipoli, The Bulleti.n
people had bags made up by the hundred,
aud a cargo was sent to the Defence head-
quarters in Sydney, but not so much as a
formal receipt was issued in reply.
Mrs. Charlie Learoyd, who survived the
Lusitania horror in which her husband, a
well-known woolbuyer, was lost, is still in
England. The Sydney woman has recently
been fortified by the arrival in London of
her friends the F. W. Lloyds.
The 20th Battalion comforts com-
mittee organised a show in St. James’s
Hall the other night. The programme
was opened with an Assault at Arms,
directed by ex-naval instructor Frank
Stuart. In this dashing sabre and
bayonet play Lieuts. Allan, Ferguson
and Meek were so heavily disguised
with wire meat-safes that their admiring
relatives could only guess at their identity.
Baritone Ossipoff, a Russian singer whose
lungs were made for a sergeant-major, was
wildly encored for almost removing the roof
with the strains of “The Toreador.” Esther
Kahn, the small, brown-eyed musician, was
at the piano. Governor Strickland and
daughter Mary, shadowed by General Finn,
were welcomed by Justice Ferguson and
other members of the committee, which has
Mrs. J. Lamrock as president. Ethel Turner
Gurlewis and her fluffy daughter Joan
knitted without respite while hubby and the
only son craned their necks to watch the
blunted bayonet thrusts. Prof. MacCallum
and his tall lady—the latter swathed in a
black coat sprayed with snowdrift—were in
the audience. So were Opposition-leader
Wade and his slender missus. The star item
was the thrilling story of the Gallipoli land-
ing, told in manly fashion by Surgeon-Cap
tain Kane, who had “the honor” (as he put
it) to dress wounds under shell-fire.
Two Australians inadvertently stumbled
under a hail of shrapnel ou the Gallipoli
wild-cat warren. Then they rolled together
into a huge hole in the Turkey carpet. One
was Brian Barton who, with his brothers,
owns a station or two in the Dubbo dis-
trict. Asking the name of his neighbor, he
found that he had bumped into young
Stewart Paul —the only son of surveyor
Paul, whose last camp before the war was
out on the edge of Barton’s run. Reminis-
cences had to bo postponed, as business
was very brisk at the moment. Paul is now
convalescing in Malta from his bit of lead,
and sends a rosy account of its hospital.
Mrs. Agar Wynne, wife of the Victorian
racing-man who has gone to help the Red
Cross in Egypt, is here for a seaside holiday.
Opening with Weber’s overture from
“Oberon,” conductor Slap, on Saturday
started his Symphony fiddlers in a soft
whisper that worked up to a crashing chord.
The second item was made in Sydney by
organist E. Truman. It was “a poetic
impression of the poem Lasca, the Mexican
girl.” The audience seemed to like the
local musician’s idea of life on the prairies,
and applauded till the composer bowed low.
and waved his hand towards the strenuous
Slap.’s nose, apparently to indicate that it;
was all the fiddlers’ fault. Arthur Appleby
was the Voice of the performance. His
ditty was “The Hero’s Death,” as described
in drawing-room language by the mild
Felicia Hemans. Australian-born Christian
Hellemann supplied the music to the unin-
spiring verse. Mendelssohn’s “Italian"
Symphony was served up later. Premier
Holman, who looks a very weary politician,
came along to drown the cares of State in
the fiddles’ lullaby.
Challis Burnell, a Manly girl, who uses
up a good deal of printer’s ink, went West
the other day with father —an old officer of
the one-tiine A.J.S. Bank—aud was married
to her soldier at Perth. He is a son of the
L. A. Fosberys, of Wagga, and is on the
point of leaving to look for trouble.
The gardens of the T. Knox chalet,
Leura, at Bellevue Hill, and the adjacent
premises of the E. Knox household, will be
over-run with lady pirates on October 8.
They will take advantage of race week to
make a raid for the Sheepskin Vest fund.
As to these woolly corsets, wouldn’t it be
possible to cut them in two sizes? The
sorting out might be a stiff problem, but it’s
a stiffen one for six-feet of Australia to
crowd inside some of the smaller waistcoats.
The North Sydney C. of E. Grammar
School had two optimists to put a smile on
the face of the recent prize-day meeting.
Brigadier-General Finn and Judge Back-
house were the brothers Cheeryble. Arch-
bish. Wright’s comely gaitered calves were
the religious features of the gathering.
Lizette Parkes has been lent to the vaude-
ville circuit by the J.C.W. firm. Artists arc
leased like oyster-patches in these war daw.
which are mostly of the drab variety for the
profesh.
Stripes are in. Mostly they run to pat-
terns that give the new muslins the general
effect of having been reincarnated from the
loudest designs in blazer coats as worn by
very young cricketers.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
%
Mi
m
mm
mtm
Y 6
is*
1M
%
ml
m
Sfcv
-;•••
\ >.
f /
l\
A £
m
ma
W-'
V M'W *
i/o
4
"N.
o
w n
»
mWimko
.) \ , •:
tmbkM
;.si%gsts
iSiv
I" 0 Ml
tiiis
m
i
m
■m,
" jr>
... * * f
. V
m
\ wrnMM.
m
55?
?s$
f WllilMfe M
M;
-/M
tS
i MM
- -
V •'"SitfattS' > «• ' •;...
M';:v
*g&§f3*ra?*£S .<iws&a
:|f\ "M^|sS^!4l ;s, C
r\ V *
sail
M../. '/%:^:":/;, : 44 r C-~
1? j
s^sksw
i 3
MU*
&SB
..X. V-p* K 4 w - v -'
M. \ "“'|-..M *
'■• ''■ ***" * V.tV'
Si!®:
>fS
M;
Mf .
@8
**■'**.' '- •
M- '
s>'
•£>< ■/
H':- ■ life.#
*mm
SLS< Pi.
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Helps the Field
Artillery, too.
No one has a
Keener eye
Than old Chunder.
That is why
He is sent
To watch the shots ;
And you bet
He finds the spots
Where the German
Gunners lurk !
“ COBRA” stops
Their dirty work!


INECTO
Re-colors
Grey Hair
“Inecto” is an absolutely effective and permanent
Hair Coloring, and, being a single application, is
easy to apply. Full instructions go with each bottle.
It is not sticky or greasy, imparts a glossy
appearance to the hair and defies detection; _is
to the hair and its growth; contains
no lead, silver or copper, and will not soil the linen
or brush.
Quote the Color No. when ordering 1 .
1. Deep Black,
li. Black.
2. Darkest Brown.
3. Dai'k Brown.
4. Brown.
4:1. Light Brown.
4 J. Light Golden Brown.
5. Dark Auburn.
SJ. Auburn.
6. Dark Ash Blonde.
6£. Ash Blonde.
7~ Reddish‘Blonde.
Trial Box (No.
Z.R. 40) of two
bottles, 3/6.
Trial Box (No.
Z.R. 41) of 8
bottles, 12/6.
hfd
Farmer & Company
Limited are Sole
Agents in N.S.W.,
and are prepared
to supply the trade.
Farmer’s,
PITT, MARKET &
GEORGE STREETS,
Sydney
DUNLOP
CARDEN
>U
a a
u , .-
u • . • o .•:
mm
THIS HOSE
is the Finest
that you can
obtain.
Its Quality
ensures Long
Wear, and its
Construction
no Kinking or
Bursting.
Stocked by all Store-
keepers, but to get the
best results, specify
“ Dunlop ” Brand.
'* *
Sample Section on Application
* *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth, and Christ-
church, N.Z.
To Motorists!
How much do you waste a
year through neglect to plug
holes and gashes in your
Tyres? It’s a bigger item
than you perhaps realise.
You can now obtain
for the small sum of
4'6
a complete Outfit that will en-
able you to permanently and
quickly execute most cover
and tube repairs with cer-
tainty and without delay. Our
Repaid
Outfit can be used with suc-
cessful results by the merest
novice. Purchase a tin from
any Cycle Agent or Garage.
Follow the instructions and
you .will be delighted with
the Saving of Tyres, Money
Trouble and Time,
Buy a tin now
and try it, and
it will not be
long before
you recom-
mend it
to your
friends.
n
'
O
VS*
tv
co^h
.4
Vet*'
fo<
«»•
WHV»f
kV-
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES
AND N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, September 27, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
In spite of wind and dust, the charity
revellers of Kew streamed along to the
J. K. Merritts’ Fairholme on Saturday
afternoon, to help the Children’s Hospital by
eating icecream and whirling on merry-go-
rounds and taking chances in pincushions;
also by standing on one another’s feet and
listening to Lady Helen declare something
open which had never been shut for one
instant. Her Ex. was garbed in grey, with
a black hat and black “accompaniments”—
which is fashion-French for boots and gloves.
The little girl who delivered the conventional
bouquet bobbed like a flower in the wind, and
the assembled women gurgled their ecstasy at
the spectacle. Some very leggy cadets
provided the guard of honor. Our young
army always reminds me of foals, and I was
so absoi’bed in watching the play of their
straggling limbs that I almost forgot to keep
an eye on the vice-regals. Not that that
mattered: they arc always built strictly to
pattern, and you know always what they
will do next. So it isn’t necessary even to
remark that there was a band and that it
blew the Anthem over the gathering.
Miss Henty was in charge of a wind-
stirred bran-pie, and Miss Pearson taught
people how to gamble with a spinning-jenny.
Mrs. Derliam had Mrs. Dodd as a partner in
the. sweet stall, and I saw a Merritt girl
assisting Mrs. Carnegie at the flower counter,
supplied with blooms from Macedon and
local gardens. Mrs. Leslie Stuart peeled
off her coat as if she had come to see to the
gas and started work in a pale pink blouse
at the china stall, where she had Mrs. Geoff.
Syme as silent (and absent) partner. Her
part had been done before the spree started.
However, Mrs. Aubrey Campbell was there
to lend a gloved hand, and her fine white
linen dress was topped by a big black hat
which left nothing to be desired, and practi-
eally nothing to be hoped for. Her gallant
husband peddled cigars and cigarettes, and
smart girls took chances for themselves in
the names of absent (and imaginary) male
friends. Merric Boyd, the local boy who
goes in for pottery, had a special stall of
jugs and bowls of original design, under the
friendly care of Mrs. Aubrey Campbell, and
buyers were numerous. A doll’s stand, in
charge of Mrs. McCrae and Mrs. Boyes, got
the full force of the racing north wind, and
small dolls’ garments had to be chased and
retrieved at intervals. But the same wind
carried off most of the small talk and
drowned the rest, and I wouldn’t have had it
stop for worlds.
The Brussels Concert Party sang and
played their last on Saturday night before
the G.-G., his house-party and some others.
Miss Mandeville listened with her hair tied
in a pink bandage, and a silk scarf to match
round her neck, and the Blackwood lady
showed only a well-dressed head above a
fur coat. The listeners might have been
more numerous. But —as a daily paper would
say—what they lacked in numbers they
made up in enthusiasm; consequently, the
poor performers had to put a head on the
programme to the extent of four encores to
each programmed item.
There is a slump in the donations of
cigarettes, cakes, matches, flowers, etc., for
distribution to the wounded as they
land on the Port Melbourne pier. The
novelty of the hospital ship has worn off,
and Sassiety is losing interest. A thought-
ful D.C.M. man lately reminded us home-
birds to save up some enthusiasm for the
men who must follow after. Now the time
has come to sound the loud timbrel o’er
Egypt’s dark sea —and I do it with enthu-
siasm. Those who are too much engaged to
go welcoming may leave packages at the
Roof Gymnasium of the Auditorium —-or
even send them up in the lift to Miss
Lorimer, vice-president of the Women’s
Welcome committee, who will see that they
are distributed at the pier. Matches and
cigarettes are wunted without end; also
fresh cakes and edibles (these should be
sent in about the date of a fresh landing).
Flowers, too, are asked for, and gum leaves
are needed at intervals for the welcome arch
that burgeons afresh for every shipload.
Barrister W. H. Melville, of Hamilton,
who has been a well-known figure in West-
ern District affairs for many years, has com-
bined with grazier Tom Robertson, of Mur-
roa, in the neighborhood of the same town,
to buy and equip a bacteriological chamber
for the Defence Department, to be used at
the Melbourne Base Hospital.
I don’t know how she managed to. keep
count, but Mrs. George Fair bairn has per-
sonally gathered together 20,000 articles and
dumped them into the Government House
Red Cross depot. Her latest exploit is
4000 billies stuffed with dainties for the
wounded men in Cairo. Mrs. Ledingham,
whose specialty is prettily-boxed sweets, is
Mrs. George’s chief-of-staff.
Mrs. Alfred Deakin is devoting her ener-
gies to providing Christmas presents for the
nurses at the Front. An extra pair of feet
is the impossible gift for which most of them
sigh.
Vera Deakin, the only unmarried daughter
of Alfred, has departed for Egypt and its
hospitals. She is prepared to write letters
foi wounded soldiers and carry messages
and parcels. The clever girl can speak half
a dozen languages, and is therefore well
equipped for her honorary job. With her
has gone Mass Marty Johnson, a niece of
the late Mrs. David Syme, and that lady’s
constant companion for years.
Isn’t this business of giving unofficial
medals to departing recruits being a trifle
overdone? The other evening a presenta-
tion of the foolish things was made to 27
Frankston volunteers, the local recruiting-
committee being the instigators of the fool-
ishness. Colonel Harold Grimwade, lately
appointed to the command of a new artil-
lery-brigade, was one of the victims; and
it is not difficult to imagine the feelings of
an artillery colonel publicly presented with
the round bit of useless metal for doing a
thing he had greatly wanted to do. How
they will all long presently to swap the
five-and-sixpenny trinket for a couple of pairs,
of socks!
A film picture just arrived shows the
Carlyle Smythes and some of their “profes-
sional” friends at Ilarefield, where Carlyle
has fixed up weekly matinfie entertainments
for wounded soldiers. Marion Burton, W.
S. Percy and the talented Beranger sisters
are in the picture. Any amount of volun-
teer talent is offering. Carlyle Smythe, in
letters to his old folks at home, speaks of
Alice Hollander, Esta D’Argo, Ada Cross-
ley, ‘a young American woman who recites
at the piano.” and Amy Sherwin, “who is
to bring down a company.” Alexander
Watson, a frequent entertainer, recently
“kept a thronged house of mutilated Aus-
tralians laughing uproariously through a
specially humorous programme.” This giv-
ing of entertainments to soldiers must be
“in the blood” of R. S. Smythe’s son, for at
about the time when Carlyle came to light,
just 50 years ago, his dad was giving con-
certs at the military stations in India. It
was in India that his boy was born.
Some dames of Ivew are almost wild
enough to declare a holy war against all the
other tony subbubs. After helping the others
loyally in their Red Cross skirmishes, Ivew
got up a charity rally in aid of the Chil-
dren’s Hospital. To the promoters’ amaze-
ment, some haughty dames of great spending
power sent back Is. and 6d. tickets without
so much as a word of regret. “Kew is so
far !” was the best excuse they could think of.
Major Dennis, a doctor-son of Alexander
Dennis, of Eeyeuk, in the wealthy Camper-
down district, steamed for the Front with
a recent medical contingent.
The Quamby Club show, in aid of a rest
room for wounded soldiers, captured £194
in its Saturday afternoon and evening
flutter.
One of the speakers at a recent meeting
of the National Council of Women offered
the opinion, in regard to recruiting, that
“married men should go first, and so give
the younger ones a chance.” The suggestion
was made by a representative of the
Women’s Political Association, which
mostly consists of misses. The Women-
Councillors are mainly married women, and
the brutal proposal was immediately over-
whelmed by an indignant clamor of hoots,
hisses and gamps-on-the-floor. Husbands,
of course, will increase in value as the war
goes on. and the National Council is holding
for a rise.
This is Adelaide speaking:—
The Munro Fergusons departed from us on Mon-
day. They filled up—(Wait a minute 1) —they filled
up the last couple of days of their stay here with a
dinner party at Government House, a visit to Rose-
worthy College, and an inspection of the Veterans’
Corps at Government House. You will see from
this what a lot of filling an Adelaide day takes.
To-day our own Governor indulges in his 56th
birthday; and of his total years 37 have been spent
in the army. He got his D.S.O. in 1895, when he
was in command of a Hausa force under Sir Fred-
erick Bedford. It is not easy to put a value on the
work that he has done in this State in connection
with the war—especially in recruiting.
Mrs. Thomas Gill, wife of the Under-Treasurer,
died on Sunday. She was a keen philanthropist.
Mrs. James Harvey also died during the week. Her
two sons are at the Front.
Ex-Attorney-General Denny, who is now a private
in the A.1.F., was the excuse for a temporary burial
of the political hatchet at Parliament House on
Wednesday evening. The usual speeches were made,
and the usual toasts drunk. Afterwards the hatchet
was hurriedly exhumed and polished up again. What
is Party Government without a hatchet?
Mr. J. L. Sandford, one of the directors of A. W.
Sandford and Co., who is off to England and the
Front, was farewelled by his firm on Tuesday, and
handed a knitted periscope, or something.
The balance-sheet of the amateur Gala perform-
ance in the Theatre Royal at the end of July shows
a total profit of £1152 odd for the two nights. Of
this, £331 has been handed to the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and the rest to
Lady Galway for the Red Cross Fund.
A flutter has been caused in Congregational roosts
by some mild observations of Rev. Selvvvn J. Evans,
the parson in charge of Stow Church. He points out
that the losses of the war have intensified the pro-
blem of the old maid, and that something may have
to be done about it. The gentle bleat of the shep-
herd has caused as much stir as if it had been the
howl of the approaching wolf.
The key of the Dickens Fair, organised by the
Cheer-Up Society to raise funds for the soldiers’
“Hut,” was turned by Lady Galway. The first two
days added about £240 to the funds, and as Mr.
Mcßride has handed over a cheque for £lOO, the
“Hut” should soon be clear of creditors.
Out of the 600 boys who have been discharged
from the State Children's Department in the last
six years over 100 are known to have enlisted-
not a bad percentage.
F. W. Bristowe, of the accountancy firm of Bris-
towe and Co., and secretary to the Fire Brigades
Board, died at Miss Hill’s Hospital, Wakefield-street,
after a fortnight’s illness. His chair at the Fire
Brigades Board is to be filled by his brother, H. M.
Bristowe, who is head of the Bristowe firm.
11. S. Hudd, ex-M.P. for the now subdivided dis-
trict of Torrens, went into camp with the recruits
on Friday.
J. L. Simpson, who has been in S’Africa for
some time, returned via Melbourne on Monday. He
enlisted in the Union forces at the beginning of the
trouble, so has had the satisfaction of seeing Wil-
helm's plans squashed very flat in one part of the
Empire. His brother is serving at the Dardanelles
with the N.S.W. forces.
Dr. Herbert Shorney, who has slithered down the
frosty banisters of Kosciusko for several consecutive
seasons, has persuaded Miss Ada Casley Thomas to
eat off the same brass plate with him for ever. The
fiancee is a daughter of Mrs. E. J. Thomas, of
Malvern.
Au excessively buxom lady gave a concert
the other night to help one of our Allies buy
bayonets, bread ana bandages. The Tet-
razzini-like entrepreneuse herself sang sev-
eral slabs from operas. During the interval
the hat was passed round amongst the audi-
ence, and the recipient country’s consul rose
to return thanks. Ilis gratitude was much
greater than his knowledge of English
idioms. Said he, “I vish to t’ank de
peoples of Victoria for their great ’elp. Also
I t’ank the Melbourne peoples for their
’elping. And to-night, I vish most parti-
cular to t’ank this kind lady for her beeg
corporation!” (Sensation.)
Parson Sydney Embling, of South Aus.,
younger son of the late Embling, M.L.0.,
recently went for a holiday to Tasmania.
There he came across a few clerical pals
bent on war-service. As no chaplaincies
were offering, Embling enlisted with the
others as a private, and is now at Claremont
instruction school, trying for a stripe or
two before going to Turkey.
Herbert Embling, who for years burned
a red lamp at Hawthorn and had latterly
been prescribing for the sick farmers of
Korong Vale, is now a Lieutenant-Colonel
in the A.M.C., bound for parts unknown.
The late W. H. Embling, Victorian M.L.C.,
also a medico, was the lieut.-colonel’s 20-
year-older brother. Olive, a sometime
Alfred Hospital nurse and daughter of Dr.
Herbert, lately left for London with Aunt
Florence Henty in search of a nursing job.
There was nothing doing in England for
volunteer-nurses at first; but her energies
were shortly absorbed by the Australian
Women's Committee, a concern with a
variety of soldier-activities. By now, under
the new conditions, most of the Committee’s
nurses are no doubt wearing the khaki field
dress, which consists of “coats in the belted,
man.v-pocketed style of the British service
uniform; caps exactly like those worn by
the men ; skirts medium-short, pleatpd ; and
arm-bands and caps bearing the lied Cross.”
Commander Joseph Shuter, who recently
died in London after seeing some rough
war-service in the North Sea, came of a
once well-known Malvern family, founded
by the late Charles Shuter, P.M. Reginald
Shuter, a brother, is an army captain and
has the D.S.O. Mrs. George Higgins, whose
husband —a brother of Justice Higgins—
helped to construct the Elwood Canal, is a
Shuter daughter, ana the late Mrs. Bernard
Hall was another.
Lawyer Leslie Stuart is one of the Mel-
bourne business men who have volunteered
for Red Cross work in Egypt. He is busy
getting ready now, and Mrs. Leslie, who
once trained as a nurse, is packing every
kind of antiseptic in his kit and urging
him to go and get inoculated against
typhoid and that full feeling after meals.
Mrs. I.avertine (she used to be Ethel
Gunn of Melbourne before she married) has
been writing home excitedly because she saw
her doctor-husband for five weeks recently.
His ship, along with a shoal of other steel-
clads, lately put in at a Scottish harbor
and the officers’ wives flew north like a lot
or scurrying birds till every nook and cranny
of accommodation about the port was occu-
pied by happy married folk.
Miss Rennie, who is working hard for the
proposed city rest room for invalid soldiers,
lias done something practical on her own
account while the permanent nest is being
scratched together. Ever since the wounded
began to arrive she has kept a table in the
Mia Mia, with a standing invitation for
any of the returned wounded to take tea
there at any hour. At first she had the table
decorated w r ith a Welcome Home cake and
flags and amateur waitresses taking turns
at the food-ferrying. But that idea did not
work too well, so now the table is un-
marked. But many men know it, and some-
times you will find a dozen happy warriors
talking and taking tea in a jolly party.
Winifred Ivyte is now the joyous owner
of a marquise diamond ring given her by
Harold Walter Jones, son of the Jones
who was once a Buckley and Nunn rag
chieftain.
Dick Lean, one of the directors of the
auctioneering Gemmell Tuekett firm and
manager of the Melbourne Stadium, has got
married to Miss D. L. McLean. The slight*
readjustment of surnames was managed in
the Scotch by reri an kirk at Albert Park on
Tuesday, September 21.
Sydney Stirling, the incisive elocutionist
of the Muriel Starr co., took unto himself
a Mrs. Stirling on Thursday last. The lady
was Wilga Leese, of Sydney, and actor
Clarence Blakiston was present to see that
his friend the ’groom got his cues right.
The indestructible Florrie Young is com-
ing into her own again by way of the name
part in “Paul Jones.” Evidently banker
Time refuses to discount Florrie’s notes.
R. L. Smythe, that gay and festive and
much-travelled young octogenarian, strolled
in just now for a chat. You can’t help
noticing the perfect fit of his waistcoat and
the artistic appropriateness of his patriotic
tie. Then the Allies’ colors in his button-
hole flare like a youngster’s flower. The
drab young moderns can’t achieve anything
like the same Smythesonian effect.
As a means of boosting the war funds
the Queen of the Carnival idea has been
borrowed from Maoriland and is booming in
Hobart and adjacent parts. So far there
are eight Queens in the running. The
Soldiers’ Queen is run by the licensed vic-
tuallers and brewers. The Queen of Com-
merce has the money-bags on her side. Percy,
of the Lands Department, is working for
the Queen of the Service. The fluff indus-
try has a Queen of the Dardanelles; and
the railway and tramway men got in
early with a Queen of the Allies. The i*ac-
ing clubs, football clubs and the rest of
them have a Queen of Sport. Then there
is a Citizens’ Queen with a miscellaneous
following, and the apple-raisers of the
have nominated a Majesty of their own. The
balloting is going on more or less furiously,
and as each ballot costs money the more the
fury the bigger the fund.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANANA.


1,
<1 IL i
111
MR NEWS.
OFFICIAL
BRITISH ARMY
STILL GOING
r^v
A
A
A
TRON
vr
p
$
AG
n>
f\
5?
4?
\
\
V 3
\
\
/
\
°VoO
\
<rpr
Er*
Johnnie Walker: “‘Still going strong’:
that’s the slogan. It’s been mine
since 1820.”
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillery, KILMARNOCK


A
A
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PTY
LTD
Desire to intimate that their extensive facilities
being utilised to specialise for the production of
are
MILITARY SERVICE
UNIFORMS and EQUIPMENT
All garments produced are perfectly cut and tailor made
and outfits are supplied at short notice.
fIODERATE PRICES for HIGH=GRADE GOODS.
Dreat Coat .. £4/10/- Service Caps.. 12/G
} Vl'V' -r. • • 3/5/- Sam Brown Belts \ from
DAIS Breeches 1/15/- Double Brace J 25/-
Fine Quality Khaki Shirts, 16/6.
Write for full equipment price list.
"The Mail-order House for Men.”
NOTE OUR
ADDRESS —
ELIZABETH STREET,
Cor. Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE "CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless “fruit laxative” cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, indi-
gestion, coated tongue, sallowness—take
“California Syrup of Figs.” For the cause
of all this distress lies in a torpid liver and
sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of “California Syrup of Figs” as
a physic. Don’t think you are drugging
yourself or your children. This delicious
fruit laxative cannot cause injury. Even a
delicate child can take it as safely as a robust
man. It is the most harmless, effective
stomach, liver and bowel regulator and tonic
ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of ‘Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs.” which has full direc-
tions for babies, children of all ages and for
grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Beware of counterfeits sold here. Get the
genuine, made by “California Fig Syrup
Company.” Refuse any other kind with con-
tempt. “California Syrup of Figs” is sold
by all leading chemists, 1/li and 1/9.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Chips”: “Grasshopper” (B. 2/9/’l5)
wants something- to keep his - f’*om eating- eggs.
Wireless him to get an egg . d “blow” it, ttien
put in mustard thinned down with water to a thin
Paste. Close up with melted • andle or wax and place
in nest. When Hover seofi ■ '-:t titbit his language
will he heated enough to bed. r e chook that laid it.
1 11 bet “Grasshopper” a box of Sankey and Moody's
cigars that the cure will he lasting.
NOTHING TO BOAST OF.
FIRST DISTURBER OF THE PEACE: “My old
man can lick yours any day."
SECOND DO: "Pook! That ain’t nothin’.
Me mother can do that.”
“Stingo”: I think it was “Grasshopper”
(B. 2/9/’l5) who called up recipes for curing a dog
of the egg-eating habit. This is the ticket. Take
an egg; drill a hole in the shell; suction out part
of the contents; replace with ammonia; seal hole
with gummed paper or sticking-plaster or piece of
sand-papered recruiting-politician’s hide (N.S.W.
brand for choice) ; place where dawg will find it.
That’s all.
“Ess’’: The tortuous Darling has more
shipping disasters to its record than any other two
rivers in Australia. Among the wrecks are several
barges, heavily laden with wool, which foundered
after striking snags. In flood-time there is no need
to follow the usual course, the only necessity being
to keep between the lines of trees. During one big
flood, when the river was miles wide, a steamer got
off the shipping track, and for some hours was lost
in tlie hush. Sire had a ticklish time dodging trees
and stumps and logs before she got back again on
to her proper course. A much worse fate befel the
steamer Providence, which blew up just below
Menindie on September 9, 1872. Every man on
board was killed ; also a station-hand, who was stand-
ing' on the hank to see the steamer pass. A rusty
boiler lying on the bank, and hearing an inscription,
marks the spot. At another place the steamer Rod-
ney was burnt hv shearers during the big strike oi
1890 in retaliation for carrying “scab” wool. The
skipper had picked an anchorage for the night where
lie thought lie could not be boarded from the bank.
Jhe shearers, however, dropped on to his deck from
the branches of trees, drove him and all-hands ashore,
then poured kerosene over Ilie boat and let her go|
Gallagher. She drifted blazing down the river for
two miles before she sank. Though there were over
a score of men in the business, so loyal were they
to one another that Roche (now superintendent), who
spent weeks in the district, wasn’t able to “fix"
anybody.
* * *
"Devilfish": Some country people still
keep handy the snake-bite specific invented by John
Underwood, who was bitten tor the last: time about
50 years ago. lie thought nothing of letting ser-
pents gnaw him as long as lie had his antidote
handy. Old hands who knew him say no deception
was practised—that the vermin were real, sure-
enough poison-distributors. But one day he inter-
viewed a snake at Wattle Hill (Tas.) when he hadn’t
the remedy. r l he snake got his fangs in, and
Underwood went out. He had offered his specific to
the Tassy Government for a free pardon (he was a
lag*) and ,£2OOO, but there was nothing doing, lie
used to say that the plant he got his stuff from
was as common as thistles. It is generally supposed
that his seelet died with him, though some of his
relations claimed to have, it.
“Alamo,!" : “E.S.S." (R. 1 T/D/’ID) com-
plains of the northern bird jabiru having a strong,
fishy flavor. I don’t know how lie cooked them ; I
have had them fried, grilled, eutleted, made into
"beef” olives and “stuffed steak," hut have never
yet found anything fishy in the flavor. 1 find them
300 per cent, superior to tinned dog. Certainly,
I've never used anything but the breasts of the birds.
Apropos another yarn. I’ve never found any niggers
object to killing either jabiru or brolga.
Y\ errimee ’: Tim sidesaddle is disappear-
ing from the hush without regrets. At one time
almost every woman had a riding-habit in her ward-
robe and a side-saddle in the harness room. Women
rode a lot more than they do now, and if the sensi-
ble and attractive bifurcated style had been in vogue
they would have ridden still more and with less
trouble, 'the horse was the principal means of loco-
motion in the country. Distances were far between
places, with no roads or merely bush tracks to travel
on. So when the missus
went visiting she had to
ride, often carrying a baby
on her knee. Shopping-
entailed long journeys.
Sometimes her bush lady-
ship went alone, starting
away at daylight and re-
turning some time in the
night. There were slip-
rails to put down here and
there on the way, and
after dismounting at these
she would remount by
means of a log or stump.
If no s.uch friendly aid
was at hand she led her
horse alongside the fence
and sprang into the saddle
from the bottom
rail. This was not
a simple accom-
plishment when
she had parcels
strapped in front
and at the side of
the saddle, and
perhaps a bag or
basket in her
hand. When hubby
was working far
from the house she
carried his dinner
to him on horse-
back, and sickness in the family sent her gal-
loping many a journey by day and night. How
or why she stuck so long to the side-saddle is a
mystery and a marvel.
“Morwong”: I put the starling on the
programme as a mimic. The plovers that came
about since the drought broke hadn’t been here
(Central N.S.W.) any time before the starlings had
their clattering note off pat. I don’t know if the
dusky bird is an all-round imitator; but for repro-
ducing the plover’s song he takes the bun. As a
destroyer of fruit he also takes a bun—and the
orehardists’ curse. And as a destroyer of ticks in
sheep he takes two buns—and the stud ram’s blessing.
THE POLICY OF HIS RACE.
RACHEL: “ Isaac says he vas under fire for fire days."
JACOB: "Does lie say vhether he vas insured?"
“Silas Snell": Private Mills was an item
of unusual interest in one Victorian military camp.
In conformation he was rather short and dispro-
portionately wide, and had the non-combative expres-
sion of a poddy calf. His hair was the color of
green ginger, and he waddled in his walk, and
everybody wondered. Within a week he was the
recipient of the impolite attentions of the whole
company. The rude soldiery christened him Milly,
and set about making Iris life a burden to him.
But it seemed that nothing would stir Private Mills
past a pout, or a petulant injunction like, “Now, you
just stop it!” He stood so much in the way of
minor aggravation that the men put it about that
when “Milly” found a Turk insinuating a bayonet
into his midriff he would say: “You just dare, and
I’ll box vour ears!” But even the worm will turn,
and a sheep has been known to bite the hand that
bled it. Tt was at the evening meal. Private Mills
had had a trying day and was fatigued, 'and his
brothers-in-arms were unusually aggressive. The
climax came when Private Hoskins smuggled several
wholly irrelevant and suspicious bones into the plate
of stew with which “Milly” was dealing. This was
too much. He hurled his plate of stew into the
hair of Private Hoskins. He hit Private Brown with
another plate. A third dented in the bridge
of Corporal Jackson’s nose, and a salt-cellar put
Private Coon to rest. Then for nearly five minutes
he held the squad off, showering' helpings of hot
stew on his persecutors. A lieutenant who dashed in
to quell the riot was knocked over with a pewter
ladle. The shocking insubordination ended in shame-
less hysterics. She was removed from camp at the
earliest possible moment, and is once more a civilian
occupied with domestic duties. Her dexterity in the
employment of culinary utensils and table-ware for
purposes of offence cleared up all doubts concerning
her sex. But nobody can explain how she passed
the examiners, if she did. The general impression
is that she substituted herself for a male Mills who
funked it after the medical rule had been over him.
But everything is possible in a democracy.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: It is dawning on me
now that at home over yonder I was a pampered
animal, and much too particular about grub. Since
I have been wandering around South America many
kinds of food which Australians would regard as well
over the odds have become acceptable. For instance,
horse, mule, donkey, llama and ostrich (rhea) meat,
fresh or jerked, tastes good now. Frequently I have
got away with armadillo, which eaten cold with
hot pickles is Al. Some of the smaller monkeys
come in handy if there happens to be any Cliili
pepper about. Dogfish, octopus, frogs and snails,
cooked with the proper fixings, are grateful and com-
forting. Also much green stuff, including thistle, is
slicked up with vinegar, oil, pepper and garlic, and
converted into salad. Take it from me that if the
Austral sybarite who turns up his nose at a yard of
ccuta and a wil’ rabbi’ was up against what the
outback S. American has to deal with he would find
a way of waxing as fat as the disrespected exponent
of . Yes-No, even if he had to do it amongst the
spinifex or button grass.
“S. >S. Severn” : Smitliers, up in the
Territory, owns the dog and wouldn’t swap him for
a duke’s war experiences. When the after-meal
smoke at the hotel is about finished he says to his
pal, “Bring me my hat,” and the hat is picked out
from amongst many others and brought. Or, “Get
mo a cigarette,” and the cigarette-case is sought.
Sometimes the boss wants a particular pair of boots,
and those boots are correctly sorted out. Once
Smitliers was pinned down by a fallen tree. Three
days he lay in torment close to a creek. Several
times a day the dog took his master’s old felt hat
down the steep banks and filled it with water. By
the time it was dragged back there wasn’t much
water in it, but enough to keep the injured man
from dying of thirst.
ONE COMFORT.
FIRST AVIATOR (to second ditto): “ There's
one thing about this sort of rain. It
may go through you but it doesn't wet
you!"
“Billy Blinger”: Passing the argument
as to the fuel qualities of giolya, can anybody give
me the address of a timber to beat it for posts? Put
sound gidva up and ram them well, and I’ll guaran-
tee that at the end of 30 years they will still be
there as good as the day they were erected. Gidva
will not rot nor fall down, and weather has no effect
upon it. Best of all, the white ant after a one-course
meal on it has to consult the nearest travelling den-
tist. There is only one fault to find with it. Jt is
apt to split. But it takes a beautiful polish. In the
School of Mines, Charters Towers, there is a fine
range of it that has been French-polished, and it
takes some beating.
(Continued on page 2J/J
FRUGAL McDOUGAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
McDougal has a dairy herd.
Maybe ye ken the Donga 1 moil ?
If na, I'll lia’ ye tak’ me word
Ne’er has the goodly sun shone on
A mon more frugal than the same,
Nor a lie more carefu’ in liis hame.
Of coos Mao lias guid eiglity-three,
And muckle water on the land;
M hen drought cam’ doon on ithers he
Fared lightly under Heaven’s hand;
Wi’ milk, and butter, and a.’ sich
McDougal grows exceedin’ rich.
Arid noo on liis fat land ye’ll find
A’ flockin’ to the milkin’ pail
A herd of coos of ivry kind,
And no coo gangin’ wi’ a tail!
Aye, o’ the eighty-three there’s nane
Wi' inch o’ tail to ca’ her ain.
Ye’ll wonder at the strange mishap
Has reft the milkers one and a’.
One morn the canny Donga 1 chap
(For butcher's meat was high the day)
Cut off the tail o' red and broon.
They brocht.jour bawbees each in toon!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


HALL’S, The Leading Home Furnishers
Furnish the Home for £B7/10/“ in Solid Oak.
mm
w
fgyp6»B
if
an
m
mm
1«
M
El
mH9m
r
f 5
m
*»***
48
THE LIVING ROOM (Photographed).
WRITE FOR OUR LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE and FURNISHING ESTIMATES.
hfd
h
AH ALL &CO
Wv
msmmmmmm
"To Soothe with Sweet Melody/'
To rejoice in the uplifting and refining influence of music is an
experience and a privilege all may know.
But you must have an instrument capable of interpreting to your
senses the highest standard of musical expression and delightful
harmony.
And such an instrument is now well within your reach.
The ‘ALLISON" Pianos
are superb in those features that appeal
to the artistic taste of music lovers.
Exquisite in tone and superior con-
si ruction, with a delicate touch that
gives the performer every facility in
producing a most wonderful range of
tone gradations.
Their special construction makes them
adapted to all climatic changes. We
invite you to inspect them.
A New
Shipment
of these
Renowned
Pianos
Just
Received.
English-made Pianos
If you cannot call we will
forward you our Catalogue.
The British Pianoforte Depot, Ltd.,
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
2 /-
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
pEGA'I,
fdh
10-inch
2/-
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
THIS MONTH’S NEW RECORDS
SUPPLEMENT No. 11.
Ask any Dealer to play over
Record G6895-“IN THE HEART OF THE CITY THAT HAS NO HEART."
Insist on REGALS.
Kinjf’s Military Band-
06885
f March: To Arms: Soldiers of
I tile King; and Here We Are
I Again.
I.March: Johnny O’Morgan.
G<>BB t War Marching Songs —lll 2 Tarts
Introducing: Part I.—Cheer Toys.
Cheer; Tramp, Tramp. Tramp; British
Grenadiers; Loch «Lomoiid; John
Brown’s Body. Part 2.-John Peel:
When Johnny Comes Marching Home:
Girl I Left Behind Me; The Camp-
bells Are Coming; Auld Lang Syne.
King’s Military Kami (with Vocal)
988!)?)
( Sussex by the Sea March.
The Flying Fleet March —King s
( Military Band.
Win. Thomas, Tenor, and Chorus —
06887
f Sussex by tlie Sea.
Nothing; but Boys in Khaki by
l tlie Seaside —Stanley Kirkby.
Stanley Ivirkby, Baritone —
(J6BBB
f Patriotic Patrick Uuldoon.
Sing a Song about a Sailoi —
i. F. W. Itamsey.
GGB9O
, We’re All North-Country Lad
anil Lasses.
I’Twas an Old-Fashioned Song.
Harrison Latimer-
<;G881
i Only One of tlie Toys,
ilf England Wants a Hand.
John E. Meyer, Baritone
G 6891
(■Break the News to Mother.
When Bid You Write to Mother
l Bast? —lrving Gillette.
I'. W. Ramsey, Comedian —
G(>88!)
( Some Little Girl Named Mary.
( Follow the Sergeant.
Van Epps’ Banjo Orchestra —
(56893
\ Thanks for the Lobster.
I My Hindoo Man.
The Temple Quartette
G 6893
( Shall We Gather at the Rivi
\ Jesus, Lover of My Soul.
Craig: Campbell, Tenor —
G 6894
I Asthore.
I A. Dream.
Irving (iillette, Tenor-
G 6895
(You Planted a Rose in the
I Garden of Rove.
I In the Heart of the City that Has
l \o Heart.
Will <). Patten, Patter Comedian-
(>6896
f Tlit* Policeman on the Point,
t Our Hotel.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Etc!.. Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND. N.Z.—Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., M akeheld A Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.—Webley Sons and Colton, Ltd., :.lo High St.;
DUNEDIN. N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


ACTRESS TELLS SECRET
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair and
Promoted Its Growth with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview, made the following state-
ment : Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum, a small box of Orlex Compound
and -|oz. of glycerine. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until it
becomes the required shade. This will make
& grey-haired person look 20 years younger.
It is also fine to promote the growth' of hair
relieves itching and scalp humors, and is
excellent for dandruff and falling hair ” [1
Buy Direct from the Manufacturer,
and Save 25 Per Cent.
fdh
fd
hfd
hfd
Add exchange
to country
cheques:
Victoria, 6d;
1/- Inter-State.
Our Illustration is in Glace Kid or Box Calf. Fair
stitched to heel, on an up-to-date Anglo-American
Model. This is an Ideal Country Boot, with an
appearance fit for a Prince or a Premier. At the price
—l6/6 Carriage Paid—it is the Best Boot Value
being offered in the Commonwealth.
Send To-day for Full Illustrated
Catalogue.
HY. HARRIS,
50 McKean Street, N. Fitzroy,
... MELBOURNE.
•FOUNDED-1888
PHILLIPS • ORMONDE&O
Consu/r/np Fnf/nccrs, PcrAz/i/-rt/for-nevs
one/f?pcnA3 • I7QUEEN gT
MELBOURNE
For PATRIOTIC DISPLAYS
HIRE YOUR COSTUME FROM
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY
COSTUME CO.
whose characters are handsomely and completely
finished in every detail, whether dressed for FANCY-
DRESS BALLS, OPERAS, PLAYS, AMATEUR
THEATRICALS, CARNIVALS, or CHILDREN’S
FAIRY PLAYS.
Ladies’ Hairdressing and all kinds of hair work,
wigs, beards, moustaches, grease-paint, and make-up
materia] at
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO.
1.0.0. F. Temple, Elizabeth Street
(opposite Mark Foy’s), SYDNEY.
“J.R.K.”: Gentlemen, Jack Quirk, pick
and shovel artist and champion muckshifter! In
eight hours he broke per pick and shovel 10 yards
of stiff red clay soil for embankment work ; and he
will throw down the pick and jump on his best hat
if he can’t dig, in the same time, a trench two
HE KNEW SOMETHING.
TEACHER: “What! Forgotten your pencil
again! What would you think of a
soldier going to war without a gun?"
JOHNNY : “ I'd think 'e was an orficer."
chains long, 4 ft. wide, battered down to Ift. in the
bottom, same in depth. He is 14st. of the best
Australian, and any further particulars can be had
on application at the Front, for which he was
leaving when I last saw him. If he hits a Turk
with a pickaxe you’ll hear the echo at King Island.
THE CERTAIN FATE OF DINNY.
"Cowards are the Ryans, Mrs. Murphy? An' what would yes be sayin' did I tell yes me
bhoy Dinny yesterday wint for a soldier!”
“What wud I he sayin, is it, Mrs. Ryan? Faith, nothing—ewcipt that onless the soldier
leas paralytic drunk yer bhoy Dinny he either in the hospital or the morgue!"
“Te Whare” : Old-time Maori feasts some-
times opened with an extraordinary hors-d’oeuvre.
This is the recipe. A few green peaches and onions
chopped small, some cooked potatoes and kumera,
some tawara stalks scraped fine and beaten to a pulp,
the brains of a pig, and a little lard or oil. Mix the
ingredients well together and knead into a paste with
the hands. Add some tupakihi juice. Kumera,
tawara and tupakihi are native plants and berries.
Sweeten the mass with sugar, and eat cold. This
dish is not suited for dyspeptics or infants under six
months. Eels cooked in their skins by smoking over
a very slow fire piled with green leaves often fol-
lowed. This method of cooking them preserved all
the fat and rich juices, and the swamp fruit was
ready to be eaten on removal of its skin.
* * * *
“Billy Blue”: The best way to raise
wattles is to gather seed from frees growing in the
natural state and propagate them in the garden.
There are many beautiful varieties now in blossom
which will ripen their seed before Christmas. The
seeds are not difficult to handle. The best method
is to put them into a cup, pour boiling water over
them, and let them stand for a few hours. Then get
some pots filled with light soil, place the seeds on
top and cover to the depth of half an inch. Seeds
have been successfully propagated after being kept
eight years, and Professor Ewart, of Melbourne,
records having in two instances germinated acacia
seeds 67 and 68 years old. Near Sydney one of the
best places to gather seeds of various acacias is the
Ham Common, near Richmond. At least half a
dozen varieties are to be found in that locality.
* * * *
Basio Kiri : I have two new cookie boys
(Papuans) who have never worked for a white woman
before, so all my culinary operations are quite new
to them. One day I made a boiled pudding, put it
in a saucepan, and told the boys to keep the water
on the bubble all the time. Presently one of them came
to me in a great state of excitement. “Sinabada, you
come along kitchen quick. That pudding he stand up
and hit lid belong saucepan all the time. I push him
stand up > he hit him again—what matter
with him?” The matter was that my pudding had
i lsen so much it was too large for the saucepan;
but I am sure the boys thought I was practising
black magic.
‘•Jay Pay”: “Viking” (B. 19/8/M5) asks
it the fox has been seen farther up on the map than
Nanango (Q.). Yes, a fine male specimen was killed
on Raglan station less than two years ago. Raglan
is close on 40 miles south of Rockhampton, on the
Brisbane-to-Rocky route.
“J.G.” : I was glad to see “F.H.” putting
in a word or two for Australian native trees as
gaiden plants (B. 2/9/’l5). He overlooked three of
our most beautiful gums, however —two varieties of
crimson-flowered, and a pink-flowered white-trunk
variety of ironbark. These three are about the most
beautiful of all. Among the wattles I think the
true silver-wattle is the best of the bunch. I don't
mean the Cootamundra, but the ordinary Victorian
vegetable, which grows into magnificent shape in
suitable localities. The most valuable tree we have
of the wattle family is the despised blackwood. It
is, as a rule, a shapely herb, and just now is a mass
of light yellow bloom. Experts in furniture-timber
say it will not be long before the blackwood will be
worth its weight in silver, though it is not thought
much of by cockies and other land-holders. But
then they, as a rule, do not think much of any of
our native trees. “F.H.” says that the bigger and
deeper the hole for planting the quicker will be the
growth and the finer the tree. This statement, how-
ever, may be a pitfall. Generally, it is a mistake
to dig, especially in land that has a hard, strong
clay subsoil. The holes collect and store up w'ater,
and when the tree roots get down a foot or two they
strike the stagnant moisture and are gradually poi-
soned. This is the cause of many trees dying after
making rapid growth for a year or two. It is only
in well-drained, rocky country that holes may be
sunk. The best way is to fire a plug or two of
gelig-nite or some similar explosive upon the spot
where the vegetation is to be planted. This loosens
up the ground all about, and does it quickly. Also
if you blow your head off you needn’t pay your
debts. Paying debts is a terrible nuisance.
“Pick” : Some humble seeker after know-
ledge asked in a recent Bulletin why a lyre-bird
does not repeat the call of the wonga, brush-turkey
and other common bird-neighbors. The answer is
simply because their language is not a part of his
vocabulary. The glib mimicry constantly attributed
to him is a delusion. His recurrent assortment of
cries is the same at all times—-a whine similar to
that of the black cockatoo; a screech like that of
the king parrot; then a whir and “.clock-clock,”
which is often attributed to mimicry of the sounds
made by a pit-saw and splitter’s maul, even though
heard in regions wherein sawyers and splitters have
never worked. The confused jargon of sounds which,
on the Tantawanglo mountain road, bullockies claim
as mimicry of their heated addresses to their teams
when hauling up the Long Pinch is common to every
lyre in every quarter of Australia. It is nothing
more than the bird’s own natural love-song, or the
outpouring of his Gott-strafe to the other fellow
across the gully.
* * * *
“Pard’n”: I support “Pick” (B. 26/8/T5)
in his statement re eels and their spawning habits.
They may prefer salt water for the business, but I
am convinced, authorities notwithstanding, that the
operation can be and is carried out in fresh water.
The upper reaches of the Endrick River, a tributary
of the Shoalhaven, quoted by “Pick,” teem with eels
of all sizes. About two miles below the Braidwood-
Nowra road-crossing and 10 miles above the junction
with the larger stream are the Beaulah Falls, where
the water drops 300 ft. sheer over the side of a moun-
tain, and there are no billabongs or other outlets by
which the worms could dodge the fall. Having
scaled this precipice hundreds of times, whilst fol-
lowing the nimble rock wallaby, I know its difficul-
ties. A centipede might negotiate it, but not an eel.
KEEPING IT DARK.
PADDY : “I was wondering, sor, if that extry
bit of work you give me is likely to any-
ways affect me pay?"
FOREMAN ( confidentially ): “No, Paddy, I
don't think you need fear. Anyhow, you
keep mum about it, and I'll not say a
word."
“Boronia” : They are not all cursed with
the importing habit when the question of street-deco-
ration is up for discussion. Busselton (W.A.), when
it decided to make its roads cool, shady avenues,
plumped for natives, with the result that to-day the
town has avenues which are things of joy. It beats
me why people who claim to possess intelligence
advocate the cultivation of trees which shed their
drapery and periodically present an appearance that
would make a dog shiver.
“Eddyson”: We were discussing the
eccentricities of the bull camel. “Talkin’ iv the
weemin,” said Flynn, “they’re surely a conthrary
’n' inconsistent sect. ’Tis their nature t’ be other-
wise, maybe, ’n’ certain I am Mrs. Waltlier Dunn
was bor-rn to it. Misthress Dunn is wan would
differ wid a stone figure iv Peace. Dunn bears wid
her two year ’n’ siven months, ’n’ then he goes fer
a mor-rnin’ walk, wid his bundle on his shoulther,
’n* in five years he’s niver returned, nor is Amelia
hearin’ a wor-rd iv him. Be this time there’s
annother would marry Misthress Dunn was she free
t’ contliract mathrimony, ’n’ Amelia’s disposition is
one iv risintmint agin the inissin’ man, who be his
absence is obsthructin’ her weddin’ march. ‘Sorra’s
me!’ sez she to anny neighbor is willin’ to listen,
‘but here ’m I a lone, poor woman, tied har-rd ’n’
close to wan is tin tousand miles away this min-ute,
’n’ onable t’ marry wid the good, true man John
Morgan be reason iv an absent husband is a
bla’guard bor-rn ’n’ bred.’ ‘Tush ! will ye be ca’m,
Misthress Amelia,’ sez the neighbor, seekin’ t’ con-
dole wid her. ‘He’s gone off, ’n’ there’s a blessin’ ;
for wan gone off fer three year ’r more is laygallv
dead.’ At this the grass widdy would put up a
wilder cry. ‘No, no, no!’ sez she. ‘l’ll have the
knowledge iv him dead whin I wed agin. Niver
will I be the widdy iv a man is live ’n’ well, what-
ever the readin’ iv the law. Dunn is the crawlin’
sort would dthrop in on a body t’ dishprove his
death. Oh, whirra, whirra! ’tis a sad woman I
am.’ There was niver a house fer a dozen mile
rGund she didn’t carry her throuble to ’n’ fill wid
her lamint ’n’ the black curses she put on Dunn fer
standin’ in the way iv her weddin’ wid Johnnie
Morgan. Then wan day, when she’s wailin’ on
Duggan’s mat, up comes Will Finny frim abroad,
’n’ sez he, ‘Walther Dunn, is it?’ he sez. ‘He’s a
dead man, ma’am, fer I seen the carpse iv him at
Bilbil, in the West, jooly identified, ’n’ I helpt the
buryin’ iv him. He’s dead, ma’am!’ ‘Dead!’ wails
the widdy Dunn. ‘Dead, ma’am,’ sez Finny, ‘ ’n’ jooly
certified.’ ‘Dead!’ squeals Misthress Dunn. ‘Me poor
Walther dead! Lor-rd iv Heaven pity me, a poor
woman, b’reft iv a lovin’ husband ’n’ ez good a
man ez breathed.’ She’s wallyin’ on the flure, ’n’
weep in’ that eopyis ’tis on’y the wide cracks in the
boards saves Duggan frim bein’ destroyed wid the
flood. Will the widdy wed wid Morgan now? Never
a bit! She’ll have wan year fer full mournin’, ’n’
six months iv a sort iv thransitory period. Maybe
’tis seven months afther the weddin’ Morgan is con-
vinced iv the mishtake he made. Wan day Amelia
is snortin’ ’n’ bemoanin’ in a cor-rner iv the kitchen,
when she looks up, ’n’ there, shtandin’ in the dure-
way, is Walther Dunn. ‘Dunn!’ she sez. ’N’ what
does Dunn do but turn away ’n’ run, convinced be
a few min-utes iv close observation iv the folly iv
returnin to his har-rd lot. Morgan is cornin’ frim
the bedroom beltin’ his throusers. ‘Dunn!’ he sez,
wid a shout iv joy, and he afthers him. ’Tis a great
run, one iv the greatest in history, fer, man, they’re
nayther come back yet. ’Tis said Morgan overtook
Dunn et Bunnyong there, ’n’ fit wid him ha’f a
day, ’n’ indeavored t’ take him home to the wife iv
his bosom. But sez Dunn: ‘l’ll niver go back alive,
but we 11 shplit the dif’rence, ’n’ you’ll come on wid
me.’ So ’twas decided, ’n’ these days Amelia Dunn
is lamentin’ the loss iv two bla’guards no Christian
body cud put up wid, ’n’ manewhile Dunn ’n’ Mor-
gan is mates wor-rkin’ a mine in Gi|>.„. n d, ’n’ the
bist iv frinds, bein’ brothers be marriage, ez Walther
puts it.”
OYSTEROPOULOS TO HIS LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tou are my leetle switheart sly,
My notty box-of-tricks :
Seex time you t’row da goo-goo eye
An’ get da supp’ for nix,
But when I try to steal da kiss
You laugh an’ say “No, not yit, Kris!”
By Kri’—you soon come once too oft,
An’ den I look de “jay”
(Jus’ as the bait look tend’ and soft
Before it catch da cray),
But no more ask you for da kiss ;
Instead I hand you bill, like this:
“Seex sleepless night; seex stews (in bowl);
Da flound’ that Speero shout;
T ree cup o’ coff’ ; da tortured soul
And one large bott’ of stout;
Oystair— enough to fill a cart;
A crayfeesh, an’ a broken heart!”
I read him to you—oh, ver’ calm !
Den snatch you up so deft,
An’ cuddle you wit’ right-hand arm
An’ kill you with da left!
Den howl an’ joomp an’ make a din
An’ t’row you in da oystair-bin.
An’ when I see you smash an’ bust,
I make my will, an’ cry;
Den sit in my own eaf’, like cust*,
An’ eat bad ovst’ and die.
So when you pull my legs joos’ pause,
An do a little t’ink—because
You are my leetle oystair stew,
ou are my leetle cray’,
1 got da tender stum’ for you,
More so than I can say;
Hut eef you do not he my wife
I kill you wit’ da oystair-knife.
VICTORIA.
AUGUSTUS BLOWFLY.


Model 80
5-Passenger Touring Car,
£.595
hfd
Model 81
Passenger Touring Car,
£.345
h
THE best and latest developments in
automobile design, co nstr u ct io n
and equipment are supplied in the
Overland.
The body is modelled on beautiful
stream lines, without a break. The
tonneau is large. The springs are long
and unusually flexible. The fenders are
crowned.
The Overland has die most advanced
electric lighting and starting system of the
two-unit type. Each unit is more efficient
than is a single unit performing two duties.
Ignition is by high-tension magneto
without batteries, independent of starting
and lighting.
o o
The instruments are most conveniently
placed in the cowl dash. The appointments
are complete and of high quality. The
Overland is built in the Willys-Overland
factor}/ —the largest motor-car plant in the
world. Thus we know that every part is
made as perfectly as finest materials, most
expert workmanship and most efficient
machinery can make it.
Intending car purchasers are urged to
see the highly-developed Overland at the
local showrooms.
Silent, powerful motor
Instrument board on cowl dash
Individual front seats, high backs
Tonneau, long and wide
Genuine leather upholstery, deep & soft
Windshield, rain-vision, ventilating type,
built in
Crowned fenders
Electric starter—Electric lights
High-tension magneto
SPECIFICATIONS—MODEL 80.
Thermo-syphon cooling
Five-bearing crankshaft
Rear axle, floating type
Springs, rear, % elliptic, extra long,
underslung
Wheelbase 114 inches (289.56 c.m.)
Large tyres, 35 x 4% inches
Beautiful dark-green body finish, with
ivory striping; nickel and aluminium
trimmings
Demountable, detachable rims—one
extra
Right-hand drive
Electric engine starter and generator;
electric head, side, dash and tail
lamps; storage battery; mohair top
and top boot; top curtain box; wind-
shield; speedometer; electric horn;
robe rail; foot rest; tyre-carrier in
rear; full set of tools; tyre-repair kit.
jack and pump.
AUSTRALIA :
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
THE CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., 45 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., 60 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., 1056 Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
NEW ZEALAND:
HATRICK & CO., Wellington and Wanganui.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OP. ASSOCIATION, Christchurch.
MODEL 80
Manufacturers of the famous Overland Delivery Cars.
Full information on request.


A Dainty Fabric for Dainty Folk
A COTTON VOILE—so soft—so clinging—with an air of fairy lightness
that seems to breathe the very spirit of Summer. This is Grafton
Cotton Voile, the deligh'ful fabric with an irresistible appeal to dainty
ladies of refined taste. Delicate and yet withal so serviceable—for it is an
ideal washing material —there are many, many designs charming alike or t eir
simplicity and artistic colouring. In every case fast colours are used, as aso
in the special range of plain art shades, tor
which the demand is seemingly unlimited.
's;
«; ,
p
■■ UN
ih
*e r
Grafton’s Cotton Voiles
are
ALL BRITISH-
made by British labour.
A LARGE
VARIETY of
DESIGNS and
COLOURINGS.
27 inches widel j 4
„ „ 1/10
40
W|h*
Obtainable also in a beautiful range of plain colours,
40 inches wide.
ALSO IN PLAIN WHITE VERY SERVICEABLE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Although we have hitherto freely
sold our Voiles in Australia it has
come to our knowledge that other
makes of Voiles have been sold as
“Grafton’s.” When buying Voiles
in future insist on seeing
“GR4FTON” STAMPED ON THE SELVEDGE.
9
Obtainable from all the leading Drapers.
The Perfect Washing Material for Day and Evening Wear
TO “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
Ti-ib Motor in Australia, 1C Pitt Street, Sydney,
pays standard price for motor, motor-bike, aero-
plane or motor-boat'jokes for illustration.
V ~j-Vv-V- '■ 'i;V*.'- fc; ]
~"'3 ‘ *’>
m
*
19
:-j
<S&f
OST
OH
&
7V<J>
*
bmsstfW
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
txjvuna
Cures
ECZEMA
Testimony of Mr. M. J. Hassett, Hotel Sydney, Pitt St.
Sth Jan., 1915.
It i* with a feeling’ of deep gratitude that 1 write
to tell you of the relief T got from using your valu-
able remedy. I have been suffering severely tor
some time with Eczema. I got treatment from two
doctors, several chemists and several patent medi-
cines that were recommended to me. They all failed
to cure me. I was eventually recommended to try
vour valuable skin cure. I got relief a F ter the first
application, and now .1 am very pleased to say com-
pletely cured. I have very great pleasure in recom-
mending your valuable skin cure to any person who
may he in need of it.—Yours truly, M. J. HASSEI I.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, or by
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. 13
The Inky Way.
“Poon Boon’’: The lino, gets its kick in
even among the bursting shells. A country
editor in N. S- Wales found himself declaring
with great emphasis the other day that “if
Russia could only equal Germany in its out-
put of musicians, the war would soon be
over.”
“Kodak" : This is liow the true course of
modern journalism seems to run: —
CONTINUED SUCCESS OF RUSSIAN OFFENSIVE.
Petrograd, Sunday.—On Linden, when the sun was
low, all bloodless lay the untrodden snow; and dark
as winter was the flow of lser, rolling - rapidly.
INDIGNATION IN BERLIN.
Copenhagen, Monday.—-The Wolff Agency denies
the Russian claim that the lser is now rolling
rapidly and the snow has not been stained with
blood.
STATEMENT BY THE CZAR.
Petrograd, Tuesday.—ln a message to the Duma
the Czar has expressed his gratification that the
lser is now rolling rapidly, and that the snow is
bloodless. All German statements to the contrary
are regarded as fabrications invented for the encour-
agement of nations that are still neutral.
THE ISER QUESTION.
Speech by Lloyd-Geokge.
London, Wednesday.—-After the adjustment of the
fourteenth dispute with the Welsh miners, the Mini-
ster for Munitions said that there certainly was a rift
in the black clouds. Lord Kitchener had that morn-
ing received official news from Petrograd that .the
lser undoubtedly was rolling rapidly. The state-
ment was received with loud cheers.
CRITICAL STAGE OF GERMAN OFFENSIVE.
London, Thursday.—Mr. Hilaire Belloc, the noted
writer on military subjects, while lecturing last night
at the Naval and Military Club, pointed out that the
swift-flowing lser, now reported to be rolling rapidly,
would certainly check the further advance of the
German right wing. The fact that, the snow was all
bloodless showed that no heavy fighting had taken
place. He regarded this as a sign that the Germans
were being forced to conserve their men. Probably
the generals were chary of using the new and inferior
troops under winter conditions.
[The good news about the lser (for good news it is)
should encourage the Grand Duke to bring his long
retirement to a close. As (jointed out in this column
last Tuesday, Hindenburg dare not risk the crossing
of the rapidly-rolling lser, both banks of which are
precipitous and thickly wooded. The gallant river
folk are pro-Slav to a man, and if the river became
impassable a German advance would be an extremely
risky business. Our readers will remember that we
anticipated the flooding of the lser last week. The
first storms are now due, and Hindenburg, if he is .
wise, will now go into winter quarters. On the
other hand, if he elects to stay where he is (though
owing to the meagre information available nobody
knows his position precisely), he will leave the
advancing Mackensen’s flank exposed. Then, of
course, Mackensen, like the prudent marshal we
know him to be, may have elected to delay his
advance until the lser ]
Weary Reader (throwing down the paper) : “Oh,
d —n the lser! If Mackensen's flank is exposed, I
hope the Grand Duke has him arrested for bathing
in a public place!”
Robert Smart, just dead in South Aus.,
landed in the Wheat State from Glasgee in
’39 at the age of 12. A few years after-
wards he happened to be along North Ter-
race. Adelaide, where the Institute now
stands, when a double execution was taking
place. Later on, he witnessed the public
stringing-up of the bushranger Sfagg. Before
Stagg got on the wrong end of the rope he
strenuously maintained his innocence of the
crime with which he was charged. After-
wards a policeman confessed ; but the Law
didn’t go into mourning, as it had meanwhile
discovered that the poor bushranger had once
wrapped a man in a bullock hide and burnt
him alive. During one period of his career
Smart went gold-seeking at Forest Creek
(Vic.). Overlanding from Adelaide lie and
his party were set on near the Ooorong and
threatened with annihilation by a tribe of
blacks. The advent of another and well-
armed expedition saved them. Quest for the
yellow metal proving fruitless, Smart went
seeking literals, etc., as a reader on the
Adelaide Observer. He was there GO years
before initialling his last revise.
“J.F.”: Keep a sharp look-out for first
editions. They are sometimes worth picking
up. The first edition of Robert Louis
Stevenson’s defence of Father Damien,
printed in Sydney, was published at a shil-
ling, and is worth £2l now on the London
market. There must be some copies still
knocking about Australia.
* * * *
“J.F.H.”: The latest London journal to
hoist signals of distress is Notes and
Queries, a unique weekly which for 06 years
has specialised in the collection of out-of-the-
way information and in satisfying the curi-
osity of inquisitive people all over the world.
Its GO volumes constitute a really valuable
reference library, by reason of the multi-
plicity of topics treated and discussed by
experts in every land. Australia has always
had prominence in its pages. J. F. Hogan
is probably to be credited with the greatest
number of “Notes” on subjects relating to
the kangaroo and his relations. Dr. Deeper,
of Trinity College, Melbourne, has been a
frequent contributor. Marcus Clarke and
David Blair were old-time Melbourne corres-
pondents. Away back in the ’7o’s a
“Bibliography of the Australian Drama” was
started, and for -several successive weeks
lists of plays written by Australians and pro-
duced in Australia were printed. On this
foundation somebody ought to build up a
complete, up-to-date catalogue. It is a work
that will need much careful research among
dusty newspaper files, but it ought to be
done. Notes and Queries has so many old
friends all over the world that it is not
likely to be allowed to drop out. The
announcement that it is being carried on at
a loss owing to decline of sales and advertis-
ing revenue, the bitter fruits of war, will
doubtless result in a rally to its relief.
* * * *
Veteran Australian poet George Gordon
McCrae is complimented by London Times
on his latest volume of verses. “lie has
the instinct for cadence; through all his
poems there beats a true rhythmical life, and
he writes always with strength and sin-
cerity.” It is added that the book is very
interesting on personal grounds, because “Mr.
McCrae is a survivor of the chief literary
confraternity that Australia has known,
which had its home in Melbourne in tin' ’GO’S,
and included Adam Lindsay Gordon, Marcus
Clarke and Henry Kendall, and his new col-
lection of poems is worthy of his literary
tradition.” In an old Melbourne magazine
there is an article by the late James hhi'S"
stem, author of "The Australian Abroad,
who was a member of this literary coterie,
describing their meetings and doings m
Dwight’s bookshop at the top of bourlm-
street. . *
“The Wanderer”: Amongst those who
have found the last milestone at the Darda-
nelles is the Rev. R. Pittendrigh. ‘Bob
Bittendrigh graduated on the Moloug
Argus (N.S.W.), on which paper he
"served his time” ; then he climbed over the
“case” and fell into the pulpit. I worked
with him in the days when he snatched
type, and alongside him after he had changed
his clothes. As a Methodist parson lie
made hosts of friends in all denominations
—put bigotry under his feet always, appre-
ciated a good man no matter what color lus
religion, lived a big-hearted Australian, and
died an earnest patriot, who, when lie could
not go with the troops as a chaplain, went
gladly as one of the rank and file.
“Billet”: Let three cheers for Maoriland
pressmen ring through the Inky Way. They
are responding finely to the call for assist-
ants in the argument with Turkey, and many
offices will soon be seriously short-handed.
When last heard of the Auckland Herald
was on the lookout for five men. Swiney,
late Wellington Times, and Walsh, not long-
back from a tour of the world, await their
marching orders. After a hard tussle witli
the military authorities. Michael, of the
Wellington ■ Dominion, has been accepted.
At first they were up against his eyesight,
and at one time his ease threatened a news-
paper controversy. He scored by going to
Auckland, where he was passed. Edwards
and O’Brien (Dominion) have enlisted, and
others on that paper are making nronara-
tions to set away. Redmond and Withel
(Wellington Times) and Burn and Horn-
blow (Wellington Post) have ' either
swapped pens for bayonets or are preparing
to do so. And there are others.
FIGHTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
This is my principality, my realm,
My empire ; and when cables flash the news
That Cossacks on the Eastern rivers lose,
Or French’s armies on the West overwhelm
The Teuton hosts, I feel that others know
Something of what it is to face a foe.
1, editor of the Alfalfa Stab,
Have had to fight for every inch of ground
I hold hi public favor, and around
Me still howl furious the dogs of war,
W'ho'd tear me limb from limb if they should see
The slightest sign of compromise in me.
There’s Toms the butcher. That man never fails
To plot reprisals. Brown the grocer, Grey
The milkman. Why? Because of old, when they
Were guilty found in court of using scales
And measures not according to the Acts
1 gave their names in full with all the facts.
I've smitten squatters who have sent their sheep
To eat the grass on travelling stock routes so
That their own paddocks would in greenness
grow ;
I’ve torn the masks from politicians deep
In personal intrigues for power and place,
And met their vengeance with defiant face.
Six hundred stanch subscribers stand by me;
They’re with me in the fine exploits of fire
That crackle through the skies of my desire,
Brimful of ardor and of loyalty,
I feci their inspiration, and I go
With all my wit and learning for the foe.
Betimes 1 feel like Major Dan, whose band
Of just six hundred braves drove Austria s hosts
Down from Cremona’s gate, and wrecked their
boasts
Of strutting round as rulers of the land.
Betimes I cry, “O Major Dan, wc know
That ’tis to fight and beat a stubborn foe!”
.Viil sometimes, too, another band I see,
The Light Brigade six hundred, and my breath
Stops short as 1 behold the Jaws of Death,
And fear the fate of my brave company.
But no! I quickly catch my breath again;
No blunder will disfigure my campaign.
This is my principality, my realm,
My empire, and when cables flash the news
That Cossacks on the Eastern rivers lose,
Or French’s armies in the West p’erwhelm
The Teuton legions, 1 feel all aglow—
We’re fighting, all of us, for all we know.
x.s.w.
E. LOWE.
CRYING FOR LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When lady poets cry for love,
And trousered poets do the same,
1 ask the Power that dwells above
Why it permits the curious game.
If they were brought together, say,
World singing love retain its glamor?
Or would they cease for one brief day
Their shameless advertising clamor ?
tvow is it love or is it cash
That sets their little hearts on fire?
O hearts that never burn to ash.
Which is it that'y°u most require?
AUSTRALIA.
D. CUPID.


6
4
/sj
y©
©
me ueri
TIIK same German firm has hitherto supplied thousands of
German pianos to Australians during many years.
\et German pianos and player-pianos are still actively
adveitised in Australia by the Anglo-German Agents, so that once
agmn your enemy will regain lus footing in Australia, once more to
establish lus spy system, and to use Australian money to prepare
his ultimate revenge for his present disappointment !
If you are thinking of buying a piano, will you come and inspect
foi yourself the Beale Pianos —made in Australia, your own country,
by your own countrymen ?
If you buy a Beale Piano you
will be actively assisting in provid-
ing a livelihood for nearly 500
Australian families, many of whom
have sent sons, brothers and fathers
to fight the Germans and their
Allies.
Just come and see the Beale
Pianos you will be delighted with
their qualities in every respect.
Mr. Octavius C. Beale,
founder and present con=
trolling Director of this busi=
ness, was born at Mount
Mellick, Queen’s County,
Ireland, of an old Irish
family. The Directors and
Managers throughout the
business are all descendants
of British families for many
generations. There are no
Germans employed in the
business,and no supplies are
obtained from Germany.
<si
W m
©
Head Office & Factories: Trafalgar & Nelson Streets, Annandale, Sydney, N.S.W
Showrooms:
136 Liverpool Street, Sydney
George Street, Bathurst
Fitzmaurice Street, Wagga
273 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vi
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Flinders Street, Townsville
839 Flay Street, Perth, W.A.
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Argent Street, Broken Hill
Summer Street, Orange
Lismore
Kent. Street, Maryborough, Q'lanci
William Street, Rockhampton
Sydney Street. Mackay
Cairns, Q’land.


4-Cup Egg Frame and
Spoons, pure Silver-plated, em-
bossed border, gilt-lined Cups and
Spoons, 27/6.
Honey Jar and Spoon, pure
Silver-plated, richly burnished
Frame, Cut Crystal Glass, 12/6.
&
i s
Teapot, pure Silver-plated, hand engraved
and fluted, 32/6.
*53
m
a3Q
Sugar Scuttle anti Scoop,
pure Silver-plated, “Thistle”
design, 25/-
Nut Dish, pure Silver-plated,
pierced design, complete with two
pairs Nut Cracks, 30/-
Butter Dish, pure Silver-plated, white
glass lining, complete with Lid and Knife,
20/-
Specimen
Tube, pure
Silver-plated
Nickel Silver,
gilt lined,
richly
burnished,
ms
rm
Afternoon Tea Stand, comprising handsome Floral China Dish,
Sugar Basin, Cream Jug, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished, gilt
lined, 25 /»
Specimen
Tube, pure
Silver-plated,
on -Nickel Sil-
ver, gilt lined,
richly
burnished,
5/6.
mmuffSmSU
Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, hand-
somely engraved, £2/10/-
Presentation Folding Biscuit Box, pure
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, hand-fluted “Shell”
design, £5/12/6.
Cake Basket, pure Silver-
plated White Metal, handsomely
embossed, 25/-
Serviette Ring,
pure Silver-plated, en-
graved and embossed,
4/6.
$
m
Luncheon Cruet, pure Sil-
ver-plated, Nickel Silver, Cut
Crystal Bottles, 20/-
Oak Biscuit Barrel, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, richly burnished, with
Porcelain Lining, 30/-
807-817 George Street,
A. SAUNDERS,
Opp. Railway Station, Sydney.
* -
F)R the convenience of the man
who is many miles from the big
towns, we have Special Colt re-
volvers made to shoot the same car-
tridges as the Winchester Rifles.
This saves the trouble of having to
carry two kinds of Ammunition.
The Calibres are .32,
.38 and .44, and these
cartrdges are procurable .
in any little town
throughout the
civilized world
ONE
Cartridge
DOES-
m
-for
BOTH
rmra*
m
Catalogs.
Free
The PRICES of the REVOLVERS are-
. 32 cal. 4in. barrel £3; .38 cal. 5 14 in.
barrel, £6/15/-; .44 cal. 714 in. barrel,
£7/10/-.
.Winchester Rifles— Half or full Maga-
zine-Carbine length, 20 in. barrel, 67/6;
Full Rifle length, 24 in. barrel, 70/-
Alcock & Pierce
318 Lt. Collins
Street, MELB.
The EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
§l-==
I • •
SIZES;
1% hp.
2 hp.
3/4 hp.
Attached to the stern, the Evinrude
Motor makes your rowboat self-
propelling — an efficient motor-boat
with a speed of 8 miles an hour.
Its weight, 50 lbs., permits easy
transportation.
F Nine Governments use the
Evinrude Motor on rivers
and seas the world over.
Its adaptability and dura-
bility have appealed to
25,000 users.
Driven by Petrol (gasoline) at low
up-keep cost. Steered by the Propeller
—no rudder required, but supplied if de-
sired. Reversible; battery ignition or Magneto,
and automatic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
Write for Booklet illustrating and explaining the
many uses of this wonderful little motor.
H. A. GODDARD, 404 Queen St., Brisbane; 82
Pitt St., Sydney; 376 Collins St., Melbourne;
Cliffe St., Fremantle; Remington Chambers
(opp. G.P.0.), Auckland.
3
I
/ •:)
9 (-}
m •• -
Do YOU fully realise what the
"UNIVERSAL” Machine does?
The “Universal” Drafting Machine
is adapted to all forms of drafting—architectural, mechanical, structural,
map work and surveys. Thousands are in profitable use in every civilised
country in the world. In Australia we have the Victorian Railways and
the leading Mining and Engineering Companies using them successfully.
You do better work with a Drafting Machine, because you are not repeatedly
distracted by handling and changing tools and watching their alignment. You
are thus able to concentrate your mind —put in your lines.just as fast as
you can think them out.
Besides the speed gained by concentration, the Drafting Machine saves 25 to
50 per cent, in time through mechanical convenience. Summed up, the Uni-
versal Drafting Machine takes the drudgery out of drafting, makes it quick,
easy, and —by giving you a chance to give more and closer attention to what
you are drawing—it improves the work.
We devote 14 pages in our Big, 532-page
Book of Engineering Tools and Supplies, to
the Universal Drafting Machine. If you
are interested and cannot call, write, men-
tioning your business, and the Book will be
Mailed Post Free.
554-66 and 582-88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.


There is Nothing Better than
Hearne’S !Tur h e™
fevlni
r V'V _
m
m
-^w//
V
$
y\^\
c \
*sa
*/*4
?r
z
O vO o
o\\u o
O o
i
o„ o o
v: ;(
y
a v.
3 t -
T-U^TT
W
'S S - v VS
1
l| s*qikm\tm tum
f
■• ” i
TM
<7
iw
12.
liiilu
i
?'\
m
in,
/i
snim-J k
for CROUPY CHILDREN.
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT SAFETY and the
UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does
NOT contain, and has NEVER contained, any poison or harmful
(.[rug's. It is very pleasant to taKe, and children taKe it readily—
even CLAMOR for it. HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE is
prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE who is a REGISTERED
CHEMIST with nearly 40 years experience. The
REPUTATION of and the DEMAND for HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE are GREATER now than ever.
It’s just the Finest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS, CROUP, and COLDS on the CHEST
The REMEDY with
the REPUTATION
Price 2/6 & 4/6 (double size).
The BEST is always the
CHEAPEST in the long' run.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your district
send direct to
W. G. HEARNE & CO. LTD.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices at
SYDNEY, N.S.W. WELLINGTON, N.Z.
One of the sins of the Defence Department is
i hat, while it has a fatal facility for muddling
things itself, it freezes out private experts
who would give it patriotic assistance. Early
in the war the N.S.W. Public Trustee offered
the military authorities his services, intimat-
ing that he was prepared to draw up soldiers’
wills free of charge, hold documents for safe
custody, collect allotments of pay, and per-
form other valuable services; and he sug-
gested that he should send an officer to the
camps to draft wills and so on. He sent
the officer along, and 500 men were fixed up.
Then the Defence Department turned its cold
shoulder towards him, and the valuable help
was withdrawn —so far, anyway, as the
camps are concerned.
“Gent. One” unwinds the red tape:—
A year or two back a poor beggar met his death
in one of the Mount Lyell mines, lie had a bit of
property in N. S. Wales, and a few odds and ends
and a matter of less than £5O in Tasmania. The
money was in the Commonwealth Savings Bank. A
sister took out letters of administration in N. S.
Wales, and in her simplicity asked the bank to pay
over the balance. She was told that the letters of
administration must be re-sealed in Tasmania. They
were re-sealed accordingly. One would have thought
it enough to produce these to the bank to be noted,
as is done every day of the week by other banks
and financial institutions, and that the administratrix
could then have drawn the money at her pleasure.
But such a simple process does not satisfy t V| e
Commonwealth Bank. It has a sort of probate juris-
diction and procedure of its own. The harassed
administratrix is required, in addition to re-sealing
the letters, to fill in forms giving much the same
information as was required by the Registrar of
N. S. Wales Supreme Court before he granted the
letters, together with a statutory declaration verify-
ing the same and a certificate of death; just as if the
Registrar did not satisfy himself that the man was
dead and that the sister was entitled to administra-
tion. She was asked, also, to state whether the
funeral expenses were paid, as if the bank could pay
them even if they hadn't been paid already. No
doubt there are regulations on the subject and they
must be complied with, but why is the official who
drafted them not set to some more useful business ? Or,
better still, let’s have Unification, which would give
us a probate good all over Australia; and then
there wouldn’t be all this humbug about re-sealing,
etc., with its attendant expense.
Sydney fishermen have a grievance in the
matter of bait, and they have asked the
Fisheries Department to frame a regulation
providing for the sale of the green prawn
by weight instead of measure. The nefarious
person who retails prawns, and usually gives
three half-pints when he charges for a quart,
naturally objects. He declares that such a
regulation would partake of the nature of
party legislation, and urges that nothing
should be done until the war is over. The
hilarious argument shows up the no-eonten-
f’oiio-r*nlitVs crv ’’n all its srlorv.
One of the triumphs of the Massey Govern-
ment (M.L.) was an Act by which the
gentle Maori could, by getting a coat of legal
whitewash, become “Europeanised,’’and then
dispose of his land with freedom from the
restrictions imposed on the Maori who re-
mained brown. It was a weird piece of legis-
lation, and several whitewashed Henares are
now rushing about looking for their land and
brandishing documents, and Royal Commis-
sions are inquiring into the transactions of
various Gents One, and the Supreme Court
is settling its wig firmly in position so that it
may clearly hear the evidence. In fact, the
whitewashing of Henare promises to call for
so many other whitewashings that a paint
famine is probable.
“Chinky”: This is from the Port Fairy
Gazette, and I take no responsibility for
it
That there are tricks in every trade is a saying
old and true, and truly some of the tricks played are
ingenious. At a dairymen’s meeting held recently in
the Victorian western district it was stated' that a
cow purchased for £l5, at a trial of her milking
abilities, g'ave milk from four teats, but had not
given a drop of milk.from two of them since. It
was then shown that milk could be pumped into a
blind teat as easily as air, and that this villainous
practice was occasionally resorted to by sellers. The
consequence is that if the buyer desires a trial he is
deceived as to the worth of the cow.
Is it a lie or an actual possibility?
“Mayne Stay” : “The Pariah” (B. 2/9/’l5l
makes one mistake in his good yarn of the
Empress of India beating the Jap boat from
Shanghai to Hongkong. She did it al’
right—hut she wasn’t built on the Clyde.
If Barrow-in-Furness could get hold of the
Scot who says she was, he would hear some
good, vigorous Lancashire. The three Em-
press boats built at Barrow for the Canadian
Pacific Co. have only been equalled for
beauty by the City of Rome from the same
builders. They are neater and better pro-
portioned—the two that are left—than the
Miltiades and Marathon, the last really
“shippy” boats of the Aberdeen line. So
Australians, who know what they are like,
may take it that the others are very good to
look upon.
REPENTANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The umber beer was glowing
In crystal glasses long;
The care-free air was flowing
With music, mirth -and song.
We feared not for to-morrow ;
“Oh, let the liquor flow I
Cash we can quickly borrow,
So let the money go!”
Alas! this is to-morrow,
And things—not I —arc tight.
And so I mourn in sorrow
The cash of yester night!
x.s.w.
HAMER.


HYQEIA
Shaving
Stick.
Face and
razor
agree
with
Hygeia
oil-foam.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing' you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
fdh
fdh
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size lOg x
Bs, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for (!/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Sin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester, England.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue,
Dave Smith, manager and trainer of
world-champion Les Darcy, hits off big
truths in neat epigram. lie writes: _ “An
athlete with & cold is like a motor with a
ckoked-up carburetter. Neither will go very
far. Free breathing is absolutely essential
to effective lung power, which, in turn, is
necessary to ensure physical staying power.
In training with Les Darcy, to keep my,
breathing free, and for checking the progress
of colds which I contracted. I have found
Hean’s Essence of inestimable value. In-
deed, I consider it is another world’s cham-
pion of which Australia may justly feel
proud.” Hean’s Essence is obtainable from
chemists and stores ’most everywhere, or by
post from the discoverer and manufacturer,
G. W. Ilean (pronounced Heen), chemist,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney; or Hean’s
Pharmacy, Wanganui, New Zealand. The
price is 2s. (if posted 2s. 3d.). No other
remedy gives speedier, relief in cases of
coughs, colds, catarrh, bronchitis, asthma
and other chest and throat troubles.*
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Argus says “Government interference
with the natural course of trade is folly.”
Yet the Argus is continually seeking to
interfere with the natural course of labor,
which is self-preservation. And, after all,
THE PLAINT OF THE AMATEUR.
Advices from Geneva state that the Emperor Francis
Joseph has assented to the release of 96 life-sentence
convicts, provided that they enlist for service at the
Front. — Cable.
AUSTRLAN OFFICER (bitterly): “Here ice are
capturing Russian cities full of rich
booty, and your Majesty goes and in-
troduces the professional, element. ”
the so-called “natural course” of trade is
purely artificial. The natural course of.
trade in England and here after the outbreak
of the war was one of spoliation, and Gov-
ernment interference lias been considered
necessary all along the line, otherwise there
was danger that the natural course of trade
would be the corse of the Empire.
Under normal circumstances the life of
the present State Parliament of Tas., in
which the Labor Government has an uncer-
tain majority of one, would end in Febru-
ary. But neither party feels very happy at
the prospects of a general election; and so
—strictly in the interests of the Empire, of
course—they are negotiating “to co-operate
in this time of crisis” and thus all stay com-
fortably in out of the wet.
“D.F.”: Now it is Japanese bran that is
on the market, and it is selling in Hobart
(Tas.) at lOgd. per bushel. On the strength
of this competition the millers have come
at the Government and are buying at 6s.
lid. per bushel wheat which it cost the State
Bs. to import from Argentina! Of course
the taxpayer makes up the difference. The
taxpayer always makes up the difference.
That is what he was born for.
A meeting of a couple of hundred people,
described as “working-class citizens,” held
at the Sydney Trades Hall last week, lined
up with the plutocrats of older countries
and formed an Anti-Conscription League.
Their colleagues, the plutocrats, will, how-
ever, smile when they read that this Anti-
Conscription League protests against con-
scription as a device of the “privileged
class.” The plutocrat knows better than
that. He is opposed to universal service
just because it abolishes a privileged class;
and these “working-class citizens” are mis-
guided enough to help him maintain one.
Fisher’s pronouncement against universal
service is another illustration of the gloomy
fact that the youngster doesn’t matter much
in Australia. Universal service applies to
him already; but he doesn’t count. The
principle was applied to him by Fisher’s
Labor Government, after a strenuous fight
with Percy’s superior parents. Now, when
it is proposed that the principle which
Fisher applied to the gosling shall be also
applied to the gander, it is some “working-
class citizens” who step into the shoes of
Percy’s superior pa and ma. Well, The
Bulletin hopes they feel comfortable. They
had better not talk about their democracy,
though. Their feet will give them away.
Some of the things that John Bull in his
hours of ease in 1913 bought from foreigners
and the value thereof: —
Iron and steel manufactures .. £16,232,000
Other metal manufactures . . 32,102,000
Cutlery, hardware, instruments 7,378,000
Machinery.. .. .. . . 7,283,000
Chemicals, dyes, colors . . 12,906,000
Yarns and textile fabrics .. 46,986,000
And when someone would occasionally ask
why the benefit of all this work could not
be retained to British workmen, he would
immediately be warned that Freetrade was
one of the great guarantees of international
amity, and it would be a crime to interfere
with it. Now all the amity that is going
could be sent through the post for Id., and
it looks as though presently you will
be able to put all the Freetrade that is left
in the same packet and then not make it
overweight.
No business has been much
harder hit by the war than
Westralia’s timber industry.
Want of ordets silenced some
mills, but increase in freights
have stilled far more. Before
Wilhelm* got loose jarrah could
be shipped to India for 255. a
load and to England at 425. 6d.
To-day the freight is 85s. and
£6 respectively, and hard to get
at that. So far about 2000
men have lost their old jobs;
and other jobs , are horribly
difficult to find, in spite of the
shipment of so many fine young
Westralians to a new milling
proposition in Turkey. Seeing
that in the past 10 years Westra-
lia has rushed up its public debt
from £6B to £lOB per head in
order to develop the great nat-
ural resources of the country,
it would be a fair thing to
expect that by now the great
natural resources would be sufficiently de-
veloped to absorb a couple of thousand men.
If a debt of £lOB per head won’t do enough
developing to provide employment for that
handful, the pro-borrowers might at least
say how much is needed. Will £2OO do it?
The Anti-Conscription meeting, held at the
Sydney Trades Hall last week, gave as one
reason why universal service should not be
gone on with at present “that the War Pre-
cautions Act prevents the workers from fully
discussing questions involved.” Certainly the
Act is a bit of a nuisance. But how it helps
the anti-conscriptionists, Heaven only knows.
What it actually does is to prevent very
definite reference to certain cogent reasons—
some hundreds of millions of reasons —why
Australia is more urgently in need of univer-
sal training than any other country on this
earth.
The South Aus. Parliament is going to
lose its Sunday-school certificate for good
conduct. Hitherto it has prided itself on
not mislaying its dignity or making “scenes”
as other ill-mannered Houses do; but this
season the air is full of pepper. Ex-Labor-
Minister Denny was, till he enlisted, one of
the keenest critics of Labor Premier
Vaughan; now Tommy Ryan, of the same
side, has taken up the running. On the
Education Bill —Ryan was chairman of the
Education Commission—he said, and re-
peated, that the Premier had broken his
pledges. “Do you realise the gravity
of the charge?” Vaughan asked. “Yes,”
said Ryan, “and I say it again.”
“Why don’t you walk over to the other
side?” his leader demanded- —which illus-
trates again the madness of the Party
arrangement. Just because Ryan dis-
approves of Vaughan’s attitude towards one
matter, Vaughan asks him why he doesn’t
cross the floor and oppose the Government
on a thousand matters.
Australia got an early illustration last
week of the sincerity of a lot of this “Never
again!” talk. In order to make sure that
the foreigner wouldn’t again handle our tin
ore, much of which has hitherto been bought
by a big German firm, an export duty ou ore
and concentrates was proposed. Instantly
there was a yell of protest—“No, no, uo!
If the export buyer is stopped, prices will
suffer.” -And there you have the whole
thing in a few words. “Never again” really
means “Never a loss.”
THE THREE FISHERS.
The Prime Minister still preserves a mysterious silence regarding George Reid's successor as High
Commissioner. —Daily paper.
In silence I keep the secret close, hut in fancy I view all three —
The Fisher I was, the Fisher I am, and the Fisher I’ll one day he.
Private “Bill” Denny, of the S.A. Assembly,
and formerly Attorney-General of the State,
was farewelled last week in Parliament
House by both Houses and both parties.
Responding modestly to the toast, Denny
told how as a soldier he had “started from
scratch,” even to sleeping at the Exhibition
Oval camp in the stall formerly occupied
by the prize merinoes of Lance Stirling,
President of the Leg. Council. But he
couldn’t go without a parting shot at Pre-
mier Crawford Vaughan, whose brother and
brother-in-law are also in the Ministry.
“If a member of the ruling family volun-
teered, it would have great effect upon
others. All were eligible, and one had no
family.” As it happens, the whole of the
Vaughan Ministry are within the military
age—probably a record for youth in office.
Maoriland’s Premier Massey hands the
Cold Hash Government a testimonial: “Since
I have sat in Cabinet with the former Oppo-
sition I find that our ideas on many ques-
tions are identical.” Precisely ! Yet if, “for
the sake of Empire,” they hadn’t cut up the
jobs, the Opposition would still be able to see
ruin in every Government proposal; and it
will be the same again when the war ends
and the Party scandal is restored.
It was explained last week to N. S. Wales
by its Premier that there was nothing wrong
in the State paying the exes, of M’s.L.A.
who patriotically travelled about the coun-
try urging Australia to roll up and fight.
Nothing wrong, perhaps; it is merely con-
temptible that the man who receives a
liberal salary and has a railway pass
dangling on his watch-chain should go
preaching upon the obligations of sacrifice
and civic duty and then ask the people who
are to make the sacrifice to pay for his
meals and drinks. The “patriot” who calls
round to announce that he will make one to
wake the manhood of the nation to a sense
of their responsibility in an hour of
national crisis, provided the nation foots the
bill for feeding him, is about the shabbiest
customer that has flitted across the public
vision for some days.
Gravediggers are now to be included in
Schedule 1 of the N.S.W. Industrial Arbi-
tration Act. These makers of unnecessary
holes in the ground were originally over-
looked, but amendments passed through the
Assembly the other evening set the matter
right. The new list includes some curious
additions, the most important being that
which tacks “clerks” on to vaudeville artists.
Unless the Uppish House cuts this out, a
long-standing omission against which the
Clerks’ Union has been fighting for seven
years will be rectified.
The struggle of Victoria’s Minister Uaeol-
thorn to push on “a policy of National Effi-
ciency” has at last led to something. He
lias arranged for a course of six lessons to
he incorporated in the school curriculum,
Six lessons ! Since national efficiency means
national avoidance of waste, The Bulletin
presumes that one lesson will he given to
each State, and to the sin of providing it
with a Governor, two Houses of Parliament,
a Black Rod, a Mace and all the rest of the
wickedly wasteful paraphernalia.
The voting on the second ballot for Wil-
loughby (Sydney) seat in the Assembly
showed, among other things, that there was
mighty little enthusiasm for the Holman
Government knocking about, and perhaps a
little less for Chambers, the Labor candi-
date. “Ted” Larkin won by a majority of
305 at the general election, polling 4908
votes. On Saturday Chambers could muster
no more than 2660, losing by 831. The only
possible conclusion is that Labor stayed
away from the poll with great deliberation,
impelled thereto by the muddle connected
with the original selection and by the fact
that you don’t vote now for the Labor plat-
form by voting for a follower of the N.S.W.
Labor Government. Also party has been
revealed in its most unlovely aspect during
the squabble, and the return of John Haynes
looks as if the electors had decided that any
old brick was good enough to throw at the
bedraggled institution as a token of dis-
respect and absent esteem.
Asked by a Trades Council deputation
at Melbourne last week to say what
the attitude of the Federal Government
was towards j conscription, Prime Minis-
ter Fisher seized the opportunity _ to
talk about “impudence” and “insinu-
ating lies” and the hardihood of anyone
daring to ask him to “make a negative state-
ment,” winding up the jangle of words with
the large, empty statement that the Govern-
ment would not do anything without consult-
ing the people. This was no reply to the
deputation. What Mr. Fisher and his friends
are not going to do is of minor importance
compared with what they are going to do;
and there are plenty of good reasons why on
the matter under notice the intentions of the
Government should be made as clear as, say.
the Prime Minister’s growing, vanity and his
vacillation. Under all the circumstances
the time seems to be more than ripe for
settling the little matter of the High Com-
missionership. That will probably clear
the atmosphere a little.
QUERIES FOR KITCHENER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 do not for one instant doubt that whatever
sacrifices may prove to be necessary to bring this
gigantic war to a successful conclusion they will be
cheerfully undertaken by our people.— Kitchener, in
the House of Lords.
Prithee, Lord Kitchener, tell us your meaning—
What are you hinting at, what are you screening?
What of the Turkish “demoralisation”?
Do you predict a collapse of the nation,
I >r merely suggest that its strength of resistance
Will need to be stiffened by German assistance?
Munitions and men (there’s the soft and the tough
of ’em) —
Tell us, straight out, have you got half enough
of ’em?
Russians and Servians, French and Ital-i-ans,
Are they destroying the foeman’s battal-i-ons ?-
l.‘o you maintain that rve freely can respirate
(Lloyd says' the plight of Great Britain is des-
perate) ?
All that you tell us we've read in the papers,
And talked of with barbers, and grocers and drapers ;
Ne’er on the ears of a keen lot of listeners
Fell words of wisdom much flatter than Kitchener’s.
If there’s a. 'Truth, and your colleague is blabbin’ it,
What shall we think of the rest of the Cabinet?
Give us a lead in our hope or misgiving:
Nerve us to die in defence of the living :
Pin yourself down to a definite statement
Touching the dangers that show no abatement.
What of conscription and “physical fitness”?
TTot out the figures that surely bear witness.
Tf daily the Huns break the laws-of humanity,
Do our old methods not smack of insanity?
What are your views touching gases and “fright-
fulness”—
Gan we still rectify wrongs with our rightfulness?
“Of course, we must win,” not a slacker can doubt
it;
This dictum we preach to the Huns —and they flout
it!
How long will their slaughter of babies continue?
is “morale” a matter of blood, bone and sinew ?
O War Lord, please give us the tip' that is in you.
What cheer? What proposals? In short, what about
it?
VICTORIA.
O. K.


dm s.ioavrq
Novels of
the Turf.
A few of the Sporting
Novels in the
EROS!
WIN
i
by “■
FAGAR
‘‘Bookstall" Series of Australian Books.
1 ./- each —All One Price —1/1 posted.
“WOLAROI’S GUP” by Ambrose Pratt
A first-class novel of the turf, which presents a Melbourne Cup winner in the
making, and describes in detail the methods adopted by owners, trainers and
jockeys. The story possesses a powerful love interest.
“EROS! EROS WINS!” by F. Agar
A story quite as exciting as its title indicates. It performs good service also
by r exposing much of the villainy practised by the unscrupulous.
“IN RACING SILK” by Gerald R. Baldwin
A powerful tale of the turf with a strong love interest.
“THE CALLING VOICE” by E. F. Christie
A charming and interesting bush novel, with an exciting racing adventure as
the outstanding feature.
“THE SPORT FROM HOLLOWLOG FLAT” by Arthur Wright
An exceptionally bright and entertaining novel by the most popular of Aus-
tralian sporting fiction writers.
“THE MARE WITH THE SILVER HOOF” by Bob Allen
“Easily the best racing novel that has come under our notice,” says the Sydney
Stock and Station Jouhnal.
AN IMPORTANT AUSTRALIAN COOKERY BOOK.
“INVALID & CONVALESCENT COOKERY.”
By KATE HARRIOTT.
PRICE 1/- Posted 1/1.
Miss Harriott lias had considerable experience in instructing trained nurses on the
subject of invalid cookery, and this volume consists of an excellent collection of tried
recipes. Sickness comes to every home, and the proper feeding of the sick being of
primary importance, no Australian home should be without this splendid volume.
Write to the Publishers for a copy of the just-published
SPRING 1915 “BOOKSTALL” SERIES CATALOGUE.
Ninety Splendid Australian Shilling Novels.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO
DO ABOUT INCREASING
You doubtless have a good location, a good shop,
good goods, good assistants and good customers.
Yet your net profits on the amount of business you
did last month were not so great as you had expected.
It may be because you lack the best method of taking
care of your money and your accounts.
If you can get such a method and increase your profits
it would pay you to do so.
Do you know all the sources of loss in your shop ? Do
you GUESS about them or do you KNOW?
THINK!
The more you know about your business the more
money you will make and save.
The National Cash Register Company
of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: 119 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
Branches in ail the Principal Cities.
Wear a
“Nothing
Suit.
They’re as cool as an Ocean
Breeze —really smart In fit —anti
tailored skilfully enough for the
most critical man.
So light (no linings) that we call
them “Nothing” Suits. So well made
that they won’t shrink. So durable
lliat they will even improve with
washing and ironing.
Ready-to-Wear—in three quali-
ties Tailor-Made from Tussorette —
a neutral or biscuit shade of Summer
Washing Fabric. Ideal suits for hot
days or Tropical Climates.
Coats have three patch pockets,
well-shaped shoulders and
fronts, loose facings and remov-
able buttons for washing.
Vests have four pockets, loose
facings and removable buttons.
Trousers have side pockets,
loops for belt, and are well
reinforced.
25/-, 27/6, JO/-
- Post Free.
Send measures: Chest (over vest). Tnside
Sleeve, Waist, Inside Leg:, Height, and
order your size per post. We pay freight
throughout Australia, and guarantee a
perfect fit and satisfaction —otherwise
money back on return of the purchase.
m
r
3h
o
evialAaa
Always Pay Freight
—Mail Order Tailors Etc
Corner Swanston nnd Bourke Streets
elbou r>n c
The British
m
m
I
I
Electric & Manufacturing C? L 1?.
4500 K.W. <i phase, 50 period, 480/530 V., 375 r.p.m,, self synchronising
rotary, with booster, for Melbourne City Council.
ROTARY Converters.
From 1 to 3000 Kilowatts.
The Aggregate Capacity of British Westinghouse Rotaries
installed amounts to over 500,000 Kilowatts.
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84 William Street, Melbourne.
New Zealand Agents: TURNBULL & JONES, Wellington, Auckland,
Australian agents: Christchurch, Dunedin.
WORKS—MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.


The war outlook justifies not the fatuous
optimism of over-confidence, but that wise
spirit of optimism which- inspires courage,
devotion and effort; as that of King George
IV. topnotch Scotch.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul.
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Eczema Cvuki>. —Mrs. Annie Benson, Marathon,
North Street, Leichhardt, Sydney, says:—“Ever since
one of my children was a baby she has had a large
spot of eczema on her neck. I have taken her to
doctors, and tried various remedies, but we could
not get rid of the complaint. A friend advised me
to use Doan’s Ointment, and I got this remedy.
The first application eased the irritation, and one
pot has completely cured her, I cannot tell you
how pleased we are that she is cured.” Doan’s
Ointment is sold by all chemists and stores at 2/9
per pot.*
GREAT BENEFIT.
DERIVED AFTER TAKING THE FIRST
BOTTLE OF DR. MORSE'S INDIAN
ROOT FILLS.
“Four years ago I was recommended to
try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, being
completely run down with general ailments,
particularly indigestion and constipation,”
writes Mrs. Harriet Shaw, of Mullcbah
Flat, Gunnedali, N.S.W. I am pleased that
I commenced with your remedy, as I found
great benefit after taking the first bottle,
and no medicine is so foremost in my house-
hold as a general family medicine. I re-
commended your pills to my friends con-
stantly. You may use this testimony for
publication if desired.”*
(gPILLfIRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
The me rits of
CAPILLARINE as a
true Moustache-grower
is placed beyond all
doubt by the testi-
mony of hundreds of
users. Use it for a
month. The im-
provement will sur-
prise you.
PRICE 10/6 JAR - POST FREE.
Craig & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
SPORTING NOTIONS
The A.J.C. Spring meeting, which opens
on Saturday at liaiidwiek, will give the infatuated
punter another opportunity of making up his war and
drought losses by picking winners and backing them
at the liberal odds habitually offered by the liar
Vons. Of course there is a hare possibility that
the demented person aforesaid may not pick any win-
ners and may “do in his brass,” but —well, if he
does, then he can go to the Front and Ikey will cheer
him on his way and be doing business at the old
address when he comes back again. But it looks
as easy as falling oft' a log to pick ’em this time,
is not Wallace Isinglass a moral for the Derby? And
was there ever a better thing saddled up than Woorak
for the Epsom? And have not many good judges
planked down their cash for St. Carwyne in the
Metropolitan ?
And vet there have been better things ill the history
of racing than any of these, and they have gone down
with a lieavv, resounding- thud. If Woorak would
gallop after the cash as hurriedly as he swings round
the track before breakfast, the winner of the Epsom
would be easy to find; but the brilliant little chest-
nut has a habit of getting tired under pressure, and
is therefore an investment calling for great faith
and much hope. Among the topweights Garlin and
First Principle look less risky; but anyone having
less than £5OOO a year free from income tax would
be calling tenders for trouble if he put more than
tuppence on either of them. Three Star, Flash of
Steel and Secret Service are just as likely to. be
(here or thereabouts at the end of the trip. It is a
very open race indeed ; but if the writer was obliged
on pain of being hurled into the fighting line to have
half a sovereign on something, he might summon up
enough courage to let First Principle do the rest.
Wallace Isinglass may win the Derby, but there is
mighty little to go on in this matter except that the
colt is a generous goer and an undoubted stayer. If
lie is well he will beat Cetigne. On recent running
that aeems certain. Where Gringo and Kanaos
going to be is another matter. Punters will “be
quite sure about that on Saturday evening, i ;
So |[ar as the Metropolitan is concerned there i_s no
more veason now to think that William the Silent
will b r last than there was before. St. Carwyne
bas be*n steadilv backed for this race, but neither
:it Roseliill nor at the Hawkesbury did he give any
justification for the trustfulness of the bettor. Colonel
Soult’s Hawkesburv form was very commonplace, and
his brotlier-Maorilander, Reputation, though a nice
little horse and a free galloper, hardly looks up to
(he mark.
* * * *
“0.K.” : Seems to me, at time of writing,
that nothing can be backed with confidence for the
two principal handicaps at the coming A..T.C. meet-
ing. 'The best chances on paper for the Epsom are
Garlin and the always, possible Woorak whose pluck
is a variable quantity. The odds against those re-
cently-proved fliers are too short considering the
hustling conditions of the mile scramble, although
Woorak is pretty certain not to get interfered with,
anvhow. And the odds against such as Amata and
Flash of Steed are not long enough. Until the
Spring Handicap form has been definitely sorted
out. and the strength of the imported animals is
fairly tested, punters should back nothing that
plainly isn’t well handicapped on its best perform-
ance, and has not been rushed to a short price. If
I had to back a gee every time it ran during the
meeting I’d take Flash of Steel.
Many an athletic event has been lost
through an apparently sure winner getting too far
ahead and throwing the race away by foolhardy
over-confidence, but it was left to a rider at the
Adelaide Hunt Club’s meeting the other day to pro-
vide an example of similar idiocy in a horse race.
Waltz Time, in the Novice Steeplechase, was so far
in advance half-way tip the straight that his amateur
pilot pulled him up to walk home. While this
item of swank was being performed another horse
slipped up along the rails and won easily. A formal
suspension of the gentleman jockey for six months
didn’t appease the wrath of the backers of his
mount. Appropriately enough, the winner’s name
was Silver Stole!
W. T. Ingersole, au old N.S.W. Western
District sportsman, passed the Judge last week, at
Kelso, aged 66. He was prominent on the turf in
days when the mighty Barb won the 1866 Melbourne
Cup and Sydney Cups of ’6B and ’69. Amongst his
legacies were five sons, nine daughters and a racing
record that St. Peter can safely recommend in intro-
ducing him to the Paradise Club.
3- V * "
Joseph Ward, Treasurer in the “National'’
Government of Maoriland, told the Representatives a
few days ago that additional taxation proposed on
racehorse owners’ winnings in M.L. would bring in
altogether £20,000 or £30,000 a year.
* * * *
“8.J.5.”: Private John Wren played it
low down on some of his cobbers when he enlisted.
Reminiscent of the old tote in Collingwood (where
John got his first lessons in strategy and the art of
making money) are the stray groups of punters
hanging about certain pubs. When the needs of
their bleeding country were pointedly mentioned
they said: “Blime, why ain't some of ther idle rich
goin’? Why don’t blokes like John Wren go to the
Front? When you see ’irn goin’, come back and
collect the push.” And then John turned dogl The
only excuse those plungers have now is that they
must stop behind and keep the game of improving-
horses going while he is away. .
“Jim Carraway”: Ever notice that in
nine cases out of 10 the winner of a hunting contest
at a country Show is a grey? The color does it. A
bay, chestnut or black nag- may be the _ best per-
former, but sentiment unconsciously carries weight
with the adjudicators. Hence the ’cute followers of
Shows are adding greys to their strings whenever
passable jumpers present themselves. Chatting with
one of the leading hunter-owners of northern Victoria
he said he had Buckley’s chance of winning many
prizes during the coming Show season, because his
rival had all grevs in his string.
-X- -X- * *•
Paddy Hannan, who appeared to have
some difficulty in inducing Bill Webb to step into
a shell and raee him on the Wanganui for the cham-
pionship of Maoriland and £2OO as a side-bet, had
no difficulty in being- well blown out. The contest
was pulled off last Saturday, and unless the cable
is a German news agency it was ail over after a
quarter of a mile had been rowed. The time was
19min. 15 4-ssec. —over, presumably, (lie course
(3 miles 440yds.) which Dick Arnst, pulling against
Webb, coyered in 18min. lfisec.
Adelaide’s picturesque river, the Torrens,
is a mere joke so far as boating is concerned, except
for a mile course in the heart of the city, where it is
dammed back into a lake. In flood-times daring oars-
men may try a dash upstream or down. “Joe”
Sharp, secretary of the S.A. Rowing Association,
claims the record both ways—upstream to Walker-
ville, two miles, and (just the other day) down-
stream to Loekleys, four miles, where ho upset
among willows, and had to return by road.
* -X- *
McGoorty completed the annihilation of
Harry Reeve, the English heavyweight, in the sixth
round at Sydney Stadium on Saturday, this making
the third scalp taken in successive weeks by the
hook specialist. McGoorty’s job called for no great
exertion. Reeve fought back gamely and took his
medicine bravely, hut he was altogether too slow for
the heavy-hitting Yank. At no stage of the disturb-
ance did Reeve look like having a chance,’ and the
wallop which spread him on the canvas probably came
as a relief. Against slow, indifferent boxers like
Murray, Bonds and Beeve the heavy punch of
McGoorty is a demolishing thing, and so long as he
goes on weighing-in eight hours before the contest
and has third-raters put up against him he seems
likely to set up a record as the most devastating-
middle-weight in the u-ni-verse. That he is not a
genuine middleweight is, of course, a mere detail.
By the way, a long rigmarole has been printed
lately to prove that Mr. McGoorty is a middleweight.
It ail boils down to this: In America on one occa-
sion a year ago McGoorty was weighed and regis-
tered list. 41b. ; and he was seen on scales in Sydney
and registered list. 61b. The evidence concerning
the verdict given by the ’Murkan scales is not woith
consideration, because the point is not what McGoorty
weighed 12 months ago in another country, but the
poundage he is prepared to meet a first-class middle-
weight at, ringside weighing, in Australia. No one
disputes'that he can make list. 61b., ringside. He
did that'’-for Darcy. What is disputed is (1) that
MfeGoorty- likes to do it; and (2) that he can
driver himself in the arena at list. 61b. fit to enter
upon a 20-round championship contest. And the
grounds for this claim are: (1) That he haggled
about weighing at ringside for Darcy; (2) that lie
wants the return match to be under two o’clock
weighing conditions; (3) that he is haggling about
the same thing-for a match with Mick King; and
(4) that the only time he made ringside weight in
Australia he was beaten, after putting up a mighty
poor performance, of which there are only two
explanations, one being that he had weakened him-
self to do the weight. If McGoorty can, as is stated,
easily fight at list. 61b. ringside, why doesn’t he
do it and come to the relief of his friends who are
trying to prove the case for him?
Les Fletcher, the budding Maitland
(N.S.W.) middleweight, who had been knocking out
the local talent thereabouts lately, was tried out
against Arthur Everden on Saturday, and met with
trouble and hard, serious smites. The towel saved
the youth from execution in the seventh collision. It
was asking too much of a novice, this; but he put
up a fine, rugged battle. With a little more experi-
ence and instruction Fletcher should yet do well.
* * * *
“Red” Watson tried to despatch Quid
reaux with the rabbit-killer at Brisbane on Satur-
day and got passed out. He deserved it. Work of
that kind cannot he overlooked, even in the case of
an imported pug who would have won without it.
* * * *
The fight at Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night between Frank O’Connor (lOst. lib.), of
Sydney, and Leo Coyle (lOst. lib.), a local ex-
ponent, introduced an unusual thrill. Coyle is a
well-muscled, one-lianded boxer without the punch
that his phvsique promises. O’Connor is a somewhat
hatchet-faced chap, and slight in build compared
with his opponent; but when they shaped up in the
first round the gentle Sydney-sider promptly unbur-
dened himself of a brace of wallops that laid out
the local apostle for five seconds. Things looked
ominous, but Coyle convened a mass meeting of
himself and got to business. For 17 rounds he
outboxed O’Connor and piled up points while that
gentle youth took all that came along with Chris-
tian resignation and an awful crack up his sleeve,
as it were.- The opportunity to forget the one and
deliver the other came in the eighteenth round. Sud-
denly stepping in he sent right, left, right to wliat
is known in pug society as the “jawr,” and Coyle
crumpled up like a paper bag, and fell on the ropes.
Then O’Connor sent in several finishers, with the
judgment of a riveter, and the referee gave him
his blessing and the thick end of the purse.
“.Twosp”: Counted-out by a Turkish bulM
at the Dardanelles, Jimmy Hagerty, one of the
brightest and straightest boxers Maoriland has pro-
duced in recent years. He annexed the amateur
light- and feather-weight championships of M.L. and
Australia; then ambition properly took him into
the professional ranks, and lie biffed the lightweight
championship into his possession, although recently
the Boxing Council relieved him of the honor
because he was not in the country to defend the
title. Hagerty was a fine cross-country rider, and
had a lot of good mounts in the South Island, where
ho toiled in the stable of J. C. N. Grigg, who owns
Longbeach, one of the model farms of the world.
When the mails left U.S.A. the marvel-
lous cyclist Kramer was doubtfully shaking his head
about his ability to keep up to his reputation much
longer. Goullet, of Australia, who has probably
been riding better lately than at any other time in
his career, has been shaking- Kramer up. However,
the older man is still able to show the Australian
the way to sprint. Over a quarter of a mile unpaced
a short time back his time was 27 2-6 see., which
was a shave better than the world’s record, up till
then held by Goullet. It is about 20 years since
Kramer started to train for his extraordinary future.
To-day he is a comparatively wealthy man.
The expressed judgment of Kramer that he would
not be able to win the Two Mile Championship of
U.S. this year proved correct. Alt' Goullet beat
him by two inches. The finish was one of the most
exciting ever seen in the States, and no one knew
who had won. But the automatic judge, a mechani-
cal contrivance used in Wilson’s country to decide
close finishes, handed the event to the Australian.
He is now leading by five points for the champion-
ship of Dollarland, which is decided on points
scored in a number of events over various distances.
John Fahey dropped into Adelaide
recently on his way to Gallipoli. He left the S.A.
city, per bicycle, with Reichenbacb when the
latter made his record ride to Darwin; but Fahey
hurt a leg- near Charlotte Waters, and had to com-
plete the journey more leisurely. He was still in
the Territory when he decided to enlist, and calmly
came south again on Reiehenbaeh’s machine, Dikes
being “not so uncertain as boats are nowadays.”
This is his fourth transcontinental run—-two east-
west and two north-south. The last one took from
August 2 to September 10, and was devoid of inci-
dent (or what Fahey considers incident) barring a
broken crank 500 miles out from Darwin.
“F.H.”: To Herbert Thomson, of Arma-
dale (Vic.), belongs the honor of building the first
Australian motor-ear. It was a steam vehicle, on
the lines of the early-day motor-buggy, and made a
pioneering trip from Bathurst to Melbourne many
years ago. Tarrant’s, of Melbourne, the firm which
lately made Australia’s first acceptable aeroplane-
engine, turned out a complete motor-car some years
after Thomson’s car did its long trip. Both Thom-
son and Tarrant’s are still in the game, but then-
work consists in handling and repairing imported
cars. The time seefhs fully ripe for the Government
to encourage the Thomson and Tarrant kind of brain
to get going again.
Two of America’s latest motor-cars sell at £BO
and £157 respectively. The former has immense
sales. The latter, just on the market, is the product
of a firm which built up a fine reputation as a
maker of parts and accessories before entering the
trade with its own car; and the new article is
therefore presumably a reliable one. So the cheap,
sound car is an accomplished fact. In Australia the
prices of these machines to the local buyer would
probably be twice the U.S. figure. Considering the
apparent margin of profit available, the Australian
and European demand for cars, the opening here for
a reliable light car, and the fact that a country
like the U.S, is able to turn out hundreds of thou-
sands of cars each year for eager buyers, there
seems no adequate reason why Australia should not
make her own. An edict absolutely prohibiting
importation would cause a loud uproar from a few
people; but it would mean a made-in-Australia pro-
duct for our own use within a very short space of
time. We arc going- to make shells. Why not
motor-care, which are almost as valuable in warfare?
Alec Porter, at present with the Divi-
sional Ammunition Park in England, was the first
Australian to fly in an Australian aeroplane con-
taining an Australian-made engine. In 1913 Porter
was half the motor-engineering firm of Bobbins and
Porter, of Albury (N.S.W.), and the flights happened
in that year on the Albury polo-ground. Azov Rob-
bins built the ’plane and presently came to Melbourne
about the engine. Aubrey Lock, then of Dalaety’s
motor-works, opened a temporary workshop at Rich-
mond, and with Robbins turned out an Australian-
made 40-li.p. ’plane-engine, while the neighbors throw
rocks on the roof in annoyance at the noise of the
power-plant. The onlv item not made in Australia
was the magneto. In the final try-out Porter did the
flying (Robbins was a married man), and it was
found that 401i.p. did not include enough reserve
for safety in long flights, so the Porter efforts were
mostly of an abbreviated nature. _ Lock, the prin-
cipal engineer, now has the engine at his motor-
works at Armadale.
*• * * *
“Pennant”; The remarks of “Bias” (B.
23/9/’l5) should ostracise him from the bowling
community in Australia. Any player who states
that “the" system of cadge”—meaning the tipping of
green attendants —is peculiar to bowls is a “rotter”
of the worst variety. Perhaps “Bias” is-not a N. S.
Welshman. It is a peculiarity of -alleged sports
from other States, when they have -recovered from
their surprise at the liberality shown in Sydney, to
pick holes where none were before visible. “Cad-
gers” ! If it was by cadging that £lO,OOO was col-
lected in the pavilions for patriotic funds, then cer-
tainly N. S. Wales howlers arc cadgers of the worst
description and compared with those of any other
State most despicable, as we have yet to hear of
any patriotic-fund move being made among bowlers
anywhere except in N.S.W., although Victoria cer-
tainly proposed to issue certificates instead of prizes
this "season. “Bias” knows little if anything about
the game, except what he may have seen over a
fence, when he talks of it being of Scotch origin; it
ro more originated in Scotland than baseball did.
Finally, to come back to the bob gratuity given to
greenkeepers in this State, it is not compulsory : any
of “Bias’s” “cadgers” need not give it. It is simply
because some of the wealthy are mean as the pro-
verbial cat, and object to give the poor devil who
looks after them a shilling, that these friends of
“Bias’s” desire to stop all tips.
Scratch games arc no good to Melbourne
followers of League football nowadays, as was shown
by the attendance at the Cricket Ground on Satur-
day, when the premiers, Carlton, took on a team
picked from soldiers in camp. On the soldiers’ side
were hefty representatives from every League club,
and they put up a great scrimmage ;-also the exhibi-
tion was for a better cause- than usual —the Wound* d
Soldiers’ Fund. Yet onlv about-6000 people a‘tended,
and the gate was a mere £250. At half-time the
sons of war had scored 46 points to 29, but there-
after the lack of combination told its tale, and Carl-
ton won bv 20 points—l 3 goals 11 behinds to 10
goals 9 behinds. That ends football for this year,
and if it shows up in any style next year there'll
have to be some hurry-up in the meantime.
Died in Egypt “Johnnie” Verge, medical
officer of the 6th L.IL, professionally Captain Arthur
Verge, A.A.M.C. Coming up from King’s School,
Johnnie, like others of his family, became a pro-
minent member of Sydney ’Varsity football team,
and ultimately played fullback for the State (Union
rules). Graduating in medicine he went to Europe,
and after walking the hospitals and schools of Edin-
burgh, Paris and Vienna lie returned and set up as
a skin specialist. He was making a name for him-
self in that line when he answered the Roll Call.
* * * *
“Moana”: D. Bedell-Sivriglit, the great
Rugby player who “went West” the other day while
acting’ as a surgeon at the Front, turned to medicine
through Rugby. When he visited Australia and
Maoriland in 1904 as the leader of the
great British team he had no profession in
view. But in the team there were two young
Maorilanders from Guy’s Hospital—O’Brien and
McEvedy—and they turned their captain’s thoughts
to pills. When he got back home he prompt 1>
entered Edinburgh ’Varsity, and then began a pro-
tracted- struggle for his degree. He was far from
brilliant but lie was a plugger. Every time he
failed he gritted his teeth and went at it again. It
was about the hardest try he ever had to score.
How long he took to get through to his final I really
forget; I think it was about eight years, or
double the usual time. But he got what he was
after, and set up in practice in Scotland.
Maoriland is losing a lot of notable foot-
ballers. Another to go at Gallipoli was David
Stewart McFarlane, an almighty Rugby goalkicker.
In six years he hoofed the ball over the bar to the
total of 358 points, which, as far as is known, is a
record for M.L.
Maoriland lias lost another great toe-baller
at Gallipoli in A. J. Downing, one of the very best
all-in forwards M.L. ever had. He hailed from
Ilawkes Bay, and was one of the discoveries made a
year or so back when the Rugby Union started
the idea of picking inter-island teams from the
country unions. Getting his chance in the North
Island Country Team that toured the South, he shone
so' brightly that he was included in the team that
wrecked the Rugby hopes of California. He was also
in the fine M.L. team that visited N. S. Wales last
year, and in the fust match against Ha’s boys showed
up as the best forward on the ground.
Charlie lvelleway. who enlisted some time
back, lias had rapid promotion. The last list men-
tions that the N. S. Wales stonewaller lias been com-
missioned as second lieutenant.
South Australian cricket will be the poorer
this season by very nearly a State XI. In fact, all
of the following men now at the Front or on the
way there have lately played for S. Aus.: Mores,
Peilew, K. N. Steeie, James, Stirling, ITearne,
Gordon Campbell, Down and Price. The first-class
cricketers on service altogether number about 40.
Talking about abortive records, there lias
been a lot of steam blown off in U.S.A. concerning’
Duke Kahanamoku’s recent swim over the 220yds. at
San Francisco. He churned over the distance in
2min. 26 2-ssee. —a world’s standard if it is allowed
to count by the authorities. But here’s the trouble.
The effort was made in a bath at which a rope ha|
to be used for the finishing mark, and the . regula-
tions don’t agree as to whether in that case a
swimmer mis finished when ho touches the line, or
whether iiis head must pass it. It is laid down by
the A.A.IT. rules (1) that “each competitor shall
have finished the race when any part of his body
touches the finish line,” (2) that “no record shall be
allowed for any performance where the distance does
not finish at the end of the course, unless a rope, to
indicate the distance, is stretched across the course
.... and the time taken when the swimmer’s head
passes the line.” In the case of Kahanamoku’s per-
formance, the timekeepers snapped the watches when
the Hawaiian’s arm passed tlie rope. At least, one
outcome of the trouble should be a uniform method
of deciding winner and time, otherwise the records
will bo like the American nation —a mixed lot.
* * * *
For this next swimming season N.S.W.
A.S.A. has called off all championships. Banana-
land, which last season swelled to 30 affiliated 'club*,
will follow suit, and the other States are halting
between two opinions. How there can be two legiti-
mate opinions about bolding alleged championship
contests isn’t clear. Unless, of course, it is proposed
that the competition shall be on donkey-race prin-
ciples, the last in getting all the credit.
C. E. White, n Brisbane athlete, cleared
sft. lOin. at a recent sports meeting. It was nearh
a foot short of Ed. Beeson’s (amateur) leap of 6ft.
7 5-16 in., at San Francisco, on May 2, 1914 ; but
it’s a fine jump, for all that.
* , * * *
At a combined meeting of clubs (N.S.W.
A.A.0.) on Svdnev Sports Ground on Saturday, J.
Crump, in the East Sydney Club’s competitions
(six), won the 100yds., 220yds. and high jump.
Another bright day’s work was that of a schoolboy
named R. F. Cripps. Of the Olympic’s two-event
programme he was first in the 100yds. and the hop,
step and jump. With a handicap of 41yds. he cut
out the sprint in lOsec.
News of the wounding of F. Blacklow at
Gallipoli recalls a performance lie put up on a Tas-
manian sports ground: First in the 440yds. and in
the mile; second in the Sheffield Handicap and in
the Maiden Race (100yds.1 ; third in the district
race and in the hurdles. There’s some versatility in
that lot.
THE COMPASSIONATE CAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hill owns a little motor-car,
A fawn and silver gadabout;
lie hoped that it would take him far
To where the trees and ranges are.
Alas, his hopes are put to rout!
Ilis car was sweet to look upon—
It sparkled like the sunlit sea.
But bucked at coming home again!
Poor Hill confessed it only shone,
As you might say, externally.
’Twould take a pleasant, bird-like flight
To Macedou or Peter's Plain :
Its running was a sheer delight.
Oh, yes, tne car would go all right—
But when a month or so had gone
It was so touchy every jolt
Would put it out, however slight;
A sneeze would make it drop a bolt;
It bucked at paper like a colt;
Steam-rollers stiffened it with fright.
One day when Hill was starting out,
V dead-beat ambled by his side,
And begged with an extended hat —■
He pitched so sad a story that
At his own sufferings he cried.
“Get out!” Hill felt his spirit quail.
He threw the mendicant a brown.
Too late! Touched by the poor man's tale,
With one long sob and half a wail,
The pitj'ing car had broken down!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Taddy’s GRAPNEL Mixture
HIGHEST-GRADE TOBACCO.
m
H
iiMPBt:-
Si
||i
lilt
mm
Si
m
mm
mm
V,
mm
m
i
■?
i
M
Jl I
- \
S
tr
33J?
A’il-..
£3
m
m
.
: ,; :>^ni
i^i-kriaaC
Manufactured by
James Taddy
and Co.,
LONDON.
Established 150 Years.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
1/6
PER 2oz. TIN.
Sole Agents for New South
Wales and Queensland
Scott, Henderson (Q, Co.,
lO LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY.
Lloyd’s (London)
BRIAR PIPES.
48 DIFFERENT SHAPES.
ALL ONE PRICE - - 4/6
These pipes are exceptionally good value.
The Mounts are Hall-marked Silver, and each
pipe is guaranteed not to crack or burn
I, 4
i. 9
No. 10
No. 5
A great variety of these Pipes are illustrated
in my catalog, “A DISCRIMINATING
SMOKER’S GUIDE.” Write for a free copy.
A. M. SOLOMON,
‘‘CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
within a reasonable time.
■
•ES
j II
agrafe
.j ■>
W"- I
1 KflEl-l-
ZINE
nwtit.
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on
SHELL'
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO-LTD.
Don’t be a Trailer
Ride an
INDIAN
Two years in succession we
“scooped the pool” at Qoulburn,
and with the same stock model.
T.T. INDIANS. Can you beat it?
Write for Catalogue “D.”
Hendee Manufacturing o.
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
DON’T BE CONTENT
with just “new shoes.” Get footwear that
is perfect in fit, distinctive • in appearance,
and with all the new and smart features.
In other words, get RIGNEY SHOES.
The illustration shows a Choice Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Fine-stitched Welts, Perforated
Vamp, Lace Face, and Cap.
Price 2216 & 25 /-
IN BLACK OR TAN.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR
CATALOG.
hfd
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High -grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings* Edward Street* BRISBANE.
MENINGITIS.
Dr. Bull, the well-known bacteriologist, recently declared
that Eucalyptus Oil destroyed the germ of meningitis.
Some years ago medical men stated in the London
“Lancet” that Eucalyptus Oil destroyed the influenza germ.
Bosisto’s
“PARROT BRAND
Eucalyptus Oil
will destroy the germs of Meningitis,
Influenza, Scarlet Fever, Measles
and other Infectious Diseases.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
Take two or three drops oL' the oil on sugar or in water several times a day.
Sprinkle a few drops on the pillow at night. Inhale the vapor by means of a
handkerchief.
CAUTION.—The public will do well when purchasing to be sure to look
for the parrot on yellow band on top of bottle-wrapper, and to insist upon
having none other than Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus
Oil is sold throughout Australia.
Really Cool Suits
in Assam Silk.
Genuinely Tailor-made —each Gar-
ment being Cut Perfectly. Fitting
Correctly yet Easily, and Flaw-
lessly Finished —in Assam Silk of
the Finest —Light. Cool, Stylish,
\ Serviceable, these Suits are the
l\ "Top-notchers” of Summer Wear.
■
wr
£
44
V
■
m
4
m
S
wOOn
3=Garment Suit 72/6, 75/=
Beautifully cut and band stitched all
through in. finest Assam Bongo Silk, coat
with seam and vent or seam only, trousers
with side and fob pockets, flat, detachable
pearl buttons. Guaranteed to wash and
wear perfectly.
2=Garment “ Patrol ” Suit — 63/-
This style can be worn without under-
wear beyond a light singlet, and so is
admirably suited for Tropical wear.
Patch and 'button pockets, chain hole,
trousers with side and fob pockets, flat,
detachable pearl buttons.
POST YOUR ORDER-. AYE PAY FREIGHT.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
244=254 Flinders Street ————— —-— Melbourne.


0
B
1
: s
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
to YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed& Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
Benger’s Food
is neither a pre°
digested food nor a
mixture of dried
milk and chemical
substances.
*Ol4
It is a natural food,
differing from all others
in combining lhe princi-
ples of natural digestion.
These enable Benger’s
Food to be prepared
to suit individual needs;
to rest enleebled di-
gestions, and nurse
them back to healthful
activity by regulated
stages.
With no other food
is this possible, and as
Benger’s Food never over-stimulates
as do many chemical foods, no re*
action follows
its use.
♦
Food
For Children ,
Invalids and the aged.
Bender’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids, ana the
Aged, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd,, MANCHESTER, Eng.
Branch offices—
New York (u.s.a) 92 w.uiam m. Sydney 'n.s.w) 1-7, Pitt ~-t
Ca •■Tifirrti s Natio >a.l Dru? * Chemical Co., Ltd..
44, St. Gabriel Street, Montreal, and Branches throughout Canada
IS9A
lx
m
The Experienced Motorist
knows full well the superb quality and
wearing-worth built unsparingly into
every inch of
M)ltT(jLdss
MOTOR TYRES
Made by the Founder* o! lb*
Rubber Industry io Auttratata
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
ALL STATES and NEW ZEALAND. [3
Ray’s Hair Dye.
r**'
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
With
RAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9.
TOSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOAPKO
It Surpasses Soap.
Toilet and Motor in
TABLETS.
Household in BARS.
SOAPKO CLEANSER
(in Canisters), BEST and
CHEAPEST on Market,
ALL PURELY AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE.
SOAPRA PROP’Y, Box 685, G.P.0., Adelaide.
nit
incubatp
BROODY HENS for 10/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg incubator
will hatch every fertile egg, simple
to use, cannot get out of order. Now
is the time to make lrmoev hv hatch-
ing chicks with the “HATCHO.”
Price, 10/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg-testers, 1/- each. Agents wanted.
R. Caston & Co., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
NEW SOUTH
WALES.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor, Administrator, Attorney or Agent.
STATE GUARANTEE.
LOWEST CHARGES IN AUSTRALIA.
NO PROFITS.
INCREASED BUSINESS MEANS REDUCED CHARGES.
\pply for Particulars to Public Trustee Office, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee!
Censored.
~~~ (COPY.)
Kodak (Australasia) Ltd.,
379 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —
Here on tlie Gallipoli Peninsula,
Sydney “Bulletin” dated 27/5/M5 came
into iny hands, and your advt. re
Soldier’s Kodak took my eye.
I want you to send one to my wife.
She knows nothing about taking pic-
tures, so I want you to give her all the
tips you can. My two little sons are
fast growing, and I want to get some
pictures of them as they are now. Have
given one of our Avounded on his svay to
Malta £2, and \\ T ill get him to enclose
and post this to you. Address Kodak
to:
Mrs. (censored)
Erina Street,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
After deducting price, 30/-, and
postage, any balance you might make up
with films or Avhatever you think best.
Yours faithfully,
Sgd. (censored), CAPTAIN.
15th B’n, 4th Inf. B’de,
A.I.F.
30th July, 1915.
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
W’z
Write for Book" CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng,
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.
The Delicate Magneto
is the very life of your cycle or car. It requires the
skill of the expert to adjust and repair. Send yours to
Moody &. Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney,
who have specialised in electrical work for years, and
who undertake to repair quickly and cheaply,’ and
guarantee to make it work equal to new again or
make no charge.
©
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
Ur
(kr<
[TRACS MARK
FOR
GUARANTEE
\
J
STRONG and
SUPERIOR
RUBBER
Waterman’s
(i&ki)
FouiftSinPen
Note the points!
The features indicated have made
Waterman’s Ideal the most widely
used Fountain Pen in the civilised
world. Summed up, they mean that
the owner bf a Waterman’s Ideal has
a pen that will give lifelong
satisfaction.
4 Types-Regular, Safely,
Self-Filling, Pump-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Cjjt stn Corner, Loncbn, Eng.
AUSTRALIA. 0 350, George St, Sydney.
/SPOON FEED ,
FOR RELIABLE (
y INK FLOW >
'smooth writinc ,
GOLD PENS <
V WIDELY ASSORTED
HARD IRIDIUM
TIP FOR <
L DURABILITY
Joßes, TricKs, Puzzles, Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty Catalog We send it Free
f.[2nd
h
6
4
s
6
H.
Illustrated above are Six Splendid Wire Puzzles. Each puzzle is put up in neat cardboaid box.
PRICK: 4d. each, post free, or the six for 1/9, post free.
Also, a box containing Seven Assorted Iron Puzzles, post free, 2/- , . . Cwrinpv
L. Hutchinson Ltd.-New York Novelty C 0.—708-710 George St., Haymarket, syon y
ti
yst.
■ I
as
JEWELLED. GUARANTEED.
METAL
!>
RI
X
«
OKING
►J
4
AND
The South Brisbane Gas and Light
Co. (Q.)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., '07..3940 8 p.c. = 2205 206 1529 19,217
June, '08..4070 9 ~ „ 2481 1589 20.806
Dec., ’08..4805 10 „ „ 2756 19 2030 22,836
June, ’09..4627 10 ~ ~ 2756 658 1213 24,049
Dec., ’09..5329 10 „ ~ 2756 2573 26,622
June, ’10..5456 10 ~ „ 2756 252 2448 29,070
Dec., ’10..5666 10 „ „ 2756 2910 31,980
June, ’11..4542 10 „ ~ 2756 1786 33,766
Dec., ’11..5854 10 „ „ 2756 3098 36,864
June, T2..4290 10 ~ ~ 2756 1534 38,398
Premiums received . . 3558 41,956
Reserves capitalised, £18,221 .. 23,735
Assets written up, £14,663 .. 38,398
Dec., ’l2. .5982 10 p.c. = 2929 3053 41,451
June, ’13..5443 10 „ „ 3344 2099 43,550
Dec., ’13..6855 10 „ ~ 4009 750 2096 45,646
June, ’14..7806 10 ~ ~ 5250 750 1806 47,452
Dec., ’14..7419 10 „ „ 5250 250 1919 49,371
June, ’l5. .6803 10 „ „ 5250 250 1303 50,674
The reserves are not all of the best quality.
They are made up as follows :
General reserves .. .. .. ..£20,000
Por special renewals and contingencies 20,323
)' or retort renewals . . . . . . 5,250
Por equalising dividends . . . . 2’ooo
Unappropriated profits .. . . .. 3,101
Total £50,674
The funds for special renewals and renewal
of retorts .are, more or less, moneys put by
to provide for depreciation: and the profits
shown above, seeing that they include the
amounts added to those funds, are
slightly inflated. For instance, in the past
halt year, £250 is added to the reserve for
iho renewal of retorts; and if this means
that retorts are really worth £250 less than
they were six months previously, then the
true profits are £250 less than they are
shown above. Also it is probable that the
eo. s tangible property is not worth £50,674
more than the capital, as it ought to be if
the co. has £50,674 of reserves. Six months
ago, when "plant, land, building and co.’s
xou9 r iS' ng ” was valued in the books at
i—»0,0,)6, the rule was run over the whole
of these assets by an expert called in by the
directors, and he totted up £5387 less than
the book value. Notwithstanding that re-
port. no writing down has been done, as one
might reasonably have expected it to be.
The circumstances suggest that the man-
agement not only wrote up the assets beyond
their true _ value three or four years ago,
but are still disposed to dress their shop-
window.
Profits have shrunk during the past liaif-
year; but that need not alarm anybody.
The co. has been putting in new works, and
this has been the change-over period, (fas
sales, etc., produced a revenue of £19,606
m the first half of 1914: in the past six
months they climbed up to £21,624. The
business is therefore all right. The problem
now is to make the outlay of over £lOO,OOO
on new works pay for itself; and it usually
isn 1 possible to make all the labor and
other economies at once. This £lOO.OOO, by
the way, has been provided by interminable
debenture stock. In addition there is £50,000
°t debentures maturing in 1934. For all
rewv n l Purposes, therefore, there is
tIoO.OOO of preferential capital standing in
ahead of even the pref. shares. These pref.
shares represent £40,000; and there is
too,ooo of ordinary capital. As long as
things go well, shareholders may therefore
reasonably expect a high return. They
deserve it for guaranteeing the interest and
principal of these debentures. In poor
times they may have to go short themselves
80 that these pref. creditors may get their
guaranteed meal. In any case, this heavy
mortgage debt must not be overlooked by
people who are seeking safety above all
things. As to gas shares in general there
is the further consideration that the supply
t 7 . gas a matter of strict regulation in
oritain and elsewhere, and the growing
tendency is to say that capital shall not
exploit the business of light supply anv
more than that of water supply. The day
pi bonus issues is therefore probablv past
m Queensland, as it is in N. S. Wales.
"• * -X-
Northey s last yield of 10 tons from the
Lode Hill (Q.) gave profits, but it failed to
buck up the market. Had he been able to
innow out such a yield three months ago
>ewis s trip north would have been saved,
and brother Paul would have been happier.
Some startling statements regarding Vic-
torian gold-mining were made at a confer-
ence in Melbourne between the Chamber of
Aimes and the executive of the Federated
-lining Employees’ Association. For three
jears ended December, 191.4, the total value
_p., I™ n P rc> d l med by 155 Victorian cos. was
,i 7 • , , e vhief items of expenditure
fVo”! oJ he three years were: Wages
*1,826,801, _ firewood £344.262, mining
tr.iii' l ia vQ feI 4 o7& 0, miscellaneous £728,577 :
£0,2 <0.8,)6. Capital, calls and
nr’ eS iwo -o£ res d . ul ' h m the period totted
r-a-o 1- w hde dividends paid were
The difference between receipts
om gold and expenditure in getting
rp, os ' s . 011 the three years of
' • . le miners ask for a very sub-
) li . n ia nse m wages ; and on those figures
tn owners say the industry won’t stand it.
4>ut in a speculative business of this sort
.vou can t argue that the value of the cur-
lont production must govern the wages.
The owners work, not merely for what they
hut for what they hope to get;
ana int is a bonanza they get, thev’ll put
iV in l he i r ow , n Dockets. They won’t argue
ten that production must govern wages.
-5f .^.
Hxternal Affairs Department bad a
pasm lately when news was telegraphed
Hatches Creek, in the Murchison
• ages, that wolfram bad been discovered
m payable quantities. The find is 520 miles.
onfP 1 7; lce . Springs, in North Australia.
-• 0 miles from Pine Creek, and about 10
unrTf. i, m H°'int Hopeless, which seems
„„„ aII me circumstances an excellent
mme for the bit of rising ground. The
" na Hmept for External Affairs warns pro-
f tbi-k of going after the wol-
am that tbev “should possess a good ««t-
-7» ,moo f hs’ supplies, and at least £2OD
„1 a ’ • Tos. and a eoimle of camels and
least two Gallipoli hearts in each frame.


The Kodak
has revolutionised photography.
The Kodak is the only camera which
can be fitted with the Autographic idea.
I lie Autographic Kodak is the only camera in the world
that enables the photographer to make a complete record
on the negative. You expose in the usual way, then
write any data you choose on the film at the time of
exposuie. Merely open the door at the back, make your
entry—as you would in a diary—expose to light, and after
development you will find printed on the film the exact
identification of the picture as you wrote it.
Yon can learn to use an Autographic Kodak in half an hour—even if you never used a camera before.
Its wonder tut merit lies in; its simplicity, and it is the greatest photographic advance in 20 years
Here are two popular models:—
the \ est Pocket Autographic Kodak—'‘The Soldier’s Kodak’’—pictures 2Ain. x l|in. —-
The 3A Autographic Kodak, pictures skin
. x d]in. (postcard size)
Price 30/
P
Price £5/10/
If 3on already own a Kodak, make it Autographic. The only difference betwen the Autographic and
the old-style Kodak is in tlic back. Therefore if you fit an Autographic back to your old-style
Koc.ak you at once turn it into an Autographic Kodak. This will (tost you but a few shillings, and
remember Autographic film costs the same price as the regular kind.
Of all Kodak dealers and
fdh
Kodak (Australasia) Ltd
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street. MELBOURNE: "The Black,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 87 Rundle Street.
HOBART: 45 Elizabeth Street.
BRISBANE: 250-253 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HIKE: 340 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 76 Stuart Street.
■WJ
m
NESTLES
“-"MIIK
Try
mm these
¥ Ri
This Week.
.m/
''Xv,
V
»*«*?
NESTLES
COND£N§!
yah
m
Htsrmm
4 MO SWISS
SwirzmjMw LOHWEt **?
MACARONI PIE.
2 o-/s. macaroni, i pint water, the
rind of nalfalemon, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls Nestle’s
Condensed Milk.
Method Dissolve the milk in the water and put
m the saucepan with the lemon-rind (cut in very thin
s ices). \&hen boiling, drop in the macaroni, in
pieces about 2 inches long, and simmerfor 40 minutes.
hen beat up the eggs; stir them in with the mac-
aroni and remove the lemon rind. Pour into a butter-
ed pie-dish, grate over a little nutmeg, and bake for
IU minutes.
MILK ROLLS.
Ingredients I lb. self-raising flour, 2 ozs. butter
tablespoonfuls Nestle’s Condensed
Milk dissolved in x /z pint watef, 1 teaspoonful salt,
2 eggs.
Method Rub butter into flour, add salt, mix into
a light dough, make into fancy shapes, brush over
with egg, and bake for a quarter of an hour.
Arrowroot Cup.
Ingredients: 1 tablespoonful arrowroot, >2
pint water, 2 tablespoonfuls Nestle’s Conden-
sed Milk, flavouring and sugar to taste.
Method: Mix the arrowroot smoothly with a
little water. Boil the remainder with the con-
densed milk, and pour over the mixed arrowroot.
Return this to the saucepan, and cook over the
fire for 10 minutes, stirring all the while to pre-
vent it from burning. When cooked, add the
desired flavouring, sugar to taste, and serve.
BAKED CUSTARD TARTS.
Ingredients— Add 3 tablespoonfuls Nestle’s
Condensed Milk to Y\ pint water, 3 eggs, well
beaten, and a few drops of essence of vanilla or
almonds.
Method — Line a pie-dish with short paste, pour
in the mixture (previously beaten), and bake slowly
for three-quarters of an hour. . .
ARROWROOT PUDDING.
Ingredients—2 oz. arrowroot, 1 pint water, 2 table-
spoonfuls Nestle’s Condensed Milk, 1 oz. butter, oz. castor
sugar, vanilla essence, 1 egg.
Method —Mix the arrowroot with a little of the water, put
the remainder of the water with the sugar and condensed milk
on to boil. When boiling, pour on to the mixed arrowroot, re-
turn to the saucepan, and cook for about 10 minutes, stirring
well. Then stir in a well-beaten egg. Add the butter and a
few drops of vanilla essence. Turn into a buttered pie-dish,
and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. When
cooked, grate a little nutmeg or ground cinnaman on top. Dish
up and serve.
CHEESE CAKES.
Ingredients— Short Pastry—B oz. flour, 5 oz. butter, salt,
cold water. Filling—6 oz. flour, 1 oz. self-raising flour, 4 ozs.
butter, 3 ozs. sugar, 2 eggs, 1 gill Nestle’s Condensed Milk to
mix.
Method —Line one doz. patty pans>with the paste, put one
teaspoonful of jam at the bottom. For the filling, cream the
butter and sugar together, then add the eggs, well beaten, and
lastly the milk and flour. Put a teaspoonful of the mixture on
the top, and decorate with cross bars of pastry. Bake for 15
minutes in a hot oven.


turrr,
I
UdJLi.UL'I'A
miiiiiiiiii ttMi 111 limit
POWDERS
•>*>
A.
v\
V A Heart-to-
Hcart Letter
from a Grateful Mother.
Cliatswood, 26/8/’l5.
Messrs. Fisher & Co.
Dear Sirs, —
I have now used your
Infants’ Teething Powders for
12 years, and always keep them
in my house when my babies
are teething. 1 feel sure many
little lives could be saved if
mothers would use them dur-
ing dentition. This is now
the ninth child I have used
them for, besides recommend-
ing them to many of my
friends, who all say what a
boon they are. My baby is
now six months old, and I
have given him the powders
since he was one month old.
All my children are alive and
well. Yours respectfully,
Mrs. J. E. JOLLY.
FISHER S INFANTS' TEETH-
ING POWDERS
are invaluable for infants cut-
ting their teeth. They promote
digestion, stop sickness, flatu-
lency and pain.
They contain no poisons, and
j; an overdose is harmless.
-Your friends will recom-
mend them. 1/- per box.
FISHER & CO.,
Chemists,
337 George Street,
F.14.T.P. SYDNEY-
I
h t
fd
%
VERY NICE GRAVY
is made from the direc-
tions on the Bisto tin.
You don’t need flour,
salt or browning and
Bisto mixes much more
easily than flour.
glSTO
maket
the simplest fare
most appetising.
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by Cerebos, L.TIV
Shear Your Sheep
this Season with a
Little Wonder
A Two-Stand Plant with 2-h.p.
Engine, ready for
work, for only
£5O
Can be taken to paddock or
fastened down anywhere and put
to work. Engine can be used for
other work. Starts easy and holds
a record for good, fast shearing.
More installed in Australia last
year than all other makes of two-
stand plants combined.
Write to-day for full particulars.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
rA
$
1
I
i
i
i
i
i
i
1
I
1
1
i
i
i
i
i
I
1
i
i
i
is
The Brand that guarantees
British make and best value.
U
Underwear
To see the Jason Brand on a garment
is to know that Australasian wool* skilled
British labour, and expert fashioning have
gone to its making.
New M Olympic ** Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of beating the same guarantee
of quality as the tegular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sule manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 67 rjr
Self - Sharpening Scissors Set;
THE EASIEST GUTTING SCISSORS EVER MADE
8-Inch Constant-Tension Bent-Trimmer Scissors. Fancy-Work Scissors
4)6-Inch Special Button-Hole Scissors.
mMs,
Q>
Only
3/6
the
Set
Only
3/6
the
Set.
Delivered anywhere for only 3/6 for the Complete Set.
A Competition Bargain. Three Scissors for the Price of One.
MONEY BACK IF YOU ARE NOT DELIGHTED
'PHI? Self-Sharpening 8-inch Scissors are the easiest cutting that have ever been made. Shared like tailor's cutter’f
shears, with extra lang on fin.-er bow, tney u<* the heaviest culling easily. Biades a*e hollow ground of the finest
sh nr and k*»pt aiways ssharp by the constant tension lever. One blade sharpens the other. Ball-bearing points
redune friction. Will outlas' Six Ordinary Sciso.s. The Fnncy-Work >cissors are specially made for embroidery and
lace w »rk,and the Button-Hole Scissors can be anjnsted to accurately cut button-holes of any sise. All three Scissors arc
heavily nickel-plated and rust-proof. You should order at once ; this offer will not appear again. The 8 Inch
Scissors mav be nnd se- arate v for 2s. 9d.. nosted free anywhere. Obtainable only from
THE UNION COMPANY, 299 ELIZABETH STREET. MELBOURNE
hfd
If any illustration appearing in Tin:
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CAILLE PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
hfd
B=H.P. UNIT POWER PLANT,
Here is the marine engine that is designed to he operated by inexperienced
hands. Nothing complicated. Runs without vibration. Two cylinders cast en
Mac. Fitted Iligh-tension Magneto—and reverse gear on extended bed.
Single-cylinder Engines from 2h.p. to Bh.p., Heavy Duty, fitted uith
patent Waterproof Ignition.
CAILLE 1915 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR-
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you .iust
press the button to go astern, ah.eau, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
High-tension Magneto in Flywheel. Im-
proved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Hotors with
Battery and H.T. flagneto Ignition.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
Delivery of any of the above from stock.
h
•Sole Australasian Agents :
Benson Brothers Limited
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stumps accompany.
W.H.E.: It is beautiful to read things
like Judge Backhouse’s speech to the effect that a
soldier is of ever so much more consequence just now
than the best professional or commercial man. With
that in his mind The Bulletin wishes Judge Back-
house would go out to the nearest big military
camp, and find out whether, on sick parade, these
men of the most consequence in the world are ex-
pected to drink their dose of medicine out of a glass
which has a moment before left the lips of the pre-
vious sick-man, and lias not meantime been touched
with water. No sort of man is expected to do that
kind of thing at a pub ; let Judge Backhouse find
out whether the most valuable men in the world have
not been expected to do it at a training camp. A>d
the Judge might inquire, too, whether it is a fact
that food intended for hospital patients is carried
in an open dish and left exposed in the ward.
And, finally, is it true that the same food
dish is used as a wash-basin to cleanse the
skin of the most valuable man in the w0r1d?....
Minvalana: It probably perished. The quality of the
verse is low H.P.W.: Your flourish of trumpets:
“Dear Sir, —Enclosed is my first attempt at verse-
writing, which I trust you will give due considera-
tion. The whole Episode is my own work. Trusting
you may find space for it, and thanking you in
anticipation. P.S. —Please arrange verses to best
advantage.” Wc will. P.S.—There was scarcely a
struggle... .J.D.P.: Attempt at short story foiled. .. .
Eric D.: Can’t print your prayer... .F.C.D.: On the
dull side... .Frank I. II.: Lest one poet more should
be one soldier less, we will withhold encouragement.
....Henry P.: Melody in it, but there are weak
spots as well. .. .R.H.A.: If you can’t do it any
better than that, don’t do it it all. 0.5. F.: Take
back your history Adam A.: Better try blowing
a blast of correct English, bugler. ... Miss It.W.C.:
I snuff the approaching battle!
I snort for the rising storm !
And then you stumble and fa 11... .E. 8.8.: Not
Bulletin matter.... Xanthosia: Thin, feminine
humor.... G.S.J.: Don’t make a song about it. Just
tell us your name and address, and all will be for-
given... .C.R.S.: No pocket-money in that type of
thing... .M.A.: AVhy do you say you are marching
when you know very well you are only knitting?
Walter L. H.: Nicely laundered poem which affects
to be wild and rough... .N.R.F.: Old theme roughly
treated... .Leonie: “I am 19 years.” That’s your
real poem. The other.is just a literary exercise....
F.H.F.G.: The landing of the manuscript filled us
with gloom, and two sub editors said hard things
about patriotic poets. F.A.F.: No value. .. .Aus-
tralian Terrier: Sool ’em, boy! Tear ’em up!....
Bellerive: A lodging for a single poem:—
.... Mulga: Try to make your copy clearer. Eyes
are very expensive these days.... Woman: Tell us,
are you the corresponding secretary of the Aged
Spinsters’ Mutual Admiration Society, or merely a
disciple of Parramatta Joe?... .Frederick S.: A good
yarn spoiled by fine writing. Set it all down in
simple, straightforward English, and it will fly
through Chas. K.: The Bulletin pays for all it
prints. Cut out pars, as they appear, paste them on
a piece of paper, indicate date of issue and page,
and forward to the Accountant. He does the rest.
....Ariosto: What you’ve got to say is interesting.
But don’t say it like that. You can’t be too direct.
W.F.R.: A regular correspondent got in first; your
account too long for the occasion, anyhow. .. .Nap:
Send them along.. . .John McL.: Strength and vigor
in “Submarine.” But don’t care for the idea of the
“unpent, bubbling sighs, upbursting free,” of which
“heroic breath” the yet untried may take a draught.
And look up that word “cerement.” Two syllables,
not three. .. .H. 8.: The present strength of the
British army is known only to the War Office; so it
is impossible to compare the Australian and British
recruiting averages with any accuracy... .Pick: It
wasn’t “Sarto” who got tangled between the wild
cherry and tire quandong. It was the nodding sub-
editor who was massaging the stiff points of
“Sarto's” par.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Tamar: Why is the Turkish-bath Kaiser holding a
baby’s comforter in his right hand?... .Will W.:
You’ve invented a dull and horrible grotesque....
Thanks: "A Night with the Poets”! Have you ever
spent a whole night with the poets—not with their
“works,” but with the poets themselves?
“Enmac”: I second “Hamer’s” suggestion
that it is time the meaning of “a billion”
was put upon unalterable reeord. These
cheap, loose Yankee “methods” of using
words which bear —and always have borne
—quite other meanings, are utterly subver-
sive of the English language. With all its
faults, English is the only tongue we pos-
sess, or need, in Australia; and to anyone
capable of handling it there is none quite so
satisfying—not even Yiddish. Half the de-
plorable Yankee slang which has begun to
invade Australia has been brought here by
the hordes of professional “lighters” and
their painful-looking (and speaking) fol-
lowers—most of them, apparently, bred in
the classic N’York Bowery. The other half
is foisted off on us by the even larger hordes
of “artists” who are allowed to make Aus-
tralian theatres and music-halls their happy
howling and stamping grounds, while the
often far cleverer and always better edu-
cated Australians “do a perish.” Any-
thing additional in the way of inane or
insane gibberish is provided by the absurd
American “novel” of our time. The well-
educated Australian usually writes and
speaks most excellent English, and for him
(or her) to consent for one moment to
countenance the queer jargon of the U.S.A.
as a substitute for our own language, would
be equivalent to the foolish exchange men-
tioned by Homer, when Glaucus, the Trojan,
gave his magnificent armor of gold for the
brass gear of Diomedes.
THE MERITS OF THE JAPS IN A POETIC
NUTSHELL.
They’re making ammunition
To feed the fatal guns,
Which means a quicker ending
To the fury of the huns;
Their soldiers and mechanics
Are a credit to Jaoan,
For England and the allies
They’re doing all they can.


1
Specify Mazda Lamps
British
B
Made
T-H
\
%
§
I
British
m^Made
EFFICIENCY.—Mazda lamps give three times as much light as the ordinary carbon lamp for the
same current consumption.
RELIABILITY.—Mazda Lamps give a clear white light, do not blacken, and have long lives under
the most severe conditions.
EXPERIENCE —Lamps marked “ Mazda ” sum up thirty-five years experience in the manufacture
of over 500,000,000 Mazda Lamps.
MAZDA SERVICE.—The mark “Mazda” designates the highest standard of excellence made
possible by the world=wide research and investigations of Mazda service.
“ Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (AV.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical * Engineering Go. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street. Hobart.
At times of crisis
it must be Bovril
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
The 6'6 “Boyproof” Watch
Stands Anything.
ATCWAVT 0 '
BOYpnour •
"* Ti " 4 •
*10
9 'A. 5
.8 \4-
v-.7 • y
«;3o
The case is strong, handsome, and comes
in solid Nickel —a dust- and water-proof
covering for the simple, accurate, trust-
worthy movement. Keyless wind. Plain,
easy-to-read dial.
But —the special feature of the “Boy-
proof” Watch is the movement. This is
enclosed by a cover which fully protects
it against interference from boyish
fingers. T h ousands of “Boyproof”
Watches are doing daily duty throughout
Australia, and they are doing it well.
Get a “Boyproof” for your boy, and please
him best of all.
0/0 post free anywhere.
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner,
412 Georg'e Street, SYDNEY.
HIS MASTER’S VOICE
Gramophone
Registered Trade Mark.
fd
Records
for OCTOBER Now Ready
This month’s list quite appropriately includes several new patriotic numbers
by notable artists. It is indeed typical of “His Master’s Voice” organisation
that every month brings new records as usual, and that the usual high standard
is maintained throughout. •
07995 Ave Maria (Violin)
Miscba Elman
02553 Thou’rt Passing Hence
Peter Dawson (with Pianoforte,
Organ and Bells)
4-2520 England’s Battle Hymn (Send
Him Victorious)
Mr. Stewart Gardner
4-2396 Bear Eove, Remember Me
Mr. John McCormack (with Orcli.)
4-2523 I Bream of a Garden of Sun-
shine
Mr. John Harrison (with Piano)
03369 Cornin’ thro’ the Rye
Melba (with Piano)
2-3041 I Wonder if Love is a Dream
Miss Ruth Vincent (Soprano)
03393 Call of the Motherland
Miss Ruby I-lelder (with Piano)
03394 Carry On
Miss Ethel Levey (with Orcli.)
4-2524 Friends Again
Mr. Charles Tree (with Piano)
24220 When Johnny Comes Marching
Home
The Cecilian Quartette (with Piano)
145 G . The Day
Mr. Henry Ainley (Recitation)
“His Master’s Voice” Gramophones and Records are made in England.
Complete lists, instrument catalogue and name of nearest accredited dealer
request.
THE GRAMOPHONE GOMPANY LTD
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Commissioners—■
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O'M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- upwards.
INTEREST paid at 3 A per cent, on first
£2OO and 3 per cent, on excess to £5OO.
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE GOV-
ERNMENT.
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS
in‘amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest, 5 per
cent.
Branches and Agencies throughout the
State. Post Offices are not now Agencies for
this Bank.
Bv Order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES. Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
| LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROHERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Oflice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Oflice: 41 Queen Street.
London Oflice: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1915) .. £1.195,831
RESERVE FUND £65.000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lysaght, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Blanches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 190,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ;
James Love, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,780,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,780,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cotien, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Iynox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: 11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: .18 Hire bin Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar. Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Hem Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £528,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 975,710
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 524,290
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The (otaHal (|}utual [ife
assurance society LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Li fe Assurance, Endowments a::d
Annuities without Mutual Liability ; nl.-'i
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0.000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors *
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping. &c.
ORIENT LINE,
AUSTRALIA £NGLAN D.
• Geared Turbin
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMRAH
with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
. “‘earners. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
J Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Llectnc Lifts and Laundries.
\n?Tnm7Dvr ailinsfi from BRISBANE. SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
TI \ArTAurn \ to any Part of
EUROPE, in connection
Railways Lnited States and Canadian
Leave
Wellington.
Oet. 14
Nov. 11
Dec. !)
|Jhv ® n | St ’, larges , t ail<l newest steamer trading
between Sidney and San Francisco.
JJTf 24 HOURS AT WELLING-
IUN (N.Z.), AND AF PAPEETF “TFTF
OP THE PACIFIC.-’ ’ UIE PEARL
tickets available by various routes
Ail Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphv
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstance's permitting): —
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACIvAY '■
TOWNSVILLE
"CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Oct. 2.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Oct. 6.
Leaves Sydney Oct. 9.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Oct. 13
Leaves Sydney Oct. 16.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S. A. and '(V.A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA. (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Oct. 9.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SEE VICE.
S.S. Peregrine (3500 tons) leaves Brisbane every
Friday at 8 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at
GLADSTONE. FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting
at TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports
as far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
Oct. 23; Nov. 20; Dec. 15; Jan. 5.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
MUffSOAV
CM»HS
V %
,-Tl •
/ ««
<SBaN
/Dwty
LORD
MOWt
KflfcOUßNfc
HNOIiIDAY-'
•■CRUISES
to Pac/f/c Isles.
BurnsPhilp& Cpltp
Send for Pamphlet.
TO PAPUA St RABAUL
TO SOLOMON I?
TO NEW HEBRIDES
TO MARSHALL*
TO GILBERT I?
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,550,000
£3,500,000
£9,550,000
'ihe Hon. Sir Charles Iv. Maclvellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
ilie lion. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund \V. Eosbei'y, C.M.G.. M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Tliomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORS: —WiIIiam Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepbeard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
„ offic ®~fieorge St., Bydney. London Office-29 T h read needle St., E.C.
346 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world.
- • .T. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
Potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
-0 *- rs a ot unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
piospective settler and to the honest worker.
Lor Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU. Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 219 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
hfd
Bustralta
SYDNEY I
Open
for all
in the
principal
General Banking; Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking- and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1/'
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia,
and Papua
Interest at o°/
per annum O/,
up to £3OO
JAMES KELL,
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
Depiy v Governor. June, 1915 DENIS >N MILLER, Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed £250,000
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor. Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
A ee f’ ' s . Cie only Trustee Company empowered by
Act of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
STDNET OFFICE: 18 Young Street.
Directors.
The lion. Sir CHARLES K. MAC'KELLAR,- M.L.C.
H. Y. I i RAD DON. Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
]{. M. PITT, Esq.
I'lill information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED I’OST-OAIIDb bv Harrv J.
Weston—“WEEKTA’ WORRIES.” * Set
of six. posted free. 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co.. 214 George Street. Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade rega-
in rlv to: —
i\\ FED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COKE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
■T Miner. -Cfi Bs. fid. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £ 4 2s. fid.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 .GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE io and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Oct.
and Nov. 2( i.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, Oct. 2.
-MORIALTA, Oct. 9.
INNAMINOKA, Oct. 16.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. lUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CAN ADI AN-AU STR ALA SIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
Stemnei’R,
t MAKI.'KA ..
» XIAUAHA.
/ makimia
«T\vi n-Screw. *Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Ami All Ports.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
T. 5.5. “ KANOWNA”
T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
10,000 tons
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraph;.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
ihe A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 6 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, II BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services
between Australia and United
Kingdom via Suez Canal, Cape
of Good Hope, Torres Straits.
FAST MODERN PASSENGER STEAMERS,
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large, airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
Fare to London or Liverpool, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, Etc.,
apply to
Birt & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane; Turnbull,
Martin & Co., Brisbane; Mcllwraith, McEacharn
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne and Newcastle;
Elder, Smith Ik Co., Ltd., Adelaide: 11. Jones
and Co., Ltd., Hobart.


Well-Dressed Men
—who insist upon correct style,
perfect fit, smart appearance, and
comfort in their footwear, will
always find lasting satisfaction in
ABBEY SHOES.
The illustration shows a
Tan Willow Calf Bal.,
25/-, 27/6, 28/6
Box Calf .... 21/-, 22/6, 25/-
Glace Kid . . 22/6, 25/-, 28/6
Special Grade, Leather Lined,
30/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for our New Catalog-,
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
is
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist.
Engineer amt Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2-lin. rlia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22 16
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
" EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
lIOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Law of Quality
Is as attractive as the law of gravity. Gravity keeps you
on the earth, and Quality ensures that you are on firm
ground in the matter of value.
ONE
QUAT.ITY
ONLY—
THE P.FST
i
Moior Tyres—
MADE IN ONE QUALITY ONLY—THE BEST-
attract all motorists who have tried them,
MICHELIN TYRES AND ACCESSORIES
can be obtained irom ail the leading Agents*
G. 5.
(Michelin Tvres are made tn France).
r
A
Examine tHe Heads
of tHe .22*s You Use
If they are stamped with the letter “U”
then they are the genuine Remington
UMC .22 calibre cartridges.
These little cartridges, with a .22 Remington
Repeater or any other standard make of .22 calibre
rifle, will afford you more pleasure at less cost, than
can be secured in any other way.
Learn to shoot with these accurate cartridges; or improve your
score if already a shooter and i protect yourself by insisting on
the Remington UMC red ball brand.
We shall be pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When writing, send us the name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
D. 1). BRYANT, Australian Representative,
P.O. Box 686, Melbourne.
hfd
Contractors to the British and Colonial Governments.
SHAVING WITH SUCCESS.
How many men fret and fume and waste time in the morning because
they’ve never solved the Kazor problem! There’s an end to all your
difficulties if you try
&he “PLUM” RAZOR.
The stiffest beard yields to its all-conquering edge, which is tempered
with such scientific accuracy that it shaves swiftly and keenly through
months of constant use.
Order the “Plum”—lo/6 Post Free.
We keep this razor in perfect older for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
VS
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the Above Post Free.
This line makes a lovely present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER SO YEARS.
Calverts
iletSoap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-tablet boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.. Manchester, Eng.
are: you
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE,
Never mind if you have tried everything else:
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL .
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.


msk
m*
Ill#
■m
m
mm:
FINNEYS
Longfellows!
(Actual size as
illustrated)
A Long Smoke
and
A Good Smoke
Touches the tongue like
velvet —does not bite.
Burns evenly with a clear
white ash. and diffuses a
pleasant, pleasing aroma.
Made from imported
especially selected Man-
ila leaf, which accounts
for their goodness.
Price 3d. each
Box of 100,24(6
Sample Bundle of 10, 2/6.
Finney, Isles
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE.
The “ADNIL” Electric Horn
h
It emits a mellow, penetrating note —
not a shriek like the electric siren.
There is no sparking at the inter-
rupter contacts. The “Adnil” NEVER
fails, and is most economical on cur-
rent. “Adnil” Horns are used by
many English Railway companies for
electric trains.
Price £»4/l!2/6
ERIC BOULT LTD.
Managing Agents,
79=81 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Elizabeth House, Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
g \STE*£
**De
Every Well-Appointed
Office that Prides
itself upon its finished work uses only
KOLOK Typewriter Carbons, Pen and
Pencil Carbons and Typewriter Kidd o ™ 3 *
The Kolok Economy Binder is admittedly
the best in the world. The Kolok trade-
mark means British made.
OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL STATIONERS.
Australasian Agent:—C. F. BICKFORD,
5 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
Of late every second week finds a neiv
virtue in prickly pear. The latest hails
from Uruguay, Avhere the TJ.S.A. Consul
found the farm buildings shining with a
glossy, durable Avhite paint made from
macerated curse steeped in Avater and mixed
with lime.
Old Henry Palmer, of Maryborough, re-
cently celebrated a birthday, and half Mary-
borough celebrated Avith him. He has been
selector, planter, good citizen and M.L.A.
in his day, and has successfully defied the
rigors of a tropical climate for nearly 80
years. As he is just into his 94th lap it is
not impossible that he may succumb to its
fierce assaults before he goes very much
further. But optimism and Palmer always
sailed in the one boat.
“Jerry” Gordon, one of Townsville’s good
citizens, came to the end last Aveek. Fox-
years he had been a regular frequenter of
the ToAvnsville baths, but had never taken
a “header.” On this account, xvhen brought
before the mock court held in aid of the
Patriotic Fund, he was satirically charged
Avith imitating a submarine. No one appre-
ciated the joke more than the victim. On
his next visit to the baths he apparently had
the “court’s” jest in his mind, for he dived
from a Avail into sft. of water. That should
have been plenty; but being a heavy man
ancl inexperienced, he hit the bottom and
came up Avith head bleeding and an injured
spine. An operation failed, a,nd the light
Avent out. -
Notice in a Queen-street (Bris.) shop-
window : “Wanted, a respectable boy
within.” Quite right, too. These outwardly
respectable fellows are seldom to be trusted.
“E.J.C.’s” call for help :
There’s a big field for Y.M.C.A. and kindred insti-
tutions in North-west Queensland copper towns. The
conditions under which men live there soon reduces
them to the brute’s level. Take towns like Friez-
land and Selwyn, for instances. In the first-named
the lower portion of the town is on the edge of a
gully, and is periodically flooded out when it rains,
which in Western Queensland unfortunately is not
too often. There is never a vestige of grass about
the place, except here and there a stunted tree. The
main street is as dusty as Gallipoli after a Queen
Elizabeth bombardment. This dust causes all man-
ner of eye diseases, including that western scourge,
the blight. Along each side of the street, built
haphazard, are the galvanised-iron shanties which
in summer are as hot as the tropics of Gehenna.
These are divided into 10 x 12 rooms, in which, as
a rule, two miners sleep. A bath is never heard of,
and men coming out of the mine and reeking with
dirt just sluice their faces in a bucket of mineral
well-water, in which it is impossible to raise a
lather and with which it is impossible to cleanse.
I’ve known men to go for a month without even
sponging their bodies, in a climate where it goes up
to 118°. Not because they were of dirty habits, but
just because the surroundings were too unlovely to
make the effort worth while. The only place that
stems' to give them compensation for their monoto-
nous existence is the hotel. It appears to be their
first and their last resource. And it’s hard to blame
them. Eight hours in a mine, then no water to
IN SOCIETY.
JACKY (who has been away droving): “Bins be tree munts since I saw you, Tilly.”
TILLY: “ Yes —I bin get married since.”
JACKY: “Oh! Any fambly ?"
bathe in, then throat and eyes full of dust, a bed
full of vermin, and a dust-caked body with rivulets
of sweat pouring- down it. Can they be blamed if
they try to deaden their sensibilities by drugging
themselves with beer ? Can they be otherwise than
pitied when the dreariness of it all puts their temper
on edge, and inveigles them into street brawls? On
pay night I’ve seen 28 street fights, and there was not
a plausible excuse for one in the lot. AY'hen boozed
they sleep in all manner of places, from the hotel
outhouses to the lock-up, and when they wake up
they do the same all over again. It’s all they cmi
do.' Here’s where the Y.M.C.A., etc., can come in.
If they left the big cities and came to places such
as Sehvyn and Friezland they would do more solid
good in a week than they’d do in Sydney and Mel-
bourne in a year. It would be an expensive proposi-
tion, but no one would contribute more heartily than
these miners. If a decent club was put up where
a bath could be secured, and a reading- and writing-
room availed of, there would be 90 per cent, less
drunkenness and 8000 per cent, more manliness.
There would be a decent pay envelope to send to the
wives and kiddies, who usually live on the coast in
utter ignorance of the bestiality of their men. If
the Y.M.C.A., with a practical man at its head, went
to Friezland, Selwyn, etc., it would be a godsend to
everyone—except, perhaps, Mr. Public House.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 25, 1915.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
A patriotic procession and sports took
place to-day. Lieut.-Gov. Arthur Morgan
crowned the winning Queens from last Patri-
otic day, while side-shows and stalls. skinned
the crowds. The afternoon and evening jam-
borees were at Davis Park, in South Bris-
bane, one of the prettiest bits of the river,
recently set apart as a reserve.
Meanwhile, in order to conform with the
spirit of the hour, the Lieut.-Gov.’s wife
opened a fete in Colonel Foxton’s grounds at
Bulimba. The Red Cross and the local
Church of England Avill share the spoils.
The Mayoress presided over a packed meet-
ing of women on Thursday morning, Avhen a
scheme to spin the necessary wool to supply
socks, etc., for Tommy Bananaland was
aired! Mrs. de Little had got a spinning-
wheel from somewhere, and a lady who was
intimately acquainted Avith the workings of
the thing explained all about it. Another
meeting will be held soon, and before long
Brisbane females will —in one respect, at
any rate —be emulating their grandmothers’
maiden aunts.
The Christmas billycan for the boys at the
Front is being rattled by Mrs. Spencer
BroAvne. She says she must have one for
eA r ery man whether he is in Europe, the Dar-
danelles or local camps. Also, those who are
prisoners in Turkey are to be specially re-
. n . , , £ ii
membered. So you see we ll be delightfully
busy for the next few weeks. And won’t the
boys be gay when ‘he national pot comes
a ™ § w * th lts . loa ‘ . rq , ~ . ,
The Imperial Service Club, which has
done much for the men in camp at Enoggera,
wants a cottage somewhere at the seaside so
that sick boys who have left hospital can
have a chance to get quite well before re-
turning to camp. In addition to the cottage
the house committee requires a motherly
son] who will be happy to prepare meals, as
the renewing appetites feel hungry at any
old hour. It is suggested that the cottage
should be capable ot taking 10 or 12 men at
a time. _ Anyone who has such a cottage, and
is burning to do an act ot patiiotism, should
mention the fact to Mrs. Little.
Dr. O’Brien, senior assistant-medical
officer at Goodna Asylum, died to-day. This
was the result of a motor accident the other
night when he was returning home after
attending the Commission which is now sit-
ting to inquire into the management of the
hospital. Dr. O’Brien’s name has figured
largely in the recent proceedings of the Com-
mission. lie was 36 years of age, graduated
at Edinburgh, and had a particularly bril-
liant career at college. When the Queens-
land Agent-General asked the Commission-
ers of Lunacy in England to nominate an
expert they chose John O’Brien for the
job. He came to Bananaland as assistant
medical-superintendent of the Toowoomba
Mental Hospital, held this post for a year,
and then was transferred to Goodna.
Mrs. J. Henry, who was Mye Feez, is
staying with her parents. Her husband has
gone into camp.
Mrs. J. C. Robertson, who Avas one of
the handsome Godsall girls of Toowoomba,
has left for Egypt. Her husband, who went
ahead with the Fighting Ninth as. Major,
has been made a Colonel and is in com-
mand of the regiment. He was. seriously
Avounded on the first day of landing at the
Dardanelles, but lias now recovered and is
again in the battle line, “getting some of his
own back,” as the lads say.
Mrs. Cannon, wife of Colonel “Jim"
Cannon, of the 15tli, has also moved towards
Egypt. Her husband is to have five weeks’
leave from October 1, and she means to
spend the time in Egypt with him.
Mrs. Atkins, one of the first white women
to arrive in the Moonie River district, died
ai St. George during the week. If it hadn’t
been for the rigor of the climate she might
have lived to he a fine old age, but she was a
mere girl of 92 when she had to give in.
Another resident Avho finished the long trail
during the Aveek Avas William Yale, aged 90.
He Avas an old soldier, and had been a mem-
ber of an Irish regiment which entered
Cawnnore under Fanning, then Captain,
shortly after the massacre.
Henry Hart and his “costume” concert
party have been doing good work ever.since
Patriotic day on August 28. They have
visited the camp several times, and given
the soldiers a musical treat. To-night they
sang at Davis Park and did a roaring trade
for the Patriotic Fund. Among the party
are Mrs. Bob Bell, Mrs. Mark Harris, Miss
Elsie Bates, Mrs. Harry Reeve, and W. E.
Kenny, who is one of the most popular
amateur comic singers in Brisbane.
A youth of 16 presented himself for enlist-
ment the other day, and was stood down by
the authorities because of his lack of age. A
few hours later he returned, accompanied
by his mother, who was not at all grateful
to the military. “What’s wrong with him?”
said she in a threatening manner. A per-
spiring official explained that he was
a fine lad, but too young. That didn’t
satisfy his mother. “I’ve given my consent,”
said she ; “and he’s the oldest of four boys.
The others can’t go, so you might let him.”
The budding warrior now sports the khaki,
and practises daily on a bugle, with which he
may in the near future rouse the camp of
good Australians in a foreign land.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
It is a great advantage to have a punch.
The Jap, since the intervention of his con-
sul, may work in Queensland canefield or
mill without let or hindrance. So may the
German. But the Kanaka, who was brought
to Bananaland in the bad old days, often
against his will, is still under prohibition.
He has no punch.
“Itan”: This present Bananaland Parlia-
ment shows improvement in calibre _ on
previous ones anyhow. Apart from politics
it is much younger. With the exception of
half a dozen the Labor team are on the
cradle side of 40. Nearly every man is
black-haired. Only three are really bald.
The trouble is that the caucus gags them;
their debating strength is smothered. But
when there have been openings, the rank
and file have shown up well. This is one
of the evils of the party system. The
machine turns Parliament into a couple of
crates of delegates, with hardly more indi-
viduality than a soda-water bottle owns.
The Ryan Government is up against more
trouble. Before the general election the re-
gulation of the price of meat and other things
was just the easiest job in the world. Then
Ryan was given authority to go ahead, and
that was when his difficulties began. At
present he is in trouble with between 2000
and 2500 meatworks employees who have
been thrown out of a job. After the first
yarn with them Ryan, was going to take
over the meatworks straight away. _ Then
he went home and thought about it, and
seems to have found out that the works were
probably closed because of the serious short-
age of cattle, the result of the drought which
still afflicts Queensland. Also Ryan seems
to have wondered whether it would improve
the position by slaughtering for meatworks
just now—whether, in fact, the position
didn’t rather call for the closing of the
works, partly to give the local market a
chance, partly to let the herds recover. But
it is a dreadful thing for a Premier to have
to go to his supporters and tell them that
for the good of the country they ought to
be out of their old jobs; so Ryan is still
wondering what to do about it.
The Day of Ragnarock.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The day of vengeance comes at last,
The Twilight of the Gods has passed !
Earth reels beneath the trumpet shock,
And battle roar of Ragnarock.
The stern black-haired Yalkyi-ie Avait,
Remorseless at the Asgard gate.
They call from out the realms of gloom,
The Avords of Fate, the Avords of Doom !
For ever in man’s breast there lies
A wild beast with a tiger’s eyes.
In peace he slumbers on his paws,
With dreamy look and velvet claAvs.
When comes the day of hate and strife,
The Avild beast starts to savage life —
Throughout all Nature’s devious plan,
The same primeval savage man.
Oh, woe to those Avho loosed that flood,
The sluices of the seas of blood!
For them snake-haired Bellona waits
Impatient by the brazen gates;
For them no Furies shall atone
Before stern Pluto’s sulphur throne ;
When iron tears of joy shall trace
Each other doAvn grim Pluto’s face.
Alas! O Avorld that sees and hears
The unebbing sea of blood and tears!
Ah! when along thy troubled shore
Shall god-like Balder reign once more?
Ithuriel stay the bayonet thrust,
Thor’s hammer strike the guns to dust?
When all the Hell of Hate shall end,
And Avliite-robed Innocence descend.
Honor the men who fought and bled,
Honor the Allies’ valiant dead !
Oh, Fame shall find some chosen place,
To shrine Australia’s warrior race,
Who flung the flag of Freedom high
And died, as only heroes die.
Australia’s sons shall pass the grave,
To some Yalhalla of the Brave!
QUEENSLAND.
ARCHIE MESTON.


DON'T LET Tl
ROB YOU OF
HOT SUMMER DAYS
OMFORT!
Why should you? Get into cool, comfortable clothing
and shun the wardrobes of conventionality. To obtain
maximum comfort in life you must adapt yourself to
conditions —unless you can reverse the order.
When it’s a question of weather —well, you’ve got to
weather it, whether you like it or not. There’s a
reason why you should dress comfortably and come
down to business with a cheery “Good day” instead
of a “ Whew ! It’s terribly hot! ”
Wear Murdoch’s
Summer Washing Suits
They will suit you admirably
and keep your temperature
normal. They are light,
cool, ready-to-wear gar-
ments, correctly tailored,
with all the style and smart-
ness that you desire. The}"
will wash and wear well,
and at the moderate prices
quoted will save you money.
i’t!owm
\ '4m
. ! 4r<A
:;ih - ",
/ •": ••
tiff.’
asm
mm
mm
mm
wm
mm
mm
mm
r
m
ms
a®
fr"
%
W-;
3^
m
mw**
SiSK
•S'*7
A 1
m
«m
/a
%
msmm
wjrmwmk
mMmSrnkm
mm
~m
mm
m
m.
v.. 1
35®
m
Mi
' ' V 3? ' -
tl.§
SgS 5 jgS. ' ..-* •-.
„ <**, - fe^#VUl
pm s
ft#
1111
ftmaSß
HERE are THREE SPLENDID LINES for
Men who want Comfort with Economy :
PALM BEACH SUITS.
Palm Beach Cloth is a mixture of Worsted
and Sumatex Cotton —a light-weight fabric
that wears and washes well.
Made up in two-piece Keady-to-wear Suits,
unlined—smart and dressy.
(Mats are made with sports back, yoke and
inverted pleats, with band sewn down.
Trousers have, side and hip pockets and
turned-up bottoms.
In Light and Dark Grey, Light Fawn ai’id
Biscuit shades. I
CARRIAGE PAID ANYWHERE.
SHANTUNG SILK SUITS
Unline'd Coats and Trousers, made of pure
Shantung Silk. Coats have sports hack,
with yoke, pleats and band sewn down, 3
button lapels, 3 patch pockets. Trousers
have side and hip pockets, turned-up bottoms.
CABEIAGE PAID ANYWHEBE.
Egyptian Tussore Suits
Two-piece unlined. Suits of Shrunk Egyptian
Tussore, in the new biscuit shade. Coats
liave 3 button lapels, 3 patelf pockets and vent
in back. Trousers have side and hip pockets
and turned-up bottoms.
21/-
CARRIAGE PAID ANYWHERE.
We can fit any man—-no matter what his
dimensions. Call and try on your size
to-day. If you can’t call fill in the
coupon and post to us—-we guarantee a
perfect fit.
SEND YOUR ORDER TO=DAY
We Pay Carriage Anywhere
DESK R.
Messrs. Murdoch’s In Pari: St., Lid.,
SYDNEY.
Please forward me one of your Summer
Washing Suits at amount
enclosed,
My measurements arc as follows :
Height measurement .
Waist measurement . . ... .........
Chest measurement
Sleeve measurement
Inside leg measurement
URDOCH’S
IN PARR
L/PD.
SYDNEY.
M Australia’s Mammoth Men s Wear Store,


BRONCHITIS
THE EVIDENCE
From “Kia-Ora,” Wellington Street,
Bondi, Sydney, N.S.W. 1 Oth Aug. 10H.
“After suffering with Bronchitis
for twelve months, my little son
has been cured by your ‘ SCOTT’S
Emulsion.’ In a few weeks,
after suffering with colds for so
many months, he was entirely
free from Bronchitis, and looked
much stronger and brighter. He
looks well and bonny, and we are
only too pleased to tell everyone
that your preparation has been
the cause of it. He likes Scott’s
Emulsion and would not be
without it.” (Mrs.) G. Ward.
The worst cough or cold cannot
persist if you take SCOTT’S
Emulsion.
Better still to prevent throat
and chest troubles. If you have
delicate lungs or a weak throat,
a course of SCOTT’S will protect
you during the winter season.
But only genuine
SCOTT’S. No other
emulsion has received
the approval of the
medical profession
during more than
forty years. Insist
on genuine
fdh
scorn
Emulsion
IMITATED BUT NEYER EQUALLED.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps j'our knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Trv the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Hites.
British Prices, 1/I*4 and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
VV. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS. etc.
' r ■ ' , ••
■
, , : 5\ -v
:
,
f
. I
m
rM
Dr B. Allen's (U-SA-)
mx\Qm I
walnut!
STAIN.
FAR
GREY
11 AIR.
BEFORE THE MIRROR.
By “JEANNETTE.”
“Jeannette,” the well-known writer on Beauty Culture and author of “The Book of Beautvj’
will be pleased to help and,advise any reader on matters of the toilet. Queries should be accom-
parned by a stamped addressed envelope, and directed tc “Jeannette,” c/o “Before the Mirror,”
13 Gray's Inn Road, London, W.C.,. England.
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and all of
us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow over the
lives of many of us women, and while, perhaps, a few —the more stoical amongst
us—can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we may all, with a little
care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results of worry from being notice-
able in our appearance. To these fortunate few this little chat will, however, be
as interesting and instructive as to those who stand in real need of help in toilet
matters, and may be the means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown
method of retaining, or regaining, that beauty of face and figure which is the birth-
right of every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present,
not generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Some Hints about the Hair. —An Excellent
Shampoo. —Few women realise how all-im-
portant a really good shampoo is if the hair
is to be kept in perfect condition. To shampoo
the hair properly, shake it down, comb it out,
then dip the lingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil, and thoroughly massage the scalp.
Then, mix a teaspoonful of stallax granules
in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin with
warm water, into which the ends of the hair
can fall, and shampoo the stallax mixture into
the roots in the usual way. Rinse, and dry
by fanning, or in the open air, if the weather
permits. Should the hair be exceptionally
greasy, the oil massage of the scalp should be
omitted. Stallax can be bought at any chem-
ist’s in quarter-pound sealed packages; it keeps
indefinitely, and fine package is sufficient for
twenty-five or thirty shampoos.
A Tonic for Thin or Failing; Hair. —When the
hair falls unduly, or has become thin and im-
poverished, a tonic should be applied every
night for six or eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most efficacious
lotion, at home, take a quarter of a pint of
bay rum and add to it one ounce of boranium.
Shake thoroughly, and leave for thirty
minutes, then strain, and add sufficient water
to make half a pint. Every night, massage
the scalp for ten minutes, going over the
entire head, then dab the mixture into the roots
with a soft sponge. Regular brushing for a
few minutes every morning will also help to
improve the condition of the hair.
The Question of Grey Hair.— -The arrival of the
first grey hair is always a,worry to a woman,
for, while silver hair is undoubtedly beauti-
ful. iron grey or streaked tresses' are far
from being so. and they are not only unbe-
coming. but a sure tell-tale of age in these
days of eternal youth. It is not generally
known that one ounce of tammalite, procur-
able at the chemist’s, mixed with four ounces
of bay rum, makes a most satisfactory lotion
for restoring grey hair to its original color.
All that is necessary is to apply the lotion
night and morning with a soft tooth-brush.
In a few days the hair will be found to be
gradually regaining its proper shade.
To Wave the Hair. —Never wave the hair with
hot irons—if you value the beauty of your
tresses. The heat makes the hair harsh and
brittle, and in the case of fair or auburn hair
entirely spoils the color, while it undoubtedly
hastens the advent of grey hairs: To give a
wave to straight hair it is only necessary to
damp it with silmerine, and either plait it
tightly, tying the ends, or arrange it in wav-
ing pins for a short time. A couple of ounces
will last quite a long time.
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads.—A greasy,
oily skin with blackheads and enlarged pores
is a sore trial, and many a girl goes through
life with her appearance entirely spoiled with
these unsightly blemishes, which may now bo
so quickly and effectively removed with but
little trouble. To remove blackheads, and
the (lull, dirty look of the skin which accom-
panies them, dissolve one stymol tablet in a
glass of hot water. Allow the effervescence
to subside, then dip a small, soft sponge into
the liquid and bathe the face. Leave on the
skin for a few minutes, then dry with a. towel,
and the blackheads will come right off. For
a greasy skin, bathe the face I liree times a
week with stymol. and spray with cold water
every morning, using a vulcanite throat spray.
The Secret of a Good Complexion.—The secret
of a good complexion is so simple, that were
it only more widely known there would be
no such thing as a rough, blotchy skin.
Nature has decreed that the outer cuticie. when
it shrivels and dies, shall be removed, but so
many women fail to realise this. To remove,
by absorption, the dead outer skin, and pre-
serve the complexion in all its pristine beauty,
mercolised wax is recommended; ordinary
creams and lotions being quite ineffectual for
this purpose. Siutnr the wax over the face
and neck, rub it gently info the skin, and
leave for the night, in the morning wash it
off. using a good soap, such as Pilenta, and
all the dead skin will be removed with the
wax. Then apply a lotion to remove any
trace of greasiness and brace up the skin,
making it firm and white. The lotion can be
made at home quite easily, by mixing one
ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of
hot water. Bottle, and, when cool, apply to
the face with a soft sponge or the tips of the
fingers, allowing it to dry on the skin.
To Remove Superfluous Hair. —Superfluous
hair is the bane of many an otherwise pretty
woman’s life. Sometimes it is due to hereditary
‘tendencies; with others, it is the result of bad
soap or greasy face creams; but be the cause
what it may, the result is always disfiguring.
To remove the growth, apply a little powdered
pheminol. First dust the skin with powdered
alum, then mix the pheminol with cold water
to a paste, which should be spread on the
skin with a bone knife. Leave on for two
minutes, then wash off. About one ounce
should be sufficient for the most stubborn case.
Powdered pheminol can be obtained from any
reliable chemist, and its use not only re-
moves the growth but eventually kills the
roots permanently. [1
ny i
i nave uerivcu ine greatest
\ sle
fi«-rat
Mr. H.GRINDELL MATTHEWS (the Inventor Mr. ROBERT RADFORD (the wcll-knownl
rtf Wiw].cc iu.iVa. l ' T ffrtfn Bass Sinupr) Wnfpc— ll l li.vp /ippivp/1 tkp nrMfperl
the nervous
some conditions, or for dejection, rfhd ttamiiie- „ ...
, . vocally relaxed, Phosfcnne immediately restores
diately renews the strength of my nerves, and , ,
. . , , , resonance and brightness to the voice, baflishcs
exercises a stimulating effect M the whole of | assitude , and generally tones up the system."
-*-63, Havcrstock Hill, London, England.
iJVEHLEN, the talented and charming
I have Used Fhosferine with really
general health. The unusual exertions
sals make one nervously anxious and
touch 'induces dull
*~' /i ‘ i=ri effectually
tonic for
otes the
sure it
Miss EM |
Actress, w
excel
and exaWS
J-
&
si
m
m
mm-
) there
IMwM
hosferinc
ffpeople will find it
I’— -164, High Rd.,
any invil
mother
Mr. B. C. HUCKS (the w
Englishman to “ Loop th§/
illy must express my ap"
PHJic back I felt mysilf in :
brought on, no doubt, by the!
under all sorts of weather coi
tour last summer. I had an
becoming shaken. 1 was advised’
quite astonished at the beneficial «
the first few doses. 1 am now feelir
and ready to start upon a season's promises to
:onsiderable more arduous than the lasj.”— ll6, Piccadilly
£r>glc«d
ig dreary
weather.
order, and
ty as my
>ndon, Eng.
HONORED
BY
■ROYAL
command"
At the hands of any Chemist this is what you should obtain
PHOSFERINE ia a World-wide Remedy for
Indigestion
Anaemia
Insomnia
Lassitude
Debility
Neuralgia
Loss of Appetite
AH Nerve Troubles
Just 5 to 10 drops of this golden remedy in a wineglass of water.
The original and Genuine PHOSFERINE is in buff packages, and be particular to
notice that it is spelt P-H-O-S-F-E-R-I-N-E. Price—l/, 2/6 & 4/6. If you find any diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies send Postal Note to Ashton& Parsons, 408 Collins St. Melb.
■T
II mim '
I m
Don’t
Clean
Knives.
Best round or square handled Rustless Steel Dessert Knives, 30/- dozen.
Table Knives, 32/6 dozen.
Why should you? Have you not seen the new stainless Steel Table Knives? They are the late
triumph of applied- Science.
Neither vinegar, lemon, nor rust affect them.
You simply wipe the blades with a dry cloth, and your knife is perfect in polish.
They are lovely Knives to cut with, as they retain such a sharp edge always.
Prices are our usual low quotations.
We stock them in round or in square handles.
We guarantee every knife.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
It moves ! The parish magazine of a Syd-
ney Anglican Church calls upon the congre-
gation to offer thanksgiving “for the promi-
nence the press is at last giving to the hid-
eous facts concerning venereal disease.” But
the Church can take little credit in this
matter. It. is a good deal like the respect-
aide politician who will have nothing to do
with a reform until some allegedly disre-
putable persons have swept up the thorns
and given the cat a chance to jump without
hurting its paws.
“O’Phimerty” : A citizen of Hobart has a
cheerful relic of the bad old times. It is
a manuscript sermon by chaplain “Bobby”
Knopwood, who came with Collins to Van-
demonia in 1804. Headed “The Power of
a Bad Example, ’ it has on the back page a
list of the occasions on which it was
preached. These include frequent hangings,
one being the execution of a woman.
“Bobby” was a tough customer who didn't
ac all mind preaching on the power of a
bad example whilst a trembling wretch was
waiting to feel the rope tighten round his
gullet.
From ail Australian in New York :
I hear to-day from a source very close to the
Government that Washington is seriously discussing
the ultimate entrance of the U.S. into the war to
help down the German demons. The truth is Wash-
ington is very much concerned over the failure Eng-
land has made so far—the collapse of Kitchener's
army of millions and the hot-air “Spring drive.”
Britain is reaping what she has sown. She has few
patriots outside the colonies. Her laboring classes
have been so pauperised and degenerated that they
care nothing about the war, and talk the awful stuff
that they cannot be Worse off under German rule.
It is a horrible condition of affairs. One can see
nothing but conscription, and then God knows what
will happen internally. We in the U.S. believe we
know more about the real progress of the war than
any other country, and in all we hear there is
nothing except what is good of the Australians and
Maorilanders. If England were made of the same
stuff there would be no need to look abroad for help
to send Prussianism to Hell.
Maoriland has a sky pilot who is also an
author-actor-producer-manager. He is the
Rev. C. 11. Allen, and tends a flock in
Dunedin. In the intervals of expounding
the Truth he lately wrote some libretto which
Doris Bagley set to tuneful music. The parson
produced the show and played one of the
parts, and altogether it was a great success.
The affair deals with a crippled boy named
Bobby, who has a dream and, being given
the wings of freedom, is transported to an
island where Chaos or Party Government
or something like that is in charge, while
the enemy is pounding on the outer gate.
In the last act the boy gets the people to
arise and uppercut the invader, who is
counted out in the final chorus. It makes
rather a bright show, and so far has been
given twice for the oatmeal city’s wounded
soldiers’ fund.
Fanny Erris writes :
Re “Big Wrongs and Little Remedies” (B.
29/7/’l5), as far as actors are concerned I think
it should be “Big Wrongs and No Remedies.” I
myself was the victim of an accident on the Adelphi
stage during a performance three months ago, a
fellow-actor casting me off in a stage tussle with
such force as to throw me down, he himself then
falling backwards on my leg - , breaking it in two
places and damaging my ankle. This meant seven
weeks in hospital and further weeks of disablement
at- home. Vet I find I have no legal claim on my
late management. If there had been negligence on
the stage in any way, then the employer would be
responsible; if I had been injured by a piece of
scenery he would be liable; but being injured by
an actor, only the said actor could be called to
account. Artists have no compensation rights,
though J believe every other person employed in a
theatre has. We cannot be termed “workmen”
either if receiving over a certain sum in salary.
Wellington College is putting up some-
thing in the way of a Maoriland record.
The school Roll of Honor shows that (170
old boys are serving at the Front or have
been either killed or wounded. Twenty-one
of the old brigade have been killed, including
Lieut. Oscar Frcyberg, of H.M.S. Colling-
wood, and Jack Gale, a despatch rider in
Africa. Other old boys of note are Major
C. R. Frcyberg, who won the D.S.O. by his
gallant swimming feat in the Gulf of Saros,
and Lieut. AY. J. Chilian, who was wounded
in a plucky rush at Hill 60. Captain
Goulding, killed by a shell in the trenches,
was formerly a master. The strongest sub-
ject at the College has always been Rugby
football, and its most abiding traditions
cluster round Principal Firth’s long-distance
performances with the cane.
William Denny, allegedly the oldest
surviving native of Tasmania, who
dropped out of the census at Hobart the
other day, aged 91. is worth another line.
His mother kept the first girls’ school in
Hobart. The old chap remembered Gov.
Franklin, the Arctic explorer, and' could
talk of the time when no right-thinking
citizen went out at night tvithout a lantern
to steer a course through the streets in case
he fell into a leg-iron.
A PROTEST FROM COLLINS-STREET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The AVestern Desert Railway is not a develop-
mental work. It may ultimately serve the defence
needs of the nation, but not in our time. —The Age.
Through distant tracts the line will lie,
Long miles from Collins-street,
In parts where there is none to buy
Each day our penny sheet,
Or make our patriot heart feel glad
With contracts for a full-page ad.
Don't cackle to us of defence.
No foe is at our gate;
So kindly have a little sense.
If at some future date
This land’s attacked, we need not fear —■
The chances are we’ll not be here!
In fact, no reason can we see,
With our impartial eye,
Judged by the rule of £ s. d.,
This work to justify ;
For east is east, and west is west.
Melbourne is Melbourne! D —n the rest!
victoria.
HARRISON O.


IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing
EUDENTA h therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/-tube every-
where. Post: free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSTTT & CO.. Melbourne.
NYAL’S FACE CREAM
(with
Peroxide)
Made in
Australia.
This daintily perfumed, vanishing, peroxide
cream does NOT promote the growth of hair.
Non-greasy, nourishing and easily absorbed —
leaves no shine. Ideal for sunburn, and acts
as a mild skin bleach. Applied freely it will
keep the skin soft and elastic.
Price 1/6 & 2/6 per Jar, from Retail Chemists only.
FREDERICK BTEARNS & COMPANY,
358 Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney.
Send 2d. Stamp for Sample Jar and Name of
i Nearest Agent.
BE
CRITICAL
as critical as you
like over the services
you require from
Calvert’s Carbolic
Tooth Powder.
For the efficient cleansing
and antiseptic properties this
dentifrice possesses, make it
easy to maintain that standard
of cleanliness, which satisfies
people who want their teeth
to last well and to look well.
I
\jCARBOUCj
y>
Sold by local Chemists and Stores,
ATade by F. C . Calvert & Co.
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MUKPHY, WOY
WOY, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Frees
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
"7,
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
i.ny Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
terior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/-and 2 ; 6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
m
m
&
m
E
+A
*
A
MV
Don’t remain
“Weak, Anaemic,
“Nervy,” “Run-down”
Gel; well the “Wincarnis” way—the quick, sure and safe way to new aud
vigorous health. It is the Quick way—because the benefit begins from the first
wineglassful, and increases with every additional wineglassful. The Sure way
—because it has given new health and new life to countless thousands ol
sufferers. And because it is recommended by over 10,000 Doctors. The Safe
way—because it contains no drugs. The first effect of “Wincarnis” is an
immediate stimulation and invigoration of the whole system. This is followed
by an actual up-building of bodily vigor—an up-building that you can feel —and
which gives you more strength and vitality than you had before. And each
succeeding wineglassful of “Wincarnis” creates still more strength and
still more vitality, until soon your whole body thrills with new health and new
life. Then you can stop taking “Wincarnis.”
But you can still enjoy to the full the glorious new health it has given you.
That is where
AAA
A AAAAA
A A. A A
AA
i
IT
m
IV*
V"W
m
rw
proves itself of enormous advantage over drugs and drugged wines. Drugs
stimulate, it is true, but it is false stimulation. And drugs make you feel worse
afterwards, because they depress the heart. Eead what Mr. Edmunds says: —
“Dear Sirs, —I am delighted with the new health your world-famed
‘Wincarnis’ has given me. I have had such a busy season that I got ‘run-
down.’ I was intensely weak, and quickly got exhausted. I was induced to
take a w r ine tonic, which unfortunately made me feel worse than ever. I
discovered afterwards that it contained drugs. So I quickly gave it up and
tried ‘Wincarnis’ instead. And. it is wonderful how- speedily ‘Wincarnis’ has
made me feel a different being. It seemed to put new life into me. I should
never have believed that anything could do me so much good, or do it as quickly
as ‘Wincarnis’ has done. 1 only wish I had tried it before.—Yours faithfully,
“A. S. EDMUNDS, 8-12 Selwyn Eoad, Cliftonville.”
So you see that the health that “Wincarnis” gives is real and lasting health.
That is the health you want if you suffer from Anaemia, Weakness, Nerves,
Sleeplessness, Exhaustion, Indigestion, or if you are “Eun-down.” And it is
ieal and lasting health that “Wincarnis” offers you. Will you try just one
bottle ?
Begin to get well TO-DAY.
“Wincarnis” is made in England by COLEMAN & CO., LTD., Winqarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy '“T\'im ; arnis”--froin all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/- and 6/6, but if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to the Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
5-7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Neuralgia by the Clock.
It is a curious thing about neuralgia that
its sharp, stabbing pains often come on at
the same hour every evening. It is not
always the case, but many who are attacked
know that when the hands of the clock get
to a certain point they will begin to suffer.
In many cases the patients are free from
pain during the day, but spend nights of
misery, often walking the floor. Applica-
tions of heat in the form of hot-water bags
or salt heated and wrapped in flannel will
giA e comfort for a time. Neuralgia is caused
by lack of nutrition for the nerves; in plain
language starved nerves. To correct the
condition causing neuralgia, feed the nerves
by taking a tonic. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
supply the blood with the elements needed to
keep the nerves in tone. Treatment of
neuralgia with this medicine is highlv spoken
ot by many who suffered at one time. They
are to be had at all dealers.
A postcard request to Department “II"
P.O. Box 504 Sydney, will bring a useful
booklet, “Nervous Diseases.”
How to Avoid Sick Headache
Many people suffer at: regular intervals
from sick headache. Generally they can tell
hours in advance when an attack is coming
on. The trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the digestive organs and when a
certain point is reached this poison produces
nausea and the attack follows.
If sufferers would take a dose of Pink-
ettes, the new laxative, at intervals, these
distressing attacks may be avoided. Pink-
ettes are dainty little, sugar-coated ovals
that arouse no feeling of repulsion, and they
act so gently that they are the ideal laxa-
tive to use in correcting a tendency to sick
headache. They have no unpleasant effect
io make them objectionable to the extra-
sensitive sick-headaelie patient. Old-
fashioned harsh purgatives will not do at all
in such cases. If you would like to try
them send for a free sample to the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, mention-
ing that you read of them in The Bulletin.
Sold everywhere Is. per bottle.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Surer, y—•
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION^
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2/9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists. J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them bv post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removesthe effects of Sunscorch
POWER, STRENGTH
AND DURABILITY
in every part of a Kermath Engine.
KERMATH
Marine Engines
built in 4 cycle, 4 cylinder types only.
12 to 20 h.p.
Medium Duty ; Medium Speed for
boats 20 to 35 feet.
No better Motor made at any price.
Write for full
Particulars and
Catalogue to
The Invincible Motor
Construction Co.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
KERMATH
MFG. CO.
(Dept. 41),
Detroit," Michigan,
U.S.A.
am
A<g


Amusements.
Harry Kicknrds Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. MciNTOSII.
*1“ IVO L I TIIEA T H E. SYDNEY.
TWICE DAILY: 2.30 AND 8.
THE LAST WORD IN VAUDEVILLE.
MISS ELLA CASPERS,
The Girl with the Voice of Gold.
HECTOR GOLDSPINK, MARY ELIZABETH,
STAFFORD & CO., DUNCAN & GODFREY, EDGAR
WARWICK’S BURLESQUERS, DESMOND & DAL-
TON, etc.
“piVOLI THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
THE GREAT BOOM SHOW.
Going on for ever witli new features every day
THE FAMOUS
TIVOLI FOLLIES.
AUSTRALIA’S BIG FUN SHOW.
All tire old favorites and many new stars.
TIv() L I TIIEA T K E. It It ISI! A N~E.
1 COMMENCING OCTOBER 2.
A COMPLETE VAUDEVILLE CO.
And
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
JACK JESS
JOHNSON v. WILLARI).
FIGHT FOR THE HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION-
SHIP OF THE WORLD.
|_| E R M A .1 E S T V ’ S. S Y I) N E V.
1 1 Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
‘ Entirely New Company.
POTASH and PEIILM UTTER
AMERICA’S GREATEST LAUGH MAKER.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
Missing l'riends.
C RANK BOARD.—If Frank Board, son of Flank
1 Oliver and Mary Ann Board, will communicate
with THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED, 4 12 Collins Street, Melbourne,
he will learn something to his advantage.
TO WILLIAM LYNCH (son of DANIEL and MARY
1 LYNCH), who was born in NEW ZEALAND,
educated in New South Wales, subsequently went to :
London and Ireland, and thereafter to America, and
was last heard of at San Francisco about 10 years
ago, and to all persons claiming by, through or
under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of the Honorable
Frederick R. Chapman, a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, under Section 25 of The
Public Trust Office Amendment Act 1913, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the undersigned on
or before the Ist February, 1916, vour claim to part
of the estate of MARY ANN LYNCH, late of Auck-
land, New Zealand, Spinster, deceased, who died on
the 18th May, 1911, intestate, failing which such
estate will be distributed among the persons entitled
thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 24th day of July, 1915.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
WILL WALTER TULLOCH, late of
Carnoustie, Scotland, please commu-
nicate with Watson’s, 455 Latrobe Street, i
Melbourne.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Navy Office,
Melbourne, 18th September, 1915.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for the Supply of a New or
Second-hand Launch.
TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 6th October, 1915, for
the supply of a New or Second-hand Motor
Launch, 20 li.p. to 40-h.p., for .duty at Flin-
ders Naval Base, Crib Point, Victoria.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette,
obtainable at any Post Office; or from the
Director of Navy Contracts, Department of
the Navy, Melbourne.
J. A, JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Business Notices.
To Connoisseurs in Old Arms
A unique collection of MUSKETS, CAR-
BINES, BAYONETS, SWORDS and
PISTOLS, dating from 1800, is on view 7
at our Sample Rooms.
Those interested are invited to inspect them on
production of visiting card.
S. SCOTT=YOUNG LTD.,
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
From £3/10/-
EDIS
PHONOGRAPHS
The Edison Phonograph brings to 43*e home
the best entertainment the world affords —
the efforts of star artists in every line.
It is available in many models —at prices
to suit all purses.
The “Gem” is a splendid little instrument;
size, (without horn) 8 inches high; 10 inches
wide; 8| inches deep. Price, £3/10/-
Tliere are other liorn-type machines ranging
up to £23. v And Amberolas —concealed-horn
machines —from £B/10/- to £45.
The Diamond Disc Phonograph-—Mr. Edison's.
latest production, and recognised as the finest
musical instrument, in the world, costs from
£2O upwards.
Cali -on your nearest Edison dealer for details.
If more suitable, write direct to us for illus-
trated catalog, mailed post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent St., Sydney.
Amusements.
Q It I x jTkion Tills a the, sydneY
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S COMEDY CO.,
including
JOHN WEBSTER and BEATRICE NICHOLLS
in
STOP Jill EE!
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose,
y HEAT K E BOV All, SYDNEY.
THE DRAMATIC ATTRACTION OF THE MONTH.
REX BEACH’S
THE J* Alt HI HR.
A Superb Interpretation of Rex Beach at his Best.
CYRIL MACK AY heads an All Star Caste.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Booked Seats, 4/-.
Plan Paling’s.
D AEA C E XIIEAT It E. sT DNE Y.
r Lessees ... PHILIP LYTTON LTD.
Representative G. L. MERRIMAN.
Commencing SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2.
AVill be inaugurated a laughing season of Australian
Comedy, when Mr.
PHILIP LYTTON
will present, for the first time in Australia, a
delightful stage version of Henry Fletcher’s cele-
brated bush stories, entitled
THE WAYBACKB
AT HOME AND IN TOWN.
A PLAY THAT AVILL MAKE ALL AUSTRALIA
TALK.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Reserved, 4/-.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
T H E GARDEN T H E A T R E,
1 (Open Air),
DARLIN GHURST, SYDNEY.
Two Minutes from top of AVilliam Street,
AVill be opened
ON SATURDAY NEXT,
by
Mr. EDAVARD BRANSCOMBE’S
VIOLET DANDIES CO.
SUMMER ALLOCATIONS OTHER COS.:
DANDIES (Green) MANLY
DANDIES (Scarlet) BRISBANE
DANDIES (Orange) ST. KILDA
DANDIES (Pink) ADELAIDE
DANDIES (Red) PERTH
Prices: 2/C, 2/-, 1/-.
Box Plans now onen at CARNEGIE’S, 334 George
Street, and at S T NCLAIR’S, ton AVilliam Street.
itiniK am
Drop in with the children on
8-Hour Day.
NEW ANIMALS ADDED.
Amusements.
You haven't 6e?n Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES.
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Bauhixqton Millkr, General Manager.
Til IS A T It IS It O Y A L, .MISI,ISOLi ItNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present MURIEL STARR
and a Brilliant Company in
UJSDEiI COVEIi.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
|_| IS U M \.I IS>T V’S Til ISAT It IS. MELBOURNE.
■■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 2.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the ROYAL COMIC
OPERA CO. in
PAUL JONES.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
RINCISSS’S Til EAT It IS. .MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
. GEORGE MARLOW LTD. revive the Famous
Dramatic Success,
THE It OS All Y.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Pianola.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 2.
The BERT BAILEY CO. presents the Attractive
American Play,
PLAYING THE GAME.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
I .1 O I T II IS A T It IS. M E I. 15 O U It N E.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO , COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
PIQUO, ANITA PRTMROSE, GEORGE FREDO,
MAUD & GILL, LAWRENCE JOHNSTON, THE
MAXWELLS, WARD LEAR, RAY DE VERE, THE
BALANCING STEVENS & CARL MERLYN.
Prices: 2/6. 2/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
govt’s pict uite s, Melbourne!
BEST AND MOST.
TWO 810 SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
A Matter
of Cost
A car will go about two
miles more on a gallon of
Plume Benzine
Try it and prove it.
‘‘Plume” is our new Benzine.
It has come to stay.
Read what a “Ford” owner says:
“I used Plume Benzine in my
Ford on my recent expedition
across Australia and found it
gave excellent results as also did
Gargoyle Mobiloils.”
(Sgd). FRANCIS BIRTLES
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
99
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney,
Amusements.
A CDI
TOBITM, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2.
at 8 p.m.
fd
FIRST TIME IN
AUSTRALIA
OF THE
GREAT AVAR
PHOTO-PLA\ r ,
DAMON and I'YTIIIAS.
Commencing SATURDAY AFTERNOON, OCT. 2,
there will be a Daily Matinee at 2.30 of
ANNETTE KELLERMAN IN
NEPTUNE’S DAUGHTER.
BI li C H & C A It It O L L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office : ROTH WELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Business Notices.
TALKS ON BICYCLE BUYING-
No. \.
!
a
w
T'HE B.S.A. Trade Mark
—-the three piled rifles —
appears on all B.S.A. parts
and unless the bicycle you
buy bears this mark it is not
builtthroughout with genuine
BS A. Fittings. The B.S.A.
Mark has always been asso-
ciated with all that is best in
cycle construction —it is your
protection against the sub-
stitution of cheap pattern
fittings, and is a guarantee
of freedom from trouble.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
ITTIISLQ^
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.”
B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
k
Anthony Horderns’
Universal Bicycle.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with
EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub, Free
Wheel on both gears, Back-pedalling
and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS
BIRTLES. £l2/10/-. Write for
Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons
Only Universal Providers, Ltd.
New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


All Over Their Bodies, Also on Heads.
Red and Inflamed. Clothes Irrita-
ted Dreadfully. Cuticura Healed.
74 Kilbirnie Crescent, S. Kilbirnie, N. Z.
—“My three children broke out in sores all
over their bodies. The trouble began on
the children one after another. The sores
came on their heads as well as their bodies
and they used to scratch them until they
bled. The skin all round the sores was red
and inflamed and clothes used to irritate
the sores dreadfully. I purchased a tin of
Cuticura Ointment and washed them with
warm water and Cuticura Soap and applied
the Ointment which cured them.
“I washed my youngest little girl from a
baby with the Cuticura Soap and she has
a lovely skin and hair and was the only one
who did not get the sores.” (Signed) Mrs.
Annie Rudd, Mar. 2, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
There are sermons in stones —
also in teeth. We’ll choose the
latter for our text.
But if everyone used Peheco
Tooth Paste there would be no
further need of sermons, preach-
ments or parables on the proper
care of the teeth.
Pebeco Tooth Paste solves the
problem by ridding the mouth of
the enamel-destroying acids. “Acid
Mouth” is the dreaded thief which
experts now agree is the cause of
95% of all tooth decay. Pebecc
Tooth Paste arrests this acidity of
the mouth —even destroys the
acid-producing bacteria them-
selves.
You have not settled the
problem of your teeth by merely
keeping them white, clean and
polished. Peheco Tooth Paste
will SAVE them.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
Made in Australia by
G. ARNOLD,
6 O'Connell St., Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [2
Treat your
hair kindly
You desire fine, beautiful hair.
Therefore you must treat it
kindly—nourish it, preserve it,
care for it by regularly using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
“For Your Hair.”
This preparation has been used for over
120 years—it has proved its value time
and time again. Do not try experi-
mental remedies on your hair—get a
hot tie of Rowland’s Macassar Oil at
your chemist/s. Also sold in a Golden
co’onr for Fair or Grey Hair. Rowland
& Son, 67, Hatton-garden, London, E.C.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Ilol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security Governmen
Zetland 1 ' 68 ’ InBCrU,ed StOCk “ LOWEST “cDBRBCT “iNT^EST
i u 'to'7o p“‘SS SrjSETfZFSS
DntECTOUS-The Hon A W Meeks? M L.C.,° Chairman ; The Hon. J. T. Walker Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. Les Burns, M.E.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C ; The Hqn P. E Winchcombe, M LXI. , Adrian
Knnv Fsn KC ■ Samuel Hordern, Esq. General Manager and Actuaiy. Richard leece, i. ..,
FF A., Fs!s head OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
1,200 square yards of naked brick
wall covered by 12 gallons of a
finishing coat of “B-P Berger s
Paint (prepared)—and even that is
not its record covering capacity. The
reason for its great spreading power
is simple. “ B-P ”is so finely ground
that it not only covers more surface,
but looks better than any other paint
made. When you paint ask your
painter to use “B-P.
hfd
“ B-P ” Berger’s Paint (pre-
pared) for painting buildings inside
and outside is guaranteed to work
easier, cover more surface, look
better and wear longer than any
other paint made. Colour folder of
52 standard shades free on request.
Paints
Varnishes
Get Colour Folders and Particulars,
together with name of local
Agent, from Head Office:
16 & 18 Young Street, SYDNEY.
dap
A
to
folder.
colour
f;:
h
fdh
WEAR WELL EVERYWHERE 1
UNDER THE SUN. \
Lewis Berger & Sons
(Australia). Ltd..
16 & 18 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Makers of Paints, Colours and
Varnishes at
HOMERTON. LONDON.ENG.
Since 1760.
ljos/ocA
OFvTIIY of the beautiful Frenchwoman
after whom it is named, this Lavalliere
* v slioc will appeal to all smart women
as bein'}' both fashionable and charming.
With its side fastening and ornament, _ its
short toe and very high heel, the shoe gives
a deliciously Parisian air to every foot, be-
sides accentuating the height of the instep.
The rich-toned brocade of its material and
the brilliance and exquisite design of its
ornament, give the last touch of charm to
the present model.
There are various types of this and many
another charming shoe in the latest shipment
of Bostock now arrived at the leading
stores. The name Bostock is stamped on
the soles of every pair.
823
&
m
m
m
m
m
KSE
i i
m
Wm
None genuine unless
stamped “Bostock.”
Bostock No.
P 6392
w
builds strong
bodies and
sturdy limbs.
Where breast milk is not available
give baby Mellin’s Food mixed
with fresh cow’s milk. The fresh
milk is absolutely necessary be-
cause of its vital properties.
Mellin’s Food makes it as nearly
as possible like human milk.
PROOF FROM EXPERIENCE
“The doctor, when prescribing your Food three days after my
daughter was born, never expected her to live, being such a weak,
puny little thing. She is now, at two years of age, as fine and
sturdy a child as one could wish to see; Mellin’s Food undoubtedly
saved her life.”—W. A. Johnnes, Elm Grove, Armadale, Melbourne.
A Sample Bottle of Mellin’s Food, together with a useful Handbook
for Mothers, “The Care of Infants in Australia," sent Free. Write:
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Matey”: The remark (B. 2/9/T5) that
Maoriland begins to laugh at its own insane
policy of importing sulphur is the cue for
Fat to get busy. Japanese and Sicilian
sulphur reaches M.L. practically pure
(guaranteed 99 per cent.), containing neither
arsenic nor silenium, the principal narks.
Maoriland sulphur has been tried—and
found out. It generally washes up about
70 per cent., the balance containing many
damnable impurities. But low-grade sul-
phur can be purified, and all Maoriland has
to do is to put brains up against the local
sulphur, instead of shipping the sulphur
away to the brains. As the loanly place will
want work badly soon, someone ought to be
getting busy. There’s money in if.
* * * *
“ J.G.”: About a year ago I drew up the
plans and specifications for a Vic. country
public-hall, and only got my way about
having it built of Australian hardwood by
the fact that the committee all fell into a
dead faint when I suggested it. The studs,
joists, etc., and the weatherboards were cut
in a forest within four miles of where the
building was erected, and the main floor
was constructed of seasoned t. and g. Tas-
manian timber. So far there is not the
slightest sign of warp or twist in a single
stick in the whole structure, whilst the floor
is classed as the best in any public hall for
miles around. It is far superior for dancing
or skating to softwood or the much-boomed
kauri, and it is cheaper. The gag about
Australian timber warping is overdone. With
a lifelong experience I say it will not warp
and twist nearly as much as a lot of foreign
building stuff that gets a better name just
because it is foreign.
* * * *
“Fax” : Connoisseurs tasting any Austra-
lian wine, and thinking they would like to
have enough of that particular brew in the
house to keep them happy for the next 30
years, are in much the same position as the
timber expert who wants to place a big
order for the rich furniture woods that grow
wild in these latitudes, but finds that the
trade is not organised to meet a large
demand. A while ago the buyer for a firm
of English merchants came as far as Aus-
tralia for his health’s sake, after placing
orders in America and elsewhere, and col-
lected samples of our wood to take home
with him. The firm was struck by them,
and next time the buyer came this way he
had a £20,000 order in his, pocket. But he
might as well have asked for the moon. The
man who had supplied the samples couldn’t
execute an order like that. The trade in
seasoned timber had not been developed, and
the idea of exporting it in large quantities
was not even in the air. So a promising
foreign demand was killed at the outset.
* * * *
“Acorn”: Ah Sin speaks plainly to a
Brisbane firm about some matches and
twine: —
I.
13th .Time, 1915. Dear Sir, —We have received
your Invoice on the 17th instant it charge that case
Matches 17s. per gross I get copy order at 16s. 6d.
per gross that your traveller delighted rather to
rate it present and have power to decide do not
changeable price it promise.—Yours faithfully, -.
11.
18th .Tune, 1915. Dear Sir,—The goods all by
returning I been charge same invoices for get charge
freight and expense for it why your draw for money
I don’t know how it is, I cannot paid that draft
vou will write to your traveller explain me. —Yours
faithfully,, . P.S. —The April 30th 1914 Twine
I have no twine from you on that date you will in-
quire let us know it matter enclose that invoice been
paid full amount that invoice I cannot find how is
it and your exposition that I will send money to
your what is be hasty for it down alltime.— —- —.
111.
19th July, 1915. Dear Sir, —We been write to
you it precogitate that account would you command
to your traveller it the principal to circumstances
distinct to me. —Yours truly, .
Then the Caucasian gave in.
* * * *
“Sarto” : Go easy on the honey! The
bees suffered terribly during the recent
drought, many apiaries being wiped clean
out. " Here at Lavington (near Albury) my
neighbor had 40 hives. He saved one.
An Englishman who talks interestingly of
things which Australia hasn’t done with its
timber is Felix Lloyd, manager of Buckley
and Nunn’s, in Melbourne, who brought an
expert knowledge of the woods used in furni-
ture-making to Australia 18 months ago.
Spendthrift Australia, having valuable tim-
ber to burn, is, he says, always burning it.
A great deal of commonplace hardwood is
equally strong and handsome for furnishing
purposes; yet the furniture-manufacturing
firms import their timbers, and the workers
weep no patriotic tears because the imported
wood is softer, as a rule. Lloyd’s own firm
has some lovely panellings of hardwood in its
shop fittings, and it, has made up some im-
pressive specimens of hardwood furniture,
but thus far there is no cry of “Australian
wood for Australian people”—except for log-
fire purposes. Even when it is used it often
apparently pays better to sell it as something
else —as, for instance, when it is made into
“American” axe-handles for the unpatriotic
Australian to do more destruction with.
A PUBLIC SWINDLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hour was late, and drifting home
Beneath a pale, despairing moon,
I came on one who seemed half gnome
And half a son of ancient Rome,
Who in a shirt and unlaced shoon.
Embracing- pants and hat and socks,
Held converse with a pillar box.
And as he talked I lingered nigh.
lie dropped into the letter slot
A penny piece, and waited by,
Anticipating a reply ;
But no return the stranger got.
And now he turned an eye on me.
“Sa planky swindle, boss!” said he.
“Sush robbery ’n’ fraud,” he said,
“Ish wha’ I call a rotten sin.
Thcshe rascals should be dragged from bed,
And dam’ well hung until they’re dead.
I’ve dribbled one-and-sispence in.
Shee for yourself, I didn't get
A single mangy shiggerette! ”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


GUNS
of Quality
and Stability.
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Highest-grade Virginian.
Dark or Light.
Sample 2oz. pkt. lid., or lib.
6/6 (post free to any address).
;■ v
; V. a -
IctWk
•
811. ISAAC HOLLIS SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action. 30in. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks,
snap fore-end, chambered for 2§in. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless I’o vders,
half-pistol grip, walnut stock ; weight from to 7ilV>.
I )ELIVERED,
£6 17s. 6d
1112. Same Gun, with !»2in. barrels
DELIVERED,
£7/7/-
GOLDEN KtY
CIGARS DE LUXE.
British made.
Sample box of 5 cigars,
2/6 (post free).
i
826. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12 or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, Greener cross-bolt,
nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge, about 7|lb. ;of
16-gauge, about 6Jlb. DELIVERED,
£4 17s. 6d,
GUN and all
kinds of
SPORTING
REPAIR WORK
a Specialty.
WE STOCK EVERYTHING
FOR EVERY SPORT
ss
1
I
mm
mam
mam
mam
m
Send for
our Price
List of
Guns,
Rifles,
Revolvers
and all
Sporting
Goods,
Post Free
to any
address.
840. Boswell’s High-grade D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun, “The Reliable,”
ev^ r > Anson and Deeley action, barrels both choke, side clips, Greener X
i»olt, chambered for 24 cartridges, nitro proved, pistol grip, elaborately engraved: weight
about t lb. Poz Delivered .£l7 10s.
“Goods right—Prices right.”
■ <
830. DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross holt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
patent fore-end ; weight about 71b, POST FREE,
£4 8
Mlcß Summons h
HAYMAPKET
•SY&NEY
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
Information for the Housewife.
CLARK’S
CAST-IRON
SAUCEPANS,
BOILERS, KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as lire lightest Enamelled Ware, and will last
a lifetime instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust.
Handles that will not slip in the hand.
Please note the
Hygienic Shape
and the Patent,
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
SECTION
CLARK’S
arc the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S hollow-ware IS THE BEST
Australasian Agents A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
j SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.' Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Exclusive Agents Wanted
to Sell G asoline Engines
MARINE, STATIONARY AND
PORTABLE OUTBOARD MOTORS.
-11.1 \ PORTABLE.
Write at once to
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
506 CAILLE STREET,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
** WORLD’S LARGEST BUILDERS OF
TWO-CYCLE MOTORS.”
We manufacture every practical type of (lasotine
Motor. Prices Right. Quality First.
fd
.“AustreJidJi Made
hfd
Combs,
2/= each.
Cutters,
6d.each.
nm
M
w*
Fxdiifii
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, Sydney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARING CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Building's, George Street, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND IUIAJSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over oO en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s (id posted. Mkrrie
England, Gd. llow to Get Rich, Is posted. Da. Lamar-
tine's Silent Fillhn i), Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How TO DANCK, IS, post. How TO WRESTLE, Is. MOLL
Flanders, a rare book bv De toe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating thk
Hor.sk, Is. Ventriloquism Madk. Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter. Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Sd, and all tiie Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys ok Like, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free. Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Rove, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Rife.
10s 6d. AUST. Miners’ GuiDE(simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ds. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
ford) 9d The Art of Jiu-Jitsu. 9d and Is 6d.
God ’and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses.
Is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is Dosted. House Painting and
Papering, is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. AUSTRALIAN PASTRYCOOK’S GUIDE, Is (id
1
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. K. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very-
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, ami wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this creat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH. ~ms
gipsy fortune telling gauds-love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions,
Is posted. GAMBIiKRS’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, 19 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is: post
Is ‘id. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s. 6d.
Self Instructor : Evbry Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers' Handybook. Is 3d.
COMPLETE BOOKKEEPING, 2s. LIFE OF DEEMING,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is Sd. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee's Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets. Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne. Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don't he fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SJ®r“Kstablished 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
OJs'ljY A SMALL IDEA Ol .MY STOCK CAN
IJE GOT EHO.M THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OE ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTiSED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Gauds, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dii. Milford’s Mid.
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle. 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
.Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. . Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersolls Works, Bd, 2s. liow to ReadHlkads
(Jas. Coat.es), Is 3d posted. Cukvassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bknnarr Macfaddf.n’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar.
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tub Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONkw
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large -Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna.
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2<i. Moore’s Universal
assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d oosted. The Secrets of Clairvoyan< k,
Is po3t. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and musie coni,
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY,


Two Favorites —Lizette Parkes
and Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
m
a
Miss Lizette Parlies is an Australasian
favorite. Her career is a triumph of both
beauty and brains. Her stage career has been
a singularly versatile and brilliant one. In the
following letter Miss Lizette Parkes points the
way to perfect freedom from Coughs and Colds
to all sufferers from chest complaints:—
Dear Sirs, —I am writing to tell you what
a strong advocate I am of Dr- Sheldon’s
New Discovery. It is the only thing that
does me any good when I have a had cold
or cough, or when my throat feels sore or
strained. During the past two years I
have used it on numerous occasions, and
always with the best results. It is an ex-
cellent remedy, and I never feel safe to
start on a trip without having a bottle of it
in my bag.
With very best wishes for “New Dis-
covery,”
I am, sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) LIZETTE PARKES.
A Dose in Time Saves Nine.
Men, Women and Children all over the country use
and know the worth of I>r. Sheldon's New Dis-
covery. Are you one of them'.' If not, don’t
delay, but buy a bottle at once, and be ready to
pounce on to the first cold that makes its appear-
ance. Don’t forget, Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
is the ever-ready friend that should be in every
household to protect you from all Coughs and Colds.
Price I/O and 3|-
Mint LIZETTE PARKUS, as “Garcia,” i.»
“The Siyn of the Cross” ( from, a photo).
D? Sheldons
saio
a mv
SHono
'V\7'HEN Decorating
~ Remodeling
emo
Building, be assured of
SANITARY as well
as Beautiful Walls and
Ceilings use
BEAVER
BOARD
You need hygienic walls, not only
in sleeping rooms but in every
room in the house.
Beaver Board takes the place of lath, plaster
and wall paper. Better, stronger and more
sanitary walls and ceilings are quickly and
easily built with Beaver Board.
Beaver Board is made of Pure
Wood Fib re. It beautifies and
brightens the home. It won't crack,
and will last a lifetime.
Beaver Board is especially recommended for
residences, offices, schools, shops, hospitals,
and churches. It assures well designed, well
built walls and ceilings that give greater
satisfaction, freedom from cracks, and repair
expense, and permanent satisfaction.
MADE IN CANADA
Your architect will tell you all about Beaver
Board. Booklets, designs and free samples
are obtainable from any Beaver Board stockist.
WARNING.-All wall boards are not
Beaver Board. There are imitations. Be
•ure to get the genuine with name and
trade mark on back of every jsanel.
Solid Comfort!
No torn or dingy wall paper in
this room. No cracked plaster.
The walls and ceilings are
made of Beaver Board.
Easily put up at any season
of the year without mess or
bother. Lasts without repairs
as long as the house. Resists
heat, cold and sound.
Treated on both sides to pre'
vent absorption of moisture,
and to protect against changes
of weather. Is scrupulously
clean and makes any room
more cheerful and inviting.
Make a spare room out of the
attic. Use Beaver Board for
partitions. Use it to brighten up
the living room or dining room.
Supplied ready for nailing to
joists or studding or over old
walls. Panels about A" thick,
36" and 48" wide and in even
foot lengths up to 16 feet.
0.
The Beaver Board Companies
Ottawa, Canada
4 Sovthampton Row, London, W. C. England
. REPRESENTATIVES:
D. Gerdon, G. P. 0. 1893, Sydney R. S, Ward, 40 William Street, Melbourne
STOCKISTS:
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide
Cowell Bros. & Co.. Adelaide
Gunnersen, Crockett, Ltd..
379 Kent St., Sydney
James Hardie & Co., Melbourne
G. Gunnersen & Co., Melbourne
Geo. Mills and Co., Ltd., Perth
G. P. Harris Searfe & Co.. Ltd., Perth
Geo. Wills and Co., Ltd., Brisbane
James Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane
BEAVER
BOARD
[
PURE WOOD FIBRE
Mistress Spring.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
riIHE Spring is garued and glad to-day,
I watch her flit around;
She’s up above, she’s near, she's far,
She’s in the grassy ground :
She’s here, she’s there, she’s everywhere—-
Sue’s sight, and scent, and sound.
1 he green enchantress calls to me
(Her call is liquid clear),
V\ ith sylvan music on the wind,
What can I do but hear?
And yet 1 know I may not go—
The Itent-Day draws a-uear.
Her wonder and her witchery
My sense and spirit thrill;
•"'he tells of cool green valley-ways
And sunshine on the hill —
Of here to rest and there to quest,
And yon to dream my fill.
My dainty damsel, spare your wiles
And tempt me forth no more;
Ilow should 1 pay the baker-man,
The butcher at the door.
If having time to make this rhyme
To make it l forebore V
Dh sweet arc ferns in woodland depths,
And sweet are roses red,
And sweet are shaded forest aisles ;
But sweet is meat and bread;
Though you be gay—l must obey
Grey Master Toil instead.
Because of table and of roof
1 am, alas, his slave ;
If I but could I’d take his throat,
And try to choke the knave;
He owns me all, he holds in thrall
My spirit to the grave.
1 f I were bold and twenty-one,
And free of earking care,
Why, Mistress Spring, you’d never need
To call me and despair ;
I'd say—“ Hands off!” and turn and scoff
At grey old Toil, I swear.
'Twas so of old when you and 1
Kept glorious holiday:
Von- called me, and 1 trod with you
The truants’ golden way:
I learnt to lire, I learnt to give
My spirit ample play.
Sweet Mistress Spring, what merchant prince
Could ever buy with gold
The charms, the joys, the high delights,
The glories manifold
You won for me from land and sea
In those bright days of old?
Who’s better off when all is said —
The man of wealth and ease.
Or he whose only treasure is
Some golden memories
Of truant hours and birds and flowers
And glory on the seas?
1 cannot eat the gifts you give.
Nor will they shelter prove;
But I shall count them o’er and o'er
While yet I live and move;
And more than dreams —remembered
gleams—
Our happy hours shall prove.
I shall push back a hidden door
That moves on noiseless slides,
And I shall see a valley-road
On which a young man strides ;
The sun on high ; you. Mistress, nigh
And no one else besides.
Perchance, he shall wave hands to me
Across the sunlit space
And cry—“ How, sir, and why so grave?”
And then.... the hour.... the place
The long ago shall rise and glow,
And I shall know his face.
“Farewell, fair Twenty-one.” I’ll say,
And then—“ Well, after all.
To dream was good, to walk that road,
To feel the springtime thrall
Of bird and bee, and flower and tree.
And sunshine over all.”
Good Mistress Spring, be done. 1 pray;
Your magic call is dead ;
Beside me stands grey Master Toil —
I hear his voice instead ;
He says—“ Behold, though grim and cold,
I am your daily bread !”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Larry’s Happy Mischance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rF there’s annywhere a shmarter lad
livin’ than Larry Begin. I’d be grate-
ful t’ meet the same,” said Flynn.
"Grateful ’n’ glad I’d be, but jubious. Larry
Begin lived at Boru, which is agin the main
line, yill renumber; ’n’ Mary Phelan, the
gir-rl iv his hear-rt, resided wid her parents
’n’ a gran’ piany et I’helan’s fine orchard,
Quinn’s Bridge, a mile ’r more frim the
station.
“Bechune Boru ’n’ Quinn’s Bridge is a
matter iv tin moile maybe, ’n’ when Larry
is wishful iv seein’ his own thrue love ’tis
long way t’ walk on fut, ’n’ Larry bein’ impe-
cunyis ’n’ misfortunit. is widout chice, pro-
vidin’ Providence don’t favor him wid a
chanst t’ steal a ride wan way ’r annother.
“The coorse iv thrue love is not goin’ too
good wid Larry Begin V the wan ’n’ on’y
dauther iv Timothy Phelan, Isquoire. Timo-
Ihy himself is a man iv substance, ’n’ a
large man, young for his years, quick on the
fut, ’n’ nimble wid his fists, ’n’ he have a
shtrong ’n’ persistent contimpt for masther
Larry bec-aze iv his funancial incapacity ’n’
the dishposition the young fellah have t’
wine, weemin’ ’n’ song when he should be
fillin’ the land wid ’n’ makin’ the
wiltherness blossom like the nose in a man-
ner iv speakin’. ’X’ Phelan have made
public proclamation, ’n’ have stuck elaborit
otlicious doc-kymints t’ trees, announcin’ bold
t’ all it may consarn his deliberit detarmina-
tion t’ give the bla’guard Begin strangula-
tion iv the neck do he catch the same phil-
anderin’ on his property ever.
“Larry Begin is not wan likely t’ be heed-
ful iv such admonition ’n’ ar-r-guments, ’n’
when he meets wid a litherary effort iv the
kind from the pen iv Tim Phelan, lie tears
off iho same will contimytuous merriment, or
he writes a shmall fut-note to nt full iv sar-
easms ’n’ disparagemint, which makes 1 he-
lau wilder than hell on Sunday, ‘n’ tills him
wid great ambitioning t’ catch Larry rid-
handed.
"Miss Mary Phelan is well disposed to-
war-rds Mistlier Begin, him havin’ the great
looks, ’n’ the thrillin’, smooth-runnin’
tongue of all the Begins of • Ballingarry,
famous ever for the nate ’n’ ortherly faces
they have, ’n’ a pleasin’ disposition t’ devil-
mint. Larry have done her a shmall ser-
vice, too, lickin’ a big man insult her et
Born, race day, she lioldin’ his coat.
“ ‘ ’Twas a shwate tight,’ sez she, when
all’s over, ‘but more iv the nature iv a
dance. They should have played the fiddle
to it,’ she sez.
“ ‘Yer doin’ me proud, Miss Phelan.’ sez
he. ‘t’ take a thought of it.’
“ 'The way you set to him,’ sez she, 'light
foot, ’n’ hoppin’ this way ’n’ that most musi-
cal —did yell larn it of a teacher iv illi
gance?’ she sez.
“ ‘Mary,’ he sez, ‘it's a dance I’d dance fer
one woman all the day ’n’ the night long.’
“ 'Ye would V’ she sez.
“ ‘lf yiv inimies enough,’ sez lie.
“ ’Twas natural ’n’ becomin’, I’m thinkin .
fer a girl iv taste ’n’ disarnment t’ take n
love the lad tit so liar-rd for her, ’n’ done
it so nately a lady might look on ’n' never
be disthressed at all. Afther that, Larry
is wild fer her, ’n’ is skippin' the dis-
tance t' Quinn’s Bridge fairy-footed night
and night, ’n’ lioldin’ her on his hear-rt over
the crick where the bill is set in silver.
“ ’Tis a full month ’n’ a fortnit over when
Tim Phelan’s fatherly regar-rd is stirred wid
the news iv what’s doin’, ’n’ wan night lie
lays fer the lovers, ’n’ takes Larry wid his
kiss on Mary’s chin, ’n’ wid no more ad
l’rows the b’y neck ’n’ crop into the deep
hole below Morgan’s.
“Larry sliwims out wid leisure, ’n’ he
stands before Tim, ’n’ sez lit': ‘Yid may be
like t’ t’row me in agin. Mishter Timothy
Phelan.’
“ - N’ Phelan took ’n’ t’roo him in ag in, ’n’
wanst more Larry sliwum out ’n’ stood up
f Tim, ’n’ sez he: ‘Assumin’ yell like it.’ he
sez. ‘yer wellkim t’ t’row me in wanst iv’ry
ha’f-liour be the clock do you ou’y lave me
alone wid Mary manewhiles.’
“Wid that Phelan up wid his slitiek. Mi’
knocked Larry shtill t’ the s’ile. ’n’ left him
lyin’ while he tuck Mary weepin’ by her own
home.
“Then ’tis a long contest beclnme Larry
Begin ’n’ Timothy Phelan, ’n’ Larry’s a
happy man duckin’ ’n’ dodgin’ Phelan, ’n’
conthrivin’ t’ have Mary an hour ; ’n’ Mary’s
sympathies bein’ wid him, there’s manny a
happy avenin’ spent be the lovers be Tim’s
own orchard, or on the long hill washed be
the moon.
“ ’Tis a fair night iv December, ’n' Larry
hi’ Mary Phelan is sittin’ be the limb iv an
ould apjile three on Tim’s own land, tucked
together, cosy ez ’possums, exchangin’ soft
talk ’n’ a bushel iv kisses, concentlirated in
wan annot.her, ’n’ preoccupied wid squeezin’.
Tim himsilf is out wid a tall stout crutch
quest iv adventure, ’n’ he sees the two
perehin’ in the thick shadow, ’n’ he recon-
noitres ’n’ manoeuvres t’ make a sthrategical
attack; ’n’ he comes on ’em from the rear
widout war-rnin’, ’n’ opens hostilities wid a
belt on the head wid his shtiek fer Larry.
’Tis a stiff lick, mind yell, ’n’ Larry goes
down widout ez much ez ‘O mother!’ ’n’
lays there, doin’ contortin’ thricks on the
grass, the while Phelan shtands over him,
usin’ abusive wor-rds ’u’ language consarnin’
Larry’s parents calculated to provoke a
breach iv the peace.
“Larry gets up, slilow ’n’ awkward. Ilis
head is wide open, ’n’ his eye is filled wid
blood, ’n’ there’s no ha’porth iv respict left
in his hear-rt fer Mary’s pa. lie goes et
big Tim Phelan, ’n’ his left hand splits Tim’s
chin, ’n’ his right comes over, ’n’ Tim’s left
eye jumps up like a purple plum. They fight,
’n’ Mary contints liersilf wid sittin’ back ’n’
yellin’ murther.
“ ’Tis a middlin’ good fight, but Tim
Phelan is a tall man, liar-rd ez cobble-shtones,
’n’ solid ez a chimbley, ’n’ Larry have a hole
in his head yid lay yer hand in, poor boy.
Begin cuts Phelan up wid little, chippin’
punches, but Phelan have no sense iv decency
in a scrap, ’n’ fights widout law ’n’ order-r,
T anny kind iv Ohristyin sintimint. He’s
gougin’, ’n’ punchin’, ’n’ bitin’, ’n’ puttin' in
the boot whin he can, V in the end he gits
to his stick ag’in, ’n’ when he leaves in
triumph, leadin’ his dauther home, Larry is
left crawlin’ lonesome on the road like a
gohanner the dogs have bin at.
“ ’Twas a mighty fearful lickin’ Larry
Begin had to take home wid him that night,
a head halved in two. ’n’ t’ree ribs cracked
across, t' say nothin’ iv teeth missin’, ’n’
two ruined eyes, ’n’ cuts ’n’ bruises frim head
to heel would take an hour to count. The
poor lad drags himsilf to a log, ’n’ rests there
till it is in him t’ think clearly. He decides
eventual ’tis hopeless to expect he can walk
home, ’n’ 'tis plannin’ he is t’ steal a march
in the down train, jue in twinty minutes.
“There’s a dar-rk, long platform at
Quinn’s Bridge, ’n’ Larry hides himsilf be
an openin’ in the fence handy to the latter
ind iv the train, ’n’ whin it comes he crawls
through, ’n’ creeps aboard, observed be none.
The throuble wid Larry is he have no money
at all, 'll’ walkin’ is out iv the question wid
a man fresh frim a hell iv a fight like that,
’n’ the blood caked to him.
“No wan ilse is in the carriage inhabit be
Larry Begin, ’n’ in ha’f a min-ute lie’s ridin’
home et a fine bat, thinkin’ p’raps, afther all.
wid luck, he’ll live t’ reach his own place ’n’
die a-bed.
“ ’Twas a mislaid goods-thrain frim Bal-
larat done the mischief. Yill maybe not dis-
rimimber the big smash iv December nine-
teen-wan. The two thrains looked like a
duck-house hit be lightnin’ when I saw thim
nixt mornin’. Be that time Larry was in
hospital, ez pretty a bundle ez ivir yell set
eyes on. They'd pulled him out iv wrickage
wid scarcely a rag iv trousers to his back,
’n’ wid a broke head, t’ree ribs cracked
clean, ’n’ minor injuries t’ fill ha’f a column
iv the Ballarat Coubier.
“They was all the damages done him in
the orchard be Timothy Phelan, but Larry
is lyin’ et his case in (he war-rd. savin’
nothin’ iv that at all. There two killed, but
iv them spared Larry’s the most painful ‘n’
(Continued on next page.)


BENT BACKS
“ Every Picture
Tells a Story.”
ajart
VS
Why Are They Bent?
Not always on account of age, for
rnairy old people have straight backs
—and many young people have bent
backs. They are bent with the pains
of kidney disease, lumbago—uric
acid in the muscles of the loins, con-
gestion of the kidneys —the pains
that make the young feel old, and
the old feeble and shaky.
Best in bed may ease a bad back,
but it cannot cure it. Only a medi-
cine that reaches the cause, can do
that. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are solely for weak and ailing
kidneys. They help the kidneys to
throw off uric-acid poison, which is
the cause not only of backache and
lumbago, but of gravel, stone, rheu-
matism, dizzy attacks, irregular
heart, and that heavy, drowsy feel-
ing. Doan’s Pills regulate the
urinary system like ordinary medi-
cines regulate the bowels; they
release the accumulated water in
dropsy, and relieve bladder weak-
ness, wliich is so common in children
and the aged.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
pure; and cannot injure the most
delicate patient.
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
A Wonderful Cure
Sydney Testimony.
Mr. Joseph Abrahams, 25 Bourke
Street, Redfern, Sydney, says: “I have
been suffering for over 40 years from
kidney disease. I have had dreadful
attacks, and have had to stay in bed for
a fortnight at a time. I suffered intense
agony with my back, and spent hundreds
of pounds on doctors and medicines, but
obtained no relief whatever. A friend
of mine advised me to take Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and I got some
and commenced to use them, carefully
following the directions. I did not have
much faith in them, having tried so many
remedies without success. However,
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills proved the
exception; they cured me. I cannot say
enough in praise of these wonderful pills.
I hope many will benefit by my experi-
ence, and give Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills a trial. Should any sufferer call on
me, I shall be pleased to give fuller par-
ticulars of my thorough cure.”
Three years later Mr. Abrahams says :
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
me of backache and kidney trouble over
three years ago, and I have been well
ever since. Before I took this remedy I
was a terrible sufferer with my back, but
now I am absolutely free of every ache
and pain.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per bottle, or posted by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
t«M« <UM
puls
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT
ITCHING PILES.
Mrs. Heady, 37 Bourke Street, Waver-
ley, Sydney, says: -“For some time I
suffered a lot from itching piles, the pain
and irritation being at times almost
unbearable, this being particularly the
case during warm weather and at night
time. I was advised to try Doan’s Oint-
ment, so got a pot, and am pleased to
say this preparation relieved me almost
immediately, so I continued applying it
until I was quite cured. The soothing
and healing effects of Doan’s Ointment
are marvellous, and I can recommend it
as a sure cure for every form of piles.
What this remedy has done for me it will
do for others.”
Two years later Mrs. Heady says:
“My cure by Doan’s Ointment has proved
a permanent one, for I have not been
troubled with piles for the past two
years.”
BROKEN VARICOSE VEINS.
Mrs. A. Moore, 111 Garden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney, says: “I suffered
from broken varicose veins on my leg,
the pain and irritation being very severe.
My leg was almost raw from the knee to
the ankle, and I was laid up with it for
three months. During the time I was
suffering I was treated at the hospital,
doctors attended me, and I used all sorts
of ointments, but nothing did me any
good. One doctor wanted to take my leg
off. but I would not agree to this, hoping
that I would be able to get something to
cure me. At last I heard of the wonder-
ful curative powers of Doan’s Ointment,
so I sent for a pot at once. I applied
this remedy, carefully following the
directions, and in a little while I noticed
a slight improvement, so I continued
using it. with the result that six pots
completely cured me. The irritation has
gone, and the wounds are quite healed.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Stores
at 2/9 per pot, or posted free by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
pittyiss objict, ’n’ when his demand fer
siven liunthred pounds fer damages, hurts,
’n’ injuries done him personally, together
wid moral shock ’n’ loss iv his own services,
is jooly considered be the authorities, ’tis
deemed fair ’n’ judicious t’ give him six
luinthred ’n’ fifty pounds in full settlement
iv the claim.
“Larry said ’twas a poor, mane action iv
the Gov’mint t’ rob a decent lad, the same
an orphan sore hurted, of his liar-rd-earned
fifty pounds, but he’d take the thrifle offered
rather than have vexatious dealin’s ’n’ dis-
putations wid them in high places.
“Larry got the six liunthred ’n’ fifty in
wan liar-rd lump, ’n’ it tliranspired Misther
Timothy Phelan iv Quinn’s Bridge had no
insuppor-rtuble objiction to a son-in-law wid
six liunthred ’n’ fifty pounds, ’n’ ileven
wakes afther Larry ’n’ Mary was wed.
“Begin’s in wid Phelan now. ’n’ doin’
well. His ould father-in-law licked him
into shape, he sez, ’n’ moreover his fav’rit
motty is ‘Shpare the rod ’n’ spile the
child.’ ”
EDDYSON.
The Religious Editor Explains.
(Illustrated by Hop's Understudy.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE steam whistle of Tiie Bulletin
factory ceased blowing just as the
clock in the tower of the Demijohn
Keep struck 9 a.m. The Editor-in-Chief sat
down in his sumptuously upholstered swivel
chair, unlocked and opened his fumed-oak
roll-top desk, then swung round to note if all
“One O, two O, three O, four O, Wot O!”
the members of his staff were in their places.
His bushy eyebrows met in a sinister frown
as he observed that there w r as one vacant
chair; that of the Religious and
Fighting Editor. Punctuality, with a
capital P, is the Chief’s pet obses-
sion, hence his eyebrows met and his
remaining brow was corrugated like the iron
roof of an up-country School of Arts. Con-
sulting his time-payment watch, his annoy-
ance increased as he found that minutes
had elapsed since the whistle ceased blowing,
and that there was no one present to open the
day’s proceedings with prayer. Closing his
watch with a snap, he jerked the telephone-
receiver off the hanger and called up “One O,
two O, three O, four O, wot O !”. .. .“Hello;
Is the Fighting Editor in?”
Feeble voice at the other end: “Yes, speak-
ing.”
Ed.: “This is The Bulletin speaking;
look here—do you know that this is publish-
ing day, and that, you are” (consulting his
watch again) “five minutes late?”
Fighting Editor: “Very sorry, but I can’t
come in to-day.”
Ed.: “Not come in! What’s the excuse
this time?”
FIE.: “Met with an- accident -last night.”
Ed.: Accident? What may bei the —eh?
What’s happened ?”
F.E.: “Well, you see, I took a tram down
to the Stadium last night to see a dog-fight, to
be opened with patriotic speeches by Premier
Holman, Chief-Secretary Black and a Mister
Wade. The tram pulled up at the Stadium,
I stumbled over her provoking little foot.
and I started to get out. A lady sat near
i he door, and as she refused to uncross her —-
her lower limbs, I stumbled over her provok-
ing little foot, and took a header through the
open door of the tram. I brought up head-
first against some hard substance —a kerb-
stone, or p'raps a disestablished drain-pipe.
I arose in a dazed state, and not being in
a fit frame of mind to witness eloquence or
listen to a dog-fight I deemed it wise to
return to my lodgings. To avoid further
misadventure I walked home, avoiding
streets where I was likely to meet cross-
legged people.... Arrived at my lodgings,
the first thing to be done was to diagnose
I walked home.
the extent of my injuries. By the aid of
a mirror (are you there?) I discovered that
I had sustained a contusion upon the zygo-
matic arch in the region of the styloid pro-
cess, and there was a cutaneous abrasion
about an inch long shoving where the
drainpipe (or kerbstone), had scored, and
from which there was a slight hemorrhage.
Further _ investigation revealed marked ex-
travasation of blood into t ffe cutaneous tis-
sues surrounding the (hello! hello! are you
there?) surrounding the orbicularis palpe-
brarum. The squamous portion of the tem-
poral region ached like —Hello ! Hel-lo ! are
there ? Eh ? Wlia t?”
Ed. B.: “I say, hang on a minute.”
Here the Editor laid down the transmitter
and pressed an electric bell. “Here!” he
said to the answering office-boy, “go tell the
librarian to send me Honey man’s Dictionary
of Anatomy.”.... The volume arriving in
due course, a hasty search frojn “Arch” to
“Zyg” made the Fighting Editor’s explana-
tion of what ailed him fairly intelligible.
Resuming the telephone transmitter he
called: “Hello! are you there? Hello! Hello/
Hell-ol That the Religious Editor?”
R.E.: “Yes. D—- ’em ; they cut us off.
Yes, fire away, I’m listening.”
Ed.: “Got a black eye_. eh? Then why
couldn’t you have said so?”
R.E.: “Well, yes; that’s what the vulgar
call it. At any rate, I think I’ll lay up for
a few days until the extravasation becomes
re-absorbed. A black eye, as you call it,
is so hard to explain (this is a sceptical
age) ; and, besides, you know, I haven’t had
This is a sceptical age.
a holiday since I was vaccinated a year or
two ago. . . .1 might have got some good copy
out of that dog-fight—if only one could have
managed to have sat out those speeches!
The Government ought to take over all
dog-fights.”
HOP.
The False Dawn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ A WAY with Him !” When Christian
Europe reeled
And at a madman’s word
Flung all He died for on a bloody field,
In that hell's dusk foul beast and carrion
bird
Heard awful mouthings through the chaos
swim,
To drown that cry of blood: “Away with
Him!”
Away with Him! Nor pray for boon or
salve!
Not yet, poor souls, not yet
Unto its westing rolls the day of Jahv.
Turn westward not, ye faces sorrow-set,
Nor plead pale angels or wan seraphim
To drown that cry of blood: "Away with
Him!”
Not blood of grape for Jahv. the overlord
Of Pestilence and War!
Bring reeking tribute of the dripping sword —
Son, comrade, brother ! Never avatar
Had goodlier lusts nor, look ye, grislier shape !
Lo! his high priests,* a tiger and an ape!
O eyes of Faith, seek no far peak that glows
With promise of the day,
No first faint flush of saffron or of rose
Where Carmel’s brooding face turns, ashen
grey,
To where they slew the man devoid of crime,
Poor Christ, the man-god, born before His
time!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


Be Independent and Generate Your Own Current.
%
A Westinghouse Cross
Vertical Enclosed
: '' , : :..'- "" V- -’-.2 'C‘- :WCr.?
Semi = Diesel Oil Engine,
■M
owing to its speed, may-
be direct coupled to a
GENERATOR, thus
saving floor space and belt
transmission losses*
Its Distinguishing Features
are described in Booklet
8.-0-5. Write to-day for
a copy to —
The Westinghot
Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agfonts—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne £ raland Or.ica: 93-137.FaatiiorstoJl St., Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
m
mm.
v
M
T
SHARPEN YOUR SAWS WITH THE
‘BAHCO’ AUTOMATIC
SAW GRINDING
MODERATE
PRICE
MACHINE.
TAKES FRAME SAWS OF ANY LENGTH.
CIRCULAR SAWS TO 46' IN DIAMETER.
Immediate Delivery from Stock.
SOLE AGENTS:
The Austral Engineering
Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
PJ
BROOKS 890 Patent Road Saddle. Made in several sizes.
Our confidence m BROOKS Saddles is based upon the fact that for
over thirty-five years they have carried in comfort the great majority of cyclists,
and to-day their pre-eminence is more striking than ever before. That must
XB«an satisfaction.
R
■st‘
ALL
OF
EALERS.
NOTICE TO READERS.
TP any illustration appearing in Ttte
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
214 George Street, Sydney.
G>
4
*/
IDEAL COUNTRY
A Complete House
Plant for -
£l6/1716
Ho machinery, "eights or derrick*.
No possible chance ot eyploclno.
HID candle-power light yto Pei hoor..
the GLORIA ta the Cheapest Light to Installation ««*
Maintenance.
Me condensation-
No uneii.
No dantrer.
FREE TRIAL GIVEN
Write for Particulars and Catalogue to
Gloria Chambers, 155 a Clarence St, Sydney ■
, an j is? Elizabeth Street Melbourne, t
Gh
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
may be taken with a perfect sense of security because they are entirely
free from any injurious substance and compounded only from che
purest ingredients ofvegetable origin. Beecham’s Pills are accordingly
quite safe for everyone. This fact should be clearly understood,
because it is of great importance that you should have confidence in the
medicine you use. Proof of the valuable properties of this popular
preparation is supplied by an immense body of opinion, for Beeeham’s
Pills have been in use for years in many thousands of homes, not only
in England but across the seas. At home and abroad they are esteemed
as the best Family Medicine to keep at hand for those common ailments,
so prevalent in these days, arisingfrom disordered actionofthe stomach,
liver & kidneys. Beecham’s Pills have a long and honourable record and
ARE A SEVENTY YEARS’ SUCCESS.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price l/lh (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
DR. J. COLDS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
l/H, 2/9 & 4/b.
d/tj^
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks si
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
'he cough oF BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acta like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
DINNEFORD’S
h
Dinneford’s
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DIHNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
The Physician 's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic 'Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
'
AGENTS FOR
Murray's English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
M a nufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
IN
E
o
n
NS*
■
ID.
a
?A'
%


The All -Australian
ijMANCROVKTE^
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured bv
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
LEATHER
fdh
Certificates of Origin from
the British Pro=Consul at
Rotterdam accompany
each shipment.
The Pure
Spirit.
Buy Whole
Bottles.
Hardies Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID S ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAIMES NARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
Certificates of Origin from
the British Pro=Consul at
Rotterdam accompany
each shipment.
J
h
r
“>•
■\r
exclusively’
MANUFACTURED
IN HOLLAND.
CHNAPPS
\
RELIABLE MOTIVE POWER
for Shearing, Pumping, Woodcutting, Milking, Irrigating, Chaffcutting.
TAN6YE ’ New Pattern Lampless Kerosene Oil Engine, started immediately without
Blow Lamp. Particularly Reliable and Economical to run.
" CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH ” Portable Steam Engine, the long established favorite
on the Australian market Has large wheels, giving plenty of clearance.
r J | , & C 0; LTD ,7 Mi ff r ’ S POint ’ Sydns also, for Tangye Pumps, Suction Gas Plants, etc.,
Nicholson & Morrow Agricultural Implements, Mum o Chaffcutters, Gane MilkingWlachines. Wolseley Shearing Machines!
fd
1
If
THE MOST FAVOURED BY BOTH SOUATTiRSAMDSHEARrS?
DALGETY S. CO. LTD. AGENTS EBS
SttEEp
SHEARING
hfd
Power, Speed, Output"
Three important factors in the
Successful Machine Shop to-day.
The Barnes 20" All Geared Drill
in ordinary class of Drilling' Machine and unequalled
WILL DRIVE YOUR 1" HIGH SPFwib ThiS * S demonstrate <* by the fact that it
~" TWIST DRILLS AT THE RATE OF 17 PER
MINUTE IN CAST IRON WITHOUT USING THE BACK~r,F.AR.V.
80UE AGENTS-* 1 in ® PeCt ° r wr,te for fu " particular*.
We carry a Large and Varied Stock of Drilling Machines.
PARKE 8 LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers &. Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PURE WATER.
mi
1
The “ABBOTT
99
Australian
Filter.
assure Filters,
Glass Filters.
Fountain Filters.
Water-bag' Filters.
* P GET I 4iotels * Cordial Factories, Breweries, etc.
GET ONE EARLY AND AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT
From all Stores or direct from Manufacturers.
W. GUTHRIDGELTD.
Equitable
SYDNEY,
Building',
Ring City 7719.
THE "ABBOTT
mJ
J
