

the Veteran of Whiskies
R. Gr. «S& CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— e . .
Mining’ and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY.
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D Sll C
Head Office: 7i CAS TLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
- And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9825.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
stifimi iitiiflTßfiStmrinsrm??K i
COHMfRCUI CHAMBERS M 1/4 K.JV* MOWT OEPIEU DCPOSIT UNHSTMiHT CTI”
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using l
TRADE
S^AYI
MARK
Sold at all department stores. Radium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD.
210 Clarence Street. Sydney.
V
* TaKc it back,
J must have
HUTTONS
fintApplc Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBBS
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
tasmsm
L
dfgdf
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
.
Entirely BRITISH,
and the World’s BEST!
PALMER CORD
TYRES.
Interesting Catalogue free from
The Silvertown Rubber Co.,
279 George Street, Sydney.
a n f
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERYWAY.
mm
n
n
For Interior Decoration
If you want plain walls —panelled—there’s Plain
Ami wud; easy to handle, durable and inexpensive.
If you want the walls panelled in Hardwood effect,
there’s Grained Amiwud, a perfect reproduction of
the Hardwoods; equally easy to handle and delight-
ful in effect. Let us send you Samples and printed
matter.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
CH ALLIS HOUSE SYDNEY.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S.V.O.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY. ,
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the MouthT
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
V01.36.—N0. 1869.]
[Thursday, December 9„ 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.SAY.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS
( Postapes shown
in parentheses .)
Stevenson (Mrs. R. L.) : The Cruise of the Janet
Nicol, illus. 10/- (4d.).
Pitman’s New Rapid Course in Shorthand. 4/- (2d.).
Evans’ Black and White in the Southern State*
(U.S.). 8/6 (4d.).
Wells’ The Research Magnificent. 3/6 (3d.).
Duncan’s Australian Byways, illus. 10/- (4d.).
Brown’s Nautical Almanac, 1916. 1/6 (4d.).
Koebel’s The South Americans, illus. 14/- (4d.).
Kean’s The Petrol Engine, illus. 5/6 (2d.).
SYDNEY.
mustdie:
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
non POISONOUS POWDCR.
THE 6RMf INSECT DKTKOyER!
Uj
HiO.
Meza.
Bern.
ita 9?
gd
“MUSTDIE”
POWDER. IS
DEATH TO FLIES AND ALt
INSECTS, COCKROACHES, ETC.
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1620
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin; forwarded post free.
“MUSTDIE” is sold in tins, 9d. each, at
Chemists and Stores. Sent post free on receipt of
stamps by the Sole Australian Agents.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 19 York Street, Sydney.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne Agents. [2
Post-mortem Fiction
When in August, IDI4, old Europe sud-
denly started smashing up the furniture of
civilisation, one of the minor articles that
came in the way of the old gentleman’s axe
was literature. And the makers of novels
found themselves left wondering in a world
that no longer required their goods. Even
in the midst of the universal frenzy Europe
wanted novels, but not the sort of novels
that their novelists had been accustomed
annually to turn out. The end of one world
had come, and out of the ruins of that epoch
a new world was beginning to arise. And
all that the novelists could write about was
a world that had been destroyed by shrapnel
and high explosives. What the new world
needed was information, in the guise of
fiction, of what that new world was like,
or what it would be like, what changes it
was making-in- the mankind that had to in-
habit that new world. And this is just
what the professional novelists, with the
possible exception of H. G. Wells, were con-
genitally incapable of doing. (And even
Wells failed his readers. Instead of an
analysis of our present state, for which
Wells’ frequent incursions into futurity had
specially qualified him, he gave his eager
readers Bealhy, a week-end novel; Boon, a
merely delightful satire on his literary con-
temporaries—dead men, too, amid the ruins
of their shattered conventions; and The
Research Magnificent, in which he took his
hero a trip through the Balkans at peace—
the Balkans now utterly smashed into un-
recognisable fragments !)
But, luckily for The professional novelists,
who have to make a living, war or no war,
their public was just as slow in discovering
that a civilisation had been counted out.
So the dazed novelists, after a momentary
effort to swing their thoughts from the past
to the present, went back to their old ante-
bellum job; and the bewildered public
turned from the horror of the present to
pictures of a peaceful, static civilisation
wherein no thought of war intruded—and
the novelists found their circulations once
more improving. But such fiction is post-
mortem fiction, an autopsy on the dead body
of an obliterated epoch in history. Into
our veins the war has been injected, and
we shall never be the Same again, never
recapture the placid content and the futile
revqlts of that civilisation that died so
dramatically in August. 1014.
So here are two excellent examples of
post-mortem fiction. Alice and a Family, by
St. John G. Irvine (Bell) ; and The Free-
lands, by John Galsworthy (Heinemann,
both per Dymock’s Library).
Alice and a Family, by St. John G.
Irvine, belongs to Wells’s type of weary
giant fiction. This delightful study of the
cockney is designed solely to amuse the tired
business man and his weary wife. It is
merely the story of a London kid of 15 who
takes in hand a shiftless family named
Nudds. and knocks some sense into them.
Alice has a sharp tongue, managing ways,
and an extraordinary amount of tact. The
whole Nudds family, regarded socially, and
not with what Alice’s mother calls
“yoomer,” is a horrible indictment of the
alleged civilisation of prosperous England—
or what was prosperous England, for there
is no hint of the coming war. If this Mr.
Nudds is the British workman it was quite
time that Wilhelm shook him out of his
shiftlessness. There must be quite a lot of
Nuddses in England, and Wilhelm knew it.
But the author has no other intention than
to amuse; he does it honestly, and his
characters are real people. That is the
trouble in these troublous times: there are
too many Nuddses, and they are too real.
One fancies, and one hopes, that so capable
and fine a craftsman as St. John G. Irvine
will not write any more Nuddsian romances,
because there won’t be any more Nuddses
to write about. ’Erb is sure to enlist, and
he won’t be a Nudd when he returns.
John Galsworthy, in The Freelands , has
not even heard of the war. His novel belongs
to the family of The Man of Property and
The Country House: it might have been writ-
ten at the same time as those masterpieces
in irony. He takes a family of four brothers
—the author, the manufacturer, the bureau-
crat and the small land-owner —in order to
have four divergent view-points in his elab-
orate analysis of the land question in Eng-
land. Yes, that is what John Galsworthy,
in this year of disgrace, is worrying his punc-
tilious soul over. The land question in an
England that exists no longer, that strange,
quiet, beautiful, green English countryside
that has been so swiftly submerged in khaki.
And, with the whole of civilisation in the
melting-pot, Galsworthy is analysing a case
of arson upon a land-owner’s estate.
His characters are as out-of-date as the
Nuddses. “Of course,” one character is
allowed to interject, “we might have a Euro-
pean war or something that would shake
everything up.” But Galsworthy sheers
quickly off that possibility—it would destroy
his neatly-constructed story. So he regales
his accustomed readers with a picture of
what was, never suggesting that it will never
be so again. And he takes the trouble to
show, us, with the most delightful irony, all
the sides of the now-forgotten question of the
depopulation of the land of England and the
hapless plight of the English ploughman.
But. the English ploughman has become a
soldier, and when he comes back from the
war he will settle the land question. There
is little likelihood that the enlisted plough-
man will come back to follow the plough; he
will not be the sort of peasant to put up
docilely with w r hat the land-owners think best
for him. When peace comes he will not beat
his sword into a ploughshare: he is more
likely to beat it into a share of the English
soil that he has helped to save from destruc-
tion.
So this page follows with impatience a
tllat is full of quiet English beauty,
that is exquisitely written, that is firm and
beautiful in texture, and through which runs
a delicate thread of delicious irony. These
loving descriptions of the beauty of the coun-
tryside, these charming pictures of skv and
tree and blossom, these evocations of the
scents and the songs of idyllic England
sound to us like a faint memory that escapes
recapture. All that has gone; all that may
never return.
However, there will still be prisons after
the war ; and Galsworthy makes his reader
feel what a prison is like with the power
that lie showed in the “solitary cell” scene in
Justice. Nedda goes to see a laborer in
prison
“Then she became conscious of a shaven-
headed. noiseless being in drab-grey clothes,
on hands and knees, scrubbing the end of a
corridor. Her tremor at the stealthy ugli-
ness of this crouching figure yielded at once
to a spasm of. pity. The man gave her a
look., furtive, yet so charged with intense
penetrating curiosity that it seemed to let her
suddenly into innumerable secrets. She felt
as if the whole life of people shut away in
silence and solitude were disclosed to her in
the swift, unutterably alive look of this
noiseless, kneeling creature, riving out of
her something to feed his soul and body on.
That look seemed to lick its lips. It made
her angry, made her miserable, with a feel-
ing of pity she could hardly bear Poor
man ! How he must hate her, who was free,
and all fresh from the open world and the
sun, and people to love and talk to! The
poor _ man’ scrubbed on steadily, his ears
standing out from his shaven head; then,
dragging his knee-mat skew-ways, he took
the chance to look at her again. Perhaps
because his dress and cap • and stubble of
hair were so drab grey, those little, dark
eyes seemed to her the most terribly living
things she had ever seen. She felt that tliev
had taken her in from top to toe, clothed and
unclothed, taken in the resentment she had
felt, and the pity she was feeling; they
seemed nt once to appeal, to attack, and to
possess her _ ravenously, as though all the
starved instincts in a whole prisoned world
had rushed up and for a second stood out-
side their bars. Then came the clank of
keys, the eyes left her as swiftly as they had
seized her, and he became again just that
stealthy, noiseless creature scrubbing a stone
floor.”
The end of the story is the defeat of the
young rebels that had tried to stir up the
English peasant to make the land-owner
ameliorate his pitiable lot. And though this
page. commends Galsworthy on his sense in
sending his hero and heroine out to Maori-
land, it is pained to learn that these two
fine people found in Maoriland a “ranche.”
The Red Page
The War
Dr. A. A. Martin, senior surgeon of
Palmerston North Hospital (M.L.), volun-
teered as a surgeon with the British Expedi-
tionary Army in France ; and his experiences,
as narrated in A Surgeon in Khaki (Arnold,
10s. 6d.), make a highly interesting contri-
bution to genuine war literature. lie saw
much active service in the early excit-
ing days of the German thrust at Paris and
Calais; his style is fluent and vivid; his
vision is keen, and his comments and eom-
.plaints acute and accurate. Everywhere in
those tense days he noted muddle and in-
competence. His description of the'-sudden
shifting of the British base at Le Havre
to safer quarters further south, owing to
the threat from the armies of the Hun,
shows once again the capacity of the British
for muddling through.,
“The French charge magnificently with
the bayonet, but they charge in a state of
tremendous excitement. When rushing
across an open space they shout and scream.
... .On they go, an impetuous and irre-
sistible avalanche of steel, yelling, stab-
bing, slaying, overwhelming The British
charge stoically and more grimly. They do
not shout. I have heard them cursing. The
British line advances as a sinister cold line
of steel, in a sort of jog-trot. It is a line of
cool-brained gladiators, alert of eye and
thoroughly bent on slaughter. Our Briton
sees his foe. and smites savagely with the
calculating judgment of a good Rugby for-
ward and with the bound of a wild cat....
The German, in spite of what is often, said
to the contrary, is a brave and determined
man with the bayonet They charge well,
advancing with a stooping, jerky trot, utter-
ing hoarse guttural cries and ‘Hurrahs.’ On
they come, in solid masses shoulder to
shoulder.... When in a solid compact pha-
lanx this German charge is very dangerous
and formidable, and has been able, although
at a frightful cost, to brush aside and over-
whelm veteran British and French troops.
But if this solid column is broken.... the
sense of cohesion or ‘shoulder to shoulder’
is lost, and the heavy column is then no
match for the lightning bayonet onfall of
the French infantry or the weighty heave
forward of a British regiment.”
Among the many mistakes made by the
British authorities was the failure at first
to provide motor ambulances. It was due
to Surgeon Martin’s efforts that this neglect
was remedied. His criticism of British Army
Medical methods, chiefly due to a tenacious
adherence to out-of-date traditions, is at
times necessarily sharp; but he makes some
very sensible suggestions for efficiency.
All through his experiences at the Aisne
and the Marne, the author refers to the
unclean conditions in which he had to
operate. “The whole British Arm'y at the
Front was lousy.” And he classes lice with
shrapnel bombs and high explosives. He is
interesting when discussing gas gangrene,
“one of the terrors of the doctors at this
tune. Gas gangrene has nothing to do
with gas-poisoning. "It was a new and
totally, unexpected complication of the
wounds, and at first we did not know what
to do in the face of this pressing danger....
Me had many deaths, and performed many
amputations to save lives.” Gas gangrene
is caused by a group of bacilli, amongst
which may be many organisms, sometimes
as many as 10, all belonging to the same
family. They are all spore-bearing, and
grow in the absence of air. These bacilli
are found in the soil of France and Bel-
gium. and are always to be found in soil
that has been closely cultivated for centuries
past. When a man is wounded in the
trenches instinctively he puts his hand to
the wound, and thus introduces the organ-
isms with which his dirty hand is infected.
As the organism spreads tip the limb it pro-
duces a gas of its own. If the case reaches
the doctor early’ it can be cured; if late,
when the limbs are dead, amputation is
necessary. Tetanus was another scourge;
but now anti-tetanic serum is given to every
wounded man, and tetanus cannot develop.
He tells a delightful story of a truculent
I russian officer. When captured, he still
had his revolver in his belt. The English
had forgotten to take it,, and he had"for-
gotten that it was there. The Prussian said
that he was disgraced -by being made a
prisoner, and lie wished he had been shot.
An English officer went up to the snarling
prisoner, and pointing out that he still had
his loaded revolver in his belt politely sug-
gested to him that even now lie was at
perfect liberty to go and “blow his damned
head off.” The Prussian's eyes blazed with
fury, but he made no movement, and handed
over his revolver to the English officer, who
refused to touch it, and called on a soldier
to take it.
The author found many first-hand evi-
dences of Hun atrocities, and lie does not
hesitate to discuss the worst of these. “It
is a subject which the women of France will
discuss freely and openly, and with a con-
centrated bitterness that one can readily
understand. The subject is that of the
women who have heeu ravished and outraged
by the German soldiery. Many of these vic-
tims, married women and young girls, are. to-
day pregnant to German fathers, and the
burning question with the women of France
is how best to help their unfortunate
sisters, and what is to be done for the off-
spring. In the French Chamber of Deputies
the subject has been debated with equal
freedom and bitterness. Leading French
newspapers, too, have envisaged the position
in powerful and appealing articles.” The
Academy of Medicine, as well as the
Catholic Church, condemned abortion, the
former pointing out that the mother’s life
might be endangered. “Arrangements have
now been completed for the reception of
these pitiful expectant mothers into mater-
nity homes, where they will be attended at
the State expense. After birth the child is
to lie brought up by the State at some place
undeclared. The mother will not see the
child at any time, and will know nothing of
its future....No wonder that the French
woman speaks of the German soldier as a
loathly thing.”
By the way, it is to kill these beasts that
Australia is calling for another 50.000
recruits.
A*
The Achievement of France (Methuen;
Is.) is welcome. These reprinted articles
from London Times do the fair 'thing to
our closest ally, and stress the sometimes
undervalued fact that upon France, has
fallen the main burden of the war; and they
help us to understand how bravely and how
efficiently France has done her duty. The
story of the war up to the end of June is
precise and lucid, an ordered narrative that
puts the salient features in their true per-
spective. And, with an equal fairness, the
author indicates representative French
opinion of England’s co-operation in the
great campaign. Such books as these are
not necessary to counteract the Hun’s efforts
to breed dissension between the Allies; but
they are as cheering as a hearty handshake.
What is the Best Australasian
Short-story?
This competition has, so far, not attracted
much interest. A guinea is offered to the
competitor who sends in a list of six, or
less, titles of short-stories written and pub-
lished in Australasia, that most nearly cor-
responds to the total number of votes re-
ceived. Judging by the lists already
received, there is no story sufficiently well
known to be named by more than two com-
petitors ; and without a representative num-
ber of competitors the value of the competi-
tion will be nil. Under these circumstances,
the date of the closing of the competition is
extended to December 17.
Unwin’s latest shilling editions of popular
novels include A. G. Hales’ McGlusky the
Reformer, and Ethel M. Dell’s The Way of
an Eagle.
The Forgotten Territory
It is a significant fact that when Elsie It.
Masson set out to describe An Untamed Ter-
ritory (Macmillan, 65.), she should appear,
to Australian readers, an explorer in un-
known country. That wedge that strikes
down to the heart of the continent from the
north is to most of us as remote as Asia.
“The Australian who visits the Territory is
surprised and strangely entranced with this
portion of his continent.” And the Austra-
lian reader will be as surprised and as
strangely entranced by this delightful book.
This poor relation of ours dwells right at
the continent’s front door; but it is only
occasionally that any of us sets out to visit
her. Elsie R. Masson paid her wonderful
visit, and brings back good news.
The history of this lost region is one of
settlement after settlement bravely begun
and abandoned, until at length the Territory
was tethered to the rest of the continent by
a strand of wire. But the rail's that should
follow the straight, faint track of that tele-
graph wire have been lost sight of in the
much more important quarrels of our poli-
ticians. Half a million square miles have
been lost or lqislaid in the map of Australia
—“moist tropical landscape watered by rivers
flowing between banks of jungle; rich pas-
toral country ; ridged land and sandy desert.”
It is separated from the other States by a
fortnight’s journey by sea. It is nearer
to Hong Kong than it is to Sydney. It is
rich in minerals, yet the mining has petered
out; it is suitable for sugar-growing, yet the
one attempt to grow sugar has failed. “Twice
a week ever since the Overland Railway laid
its last rail a train has run from Port Dar-
win to Fine Creek; once a fortnight ever
since a train has run from Adelaide to Ood-
nadatta. There they have faced each other
over the thousand intervening miles, and
then turned tail and gone back again.” So,
to the lasting disgrace of jealous States-
frighters, those who go to the forgotten Ter-
ritory “journey 60 years into the past, into
an Australia which has long passed away in
the south, but which still lingers in the wild,
intractable Northern Territory.”
The author’s second chanter disarms the
reader. It is entitled “A Woman’s Life in
Darwin.” The end of her first year found
the author undaunted. During that year
she had experienced some discomforts and
many small worries; and she had had mo-
ments of home-sickness; but that was all.
And she is not discouraged over the servant
question. But it is in her “out-bush” chap-
ters that Elsie It. Masson has her chief dis-
coveries to record. Again and again she
speaks of the almost “unbearable cold” of
the nights when camping out. And she leads
the reader into strange places—a buffalo-
hunter’s lonely but beautiful home on the
Alligator River, the ruins of Port Essington,
where a settlement was made by a detach-
ment of marines in 183,8 —and abandoned ;
an interesting trip upon the Roper River.
These journeys she describes with a delight-
ful spirit and a vivid style that enables the
reader to visualise the exotic charm of this
neglected portion of our national heritage.
And there is a faithful account of a murder-
trial of Australian blacks that enables us to
guess the strange world in which the mind
of the aboriginal still lives; but the White
Man’s justice seems somewhat of a misfit for
the dark criminal. When the murderer of
another black is convicted: “Then follows a
term at Fanny Bay gaol. Here he enjoys
unheard-of luxuries—good tucker, tobacco, a
stretcher, and a mosquito-net. During the
day he works at the Government Gardens.
After release, the prisoner, no longer a myall
but well-trained, disciplined and in the pink
of physical condition, may choose to work in
town, or he may return as a hero to his own
country, where he assumes great . airs of
superiority and is much respected by those
of his tribe who have not yet been ‘ longa
Fanny Bay.’ ”
The note of enthusiasm is this book’s
best recommendation. Elsie R. Masson
looks forward to a populous Territory, with
the last of the Asiatics dead or returned to
their homes, and the flavor of the East de-
parted. The settler in the Territory, man
or woman, does not need heroism on a large
scale, but bravery in small things, courage
to take reverses cheerfully. The man must
be the sort that will tacile each task as it
comes along without stopping to ask himself
if this is what he came to do; the woman
must be the sort who will adapt herself to
new conditions, endure hardship without
grumbling, and without looking back con-
stantly on the comforts she has left behind.
“Those who are not prepared for a struggle
need not come to the Northern Territory...
Theirs will be the task of breaking in the
bush and forcing the country to yield them
wchat it can—a home, a livelihood, a pic-
turesque. adventurous life, and the prospect
of a rich future.”
e- «•
“Barcoo” on Flapperature :
, As a man of the world always on the roam, and
living continually in hotels, I advise “Jack Spur”
(.13. 11/11/T5) to interview the Sydney or Mel-
bourne library, when lie will be informed that the
latest Garbage is besieged on arrival; and if he
attends himself he will And that 65 per cent, are
composed of “Miss Shortskirts,” the balance being
mature maidens of uncertain age, sprinkled with a
few dames of 40 with peculiar sparkling eyes. Nat
Gould and his editions in Australian circulating
libraries are rare. In England he is the author,
judging by his sales on railway stations. Here he
is never asked for. Anyhow, what does it matter
if the flapper reads Garbage at 16? If she has
brains she won’t be reading milk-and-water fiction
when she puts up ber hair.


A*
vae
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for XMAS PRESENTS
&aurelg,
■
No. IJk.—Lady’s Jewel Case, Electro*
plated on Nickel Silver, 3 sizes, 11/0, 13/6 t
15/6.
No. 1174 S
Xo. 45204.
No. 1174 S.—Cut Glass Perfume Spray,
Sterling Silver Mounts, 10/6.
No. 45204.—Cut Glass Perfume Spray,
Sterling Silver Mounts, 9/6.
No
. 159 B.—Sterling Silver-mounted
Brush, Plain Design, Floral Border, 15/-
Hair
II
1
b
No. 1490.
No. 1605.
No. 1490.—Sterling Silver-mounted
Brush,. Unique Designs, 30/-
No. 1605.—Sterling Silver-mounted
Brush, Plain Concave Designs, 18/6, 25/-
Hair
Hair
No. 1822 B.—Sterling Silver-mounted Toilet
Set, consisting of Two Hair Brushes, Cloth .and Hat
Brushes, Mirror and Comb, in Satin-lined Case,
£4/10/-, £6, £7/10/-, £9/10/-
ss®JB
M
m
%
m
No. 1612. No. 1010.
No. 1612.—Sterling Silver-mounted Hand Mirror, engraved designs,
38/6 each.
No. 1010.—Sterling Silver-mounted Hand Mirror, Sydney designs,
31/- each.
m
m
B
m
wt
W
i
a
&
3^
No. 1557.—Sterling Silver-mounted Hand Mirror,
Fluted Design, 26/-
fyiHimiimiiimimiimrmny*
I
&0
m
-o'^»
I@SM
SS
mffii mi
m^iimimnuv
imniiuirnmm
Ko. 8665.— Brush and Comb Tray, Electro-plate on Nickel
Silver, 21/-
No. 1822 C.—Sterling Silver-mounted Toilet
Set consisting of Two Hair Brushes, Mirror and Comb, in
Satin-lined Case, 52/6, 55/-, to 60/-
vrr
pr
No. ISB. —Gent.’s Stud Box, Electro-
plated on Nickel Silver, 3 sizes, 3/-, 4/6,
5/6 each.
No. 31845.
V iYW
tofts
ten
SL*
Wm
i-mm
afogajfesg
No. 34547.
No. 3184 S.—Cut Glass Perfume Spray,
Sterling Silver Mounts, 6/9 each.
No. 34547.—Cut Glass Perfume Spray,
Sterling Silver Mounts, 7/6 each.
No. 1458. —Sterling Silver Hair Brush, Plain
Design, 16/6.
No. 16128.
m
: :
No. 10108.
No. 1612 B.—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair
Brush, Engraved Design, 22/6 each.
No. 1010 B.—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair
Brush, Sydney Design, 18/6 each.
; £ i
No. 1822 D Silver-mounted Toilet
Set, consisting of Two Hair Brushes, Cloth anil Hat
Brushes, Mirror and Comb, £6/10/-, £7/10/- to
£lO/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
*
/
FOR
Rifles, Revolvers and Pistols
No matter how accurate a rifle or pistol m s.y be, if
the cartridges used in it are variable, the results ob-
tained will be disappointing. Winchester cart-
ridges in all calibers are sure fire, accurate and
uniform. They are made by experts in a plant
having every facility for turning out perfect
work. A trial will prove their high quality.
ASK FOR THF W BRAND.
1
4%
%/
m
M
y.n
TRAD*
MARK
Q
Fortify yourself
with Bovril
IT MULT BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE,
u
TV
It was too
much for
Alexander
He cried easily. We know that his
petulance was probably caused by
faulty elimination and digestion.
People forget sometimes
that the human system to-
day is the same as it has
been for thousands of
years. Science hasn’t
changed our system. It
has merely found out more
about It. And the more
they discover, the more
clearly do doctors under-
stand why Cockle’s Pills
are best and gentlest. A
century of comparison con-
firms the supremacy of
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price l/~ and 2/6,
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond St,, London, Eng.
CHEAPER THAN
I G|s, Acetylene or Kerosene.
THAN All.
m
A
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott 8 Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye 8 Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram 8 Son gg;
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Works: 269 Toorak Road,
Melbourne.
§1
BROOKS BQO Patent Road Saddle. Made in several sizes.
Our confidence in BROOKS Saddles is based upon the fact that for
over thirty-five years they have carried in comfort the great majority of cyclists,
and to-day their pre-eminence is more striking than ever before. That must
mean satisfaction.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS.
fg
If any illustration appearing in T:.e
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tin
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“A Few Words of Thanks
for the good your Wonderful
Medicine has done for me.
My Mother has Great
Faith in your fine Tonic.”
The above are extracts from the letter from Miss
Mary O’Brien, a Richmond Lady, and which is
published below. Women should specially read it.
WILLIAM STREET, RICHMOND,
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.— N.S.W., 8/10/15.
“A few words of thanks to you for the good your wonderful
medicine has done for me. I think that I have been one of the
greatest dyspeptics on record, suffering with weakness, lassitude, bad
headaches, and my nerves were in a very bad state.
“I tried many remedies, but they did not do me any good. M.v
mother lias great faith in your wonderful Tonic, and has used it on
and oft' for years, with excellent results.
“She advised me to give Clements Tonic a trial, and it was a
happy day for me that I bought three bottles. It increased my appe-
tite, and strengthened my nerves and body. Every dose seems to
make me feel stronger, and I caif now eat and sleep well. I sincerely
trust that other sufferers will benefit by its timely aid.
“You may use this as you deem fit, as it is all the truth.”
In cases of acute Insomnia, Clements Tonic means “Sleep for the Sleepless.
Try it and you will sleep as sweetly as a little child.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL THIS MEDICINE.


Australia Riddled with
Deadly Kidney Disease
ALMOST EVERYBODY COMPLAINING.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands of people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradu-
ally getting a firmer and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease: Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing
in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, pufliness under the eyes—
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don't waste a single hour. Go to your
•7/.V V'® 'iSMf
Kidiiey&BladderPills
| These Pills also act on the h yen |
||,; HOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE * <|
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.-
When you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color-—a feature which distinguishes
Do Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that they
bare put their healing touch on the right
spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A won-
derful pill—straight to Hie kidneys—that is
why De Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief —every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or bow badly
you have suffered.
ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It. does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FTRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO..
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Death I
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco anti Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Pari; Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I teas a hard smoker for 30
years, but since tahina your sample of Tobacco
'Specific l have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
Bonningtorrs
BONr
A
«oo»
CARRA
IRISH MQS
GEORGE BOWNINI,.
For Boys
Boys dislike medicine and won’t take it
unless it is pleasant. They are, however,
none the less liable to COUGHS and
COLDS. “ Bonnington’s Irish Mass” is
both PLEASANT and EFFECTIVE. The
best household remedy for Colds, Influenza
and Bronchitis. Take none but —
Avoid all
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
df
t
added to
fresh cow’s milk suits every baby
By using Mellin’s Food and fresh cow’s milk you
retain the important vital properties of the fresh milk
and so ‘humanise’ the milk that it becomes similar to
mother’s milk. Mellin’s Food does this most perfectly.
It is this ‘humanising’ power which accounts tor the
strong, robust character of all Mellin’s Food babies.
Send for these FREE to-day !
A Sample Bottle of Mellin's Food, sufficient to prove its value, together with a
Handbook for Mothers, ‘The Care of Infants in Australia,' sent Free. Write:
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY. LTD., SYDNEY.
gd
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War. enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
Kruschen Salts
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
21-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS PIL'GHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Vignette.
A red and gibbous moon slinks down the sky,
The searchlight’s lances probe the mottled
green,
A lean destroyer, throbbing, hisses by,
Laying long trails of foam across the sheen.
A burning village smoulders, and a tower
Of smoke blots out the battle-weary stars ;
Far off a ship’s bell clanks the passing hour.
The weary horses stamp and chafe their bars.
- NPS-'
Now trembling Dawn creeps pale above the
peak,
A Maxim chatters, and the great ships near
From iron throats with tongues of flame
outspeak,
Filling the morn with thunder and with fear.
TIIE DARDANELLES.
JACK SOMMERS.
The Little Lute.
You have unslung your little lute,
The little lute you kept for me ;
Past reedy trail and knotted root
Your feet went swinging gallantly;
All that you left of love or lute
Is one unchanging melody.
Its plaintive ghost cries everywhere
Where lies the beanfield in the sun.
The shy leaves curling from the glare,
The flowers fading everyone;
And where the summer dust falls soft
upon the ditch edge from the trail,
Or amber hay piles in the loft,
Or brown stalk flattens to the flail,
I hear it —-in the groaning wheel
Or axle crying on the turn,
And in the mill among the meal,
Or where the furnace fires burn ;
1 hear it in the rushes’ song
Or in a meadow’s daisied dream ;
But, most of all, the whole day long.
It calls me in the shallow stream.
The yellow waters soaked with sun,
Banks buttoned green in cresses cool —
On by the ruffled race they run,
And out into the Silent Pool.
I think at midnight, if I went
When all the pool is blind with mist.
Down where the jealous leaves are bent
Above a petal’s amethyst—-
If, fearless-hearted, I should dare
A stairway of the lily’s root.
A blest white sleen might find me there
Unbroken by the little lute !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
“From (censored).”
I don’t suppose yer’ll git this letter, .Tim,
But, if yer does, tell Sis I ain’t forgot.
I might be down an’ out before yer does
(Lor’! Listen to them shrapnel, ’ow they
buzz!).
It’s sundown an’ the light’s a-growin’ dim.
It’s ’ard to see —so please excuse the blot.
It’s rummy-like up in the trenches here.
Yer thinks of things yer’d never think of
’ome.
I used to reckon girls was made for play—
Sis knoo w’at I was thinkin’, anyway.
It didn’t suit ’er bettin’-book, no fear!
Well., once ’t I’m back with ’er —no more
to roam!
So tell ’er as I’ve tried to do me bit.
An’, if the blighted Turks don’t do me in,
I reckon w’en I’m back in old Prahran
She’ll find as I’m a better kind o’ man
Than ’im she ’anded out the frozen mit.
So long—old chap, yours truly,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
MICKO FLYNN.
On Behalf of Youth.
Make your parting now,
Youth will have its way.
Youth will laugh and ride away
Though the untilled earth be waiting for the
plough.
Spare your pleadings old,
What if harvests rot!
Corn will thrive when youth is not,
And there’s time for labor when the blood
is cold ;
When the dream is done,
When the world grows small—
Known, and plumbed, and charted all —
And there’s no more wonders left beneath
the sun.
QUEENSLAND.
VANCE PALMER.
Bingaloo.
When I went down to Bingaloo
My heart was blithe and gay.
I hadn’t anything to do
Or anything to pay.
The lambs were frisking on the green,
The breeze was honey ’neath the blue;
Life was a lilting song, I ween,
In quiet Bingaloo.
There was a girl in Bingaloo—
Gold eyes and hot bronze hair.
Her mood was kind, her heart was true— —
No truer anywhere.
She kissed me as the dawn grew bright
(She never has kissed you.) ....
She kissed me, kissed me, every night,
That girl in Bingaloo.
If you’ve a lady you would woo
In happy style, dear chap.
You’ll seek in vain for Bingaloo
On any proper map.
You know where poets’ dreamings lead,
Where poets’ damsels coo.
By this you’ve guessed the truth, indeed. ..
There is no Bingaloo.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


PERDRIAU
MOTOR
TYRES.
u
T<
V
mss
There are many reasons why
you should buy
PERDRIAU
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
TYRES
Manufactured
entirely in Australia
by
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION
#
0 0
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH.
S&vrvMed coil/, he /i/eaAed uft
Ci/i/vltca, Ctavij Jo cl feee, cofvy, the 'neu*
a/rui ertxict/Wjf.eM, jheVfi " Jo
(ryifi
&oe>A ccmJcusm ov yuxvroUby e,cw(y&My
eooTvficleeJ 'i^ / i^y) < o7LeiJuy7 r o o(fJbLc/i ujhJ he- hoJ/i
MAefljZ covuJ 8 Srfwvnff <ss
SUPPLIED TO THE NAVAL AND MILITARY AUTHORITIES IN
' GREAT BRITAIN AND AUSTRALIA ■■■W^sa
For linoleums
and furniture
Staircase banisters, wood floors, suit cases, tan
boots and all kinds of leather goods —there i?
nothing to equal Shi-noleum. It shines best and
quickest, lasts longest and is most economical.
Prove how good it is. Never accept a substitute.
S m pie free on Request* The Paget Manufacturing Co# Ltd*,
) J 9 Regent Street# Sydney.
SitortC&uoni
1
The Jollvwells
For cool delights
On Summer nights
The Jolly wells seek
Roof Gardens heights.
Quite free from care
This happy pair
Enjoy the music
And the air.
And all the time
They feel so prime
By eating “Rex,”
The Cheese sublime.
Cheese is a Product of Milß
We hope no one will have the heart to contradict that. And Milk
is the only substance that Nature brought into existence for the sole
reason of being a food. When you eat
f f
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE
you are eating a food that represents
very nearly the whole of the proteid
and most of the fat obtained from
a certain quantity of milk. You are
eating something that is highly nutri-
tious.
\ .
“REX” RUNCHIk>N CHEESE is
easily digested, because it possesses
all the valuable properties of per-
fectly-matured, full-Cream Cheese.
%F~rTTZ^&
*Trsr?'i ;*>'
03 H
MC
jCiOOda
QOOjjJ
rrs
Ask Your Grocer for a Tin or Jar and try it.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are:—.
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, 111), tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for eooking purposes, in lib. prints
(t
E
BMttf
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
■>%
X
■s*J
r
k
m
Preenock Distillery^
!3TuoS:
THORtIES WHISKY
lncomparable”


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Rost Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Rost as a Newspaper
Vol. 36.—N0. 1860.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1915.
Price Gd.
THE LOGIC OF MRS. MICAWBER.
MRS. MICAWBER BRITANNIA: “No, Mr. Micawber, though you have never ported me properly, and have been a humbug and a failure all the days of
your life, yet I will never desert you, Mr. Micawber no, I will never desert you.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.5.W.,, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every iveek for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
■ publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
ivithout stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under winch such
artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Aerica. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))I Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IP. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IP. E. Lenehan, 580
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Ilandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— lP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
JOoz. to lioz., 3d.; elsewhere, hoz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1915.
WHITE AUSTRALIA AND DISCOL-
ORED GERMANY.
German shells may blow up historic build-
ings and destroy the sandbag architecture of
trench defences, but it is not within the
power of cordite to remove national convic-
•.* , ,
o s and aspirations save by a tedious pro-
cess of extermination. Ireland, for all her
distressful history, is Ireland, dreaming still
of union and self-government, and near the
realisation of her dream; Italy, trampled by
~ ~ . T . , . . , .
Goth and Vandal and Lombard and Austrian,
torn by dissension and broken small by
petty rivalries of men and cities, won to her
place as a nation, and to-day, in the strength
of unity, batters at the last barrier that holds
, f •£n j. • i
liti lorn the possession of all that is her
own; Rome only failed in her imperial mis-
sion because her people had ceased to think
imperially. It is necessary to reiterate
this plain fact, sealed and attested by his-
tory, for the benefit of those timid souls
who cannot focus their spectacles properly
beyond the smoke of the present con-
vulsion. Because one nation, formerly
regarded as white, has broken up the
peace _ of the world and aimed a large
but indifferently-directed blow at civili-
sation, they cry that the White Aus-
tralia doctrine is no longer tenable, and that
we must perforce alter our views of things
and fling wide the doors that we had declared
closed for all time. To follow such a sug-
gestion would be to admit ourselves beaten,
to confess that our efforts to aid Britain had
been utterly useless, and to take a lower
stand as a people, who had been walloped
from the mountain-top of ambition and
forced to seek shelter in the hotch-potch of
mixed nations. It is safe to say that no
Australian worthy of the name feels like
that; it is equally safe to say that our
White Australia policy goes on.
* * * *
Two years ago we accepted Germany in
good faith as one of the white nations. Had
we looked at matters more closely we might
have had doubts about her color. “Made in
Germany” might well have had a significance
greater than its mere reference to shoddy
cloth, bad cutlery and smelly chemicals. Out
of the heart of Germany came the wild burst
of savagery which destroyed Roman civilisa-
tion and put back the world’s clock of pro-
gress for a thousand years, and the Teutonic
race long continued to supply barbarian
forces to frustrate every effort for the
restoration of the peace that the Goth
and Vandal had broken. On good scientific
authority it seems to be established that the
underlying element in the mixed German
race was a savage as implacable as the
Apache Indian, and that the peculiar skull
formation of the true Teuton lent itself to
the singing of hymns of hate as far back as
the days when the lake-dwellers of Europe
ate pony.and fashioned weapons of bronze.
All this ought to have kept the nations sus-
picious of certain storm centres beyond the
Rhine ; but so much that was called German
was not true Teutonic, and the German band
played so well, that we forgot to look for
renewed trouble and were prepared to accept
Hans for the simple, industrious white per-
son he appeared to be. Now that he has run
amok we know better. From the Australian
point of view the German can no longer
rank as a white man. As a settler he
seemed to have his points; but we can do
quite well without him, and if we decide
that llans is black and to be regarded per-
manently as an undesirable alien, that
decision, if it errs at all, will at least err
on the side of safety. Australia can develop
without anything made in Germany, and the
Commonwealth will in future be all the
whiter for the absence of any person re-
motely suspected of association with those
who reddened Belgium and discolored their
souls in her blood.
* * * *
The question as between White Australia
and the Asiatic is not in the least affected
by the fact that the Kaiser’s subjects may
henceforth go on the black-list; but the real
trouble with those who have failed to grasp
the true inwardness of the national policy is
that the war has revealed certain Asiatic
peoples as good Allies to whom Australia
owes gratitude. Those races of India which
represent the higher standards of Asiatic
civilisation and culture have proved capable
of srreat self-sacrifice in the common cause ;
and the Indian States have paid willing toll
in blood and treasure to assist their white
friends to a victory in which they them-
selves are only indirectly concerned. Japan,,
armed and ready, adhered loyally to her
treaty obligations with Britain, and has gone
far beyond them in the tremendous indus-
trial assistance she has rendered to Russia
in the matter of munitions and army sup-
plies. These facts cannot be ignored : and
Australia has not the least wish to ignore
them or under-estimate, the value of Indian
loyalty or Japanese faith. But they do not
in any way affect the ideal of a White Aus-
tralia. Long before the war started, un-
prejudiced minds were prepared to see the
fine qualities of many of the Asiatic peoples.
The art work of Japan, springing from the
inherently fine taste of the people, is some-
thing that we more than admire—we envy.
Even old China, ill-organised, battered by
ages of misrule, and patient beyond all
imagining, has qualities which appeal to us.
While Persia weaves a carpet or India ham-
mers her eccentric fancy on leaves of brass,
none but a fool can be blind to the fact that
Asiatic civilisation has that in it which
lifts it far above the squalid savagery that
lurks in the black corners of Europe’s great-
est cities. Admitting all this, and acknow-
ledging that the nobler peoples of Asia can
be both honorable friends and faithful allies,
we are still under no compulsion to throw
open our doors to them or invite them to
permanent residence on the soil of this con-
tinent. The making of every nation is in
the nature of a great experiment, and races
in their final form are the result of reactions
similar to those of the chemist’s laboratory.
If we, the citizens of the Australian Com-
monwealth, who are the experimenters, de-
cide that from the racial elements which go
to make the future nation the Asiatic shall
be entirely excluded, that is our own affair
alone, as long as we can keep the retort and
crucible in our own hands. There is nothing
whatever in the nature of insult implied in
our choice of material. We can honestly
admire what is best in many peoples and yet
take the firm, scientific stand that an ad-
mixture of those peoples must be fatal to the
resultant race.
The White Australia policy is not a wild-
cat imagining of eugenic dreamers. It is
based on the solid logic of history and the
accumulated knowledge with regard to other
experiments that failed. A whole continent,
bounded on all sides by the sea, and as yet
not seriously affected by race mixture, is in
our hands. It is a continent of infinite
variety of climate and soil, and under pro-
per development capable of producing all
that man can require for a highly civilised
life. The White Australia policy is based
upon the idea that within this sphere the
white race can develop to the full all within
it that is highest and sweetest and
noblest. The narrow economic ideal
of a bed and three square meals a
day has been left far behind. We look for-
ward to a time when a completely educated
white community, strong in thew and
muscle, clean in thought and high in pur-
pose, shall lift this Commonwealth to the
first place among the nations. We look
forward to a time when our looms shall turn
out the finest fabrics; when our hammers
shall beat out the finest wares of metal ;
when the potter’s art and the painter’s craft
shall fill every home with things of beauty
and delight. We look forward to a time
when the teeming wealth of a highly culti-
vated soil shall put wealth in every hand
beyond the dreams of ancient despots or
modern millionaires ; when poverty shall be
a thing unknown and disease beaten back to
its last ditch ; when to every man born in
tiie land shall come as a natural heritage
the right to live his own rich life to the
fullest advantage to himself and those
who follow him. And none of these things
cart be unless we have freedom and scope to
work out the- experiment in our own way.
Perplexing as some of the problems that lie
in the immediate future are, the ideal re-
mains ; and though there may be turmoil of
strikes and labor awards, and division of
opinion on minor questions, and bitter con-
flict as to the choice of paths towards the
goal,, there are already steps taken which are
full of promise. Already the right of the
toiler to live a better life than he lives in
other lands is practically established, and
there is more and more to follow till the
mists clear and the road lies straight before
us. The White Australia policy has an
economic as well as a racial basis, and the
mere fact that Asia’s economic ideals are
below our own is enough in itself to justify
the drawing of the firm line which we are
bound to defend at all costs and every
hazard.
* * * *
Friends of Asia declare that we shall
understand her better when the war blows
past and the last bugle calls the world to
peace. It is the duty of the friends of Aus-
tralia to point out that the time may be
near when Asia will understand us better
and discover that there is solid logic and
sound sense behind our policy. Perhaps the
history of the future may show that Asia
understands us better than might be
expected. Our own chief need is the proper
understanding of ourselves.
CERTAIN PARTY POLITICIANS
REJOICE.
The other day, it being the twenty-fifth
anniversary of the N. S. Wales Labor
party’s birth, there was a “reception” and
a sports meeting; various persons made
speeches and poured the oil of gladness over
themselves and their friends; other indivi-
duals gave the newspapers reminiscent
stories about the early struggles, and the
meeting addressed from the cart-tail, and
the pilgrimage with a soap-box in search of
opportunities to get the democracy’s ear.
Also figures were produced to show how
sweeping had been the victories achieved
by the party at the polls, and how firmly it
had secured control of the political machine.
But nobody got excited. In fact, there was
nothing to get excited about. Yet it was
all very interesting in a statistical sort of
way, and those members of the party who
had been longest in Parliament were given
a chance of testifying to their complete
approval of the manner in which things in
general had worked themselves out. It was
a party celebration, held for party purposes
by solid party men, and the big drum had,
of course, only one note —Party—Party—
Party! Is not the Labor party on top?
Then what more appropriate than that the
partisan who has a job, or wants one,
should fling up his hat in public and talk
wild words about “the triumph of the
cause”? Nothing, obviously nothing. It
had lifted him from the ruck, anyhow, and
that was triumph enough to go on with.
* * * *
But to a paper like The Bulletin, which
cares less than tuppence about parties and
refuses to be interested in anything but
principles and the realisation of policies,
it looks as if all this machine-made rejoicing
over half-a-jubilee might with great advan-
tage have been postponed for five and
twenty years. Then the ram’s horn trumpet
on which the Hebrews performed the Jubilee
fantasia of emancipation could be produced
- —if there was then anything to blow about
—and the whole community could be in-
vited to turn handsprings and otherwise
show its great approval of the steadfastness
and courage with which the political Labor
party of N. S. Wales had kept the vows
taken at its christening. As it turned out
the invitation of last week was mainly to
give three cheers because Labor had a
majority in the Assembly and was in office;
because Holman and Dick Meagher and
the rest are still holding their end up
against the other lot of battlers —all of
which looks a mighty poor excuse for
bursts of applause, except from Holman
and Dick Meagher. Of the position the
Labor party occupies to-day in relation to
its ideals of five and twenty years ago; of
the strides made towards accomplishing
Labor’s economic reforms; of the purifica-
tion of the political atmosphere—about
these subjects, which alone can form just
grounds for party adulation, there was (he
silence of the Illimitable West. According
to Leviticus xxv., the Jubilee was the year
of remission from the penal consequences of
sin. From the persistent dumbness of the
Ma State’s coterie of triumphant party
barrackers, it seems as if the Silver Jubilee
is a fixture at which the unrepentant sinner
should rejoice and take a pledge to keep on
. sinning for another five and twenty years.
* * * *
Yet there is to the credit of Labor during
these 25 years, first of honest effort, and
finally of ignoble time-serving, a list of fine
accomplishments. In the industrial arena
it has initiated many salutary reforms and
prevented the passage of reactionary
measures. It has done much for education.
It has struggled to help the under dog. It
lias tackled many gross abuses in the social
field. Most of these things were well worth
fighting for. But while it has done well
with one hand it has done evil with the
other, and on the balance the direct wrongs
done to the people so far outweigh the good
things as to make them almost negligible.
The awful record of borrowing and bloat-
ing ; the criminally reckless expenditure of
the public funds; the painful evasion of
duty while pandering for the support of
special interests; the fumbling about in
search of palliatives to meet the circum-
stances of the moment; the revelation of
an administrative ineptitude so profound as
to be almost unbelievable —these have placed
on the shoulders of the people a weight
scarcely less than might have been put
there by the most ignorant of Tory parties.
After 25 years a Labor Government in office
is compelled to make the shocking admis-
sion that the whole economic and industrial
superstructure of the State is based upon
the capitalist money-lender—that the people
could not get employment unless the Minis-
try went on raising millions a year from
Cohen. And in its frenzied struggle to
avoid being found out it is going on. cadging
even at the cannon’s mouth, and handing
out doles here and largesse there. For
what purpose? To ultimately benefit the
men and women who toil, or to buy votes
and thus buttress in their jobs the renegades
who are fattening on the people? For these
individuals to make merry at a “jubilee” is
a mockery of that Labor which has been
sold like a bullock at Homebush. The
healthy ambitions of the earlier years have
come to nothing. Fat has gone on getting
bigger in circumference from year to year ;
landowners have flourished like pests on the
expenditure of public money, and used their
gains to extort larger and larger tribute
from the people; booms have have been en-
gineered which benefit nobody but specula-
tors and other parasites. All Labor has got
out of it is a job, paid for by a money-lender
who will have to be paid back presently.
No —there wasn’t much to rejoice about on
the 25th birthday; and unless the Parlia-
mentary Labor party in N. S. Wales purges
itself pretty quickly there will not be much
excuse for blowing on the ram’s horn when
the marker calls 50.
THE RIGHT WAY TO SMASH THE
GERMAN PIANO.
Apart from the story of the dame who in-
vited her friends to come and help her smash
the piano because it was made in Leipsic, a
lot of nonsense is being talked by persons,
Fat and otherwise, about things originally'
made on the hungry side of the Rhine, and
public attention is directed to side issues
instead of being focussed on essentials. The
things that we already have of German make
represent the disastrous policy of the past;
and the extent of our purchases from what
are now enemy countries was so great that
if we were to smash everything the German
ever handled we should make a pretty mess
of our possessions. To use and enjoy the
things we have while we provide that our
possessions come from a cleaner source in
the future is the sane policy for to-day'. But
just here occurs the point that we steadily
go on evading, in spite of all the curses
poured on the Kaiser and all the assurances
that are given of a vague and general mend-
ing of our ways. Hymns of Hate notwith-
standing, the history of wars and their con-
clusion shows that bitterest foes become
fastest friends. This war is certainly not
like others that went before it; but for all
Fat’s present throbs of ardent patriotism,
it is certain that, when the cannons cool, his
dislike for the German won’t cancel his
eagerness to make money out of his wares
if there is a way left in which he can do it.
Patriotic zeal doesn’t burn well under an
outsize in waistcoats ; and if the gate is left
open and the German can supply the goods
the German will get the trade just as surely
as the Devil would if Hell were a country
of cheap production.
* * * «
We must cease worrying about the pencils
with the Bavarian brand, cut out all the
piano-smashing hysteria, and get down to
business. What the German sold us in the
past is cause for regret, but it cannot now
matter the whisk of a feather-duster. What
we ought to be concerned about is that we
may never be tricked into assisting him to
re-build that trade supremacy which he vol-
untarily threw aside when he pushed his
blood-stained boot through Belgium. To do
this everybody knows that the first step is
the establishment of a towering tariff on
everything made, grown or handled in Ger-
many. On the face of it this ought to he
sufficient; but it is not. We have had our
lesson of the thoroughness of the German in
preparing for war, and we have no reason to
doubt that what is left of him after the last
battle will be just as thorough and just as
unscrupulous in scheming to pick up again
the loose ends of his lost trade. Half the
countries of the world are likely to be open
as depots for the distribution of his goods,
and even a totally prohibitive tariff against
the manufactures of the one country we
desire to hit and stall off would not prevent
us from buying and using its wares.- Nothing
could be easier than to make Nicaragua a
clearing-house for German articles of com-
merce, and by the time we had discovered
the fact and amended the tariff law, therehy
banging the gate against Nicaragua, the
goods might be pouring in from new agencies
in San Domingo. To be effective in shutting
out the work of German looms and foun-
dries it is necessary that the tariff wall
should be uniform and of equal force against
all countries. The only possible way in
which Australia can be sure of shutting out
the manufactures and products of our pre-
sent despised and detested foe is by making
everything we want to use. from a bottle
of disinfectant to a battleship, within our
own borders.
* * * *
To sink the tariff issue is to play into
the hands of Germany in the future. If we
want to be victorious in industrial war as
well as in arms, the time to act is now.
Delay is as disastrous in the more compli-
cated field of commerce as it has already
proved in the game that is played with 12-
inch guns and monster armies. All tariffs
that Australia has yet known have been
revenue-producing. and the protection
afforded to our industries has never been
what it pretended to be. The public mind
has been like an ass halting between two
burdens, and the importing crowd has never
failed to get a point or two ahead of the
straight-out advocates of making things in
Australia. The general desire to forever
shut out goods of enemy origin appears for
the moment to be quite genuine; and on the
wave of that desire we must go forward and
do things. The Federal Government has its
chance to take a definite stand, establish
the real Protection which would produce
practically no revenue and enable Australia
to get down solidly to work as a self-depend-
ent manufacturing country. Once Australia
took on the job of doing her own work the
“Made-in-Germany” spectre could never
trouble us again.
* * * *
It is in a very special sense the duty of
people who are now very patriotic, but who
two years ago were hand-in-glove with Ger-
man traders, to throw themselves into this
movement. It was to their efforts in the
past, and to the political stand they took,
that we owed the German pianos and pen-
cils and lamps and knives that are now
worrying them. True repentance is not
shown by taking an axe to smash the pencils
or inviting neighbors to come and play with
their boots on the piano, but by making an
honest effort to ensure that such things will
not again stand in. the road of patriotism
and progress. The cash that went out of the
country to pay for the piano and other
articles helped to buy the very guns that
have been killing our brothers at the Dar-


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
The Christmas Edition
of THE BULLETIN, 1915,
will be Published on
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1915.
EXTRA AND SPECIAL ISSUE.
The Ordinary Issue of The Bulletin
will be published on the usual date.
clanelles. Those of us whose cash interests,
translated into political terms and votes, pre-
vented the establishment of effective Protec-
tion, were the allies of Turks and Germans
who did the killing. To maintain the old
position, backed by the old fallacies and out-
worn arguments, is to continue in that un-
holy alliance. While the patriotism of the
men whose guilt was greatest is at white-
heat, that feeling should be nailed down and
made permanently productive of patriotic
results. Great enthusiasms pass away rapidly
when they are the result of such emotions
as war calls forth. That is why we want the
larger Protection now when the consciences
of even the most dyed-in-the-wool importers
are troubling them a little over the shameful
part they played in helping to build up the
German war machine. Those consciences
may be healed with great rapidity; but the
real Protection which would place Australian
industries on top would remain as a per-
manent memorial of an hour of repentance
and contrition.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Assisting' the Empire by Walking and
Getting Hot, Sore Feet.
How much longer are these circus tricks
going on? It seems about time an explana-
tion arrived, because, while the vaudeville
touch was tolerable and perhaps necessary
in the earlier stages of the performance, the
hour is getting quite late enough to hurry
up with the programme. These young men
who are tramping through the country, pick-
ing up a mate here and there —the “Dun-
garees” and the “Wallabies” and the
“Waratahs” and the “Coo-ees” and the
“Kangaroos,” and the “Midnight Birds” and
the “Let ’er go Gallaghers,” and all the rest
of them —are wearing out good shoe leather
and exhausting a fine reserve of enthusiasm
to mighty little purpose. One lot tramped
about 300 miles lately and pulled up
260 strong; another crowd set out
from Warwick (Q.), and after a
fortnight’s speechifying and cadging along
the track, 125 delivered themselves
at Brisbane. All of which looks like
a mighty lot of tramp for very little
soldier—an absurd waste of effort and wind,
and, what is of much more consequence, time.
The days these men spent trudging through
the heat and dust could have been filled much
more profitably in camp learning their job.
In addition to raising 9000 men a month
Australia is committed to the raking in.of
an additional 50,000. It is a big job
under the present Micawber system, but
in whatever way it is going to be done this
vague trudging over the landscape appears
about the most futile that could be attempted.
And viewing the matter from the strictly
military point of view, these extended plods
are not doing the men any good. They
would be far better for a ride in the train.
Anyhow, if Billjim’s arrival at the place
where he is most wanted has to be delayed
for several weeks while he gets corns on his
feet helping to wear out Australian roads,
the system is one for which the warmest
approval can certainly be looked in Berlin.
The Partly Unified Cadge.
The Commonwealth Government’s “scheme
of borrowing” for the States is very much
on the lines of offering a toper unlimited
swigs at meals if only he will leave off his
habit of swallowing a bottle of brandy , be-
fore breakfast. There were long discussions
between the Federal Treasurer and the State
representatives, the former hoping that a
scheme might be devised under which the
cadge from John Bull would be left to the
Commonwealth, the proceeds to be cut up
among the conspirators. Asked to put for-
ward a statement of their requirements the
States weighed in with offers to be satisfied
during 1916 with bites like this: —
N. S. Wales .. ..£4,450,000
Victoria .. . . 2,500,000
Queensland . . . . 3,000,000
S. Australia .. .. 3,000,000
Westralia . . . . 2,300,000
Tasmania .. •• 750,000
This meant £16,000,000; and as Hughes
and lliggs had come to the conclusion that
£12,000,000 would be enough for developing
our great natural resources and keeping
votes safely in the bag, they cut down the
bites to be allowed, thus: —
N. S. Wales . . . . £3,060,000
Victoria .. . . 1,720,000
Queensland . . . . 2,562,000
S. Australia . . ... 2,062,000
Westralia . . . . 2,050,000
Tasmania .. .. 516,000
After prolonged reflection the agonised
States agreed to this £12.000,000 —all ex-
cept N. S. Wales. They merely wanted, in
addition, the right to raise within the Com-,
monwealth another £16,000.000. Appar-
ently the horrified lltggs. with the vision of
the multitudinous millions he has to get for
war purposes, said “No” with great em-
phasis. At any rate, he would only consent
to be the States’ mendicant in London on con-
dition that his principals agreed to be con-
tented with raising £5,000,000 on their own
account locally. Again there was agree-
ment —except by N. S. Wales. The net re-
sult of it all, therefore, is that the Ma State
takes its own way to the pawnshop, and the
other States will put up with £8,940,000 be-
tween them from London and £3,610,000
secured by flying kites on the Australian
breeze. This with the £8 900.000 which is
the irreducible minimum required by Hol-
man ought to keep the wolf from the door
for a year: and with the plaster of the war
debt it should give the Kid something sub-
stantial to remember the Old Man for.
. .
Service and Its Rewards.
There is nothing like the frank and full
recognition of outstanding merit. Colonel
Wallack has been appointed temporary
Brigadier-General; and this paper lays at
his-, feet the vegetable offerings suitable to
the occasion. At the same time it is a little
remarkable that, on the very day when the
promotion was announced, with Ministerial
comments, Colonel Ramaciotti, the new
commandant at Sydney, should abolish at a
single sweep one of the chief instruments of
government employed by the late comman-
dant. He cleared out the military police and
arranged that the men in training should
police themselves. There is no doubt what-
ever that most of the recent very serious
trouble could be traced to the fact that the
military police have been a body separate
from the forces which go out to
reason with Turk and Teuton. Nothing
is more irritating to a recruit than
to feel that he is in any way under
the authority of those who, from cold
feet or other causes, are unwilling to go to
the Front. The civil police are tolerated
by the ordinary citizen because, even if they
don’t always show brilliant intelligence in
the discharge of their duties, they at least
are prepared to take something more than
ordinary citizen risks for the public good.
But the military police, as lately constituted,
failed to earn the respect of the soldiers for
the simple reason that they were not called
upon to take the ordinary risks of military
life. Such an arrangement was naturally
fraught with danger; for, failing the support
of those among whom they are set to keep
order, and being in a minority, they were
bound sooner or later to strike trouble and
strike it hard. That they did strike it and
strike it frequently is common knowledge.
Now the whole system is changed. Colonel
Ramaciotti, bringing plain common-sense
to bear on the problem, has got right at the
root of an irritation that has been apt to
crystallise into brick-bats, and henceforth the
police of the camps are to be supplied by
the military units themselves. What his
reward will be we don’t know. But. taking
a line by the past, we should not be at all
surprised if he is made a corporal.
Arms and the Tendency to Use Blue
Metal.
The minor disturbances in connection with
the forces now in training, while they must
be deplored, are nevertheless quite in accord
with the traditions of the British voluntary
army. T. Atkins seldom if ever mutinies
and is rarely found wanting when his work
lies plainly before him, but the tendency to
conduct a little war on his own account is
always present. Kipling’s “row in Silver
Street” and his account of how Mulvaney
tackled the big drunk draft are photographic ;
and every reader of the tale of Havelock s
tremendous march remembers how the heroes
of the strenuous business began to paint
Cawnpore red when they forced their way
through to that place of horror. The sur-
prising thing is that voluntary armies do
not much more frequently start to burst up
the civil section of the community. The
voluntary system sets the soldiery apart as
a class, and gives them interests distinct
from those of the general mass of the
people. Nothing is more natural than that
there should be trouble when any kind of
friction arises. The remedy is plain. Once
the voluntary system goes the whole nation
becomes part and parcel of the army. It is
no longer necessary then to remind citizens
that the boys in uniform are going to fight
for them. The nation as a whole is fighting
for itself, and the soldiers have ceased to be
a class apart. Military and civil are terms
that have no longer any meaning. Further,
the tendency of the voluntary system is to
put the more reckless spirits in the fore-
front, while an honest conscription would
sort men out, and their merits as citizens
would not be lost the moment they put on a
uniform. This must make for stability in
the ranks and help to hold the wilder crowd
down. When Australia, as Australia, fights
for her own, instead of deputing her job to
a small section of her citizens, it is pretty
certain that she won’t start to smash up her
own property before starting out to smash
up the foe.
Drink as a Preventive of Crime.
“Quidam’s” sermon on Strong Drink: —
Careful study shows irresistibly that alcohol, for
any direct physical effect it produces, is a fraud.
Modern science seems to regard it as a poison with
bad effects (if any) on the organs, and of very poor
value as a stimulant. Even if one is dying of snake-
bite, any physical good conferred by draughts of
spirits is so flimsy that it is not worth while gallop-
ing miles to the nearest pub for a bottle. But the
point both the anti-alcohol scientist and the wowser
of the virulent type overlook is the indirect or
mental effect of alcohol on the human being. And
this is a very large feature of the question, too
important to be omitted in any consideration of the
matter. It is probably the one feature which has
enabled alcohol to defeat scientific teaching and logi-
cal reasoning, and bob up serenely at every street
corner, because there always seems a gulf between
the teachings of teetotallers and what the average
man instinctively feels to be the truth.
When everything is going wrong and you are
worried and in the right condition for lying awake
all night brooding over things, decide to go to the
nearest pub and have a few drinks. If your wife
has sense she will suggest it. Many sensible wives
have ere this pulled their husbands up on the first
steps towards suicide by a rational prescribing of the
pub remedy. Anyway, go and have a few drinks, and
get into conversation with anyone who will have a
drink with you. Ten to one he has done many
things and been in many places you haven’t, so he
will prove interesting. And when you return home,
carrying just enough to make the lights a bit
dazzling, isn’t the world a different place? All sorts
of magnificent schemes enthral you, probably all
quite impracticable and illusory, but at the moment
you don’t mind that because you don’t know it. Now
the world seems a poor, helpless sort of a football
for you to kick around, and not at all the dreadful,
enclosing, menacing, insurmountable wall it was in
the afternoon. So you go to sleep with splendid
thoughts, and next day you are refreshed and san-
guine again, and no man is really beaten while he is
sanguine. Physically the effect of that strong
drink was probably bad, but the mental effect caused
by its drugging of sensibility has far more than out-
weighed that. It has, in fact, acted like the drug
that it is ; but when things are out of cog drugs are
often beneficial.
Alcohol does for you just what the medical man
with the good bedside manner does. He instils con-
fidence in the patient, and his own auto-suggestion
builds him up to fight the ailment. Later on, the
M.D. collects the fee.
Yards, rods, miles have been written about the
immoral effects of alcohol, and it is about time for
some gifted person to arise and publish a soul-
stirring work on its moral effects, not only through
the infrequent valuable idea evolved in the brain of
the partially boozed, but also through the suicides,
murders and other crimes timely drink has pre-
vented. A large percentage of the crimes due to
drink show up in the police-court records, but it is
impossible to get any reliable statistics as to those
that would have occurred but didn’t because King
Alcohol blew them away with his beery breath.
The case for something really solid in the
way of land-values taxation was ably if un-
intentionally put by new Lands-Minister
Hutchinson when in the Victorian Assem-
bly he gave the State immigration figures as
from July, 1914. The number of immigrants
to Victoria was 4623. Of these the total
settled on Victorian farms was 40, or less
than 1 per cent.! Then, hopefully, the Min-
ister remarked that “after the war there will
probably be a great influx of people from the
older lands.” No matter how long, it may
remain in office the Peacock Government
will never have the futility of its present
expensive land-settlement schemes presented
to its notice in a plainer manner. If the
elderly, unenthusiastic Hutchinson really
has any desire to do anything but collect his
Ministerial salary as it falls due, the sight
of these awful figures should impel him to go
deeply into the matter of land-freeing expedi-
ents, with an eye on the “great influx” pre-
sently to arrive; and if he has any sort of a
mind at all to call his own, a Hutchinson
agitation for adequate land-taxation will be
the early outcome of his meditations. But,
unfortunately, Hutchinson’s past career
promises nothing large and sweeping and
nobly planned; and his present lack-lustre
appearance promises less. For him the poli-
tical barometer is “set laissez-faire” —which
means a continuance of pleasant weather for
advertising-agents and private land-sharks.
South Aus. furnishes the latest example of
a very old swindle. Every year, as soon as
the grain is sown, somebody—as often as not
a Minister —forecasts a harvest of some
dizzy millions. In N. S. Wales this season
official figures were talked actually before
the crop was sown. On the smallest provo-
cation thereafter more weird figures are
published; and then the “official prelimi-
nary estimate” drops in. Usually this is
something very wild. Just about that time
the wheat-buyer begins to get in his fine
work. The vastness of the crop has duly
impressed itself upon cocky, who mostly
thinks that the little Australian handful of
wheat governs the market, and the buyer
makes bargains at pence lower than the
true price. In S. Aus. 35 million bushels
were talked of two months ago (mostly, it
is true, by cockies themselves, who three
times out of four give absurd estimates of
what they will reap) ; then came the
Treasurer’s Budget Speech quoting 29
million bushels; now the Government
Statist lobs in with 27-1 million bushels.
When it is all over 25 millions are
likely to be the outside figures. Every
year in N. S. Wales the Railways
make their own estimates, and they
are invariably millions —anything up to
eight millions —less than the official esti-
mate ; and the official estimate is never
right. But the bloated figure is a handy
thing to bash cocky over the head with,
while the agent squeezes out of him another
ha’penny for the impoverishment of the
country and the glorification of the city—
for the impoverishment of the producer and
the glorification of the parasite.
♦
The same report comes in from every State
—the pretentious private homes lent or taken
over so that the wounded Kangaroos might
rest or recuperate are nearly all more than
half empty. Some of them are about nine-
tenths empty. If Jimbile has a mate who
has a home, no matter how poor a sort of
home it is, Jimbieu would rather smoke
there than in a marble hall. It is a charac-
teristic thing about the man to whom mate-
ship means more than to any other person in
the world. The pretentiousness of these
official rest-houses, moreover, appals him.
And that, by the way, also explains why so
many men, especially from Outback, get so
hopelessly tangled when they come to the
city. Bill of Booligal passes the decent
pub, which to him seems too swell, and turns
into the den, which outwardly anyway is the
nearest approach to the bush pub he has
been used to. After that there is soon
trouble, and there will be trouble right along
until the authorities get sense enough to
provide the camps with wet canteens.
♦
Over 100 doctors will be needed for the now
Commonwealth army of 50,000 men. The
fear has been expressed that the matter will
provide a fresh problem for the Defence
authorities, the supply in the past having
been hardly equal to the demand. The view
of the profession in Melbourne is that, in the
making of appointments, there is too little
consideration of actual qualifications and too
much wire-pulling. When the charge of the
Melbourne Base Hospital was given to that
faithful family-practitioner, Carty Salmon,
M.H.R. for the Grampians, who had many
years previously given up medicine in
Lower Toorak to practise dialectics in the
House, the medical profession went about
muttering. It is no reflection on Salmon’s
capacity to agree that there was something
to mutter about, considering that there were
plenty of men in constant practice with
unarguably better claims than the M.H.R. to
rule at the Base Hospital. The fact that
Salmon has since resigned his hospital-job,
being unable to keep his health and both
salaries, does not affect the position as far
as the principle goes. A suggestion has been
made for a selection Board, to consist -of
three non-official members of the medical
profession, who should deal with all applica-
tions for military service—“the personnel to
be of the highest order if confidence is to be
restored throughout the profession and a
death-blow given to influence and favoritism.”
Favoritism or no, the appointment of such
a Board is quite within the province of the
Defence authorities; and there is now surely
enough in the history of the A.A.M.C. to war-
rant some such action.
The Pipes of War.
Splutters the flame and the grease runs
down,
The wick is fogged in a winding sheet,
And a woman waits with her long black hair,
Her small pale face and her great despair;
For she hears the pipes in the street,
In the street and over the hill,
Wherever she goes she can hear them still.
She rocks the cradle with one bare foot,
And the babe in its bed is whimpering ;
And over there where her good man sleeps
Is a grisly phantom that writhes and weeps,
The wraith of a once glad thing;
And it plucks the pillow from ’neath his
head
And he clutches sleep, but he wakes instead.
Wakes to the sound of the calling pipes
That toss and shudder through pine-boughs
wild,
And he looks for a feathered hat to don
And belt and bayonet are girded on.
Then he stoops to kiss the child.
And her small wet face in its long black
hair,
While the red flame dies in the candle there.
For the wind from the pipes came bearing
down,
Over the cobbles bearing down,
And it passed like a storm on the grey wall’s
face,
And it blew like hail on the market place,
And harried the dreaming town ;
It was cold....and yet ’twas hot, that
breath,
Like a fever glow that will chill to Death.
Out; on the moon-white road they heard,
Sleeping swagman and teamster brown;
One flung his bluey behind the track
And slung his rifle across his back,
And one cast the long whip down ;
A quiver ran through the tall fern’s stipes ;
The green bush woke, for it heard the pipes.
And the Piper? Some say his face is fair,
With a laurel wreath on a Titian head ;
But there are women who crouch and pray,
And in their weeping I hear them say
That his locks with blood are red,
That the magic music that swells and moans
Is played. through hollows of dead men’s
bones.
From end to end of our continent
The Piper skirls on his pipes to-day;,
I can see the swing of his ghostly kilt
And his plaid is bright, as is blood fresh
spilt,
And I hear him loudly play,
And the crowded troopers have left the shore
But the Piper marches and calls for more.
More from the plains of the wide Bareoo,
More from the mulga, more from the town !
They stand to attention all the way
With a quick salute when they hear him
play,
And they take the bridle down
And ride, as their grandsires rode before,
To that haunting rhythm that cries “More!
More!”
More! Will the list be never full?
More! Will the hunger never cease?
Level columns from west to east,
Food for the far-off vulture feast....
And never the white bird Peace,
Whose eyes were blinded by battle smoke
When the hills to the cry of the pipes awoke.
I had two sons, they were fair and fine,
Such as a mother loves to own ;
But there came a night of a golden moon,
And of mirrored stars in a blue lagoon,
When I heard the war-pipes moan.
They rose like an echo among the reeds,
Like a hint in Heaven of violent deeds.
I had two sons. . . .but the Piper called
And Robin guessed him a Viking bpld
And Rupert named him a noble Chief.
And I —l knew him alone as Thief.
I am grey and sick and old. . . .
Two sons in my prime were born to me.
Now I have two graves at Gallipoli.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
An Appeal to Jeremiah.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Leave the fretting to the women! Leave
the squealing to the cowed !
Brother, what’s the good of growling in a
manner loose and loud !
Bottle up your Jeremiads! Still the sour
protesting yelp—
Things might look a lot more cheerful if
you’d hurry round and help!
Don’t make songs of ev’ry failure, or predict
our final doom
More than twice a week. O Brother! Don’t
fill other’s hearts with gloom ;
For it doesn’t help the nation while it’s busy
with the Hun
To be told in anguished whispers, “He has
got us ! We are done !”
Screw your courage up, dear Brother! Heap
no ashes on your head,
And refrain from wearing sackcloth until
someone’s really dead.
Armageddon’s far from finished, and we’ve
got no time for woe —
But if you must keep on moaning, do a
little for the foe!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Pro4vt» »t fcortaatf
GAELIC WHISKY
THE OLD SMUGGLER
Ilia
M
Pp
B
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
. . . in .. .
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
Australians!
BE PATRIOTIC. BRINK—
The World can offer no better Natural
Mineral Water than Koomah-wh ch
comes direct from the famous Rock Flat
Springs, Cooma, N.S.W. A Natural
Mineral Water from your own country.
;
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD.,
Purveyors to Vice=Royalty,
Ballarat, Melbourne, Sydney, Katoomba
f
Australia’s Very
Own in Natural
Mineral Waters.
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
INSURANCES EFFECTED FOR—
Fire, Personal, Accident, Hailstone, Live Stock,
Workmen’s Compensation, Plate Glass, etc., at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: Corner Pitt and King Streets, Sydney. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Armageddon and Stuffed Doves from
Yankeeland.
Defence Minister Pearce lias been fore-
casting the conclusion of the war “in the
Spring.” What grounds he has for this
excursion into the region of prophecy are
as deeply shrouded in gloom as everything
else in connection with the struggle.
Pearce may be right; but there is nothing
in the military position to-day, so far as it
can be grasped through our driblets of
alleged information, giving any encourage-
ment to the idea that the enemy is on the
point of being beaten. Even if he be
weakening—and the evidence on that point
can easily be exaggerated—it is as true now
as ever that the job ahead of the allied
arms is one calling for enormous effort if
the _ disaster of a jerry-built peace is to be
avoided. The call is all the time for men
—for every man that can be given a gun—-
and so far as this paper can see it is
mighty poor business to try to get the
necessary man by assuring him that, unless
he hurries up, the fight will be over before
he arrives. What looks nearer the truth
is that, unless he moves with speed, the
fight will go on indefinitely, and meantime
there will be dreadful sacrifice of life.
Germany’s wastage is frightful, too. Nowhere
have her victories been decisive. That she
can now win in the sense she origi-
nally expected is not believed even
at Berlin. But between holding up
the associated Huns and actually wallop-
ing them when the weather gets fine
again there is a tremendous difference. The
Hun, even if thrown right back to his own
frontiers, would still remain a hard nut to
crack. And if the fight ended without the
kernel being pulled out, millions of men
would have died in vain. Meanwhile the
position in the Balkans remains so obscure
that no one at a distance can understand
anything about it except that no reason can
be found for giving way to jubilation. The
Servians have been cruelly smashed, the
allied forces are in a situation of indifferent
tactical strength, the Greek insists on play-
ing poker, and something or other is happen-
ing up Rouihania way, but what it may be
is wholly indefinite. Our own lads are keep-
ing the Turk busy in Gallipoli; the British
force operating in Mesopotamia has been
smitten with considerable violence, which
the usual misleading reports did not lead us
to expect; and the safety of the Suez Canal
is again being talked about in a tone which
suggests that something lively may soon be
doing thereabouts. Meanwhile the U.S. crank
Ford has sailed from N’Yark with a cargo
of reporters and vegetarians to “call the
men out of the trenches for Christmas.” To
Ford the world should give the unanimous
vote of thanks that has long been waiting for
the man who would introduce the element of
pure comedy into this murderous business.
The demented car-maker with his ship cov-
ered with stuffed doves, his squirrel and his
poets and nut-eaters and Holy Rollers and
typewriters, is the most hilarious circum-
stance of modern days.
A fine specimen of N.S.YV. Attorney-
General D. R. Hall’s acumen in the wheat-
buying business is the case of the French
barque Noemi, which arrived at Sydney
lately with 3000 tons of wheat. The cargo
was purchased at Oregon (U.S.A.), and
wheat is worth less in Sydney to-day than
the Government actually gave for the cereal
in America. That is to say, the State is
“out” more than the big amount of the
Yeight. Instead of taking delivery the Gov-
ernment has decided to send the job lot to
Kurope for sale, in hopes of making itself
look less conspicuous as a business mug.
The Bulletin says good-bye to an old
colleague : —-
Nerves frayed to the breaking point by heart and
liver troubles account for the suicide of Alt' Vincent
at Manly last Monday night. He had been des-
perately ill for over a year, and in the hope that a
change might do what medicine refused to do he
was transferred from Melbourne to Sydney a few
months back. The hope was not realised; the
disease steadily became worse instead of better.
Vincent was born at Launceston on the 14th February,
1874. As a boy he copied Phil May diligently, and
was showing great promise as a draughtsman when
his drawings were accepted by The Bulletin in the
early ’nineties. In 1894 he went to Melbourne
under engagement to Punch, and not long afterwards
was appointed to the Melbourne staff of The
Bulletin. For nearly 20 years he remained there,
his regular work being broken only by two trips
to China and Japan and one to England. His style
never lost entirely the Phil May influence; but
in the delicacy of his work he often surpassed his
early model. His humor was pleasant, his line
always graceful, his pen so diligent that he has left
a hundred or more unpublished drawings behind him.
Alf Vincent’s well-groomed, handsome figure was
well known on the Melbourne block and on many
golf links near the city. Apart from his work and
his golf he had very few interests; the life of this
shy, reserved man was singularly placid and un-
eventful. He did not marry until between two and
three years ago, and besides his widow he leaves
one child.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Old Guard”
Criterion “Nobody’s Widow”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Garden The Dandies
I’iCTiiUE Block Theatres Moving Pictures
ME MIOCENE SHOWS FOU COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Mother Goose”
Ij OYAIj “Kick-in”
“The Bold Sojer Boy”
Buou Fuller Vaudeville
'iivou Mcln(o>h's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
“Nobody’s Widow,” produced at Sydney
Criterion last Saturday, does not promise
to be any more popular than the long suc-
cession of comedies imported by the Firm
from the nootral republic. As usual, it is
practically a one-act play that lingers
through three acts. The characterisation is
its weakest point. No attempt is made to
give either the hero or the heroine any per-
sonality ; all they have to do is to “sling off”
at each other in the presence of a bewildered
host and her guests, to whom no apology is
made for their rudeness. The hostess is the
least satisfactory party. She is depicted
during the first act as a pleasant, easy-
going woman, but in the second she is
not only unable to see from the heroine’s
excited happiness and obvious allusions that
that girl has just accepted a proposal—a
piece of match-making that she has been
scheming to bring: about —but she immedi-
ately discloses herself as a violently flirta-
tious woman, almost unpleasantly insisting
upon being kissed by the man she
hoped would marry the heroine. The only
parts that are at all characterised are those
of a couple of guests who are introduced for
no reason and fade away after the first act.
The scene is chiefly set in Roxana’s parlor
in a private house; and though the other
guests seem to make this room their own,
this place of public assembly is selected,
with an apparent air of wickedness, by the
hostess for her supper with the hero. The
humor is purely verbal—a succession of three
acts of repartee of the obvious kind. When
tin; hero objects to go down on his knees
to propose, because it will spoil the creases
in his trousers, the heroine suggests that he
should wear kilts; and when he threatens
to sleep outside her bedroom her retort is
that he will get rheumatism!
* *• * *
Roxana (Muriel Starr) has secretly
married a duke (Charles A. Millward) in
Europe, but on her wedding day she finds the
bridegroom kissing another woman. She
runs away, and some months later comes
back in deep mourning to her friends with
the tale that her husband is dead. The
duke has contrived to be invited to the same
house, in the hope of winning back her
love. The duel runs through the three acts,
and is complicated by the fact that Roxana
had gA a divorce —without the husband
having even been notified of the proceedings.
Apparently these things happen in American
comedy. At last the duke, ignorant of the
divorce, states his intention to insist upon
his marriage rights by force. He even goes
to the length of taking off his tie. How-
ever, the complication that lie is now di-
vorced and has to be re-married leads to a
third act, when Roxana forgives him —
though for no apparent reason except that
it was high time that all good married
people were in bed. In real life there
would have been no third act —or, if there
had been, it would have been hardly pos-
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI FOLLIES.
Cupid Welch and Black Venus Weems.
sible to stage it. There is one delightful
and natural scene, early in the second act,
where Roxana and her duke, under the in-
fluence of the really beautiful stage moon-
light, exchange their genuine loving vows.
There are also: (1) a sedan chair telephone
box; (2) the latest style in cabin trunks;
(3) Grace Ppiotta, smothered in cold cream,
applying anti-wrinkle treatment to a face
that doesn’t need it; (4) the comedy of the
situation of a husband who is officially dead,
but really very much alive; and (5) the
final picture of Roxana going to bed (off
stage), and the exasperating fall of the
curtain before her husband follows.
* * * *
Muriel Starr fortunately had her moments
of emotional tension, and throughout acted
with intelligence and aplomb. It is a pity
that her part is not conversation but repartee.
Charles Millward’s mannerisms grow. There
is one, repeated through the comedy, in which
he attempts to stroke an imaginary mou-
stache. Couldn’t George Barnum give him a
moustache or side whiskers for the rest of
his ducal season? And, though his cold,
stolid, unemotional manner is permissible in
a duke, the comedy would have gained in
human warmth had he shown how much he
really is in love with his duchess. At times
he suggested that the report of his decease
is true. The dramatist, Avery Hopwood,
must be blamed for the inconsistencies in
Grace Palotta’s part of Betty Jackson ; but
her wooing of the indifferent duke is scarcely
in the true vein of comedy. Gertrude Bos-
well, Sydney Stirling and Clarence Blakiston
are thrown away in minor parts. The
staging is magnificent.
* :!: * 5;:
Bright-eyed Minnie Love is the twinkling
star of ‘‘The Old Guard,” now at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. The old light-opera
remembrancer sighing in the stalls may de-
ceive himself into thinking that some win-
some girl of the past acted and sang it a
trifle better; but, if so, Memory is probably
pulling his critical leg. This curly-haired
1915 Patatout, in the soldiering costume of
100 years ago, will soon be fondly remem-
bered on real khaki battlefields, for the
colors of delighted soldier-guests were waved
“THE OLD GUARD AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Phil Smith as Poupart, the Mayor, and as
a fierce old Guardsman.
from the stage at the close of the Monday
evening performance, just before the officers’
whistles called them to attention for the
return to camp. Phil Smith, as Polydore Pou-
part, pants over Lauri’s tracks with moder-
ate success, and Keg Roberts (Gaston de la
Rochnoir) is decorative but occasionally in-
audible. The massive and picturesque Ethel
Morrison seems wasted (artistically speak-
ing) in the military tights of Lieutenant
Vigoreux; but Derek Hudson, in a male
version of the same fighting rig, fills the eye
with color and the ear with baritone melody.
He is as sprucely beautiful and as irresist-
ibly gallant as a new Whisky advertisement.
Ethel Cadman makes a dainty Fraisette;
Leslie Holland, very complete as to make-up,
skips neatly through the job of the Marquis
d’Artemare; and Nellie Payne is a jolly
little Follow-the-Drum. The revival is very
creditable, and producer Minnie Everett and
conductor MacCunn deserve a word of
thanks apiece.
Jack Cannot's well-contrived burlesque of
a fumbling, fussy illusionist didn’t appeal
to some of Sydney Tivoli Follies’ press
critics; yet it is one of the best scraps of a
bright show. Cannot, with two greasy curls
lying flat on his forehead, hurries through
his interminable preparations for his grand
trick whereby two nervous lads, a dripping
block of ice, two tin dishes, a bundle of steel
hoops, a cane chair and a dirty sheet are to
be turned into a Polar bear. When at last
he fires his magician’s revolver, the whole
laboriously-arranged pile of boy, ice, sheet,
hoops, etc., collapses in a hopeless and dis-
gusting medley on the stage. Nevertheless
the fatuous juggler insists on the ingredi-
ents bowing correctly to the audience and
accompanying him off the stage as though
a triumph had been scored.
Branscombe’s Dandies are jollying along
at the Garden Theatre (Sydney), and with
each succeeding programme are widening
their flow of customers. Amongst an open-
air loving community the show has a busy
summer in front of it.
“THE OLD GUARD." AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Reginald Roberts joins Napoleon’s comic-
opera soldiers.
At Sydney picture-theatres this week :
Crystal Palace : “The Fighting Chance” —a five-
act sermon by Robert W. Chambers on the text that
the right woman can dp more to discourage constant
shicker than all the Early Closing and No-Liquor
Acts. The trouble is that woman is a mere side-line
when the shicker calls; but that point isn’t
discussed.
Empress: “The Double Trap” and “The Hidden
Voice” —a couple more exciting chapters in “The
Clutching Hand” series.
Lyric: “A Woman with a Past”—a first-class Nor-
disk film recounting the thrilling adventures of a
young woman who fell into the clutches of a gang
of crooks and became their cat’s-paw. The gang
was finally scratched for all engagements.
IXI “The Girl in the Taxi” at Melbourne
Majesty’s W. H. Rawlins, the Baron Dauv-
ray of the first Melbourne production, is
again demonstrating how he delights to lark
and skite under the influence of frail ladies
and fizzy refreshment; and Fred Maguire
and Paul Plunket, as his son and nephew
respectively, continue to emulate the
ancient’s expensive giddiness. On Saturday
Maguire shared a fancy supper with a new
Suzanne, Miss ' Dorothy Brunton, whose
manner, however, rather dolefully suggested
that more than sufficient unto the evening
was the Maguire thereof. Two a.m. frivo-
lity is not Miss Brunton’s forte; nor is
Miss Vie particularly fitted for the part of a
baroness whose hair has turned white from
respectability. Field Fisher drones in the
old part of the elderly waiter who tends
young sinners till all is blue ; and Workman
makes up like an imminent bilious attack
as the wealthy scent-manufacturer from
Tours. Alfred Frith and Miss Gwen Hughes
appear as Monsieur and Madame Charcot,
and the only moral difference between the
two is that, while hubby is never found out,
his frisky missus is never found in. The
dancing of Miss Daisy Yates and her part-
ner, Sydney, is a blight feature of a revival
which is only for seven nights and concludes
on Saturday. Next week Her Majesty’s
will be closed to provide a free stage for the
numerous people who are preparing for the
“Mother Goose” opening on the 18th inst.
Arnold Bennett’s “What the Public
Wants” was honored with another revival
by the Repertory amateurs at Melbourne
Athenaeum on Saturday. Bennett’s attitude
to the Worgan sort of journalism, revealed
ia a satire that is ever laughing and urbane,
makes the comedy a nopular entertainment
for the ordinary bloke, whilst affording the
superiah person the satisfaction of hearing
his prejudices formulated in piercing mots.
The dialogue throughout is natural and
clever, and a good company headed by the
hard-working McMahon gave full play to
its axioms and arguments on Saturday night.
McMahon repeated his study of Sir Charles
Worgan, and showed all the aspects of a
Philistine who has the ironical job of sav-
ing real artists from starvation. Fx*ancis
and John Worgan (Helton Daniell and
Hugh Rose) suggested xesthetes somewhat
chastexied in their mental arrogance by the
magnificent commercialism of their brother,
while Norman Penair and Reg Newson gave
due weight to the differing vulgarities of
Saul Kendrick and James Brindley. The
financial helplessness of a mostiy-unpaid
actress was sincerely pictured by Miss Rob-
son ; and Mrs. Fowler and Miss Edith
Fraser satisfactorily indicated the main
features of Mrs. and Annie Worgan l’espec-
tively. In the first act artist David Low
made an emphatic debut in the role of the
dramatic critic, Simon Macquoid; and poet


&
YG
eOORD&SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM__
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agrents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
dfg
ƒg
DANiei
CRAWFORD'S
RED STArAwHISKY
TASMANIA
The Summer Resort
of Tourists.
' . gpgfiiii
A
BTs
I#
m
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
Proprietors:
Trustees Estate of the late George Adams.
Hig'hfield
—The Latest in Hotels.
Remodelled & Refurnished
New Winter Garden
Spacious Dining Rooms
Cuisine —highest class
Entirely New Management.
Tariff—63/- to 75/-
All Correspondence to be directed
to the Manager.
McCrae’s sketch of the stentorian St. John
was only spoilt by his having insufficient
stage to make an impressive exit.
** * *
The doings of a crook and his accomplice
at a wedding party, complicated by the in-
sanities of two kleptomaniacs, a few appal-
ling police, and various uncontrollable human
sundries, are the features of the short-lived
tumult which arrived at Melbourne Royal
on Saturday. “Stop Thief” enjoys a career
of less than two hours, but in that short
time it affords abundant evidence for the
complaint that the Amurkan sense of the
ridiculous is more stirred by mechanical
comedy-business than by honest humor.
There is nothing reasonably laughable in the
notion of a rogue trying to dodge detection
by assuming a bogus identity and sec etly
dropping misappropriated valuables in the
pockets of innocent bystanders. The joke
goes too far, with the result that the bulk
of the characters lose all their small pre-
tensions to reality and become the mereiy
indifferent victims of a sleight-of-hand per-
former. There is one really funny happening
in the piece, however, and that occurs when
the generally idle and useless larcenist pauses
in the act of thieving to assure his donah
solemnly that he has noble ideals and a grow-
ing feeling for the Better Life. This little
passage shows that even Yankee farce-makers
are never so absorbed in the imbecilities of
their puppets as to forget to remind the
populace that there are sermons in drones,
books in the cunning crooks, and good in
everything.
* * *
John Webster, as tlie boss embezzler,
bustles through the part on a pair off. legs
that seem to be more sensitive than Ins
visage to the preposterous situations he is
endeavoring to create. Miss Beatrice Nichoils
easily convinces the audience that a mask
of innocent humility and a tailor-made are
all the visible requirements needed for the
part of his lady help, Nell. J. I’lumpton
Wilson appears as the foolish old gentleman
whose absence of mind isn’t compensated
for by the presence of any other rational
quality. Gerald Harcourt, as the ancient s
prospective son-i n-law, talks so hurriedly
that his words seem to collide and splinter in
the process. Tom McLarnie is chief of the
police gang, and enforces law-n’-order with a
face like a rock. Common feminine sounds
ranging from hysterics to school-girl giggles
are contributed' to the general disorder by
Miss Marion Marcus Clarke, Miss Elma
Royton. Miss Mattee Brown, and Miss
Fanchon Campbell; and Harry _ Sweeney
plays the minor part of a doctor in an ap-
propriately inhuman way. “Stop Thief _is
.only booked for a six-niglits’ riot. “Ivick-in
is the bill for Saturday.
*# * *
Melbourne Uni. Conservatorium students
appeared in various excerpts from opera at
Melbourne King’s last Saturday afternoon.
The feature of the performance was the
Mad scene from “Lucia” sung by Miss
Doris Mclnnes with every appearance ot
“THE BOLD
SOJER BOY," AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Captain Fitzgerald.
enjoying the florid music. The subsequent
item was the Garden Scene from Faust,
wherein Belgian tenor Jacques 80l as Fausc
pursued a tuneful Marguerite (Miss Elsy
Treweek) with a warble loaded with sen-
suous flattery. A bit of Weber’s “Der
Freisclnitz” brought into notice the com-
fortable presence of Miss Florence Fawaz
and the vivacious personality of Miss Betty
Paterson. Both sang excellently, though
Miss Fawaz’s effort was marred by a com-
plete indifference to the dramatic possibili-
ties of her part. Miss Paterson, on the
other hand, acted with soubrettisli piquancy
all the time. In the extract from “Carmen”
Miss Marjorie Bagge realised some of the
rortiness of the cigarette girl, but the lady’s
Don Jose sounded no better than a tlirip-
• penny tenor. The chorus singing, however,
was the strong point of the “Carmen” epi-
sode, and was also the most noticeable
characteristic of the two or three scenes
from “The Daughter of the Regiment.” In
Act II of “Martha” Miss Louise Pinschof
as Martha and Miss Matoorekos as Nancy
were neither quite satisfactory, and needed
-the voices of Messrs. Chant and Jonas to
■save the situation. A moderate orchestra,
ably directed by Alberto Zehnan, made a
good attempt to achieve the volume of a
grand-opera band. .
At Melbourne King’s the Bold Sojer Boy
is still draining his vocabulary dry in an
effort to assure Edna Iveeley of his undying
affection. The Sojer spends a good portion
of each act in wooing the lady, but all his
powers of persuasion go for naught until
he brings his faithful warble to Blarney’s
aid. A song from the Sojer invariably suc-
ceeds in having the desired effect. He sings
her hostility to sleep, as it Jvere. and the
prim, provocative hoyden becomes the 'melt-
ing, mushy damsel of his dreatns.
“THE BOLD SOJER BOY," AT MEL-
BOURNE KING’S.
The German Secret
Agent.
The welly ’ot Chow
Julius Knight and Co. appear under the
direction of Modern Amusements Ltd. at
Melbourne Princess’s next Saturday night.
The ..opening production is “The Three Mus-
keteers;” to be staged so lavishly that the
daily advt. is left quite breathless with
amazement.
Sjc sjs % Jj:
Mary Law, violinist, and Peter Dawson,
baritone, still head the bill at Melbourne
Tivoli. Mary is now giving some of the
choicest items in her repertoire, while Peter
is singing with all his old meticulous atten-
tion to details, In the rest of the pro-
gramme the Nolans, Hazel Moran, Coy De
Trickey, Mile. Nadje, Morris Golden, and
Jack La Vier continue to give every satis-
faction.
* * * *
The art of tumbling from high altitudes
without visible damage continues to be the
trade secret of Montambo and Wells, the
clever pair of balancers at Melbourne Bijou.
Of the new artists Kipp and Kippy have
come in with a comedy juggling turn ; a lady
named Orphea is responsible for an interest-
ing musical act; and Miss Carne has the
job of imitating Daisy Jerome and other
celebrities.
* * * #
Before returning to Sydney for a final
fortnight in Australia, Muriel Starr pur-
sued Millward through the four acts of
“Under Cover” in Adelaide. The machine-
made American play gave her a good chance
to run through ail the emotions she ex-
presses naturally; but her dazzling smile had
fewer chances. Adelaide said good-bye with
regret. The Royal is closed for the moment.
At the Tivoli is what would have been
called in old days a “stock” company, very
capable, supporting various visitors in all
kinds of plays. Conway and Fitzherbert
are, as a matter of fact, quite well able to
divide the “lead” without any visiting help,
but just now the forceful Harry Roberts
is along with the forceful American-Civil
military play, “Held by the Enemy.” Pos-
sibly everybody concerned is a shade too
deliberate; at any rate, the old play did not
the time the writer saw it thrill the audi-
ence in the old way. At the King’s, Har-
rington Reynolds introduces a playlet,
Bailey’s dogs seem really to feel the poses
they adopt, Alice Pierce brilliantly shows
how Miss Starr and other stage favorites
get their effects, and Alsace makes excellent
music with Lorraine. Pictures are “intense”
just now, “The Pib” at Wondergraph, “The
Sbulamite” at West’s.
So far Tasmania has the distinction of
being the one State in Australia which has
not sent a single member of Parliament to
the Front or anywhere near it.
Died last week, Tom Boulton (83), of
Nambucca, who blazed the first track
through the then giant forests between the
Macleay and the Nambucca, and thereafter
spent a useful half-century in the rich N. S.
Wales North Coast district.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The Australian National Miniature
Theatre, whose home is out at Niagaroon,
Oakleigli (Vic.), is devoting the evenings of the
17th and 18th inst. to the production of
three one-acters “introducing hitherto un-
approached subjects.” The pieces are “Ex-
periment,” “The Moon Child” and “The Re-
turn,” and they are alleged to deal respec-
tively with a “study in Christian Science,”
“a fantasy woven around an aboriginal
legend,” and a certain damsel who “is will-
ing to go into Hell with her eyes open rather
than any longer endure the loneliness of
the bush and the whims of a truculent
father.” No charge will be made for admis-
sion. All that the intending spectator re-
quires is an enthusiasm strong enough to
survive the train service between Mel! ne
and Oakleigli.
A memory of the late ARTHUR RUSSELL,
of Hoyt's (Melbourne).
“S.S.”: The luck of Arthur Russell.
Arthur was a dentist by acquired profession,
a showman by born inclination. How the
Bohemian got into his blood I don’t know,
but even while making plenty of money in
the public’s mouth he was always planning
shows to take its eye and ear. His weak-
ness was for the tent and a nomadic life,
carrying marvels to the Backblocks, the
Pacific Islands and waste places. He ran
many shows that failed to take on till he
got into the picture business, established
Hoyt’s, made a fortune, and, that being
assured, died a comparatively young man at
51. I’ve known nine men go out like that,
and they still say nothing succeeds like
success.
Lance-corporal Charles Murfitt, who re-
ceived the D.C.M. for restoring telephone
communication under heavy fire, earned men-
tion for distinguished conduct when Maeter-
linck’s “Blue Bird” was first staged in this
part of the world. He was in charge of the
wonderful electrical effects of that produc-
tion; and after the “Blue Bird” . company
disbanded was connected with various Aus-
tralian theatres.
“J.F.11.” : G. Tt. Sims provided the late
George Edwardos with several of his early
experiments. ()ne of them was “Blue-Eyed
Susan,” in which Nellie Stewart played the
title role. Sims and his collaborator, Henry
Pettitt, had diligently rehearsed it, and
having seen it, as they thought, safely and
successfully launched, went away for a holi-
day. In a few days they received this mes-
sage from Edwardes: “ ‘Blue-Eyed Susan’
is not going well. It wants a lot of work
on it to make it right. If you don’t come
back within a week and see to it I shall put
up the notice.” They hurried back, but too
late to put Susan straight. That was
characteristic of Nellie Stewart’s luck in
London. She never really got a chance to
display her abilities. She was the innocent
victim of a whole chapter of cruelly-provok-
ing accidents and disappointments. Her
one striking success was as principal boy in
a pantomime at Drury Lane, in which she
had Dan Leno as coadjutor. But ill-luck
pursued her even there, as she broke down
under the strain of two performances a day
in the depth of a severe London winter.
Lily Langtry is not quite so beautiful as
she was in the long ago; still there are
plenty of people who will flock to see an
elderly actress who was once wheeled in a
barrow at a fashionable continental resort
by a gay heir to the throne, of the British
Empire. So Mrs. Langtry has been telling
the London interviewers that she has had
offers of two autumn tours. The first would
take her to India, Burmah, China, Japan,
the Malay States and the Philippines. The
second would be another visit to the United
States. On thinking them over she had
come to the conclusion that, while the
former was the more attractive on the score
of novelty, it was rather too big a proposi-
tion in tliese troublous times; so she has
plumped for six months’ touring under the
Stars and Stripes.
“Gin Fiz”: Fred Graham, who lingered
about Australian theatres until be was prac-
tically told to get out, has found his feet in
TJ.S.A. He got the chance of playing prin-
cipal part in a mix-up labelled “Search Me,”
and the first-night audience marked him up
as a discovery. Also doing well in and
around New York is Leo Stark, who, though
advised not to leave Australia, took a chance
and, strange to say, dropped into a part in
“The Spring Maid” that suited his peculiar
wooden style. Since then his mechanical
walk is spoken of as “The Stark skip,” and
is actually imitated !
“Melb”: The Williamson picture-theatre
in Bourke-street, opposite the Royal, will
be ready in a few weeks. The job is only
one of alterations. The firm lias just built
a second and much larger wooden cinema
studio, on (he site for the new Comedy
Theatre, opposite Her Majesty’s. This in-
dicates that the Comedy Theatre is hung up.
'.Meanwhile the new Empire Picture Theatre,
Bourke-street East, proceeds more slowly.
It springs from a deep foundation. Nine
Bourke-street picture-theatres to be open
every night!
“Nibbidard”: Jo Smith, the writer of
several well-known Australian plays,'who is
a successful furniture-warehouse manager in
private life, has set a shining example to the
sharks who, masquerading as patriots, pro-
mote entertainments which yield £3O for
wounded soldiers and a crop of “expenses” of
twice that amount. On September 29 Smith
staged at the St. Ivilda Town Hall his
comedy. “Before the Dawn,” proceeds to go
to the Wounded Soldiers’ Fund. Here is the
balance-sheet, duly attested : Receipts—Sale
of tickets and admissions, £ll7 95.; sale of
sweets, etc., £ll 9s. lid.; total, £l2B 18s.
lid.; expenditure, Nil; profit, £l2B 18s. lid.
“Before the Dawn” will be repeated at St.
Kilda Town Hall on December 15 for the
Red Cross, and at the Auditorium (Melb.)
on December IS, to provide winter comforts
for Private Jim of Gallipoli.
(Continued on page, 31/.)
The special Christmas number of The
Bulletin will be on the bookstalls and in
the streets on Saturday. As far as this
paper is a disinterested judge, the number is
all right. There isn’t anything about the
war in it; in fact, Souter is the only writer
who even has a story in it built on the
war. Souter —the black-and-white artist
who invented the cat —has a son who was
very early in the trouble; and that may
account for the two or three excellent war-
stories he has already done in The
Bulletin, and the best of the lot is in the
Christmas number. There are other yarns
to make up 20, and an exceptionally fine lot
of verse, including “The, Fable of a Cell,”
one of the strongest pieces of grim humor
written in these parts for many a day.
“SHOP!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ike Israels is a business man,
Pawnbroking is his trade ;
And, like most members of his clan,
He takes his pleasure when he can
In seeing dramas played ;
A patron of the gods is he,
A gallery-critic frank and free.
“Carried away” quite oft is Ike,
To interject lie’s fain ;
Particularly does he like
Commercial scenes, or those that strike
Haply a bithneth vein ;
Show him a bargain or a deal —
Never in vain “shop” made appeal!
One night he watched the starving star
Come on the stage alone—
His relative avuncular
Lived near (these rich old uncles are
In stage-plays not unknown) ;
The hero carried, please to note,
Over his arm an overcoat.
“Uncle!” he moaned, the while were played
Some dismal minor chords —
“Uncle!” Upon his knees he prayed;
The overcoat meanwhile he- laid
Beside him on the boards.
Ike couldn’t sit still, though he tried—
“Veil, how much do y’ vant?” he cried.
. VICTORIA
EARDLTEY TURNER.


The “D.J.” Leather Suit Case
Comp a eft—Light—Durable
“Made by David Jones” to
withstand rough handling, this
Suit Case is confidently recom-
mended for holiday or business
use. It is made of well-
tan ne d cowhide, h-i gh 1 y
polished, and strongly sewn
on a sturdy, light steel frame,
fitted with a gun-case handle
and two lever spring locks.
Two straps and buckles are
also fitted inside.
22 x 14* x 64 „ 32/-
24 x 14* x6* „ ~ 35/-
2G x 14* x6* „ 37/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
David Jones, Ltd.
Opposite G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
one-seven-nin
LUXURIA
Cologne.
British made and
of rare luxuriance.
The Refreshing >,
N Toilet Dainty ~
Sample Bottle id. post free.
Parviola Perfumery Co.
Normanby Road, South Melbourne.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLD’S
WINES
REAL HOSPITALITY.
MA: “How did you enjoy your stay with
the Smiths?”
FLAPPER: “Oh, not very much! Everyone
tried to make me feel at home —and
they all succeeded."
“W.8.H.”..- Re the visit of four State
Governors to Dookie Agricultural College
(B. 25/11/T5). True enough, only. 33
students are at present learning to plant
...1,.,,,f , • 1,.. „, w i
1 e P d Jnit in oidmary years
any number trom 80 to 110 answer the
roll-call. The deficiency this year is due to
the fact that practically all the students of
military age are away raising a crop of
r..!. ~T,i ~ , , r . , It 1 ;
ti ouble toi old Abdul. Over 100 past
students have enlisted, as well as five mem-
bers of the teaching staff. And they are all
useful men with the rifle, having learnt this
n. momHoi.-, elm l. £...
‘ l u ii ~ ,? e club,. which for
jeais lias headed the list in district matches,
Australia’s Cinderella, the Northern Ter-
ritory, is still scarcely regarded as one of
the family by her bie sisters down south.
Blank ignorance, reinforced by utter indif-
ference, is the attitude of the average Vic.
or N. S. Wales citizen towards the Terri-
tory and all that therein is. One “merchant
prince” in Sydney doesn’t even know the
difference between a N.T. telegraph station
and a nice girl. During bush-parson Wil-
kinson’s two years’ journey through the
Territory baekblocks he sent from Powell’s
Creek an order for goods to a Sydney firm,
mentioning that the package was to be
addressed to Alice Springs. When he
reached the Springs there was no sign of
the parcel, though ample time had elapsed.
A wire to Sydney brought the reply, “Goods
sent as directed.” Months afterwards, on
his return to Powell’s Creek, he found the
missing package waiting there, addressed
“Miss Alice Springs, c/o Rev. W. M. Wil-
kinson, Powell’s Creek, N.T.”
* * * *
“Moana”: Lunacy emerged from hiding
in Maoriland the other day when several
allegedly Scawtch Societies gave vent to a
demand for a “Special Regiment,” garbed
in kilts, to be sent to argue with the Turk.
The howl for the sporran is still rumbling
round Volcanoland, one of the main argu-
ments used in its favor being that it would
greatly increase recruiting, as “thousands
of Scots of picked physique” would rush to
assist the Empire if they knew they could
do the assisting in a kilt. If this tale be
true, and if there really are thousands of
Scotties in Loan Land who haven’t enlisted
simply because they can’t wear a certain
weird brand of millinery, the sooner Massey
goes after them with the axe of conscription
and teaches them the meaning of patriotism
the better.
* * * *
“Andy ’O.”: “Sniggs” (B. 11/11/T5)
divorces poor lluon from Kermadec, who
were one and the same party, coeval and
indivisible. lluon Kermadec was second in
command on the Esperance to Admiral
D’Entrecasteaux on the Recherche. The
expedition, which set out in 1791 to locate
La Perouse, discovered the channel which
separates Bruni Island from the Tasmanian
mainland, and it was named after the
Admiral. The ves-
sels got into the
channel in error,
owing to a mistaken
bearing from the
Mewstone Roc k.
D’Entretcetera was
ill in bunk at the
time, so hardly de-
served any fame in
this connection. The
channel was explored
and charted, and the
broad lluon River
discovered and given
the name of the sec-
ond-in-command. A
rivulet, tributary to
the Muon near Gee-
veston, was named
Kermadec, now in-
explicably corrupted
to Kermande e.
Apropos, two fine
ports just south of
the lluon were
named Recherche
and Esperance, after
the two ships. The
former is now better
known as Research,
and people think
you are a new kind
of Hun if you use
the correct Proven-
cal. It is true
that D’Entre-and-
the-rest called the
Derwent “Riviere de
Nord,” but he only
sailed the estuary.
It was left to Hayes
(afterwards Admiral
Sir John) to explore
the river. He charted
it in 1794 to a point
three or four miles
above Bridgewater,
say 14 miles from Hobart, and named it
after the Derwentwater of his own loved
Westmoreland.
* * * *
The man who makes the translation
swears that the extract from the Bltjd-
tiiuh.st und Splutter goes this way :
Let us not be deceived. Australia is organising
for war with remarkable thoroughness. Three months
ago the call for men was heard at Rockhampton,
and seven citizens of military age at once sprang to
arms. They could have reached a training camp in
a few hours by train, but on the advice of the local
newspaper decided to use their influence in securing
further drafts of soldiery. They therefore at once
set out by road for Cairns, where their numbers were
swollen by two, and after being banqueted the
regiment set its face to the west, and with songs
and cheers started on a march to Cloncurry, Camoo-
weal, Darling Downs, Cooktown and Gympie. On
leaving Gympie they were 14 strong, and crossed
the border into N. S. Wales after losing only six,
who had worn their feet off. The survivors traversed
the Diamantina, visited the basin of the Darling,
KNEW THE SYMPTOMS.
“ George, dear, yon really get handsomer
every day.”
“Yes, I know. It’s a habit I have when
you want a new hat.”
passed safely through Canberra, Sydney, Tamworth
and Cootamundra, where the whole population turned
out with sandwiches, and forded the Murray after
being joined by 12 comrades. Thence they marched
by way of Bendigo and Albury to Melbourne, which
was entered with bands playing and flags waving
on the public buildings, the total on the roll being
28. The men were at once hurried into camp, and
after treatment in hospital it was expected that they
would be ready to start learning drill in about seven
weeks. The compulsory service leagues have been
completely routed by this exposure of the hollow
character of their demands, and the principle of
encouraging the voluntary taking of prolonged walks
is regarded as thoroughly justified. These men will
reach the Front some day. We must recognise this,
and be prepared to hear of more following.
Meanwhile if the Minister for Defence is
permitted by the Censor to open his mouth
except for the purpose of commending an
officer, it would be just as well if he made an
announcement regarding the usefulness of
dissipating a vast amount of energy for the
mere purpose of showing the enemy that we
are handling things as though a circus agent
was in supreme command.
* * * *
“Ex-Gent”; The Maoriland Minister of
Education has lately been waited on by a
deputation worried by the increasing scarcity
of school-teachers. The position is really
acute, and some Outback districts are con-
sidering the advisability of enlarging the
school-house doors, so that the local John
Hop can get his feet in and give the neces-
sary insthruction. Married as well as single
teachers are going, and who can blame them ?
Existence on the frostiest chunk of Bul-
garian rock is gay compared with the school-
master’s life at Maori Flat or Rimu Gully.
On the other hand, there are the young un-
married farmers who won’t go, and the
bachelor solicitors who are too fully occu-
pied counting the deeds in their strong-rooms
to think of shifting, and the wifeless archi-
tects praying for the firebell to ring, and
any number of people whom the Loan Land
could readily spare. Yet the muddle of
voluntaryism goes cheerfully on.
“Billy Blue”: Dr.
Watson, the Com-
monwealth Historian,
in the fourth volume
of the Records, re-
vives an ancient tale ;
and this historian
herewith carries it on
a few years. Gov-
ernor 'William Bligh
arrived in N. S. Wales
on August 8, 1806,
to succeed Philip Gid-
ley King. Two days
later King issued to
Bligh a grant of 1000
acres, near where
Riverstone is now (it
was called Copen-
hagen), another grant
of 240 acres called
Camperdown (now the
Sydney suburb of
that name) and 105
acres elsewhere.
Bligh’s daughter, Mrs.
Mary Rutland, was
also provided with a
grant of 600 acres.
Bligh assumed the job
of Governor on the
13th, and at once pro-
ceeded to hand out
land to the Kings.
One grant of 700 acres
to Mrs. Anna Josepha
King she very ap-
propriately called
“Thanks Farm.” The
magnitude of this
little transaction can
be judged by the re-
sult. In May, 1841,
the trustees of Gover-
nor Bligh’s estate
held two sales of the
Camperdown land, and
234 acres were sold in
allotments for £36,001,
an average of £154
per acre. The King
grants, including
“Thanks Farm,” re-
main in the King
family. Mrs. Mary
Rutland’s grant was
subdivided and sold,
and the town of St.
Mary’s is built on the
site. “A mere inter-
change of courtesies”
between the two Gov-
ernors, one of the
Kings commented air-
ily on the original
transaction. Justice
Pring, the most prom-
inent modern connec-
tion of the family,
would probably call it
something else if a similar courtesy came
under his keen judicial nose.
* * * *
Adelaide’s first two woman “patrols”—
they don’t wish to be called police—started
their job on December 1. They propose to
do most of their work between 5 and 11 p.m.,
and give special attention to the precocious
under-16 girl who stays out late. All women
offenders in the police-court they will give
advice and help to —with one exception. “In
any instance where a woman attempts to
snare or trap a young girl we shall show no
leniency.” Chief Secretary Styles has got
Lis new Joan Hops from the State Chil-
dren’s Dept., and intends to add to their
strength almost at once.
* * * »
Melbourne has a Peace Alliance. Affili-
ated therewith are the Sisterhood of Inter-
national Peace, the Peace Army, the Social-
ist Party, the Women Teachers’ Associa-
tion, the Federated Clerks’ Union, and the
Typists’ Association. It looks quite a for-
midable aggregation of societies. But it is
really only painted dough. The affiliation
of the Clerks’ Union was the result of a
catch vote at a meeting attended by five mem-
bers or so and the caretaker. The same
Clerks’ Union, under similar conditions,
resolved not long ago to knock off eat-
ing butter as a protest against the
drought. The Women Teachers’ tail is
wagged by the Women’s Political Ass. The
typists’ non-union is a feeble little clattering
thing. The Charles Strongs, of the Aus-
tralian Church, are the main works of the
Sisterhood of International Peace; the
Peace Army is Vida Goldstein; and most
people are aware of the immense influence
which isn’t wielded by the Socialist Party.
It all recalls J. C. Kirby, a well-known
“social-purity” parson of S. Aus., who once
confessed that at that moment lie was, as
near as he could remember, seven societies.
What the Melbourne Peace Alliance really
should do is to meet regularly once a week
and knit a pair of socks. These would
keep at least one soldier warm in the com-
ing winter and help him to be thus fit to
fight on the side which stands for peace in
our time. That extra soldier might make
all the difference between an early settle-
ment and an extended conflict.
THE RIDDLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To be really smart we must wear our hats at an
angle which obscures most of our profile and a collar
that nearly hides our mouth. —Fashion note.
Is her face so fair to see ?
Who shall answer? AVho can tell?
Hear her laughter ripple free!
Is that mouth of hers a sell ?
Look ! A wisp of saucy hair
Beats the straw, eludes the veil —
Is it dark or is it fair?
Is she pink or sweetly pale?
Light her walk, erect and strong
Are her -movements as site goes—•
Has she lashes curved and long
Leaning towards her slender nose?
Girl, this fashion’s modest rule
Is a swindle and a cheat;
Such a hat may keep you cool,
Such a collar may be neat,
But I hold it shame and sin
That a girl should tease my taste,
Letting eyes and lips and chin
Simply go to heedless waste.
It is really past a joke.
Girl, that hat-tilt irks me so;
Laugh once more, and you’ll provoke
Me to lift your hat and know!
x.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


“THE TRIAD”
for -
December.
FOR the past quarter of a century in New Zealand most readers of’ the Triad
have been readers of Tiie Bulletin, and pretty soon now (as things go) most
readers of The Bulletin in Australia will be readers of the Triad. The
Triad has no prejudices. It is the helot of no party or clique. It is not a slave of
reputations. It says what it thinks and explains why it thinks it.
The Triad for December is full of good things. There are many pages of out-
spoken criticism. There is a seasoning of frank fun. The literary contributions
are by writers well known in these pages—such as Randolph Bedford, Hugh
McCrae, Will Lawson, Frank Morton and M. Forrest. The Triad offends lots of
people, and is heartily glad of it. It never offends tolerant people of good will and
intelligence. You can buy it for sixpence at any newsagent’s in Australasia. Or you
can send six-and-sixpence to the Manager, Box 1558, Sydney, and have it posted
to you for a year. A specimen copy post free for Id. stamp. This is an offer that
should be taken now. The Triad stands to all present bargains, even if the most
patriotic and democratic Commonwealth Government puts up the postage on news-
papers to a guinea an ounce.
6d.
at ALL GOOD BOOKSHOPS and NEWSAGENTS IN
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND.
The “Adapta” Hat
Light and
. • . kShady.
n
The ideal hat for riding’ and driving wear —-
g'ives ample protection from the sun and
shade for the face. The brim is adjustable
to any position, and will not be blown down
over the eyes in a headwind.
Made of smooth-finished felt of Mid Grey or
Fawn shade, with unbound .‘ij-inch brim.
Please state size and color required.
Our new catalogue—Jubilee issue—just pub-
lished. Copy on request.
Peapes 8 Co. Ltd.,
• ■ en’s Outfitters,
309 8 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
“T. 0.1.”: The Burdekin mansion in Mac-
quarie street, Sydney, has changed hands at
£40,000, Alexander Hay being the buyer. It
was erected in the first ’so’s by Thomas Bur-
dekin, a Sydney ironmonger who arrived in
1826 and established a business in George-
street, which may be considered the pilot-fish
of that conducted afterwards by Joseph Bur-
dekin Holdsworth, and now by Holdsworth,
Macpherson and Co. There was a legend
that Tom Burdekin built partly on someone
rise’s land, and had to give compensation.
He died in the mid-forties, leaving three sons.
One was Marshall Burdekin, a barrister, who
was “called” in 1859. lie was appointed
< 'olonial Treasurer in the Cowper Ministry,
hut was defeated on going up for re-election.
A second son, Jon. Bossley Burdekin, did not
take any part in politics ; but the third, Syd-
ney, was in Parliament 14 years, and in
the drawing-room of tl)e Burdekin mansion in
those days old Henry Parkes presided over
many a Liberal caucus.
Australia’s importing mania is becoming
better known in Woodrow Wilson’s country.
A Yank has just written to the Melbourne
City Council offering, for cash in advance,
“to place in its parks” one or any number of
buffaloes at from £BO to £6O each; black
bears at 35 to 50 dollars; coyotes, lynx,
beavers, badgers and Eskimo dogs at from 10
to 100 dollars. He will even let Melbourne
have a few rabbits at two dollars a
pair, white rats at 25 a hundred, and
skunks at a reduced figure for taking a
quantity. No business has been done so
far; but if he could offer one of his country’s
dirt-eaters, cheap, he might book an order
any time this summer.
The sworn testimony of an ex-curate, now
in vaudeville :—•
These faked Archbishops of Canterbury now
crowning false-alarm queens all over the suburbs
remind me that, of all the actors I ever knew Julius
Stormer had the most exalted idea of his profession.
Stormer looked upon life as a vast tragedy put on
by the Creator, and he held that very few of the
characters in history had made the best dramatic
use of their opportunities. Stormer regarded most
kings and bishops merely as indifferent actors who
were blind to the possibilities of their parts. He
told me one day he couldn’t understand why the
Fathers of the Church wasted their time preaching
dull, stumbling sermons to indifferent congregations
when they might be receiving the homage of their
curates or making picturesque pilgrimages to shrines
within easy walking distance of their cathedrals.
When someone objected that Australia, being' a new
country, had no shrines, Stormer retorted that they,
could he put up quite cheaply. One day a heavy-
weight bishop who wanted to learn how to elocute
without artificial teeth, because he considered arti-
ficial teeth an infringement of Providence’s patent
rights, was directed by evil chance to Stormer’s
studio, where he got on quite nicely until Stormer
ventured the opinion that Moses was a fine actor.
The bishop stiffened in his gaiters and begged
Stormer to explain himself. Stormer then said he
regarded Moses as a man who wouldn’t have been
out of place in a good stock company alongside
Pilate and Herod. While the bishop fought for
breath, Stormer congratulated- his visitor on having
at last realised his opportunities. He was- going
gaily ahead and begging the dignitary to allow him
to take a service for him when he became conscious
of a swollen umbrella pointing at the door. Behind
it was the bishop, looking very ripe and ready to
explode. Stormer hastily flung the door wide and
the Right Reverend gentleman, without any sounds
or motions of farewell, floated slowly and majesti-
cally down the stairs like a large ecclesiastical
balloon.
IN HOSPITAL AT THE FRONT.
DOCTOR: “ Are you deaf?” (No answer.)
DOCTOR (loudly): “Are you deaf?” (Still no answer.)
DOCTOR (in a whisper): “Trip to Australia!”
SOLDJER: “ Hip hooray!”
There are still some perfect gentlemen in
the world —or were till the other day. One
of them, because he hated to give trouble,
decided that it was really necessary to shoot
himself; and he walked to the Mortuary to
do it. A while ago another man bought a lot
at Rooltwood and had a grave digged. The
morning after the hole was completed he
was found lying in it, dead. But the Law
would waste money; instead of taking the
obvious hint and just shovelling in the earth,
it dragged him out and removed him to wait
for an inquest.
* * * #
“Hamer”: The weary old argument about
what a public place is broke out again
this time at Wentworth (N.S.W.).
Two rival pastpralists attended a land sale
at Endfield, near Pooncarie, and there one
of them announced his objections to the
shape of the other’s nose, and was subse-
quently fined for using threatening lan-
a public place, and bound over to
keep the peace. His appeal was heard at
the Wentworth Quarter Sessions, the con-
tention being that, as the sale was over, the
scene of the language had ceased to be a
public place. Judge Bevan, however, held
that the invitation to the public to attend
made the spot “a place within the meaning”
until the invitation lapsed through the with-
drawal of the people. It cost the appellant
£lO 10s. to find this out. Possibly he has
money left to dispute it in a yet higher
court. There are any number of legal
gentlemen who will help him to get the
point settled for a couple of days before
sending it on its rounds again.
* * * *
“O’Phimerty”: When German cruisers
were loose on the seas some persons on the
Tasmanian West Coast noticed mysterious
lights flashing across the peaks of Zeehan
and Heemskirk. In Hobart it was thought
that one or more of the piratical cruisers
might be hiding round about Port Davey,
where there are several deep-water inlets
screened from the sea by headlands, and lying
against miles of wild, uninhabited country.
As no Australian warships were available
for purposes of reconnoitre it was decided
to make a hunt from the land side, and Gib-
lin, M.H.A., undertook the job. With two
other bushmen he tramped westward from
Tyenna over about 80 miles of the roughest
country in the Commonwealth, and by the
aid of carrier pigeons reported that not a
war punt or battle garbage-tin could be dis-
covered anywhere. But that didn’t affect
the merit of the strenuous job carried
through by Giblin and his two bushmen
mates.
From the Wireless Operator:—•
The ordinary range of a ship’s apparatus is about
300 miles in daylight, and well over 1000 at night
time. Why it is so much better after dark is one
of the marvels which cannot yet be fully explained.
One night when east of Rarotonga I heard San
E’rancisco and Sydney stations within an hour of
each other. This could be done only with exception-
ally suitable conditions.
On a ship I was with between Wellington and
Sydney a passenger was suddenly taken ill. We
“THE ANSWER."
“My poor man, you must he cold. If I give
yon five shillings will you get some
clothes ?”
“ Madame , male it seven, and we’ll buy a
sheepskin vest and save a soldier .”
had no doctor aboard and were three days from
Sydney. We called up a steamer, and our captain
diagnosed the case by air, and their doctor pre-
scribed. The patient was treated accordingly, and
we kept in touch for a few hours, reporting different
symptoms. The shore doctor told us we had saved
the man’s life.
Just after the outbreak of war, when German
battleships and other boats were at large, wireless
work was of great importance, and business was
brisk. Owing to atmospherics the telegraphists at
then-lately-captured Rabaul were having trouble get-
ting their traffic to Port Moresby'. (Atmospherics
are disturbances caused by stray electricity in the
atmosphere.) The operator on the German boat
Ivomet, which was taken later, was making condi-
tions worse by working at the same time, which
causes jambing. He would say, in a good Austra-
lian off-handed way, “Come, now, old man, let me
help you”; or, “You are having trouble. I am
closer than you, let me relay it for you.” He actu-
ally did send all cipher messages he picked up to
Tsingtau.
Wo were trooping, and in the Indian Ocean I
heard a ship’s station asking for anyone within
range to answer, as her chronometers appeared to
them to be going wrong. The matter was urgent.
A chronometer four minutes out means the ship is
a degree (or about 60 miles) out of her course. I
agreed to give this ship certain signals every fif-
teenth second, taking the time from our chrono-
meters. She was one minute nine seconds slow in
her time.,- We saved the people on that ship great
anxiety, perhaps the boat itself.
* . * * *
There is always the other way of looking
at things. A couple of Red Cross canvas-
sers after “gifts in kind” called on Mrs.
Cocky the other day, and as she seemed a
bit hard in the mouth, they casually men-
tioned that Mrs. Hayseed, further up the
creek, had given some vegetables. “And so
she should,” said the lady. “Hasn’t she got
two boys at the Front?”
* *■ * *
Ford’s peace mission seems likely to meet
many blizzards. The Kaiser is supposed to
have said that he doesn’t want the motor-
man on the premises, as Alphonso of Spain
- —the tall potentate with the large mouth —
is near at hand to carry any olive branches
or shoo on any doves that may be needed.
Woodrow Wilson, who has gone out of the
peace business lately, is not smiling on the
scheme; and Britain, knitting socks and
hammering cannon like the deuce, merely
remarks that she will hammer peace into
Germany in the old way. Before long Ford
will begin to realise that it is easier to
reason with a refractory motor-car than talk
Christian brotherhood to a swarm of angry
nations. But for the present the picnic
hampers are well supplied, and the man
who supplies the cash has plentv of friends
t > tell him that he is the greatest man in
the world.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: There were five of us. We
were having oysters and coffee at the saloon
of a gentle Dago in Melbourne. The gentle
Dago looked like an iron pirate gone rusty.
He had the wildest purple eye I have ever
seen, and his black-
leaded moustache
suggested immemo-
rial villainy. Four
of us got one in-
sanitary oyster
apiece; the fifth
got two. I was
the fifth. Nothing
disturbs my equa-
nimity like a half-
swallowed oyster
of last year’s vin-
tage. I called up
the ministering An-
gelo. lie appeared.
His expression was
that of a man who
expected trouble.
But that was not
remarkable; any-
body could have
scented trouble.
What I said to
Angelo was noth-
ing to what the
others said. But
Angelo belied his
melodramatic mou-
stache and his dia-
bolical eye. His
hands went up.
and he protested
piteously. "Oh!”
he said, "Oh ! Oh !
►So mucha the
noise, so big-a the
row, for two or
tree leedle sick-a
the oyst; and
Italia figlit-a s o
hard-a, so hrav’
for the Allies!”
“Brandy has killed more men than
shrapnel,” says a prominent Melbourne
Rechabite.
Though shrapnel kill a thousand score,
Old brandy will kill more and more.
The hint, belligerents, is plain—
Get back to grapeshot once again.
VENUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Venus has not been noticed for many months.
The beautiful evening star has once more arrived,
and can now be glimpsed by sharp eyes in the even-
ing glow. —Astronomical note.
1 how my head that I had been
So careless, so indifferent, .
As not to note the heavens’ queen
Was absent from the firmament;
But I do know, to my delight,
The star of Venus still is bright!
It may be other things have held
My thoughts; the ruddy glow of Mars
Has drawn me, or my mind was spelled
By Saturn, or by other stars ;
But that which gladdens every night,
The Star of Venus, still is bright!
It may be seen in evening’s glow ;
More radianQ. in night’s dearer hours.
When love’s sweet dreams are all we know,
Its splendor in the heavens- towers.
Life, let us love! The earth’s all right:
The star of Venus still is bright!
In spite of wars and many things,
. (O full red lips for kisses, fit!)
Man’s fancy to one fealty clings,
With one dear star his sky is lit.
Though kingdoms fall, and nations fight,
The star of Venus still is bright!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


BRITANNIA.
“She sat like patience on a monument,
Smiling at grief.”—“Twelfth Night,” Act II., Scene 4.


TAKING- NO RISKS.
THE BISHOP: “Wilt thou have this woman to be thy wedded wife?”
WOODROW W.: “Eh—er —I’ll send you a Note about it.”


w£areßqrntq
v*e* BcNctum.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire; Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid=up 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
yV. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE.
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ft
© ( boaters
Lightness with
Durability <
distinguish these world-
renowned hats, which should
be worn by every man in
Australia, because they are
specially made to suit our
severe climatic conditions.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROU
LCWIS&wrIITTY MAKERS
HYGEIA
Shaving
Stick.
>5OiX
In
I
Hygeia
oil-foam
hard
bristles
grow soft
Martin's Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
KOBAN
KING OF
ROWBOAT
MOTORS.
Runs Excellently Without Vibration.
PRITCHARD BROTHERS LTD.,
Engineers, Launch
and Boat Builders,
North Sydney, N.S.W.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Died in harness at the age of 72, Joseph
Win lei', proprietor of Melbourne Advocate,
and brother of the late S. V. Winter, fondly
known as “Stormy,” one time managing
director of Melbourne Herald. Joseph,
who was born at Goulburn (N.S.W.), was
an ardent Irish Home Ruler, and in 35
years collected £40,000 for the cause. He
took over the conduct of the Advocate, a
I loly Roman organ very well patronised,
after it had been founded by S.Y. It was
in the editor’s chair that he collapsed, dying
before the doctors could arrive. He Was
largely interested in the Herald, and at
shareholders’ meetings his voice was gener-
ally heard on behalf of “old and trusted
servants of the company” and the conser-
vative point of view.
William Alexander Long, who died in
Sydney last week after a weary illness, was
son of the late “Bill” Long, and was born
in Sydney in the ’3o’s. In the ’so’s he was
sent to England and returned a barrister,
having been called at the Inner Temple in
1802; but he never sought briefs. He ber
longed to a family too rich to be bothered
with other people's troubles for a fee.
“Young Bill” entered the Assembly in 1575
for Central Cumberland, and in the next
Parliament sat for Parramatta. He was
Treasurer in the Robertson Government,
A HEAVY DRINKER.
THE DISTRACTED FATHER: “I wish he'd
follow the King.”
1877 ; his brother-in-law, W. B. Dailey, who
was Attorney-General, dragged him in. Go-
ing to tlie Leg. Council in IS>5. he remained
there till 1909. In his prime he had large
interests in the A.J.S. Bank, and was chair-
man for a time. The bank was unluckv :
and so was \V. A. Long. He lost a fortune
on the turf, and in his old age was no doubt
thankful for an annuity of £5OO left him
by his cousin, AY. E. Sparke.
That remarkable man, Thomas Cherry,
who occupies the Chair of Agriculture at
Melbourne University, is a versatile don.
He has an interest in the Cherry Churns,
well known to most Victorian farmers ; is the
author of the standard work on Australian
agriculture; owns an M.D. degree; keeps an
extensive and profitable dairy-herd on his
estate at Glen Iris, and owns or leases odd
lots of grazing land all over that district;
and is one of the world’s authorities on
artificial manures and their production. Of
the junior Cherries, the riper son is in khaki,
while the less mature lad last year put up
a record as the youngest student to become
dux of Scotch College in the history of that
elderly institution.
Adelaide’s R. Barr Smith left a comfort-
able £40,000 to charities. Practically every
ur.sectarian benevolence in Adelaide gets from
£lOOO to £3OOO. There is a thoughtful gift
Jo the Destitute Asylum, the income to be
“applied in providing entertainment or
amusement for the inmates”; and the S.A.
Agricultural Society gets £lOOO to supply
annual prizes “for the best dogs or horses
whose tails or ears have not been mutilated.”
JUDGE BOX
(Vie.), being
kind to a
witness.
Andrew Fisher dropped in at Kalgoorlie
last week, after doing the 1000 miles from
Fort Augusta. The east-west railway has
still a gap of nearly 350 miles in its middle
and most awkward section. The first 100
miles from the railhead at the South Aus.
end were covered by camel buggy, and a
motor-car came out and took him the other
250.
“Lee Oh’s” hail:—
I tow in Captain Matthew T. Clayton, of Auck-
land (M.L.), for the Most Ancient Mariner compe-
tition. He is 84, and it is 70 years since he first
took a trick at the wheel. He served his time in
one of the old East Indiamen, and sailed the Pacific
when all the adventurers of the world were fighting
their way to California, and ’Frisco was a collec-
tion of shanties on a sand-hill. In ’4B he was
apprentice on one of Bobby Towns’s barques out of
Sydney, the old Statesman, and went sandalwooding
in her through the New Hebrides, and along the
coast of New Caledonia, long before the tricolor flew
there. That was the glorious day for the trader.
Beads and knives bought hundreds of tons of sandal-
wood for tile China market. Clayton afterwards
ran one of the old Blackwall liners, the thousand-
ton frigate-built ship Kent, between London and
Melbourne, and once carried to London River nearly
half a million in gold from the Victorian diggings,
besides 250 passengers. That was in the very early
60 s when ships were ships, when 50 men were an
ordinary crew for a thousand-ton Blackwall liner,
and captains as well as owners made money hand
over fist.
Prof. Bryceson Treharne, the founder of
the Adelaide Repertory Theatre, and afore-
time director of the Adelaide Conserva-
torium, left Australia for a holiday in Europe
some time before the war, seeking a place
of seclusion where he might develop his gift
for musical composition. Luckily the chance
was provided for him by that celebrated
patron of the arts, Wilhelm the Mad. Tre-
harne was in Yerminy at the moment of the
outbreak of the war, and with many other
British civilians was interned at Ruhleben
camp. Here he found the leisure for which
his soul craved, undisturbed by any necessity
to worry over making a living. The Musi-
cal Standard prints a letter from the late
director of Music in the School for the Art
of the Theatre at' Florence, another internee,
who proclaims Treharne “one of the most
imaginative and talented of contemporary
British composers,” and adds that he feels
that “this remarkable vitality and originality
should have much to say in the musical crea-
tion of the future.” The Ruhleben camp is
allowed to amuse itself; and Treharne has
been responsible for most of the original
work performed there. The whole of the
incidental music in the camp’s production
of “As You Like It” came from his pen,
and his song compositions are many and
remarkable. It is probable that he will, in
gratitude, dedicate his Ruhleben works to
the Ivaiser.
On December IS Bigjohn Forrest will
celebrate the “golden jubilee” of his entry
into the civil service of Westralia. A native
of Bunbury, at 18 he joined the Survey
office and rose to be Surveyor-General—a
job he had from 1883 until IS9O. when
responsible government arrived, and he be-
came Premier. John is entitled to £5OO a
year as ex-Surveyor-General, and few men
have better earned their pension.
Called up from Coogee (N.S.W.), December
2, George Raffan, 63, contractor and station-
owner, and known throughout Australasia
and the Cold Country as an ardent follower
oi the game of bowls. A burly Scot from
the bleak north, with a physique and
appearance inherited from Norseman ances-
tors, he hurled generosity and kindliness
wherever he appeared. Starting life in N.
S. Wales as a carpenter, liis experience in
the ship-building trade, learnt in a hard
school, stood him in good stead when he
undertook a job at Pemell’s old mills, Dar-
ling Harbor, where the hardwood piles had
ruined all the imported chisels procurable
in Sydney. lie never looked back and
retired from contracting after completing
many big works. As a buyer and seller of
station properties he made no mistakes,
and with everything running well he gener-
ally mixed bowls and sheep, getting enjoy-
ment from the one and the wherewithal
from the other. He once stood*for the State
Assembly, and there were only two votes
hi tween him and David Storey, who
has held the seat ever since. The
yarn goes _ that, at the only place
he did not visit, because there were only four
men, three women and two horses, the' whole
lot voted for the bald hat-importer.
Here’s a grim bit of war-casualty history.
’' ord c-ame in the faint pencil of the
trenches that Captain Ross Harwood, a
'' estrahan whose wife is waiting and watch-
ing in Sydney, had been wounded, and
among other things, had got a splinter of
Ghurka s lead in his face. The doctor, it
was mentioned, had extracted it and was
Keeping it as a curio. It was known that
Harwood had picked up a little lot of
Ghurkas who had lost their officers
and that lie was working them, and
the message sounded as though one
oi. them had given the officer some
metal that should have been sent to a
, ut the next letter explained it all.
A Ghurka, seeing instant danger for his new
leader, had sprung in front of him. At that
moment a missile of some sort had smashed
the little fellow’s skull, and it was a splinter
of Ibe BburkaG ] im(] tliat lmd to bc Cllt
out of Ross Harwood’s face.
“Ex Gent”: This is how Lloyd’s Weekly
does it:—•
Against each letter of the word “Kaiser” put the
number it is in the alphabet. After each number
place a six:—
K equals 11 plus 6.. 116
A equals 1 plus 6 .. 16
1 equals 9 plus 6. . 96
S equals 19 plus 6 . . 196
E equals 5 plus 6. . r,6
It equals 18 plus 6.. 186
Total .. 666
Then see Revelation, chap, xiii., verse 18
for the meaning of three sixes. After which
Ihis is how I, a hater of borrow and splurge
do another sum: —
H equals 8 plus 6. . 86
O equals 15 plus 6 . . 156
L equals 12 plus 6.. 126
M equals 13 plus 6 . . 136
A equals 1 plus 6. . 16
N equals 14 plus 6 . . 146
Total .. 666
Which shows the p.n. specialist what St.
John thought about reckless borrowing and
more reckless spending.
A FREE AGENT.
VOLUNTEER ( reflecting ): “Well, a bloke
might as well go of his own accord.”
Boyd Cable (“Vagabond” of so much good
stuff from his artillery observing station in
Flanders) has been filling in his spell-o in
England finishing up a book. Its title is to
be “Between the Lines,” and it ought to be
here within a mail or two.
The gold-hunters who woke up the West-
raliau Cinderella are gradually passing on.
The latest to go is J. A. Roberts. The
Roberts brothers —the other one was buried
in 1913 —made their first big punch out of
the Revenue claim at Yaloginda, in the
vicinity of Meekatharra. From this show
they obtained about £20,000 in three years.
GEORGE ELLERY, the new Town Cleric
of Melbourne.
They then turned to Paddy’s Flat and -sold
one of their leases to the Golconda Co.,
which passed it on to the Ingliston Ex-
tended. A neighboring lease, the Ingliston
Consols, they kept for themselves and a few
friends, and to date this has produced nearly
£”00,000 worth of gold and paid over £50,000
in dividends. Both the brothers helped
many a lame dog over a stile. And there
arc a lot of lame dogs on the prospectors’
hard track.
A Maoriland girl. Eva Ashbolt, well known
in Wellington and Christchurch, lias got into
the limelight in England through being in-
strumental in capturing a couple of notori-
ous German spies. She was in a ’bus when
her attention was collared by the manner
of two “ladies” who sat near her, and when
one of them stooped to pick up a dropped coin
Eva felt the whole conspiracy blow up like
a burst Zeppelin. So she wrote on a card,
with her name and address, the words: “Two
suspicious characters inside —call a police-
man,” and handed it to the conductor. At
the next stop the policeman arrived, and two
spies that the authorities had been raking
London for were bagged. A few days later the
Maoriland girl received a cheque for £5O
from John Bull with kind regards and many
thanks.
Among the men reported
wounded at Gallipoli and
sufficiently repaired to have
a fresh go at the Turk is
Leo Murphy, one-time law-
yer of Bendigo. A mixed
genius this. He wrote the
gay verselet, “The Itoseleaf
in the Beer,” and a great
deal too little besides, and
is recognised as a first-class
tennis player, footballer,
swimmer, golfer, chess
player and maker of long
breaks at billiards. The onlv
game Murphy didn’t shine at
was the game of collecting
money.
When the call sounded there were no deaf
mutes on a little selection at Weston, Saw-
yer s Gully (N.S.W.). The selector, named
Metcalfe, promptly gathered up four sons and
flocked to the colors. A fifth son would
have flocked also, but the doctors barred the
way.
THE KAISER'S CONTENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have abolished the Russian winter —The Kaiser.
The Kaiser sat within his tent,
A bear-skin rug - about his shins.
A pleasant warmth and light were lent
By artifice, and silver bins
Of costly liquors rich and old
Were there to keep the Kaiser bold,
And help in warding off the cold.
The Kaiser was a jovial man —
Full well he’d fed on steaming roast.
Aloft he raised the royal can,
And gave his officers a toast:
“Drink deep to me (we’ll rest anon),
A beaker drain, for I have gone
One better than Napoleon !
“He fled before the wintry blast,
And was a beaten man. Behold,
Your Kaiser rules the northern blast,
Subdues the majesty of cold!”
Without the keen wind, edged with sleet,
Cut down the Huns like tender wheat;
And Jack Frost spread their winding-sheet!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


A New Standard
in “Austral”
Ready-to-Wear
Clothes for Men
AUSTRAL" Ready-to-Wear
Sac Suits for Men actually
create a new standard for
ready-to-wear garments .... a sig-
nificant advance from the ill-fitting,
clumsily - cut and badly - made
garments which characterise the
average production of manufacturers
to the trade : : : : : : :
Talk to the average man about
ready-to-wear clothes, and he
imagines ALL THAT THEY
HAVE BEEN ... a makeshift
for want of something better, a sub-
stitute for the style and quality
thought onlv to be found in made-
to-order clothes. ::::::
But tlie new standard in “Austral” Ready-to-
Wear apparel is creating a new view-point for
Men, and incidentally is creating for us a new
and bigger circle of satisfied customers who
value this new and satisfactory clothes service.
Any Man’s clothing needs may find immediate
satisfaction in “Austral” apparel Ready-to-Wear.
Quite apart from the attractiveness of an unpre-
cedented range of styles, our showing ol Men’s
two- and three-piece Sac Suits is noteworthy on
account of the unusual number and excellence
of the patterns and color combinations. : : :
The quality of the cloths and the superb manner
in which they have been tailored, will appeal to
any man indeed to every man, because
of the unquestioned better standard irrespective
of the price. ::::::::: : : :
\ \ l
%
i
n
QJC
*r.
a
m
I!
C\\
m
&
X s :
m
//
w ~
Forty-five shillings is a low price for a
high-grade Suit for Men, hut no Man,
however critical in judgment, would ques-
tion the better value of the splendid range
of Sac Suit models we show at this figure.
Pure, all-Australian Wool Fabrics, as well
as smart English Tweeds, are available
in many and varied designs
and dark grey, medium and
dark brown and-green mix-
ture shades
45/-
Navy Twill and Rough Finished Serges at
each stated price are warranted pure Indigo
dyed, and may be had in both medium and
light weights.
At 555. the choice of Fabric may be made
from Australian and West of England
Tweeds and Homespuns, in medium and
light weights, as well as a number of very
smart Irish Tweeds of excellent quality.
Patterns, include small check and stripe
effects, plain fine-ribbed Fabrics and Her-
ringbone designs. Colorings
are almost without limit, and.
offer a choice to suit the most
exacting
55/-
Navy Twill and Rough Finished Serges at
each stated price are warranted pure Indigo
dyed, and may be had in both medium and
light weights.
Three Guineas is less actually than the
“Austral” Sac Suit at this price is worth.
And it is easy to realise this superiority
by a comparison of the beautiful Fabrics
... .more convincing still when you note
the thorough workmanship. ... and abso-
lutely satisfying when the style features
of these fine Suit models are
taken into account. No
better value is offered at the
price
631-
Navy Twill and Rough Finished Serges at
each stated price are warranted pure Indigo
dyed, and may be had in both medium and
light weights.
Country Customers will ensure a
good-fitting Suit if the chest mea-
sure (over Vest), waist measure
(under Vest), inside leg seam
measure (from fork to heel of
boot) and height are given.
Men who live at a distance will
find much of interest in our 130-
page Art Catalogue of Men's Wear,
which we send free to any address.
CARRIAGE PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
Pioneer Distributors Goods
484=490 George Street;
3=17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.
The “Austral” Sac Suits Ready-to-
Wear quoted here, are all single-
breasted coat styles, in two- or
three-button models, but having
either single- or double-breasted
coat lapels.
A Customer’s preference for a coat
with either plain back, or with
seam and vent, or trousers with
permanent turn-ups or plain bot-
toms can be satisfied at any quoted
price.


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St„ Sydney
New Zealand Insurance Company Limited
PREMIER COLONIAL COMPANY.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Sickness, Workmen's Compensation and General
Insurance. 79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales :
To Re-
Profits, Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., ’OB.. 156,742 10 p.c.= 124,399 82,343 1,593,988
Sept.,’oB.. 107,928 10 „ ~ 125,000 42,928 1,030,910
Mar.,’o9.. 176,426 10 „ ~ 125,000 51,426 1,055,342
Sept.,’o9.. 182,362 10 „ ~125,000 57,302 1,745,704
Mar., ’lO.. 178,939 10 „ ~ 125,000 53,939 1,799,643
Premiums on new shares . . 50,720 1,856,363
Sept.,’lo.. 184,689 10 p.c.= 133,709 50,980 1,907,343
Premiums on new shares .. 46,735 1,954,078
Mar.,’ll.. 201,492 10 p.c.= 143,457 58,035 2,012,113
Premiums on new shares . . 21,545 2,033,658
Sept.,’ll.. 222,043 10p.c.= 150,000 72,043 2,105,701
Mar.,’l2.. 215,115 10 ~ ~150,000 05,115 2,170,816
Sept., T 2.. 214,028 10 „ ~150,000 64,023 2,234,839
Mar., ’13.. 259,004 10 „ ~ 156,339 102,665 2,337,504
Sept., T 3.. 250,101 10 ~ ~168,946 81,155 2,418,659
Mar., ’14.. 275,746 10 ~ ~ 175,000 100,746 2,519,405
Sept., T 4.. 246,324 10 „ ~175,000 71,324 2,590,729
Mar.,’ls.. 239,407 10 „ ~175,000 64,407 2,655,136
Sept.,’ls.. 237),929 10 „ ~175,000 55,929 2,711,065
But the most interesting announcement for
the half-year was made, not in the accounts,
but in the chairman’s speech. There is to
be another issue of shares at par, one new
for every seven old. This will carry the
paid capital to £4,000,000 —double the
amount it was 10 years ago. The directors
admit that the bank doesn’t at present need
this money. It will, in fact, be invested in
the war loan. But, put plainly, the bank
feels that it can afford to distribute more
money in dividend ; yet it very wisely doesn’t
want to pay more than 10 p.c. There is
only one way in which it can divide more
without putting up the rate, and that is by
increasing the capital. Some cos. do that
by the simple process of transferring reserves
to capital—in other words, by issuing bonus
shares. But a bank is an institution which
depends upon credit, and any serious weak-
ening of a bank’s credit not only damages
the bank itself but is liable to seriously
injure people in no way connected with it.
For this reason it is very undesirable that
a bank should pay dividend upon any cap-
ital which its shareholders have not pro-
vided in hard cash. The 8.N.5.W., recog-
nising this, takes the middle course and
issues more capital at par. This, while
having the same practical effect as increas-
ing the rate of dividend, strengthens the
position of the depositors and other creditors.
And whatever encourages the depositors
to leave their money undisturbed is good
also for borrowers. What a borrower
wants is not to be able to get money when
loans are being thrown at you, but to be left
at least undisturbed when accommodation is
hard to get. In 1900 capital was
fAOOO.OOO and the reserves £1,276,748;
total £3,276,748. The debts to the public
amounted to £24,735,490. Liquid and
semi-liquid assets were then £11,941,272.
So there was £12,794,218 of debt then not
represented by liquid and semi-liquid assets,
and there was £3,276,743 of shareholders’
funds protecting the investment. Now debts
t J the public are £50,301.583; and liquid
and semi-liquid assets £30,040,334. So the
present debt not represented by liquid and
semi-liquid assets is £20,261,199. And
there is £6.211,065 of shareholders’ funds.
Thus there is now £1 of the shareholders’
money protecting every £3 ss. of the public’s
money used in making advances and in pre-
whereas 15 years ago £1 had to pro-
tect £3 ISs. Assuming that the present non-
liquid assets are of the same value, £ for £,
as those of 15 years ago, it follows that,
even before the coming increase of capital,
both creditors and borrowers are better
placed than they were 15 years ago. And-
they were very well placed then.
The movements in the accounts during
the past 12 months have been very extensive
on paper : —•
SeDt., T 4. Sept., T 5.
Notes.. .. £287,655 £369,481 Inc. £81,826
Bills, etc. . . 6,594,816 9,729,074 Inc. 3,134,258
Deposits . . 36,722,127 40,202,978 Inc. 3,450,851
Liquid assets. . 21,779,989 30,040,334 Inc. 5,260,345
Advances .. 27,207,838 25,734,765 Dec. 1,473,073
Premises . . 795,000 825,000 Inc. .30,000
But most of the big changes are largely
accidental. “Bills, etc.,” include the
Commonwealth’s balance, chiefly war loan.
That accounts for about £3,000,000 on each
side. Ordinary deposits have also increased.
As remarked six months ago, people with
spare money are in these uncertain times
letting somebody else take the risk of in-
vesting it. Hence a lot of this money is
left for little better than safe custody. Ad-
vances have shrunk, largely because mer-
chandise stocks are running down, and there
is no inclination to launch out. The move-
ments, though large, are thus explainable
by the conditions we are passing through;
and they are of much less consequence than
they seem to be on the surface.
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
fcopc.. Profits*. Dividends. serves, serves.
1903 ..£27,453 8 p.c. = £6,000 £21,453 £67,548
£25,000 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 42,548
1904 .. 36,579 8 p.c. - 8,000 28.579 71,127
1905 .. 26,069 12 „ „ 12,000 14,069 85.196
1906 .. 45,886 201- „ „ 20,500 25,386 110,582
1907 .. 31,572 204 ~ 20,500 1.1,072 121.654
1908 .. 35,413 204 „ „ 20.500 14.913 136,567
1909 .. 37,960 21 ~ ~ 21,000 16,960 153,527
1910 .. 52.500 21 „ „ 21,000 31,500 185,027
£ 100,000 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 85,027
1911 .. 49,022 12 p.c. = 24.001 25,021 110,048
1912 .. 42,123 12 ~ 24.001 15,122 128.170
1913 .. 48.516 12 „ ~ 24.001 24.515 152.685
1914 .. 39.466 12. „ „ 24.004 15.465 168,150
1915 .. 45,155 17 „ ~ 34,001 11,154 1.79,304
The co. writes off £2700 to provide for
depreciation; and then, in case any share-
holder should be worrying over the war tax.
strips some of its own special silver lining
from the war-cloud, coins it into a 5 p.c.
bonus, and throws it on top of the usual
12 p.c. dividend. This doesn’t leave a very
substantial lay-by: of the year’s profit the
co. divides over two-thirds and hangs on to
less than one-third to reinforce its own posi-
tion. The one thing to be said in excuse is
that the co.’s position was already fairly
strong. The funds are equal to ISO p.c. of
the year’s premium income; and that is sev-
eral points better than the average of the
strongest English cos.
The net premium income was rather less
this year than last; but a very line growth
is shown in practically any other period
that you care to name:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, peases. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £01,683 £29,526 £24,433 47.9 p.c. 39.6 p.c.
1900.. 95,254 49,101 32,113 51.5 „ 33.7 „
1905.. 134,748 60,632 54,911 45.0 ~ 40.8 „
1910.. 176,949 66,079 69,661 37.3 „ 39.3 „
1911.. 193,294 77,035 78,220 39.8 „ 40.4 „
1912.. 200,694 88,193 81,460 43.9 „ 40.5 „
1913.. 204,542 85,617 84,040 41.8 „ 41.1 „
1914.. 210,738 98,951 87,681 46.9 „ 41.6 „
1915.. 210,313 90,694 86,626 43.1 „ 41.1 „
It has been a juicy thing for shareholders.
Thirteen years ago the capital was only
£62.500; and the 8 p.c. dividend of that
period gave shareholders £5OOO. Since then
they have not put up a penny, and to-day
they draw £34,001, which is equal to 55 p.c.
on the capital as at 1902. And it is quite
likely that, if no legislative accidents hap-
pen, they will make just as much progress
in the next 12 years as they have in the
past dozen. Unquestionably there is the
business to be done; for in spite of the
enormous strides they have made during the
past dozen years, Australian offices still do
but a very small part of Australia’s under-
writing. There are no trustworthy figures
on the point; but a recent estimate made
the policies held in the Commonwealth and
Maoriland only 30 p.c. of the aggregate.
There is no valid reason why our own cos.
shouldn’t gradually get the other 70 p.c.
The figures prove that it is a wonderfully
profitable business, once a co. lias become
well established ; and the more profitable it
is the more desirable it is that it should
belong to ourselves.
And the better-class Australian cos. are,
in proportion to their risks, stronger on the
average even than the better class English
cos. On that point there is positive proof.
This Colonial Mutual Co. has not been par-
ticularly energetic in building up reserves:
it has been a bit too greedy for dividends
and bonuses. Yet it has £379,310 of funds,
and by the end of this current year should
have received £127,000 of premiums after
paying exes. That is, £506,000 will be
available by September 30 next to pay
claims arising this year; and the most
claims that have actually had to be paid
in any one vvrar were £98,951. Contrast
£98,951 and £506,000, and you get some
idea of the strength of this Australian
society.
Besides, a policy-holder can turn into the
office of an Australian co. and, so to speak,
look into the till. The investments are set
out, aud a man can pretty well tell what
they are worth. As to those of a foreign
concern he can make a wild guess or depend
upon the statements of very interested
parties. Not that this paper is going to
say that the Australian insurer will do the
right thing in taking any Australian policy
in preference to any foreign policy. There
are two or three Australian offices which
are partly wild gambles and partly menaces
to the public. Governments won’t realise
what a danger the reckless insurance office
can be. A man carrying on business in a
big city building occupied by perhaps 50
firms gets into difficulties. He is a bad
risk; yet one of these reckless offices will
issue him a policy—they will issue almost
anybody a policy. A fire occurs presently,
and perhaps a score of honest people are
burned out —honest people who would not
have suffered that loss and inconvenience if
there was a law to shut out the wild-cat
.insurance co.
The Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
(Sydney):—
Added to Re-
Sent., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1905. . £8,527 8 p.c. =£4,300 £4,227 £52,179
1906.. 13,212 8 ~ „ 4,300 8,912 61,091
N.Q. Accident Co.’s reserves. . 976 62,067
1907.. 20,260 8 p.c. = 6,000 14,260 76,327
1905.. 13,033 8 „ „ 6,000 7,033 83,360
1909.. 15,646 8 „ „ 6,000 9,646 93.006
1910.. 23,212 10 ~ „ 7,500 15,712 108,718
1911 \ 33 > 959 10 .. .. 7,500 26.459 135,177
( Transferred to capital, £25,000.. 110,177
Reserve for unearned premiums
disclosed £40,000 150,177
( 56.827 10 p.c. = 10,000 46,827 197,004
1 Transferred to capital, £25,000. . 172,004
1913 / 17,455 10 p.c. = 12,500 34.955 206,959
' \ Transferred to capital, £25,000. . 181,959
1914.. 40,520 12) p.c. = 18,750 21,770 203,729
1915.. 56,928 12) „ „ 18,750 38,178 241,907
When the accounts were issued a year ago
it wasn’t certain that Britain was quite as
much mistress of the seas as she thought
she was. Germany had done such extra-
ordinary things with its army that it seemed
likely it had some trick up its sleeve for its
navy also. Hence 12 months ago this co.
no doubt made fairly liberal provision for
marine-insurance contingencies; and that
probably explains why the 1914 profits were
nearly £7OOO less than those for the previous
year. Since then the German navy has
merely grown seaweed and occasionally
knocked out a fishing smack; so the con-
tingencies for which the co. provided haven’t
arisen, and the withheld profits have
doubtless been shaken out into the present
accounts. That may partly explain the vel'y
magnificent profit of £56,928. For the rest
the co. must certainly have benefited by the
new Australian disposition to give Austra-
lian products first chance.
The next table shows the growth of its
business: —-
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £ 40.651 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.e. 32.1 p.c.
1900.. 75,310 44,053 20,529 58.5 „ 27.2 ..
1905.. 74,118 43,129 26,020 55.2 „ 35.1 „
1910.. 124,213 60,286 47,911 48.5 „ 38.5 „
1911.. 153,604 65,092 58,768 4?.3 „ 38.2 „
1912.. 201,832 88,292 64,810 43.7 „ 32.1 „
1913.. 215,006 102,567 73,924 47.7 „ 34.4 „
1914.. 225,051 116,765 79,400 51.9 „ 35.3 ~
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
A little change has been made in the form
of the accounts this year; and it /will have
to be noted by those who try to check the
foregoing figures by the official ones. Pre-
miums this year are shown in the co.’s
revenue account “less reinsurances, returns
and unearned."’ Theoretically this may be
the best way of exhibiting the business.
Hitherto, however, the Queensland, follow-
ing the usual practice, has shown the pre-
miums less only reinsurances and returns;
the unearned premiums have been shown on
the other side as a transfer to the unearned
premium reserve. The amount added for
the past year to that reserve is £12,844.
which sum is in the foregoing table included
with the year’s premiums for the sake of
uniformity.
An intending policy-holder must apply
three tests to an insurance office: —
(1) What are its funds in proportion to its risks?
(2) Are those funds available, and what would
they fetch if they had to be realised?
(3) What is the co.’s reputation? In other words,
what is the “moral hazard,” as insurance cos. call it
in relation to policy-holders?
(1) A co. ought to have funds at least 14
times greater than its premium income.
This co.’s capital and reserves amount to
£391,907, and its premium income (which
is the handiest measure of its risks) was
£240,849 last year. So the funds were more
than 14 times the premium income, though
not very much more. The position is thus
reasonably satisfactory. (2) The funds are
made up this way:—
Government securities .. £93,748
Fixed deposits and cash . . 212,344
Freeholds .. .. .. 110,918
Municipal bonds and sundries 69,367
£486,377
Less liabilities .. .. 94,470
Co.’s funds .. ..£391,907
There are no mortgages ; furniture has been
written right off; and no such items as
“business extension expenses,” stationery,
etc., disfigure the accounts. No co. could
come better out of this test. (3) A “moral
hazard” can’t be measured by figures. But
when he sees that a co. divides no more
than one-third of its profits and [Hits two-
thirds of them by, an intending policy-holder
can at least he satisfied that that co. has a
reasonable regard for the policy-holder’s
interests. So much from the policy-holder’s
standpoint. From the shareholder’s the
most important thing to consider is pro-
bably: Will the State let it last?
The Executor, Trustee and Agency Co.
of South Australia (Adelaide) :
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1904.. £1987 6 p.c. = £921 £95 £971 £6,073
100!).. 2302 7 „ „ 1075 100 1127 7.200
1906.. 2062 7 1075 151 1436 8,636
1907.. 4013 7 „,, 1075 100 2838 11,474
1908.. 3776 8 „ „ 1228 100 2448 13,922
1909.. 4340 8 „ „ 1228 100 3012 16,934
1910.. 5568 8 „ „ 1228 100 4240 21,174
Premiums on new shares . . 4820 25,994
1911.. 5472 8 p.c. = 1486 364 3622 29,616
1912.. 5421 10 ~ „ 2285 200 2936 32,552
Premiums on new shares . . 182 32,734
1913.. 0314 10 p.c. = 2287 3027 35,761
Premiums on new shares .. 125 35,886
1914.. 5359 10 p.c. = 2318 3041 38,927
1915.. 5874 10 „ „ 2322 1000 2552 41,479
The £lOOO written off the past year’s profit
goes to reduce the co.’s freehold and safe
deposit. Down to 1911 the co. had a lease-
hold, which was gradually depreciated until
in 1910 it stood at £9OO. Then a freehold
was bought, and the two properties, lumped,
appeared in 1911 as valued at £20,434. It
is pretty clear, therefore, that there isn’t
much leasehold now left in the composite
item. For a long while the co. had no com-
petition except from the family lawyer and
the good old friend of the family. Now a
couple of other cos. are in the business;
and if the family lawyer and the friend of
the family are pushed out of it, there will
be plenty of room for the three.
Sooner or later it will be the law that
no one shall engage in this business unless
he puts up a bond. But even then it will
be much more satisfactory to employ an
entity that isn’t a mortal person. It
doesn’t matter who dies —directors, man-
ager, anybody—a trustee co. lives on. The
testator must see how important that is.
He makes a will and appoints Jones. .Jones
dies, and he has to alter his will. He then
appoints Smith. But Smith is a colonel,
who goes away to the war. Just then the
testator dies, and the business is hung up
till the Court can say what shall be done
in Smith’s absence. Then word comes that
Smith has been killed, leaving Brown as his
executor. Now, Brown can, if he likes,
proceed to act as though he had been ap-
pointed trustee by the original testator,
though the original testator may not have
known him, or may actually have mistrusted
him.
Looking at the thing with the eye of the
bc-neficiary, this co. has guaranteed its good
behavior by (1) putting up a paid capital
of £23,225; (2) making itself liable for
another £53,025 of capital; (3) accumulat-
ing £41,479 of reserves. Of these funds
£22.529 is liquid, £19.430 is in property
loans, £23,088 is in property. A further
guarantee exists in the fact that this co.
absolutely loses its living if it ceases to be
known as a satisfactory trustee. From the
shareholders’ point of view the most cheer-
ful feature is this steady growth in the
value of estates in hand:—
1895 .. £482,957 1912 ..£2,550,825
1900 .. 654,500 1913 .. 2,541,379
1905 .. 1,413,953 1914 .. 2,752,126
1910 .. 2,309,316 1915 .. 2,953,607
1911 .. 2,388,695
Not as rapid as it should be ; not as large as
it should be. But the movement is the right
way.
* * * *
Bendigo Mutual Permanent Land and
Building Society (Bendigo, Vic.) :
Net Added to Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1905.. £2124 6 p.c. = £2407 £20,236
1906.. 3527 64 „ „ 2633 £894 21,130
1907.. 3247 64 „ „ 2909 338 21,468
1908.. 3572 64 ~ ~ 3160 412 21,880
1909.. 4538 6| ~ ~ 3356 1182 23,062
1910.. 3907 7 „ „ 3661 246 23,308
1911.. 3769 64 ~ ~ 3639 130 23,438
1912.. 3901 64 „ „ 3908 23,431
1913.. 3190 64 ~ „ 4061 22,560
1914.. 4986 6 „ ~ 3896 1090 23,650
1915.. 5225 6 „ „ 3900 1325 24,975
The co. is 50 years old and proud of its
history. “Thousands of people,” it says,
“have been assisted to purchase and build
their homes....and it may be confidently
asserted that in Bendigo there are, com-
paratively, more people owning their homes
than in any other city in the State.” And
it hasn’t finished yet. This shows how
various items stand :
1900. 1910. 1913. 1914. 1915.
Capital . . £52,064 £54,713 £65,136 £67,184 £66,575
Deposits and
otherdebts 79,063 80,886 77,488 78,718 79,250
Advances 138,838 138,220 145,452 150,428 150,047
Properties 14,519 16,463 16,467 16,469 16,469
Cash . . 1,228 7,569 7,201 6,429 8,068
Otherassets 318 131 125 121 117
Capital is protected by £24,075 of reserves;
and, unless something very bad happens to
Bendigo, that ought to cover all contin-
gencies in connection with the £10(5,51G of
advances and properties; for, as far as can
he made out, things are kept well cleaned
up, and there is no accumulation of dead
rubbish on the books. It isn’t a fat thing
for the investor; but there has been a placid
6 to 7 p.c. without enough risk to keep him
awake at nights, and on Sundays as he goes
to St. Paul’s or St. Kalian’s he can glow
with satisfaction at the thought that he is
a bit of a philanthropist, too.
* * * #
On December 1 the Tas. Government took
possession of the electrical plant and under-
takings of the Hobart Gas Co. The price
was £lOB,OOO. The value put on the plant
by the co. itself was £67,000, which was not
an under-estimate. The rest of the price was
for goodwill and for concessions which Par-
liament handed over to the Gas Co. a few
years back. The vendors get £BOOO cash
and 5 per cent, interest on the balance. The
Hydro-Electric Department reckons to boom
the use of electricity for domestic uses now
that it has the distribution in its own hands,
and so help to tide over the lean years just
ahead. Other schemes which 'will use power
are in the air, but are likely to stay there till
things settle down. The power from the
Great Lake is expected to be on tap in
Hobart at the end of January.
* * * *
“D.F.” : There seems to be too much water
in the Tasmanian Government’s hydro-elec-
tric scheme, and its immediate prospects
are not glittering. The manager stated in
evidence before a select committee that the
capital cost would be at least £350,000.
He gave a nasty jolt, by the way,
to the pictures painted in the past
of Hobart being made the great manu-
facturing centre of Australia by means
of hydro-electric power at nominal prices
when he remarked in his evidence: “It is
no use quoting ridiculously cheap rates
because somebody in the past has said they
were going to get cheap power.” And he
finished up by saying: “We have completed
the works and we have to get as near paying
the interest bill as we possibly can”—which
doesn’t sound a bit enthusiastic.
It is reported that the Lucknow (N.S.W.)
mines are to be reopened by a “strong co. of
Sydney and Melbourne capitalists.” The
co. will need to be extra strong to do any-
thing with the old mines, there being 32
miles of drives, etc., to unwater before it
can reach the points at which Warnford
Lock left off after spending over £20,000 in
fruitless prospecting. When all is said
and done it will probably be found that the
“strong company” will confine itself to pot-
tering about the shallow levels.
* * * *
Dir. B. R. Gelling has retired from the
service of the Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co., but retains his seat on the
Board as a director of the co. Mr. Gelling
is well known as the secretary of the old
“M.L.A.” and manager of investments of
the “M.L.C.,” and after nearly 28 years’
service has decided to engage in pastoral
pursuits in the Singleton district.
* * * *
formed a while ago to work the
Old Farm diamond property at Copeton
(N.S.W.) is nieeting with good results.
With W. G. Jira as managing director, the
co. embarked on an entirely new scheme
of draining the mine, the efforts of former
cos. having been defeated by water. A
shaft 40ft. deep was sunk on the northern
boundary in granite, a few feet only out-
side the water area. From the bottom
drives were made to cut the drift, and draw
the water off to the new shaft. Here a
steam pump has been installed. The ex-
periment is proving successful, and the pro-
perty should soon be dry. Wash containing
diamonds and tin has been struck in every
drive. Diamonds from two to 28 carats per
load have been obtained from the prospects,
the average being six carats per load, be-
sides 101 b. of tin. Already a nice parcel of
diamonds has been won, and the sinking of
a new development shaft is being proceeded
with. The management will begin raising


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
etc.
LOW CHARGES.
booklet on application.
It. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
1/6
J 9d. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4|d.
Canada .. 2/4
1/2
1 7d. (minimum
) 11/8, 20 words)
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
{7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2585.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
When you know you have been using a good
article, and probably using it for years, you are not
easily persuaded into trying something else. This
accounts for the success of “Pioneer” Australian
Leather Belting. Engineers and Mining men have
used it so long ahd with so much satisfaction that
they will not bother experimenting with other makes.
“Pioneer” is reliable. Try it and see. Made only
by J. c, Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York Street
(opp. Qr?. Markets), Sydney. Sold in the other
States by Horace Summers, Perth, W.A.; Queensland
Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane, Q'land; G. Bussell
Pty. Ltd., Blinders Street, Melbourne, Vic. ; J.
Mclvell, Timpson Street, Pt. Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
♦ * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. — Advt.
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
thtit mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 04 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
Extract from The Citizen, London, dated 15th Sep-
tember, 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Office. —Whilst
each year brings evidence of the flourishing condition
and uninterrupted development of the society, the
report for 1914 is, one may safely say, as interesting
and important as has yet been presented by the
management. In all its aspects it is really ex-
cellent.” — Advt. [3
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine,
vinegar, acids, oil, cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 100,000 gallons.
They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
and State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office.) — Advt.
* * * *
Australian Provincial Assurance Association
Ltd. —The A.P.A.’s third balance-sheet, which is to
appear shortly, will show a highly-satisfactory in-
crease in New Business in both the Ordinary and
Accident Departments. The Renewal Premiums
collected will also show a large increase on last
year’s figures. The fourth financial year has started
auspiciously in all departments.— Adit.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephari Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the" largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
* -X- * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Com-
-I'any of Australia, Limited. —By mutual consent
Mr. Francis If. Snow has retired from the above com-
pany, and the Ore Purchase Department at Bridge St.,
Sydney, has been closed. Sellers of ore should now com-
municate direct with the Works, Port Itembla. — Advt.
* * * *
Tiie Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte
Street, Brisbane, are Specialists in Road Building
and Shire and Municipal Machinery, also “National”
Gas and Oil Engines, and “Robey” Steam Engines.
-—Advt.
**-•**
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. — Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street. Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street. Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . .. £’545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ■
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budgre Row. Canncn Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
wash as soon as the present shaft is bot-
tomed, and a new washing plant is to go up
at once.
* * * *
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), ought soon
to reappear in the dividend-list. Manager
Mackenzie has been pursuing a vigorous
policy of development, and excellent pro-
spects are showing at various points in the
deeper ground. The mine is being prepared
for an increased output both on and below
the surface. Published figures indicate a
recovery of about 80 p.c. of the gold con-
tents of the ore. This is low for slime-
cyanidation, but the management may have
determined that an increase would not lead
to any more profitable result. Also, the
company persists in using a plant on which
a tonnage royalty has to be paid. It is a
matter of £ s. d. as to whether it would
not be advisable to substitute a non-royalty
plant.
* * * *
C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.), is developing
into a mine of great possibilities, particu-
larly in the Tinto section. For some time
past there has been persistent buying of
the stock, although the Exchange list has
not revealed the fact. A smelting plant is
about to be erected. This may be sound
business from the co.’s point of view, but
as a matter of public economy is wrong. At
an expenditure of less than £15,000 on a
light line of railway the mine could be con-
nected with the smelting plant at Great
Cobar. The C.B.A. has abundance of the
basic ore which the Great Cobar needs, and
on practical grounds everything favors an
amalgamation. Such a scheme was on the
tapis, but Great Cobar could not finance it
or submit sufficiently attractive proposals.
As things are going, it is quite on the cards
that ere long the lesser will absorb the
greater.
* * * *
There was a scuttle from the north-east
branch-drive in the Langi South last week,
when a burst of slime threatened the men
in the No. 1 rise. The muck poured out of
the gutter in such violence as to fill 370 ft.
of the level and block up 50ft. of the big
main level. Then the floodgates penned it
back. The first mishap of the kind in this
Ararat (Vic.) mine was at No. 2 rise, higher
up the gutter, and it has blotted out that
working. The recent breakaway won’t
affect the main wash-dirt drives, which are
1000 ft, distant up the lead, but it is a nasty
reminder of the treachery of deep alluvial
work.
The final clean-up at Cock’s Pioneer, El-
dorado (Vic.), was better even than was
expected. The last four tons of concen-
trates gave 4070 z„ raising the total gold
won to 27820 z. 12dwt. of the value of
£10,928. With the cash from the 38 tons
of tin oxide also recovered, the lot would
bring the average yield above Is. 2d. per
cub. yard, and probably shove the profit on
the clean-up to £BOOO. There was a bit
left on the right side from the previous
clean-up, so market talk is of a shilling divi-
dend as a Christmas box. That would cost
£5OOO, leaving a decent sum in hand to
start the fund for the second dredge to work
the big stretch of bottom ground lying idle.
* * * *
Mount Lyell pours into the air
every year from its smelters at Queens-
town (Tas.) many hundreds of tons
of sulphur in fumes. While this is
going to waste large quantities of
pyritic ores are mined and sent to
the mainland to provide the acid used in
making superphosphates. The co. now wants
to recover the fume sulphur and use it for
making sulphuric acid, and a metallurgical
chemist with much Yankee experience is
experimenting to see whether the thing can
be done at a profit.
Mount Lyell has its third smelter blown
in again, but the fortnight’s breakdown cut
the blister copper yield for November from
600 tons to 511 tons. That means the loss
of a bit in these days of war prices. The
compensation is that the contouring of the
shoot in the crosscut at 1200 ft. is proving a
choice hank of the very richest ore to
sweeten up the poor stuff which may be
found on the other levels. The Lyell Blocks
crowd, who claim that they will be early
inheritors of this shoot, were scorched by
Sticlit in his half-yearly report. All they
can say in reply is: “Why didn’t he pro-
duce the mine plans?”
* X- * X-
There’s no drought at Mount Lyell any-
way. So far Queenstown has had 116.75
inches of rain this year, which is two points
over the record for 12 months. With six
weeks to go and still raining they expect to
get about 11 feet before the year is out.
* * * *
Mount Bischoff Extended (Tas.), after
working for some time under a co-operative
arrangement with miners and mill hands,
will continue operations on a wages basis.
During the half-year to September 30 the
output of tin oxide was 105 tons, and the
price averaged £99 15s. lOd. Revenue
totalled £10,446, out of which £7BOl was
divided by co-operative parties, leaving the
co. £2645. Reserves actually developed are
22,095 tons and “probable” 13,139 tons. The
average is only 1 p.c. of tin, but even 1 p.c.
ore is worth 355. with tin at its present
magnificent £175, or more.
Westralia wants to boil the speculative
pegger in fat. He is the motor-car prospec-
tor who scorches out to every new find and
pegs all the country for miles before the
genuine gold-hunter can get a look in. If
the find proves to be a good one lie makes
money out of position blocks, and if it isn’t
he clears out without putting a pick in the
ground. The last rush to Kurnalpi is a
striking instance. Very little work was
done outside the few areas around which
some big nuggets were unearthed, and those
who were willing and anxious to have a go
could not get within miles of where the gold
was found. Gibraltar is another case. The
country was pegged a long way back to the
railway line and half-way to Coolgardie, but
very little of it was ever tested. The fram-
ing of a regulation making a certain amount
of immediate development compulsory is
suggested as a way of scotching this fiend.
*** ' *
Westralians who recollect the North
White Feather, Kanowna, rub their eyes on
finding it once again in the front of a
market flutter. The story is that Alan
Bowler incubated the present movement
with a syndicate in 20 shares of £5O each.
The preliminary exam, was checked up by
D. Morgan, once of Glen Wills. What he
saw isn’t yet the subject of an advt. in the
dailies, but the button-holing yarn is that
he found thousands of tons of 2oz. dirt left
in the mine. The Bulletin hasn’t met
many people who have been given such a
start by the original miner. Anyway, a
miraculous float is reported; 35,000 10s.
shares floated off with the speed of a. Mel-
bourne Cup winner in a co. having a 60,000
share register. The vendors got 25,000 paids
with a modest £lO,OOO cash, leaving a work-
ing capital of £7500. No wonder some men
don’t want to go to the Front!
If this sort of thing goes on what will
happen? The Edna Central (W.A.) Novem-
ber clean-up from 2155 tons was gold worth
£1913. Costs were 17s. 10d., so a profit of
Id. per ton was earned. They are right—
much does depend on what is to be proved
at depth.
* * * *
Great Boulder’s monthly profit for the
half-year ended June averaged £26,000, and
the surpluses for the succeeding four months
were £27,408, £29,005, £28,278 and £30,962,
the last being a record. Profits like these
should be maintained for another few years,
and then the drop will be sharp and sudden.
The exercise of the co.’s Stawell (Vic.)
option is very doubtful.
* * * *
A Bulletin man at Kalgoorlie:—
At the present rate of depletion Great Boulder
may last four years. Then the end is likely to
come suddenly. Something is said locally about its
low-grade possibilities, but the official reply to this is
“Nothing continuous; nothing payable.” Boulder
Perseverance has stopped all development and has
started to stope out what is left. Two years should
suffice to do this, and after that, barring miracles,
the co, will either have to carry on in greatly
reduced circumstances or pull out altogether. Kal-
gurli’s shoot finally terminates between 1750 ft. and
1850 ft., and attention is now being directed to the
upper levels. Sufficient ore is blocked out to keep
the mill going for at least a year and perhaps a bit
longer. The co. is determined to shut down and
clear out directly the ore in sight becomes unpayable.
Oroya Links has nearly worked out its Oroya blocks,
and as developments in the Eclipse or northern sec-
tion have not come up to expectations the outlook is
not rosy. Operations will probably drag on for
years, but shareholders are not likely to get much.
Ivanhoe still has a profit of over half a million
sterling in sight, and may get more at depth. But
explorations in the porphyry which has impoverished
values so much in the last few levels shows that
geological predictions" are not being fully borne out;
and though it is extremely probable that values
will mgke again in deeper ground, there is at present
no certainty about it. Associated hasn’t done any
sinking for five years and is not likely to start.
Three levels driven below 1800 it. were practically
barren. Nowadays mill supplies are obtained from
all parts of the workings above 1800 ft., and the
discovery of an occasional bunch of rich telluride ore
keeps the show from going under. Its life is
uncertain. Associated Northern is being kept alive
by parties of tributors. It has long since passed
the stage when a co. could profitably work it. South
Kalgurli and Hainault has improved in the last 12
months, and now has at least two years’ profitable
ore in sight. Golden Horseshoe has good reserves
visible, and 100 ft. of driving on the Boulder lode at
3020 ft. level has exposed a good body of payable
ore. The co. is and always has been very reticent
about its affairs ; consequently about this mine I have
a less clear impression than of any other on the field. It
appeals, however, to have improved its position a
good deal in the last year or so. Lake View and
Star has a good length of payable ore opened up at
2100 ft. in the old Lake View lease, and as the
Hannans Star-Boulder Deep Levels sections are also
fairly well stocked with reserves, the co. looks like
maintaining present profits for some time to come.
This and the South Kalgurli seem to be the best
specs, on the field for small investors to gamble
in, if one must gamble.
All the Kalgoorlie mining cos. are growling about
the cumulative effect of Federal and State income
and profit taxation on the industry. They claim that
in the West gold is produced at greater cost and
under more adverse conditions than anywhere else
in Australia—which is all “guff,” of course—-and
that it is unfair for those engaged in the work
of getting it to be hit up in the manner complained
of. In 10 years the average yield of the State has
fallen from 665. Bd. to 38s. 2d., and now only leaves
a small margin of profit. Some mines, it is admitted,
can stand the extra taxes, but there are others that
can't. The co-called profits of mining cos. are it is
argued—and this is true—not always real profits.
Often they represent only a return of capital follow-
ing on heavy outlays on plant, development, etc.
About a dozen reasons are given to dis-
satisfied creditors by official-liquidator Will
Davies for privately disposing of Chaffers
mine and plant instead of calling in the auc-
tioneer. Davies says that he sounded every
mining co. interested in the neighborhood as
to the possibility of their bidding, and the
only answer he got was that Chaffers was
iv)t worth the price of a cable to London,
lie then asked the agent of the debenture
holders what he thought of it, and as this
person was pessimistic about the sale a
meeting of unsecured creditors was convened.
The majority was dead against putting
another penny into the property ; so, coming
to the conclusion that if the property were
put up for auction it would go for a song, he
sold it to one of the principal unsecured
creditors —by far the most enterprising of
them—for £lOO and an undertaking to pay
off the debenture holders and preferential
claims, amounting in all to between £BOOO
and £9OOO. Under the circumstances Davies
considered this to be a good deal, particu-
larly as he had retained at least £2500 worth
of stores and other assets for distribution
among the unsecured people. Upsetting the
sale is still talked of, but in all probability
it will not come to anything.
* *■ * *
Melbourne and Sydney have now two
more irons in the fire on the East Mount
Margaret field (W.A.). One, the Olympic,
for which £4OOO is asked, recently had a 3oz.
crushing placed to its credit, and is stated
to have more than the purchase price in
sight. The other, the Golden Bell, is said
to contain bunchy ore shoots aggregating
over 1300 ft. in length. To date it has yielded
£30,000, equal to about £l2 per ton ; but most
likely this was the product of picked parcels.
The mines are not in districts that have been
proved to any great depth.
* * * *
Westralia Mount Morgans, which paid
shareholders £226.000 and went smash,
is again in public notice. This time
a new make of ore 300 ft. in length
and of payable value is stated to
have been opened up “out west.” And
already the possibility of dividends is being-
discussed —by those who hold the scrip.
Collins House would feel better if the
Annans River tin show (Q.) could do
better. The past six months brought
drought and the fear that away from the
contact area values shade sharply, thus in-
volving a re-casting of the estimate of pay-
able yardage. The treatment of drift out-
side the pay ground is shouldered on to the
preparatory works account, but it means a
loss for the term of £2007. The bucket
dredge now going up will have to swill out
very solid profits before leeway is made
up, for against tin in (£1950) the
co. has an overdraft of £6915 and sundry
creditors £11,988. A great deal may be
read into this naive sentence in Wharton’s
report: “The requirements of the co. (as to
expenditure) have been met by overdraft,
which has been guaranteed on satisfactory
terms to this company.” The mine, plant,
tunnel, race-pipe line, and dam at cost appear
at £41,879, and the new dredge at £10,547,
so a fair bit of capital has to be recovered.
The long-dragged-out Snow case in
Adelaide has reached another stage. Pro-
bably Snow wishes now that, when first
accused of breaking the new Enemy Trading-
law, he had just said “Dashed if I know!
Nobody really understands the new Act, and
I may have done something technically un-
lawful. What do you think, Judge?” On
which the Judge might reasonably have said
that a £250 fine would settle things, and
teach people to be more careful. As matters
have gone, Snow won the first round, the
S.A. Criminal Court deciding that there
was no case to go to the jury at all. The
second round, fought in the High Court,
was indecisive. In the third —the one just
finished —there were eight “counts” against
accused. Six of them were dropped during
the proceedings. The seventh, entering into
a pyrites contract for the benefit of Ilirsch,
an enemy co., the jury called Not Guilty;
but they said Guilty on an all-round charge
of having commercial intercourse by letters
and telegrams with firms with odd names in
London, Holland and America, which at law
constituted trading with the enemy. Now a
lot -of fine points go up to the High Court
again.
* * * »
Commonwealth Treasurer Higgs noti-
fies holders of scrip certificates issued in
connection with the recent War Loan that
they should post the certificate, with pro-
visional interest coupon attached, to a
branch of the Commonwealth Bank, after
completing the form of request on the
back of the certificate. The Bank will then
arrange for stock to be inscribed or for
Treasury bonds to be issued when ready.
It is expected that Treasury bonds will be
available for issue by the end of December.
On the 15th of December the Bank will
remit the interest to the owner, or otherwise
dispose of it as directed by him. Applicants,
particularly those in the country, will pro-
bably find it more convenient to have stock
inscribed in their names than to have
Treasury bonds issued to them. In the
former case interest warrants will be posted
half-yearly to the owner or, if desired, paid
into his banking account, while holders of
Treasury bonds will have the trouble of cut-
ting off the interest coupons and collecting
their value. The Commonwealth Bank will,
however, if desired, take charge of the bonfis
and collect coupons free of charge.
* * * *
At Charters Towers there is a growing
inclination to divide the cash reserves saved
in more prosperous times. Brilliant Ex-
tended, which hasn’t been doing too well
of late, will pay a sixpenny (£6250), and
the new Brilliant Freehold also shells out
6d. all round (£3750). Mills United has
300,000 shares, so a sixpenny there costs
£7500. At the end of 1913 it paid Is.
(£15.000), practically all out of its cash
reserve. Most of the other Towers mining
cos. are very poor.


Under
Royal
Warrant
dr
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
K IJj .*>**•
9*rmmM~o^
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR
SALLOW COMPLEXIONS.
Everyone may have a clear and bright
complexion, free from furrows or wrinkles, if
they will only take a little daily trouble in
the following manner : Buy some Puritol wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply every
night, lap a little cold water on the face ten
times with the hands every morning, allow-
ing it to get thoroughly round the closed
eyes, and pinch the skin very gently across
all wrinkles. Puritol Wax Soap, which
leaves a fine film of wax on the skin, should
be used ; this acts as a protective during the
day. This treatment arouses the dormant
nerves and blood vessels, and undoubtedly
accounts for many of the clear complexions
so much admired by those who do not yet
know the secret. —Advt. [3
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <a CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
1006.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney,
SINCE 1679. SINCE 1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, December G, 1915.
.My Dear Arini. —
Lady Doris Blackwood returns to Auntie
Helen after a fortnight’s frolics with the
Strickland Kindergarten at Sutton Forest.
A new Help is coming for the State sub-
royalty’s staff, which has moulted in these
fiery times. He is a wounded warrior, and
part of his job here is to convalesce. Young
Geoffrey Hughes, a son of Tom, M.L.C., has
only been on loan as an emergency A.D.C.
In January he goes south to join the Avia-
tion School, intending to be a high-flier at
the Front as soon as his wings are tipped
with the official certificate.
D’Apice, another aide, is slowly wend-
ing his way back to health. It has been a
long, stiff climb.
Chief Justice Cullen presides over the
Old Gold and Silver War Fund. O yes,
O yes! Any old teapots, any old rings,
ancient brooches, battered bangles, ear or
nose rings ! Any old thimbles of your own,
or cigarette-cases you can steal from the
man? Send them to City Mutual Cham-
bers, Hunter-street. The melting-pot will
do the rest.
Rupert Carrington, whose mother was a
I lorsfall, is in the sth Dragoon Guards.
Lvents have moved swiftly for this young
man since the war started. Uncle Charlie
Carrington lost his only son a while ago in
France. So nephew Rupert some day steps
into the barony. The later title. Marquis of
Lincolnshire, snuff's out when the ex-Gover-
nor of N. S. Wales crosses the Ferry. Aus-
tralian Rupert has now offered himself and
his prospects to Sybil, a daughter of Vis-
count Colville.
Hercules Robinson, the 20-year-old son
and heir of Baron Rosmead, has been killed
at the Front. Our Hercules, Governor of N.
S. Wales from 1872 to ’79, was his grand-
dad. The father of the dead boy, also Her-
cules, served in South Africa, and was A.D.C.
to General Hutton, who cussed and com-
manded in N. S. Wales at one time. The
name Hercules runs in the family from Sir
Hercules Langrishe, who was an official at
Dublin Castle in the last decade of the 18th
century, and was the progenitor of the Robin-
sons on the female side.
John Anderson, lately principal Under-
Sec. for the Colonies, has been appointed
Governor of Ceylon. In 1901 he came here
as private secretary to the ducal York, now
George V. They say lie has hopes of living-
in Macquarie-street when the Stricklands
give up housekeeping in these parts.
Strenuous old soldier John Stanley is
gazetted Brigadier-General—a temporary
rank that carries no extra pay—for his ser-
vices as Quartermaster-General. In the
days of peace Colonel Stanley’s head came
under the axe that chopped aged soldiers
out of the Permanent Force without the
ghost of a pension. Now, in war-time, he
is putting in long hours and getting through
as much work as headquarters can give
him—and that is enough to keep half a
dozen men on the hop.
“Dicky” Richards retires into private life,
and the rabbitskin falls to a successor, who
may be Spencer Brunton—or, again, may be
Richard Denis Meagher. Mrs. Richards is
too shy to care about the social fluff that
surrounds the billet, so the gentle municipal
mother of a couple of years past will prob-
ably welcome a quiet spell on the domestic
hearth. But “Dicky” will miss it. He
was just beginning to feel that he was cut
out for a courtier.
As a municipal voter, Woman is frankly
regarded as an imbecile by the touts who
lie in wait to tell her that Blodgers is the
man. “Are you a loyal British subject? Then,
madam, record your vote for Blodgers—the
only candidate pledged to keep the Kaiser’s
hosts at bay.” Blodgers is really a field-
marshal, it seems; but till Kitchener sends
for him he is willing, at a sacrifice, to be a
mere city alderman. Hustled by aggressive
females, badgered by the yelps of male sup-
porters of Blodgers, squeaked at by a mos-
quito army of youngsters waving candidates’
tickets, Woman struggles to the recording
pens. Seizing the pencil, she probably
drives its blunt stub ferociously through the
names her tormentors have yelled loudest in
her ear.
Verbrugghen’s hair is his own property.
Otherwise he would have shaken it all over
the floor at the Symphony orchestral concert
on Saturday. The small tense figure, with
the waving black mane, dominated not only
the players but the audience as well. A
musician (they are always fidgety folks)
Inadvertently dropped his stiek in the body
of the hall. In awestruck silence the com-
pany wondered if Verbrugghen would stop
the performance. But he merely twirled
round and frowned at nobody in particular.
Then a lay Philistine blew his nose like a
trumpet call. It was a dulcet moment, when
the conductor was hushing his fiddlers into a
crooning lullaby. Yerbrugghen’s hair
simply sprang to the attack.
The Town Hall held a massive attendance
for this concert. The programme was of
lighter quality than at the first affair.
Alfred Hill’s Maori Rhapsody Lament was
included in a programme that served up the
William Tell overture with new Verbrug-
ghen sauce. Cesar Franck’s “Le Chasseur
Maudit” was an outstanding bit of thunder
in a long list of average music quickened to
fresh life under the magic baton. The con-
ductor’s desire that the audience like the
orchestra should stand for Chopin’s
“Funeral March” was a big order for
elderly folk on a summer afternoon, and
here and there they sank, abashed, into their
chairs. Still, there were those in the audi-
ence who weren’t too exhausted to applaud
when that tine performance was over. Ap-
plaud the Funeral March? More electric
sparks from the bundle of wires in front!
Another Louise Mack mention of late
Nurse Cavell. The nurse and her fellow
Red Crossers were singing “God Save” when
a wounded German officer joined his voice
to theirs in the hymn and was singing
merrily when Nurse Cavell took notice. “No,
you don’t!” she exclaimed, running over to
him. “You’ll not sing this lying down.”
She propped him up with pillows, and he
continued the musical service more lustily.
After all, perhaps the German knew the air
Quite well, but the words not at all. He
might, devils take him, even have been sing-
ing tbe German anthem, which goes to the
same music, or lack of it. George 1., first
German king of England, brought the noise
with him when he hung up his crown in
London. A composer named John Bull is
said to have written the words.
The League of Honor for Women has a
Central Council in Sydney and a member-
ship of about 1000 in N. S. Wales. The
affair has the benediction of Lady Helen,
and aims at catching and equipping feminine
workers for personal service in war time.
B.v supplying the names and addresses of
every depot and its chief representative and
its special wants and so on the League
hopes to collect stacks of surplus energy
now dribbling away over bridge tables.
The billet of piano professor at the Con-
servatorium trembles in the balance. Rumor,
one hopes, lies with brazen impudence in
declaring that Yerbruaghen has another im-
portation in view. With Laurence Godfrey
Smith away there remained one likely candi-
date —the Russian-born Pintel, educated in
France, and winner of the Premiere I’rix
at the National Conservatorium, Paris. This
school is unique, since money cannot gain a
pupil entrance to it. Merit alone, in open
competition, is the passport. Pintel’s
supporters will at least claim an
explanation if Verbrugghen should pack the
Conservatorium with another imported
nominee.
Cora Lenehan, a daughter of our late
Chief Stargazer, who has been petrolling up
hill and down dale in England under the
wing of a relative, is now making towards
home, by way of Italy and Algiers, with a
long stop in Egypt. By the time she
sights the Nile brother Pat will be due to
arrive from this side.
The bells of St. Clemen’s —I mean St.
Mary’s, were set a-ringing one morning last
week with such spirit that the town thought
at last Peace was sighted off Cape Howe.
But it was only an ordination ceremony
going on, an affair of many hours and of
much interest to those concerned. Inciden-
tally “The Church” scored a hit, ex-curate
Geier, once of Woollahra, being ushered
along another step towards the priesthood.
A new brand of Father Christmas will
make his first appearance at the Royal on
Saturday afternoon, a made-in-Australia
Christmas. His motley will be that
of an elderly teamster, who will receive
parcels from the public, and later on trans-
port them to the children whose fathers
have answered the last roll-call in the Dar-
danelles.
George Titheradge, now very ill, gets a
benefit on Friday afternoon at Her
Majesty’s. Of course you’ll be there.
A daughter of the late G. B. Edwards,
one time a South Sydney M.P., was married
lately in Scotland to Surgeon-Captain AY.
AA r Ingram, of the R.A.M.C. The bride,
Annie Laurie, had her mother and sister to
arrange her plumage.
The Minstrel Boy is off to the war, but
he isn’t taking his wild harp with him this
time—at all events, not the instrument built
like a cathedral that he uses on concert
platforms. Torzillo, Sydney’s premier harp-
ist, has enlisted with the Australian forces,
and is off to the place where the music is
made by shells and bullets and bombs. A
whole orchestra of Sydney musicians has
enlisted with him.
The Allies' Day Committee hopes to
gather in £lOO,OOO before the last copper
comes from the country. Bill and Jim have
the harvest on their hands till February,
but the town helpers are still pegging away.
Burns, Thilp & Co.’s trip to Papua for a
shilling is still available. Tickets can be
bought at Cliallis House.
Young Pat Murray goes up to spend the
Christmas holidays with his father, the
Lieut.-Governor of Papua, and takes his
beloved butterfly net with him. He goes
to Oxford later on.
The January goff carnival at Kosciusko
starts on the 25th, and is this year to benefit
war funds. A few inter-State visitors are
already bumping over the road to the Gov-
ernment hostel for the Christmas fishing;
among others to arrive is dominie Bonsfield,
of Brisbane Grammar School.
“Rosna,” writing from London, tells me:
The convalescent Kangaroo is abroad in London
in his thousands, and any place remotely connected
with Australia is thick with him. The Common-
wealth Offices became so crowded that the military
side has had to absorb a Methodist training- college
in Horseferry-road. By the time you get this we
may even have commandeered Buckingham Palace,
the British Museum and the Mint.
On a large scale the best tiling that has been
done for Jimbilly Kangaroo is the A.N.A.’s “Anzac”
Buffet. This is going to shift with the Common-
wealth’s military belongings to Horseferry-road
where it will occupy what has hitherto been the
Methodies’ gymnasium.
Ada Crossley had several loads of convalescents
from Ilarefield and other haunts of our wounded
out at her place the other day. It was a good
Australian party devoid of starch, and Pte. Kan-
garoo, V.C. (or ought to be), said he’d come again
it’ he might, thank you and please.
St. Brigid’s Orphanage, Ryde, has a
hundred stockings to fill on Christmas Eve.
The war has hit this little community pretty
hard, and the gentle sisters make an even
more plaintive appeal than usual.
Bush fires have been extra-attentive to
A. A. Hordern, of the Pitt-street shop. A
cottage \>n the mountains vanished in smoke,
property at Roseville was damaged, and the
Hordern home at Wahroonga was only let
off after a severe caution.
Hanbury Davies has withdrawn from the
chair at Red Cross Executive meetings.
After two years’ service he wants to sit
back, wherefore he named J. 0. Fairfax as
his successor. The committee was agree-
able.
The Women Painters’ Sketch Club had a
rally in its eyrie in Paling’s last week.
It was an amateurish show, with a little
good stuff scattered through it. Mrs. Hed-
ley Parsons in boats-and-bays studies pro-
vided a strong patch or two. Theo Cowan,
Mabel Barling—the latter still specialises
in smiles on the face of the tiger—Mrs.
Hugh Wright and other members hung their
work in the den. Outside, on the landing,
a Young Person studied music on a rnerci-
fully-dumb keyboard.
An Australian nurse on a hospital ship
sends a line :
Towards the end of July life at Anzac was as near
Hell as- one can get it on earth. We were rushed
back from Egypt for the landing at Suvla Bay
early in August. At Lemnos we saw a great sight.
The night was clear and starlit, no wind, and the
water like polished steel. In single file eight
hospital ships passed out, their green lights and
Red Crosses mirrored in the water. AVe followed
later. Stray bullets pattered on our decks like
heavy raindrops before a storm. One of our orderlies
got a spent one in the leg and was quite proud of
it. At one in the morning we received our
first lot of wounded. It’s wonderful how our men
stand the shock of their wounds. They usually say
nothing as they lie waiting their turn, but look at
the doctor and the sisters with a detached but in-
terested air. It’s typical of Australian and Maori-
land wounded to be chiefly curious about what's hap-
pening to the other fellow. At Cape Hellas, though
tons and tons were waiting for them in Egypt, our
men had no comforts of any kind, and were paying
the Greeks sixpence each for vile cigarettes. I’ve
never done much of it, but I’m afraid I shall have
to offer to help hang a few people some day.
Some of the women in Crown-street Hos-
pital are soldiers’ wives. By way of Christ-
mas gifts the Matron asks for nightgowns.
The Queen Victoria Club, Wynyard-street,
will take the bundles.
The Whiting sisters, tvho often came this
way in the frilly race days, have both be-
come engaged—Dorothy to d’Arcy Osborne,
of N. S. Wales, who is at the Front with a
British regiment ; Aileen to Captain G. B.
Walker, an Englishman on General Nixon’s
staff.
St. John Ambulance Association used to be
a poor, modest little thing that tucked itself
away in halls that- suited its tiny form and
shrinking nature. Since the war it has
grown suddenly to bold, adult size. The
Town Hall housed the annual meeting last
week. Chief Justice Cullen emphasised the
fat roll-call of members stirred by the war
to join the nursing classes. Ten thousand
strong this army is already and still growing-
The Repertory Theatre was packed with
enthusiastic friends and relatives of, the
youthful performers in “What Is It.'” de-
scribed as a musical-comedy revue by Stanley
Kilminster. The Eastern Suburbs evi-
dently bristle with young men and maidens
who have a fancy for the footlights. Their
Musical Society has Joe Carruthers,
M.L.C.. as president. Hubert Russell was
in charge of the music, which had some
tuneful rhythms running hard through its
dry belts. A mesmerist, Sarazo, much like
the old woman who sweeps the cobwebs oft
the moon, was the opening novelty. Then
a very small young man, 11. S. Beeston,
seized a long strip of girl, Ethel Lack, and
to the best of his limited inches whirled
her round in the revue manner. They sang
—-breath permitting—in the mazy intervals.
Then more young men grasped their girls
in the wing, and likewise bounded into
action. An Egyptian ballet, with plump
Iris Ward as chief dancer, was about the
best item. But the Sphinx in the back-
ground had apparently been getting into
trouble, and showed a splodge like quarter
of a lb. of underdone beefsteak across the
Gill Windeyer, a daughter of the Julian
Windeyers, of Waratah, weds a Somerset
man, George Whitley, this week. St. An-
drew’s Cathedral hassocks have been dusted
for the occasion. The groom came this way
by the Mooltan. After three years in Col-
ombo the doves go on to England. At least
that is the present intention. But three
years—what will happen within three years?
The Nurse Cavell memorial recital had a
bleak attendance in St. James’s Hall. A
well-meaning reciter, Marcus St. John, with
a phenomenal memory, got down into
Dickens’s Christmas carols, and gave pages
of Marley’s Ghost. Esther Kahn was
satisfactory at the piano, and there were
other contributors. But everybody shivered
under the same wet blanket.
Bob Wade Ferrell, son of a Tamworth
identity and related to the Wade family here,
married Iris Chaffey, of Neminghn, the other
day. A sheaf of arum lilies was a change
from the shower bouquet which is usually
mentioned as “the gift of the bridegroom.”
Inverell is to be the Ferrell home later.
Grace Watson writes of this Anzac buffet:
In a tearoom measuring- 20 by 10 we have given
7500 free meals to our boys. But Man is not the
merely food-consuming animal we thought him. In
this buffet lie is chiefly filled with the joy of
meeting and talking to Australian women. It seems
so small a thing for us to do, yet the gratitude we
get in return is quite overwhelming. . . .The other
Sunday one came in so weak and ill he had to lean
against the wall. Yet he couldn’t be persuaded to
touch anything till he’d looked us all up and down.
“Thank God just to be amongst Australian women
again!’’ he said.
Rolls of honor are going up in every big
school, and that means a search for the names
.of old boys who have fallen iu deathless
Gallipoli. The Marist Brothers, of Dar-
liughurst, are the latest to ask for help on
this trail.
White stockings and black strap shoes
with the wide white-flounced summer rig-
out are a fairly popular alternative for the
stuffy high boots of October. Unfortunately
deer-like ankles are not built for every
woman’s support, and the white hose seems
to give the solid-footed damsel an extra
inch where she bulges over her shoe-leather.
The Veterans’ Home committee is reported
to have been present to a woman at Bare
Island the other day. The G.-G. and Lady
Helen were the pivots of the occasion ; but
soldier Finn got the ear of the old men. and
cracked wi’ them of battles long since won
and lost.
Good-looking Molly Lyons, only daughter
of Tom Slattery, has changed her name
again. After supporting herself with consid-
erable spirit as leader of a fashionable little
orchestra, she allowed tea-merchant Claud
Gaut to persuade her to say “Yes.” He is a
widower with a son who shortly leaves for
the usual somewhere.
Mosman wedding bells rang out for the
orange-blossom party at which J. 11.
McKnight Cowen and Ruby Jolly were the
chief persons. Limerick lace, pearls and
waxy orange blooms trimmed the bride’s
frock. The honeymooners sampled the new
Brisbane express on their way to their home
on the Tweed River.
There is to be a cafe chantant in the
Wentworth Hotel on Thursday evening in
aid of the IStli Battalion Comforts Fund,
with competitions for Balaclava caps, bou-
doir caps (not for the trenches), knitted
socks and mittens. Mrs. Harry Finn and
Miss Knox are to be referees.
A half-crown fund to meet the out-of-
pocket exes, of artists who give their ser-
vices at camp concerts is the latest notion.
To push it on, a meeting called by Mrs. G.
Earp was held the other day at Queen Vic-
toria Club.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
J&Z.
Ai-,
W )
}.. V '
(r^f^
''--A / \ v,
V
r~
,€v
m?
7«
m
AT!?***??!*
m
aft*
■: a
ml
Ss
w
S'
A
I
Am
wm
-tam
■W*
ivr-6?
\ S • ■>
$Wm
v.T;
<m
r <*V I lv
i*
Si %S
F
«
m
AS'A^/P
m
&i4k
Mg
i&A
r'\
frAAA
s#'
£
3?&0
m
wm
,■
AM
1
'W'
7
mm
vV
5 fesi
•,4
S>?M
■SSff,
Ssv"?
M
il
SSP
M
-:V ; '
5£&S?
: >M
jy
SOW
SC
fj
////f/JMt? ..*or
~-?.z#* T w?XA . .
ASA
irif/V-
A'Mz
7*
/^J
€T~«,
r? -r
j
<4
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
D oes the battle
Mending too.
When the shrapnel
From the skv
j
Tears the clothes
Hu no- out to dry,
a> j ’
Chunder chuckles
“Good old Turk!
Then with thread
He sets to work.
Soon the coat’s
Quite right again.
“COBRA” cry th
Fighting-men.
o o


“For He's a Jolly Good Fellow”
■
::
: r
sm
And he will certainly appreciate one of these
pipe companions. The Handsome Morocco
Cases contain 3 or 4 pipes, which have
specially-selected Briar bowls and best-
quality Hand-cut Vulcanite Mouthpieces.
Brices as hereunder.
Two Pipes, 15/-, 21/-, 22/6, 25/-
and 30/-
Three Pipes, 80/-, 37/6, 42/6 and
50/-
Pour Pi Pes, 47/6, 50/-, 55/- and
65/-
We Pay Carriage.
g
PITT, MARKET
and GEORGE STS.,
SYBNEY
Qualityl
■W
i
In
iron
DUNLOP
I TYRES
jf you have the highest
i grade Tyres made.
• They stand alone
I for QUALITY OF
I MATERIAL—and
1 STRENGTH-and
I SERVICE.
|f They not only offer you
m greater mileage, but more
H economical motoring, inas-
m much as they can be
H purchased from any
If Garage at a lower figure
if than any imported Tyre.
DUNLOPS
I are not only the best tyres
I in Australia, but they are
I made in Australia and are
I worthy of your support
m LIST ON APPLICATION
!///._ THE DUNLOP RUBBER COMPANY
MELBOURNE. SY-DNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH !
BRISBANE, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH j
AND LAUNCESTON
'mSm
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, December 6, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Lady Helen went out to Camberwell on
Saturday afternoon to “open” a home for
convalescent soldiers. The place was
already in working order when her Ex. got
there; but the social incantations had to be
intoned. Half a dozen sick soldiers were
on view and a whole army of girl helpers
were at hand to lionise and hyaena them.
These girls formed up as a guard-of-honor
(a fluffy, frilly comic-opera-chorus guard)
in a double tile to greet the vice-regal lady.
As soon as that business was over, they
busliranged the visitors with collection-
boxes. Camberwell district has taken over
the place and will support it until the end
ot the war—whenever that may be. The
home is the private residence of the Flin-
ders-lane Doerys, and Mrs. Doery will re-
sume possession when the guns have stopped
for good. There are magnificent lawns,
flower beds and shrubberies, and the pad-
docks slope down the hill to the White
llorse-road, which runs away into the hills.
Y a dyH e I en had Captain Haskett Smith to
A.D.C. her home. The Captain was in khaki,
with a dash of red in it. Sounds like a
cocktail, doesn’t it?
Mr* Leslie Stuart lied Crossed in style
at her Toorak place on Saturday. It was a
te —but not the usual sort. The small
daughters of the house and a few hundred
school friends divided the responsibility and
the honors. Grown-ups merely helped in
menial capacities. Young matrons felt the
weight of their years sufficiently when they
scrambled up _ the domestic plum-trees to
decorate the high branches with flags; but
when it came to helping in the strenuous
trench game (Turks v. Australians) the
matter became serious. A' regiment of
adults manned the refreshment-stalls. Mrs.
Stuart, Mrs. Geoffrey Syme, Mrs. Colonel
Waters, Mrs. McPhail and Miss Wylie were
the company officers. There were ponies
to ride and Belgian dogs drawing little carts.
Miss Martin and Miss Simonsen danced
continuously behind a counter of sweets
while ravenous young customers pranced be-
fore it This corner was very profitable.
Miss Aankivale helped the children with
their jumble stall. Everything on view had
been made by the jumping, shouting guests,
and some of the exhibits were funny. You’d
never have thought there were so manv pen-
wipers in the world. And a staring, pallid
nurse-doll with a monster Red Cross sewn
amoss her heartless bosom with great white
stitches, had to be raffled at last, she was
m such demand. Mrs. Jenner struck the
happy idea of dressing as the Old Woman
\\ ith a Hundred Pockets. She wore a poke
bonnet, a Paisley shawl and a crinoline
skirt made of flounces, with pockets innu-
merable. The children bought packets from
the pockets and seemed tickled to death with
the mysterious little gamble.
Veteran surgeon .Tames Ryan got out of
his armchair the other evening to lecture in
the Melbourne Town Hall for the good of the
Health Society. Ryan is a chevalier of the
Legion d Honneur, and he told something of
what led up to the decoration. He was
attached as a surgeon to a French field am-
bulance during the war of 1870, and the
moving tale of his doings was worth the
ninepence for which the collection-plate
yawned. It is a coincidence, by the way,
that James Ryan’s consulting-rooms, among
tbe timber at the t0 P of Collins-street,
should have been for a long period almost
opposite the house of that other Ryan—.
Colonel Charles “Plevna,” sometime Consul-
General for Turkey, and one of Victoria’s
early representatives at Gallipoli. As for
the Health Society, enriched by the offering
which followed James Ryan’s reminiscences,
it was started a good many years ago, with
the loorak surgeon as one of its vice-presi-
dents, mainly to combat the spread of tuber-
culosis.
All Saints’, St. Kilda, has a fine card up
its white lawii sleeve for its Red Crossings
next Saturday. Lady Helen will sit with
the congregation at the feet of Griffith Tay-
lor while he tells the story of the Western
party in Scott’s last expedition. The pro-
ceeds will help buy materials for the Saints’
summer war-sewing.
The motored classes now turn up in
fifties to drive the returned wounded from
i ort Melbourne. The other morning the
warriors arrived very early, and only the
hrst flight of typists and shop-girls were
abroad to do the handkerchief-waving. Gov-
ernor Stanley was in the procession behind
the wheel of his little grey car. A grey felt
hat was pulled down well over his eyes and
he was inside his oldest grey lounge suit
the one without the waist. Nothing like
old duds for comfort. A batch of nurses
returned with this crowd and got an up-
roarious welcome. There were three grey
sisters in flowing grey veils, and a motor full
ot cheery nurses in white dresses, red capes
and big white panama hats. They looked
rather like a new ballet. One of them
j*.
Dorothy Burkett, a Sydney girl, has col-
led au engagement since she left Prince
Alfred’s. But it isn’t to he till the end of
the war releases her from the King’s duty.
Mrs. Haugh, of Camperdown, drew the
lucky number that won the house Sam
Mackay handed over to Mrs. Rogers Thom-
son to raffle in aid of the Red Cross.
i Mayor Love, of St. Kilda, who is presi-
dent of the local patriotic partv, has in-
vited a crowd to the St. Kilda town Ilall
on Thursday, 9th, to welcome wounded Gal-
lipoleans.
1 he Rutter Clarkes’ gorgeous place is to he
used tor another and more elaborate carnival
on Saturday. The garden is so large that
plans were printed, and secretary Tainsh
went about with the sheets of Bristol board
while the workers studied it like strategists
looking for the best pitch for Aunt Sally
and other insanities. The Clarke boys have
a den below the billiard-room full of stuffed
animals and weird spider-tliings. The minute
she saw it a Sassiety darling offered her
services as a fortune-teller, and joy-
fully started to plan some witch-robes of cob-
web grey chiffon. At any rate, the fashion-
able dressmakers do well when a sweet crea-
ture with money to spend gets such an in-
spiration.
Mrs. Tallis, who had just arrived, brown
as a berry, from Sydney and the surf, became
responsible for the musical programme. She
promised to bring the "Kick-in” people dur-
ing the afternoon and first-line amateurs for
the evening when the professionals were on
duty at the theatre. Ethel Dane and Tom
Shellford are now planning a coffee-singsong
from a romantic rose-covered side balcony.
Miss D’Ebro motored a bunch of footlight
stars out to the Rutter Clarke gardens to
select their pitches, and the Clarke butler
gloomily watched the rehearsal foolery from
the dining-room window. When you have
buttled solemnly in a house a sudden inrush
of clowns must seem like profanation. A
French village fair will rage, and school-
girls, drawn from the very best flapper finish-
ing factories, will wear French clothes and
sell bazaar truck as fast as they can. Sports
are being organised by the girls and boys of
Melbourne public schools. Jennie Brenan is
coaching small regiments in Morris dances;
and organiser Tommy Cochrane—God bless
him ! —and secretary Lynn Teare are rushing
round, followed by Langdon girls, Joan
\Y eigall and the Bells. Any person who
wants to see them has to run hard. All the
Baillieu womenfolk are helping, also all the
available Sargoods, and the Hennessy dame
is lending her most benevolent smile The
spoil is earmarked for the French Red Cross
and the French Societe Maternelle.
Adelaide taps out her message:—
The latest appeals include one from the Overseas
Club for an aeroplane from South Aus. and one
from the League of the Loyal for funds to buy com-
forts for S. .Australians in the trenches. Just look in
your purse, will you?
The Way Campbells and Mrs. Walter Law Smith
left by the Malwa. Mrs. Law’s husband has been in
England for some time on the only job that really
matters. Miss Drew, who has been here as the
gnest of the Willie Popes, returned by the same boat.
Two mme S. Australians—Leonard Darling and
J. L. Sandford—have got commissions in the Eng-
lish Field Artillery. I don’t know why they didn't
seek them in the Australian service. In fact, I
hardly know why I’ve told you that these two got
English commissions, seeing that scores of equally
good young men have got equally good commissions
in equally good Australian forces without any
mention at all.
Mayor Simpson has called public attention to the
unpoliced condition of this religious centre, and pro-
duces statistics to show that every Adelaide con-
stable has 947 potential criminals to keep his eye on.
We must either have more religion or more police-
men, it seems. The citizens’ reply is to say that
they will do without Mayor Simpson. Aid. Isaacs
beat him at the poll on Saturday. Here, you know,
we vote our own mayors in and out, and don’t
leave it to the councillors. They have enough sins
of their own.
Lady Galw'ay left for Victor Harbor on
Thursday afternoon, taking with her Miss d’Erlanger
and Miss Macaulay. She is to eat the salt breezes
for a couple of months. Meanwhile the Governor
remains in town, principally to help with the
approaching recruiting campaign.
“Dick” Butler, our frequent Premier, has just
indulged in his 65th birthday. He has been 25
years in Parliament, so apparently it agrees with
him.
Summer has brought its usual crop of snake-yarns.
Here is the best to date. A farmer at Blanche-
town, who decided to sow a dried swamp for hay,
now finds that he can’t put in his teams to cut the
crop or his stock to eat it, because of the number of
tigei snakes that infest it. He just tears his hair
and leaps on the edge of the 300-acre patch that
is estimated to average two or three tons to the
acre! The whole puzzle will probably have a fire-
stick thrust into it.
Passed out at North Adelaide on Thursday James
Harvey, who left Scotland for Victoria in 1855, and
came to this State nine years later. He was for a
time superintendent of the smelting works at Walla-
roo, and was one of the trustees of the Walter
Hughes estate. Mrs. Harvey died in September, and
both the sons are at the war.
An oversea obituary is that of Mrs. A. W. Ware,
whose husband was mayor here at the time of the
York -visit.
That enthusiastic advocate of temperance, Mr.
Smeaton, found himself in unusual company the
other day when he steered a deputation of licensed
victuallers and hotel-brokers. He got through with
the help of a glass of water.
The annual fete in aid of the Children’s Hospital
was opened by Lady Galway on Saturday, and drew
a satisfactory crowd to the grounds. Her Ex. took
the opportunity to put in a word for the local
charities which are liable to be overlooked these
times.
Mr. Baillie Hamilton, who was private secretary
at Government House a few years ago, is acting as
secretary to the Belgian Field Hospital.
The Laidlaw family, which for many
years has occupied Springbank, one of
rural Heidelberg’s desirable dwelling-places,
is gradually melting away. Old Hubert
Laidlaw and bis wife have been dead for
some years. Mrs. James Harbinson, the
Laidlaw who married Brighton’s doctor-
poet, is gone; and last week Isabella, one
of the remaining spinsters, faded out at the
commencement of her seventh decade. The
poet Harbinson, by the way, is married
again; and he has published no more vol-
umes of verse on vellum. Vellum comes
expensive in these days of dear mutton.
Big Dr. Don Dennett sends a much-cen-
sored coo-ee from the Australian Base to
say that he is hard at work. He can handle
a gun as well as a lancet and shouldn’t feel
strange in his regimentals, for he put in
eight years’ military work in Victoria in
the piping times of peace, when an officer
in uniform was stared at as if he were a
rare bird, and Defence was mostly small
boy.
A Trinity College girl, Mrs. Walter Sum-
mons, is doing Bed Cross nursing in Egypt,
whither she freelanced after her husband
had gone away with the Army Medical
Corps. Major Walter Summons, sometime
of Camberwell, was at latest hard at work
at Heliopolis; and his elder brother, Cap-
tain W. H. Summons, of Kew, has been
wearing a perfectly good motor-car to the
bone in his own particular local job—which
is_ to keep an expert eye on the sanitation
of the Victorian military camps. It is his
own motor-car, too.
Humor (a lady who becomes no more
truthful with advancing years) whispers the
engagement of a middle-aged tenor, who lives
most of his life on the Block, to a girl who
is young, rich and beautiful. What more
has any tenor a right to expect?
Since they took to summering among the
gums and gullies of Warrandyte, an old
mining-camp on the southern Yarra-slopes
beyond Heidelberg, Professor Laver and his
wife have started a series of annual bush
At Homes for past and present students
of the University Conservatorium, and the
next Outbacking is to happen on Saturday
week. There are IS miles of road-travel
to negotiate before one gets to Warrandyte ;
but it is satisfactory for the weary, way-
faring musician to know that there will
be a nice bit of damper and a pannikin of
hot tea awaiting the dusty arrival of the
four-in-hand.
Bachelor Frank Plain, mostly of Collins-
street, is now a lieutenant in King Ed-
ward’s Horse. Ham has been a well-known
figure in Melbourne for many years. Of
late he had been growing a little grey
about the ears and wearing that well-
rounded look which often comes to prosper-
ous 40. The late Cornelius Job, M.L.C.,
of Armadale, was Lieutenant Ham’s father,
and Theophilus was his uncle. How a mere
Frank came into the family I don’t know.
Gordon, the youngest of the Ross-Soden
widow’s sons, recently pulled a perfect
stranger out of the Thames and is to get
a Humane Society award for it. When
the crowd of onlookers heard that the hero
was an Australian they gave him three
cheers extra. The young man is learning
to fly for his country.
The generous Elizabeth Hebden spinster
has founded a liundred-a-year scholarship at
Melbourne Grammar School in memory of
her brother Charles, a rich N.S.W. squatter
who. died early in 1915. Miss Hebden has
nominated the small son of the late General
Bridges as first holder—a kind and thought-
ful act which will be appreciated by all good
Australians.
Lilia Reidy, of Tasmania, has devised an
Australian calendar for 1016. The greeny-
khaki background is decorated with fat
little gum blossoms, and real pendant gum
leaves have sketches of khaki heroes painted
on them.
The crowd had its puzzle at the Amy
Castles third recital. ’Cellist Gladstone
Bell was getting near the end of Popper’s
“Tarantella” when an unknown lady in
street costume glided on to the platform.
Bell was too intent upon worming his way
into the confidence of his instrument to
notice her. but his accompanist, Harold
Whittle, did. Harold gave one apprehensive
glance, then bent over his keyboard and
finished the item. As soon as the crowd
started to applaud the maiden stepped to
the front of the platform and bowed with
gracious condescension. Whittle and Bell
scampered from the scene, and the girl, sit-
ting down at the piano with the air of a
genius about to commit a masterpiece, fell
at once into a commonplace. As much of the
audience as was not dazed and shocked was
doubled up with mirth. But the perform-
ance did not last long, for a humorless
attendant appeared, took the damsel by the
arm and gently led her from the platform.
She did not struggle. She had had her
crowded minute, and was satisfied.
Mrs. Thomson, president of the Malvern
Ladies’ Rifle Club, supplied a trophy for
competition last Saturday. Miss E. C. Hope
Campbell was the winner, and the whole day
was filled with the crackle of musketry.
Mrs. Polock (captainess) won the second
prize, presented by the Club’s coach. G. F.
Williams. This week there will be a com-
petition for a gold medal; also a match
between married and single she-members.
Mrs. Brigadier-Colonel Tivey has become a
member, and Mrs. Foster Wood is shoulder-
ing a gun. Amongst the enthusiasts who are
already in the ranks are Mrs. Edmund
Collins, Mrs. Ernest Keep, Mrs. Appleton
and Mrs. Weston Pett. Are we down-
hearted, girls? Certainly not!
,■ i «
nv 3 tlleat f e P arty a "f F f lday '\Tpir
™ lb §' uests Higgled Abe tea to their
llps and did some wonderful things with the
eatables. Mrs. Robert Garran was hostess,
bul sbe Poetically shared the reception with
Hugh McCraes. Ml'S John Sander&on
f, a ? g two ballads and looked too sweet for
V' IS , 'uTi i J ll stn Ped pink and white Sll v.
Arc ’hibald fetrong turned Ins most literary
spectacles on Miss Mary Hugliston—Mrs.
Murdoch’s niece—when she recited his re-
-01 lilting Sonnet, “Peace the 1 reserver,
Y people talked during the event; but
Archibald listened with becoming reverence
and was an example to all. Walter Kirby
waved his red whiskers in song, Lena King-
stou purred her contribution in a voice soft
as silk. Lena is a sister of Mrs. Albert
Clarke (once Olive Kingston). Idles,
Consul-General for Italy, progressed tri-
umphantly from point to point. His country-
men have been collecting Austrian frontier-
defences lately. The secretary (in a duck
ot a hat) shrilled an announcement that
£lO9 had been raised this year by the women,
an< l evei ‘ s° many useful things made. Mrs.
Rupert Atkinson, the stylish, dark-haired
wife of Australia’s richest poet, was amongst
{5? Hew,' Wh ° P ° litely applauded the grati ‘
* g
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


It ' ' i
: V -
u
. .. . ;
■ I ’■
%£P Wm
■KW
4i
m
9
l
' ;
iiii
‘ 1 ■
mm _
M
vm
I
:: ...
"T* • I
B R
1 ;;;.
3
■ » -'Ss.:
mmmm
mm i
m i
'if.
■
■
•;’. : 4
m
Jk f > "•* #
- « Cv 2 m
mm
■
ill
5
■lll
■
MMMHMi
■ .v:
4
■H
-
I*l
-.r
# »w
H
HnMMMHHI
annHH
v * " .-•
11
5 jl
w a «
m M,
m
■
■
smi
MI
sas
l:;. ;
■ ■
■ : j||lll
’l3
mm %m... j
:: ■■. ■•••
'■Ri
W 1
; ■
4 Hi
*1 i •iB K
>1?” iMIffSl -1. > 4 } V»4 p §1
rnßßmm
r' mB
* £'S\
sf s
. iq&sM ■
• m ■ • -
MM . j
m : * ‘-v.-s
wm IWB H i«B§M
m \Wm X
s Mir™*” 1 ™ 1 *
■Willi
B
-iff
»v
11 HLti' : - F?
■ -*'aHP n *K
1 fjfc . «*, •
HH
-ir- nvyt . I-"- -
\¥
iill
~-.S* ■/
*ws
iiM*
HE H
jmmmam m
mmmm
H
1
/* «
11
wm
■ I
MMH
lMI:| ' " I
Jig
■ 1
«
*
> |
uniiiMn
•4-1
um
i
1 ,:'■:
i
Hi
■
w
■
.
■i
■
ms
>■:.
, r .
%'^*-
:vj
Mf
II
SARTO is made from the best Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root with special flavorings, the recipe for
which is held by Schweppes Ltd. exclusively. Sarto is a refreshing' beverage, and being' a blood
purifier has most excellent tonic properties. It is g'reatly improved by a slice of fresh lemon.
Head Office: 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
the World.
SARTO is obtainable at all tbe leading stores throughout tbe Commonwealth.
See tbat yon get SARTO, and do not be put off witb imitations wbicb do not contain
tbe same medicinal properties as Sarto.
SARTO —The Health Beverage.


■s
THE INVISIBLE
NECK REINFORCEMENT
MEANS DOUBLE WEAR.
THIS TAB
SLEEVE
LIFT MEANS
COMFORT.
WILL YOU WRITE FOR OUR
NEW MEN’S WEAR CATALOG?
Shirt Economy.
It is hard to say how many shirts men
discard through the neckband breaking- away
and worn cuff edges, but if you become a
wearer of the
DOUBLE-LIFE SHIRT
you will get more shirt satisfaction than
ever before. We have specialised to make a
Shirt to give the utmost possible service.
The Re-inforced Neckband and patent sleeve-
lift ensures double life and added comfort;
and, above all, the long-wearing properties
mean true economy.
These shirts are perfectly cut and made in
our new Cot-Taffeta, cream ground with
fine black or blue woven stripes—a material
which represents the utmost in style and
quality.
Write for our special Folder of Patterns.
4/6
Here’s Marvellous Value.
Post Free to Any State.
46
CHflS. LANE & CO.
PTY.
LTD.
The Mail Order
House for Men,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
c°
V
MORRISs
IMPERIAL
ointment
Obtainable ill Chemists and Stores
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
YOUR HAIR
WILL
LOOK BETTER
will be finer, softer, smoother,
Scurf aud Dandruff will disappear,
if you take care of it by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL,
which will Preserve, Nourish, and
Strengthen it, and as it penetrates to
thy roots will replace the loss of the
Natural Oil in the Hair, the want of
which causes Baldness. It is sold in a
Golden Colour for Fair Hair, of Stores,
Chemists, Hairdressers, and Rowland's,
67, Hatton-garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations under the
same or similar name which have no
Restorative Properties and do not
contain that delightful perfume
Otto of Roses for which Rowland’s
Macassar Oil has been so long famous.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Lou” : 1 was.wielding tlie pick and banjo
ia a gang on a big channel job once, when the ganger
got his “slip” for giving his “pink eye” (pet) an
easy job. The riding “red light” then unknowingly
picked out another “spur” in the horde, gave him
the book, and rode away. About 10 minutes later
the new serang “chipped” a cove, and that was the
beginning of his end. Hopping- out of the “gutter”
the coot snapped out at him, “Write it out.” As the
flabbergasted ganger produced the book the coot’s
mate straightened up and drawled, “Scratch me off,
too.” Then someone further down the line called
out, “Rub me out while yer at it” ; and his mate
followed suit with, “Give me a leaf, old cock.” Then
another, “I’m snatcliin’ it, too” ; and another, “Make
me up.” “Tally me an’ Jim and Hob,” roared one
of the batter men; and so on until about 23 dun-
gareed demons were “waiting for their time.” When
the slips were all written out the jobless ganger sent
the nipper after the “head,” and when lie rode back
the pennies were spinning and the silver jingling
and changing hands. He asked no questions, but
merely selected another ganger, who called out,
“Blow up,” and the picks went swinging again with
the late ganger on the end of one of them.
# • * * *
“F.H.IL”: Re women riding bullocks (B.
4/11/’l5). Only a couple of years ago it was not an
unusual sight to see two young girls riding on
bullock-back into Niangala (N.S.W.), and not a year
ago a woman and her two daughters travelled by
horseback, unattended by men, from Swamp Oak to
Newcastle, a matter of over 200 miles. They camped
out whenever the feed and weather were favorable,
and —don’t miss this ! —they carried hat-boxes on the
pack-horse. Talking about riding astride by ladies
1 remember, 20 years ago, seeing a Camden (N.S.AV.)
girl ride a bucking black horse to a standstill in her
brother’s saddle, and 12 years back the auctioneer’s
daughter, a girl of 13, could be seen, mounted on her
black pony and riding in a man’s saddle, wheeling
Queensland fats at the Gilgandra (N.S.AV.) yards any
week.
P K 'k : hat class of farriers does
“IY.P.C.” (B. 11/11/T5) associate with that lie lias
to come to the Abo. page for the cure of his prad's
corns? They are due to defective shoeing, and there
are two remedies. (1) Knock the shoes .off and turn
the turkey afield for a six-weeks’ spell. (2) Cut the
corn out and burn a thimbleful of turpentine in the
hole so made, after which replace the shoes, putting
a leather pad underneath them.
* * * *
“Horse Sense”: To cure his prad's corns
lei; “W.P.C.” (B. 11/11/’l5) try paring down the
sole between the bar and the well. Keep on parin :v
til) the horn looks healthy. If it refuses to look
healthy keep on paring. It may even be necessary to
expose the sensitive sole. In that case let “W.P.C.”
see that his knife is sharp, and cut away from the
deepest part of the cavity and not down on to the
sensitive structure. Follow? Pour in tincture of
iodine straight, plug lightly with cotton wool or
oakum, put on a bar shoe, running a leather sole
underneath. I wouldn’t give “W.P.C.” this informa-
tion if I believed he lived within 50 miles of a vet.
or had soft hands.
* * * *
“Spreader”: “W.P.C.” (B. 11/11/T5)
wants to know what will cure corns in the foot of
a horse. Nothing. Acetic acid does a bit of good
at times ; the knife also has a useful effect, tempo-
rarily; but the real dinkum specific hasn’t been
found so far. Half the valuable draught horses that
are worked on the blocks of Sydney have corns, and
there’s a fortune yearning for anyone who can effect
a quick and permanent cure. If the patients are
taken on to blacksoil and worked as farm horses
through a wet winter the corns disappear as long as
that particular class of work is allotted to them, but
shoe them up again in the spring and have a fresh
go at the blocked streets, and 99 per cent, of them
get worse than ever.
* * * »
“James Jam”: “Bandy Andy” (B.
4/11/’l5) wants to know why the lonely bottle beside
the track in Queensland acquires that fine violet
blush while window glass remains colorless; It's a
matter of sui light. The sand which goes into the
furnace and comes out the bottle-oh’s prey contains
iron, which gives the glass a deep green tinge best
seen in the domestic-beer envelope; so when a white
glass is wanted a little manganese is added to the
stew to neutralise the color of the iron. But very
strong light and long exposure to it decomposes the
compound the manganese has formed, and the purple
shade which is characteristic of that substance de-
velops. The windows don’t get so much direct sun-
light, so the change is much slower, but I have seen
the first faint beginnings of it there, too. Radium
does the same trick much quicker than the sun. I've
seen a glass funnel which had something to do with
that elusive substance, and it was quite a deep
amethyst in less than a week.
“Moana”: Frequently there is trouble in
the King Country (M.L.) because some brown man
raids a cemetery and digs up Maori skeletons in
pursuit of Hlcis and other trifles. In fact, one of the
chief industries in the district is digging up deceased.
The other day a local lienare was dragged before the
beak at Rotorua and charged with desecrating four
graves to recover curios. He was fined £2 and
smitten with a mountain of costs totalling
£l5 7s. Gel. “By kolly, Costs him te hot stuff,”
lienare said with a grin as he left the court.
REFLECTED GLORY.
LAWYER: “But if the woman was walking in
front of you, and you could not see her
face, how do you know she was very
pretty?”
WITNESS: “Bless you! Couldn't I see the
faces of the blokes coming towards her?”
“D.F.”: For gum-tree growth this is hard
to beat. Surveyor Hlhsby reports that on the Cape
Raoul ridges ( Tas.) swamp-gum saplings which
sprang up after the great fires of 1898 are now over
100 ft. high.
FALSE PRETENCES.
PRIONER : "A month, is it, dim Corrigan? And ye told the bhoys last night ye
would get me off. An’ that’s what ye call justice!”
“Nobbys”: Speaking about reforesting,
"by not have some of the reserves ring-barked 2
Contrary to general belhi, this is the best way of
getting good timber. 1 have seen land on which this
Plan was followed, and row, after five years, there
are over 2000 saplings of front three to eight inches
in diameter and up to 35ft. in height on an average
to the acre. Hung.and fired, the reserves would
produce thousands of seedlings to every acre, and
being very close together they would grow very
tall. They would require thinning by cutting out
the crooked ones, and the others should be left for
about 15 years. After that the trees should be
thinned again to about 200 to the acre, leaving the
balance for about another 15 years. By this method
the timber would upend itself very high, with long
barrels, and a big proportion of the wood would get
*us at least one good word from Posterity.
* * * *
“C.11.N.”: Simply marvellous feats are
accomplished by the Papuan nigger in his canoe.
Recently I was held up for two days while attempt-
ing to cross Iluon Gulf in a motor-boat, and eventu-
ally, by hugging the coast, I managed to get around,
though I expected to bo capsized any moment. I
was still wondering at my own luck when- across
comes a tiny dugout with outrigger and mat sails '
spread to the gale. One boy of perhaps 12 years was
astride of the outrigger to help keep the balance,
and the dugout fairly flew through the Water. A
thousand of the best would not have tempted me
to try it in such a craft; but it is an everyday
occurrence for Brown Brother.
* * * *
“Doubter”: Will some Abo.-scribe please
oblige me by getting bitten by a poisonous snake
and trying an antidote outfit that is advertised exten-
sively? It consists of a small tool like an awl, io
make a few punctures around the bite, and about
ioz. of Condv’s crystals, which are supposed to be
well rubbed in. This is guaranteed to be effective,
but I’d like somebody to test it with a jury handy.
“Warre”: The Australian shearer has a
“fiscal” complaint against the cook, as well as u
“l oisonous.” The modern dough-slinger is demand-
ing and getting 6s. per week per man, though the
Arbitration Court allows him but 4s. Thus with a
mess of 30 men the poisoner’s wages, after allowing
slushy his third, come to £6 per week. Add to
this tucker (at least 155.) and fat (which if sheep
are any way decent and the operator a scientific
“roaster” easily brings in 15s, more), and his wage
is £7 10s. nett, wet or fine. This is considerably
more than the shearer can afford in these days of
high prices and short sheds, and he is hinting darkly
that the crimson cook is looking 1 for unamiability.
“Spreader”: “Nick Bottom” and “D.D.”
both know of a boy-champion milk extractor, hut
what sort of cows do they milk? There are cows
and cows, and in any dairy district a herd of 20
could he got together that no man living could
milk and strip dry in one hour 55 minutes. On the
other hand, 20 very easy cows, not heavy milkers
and picked out so that none of them hold their milk
back, would be nothing out of the ordinary for a
real fast boy to milk in 3600 seconds.
. “Ino”: “Nick Bottom” (B . 11/11/T5)
says ho knows a boy who can milk 20 cows in 60
minutes. Very likely lie can. in a sort of way, but
how much milk will lie take from each cow anil
how much will lie leave behind? Some cows give
three or four gallons of milk and some less than a
quart. One milker can milk some cows in little
more than half the time he could milk others giving
the same quantity. Then some extractors will strip
till only a drop can be flipped out at a time; others
leave off as soon as it ceases to come fairly fast.
There is no proof that the boy who drains 20 cows
in an hour is faster than one doing 18 in an hour
and a half. I have seen eight cows that the fastest
milker could not milk clean in an hour.
A QUESTION OF GAIETY.
GAY PARTY: “Really, Muriel, you're too
slow. What y’r ought'r do is put on
plenty V style, practise the Glad Eye,
aid go th pace like th' rest of us.”
“Sarto” : There are some cooking utensils
in the bush that would stagger the suburban cook.
I once had a slice of a pudding that had been
cooked in a chaffbag. But we had to boil a fail-
sized water-hole to do the trick.
(Continued on page 24.)
A WET SUNDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In clammy cerements swathed and bound
The earth lies stark, with scarce a breath,
Numbed by a ceaseless monotone
As passionless as icy Death.
The clock ticks loudly through the room,
And, ’mid the shadows gathered there,
Chill desolation like a cloud
Hangs heavy in the listless air,
AA'hile sorrow, like, a wandering wind/
Sighs through my heart’s recesses lone,
And to the drumming of the rain .
Proffers a wistful undertone.
The dog lies sleeping, nose to tail.
But twitehingg of his muscles show
How tea singly across his dreams
The ghosts of rabbits come and go;
And ghosts come round me as 1 lie,
Sad pilgrims from the distant years,
To stir upon life’s cheerless hearth
The ashes of old hopes and fears.
The still, grey gloaming, thick witli rain,
The near horizon’s muffled round,
The dark trees drooping motionless,
The teeming sky and sodden ground,
And all the heartache of the day—-
The empty day oppressed with rain,
AA lien ghostlike through the whispering gloom
The past returns to grieve again—
All these have blurred the oft-read page
AVith visions mournful fancy fills,
Unhappy drift of idle dreams
AA'an as the mist that wraps the hills.
At times the wet earth seems to sigh,
At times a bough moves restlessly
As though the smothering memories lie
Too heavily on grass and tree.
And mingling with the drip! drip! drip!
Such sadly cadenced murmurs come—
Echoes of voices long unheard,
Phrases from lips for ever dumb.
And wounding with remembrance keen
l-’ace after face before me swims,
Till, in vain effort to assuage
The misery of idle limbs,
I toss away the book, and move
Irresolutely through the room,
Absently stir the smouldering logs,
And stare unseeing through the gloom.
Yes, these grey days are Memory’s own,
AVhen o’er and o’er she sifts the years,
Her eyelids heavy with regret,
Her eyes abrim with useless tears.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


A NEW INVENTION.
The Rawson Moody
Self-Locking
All-Steel Fence
means 100% efficiency. Farmers, graziers, landholders—loU put - S
money into wire fencing. All this money is wasted it he
SUPPORTS —the real backbone of the fence —are weak, iilth-biee =»
ineffective, break under shock or strain, rot, or are burned away.
“RAWSON MOODY” SUPPORTS— straining posts, intermediates and
droppers—give 100% efficiency, because they really support the touce
unitedly, and by their remark'able flexibility distribute shocks and strains
along the entire fence—thus preventing it from sagging and In eakmg a
various places.
The “RAWSON MOODY” Fence is the most reliable on the market
fire-proof, stock-proof, ant-proof, decay-proof, and practically everlasting.
The Straining Posts, Intermediates and Droppers are all supplied
separately as required.
WRITE FOR OUR FENCING CATALOG “R.”
Rawson Moody Manufacturing Go.
343 Kent Street, Sydney.
Osram Lamps
WITHSTAND
ALL TESTS.
Owing' to the excellence of the method of manufacture,
and of the materials used therein, Osram Lamps give
the highest results.
Osram Lamps are manufactured entirely in England
with English materials.
Osram Filaments are drawn wire made from Australian
ore.
Every Lamp is subjected to exhaustive tests before
leaving the works.
The three features necessary to ensure a first-class
Lamp are
LIFE
STRENGTH
EFFICIENCY.
These are embodied in OSRAMS.
THE, BRITISH GENERAL
ELECTRIC CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY;
257 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE:
590 Bourke Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.:
8 Willeston Street.
Sole Agents for Queensland : N. Bell & Co., 83 Eagle St., BRISBANE.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
The Best Bonus Paying Life Office in the World
YEXT DISTRIBUTION OF CASH SURPLUS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1915.
All participating- policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
1 I=l SHARE in the CASH BONUS to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus divided for the one year 1914 • • • • • • fJ’Sftft’ftOO
Yielding Reversionary Additions to policies of about .. .. ' » io’oOO
Total Bonuses distributed since inception of Society . . . •
Now is the time to effect an assurance or a further assurance on your hie, so as to reap the bene
this year’s Cash Bonus.
Write for full particulars to the Head Office 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or any Distrct £ £« ent of
the Society. RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A FF A F.S.S., H. W.
General Manager and Actual}.
BOOTS are the smart wear for the season
—Dame Fashion has cast that die most
decisively—and this white poplin boot,
fashionable, short-fronted, with a trim,
military heel, will look uncommonly well with
the short white skirts of this season. Then,
better still, like all the short-fronted models
in the Bostock range, it is quite amazingly
comfortable, and will suit all types of feet. In
fact, most women will get a pleasant surprise
when thev trv it on, and see how nice it looks
and how delightful it feels. And it will con-
tinue to feel delightful in wear, since all
Bostock soles are specially treated so as to
extract from them those chemicals used in
tanning, which are apt to make the feet, hot
and tired. So, in this boot one will be
dainty, cool and fresh, able to enjoy walks,
picnics and excursions in the most blazing
weather.
Bostock No.
wmmm
m
■: 'J;-aa
m
iiiiinip
■
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostoelc.”
832
A charming selection of Bostock shoes
always on view at all leading stores.
9*
n
Ml'/
4V /^y
J 1 2
ii
\
<*==«
1\
O’
r^=^v
* %
/aw
w
"All the Worlds Great Orators at p Your Elbow*
If You Vvferc About to
Make the Speech
WHAT of the speech? Would it be good, well planned, well delivered?
Would it grip and hold your hearers? Would its wittiness win their
laughter or its power and logic convince? Would it, in brief, accom-
plish the purpose for which you make it? It would if you had read “How to
Prepare and Deliver a Speech,” “The Art of Oratory,” “After Dinner Speak-
ing,” and the many other splendid and helpful special articles in
THE BOOK OF PUBLIC SPEAKING.
It would if you had all the inspiration of this remarkable work —if you
had drawn on some of the hundreds of speeches which till its five hand-
some volumes —speeches by every great Anglo-Saxon orator —states-
man, scientist, sociologist, author, actor and' humorist. Every man
who makes speeches (and the occasion arises for almost all when
a speech must be made) will find “The Book of Public Speak-
ing” an invaluable guide. Send the coupon for an illustrated
prospectus.
SraiwißD Publishing f> LTD
100 FLINDERS ST/IELBOURNE
19 hunter street Sydney
&r and London
>°tv
„ „
&&&?.
VW.••
Q v> cpi- .•• • .*
V’ n>*- n
.©


i
room
UTTRES
Duvals Co.
13 Castlereagh St..
SYDNEY.
475 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE.
A. C. McCALLUM,
PERTH.
Best in the Long Run
•FOUNDED-1888-
PHILLIPS • ORMONDE&(>
Consu/f/np fnpmeer's, Pcr/knA/J/fonncyJ
on&7?-oc/cf-7c/s*A rtpcnfc • 17QUEEN ST
MELBOURNE I
SOAPKO
It Surpasses Soap.
Toilet and Motor in
TABLETS.
Household in BARS.
SOAPKO CLEANSER
(in Canisters), BEST and
CHEAPEST on Market.
ALL PURELY AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE.
SOAPKA PROP’Y, Box 685, G.P.0., Adelaide
dr
Buy Direct from the Manufacturer,
and Save 25 Per Cent.
Our Illustration is in Glac6 Kid or Box Calf. Fair
stitched to heel, on an up-to-date Anglo-American
Model. This is an Ideal Country Boot, with an
appearance fit for a Prince or a Premier. At the price
— l6/6 Carriage Paid —it is the Best Boot Value
being offered in the Commonwealth.
Send To-day for Full Illustrated
Catalogue.
Add exchange
to country
cheques: ,
Victoria, 6d;
1/- Inter-State.
HY. HARRIS,
50 McKean Street, N. Fitzroy,
.. . MELBOURNE.
liy I luke”: The Maori has a commis-
sai-ißt dodge that I can recommend from practical
experience. Shoot, snare or bomb a pigeon, kaka or
tni. Clean and pluck him, then make some stones
red-hot, and ?tow them in the bird’s interior. Wrap
him in fern leaves or flax blades, sprinkle plentifully
with water, cover with your macintosh or coat, and
tie on top of your swag. By the time you reach
your next resting-place a warm meal will be ready
for you, cooked in first-chop style. Tangata calls
this recipe tunu-haere, which means “cook-as-you
go.”
* * * *
I>areoo ’: The little black ant is the pest
of the bushman’s camp, climbing in myriads over the
tucker table. The sugar-tin is a seething mass, the
lioney-pot crawling, and the condensed milk a horror,
filling bushy’s cup to the brim with bitterness and
blasphemy. I supply a remedy, which is absolutely
efficient. Get four strands of hair from a horse’s
tail, wiap them round the table-legs and secure with
cotton. That’s the terminus for black-ant opera-
tions in that direction.
QUITE UPSET ABOUT IT.
MRS. DUNKS: “That’s the feller got smashed
hut) an’ ’is wife got killed in th’ hacci-
dent lavs’ month.”
MRS. CHOGGS: Awful, ain’t it! They say
the poor man ain’t smiled since.”
This brightened up the mail •
To Editor of The Bulletin/
Kindly Published the following
& oblige
Dan O’Flaxxagan.
Wedding k ff- aB °- There was a nice T>ite
Wedding celebrated in Melb. The fair young Bride
' "to wo,?’ f the / “ whe " the wireless
set to \ioik A grand, gg uncle of the Bride- got
a wireless - By Crikies” oft he went to give the signal
actorued 'r - ’ "' here NeaVeS ’ food is ™na-
Boarr ea t 0 “ CUri °’’ Brid ge which is
ibe Le a UP a f, lSt traflce grand 8 S uncle tore down
r hk l S ° me 0f OUr S ales Would to —got
\, . 0 the other side to the wireless then by
Knkies up and down the news went for 9 days
Further down one of the Brides Mother’s intamate
stee'i d / Vh T 18 between 60 x 80 >' rs mounted her
steed & rode as she had not done for yrs fled along
Cape Otway road to tell her most intamate friend
(who manages Hubby farm) of the fair voung
Bnde Wedding? Daughter A sits nursing her
wrath thinking of the nice fair Sister in Law which
sie never had. Pa & Mar comfy off thinking of the
wonderful match their only daughter had made. By
sti^ 68 110 " eddi " g in Royalty wi H ever cause such a
By Crikes ■
* * * *
, L.E.”: Fergus McTartan was a most
y squatter, but he met a strange proposition when
he gave a S’Army man a job. Once he watched
lobias Cymbals ploughing. It was a scorching dav,
and Toby gradually stopped the plough and fell on
his knees in a cool place. Fergus came along, and
Toby prayed with great fervor. “An’ what may ve
be doin’ doon there?” he queried. “Praying,” re-
plied the ex-sinner. “Satan attacked me. I’m often
attacked like this.” The tyre of McTartan’s patience
blew out. “No funny bezniss here! I engaged ve
to ploo fram sax i’ the morning till sax at nicht.”
1 he" his piety asserted itself. “But, me guid mon,
ye kin pray a’ nicht, an’ gae doon on yer marrow
bones, an’ hae a real guid fecht wi’ Satan, an’ the
Lord be wi’ ye in yer grrreat afflection.” Tobias
rolled up his tambourine that night and headed along
the hard and narrow track.
ti * * * *
luldyson” : It all happened away back in
ISTB. There had been startling gold discoveries over
the border, and the Gridiron Lead was drawing men
from all the Victorian fields. Threepenny went with
the tide. There were several reasons why Three-
penny should go. One was in the instinct of a
digger which possessed
“Traybit”; another was
Mrs. Threepenny’s studied
insolence. They had been
married only a year or so,,
but already all distant
hills were green and re-
freshing to Threepenny in
contrast with his imme-
diate ills. He went to
Gridiron Lead, and worked
there for two years, doing
fairly well. Billy Three-
penny had neglected to
tell Mrs. Threepenny where
he was going, possibly to
avoid the necessity of ex-
plaining when he intended
returning. It had been
his intention never to . re-
turn ; but, having money
and feeling good, and ab-
sence having made the
heart more hopeful, he
eventually packed and
headed for Tollbar once
more. “After all,” he
told Kyley, '“the blanky
house is mine.” As he
came over Till’s Bridge
into the township with
Kyley a house was coming
out. It was a four-
room e d, weatherboard
house on a big jinker
drawn by 14 horses. As
they looked a woman put her head out
of the front window, and a man stepped
from the front door, and stood talking
to the driver. “Come on,” said Three”
penny, and he pulled his mate away off
the track. They walked through Toilbar.
“But where’s your house?” said Kyley.
Threepenny sighed. “That was my house
we passed on the road,” he said “Go
oral” gasped Kyi ey. “Yes,” said Threepenny,
an that was my missus poked her ’ead outer the
winder. The man what come from the door was Ben
vee an old flame of the missus’s.” “Geewillikins!”
said Ivyley. “Yes,” said Threepenny, “we blessed
near interrupted the helopement!”
* * * »
“Flinderino”: How many know that flying
foxes are edible? Two Northern Territory team 5 -
sters were conveying stores from Port Darwin to a
Roper River station when flood-waters hemmed them
m for 18 days. Their meat soon gave out, and for
a fortnight they lived on flying-fox cutlets and
stew. They agreed that the tucker was good
though the smell was outrageous. Also it was con-
tagious. When they eventually arrived at the sta-
tion nobody, not even the blacks, would come within
smelling distance of them. Dead whales and defunct
camels are as violets compared with weather-beaten
teamsters exuding essence of flying fox.
NEARLY WENT TO EXTREMES.
MICKO: “They tell me yes stoushed ’ell outer Bill.”
SNORKEY: " Yes, an' for two inns I’d ha’ turned, the cow down when ’e arskt me ter have
a leer.”
“Moana” : I wish to enter a mushroom for
tha world’s championship. It came up unexpectedly
at Poxton (M.L.) the other day, pushed aside the
cow-shed, obscured the landscape and caused a dis-
turbance generally. When it had finished expanding
it was 4ft. 7in. round the edge and tipped the scales
at 131 b.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: I can’t swear to a cure for
fistula in a horse, but next time “Merrigal” (B.
21/10/’ 15) and others see signs of the trouble in
front of the wither let them clip the hair short and
rub turpentine in hard on both sides of the neck as
long as the patient will stand the attention. Shortly
afterwards foment with water close-up boiling. One
week’s spell and all signs of the coming fistula dis-
appear.
* * * *
“Lou”: Hard luck? Well, how’s this?
The Arbuthnot family, who owned the biggest saw-
mills . on the Murray, recently lost a steamer on
the river by fire. They built another and that was
burned on the Wakool (N.S.W.). Last month then-
mills at Koondrook were cleaned right out by the
demon. Everything but some sawn timber went up
in smoke, and there was no insurance, apparently
owing to some oversight in regard to a policy.
* * * *
‘Myall”: There’s a good deal of jaw about
the abilities of the jumbuck barber, but mighty
little credit is given to the average “blue-tongue”
or picker-up for the work performed by him. The
lad who can pick up 700 fleeces in a day is no
slouch, and if he also has to do the “brooming” he
has no time left to discuss such vital questions as
the probability of the Huns invading Greenland or
the advisability of building a strategic railway from
Bourke to The Balonne. I know one youth of 15
who picked up 851 fleeces in a day, besides sweep-
ing the board, picking the locks, and attending to
the innumerable calls for tar. If any Abostralian
can trot along his better I will give the boy a job
and guarantee him the full wage of 37§d., irrespec-
tive of age.
* * * *
“Fait Lux” : Mount Magnet (W.A.) pos-
sesses two curiosities in cockatoos. One always places
a tobacco tin over his head before retiring. Take
away his tin hat and he refuses to go to roost, nor
will he allow anyone else to sleep until it is re-
turned. The other bird is a black brother, and has
been living a domesticated life for years. Anyone
else know of a black cockatoo living in captivity?
“D.F.”: A white leghorn hen, appropri-
ately owned bv one Drake, who lives at Little
Swanport (Tas.), has laid an egg which weighs
over a third of a lb. —sJozs. This is claimed as a
record in hen-fruit; and if anybody can disprove it
let him kiss the Book and hand over the evidence.
* * * *
“Hay”: I should like to put in a word for
the quandong as an ornamental tree, worthy of the
consideration of any suburban botanist. Whether
covered with a crop of its peach-like fruit or just
its glossy green leaves, this graceful native, with
its dark red-brown slender stem and graceful
branches, is one of the most beautiful of our many
beautiful bush dwellers. Its acid-tasting fruit makes
a very good jam, and, being easily stoned, may
also be dried and. stored away for winter use.
There are two kinds of native peach, a dark-red
variety and one much paler in color. The latter
is very sour, and not such a valuable adjunct to the
menu as the red kind. The curiously-crinkled
nuts used to be bored to make bead necklaces for
the bush girls, and the old-time bushman when
he didn’t affect a piece of mutton-shank ivory used
to carve an elaborate ring from a quandong nut
through which to pass the ends of his bright silk
neckerchief. This sort of work required a special
kit of carving tools, and it took a month of Sundays
to complete a single ornament.
* * * *
“H.8.W.”: The oddest piece of grafting
I have seen is in Maitland (N.S.W.) cemetery. Most
people have seen peaches growing on plum trees,
etc., but has anyone come across a bluegum sprout
on a camphor-laurel tree? Apparently a branch of
the higher bluegum was broken off by the wind, and
in its fall caught in a fork of the laurel, where it
has been green for years.
“Warrego”: “Barcoo’s” bush woman (B.
1/11/ IS), who rode 90 miles straight out to take
her sick child to a doctor, has a mate. A quarter of
a century ago there lived in a bend of the Warrego,
25 miles from Charleville (Q.), a selector, his wife
and their two sons, aged three years and one year
respectively. One day when the father was away
rounding up horses the elder boy jabbed one of the
blades of a pair of scissors into an eye. His mother
didn’t waste time. She just removed the weapon and
then rode, carrying both children, into Charleville.
Her action saved the child’s eye. I know, because
she was my mother and a white scar on my brother’s
right iris concludes the evidence.
SAVING BY FAITH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A crowd had gathered on the pier
To see the boys in khaki go,
And when the parting tick was near
A moving truck upset the show,
And overboard went Israel Mo.
The man was fat and built to float;
He might have done quite well, they say,
Had he not opened wide his throat
To yell for help, and so made way
For half the waters of the bay.
Strode forth a soldier tall and fine,
Threw down his garments one by one,
And plunged into the rippling brine.
Two minutes and the work was done—
I. Mo nas drying in the sun.
AY hen drained completely Mo arose,
The soldier hero he dismissed:
You vant rewarding, I suppose.
1 vos kvite safe, sir, 1 insist—-
I am a Christian Scientist!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


BLACK <a WHITE
■■
■ ■■
. ~....
.
■ Wm¥ : z\
■
"4. .
gSSfi
• a
mmm
■ ...
■
:«■■ n
■' '?- ■-r
wist
1 ■■■
lUL * *,.
■-.■ - y £\!&. a ", '
HHR
44 . '' 4
*»9k*
..■' HB
. H
>s •"■ "■• ‘'■ ’. ' "
:'
4
4
■
i
&
MM
4 ’ ■'".■'
. : 4 "
44 4 -
. -m
■mm§m
m i
S 4
H 111 IS
IsgS!
1
.-'A'
, /
i* •«■ -■ '4- 4$
“DUBLIN FUSILIERS.”
WHISKY


m
.
r
I
0
tm&sm *
0*
*
Blue
Ribbon
Lager
Tea&del d L/teley
80/e Contro/Z/ng Agent's /or Aos Am/as in
7 Hamzl top/ ST, S ydzze r.
BLUE R/880/ZLAGER /s obtainable Everywhere.
WWW
Lipton’s
Tea.
By Special Appointment to Ilis Majesty the
King, Purveyors to the late Queen Victoria
and King Edward the Seventh, the King and
Queen of Italy, the King and Queen of Spain,
and to every Viceroy of India for the past
25 years.
THERE can be no better recom-
mendation to the virtues of Lip-
ton’s Tea than the fact that in
India, which is the greatest Tea-pro-
ducing country in the world, Lipton’s
Tea has reigned supreme in the Vice-
Regal Court for nearly an ordinary
working lifetime.
Lipton’s colossal organisation has
been described as “The business on
which the sun never sets.” and Tup-
ton’s Tea as “The Pride of Five Con-
tinents.”
A Medical Opinion of
Lipton’s Tea.
Read what Dr. N. E. Yorke-Davies, the
Famous Nerve Specialist says regarding
Lipton’s Tea: —•
“It has also other advantages besides the
excellence of its quality. It comes from a
British Dependency, and is prepared under
British auspices. It does not pass through
the hands of natives, but it is manipulated
after it leaves the gardens entirely by
machinery of the most up-to-date character.
Of all the teas grown throughout the
world Ceylon teas are the best,” and the
finest Ceylon teas are grown on the Lipton
Estates, as they are entirely free from
Tannin or anything that could be injurious
to health.
We can supply grocers and farmers with
thousands of original chests at 2d. to 3d. per
pound under contract prices which will be
paid during the next twelve months.
Lipton’s Red Label Tea.
Lipton’s Yellow Label Tea.
Lipton’s Green Label Tea.
Lipton’s “At Home” Tea.
Lipton Ltd.
Head Office for Australia:
SYDNEY-414 RENT STREET.
BRISBANE—S 29 Petries Bight.
MELBOURNE—37B Flinders Street.
NEW ZEALAND—Customs Street East,
Auckland.
Also, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, WEST
AUSTRALIA, and all over the world.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Lee oh” : Exit to somewhere overseas the
red-funnel' coaster Ilaupiri, one-time the
Richmond, for some months past laid up
in Wellington (ALL.) Harbor. The Rich-
mond was at one time about the best-known
steamer in the South Seas. She and the
Herman liner Lubeck, sailing out of Sydney,
pretty well shared the Samoa trade between
them. Donald and Edenborough. of Auck-
land, ran her on the big round, Tonga-
Samoa-Tahiti-Rarotonga, and she panted into
the Waitemata every six or seven weeks
smelling of the isles and jammed to the deck
with freight. Square canvas was carried
on the foremast ip those days, for there
wasn’t much help then for a disabled single-
screw ship in the long tropic stretches. The
old ship’s furnaces were of the accommodat-
ing kind; they burned timber, copra, any-
thing. Once she ran out of coal returning
from Rarotonga and had to put into Sunday
Island, where the crew cut enough firewood
to carry her on to Auckland. Once she
was searched from how to stern by the
Squareheads at Apia for arms and ammuni-
tion, in the days when old Tamasese and
Ills German backers were top dogs in Upolu.
and was policed by a man-o’-war launch
steaming round her from dark till daylight.
O. A. Edenborough, one of the owners, a fine
old all-round adventurer, who had been a
Navy midshipman, a soldier in Maoriland,
free-lance officer in the Texas Rangers, and
South Sea treasure-hunter, used to sail with
her every trip. The Dutchmen hated him
with the hate of the flames of Tophet. but
the French camarades at Papeete loved him
as a, brother.
* * * *
“Q.D.” : There is said to be a pot of wealth
concealed in a cave somewhere near Hamp-
ton, in the Blue Mountains (X.S.W.). The
legend is that when bushranger Lowry and
party stuck up the Mudgee coach and made
a big haul of banknotes, they took the loot
to a spot a few miles from Oberon. and
divided it up at a house which figured
as headquarters. They also, the story runs,
celebrated the occasion joyously in the rum
of the period. A large portion of the notes
they decided to plant as a stand-by. Mem-
bers of the gang, scouts, etc., were watching,
and two of the more commercially-minded
rooted them out again the same night and
replanted them. These two were in turn
watched, and another two gentlemen once
more exhumed and reinterred them ; but they
were again resurrected by two more pirates,
who took the butter-cask containing them
about 25 miles, and planted it in a cave
out Hampton way. What with the efforts
of the police, and the extreme rage of the
different deserving but duped planters, the
successful pirates decided to let matters
stand for several months. Unfortunately,
in the meantime, one got seven years and the
other five years in connection with another
indiscretion. One reformed in gaol, and
swore never to handle the notes again. The
other died or cleared out or something.
Consequently thousands of pounds’ worth of
notes in a butter keg are said to be waiting
in that cave for a finder. The cask was
buried in dry limestone dust, so it might be
quite sound still. But what a fearsome
thing it would be to find the treasure and
discover that the bank that issued the notes
had gone bung.
“D.F.” : That venerable ark, the Kangaroo,
which paddles to and fro across the Derwent
(Tas.), is a standing advt. for the durability
of Australian timber. She is GO this year,
and is tin' oldest steamer built south of the
Line still in commission. Maoriland’s
Stormbird, which is a year older, was built
in Scotland. The Kangaroo’s main timbers
are nearly as strong and sound as when
they were put in. They were knocked
together at Ilobart, and are mostly bluegum.
“XXX”: Justice Rich stated an obvious
truth in his report when he said :
In tliis war between nations the time, is fully ripe
for organising tlie services of all classes of the com-
munity. Professional men have already been mobil-
ised. Business men might well be employed in mat-
ters where their training and experience would be
of the greatest advantage to the military authorities,
e.ff., in connection wiith ordnance and on finance
committees.
These instances were germane to the report;
but further illustrations are obtainable in
matters of transport. Experienced shipping
men would save tens of thousands of pounds
and handle the transports with the greatest
facility. As it is, some young Brass But-
tons from Whitehall messes the service and
keeps freights idling in unknown ports. Rein-
forcements are thus hung up and cargo is not
shipped, which means a direct loss in mili-
tary pay and an indirect loss to the producers
whose goods are eating up interest while
waiting to reach a market.
The “poor farmer” who remains so after
a season or two evidently doesn’t understand
his business. Two of the—er—profession at
Clunes (Vic.), where Peacock comes from,
lately sent some potatoes to Melbourne and
had the misfortune to have them overhauled
by interfering agricultural inspectors. There
were 121 bags altogether. The tops con-
tained large, -floury tubers, the centres
medium-sized samples and the bottoms
chocolate loam, choice but a trifle indigest-
ible. The consignment yielded lGewt. of
earth, and as spuds were then bringing £l2
a ton the honorarium’s fine of £3, with £1 .
costs, will leave the honest agrarians a
nice credit balance if they can get past the
interfering officers next time.
* * * *
<iT> -p ri -h f •
.®ad Australian : Politeness without sin-
centy is one of the chief characteristics of
the South American, right down to the com-
monest peon, and even the handulo will col-
te* h IS war indemnity with the greatest
suavity of manner, while Ins sawn-ott cant-
Inna, directed at his victim s fifth rib, empha-
sises the divine right of the conqueror. The
bandulo, when not actively engaged in levy-
mg forced contributions, is usually an
arricro or cargador, who attends strictly to
his ncgocio, but always with an observant
eye to possibilities of illegitimate business.
My outfit is pretty well known on the passes
of the Andes, and as my dealings have in-
variably been circumspect where the rights
of arrieros or cargadores were concerned, 1
have always been on the free list, so to
speak. But a short time ago, when I had
reached a point where the mule track ran
along on the side of an almost perpendicular
spur, overhanging a fast-flowing river, 1
struck trouble. It was just about dusk and
my arriero was ahead pushing the pack mules
along, when some gentry concealed on the
upper side of the trail opened fire and two
mules went down, one blocking the road, the
other going over the cliff into the river
Miguel, the arriero , was oil. his mule and
under cover in one act. 1 acted just as
promptly, and reached for lus long .44.
Nothing further happened for about an hour,
and it being black dark by that time, we
made back to the nearest camping ground,
About G a.m. the following morning three
cargadores with whom I was well acquainted
arrived, and after the usual polite saluta-
turns the spokesman, “El Gallito” (the
Little Rooster), put it like this: “Distin-
guido Senor Australiano. We have done
that last night down in the Quebrada del
Tigre which renders it imperative that we
get across the boundary without further
delay; but before we leave the territory we
wish to apologise most humbly for any incop.-
venienee which you may have suffered
through a most lamentable error on our part,
an error which ive fortunately discovered in
time, and tp-tsay that we are leaving you the
two best cargo mules we possess, in order
that you may in a measure recoup your loss,
a loss which we truly deplore. We
would further say that we thank God
that your respected person has not been
subject to any inadvertent violene
part, and, assuring you of our i eaye ,
tinguished consideration, we take o ttj b
commending you to the care of the - three
Cod and His Holy Saints. lhen . IM) lit*'
lifted their sombreros in the uj°- _ _
manner, raked their mules with tuei
inch rowels, and lit out for the nex 1 1 ,
The act of restitution was prooabij P r ~
by the best feeling, but on looking 1
mules in the mouth I found them v\ ‘ *
the brands of an adjacent Mining a
ploration Co. *
* .. , " , , * o/vi for
Tlaka : The Maonland leco Wel-
greasy wool was seriously uis » v,paved at
l'*Bton the other day when a buyei heaved at
a staggered auctioneer the astounding Dio o
241 d. for a lot of Southdown. Whereupon
- Union of Cocldes up Auckland way
immediately passed a resolution declaring
th tth time J had ai . riv ed for putting a com-
man on t 0 “watch proposed legisla-
„ Heaven only knows where the con-
ti . between the two things unless it
be th t Cocky heard the stud ewes bleating
« B b la £ d tax i» the other day as the
goldierB , t ’ ro()p tl . a}n went by.
* * * *
“Copabella” : It is time someone asked a
ques ti o n or two about Argentine wheat pur-
cbases. Writers have said much about its
p j n( . bed features, its unhealthy appearance
and tbe var i ed collection of vegetable pests
it coucea i od but so far no one has raised
Cain over the method of its buying. The
wbeat itself was about equal to Australian
otli-grade chick-feed, weather-stained at
t hat. Its cost to local millers was about
ff d a bushel, a fair average price for
f a q Australian. Surely we are not asked
to be ]i eve t hnt this miserable stuff was
f, a , q Argentine? If if wasn’t that, who
a p P ropriated the difference? Australia at
tbe timo of i, ny j ng no do ubt wanted wheat,
but not S() bad j y r i iat it was necessary to
pay standard-wheat price for stripper-dust
* m( ] p OOI . hen-food. There seems a smell of
unearned increment fermenting somewhere,
* * * *
“Devilfish”: Nearly every ketch and fisli-
ing-boat on the Tasmanian coast has a
motor-engine nowadays, and it has always
been the correct thing to get the engines from
ihe other side of the world. But now one
A. B. Buyers, of Hobart, has turned out
front his engineering shop a motor-engine
locally made from top to bottom and pro-
poses to keep on doing it if the public will
use a mere Australian article. All Buyers
wants now is more of them,
* * * *
“Esmeralda”: “Jaques” (B. 11/11/T5)
asks why every sailing vessel reaching South
America from Newcastle has from 10 to 100
tons of coal short. The explanation is
that owing to the shallowness of most S.
American harbors the coal is lightered ashore,
With a few lumps dropped from each lighter
an astonishing amount of mineral can be
lost. It is reckoned that enough coal lines
the bottom of Callao, ITuanchaco and other
ports to bunker Britain’s fleet for a year.
ALL FOR 3d.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a well-known suburban Anglican church,
attended by well-to-do middle-class people, I re-
cently helped the secretary to count the collection.
There were 42 threepenny-bits.
— Letter-writer in Melbourne daily.
The thrummer is a useful coin;
’Twill buy a lot of things,
From (say) a fairly “high” cigar,
Or something cool served in a bar,
Up to a pair of wings!
For 3d. sterling anyone
A picture-show may see,
Or buy the lengthiest of “wets,”
A tram ride, or some cigarettes,
Or—immortality !
“The thrummer is a useful coin”—-
Pear brethren, this my text;
For in this world ’twill help you on,
And will, when you from here have gone,
Admit you to the next!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


THE
UNIVERSAL
CAR
Made Under the “British Flag”
in Canada
“FORD” Touring Car
£195
t S
V
1 Wbw
£195
The “FORD” offers all the conveniences of motor locomotion
without the burden of a large investment. Subsequent
upkeep is so astonishingly low that the “FORD” is an actual
source of saving instead of an expense.
The “FORD” is a universal utility. Its sphere ofinfluenee
is not confined within the limits of any one class of the
community or any one class of business. Tt serves a
community of interests.
Invaluable for the busy business man. A utility unsurpassed
for Farmer or Squatter. It’s the sportsman's car —the family
ear. The "FORD” is staunch —tireless —dependable—
economical —übiquitous. It traverses country that no other
car can traverse —climbs hills that no other car can climb.
FORD” Station Utility
£l7O
VWmm ;
£l7O
The “FORD” Station Utility carries its own recommendation
in its appearance.
Its very looks suggest litheness, tireless activity, handiness
and unbounded usefulness. It possesses all the distinguishing
features characteristic of "FORD” cars —hardiness—handi-
ness —lightness—staunchness'—dependability and economy of
maintenance and operation. It is competent to cope with
absolutely the worst condition of country.
Mr. Countryman. —Ask yourself! Isn't there a hundred and
one uses to which you could put this great little utility to?
Your business reason promptly answers “Yes.”
Make investigations from nearest Agent.
AVERAGE ‘'FORD” SALES:
450 Cars a Month throughout Australia
REPRESENTATIVES
Queensland:
Queensland Motor Agency Ltd.
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
South Australia
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD.
Franklin Street,
Adelaide.
Victoria:
TARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.
112 Russell Street,
Melbourne.
New South Wales:
DAVIES & FEHON MOTORS LTD.
112 Hunter Street,
Sydney.


25
301-
gdr
IB
. • ■ ■ ■i.lllSuSlQ
CT^!|!llll!ilillllilil!lliilillill!i i »fg'
9ct. Gold Three-bar Brooch,
Garnet in centre, 17/6.
9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Heart
and Ivy Leaf, anv name engraved,
7/6.
&
m
9ct. Gold, Half-round Bracelet, richly
chased, £2. 15et. Gold, £3,
Gold Spray Brooch, set
Pearls and Turquoise, 8/6.
loct. Gold Brooch, set pure
double-cut Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £4/10/-
All Diamonds, £l2/10/»
20/-
/
25/-
Lady’s Solid Silver
Double Case Hunting
Keyless Watch, full jew-
elled, 25 /-; extra jewelled,
30/-; 10 years’ guaranteed,
Gold-filled Keystone Case Elgin
Lever, £2/15/-; Solid Gold,
£3/10/-, £4.
9ct. Gold Links,
25/-; 15ct. Gold,
9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Pearls and
Amethysts or Red
Stones, 22/6.
9ct. Gold
Necklace, set
Pearls and Aqua-
marines or Tour-
malines, £2.
9ct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 10/-;
loct. Gold, 15/-
18ct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 40/-
15ct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 25/-
18ct. Gold, 30/-
m
as
Oct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 20/-;
15ct. Gold, 40/-
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled,
Lever Movement, £4.
Expanding
£3/10/-
15ct. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £B/10/-
All Diamonds,
£lO.
9ct. Gold Sou-
venir Pendant,
8/6.
Yv it h Enamel
Shield, 12/6.
Tjady’s Solid Silver
Open-face Keyless
Watch, full jewelled, accu-
rate, 20/-; extra quality,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-;
Solid Gold, 50/-, 60/-,
75/-
9ct. Gold Ginks,
25/-, richly en-
graved. 15ct. Gold,
20 1-
25/-
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face
Keyless Lever Watch, jew-
elled, patent adjusted balance, non-
magnetic, dust-proof cases, 20/-;
extra quality. 35/-, 30/-, 40/-
1 Set. Gold
Ring, set 3
Diamonds,
£lO.
18ct. Gold
Ring set 3
Diamonds,
£lO.
18et. Gold
Ring, set
Diamonds.
£l2/10/-
18ct. Gold
Ring, set
Diamond,
£2/10/-
18ct. Gold
Half Hoop
Ring, set 5
Diamonds,
£5.
18ct. Gold
Diamond
Cluster
Ring,
£7/10/-
9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Red or Green Stones, 25/-
9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and Aqua-
marines, 25/-
loct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Aquamarines or
Tourmalines, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS,
807-817 George Street,
SYDNEY,
30/-
35/-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Watch, jewelled, com-
pensation balance, non-magnetic,
30/-; higher grade, 35/-; 10
years’ guaranteed Gold Case, Elgin
Lever Keystone Watch, £2/10/-;
Solid Gold, £7/10/-. £B, £lO.
g
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2-Jjin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22:6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
drg
d
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
NOTICE TO READERS.
TF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to th"
Manager, who will quote you price for-t ;
original.
214 George Strept, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrie
England, Od. Howto Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly's Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition. 40 engravings, is.
llow to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Mori.
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating thk
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Madf, Easy, Is. Ur-'ro-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. llow to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Burl’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 2s Od posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop llandyrook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is fid. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s (id. Aust. Min res’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
llow to Become Quick at Figures, Is ld‘.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is fid. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatcm
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is fid. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s fid. AUSTRALIAN PASTRYCOOKS GUIDE, Is Cd
m
a
all
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN STTTTXTNGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH. -®i
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, Atc., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working fop. Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for ail Games), Is. How to
Mksmep.isk, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River., 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. PARLor. Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter. Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator,, Is. The Doctop., cures
for aii diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDqugall Topped
the Score, At Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers ofSuperb Manhood, ss!
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, ail at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women's Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. gaF"Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY Si Civ CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS AD VT.
♦
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Ca nos, Is. Sappho, gerfuine,
Is. Ot,d Bdsii Sosas, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete.
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology. 7s (id post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chkvassk's Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarp. Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted'.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife's Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.. leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is ?u. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, doth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.’
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAT


KODAK.
pictures
give
lifelong'
pleasure.
Get a Kodak
this Christmas.
*• „ ,
X
m
Jii
I
m
km* y*?^
nßi
Time passes so quickly, the memory fades so soon, tliat all your happy holidays and all the delightful events of
your life pass away forgotten —unless you have a Kodak.
A Kodak will keep the best times of your life fresh in the memory.
There’s no better time to begin picture-making than at Christmas —with its happy re-unions and joyful holidays.
Surely the happiness of this Christmas and of the week-ends and holidays that follow is worth saving !
You can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour. They are priced
from 30/- to £l5/2/-, and every one is the newest Autographic Model.
The No. 3 Folding Autographic Kodak is wonderfully simple and
efficient. Takes pictures 4*4 x 3 % inches. Price, £4/7/6.
The No. 3A Folding Autographic Kodak is for postcard pictures—
size 514 x 314 inches. Price, £5/10/-
Then, there are Brownies for the children —from 5/- to 50/-
You can give a Kodak or Brownie to man, woman or child, and
know that it will please him or her not only at the time of receiving
it, but for many years to come.
Ask for new and very interesting illustrated booklet, “Holiday Time
is Kodak Time.” Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker (Sb Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street. MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HIDE: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN. N.Z.: 76 Stuart Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
HOBART: .45 Elizabeth Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
Information for the Housewife
CLARK’S
CAST- IRON
SAUCEPANS,
BOILERS, KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as the lightest Enamelled Ware, and will last
a lifetime instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust. Handles that will not slip in the hand.
Please note the
Hygienic Shape
and the Patent,
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
SECTION
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S hollow-ware IS THE BEST
Austra.la.sian Agent : A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne.
INEXPENSIVE XMAS GIFTS
=K
ill
FROM THE
TREASURE HOUSE.
Seekers after useful but inexpensive Gifts
naturally turn to Stewart Dawson’s, whose
selections at this season of the year comprise
so many appropriate Gifts within the reach
of moderate means.
OUR BOOK OP XMAS
NOVELTIES
is an excellent solution of the Gift problem,
and will be sent Post Free for the asking.
THE PURSE ILLUSTRATED
(P 1956) is best-quality Silver-plated. Size
4Jin. x 3in.
PRICE 11/6.
Others at 10/6 and 14/6.
Also in Solid Silver from 22/6 upwards.
Stewart Dawson’s
Strand Corner,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
gd
rg
dr
gd
Hartness Flat T urret Lathe
Makers—JONES & LAMSON, U.S.A.
With the Jones & Lamson Turret Lathe
Production Costs are Reduced.
An operator can make one piece quicker than it can be made in an
engine lathe, and if a number of duplicates are to be made, the
system of stops makes duplication possible at highest production
speeds. TWO SIZES.
Capacity on bar work, 2*4 iu. x 24in. and 3in. x 36in.
Capacity on chuck work, 12in. diameter and 14in. diameter.
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS.
Sole Agents:
c
Proprietary Limited
Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Bathurst Street.
Sydney.


l] / ohtwoit/i 'dfotel
Sydmeiy. IN.S.W.
OPENING of the SUMMER GARDEN!
The Wentworth Hotel Summer Garden is now in full swing, and, as
in previous seasons, lias quickly become the rendezvous of the (ilite.
Delightfully cool and comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons, Dinners,
Afternoon Teas and Supper Parties and all open-air functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find The Wentworth Hotel most popular.
The appointments and service are superb, and compare favorably with
the best hotels in Australia. Terms on application.
Mrs. MACEURCAN, Manageress.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—:amson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughlng, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
Once you
iSmoKe
<yS&'
Tobacco
notHing else will do.
2oz. Tins, lOd.
POLITICAL
POINTS
More war-time economy in the use of
loan money ! The Tasmanian Government
proposes to build a railway 131 miles long
from Branxholm to Moorina, and has got
the biggest part of the survey done for the
sum of £2816 17s. lOd. Luckily the coun-
try is, on the whole, fairly easy, or the job
might have been really expensive.
Even such a good old Conservative print
as the Hobart Mercury is patting the tiger
on the head and calling it Fido :
Wore our medical men Government servants, and
the whole subject of the nation's health the national
care, as will before many years be the ease in civil-
ised countries, no pains would be spared in instruct-
ing the ignorant amongst us as to the terrible pun-
ishments that follow filthiness and the neglect of
sanitation and hygiene in towns.
\\ ith the zeal of a new convert it out-
does the local Labor party, which is anxious
to nationalise the hospitals and do away
with the collection-box method of gathering
the coin to run them, but has so far fought
shy of the idea of making all the doctors
State servants.
W hile Defence-Minister Pearce is getting
together and training his new 50,000. is
he also getting the 5000 or 10,000 machine-
guns with which they should be supplied to
put them on an equality with the Hun and
the Turk? If so, where is he getting them
made? They can be made in Australia, but
not if the Defence Department allows
trained mechanics to enlist for trench fight-
ing. Some weeks ago a Bendigo engineer of
first-class attainments enlisted. He hasn’t
gone to the Front yet, neither is he employed
on machine-gun making or artillery repairs.
In fact, he is beating the drum in a regi-
mental band.
Labor’s silver jubilee gave Holman,
Flowers and a few others an opportunity to
recall the early days of the N.S.W. Labor
movement, when the orators spoke from
candle-boxes, wore out leather to save
tram-fares and collected coppers to pay
postage. Hughes, on the day of his election
to Parliament, went hungry because he
couldn’t buy a meal—he hadn’t then got
down to apples and nuts, but could enjoy a
steak with anyone, as he can again now.
Things are different these days. N. S. Wales
spends £4OOO in motor-cars that Ministers’
wives may do their shopping in comfort; and
Neilsen gets a few guineas a day to keep at
a distance; and a feed to Carmichael in
London costs £335: and then there are
third-rail test picnics which cost a couple
of thousands, and a score of other little
matters. The martyrs are making up for
the privations they suffered in the bleak
days all right. -At least, some of them are.
THROWING THE HOUNDS OFF.
The N.S.W. Parliament intends to deal this week
with a measure taxing betting tickets.
REB. SIR : “So you are to be taxed,
Brother?”
IKEY MO: “ H’m , nothing to squeal about!
A slight insurance against the introduc-
tion of the Tote.”
T he German Chancellor will yet be heard
talking this way, in the Reichstag:—
1 need not remind you of the enormous financial
° f thi r^ var has im P°? ed
1 the P cople of Great Britain. They are spending
£5,000,000 a day, and in addition have to face c-on-
+ -
tinual demands from Australia for further millions
intended to keep the people there from starvation, the
continent not yielding them sufficient to live upon.
So desperate is the position in one part of the coun-
-11 ,v lllal Government is now borrowing more than
ever it did before, in spite of increased revenue from
taxatio "’ an increased harvest and a population
diminished by the departure of men for service in
tlle ann ;' Die financial strength of England, great
though it was, is being strained to the uttermost,
and if we only stand fast it will collapse under the
double strain of war and the voracious demands of
Germany’s good friends Holman and Jack Scaddan.
Brother Huns, the future is full of promise. Let
ns practise rigid economy until the hour when Aus-
tralia lias got the last shilling from our enemy,
Then the British Empire will be rent asunder, for
with the stoppage of borrowed cash Australia would
he faced with the terrible alternative of working for
a living. Ilochl
Melbourne’s City Council is closely follow-
ing the worst traditions of Yankee, graft.
In answer to Hogan. M.L.A., Chief Sec,
McLeod told the Assembly that (1) the
Council had taken its workmen’s insurance
THE OPPOSITION.
FIRST PRO." “Any tucker erlong the road?”
SECOND PRO: “ Nothin'! Mob er ha mat-
choors just gorn through. Hat the coun-
try bare."
FIRST PRO: “ Hamatchoors ?”
SECOND PRO : “Yep. Recruitin’ march, they
calls it.”
business from the State office and given it
to certain private companies; (2) some
members of the Council are financially inter-
ested in some of these private companies;
and (6) he did not think these members
could legally retain their seats, but the
Crown Law Department was inquiring into
the matter. When presently a disgusted
Parliament decides that private cos. shall
be barred from this municipal business alto-
gether, there will be a howl, of course; but
Pirate .Enterprise will have dug its own
grave.
N, S. Wales Government Gazette lias
a list of persons in the State who hold ex-
plosives. Against 10 German-looking names
are. set no less than 700,000 cartridges, and
against six others 6251 b. of gunpowder. All
these people may be loyal Australians, and it
is not likely that any of them at this time
of day will try any sort of serious fireworks
display ; but in the light of the thoroughness
of the big German conspiracy throughout
the world it seems remarkable that names
that are used in Hamburg and Frankfurt
should be associated with so much sudden
death.
t In a half-hearted sort of speech Premier
Earle introduced the Commonwealth Powers
(War) Bill in the Tas. House of Assembly
and. then left, it in soak while lie talked
again of pubs and took a trip to Melbourne.
The Bill’s chance of passing is so sick, any-
way, that no one is worrying much about
it. The Liberals are solid against it and
had the nerve (after all the talk about the
“crime ’ of dividing the people at this crisis)
to say .that the questions should have been
submitted to the electors. Independent
A hitsitt has the casting-vote and he does
noc like the Bill either. But even if he let
if through the House of Dodery would kick
it out with all the emphasis its gouty foot
will allow.
For an hour oi' so the other morning pro-
ceedings were conducted in the Ma State’s
Leg. Assembly with a dignity which recalled
the spacious days of long ago. Boston, hav-
ing solemnly pronounced John Haynes “a
dirty scoundrel,” and been informed by Jack
Fitzpatrick that he was himself a “boor,”
declared that if Fitzpatrick wanted a smack
on the nose it was only necessary to call him
a few more names. Whereupon Fitzpat.
made a start and said Boston was a.n “igno-
rant country lout,” and Boston rushed over
to reach the nose he wanted to smite. Then
three or four representatives threw them-
selves upon him, and tli e air was rent with
loud shouts and yells and assorted howls.
A little later on Stuart-Robertson intimated
that the Chairman of Committee was a
blockhead, and there was more uproar, and
somebody was subsequently suspended, and
somebody else was dragged out by the Ser-
geant-at-Arms and deposited in the ice-chest,
and a dog rushed into the Chamber and
barked loudly at the Speaker, and Jabez
Wright snored like the last trump on a back
bench, and chaos ran the show. After which
the Assembly took a deep breath, and pulling
itself together, inside five minutes passed
appropriations for £2,762,943 19s. 9d. of
loan, and fled to catch a tram.
The mangled remains of the Electoral Bill,
which was to try to make Tasmania’s Hare-
Clark system of proportional representation
a bit proportional and provide an object-
lesson for the world in this particular line,
came before the House of Dodery the other
day.. After 29 minutes’ discussion they were
ordered a funeral without a division. The
Bill had been so hacked to pieces in the
Assembly and reduced to a series of shreds
and patches dealing with by-elections, keep-
ing State seats warm for members who tried
for the Federal Parliament and failed, and a
few other minor matters that it was not
much odds, anyway.
Horse-doctor Gilruth’s latest report on
the Northern Territory refers to the small
promise of agricultural settlement, and at the
same time declares the climate to be one of
the healthiest in the world for white people.
On this Sydney Telegraph says: “The
opportunity for constructive statesmanship
is still there. What is wanted is the states-
man.” Yes, and what the constructive
statesman ought to construct is the direct
railway from Oodnadatta to Pine Creek.
Failing this, it doesn’t much matter whether
a horse-doctor or a poultry expert is at the
load of affairs in the Territory itself.
Here’s a story that wants looking into :
One of the things the German is raising the wind
with is hops, and he seems to be getting a breeze
from Australia. For some time past cheap parcels
of (ostensibly) Yankee hops have been coming in,
hut there is a sort of German flavor about them.
In 1913 Uncle Sam got only 4700 bales of bops from
Germany, but for the first six months of the war —-
from August, 1914, to January, 1915 —he got in
38,000 bales. This may help to explain how it is
that, with a surplus of production over consumption
of 82,000 bales, U.S.A. has been able during the
past year to export 123,000 bales. If the hops
are sent to America from Germany, and then re-
exported to Australia, the people who handle them
get a rebate of the duty paid when they enter the
1 .S.A., so they have only the Australian duty to
consider. The Tasmanian hopgrowers are on the war-
path, and want Minister Tudor to prevent any German-
American or American-German dumping. But there
seems to be an idea that it is wrong to touch the
tariff during the war.
John Bull lias the straight Griffin on the
conscription question from the by-election at
Merthyr-Tydvil, which used to be Koir
Hardie’s seat. It returned the shaggy Keir
during the Boer war with a majority that
showed approval of his pro-Boer “senti-
ments,” and it was Claimed to be a stronghold
of anti-conscription feeling by people who
alleged that the trades-unionists—the miners
especially—would not stand universal ser-
THE GIBE PATRIOTIC.
MRS. JONES-SMITH (to husband with
toothache for the first time in seven
years) : “Just fancy YOU in the
trenches!”
vice. The candidates were one of these
people, the representative of the Independent
Labor Party, and Stanton, a Socialist. Stan-
ton stood outright for conscription, and won
by .10,286. to 6080. It looks as if anti-con-
scription is a Labor-leader’s cry .and not a
Labor cry at all. Under conscription Jack's
as good as his Labor-union master; and the
master naturally doesn’t like it.
THE RETREAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There tire only meagre details of Servia’s dogged
retreat. — Cable.
In the gold-and-turquoise glory of a typical Spring
day',
Where the bine Pacific rollers break in silver round
the bay,
We take up our daily paper-, and we open out the
sheet,
Just to read the meagre details of Servia’s retreat.
They make interesting reading, with our morning
tea and toast,
Though at times our gaze will wander up the
promontoried coast
Where the dazzling beaches nestle at the purple
headlands’ feet—
After all, they’re meagre details of Servia’s retreat!
Yet they somehow hold attention ; and the sated eye
returns
Prom the glorious, tranquil seascape to the big,
black type that burns
Like some harsh, corrosive fluid which on heart and
brain will eat,
Etching in the meagre details of Servia’s retreat.
A lightning flash of fancy, and our gaze is far-
away.
Here the sky is gre.y and sullen, and the landscape
grim and grey;
Cold and turbid vims yon river, thickly falls the
cutting sleet,
And a piercing wind and bitter follows Servia’s
retreat.
Through the mist-wrapped, hidden valleys, reached
by gorges far below.
These forbidding, naked rock-peaks, chequered here
and there with snow,
Where the lonely, wind-borne eagle swoops respon-
sive to a bleat,
There’s an army, there’s a people, there’s a nation
in retreat 1
Old men, women, little children, broken soldiers
starved and faint—
God! if any artist secs them what a picture he will
paint 1
They are filthy, ragged, shoeless; they have neither
bread nor meat,
And disease and famine revel in Servia’s retreat!
Like the conies of the Scriptures these be feeble folk
and few ;
But gigantic and relentless are the foemen who
pursue,
Making waste the land with slaughter and foul deeds
none may repeat—•
Oh, we dare mot mention details of Servia’s retreat!
From the San and from the Danube, from Morava’s
fruitful fields
They are marching, weak and weary, but their spirit
never yields!
Still they front the savage Bulgar; still the Hun’s
huge grasp they cheat;
Still the Austrian dead bear witness to Servia’s
retreat!
Fire and sword and rape and outrage and stark
cruelty they know—
A hundred hopeless rearguard fights have brought
their numbers low.
’Tie the wreckage of a Nation drifting southward
through the sleet,
But the world shall ring for ever with the tale of
its retreat!
Not the arrogance of Austria nor the Teuton’s mailed
fist
Could cow that little people marching hidden in the
mist ;
Not the faithless, valorous Bulgar nor the Turk, no
more effete,
Though in arms together banded, could break Ser-
via’s retreat!
For the spirit of Kralevich and Tsar Lazar is not
dead,
And Kosovo’s plain still reddens where the Sultan
Murad bled ;
And the love of land and freedom burns with all its
ancient heat
In the brave and dauntless remnant of Servia in
retreat!
TT.S.W.
E. N. MAcCULLOCH.


Eyes Front —and Attention!
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY,
Have much pleasure in advising their numerous friends and clients
that, as in former years, their stock of XMAS AXD NEW YEAR
GREETING CARDS is absolutely the finest selection in Australia.
Notwithstanding the difficulty existing as to shipments of general merchan-
dise from the Old Country, on account of the war, our shipping agents have
risen to the occasion and sent our goods forward early, with the result that
we have full stocks in every department.
OUR XMAS CARDS are all specially selected and comprise the very
latest designs and styles. We quote a few lines —
Tost t ice.
Beautiful selection of High-class Xmas Cards, each card singly boxed, real
works of art, 6d., 9d., 1/-, 1/3, 1/C, 2/-, 2/3, 2/C, 3/-, 3/C, 4/6
each.
A full range of Choice Xmas Folding Cards, with seasonable verses, Id.,
2d., 3d., 4d., 5d., Gd., 9d., 1/-, 1/C each.
Celluloid Cards, 2d., 3d., 4d„ Gd., 9d., 1/-, 1/C, 2/-, 2/C, 3/- each
Post Cards: Views of Sydney and Harbor, Wild Flowers and fancy
designs, with Xmas and New Year greetings, Id., 2d., 3d., 4d.
The always-popular Autograph Stationery, in endless variety, all new designs,
containing six and eight cards to box, fid., 9d,, 1/-, 1/6, 2/-, 2/6, 3/-
per box— postage extra.
A Complete Stock of TOY BOOKS, PRIZE BOOKS, ANNUALS, etc.
Leather Bags, Wallets, Purses,
Money Belts, Manicure Sets,
Writing Cases, etc.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
Head Office, 476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m a .
O OF
THE J PEN.
DUPLICATING.
■vfv >-rt ° F t ' u '" r
aM
c</
Oft
<*
%
A^all'A
WRITERS
Ask Your Stationer or Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box—BRITISH Made.
■The Drawing-room in the Mode! Cottage, Furnished by
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd., Sydney Town Hall, Oot. 25,1915.
m
, T*"
fifeLr l : K
f f
'M Ni '
!&§»
rg
Marcus Clark
and Co., Ltd.
Sydney and
Branches
The Leviathan offers
a “cool” suggestion
WEAR A NOTHING SUIT
“Nothing” Suits are the natural outcome of
the demand for suitable clothes for the Aus-
tralian Summer. They are always comfort-
able and cool —having “nothing” in the shape
of lining or padding.
Made from Tussorette—a STRONG Mercer-
ised Indian Cotton —with all the appearance
of Tussore Silk—with all the wearing qualities
of Tweed. Tussorette washes and irons
perfectly—and the neutral shades are fade-
less.
The Leviathan tailor “Nothing” Suits as
carefully as they tailor woollens.
THE COATS have outside patch pockets, remov-
able pearl buttons, loose facings for washing,
double-stitched seams, and are unlined.
THE VESTS—four pockets, removable buttons,
loose facings. -
TROUSERS —side pockets, easy thighs, loops for
belt.
Ready
to Wear
27/6
Freight
Paid,
“Nothing” Suits are also made to measure
for 35/-
drg
When ordering by post mention Height, Chest, Waist Inside-Sleeve
and Inside-Leg measurements. Patterns and measurement forms free on
request. We guarantee satisfaction or money back.
WLm4 Jfc PULL VALVIE in AIALE ATTIRE:
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
10-incH
BRITISH-MADE
12-inch
3-each
DOUBLE-SIDED
(N.Z. 3/6.)
Columbia
4 Records 4
5/- each
double-sided
(N.Z. 5/C.)
SUPPLEMENT No. 12 NOW ON SALE.
Insist on COLUMBIA.
THE MILAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
551
(Dance of the Hours, from “La Gioconda” (Ponchiellt)
(Hymn to the Sun, from “Iris” (Mascagni)
THE LONDON REVUE ORCHESTRA.
552
f “To-night’s the Night” Selection. Part 1 ( I> -
\ “To-night’s the Night” Selection. Part 2 (R.
i. Rubens)
. Rubens)
Introducing: Tart I.—Opening Chorus. Act 2: Boots and Shoes
Duet; The Only Way; To-night’s the Night; I lease Don t Flirt with
Me; Round the Corner. Part 2.—They Didn’t Believe Me; I d Like
to Bring My Mother; Too Particular; Dancing Mad; Im a Million-
aire; When'the Boys Come Home to Tea; Flay Me That Tune.
553-
(“To-night’s the Night” Valse ( p - A - Rubens)
\“Betty” Valse ( p - A - Relent)
Mr. MILES R. BRACE WELL, Bass
(with Orchestra)
556-
f Song of Hybrias the Cretan (Elltotl)
(Down Among the Dead Men (Iraditional)
The Famous Melody, “ Kol Nidrei.”
CELLO SOLOS played by BANNISTER POWELL
(with Orchestra)
554
f “Kol Nidrei.” Part t (Bruch)
\“Kol Nidrei.” Part 2 - (Bruch >
Mr. JACK NORWORTH
in His New “Sister Susie** and Telephone Numbers
(with Orchestra)
555-
/Give Me a Tinkle on the Telephone (NoHcorth and Trevor)
/Sister Susie’s Marrying Tommy Atkins (Weston and Darewski)
And Seven Splendid New 10-inch Records.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston Sti
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 213 High ,St|.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
That Russia’s forced draught furnace may
soon superheat the Balkan melting pot. and
Italy’s breath of hope become a fiery blast
•is the hope inspired by King George IV.
tcpnotch Scotch. —Advt.'
If you desire to send a box of cigars or some other
useful gift to a smoker friend at Christmas, A. M.
Solomon, of 173 Pitt Street, Sydney, will be pleased to
forward on application his artistic and comprehensive
catalogue.— Advt.
A HINT TO THE
SISTER
WONDERING WHAT BEST TO SEND
TO HER BROTHER AT THE FRONT.
To the thousands of sisters who have
brothers at the Front, and whose thoughts
are constantly with them, and what can
best be sent them to make their lot easier or
safeguard their health, it may not be amiss
to suggest sending a bottle of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Rills.
A bottle of pills may seem an amusing
or unusual thing to suggest, but, seriously,
could anything of equal size or cost be sent
that will be so necessary or useful? It is a
well-known fact that the men require such a
remedy. The irregular life causes the system
to get out of order, and it is this getting out
of order that is responsible for such an
enormous loss from sickness. The shot and
shell of the enemy are only part of the
dangers the soldiers face. To be an effec-
tive soldier, good health is far and away
the most important single item.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are too well
known to the public to waste space telling
what they will do. The little amber bottle
in which they are packed will secure them
from all kinds of weather conditions, and
they can be carried by the men on their
persons at all times without inconvenience.
Ten thousand bottles of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills were offered and accepted
by the military authorities during the early
months of the war. From letters received
from Egypt and other advices the gift of
these pills was highly appreciated, because
they met the everyday requirement and kept
them in perfect condition. See that a bottle
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is in-
cluded in any parcel being sent to a brother
at the Front. — Advt.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Sydney Royal Agricultural Society pur-
chased some expensive information last week when it
learned that it hasn’t a censorship over the turn-
stiles. Some two years ago a citizen had a dust-up
with the officials over a question of pony exhibits.
Ihe Council wiped him and his ponies off its books
and warned the argufying party off the 11. A.
Ground. Eighteen months later he sought admission,
and was forcibly refused. Thereupon he sued the
Council for £lOOO damages. A jury awarded him
one farthing, and the Judge invited each side to pay
its own costs. It was explained that a society or a
club has not the right to refuse admission to its
grounds for ever to any person, provided that he con-
ducts himself respectably. The general belief is
that anyone solemnly “warned off the turf” by the
A.J.C. or the V.R.C. is virtually outlawed and ex-
communicated, and trespasses on any registered race-
course at his peril, but according to the latest
Verdict this view is an unwarranted assumption of
authority, the which is loaded with possibilities.
“Cleido”: Pinaso’s charge of fake in re-
gard to the Darcy-McGoorty scrap (San Francisco
bulletin, 14/10/’l5) does not hum nearly as badly
as Ins reasoning. Did anyone back McGoorty ? Any-
llo'Y’ Garey’s mob got their parcel on their man
without any bother (a pretty solid one, too), and
the odds failed at any time to show that he’d been
backed for an additional £3OOO, or anything like it
Even a far less sum would have “blown the gaff.”
to ,, t° rm since then, a few words from
Billy Murray himself may not be out of place,
these were uttered while he was getting rubbed
immediately after his disturbance with Darcy at
the Melbourne Stadium. Murray lasted till the sixth
round, and there is no doubt in the world that he
spoke out of a full heart. “Darcy,” he said, “is
absolutely the best man I have met. He may
possibly be beaten in a 10-round bout in America,
but in a fight to a finish no middleweight living,
and probably no heavyweight, could defeat him. He
is so abnormally strong and such a tremendous
puncher.” No doubt it hurts to do in your dough,
but if Pinaso wants it back he’d better be on Darcy
every time.
* * * *
Fritz Holland and “Red” Watson, he of
the thick neck and iron jaw, provided Saturday’s
disturbance at Sydney Stadium, and went the whole
distance. The methods of these men are as dis-
similar as their physical appearance. Holland,
little and limber, is a boxer of rare skill; Watson,
chunky and slow-moving, has no boxing skill, but
carries a fearsome smite and the pugnacity of a
When Holland wins he gets there by
science; AVatson arrives with a sudden welt on the
jaw.
This time he couldn’t deliver the welt. Instead he
took many welts himself; but all the while he
fought gamely back for an opening and threw hay-
makers about with untiring energy. AVat.son’s
capacity for assimilating punishment is extraor-
dinary. Time after time. Holland bashed him on
the side of the jaw with a measured right, but
without causing the recipient of the polite attention
any more discomfort than could be shaken off by a
toss of the head. Once Holland got him to the
ropes and punished him with at least a dozen wal-
lops in succession, left and right straight to the
face. AVatson took the bombardment without flinch-
ing, and finally jumped forward like a wounded bull-
dog and gave Holland a rousing half-minute. At
the end of the journey there was only one in it
so far as scoring was concerned, for Holland had
held the upper hand all through.
Incidentally, the dust-up caused many of the
crowd to wonder how often a man may hit low
Without being turned down. On three occasions
at least AA’atson got far below the mark. His
trick of holding the top-rope with one hand and
aiming a back-handed swinger with the other also
looked mighty close to the edge of things. In fact,
AA r atson is full of tricks and surprises. He has to
be to get through. But he isT also one of the
most determined scrappers seen in a Svdney ring.
* * * ’ "*
Tommy Uren bored into Fred Kay at
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night, with energy
and hard bones. As fast as the fleet-footed Kay
sprinted St. Thomas followed, dealing out the most
un-Christian punishment. AVhenever Kay got a chance
at long-range fighting his left shot into Uren’s larder
with a view to repeating the recent Kay-Dyer per-
formance; but the young man from Sydney had alto-
gether different ideas, and, closing in at every oppor-
tunity, jerked upper-cuts to Kay’s head that "dropped
him in the third and blooded him every round from
the seventh to the end. Kay. was so hopelessly in
the negative at the twelfth encounter that the
referee declared peace, whereupon Uren took posses-
sion of the welterweight title.
* * * *
“Montalex”: I see that the Avould-be re-
vivers of the ancient Irish wolf-dog breed have at
last turned out a 36-incher. Doesn’t sound much,
but just mark it on a wall, and you’ll see what it
means. Even a 30-inch dog is a giant. Of course,
the new wolf-hound is a compound, the basis being
a cross of deerhound and ulmar (Great Dane) and
the difficulty of, fixing the type will, as usual, lie
in the ever-present tendency to revert to one or other
of the constituent breeds. That was the trouble
with the earlier bull-terrier. AVhen he wasn’t a
shambling, apple-headed monstrosity, he was gener-
ally almost (indistinguishable from either the bull in
the one direction or the white English terrier in the
other. But careful and long-continued selection and
infusion have absolutely fixed the type as we know
it, combining the bulldog’s breadth of skull and
power of grip with the long, “punishing” jaw and
immense rapidity of action that make the well-bred
bull-terrier such a formidable antagonist.
* * * *
Another of the sculling Totvns family,
Eddy, satisfied his friends at Newcastle on Saturday,
when he met Con Dempsey on the Hexham course
and defeated him in equal 22ft. fishing skiffs. Demp-
sey, who has been exhibiting • good form in minor
rowing, was favorite; but boy Towns settled him
at the three-qnarters-mile mark and paced home
comfortably. There was £5O waiting for him on
arrival.
* * * *
The south-easter on Saturday last favored
the limit boats in the - Svdney ■ Flying Squadron’s
Handicap, and they cut up the money. Four
hundred pounds has now been divided by the 1 two
sailing clubs, and the whole fleet has participated.
Tom Tait, the outside-marker of the lot, was the
only boat unable to earn a cent up to Saturday, but
when he managed to flop his catamaran over the
line into sixth place he got his finger into the pie
and lifted £2. Scot leads the field with £5O.
There is to be no Henley-on-the-Yarra
this season only a carnival on the lines - of a
Henley regatta, with canoe-racing and life-saving
demonstrations as special attractions. The affair
will be head-quartered in the Henley Reserve, as
usual, and the only difference to the naked eye will
be that most of the competing parsmen will be
married men with large family-responsibilities or
elderly bachelors with bald heads and sideboards, all
the other rowing men by that time—February next
—having gone off to the war. David Hennessy, now
beg inning l to be the Bored Mayor, to judge from his
appearance, is the prime mover so far; but the
remnants of the various rowing-clubs are also taking
the matter in hand in a serious manner, the resulting
profits being designed to build huts for social pur-
poses at Mudros, Lemnos and elsewhere in the Aegean
Sea and thereabouts. By the way, it will be in-
teresting to see what happens this year to the
annual-free-luncheon privilege of the Henley life-
members—a nice point to occupy the attention of
the committee during a couple of warm merry
hours.
‘•T.B.S.”: A word about the Manly surfer,
George Robey, and how he gained his D.C.M. (B.
20/8/ lfi). The late Lt. Addy and 1 were working
ammunition and water at the spot on the beach
where Robey was engaged. It was Lt. Addy who
recommended Robey for his fine behavior on that
memorable day, and 1 had the pleasure of signing
the document as a witness to the facts. When we
first landed Robey was instrumental in throwing up
an embankment of sand, etc., as a cover for wounded
who were coming in from the left flank. Mean-
time we heard that our second in command had been
wounded. Robey immediately left the beach, climbed
the hills, eventually found the Major and brought
nun to a place of safety. When he returned a boat-
load of men was just scrambling* through the water
on to the beach, and it was noticed that one man
remained in the boat sitting bolt upright. He hail
been shot through the forehead just above the eye-
brows. The Turks could easily see him, and directed
their fire at him. Robey immediately went to his
assistance, and was able to push him from the seat
on to the bottom of the boat, where he was fairly
safe. The boat was only a few feet from the shore
nimly embedded in the sand and rock, and a dead
mark During all this time the beach was con-
stantly under a cross-fire —shrapnel from Gabe Tepe
tort and machine and rifle fire from the foot-hills
on the left—but it didn’t prevent Robey battling
hard to save a machine gun which had fallen into
the sea from a boat. I’m writing this propped up
to allow sporting people and others to learn what
this gallant son of Australia really did for his
honorable distinction.
* * * #
Wounded at Gallipoli, Private Austin
Smith, of the 12th Light Horse. Born at Box Hill,
near Windsor (N.S.W.), he when quite young earned
the reputation of being one of tin l most finished
amateur cross-country riders in the State. Possessed
ot a cool head and a fine pair of hands, he steered
many animals for that good sport., G. A. Terry of
Box Hill. In 1906 lie won the Hunt Club Steeple-
chase at Eastwood, where the late Edward Terry
reigned supreme, and landed his mount a winner in
a similar race at Moorefield when pitted against pro-
fessionals.
JOHN TURNBULL, of the V.R.C.
‘;J B ” : Have just read in Bulletin
an account of how Lance-Corp. Fear blew
U P the . blockhouse on Quinns Post. The
P.ent m the bed next to mine (Lemnos) is Sapper
, ~ "Odges, D.S.M., of the M.L. Engineers, who
was I ear s companion in that exploit, lie will be
’ Gtr ! e , l , l ! ’ er, ‘ < . > by sporting enthusiasts as the repre-
British diver in the last two Olympic
<,ames - " e also toured France in 1912 with a
representative English Soccer team, and as a sprinter
eouid always be depended on to break 11. Hodges
Happened to be m Auckland when the big shindy
pceurred, and was one of the first to join the colors
j! 1 Ma oriland. His career has been as varied as
that ot the late Blair I. Swannell, and ranged from
stowaway on a Belgian-American liner to a promi-
nen': position on the London concert platforms. He
was also a member of several of Geo. Edwardes’s
London cos., including “The Quaker Girl.” I can
safely say from personal knowledge that it is not
Hodges s fault that he has not come to the same
end as Blair L #
rm „ *.
. -f- lie owner ot many historic horses, inellld-
the unbeaten Grand Flaneur, which won the 1880
Melbourne Cup, A.J.C. and V.R.C. Derbies, St.
Leger and Champion Stakes, passed the final Judge’s
stand last week—W. A. Long, one-time proprietor of
the Chipping Norton estate, near Liverpool. He was
olle of the few survivors of that old racing school
which included Hercules Robinson, the Whites, Wil-
s?“.s’ .P e , Mes ft e and others. He had many financial
vicissitudes—the events of the bank crisis hit him
ba /.; y hut he held on to his sporting interests, and
a rn< ? l jf} ls ag° was regularly seen at Rand-
'lck and f ’oseliill. He weighed in at 76.
* * * *
6-furlongs’ : W. A. Long, M.L.C., just
deceased, was owner of Grand Flaneur, whose name
is handed down by old ’uns to more supple genera-
tions as the unbeaten and unbeatable champion of
the Australian turf. Jt was Long’s pet theory that
the present-day racehorse is miles behind the prads
of earlier days, and that Grand Flaneur was in a
class by himself. Yet this champion only won £BOOO
m stakes, which is explained partly by the fact that
in his day stakes were small, and partly by the other
tact that he started only nine times. Of the manv great
horses since his day the names of Carbine, Trafalgar
and Poseidon occur as instances of nags with records
equal to, if not better than, Grand Flaneur. True, they
were all beaten in turn, but so would Long’s famous
horse have been had he contested as often as they did.
“Merrigal”: The just-dead “Bill” Long
never practised his profession of barrister, though in
tie early legal days of his friend Ted Lee, of
Bathurst, he occasionally accompanied him on c-ir-
cult for companionship only. He was a wealthy
man in those times, but speculations and helping
mends left him comparatively poor at the finish.
Mamre ’ Smith, once owner of Eurimbla station,
Molong, sent for him a few days before his death
and expressed a desire to leave him everything; hut
Bill remarked that he was sufficiently gilded, and
suggested Billy Sparke instead, who, having no
objection, duly received the gift, and remembered
Long in his turn. The old man, who never married,
was a brother-in-law of the silver-tongued Dailey
and that keen lawyer “Jimmy” Martin, once Chief
Justice.
* * * *
The late It. Barr Smith was a great judge
of a horse or a dog. His brother-in-law, Thomas
Elder, founded the long-famous Morphettyille stud,
between Adelaide and the sea, and the family kept
it going till recent years. Mr. Smith was said never
to have backed a horse except his own, or to have
had more than a pound on. II is colors, yellow,
black cap, have not been seen for a long time. He
won the Adelaide Cup with Banter in 1879, and in
the ’9o's Mostyn twice won the Goodwood for him
aud the City Handicap once. On the last-named
occasion (1890), the “double” was in the family,
his son, Tom Barr Smith, winning the Birthday Clip
with Destiny.
* * * *
The Maoriland horse Warstep keeps the
bailiff out of the stable with much consistency.
Her winnings at the recent big meeting in Canter-
bury bring her total earnings up to £10,200, which
puts her in a local class hv herself. No other
racer in Maoriland has cut out five figures in win-
n£9l3othe n ° al ' CSt to the lnark being Achilles with
* * * *
On Saturday at the Westralia T. C. meet-
ing two of the offspring of Bohadil, Galtee Queen
and Lucky Escape won races. The last-named paid
a dividend of £32 12s. ill the Flying Handicap—
on the tote, of course. As the animal was second
favorite Judea stretched a point when its exiles
laid five to one.
* * * *
“Rag”: It was, of course, only to be ex-
pected that I key Mo would discover a means to
pioceed with his profitable business in Svdney, despite
the comprehensive definitions of what is a place
within the meaning of the Gaming Act. He now
has motor-ears running to time-table in several
suburbs on certain days. If you happened to he
within eyeshot of such a locality, say, five minutes
before one of these cars was due there, you would
see a knot of from two to 20 rmnters impatiently
awaiting the arrival of Ike. When he did arrive
you would notice that, instead of stopping, the car
moved dead slowly alongside the kerb and tiiat the
men who had been waiting approached it in turn,
inquired as to the price of such and such a nag in
some race or other, handed some boodle to the per-
sons in the car, and received a betting voucher in
return. It is obvious that hundreds of stations can
he called at during a day, and a big and regular
clientele is being gradually got into the net. If the
ear is moving, no matter how slowly, the rookies
reckon that it cannot be “a place.”
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: Mossy Isaacs used to tell this
little bit of autobiography. Mossy was the one
eminent bookmaker of Australia about whose nation-
ality there was no possible, probable shadow of
doubt. His nose stands for the sign nasal of all
Israel. “I vos on a pizneth call at the houze of a
cliend of mein,” said Mossy, “und presendlv a
leedle girl come in, and haf a goot, long look at
me, und then she say: ‘Farder, farder, does Mister
Isaacs know he’s just like a Jew?’ ”
* * * *
Another bargain in prads. Sweet Tip-
perary, winner of the three-year-old Welcome Plate
at Canterbury, Maoriland, was bought as a yearling
lor 50 guineas. The owners, Messrs. Dwan, collected
a. trifling £lOOO stake over the win. Sweet Tipper-
ary is a perfectly-shaped filly, as black as a page of
Hun history.
* * * *
“Haka” : Advance-agent “Billy” Low, who
has just been accepted for service outside Maoriland,
was a streaker in his day. Besides monopolising several
local championships in Maoriland he won the 440
yards flat Australasian championship in 1896. The
time Low allowed to lapse during the event was
51 2-ssec.
The once great Sandow was very annoyed
when the last mail left England. Some babbler
who didn t know his facts had set afloat a yarn that
the strong man had been shot in the Tower or some-
where else handy as a German spy, and that Mrs.
Sandow had been sentenced to a term of imprison-
ment on a similar charge. Of course there was
nothing m the yarn, Sandow being a good
Russian, born of Russian parents, although beyond
the frontiers of the Bear. He was looking for
his detractors with a hammerlock in one hand and
a compendium of jiu-jitsu in the other at latest
information. His team mate was an uncompromis-
ing lawyer with a barrowload of blue paper.
* * * #.
Jack Booth, Victoria’s champion motor-
cj ciist, being in a hurry last week, whizzed over
half a mile in 22sec —an average of 81 miles 1440yds.
per hour. It goes on the Australasian record-
slate.
* * *• *
Maoriland’s footballers are rapidly thin-
ning out on their way to the Great Scrum. Amongst
the latest to go are Glenn, of Wanganui, who was a
member of the great All-Black team that set
Britain agape in 1905. He’s in France with the
Artillery. Another great player, Pat Harris, who
was one of the best of the hard-doers that made
things merry in Australia in 1897, is off with a
Southern M.L. bunch. Young Gilray, Maoriland
i epresentative and Scottish international, is also on
the wing. He is booked for England to join the
army there. Too many Australians and Maoiilanders
doing that. Whaffor ?
* * * *
’Tween drinks, fight and chewing gum,
Jimmy Olabby and manager Ait McQueen are delv-
ing into Sydney baseball. T’other day Clabby made
onlookers rub their blinkers by hurricane smiting—■
a three-bagger, a couple of two base-hits and a single
in five bats. McQueen’s strong point is tricky
pitching, and until local batters got the lay of his
artillery he did much slaughter. Various good
players from Wilson’s country are having a definitely
beneficial effect on baseball in Australia, and the
popularity of the game is leaping ahead
* * * *
Waverley is leaving a mangled lot behind
it in Sydney Summer Baseball. On successive
week-ends Leichhardt, Blue Sox and Sydney have
been made to look bankrupt at the game. Last
Saturday the Yankee combination which masque-
rades under the title of Sydney made an effort to
stop the team from Gemeteryville, but its attack
went to shreds by 13 runs to four. M averle.
the Yanks’ breath by smiting four runs in tne
innings; and, just when they had recovered, a
was slammed in the eighth innings. On form not o
short of personal violence will keep Maveriey
adding the summer to the winter honors ol
game. „
* * *
“J.D.”; Re “Adelaide” and W. G. Grace.
The champion made his first appearance in nrs^
class cricket in 1864, and the pioneer Australian
team visited England in 1878, an interval ot i
years—not “over 20 years.’’ The first test matcn
was played in Australia in March, 187 1 , and tn.
second in England, in 1880. Alien Australia be-
England at Kennington Oval on Aug. 28 and f?’
1882, the Englishmen were not quite tl> e _ '•
“Adelaide’’ makes out. Their ages were: A. A.
Hornby, 35 ; \V. G. Grace, 34 ; 41. G. Barlow, 32 ;
G. Ulvett, 31 ; W. Barnes, 30; E. Peate, 26 ; Hon.
Alfred Evttelton, 25 ; A. P. Lucas, 25 ; A. G. Steel,
24; J. Maurice Read, 23; and C. T. (now Kev.j
Studd, 22. The ages aggregated 307 ; another year
and the average age of the “young” team would have
been 28 years. Of that eleven only Barlow, Lucas,
Studd and Read survive. The Australians aggregated
291 years, an average of 26 5-11th years : H. r •
Bovle, 35; F. R. Spofforth, 29; If. H. Massie, 28;
W. L. Murdoch, G. .1. Bonnor, T. Horan and .1. Met.
Blackliam, eac-Ii 27 ; T. IV. Garrett, 24 ; A. t .
Bannerman and G. Giffen, each 23 ; and S. P. -ones.
21. Murdoch, Bonnor and Boyle are dead. Thus
England had the older eleven in perhaps the most
exciting of all the Tests.
■***■*■
“Nyren”: While on the subject of groat
batsmen a word for .John Small, the elder, who
died in liis 90th year (b. April 19, 1737 ; d. r)ec. 31,
1826). He was the greatest batsman in his day,
and played in first-class matches until over 70 years
of age. Fifty years of first-class cricket! Tie was a
shoemaker, and over his.door he hung this sign:
John Small make bat and ball,
Pitch a wicket, play at cricket
With any man in England.
It was through him that the two-stick wicket gave
place to the three-stick. In a match beween five of
Hambledon and five of England one “Lumpy”
Stevens bowled the ball three times between Small’s
uprights without removing the bail. This seemed
100 tough, and the third stump came to light.
Another Noah of the pitch was “Silver Billy” Bel cl ham,
who played first-class cricket for over 40 years, and
was “the greatest cricketer of all time.” lie
married twice, and was the father of 39 children,
tlie majority of whom died young. Beldham lived
to-be 98. Tom Walker was an A. C. Bannerman,
but, unlike the latter, very slow on his legs.
“F. 8.” : How’s this for a coincidence? In
a cricket match played at Stafford (Eng.), in 1881,
between the First XI of King Edward Vl.’s Grammar
School and a team from (lie nearby township of
Galley, a master named Garlick played for the
school, while two of the Gailey players were named
Onions and Leek respectively. Despite the odds
against the combination, the score-book read: “Gar-
lick, c. Onions, b. Leek, 31.”
* * * *
“Pick”: The mechanism of the auto-
pistol, like that of the automatic sporting gun and
magazine rifle, is necessarily of such accuracy that,
kept clean arid lightly oiled with a suitable non-
clog lubricant, if the weapon throws one shell it will
throw all that fit neatly. This, however, is where
the weapon frequently fails. The extent to which
cartridges of a given calibre differ is a marvel, and
so well is this known among riflemen that a cart-
ridge-tester is found in every shooter’s kit. Either
loose-fitting or tight ammunition may result in
jamming. Otherwise, for rapidity, accuracy,' dis-
tance and velocity the auto pistol has outed the
revolver just as tlie present-day rifle has silenced the
old muzzle-loading Enfield.
“Sardonyx” : Reference was recently made
to Jem Mace’s historic fights with Bob Brettle, in
the first of which Mace suffered the only defeat in his
long career. 1 knew the “Old-Un” well when he
and Jack Thompson kept the V.R.C. Hotel in Mel-
bourne, 40 years ago, and I remember asking him
about this very matter. Jem grinned at the recol-
lection. “Ay, he got away wi’ me right enough,
the first time, because 1 niver got prawperty goin’.
But the foony part of it was that he said I had
no poonch. He i'oond out all about that the second
time!” This in allusion to the terrific hit with
which Mace literally drove Brettle’s nose into his
face, smashing the nasal bones and nearly destroying
the sight of both eyes. Well might Mace say—
I’ve heard him often —that a “pro ’’ who let-go full
force on a novice should be charged with using a
deadly weapon.
* * *■ *
“Jackar”: Here is a IV. G. Grace fact
which, as far as I know, has not been recalled.
“W;G.” was a desperately bad “sport,” and could
be very objectionable over a losing point. In a
match at Bendigo, Oscroft skied one of Glen’s under-
hand slows to leg. Giant Midwinter was fielding
there and, promptly recognising that if he stood
upright inside the chain fence he could not reach the
ball, he twined one of his legs on a post, and swing-
ing backwards made a most wonderful catch.
Oscroft started to walk towards the pavilion, but
Grace rushed out and ordered him back, loudlv
deolaring that it was no catch, :ts both ball and
fielder were out of bounds when the ball lodged in
the fielder’s hands. Controversy on the point waxed
fast and furious for over a quarter of an hour, when
both umpires gave the verdict “Out” on the argu-
ment that as “Mid” had one foot on the ground
inside the chains and the other 4feas dangling inside
of it, it could not be correctly said that the fielder
was out of bounds. The decision displeased Grace
very much, and he sulked over it to the ill-mannered
extent of refusing to have luncheon with the com-
mittee.


BE READY TO TAKE YOUR OWN PART.
s
Not looking for trouble, but to possess that quiet confidence to
look after yourself when trouble does come your way.
You admire the pluck of the man who takes a beating gamely
from an experienced Boxer. But you don’t admire his awkwardness,
or the way he leaves himself open, or how he punches the air;
and wears a blackened eye that advertises his downfall for days
afterwards.
I Teach Boxing by Post
in such a manner that you will rapidly develop your natural
ability.
The Instruction is simple and explicit—based on
my own personal experience and connection with the
world’s champions—both amateur and professional.
HUNDREDS of pupils throughout Australasia and
N.Z. are learning to be “shags” through means of
my postal course. Here is evidence: —
“I had a spar with a big chap last week,
and m.v hand seemed to work like a machine :
ami he said after that he could not keep my
left out of his face.”
There are no loopholes for any misunderstanding.
The lessons have been so carefully prepared that
anyone could understand them.
You ought to write for my illustrated booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which gives fuller
particulars, fees, etc. Just write your name and
address on this advertisement and post to me. I’ll
know what you mean. Send three penny stamps for
postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
4-17 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
MY NEW CATALOG
IS JUST OUT.
It will enable you to choose your Xmas
smokes, also those you intend giving as
Xmas presents.
Send to-day for a free copy, so that you
can make your selection early.
My new Catalog illustrates Cigars, Cigar-
ettes, Pipes and all Smokers’ Requisites.
drg
“CLUB ROYAL”
CABINETS
are a particularly good smoke, being made
from the finest Havana Leaf. Their fine
mild flavor and pleasing aroma will satisfy
even the most critical smokers.
PUT UP IN HANDSOME CEDAR
CABINETS OF 50 207-
Postage on 50: N.S.W -/9
Inter-State 1/2
SAMPLE PACKET OF FIVE, POST
FREE 2/6
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
HENRY BRUCE PATMAN deceased.—
First cousins of the above (who was
a son of Jane Patman, formerly Clement),
late of London and Guildford, England, may
hear of something to their advantage by
communicating with Messrs. Braikenridge
and Edwards, of 16 Bartlett’s Buildings,
London, England. A First Cousin is be-
lieved to have emigrated many years ago to
Australia or America.
“SHELL”
BENZINE
was used throughout i-n the recent
Record trip from FREMANTLE
to SYDNEY, accomplished by Mr.
W. P. Armstrong on a STUDE-
BAKER Car.
3289 Miles in S days 23 hours 35
minutes.
“SHELL”
BENZINE
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE.
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
Ask Yourself These
Questions when Purchasing
Has the machine PROVED its superU ty
ority in open competition ■
Is it easy to drive, simple of control and fy
luxurious to ride *
Does it possess ample reserves of power fy
for ail exigencies ■
Has it been built to last ?
Shall I get 20 shillings in the £ value for fy
the money 1 spend ■
Ask the man who rides an
(Indian
Catalogue D Post Free upon request.
Rhodes Motorcycle Co.,
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
To Let.
I > EVIDENTIAL FLAT, newly fitted and
Jl\j furnished: Four rooms, kitchen. Lath-
room. electric light, liot-water service, tele-
phone, lift. etc. Overlooking Hyde Park.
To let for six weeks from 20tli instant.
Apply T. tfc G. Residential Chambers,
Elizabeth and Park Streets,
Sydney.
EVERY STEP A PLEASURE.
sd
Every step you take in RIGNEY SHOES
is a pleasure—they are so comfortable, and
in addition to this you are conscious that
they are perfect in fit, correct in style, and
faultless in finish.
The illustration shows a TAN WILLOW
CALF DERBY SHOE, BROWN CLOTH
INSERTION TOPS, “NON-TREAD-
OYER” BRAND.
Price - 32|6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA.
©elO fflrtal,
Calcutta. (BS3.
IfRIIQC'Q
FLUID MAGNESIA
«m mm* m m m mh as mm
\\v\W'«\\.W\W\V W.'WWV A\V\\X\,WN«» CAM'
WWW x \\'< \\ v'.W.WN.Vi'iW! V 0• i Vi* .WHU.V
<W XmW'WW XWXVxNW' VU’A.V
X.V.'.V'A' VWVv'AV.V XYVCAV.VV VV'fA «»•* *'■'
w «m Kmms \m *mw www'uu
lim smW'.VW' XWWWU.Y i\W\\W vW'lAtt.'
NSW SAW' \'H A'XXvW? W.VWiV IiUXWVAV
KWX'vU' V« WM .\W'V i\K .WWWtWUIW,
.vww*.' ?» i>:<Wi :s s*\' m* mum
The Australian Remedy for
Indigestion,
Biliousness and
Acidity of the
Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR
OLD AND YOUNG.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS DUE TO
VACCINATION AND TEETHING. A COOL-
ING MEDICINE FOR SPRING AND SUMMER.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
V
r,
You can Look
Well-dressed
and
Feel Comfortable
in a
“ Lincoln-Stuart”
Lounge Suit
■ ■
“Lincoln-Stuart” Lounge
Suits at 25/- are genuinely
Tailor-made.
They comprise Two Ferfectly-
cut Garment s —Coat and
Trousers.
The Materials used are Fine
Flannels of Fashionable Grey
Shade, in Plain and Striped Pat-
terns.
A Full Range of Correctly-
graded Sizes is Provided.
The Coat has 3 Patch Pockets
as shown —is unlined —has Back
with vent or seam only at back.
Trousers have Cuff Bottoms and
Side Pockets. Both Garments
feature Raised Seams.
Altogether the Suits represent
the Limit of Suitability and
i'alue at the Price.
POST YOUR ORDER
— WE PAY FREIGHT.
Lincoln
Stuart & Co.
Pty. Ltd.,
“ Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,”
FUNDERS STREET. MELBOURNE.


Elsr
m
m
s
IS
j-sfUW*
r A. N. A.
I £3 10/- to £lO
Guaranteed 1 5 Year®
We do not employ canvassers
to waste your time. Come direct
to us and save money by secur-
ing a be.ter machine at a lower
price.
A.N.A. Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street
Launceston ; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
‘I simply can’t account for this
trouble with my teeth—and I’ve
been so particular to keep them
immaculately clean always.” This
is the complaint of thousands.
It’s just this way, Madam,
louve spent your time watching
the highwaymen robbers of tooth-
health—Decay Germs—and for-
got all about their sly, insidious
accomplice, ‘‘Acid Mouth.” Acids
are constantly forming in tlm
mouth. They are constantly
“working.” But they work
“incognito.”
And here lies the danger.
These mouth-acids, unmolested,
unsuspected, gradually dissolve,
and break down the enamel. The
tooth then becomes easy prey to
decay germs.
Look out for “acid mouth,”
that filcher and falcon of healthy
tooth life. Pebeco Tooth Paste
users have a good chance to keep
their teeth for life.
Send 3d. Stamps for sample
tube and interesting test of Acid
Mouth.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
PEBECO is Made in Australia by
G. ARNOLD,
O O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [0
EAU
DE COLOGNE
mq
isfe
on
Distilled from natural
flower products only, its reviving
fragrance never deteriorates even in
a vi:iated atmosphere.
An Ideal Toilet Water for sjck room use : a
refreshing addition ' '
to washing water;
; ndispensablewhen^
• travelling or on a
sea voyage; and one of the few
perfum; s a man permits himself to use.
Sprinkler b ttles ... 5/. an J 9
Stoppered bottles ... 1./band 35/-
201 Morny Eau de Cologne.
2 oz. bottles, 1/9 ... 4 oz. bottles. 3 3.
Mor y Eau de Colo gne is pro*
nounced by experts— “Sans ricale.'
The MORNY FINE BATH & I nRFUME PRODUCTS
are retailed in Sydney by:—
Civil Service Co-operative Stores of N.S.W., Ltd.
152-154 Pitt Street ; Farmer & Co., Ltd., 221-229
1 itt Street; David Jones Ltd., George Street; Las-
setters Ltd., George Street; Pattinson & Co., 427
George Street ; AVashington 11. Soul & Co., 160 Pitt
Street; 11. A. Rose & Co., 149 King Street.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia:—
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
B2 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE PURPOSEFUL
Xmas Gift
to Your Married Friends.
Thc Poli-Shine
"Wi Mop.
Semi Money and
we will despatch
to any address.
ssSSs
m
Useful,
Indispensable,
Thoughtful,
Up-to-date, and
—don’t forget—
AUSTRALIAN-MADE.
All Up=to=date
... Stores ...
POLI-SHINE MOP CO.,
48 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney Prices: Mops, 6/6; Polish -4oz. bottles, 1/6:
120z.,2/6; Quart Tip, 4/9; Half-Gallon, 6/9.
Agents—Melbourne: GEORGE RAMSAY & CO.,
Flinders Lane; Brisbane: FRANK BOWGHER,
105 Eagle Street
NEW ZEALAND
an Ideal Holiday.
£
_n?T_
Melbourne to Melbourne in 6 Weeks.
LEISURELY COVERING IN COMFORT OVER
FOUR THOUSAND MILES
without a dull moment of travel and for a very modest outlay.
£2910
First-Class Fares all through
by Coach, Rail 8 Steamer.
via
£2910/-
Sydney, Auckland, Rotorua, Waitomo Caves, The Thermal Wonderland,
\\ anganui River, Wellington, Christchurch, Queenstown ( Lake Waka-
tipu), Dunedin and Hobart.
Fullest Information FREE and POST FREE for the asking.
Tours Planned for each Individual or Party.
New Zealand Govt. Offices,
Cali, Write or ’Phone.
59 William Street, MELBOURNE;
or Bull’s Chambers,
14 Moore Street, SYDNEY.
Produced entirely
the British Flag
t*
Underwear
Made in England from fine Australasian Wool, Jason Underwear
gives greater comfort than any other you ever wore.
New “Olympic” Brand
° jiVm, hi ? h P rices , of th .e yarns from which Jason All-wool goods are
mad,, the manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines contuiriimr a
Your'r? ' r ° f ?° tton - beadn g >he same guarantee of quaJitTas 35
Vour dealer will supply you. Sole manufacturers e
J^Ab7? N UNDERWEAR CO., LEICESTER. ENG.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on Face-plait,
and decline all substitutes.
Sold l y all Fi:st-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 2
Wanted Lady Home Workers
£1 weekly and upwards may be
earned in spare time at home. Dainty,
fascinating - work. No teacher required.
Suitable town or country. Send 3d (in
stamps) for BOOKLET and particulars of our
offer.
TORCHON LACE CO.,
229 b Collins street,
MELBOURNE.
KITZS
Interstate Agents— SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. ;
BRISBANE : Burns, Philp & Co. ; ADELAIDE :
W. P. An Id & Co.; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co.; GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.;
IIOBART: J. Ferguson & Co. ; LAUNCESTON :
,1. McKenzie & Co.; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M.
Heddrick & Co.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring ana
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ft
&
*
&
%
❖
Tt
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
5s just as good as
«AP” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
“Angling Depanment,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little C fllins St. Melbourne
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WOY, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
“Jobber'’: Blew into the Kursaal, Cairo’s
music-hall, last week, to renew an aeqiialnt-
anee with Leed and Lemar, billed as "Ex-
eentrik Australians,” who put on an excel-
lent turn. Each artist at the show is
announced by the card system, as at Sydney
i’iv., and finally there is one on which is
printed “Bonsoir.” Said I to mv pal, “I
wonder if this pot is an Australian?” Quoth
Bill: “Sounds more like a flamin’ Dago to
me.”
Hugh McCrae, after some personal ex-
perience :
I flu nYon 0. s note on the Melbourne Repertory
(lb 18/11/‘ir>) interests me. The fact that the
players provide “the most convincing performances
to be seen locally” is no doubt due in part to the
“excellent easting" of the play by Grogan McMahon,
lint it is due to something 1 more. What appears to
“Harrison O.” to be merely an “engaging 1 artless-
ness” in “the supporting company” is, as a. matter
of fact, the result of McMahon's remarkable ability
in training the limited raw material at his dis-
posal. The excellent performances of the “sunport-
ing company” are attained simply because each and
every member of it is not only well chosen by
McMahon, but is also drilled and rehearsed and
bullied and bashed and implored and execrated by
the gentle Grogan morning 1 , noon and niglit, collec-
tively and individually, until the amateurs have
acquired, not “artlcssncss,” but the art that con-
ceals art.
Harrison O. criticises adversely- McMahon's own
personal performances. 1 happen to have inside
knowledge of McMahon's work, and, to me, it is a.
marvel how he manages to appear on his stage at
all, let alone give the many fine performances to
his credit. After eight or nine weeks or so assidu-
ously spent in perfecting- the “artlessness” of his
amateurs, and after (on the day of production, mind
you) directing and helping in all the scene-shift-
ing, carpet-laying, lighting, advertising 1 , nail-drivirg
and God-knows-what-ehe, and finally “making-up”
and dressing each and every member of the cast,
and giving them a final drink to 1 ensure further
“artlessness,” Grtgan pulls up his curtain and
totters on to his stage the most dog-weary and ill-
prepared actor in his company. Of personal re-
hearsal in his parts he gets none, as it is properly
understood. How he manages to find time even to
memorise his parts, let alone do them justice, is
more than this writer can divine.
If “Harrison O.” had a more intimate knowledge
of the process of acquiring the Repertory actor’s
“artlessness” and of the difficulties of McMahon’s
position, lie might not have written his thoughtless
criticism of one who not only is perhaps the most
Pulsatile and intellectual actor Australia has turned
out. hut is also one who, in his Repertory work in
Melbourne, has laid the community under a deep
obligation. After witnessing his performances of
■John Tanner, in “Man and Superman.” Ferrand in
Ihe Pigeon, l Iric Brendel in “Rosmershohn,”
Carve in “Tlie Great Adventure,” Sir Charles
Worgan in “What the Public Wants,” and Mr.
Burgess in ‘.‘Candida,” 1 confess to knowing no
actor wnose work is more natural and convincing.
“Bab ': This trouble about the alleged
11ufinish methods of the Sydney Wilhelm
Hop in controlling the crowd of Allies Day
seems to me to be due to J.G.W., Ltd. For
last year the Firm Ims been importing
U.S. crook dramas, in each of which there is
a brutal and bullying police inspector. I-lis
name is usually Lincoln Plumer. One or
all of three things has happened. (1) The
Sydney public has got so accustomed to this
idea of the police that it has come to regard
Johannes Hop as a collective Lincoln
Plumer. (2) Mr. Black, surfeited with im-
ported Lincoln Plumerisms, naturally re-
gards the local Lincoln Plumers as angels.
(•>) The local John Hop, seeing the admira-
tion that audiences display for the Lincoln
Iluiner methods, has decided to take him as a
model and is trying to live up to his stand-
ard. The obvious remedy is to deport Lin-
coln Plumer and put an embargo on the im-
port of L.S. double-cross melodrama. Any-
how, Lincoln Plumer’s habit of announcing
the arrival of- twins is getting on Australia’s
nerves.
“Melb.’ : Yesterday I went over the site
of tlio old Cremorne Gardens, Richmond, by
the Yarra. A little township has grown
there, with cottages and streets, but no patch
of garden. A blasted sort of place. Rip
\ an Winkle showed me where the lake had
been, with its panorama of the Siege of
Sebastopol, and a nightly din of bombs and
fireworks. In the midst of this Garden of
Eden was the Pagoda, with a dancing plat-
form. It resembled a gigantic bridecake.
In the eastern part of the gardens stood the
I antheon Theatre; in the west was the
circus, including a menagerie. What won-
ders the elephant and camel were! By the
lake, westward, was the bar. where Spiers
and Pond began. The Cremorne Christmas
pantomime one year was “Jack the Giant
Killer.” The little girls were known as
but became so well known outside
that Coppin made a transformation scene,
and the fairies all grew up in one night
from an average of perhaps 14 years to 30.
MY GLOSSARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The play contains a great deal of American slang
....but a glossary of terms is provided in the
programme. —Sydney show notice.
The Yankee plays I see, dear heart,
I love for their profundity ;
I study when I sit apart
My glossary, my glossary.
The “neutral” language who derides —-
Its slang, its twang, its fluency ?
The thoughtful management provides
My glossary, my glossary.
I know not what the actors say,
Their talk is Double Dutch to me;
I solve the riddle, though, next day—
My glossary, my glossary !
For “English” pure and undefiled
Some people yearn. Rank pedantry !
Bless those, however, who compiled
My glossary, my glossary 1
And thus these Yankee plays, dear heart,
Offer rs education free 1
1 study when 1 sit apart
My glossary, niv glossary.
x.s.w.
HILL BILK.


fgs
dfg
THE same German firm has hitherto supplied thousands of
German pianos to Australians during many yeais.
Yet German pianos and player-pianos are still actively
advertised m Australia by the Anglo-German Agents, so that once
again your enemy will regain his footing m Austialia, once moie to
establish his spy system, and to use Australian money to piepaie
his ultimate revenge for his present disappointment !
If you are thinking of buying a piano, will you come and inspect
for yourself the Beale Pianos —made in Australia, yom own countiy,
by your own countrymen ?
If you buy a Beale Piano you
will be actively assisting in provid-
ing a livelihood for nearly 500
Australian families, many of whom
have sent sons, brothers and fathers
to fight the Germans and their
Allies.
Just come and see the Beale
Pianos you will be delighted with
their qualities in every respect.
Mr. Octavius C. Beale,
founder and present con=
trolling Director of this busi=
ness, was born at Mount
Mellick, Queen’s County.
Ireland, of an old Irish
family. The Directors and
Managers throughout the
business are all descendants
of British families for many
generations. There are no
Germans employed in the
business,and no supplies are
obtained from Germany.
Head Office & Factories: Trafalgar & Nelson Streets, Annandale, Sydney, N.S.W.
Showrooms: 136 Liverpool Street, Sydney
George Street. Bathurst
Fitzmauri.ee Street, Wagga
273 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
131 Rundle Street. Adelaide, S.A.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane
Flinders Street. Townsvilie
839 Flay Street, Perth, W.A.
70 Hunter Street. Newcastle
Argent Street, Broken Hill
Summer Street. Orange
Lismore
Kent Street, Maryborough, Q’land
William Street. Rockhampton
Sydney Street, Mackay
Cairns, Q’land.


3>
P
Hcadixdi
Removed by
Fisher’s Phospherine
When you are going out for the day
you get up before-times, pack your
hamper, snatch a hasty breakfast ancT
rush off for your train or boat.
This unaccustomed hurry and bustle
upsets your nerves and digestion, re-
sulting in a headache. Your day is
spoilt if you have not
FISHER'S PHOSPHERINE,
The Great Nerve Tonic,
to fall back on.
Ten drops in a wineglassful of
water will remove the headache. Put
a bottle in your hamper and make
certain of a happy holiday. *
l/_ fief bottle Four times the
1/ ptl UUlllg. quantity, 2/6.
Also for nervousness, neuralgia,
indigestion, acidity, rheumatism,
backache, headache, malaria.
FISHERY
Chemists,
337 George Street, SYDNEY'.
F.127.P.
Bates’ British Gas
and Oil Engines (Kerosene)
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
WHILE PRESENT STOCKS LAST
21-H.P., £5O 6-H.P., £B9 10-H.P., £ll7
5-H.P., £7O 8-H.P., £lOO
Inspection invited.
FRANK R. PERROT, 204 Clarence St., SYDNEY
J ARNOTTS
Adorn
CREAM WAFERS
A new delicacy to eat with Ices and Stewed
Fruit —Delicious crisp fingers—just half the
size of our ordinary wafers —so dainty and
appropriate.
Ask for “Adoras” at Restaurants, etc.
Keep a tin in the house, too, for
home use.
Two shapes—Diamond and Plain —
both perfect.
AT ALL GROCERS.
Make Somebody
Glad To-day!
They come to us in scores —MEN and
WOMEN with the marks of disease upon
them and a pitiful appeal in their eyes.
They are poor, sick and sad. With your
help we could make them GLAD.
Hand in a shilling to-day to any local
collector, and get a coupon in exchange.
Twenty Shillings or Coupons entitle you to a
ticket in a draw for an ENGRAVED SOLID
GOLD PLAQUE —value One Hundred and Fifty
Pounds sterling, and the entry of your name as a
member of
THE MILLION SHILLING LEAGUE.
Tickets for the Plaque will be issued cne
month before the draw.
'ls it nothing to you,
all ye that pass by ?'
St. Vincent s Hospital, Melbourne appeal for
a Million Shillings
M - ARTHUR S. BAILLIEU, Collins House. \ Hon. Treas.
MR. EDWARD FITZGERALD, Bank Place,/to the fund.
J ir%
<3nsurpass#Qaal
■.<9)l
3S
BARfIET GLASS
nose
AUSTRfILW/N /viADE
Will nof'Kink.Crack or fairer
BARNET GLASS ROBBER C° L TD
All States and New Zealand
v\
\\\
2^
i)
m
4. J
r
eg
V /
/ ,
For
Windows
Cleaning
windows is
the easy
task with
Bon Ami.
Bon Ami
20 Years on the
Market
hi
Basrit Scratched Yet f
Bon Ami has a velvety fineness and
does its work without scratching.-
“BON AMI” does not injure the hands, but leaves
them beautifully clean. Obtainable at all leading
stores and grocers.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
L.F.: We should place them in that
order: bank, steam, ferry. But, if it’s a woman’s
only means, don’t know that we should take any of
them. What about the War Loan? Just as safe as
the Savings Bank, it offers a much better return,
and is almost as immediately realisable. .. .E.N.:
The population of Austria-Hungary at the beginning
of the war was approximately 51,000,000. .. .F.S.P.:
Don't know, and if we did we wouldn’t tell y0u....
481. Send them along, and if we can’t use them
we’ll return them and advise you where you might
place them. .. .\\ alter Bastin : Letter for you at Bulle-
tin office; send address. .. .Barcoo: All right; same
good wishes. ... P. Quill: Very well written. Sorry it’s a
bit too close to the knuckle. . . .Prof: You ask whether
it is the matter or manner of your stuff that attracts
it to the basket. Both—too many words; no now
ideas. .. .Bessie H.: Some of the axioms are not
strikingly original. Try us with something else
M.L.J.If.: The average of the batch is below print.
Write less, and make your MS. legible.... Paddy
Green A.: Where’s your Irish good-liumor? Fred
S. (V.): Don’t write long letters. Put all your
energy into your work, and let that speak for you.
We’ll help you all we can M.8.P.: Sorry “Boast”
hasn’t quite enough finish. .. .J.A.0’8.: Not this
time. . . .C.C.: Tell the parrot to advertise in the
matrimonial-and-otlierwise column run by the morn-
ing papers. .. .Maude N.: It doesn’t arrive....
Bcllerive: An original theme:—
....Les M. (Q.): Only 19! Then you have plenty
of time to learn how or to swear off. . . .D.C.V.:
Quite a lot of men besides John Wren seem to have
something wrong with their ears. Our job is to
pinch Duty and make her shriek; they’ll probably
hear her then.... Laura E. D. : Very uneven and not
very original. That type of thing needs a high
polish.... 11. Hose J.: A rather monotonous little
private. ...F. Parsons: No drowned Germans,
thanks. .. .W.A.W.: You are fined ss. for torturing
innocent rhymes L.TI.: Poem is now lying cold
and stiff before our trenches J.D.R. : Don’t dis-
turb the sleeper with that sort of stuff Oswald
S. : Now, having shot the cat and drowned Felice,
rush away and throw yourself into the sea....
Drummer: Very feeble taps F.x-O.: Excellent
Airo: The B. has no sympathy to waste on Dr. Caro.
It isn’t mere touting that does the damage. This
paper knows of one share cocky who brought his wife
and infant, both ill, to Sydney, fully intending that
they should go to Sydney Hospital or Prince Alfred.
The infant had to undergo an operation. They
were pounced on as soon as they arrived, and into
their long ears were poured fearful yarns of the
misconduct of the public hospitals. ’ Mother and
child went to Caro, to whom of course they were
recommended, and the poor share-cocky, who didn’t
have a penny, mortgaged almost his soul to meet
the bill. . . .W.F.: Can’t keep track of all pars sent
in. If they are not printed only one thing- else
happens to them. Abo. pars may be held up for some
time —they all can’t go in at once H.W.S.: You
might have crowded your typed copy closer together
if you’d used a wool-press, but you couldn’t have
made it any fainter. How do you expect to get such
copy considered?. .. .James Christie: It’s a pleasure
to know it.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Snowball Artist: You did well not to sign it....
F.A.T.: Too crude for use. Devote yourself to study
for a while. ... Oliver S.F.: The whole thing is
wooden.... Marian J.: The knock-off whistle is blow-
ing. ... Charles H. M.: No good. Have another
brain-spasm... .J. 8.: A very gentlemanly lion, but
his paws are out of drawing. .. .H.W.: Why a group
of dwarfs?. .. .Grant D.: You lack skill and the gag
is a hybrid. .. .K.A.S.: It’s the same old delusion
that any blazing amateur can write or draw without
training, but only the specialist can mend a gaspipc.
Learn your job. .. . E.M.8.: Drawing and gag both
bad. . . .W.E.J.: Too dull and obvious and faint....
J.L. (Tas.) : Same complaint exactly....?.: “Effec-
tive” is almost anything else. ... H.W.: It’s a poor
thing every way.... Dolph K.C.: No demand here
for your brand of swollen-headed dwarfs. .. .M.N.0.:
Stick at it. There is a distinctive manner about
the work.
“Yarriambiak”: In his classification of
occupations for military and industrial pur-
poses statistician Knibbs has placed “Mem-
ber of Legislative Assembly” and “Member
of Parliament” in class 71, but “buzzer” is
in class 22. This seems to be a duplication.
Also Knibbs appears to wilfully seek queer
company for himself, for “Government
Statist” is in class 71, which also includes
such doubtful characters as justices of the
peace, arcade beadles and State Governors.
Judges and magistrates and inmates of penal
establishments are likewise included in “71,”
as well as magicians, clairvoyantes and
numerous other humbugs. But it looks
over the odds to place a useful person like
an ale-bottler next door to an alderman.
Inoffensive bassoon playerk are placed
cheek-by-jowl with Chinese bankers, and
barmaids are not far away. Bone gatherers
are forced into the company of bookmakers.
Shrimp sellers and jockeys, horse-trainers
and jobbers, sheep’s-trotter dealers,
choristers, colporteurs, niglitmen, organ
blowers, ostrich farmers, palaeontologists,
kapoc teasers, hucksters and Greek profes-
sors, refractionists and wheel-chair drawers,
catgut makers and brewery emptiers (this
must be a large group), fat collectors, bone
polishers, masters-in-equity, manicurists, pot-
boys and medal dealers (strange how the
Australian Patriots’ League bobs up at
every turn), manure makers and rent col-
lectors are all in this splendidly diversified
group. And as if there were not enough
every blessed importer from A to Z in the
whole .index is (brown, in with the rest.
CITY VERSES AND NARRATIVES ETC.
The Dog Carts Visit the Queen vie Market.
Excitement prevails in the market place
When dog cart goes around,
O er the Chinamen’s cabbages and peas
In their exit mongrels bound;
Noisily yelp the captured one’s
And potatoes are hurled about
Recklessly thrown by roughish men
To scareth the seeked for Out;
Eagerlv on the trail of dog’s
Two grim men went their way
Hardened to protests and jeer’s
Of the people on market Day.


The comfortable Xuay on a summer's day
a®*
m
-»r-
-i
Tke G~E Electric Way
GE
ELECTRIC
FLATIRON
GE
ELECTRIC
FAN
Do good, quick, clean Ironing.
You can iron in any room in the house—or on the porch—with a G-E
Electric Iron. Attach it to any light socket, turn the switch and the G-E
Iron is ready in a moment.
Aside from these conveniences, think of the time, money and steps a
G-E Iron saves. Think of the lessened wear and tear on the family linen.
With a G=E Electric Iron you get “ Even Heat.”
EVENHEAT"
No Spot too Hot
No spot too hot; it is no hotter at the point than at the
heel—at the edges than in the centre. Ibis, safeguards
against scorches—makes the ironing go quicker an
easier; saves time, which means saving electneitj ,
fact
An Average Family Ironing costs
only Threepence for Electricity.
Specially-arranged air chambers in the G-E Iron hold
the heat down directly to the ironing surface. Using
the heat this way also permits you to do consuleiable
ironing with the electricity turned off.
The G-E trademark on this iron stands for quality—it assures you a
lifetime of satisfactory service.
Banish hot=weather Discomfort.
Turn the switch and command the faintest zephyr, or a sweeping
breeze—as you please—and it shall be yours—m home office, bedroom,
ballroom or' workshop. A simple device places the speed entirely within
your control.
Twenty vears of laboratory study and factory application are concen-
trated in the smooth-running, noiseless mechanism of the G-E Electric nan.
Its Oscillating Motion,
silently stirring the air—like the breeze flow of nature—is only one of the
many practical features of this fan.
Its sturdiness of construction, the perfect integrity of its materials and
parts, its delicacy of balance throughout, which prevents vibration and weai,
all assure you a lifetime of satisfactory service.
As to Economy, sufficient to say that the G-E Fan, depending on the
size, can be run
Seven or Eight Hours for One Penny
—less than the cost of burning a single ordinary incandescent light.
G-E Fans are made in many sizes and styles for use In homes, stores,
offices, hotels, restaurants and factories. Any desired finish to match
surroundings may be ordered.
I
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Clias. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents—
‘Mazda House,*’ Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbeliaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston: Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
(fIPILLfIRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
«?
There’s no need to
experience difficulty
in growing a mous-
tache. Every man can
secure a strong
growth of hair on
' the upper lip if he
uses CAPILLARINE.
Try it, test it:, prove
it.
PRICE 10/6 JAR POST FREE.
Craig & Aitken
664 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat ;
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on .-tije enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore, regarded as the
perfection of dental luxuries.'’ 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
“Why, of course,
I’ll give them a
w
turn
GRAMOPHONE’”
.—an “His Master’s Voice” Gramophone instrument;
just the very thing.
How delighted they’ll be at home; for, as you know, the
“GRAMOPHONE” is not at all like those harsh, dis-
cordant instruments you sometimes hear being played.
"GRAMOPHONE” tone is rich and mellow, full and
vibrant, SUPERB in every respect.
Horn Instruments from £6/10/-
Hornless Instruments from £6/10/ to £65
Be sure you hear and buy a “GRAMOPHONE.”
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
“ GRAMOPHONE'’
Registered Trade Marl-.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
WA
'ma
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective —
reliable —it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
ess
S$
mm
s@a
3®
Us^
'•iV'fcii
/
£
&*
:


Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOOBE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners —•
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS received from Is. upwards.
INTEREST paid at 3J per cent, per annum
on all balances up to £5OO on accounts
opened under tlie conditions of Government
Savings Bank Acts, and up to £2OO on
accounts opened with the late Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
I Deposits guaranteed by the Government.
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS.
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest 5
per cent.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGH-
OUT THE STATE.
POST OFFICES are NOT NOW Agencies
for this Bank.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PH I Ll*. K CMC
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C,
General Alanager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Ofllice: 41 Queen Street,
iupndon Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
. (Registered 1900 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED. .. £1,198,679
PATD-IJP (SOili .Tune, 1915) .. £1,195,831
RESERVE FUND £65,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37TltreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton’
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herrert R.
Lysagiit, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth!
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. AT. C. SHANNON. Ceneral Alanager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 O' 0
Reserve Fund.. ... .-. .. 190,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Dettqsit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo, Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
IT on. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
'Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
file Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, [united.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. 1,780,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,780,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Coiien, Esq. . . . . Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, AI.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, AI.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dinas, Esq., Honorarj' Director.
Auditors : AV. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. 11. Alassie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq,- Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New Soutli Wales
and in Queensland: Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Bem Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares. . . . . . 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up ‘ V 992,295
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057470
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
„ . 1T *. , , land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Irdtand, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other-usual Bankins
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
fhe Colonial ||)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life ' Assurance, Endowments a:iu
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid t° Policyholders exceed £0,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible. 1 ,
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling.. ‘Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief' Office, for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
.The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND
ORAMa DE ••® e ? r . ed Turbine 15,000 Regd. Tons,
uit AM A .. Triple-Screw.. 13,000
ORVIETO . .Tw
OSTERLEY ..
OTRANTO ..
OTWAY
ORSOVA ..
ORONTES . .
OMR AH
in-Screw
12,130
12.129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
Te , le f ra P h y- New and luxuri-
bedsteads ™ i C i bl "l s ‘ d 1 ? luxe • Staterooms, with
mSstitSrSi, Bair Prlv “' Bnthr ”"“'
MCTnmTmTn 3 ' l " from BRISBANE. SYDNEY
• LBOT RNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
_ 12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
or EDIIOPe; i^coimeotlon
Sways. Sta "‘ S a,,<i
* Steamers sail from Wellington:—
moana, maitai,
Jan. 6. Feb. 3.
"Connecting Steamers leave Sydney:
Dec. 30, Jan. 27.
STEAMERS STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPFETF
“THE PEARL OF THE PACIFIC.” Kt ' TE ’
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street. Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 11.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dee. 15.
Leaves Sydney Dee. 18.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 22.
Leaves Sydney Dec. 24.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A.and fV.A.ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons)
Leaves Sydney Dec. 18.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
DEO. 10, .JAN. 5, JAN. 26, FEB. 1(5.
AppIy:— OCEANIC IFrEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Special Christmas Cruise
W*
to Papua & Rabaul
S.iS. "MARSINA,” December 15.
Calling at Brisbane, Cairns (Barron Falls),
i ort Moresby, Samarai, Woodlark Is. and Rabaul
A TRTP REPLETE WTTII CHARMING SCENERY AM)
SURROUNDINGS.
SPECIALLY REDUCED ROUND TRIP
FARE, £2O.
(Deck Accommodation 10% Extra.)
Send for full particulars to
BURNS, PHILP «& CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up
Reserve
Reserve
Capital
Fund -
Liability
sd
£3,500,000
£2,600,000
£3,500,000
£9,600,000
Dire,dors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Ivt., M.L.C.,
President.
Robert Lionel'. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund \V. Fosbery, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Mi Ison, Esq
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St , E C
344 Branches and. Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
U IH-iSSELL FRENCH, General Manager '
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
i i f? l i'i eSS <> still in process of initial development, Queens-
Utter «nrl’„°’‘V i.el.oS'^rkfr”""' 01 ' Sde "“ S '' ,ie «♦»**• “•
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TBOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.YV. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
fgs
JBank ot Hu^tralta
SYDNEY |
in the
principal
Open
for all
General Banking 1 Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1 -
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Saving's Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL. Deputy Governor. June, 1915 DENIS >N MILLER. Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up £lOO.OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £lo'36a
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is the only Trustee Company empowered bv
Act of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
Directors.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES Iv. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BIIADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
R. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS. by Harrv .L
Weston —“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. - Bulletin News-
paper Co.. 214 George Street. Sydney.
T H !. North Coast Steam
I Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah!
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £0 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and ■ueera"'e
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d. ”
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE io and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Dec. 18
and Jan. 15.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports Nortli to Cairns.
RUPARA, Dec. 11.
PARINGA, Dec. 18.
INNAMINCKA, Dec. 24.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
OANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Raihvav.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
/Twin-Screw. *Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
ile luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates arc available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” "Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regrular and Frequent Services between
Australia and United Kingdom via Suez
Canal, Cape of Good Hope, Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers,
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large, airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Deck-.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
Fare to London or Liverpool, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, Etc.,
apply to
Girt & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane; Turnbull
Martin & Co., Brisbane; Mcllwraith, McEacliarn
and Co. Ptv., Ltd., Melbourne and Newcastle;
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide; 11. Jones
and Co., Ltd., Uobart.
A.U.S.N.Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T. 5.5. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
TTie'^xxlletzn.
214 George Street, Sydney.


COMMONWEALTH
dfg
OF AUSTRALIA
£10,000,000 4J per cent. WAR LOAN, 1925
PRICE OF ISSUE, PAR.
THE LOAN IS TO BE UTILISED FOR WAR PURPOSES ONLY, and will take the form of
either INSCRIBED STOCK or TREASURY BONDS, at option of Subscriber.
Both CAPITAL and INTEREST will be a CHARGE on the CONSOLIDATED REVENUE of
the COMMONWEALTH.
BONDS and TRANSFERS FREE of COMMONWEALTH or STATE STAMP DUTY and
INTEREST FREE OF INCOME TAX.
STOCKS or BONDS will be accepted at PAR in payment of Commonwealth PROBATE and
SUCCESSION DUTY. The Stock is an authorised TRUSTEE INVESTMENT.
TREASURY BONDS issued in denominations of £lO, £lOO, £5OO, and £l,OOO, or
STOCK INSCRIBED in amounts of £lOO and multiples of £lO over £lOO.
REPAYABLE aT PAR ON lotii DECEMBER, 1925.
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF-YEARLY. A FULL HALF-YEAR’S INTEREST WILL BE
PAYABLE ON 15th JUNE, 1916.
INSTALMENTS payable as follows
£lO per cent, on application. £l5 per cent on 29th February, 1916. £2O per cent, on
31st March, 1916. £25 per cent, on 23th April, 1916. £3O per cent, on 31st May, 1916.
ANY OR ALL OF THE INSTALMENTS MAY BE PREPAID.
APPLICATIONS must be accompanied by a DEPOSIT OF £lO PER CENT., and will be received
at any Branch of the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, or may be forwarded through
Head Offices and Branches of ANY BANK, STATE SAVINGS BANK, or any member of a recognised
STOCK EXCHANGE, or any POST-OFFICE where Money Order Business is conducted.
INSTALMENTS pa'able through the same sources.
PROSPECTUS and APPLICATION FORMS MAY BE OBTAINED FROM ANY BANK, STATE
SAVINGS BANK, or POST-OFFICE as above. SUBSCRIPTION LIST CLOSES 31st JANUARY, 1916.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Ist December, 1915.
Moan
i
i
U
“TEACH THEM TO SHOOT,**
with Remington-UMC .22 Calibre Cartridges
These little cartridges—. 22 short, long or long rifle —have an
unrivalled reputation for accurate shooting and are used by the
leading small bore experts the world over.
All three sizes may be used in a .22 Remington Repeater without
mechanical adjustment. Ask your dealer to show you a Remington
Repeater and ([insist always on the Red Ball Brand of cartridges.
The genuine are stamped with a “U” on the cartridge head.
We shall be pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When writing, send us the name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co. -
Woolworth Building, New York City
D. D. BRYANT, Australian llepresentative,
P.O. Box 68(5, Melbourne.
Lookfor TKis "V'i,
svdgs
dm
UliMf
on.
Tour |
22«
Contract or* to
file liritisli aiul Colonial Governments.
Q
A welcome gift—for F ther. Brother,
Cousin Joe, Uncle Will, or him —a Gillette for
Christmas. Think of the use and comfort he
will get out of it. Buy one to-day. Gold or
silver plated. British Made.
Many different styles in handsome leather, silver and gold plated cases
to choose from. Prices from One Guinea toTen. Sold everywhere.
Agents for Australasia :
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd.. London. England.
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safetv
Razor
dfg
sd
THE JOKER’S SQUIRT BOUQUET.
A neat bunch of violets. Ask your friends to
smell the violets, and to their surprise they receive
a stream of water in the face. Post free, !/•
JOKES, TRICKS,
Puzzles, Novelties,
Write for our New Catalog.
A Novelty in itself . Sent Free.
WATCH MATCH-
BOX.
NllB. —W a t c h
Matchbox, nickel-plated,
engraved in imitation of
semi-hunter watch,
diameter two inches.
a
Post free, 1/3.
The Two Articles together Post Free for 2/-
H. L. Hutchinson Ltd.— New York Novelty Co—7oB-710 George St., Haymarket, Sydney
Brooches for
Mourning.
Yes, the shadow of mourning is over our fair land, hut
in the midst of their grief ladies MUST wear Fasteners
and Brooches.
We therefore are showing a choice assortment of Mourning
Brooches in Black Enamel, in Black Onyx and Gold ana
Onyx set with Pearls.
The designs are the very latest from London, and the
prices of the Enamelled Goods has surprised us by their
lowness, and can onty be explained by the utter depression
in the jewellery manufacturing in England.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES —CASH ONLY.
Black Onyx Brooch, set with
Choice Pearls, 30/-
Fine Black Onyx Brooch, set with
Choice Pearls, 37/6.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Economical
Motor-
Cycling
« '
fi \ J3i
Y. 7.
m
YA7HY go to the expense of a heavy high-powered
machine? The B.S.A. Motor Bicycle is far more
economical and has frequently demonstrated its remark-
able efficiency by holding its own against machines of
double the power. For Solo or Sidecar you will find a
B.S.A. unequalled in reliability.
RIDE A
414 h.p. MOTOR BICYCLE
Fitted with
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT THREE-SPEED GEAR.
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle List Free.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S A. Co. Ltd.).
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
SM4^
a
\
i
Agents: MILLEDGE BROS. LTD., George Street, Sydney.
ANTHONY HORDERN S UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free
Wheel on both gears, Baelt-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS BIETEES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List,
post free.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers.
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
The New Lever Pocket Self-Filling
Waterman’s®FountainPten
The latest and by far the best idea in “Self-fillers.” Simply
raise lever, dip nib in ink, lower lever, and the pen is filled.
--V
n
A k to see Oris new iyle
at any 'Stationers or
Jewellers.
Waterman’s Ideals also i’n
Regular and Safety types.
Reducing the Cost of Pipe Threading
For quick work and clean-cut threads use an OSTER.
OSTER Machines
fgs
BELT & MOTOR-DRIVEN.
Note these features—automatic die
release, automatic oil pump, quick-
opening dies, simple, convenient
die-head
THE OSTER MFG. CO.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative : CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, G.P.0., MELBOURNE, VIC.
For Sale by Leading Dealers In
all Cities.
Threads,
Tubes,
Nipples
or Bolts.
Built
in 3
Sizes
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AN IDEAL XMAS GIFT.
\-
He'll appreciate a good Razor better than any other Gift you can give
him. But
let IT be: A “PLUM.”
The silver-steel blade of the “Plum,” so finely tempered, does its work
in one act, and leaves the face like velvet. Send for a “Plum” to-day.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep this razor in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/G.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a lovely present.
All the above Post Free. Send -for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
6 54
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.


The Rough-Rider Hat
Post
Free
This is just the very hat for every Bushman.
Just the Hat to wear when riding through bush,
up hill and down dale, at a break-neck pace that
every good rider loves. The brim is wide and
shady, 3Jin., specially stiffened—cannot flop over
your eyes. The strap over Band can be
adjusted to make it fit tight with a “grip”—
impossible to blow off. The color is a cool,
serviceable brown, and the price is 12s. 6d., no
more than the cost of an ordinary hat.
Send your size and a postal-note, and
tlie hat will come post free by return
mail.
J
V.
A
FINNEY’S,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
For Stomach Pains, Cramps, Diarrhoea
take fr6m 5 to 20 drops of pure
Bean's Essence
in water and sip slowly.
For COUGHS, COLDS, CATARRH
SQRE THROATS,'’ dilute to a pint.
Missing Friends.
NXIOUS Parents want Address or
l\ Wherabouts of ADOLPII THOMAS
OSTARA, Electrician, formerly of Manches-
ter, England. Information gratefully re-
ceived. OSTARA, 24 Corporation Street,
Manchester. Letter awaits him at Sydney
Bulletin Office.
THE BEST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL STATIONERY
IN THE WORLD
carnes the KOLOIv trade mark. No office is
sending’ out the best British-made stationery
unless KOLOIv TYPEWRITER CARBONS
IK'VSf CAl!B ™"“pt
ECONOM V R TU v upo a ',' e USed ‘ The KOLOIv
ECONOMY BINDER has no equal. Every
businessman should at once see that his
office uses Ivolok makes.
ALL STATIONERS.
Australasian Agent :-C. F. BICKFORD
5 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
It took five policemen all their time to
keep Brisbane’s old ladies from rushing the
State butchery to death the first week it
opened. Well, something of the kind was
wanted to counteract the bad effect of the
State’s infliction on the public of the dear-
est and worst bread in Australia for three
months past.
Ivobbi : Is it any wonder the cactus
curse cant be killed? At Lake’s Creek the
other day a gang in digging out some of it
found one root 36ft. long. It had a whole
host of feeding roots attached to it, and its
corporation where it was most like a Legis-
Councillor was one inch in diameter.
I 11 blow out a match on this for anybody
who doubts the measurements.
Roma-street markets saw a novel strike
the other day. A North Coast farmer, in
compliment to an agent who had secured
top prices for his potatoes, sent him a box
of cigars, which the agent distributed among
his buyers. But when the next line came
along for sale the buyers declined- to bid
until fresh cigars were sent round. The
strike ended, of course, in smoke.
The Bananaland Government, which is
sending round a lecturess to preach thrift
and economy to the common people,
announces that it intends to practise these
virtues by spending £2,707,000 of loan
money this year. At the end of November
the Treasurer was £264,000 worse off than
at the same date last year, a deterioration
entirely due to a rise of £325.000 in expen-
diture Thrift! Rcpnomy 5
A member of the 0.0.5. goes ovey an old
explanation once more:—
1 notice in B. 18/11/’l5 a paragraph attaching
the administration of the Queensland Charity Oygani-
sgtion Society, the apparent ground being the great
disproportion between the amount expended in
salaries and commissions and that devoted to the
actual relief of distress. The Charity Organisation
Society is not, and at no time lias ever pretended to
be, an association for the distribution of charitable
relief. Whatever work it may do in this direction
is of an incidental nature only; its real functions,
set out and explained from year to year, arc those
of an investigating and advisory Board. It is, as
may be imagined, the uncompromising enemy of pro-
fessional mendicancy, but at the same time it has
proved itself, over and over again, a real friend to
tho'a in genuine difficulty or distress. The few
hundred pounds which appear in the balance-sheet
represent a very small proportion of the amount dis-
bui-cd in and around Brisbane each year, either
through the agency or on the advice of the C. 0.5.,
and the value of its services to the community at
larg-' may he judged by the estimation in which
it is held not only by those directly connected with
charitable work, but among business and profes-
sional men. Lastly, the society acts as a connecting
link between the different benevolent institutions of
the city. AVith one or two exceptions, all these
ins!itutions have representatives upon its committee,
which meets at regular intervals to discuss not onlv
the direct operations of the society itself, but any
malters of general interest. I can assure the public
that the officials earn every penny of the salaries
they receive. , : .- v
Said the “Dungaree” road-recruit as lie
stepped it out in Queen-street to the strains
of “See the Conquering Hero Comes”:
“Never seen such ’orspitality! Fight meals
a day reg’lar. Ham sandwiches every 40
minutes, and as ter chicken—Oli, let me cet
on with me marchin’!”
From the Bundaberg Mail’s (12/11/’l5)
account of the funeral:—
At the head of the solemn cortege marched
several members of the Caledonian pipe band
dressed in their kilts and playing “The Wearino- of
the Green” and “Hieland Laddie.”
Hoots, mon, we’re a’ bnthers noo, begorra.
St. George, St. Andrew and St. David are
again at loggerheads with St. Patrick on
account of the ould Irish gintleman having
induced the Government to make his day a
statutory holiday while neglecting the other
fellows’, Treasurer Theodore alleges he did
it because 100,000 people petitioned him to
so lionoi* St. Patrick, and says lie would do
tlie same for the other saints if their
votaries pushed them into equal popularity.
A "DRY” CAMP.
"You men ought to male, the lest fighters in the world, You're not afraid of God,
man or Devil, But remember, there is one thing you all need"-
" Beer!"
Queensland's latest Loan Estimates notify
that it is proposed to spend £7OOO on a
Mental Diseases’ Ward at the Brisbane Hos-
pital, while other , portions of Cohen’s cash
aio to he spent on extending and improving
other asylums. All permanent works, of
course, and all reproductive !
‘Barcoo’ : “Weemurra” in a recent Bul-
letin got tangled concerning £470 put aside
for water-diviners. He evidently imagines
this is to be expended on human water-supply
discoverers*,, but he will find the money is
for the 1 maintenance and manipulation of two
mechanical contraptions introduced and im-
ported by the late Government. On first-
hand information they are as inaccurate as
their two-legged confreres.
Labor unions are doing their best to show
that Labor Governments are a mistake.
After of comparative peace, since last
election there has been a long series of
strikes in rapid succession. Some day there
will be a big one, and the police who are
now organised into a union will have the
opportunity of trying which is the stronger
—loyalty to the country or loyalty to union-
ism.
Governor Goold-Adams : “W<? have got to
put our backs to the wall and go forward.”
Yes. and with our flag nailed to the mast
we will also put our blind eye to the tele-
phone. and, putting down our foot, cry, “Up
Guards, and at ’em!”
“liangan”: The majority of Australian
politicians are suffering from shock at the
action of Carmichael, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), in
declining a fat job to go to the Front. Of
the 64") politicians necessary to run this
country only nine have taken on the bigger
job. The other (>:>(> remain behind and All
in their time urging others to go. In Bris-
bane the other day a youthful politician was
breathlessly exhorting all fit men to obey the
call when a rude man in khaki abruptly in-
quired why he didn't go. “My man ”
solemnly said the astounded tongue-fighter,
' / am doing far more important work in
this city.” Another, similarly placed, ex-
plained that he had conscientious reasons
Yet, men with hide like that would he dead-
safe at the Front!
. The Ryan Government lias now brought
a Gas Bill. Hitherto most of the cos
have charged ,6s. Bd. per 1000 ft. It is now
proposed to check their hilarity bv fivino-
the prices at 4s. 6d. in South Brisbane and
4s. in Brisbane, with a referee to assess
rales in all other centres. The Bill looks
crude, and far below the standard of either
I'-nglish or N. S. Wales legislation on the
subject.
“Fitzroy” : Rockhampton earns the biscuit
tor cussedness. Some years ago it wanted a
port badly. It made such a row that the
then Government, at a huge cost, gave it
Broadmount. But it didn’t want Broad-
mount ; it wanted Port Alma. Another
generous Government gave it Port Alma.
I hen it didn’t want Port Alma; it wanted
the river deepened. As nobody would listen
to this it started out for something else. It
round it wanted a railway into the Alton
Downs farming district. It wanted this rail-
way more than it had ever wanted anvthing.
Ike Ryan Government, not knowing' Rock-
hampton, decided to oblige, and some weeks
age the work was started. Before the line
had pushed its nose clear of the city
Rockhampton discovered a new route for it,
and Minister Adamson stopped the work to
listen. Meanwhile the local shire council
took a vote and ascertained that the railway
wasn t wanted at all. Then Adamson got
annoyed and cancelled the job. But he
wasn’t half as annoyed as the big timber
company that had bought land and started
to put up a mill on the proposed route. Rock-
hampton is now looking round to see what .it
wants next. _ It thinks it will be a water
supply. As it has half a dozen schemes in
mind it expects to thoroughly enjoy itself.
The Warships of William.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, where are the joys of the Past
(The poet sang once in his lay),
I guess they’re afloat in the vast
Where man never anchor could weigh ;
But, friend, we’ve a problem to-day
More baffling and puzzlesome still—
In mercy enlighten us, pray:
Oh, where are the warships of Bill ?
No pennon or funnel or mast
Peeps up with intent to betray;
No thunders arise on the blast,
Or die on the verge of the bay ;
We’d heard of sea-panthers in grey
Who’d swoop like a hawk on “the kill,”
But who can locate their array?
Oh, where are the warships of Bill?
Von Tirpitz, O chief of the cast,
Now where are the craft of thy sway?
Art thou but a phantom at last
To frighten our babes at their play?
Fat Neptune who dodges the spray,
Who prinks of good lager his fill,
When— when does he mix in the fray?
Oh, where are the warships of Bill?
Envoi.
Your submarine diving is gay.
And gives our old ladies a thrill ;
But battle’s our business to-day—
Oh, where are the warships of Bill?
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, December 4, 1915.
My Dear Tiiargominoaii,—
We’re trying this recruiting scheme of
marching men over long distances at a great
waste of time and hoofs. “The Dungarees”
arrived on Tuesday after walking from
M arwick. Hospitality on the way was per-
haps the main feature of the business. One
of the recruits is a navvy, who was toiling
on the railroad. lie dropped his pick, and
without waiting for his back pay fell into
line.
The cadets of area GB stood to attention
this afternoon, while a photo, of the late
Capt. Moran, of the 15th Battalion, was
unveiled. It will hang in the drill-shed
for the present. Capt. Carter (who was in
action at the same time as Capt. Moran)
and Lt. Luxmore spoke in praise of the
dead soldier, and Capt. Bousfield unveiled
the memorial.
r i he Deputy-P.M.G. unveiled an honor
hoard in the (J.1’.0. on Friday. There are
187 names on it already, and when others
who have recently enlisted are added there
will be over 200.
Some Brisbane girls took fruit, elc.. to
the Military Hospital the other day, and
hearing that there was one chap who had
lost a leg, got him something extra. But
he wasn’t having that. “Pm not an in-
valid,” he said firmly. “We’ll give this to>
the poor blokes who can’t get out of bed”—-
and so proceeded to conduct the party round
the wards, looking for “the poor blokes,’ 1
himself on crutches.
Nurse Clare Mclntosh, of Townsville
was married to-day to Capt. Cecil Collins’
who has been looking after the business of'
the Empire at Rabaul. Capt. Collins goes:
t > Egypt soon. The missus intends to go.
part of the way with him and continue her'
old job of nursing in one of the hospitals.
A fete in aid of the Wounded Soldiers”
and Belgian funds is happening to-day at
Mowbray Park. What on earth will jvv
poor women do when at last peace is de-
clared, and there are no fetes to be>
arranged and no knitting to he done?
Speaking of knitting. If any good Aus-
tralian would manufacture sound vulcanite
knitting-needles in great haste, he would
amass a fortune. At present those we are
able to obtain come from England. They
cost one shilling a pair, and break on no
provocation whatever.
Mrs. W. H. Carvosso gave an At Home
at the I.W.C.A. rooms on Wednesday in
honoi ol Airs. Tom Price, widow of the
late Premier of S. Aus. and one of the
recently-appointed J’s.P. for that State.
The new Technical College buildings are
completed. Very fine looking, they stand
m old Government House grounds and are
bounded on one side by the river and on
the other by the Botanical Gardens. The
equipment is excellent. Particularly good
work is being done by the School of Domestic
Economy, where a class of blind, deaf and
dumb scholars receive instruction in cook-
ing ; also about 200 boys from the A.A.M.C.
have gone through special courses in the ■
art of preparing hospital and trench tucker..
“The _ Cingalee” has drawn good houses
every night this week, whereat the Amateur-
Operatic Society is much elated and local!
charities are enriched. The Governor and!
Lady Goold-Adams adorned the vice-regall
box on Thursday night.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The gentle sex still pushes on. A Bris-
bane lady advertises that she will apply #«>
be admitted to practise as a solicitor; ‘ and
lasmania lias just got its first lady law-
shark.
Bananaland’s birth and death figures are
again most disheartening— to Little Austra-
lians. The figures for 1914 show a birtli-
rate of 29.5 per 1000, and a death-rate of
•DL. these compare with the latest avail-
able for other countries in this absurd way :
Births per 1000. Deaths per 1000.
Queensland .. 29.5 Queensland .. 997
Germany . . 28.3 Canada . . I2'l
Commonwealth .. 28.1 Norway io.'q
Maoriland .. 26.1 England " 133
Norway . . 25.4 Germany 1 ! 156
England .. 23.8 France .. 17 5
trance .. 19.0 Italy .. is^
The infantile death-rate of' 03.87 is also one
of the lowest in the world, and altogether it
is about time statistics were abolished if the
white-man-can’t-thrive-in-the-Nortli theory is
to have half a chance.
The Christmas Bulletin, to be published
on Saturday, contains one of the best of
Dennis s verse-stories yet printed about his
the Sentimental Bloke and the
Bloke’s “cobbers.” In addition there are
short stories and verse by all the best-known
Australian writers, and illustrations bv all
the best-known artists—including a verv
sinking Australian abo. couple by Minns,
the man who can picture our black brother-
bGtt.Gr than anybody else in the world.


Murdoch’s
Famous Panamas.
Unequalled value—smart, cool and
comfortable. In latest shapes, to
3i inches brim widths,
10/9, 15/6, 21/-
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Straw Boaters.
Splendid fur holiday needs—latest
crown and brim widths. Smartly
finished with silk bands and bows,
Bon Ton or Ivy Sweat Leathers.
Cool and comfortable,
4/6
POSTAGE ird. EXTRA.
Silk Shirts.
Our selection will please you. For
comfort these Shirts are unsurpassed.
Make your choice now.
Tennis Shirts.
White Silk, Collar and Pocket Shirts,
9/6
Tussore Silk Collar and Pocket
Shirts
9/6
Golf Shirts.
White Silk Golf Shirts, with gauntlet
cuffs and detached colar.
Also in Tusosre Silk. . 10/6
POST FREE.
Thinking of Holidays?
With Xmas and the New Year within coo-ee—of course you are
thinking of holidays —but have you prepared i
You’ll find a splendid selection of
Holiday Wants
at MURDOCH’S.
diM '
8888
am
mmmi
:.■■■■■
m
t n
m lill
mm
f- JW*
Ess-ss
i '
<.
m
sBs
.••.iv.y.v-
Every need lias been anticipated, and values are
full of goodwill, so don’t hesitate. A little
preparation now will save you much perspira-
tion later on.
Here are some typical Murdoch values that will
fill your needs to perfection.
Smart
Ready-to-Wear
Suits
551-
These are just what you need for smartness and
good service. Cut from latest Tweeds, Wor-
steds, Serges, etc, —every detail tailored to
perfection —every garment smart and shapely.
These are made in our own workrooms and
are guaranteed to give full satisfaction. We
have a size to lit every man.
let vs fit you
TO-DAY, SIR.
Murdochs Two-piece
Sports Suits
Ready to
Wear,
25
Just the thing for holiday wear —made in our own
workrooms from shrunk Egyptian Tussore—good
washing and wearing fabrics. These Suits are
unlined —have French seams, and band sewn down
at back —3-button lapel, 4 patch pockets (2 bottom
ones with flaps). Trousers have side and flip
pockets, hip strap, belt loops and cuff bottoms.
We guarantee a good fit to every man.
SECURE YOURS NOW.
If you can’t call, send height, chest, sleeve and
inside-leg measurements to Desk E.
%
s
FOR YOUR OWN SAKE—DON’T DELAY.
MURDOCHS
In Parß Street Ltd., SYDNEY.
“Australia's Mammoth Store for Men's Wear.**
~ar
Smart Soft Felts.
Easy-fitting Hats that will give maxi-
mum comfort. All the latest shades
and shapes—smartly finished,
8111 *»<, 1216
POSTAGE Sd. EXTRA.
4
Up=to=date Felts
in all the newest styles in Black, Navy,
Slate, Brown, etc., with new contrast
hands and latest American bow,
8/11 and 10/6
POSTAGE Sd. EXTRA.
m
s=3S
What About
Travelling Bags?
Don’t spoil your holidays for want of a
good Travelling Bag or Suit Case.
You’ll find just what you need at Mur-
doch’s —at a price that will save you
money. Here are some of our
dependable ALL-LEATHER Goods
that you’ll appreciate.
KIT BAGS in Cowhide, best-finished
fittings—side lock and linen-lined —
14in., 14/6; 16in., 16/6; 18in„
18/6; 20in./ 20/6.
GLADSTONE BAGS—
20in., 18/6; 22in., 20/-; 24im, 21/6;
26in., 23/6.
SUIT CASES —Cowhide, best fittings
and finish —
20im, 36/6; 22in., 40/-; 24in., 43/6;
26in., 47/6.
rOSTAGE ON BAGS, 1/- EXTRA.


“Biff” Gladdens
Sore, Tired Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
“My feet
just ache
for ‘Biff’ ”
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS. CARTER WRITES For years my feet
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
“Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores ; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4s. (triple box contains three times the Is.6d. size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
iSS^W"^
hp
« /
i
Tulle—luxurious
but economical
€f Few ladies will deny that Tulle is at
once the most luxurious, fascinating and becom-
ing Millinery trimming for Summer wear. Yet
it is a fact that if you are careful to choose
“Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle your Millinery will
cost you less than ever. “Dynamo” Tulle is
rainproof —yes, guaranteed rainproof. It is
also sunproof- It is colourfast. It is fadeless.
When wet, you simply shake it gently to and
fro in the air till it is dry. It immediately
regains the crisp, firm appearance it had when
new. It loses none of its sheen or colour. Its
original charm is completely restored.
Q “Dynamo” Tulle is wonderfully durable. It
stands the wear and tear of everyday use much
longer than ordinary Tulle. It is
most economical, because it
avoids the frequent renewals so
unpleasantly necessary when
ordinary Tulle is used. There-
fore, see that you get the genuine.
(g
am'
[foPROOF Tulle
36 ins. wide. In Black, White
and all fashionable shades.
9d., 10|d., 1/-, 1/3 and 1/6
per yard upwards.
All the best Mi'liners use “Dynamo" Rainproof
Tulle. All the best Stores sell it by the yard. Ask for
it by name. But if you wish to be sure that you are sup-
plied with the genuine, you must insist on seeing the
name and trade mark on the card on which the Tulle is
wound.
“DYNAMO” ENQUIRY DEPT.,
Carlton House, York Street, Sydney.
Letters Copied While Writing
w
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
With thlS Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Sin. x oin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10J x
8?, post free 4/0 ; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
NEW SOUTH
vg
WALES.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor, Administrator, Attorney or Agent.
STATE GUARANTEE.
LOWEST CHARGES IN AUSTRALIA.
NO PROFITS.
INCREASED BUSINESS MEANS REDUCED CHARGES.
Apply for Particulars to Public Trustee Office, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
T. IV. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Largest Tyre &. Tube Repairers in the State.
The Curotta Rubber Co.
Buyers, Sellers and Repairers of Motor Tyres, Tubes and Accessories. Makers of Protector ivi ( <
Largest Rubber Buyers in the State. THE ONLY FIRM IN AUSTRALASIA GUARANTEEING
SECOND-HAND TYRES. Also Sole Distributors for Firestone Tyres, Tubes and Accessories. Largest
Rubber Buyers from all Government Water and Sewerage Institutions.
193 a CASTLE REACH STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone City 3170 or Randwick 1158
THE
ORIGINAL
AND ONLY
GENUINE
PfIOSFERINE
I/-2/6-4/6
of all Chemists
sold
£HI? 1
TA^'
§p!s
cf}£ L
OU nC)
£F*°T
i*r * ’
a.O&
e>o
Australasia
a and The /
&rilfsh
Empire #
If served
with a sub-
stitute not
bearing the
name Ashton
& Parsons
Ltd., post the
, package to 408
I Collins St., Melb.,
when the genuine
article will be for-
warded and the cost
of postage refunded.
A PROVED REMEDY
FOR
INDIGESTION,
HEADACHE,
AiNT/EUVYIA..
Supplied by KOYAL COMMANDS IS
the: royal family
H.I.M The Empress op Russia.
H.M. The Rmg op Spam ,
HM. The Hmg op Greece,
H.M. The Queen of~Roomania,
ETc. ETc. Fit
PMOSFERI/NE
Ensures Vigorous
HeaJrK and gives
SrrengfK and ETKergy.
sdf
ttbc Sranb prior? of
Bbe ®rbcr of ttx tjoepttal of St. 3ebn
Qf 3<ruMlem, in jEiifllanb.
+
Chairman i
LADY SLOGGETT 20th July, 1915
Messrs. Ashton & Parsons, Ltd.,
Gentlemen,
Wo are requested by the Com-
missioners of the St. John Ambulance
Association at Havre and elsewhere
to supply, for use in the Base
Hospitals, 1,000 2/9 bottle 3 of
Phosferine*
They inform us that your remedy
is in constant requisition l?y the
Field Hospitals, and from the reports
they receive, it is held in high
esteem as a Tonic possessing valuable
recuperative qualities.
I shall be obliged by your imme-
diate attention, as it is necessary
to get the Phosferine forwarded to
France as quickly as possible.
(Lady) Helen S. Sloggett.
P.S.—You are quite at libertx—
to use this as you think fit. 4 s/
gvs
IN COMMISSION.
Every officer must have a good fountain pen for signing
orders, vouchers, passes, receipts, messages, and for
writing home.
No other pen is good enough—it must be a “Swan”
Safety—strong and dependable. It is made for just
such exacting work. It holds the maximum of ink, it
cannot leak, and requires no special care.
It is pre-eminently a Campaigner’s Pen.
Give all YOUR Soldiers a
"SWAN” PEN
Sold by all Stationers.
Catalogue Free.
MABIE, TODD (Si CO. LTD.,
79 & 80 High Holborn,
LONDON, W.C.
(Wholesale only) :
J, A. Burke, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
V
If any illustration appearing in r
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tin
Manager, '/ho will quote you pri e for it.
Captain Gerald Loughran, one of the Vic-
torian surgeons who went to Gallipoli in the
early days of the lighting, and has since been
mentioned as a frequent performer in the
V.C. class, is a product of the medical school
at Melbourne Uni. In the early stages of
his studies he forsook the frogs and took a
year or two off to go to the Boer war as a
private. Presently he came back, a cor-
poral, and finished his course. Afterwards
lie went to Murtoa, in the Wimmera district,
where the frozen lambs and the Deutsclier
names come from.
Richard E. Oaten, one of the clerical
representatives on the just-constituted N. S.
Wales Clerks’ Wages Board, is the most
prominent member of the Clerks’ Union —its
president and its delegate to the Labor
Council, lie was secertary of the Federa-
tion of Labor —the body formed to bring
about a sort of amalgamation of all the
unions, but now superseded by the One Big
Union idea. lie makes his crust as an
accountant and secretary of the Athletic
League, for which he also does most of the
handicapping. Lewis 1 lerinan, one of the
relied-upon organisers of the Labor party at
election times, is the Clerks’ Union’s present
secretary, and the other employees’ rep. on
the Board.
Lieut.-Col. “Jack” Hutchinson, in com-
mand of the 21st Battalion of Australian
Infantry which was aboard the Southland
when she was torpedoed, is a younger brother
of “Bill” Hutchinson, the new Minister for
Lands in Peacock’s rehashed Vic. Cabinet.
The Colonel is a partner in the Hutchinson
family store at Warracknabeal. He was
one of a little bunch that started a local
militia at Warrack, and he retained his in-
terest in defence matters until the chance
came to do something with battle-smoke in
it.
Charles Dalton, an affable young man not
very long from England, who followed
Charles Godby as vicar of Malvern when the
older man passed on to spend his declining
years in the deanery garden at East Mel-
bourne, is to fill |he comfortable shoes of the
late Canon Cason as rural dean of Malvern.
Australia offers many opportunities to the
right sort of ambitious student of divinity
and parlor-manners, providing he be (.1)
English, (2) accustomed to deal discreetly
with Liberal dowager-parishioners, (3) will-
ing to accept a good salary.
Adelaide University lately had four
new endowments established at one Senate
meeting. One, given by the veteran Edwin
Smith, is in memory of his grandson, Lieut.
Eric Talbot Smith, killed in Gallipoli. This
is to frank a student through any degree
course at the University, and is in the gift
of the Commercial Travellers and Ware-
housemen’s Association. So is a smaller
one named after their late secretary, Archi-
bald Mackie, and covering the Commerce
course. The other two are both to com-
memorate John L. Young, the schoolmaster
of the last generation who had the training
of C. C. Kingston, Register Finlayson, and
many other afterwards-prominent men.
The numerous Snowball family, of Mel-
bourne, of which Oswald, M.L.A. for Brigh-
ton, is- the best-advertised member to-day, is
now mostly too long in the tooth for service
in Turkey. Still there are some eligibles.
The late Dr. Snowball, the “children’s doc-
tor,” who made the family name respected
throughout the State, left four boys. Three
of them (all the unmarried ones) are under
arms. By the way, Joseph R. Snowball, of
the Licensed Victuallers, a brother of the
late doctor, lately made public a suggestion
for reducing drunkenness in the Australian
army. Briefly, it was that all respectable
publicans should refuse to serve sozzled
soldiers. Joseph R. is a cousin of Oswald,
who proposes to reduce drunkenness among
soldiers by continuing to keep the wet can-
teen out of camp, thereby compelling the men
to get their dipperful at any old pub. Appar-
ently neither Snowball believes that the Aus-
tralian soldier should act as his own publi-
can, though there is a large pile of evidence
in favor of that scheme.
“Moana” : Re stewards still accepting tips
on Maoriland steamers (B. 21/10/’l5), in
spite of the Arbitration Court’s prohibition,
made at their own request. Accepting isn’t
(he word. They are demanding loose change
these days. The other night at Wellington
a party of Expeditionaries going on final
leave before departing to fight for the
hungry stewards, climbed on to the Maori
armed with their tickets, and were promptly
told that they’d have to get off, as the ship
was full. Then someone whispered that for
“two bob a head” he’d find berths some-
where. The men in khaki handed out the
cash and got the beds.
“Eryander” : If the Allies get to Constan-
tinople they’ll only be adding another chap-
ter to its record as the most chronically-
besieged city on the planet. Huns, Arabs,
Persians, Russians, Hungarians, Venetians,
Bulgarians and Turks —all had a try for it by
turns before the Ottomans finally wrested it
from the last Constantine. When the pre-
sent writer was in the ancient and dog-
infested city the population was made up of
about half a million genuine Turks and
650,000 Greeks, Armenians, Syrians, Arabs,
Jews, Italians, French and English. Practi-
cally no Germans; for the Turk, despite the
accursed friendship forced upon him now, has
a holy hatred of the Teuton.
Though it has produced Willie Watt,
.M.H.R., and Peacock of the Chortle, much
may be forgiven the Australian Natives’
•Association for its iine war record. By way
of proof that it does more than talk, the
Association has published a list showing that
3040 of its members had joined the colors up
to November 20, and that three of them—
William Dunstan, Ballarat East; W. J.
Symons, Brunswick ; and Alexander Burton,
Euroa —had won the Victoria Cross. Appar-
ently A.N.A. really stands for Abdul’s
Numerous Antidote.
Harry Lawson, Victoria’s newest Attor-
ney-General, passed his exams, in 1911.
Donald Mackinnon, whom Lawson displaced,
was by a coincidence one of the law-
examiners who pencilled him for a pass.
Lawson represents Castleinaine and Maldon
in the Assembly and has been doing it for
sixteen years.


The Medlow Bath Hotel-de-Luxe
HYDRO MAJESTIC
*8
mm
-
' t -0k
■ - -
I
:
8
mm
■m
The “HYDRO”
After being Closed for Renovations during the Winter Season
Re-opened on December 1.
w
EDLOW BATH HYDRO, a Palace on a precipice at an altitude of
3500 feet, is but a stone’s throw from Med low Bath Railway-station, and
commands extensive views of the magnificent Kanimbla Valley. Ihe
“Hydro’s” appointments include a Casino, in which are provided frequent Entertain-
ments, a Library, an Art Gallery, Billiard and Smoking Rooms, Cloister Lounges, and
numerous semi-private alcoves which are all luxurious comfort personified. Outdoor
amusements are provided by means of Bowling Green, Tennis Court, Croquet Lawn,
Golf Links, Cricket Ground and Rifle Range. The “Hydro” is Electrically lit and
is provided with a Hot-water Installation. The cuisine is unquestionable
and the attendants are courteous. Private Garage available for visitors.
Tariff from 16s. per day, or £47/6 per week.
Ita!a Cars leave the Hydro daily for the Jenolan Caves, or for Excursions to other places
of interest, and private cars may be arranged for on application at the Hotel or at the
City Booking Office: 42 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


Amusements,
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
"|“ IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
THE MERRIEST SHOW IN SYDNEY.
TIVOLI FOLLIES
of 1915-16.
EVERYTHING NEW AND DOWN TO DATE.
Plan Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
*J*IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
VAUDEVILLE"* DE * LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
MATINEES AS ABOVE.
Plans at Glen’s and Tivoli.
UE R MAJESTY’ S, SYDNEY.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in
THE OLD GUARD.
ENTHUSIASTICALLY RECEIVED.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
QR ITERION THE A T RE, SYDNEY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., announce
MURIEL STARR’S FAREWELL
in
NOBODY’S WIDOW.
A METEORIC SUCCESS.
Plans Paling’s, Day Sales White Rose.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER -T. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller. General Manager.
the garden tiieat r e,
1 BAYSWATER ROAD,
DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY.
Direction E. BRANSCOMBE PTY. LTD.
AN ENTIRELY NEW
D ANDI E S CO.
EVERY EVENING (Wet or Fine) AT 8.15.
Prices: 2/- & 1/-; Reserved, 2/6.
DANDIES’ SUMMER LOCATIONS :
RED CO PERTH, W.A.
VIOLET CO ST. KILDA, VICTORIA.
ORANGE CO MANLY, N.S.W.
PINK CO ADELAIDE, S.A.
SCARLET CO BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 11.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present the Thrilling Play
of New York Life,
KICK-IN.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls. 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 18.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present their Gorgeous
Annual Panto. Extravaganza,
MOTHER GOOSE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
ING ’S TIIEAT MELB O U R N if.
Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALLEN DOONE
in
THE BOLD SOJER BOY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Commencing
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11.
JULIUS KNIGHT
And his NEW DRAMATIC CO. in
THE THREE MUSKETEERS
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
BIJOU THE aIVr E, MELBOUR N E.
FULLER’S THEATRES. & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
MABLE AND MALFE, KIP & KIPPY, MONTAMBO
a lid WELLS, TWO GIBSONS, LYDIA CARNE,
ORPHEA, LITTLE VERLIE, GEORGE WHITE-
HEAD, CARLTON MAX, and “MASH, BASH AND
CRASH.”
Prices: 2/6, 2/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
NOTHING can
replace salt,
and Cerebos Salt
is the best because
its absolute dry-
ness makes it the
most economical —
its careful manu-
facture makes it
the purest and
most perfect.
CEREBOS
SALT
Amusements.
PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHO W S.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTIIWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 2nd December, 1915.
Appointment of Draughtsmen anti
Engineers to Proceed to England to
Undergo Course of Instruction in
Submarine Building.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified and desirous of proceed-
ing to England to undergo a course of
instruction in Submarine Building, for a
period not exceeding two years.
2. The following Draughtsmen and En-
gineers are required, and the qualifications
for appointment are as shown: —
Posiiion.
1 Ship Draughtsman.
1 Engineer Draughtsman
1 Electrical . Draughts-
man.
1 Ship Fitter.
1 Engine Fitter.
1 Electrical Fitter.
Qualifications.
Good knowledge of me-
chanics required.
Special knowledge of
Diesel and similar
prime movers.
Must have had a sound
training.
Good knowledge of his
trade and a special
aptitude for mechan-
isms.
Good knowledge of ma-
chinery and practical
knowledge of engine-
room practice.
Good knowledge of elec-
trical work.
3. Applicants must be Australian born or
permanently domiciled in Australia, and
should not have passed their 30th birthday
on 15th January, 1916.
4. Salary (minimum) £250 per annum.
A separation allowance of £1 per week will
be paid to families of married officers
selected.
5. Selected candidates will be required to
enter into an undertaking to serve the Com-
monwealth Government for a period of at
least five years after their return to Aus-
tralia.
6. Applications, accompanied by copies of
testimonials and evidence as to age, should
be forwarded to the Naval Secretary, De-
partment of the Navy, Melbourne, so as to
reach him not later than 15th January,
1916.
GEO. L. MACANDIE,
Naval Secretary.
HAVE SHOE
SATISFACTION
—in other words, WEAR ABBEY SHOES.
55
We illustrate one of our latest
models—a TAN WILLOW CALF
BAL., LEAT II E It-L INE D,
STOUT SOLES, WIDE WELTS,
30/-
Also in BLACK BOX CALF,
27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
MILK
FOR ALL AGES
Horlick’s Malted Milk
is more beneficial than
tea, coffee or cocoa,
and is the best food
for invalids, dyspep-
tics, and those who
are below par. Ask
for Horlick’s at the
Soda Fountain.
mi:
MALTED Milk
SjAKofRAVU
N*.
tannic
NfiSSTwM'*
LSTrr:.rr^:
,BUCK» tKCI^
■c
H
Hi
.
v
Three
Sizes
of
IX. 2
3XH.P.
Make Your Rowboat Self-Propelled
by attaching the
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor, attached at the stern of
any rowboat or canoe, will give all the service
and pleasure of efficient Motor-Boating. For
cruising up the river or around the coast.
For conveying cargo quickly at small cost. It
economizes space, being attached outside the rowboat,
and can be easily taken off without harm to the wood-
work and used on any other boat.
25,000 Satisfied Users. 9 Governments have
adopted the Evinrude Motor after rigid tests.
It is operated by Petrol (gasoline),
with battery ignition or MAGNETO,and
automatic lubrication. Steered by pro-
peller—no rudder required, but supplied if
desired. Reversible. Fully guaranteed.
Descriptive liooTclet Post Free from
H. A. GODDARD, 404 Queen St., Brisbane; 82
Pitt St., Sydney; 376 Collins St., Melbourne;
Cliffe St., Fremantle; Remington Chambers
(opp. G.P.0.), Auckland.
[3
m
POST FREE
PRICE & CO. LTD.
... Watchmakers and Jewellers ...
Military Watches
from
21 1-
We hold the Largest Stock
of Luminous and Plain
Dials in N.S.W. Only the
BEST MAKES STOCKED.
90 King St, Sydney
and South Grafton
How Headaches Start.
Headaches may be started by a hundred
and one derangements of the health, but
the actual cause is often impure blood. The
nerves of the head are the most sensitive
of the entire nervous system. Like all the
nerves of the body they are dependent upon
pure blood for their health. They are affected
by any derangement of the system that
throws impurities into the blood. Sufferers
from headaches will find that their health
is run down or that their digestion is out
of order or that there is some other cause
why the blood is impure. It is only natural
then that the nerves should complain and
that the head should ache and throb.
The most dangerous practice that sufferers
from headache can fall into is the taking
of drugs that merely deaden the pain. As
time goes on the patient finds that she has
to increase the dose to get the same effect;
and later many become drug slaves.
The correct treatment aims at eliminat-
ing the cause of headaches. Such a blood-
making tonic as Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
can be recommended to every headache suf-
ferer. In building up the blood, they not
only strengthen and tone up the system, but
nourish and free the nerves from pain. The
pills are free from all harmful or habit-
forming drugs which are so common in
headache remedies. Your nearest dealer in
medicine can supply you.
j Free —A useful booklet, “Diseases of the
Blood,” will be sent on application to Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney.—Anvx.
How to Avoid Sick Headache
Many people suffer at regular intervals
from sick headache. Generally they can tell
hours in advance when an attack is coming
on. The trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the digestive organs, and when
a certain point is reached this poison pro-
duces nausea and the attack follows.
If sufferers would take a dose of Pink-
ettes, the new laxative, at intervals, these
distressing attacks may be avoided. I’ink-
ettes are dainty litle. sugar-coated ovals
tlmt arouse no feeling of repulsion, and they
act so gently that they are the ideal laxa-
tive to use in correcting a tendency to sick
headache. They have no unpleasant effect
to make them objectionable to the extra-
sensitive sick-headache patient. Old-
fashioned. harsh purgatives will not do at
all in such cases. If you would like to try
them send for a free sample to I he Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, mentioning
that you read of them in Tiie Bulletin.
Sold everywhere, Is. per bottle. — Advt.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
MEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furui-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGU, General Manager.
DAIMLER
m DAIMLER COMPANY
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
BE
CRITICAL
as critical as you
like over the services
you require from
Calvert’s Carbolic
Tooth Powder.
For the efficient cleansing
and antiseptic properties this
dentifrice possesses, make it
easy to maintain that standard
of cleanliness, which satisfies
people who want their teeth
to last well and to look well.
I
toCARBOLICtj
0
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,Manchester, Eng.


SILL PILES
COVERED FACE
(n Large Blotches. Festered and
Looked Angry. Used Cuticura.
Pimples Disappeared.
. 9
“Fermanagn,” -Botuny Rd., Waterloo
South, Aust. —“Some-time ago my face be-
came covered with small pimples for fully a
fortnight, which appeared in large blotches
mostly on the cheeks, chip and neck. They
used to/ester and look very angry and then
break into sores which were vefy disfiguring
so I resolved to try the Cuticura Remedies,
washing with the Cuticura Soap and after
letting it dry, applying the Cuticura Oint-
ment to the affected parts and after a week’s
application with the Cuticura Soap and
Ointment the pimples had all disappeared
I am thankful to say.
“I always keep Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment in the house in case of an emergency.”
(Signed) Mrs. M. Nelson, May 28, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S, W.
Sold throughout the world.
All is Food in
df
Food
When you prepare Benger’s
Food with fresh new milk, it
forms a dainty and delicious
cream. In this form, all the
nutritive elements in both the
milk and the Food itself are
made soluble, ready for bodily
nutrition.
Consequently Benger’s is
assimilated with ease, even
in illness, when other food
&
W\\ .
I
La
178 A
causes pain
and distress.
Benger's Booklet-A little
work of authority on the
special feeding of Children,
Invalids, and tne Aged, will
, be sent post free oil appli-
cation to
BENGER'3 FOOD, Ltd.
MANCHESTER, Eng.
Branch Offices —
New York (u.s.a.)
92, William Street.
SYDNEY (N.S.W.),
117, Pitt Street*
Canadian Agents—
National Drug and
Chemical Co. Ltd.,
34, Sfc. Gabriel Street,
Montreal, and branches
throughout Canada.
BengeFs Food is sold
by Druggists , etc,,
— -^everywhere.
1
mm
ini mmm ■
- - wm
m
mu
DT B. Allen’s (U SA-)
mx\Qm
WALNUT
FOR
GREY
11 AIR.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
214 George Street, Sydney.
TO “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
Ti-ie Motor in Australia, 16 Pitt Street, Sydney,
pays standard price tor motor, motor-bike, aero-
plane or motor-boat jokes for illustration.
HOW TO
GETFAT
New Preparation Makes
THIN MEN AND WOMEN
Plump and Healthy.
2/6 PACKAGE FREE
■&k
mm.
m
i
tnx
'Vo .
✓TV
V
<2*
jr
2
“Are you one of the thin ones
We make this generous offer to every thin,
scraggy, emaciated person who happens to
read this advertisement. We particularly
invite those who have been sufferers for
many years from lack of flesh to accept our
offer of a FREE TRIAL PACKAGE of
SANA-VETA, the great English _ tissue-
builder. We make no absurd claims for
this remarkable preparation; we merely ask
you to give it a fair trial in your own
home, and we venture to say that you will
be astonished and delighted with the results.
To give it a fair test get your correct
weight before commencing the treatment,
and at the end of seven days weigh yourself
again; the results will speak for themselves.
There are no drastic rules with this treat-
ment ; you just eat what you like and when
you like. It is convenient and easy to take, and
is perfectly harmless. SANA-VETA is not
a cure-all, but a scientific preparation which
acts directly on the digestive organs, thereby
enriching and assimilating all food taken
into the body, thus making good healthy
flesh and filling out all hollow and scraggy
parts of the body where flesh is wanted.
There is absolutely no reason why thin
persons should not be able to add as
many pounds to their weight as their height
demands (but please note that SANA-
VETA does not make superfluous fat).
The Proprietors of this unique preparation
are so confident of its flesh-forming possi-
bilities that they are prepared to give away
ten thousand free trial packages and stand
by the results. Send to-day for a full 2/(5
Free Trial Package and see what wonderful
results can be quickly obtained. Enclose
four stamps to cover cost of postage, pack-
ing, etc., and we will send you the package
by return of post, securely packed and free
from observation. Address: The Sana-
Veta Co., Suite 94, 178 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
FREE COUPON
Cut out this coupon and enclose with your letter. Write your
name and address distinctly and fully. Enclose four stamps to
cover cost of postage, packing, etc.
THE SANA-VETA CO.
(Suite 94), 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Trv the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
British Prices, 1/1% and 2/9.
ALBERT & G 9., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
\V. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS. etc.
fllO Readers of “The Bulletin.” —Your
I countrymen sent to England from
the Dardanelles long for “Bully.” When
you have read your copy “spare another
copper” and send it, post paid, by
the first mail to Mr. Phil Holdsworth.
Australian War Contingents’ Association, 72
Victoria Street, Westminster, London, S.W..
who will personally see that it gets to some
Australian who has “done his bit.”
Ray’s Hair Dye.
V-
»k
>■
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
DYE*
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
From an officer of the 2nd Field Artilleiy
Brigade :—• , , v „
As showing the .imperturbability of the Austra la
soldier, this might interest you. I recently crossed
from Alexandria on the ship that picked up a giea
many men from the water after the torpedoing o
the Southland, which was carrying a full load ot
Australian Infantry on their way to the Front. We
were one of the first ships to arrive at the scene.
The; sea was full of boats and rafts, many of them
very much overcrowded and almost sinking. One
raft in particular was in a very bad way, being
overturned, and far too many men were hanging to it
and sitting on the bottom. It was fortunately very
calm, but still the water was washing over the men.
As we neared them I was amazed to see one chap
reading Tub Bulletin ; he was sitting on Ins
haunches, elbows on knees, and enjoying it
thoroughly, in spite of the fact that they had been
two hours in the water and all were pretty ex-
hausted. I discovered later that he had been reading
it aloud to his pals to cheer them up. They needed
it, poor beggars! The paper was in his pocket
when he went overboard, and the ready-witted chap
made fine use of it.
* * * *
“Copy Boy”: What is the record long-
partnership on the Australian inky way .’ 1
nominate that of Johnny Watson and A. b.
Laurie, owners of the Bobdek Watch, pub-
lished at Mount Gambier (S.A.). Laurie
set the Watch going in ISlil and two years
later he was joined by M atson. Altei •>•»
years the partnership is still prosperous and
healthy. Laurie is now 73, while Watson
who was the first Mayor of Mount (xanibiei,
but otherwise is of unblemished character—is
a bright boy of 81. # #
The first number of the British Empire
Review (Australasian edition) has been
published. One line: “In these stirring
times our thoughts constantly turn to our
sovereign.” Things don’t look too good.
* * * *
John Sandes ends the argument:—
Allow me to remark with a blush that I was the
writer of the lines which attempted, very inade-
quately, to depict the appearance of the late P. K.
McOaiighan as Lafayette at a fancy ball given at
Government House, Melbourne, by the John Maddens
in 1897, and which formed the subject of an action
for libel against the Argus, the aggrieved party
claiming damages on the ground that he had been
held up to contempt and ridicule. The case was
decided by a jury of 12, presided over by Justice
Hodges; Isaacs and Duffy for the plaintiff, Purves
and Coldham for the defendants. I was in court
ready to swear that the verses were, a bona fide repoit
of the plaintiff’s appearance and that there was no
malice. But I was not called. I had been on the
most friendly terms with plaintiff, and only a
few days before the fatal fancy ball he insisted on
introducing me over a cup of coffee in the V ienna
Cafe to David Syme, remarking genially, “This
young fellow is in the same line of business as
yourself, Syme. He writes for the paper up the
street.” The libel action was chiefly interesting
from a legal aspect in bringing out the essential
distinction between a well-known character and a
public man. I gathered that in law, no matter how
well known a man may be in a community by reason
of his strongly-marked personality or quaintness of
attire, he is entitled to be free from all comment
in the press. If the plaintiff had been even a mem-
ber of the City Council he might have been depicted
in verse with impunity, so long as there was no
malice. A useful point that for pressmen. It was
during the hearing of the case that I first realised
what a highly-trained legal mind . can do in the
matter of interpreting any document. Barrister
Isaacs read two of the verses —supposed to be the
report of the constable on duty outside the ballroom.
In them this: —
An’ Ceres fled when he loomed up near,
An’ Hebe declined to stay,
And pretty Minerva, wid helm and spear,
Grew faint when he came her way.
Learned counsel proceeded to draw the blackest
deductions as to the sinister insinuations which in
ins opinion the writer sought to convey to the public
concerning the moral character of the plaintiff, as
evidenced by the suggestion that the ladies all fled
in terror at his approach. Makes one think of the
dark meanings imported into “chops and tomato
sauce” in “Bardell versus Pickwick.” The jury
evidently thought that there was something in the
point put forward by counsel’s interpretative acumen,
for they gave plaintiff a verdict —and £5 out of
the £5OOO that he asked for. Dear me, it all
happened 18 years ago! Purves and Coldham and
McCaughan are dead, and even Isaacs and Duffy have
ascended on high.
* * * *
Ross's Magazine, a little monthly, has
just put its fist round the corner. “Bob”
Ross, its founder, is mostly list, and has
used it in more fighting-papers in Australia
than any other man of his age. He lias
been in the ring in Queensland, Broken Hill,
Maoriland and Melbourne, and at present
does the slogging for the Socialist. Like
most of the cult he is a mild-mannered
fiend, who honestly regards the capitalist as
the only really fierce and bloodthirsty citizen.
* * * *
“Lou” : Years ago the old Charters Towers
Telegraph ran a matrimonial column, and
every week a batch -of short letters, from
either sex, stating requirements and so forth
made the rag a thing of joy. You could
arrange a “meet” somewhere, get the lady’s
or gent.’s address, or be intro’ed at the office.
The letters were printed as written, and out
in the camp we used to muster round the
cook-house at night and argue about the
goeds on offer. We married them all off
each week except one. His letter we
tacked on the bread-box lid, and here it is :
I’m a tin scratcher, an’ a pretty decent sort of a
cove as coves go. I’ve got a nice little pyramid o
tin waitin’ ’ore, an’ I wanter be put on the tracks
of a good sort of an upstandin’ twist an’ twirl. One
who doan mind goin’ for a karasene tin of mother
an’ daughter an’ boiling the knock me silly while
I banjo the dirt. Face looks doan matter much —■
no questions asked by neither. —(Signed) Metel’ead.
As fur as we could learn, “Metel’ead” was
never suited.
THE “IN MEMORIAM” COLUMN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In childhood, ere my soul divined
The shade of the approaching hearse,
I dreamed my deeds might be enshrined
In deathless verse.
A sub. whose eyes have lost their fire,
Memorial verse that staggereth
I daily scan, and most desire
A verseless death.
VICTORIA.
DELE.


The BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
m
—REMINGTON HAMMERLESS REPEAT-
. TNG RIFLE, Model 12, 22-calibre, solid
breed), side ejector, straight grip, 24in. round barrel, handles If.
short, 12 long or 11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open
front sights; weight 4*lb. Delivered, 52/6.
THE MAXIM SILENCER, for attaching to rifles. Improves
your marksmanship. Ensures noiseless shooting. The
marvel of the shooting world.
Silencer for 22-cal. rifles £l/5/.
Silencer for all other calibre rifles £2/2 0
Postage on one Silencer —N.S.W., 9d. ; Inter-State, 1/2.
Wedging or screwing Silencer on 22-cal. barrel. . 7/0 extra
Screwing Silencer on all other barrels 12/G extra
fflcß Simmons b
We Repair
All Kinds
of GUNS
and
RIFLES.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
in Sporting Goods
Post Free Anywhere.
MAYMARKET
•SYDNEY*
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
c
B49—MAUSER CARBINE AND PISTOL COMBINED; 10-shot.
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards.
Delivered £6/10/-
gfrSTT' ' jgg
BI»—“THE SAVAGE” REPEATING
HAMMERLESS RIFLE, 1914
MODEL, 22-cal. rim tiro, 24in.
octagon barrel, slide action, dis-
mountable, pistol grip, handles short, long o
cartridges; magazine holds 20 short. IT long or
cartridges; length over all 40in., taken apart 27
about silb. Delivered...
r long rifle
15 long rifle
'4in.; wei
;.. £3/
0» r «
vgsdvf
B29—REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. 0 Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel.
weight 341 b 1 7 / f»
1130 —With ladder rear sights 21/-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.
2/8 Inter-State.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE, British made. Sample Box of 5—2/6 (post free).
vgs
B2—STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
22-cal. R.F., round barrel. 20in. chambered for lons
rifle cartridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut
stock, open front and rear sights, weight 41b.. l!)/(>
Postage—N.S.W. 1/9; Inter-State 3/2.
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
gs
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough —you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A usiralasia.
Enquire about the
Diamond Disc
Phonograph,
£20
This Model B. 80 is the lowest priced, but
a very worthy member of the family of
Diamond Disc Phonographs—the most re-
markable and most beautiful musical instru-
ments in the world. It is very handsome in
appearance—in either Mahogany, semi-gloss
finish, or quartered Oak, golden finish. It
lias a 12in. turn-table automatic feed, is
fitted with diamond-point reproducer. Metal
parts are nickel-plated, buffed and polished,
and has a turn-table stop. It is the finest
Christmas gift you could possibly give your
wife and family. Price, £2O.
Full particulars will be supplied by your
nearest dealer, or printed matter will be
mailed post free on request to us.
T HOMAS A. EDI S*o N, LTD.
<Wholesale only!, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
&
Li
w\
N
BOKIQA
•J. &E. ATKINSON-
2nd 3
you took out
each stopper
before deciding
WHICH WOULD BE
YOUR CHOICE?
You would find that
Atkinson’s English Eau de
Cologne is just the type of
perfume that a woman of taste
would instinctively prefer.
And you would be right.
For Atkinson’s English Eau
de Cologne is the finest in the
world. For over 100 years it
has been distilled in London
by a Bond Street House of
world-wide reputation.
Look for the name of Atkinson on every bottle of Eau
de Cologne you buy. It enables you to pick out what
you want —the best.
ATKINSON’S
BRITISH Eau=de=Cotogne
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24. OLD BOND ST.. LONDON.
No. 24."
dvgsd
Made"
A US
Combs,
2/= each.
Cutters,
6d.each.
n
'sC
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, Sydney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARINC CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne,
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From, 16 • per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Delicate Magneto
is the very life of your cycle or car. It requires the
skill of the expert to adjust and repair. Send yotirs to
Moody & Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney,
who have specialised in electrical work for years, and
who undertake to repair quickly and cheaply, anil
guarantee to make it work equal to new again or
make no charge.
tx^C/UTUL
Cures ECZEMA.
No mattei how this terrible disease manifests
itself, either dry, scaly or mattery, it quickly
vanishes under the wonderful influence of EXZERMA.
Exzerma is a liquid compound, is non-poisonous,
and cure? Eczema with amazing rapidity and
thoroughness.
The worst and most obstinate eases are cured in
two weeks.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS,
or by
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. (1


A Beautiful Advocate
for Rexona.
MISS MARGARET VINTON
(From a photo, lii
Charier Solly).
V
MISS MARGARET
VINTON, the much-
admireil leading lady
in “Potash and Perl-
mutter,” was engaged
for the part when she
played it in America
by Mr. A. 11. Woods,
oil account of her ex-
quisite appearance.
She poses when in
America for the exclu-
sive imported models
shown in “The 1 )ry
Goo d s Economist.”
She is sft. lOin. in
height. One of her
greatest attractions is
her wealth of fair
hair. The letter she
writes to us regarding
Rexona has a value
seldom reached by
such words of praise.
“Just a few words to teJt yon what I think of Rexona and Rexona
Soap. Some weeks ago a very good friend of mine recommended your
Rexona Soap to me. She had so many kind things to say about it, lat
once gave it a trial, and am simply delighted with it.
“I found it for the skin simply lovely, and as a shampoo for the hair
I have never yet come across anything to equal it, for it always makes my
hair look so nice.
“I have also tried Rexona; it is splendid, and liealS anything so
quickly. What a lovely little three-cornered jar you put it in. Wher-
ever I go I shall never again travel without Rexona and Rexona Soap,
and I shall always recommend them, for I think they are simply fine.”
Yours truly,
(Signed) MARGARET VINTON.
Preserve the SKixi with Rexona.
To all lovers of outdoor sport a dip in the roaring breakers on a summer’s
day is indeed romance. Next day the sunburnt, blistered hands and scarlet face
are painful realities. This distress can be avoided by the application of soothing,
cooling, healing Rexona to the face, hands and arms. First bathe the face, hands
and arms with Rexona Soap and tepid water, softly drying them —then apply
Rexona gently to the skin. If this is done there will be no after-effects from
the exposure to the sun. No regrets after a happy day. Rexona Soap and
Rexona in its dainty pot should stand oil the toilet table of all who indulge in out-
door sports. Obtainable everywhere—Rexona Soap, 1/-; Rexona, 1/6 and 3/-
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
BEFORE THE MIRROR.
By “JEANNETTE.”
“Jeannette,” the well-known writer on Beauty Culture and author of “The Book of Beauty,”
will be pleased to help and advise any reader on matters of the toilet. Queries should be acconi-
panied by a stamped addressed envelope, and directed to “Jeannette,” c/o “Before the Mirror,
43 Gray’s Inn Read, London, W.C., England.
These are undoubtedly days of exceptional nervous strain for one and all of
us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow over tne
lives of manv of us women, and while, perhaps, a few—the more stoical among
us—can avoid worrying over past or prospective events, we may all, with a little
care and forethought, succeed in preventing the result of worry from being notice-
able in our appearance. To these fortunate few this little chat will, however, be
as interesting and instructive as to those who stand in real need of help in toilet
matters, and may be the means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown
method of retaining, or regaining, that beauty of face and figure which is the bnth-
right of every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are at present
not generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Freckles and How to Cure Them.—lt is always
those with the finest and fairest skins who
freckle most easily, but this knowledge is poor
comfort when the face is disfigured with these
ugly little blemishes. To prevent the forma-
tion of freckles, a wash should be applied to
the face which will form a shield from the
rays of the sun. A simple and inexpensive
one can he made up at home by dissolving an
ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of
hot water. Shake the bottle, and when cold
apply to the face and allow to dry on the
skin. If this is done every day, renewing the
application whenever the face is washed, and a
little mercolised wax rubbed into the skin
every night, freckles will not make their
appearance, no matter how hot the sun. To
remove freckles which have already formed,
apply the wax every night, rub it well into
the skin of the face and neck and leave it on
till the morning. Then wash off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water.
The Hair —To Increase the Growth. —To arrest
an undue falling of the hair and increase the
growth, scalp massage and the application of
a good tonic is absolutely necessary. Part the
hair in the centre, and starting at the forehead
massage for at least ten minutes. Then apply
a tonic. A simple and inexpensive one can be
made up at home by mixing one ounce of
boranium (which can be bought at the chem-
ist’s) with a quarter of a pint of bay rum.
Add the boranium to the bay rum, allow to
stand for half an hour, then strain and add
sufficient water to make half a pint. Dab
amongst the roots of the hair with a soft
sponge.
Blackheads, Enlarged Pores, etc.—Pdacklieads
are unusually troublesome things during the
summer months to those bothered in that way.
The extra warmth makes the skin “give,” and
it looks more greasy than usual, and conse-
quently the blackheads are more noticeable.
To remove them and close up the pores of the
skin dissolve a stymol tablet in a glass of hot
water, allow the effervescence to subside, then
dip a soft sponge into the liquid and bathe
the face. After a few minutes, dry the face
with a soft towel, and the blackheads will be
instantly removed.
To Reduce a Double Chin.—To reduce a double
chin, give hard, firm massage every night with
mercolised was;, stroking the flesh firmly back,
wards from the chin towards the lower portion
of the neck. Do this every night, and in the
morning bathe with cold water and rub into
the skin a little parsidium jelly, fins treat-
ment will strengthen the flabby tissues and
restore the contour of the face. Occasionally
a double chin is due to stooping over books 01
work, but generally it is the result of putting
on weight. When the latter is the case a tew
clynol berries, eaten regularly every day will
greatly assist in reducing the superfluous
flesli. A glass of hot water should be sipped
after each meal.
Superfluous Hair.—Dark-complexioned women
are far more frequently troubled with a
growth of superfluous hair than those with
fair skins, and at the first sign of these objec-
tionable hairs steps should be taken to remove
them, or tliev will develop into a strong
growth which will lake a very long time to
destroy. A little powdered pheminol applied
to this growth will remove the unsightly blem-
ish, destroving it permanently if the hairs be
but few. Two or more applications may be
necessary if the growth be unusually strong,
but about one ounce of pheminol should be
sufficient for the most stubborn case. Phemi-
nol can be obtained at the chemist’s, and a
little powdered alum should be obtained at the
same time for dusting the skin before applying
the pheminol.
Grey or Fading Hair. —To restore the color to
grey or fading hair add one ounce of concen-
trate of tammalite to four ounces of bay rum.
Apply to the roots with a soft sponge every
night until the desired result is obtained, then
use the lotion two or three times a week. After
three or four days a decided improvement will
be noticed, the hair turning gradually to its
original color. An iron tonic will be found
most beneficial when the greyness is caused by
general debility.
Beautiful Hair—How to Shampoo.—Whether
the hair is luxuriant and glossy, or thin and
lanky depends very largely upon the care
bestowed upon it. To keep the hair in good
condition it should be shampooed once in
every two or three weeks. Before shampooing,
massage a little pure olive oil or almond oil
into the scalp, then mix one teaspoonful of
stallax granules in a cup of hot water, fill a
basin with warm water, into which the ends
of the hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax
mixture into the scalp in the usual way.
ItinsQ, and dry by fanning with a palm fan, or
in the open air. if the weather permits. Should
the hair be naturally very greasy, the oil
massage should lie omitted. [3
The Elopement.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
it /TY heart is mostly conger cel.
/\/§ And all my world is wet;
± tJL But while it wriggles 1 can feel
That stars arise and set —-
Perchance my lady at the wheel
Has dimples still to let.
The dandelions of my hope
Around me drooping lay.
As stairs made slithersome with soap
My path seemed swift and grey,
Therefore 1 could not well elope
With Madeline that day.
I sprawled upon the grass and moaned.
I heard the dull clocks chime.
The slim and withered purse I owned
Weighed on my soul like crime,
For that elopement w..s postponed
The twenty-second time.
The thin, delicious girl whose nice
Young heart I boldly won.
Whose lips were like a curving slice
Of beetroot in the sun,
Was ready twenty times and twice
With me to cut and run.
Her parent with the stern, large boot,
A tallow merchant strong,
Was guessless of the game afoot
Or how the hunt went wrong;
His soul was rank with lard and loot
As mine was sweet with song.
Elopement cannot be financed
As once it used to be,
When Lochinvar’s tall charger pranced
His lady home to tea ;
All love affairs are no”' ’•omarepd
In terms of £ s. d.
One toot upon the motor horn,
One stirring taxi ride,
And. spite of life and death and scorn,
The girl had been my bride —-
A young star of the evening born
Laughed till he shook inside.
I said : “Yeung star, is this the time
To make a mock of me?
As cashless as a cow you climb
Out of the dark, salt sea,
While poverty like gulfs of slime
Is ladled over me. - ’
The small star said : “You must excuse
My mirth on such a night.
It is a shame that you should lose
An hour so sweet for flight.
Pray take my car, or, if you choose,
I’ll drive you to delight.”
Swift as a German shell he sped
Across the seascape wide,
And circling neatly overhead
Completed a long glide
By landing steady as a bed
Three inches from my side.
“Jump in.” His voice was low and sweet,
Like starshine on the sea.
llis hair was gold, his waist was neat,
His lips were red and free;
Amazement made my wild heart beat
To find that he was she.
Uprising like a whirring bird,
We climbed against the sky.
A laughter in her white throat stirred —-
“Now, whither shall we fly?”
I gave the right address. She heard,
Leaned back and seemed to sigh.
I saw her look. I understood.
My reason all went blind.
I murmured : “Would you be so good
Some other road to find?
Pray do not think me mad or rude,
I’ve simply changed my mind.”
The bright star lady smiled like spring,
She set the car a-whirl,
I felt it flutter, soar and swing
Round in a corkscrew curl,
And then I simply had to fling
My arms around the girl.
My Madeline was mad as cats,
I felt it as I fled,
Mad as a dame with six new hats
Who has to stay in bed
Because a cold that gnaws like rats
Is sporting in her head.
The pleasant lady of the star
Was kind as kind could be;
We sailed the dimpled darkness far
Beyond the nearer sea,
Till at the moon’s bright fringe the car
Was but a kiss and me.
I cared not where our wheels might turn
Or where our wings might float;
What leagues of darkness we might spurn
I did not mark or note;
I felt a soft mouth breathe and burn
Above a clear, white throat.
I said: “Dear girl, I do not know
How far you mean to drive.
But I should like to take it slow,
Lest morning should arrive.”
She said : “One kiss before we go,
The- hour has come to dive !”
She pulled a lever as she spoke,
A white light filled the sky,
It was the pearly dawn that broke,
And we were up so high
It took the. breath out of a bloke
Who was not used to fly.
We fell a hundred miles or so
In one tremendous drop.
I saw a vast grey ocean flow
With wind-whipped waves on top,
And then the whole ethereal show
Went one eternal flop.
Flop! And the girl and car were gone.
Half-drowned. I climbed the sea.
I reached the air. the bright sun shone,
And it was plain to me
The boots and clothes that I had on
Were heavy as could be.
I needs must swim a thousand miles
To come to any shore;
I thought about the star girl s wiles,
And those red lips she wore ;
And then odd waves in various styles
Tossed me about some more.
The depth of water where I drowned
Was quite five hundred feet.
There were no rocks or islands round
On which to take a seat,
But some small fishes came and found
That I was good to eat.
My Madeline was mad as cats,
I knew it all the while,
I knew it when those hungry sprats
Came round and tried to smile,
And when the lobster brought her brats
To chew me up in style.
My heart is mostly conger eel,
And all my world is wet,
But while it wriggles I can feel
That stars arise and set —
Perchance, my lady at the wheel
Has dimples still to let.
N.s.tv.
CURSE O' MOSES.
The Last Shaft.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I DON’T feel lonely now as I sit writ-
ing by night in the “front room” of
the old home by Log Paddock. I used
to feel very, very lonely here as a boy,
thirty-odd years ago, when they were all
alive and around me. The Bush seemed
haunted then by a Future, which is dead.
I've got in touch with the world since that
time. Besides, two old digger-mates, Bill
Payne and Harry McDermott, who have
batched in the old house for years, are smok-
ing their pipes in reflective silence, one on
each side of the big kitchen fireplace, after
a hard day’s battling with the water m a
wet shaft (thinly disguised as a contract
well) that they are trying to bottom at the
other end of Log Paddock. (This end has
been “this end” from time immemorial.)
Moreover, “Young Jack” McDermott —
he’s about thirty-three—-will be home soon
from an Irish-German wedding down at
Muller’s farm, with a ridiculous and grossly-
exaggerated account of the whole business,
and a warmly-colored and higlily-improper
description of the young couple’s immediate
future. They have to be all night in the
train in wintry weather. Also, he’ll bring a
bottle of good Weinsberg port-wine for me
from a vineyard across “the crick.”
* * *
.Tack has come home with a mate of Ger-
man descent; and I can hear him taking
his father to task about the way the Old Man
brought him up. .Tack has the same affection
and regard for his father as Beniio had for
his “old ’uns” ; but Jack has a different way
of showing it. However, he gets little change
from the Old Man.
* * *
Near midnight. The rain has cleared
away, and it is bright moonlight. Log Pad-
dock, opposite—which isn’t a log paddock,
and hasn’t been one since the writer’s child-
hood—looks strangely open. I had forgotten
to notice that the bush has been cleared
away (for the second time since convict
days), and only a few shade trees left for
the immortal Cow. For this, from being
first a farming and vine-growing, then a
mining, and, next, a wheat district, has
become mostly cow-cocky. This will help
you to understand some things.
The log fence —I remember parts of it —-
was composed of two long logs laid side by
side on the ground, with chocks across, and
other two logs on top of them, and so on.
There isn’t a log of it left now, and hasn’t
been for many a long year. They all went
for timbering shafts, for post-and-rail fences
and firewood. Then there was a stout two-rail
fence—l saw it put up. Now that is gone,
and Log Paddock is surrounded by the eter-
nal wire-netting, with two barbed wires on
top. For Bunny had triumphed here. But
barbed wire was a blessed relief from the
eternal, bullocking “billeting.” Every curse
brings an antidotal blessing. And poor
people make a living out of the rabbits.
At least, they are locally and tolerantly
referred to as “the poor people.” Some of
the “poor” people average £4 a week, and
over. My philanthropic friend, whose heart
bleeds for the rabbiter, averages thirty
shillings ; and he averages it under protest.
Talking of fences. I’m always expecting
a fence where there’s none now. Round the
old house is a very old two-rail, and along
the road frontage a barbed wire with an
old post here and there mortised for .two
rails; sometimes several of these posts in a
row—as in front of the house. They seem,
in the moonlight, like passing ghosts that
pause momentarily and stare. I didn’t know
why they did it to me until it struck me
they were the remains of a fence that I put
xip," as a boy. more than thirty years ago.
But good timber had long been scarce even
then, and the post and rails had belonged
to another fence.
I’d like to have a portrait of that boy as
he was then. Those old grey posts haunt me
in their old grey way with thoughts and
fancies of another boy whom I saw recently
in Sydney. An old grey aunt said this
young fellow was the dead spit of me as I
was at his age. She thought she’d gone back
thirty years—or I’d come on. He is my
son Jim.
(Never mind. We’re coming* to the Last
Shaft in Log Paddock soon.)
Dawn breaking above Golden Gully. Then,
slowly, the sunrise over old Mount Bucka-
roo purples all along the Mudgee Hills. The
old German vineyards are flushed above the
slopes beyond the dark-green slieoaks across
Pipeclay Creek. But they are greatly
changed. They have long got away from the
old, cast-iron, immigrant-German idea that
handicapped two generations—the immigrant
German generation and the first Australian-
Germans; the fixed idea, as an idea can only
be fixed in Teuton minds, that vines would
grow nowhere but on a sunny slope. Nowa-
days the best are grown on the levels above,
and some even on the creek flats. The
(Continued on next page.)


BACKACHE GIVES THE WARNINC.
Have you ever thought what it is that makes your Back Ache, your Limbs Ache and
♦Swell, your Ankles and Eyes Dropsical, and disturbs you so often at Night?
It is kidney trouble, and
the above are some of the
warnings.
D oan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills act directly on the
kidneys and urinary system.
They cleanse the kidneys
and bladder, and help
them to throw off the
poisonous urinary waste
that causes
Gravel, Stone, Dropsy,
Pain in the Back and Loins,
Lumbago, Rheumatism.
Read the experience of
Sydney people given here.
It will encourage you.
2?
'1
w
11] <')
V
"Every Picture
Tells A Story"
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BACKACHE AND KIDNEY TROUBLE,
Two Sydney People Cured.
Mrs. W. Sullivan, 71 Beaumont Street, Water-
loo, Sydney, says: “I suffered terribly with my
kidneys for some time. 1 had terrible pains in
my back, and could hardly move without suffering
torture. Every time I stooped I would get a
twinge across my kidneys like the stab of a knife,
and I could not help screaming out. I was also
subject to had headaches, dizzy feelings, and had
urinary trouble, the secretions being thick and
cloudy, and difficult to pass. Nothing I took
seemed to suit my case, and I suffered on in spite
of treatment, but at last I got a good remedy, and
that was Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A friend
advised me to take a course of these pills, which I
did, and I am pleased to say they cured me of
every distressing symptom mentioned above. I
used twelve bottles in all, and my cure is perfect,
for I have been as right as rain for the last twelve
months.”
Mrs. C. Vincent, 147 White Street, Leichhardt,
Sydney, says:—“My husband has nothing but good
to say of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, having-
used this remedy with splendid results. Previous
to taking these pills he suffered a lot from back-
ache and other distressing symptoms of kidney
trouble, such as urinary disorder, dizzy attacks and
sleeplessness, but could get nothing to do him any
good. • A course of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
however, drove the pain out of his back, regulated
the s'ecretions, and made him feel fit and well. Ilis
back used to ache fearfully, the pains being sharp
and shooting, and would strike him right across
the loins. It was impossible for him to stoop, or
turn in bed, without suffering torture, and he
always felt tired. A friend advised him to take
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and, as before
stated, they cured him completely. We recom-
mend this remedy with every confidence to other
sufferers.”
fgs
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
dfg
sdf
slopes, from which the old, old vines were
uprooted, are bare and “scalded,” and will
probably grow nothing for years. Very
modern houses and cellars have taken the
places of the old, German, snake-infested
ones. They say that snakes have grown
scarce in the district. Perhaps Laughing
Jack could explain, since lie’s been protected.
But snakes come out of some of those cellars
yet. I know, because I’ve been bitten by one.
There’s the enlarged portrait of a young
man on the wall, amongst old prints that
used to belong to us. A young man with a
full face, roguish eyes and a dark moustache
rather pointed and turned up at the corners.
I knew him well. He was full of whimsical
humor and practical jokes of a harmless
sort. He first appeared, in my boyish mem-
ory, at the hack door while the Chieftain-
ess was entertaining a German lady-friend
of the old school and a severe-looking school-
mistress—childless, and of another old
school. He was then sinking a shaft with a
party, of whom my father was one, on the
original two-acre freehold, just behind the
house. His name was Harry McDermott.
He married and came with his young
wife to live in the old house the day we
were leaving.
On my last visit, twenty-odd years ago, he
was little changed. (On that occasion, by
the way, I took his two boys up to Con
O’Donnell’s to buy lollies. One of the boys
was Jack.) Harry was expecting to strike
it rich in a shaft in Log Paddock. He said
at the dinner-table that if I, in my travels
abroad, should happen to come across a
party of three —a jolly, good-looking
fellow like himself; a sour, discontented,
jealous-looking old woman; and a pretty,
soulful, golden-haired, happy young woman
—-I’d know at once that it was him and his
wife and the children’s governess, and that
he’d struck his golden hole at last and was
making a grand tour of the world.
Out in the kitchen an old man is getting
an early breakfast ready at the big, open
fireplace. At least, he has the appearance
of an old man. Ilis hair —what is left of
it—is as white as his beard. He is bent,
and, when he walks, liis legs, seen from the
rear, are shrunken and “gone.” His eye-
lids have dropped and his eyes are half-shut
most of the time. He seldom smiles, and
only gives a grunt of a laugh now and
again; but in one of the few brighter
moments he opens his eyes, and a ghost of
the old whimsical manner comes back. For
his name is Harry McDermott. (The Last
Shaft is very near now.)
He lost his wife ten years ago, ard he
and his mate have batched in the old house
nearly ever since. Ilis children have grown
up and drifted off. All except “Young
Jack.” Everything in the old home is
almost as the wife and mother left it—save,
of course, in the matter of window curtains
and little woman’s things like chat. The
front bedroom is never used. He sleeps on a
bunk in the kitchen, and his mate and Jack
in the “boys’ room” between. (I used to be
one of “the boys.”) The big kitchen,
dresser is as it was, always kept clean and
tidy, as only old diggers amongst landsmen
keep things. Of the astonishingly complete
crockery outfit scarce a dish has been broken.
> Harry McDermott and his mate, Billy
Payne, live by well-sinking and prospect-
ing, and getting a bit of gold now and then.
But the shallows and the dry ground have
long been worked out; for nearly all Log
Paddock, when you get down a little, is a
subterranean lake. They are sinking a well
for a cow-cocky amongst the ancient work-
ings at the upper end of Log Paddock —
with an eye to a “bit o’ gold” at the
“bottom,” if they can reach it.
People say they shall never bottom that
shaft—or well, if you like it better. But
they sink in the mullock, and they bail, and
timber, and sink in the mullock, and bail,
and timber, battling bravely down. It is
sawn slabs now instead of split, with cleats
at the corners instead of pegs. It looks as
neat as if the shaft were bricked. But they
can’t keep the water out. There was a little
water “follerin’ ’em down” last week.
There’s Gft. now. It’s no use bailing on
Sunday, as of old ; for the same depth will
be there on Monday morning.
Young Jack is going to “knock off for a
week” (he’s fencing) and give them a hand
to help bottom that shaft. But he knows the
case is hopeless. It would need a steam-
pump. and all the gold they are likely to get
wouldn’t pay for the engine-oil. Oh, the
lifelong faith of the gold-digger!
Billy starts off first in the morning, while
Harry cuts the dinner and puts it in the
tucker-bag. Then Harry starts, with the
dog after him. Going up the road, there is
always from a quarter to half a mile between
the mates. And in like manner shall they
come home in the evening. Only then the dog-
will be in the lead. They were known to
walk together once—when there was trouble
at home. I wonder if they’ll walk home
together if they strike gold? They’re about
the only two old professional diggers left in
the district.
And they’ll stick to that shaft, and dig
out the mullock, and put in the slabs, and
light the water as sailors fight it in the hold
of a stricken ship. For they are fighting
for something which is dearer to an old
digger than his life—they are fighting for
Independence in their old age! No old
digger looks forward to living with a
married son or daughter in the city—or with
a daughter-in-law or son-in-law —when he is
“worked out.”
And I’ll always have a vision of an old
grey digger, at (he bottom of a wet shaft,
working by the dim light of the candle in its
socket, stuck in the side —-working at the
slabs in his spectacles! Harry McDermott’s
eyes have failed him.
Now. I suppose you’ve already forgotten
the jolly young digger—and the wife—and
the governess?
* * * *
So we old writers go timbering up the
walls of our ruined lives, and sinking
through the mullock of the Present, and
bailing out, and delving in the drift and the
wash for the gold of human nature and the
best part of the Past. And we very seldom
find them.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Troupe in Cowland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
COWLAND at last!
Before leaving Brisbane, Benson,
our comedian, had dilated upon the
treat in store.
“My boy,” he enthused, “you'll have the
tour of your life. The scenery along the
rivers is—is” He paused, searching for
a superlative. “Well, to drift up those
rivers”
We did drift. The hyacinth grew to a
height of three feet. It was “so thick Mick
Grogan’s cow walked aerost one day.”
Though a city company with a widely-
known success allegedly of the bush, we
failed to allay the natural suspicion with
which “the troupe” is regarded.
“Yairs. _ They was rooms reserved, but
some blokes come in from Outback,” Bung in
shirt sleeves casually remarked. So the
hungry troupe invaded Pine Grove boarding-
house. Two anaemic sausages reposing on a
plethora of plate failed to appease the mum-
mers’ craving. A demand for reinforcements
brought the response that, “We on’y got two
pounds, and they run ter two each.”
A gentleman who invaded the ladies’.
dressing-room that night, while they were
on the stage, used his perception to such
advantage that £2O changed hands. After
a long search we unearthed the hibernating
John Hop in a back parlor. He reckoned it
a of a joke.
The caretaker’s conviction that we
“wouldn’t git much of a ’earing ter-night on
account of ther darnce larst week” was
upheld.
After the play a large voice, forcing a
passage through a tangled array of whisker,
informed us that the owner possessed 150
cows, while a horny index finger sketched
imaginary Ayrshires on my lapel.
"I suppose you have a milking machine?”
I asked.
“Well, yer see,” he drawled, “it’d cost
two hundred and thirty quid altogether.”
“How do you get on for labor?”
“Orlright. I got eight kids!”
Rumors of a Russian victory having fil-
tered through to Milky Plains, we interviewed
the local paper for confirmation. The editor,
still charged with the electric atmosphere
of the Council Chambers, woke with a start
at the troupe’s intrusion. He dismissed us
with languid courtesy, said that he knew
nothing whatsoever, and advised us to try
the pub, which apparently imported rumors
with the beer. After the fourth, we found
them to be true in every respect.
Our reception, so far, was scant in cour-
tesy and abundant in disfavor. The expla-
nation of Cowland apathy for a city
dramatic success came with the dawn at
Jersey Hollow.
“Hey, Bill, get up!”
“Whasser time?” Bill cloudily inquired.
“Arf parst five.”
“D’.ver go to the play larst night?”
“Yairs.”
“ ’Ow was it?”
Jim spat meditatively. “Too exag’erated.
Course, some of it makes yer laugh. But it
slings off at the cookies.”
There was menace in Jim’s voice. He
spat again. “City blokes ’d like it. There’s
a flash cow in it wot acts the son. I’d like
to ’ave ’im out at Brindle Creek clearin’
forty acres. .. .It’s too exag’erated.”
Bill sat up in bed, and his eyes fell on
the paddock opposite. “Frorst this mornin’,”
he drawled.
They went to the slavery of the bails still
cursing the “exag’eration” of the stage-
cocky’s son.
At the next town the caretaker’s pre-
diction that we’d “have a pore ’ouse on
account o’ the church bazaar larst month”
was fulfilled.
Sunday we had condensed milk. Bill Jim
enlightened us. “Yer see, we takes ther
cream, an’ ther pigs gets ther skim milk.”
He considered this merely justice. No
smoked actor could sell at Is. 6d. a lb.
The method of applauding was new to
us. At the end of each act a peculiar
driving yell—a cross between the mopoke’s
moop and the crow’s quark—expressed the
local sentiment. The caretaker volunteered
the information that “they was encores.”
Our luck varied with the importance of
the cow and the accompanying deadness of
the popular intelligence.
At Ayrshire Flat the caretaker’s pro-
phecy that “they wouldn’t turn up much ter-
night on account av Jim Dorgan gettin’
buried larst week” came to pass.
One night while regretfully watching the
frothy subsidence of his third, the comedian
had a bright idea.:: “We’ll write an Austra-
lian play on Maeterlinck lines,” he said.
He admired the amber effect against the
acetylene. “They’ve had the ‘Blue Bird’ in
the city. We’ll write a play for these parts
called ‘The Brindle Cow’!” .
An electric silence struck the bar. Several
cow-Kaisers paused with beer aloft.
“What’ll your hero be?” I asked.
“Manager of the butter factory, of
course.”
“And the villain?”
“Oh,” with emphasis, “the villain’s the
school inspector!”
The soft churning of the screw swilled
tlie water to a milky wake. The ever widen-
ing ripples swayed the tall bulrushes....
the shadows deepened in the tangled under-
growth. . . . the lowing of the distant herd
.... the pleasant hum of the butter-factory
engine gently breaking the silence that comes
with the evening. Ahead, the glory of a
western sky reflected in the river’s mirrored
surface. A moving bank of dun, fleeting
across a field of jersey yellow, crashing
against the strawberry rays that burst the
sullen shadows with Ayrshire red. .. .Every-
where peace. Sydney to-morrow! Thank
God!
RICHARD BELLAIRS.


Be Independent and Generate Your Own Current.
A Westinghouse Cross
m i
m
Vertical Enclosed
Semi-Diesel Oil Engine,
owing - to its speed, may-
be direct coupled to a
GENERATOR, thus
saving floor space and belt
transmission losses.
Its Distinguishing Features
are described in Booklet
8.-0-5. Write to-day for
a copy to —
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
No * Zealand On ice: 93-107;Featherston St., Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
STOP THAT LEAKING JOINT!
USE
LASCARITE
SHEET JOINTING
This Jointing is MADE IN ENGLAND, and is UNEQUALLED for High
pressure and highly Superheated Steam, Ammonia and Acids, also Gas and
Motor Engines.
-Sample sent on application.-
The Austral Engineering Supply Company, Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dinnefqrd’s]
Magnesia
- —^
DINNEFORD'S
IMPOKTANI
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFGRD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout •
and Gravel,
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affectim 1 "
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Bag,
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes^
$E
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing,
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day,
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading. Storekeepers.
'/a
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
-
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Look To Your Health
for it is without a doubt the most important part of a well-ordered
life. Good Health may be truly considered to be the basis of both
success and satisfaction; commercial ability as well as social qualities
are largely dependent upon the possession of this greatest of all
blessings. Now in order to enjoy good health it is essential to bear in
mind that certain conditions must prevail. The process of digestion
must be carried on with regularity and harmony; the appetite must be
good ; the bowels must be in a state of hcc'lhy activity ; the liver and
the kidneys must perform their functions with efficiency. How are
these desirable conditions to be brought about ? One simple method is
strongly recommended; namely,an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills.
This medicinal preparation has been proved beyond contradiction to
be of great value in the prevention and cure of most of the ailments to
which the digestive organs are liable. Such symptoms as biliousness,
constipation, depression, flatulence, headache, indigestion in many
distressing forms all speedily yield to the remedial influence of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold In boxes, labelled, price lOJd. (36 pills) 1/I£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Tho Original anti Only Gmnulna
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/b.
gs
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks st
■SPASMS and COLIC.
The Beet Medicine far
COUOHB, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
The cough of BRONCHITIB and
CONSUMPTION.
Made in England.
Aota like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Calverts
i let Soap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-tablet boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
/ QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION-
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, Obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin snotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/» and 2/0.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine i 3 prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removesthe effects ofSunscorch
fT
(T
m
T*l
f
M
TV
€
qM
trt
M
t* f .
HS
**•
t,y
Si
"The hind that
611 s itself."
Che Uery
CWng for Christmas
You need no loffger worry abov'o what to ghre yoor friends. Give
them all ONOTO pens. You can buy them daintily packed and-
labelled, ready for posting at the Shop.
All you have to do is to write the address, and stamp.
An ONOTO is a gift that is sure to please. It is the fountain pen
that fills itself, cleans itself, never leaks, and never scratches. It is
a model of simplicity.
The Onoto is British Made, and is guaranteed by its makers.
Onoto
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Prlos 12/-, and in a variety of more elaborate styles for presentation purposes, of all
Stationers, Jewellers and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to
THOS. DE LA RUE & CO., Ltd., 182 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian
Representatives, Norman Baket & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.


Mangrovite
Tanned
Sheepskin
Vests.
dvf
Superior Quality.
Short, Clean Fleece.
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
Tanner and Manufacturer,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only),
Tel. 2898. Near G.P.O.
Hardie s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE. ROT, HEAT, ACID S ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COil SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings. Brisbane; & Melbourne
MADE ONLY IN
pf
VfO
''.l?**,**-
■***-««•!: •*
>* .vr
Y\\
L
THE
PUREST
SPIRIT
IN
THE
WORLD
ft
RELIABLE MOTIVE POWER
for Shearing, Pumping, Woodcutting, Milking, Irrigating, Chaffcutting.
“ TANGYE” New Pattern Lampless Kerosene Gil Engine, started immediately without
Blow Lamp. Particularly Reliable and Economical to run.
" CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH ” Portable Steam Engine, the long established favorite
on the Australian market. Has large wheels, giving plenty of clearance.
& CO. LTD., Miller S Point, Sydney. Sole Agents, also, for Tangye Pumps, Suction Gas Plants, etc.,
Nicholson & Morrow Agricultural Implements, Munro Chafjcutters, Gane Milking Machines, Wolseiey Shearing Machines.
■
"WI
u
I
TTTe most favoured by both SQUAT TERSAHO
DALGETY & CO.LTD. AGENTS
shearers
SflEFp
SHEARING
1 "
< t.
*1
m
m
mm
K
mu
etc.,
realised what it is
handle the .Shavings,
in your plant ?
BUFFALO EXHAUST FANS
WOODMMRTCINT \f°Arffm^ EM^h L ?? HAVINGS ' SAWDUST and other refuse from
UOCDW ORKIM3 MACHINES, and the installation very soon pays for itself in the saving of labor it
ADJUSTABLE To SilTO wtwto’ Reversible Housing, which means that the Fan IS
ADJLSTABLE TO RUNNING EITHER HAM), AND TO ANY DIRECTION OF DISCHARGE.
Write for Catalogue 256-* ‘Practical Data on Exhaust Fan Systems."
It should interest you.
Agents: ■
Ltd,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants«
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE “CARD” CONCENTRATOR
MODEL “D” PATENTED.
Special Decks for Coarse and Fine Sands, as used by the leading
Australian mines on Tin, Copper, Gold, Silver, Lead, Wolfram, etc.
The “ CARD ” is manufactured ONLY by the SOLE. LICENSEES—
I TD
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Camomile St. Chambers, London.
