

the Veteran of Whiskies
R. G. WATKINS «SS 00-,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— . .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
AND LOWEST INTEREST.
Ql.
oi-
u
■ *' '
0
b
h*
LU
Ul
D
»-
r
o
■ •
in
- «
H
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
Telephone: City
186 Castlereag'n Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CSSST-/;
COHMOISSEDRS
m
O
«• c
T,9
by the bottle, case or gallon at
wholesale price.
Richardson’s
Wine 8t Spirit Stores
259 Little Collins St,
MELBOURNE.
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE
BAMS
BACON
sc
aa
CHUBB'S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
J
L
ĥ
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
beneficially when taken daily after
Awarded 130 First-Class
4R
ħ
h
The Pest for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber=cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
Malthoid Roofing has many
features not possessed by
other roofings. It will not
crack, nor split, nor blow off
in a gale. It is absolutely
and permanently watertight.
Roofing.
“NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.”
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
Challis House, Sydney. (d. s. evans, Australasian Rep.)
If you have never looked
into the merits of Malthoid
Roofing we should like to
send you samples and
printed matter. There are
many Photos and Booklets
that will interest you.
THE CLYDE ENGiNEERING COMPANY L-
GRANVILLE,
NSW.
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL. 8c AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL. & FARM WAGGONS. IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS. SHREDDER DISCS.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. ~
STEEL TRUCK
ĥ
TOOTH
PASTE.
’ * • <w •+-
Its use gives a delicious sense of clean freshness to the mouth.
It is genuine British, Made in Australia with Australian and British
The Bulletin
V01.36.—N0. 1842. J
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, X.S.W ~ Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, June 3, 1915.


NEW
Dowdall: Joking Apart.
Fletcher: Ransome of London.
Sheehan: Graves of Kilmorna.
Wilson: Across the Latitudes.
Green: Black Ladies.
Allen’s Afterwards.
Delian's Man of Iron.
Stanley’s Keeper of the Vineyard.
St. Ledger: The Tollhouse.
Hodgkinson’s Marjory Malloir.
Phillpotts’ Brunels Tower.
Raine: Mavericks.
All at 3/6 per volume; posted, 3/9.
CO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL TOOTH POWDER
SECURES SOUND WHITE TEETH NOW TO UBB THE POWOIN*
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s Eumenthol
Tooth Powder should be used for the
Preservation of the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and Antiseptic virtues that
have made Eumenthol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and Germicide, but cleanses
mechanically, owing to the evolution of oxygen when in con-
tact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the Teeth so wonder-
fully, and wards off decay as no other preparation for the
Teeth can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists in tins, price 1/6, forwarded
post free on receipt of stamps.
mil*
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 19 York Street, Sydney.
[8
The Red page
THE HEROIC AGE.
We thought that courage long had tied.
Hero was but an empty name
In some old tale of misty fame
Its meaning now was dead: ’
A breath of air, a withered flower
A dead leaf whistling down the'wind
A word to stir a foolish heart
And leaving nought, behind.’
For how could we, with nought to fear
In city office, car or train,
Only intent on worldly gain,
See the Heroic Age draw near?
A cei tain year, a certain month
A sudden struggle, right with wrong
And we know not to smile or weep
That we have lived so long.
Kattleen Mary Chrrell
in r lHE National Review.
R.L.S.
In the •new, profoundly altered world that
will emerge from this iconoclastic war it
seems already certain that literature and
art will survive only at the cost of funda-
mental changes. An epoch, a literai'y age
closed abruptly, finally, in 1914. At pre-
sent the world is in the throes of a new
birth; and the literature of the post-bellum
age is merely in the making. The old sort
of poetry,, the old sort of novel, will have
upon them the brand of an eai'lier epoch;
they will be definitely “dated.” The old
literary cults will be re-examined, inquired
to give testimony in their own defence, tried
and condemned. Among these cults, the
Robert Louis Stevenson Cult' seems the
least likely to survive in its present fervid
form. The shrapnel of criticism is begin-
ning shrewdly to assail it; and already one
critic is suggesting that R.L.S. belongs to a
less strenuous day, a lazier day, a day of
the essay and of belles-lettres, a day when
fine writing and the telling of boys’ stories
were, in themselves, achievements in litera-
ture, almost in life.
Frank Swinnerton’s critical study of
R L. Stevenson (Seeker, per Sydney Book
Club) gives a persuasive picture of Steven-
son that is certainly not flattering. Swin-
nerton attacks the celebrated R.L.S. Cult
with a cold-blooded cleverness, reviving
echoes of Henley’s attack in 1901. Swin-
nerton finds Stevenson cold, vain, exploiting
equally his friends and his own personal
charm. And he suggests that “our worship
of Stevenson is founded, let us say, upon the
applause of his friends, who sought in his
work the fascination they found in his per-
son.”
The chief failing of Stevenson, for this
exacting critic, was his fondness for the
picturesque.
Cultivation of • the picturesque, fondness
for phrase, is inevitably productive of false-
ness; it is a literary gesture, a cultivable
habit. ...The first instinctive vanity de-
velops rapidly into a pose, and pose can never
be much more than amusing.... Uncon-
sciously, Stfevenson often aporoved a phrase
that expressed something not in exact accord-
ance with his belief ; he was misled by its
splendor or its picturesqueness or its heroic
virtue. So it is that the parts of Steven-
son’s essays which at first drew and held
us breathless with a sort of wonder, cease
at length to awaken this wonder, and even
seem to degenerate into exhibitions of
knack.”
Certain of his essays owe their charm,
according to Swinnerton, to the fact that
Stevenson. was often writing about himself,
“for he always wrote entertainingly about
himself. He was charmed by himself, in a
way that the common egoist has not the
courage or possibly the imagination to be
.... His essays, the most personal work of
any he wrote, are filled with the same
vanity which brought him (and kept him)
such good friends.” But Stevenson was a
writer. Swinnerton grants him that, but
immediately suggests that Stevenson’s intri-
cately patterned, rhythmic and balanced
prose had one grave defect.
Stevenson’s style, graceful, sustained
though it is, lacks pi wer. It has finesse;
but it has no vigor. .he passages to which
one turns are .passages of felicitous, stealthy
accomplishment.. . .There is no tempestuous
certainty in Stevenson’s writing. ... Steven-
son’s style, clearly invalidish in his imita-
tors, has in itself the germs of their con-
sumption. It is quiet, pretty, picturesque,
graceful; it has figure and trope in plenty;
but it has no vehemence. You may find in it
an amazing variety of pitch and cadence;
but at length the care that has made it
betrays the artificer; at length the reader
will look in vain for the rough word.”
The explanation of the failure of the
Henley-Stevenson plays is that they
were false. To Stevenson the drama was
nothing but a play, an excuse for unreality.
“It never occurred to him to put a real
figure in a play.” Remember in his favor
that this was before the period of the reper-
tory theatre.
J*
Swinnerton admits, and coming from this
critic, an admission is an exceedingly hand-
some act, that Stevenson wrote some ex-
ceedingly fine short stories. For one thing
Stevenson could go the distance. He was
no long-distance runner: in most of his
novels he failed to finish fit. Swinnerton
finds that Stevenson’s short stories repre-
sent more successfully tnan any other part
of his output the variety and brilliance of
his talent. But his novels Swinnerton finds
merely pieces of brilliant patchwork, com-
posed by that “damnable skill” which he
had always at hand. “Stevenson disarms
us by his extraordinary plausible air of tell-
ing a story. We are as helpless as boys
reading Treasure Island .”
Stevenson was never, strictly speaking, in
spite of Catriona and Weir of Hermiston, a
novelist. He was a writer of many kinds
of stories; but they were not primarily, until
we come to Weir, domestic or psychological.
Many of them were what no doubt would
commonly be called “dramatic,” in the sense
that they contained scenes of some violence ;
but fof the most part they were narratives
interspersed with tableaux.
He invents excellent incidents, but they
remain incidents, not as tissue of a com-
plete story. Stevenson’s low vitality was
the cause. “Stqvenson admired courage,
and he possessed courage, as women admire
and possess courage. He loved a brave man,
and a tale of adventure, as women love
these things.” But—he did not take them
for granted. “There is never any real dan-
ger in Stevenson’s books; never a real
broken heart or a real heaven-high splendor
of joy.”
As for his poems, Swinnerton acutely
remarks that Stevenson could write so
clearly that his poems are too explicit to be
good poems. “They are the poems of a man
with all his wits about him; they are the
poems of a man who always had his wits
about him. I will go so far as to say that
a man who always has his wits about him
is never within measurable distance of being
a poet.”
J*
Swinnerton’s quarrel with Stevenson is
not a personal one. He accuses Stevenson
of having ruined the English romantic
novel. “All good novels must be based upon
idea and upon character. To Stevenson,
character was incidental. To Stevenson
incident, picturesque or exciting, and the
employment of an atmosphere, or appro-
priate ‘style’ were the most important
things in romance.” And the Stevenson
convention has, up to the time of the war,
persisted.
The use of conventional characters, easily-
recognisable romantic types, has for 20
years and more been accepted by English
romantic novelists as a legitimate evasion of
the need,of creating character. . . .If Steven-
son’s romances had enjoyed the strength of
definite themes, and if they had been based
upon character, the whole position of .the
romantic novel in England at the present
day might have been different. As it is, the
romantic novel is a survival. The fresh-
ness of Stevenson’s manipulated convention
is stale, and the imitators of Stevenson have
forsaken romance for the writing of detec-
tive mystery stories.
As for tfie celebrated R.L.S. Cult: —
The prevailing feeling appears to be one of
affectionate admiration, a matter of personal
attraction rather than of critical esteem....
Well, all this is delightful; but....it does
not help us to assay the literary value of
Stevenson’s work. It is simply a wide illus-
tration of the fascination which Stevenson
had for his friends. It is an extension of
that rare thing, personal charm... .Another
very good reason is that Stevenson had ex-
traordinaidly good friends. I think it prob-
able that no writer ever had friends more
loyal and affectionate. They criticised his
work privately to its great improvement, and
then sold his work when it was completed,
acting as counsellors and agents. And this
was done with the same affectionate admira-
tion which readers of his work still feel.
As for the future of the Cult, Swinnerton
prophesies that he will be regarded chiefly
as a writer. “He will be less the brave soul
travelling hopefully and laboring to arrive,
and more the deliberate writer... .Writing
was the breath of his body; writing was his
health, his friends, his romance. He will
go down into literary history as a man who
became a professional writer, who cared
greatly about the form and forms of expres-
sion.”
And, what has not hitherto been suffi-
ciently stressed in this article, Swinner-
ton amply recognises that Stevenson, when
cut off by death, was evolving from the mere
writer into a personality capable of a. re-
ciating ideas as of moi-e importance than
their expression.
But it is not this criticism that will
riddle the proud legend of R.L.S., but the
War, and the new world it will create from
our shattered conventions. What have our
novelists to do busily searching in the cos-
tume wardrobe of the romantic novel when
all about us is the new, stern romance of
modern warfare, stripped of its glory but
not of its courage, this wonderful new world
of obscure heroes in muddied khaki. The
costume novel and the costume play must
go: at last this is a world not of manners
but of men.
The competition for the best love-letter
received by this page, details of which were
given in our issue of May 6, closes on June
10.
European
Herbert Adams Gibbons, in his study of
contemporary European national movements
and wars, entitled The New Map of Europe,
191111)14 (Duckworth), wields a remark-
ably lucid pen. This war did not spring
out of nothing: it comes as a surprise to the
ordinary Australian to learn from what a
maze of national tendencies, from the pass-
ing of Persia, the partition of Poland, the
racial rivalries in Macedonia, the Young
Turk regime, .the Italian-Turkish war, the
Treaty of Bukarest, the Albanian fiasco, this
world-war inevitably followed. Extremely
well informed by a first-hand study of the
situation, this United States author has much
of new interest to tell us.
For instance, he brings forward unim-
peachable evidence that the Alsacians do not
desire incorporation with France. Their poli-
tical ideal has been self-government. “Their
agitation has not been for separation from
the German Confederation, but for a place in
the German Confederation.” And there has
never been a place for Alsace-Lorraine in the
German Empire. The conquered territory
was not a national entity. It was adminis-
tered directly by Prussia. It had no sov-
ereign, and so could have no representation
in the Bundesrath, the Upper House of the
Empire, composed of delegates of the sov-
ereigns of the confederated States. Thus
Alsace-Lorraine had no voice in the manage-
ment of imperial affairs. It was another
instance of “taxation without representa-
tion.” And even in internal affairs the auto-
nomy of 'Alsace-Lorraine was a sham. The
Prussian immigrants introduced to Prussian-
ise the territory have become Alsatians them-
selves. “Some of the most insistent . oppo-
nents of the Government, some of the most
intractable among the agitators have been
those early immigrants or their children.”
One questions Gibbons’s belief that pan-
Germanism is "a striking example of demo-
cracy endeavoring to have a say in govern-
mental policies,” and his statement that the
Naval and Army Leagues, and the Pan-
Germanic Society are “private groups, irre-
sponsible from the standpoint of the Govern-
ment”; for Gibbons evidently does not appre-
ciate the fact that German public opinion is
a thing manufactured and controlled by the
Government, through its docile servants the
press, and he makes no mention of the official
encouragement of the Naval League. An
irresponsible public opinion is impossible in
drilled and tutored Germany. Yet one agrees
with his statement that “German public
opinion,” from highest to lowest, is for this
war to the bitter finish. “It is the war of
the people, intelligently and deliberately
willed by them,” because the Government
deliberately willed and drilled the people to
hold that opinion. With this reservation,
then, the conclusion is justified that: “The
statement that a revolution in Germany, led
by the democracy to dethrone the Kaiser or
to get jiim out of the clutches of the military
party, would end the war, is foolish and per-
nicious. It would be much nearer th<* truth
to say that if the Kaiser had not consented
to this war he would have endangered his
throne.”
Especially commendable because unbiased is
Gibbons’s chapter upon the treatment of the
Poles by their three partitioners. While
the repressive methods of Russia and
Prussia, in- the past, have utterly failed to
crush the nationalism of the Poles, the Aus-
trian has made a much better use of his
subjects. “I have never met an Austrian
Pole, who lived in Galicia and had a settled
profession or business there, who was not a
loyal—even ardent—supporter of the Haps-
burg monarchy.... Austrian Poles are dis-
mayed as they face the terrible dilemma of
union with Russia or Germany.” Not so
terrible now, since the Tsar’s ukase confer-
ring nationality upon the kingdom.
The muddled state of modern Europe,
where frontiers do not divide races from
each other, but seem to have been drawn
arbitrarily, is brought home to us by this
statement by Gibbons. “During the past
hundred years ten new States have ap-
peared on the map of Europe—Greece, Bel-
gium, Servia, Italy, the German Confedera-
tion, Roumania, Montenegro, Norway, Bul-
garia, and, possibly, Albania. With the
exception of Albania, all these States have
appeared on the map against the will, and
in defiance of, the concert of the European
Powers... .None of them, in achieving in-
dependence, has succeeded in including
within its frontiers all the territory occupied
by people of the same race and the same
language.” Hence what Gibbons calls
“Irredentism,” as most graphically exempli-
fied at the present moment by Italia Irre-
denta —the movement for the inclusion of
lost Italian-speaking communities within
the mother country.
Gibbons gives a full and interesting ac-
count of the career of the Greek states-
man, Yenizelos, who, really a Cretan, has
become the dictator of Greece. He is the
idol of the Hellenes; and to him the mod-
ernisation of Greece is apparently almost
solely due.
Finally, after having surveyed the whole
of Europe, the author places the blame. The
cause of the outbreak, he has made abund-
antly clear, is not simple, and the blame is
not all at one door. “Europe is reaping in
.blood-lust what all the ‘Great Powers’ have
sown in land-lust.” But the last chapter
of this work by an unbiased neutral is
headed, “Germany forces war upon Russia
and France.”
“The German contention, that Russia
caused the war, must be clearly distin-
guished from the contention that Russia
forced the war There is a great deal of
reason in the first contention... .But when
we come down to the narrower question of
responsibility for launching_ the war....
there can be no doubt that it was deliber-
ately willed by the German Government,
and that the chain of circumstances which
brought it about was carefully woven by
the officials of Wilhelmstrasse and Ball-
platz... .During recent years the questions,
‘Ought there to be a war?’ and ‘Will there
be a war?’ ceased to be debated in Germany.
One heard only, ‘Under what circumstances
could the war be most favorably declared?’
and ‘How soon will the war come?’....
Germany left ho means, other than com-
plete submission to her will, to France and
Russia for avoiding war.”
J *
The task of writing The Life of General
J off re (Heinemann, Is.) is a thankless one.
Alexander Kahn has, however, done his best
with the few materials at his command.
Joffre, the son of a cooper, made his way to
the position of Commander-in-Chief by sheer
hard work, patient study, and a devotion to
the duty immediately in front of him. About
this taciturn, unemotional figure there
cluster no legends, lie was long a mere con-
structor of trenches; and though he saw
foreign service at Timbuktu, Formosa and
Madagascar, his work was primarily that
of organisation and the construction of
fortresses. He did his work well, said little,
shrank from publicity and studied. Promo-
tion was slow in the early stages of his
career; but rapid as his merits became
known to his immediate superiors. _ The
most remarkable indication of the. spirit of
the new France is the choice of this man to
be its Napoleon. And it is curious to reflect
that the name of Joffre will for posterity
rank higher as a general than that of his
great predecessor—as Kitchener will be
ranked a greater commander than was Wel-
lington. One recompense we have who live
in these times: we are part of an epoch that
is creating history, an epoch that will over-
shadow any previous era in the history of
civilisation. And the new history that is
being written now in blood will find in such
plain, unemotional, logical machines as Kit-
chener and Joffre its ideal heroes.
■ »
The Adventures of Chunder Loo (Blyth
and Platt, C. A.; Is.) will delight the kid-
dies. The book, by means of a series of illus-
trations by Lionel Lindsay and some verses
whose intricate brilliance suggests the cunning
craftsmanship of “Kodak,” though the poet’s
name is not mentioned, narrates the Odyssey
of three extraordinary Australian tourists.
Chunder Loo, a brown person evidently kind
to animals, accompanied by a Lindsay Bear
and a terrier, set out on a harmless tourist
trip to England; but the war caught them,
and what had been but a pleasure excursion
turned into adventures of breathless interest.
Chunder Loo is a deeply religious Indian. He
worships a god that is evidently the incarna-
tion of a snake, or, more probably, the sun-
god ; but, for an Oriental, he is remarkably
brave and efficient. It is to be hoped that he
will return safely to his native village of
Akim Foo, where, presumably, his wife and
children are anxiously scanning the casualty
lists.
The handy Home University Library of
Modern Knowledge has now reached its
104th volume. John Bailey writes of Milton
in one of the latest issues, and in another
R. C. K. Ensor blends the historical with
the topical by his compact description of
Belgium. “No one,” says the author, “could
appreciate the sentiment of the Belgian
nation regarding its unity and independence
without some understanding of its sufferings
during the 375 years of its subjection to
foreign rule.” Twice have they been under
Spanish rule, and / once respectively under
Austrian, French and Dutch rule in the long
period 1555-1830. And most of that time
Belgium, as now, was being fought over and
torn in pieces by quarrelling Powers. The
only period when Belgium had even the sem-
blance of prosperity was during the reign of
the Archduke Albert, when the Belgian gov-
ernment was quasi-autonomous, and that was
the age of Antwerp’s supremacy in painting,
and Louvain’s in learning; of Rubens, Jor-
daens and Van Dyck; of Heinsius, Lipsius
and Mercator. No wonder that Belgians,
having experienced so little liberty, should so
fiercely fight for it!
Cartoons Magazine, a Chicago publica-
tion, is one of the most interesting war
monthlies of the moment. The work of Aus-
tralian cartoonists and verse-writers is begin-
ning to appear more frequently; and the edi-
tor has now learnt not to spell Sydney with
an Vi.” In the April issue a fine poem by
M. Forrest is reprinted from The Bulletin.
The cartoonist brings before the public the
stern realities of war even more strikingly
than the special correspondent; and the
great value of this publication lies in its big
selection of German cartoons. Here we have
the Bodies’ point of view, and a knowledge
of their outlook is one of the weapons with
which the Allies must be armed.


<a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR FASHION AND ECONOMY
VALUE IN BLOUSES and COATS.
o
x r x
X JO B
33 *2 <
- X O
Mi
k
Ce/icJ
•e-
-/
15
The Celia.—Very Stylish Rohe Costume, in fine
Coating Serge, new, loose Blouse, with long, set-in
Sleeves, smart Belt of Self forming deep yoke in front,
popular stand-up roll Collar, small Vest and part Cuffs
of striped Algerian Silk, smartly-cut Skirt with long
Tunic eased into waist, fancy Bone Buttons to match;
Black and Navy 37/0
No. 15. —Serviceable Full-length Coat, of Aii-
Wool Diagonal Serge, Raglan Sleeves, loose back, con-
vertible Collar, finished wide Belt at waist, in warm
shades of Mole, Brown, Saxe, Tabac .... 29/6
Similar design (No. 980) in Blanket Fleece, in Bronze,
Saxe or Brown shades 29/6
!2>(s
*»*
m
■Si
X
ft
I
3005
233
4 3
No. 943. — Smart Blouse, of Ivory Japanese Silk, Dainty Vetoing inlet forming Raglan Sleeve;
turned-down Collar; fastens front with Pearl Buttons 8/11
No. 233. Becoming Blouse, Of Ivory Japanese Silk, Magyar Sleeve, 801 l Collar, fastens front
with Dainty Coral Oblong Buttons 5/6
No. 3005. — Up-to-date Blouse, of Ivory Japanese Silk, Magyar Style, turned-back Collar, V
neck, fastens front with dainty Sky Cameo Buttons 9/H
No. 330.—Useful, Three-quarter-length Tweed
Coat, with Cape, large circular Collar and Revers of
Self, in fancy Brown or Green Checks 29/6
No. 638.—Warm Winter Coat, of Black Astrachan
Cloth, /-length, wide, set-in Sleeves, Coat, Collar and
Revers, fronts slightly rounded, finished Belt at
waist 39/6
4
%)
■©
The Newbury.—An effective
Sports Coat, in knitted Silk, with
fancy stripe, Sash at waist and
pockets: in Champagne and Beaver
shades, with contrast stripes 35/0
Ffeuiburu
35'6 t
No. 26G9. —Full-length Black Face ('loth Coat,
loose buck, finished Belt, Coat Collar and Revers tiinnned
Silk Military Braid, fastens with large Frog Orna-
ments 30/6
Also similar design (No. 2427) in Black Cloth without
Braiding 27 / 6
No. 319. — Dressy, Full-length Coat, of Navy
Cheviot Serge, Raglan Sleeves, small Satin Collar, large
Revers of Self, trimmed piped Buttonholes and Buttons,
finished at waist with wide Military Belt 32/G
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only- Universal
Providers,
New Palace
BricKijeld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


i
A WORLD’S RECORD TARGET.
Composite target (reduced 3 16 of an inch) of
200 shots fired by G. W. Chesley in ten different
matches of the U. S. Inter-Club series. Score 1990
out of 2000 —A World’s Record. Made with Win-
chester .22 Long Rifle “ Lesmok ” cartridges and
a Winchester Musket.
If you go in for target shooting or hunt with a .22
caliber rifle, of course you want to excel. To do so
you must use uniform, dependable ammunition.
Some makes of cartridges are as variable as the
weather. Some shots go high, some go low, and some don’t go at
all. For accuracy and all around satisfaction, you can bank on
WINCHESTER
.22 Caliber Cartridges
In all kinds of shooting' they continue to excel. They are made by people who
have learned in making firearms many fine points about cartridges that could be
learned in no other way. No matter what the make or style of your favorite arm is,
you can bring out its possibilities to the fullest degree by using Winchester make
of cartridges. Dealers everywhere sell them,
and a trial will convince you that it
is worth while to insist upon having
w
m.
THE
W BRAN 3
I
BUS
■IS
MMiraiw
U
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
... SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per (lay, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from os.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
Tiie Manager.
V 'I H i/, '
\ V» " //////
Raineses’
gloomy
mornings
Your own gloomy mornings
are due to the same cause
as his. The ages have made no
change in the human system.
His liver, his bile, his
digestion, his elimination —
his whole system acted
in the same way as yours.
If he had only had
Cockle’s Pills he could have
been as cheerful every
morning as you can be.
Since their discovery, the
principal advance in medi-
cine has been that doctors
know better and better
the reasons why Cockle’s
Pills are unequalled in
their gentle power to
help nature help herself.
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all. Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormon i St., London, Eng.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
h
FITTINGS
“THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.”
A
c__.
m
/
%
Y<>lJ will have a jolly time if
your bicycle is built of B.S.A.
Fittings, simply because you will
not be worried with things going
wrong : and the little irritating troubles
which generally accompany the cheap
“pattern machine will be missing.
A B.S.A. will help you to make the
mOSt Of Cycling easy, free-from-trouble
cycling—in fact you will get better value for
your money by buying a B.S.A. There's no
“just as good as 8.5. A." in bicycles, therefore
see that you get the genuine, which is stamped
with the three piled rifles the guarantee of
quality.
B.S.A. Handbook Free.
D. Y. RENNIE, (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
B.S.A. CHEAPEST IN THE END
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Tw'o-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front=rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write tor Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN <SI SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 21 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A verv accurate little weapon. TIIE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
24-2-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
‘ON THE HOP’
A superb library volume of historic interest, handsomely printed and
bound, containing upwards of Three Hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings.
Reproduced full “Bulletin” size. Price 215., from “The Bulletin” Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
NURSES
of LARGE EXPERIENCE
recommend
Clements Tonic
NURSE CATHERINE KORTING
of 176 Davis Street, Brunswick, Victoria,
One of the Oldest Certificated Nurses in Victoria,
writes as follows:
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“In January last year, my daughter was operated upon
for appendicitis. She was eight weeks in hospital, and came
home very weak. 1 gave her Clements Tonic. It strengthened
her nerves; she was as well as 1 could wish her before long.
Years ago, as a nurse, I used it, and have recommended it
times out of number. I have seen people restored to health
and bless the they heard of it. Tt never failed to do good.”
(Signed) CATHERINE KORTING.
Never be without this medicine if run down, with Weak Nerves, Bad Digestion.
Poor Appetite, or Constipation. It puts the human system in order rapidly. It
brings health.
All Chemists and Stores Sell it Everywhere.


ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
m
I^3
m
|i
Ci
mm
om
ELEY
I'Comet’
r A (leep-shell
dark green
Cartridge
loaded with
Eley (S 3 gr.)
Smokeless
l'owder and
IJ--OZ. shot.
ELEY
‘Achilles’
A deep-shell
dark blue
gastight Car-
tridge loaded
with Elev (63
gr.) Smoke-
less Powder
and 1 J-g oz,
shot
I*
m
i
111
m
s. & w.
Revolver
s. & w.
Revolver
ELEY 303 Rifle
(Mark VI) lor
British Service
ELEY *25
Automatic
ELEY *32
Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADA’ S,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale: Eley Bros., Ltd,,London
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
M. Planes on a 7 year oi l British made All-
Steel Mead Modele Superbe
* COVENTRY FLYER *
Rode 34*366 Miles in 365 Says
(officially authenticated'. Beat cv*r 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Es». 35 yrs.'
Latest
Models
£3-10 to £9
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carrfage
Paid to your port. Ten Days’ Free 1 lial.
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices. Write for Free Art Catalogue,
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Wanted.
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL*
MEAD
Ilf A n Prompt Shipment 8 Safe Delivery
linn Guaranteed. No Advance in Prices
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES—
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS OK HAND. ALL MODELS.
Exclusive Agent
Wanted
i
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames and novelties
in art goods. Excellent
opportunity for any I
Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is very re-
munerative. You may
charge good prices for our
portrait novelties. No ex-
perience required. We will send free of charge, our
book of instructions and general catalog. We furnish
bank references. 20 successful years in the export
business is our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co.
1029 —D-10 W. Adams St„ Chicago. 111., U. S. A,
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
ĥ
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Sb CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
For Mother
Mothers also are liable to COUGHS,
COLDS, INFLUENZA and BRON-
CHITIS. The best family remedy is one
that ALL may take,whether young or old.
For instant relief take “ Bonnington’s
Irish Moss,” only a few doses are re-
quired. Take none but —
BO
m
oouCihs.
aRONCHITIS.INmS
O* TMS ThQDN
jr_
CEORCE 8
Avoid all
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
KEPHALDOL
STOPS PAIN
It is the doctors' remedy. Tt was discovered by a
noted doctor- —is used by doctors—prescribed b} T doc-
tors—-and most enthusiastically endorsed by doctors.
It does not affect he heart action. It can be safely
taken in large doses for exceptionally bad cases, and
it is proved to be tola! lji and wholly harmless. It is
guaranteed under the .Y.S.W. Pure Food Act, 1908,
and its use does not disappoint. (Made in Australia.)
Experience has taught us that, once used, no other
remedy has a chance of substituting it.
(4002)
Would you like to be rid for ever of the racking pain and aches from a bad head
—from NEURALGIA, NEURITIS, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
and the various nerve pains that make your life miserable? USE KEI’IIALDOL.
Sold by all Chemists. Price I/O and 3/0*
ONTHEHOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
\
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
t!ie family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
ħ
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR ISO YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
6S, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Home.
I have a song within my sonl!
I have a tune within mine ears !
Clear as a silver bell would toll
Its throbbing music across the years.
And every pleasure my hand would clutch,
And every joy that my heart would claim
But thrills the chords with a wizard touch,
And memory broadens the magic name !
For ’tis Home! darling! Home!
A little pink house in a long grey street.
Dreaming its dream ’neath a whimpering
pine,
With grumbling bees in its flowering vine,
And my quickening pulses beat and beat
Like the far-off echo of hurrying feet!
The lone gull wings from the dark'ning sea,
The valley is filled with marching rain.
And the old, wet town, by the high hill’s
knee.
Blurs through the tears on the window
pane!
Yet I find the sun in my dazzled eyes.
And I hear the lilting song of a bird;
For all the beauty of cloudless skies
Is bared to my heart by a wonder-word !
For ’tis Home ! dearie ! Home !
A house and a pine and the glimmering
heat
Which rests on the face of a long grey
street;
A soft hand white on a dark-green vine,
And the love which is waiting me. sweet,
my sweet,
In the dear little, pink little home o’ mine!
MAORILAND. BOYCE BOWDEY.
Autumn Rain.
Bain, rain! The air is chill
And all the world lies stark and still.
The yellow leaves in twos and threes
Cling to the gaunt, black, orchard trees.
Bain, rain ! Now soft, now loud.
Weaving a cold and clinging shroud.
Fach ledge a muddy torrent spills
And ragged fringes sweep (he hills.
Bain, rain! The birds are gone;
Hidden the golden sun that shone;
And all across the curtained plain
Glimmers the silver drift of rain.
Bain, rain! We hold our breath,
In this grey house, with weeping Death.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.
The Parramatta River.
The Parramatta ferry-boats
Are coming down the river.
Blow! blow!
The mists are drifting low
Along the grey-green river-banks
Where morning breezes shiver.
Their engine-bells are ringing
And their engines throb and quiver.
Blow ! blow !
They’re calling on the river.
Parramatta passage-boats
Were coming down the river—
Bow! row!—
A hundred years ago,
With measured oars that dipped to lift
And make the eddies quiver;
It seemed the little passage boats
Would drift along for ever.
Slow, slow,
They rowed them down the river.
The Parramatta ferry-boats
Past Long Nose Point are foaming.
Blow! blow!
Their husky whistles go.
They’re flutt’ring down to Sydney Cove
Like white-winged pigeons homing,
\\ itli foam at prows and far astern
And high on low-set combing.
Blow! blow!
Past Long Nose Point they’re foaming.
The Parramatta passage-boats
On ebbing tides were dreaming.
Bow, row !
The way was long to .go.
They swung the bend at Kissing Point
When dawnlit dews were gleaming;
And where the bushlands girt the tide,
They set the parrots screaming.
Bow, row,
When all the world was dreaming !
The Parramatta river-boats,
Bright gondolas, go skimming.
Low, low,
The lovers whisper low
When river-lights in moonlit tides
As shadowed stars are swimming.
And like a silver flood the stream
All warm and bright runs brimming.
Glow, glow,
Love’s gondolas go skimming.
From Sydney Cove to Kissing Point
The passage-boats want speeding.
Blow, blow!
With lovers long ago.
The snorting little paddle-boats
That thrashed along unheeding
Of pale and angry wakes they left.
Where waters brave lay bleeding.
Blow, blow!
The paddle-boats went speeding.
The Parramatta ferry-boats
Are coming down the river.
Blow! blow!
(The echoes answer low.)
They’re racing down to Sydney Cove
With funnel-stays a-shiver;
Their engine-bells are ringing
Their engines throb and quiver.
Blow ! blow!
They’re calling down the river.
N.S-.-W.
WILL LAWSON.


h
One Foot of Copper Weighing lib. Costs Is.; One Foot of Aluminium
Weighing Mb. Costs 7A d., and Both Will Carry the Same Current.
Copper is therefore GO % clearer than Aluminium
of the same current-carrying capacity.
Then Why Don t Y-O-U Use Aluminium, Mr. Electrical Engineer ‘
Tt is mined and made by the British Aluminium
Co., Ltd., of London, for whom we are the sole
Australasian Agents: Let’s send you our Alu-
minium Leaflets.
W. O. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
“Suppliers of Everything Electrical,”
270 Clarence Street; 426=430 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Inter-State Representatives: VICTORIA: Geo. Smith Morison, Collins House,
Collins Street, Melbourne; TASMANIA: A. J. Todd & Co., Hobart;
WEST AUSTRALIA : Leslie & Co., Perth.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
3s:
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Hnj,
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.-
for wounds, cuts and sores
.lust wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthv
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
t-u now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley. Brisbane,
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
For Solar-cane Cultivation.
e.
'' *> * % .Sm,
m j
S.st
i
The “SUN QUEEN”
Straddle Cultivator.
Made in Australia and perfectly adapted to Queensland condi-
tions. Embodies all desirable adjustments. Light Draught.
Easily Managed. Comfortable Seat for Driver. Sturdily Cuilt
to give Long Years of Service.
The vSuntop Disc Ploug'h.
Made in one-furrow and two-furrow sizes, with 28-inch Discs
for Deep Ploughing in Sugar and Corn Country. Unequalled
for Strength and Adjustability.
vSunshine Petrol Engines
Start Instantly. Run Continuously. The Simplest and Best
Engine for Farm Conditions. Sizes made—3, 5, 7 and 10 h.p
Stationary or Portable.
“Sunshine Farm Implements,** 48 pages, is
worth having'. Posted grsitis on request.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
27 Geor&e Street West, Sydney.
102 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
r- **i\
/
%
- Jr
mk
7--
'
% \
Perdriau
Macintoshes
for the Wet or Cold.
Our Macintoshes are entirely an Australian
production and are proofed with pure Para
rubber specially cured to withstand our
climatic conditions.
EVERY COAT GUARANTEED WATERPROOF
Carriage paid.
Our New Illustrated Catalogue and patterns
of materials sent post free to any address.
ĥ
Rubber
Co. Ltd.
270 George St., Sydney.
105 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
67a Gawler Place, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
r
s
Ui
ħ
h
<tfie Model Store*
BROADWAY, SYDNEY
WwwiAil% <Wax\A!>
crcvcMMvq a
"loMwviadt'vfc
l VI . . oU™_
Vft
■■■' J
0
3t
ml
i
i
.
|
TWO RINGERS
Mr. TOM LARKIN (A.W.D.) and
THE MODEL (Precision) MOTORCYCLE
3J=h.p. Roadster or Tourist Trophy.
SPECIFICATION.—Precision engine (3j-h.p.),
Bosch high-tension magneto, B. & B. Carburettor
(handle-bar control), heaviest Druid Girder
spring forks, frame of Reynolds’ double-butted
motor cycle tubing
(specially strengthened
for Australian require-
ments), tubular rear
stand and carrier, tub-
ular front stand.
£55
2G x 2-1 Dunlop tyres, Jin. Dunlop Belt, Brooks' 15170 saddle,
Bowden front and powerful (foot) belt rim brake. Finish —Four
coats best black enamel, all bright parts heaviest nickel-plate,
tank luniinised and panelled. Price, £55.
On and after Ist July the price of New Shipments of this Motor-Cycle
will be £57/10/-
This Bicycle is complete with Pump,
Bell, Tool Bag and Tools.
The Model Bicycle
as illustrated,
This Bicyele is fitted with Broadway
or Oceanic Tyres, guaranteed <>
months.
Guaranteed for 12 months.
Highest-grade Fittings, interchange-
able with B.S.A.
£6
The
Model
Store,
GRACE BROS.,
Broadway,
SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post) as a Newspaper.
Vot. 36. No. 1842.
THURSDAY, JUKE 3, 1915.
Price Gd.
“YOUR PART BEGINS NOW!”


The BUlletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. net Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
■ The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and. where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, ■
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
HOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bu>
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph,
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and, others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth und Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo ', B.C.
U.S.A.- — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and, D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco.; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. F. Lenehan, 585
2Sth Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co..
Bandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. — lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet- — otherwise: Boz., Id., B\oz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 3, 1915.
MAKING THE TOILERS SWEAT FOR
THE DON’T-WORK BRIGADE.
When a frenzied little man read in the
newspapers last year that a war had broken
out in Europe he immediately rushed into
the street and, whistling up two or three
passers-by, demanded to know whether they
thought they were up to the job of fixing
prices. Being assured that they could get
to work early next morning, he took their
names and addresses, sprinted round to Par-
liament, and, after prolonged conflict with
his own and other verbosity, got his men
clothed with a legal status as the Necessary
Commodities Commission of N. S. Wales.
They fearlessly grappled with cream of tar-
tar or nutmegs to start with, then got on
to wheat and flour, took bread in their
stride, spent a strenuous week or so wrest-
ling with the price of newspapers, fixed a
schedule for liquor which Bung came to
the conclusion was exorbitant, and, after
refusing to recognise soap as a necessary
commodity, though agreeing that champagne
is, passed leisurely on to chickfeed and by
slow degrees reached other things, including
sugar, butter and chaff. Meanwhile the
abbreviated author of these activities found
himself moaning about prices having gone
up in spite of the Commission, outlining a
feather-headed scheme for blewing good solid
cash in purchasing suburban bakers’ busi-
nesses, reviling the Commonwealth for test-
ing the right of the State to prohibit wheat
going over the border, and at last advices
was struggling in the cleft of a stick he had
got himself into over certain hole-and-corner
promises to the bloated and truculent Sugar
monopoly. It has been altogether a most
picturesque exhibition of futility, parochial
thinking and muddled economics. That the
net results of it all appear to be the
famished appearance of the baker’s horse
and the public being in jeopardy of having
no butter to put on the price-fixed loaf are
merely ironical details.
* * * *
Meantime it may reasonably be asked of
these price-fixers who it is they suppose is
to ultimately get any benefit that may ooze
from their laborious tinkering. To what
class, apart from the recipients of fees and
commissions, will this piffling regimentation
do any good? If they are to be judged by
their public utterances, Ministers in N. S.
Wales seem to have a hazy notion that if they
dragoon the producer of food into parting
with his goods at a cheap rate, the poor
wretch will derive some kind of esoteric
reward from the consciousness that he is
“bearing a share of the burden”—even
though his crop may have been but a fourth
of what the earth yields in normal times,
though from the unwilling udder of his
strawberry cow there flows but a trickle,
and though the purchasing capacity of the
consumer may have been in no way impaired.
More than once the Attorney-General has
asked of the farmer, in the tone of one who
was putting a tremendous poser, “Do you
say that the consumer should bear all the
cost of the war and the producer nothing?”
Such a question is merely a windy irrele-
vance. The price the inhabitant of the
city pays the rural hayseed for a pound of
butter, or the material to manufacture a
loaf of bread from, or a sack of chaff, or a
pumpkin, has nothing to do with the war.
The hayseed will be taxed for his share in
the war, and the measure of what he pays
will be in no way affected by the considera-
tion that Sydney boardinghouse-keepers got
cheap butter. The city man will be taxed,
too, on principles that will decline to be
affected by consideration of the fact that the
politician had given someone a cheap bag of
bran. Neither the consumer nor the pro-
ducer is contributing a single, microscopic
bean to the war bill through any deal they
may make in the material for the breakfast
of man or horse. To pretend that they do
is to aid and abet a fraud. A public policy
which results in the plentiful citizen with
a thousand a year being able to save tup-
pence a pound on the butter he consumes, at
the expense of farmers harassed by drought
and the seasonal fluctuation of his supplies,
is almost too exasperating for serious con-
templation. Yet that is the direct conse-
quence of .the latest experiment N. S. Wales
has made in pandering to ignorant folly.
* * * *
The notion that such an enormity is atoned
for by the fact that the poor working-man
reaps benefit by the arbitrary restriction
on prices is without justification. Low
prices for produce mean low wages for some-
one. Neither low wages nor low prices
are of any use to the man with anything to
sell—whether it be his labor or the produce
of the soil. The only persons who can pos-
sibly benefit by the eccentricities of the
Lnnecessary Commodities Commission are
the don’t-works—the large army of indivi-
duals with incomes that are not derived from
personal exertion, who having nothing them-
selves to sell naturally secure the equivalent
of an increase in revenue when the cost of
things they have to buy is cut down. Cheapen
commodities to these people, then to them
the cost of the war is nothing, since it will
be discharged by the savings they make
through being able to get supplies cheap
from the producer. Lessen the national
earnings from the sale of products, and then
either wages must fall or employment be
scarcer, since there will be less money at
the disposal of wage-payers and less demand
for the output of wage-earners. So in the
end cheap commodities mean a bonus for
the don’t-works and a millstone for the neck
of the producer and the wage-earner. A pump-
kin, a pound of butter, a boot, a hat —all are
the products of labor, and everybody engaged
i.i the output of these things has a vital
personal interest in seeing that the seller
gets the best possible return for them. The
public certainly is entitled to ask that it
shall get the product of the dairyman at a
figure uninflated by excessive transport
charges, commissions and intermediate pro-
fits. The vegetable specialist may with good
reason look to the State to see that the rake-
off between the grower and the consuming
family is not a piratical appropriation of
pumpkin. Similarly he can still be sane and
expect to be protected against the rapacity
of combines and landlords when he seeks
to exchange the proceeds of his sales for
feet and head coverings. It is in these
directions that the State has hitherto pre-
tended to see a fertile field for activity by
keeping transport charges down, exhorting
producers to co-operation, and encouraging
men to till the soil and increase the output
of factories, workshops and mines. But
now it breaks out in an entirely new place
and tries a ’prentice hand at a scheme of
price-fixing by a rule to which no conceiv-
able set of principles can be applied. For
instance, the price of chaff was fixed. Chaff
may mean anything, from sawn-up beds to
the sweepings of suburban mixeries. A week
after the price was fixed in N. S. Wales the
Commission found this out and learned some-
thing of the disastrous effects that had fol-
lowed its meddling with horse feed. Faced
by the new set of facts it solemnly com-
menced to consider the fixing of standard
qualities, lodging specimens at various
places throughout the State and insisting
that no chaff should be sold which did not
conform with the standardised samples. An
army of inspectors would be required to
work such a scheme and in a time of
famine would be of no more use than a flock
of kookaburras. When chaff became plenti-
ful they would have nothing to do except
draw wages out of the taxpayers’ pockets.
The drone again!
* * * *
The price-fixers started vote-catching at
the wrong end. Instead of fooling about
with Australian toilers for the special bene-
fit of the lazy don’t-works, they might have
started on the imported article that is not
the result of Australian labor nor made of
Australian material—the price of which goes
to swell the pockets of foreign strangers
and local middlemen. But by trying to
manipulate the quotations for foodstuffs in
the midst of a drought and vanishing
supplies, they have merely made of them-
selves a laughing stock, and the assertion
that their juggling had relation to the war
convicts them of knowing their case was so
desperate that it could only be defended by
perjury.
AN OFFICIAL WHO IS OVER-
WORKING HIMSELF.
Parliament awoke to the foolishness of the
censorship last week, and the noise of the
protests and the objections was terrific. Sen-
ator Millen pointed out that though in the
United Kingdom all sorts of people are abso-
lutely encouraged to talk and write of a
shortage of munitions where they exist, yet
he had recently been prevented from men-
tioning in a letter to the press that “there
should be a bigger output from the Small
Arms Factory at Litligow.” This is charac-
teristic. There is a lot of unconscious humor
in the way the typical Australian censor
takes his job. His life is one long struggle
to save the Empire from nothing whatever.
Pie gives the ravening enemy no chances to
find out things which would be valueless to
him if he did find them out, and which he
could learn about from other than news-
paper sources if he was so disposed. He
assumes that it is still unsafe for an Aus-
tralian paper to mention things that hap-
pened in Cairo at Easter, though Maoriland
papers have had columns on the subject and
circulate freely in Australia. If an
afternoon-tea is held to say good-bye to
some people who are leaving by the next
P. and O. boat, he ploughs through the small
talk of the lady writer to score out from the
guest-list the names of any doctors who may
be going by the boat to help at a military
hospital. The energy with which he sees
that the editor of the Marble Bar (W.A.)
Advocate says nothing that might hurt the
feelings of the Czar is commendable, and if
the Alice Springs Times is indiscreet
enough to exhume old scandals connected
with the Kakageorgevitcii family, he is
jumped on with no uncertain bound. Un-
doubtedly the Censor is a passionate worker
and a hustler, not to say a Live Wire.
* * * *
This, really, is his handicap, and the
basis of the sea of trouble which dashes
itself unceasingly against the ramparts of
his job. Be holds what is practically a
sinecure, and he is battling to elevate it
into an office of importance. His lot is all
the harder because he knows he was im-
portant once. In the days before the
South Pacific and Indian Oceans were
cleared of German warships it was essential
that no prowling enemv vessel should have a
vestige of a fragment of a chance to learn of
the movements of our transports. The pub-
lication of the news that the 700th Regi-
ment of Light Horse was leaving on the 7th
inst. might have aided the enemy. It would
at least have saved his emissaries from jour-
neying to the docks to discover, in person,
when the transport was off; and then, if the
emissaries had been able to find a street of
completely deaf —and also, preferably, blind
—people, they might have fixed up
their wireless apparatus and sent the
news to the Emden. Or they might have
carted the contrivance up-country, or to the
seashore, and trusted to luck that no one
would notice the lager-stains on their whisk-
ers, nor remark their accents, and investi-
gate into the object of the pole and the wires
and the noisy mechanism which they were
dragging into the wilderness. But those
perils have passed. Berlin could do nothing
inimical to Australia, on the sea, even if it
was supplied with an official time-table of
the sailings of the nation’s troopships. And
that being so, most of the practical side of
the Censor’s occupation is gone.
As regards the rest of his work, part of
it labors under a suspicion of being neg-
ligible, and part of it is absolutely harmful.
There may be some point in forbidding the
Booligal Argus to say all it knows about
the King of Italy. Some sovereigns are
sensitive to newspaper comment, and it is
within the bounds of possibility that Victor
Emmanuel might be a reader of the Argus,
and that its criticism might embitter him
against the British Empire and cause his
country to withdraw from the Entente. It
is unlikely; still, one cannot be too careful
in international affairs of the sort. But for
many of the Censor’s other activities there
is no justification or reason. Joseph
Cook put it this way in Parliament last
week: —
The censorship was just as unsatisfactory as it
could be. Things that had been made public in Eng-
lish papers had not been allowed here. The best
way to aid the Empire in the war was to have facts
ventilated so that wrongs could be remedied. There
should be no strangling of criticism. Did the censors
imagine that the publication of some of the
little things they had kept out here would alter the
course of the wars in Europe?
He reached there the stage where the Censor
ceases to be a humorist and becomes a peril.
As this paper has been insisting for many
months, you cannot safely drive people of
British extraction in blinkers. They lack that
discipline and training, so requisite for a
long course of official leg-pulling, which
are possessed by the Germans. When
the Germans are told of victories their
arms have never gained, and when
they are deceived as to the seriousness
of their reverses, they keep smiling as a
nation, for as a nation they have no means
of finding out that they have been hum-
bugged. But when Australians are not
informed by their own papers of the sinking
of an Audacious, they learn of it quickly
from America, and the effect is bad. The
censored press may tell them, as it did when
the French and British troops were falling-
back on the Marne at the rate of about 20
miles a day, that their side is winning, but
they perfectly well know that the reverse is
the case. The effects of such suppressions
and distortions of truth are to provide
shirkers of all sorts with excuses for further
shirking, and to give the enemy the best of
good reasons to exult. The great British
papers, which are read ten thousand times
more on the European continent than the
papers of Australia, have been allowed to
criticise the administration both of the War
Office and the Admiralty. They have been
permitted to point out that munitions are
short, and that as a result thousands of
men are being needlessly sacrificed. They
have caused the Cabinet to be reconstructed ;
they have impelled the armament-workers to
get a move, on ; they have given an impetus
to recruiting; and they have certainly
brought national service a mile or so
nearer. And they have been able to do
all this for the Empire because Britain has
a Censor who knows liis job well enough
not to confuse officiousness with efficiency.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New British Ministry.
An astonishing amount of nonsense has been
published concerning the so-called British
National Cabinet. In the first place it is
not a Cabinet at all. Two things are essen-
tial to British Cabinets—that the members
shall hold the same political principles and
that they shall belong to the party which has
a majority in the elective House. The
Asquith Council or Board, or whatever it
may be called, fulfils neither of these condi-
tions. It is more in the nature of the
Juncto of the period of Charles 1., many of
whose members were said to be “not publicly
trusted.” Eight of the new Ministers belong
to a party which does not possess the confi-
dence of the electors. Most Australian
papers note with right-thinking gratification
the downfall of Winston Churchill, whose
“headstrong amateurism as First Lord of the
Admiralty, by causing a rupture with Lord
Fisher, struck the Liberal Government with
paralysis and rendered dissolution inevitable.”
Churchill was no doubt the originator of
the Antwerp adventure and the abortive
naval assault upon the Dardanelles; but
under the British system of Constitutional
Government, of which these very papers
approve, the blame is as much Asquith’s or
Grey’s as his. It is a first principle of
Cabinet Government that all the members
shall be responsible, jointly and severally, for
everything that is done by any of them.
Every step, wise or otherwise, taken by
Churchill was ratified beforehand by the
Asquith Ministry, or it could not have been
taken. Conversely, the Australian attitude
in regard to Kitchener and Fisher is that
the reconstruction has thoroughly cleared
their characters as military and naval
authorities respectively—this being regarded,
for some obscure reason, as the patriotic way
to approach the question. As Sydney Tele
graph put it: —
The thing on which Mr. Asquith is most to be
complimented is the manner in which he stuck to
Lord _ Kitchener, and completely discomfited the
enemies of the War Minister, who went to such
discreditable lengths in their attempts to drag him
down.
The plain truth is that Kitchener has been
discomfited and his enemies glorified by the
Asquith re-arrangement. For the past nine
months he has been attending to the supply
of men and munitions. Nobody complained
of the way he got the supply of men. It
was accepted widely as inimitable in its per-
fection. But, at the beginning of the spring,
General French mentioned pointedly that the
problem of the war was Munitions. It was
about this time that Kitchener’s alleged
enemies—who may have been, on the other
hand, merely their country’s friends—began
to point out that the War Lord was sending
neither enough munitions nor the right sort.
The music-hall Imperialist, who has got to
look upon Kitchener as an unassailable in-
stitution like the British bulldog, was scan-
dalised. Not so Asquith, who has taken
the handling of the munitions problem from
Kitchener and given it to Lloyd George.
The whole situation involves a stun-
ning blow at the idiotic old Cabinet-ciwn-
Party Government convention, and another
at one-man rule, whether at the War Office
or the Admiralty. But above everything
else it is a triumph for the press.
Churchill lias been forced out of the
Admiralty, though he has been retained
in the Ministry as a subordinate. Lord Hal-
dane has been jettisoned because the press
insisted on his past sympathies with the land
where he was educated—and this despite the
fact that he built ud the Territorial army
which forms the basis of Britain’s expedition-
ary system. Lord Kitchener has had what
the leader in the field declared to be the most
important nart of his work taken from him
because the press pointed out that a man of
business, who could talk to the workers in the
language which they understand, would do
better service. The Admiralty has been re-
organised because the men in charge let the
ship go aground, or at the least, touch
bottom. And one of the first big measures
undertaken by the new National Council —
again at the dictation of the press—will
probably be what local Liberalism used to
call Conscription.
A State Governor at £20,000 per
Annum.
The Holman Government will be guilty of
another act of treachery to Labor ideals if
it lets the social climbers of the party en-
gineer the N.S.W. State Governor into what
used to be Federal Government House.
Three years ago, when this gang of then
only partially-discovered impostors refused
to renew the lease of the place to the Aus-
tralian Government, there was much inspir-
ing talk about the democratic principle in-
volved. It was contended that the State
Rights craze had nothing to do with the case ;
that the building was being resumed “for
public purposes.” The Bulletin scoffed at
the claim then. It has scoffed ever since.
It never doubted that, given half an excuse
and the vestige of an opportunity, the Hol-
MAN-ites would help to perpetuate the sys-
tem which they are pledged to abolish, and
would shift their own personal potentate
from the mere mansion at Bellevue Hill to
the castle at Macquarie-street. Since then
the Govern'ment has grown far more amen-
able to vice-regal influences. Its members
are thoroughly at home in the Strickland
menage. They have suffered a transforma-
tion as complete, if not as sudden, as that
of the gentleman in Byron’s poem. Their
political hair has changed color. They used
to be daring revolutionaries, reformers, ex-
perimentalists—men who caused Henley.
M.L.A., to shudder within the recesses of his
bowler hat. They have become as conven-
tionally bourgeois as any suburban alderman
who ever dropped an aspirate. The idea of
making a local man Governor of the State,
as is done with entire success in the U.S.,
and so saving a lieavily-indebted community
about £lO,OOO per annum in the way of use-
less flummery, impresses them as a Danger-
ous Novelty. So far have a number of them
progressed towards becoming Right-thinking
Persons that they hold (with the lonely ex-
ception of Premier Holman himself) that
the imported Governor’s office should be made
costlier and more splendid than ever. It is
a rotten notion from whatever aspect it is
regarded. It will be granted at once that
the State at large gets no more profit or
kudos from supporting its Governor in a
palace than it does from keeping him in a
comfortable suburban house. As regards
Sydney, the case may be a little different.
But if the thing is considered as a plain
business proposition it must be admitted
that it is not nearly worth while, even from
the standpoint of Sydney. The Macquarie-
street house and grounds immediately sur-
rounding it are worth at least £IOO,OOC


or at 4 per cent. £4OOO a year.
The park will be about 30 acres even after
the area resumed for the Conservatorium,
and the strip to the west which is required
to widen Macquarie-street, have been cut
out. Thirty acres at £4OOO per acre (the
most moderate estimate possible) comes to
£120,000, or £4BOO a year. It is a lot of
money to pay these hard, pawnbroking
times, if glory is the mark aimed at. As re-
gards the only other possible return to the
taxpayers, there are about 3000 citizens on
the State Government House garden party
list, and perhaps a couple of hundred on the
dinner list. For all practical purposes there
is no ball list. Over half the people asked
to the garden parties don’t go. Trade bene-
fits little from the few who do go, since
the expenditure on provisions and new
clothes is small. A little more money is cir-
culated in connection with the dinners, but
it does not amount to nearly so much in the
course of a year as any one of the big dubs
would disburse in a month. If it is
mere spending of money that is wanted, why
this outcry against drink? Why not keep
the pubs open all night so that men
may spend more? The question that
the harassed taxpayer who isn’t a mem-
ber of the State Ministry or even an M.L.A.,
and who doesn’t consort with Governors,
needs to ask himself is: Can a community
which has just gone through a disastrous
drought, and which is facing the unknown
possibilities of the greatest war in history,
afford close on £20,000 a year for the glori-
fication of an imported official, and a little
extTa entertainment for a small handful of
people who don’t need free entertainment.
This is not only a question of an alleged
Labor Ministry violating one of its first
principles. It is a matter also of hard, cold
business.
The Kind of Battle the Soldier Is No
Good For.
Had anyone said eight months ago that
Lloyd George, or some other energetic
civilian, was a more competent person than
Kitchener to handle those military problems
which impinge upon civil industry, he would
have been invited to regard himself as a
lunatic. Yet it would have been very close
to the truth; for the army seems to have
again learned by bitter experience that a
soldier can make as big a mess in the field
of commerce as a civilian might be trusted
to make on ’ the field of Mars. The sup-
plies of munitions for the army are requisi-
tioned by the Commander-in-Chief through
an officer called the Master in Ordnance,
whose business it is to acquire the goods.
Between them they can realise success or
failure. This time, apparently, the muddle
has been so absolute that no one can be
found to deny its existence. The national
thirst seems to have been to some extent
responsible, but the gravamen of the charge
against the administration is not that the
army in the trenches has had an insufficient
number of shells, but that it has had too
many of the wrong sort, and not enough of
the right sort. This is obviously a recrudes-
cence of the ineptitude in high places which
from time immemorial has hampered the
footsteps of the British soldier —which led
to the contract scandals of the Crimea and
the fodder-purchase iniquities of the Trans-
vaal. It is also another illustration of the
truth that the job of the soldier is to fight
and to train men to fight; that in respect to
the furnishing of armies with equipment
and supplies, whether in time of peace or
in war, the work can only be efficiently dis-
charged by men whose training has been
in the market-place, workshop and factory.
Australia has been reminded of this with
some frequency of late, particularly by the
Government’s own Commissioner, R. McC.
Anderson. Current happenings in Britain
merely press the lesson home.
Papua—the Good and the Bad.
Papua has developed considerably since the
Commonwealth took charge of it: —
1906. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Acres leased . . 2,089 332,422 290,936 230,879
Ditto planted . . 1,200 24,707 35,363 43,000
Natives working 1,700 11,005 10,822 12,210
Europeans .. 642 1,064 1,219 1,186
Revenue, local, £ 20,236 51,034 52,335 54,703
Commonwealth
Grant, £ .. 20,000 30,000' 30,000 30,000
Expenditure, £ 41,804 85,636 85,170 81,095
Salaries, £ 40)300 41,229 40,295
Exports, £ . . 80,290 99,990 128,016 123,140
Imports, £ . . 79,761 235,369 218,323 212,134
Things are somewhat better than these
figures show, because big areas of plantations
will from now on be arriving at bearing age,
and will augment the export figures by a solid
amount. Administrative mistakes have been
made and a heap of public money wasted, but
those who blame Lieut.-Governor Murray
for all are quite unjust. In fact, when such
comic-opera ventures as the Kikori Expedi-
dition, the costly mountain zig-zag to No-
where up the Hombrom Bluff, and the Vai-
gana Swamp stud farm (where mosquitoes,
leeches and crocogators bit most of the stud
stock to death) were carried out, the Lieut.-
Gov. was absent on furlough and unaware of
the idiocies. But that doesn’t say that,
even with the Lieut.-Gov. on hand, the
Dependency’s policy is always satisfactory.
There is, as a matter of fact, urgent need
for several Constitutional reforms, necessi-
tating the amendment of the 1906 Papua
Act. This measure provides that there can
be only three nominee members in the local
Legislative Council until the European popu-
lation is over 2000, and, thereafter, one addi-
tional member for every 1000 increase.
Instead of these members being selected by
the Lieut.-Governor, they should, prima facie,
be elected by those whom they are supposed
to represent. Further, the judicial system is
unquestionably all wrong. The magistracy
has been recruited from all sorts and condi-
tions of men, learned neither in law nor, as
a rule, in anything else. Wherefore, it fre-
quently happens in important disagreements
that, rather than go into the courts, litigants
submit the trouble to an outside arbitrator.
This is entirely unsatisfactory. Europeans,
moreover, should have the privilege of a jury
in important civil cases. At present the
Papuan white man can only demand a jury
(limited to four members) when up on a
capital charge. Again, though the Deputy
Chief Judicial Officer is a sound lawyer and
an experienced Judge, the Lieut.-Gov. is Chief
Judicial Officer. This is anomalous, and
especially dangerous where partisanship is so
bitter as it is in Papua. The Lieut.-Gov.
should not retain this office. Most Euro-
peans in the Territory think that,
probably as the result of the defec-
tive system just described, the punish-
ments meted out to native malefactors are
much too lenient; that, instead of acting as
a deterrent, they really encourage crime.
Certainly, there is no hardship in a Papuan
gaol for a native. No matter for what he is
imprisoned, whether simply for refusing to
carry an official’s paraphernalia or for the
deliberate murder of other natives, the experi-
ence of imprisonment will be the happiest in
the offender’s life. Even natives who are
being sentenced for the first time seem to
look forward to the gaol with an optimistic
curiosity. And, even when one
allows for the special difficulties of Papuan
administration, it does seem over the odds
for £40.295 out of a total territorial expendi-
ture of £81,095, to be absorbed in civil-service
salaries.
+
Protecting the Hindoo Coolie.
The Federal Government’s professions of
belief in the White Australia policy and its
election promises to give Australian indus-
tries real protection would look better if it
had, in its December tariff amendments, left
the item “Bags and sacks” alone. Before
that those articles entered the Common-
wealth free; now they must pay a duty of
10 per cent, ad val., the sole effect of which
is to tax the Australian farmer out of some
£lOO,OOO worth of revenue, while assuring
the*employer of coolies his monopoly of Aus-
tralia’s bag trade. Practically all Austra-
lia’s bags come from Calcutta, where they
are made by black, labor, working long hours
for wages equal to about 16d.-—not 16s. —
per day. The jute from which they are
built is grown in Northern Bengal, though
it could easily and profitably be grown in
Bananaland and the Northern Territory.
If the Government really intended to en-
courage Australian workers and discourage
cheap nigger imports it would have placed
on bags and sacks a duty similar to Can-
ada’s 25 per cent, or Argentina’s 40 or the
U.S.A.’s 45. Under those tariffs Argentina
makes 100 per cent, of her own bags, the
11. S.A. 90 per cent, and Canada 65 per
cent., and they all compete in the same
world’s market with wheat. Apparently
the Fisher Government doesn’t really
believe in the party platform. At any rate
that platform has nothing in common with
the present tariff policy as concerns bags,
sacks, coolies and Australian farmers—a
mere tax, not a' protection.
The Judicial Misfit Whose Name is
Docker.
The Supreme Court of N. S. Wales lately
disposed of an appeal against conviction on
a criminal charge heard before Judge
Docker while sitting in extended jurisdic-
tion at the Central Criminal Court in Syd-
ney. The point of the appeal was that the
prisoner—he was sentenced to two years’
gaol—didn’t get a fair run from the Bench.
This was sustained by the higher Court,
and the conviction set aside. To the public
the important thing is that a day or two
prior to this judgment Docker had been
again vested with authority to sit at the
Criminal Court as a Judge of the Supreme
Court —a position he is not fitted to fill, and
against which the finding on this latest
appeal stands as a very solemn warning to
the Department of Justice. A temporarily
promoted District Court Judge who is found
by a higher tribunal to have conducted a
trial in such a manner as to justify the pro-
ceedings being annulled can only be pro-
moted again at grave risk to the legal
machine. The qualities which lead him into
the soup to-day will carry him there to-
morrow. Of all the Judges in N. S. Wales
Docker is indeed the one to whom the hear-
ing of criminal trials can be entrusted with
least confidence. All his years-on the Bench
have not taught him that the function of a
Judge is to hold the scales evenly between
the prisoner at the bar and the jury. With
him in court there are always 13 men in
the jury-box. Chief-.Tustice Cullen
(N.S.W.) obviously dislikes criminal work.
The atmosphere of the court, the sordid
character of the prisoners and witnesses and
most of the attorneys, fill him with loathing.
But he is infinitely patient and scrupulously
fair, So, indeed are all the Judges who
sit in Sydney—all but one. Invariably they
tell a jury—hard though it may be at times
—that if they entertain any reasonable
doubt of guilt, then their duty is to give. to the
prisoner the benefit of it and acquit him.
This part of the judicial function Judge
Docker exercises grudgingly, hesitatingly,
at times almost inaudibly. This gives the
key to his mind. He is temperamentally
defective as a criminal Judge. He shouldn’t
be one. Least of all should a Government,
having other men to choose from, extend his
jurisdiction.
4
The Doom of “Charity.”
Voluntary service is going; and voluntary
charity will have to go when the jaded
public can no longer be goaded into
adequate giving by theatrical appeals. One
bad feature of the present system of paying
our debts of honor to humanity by hap-
hazard street collections and drum-beating
is the storm of random criticism it raises.
The man who gives £1 immediately looks
round and asks why the millionaire —or the
man he suspects of being a millionaire —
hasn’t donated half a mile of motor ambu-
lances, instead of writing his cheque for a
miserable £lOOO, or buying a Belgian flag
for £3OO. Every tram and train these days
is filled with people who know they have
done their duty, but are dead sure somebody
else hasn’t. If this is true charity, then
true charity produces an appalling amount of
suspicion. On the other hand, no citizen,
however censorious, ever troubles his head
about his neighbor’s carefully-graduated
rates and taxes ; the roundabout old volun-
tary system doesn’t apply there, and the
necessary business of collection goes on
steadily and mechanically with the minimum
of fuss and worry. If all the bills of the
suburbs were lumped together and no man
or woman could be held personally respon-
sible for his or her share, life would be made
one long nightmare by hordes of ravenous
tradesmen-collectors running about with
slotted money-boxes. The time is fast
approaching when our street collection
implements will have to be burned.
4
The Burning of the “Daily Mail.”
The splendid gallantry of the London stock-
brokers in attacking and burning a copy of
the Daily Mail must have amused the
onlookers at Potsdam and Berlin. It would
amuse the cynics among them the more
because the Mail was the prescient journal
which published Robert Blatchforu’s pro-
phetic warning five years ago. England
ridiculed Blatchford’s articles then and
denounced the Daily Mail’s ‘‘invasion
scare” as an election dodge, and Berlin
laughed at the absurdity of it all. But
time has justified everything the Daily
Mail then published. Some tens of
thousands of British troops have been
killed outright, and more tens of thousands
wounded, in the task of blocking the Ger-
man rush to Calais, the purpose whereof
was foreseen by the “alarmist” : —■
With Calais in German hands the Netherlands Would
be quietly absorbed.... She would have Amsterdam
and Rotterdam and Antwerp. .. .That, is why I say
that the problem of British defence is the problem
of the defence of France.
Now, because the Daily Mail said that
Britain’s work in the defence of France was
hampered by want of the best possible
artillery munitions, and that the present
administration of the War Office, which
funked a necessary demand for compulsory
service, was not everything it might be, the
fiery brokers of London Stock Exchange rose
in their wrath and cursed the organ that had
sounded the former warnings. The “alarmist”
to-day receives no more credit for honesty
than he got five years ago. But whereas
his portion formerly was ridicule among
Britons, now it is indignation. With the
Germans the order of things is reversed, no
doubt. When Blatchford first turned the
limelight upon the Potsdam plans, tffeir
derisive laughter was as hollow as their ex-
cuses for building more warships and keep-
ing four million troops on the verge of mobi-
lisation. But when a copy of the Daily
Mail was solemnly conflagrated by the
jingo “bulls” and “bears,” the Germans
everywhere must have laughed genuinely.
There can be no German fear of compulsory
military service in Britain whilst the in-
tensely patriotic stock jobbers are cremating
the journals that demand it. Even the ghost
of Lord Roberts could not bring it about.
If they believe not Blatchford and the pro-
phets whose prophecies have been fulfilled,
neither would they be persuaded though one
rose from the dead.
There are 30,000 Germans in Australia and
about as many letters have been published
in the newspapers to advocate the intern-
ment or deportation of these people. Lately
British precedent lias been cited. But what
has been necessary in Britain has not been
shown to be necessary in Australia—yet, at
any rate. The conditions are entirely different.
These 30,000 scattered people have had
their teeth drawn. There is not much, if
anything, they could do to assist the German
cause without running desperate risks for
trifling results. It has been stated in the
daily press that there are “a number of
aliens in the Commonwealth who have been
trying to cause trouble.” If that is so_ then
the Government is neglecting its business,
for such enemies can be so handled by the
law as to make them innocuous for the pre-
sent and absentees in the future. At the
outbreak of the war the German people
behaved abominably towards British men
and women who happened to be-behind the
Rhine; but that' is no reason why Aus-
tralians should act in any other way than
cold prudence demands. And cold prudence
demands for the present nothing more than
close surveillance and immediate action
against suspects. If the tide took an evil
turn then the barbed-wire compound would
be the place for Hans and his wife and his
maid-servant, his ox and his ass and every-
thing that was his. Meanwhile stone throw-
ing and all that sort of thing is as disgrace-
ful in Australia as it is anywhere else.
Let “0.K.” put his view of the case
The first action towards protecting the country
against German aggression in the future should be
the banishment of all the Germans now interned
here. Then a Court of Impeachment should be
formed, where every male adult hog-alien—natural-
ised or otherwise —convicted of bitter animosity to
the Australian Cause, should be sentenced to leave
the,, country not later than 12 months after convic-
tion. The Commonwealth has legislated against the
danger of a growth of “inferior” friendly aliens in
its midst. Germans in their political immorality,
their treachery, ambitious designs and unscrupulous
greed are the most dangerous aliens of all. Their
open professions of national enmity to the .English
disqualify them for admission as colonists here. Their
ideal of a German, world-conquest is a. menace to any
foreign country that harbors them. As for their
claim to charitable consideration as citizens of the
Christian world, it is no stronger than that of the
Belgians whom the Gorman armies have expelled
from house and home, or of those others whom the
German submarines have murdered without warning.
As for the morality of reprisals—and only protective,
not vindictive, reprisals are advocated—the creed of
German philosophers is “Might is Right.” Aus-
tralia having at present the Might to expel Germanic
citizens may claim it as a Right, as well as a wise
precaution. Note the difference between the posi-
tions of the Australian in Germany before the War
and of the German in Australia. The one never
thought of a British conquest of Germany, whereas
the other was (and still is, in many cases) thinking
and talking of German conquest of the land he came
to. The German abroad has to be considered in the
light of his national ideal of World Conquest, and
the voice of simple worldly wisdom bids him Get
Out! The talk of legislating to prevent his immi-
gration after the war is foolish unless we also talk
of compelling his emigration in the meantime.
♦
Many Labor troubles which come to light
nowadays make the public tired. The old-
time strike was mostly about some solid prin-
ciple, or to secure an improvement of condi-
tions that were frankly bad. To-day not a
few strikes are caused by unionists squab-
bling amongst themselves. For instance,
there are two distinct classes of unionists
amongst Australian carpenters. Some of
them belong to the Amalgamated Society of
Carpenters, a large organisation with head-
quarters m England; the others are members
of a local union. The latter scored when they
registered under the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Act, and as a Federal union were granted
Preference to Unionists. But the Amal-
gamated people, who have considerable
strength, made such an outcry that, after a
strike which delayed work on military trans-
ports, the preference was divided equally. Since
then discontent has been smouldering amongst
the two organisations, each having a sus-
picion that the other is getting a
job now and then more than it
should. The whole trouble is so
squalid and small and irritating that,
although preference to unionists is a good and
approved policy, it would be refreshing to
hear the Federal Minister talk firmly to the
warring unionists and tell them that, until
they can arrange their petty squabbles, pre-
ference of any sort will be withheld on the
ground that they are none of them real
unionists at all.
♦
A week or two ago The Bulletin urged
N. S. Wales purchasers of chaff to get in
on the early doors and buy, for the rattle of
the mixing bins could be heard a mile away
the morning after the Ministry started fix-
ing the price of the horse’s breakfast, no
matter what its quality. Very soon the
bakers and carriers and cabbies began to
detect their nags wearing a worried look,
and the more chaff that was poured into
the manger the more pensive the beasts
became. Instead of being filled with the joy
of oats they were filled with the melancholy
of tares. Presently the staggered bakers,
etc., waylaid a veterinary surgeon and led
him round to the loose box, where he
snorted like 15 elephants, and made oath as
follows: —-
I have examined three samples of chaff—-A, B .
and C. Sample A is chiefly composed of weather-
beaten straw, containing no dietetic value, and likely
to cause toxic poisoning. B also useless from the
same causes. C contains a large percentage of straw
and dust. I have treated many horses suffering from
toxic poisoning through eating inferior feed.
Now, the price-fixing muddlers are reported
to be considering a Bill to Regulate the
Sale of Weather-beaten Straw, and that's
locking the stable door after the horse has
gone to the cemetery.
, -♦
“F.C.M.” insists upon the consideration of
Grub :—•
Behold how Man regards his vital interests! Rarely
and but sparingly does Grub materialise without
human assistance; so civilised man builds agrarian
laws with a view to keeping as many Grub-producers
as possible from cultivating the soil whence Grub
springs. He converts it in some places into deer
parks and pheasant runs ; in others he disembowels it
for the interment of wild cats, or smothers it with
dredge waste. He imports prickly curses and rabbits.
Dardanelles —1915.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bury our dead!
Blood more precious than fine gold
Is the price of Empire-keeping
Paid by those who guard, in sleeping,
These sea-narrows known of old.
Battle-broken, struggle-stained,
Let them lie and look across
To the straits they would have gained,
To the fleet and Abydos.
Bend the knee and bow the head,
Pray God rest Australia’s dead !
Bury the dead
By whose dying, splendidly,
In that harsh dawn, volley-litten,
Was our new war-saga written—
We who “had no history.”
They who from the scraping keel
Passed the shell-pocked sand between,
Charging with the plunging steel
And the empty magazine;
Scored with iron, scourged with lead,
Died they vainly, these our dead?
Bury our dead !
On the beach and shoreward hill
Fate ran gay to meet them, giving
Death for very crown of living
(There is death that cannot kill).
When the muttering Maxims fret
And the brown ranks rive and thin,
Shall their unspent valor yet
Hold the gaps and close them in,
Rushing on with soundless tread,
Leading still, our deathless dead!
Bury the dead !
Not with mourning arms reversed,
But with stern-set face and tearless,
Let the fearless lift the fearless
In, their arms and bear them hearsed.
How should din of trumpeting
Profit them whose deed is writ
On a People’s hearts, that swing
Swifter with the pride of it?
Leave the litany unsaid !
God of heroes, keep our dead !
Bury our dead!
Bird and bush and sprouting thing,
Wooded height and fern-screened hollow,
Springtime and the springs that follow
Will await them, wondering;
Voiceless room and city street
Hungering, shall listen there
For the laugh of men that meet,
For the foot upon the stair;
And from nights uncomforted
Day shall come, but not our dead !
Bury the dead !
These who, as they knew aright,
Answered to the free world’s luring,
Glad, half-tutored, grave, enduring,
Neither knave nor anchorite.
Till the core of life shall rot,
And the world be dust again,
Fame shall write them, unforgot,
Men among the Nations’ men.
Fiercely valiant, fitly sped,
Passed, as men should pass, our dead!
Bury our dead !
Shall our tribute be but breath —
We who hold our sad indenting,
Unconsoled and unforgetting?—-
Bitterer are bonds, or death?
What if they who died had made
Words, and naught beside, their wont —
They whose bodies’ barricade
Lies along the Hellespont?
Blithely, where your valor led,
Do we follow you, our dead.
N.S.W.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly, N.S.W.
(SYDNEY).
Victorians,
South and West Australians,
Tasmanians,
Queenslanders,
And people of our own State
Should Winter in Manly,
the most fascinating and delightful of
all Seaside Resorts.
The Brighton and Folkestone of
Australia.
Hot Salt-water Baths and Golf
Binks (18 holes) in close proximity.
Surf-bathing all the year round.
WINTER TARIFF, from May to
September, from £3/3/- per week
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY, TWICE DAILY
r
Mr. ROBERT PARKER.
HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES, LTD .Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
THE TOPMOST RUNG.
“ HERE genius, not birth, your rank ENSURES."
“The Home of the World’s Most Famous Stars.”
THE. MOST TALKED OF ATTRACTION IN SYDNEY, MR.
ROBERT PARKER
WORLD FAMOUS BARITONE.
SUPPORTED BY A BRILLIANT ALL-STAR COMPANY, including
NELLA WEBB-FRANCIS DOOLEY
The Incomparable Diseuse.
The Randell Jackson English Co.
Lieut. Stoff,
Assisted by CORINNE SALES.
James Teddy, Aerial Lesters,
Desmond and Dalton, etc.
Plans at Nicholson's (Sydney) and Tivoli.
'Phone 9924 for Reserves.
and foxes; lets speculators grab vast areas, and defy
anyone to grow a pumpkin on them; ravishes the
water-conserving timber. Waste animal and Vegetable
matter that the hungry land craves for he throws into
punts and gives to the ocean, which doesn’t need such
nourishment and often rolls back in disgust. When
some producer of Grub seeks to find an eater
thereof he discovers himself involved in a wilderness
of freight and handling charges, commissions and
brokerages, and his goods passed on to a myriad of
incapable little traders in stuffy shops. A dozen
fuiious milk-ohs rush into the suburban street each
to deliver a pint of fluid at one of a dozen houses;
the bakers follow on the same lines, likewise the
butchers and the rabbit-ohs and the vendors of
carrots and cauliflowers. Madness all, my brethren, ye
who pay a sovereign for three penn’orth of nutriment
and one penn’orth of piquant taste. As to that
penn’orth, consider for a moment the idiocy of the
talk about hard times by people who have money to
spend on cochineal and pickles and spice; on flavor-
ing essences; on ice-cream and drinks full of gas!
>
Mr. Anstey and Courts-Martial.
“Personnel” on a recent solemn farce: —
Anstey, M.H.R., pursues the trail of the Rabaul
officers with the tenacity of the beagle. He is out for
blood, and he thinks he’ll get some. But his wind gave
out the other day ; whereupon he said in the House that
he was willing to drop the prosecution if the Govern-
ment was prepared to release the convicted looters,
the men of the military police at Rabaul who were
the best looters of the lot, according to the court-
martial evidence. One of them, by the way, robbed a
priest-missionary at the point of the bayonet, or some-
thing else equally effective.
Anstey doesn’t think much of courts-martial. I
don’t either, and I have seen more of them than
Mr. Anstey. He calls the recent ones farcical. I
attended one of them. A very fine-looking officer, a
colonel, was charged with stealing spoons which
Walter Bradley and Jimmy Lawson swore were
of the value of 10s. It took a whole day to see the
matter through. The court president and members
were five. They were perched up at the end of the
old mess-room at Victoria Barracks, with their backs
to the-light—you couldn’t see their faces. How they
must have laughed to themselves ! There were wait-
ing members to the court—l don’t know how many
were waiting. Then there were four of them “attend-
ing for instructions.” There was the judge-advocate,
and the prisoner and his escort—they had a table to
themselves. Arthur Kelynack was the ’’prisoner’s
friend,” and Windeyer helped him. Then there was
the real prosecutor, Captain Bowie Wilson; but he
found the case too heavy to carry alone, so he got
Mitchell, a barrister well known in the courts, to
do the prosecuting. Mitchell and Kelynack wran-
gled together all day, and took falls out of each
other on the floor of the court. One question Kely-
nack asked Colonel Holmes when he was in the box
was as to what was operating in the prisoner’s nlind
when he got the spoons. Mitchell objected. Mit-
chell wouldn’t give way; and it took an hour wran-
gling over it while I was there. The judge-advocate,
like Harald Baker at the Stadium, would intervene
every now and again and separate the combatants.
If there must be a barrister-prosecutor— and I have
not seen one before—why not a Crown prosecutor ?
If I had my pick I would take Herbert Harris. He
is used to giving the prisoner a run. Mitchell
wouldn’t give much latitude; his training has been
so different. The Red Book (Manual of Military
Law) lays down the correct lines for the prosecutor,
as well as the Court. The prosecutor is to bring out
the facts from both points of view, for and against
the prisoner, and the president is told to admit even
irrelevant evidence. Mr. Mitchell cross-examined
an accused on a lapse that happened many years
before. It looked like one below the belt. How-
ever, the officer was acquitted.
The courts-martial on the spoons and other trifles,
though so farcical, have cost the country much money
and the loss of valuable time. The president is the
Commandant of Queensland, and he has been brought
away from his particularly important job of command-
ing at a particularly important time, when we are
at war, and his services can hardly be spared. And,
finally, Brigadier-Colonel Holmes and Colonel Wat-
son have been kept back weeks after their commands
are well on their way to fight the Turks or Germans.
To sum-up. If Anstey, M.H.R., can’t get some
better evidences of loot against the Rabaul officers
than postage-stamps and spoons, he’d better give it
up so soon as he can save his face. I wonder if any-
body is pulling his leg. If not that, then is there a
conspiracy on the part of officers and men to pull
Australia’s? Certainly, somebody’s leg is being
dragged hard.
The Lands Where the Dead Men Lie.
In Gallipoli the Turk is stubbornly resisting;
ana the business of shifting him is calling
toi a much greater effort than most people
had expected. The Australian lists of dead
and wounded do not shrink; but whether
the casualties are recent ones, or mishaps of
many days ago, when a footing was being
fought for, there is no telling. And whether
the position of the attacking forces is now
favorable, or whether the combatants are en-
gaged in the long and dreary business of dig-
ging in and blowing out, can only be a matter
of speculation, since news which is familiar
to the enemy is still considered likely to afford
the Turk valuable information if printed in
Australia. Elsewhere the struggle rages
with unabated fury. On the Eastern line the
Russian has received some hard knocks, but
appears to have, as usual, leaped back at the
Hun and with a vigorous punch caused him
to postpone decoration of Berlin with the
ever-ready glad rags of victory. The com-
muniques from either side are still a series of
contradictions, from which the only possible
conclusion is that a mighty harvest of death
is still being garnered. Westward the
enemy is making no progress, and in the
region of greatest activity the Allies have
been able to congratulate themselves on
achievements which, though they look trifling
on a map, have material strategic value. But
“A SCRAPE O’ THE PEN,” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
PROFESSIONAL MOURNER
(David Urquhart):
“I'm condoling with
you, Geordie, on your
unfortunate marriage."
GEORDIE (Alie Barker):
“Keep your condoling
for them that hires
ye."
it is the drain of men and material that
counts in this war rather than the gain of
soil—a problem of who will first bleed white.
Meanwhile the Italian has thrown himself
joyfully into the fray, and, in spite of furious
abuse from Berlin, has started his march
northward for the liberation of his brethren.
Apparently the Austrian has made unpleasant
preparations for arguing the point; but, in
view of what was said just now as to the real
problem, it is significant that the enemy has
in this case waited for invasion, instead of
himself taking the initiative as he did at the
outset of the war. The piratical submarines
of the Teuton continue chasing unarmed ves-
sels round the British coasts, and the Kaiser
has written to Uncle Sam saying that he
thinks Yon Tibpitz is likely to keep busy in
this direction, and that the sinking of the
Lusitania was not a matter calling for any
special argument until the law courts had
finished their holidays. As Uncle Sam had
asked for abandonment of the submarine cam-
paign against merchantmen, and as another
Yankee vessel has been blown up. President
Wilson is reported to be regarding the Ger-
man answer very thoughtfully. Even a
President Wilson may turn if trodden on
too offensively.
“The Eighteenth”: It’s a pity the men
about to go to the Front can’t get their pay
on the day it’s due. Take the last time, for
instance. The men at Liverpool naturally
expected the ghost to walk on Saturday,
May 15, but some of the companies were
not paid till Monday. The result was many
men were without a smoke all day Sunday,
and those who had visitors couldn’t even ask
them to have a cup of tea at the canteens.
The dead past is getting rid of its dead
pretty quickly. A deputation of the most
powerful financial houses in London has
been imploring Asquith not to let Lloyd
George leave the Treasury! The Duke of
Rutland led the cheers for Lloyd George as
Minister for Munitions ! At a time scarcely
more remote than the day before yesterday
he was the man Fat hated most in all the
world. London commercial potentates began
each day with prayers for his extinction;
he was driving the nation to perdition ; his
effigy was burnt opposite the Stock Exchange,
and jobbers and others fed the flames with
their silk tiles ; and his grace of Rutland re-
ferred to him as “a dirty little Welsh
attorney, a modern Jack Cade with a tatter-
demalion crew of followers.” The ups and
downs of the game !
Colonel Irving, Chief of Staff, vice Legge,
who has succeeded Bridges, was one of three
well-known Melbourne men who towered
above the crowd. The others were Panton,
P.M., and McKean the attorney. Only Irving
is left, and no present well-known man is
up to him in height. His father, Martin
Howy Irving, began in Melbourne as a Uni-
versity Professor, then became headmaster
of Wesley College, and afterwards ran his
own Hawthorn Grammar School. He fin-
ished up as a Civil Service Commissioner.
His father was the famous preacher Edward
Irving. The Carlyle “Memoirs” have ex-
pounded the friendly rivalry of Carlyle and
this Irving for the hand of Jane Welch. She
would apparently have married Irving but
for his being unable to obtain a release from
his engagement to Miss Martin, whom he
married.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. ,
Her Majesty’s “Ma Mie Rosette”
Royal “On Our Selection”
Criterion “Under Cover”
Palace “A Scrape o’ the Pen”
Lyceum “With the Fighting Forces of Europe”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Marriage Market”
Royal “The Man Who Stayed at Home”
Princess’s “Nick Carter —Detective”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Auditorium The Steele-Paynes
Town Hall Amy Castles Concerts
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating
-%
In “A Scrape o’ the Pen,” produced at
Sydney Palace on Saturday, Graham Moffat
has reproduced a number of the homely
Scotch characters who proved so remune-
rative in his fortune-making “Bunty Pulls
the Strings.” But they can all stand re-
vival, and the new ones he brings out of
the box are all up to sample. As in “Bunty”
the plot is of the simplest. A wayward son
has gone off to parts unknown, after
having secretly tied up the heroine of the
piece with a primitive but binding Scotch
marriage. The other girl he left behind him
having died and bequeathed a baby to be
supported by his bickering old parents and
mothered by the 'gracious heroine, the g.h.
(whose “secret” is known only to the wit-
nesses of the marriage—a female farm-
servant and a ploughman) has torn up her
marriage agreement and wedded the usual
easy-going good fellow, the cheery, open-
hearted type who is always terribly injured
when the mine of melodrama is exploded
beneath his hearthstone. In this case he is
a ruddy, side-whiskered farm manager with
a weakness for kissing his pretty wife in
public. Of course the lost son and bride-
“A SCRAPE O’ THE PEN,” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Wedding-dress economy—Flora McGillip
(Margaret Noble) says: “Newspapers will do
as well.”
groom comes back in the last act; but when
he is invited to go and see his dead sweet-
heart’s child asleep, he caves under like a
gentleman and throws into the fire the wed-
ding document which was delivered early in
the first act by the English lady with the
high-pitched voice who found it whilst walk-
ing across Africa.
* * * *
The plot is as simple as morning parritch
and goes about as far; but the side dishes
help to make up. Here are a few of them:
(T) The dressing of the ploughman’s bride of ’75
with a bustle made of the back numbers of the Family
Herald.
(2) The dreary old. folks’ wrangle between Mattha
Inglis Graham Moffat and his aged wife Leezie over
Leezie’s new “bunnet” and the time she took to
choose it.
(3) The grudging reconciliation of the old people,
prettily managed by the heroine.
(4) The ploughman-bridegroom’s fit-on of his bor-
rowed black coat and belltopper.
(5) The ploughman’s wedding and the curiously
barbaric Scotch rejoicings, followed by the bride-
groom’s discovery (on the step of his new home and
in the presence of the entire village) that his bride
is going to be a worse martinet than the girl he
escaped from.
(6) The humorously dull midnight Bible-reading at
the farm, with its pathetic application to the reader’s
own life.
(7) The singing to sleep by the heroine of the
lost son’s child.
(8) The late visit of the drunken professional
mourner, who breaks into song and leaves his absurd
headgear with its white swathings on the table till
it is pitched out after him.
The best of the low-toned but very human
play consists of such scraps and oddments,
the short length of story being almost lost
amongst them.
* * * *
The characters make a quaint, stuffy por-
trait-gallery. Graham Moffat is an older
and more irascible Tammas Biggar, and
Mrs. Moffat is a patient, gentle old mother
—a sort of superannuated Eelen Dunlop.
Both are faithful studies of old age. Abie
Barker (the Rab of “Bunty”) is the sunny
young ploughman, and David Urquhart has
a rich character part as Peter Dalkeith, the
professional mourner who when he desired
to weep in front of a hearse only needed to
think of the girl who had jilted him. Miss
Mattie Maclellan, the new heroine, is very
graceful and appealing and deserves all the
homely testimonials the other stage char-
acters hand her during the progress of the
piece. Really the only inhabitant of the
cast who seems definitely out of focus is
the English lady. A revival of “Bunty” is
promised towards the end of the short
season.
The Gilbert and Sulivan Co., at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, is now singing its way
through the light-opera classics towards
Saturday night’s revival of “Ma Mie Rosette”
—which should be an interesting excursion
from the regular beat. Since last Bulletin
local G. and S. devotees have gloated over
“lolantlie,” with the demure Pearl Ladd in
the title-part, and “Mikado,” with Pearl
Ladd again as Yum-Yum. The most distinc-
tive performance of the week has been that
of G. Villiers Arnold as Pish-Tush. Through
long association, the hard-working co. has
now acquired some of the usual faults and
virtues of a family, and the far-travelled
costumes begin to wear a Belgian aspect. But
the sting of the “book” and the charm of the
music remain, and if the chorus ladies are
not all distractingly beautiful, they are at
least as good looking as the average choir.
The men choristers and the orchestra fairly
earn a vote of thanks.
“On Our Selection” will riot again at
Sydney Royal on Saturday. The mana-
gerial advt. assures the waiting public that
Bert Bailey “is just the same old Dad as
when he stepped on to the stage of the
Palace Theatre three years ago.” So
patrons may expect to see him boil over
with the same enthusiasm as of old. Dad
(place of origin, Bananaland) will yet be
cited by some lover of the nigger’s cheap
labor as proof positive that the white man
can’t keep his temper in the tropics.
There is one tense moment in “Under
Cover” at the Criterion. It occurs in the
usual bedroom scene. Charles Millward
enters his bedroom to go to bed. He re-
moves his dress coat. The house sits up.
After a wearying succession of heroines pre-
paring to undress, is the audience at last to
see a man undressing? Visions of beautiful
and faultlessly-cut pyjamas enthrall the
house. But there is no sign of hesitation or
timidity on Charles Millward’s face. Having
taken off his dress coat he turns and puts
on a dinner, jacket! That’s all —except
the usual bedroom scene, where the man
rather needlessly reminds the woman that
he is a man and that she is a woman. But
no sign of pyjamas.
** * *
The Sydney Arts and Dramatic Club was
opened by Muriel Starr at Penzance Cham-
bers, Elizabeth-street, last Sunday evening.
The club aims at bringing together the mum-
mers, who have Sunday night off, and those
interested in the arts —or, maybe, those in-
terested in the mummers themselves. The
“A SCRAPE O’ THE PEN.”
Mattha Inglis (Graham Moffat) offers an
English lady a currant bun in celebration
of the New Year.
room was so closely packed that it is evi-
dent, the club wilj have to extend its accom-
modation. A tiny stage, completely fitted
up, enabled Muriel Starr and Charles Mill-
ward to present a clever little “One Word”
comedy, George Mozart told some of his
yarns, and even Walter Baker was prevailed
upon to overcome his modesty and recite.
The club’s entertainments will be held on
Sunday evenings. Frederick Ward, the
stage-manager of the Repertory Theatre, is
the director.


For all Lung
Troubles
take
Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-two years Angier’s Emulsion is now
universally recognised as a standard approved
treatment for coughs, bronchitis, asthma,
consumption, and for all catarrhal affections of
the respiratory or digestive organs. Angier’s
Emulsion is soothing and healing to throat,
lungs, stomach and intestines, and it has a
most invigorating, tonic influence upon the
general health. Equally useful for children
or adults, it is an invaluable household
remedy for chest affections
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 46- postage, and mention this paper
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd,, 7, Barrack Street, Sydney.
IT’S A GREAT CURE
FOR COLDS.
It’s great for colds, especially when the
first symptoms are apparent; you can nip
it in the bud, so to speak, with the
now famous
NAZETHA
i
mm
: ■
m
-
m
mm
I
THE BIG COLD CORE IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
The very simplicity of its treatment has
contributed very largely to its success.
You just pour a couple of drops on your
handkerchief and snuff it up the nose.
The result is almost .magical.
IT’S GOOD FOR THE
CHILDREN TOO!
A couple of drops on the pillow at
night work wonders.
TRY IT-
-1/6 Bottle
Post Free.
Ask Your Chemist, or write to A, P,
& SON, Hobart, sent post free.
Sydney (Wholesale): Australian Drug Co..
Elliott Bros., and Brausch & Delaney.
TRY IT-
-1/6 Bottle
Poet Free.
What’s where at the Pictures: —
Crystal Palace : “Tillie’s Punctured Romance,”
six reels of better-than-usual nonsense by Charlie
Chaplin, to be unwound at the painful rate of two
reels a week.
Colonial: “The Law of the Range,” a cowboy
picture, wijih more than the full complement of
bloodstains. Also Mary Pickford in “An Armenian
Maid” —good.
Empress: “The Million Dollar Mystery,” an
habitual offender —parts 15 and 16.
Spencer’s Lyceum : “The Fighting Forces of
Europe,” kinemacolored, and well worth turning in
to see.
* * * *
Theodore Hook once opined that “the
greater the fool the better the dancer.”
Whether Hook was a libeller or not has
been a matter of argument ever since. The
Imperial Salon de Luxe (Sydney) refuses
to test the matter by competition, but there’s
nothing to prevent the public from attending
the big hall any night and judging for itself.
“THE MARRIAGE MARKET AT HER
MAJESTY'S, MELBOURNE.
Bald-faced Bandy,
the Sheriff ,
(Harry Burgess).
Hi-Ti, the Bar-
keeper.
m
or trade-mark purposes the name of Amy
Castles has lost little of its former commer-
cial value. The reappearance of the plump
and pleasing songstress at Melbourne Town
Hall last Saturday was quite a musical event,
as these troublous times go, and the hall was
sufficiently crowded to suggest the probability
of General Desire extending the campaign
beyond the third engagement, which will be
fought on Saturday next (sth). The second
comes due this (Thursday) night. Billed now-
adays as “Imperial Court Singer,” Miss Amy
Castles—it goes without saying—warbles
none the better for having been located in
Vienna or thereabouts for some time before
old Franz Joseph imperially courted disaster.
No naturally sweet and mellow Voice
was ever improved by a sojourn in
guttural Austria or Germany. Indeed,
the voice of Amy has acquired some-
thing of- ,a- hardness or dryness to
which it w'as not born. Also it was obvi-
ously _ short of work, in a sporting way of
speaking, when she started last Saturday
with a verse of the inevitable Anthem; but
“Ah fors e lui,” an “Ave Maria” and two or
three ballads seemed to warm it up and bring
much of the old color back to its roughened
surface. Finally the Voice soared trium-
phantly above the melodious din of the Vic.
Festival Choir in the “Gallia” Cantata
(Gounod), and Amy Castles to all intents
and purposes was herself again. The Can-
tata item was the success of the concert.
The choir, conducted by J. J. Bailey, sang
the verses of Jeremiah almost as well as the
music of Gounod deserved, whilst the
prima donna, getting her great oppor-
tunity in the finale, fairly rose to the occa-
sion. . Tenor Goldspink sang two or three
operatic numbers not so well as was expected
of him, but Amadio fluted as, usual, and
Bryce Carter, from Sydney, played ’cello
solos to the satisfaction of everybody and
the surprise of those who wondered why they
hadn’t heard him in Melbourne before.
* * * *
. The annual “Marriage Market” at Mendo-
cino Bluff will be held in Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) every evening until further notice.
Another. consideration of the new ladies con-
cerned in this new show confirms The
Bulletin’s opinion that they are nice and
passable, but rather tame for a couple of
Yankee gals who go gratuitously to a cow-
boys’ revel. Miss Cadman, all the same,
looks and sings particularly sweetly in the
last act, and Miss Raye has a share with
Maggie Dickinson and the chorus in “The
Middy” song and dance (second act), which
is the most charming feature of the long
proceedings. “The Marriage Market” has
been shortened since the first night. It is
now all out before 11, but there is still
room for abbreviation in the dialogue and
“business” of Phil Smith and Leslie Hol-
land, who get most of the fat. Perhaps the
quantity of fat would be quite permissible
under the circs, if it were richer in quality.
Some of the lines are humorous, but others
are gloomerous, and the managerial axe
should be laid to the root of them.
At Melbourne Royal the last night of
Niblo and Co. is to-night, and on Saturday
comes “The Man Who Stayed At Home.”
It is understood that German spies will be
admitted free on production of their cards
during the run of this drama, which deals
with “the alien danger that confronts Eng-
land from within.” Friday night at the
Royal has been booked for another perform-
ance of “The Importance of Being Earnest,”
engineered on behalf of the St. John Ambu-
lance Service.
The King’s ( Melbourne) is about to lay
aside the War Pictures and resume business
as a temple of melodrama. “The Fatal
Wedding” will be revived on Saturday, and
40 kiddies are now actively rehearsing for
the Tin Can Band.
'!• 'l* 'l*
Newcomers at the Melbourne Tivoli this
week are the Stanleys, who practise shadow-
graphy, and Raglus, who is a record cham-
pion in the ancient pastime of bouncing balls.
Smith and Nielsen are still paying their
return visit; also, the xylophone man beats
his instrument as industriously as ever. Fur-
thermore the Three Lascelles are persisting
in their painful triologue, despite the dumb
protests of a wearied public. James J. Cor-
bett and Sterzelly with his dog will have
quitted the bill ere The Bulletin comes
from the press, and the filling of the gaps
is not yet a matter of advt.
* * * *
At Melb. Auditorium the Steel-Paynes
and the quaint comedian who interrupts
their musical entertainment are varying the
programme once again, and on Saturday
'•hey will vary it some more.
* * ! * *
The Taits are introducing a Belgian pian-
ist to notice at Melb. Assembly Hall next
Saturday. Francis de Bourguignon, the per-
former in question, is stated to be pianist to
her Majesty when he is at home, and to have
fired bullets at the Germans since his home
was broken up. Being released from soldier-
ing on account of his health he has come to
a country where he can play the piano in
peace.
** * *
The short revival of “East Lynne” at
Melbourne Princess’s is made specially
mournful by the plaintive piping of the
small damsel who plays Willie Carlyle. On
Saturday the infant in her long dark curls
and cheap velveteen gave several sound
reasons why Willie should never have been
born. But the three principals, Miss Remee,
George Cross and Ronald Riley deserve
bouquets for conspicuously earnest work in
a foolish direction. Riley’s suave, per-
suasive speech and canoodling manner make
his Francis Levison worth hanging on the
line in his gallery of villains. As for Cross,
Nature made him for the role of Carlyle.
Any stranger beholding George for the first
time would instinctively call him Archibald
—or Clarence. Next Saturday “Nick
Carter, the Detective,” glues his trained
nose to a trail prepared by bellowdramatists
Shirley and Landeck.
“THE MARRIAGE MARKET” AT HER
MAJESTY'S, MELBOURNE.
Slippery Jack, the
Cowboy (Derek
Hudson).
Not Mr. Dooley—
merely one of the
Dead-ey e-Dick
cowboys of the
show.
At Melb. Bijou this week the Three
Newmans, George lord, Elois Taylor and
a number of other people are either re-
appearing or are on. the point of departure,
Th ® Bletsoes . continue their rough and
rea <ly conduct in the first part of the show,
and next Saturday threaten a fresh disturb-
? nc ? entitled “Palmistry Up-to-date.” It
13 described as a musical comedy revue,”
ai * d it is always as well for the Bletsoes to
label things m advance,
* * * *
“Frustrated,” the most recent strong suit
at Ployt’s Olympia, Melbourne, was a mes-
sage of sad tidings anent the dressmaker’s
power over the modern fashionable female,
After viewing this picture The Bulletin
is convinced that the hours of rag sales
should be restricted like the hours of pubs,
At Hoyt’s Theatre de Luxe, Bourke-street,
Saturday’s leading attraction was “The Trey
of Hearts,” another long-distance study of
the paralytic whose vengeance has already
consumed miles of film. There was also a
war sketch, which, on the testimony of the
management, details the actual operations
in the recent British victory at Neuve
Chapelle.
# * * *
At Adelaide Royal, “The Girl in the
Taxi” has been doing big business on the
theatre’s reopening, and Herbert Myers,
local manager, announces a total break-up
of the drought in the box-office. It is re-
freshing to find a musical-comedy with a
real plot; quite obviously this was a gen-
uine comedy before ever the musical num-
bers were dropped into it. Refreshing, too,
to meet a waiter who is not low-comedy;
Field Fisher gives a restrained and clever
performance. Dorothy Brunton is delight-
ful ; Rawlins has bigger chances than Work-
man ; all-round the acting is remarkably
good. The Tivoli is sparring for time, vary-
ing its Variety programmes widely, and
promising to have a shot at melodrama pre-
sently. The little King’s has a popular all-
round bill, with the jovial Rose Lee Ivy
still in it, and Florence Esdaile just, added.
At Wondergraph there is the Liverpool
Grand National; at West’s, the strong
American “Spoilers” drama; and at the
Town Hall a Pierrot party, clean and
clever.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Temple Harrison, on whom the curtain
dropped last week, was one of Wm. Ander-
son’s comedians for a dozen years or more.
He gof his early teaching from Charlie
Holloway, and after that was in the cast
of Darrell’s “Sunny South,” with Cathcart,
Atholwood, North and Alice Deorwyn at
Melbourne Royal. Harrison wrote several
bellows, of which “The Winning Ticket” had
the best results. “Sunny Corner,” his last,
produced at the King’s (Melb.), led to the
audience having an altercation with the
author, who talked back in forcible style.
A throat trouble finished a good sort.
“0.K.”: “Busk” (B. 13/5/’l5) says Her-
bert Standing, who came to Australia with
Mrs. Bernard Beere, had changed his name
from Crellin through “being respondent in a
divox-ce case,” and “had married the divorced
Florence St. John.” It was Marius, of the
same co., who had married Florence St.
John, after figui'ing as co-respondent in her
first husband’s divorce case. Standing, for-
merly Crellin, had married a Mrs. Brown,
a wealthy draper’s wife, after playing co-re.
to the lady. Guy Standing, a minor member
of the Bernard Beere expedition, was their
son. Herbert Crellin’s name became scan-
dalous through force of romantic circum-
stances. He was the jeune premier in the
first Irving production of “The Bells,” when
Mrs. Brown tore up to the stage-door in a
hansom and told him that their “guilty
secret” was discovered, and they must fly,
fly together. Crellin didn’t want to fly from
his job, the more especially as he was dressed
for his gallant soldier part and the stage
would soon be waiting for him. But the
lovesick Mrs. Brown wouldn’t be denied, and
he was not the man to disoblige a female in
distress. So he had to slip an ulster over
his finery, and elope, grease-paint and all, in
the cab that she had brought for him. His
sudden disappearance from the Lyceum bill
was explained to the public later on, when
the irate Mr. Brown had him arrested and
charged him with conspiring with Mrs. Brown
to steal the jewels and valuables she took
away with her, Brown claiming some of
them as his property. It was a mean charge
to bring against a decent Gay Lothario;
neverthelss it sufficed to make the name
of Grellin unpleasantly notorious. So he
adopted his genuine family name of Standing
when he returned to the stage.
“Private Boxer” : “I accept the loss of a
limb. I refuse to remain impotent. Work is
my-life. I want to get to work again, and so
recover my high spirits, and, I hope, still
utilise that force of Art which bears me up
and which will sustain me to the (yreat Be-
yond.” Thus that remarkable woman, Sarah
Bernhardt, in a letter to a friend. Invincible
spirit! Madame talks of re-visiting Australia.
If she should, may I be there to cheer!
Mclntosh has decided that it is better to
lease the big Adelaide Tivoli than continue
vaudeville there. Australia’s old stage friend
Brandon Cremer has taken on the risk.
“C. Ockney” : One man more likely to be
affected by Charles Frohman’s untimely tak-
ing off than any other of the theatrical mag-
nate’s London staff is Australia’s old and
esteemed friend “Dot” Boucicault. He has
been producer for the Frohman pieces in
England practically ever since his late boss
started business there, and in that capacity
has done some notable work. He had carte
blanche when he took a play in hand, and
could engage the mummers as well as buy
the furniture for the various “sets.” He
usually scored in both capacities, as those
who remember his Brough-Boucicault pro-
ductions can easily understand. Now Dot’s
occupation is gone, until another large-sized
entrepreneur of the Frohman stamp comes
along: and they don’t come along very fre-
quently.
A. W. Piper, K.C., of Adelaide, has pro-
duced the original MS. of the “Song of Aus-
tralia,” and handed it to the local’ Y.M.C.A.,
which, on £lOO being collected for its helpful
social work among the troops in Egypt and
elsewhere, will present the document to the
Adelaide Public Library. It is over half a
century since the Song, written by Mrs.
Carleton and composed by Linger, won a
prize competition got up by the Gawler
(S.A.) Institute, and it is familiar all over
that State as a kind of national anthem.
Adelaide University, for example, always
plays its Chancellor in with it on big occa-
sions. The other States might do worse
than give it a more frequent trial. Its lines
are long-winded, though poetical, but the air
is all right, and the threefold “Australia!”
at the> end of each verse gives an audience
or a crowd a fine chance of letting itself go.
(Continued on page Is.)
T. G. Ellery, Adelaide’s Town Clerk for
the past 16 years, has beaten the other appli-
cants for the Town Clerkship of Melbourne.
Besides being an expert municipalist, Ellery
has the advantage of comparative youth. He
is 42. Some years ago he was selected from
scores of applicants for the Town Clerkship
of Sydney, but withdrew on account of ill-
health and remained in Adelaide. He also
turned down the offer of the Town Clerkship
of Perth later.
The Germans apparently are almost as
well served by spies as they were at the
outset of the war. Old “Charley” Beres-
ford nearly fell a victim lately. He went
to the Front in France, and a Taube aero-
plane promptly aimed a bomb at the house
wherein he was staying. Next day the same
old Taube came back and wrecked part of
the same house, but Beresford happened to
be out at the time. Charles the Jingo is a
special object of German hate on account of
his enthusiastic attacks on the Little Navy
party.
“George Hooligan” asks questions:—
Do you think the average man realises the posi-
tion? Does he know that Germany is still aggressive
on the East and the West, and is still occupying
the Allies’ territory? Do you think people know
that independent newspaper men report that the
ordinary industrial life of Germany is being main-
tained, and that the German people are quite as
confident of ultimate victory as we are? Did the
250,000 “sports” (?) who were present last Satur-
day at races and football matches in Australian capi-
tals alone notice the extract from the editorial in
the London Times, commenting on the loss of the
Triumph and Majestic? It said: “It is necessary
that all should cease speculating on an early end of
the war, and face the existing facts without anger
and without fear... .Britain has awakened now, and
is realising that every other consideration must be
subordinated to the necessity for beating Germany.”
“Britain has awakened now.” Has Britain awakened
now? And if Britain has, has Australia?
A MATTER OF MARKET PRICES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bathurst, Saturday.—At an auction sale for the
Belgians two sheep realised £6O, whilst three kisses
from local girls resulted in the fund benefiting to the
extent of £l5 15s. —Daily press.
Time was when at the foot of Ida’s mountain,
Close by the Dardanelles,
The shepherd sat and piped beside his fountain
As many a saga tells.
Around him flowed without a single button
His robe of Phrygian blue,
And at his music all his fleece-clad mutton
About his sandals drew.
Then some kind goddess-lady idly floating
Across the wind-blown day
Paused in mid-air, with wide eyes blandly noting,
The green turf where he lay;
And, like a bee that in abandon utter
Sees where warm honey drips,
She sank beside him with a gracious flutter,
And kissed him on the lips.
The brown boy dropped his pipe, his music ended ;
He was not coy or shy.
Of such a lapse least said the soonest mended
Beneath that ancient sky.
In fact, he reconciled himself to blisses
As sugar to a spoon,
And tingled to those bright, celestial kisses
The whole warm afternoon.
He did not care how fast his sheep might scatter,
Or where their feet might stray,
For wool and mutton did not really matter
At all on such a day.
All reckless he of what might follow after;
His mind was in eclipse,
Shadowed by two red petals curved for laughter—
Those warm and perfect lips.
But times are altered. Now when, ’neath the
hammer,
Young kisses are for sale,
The sad, reluctant bidders pause and stammer
And let warm joy go stale.
And, though to some the fact may seem surprising,
Kisses these days are cheap,
Six of the rosy things but realising
The price of one poor sheep.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


h
' Orient Sports Suits
You couldn't find more comfortable clothes for outdoor wear
m Winter than the “Orient” Sports Suits. The loose-fitting
jacket worn without a waistcoat, gives a sense of freedom
and comfort appreciated when golfing, motoring or walking, and
the rough-surface materials from which these suits are made feel
warm and look attractive.
Jacket and Trousers only, in a splendid variety of
English, Scotch and Irish Tweeds, Brown, Grey and Fawn
mixtures.
PRICE : 40/.
Better qualities ......... ../ 45/-, 50/-
Fawn, Grey and Brown mixtures—Special Price.-...,. 55/--
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
40 1-
David Jones Ltd.,
Opp. G.P.CX,
SYDNEY*
THE
*
&
a®#?-.
. Isaacs
=m:
::
ssss*, s-_.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £545,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,404.
Directors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. AVREFORD.
SYDNEY OFFICE, GO PITT STREET. Manager, R. S. Gregson; Acct., F. Cleave.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales'.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
SOCIETY
PENEOLD'S
WINES
At criminal trials held last week by a
Judge on Circuit in an Australian State, no
case was decided by a jury on which there
were fewer than live Germans, and in one
case_ the number was seven. How many
Britishers are assisting in the administra-
tion of justice in Berlin?
THE INTRUDER.
NURSE: “You've not been a good child at all, to-night. In fact, the Devil must have
whispered in your ear.”
BILLIE: “Well, that isn't my fault —I didn't ask him to my party."
“Vagabond”: Talk about the ups and
downs of life. A few days ago I was living
like a mole in trenches and dug-outs; to-day
I’m crawling about on the tiles and the roof-
tops like a homeless cat. The principal
feature of my present artillery observing post
is its ventilation. The whole house is con-
siderably the worse for wear, the outside
walls consisting mostly of shell-holes, the
inside of disintegrated bricks and broken
furniture, and the roof of a few bare rafters
with a patch of tiles clinging forlornly to
one corner. It is in this corner I squat by
the hour watching the German trenches. I
won’t give my exact distance from these
trenches, because it might annoy the absent
owner Jo have his happy home knocked about
any more. Business has been dull to-day.
My battery isn’t shooting, so there’s nothing
to observe; but a long-range duel going on
amongst the Heavies may lead at any
moment to an eruption of angry Huns from
the trenches, so I have to wait here ready
to whistle up the battery to send along a bliz-
zard of shrapnel-bullets. The Heavies are
toying with one another and heaving 1001 b.
shells over the trenches’ heads. If I look
out I can see our fellows burst on the horizon
in sooty spouts; but mostly I’m not looking
out —for several reasons. One is that I’ve
a strong suspicion a couple of snipers have
unkind intentions, because every time I peep
out, a brace of bullets smack into the tiles
or the remains of the roof gable. All this
being so, I am sitting tight behind the inade-
quate cover of a ruined bedstead reinforced
with three sand-bags ; two terra-cotta busts of
Beethoven and another gent, that I can’t put
a name to, because the base, where the name
should be, as well as an ear and a nose, is
broken off; a pile of French novels ; a feather
pillow in a severe state of moult; a miscel-
laneous lot of broken bricks and tiles and
the marble top of a washstand.
'* * * *
From an Australian who earns his crust
in Brazil :
The gospel of this country in a few words: “Have
a good time, and have it now.” Consequently there
are no indigenous wowsers. Yet, though Brazil
doesn’t raise any wowsera of its own, it is tolerant
of the imported disciple who comes along with tid-
ings of Killjoy. The imported prophet is usually of
the virulent brand, who bangs the !;v.d timbrel and
curses Rome to the accompaniment of a moving-pic-
ture show. The local inhabitant, instead of getting
mad at the references to Rome, is amused at the
flickergraph and the Brother’s quaint cursing, and
for a change gets himself converted by the score.
But he is never a permanent ’vert, and soon goes
back to the 10-cent show which throws in a nip of
eana with the entrance ticket. The “converts” are,
nevertheless, listed, and the list is duly despatched
to headquarters as a proof of the inroads Brother
Zechariah is making on heathen darkness. The S.
American politician figures it out that the wowser is
a benefit to the community in that he rakes up and
holds together a crowd of happy-go-lucky rascals,
who, in default of his little entertainment, would
be busy loading up with cana or chica, putting the
knife into a pal or belting the ladies who preside
over their households. Therefore, when the wowser is
dustry begins to slump, the Government immediately
comes to light with a bonus for prophets. Supposing
a dismal-looking Dago fell into Sydney and the
Federal Ministry handed him a wad of Common-
wealth notes to keep on cursing the Devil, wouldn’t
the lid be off pretty quick! Yet, in sober truth,
that’s how we do it here.
DISTURBANCE MIGHT BE FATAL.
BUNG (aroused by mysterious sounds in the bar): “What the devil’s the meaning of
this?”
BOARDER (warningly): “S’hush. For Heaven’s sake don’t (hie) wake me. I’m walking
in me sleep.”
Touching the matter of German spies, a
story comes from the Censor’s depart-
ment. The examiner of telegrams addressed
to persons of German-looking names was
suspicious of a message as follows : “Mother
seriously ill; father deceased.” It read more
like a warning in code than an announce-
ment of sad domestic troubles, so the official
changed “deceased” to “dead,” which could
make no difference to the alleged corpse, any-
how. Then he waited for inquiries. They
came promptly. The German gent, asked :
“Is father dead or deceased?”
* * * *
One of the worst of the effects of the war
in Australia is the sudden importance of
municipal councillors. The real job of a
municipal council is the destruction of dust
and the removal of the dead cat and of the
dog that never returned ; but the tremendous
pride of the unpaid councillor has resulted
in a gown trimmed with rabbit fur and a
neck-chain —but no ring through the nose.
The noisiest of the councils which seem to
have abandoned their proper dust and dog
for the limelight industry is Prahran, a large,
vulgar suburb of Melbourne. Recently some
naturalised German, apparently believing
that the P’ran Council is closely related to
George V., wrote the councillors of his loy-
alty and his horror at the sinking of the
Lusitania. Pie wrote like a gentleman, and
the council received his letter like a hog.
Only three councillors voted that the letter
be received, and six voted that it be refused
with contumely. One of the reasons why
many of these freak councils hate the Ger-
mans is because the German habit reminds
them so much of their own hoggishness.
* * * *
“Y.Z.” : The war has created an enormous
demand for black crepe, the accepted mourn-
ing article, and the chief constituent of
widows’ weeds; but at the same time it has
crippled the source of supplies by wiping out
French mill hands formerly engaged in its
manufacture. There is now so little of
the article in the market that it fetches
famine prices, the higher because there is an
“understanding” between the chief suppliers.
Think of the merciless acumen of the apostles
of “Business-as-Usual” who set out to corner
the world’s mourning in anticipation of an
unprecedented crop of weeds! Conceive
also their disgust at the rise of the “No
mourning” movement now becoming popular
in England. I fancy I hear them asking in
agonised accents: “O Death, where is thy
victory?”
The “Queen’s Home” for maternity cases
in Adelaide has agreed, though reluctantly,
to modify its policy as to unmarried mothers.
It has long been arguing that (1) it had no
legal power to depart from the trust under
which it was founded; (2) it would have to
refuse some married women to find room for
the other sort; and (3) “no small number
of sensitive married women” would be scared
away altogether if the mixing policy were
started. However, the strong representa-
tionh of doctors and others who care more
for humanity than for conventions have
moved the committee at last, and at the
annual meeting president Herbert Phillipps
announced that the Home will undertake the
control of an adjacent but separate block
for “single” mothers, if the Government will
erect it. But it is to be hoped the Gov-
ernment won’t do anything of the sort. If
the institution won’t take “single” mothers
in without branding them as such, and keep-
ing them apart as though they were lepers,
the Government should simply decline to have
anything to do with the Home at all.
* * * *
Victoria’s Education Department has
been getting strong hints of the unpopularity
of the service as a career, as well as further
enlightenment as to its own casualness, by
the receipt of letters from teachers who
wrote from the' Broadmeadows camp. Tt
wondered what so many backblock teachers
were doing there —until it discovered they
had closed their schools and enlisted, and
said nothing until they were sure of accept-
ance. Of course the schools remained closed,
the committees and parents not thinking it
necessary to ask whaffor. And in the absence
of inducements to young men to tackle
teaching, they mostly continue closed.
A “man without a country” came to
qualify as an Australian citizen by a recent
mailboat. The yarn is that father was
British born, of German parents, but be-
came naturalised in Germany, where the son
was born. Having larger British interests
than German the son got himself de-
naturalised last year, but failed to get Eng-
lish papers. He had a branch business in
Antwerp, which he looked after till the
Savages came along. But he wasn’t in Bel-
gium long enough to qualify as a citizen,
and England is too busy with other matters
and nobody wants to become German just
now, so he has got no nationality. There is
room for him in Australia ; but it might be
as well if the gentleman reported himself
occasionally, for the yarn doesn’t seem to slip
down as easily as some do.
THE SONG OF THE HE-ROSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
<o£f n + , V i aud - Brant ’ a nurseryman of Poitiers, main-
InL ™t a 10s ° , ca! ? see a beautiful woman inhal-
ng its perfume, which is the sound it utters. More-
over he maintains that plants can hear.
On fair Belinda’s gracious breast
I blushed one summer day:
There, like a fond, familiar guest,
In sweet content I lay at rest
And heard my mistress say:
The mater stole this lovely rose”—•
She kissed my petals with her nose—
From Auntie Kate’s bouquet.”
I nestled closer midst her lace
In languid ecstasy ;
She bent her head with girlish grace -
I smelled the perfume of her face,
For she was kissing me.
The yearnings of a summer rose!
The thi'illings ! Never woman knows
How human they may be.
“I want that rose,” a johnnie cried ;
“Bai Jove! I want it so.”
He walked by my Belinda’s side.
She glanced at me—l nearly died ;
My perfume spake my woe.
One moment she affected doubt,
And then, with a bewitching pout,
Her red lips answered “No.”
Oh, happy day! Oh, fleeting joy!
My fragrance charmed the jade;
She finally repulsed the boy
Who dared to squeeze her fingers coy
The while he begged and prayed.
But ere the sun went down, alas !
She put me in a slender glass
To bloom afresh and—fade.
My petals droop, the end is near,
My thirst I cannot slake;
Belinda’s voice I sometimes hear,
And dream that still she holds mo dear
For my dead beauty’s sake.
Another hour of poignant pain,
Of futile grief and passion vain,
Of wishing I were young again,
And then my heart will break.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


REDUCE FLESH WITH SEA LEAVES.
Any man or woman who is troubled with
a burden of excessive fat can easily reduce
to any desired amount by following the
simple, harmless plan of eating sea leaves
obtained from plants growing in the sea off
the coast of France, Natives of this part
of the coast readily get the plant itself, but
for the convenience of those not so fortu-
nately situated, most chemists keep them in
compressed or tablet form under the chemi-
cal name of salith leaves, and if taken
according to the simple directions that
accompany them, will invariably reduce
flesh at the rate of two or three pounds a
week, and at the same time greatly improve
the general health. It is interesting to note
that when salith leaves are used the skin
remains firm without any tendency to be-
come flabby or wrinkled.*
British “PRINCESS”
CREAM SEPARATORS,
ĥ
The Cream
Separator that
has stood the
test of time.
The best is the
cheapest in the
long run.
Spare parts
stocked.
i
AGENTS—
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY., Ltd., Melbourne.
W. HART & SONS, Launceston.
W. BUCKLEY, Barlow Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
W. A. PRESTON & CO., Brisbane.
K, ade Watson, Laidlawg Co.
Engineers,
Glasgow.
A Pliant, Soft Hat 13/6
if
jKffi
7,i ' -v -i§f|
' - 111
'*
y. ■■■affltifc: VV,‘- ■■'-*.■'»,g^igS
You can easily adjust crown or
brim to any shape. It will retain
the shape to which you set it,
because the felt, while very pliant,
has ample “body” for shape-
retention. The hat being of mod-
erate shape is suitable for country
or city wear. It is neatly finished
in smooth felt of Fawn, Mid or
Dark Grey, having brim
with the popular straight-cut
edge.
A smart hat that will give good
service 13/6
Please state size and shade.
Catalogue of Men’s Wear on
request.
PEAPES $ CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 3tl George Street, Sydney.
“W.A.R.” : From what is now known of the
Gerhog, Australia should congratulate herself
that her soldiers are fighting such a com-
paratively decent foe as the Unspeakable
Turk. For there is not one Unspeakable,
but three Unspeakables. The Unspeakable-
ness of the Turk is old-established and out-
spoken ; but the comparative and superla-
tives degree of the adjective are respectively
the Austrian and the German. According
to recent medical evidence, the difference
between the Unspeakable Turk and the Most-
Unspeakable Gerhog is that the Superla-
tively-Unspeakable mutilates the wounded
before death and the Unspeakable Turk after
death. And it is much less annoying to
be mutilated after death than before.
* * * *
“Yarrum’s” investigations:—
Lately I have made a study of weapons of offence,
and find that the Australian police baton of to-day
is a totally different bludgeon from that of, say, a
quarter of a century ago. Then it was about 16in.
long, composed of timber and painted like a barber’s-
pole, and sometimes had lead let into the business
end of it. The one in use now is not more than
lOin. long, and is built of compressed leather. The
knock-out extremity bulges like the back of Kaiser
Bill’s head, and there is a sling on the other end to
secure it to the operator’s wrist. John Dunn tells
me it breaks no bones like the old-timer did, and
would inflict no more injury than a wallop with a
fist. I found, too, at every police-station I’ve visited,
from Bathurst to Brewarrina, “cats” with many
tails. There are heavy eats reckoned to be suitable
for grown-ups, and lighter ones for children. I
handled the knotted things, and felt creepy. I asked
several Dunns-in-charge why these relics of barbar-
ism were kept on hand ; but none of them could say.
I suppose, being- part of the permanent and repro-
ductive undertakings we’ve borrowed to buy, nobody
cares to throw them on the scrap-heap.
Sydney Telegraph had its leg well-
nigh dislocated last Friday by a wandering
mariner named Captain Miles. Under the
scare headings,
SEVEN SUNK.
GERMAN SUBMARINES AT SCILLY ISLES.
REMARKABLE STORY.
it told how seven German submarines had
perished at the Scilly Isles. Its informant
hadn’t been able to bring the Singapore
papers which contained the details of the
engagement, “as the authorities would not
allow him to.” But from memory he told a
simple tale, that “the Germans had a base
at the Scilly Isles, and in a cave —large
enough to accommodate six submarines —tor-
pedoes, ammunition and benzine were sunk
in airtight vessels 14 fathoms below the
water’s surface.” The Scillies are a little
group of islets and rocks off the coast of
Cornwall; and because they are about the
last. place on the British coast where sub-
marines could snuggle, London Sketch,
published an April Ist fake photo-
graph, showing the Scilly cave, with the
submarines lying at anchor inside. The sum
of £ll,OOO was alleged to have been paid
to the Marquis de Tire-jambe for the photo-
graph. “Tire-jambe” is dog French for “leg-
pull.”
IN THE GOOD CAUSE.
“Sorry you’ve sold out —I meant to buy
something from you.”
“Oh, that’s all right — I’ll charge you half a
crown to look in my box.”
“Puttee” : If it isn’t giving away a secret
I would like to remark that the thing known
to local strategists as “the flower of the Ger-
man army” is some extra-prolific breed of
lucerne. Nine months ago it was first cut down
and it has been mown six times since; and
I see by the papers that it is still standing
up in front of the 'Allies, waiting to be cut
down again. This makes the German variety
of the fodder better than anything they have
at Yanco. They have nothing there they
can mow more than eight times a year.
IN SELECT CIRCLES.
Special attention is directed in the report of the Vic. Indeterminate Sentences Board for the last financial
year to the series of entertainments arranged for “habitual” inmates of the prisons. Some of these
entertainments have an actual educational value; some are merely for amusement. The musical tastes
of the audiences have not been overlooked; they have been lectured to on Richard Wagner and his
influence.
THE NEWCOMER: “I say, what are they playin’?”
THE OLD H AND: “ Don’t you know the overture to ‘ Lohengrin’ when you ’ear it?
Blimey, you must have lived a long time in Melbourne.”
“Lagani-Namo” : The dearth of European
girls in Papua has resulted, in a mild epidemic
of piebald matrimony during the last three
years. The discolored brides were, for the
most part, formerly house-
maids in white domiciles.
Some two miles out of Port
Moresby there is a suburb
of weatherboard cottages
where fuzzy-haired Papuan
belles in princess robes, pic-
ture hats and bare tootsies,
entertain each other at
afternoon tea, discuss the
latest scandal, and ape to
the best of their
ability the manners
and customs of their
European prototypes
These dusky damsels
get measured and
fitted for their best
clothes at the leading
stores. In a £6 10s.
“confection” of pink
satin cut decollete,
and garnished with
ramie fringe, one was
the acknowledged belle
of a ball recently held
in the township. It’s
all very well to say
that the self-respect-
ing European should
not run amok into
intimacy with a Papuan
girl, but in the perpetual
shortage of “clear-skins,”
coy, plump and sym-
metrical brown sister be-
comes ravishingly alluring.
Apparently, too, she is able
to instil the curse of jealousy
into her white admirers, for
at Port Moresby last New
Year’s Eve a foreigner
pounced suddenly in on a
card party and shot a coun-
tryman of his own dead.
The explanation was that deceased had
shown undue appreciation of the assassin’s
native companion.
“Callan Park” :
I see by a cable that the German Crown Prince
has been photographed “sitting at a window with a
well-known Berlin danseuse on his knees en deshabille,”
and that the Crown Princess and the Kaiser and the
Prince have been arguing and writing insulting
letters to each other on the subject. In the end,
“the Kaiser wx'ote a letter rebuking his son, but
received a disrespectful reply.”
It was easy for the London cable-man to get this
news. The photograph was probably taken by Hans
Piffel, the Court photographer, and a shorthand
account of the interviews and authenticated copies of
the letters between the parties would have been sup-
plied to the press. They are extremely frank about
such matters in Germany. When the Crown Prince
was prosecuting his recent liaison with Fraulein
Flossi, of the Imperial Ilofbrau Bierhaus—for which
purpose he was granted extended leave of absence
from the Vosges—the State cinema, plant recorded
the entire courtship from the occasion when he first
transpired at "the Bierhaus, and made, to the then
virtuous Fraulein Flossi, proposals which no gentle-
man should • utter in the presence of a lady, right
down to the historic moment when the Crown Prin-
cess burst in on her dissolute husband and his vic-
tim, at the Dusseldorf pension, where they were
spending an Elinor Glyn Saturday-to-Monday, and
broke her umbrella over the terrified girl’s head.
Royalties always carry on like this, especially
when they are in the midst of an unsuccessful war
which looks like depositing the lot of them on the
rubbish-heap. My old friend von Blither told me
once that the thing which astonished him most, when
he first went to the Potsdam Court, was the ancient
Hohenzollern custom known as “Pilsenergliick.” It
is based on the Ghibbeline theory that all family
rows should be conducted in public. At the first
sign of dissension between the Kaiser and any mem-
ber of his samily the whole of the Court, the
press representatives-in-waiting, and the Imperial
photographers are summoned. At the end of the
dispute attested reports, and photographs- of the
different incidents authenticated by the parties, are
supplied to the leading papers of the world. It is
to this quaint old survival that we owe such news-
items as that about the Crown Prince which was
cabled to us from London the other day.
“Vic”: Apropos Empire Day. Melbourne
was named before Governor Bourke knew of
King William’s death, though whether the
monarch had at the time turned up his toes
does not exactly appear. Anyhow, prayers
were offered up for him in the churches of
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide for three
months after he had gone. Not that it
matters. It was reckoned that Williamstown
would be niore important than Melbourne,
wherefore it got the King’s name, and Mel-
bourne had to be content with the Premier’s.
Of course the important place would have
been Victoria had they known of the Girl
Queen. The city’s square mile was planned
out without knowledge of her; but Victoria-
street and Victoria Parade came later, with
expansion.
“Vic” : I am afraid the Sydney man who
has given £30,000 to the yet-to-be-built R.C.
College within Melbourne University cannot
keep his head under a bushel, inasmuch as
it is hinted that he also gave £30,000 to a
Sydney College. Such birds are rare. He
requires that other subscribers must put up
£30,000, which means £20,000, because
Archbishop Carr has £lO,OOO in hand, led
off with £lOOO from himself and £lOOO left
by Judge Casey. In 1854, when the Univer-
sity humbly started, on the same day 'as
the little Public Library, both tributes to
Justice Redmond Barry, an enormous patch
of land was secured for four Colleges—
Anglican, Catholic, Presbyterian and Wes-
leyan. The Anglicans got to work in about
20 years with Trinity College, which has
since produced six bishops. Then Ormond’s
munificence yielded Ormond College. Next
the Methodists were on the job with
Queen’s. But the R.C. portion has remained
a waste and a reproach, not to the It.C.’s,
say the hierarchs, but to the public policy
which has made the sect pass out money
hand over fist for primary education.
* * * #
“Etaoin”: At Gladesville Mental Hospital
there is, in one of the loveliest gardens on
the Parramatta River, an old-world sundial
that tells the heedless patients that time is
fleeting. Round the dial are carved these
words :—•
Time wastes us, our bodies and our wits,
But we waste time, so Time and we are quits.
As the stranger reads, a patient approaches
cannily. “Do you see that fellow?” he
asks, pointing to a tame kangaroo in a pad-
dock beyond the garden, “Tom Murphy says
lie’s a County Clare man. He knows from
the way he blesses himself.”
CECIL HARTT’S SO-LONG TO HIS
MODELS.
“Croson” : I always had doubts about who
was really responsible for the war, so I am
glad to find the blame firmly fixed on the
right shoulders by persons who know all
about it. The other day, at its half-yearly
yelp at Geelong, Victoria’s L.O.L. solemnly
affirmed that “the responsibility for deluging
Europe with blood lies at the door of the
Vatican, in a last effort to regain temporal
power.” This confirms my suspicions. And
as it has also been proved that Rome is
really at the bottom of the drought, the
sugar hold-up and the rabbit plague, why
doesn’t the L.O.L. abolish the nuisance?
THE DAILY DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What is this Day ?” I cried aloud
In accents of despair :
The human Cyclopedia
Who dogs me ev’rywhere
Replied “Der Tag —the day our licet
And that of Germany shall meet.”
“No! No!” I answered angrily,
“I knew all that before.”
Amazed he flung his arms apart
Like some stout semaphore.
“What ignorance!” he moaned. “Alas!
Why it is Saturday, you ass ! ”
“I knew the week day,” I replied;
“I am not drunk or mad.
What made me ask was all these girls
Who through the city pad,
With baskets on their chests, and pant
To sell me things I do not want.”
I saw at once I had him licked;
He knew no more than I.
“It may be Belgian Day,” he vagued,
“Or that of Italy,
Or French or Servian or Russ,
Or Corsican or Anti-Pruss,
Or Luther’s Day or that of Huss.
Each justifies a public fuss,
And makes the normal person cuss,
And yearn to take a blunderbuss
And with the weapon repercuss”—-
He paused. We fled. From out the muss
A girl was dashing straight at us.
N.S.W.
SICK-OF-IT.


THE NEW .ARRIVAL.
“Hooray! Fill ’em up again!”


“Only four guineas, you Say, M’sieul
Then our Establishment it is degrade.”
In ftxiiig the price of beer, his Honor
buglit to have power to call in a jury.
There certainly are times when the
Court should order the Box Office to
return the money.
The Judge to fix the price of dental
fillings might assist the patient by
telling him funny stories.
' ‘‘Pork? Call them pork? Put them
in the ‘Not otherwise specified’ schedule,
3 d.”
At the Cafe—fixing price*) before*,
baud*
“Only one child, ma’am. Then i
order that your pin-money be reduced
to 8M d. per week.’l
THE PRICE-FIXING MANIA.


FOW TO NEUTRALISE DANGEROUS
STOMACH ACIDS.
Few people besides physicians realise the
importance of keeping the food contents of
the stomach free from acid fermentation.
Healthy normal digestion cannot take place
while the delicate lining of the stomach is
being inflamed and distended by acid and
wind —the results of fermenting food in the
stomach. To secure perfect digestion, fer-
mentation must be stopped or prevented and
the acid neutralised. For this purpose phy-
sicians usually recommend getting a little
bisurated magnesia from the chemist, and
taking half a teaspoonful in a little hot or
cold water immediately after eating. They
recommend bisurated magnesia because it is
pleasant to take, has no disagreeable after-
effects, and instantly stops fermentation,
neutralises the acid, and makes the sour
acid food bland, sweet and easily digested.
The regular use of bisurated magnesia—
be sure you get the bisurated, as other kinds
of magnesia are of little value is an abso-
lute guarantee of healthy, normal digestion,
for it overcomes and prevents that acid con-
dition which alone is the cause of trouble.*
S 8
ħ
m
h
m
r ° The
ĥ
tr , " herever you ao, the world over, leading men
HATS. They are unequalled in quality, style,
comfort. ALL STOKES. ’
rear VvuunnUW
durabality and
LEWIS&
WHITTY
MAKERS
s
•<- • •
mm
m
4
Mi"
BSSB
SS3^RSi£
HYGEIA
Shaving;
Stick.
In
Hygeia
oil-foam
hard
bristles
grow soft
ivlctner’s
Friend—
PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic. —1/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb, 6d. extra.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Died a few days ago George Urquhart,
who was one of the original syndicate of
seven that owned the Broken Hill Proprie-
tary and the three adjacent mines. George
McCulloch, the chairman, was manager of
Mount Gipps, the others were all on the
station’s books—Urquhart as overseer ; Rasp,
the discoverer (“German Charley,” by the
way), as bouudary-rider ; Philip Charley, now
major, then jackeroo; James Poole, dam-
sinker; G. A. M. Lind, storekeeper; David
James, who afterwards won a Melbourne
Cup, dam-sinker. Only McCulloch, Rasp,
James and Charley hung on and made for-
tunes. The others, including Urquhart,
sold out, mostly to neighboring squatters,
and that’s how the Brodribbs and Harvey
Patterson and Bowes Kelly came in, with
William Jamieson, the lands surveyor, who
nearly threw up his job when he was ordered
out to the Far West a few months previ-
ously. Urquhart never quitted the district,
and remained a sort of overseer on one of
Kidman’s holdings. His death leaves David
James, Philip Charley and Jim Poole as the
survivors of the seven.
EX-SPEAKER
W. ELLIOT
JOHNSON,
M.H.R.
Thus Alex. Brown, the Coal Baron, in
proposing a toast in aerated waters at New-
castle
We are not of those addicted to the .abuse of strong
drink, but we should bring home its danger to those
who are.
The name of the Pharisee wlio declared in
the Temple that lie was not as other men has
not been passed down. There is some reason
for suspecting that it was Brown.
Died at Christchurch (ALL.) the other
week, aged 86, Charles James Russell, a
Creole with a physician's certificate from
Syracuse (U.S.A.). Russell was one of the
institutions of Pancake City, where his big-
yellow face and big grey motor-car were
prominent features. He had an abnormally
developed butting-in bump, and spent most
of his life trying to get elected to things.
About 20 years ago he went for a long
stretch in gaol over an operation; but
though he was not allowed to register again
he came out smiling and drove a thriving
business. The ironical part of his end was
that, as he was unregistered and had
physicked himself before he died, his remains
had to be inquested. He had applied to the
City Council to be burned in the local rub-
bish destructor, but legal technicalities stood
in the way and the authorities politely put
him in the usual hole.
IT KNEW BEST.
S HE: “If I teas like you I'd go to the
Front.”
IT: “If you’sh like me (hie) you'd shtay
here (hie).”
Died suddenly, off Albany, at 45, W. J.
Ellis, master of the Echunga. He was
well known all round the Australian coast,
as well as in the Adelaide pilot service;
but latterly his co. had detailed him for the
deep-sea trade, and his ship had left Port
Ivembla (N.S.W.) for Colombo only a week
before he died.
The successor to Col. Legge as Chief of
Staff is Col. Irving, latterly of South Aus.,
but known also as D.A.Q.M.G. —and things
like that —in all the eastern States. He
studied the art of war in England and in
India, and saw a little active service in
South Africa. He is notoriously anxious
to get to the firing-line in the present
trouble, but, as he stands 6ft. sin., he
would be pretty certain to get shot at once.
Col. Sandford, a N.S.W. man, latterly in
command of the Queenscliff (Vic.) forts,
goes to Adelaide to replace Irving as Com-
mandant, and Major Taylor, formerly second
at Queenscliff, and latterly at Broad-
meadows, succeeds Sandford.
That remarkable advocate, Josiah Symon,
has brought off a great “double” in Adel-
aide. The two criminal cases which have
long been agitating S. Aus. were that of F.
11. Snow, charged’ with trying to trade with
the enemy in metals, and that of a youth,
accused on circumstantial evidence of killing
his old father by a shot fired in through the
window of their lonely farm. Both got
Symon to defend them, and both have been
found Not Guilty. The one case was a
matter of new and dubious points of law,
in which his fine brain found full scope.
The other was a dark mystery, a “jury
case”; and Symon’s winning way with a
jury has been famous for the past 30 years.
He should have been on the Bench long
ago. His one failing is an occasional ill-
tempered lack of dignity. A man of such
commanding intellect should not need to
wrangle with opposing counsel after the
manner of a young and pushing police-court
attorney.
Justice Rich took his seat in the High
Court, starting an Adelaide session last
week, and found among the messages on
his desk a cable from the British War Office
that his elder son—not yet 20, but a lieu-
tenant in the Liverpool regiment—had been
killed in Flanders. He struggled to do his
work; but it was no use, and there was an
empty seat till a Judge could be moved
over from Melbourne.
The -other day an Irish jury got back on
Queen Victoria for her many slights on Erin,
by finding her grandson guilty of murder.
True, the Coroner and jury made fools of
themselves. A reigning sovereign cannot
legally be convicted of, or punished for, mur-
der. In theory Wilhelm can do no wrong—
though he probably couldn’t get a Belgian to
believe it.
Westralian Mines Department’s certificate
for bravery has been presented a second
time, and like the first, it has gone to Yilgarn.
The hero was Frank Mazza. In November
last he and two mates were tributing on the
Marvel Loch. While they were breaking
ore in a stope a fall of earth occurred,
which killed Gorey and pinned O’Brien.
Mazza, at fearful risk, with ground tumbling
and crumbling all round him, succeeded after
three attempts in releasing his injured com-
rade and carried him to another part of the
mine, whence both were dug out by a rescue
party S 4 hours later.
“W.A.S.”: Von Tempsky, who fought
against Ilenare in the Maori war of the
’6o’s, was not shot by a Maori, as generally
believed and stated in B. 13/5/T5, but by
a white man, a deserter from the 43rd Regi-
ment, at Ngutu-o-te-Manu, in the Patea pro-
vince. I was within 10 yards of him when
lie fell, with a bullet through his brain. In
the same engagement Captain Rowan, whose
widow is the famous painter of Australian
wild-flowers, and who was with the Taranaki
contingent, of which I was the youngest
member, was shot through the jaw, but re-
covered. Major von Tempsky was a gallant
man and fearless. I can picture him now
with a shawl round his waist in lieu of
trousers, a Crimean shirt, and an old forage-
cap on his head. lie always carried a thick
stick with which he used to belabor his men
on the spot instead of court-martialling
them.
The centenary of the birth of Henry
Parkes occurred on May 27. He was born at
►Stoneleigh, near Kenilworth, in Warwick-
shire, the son of a small tenant-farmer on
the estate of Lord Leigh. The family moved
from Stoneleigh to South Wales, and thence
to Birmingham without bettering its fortune.
In BiMiingnam as a youngster Henry
worked in a brickfield, and then was appren-
ticed to a turner; and in 1836 he married
so that Clarinda Varney might share his
poverty, bad health, want of employment
and debt. Two years later, almost starving,
they moved to London, where some terrible
months were passed ; and then they emigrated
to N. S. Wales, where Parkes arrived on
July 25, 1839, with a wife, a baby and three
shillings, to find the 41b. loaf selling at half
a crown. He hadn’t been in the colony a
week before he found out that it was much
better to have bread at 2s. 6d., and to have
the 2s. 6d., than to have it at seven-
pence and not have the sevenpence.
If Parkes hadn’t been a man who hum-
bugged himself more even than he hum-
bu"' < >'ed others, he would have thrown Free-
trade over right away. He had been shown
that the gospel of low prices was a rotten
one, anyhow.
GETTING FIT.
JOHN B ULL: “From what I can see of it this
is the only way to Tipperary.”
Cyril Jackson, formerly chief of the Edu-
cation Department in Westralia, now vice-
chairman of the London County Council, is
a Field-Corporal or something of the sort
in the English “Follow the King” army. He
goes the whole hog for prohibition plus com-
pensation to brewers and publicans, with a
tax on the increased profits from tea, coffee,
cocoa and soft drinks.
The more or less famous Lady Cardigan
is dead. Debrett doesn’t give the year of
her birth, but she must have been close on
so. With the hawk-faced, sloe-eyed old
lady who has gone notoriety was a matter
of personality. Her flirtations got her
talked about, and where she scented adverse
criticism she did not spare the critic. People
grew afraid of her, and by the time her
famous “Reminiscences” were published, she
hadn’t enjoyed even the acquaintanceship of
her old friends for many years. Her first
husband was the man who led the Balaklava
charge. Her second was an Italian whom
London persisted in regarding as a “rasta”
till the day of his death.
FRANK ANSTEY,
demanding an
inquiry in the
Federal
Parliament.
George Gordon McCrae, of Melbourne —
father of poets Hugh and Dorothy McCrae —
who was S 2 on May 29, has just produced
another booklet of verse. It can safely be
said that no other man of his age is writing
stanzas half so vigorously.
Frank Rymill has passed out at Adelaide
in his 78th year. He was associated with
Edwin Smith and other influential people in
promoting the successful International Ex-
hibition at Adelaide in 3887. Since the early
’GO’s he had been partner with his brother
Henry in business, and was supposed to be
one of solid S. Australia’s rich men.
The will of Mark Barnett, a Sydney iden-
tity whose pursuits were those of a “general
dealer,” shows that there was £.“2,780 he
couldn’t carry away with him. This wander-
ing Jew' was the real barsrain-hunter who
would rather miss a meal than a slaughter
sale. He hawked buttons, etc., for a start,
but later on left an indelible cleft in the
memory as he perched on a kerosene-box in
Sydney’s old “Paddy’s Market.”
Joseph Pickett, who died last week at
Footscray (Vic.), went there with his
parents in ’46, and its allurements held him
to the end. His father established a punt on
the Saltwater River, and across this the
liardv pioneers passed on their way to the
countrv beyond. Little Joe used to see as
many as six people cross at a time w'hen the
population had been advised of a ship’s arri-
val at Williamstown.
“Billy Blue” tells us about the dead
General’s grandmother : —-
William Throsby Bridges came on his mother’s
side from the oldest Australian stock.. She was
the daughter of Charles Throsby, jun., of Throsby
Park, Moss Vale (N.S.W.), and Betsy Broughton,
daughter of Deputy-Commissary William Brough-
ton, who came to Sydney in the first fleet under
Governor Phillip. Broughton w r as then 20 years of
age, and, becoming a clerk in the Commissary’s
office, rose to be head of the department. He
retired on to the usual grants ; one he called Lach-
lan Vale (1000 acres) and another Macquarie Dale
(700 acres). These were adjoining blocks just out-
side the town of Appin. There he died in 1821,
and was buried in St. Luke’s Churchyard, Liver-
pool. His daughter Betsy had a strange history.
She was a very young girl vdien, in 1809, she sailed
with her mother for England in the ship Boyd, John
Thompson master. The vessel had called at Maori-
land to take a load of spars, when the Maoris
captured the vessel at Whangaroa and massacred
all on board except four. Betsy Broughton was
amongst the survivors. Alexander Berry, who about
that time had visited Sydney in his ship the City
of Edinburgh, called at the of Islands, and hear-
ing of the fate of the Boyd, pluckily went to the
rescue of the survivors, and succeeded in getting
them. He took Betsy Broughton away to Callao
(Peru), and from there returned her to her father
in Sydney. She afterwards married Charles
Throsby, then living at Glenfield, near Liverpool,
had a large family, reached a patriarchal age, and
w T as buried in Christ Church graveyard, Bang Bong,
which at one time formed part of Throsby Park-
estate.
“DIED OF WOUNDS."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
oh, I can sec him in his pride,
Just as he looked that day,
With other lads that lined the side
Until they moved away.
My hearing’s bad, but oh ! those cheers
Are ringing- still in my old ears!
How full of life that big ship was!
They hung- on ropes and masts.
I watched until the end, because
Life's precious while it lasts.
Of course, like him, he tried to send
Me home with ‘'Don’t stay till the end!”
The end! It seems as if lie knew!
But 1 staved, all the same ;
And as the cheering fainter grew,
The west was like a flame.
I felt resigned (I don’t know why)
As he went out —went out to die!
Maybe I thought he would not die,
Or else my heart was broke ;
But I stood there till all the sky
Was streaked with steamer smoke.
1 did not go; somehow I knew
There was no more for me to do.
x.s.w.
SIGNALLER.


SPECIAL
Havelock
SMOKING MIXTURE
ip
P
fife
Vj.
Adds to the Cheer of a
Cosy Fireside
It’s Cool Not a bite in a tin.
It’s Fragrant —-a new, different, richer flavour.
And it’s Always Fresh, packed in 2oz.
airtight tins.
THREE STRENGTHS MILD, MEDIUM, FULL
IP
m
mm
m
m
m
vm
m
%
a
■
4
a
6225
LMN
400
PIPES
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
uss
£ V e f y
pipe Guaranty
; a
i§§
M.WM
LMMm«S
8»«tt


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUiS CO • Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag’ Line Excavators,
Sole Apenta WILLIAM ADAMS (Q, COMPANY LIMITED,
'Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tho Sun Newspaper, Ltd. (Sydney),
which bought the assets of the Australian
Newspaper Co. in March, 1910, for £25.000,
or £3132 less than they were then alleged to
be worth
Written To Re- Re-
l! *V(V L ° SS ' Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
inn.'.' £2,068 Nil £B5B
Premiums on shares . . . . £5773 5 984
Profit.
o’l2r Nil 2,042 1067 7,051
1913.. 3,<95 Nil 7,273 3,573
Premiums on shares . . . . 5503 9,076
1914. .13,411 94 p.c. = £BOOO 6,000 - 8,487
Premiums on new shares .. 6237 14 724
1915.. 12,836 8 p.c. = 8624 10,017 8^919
A few words, first, to reconcile the last line
with the printed accounts. Twelve months
ago the co. had 100.000 shares issued, on
Wil'i £83,598 was paid. Subsequently
e' . 1 ' dcw shares were issued at a premium
or £6237; and the paid capital is now
£lOB,l <4. The £6237, instead of being trans-
ferred to the formal Reserve Fund, in which
case it would have remained on the balance-
sheet indefinitely, was transferred to a plant
and machinery account, which is apparently
a depreciation fund. This isn’t the usual
practice; but that doesn’t matter. If the
plant is overvalued it might just as well be
written doivn—out of the year’s gross pro-
fits if the depreciation has occurred during
the year; out of reserves if it occurred pre-
viously. On the ground that there is no
evidence of any other provision for wear and
tear, this machinery fund is not reckoned
as a reserve in the foregoing table ; where-
fore any additions made to the fund can
only be shown in the table as written off.
The total of £10,017 indicated as having
thus disappeared is made up:—Share pre-
miums, £6237; charged against the year’s
revenue, £2000; dropped out of the contin-
gency fund without explanation, £l7BO.
The last amount was probablv not one
strictly written off at all; it was'more likely
a sum used to meet an unusual expense in
running the business.
If £2OOO was a fair provision for the
year’s wear and tear, and disregarding the
£l7BO just mentioned, the year’s profit was
£10,836. The average capital employed in
the business was about £95,000. The profit
therefore shows a return of just under 111
P.c.; and that’s good enough in view of (1)
the serious shrinkage in advertising revenue
through war and drought; (2) a good many
thousands have been locked up in buildings
uncompleted and unproductive; and (3) the
paper is still a young ’un. The co. had a
■<’“ of luck in picking up even such a poor
thing as the old Star for nothing at all.
It is usually the getting a start that costs
money in a newspaper—not the getting of
type and machines and ink. Thus the Sun.
which rose when the Star sank, began
where most others have to pay £lOO,OOO or
so to reach. How far it will go is now a
matter of management. With the best there
could be, profits are possible beside which
those so far shown are a mere appetiser.
The financial position is easy; besides a
mortgage of £16,000 —the same as the pre-
vious year—the co. owes £6492, and has
over £26.000 in stock and just under £25,000
in liquid and semi-liquid balances.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and
Co., druggists, etc. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Aug., 1907 ... £6,730 10p.c.= £6,000 £730 £4,596
Feb., 1908.. 6,198 10 „ „ 6,000 198 4,794
Aug., 1908.. 8,232 10 „ „ 6,000 2232 7,026
Feb., 1909.. 10,780 15 „ „ 9,000 1780 8,806
Aug., 1909.. 11,214 .15 „ „ 9,000 2214 11,020
Feb., 1910 .. 11,020 15 „ „ 9,000 2020 13,040
Aug., 1910.. 11,016 15 „ „ 9,000 2016 15,056
Feb., 1911.. 11,085 15 „ „ 9,000 2085 17,141
Aug., 1911 .. 11,988 15 „ „ 9,000 2988 20,129
Feb., 1912 .. 16,033 25 „ „ 15,000 1033 21,162
Aug., 1912 .. 14,634 20 „ „ 12,000 2634 23,796
Feb., 1913 .. 16,340 20 „ „ 12,000 4340 28,136
£30,000 of reserves transferred to capital
Aug., 1913.. 18,373 15 p.c. = 13.500 4873 3,009
Feb., 1914.. 20,601 15 „ „ 13,500 7101 10,110
Aug., 1914.. 17,540 15 „ „ 13,500 4040 14,150
Feb,, 1915.. 16,068 15 „ „ 13,500 2568 16,718
Two years ago shareholders put up another
£30,000, and they get 10 p.c. on that in
addition to the previous 20 p.c. dividend on
the old capital. The table shows that divs.
have been reduced from 20 to 15 p.c.; but
from the foregoing it will be seen that
there’s another way of looking at it. The
co. has been an amazing success. Amazing,
that is to say, from the point of view of
those who know what poor propositions
drug stores are. as a rule. The trouble in
09 cases out a hundred is that the turnover
isn’t big enough : there wouldn’t be colossal
profits if the takings were all profit. The
money-spinning Yankee long ago got tired
of running drug stores that are only drug
stores; he now mixes his stock—often it
includes such tilings as paint and wall-paper,
and always it includes soda and fruit drinks,
liven then it isn’t a millionaire’s line, and
it is far less of a millionaire’s line in Aus-
tralia. Washington Soul’s is a brilliant ex-
ception. But there were very special circum-
stances. The business, though one of the
oldest and best-known in the State, was
passed over to the present co. with no good-
will loading worth mentioning. What trifle
was paid for goodwill in 1902 was paid not
for goodwill of the business so much as for
patent rights, etc. Anyway, goodwill isn’t
mentioned in the eo.’s fourth half-yearly
accounts, and The Bulletin can’t go be-
yond that into this co.’s ancient history.
Besides the business which the co. got for
nothing, it had exceptional freehold premises
thrown at it for £35,000. Finally, it didn’t
try to be only a drug-store: if it didn’t sell
paints and wall-paper, it at any rate ran
soda fountains and sold all manner of fancy
goods.
The result is partly shown by the extra-
ordinary run of dividends set out above;
and this tells some more of the tale:—
Feb.,’os. Feb.,’ls.
Assets other than stock and plant £46,096 .€155,974
Liabilities 11,797 31,070
Surplus apart from stock . £34,299 £124,904
Meantime £30,000 of new capital has been
got in. So ive come to this. Assuming stock
and plant and fixtures are Avorth as much
now 7 as they were 10 years ago, then during
that period the profits in excess of the divi-
dends have been £60,600. There is no reason
to suppose that stock, etc., is ivorth less
than it used to be. Judging by the
enhanced profit one would rather expect
both the turnover and the stock to be
greater. Freehold premises, which were
£35,000 to start w’ith, have now reached
£125,438 on account of the purchase near
the G.P.O. and the building operations
thereon. Every penny in that fine invest-
ment has been provided either by the
£30,000 of new capital or surplus profit
earned during the past 10 years; and sur-
plus profit in this case means profit in excess
of divs. which have been as high as 25 p.c.
This paper doesn’t suggest that the next 10
years are going to be as fat. Local con-
ditions will govern the people’s expenditure,
and many of Washington Soul’s most pro-
fitable lines are not necessaries, to be bought
Avhether money is scarce or not.
* * * *
The Manufacturers’ Mutual Accident
Insurance Association, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Dissatisfied with the rates quoted by the
tariff offices for workmen’s compensation,
members of the N.S.W. Chamber of Manu-
factures formed this co-operative co.—an-
other instance of hoiv, though Private Enter-
prise may be a fine thing, it is only sure to
be a fine thing Avhcn it is your own Private
Enterprise. When it is the other fellow’s
it is likely to be extortion, as it was said to
be in this case. As far as it has gone this
co. certainly has the best of the argument.
The premiums at tariff rates have totalled
£6854. After paying claims and exes, there
remains £5414, which with £53 of interest
has been, or is to be, disposed of this way:—
Reserve against unexpired risks .. .. £1570
Contingency fund . . . . . . . . 1000
Preliminary exes, and furniture Avritten oft' 202
Bonus to policy-holders .. . . . . 2530
Dividend 10 p.c. p.a. .. . . . . 155
Vote to Chamber of Manufactures .. 10
Total £5467
The bonus or rebate to policy-holders
amounts to 37 p.c. of the premiums. Pro-
bably, however, this doesn’t mean that the
co. is doing the business for 37 p.c. less than
the policy-holders could get it done for else-
where. Most tariff-office premiums carry a
bonus on rent;Aval —lo p.c. usually. Further,
the tariff lias been reduced since this co.
started to operate; but this co. is entitled to
credit itself with that.
Unouestionably, the manufacturers ought
to be able to do this business cheaper for
themselves than by calling in a contractor
to do it for them. They don’t have to chase
themselves to give themselves their ow t u
business; hence, while a contracting office
can’t reckon on much less than 33’, p.c. for
exes., this co.’s Ayliole operating costs were
under 12 p.c. It is all a question, of course,
of management. Every co-operative concern
ought to be a success, just as it ought to pay
every time to do without a contractor. But
theory is liable to go to pot, because the very
excellent boilermaker tries to run a drapery
store, and his ignorance costs more than a
middleman-draper’s profits would come to. In
this case the manufacturers have apparently
handed the control over to experienced under-
Avriters; and that’s a good start. But though
they have every reason ‘ to expect success,
they are not entitled to expect the past year’s
success. Insurance, like wheat-growing or
wool-harvesting in Australia, is a business in
which one season’s bumper yield has to be
set against another season’s drought. Other
years may even be better than the past one.
The co. hasn’t had enough experience yet to
say what is normal.
* * * •
The East Greta Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
. . ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar., 07.. 6,666 5 p.c. = 3,750 2000 916 13,505
Sept., ’07..14,916 10 „ „ 7,500 7000 416 13,921
Mar., ’08..19,782 10 „ „ 7,500 6500 5,782 19,703
Sept., ’OB.-16,829 10 „ „ 7,500 2500 6,829 26.532
Mar., ’09.. 9,510 10 „ „ 7,500 2000 10 26,542
Sept., ’09.. 9,130 10 „ „ 7,500 1630 26,542
Loss.
Mar., ’lO.. 3,073 Nil 23 469
Profits.
Sept., ’10..26,263 15 p.c. = 11,250 4000 11,013 34,482
Mar ’11..12,665 15 „ „ 11,250 1,415 35,897
Sept., 11..12,281 10 „ „ 7,500 4,781 40,678
Mar., ’12.. 8,125 10 „ „ 7,500 3500 - 37,803
Sept., ’l2-15,290 10 „ „ 7,500 3050 4,740 42,543
Mar., ’l3-17,664 10 „ „ 7,500 3205 6,959 49,502
Sept., ’l3-18,084 10 „ ~ 7,500 3303 7,281 56 783
Transferred to capital, £18,750 .. 38,033
Mar., ’l4-16,032 10 p.c. = 9.207 3500 3,325 41 358
Sept., ’14.. 6,400 5 „ „ 4.997 3500 39,261
Loss.
Mar.. ’l5- 713 Nil 3500 35,048
Strikes are illegal in N. S. Wales, but the
futile Government is much too busy scheming
to help the city loafer and make things easy
for its OAvn supporters everyAvhere to attend
to a little thing like that. Hence a strike on
the afternoon-shift question, which began on
May 2<, 1914, threw this co.’s mines idle
until March 17, 1915. Further, as most of
its neighbors were also idle, there wasn’t a
great deal for the East Greta railway to do,
and the receipts from all sources were only
£33,549, as against £125,295 in the corres-
ponding half of the previous year. These
disturbances, of course, assist competing
coalfields in other countries, and moreover
help machinery owners to make up their
minds to use oil. This and the war Have be-
tween them reduced the Northern coal busi-
ness to tAvo meals a day; and there doesn’t
seem much hope of an early revival. Mean-
time this co., though its history has been full
of disappointments and its financial results
unexpectedly poor, has the satisfaction of
knowing that its debts are small, that its
assets include a railway which makes it
to a small extent independent of its
own coal output, that its mining property
has been Avritten dOAvn hard (in other Avords,
that there are assets apart from the actual
mines to represent the capital), and that
recent development of coal in the Stanford-
Merthyr, one of its three collieries, are very
satisfactory indeed.
* * * *
The Equitable Permanent Benefit
Building, Land and Savings Institution
(Sydney):—
Written Re-
Mareli. Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1903 ..£8,460 ]2 p.c. = £8,451 £2lO £28,058
1904 . . 8,900 9 „ „ 6,338 1053 29,033
1905 .. 9,086 9 „ ~ 6,338 30 32,351
1906 . . 9.545 12 .. ~ 8,451 077 32,768
1907 . . 9,875 9 „ „ 0,338 36,305
1908 . . 10,102 9 ~ ~ 6,338 518 39,551
1909 .. 9,933 12 „ ~ 8,451 455 40,578
1910 .. 10,741 9 „ ~ 6,338 760 44,221
1911 .. 11,835 9 ~ „ 6,338 100 49,618
1912 . . 12,805 15 „ „ 10,564 363 51,496
Premiums on new shares, £1942 .. 53,438
1913 .. 12,365 9 p.c. = 7,204 88 58,511
1914 .. 18,890 9 „ „ 8,401 80 08,920
1915 . . 15,108 15$ „ „ 14,395 25 69,608
There is a triennial division of surplus pro-
fits, though they don’t appear to be “sur-
plus” in one year more than another. The
result is that for nvo years, as o rule, the
co. piles up reserves fast and in the third
year it doesn’t pile up anything to speak of.
That it should be able to pay 15 p.c. out of
the profits of a single year slums that in
good times, when the people have money
to burn, there is still a lot in making loans
to property purchasers on time-payment
terms. With Commonwealth and State
Savings Banks and a department of the
latter specially set up to assist home-
builders, etc., it is astonishing that there
remains so much profit in the business.
Of course a co. like this doesn’t make the
money without taking some risk. Still it
doesn’t have _to take much. Its mortgages
represent £335,708 and its other assets are
£40,705; and of this total of £385,470
£221,000 is borrowed. That is to say, for
every £1 of its OAvn in the business (capital
and reserves) it has about £1 Bs. of other
people’s money. Considering that most
banks work on from three to nine times
more of other people’s money than their
own, the proportion is thus small, and the
risk corresponds—assuming, of course, that
reasonable precautions are taken in making
loans.
Given a fair margin to start with, a con-
cern of this sort, whose creditors are
expected to steadily reduce their liability by
instalments, really trades on a safer basis
than a bank. The trouble, generally, is that,
knoAving that tire debt and therefore the
risk will be quickly reduced if things go
right, building societies advance far too
much in the first place. Then something
happens suddenly and things don’t go right,
and the concern is left with a heap of ridicu-
lously overvalued property; for it is only
during a boom that most people borroAV and
buy. It doesn’t look as though this co. will
fall-in in that Avay. There is a slump in
property values, but it hasn’t been sudden.
Moreover, it could be seen coming. Hence
the Board says it has during the past year
been lending only on properties “shoAving
large margins of value and of a satisfactory
rent-producing character.” Compared with
the boom loans of the previous three years
the peg certainly seems to have been put in:
1907 .. £52,514 1912 .. £115,455
1908 . . 51,245 1913 . . 116,687
1909 . . 64,004 1914 . . 104,825
1910 . . 76,622 1915 . . 82,093
1911 . . 89,643
Just at present the co. has more money than
it knows what to do with, and has over
£30.000 liquid or in “temporary invest-
ments.” Plainly depositors are not shy; and
there is no reason in the Avorld why they
should be.
* * * *
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth (Wes-
tralia) :
Div idends and
Dividend Tax.
t
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
Sept.,’lo.. £17,350 £446 24 p.c. = £12,783 £1167 £217,133
Mar.,’ll.. 35,424 827 24,, „ 12,783 2972 235,975
Sept.,’ll.. 21,604 827 24 „ ~ 12,783 1037 242.932
Transferred to capital, £101,450 .. 141,482
Mar.,’l2.. 36,460 827 16 p.c. = 17,043 734 159,338
Sept.,’l2.. 18,326 827 16 ~ ~ 17,043 917 158,877
Mar.,’l3.. 38,114 988 16 „ ~ 17,043 416 178,544
Sept.,’l3.. 21,407 1576 16 „ „ 17,043 837 180,495
Mar.,’l4.. 40,718 1576 16 ~ ~ 17,043 6208 196,386
Sept.,’l4.. 22,973 1576 16 „ ~ 17,043 1162 199,578
Mar.,’ls.. 37,748 1500 16,, ~ 16,232 824 218,770
There are not many concerns in the West
that can lay their hands on their pocket-
book and say they have done as Avell as this
beer-factory in the past six months. Times
have been shockingly bad over there —so bad
that wholesale houses have been cutting
down salaries and staffs, and at least one
big softgoods firm has chopped off so many
departments that it has practically gone out
of business. But it takes more than a world-
shaking Avar and an acute local drought to
knock Beer out. Whether that is going to
do Beer any good in the long run is doubt-
ful. Beer is viewed with a sort of slumber-
ing suspicion by tens of thousands of people
Avho are not reckoned its enemies, but are
prepared to cut into its privileges whenever
they can do it without putting themselves
out; and, so far as these people are con-
cerned, the fact that men can find money to
spend on Beer AAdien they can’t find it to
spend on anything else is likely to put a
screw in Beer’s casket. Admittedly tilings
don’t look so gloomy for the Trade as they
did a couple of months ago. Then we were
standing open-eyed at the vote in S. Aus. —a
vote in which the six o’clock closing of pubs
scored an absolute majority. Subsequently
people began to consider what it meant, and
various municipal and other bodies have
begun to ask that their little bits of the
earth should lie allowed to keep wet till a
later hour. But. even though six o’clock
dosing for the whole State of S. Aus. may
not be enforced, something is going to be
whittled away from the Trade. And S.
Australia’s lead is almost certain to be fol-
lowed wherever there are as many women
as men on the electoral roll. Practically the
Trade never gets any new privileges. It is
very lucky if three years pass without some-
thing being lost. There is not the smallest
reason to believe that that tendency will
suffer an early change.
This co.. after a poor start, made an
amazing recovery in the early days of the
Coolgardie boom, and has put itself on a
foundation solid enough to take a German
siege gun. More or less liquid assets, after
providing for all liabilities, amount to
£09.866; and in addition there are these non-
liquid assets: —
Brewery lands and buildings at cost .. £84,18!)
Plant and machinery . . . . .. 06.0:17
Hotel property at cost, . . .. .. 207,19:')
Other properties at cost .. . . 790
£418,217
Plant and machinery cost upwards of
£150,000. These assets appear to be kept
always well written down. The other pro-
perties are not written down; but this is
defended on the ground of the very large
increase in the value of some of the earlier
purchases. All the same, the principle is
bad. You cannot get a true Profit and Loss
account until you charge against the busi-
ness the depreciation of the buildings em-
ployed. This is the point. The apprecia-
tion of land values took place in past years.
The depreciation of buildings is *stil 1 taking
place. Therefore the accounts, if they do
not charge the present depreciation, inflate
the present profits on the excuse that past
profits were not fully shown.
However, even if current depreciation of
brewery, pub and other buildings was fully
allowed for, there would be still a comfort-
able margin of profit after paying the divi-
dend —which is. by the way, a much fatter
dividend than it looks, since half of the
ordinary capital was issued as a bonus three
or four years ago. Every year, for a long
while past, there has been £20,000 or there-
abouts to lay by. But as for the future
The Bulletin doesn’t even pretend to know.
The cream of the gold may have gone ; nut
such discoveries as those made at the Gold-
finch and lately at Weston’s suggest that
the end has by no means come. No doubt
gold-mining will taper out, just as it has
done in the other States, and agriculture will
take its place. The change won’t do this
co. any good as a beer-brewing concern ; but
it will benefit as a big property-owner in
Perth. For Perth will grow whether the
wealth of the country is dug up by the
miner who takes his daily pot or is stripped
off by the farmer who often doesn’t see a pot
for a month at a time.
The Grand Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
1904.. £2061 Nil £2061 £27,191
1905.. 2018 Nil 2018 29,209
1906.. 3511 2f p.c. = £843 2668 31,877
1907.. 1323 Nil —• 1323 33,200
1908.. 3021 23 p.c. = 843 2178 35,378
1909.. 2044 23 „ ~ 843 1201 36,579
1910.. 2713 2f „ ~ 843 1870 38,449
1911.. 5597 3£ ~ „ 1124 £11,553 31,369
1912.. 4848 5 „ „ 1686 3162 34,531
1913.. 3211 5 „ „ 1686 10,613 25 443
1914.. 1116 2} „,, 843 2,305 23,411
Loss.
1915.. 2511 Nil 20,900
The Grand does not depend so much on
the barmaid and the beer-pump as on over-
sea and inter-State visitors. And oversea
visitors have been as scarce since last Aug-
ust as Kaisers will be when Germany has
been chained up. Nowadays the co. never
gives any hint as to its revenue. The onlv
mention this time is that it is £6BOO less
than it was for the previous year—when
the profit was the lowest for 10 years.
Add to the famine in visitors the big increase
in the cost of the morning chop, the all-
round increase in wages and the general
depression caused by the drought, and it is
no wonder the big residential pub is making
heavy weather. But however much the
revenue may slump the mortgagor comes
round for the interest on his big loan
(£52,000) regularly. In fact, the harder
times are and the scarcer visitors are, the
more interest, is the mortgagor likely to
demand. Which seems to whisper that the
sooner an attack is made on this plaster the
better—though no doubt that’s easier said
than done. For the past year it absorbed
£262S of interest. The co.’s assets consist
almost entirely of freehold (£92,801) and
furniture (£15.746). The other assets com-
pare with liabilities as follows:
1905. 1915.
Liabilities .. .. ..£65,921 £54,590
Assets (other than premises
and furniture) .. .. 865 965
£65,056 £53,925
lii 10 years—most of them prosperous years,
and some of them boom years—the co. has
improved its position by £11,131, and £2SIO
of that was new capital. Considering the
beggarly dividends that have been paid dur-
ing the period, it isn’t hilarious. The same
amount of money in mere beer-guzzleries
would certainly have produced five times
the profit. There is something wrong some-
where. Either the beer-guzzler gets too
little or the dweller in marble-hailed pubs
gets too much for his money. Or some of
both. Some of both most likely.


ĥ
The British
I
Electric & Manufacturing
C? Ltf,
WEST INO HOUSE TURBINES.
THE ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY OF WESTINGIIOUSE TURBINES MAKES IT
POSSIBLE TO BENEFIT CONTINUOUSLY BY THEIR EFFICIENCY 7 .
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA:
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
New Zealand Agents: TURNBULL & JONES, Wellington,. Auckland, Christchurch,
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: Dunedin.
STANDARD, WAYGOOD HERCULES Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., Ltd..
BOURNE.
M EL-
ELDER, SHENTON & CO., Eta., PERTH.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., Ltd., ADELAIDE.
WORKS, MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Kipling in one of his “Just So” stories tells that
the first woman hung a dried wild-liorse skin across
the opening of the cave, tail downwards, and she
said, “Wine your feet, dear, when you come in, and
now we’ll keep house.” All of which goes to show
that hide has always been useful ever since the
beginning of things. At the present day the most,
useful, most flawless leather belting you can buy is
“Pioneer,” made from flawless Australian ox hide,
it transmits the maximum of power at the minimum
of expense. Let's send you a trial length to-day.
Sold only by .1. 0. Ludowici & Son., Ltd., “Pioneer
Leather Works,” 117 York Street, Sydney. Inter-
State offices are:—Victoria: Geo. Russell, P’t’v Ltd.,
Flinders Street, Melbourne; South Australia: J.
Me Kell, T impson Street, Port Adelaide; Queensland:
Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane; West
Australia: Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth:
Broken Hill: Geo. G. Dempster, Argent Street.”
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart -
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours'
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.'*
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardingc
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Ilardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis king. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
• * * *
Extract from ( ojimeuciai, Wonr,n, London, loth
November, 1913: “Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited.—Most life offices have a certain
individuality of their own, or some special feature
which is impressed upon us whenever we look into
their affairs, and in the case of the Colonial Mutual
it would perhaps be correct to say that enterprise and
activity are the characteristics chiefly in evidence.”* | I
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is manufactured in Aus-
tralia. It is good to know that our finest pressure
pipe is of local production. Catalogue from The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., contractors to all
State Governments, 67 York Street, Sydney (head
office).*
* * -X- -X-
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlcreagh
Street, Sydney.*
The Port liembla works of the Electrolytic
Refining Company are freely buying ores containing
copper, silver, gold from all parts of the Common-
wealth. The Ore Purchase Department is at
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.*
“Robey’s” latest steam combination —Self-Con-
tained Superheated Compound Engine and Boiler
powers from 30 to 400 b.h.p. Not built to sell, built
to last. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Head Office, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
ve-arißoonto
\ c .£tn BGNCfOS.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital £250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid=up ... 82,500
ACENTS WANTED
branches in every State
Write for particular?
VY II CAVE. General Manager,
■263 Georere Street. Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Chatlis House, Sydney
Solomon Islands Development Co.,
formed in Sydney in 1908 to make planta-
tions and grow rubber, copra, bananas and
dividends : „ „
To Re-
March. Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
*1909 .. £847 Nil £B4 ‘
Profit. _
1910 .. 78 Nil £7B )69
Reserves.
1911 .. 1294 Nil 1294 525
1912 .. 1613 6 p.c.= £2OOB .If?
Premiums on new shares .. . 5993 6123
1913 .. 4506 71 p.c.= 3265 1241 7364
1914 .. 4871 10 „ „ 4889 7346
1915 .. 2308 Nil 2308 9654
A lot of people would be rich if they could
get enough people to make money for them.
That is what is the matter with this co. It
has everything but the people to make the
money for it. In 1911 it had 464 Solomon
boys at toil, and expected to have 600 the
next year. Instead, the year ended with
373, and since then things have got worse
and worse this way:—l9l3, 328; 1914,
309; 1915, unspecified, but something well
under 200. No doubt it is all very exasper-
ating. Here is a co. with 50,000 acres or
so to plant and after seven years no more
than 3620 acres are planted. Further, prac-
tically no new area is being planted now.
A few acres are being added for cocoanuts,
but actually the area under rubber has
shrunk from 210 acres in 1913 to 190 acres
now, and it is still shrinking. Luckily the
bad slump in labor didn’t occur in
earlier years, or the jungle, which has to
be fought all the time, might have beaten
the young palms. How things are going to
turn out later on nobody knows; but the
directors think they may be able to. tap the
ex-German Solomons and New Guinea for
labor supplies. They may; but one
can’t help remembering that they have
hitherto been dreadfully poor prophets so
far as labor-supply is concerned. Mean-
time, mainly no doubt because the co. can’t
get the labor, rubber-planting has stopped;
and the b.ottom has fallen. out of the
wretched market just when the few trees
the co. has are coming into bearing.
All the co.’s 1000 shares of £lOO each are
now issued, but only £61,410 is paid—642
to £65; 358 to £55. To make all equal £lO
is to be got in on the latter during the next
two or three months. That will leave the
co. very comfortable ; for on March 31 it
owed on all accounts only £3777, while
there was £4191 of produce on hand —copra,
probably, hung up waiting for freight. Be-
cause the co. can’t be dead-sure of getting
a satisfactory market this year, and because
it can be dead-sure of having to pay out
good money to keep open the plantations it
already has, it has passed a dividend • and
that is more easily justified than the dis-
tribution in the previous year of more than
the accounts showed the co. had then
earned.
The Re-Insurance Co. (Sydney) is setting
out to do the right thing, and throw its capi-
tal into the 1.0. A., which is under the same
management. It has merely been taking
some of the excess business of the 1.0. A.,
and the 1.0. A. with the extra capital can
keep that business itself. There were no
advantages flowing from the separation, but
there were extra costs. Re-Insurance share-
holders will get an equal number of -shares
in the 1.0. A. paid to 4s. 6d.
Broken Hill is improving. For 10 years
past it has only had to see the shadow of a
pretext for a row, and it has chased the
thing and hopefully started an argument.
The agreement with the cos., under which
the place has had a couple, of years of com-
parative quiet, is to expire on June 30.
Without making any fuss about it, the
A.M.A. has now agreed to work on under the
old terms during the progress of the war and
for six months afterwards.
The Torrington wolfram and bismuth
mine, into which B. H. Block 14 put a little
of its savings, still looks a stringer. Things
were kept going from April 1 to early in
August last year, and £6036 worth of metal
was recovered, including the estimated value
of concentrates still on hand, nine months
after the wretched affair was shut down. The
working account showed £1355 to the good ;
but office and other exes, have eaten that up,
and nothing was written off against deprecia-
tion. Of course reasons are found for con-
tinuing the search for better ore; but as a
proposition for a co. in 150,000 shares it is
an absurdity.
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) is on the divi-
dend list at last. It would have been there
nearly 12 months since if-things hadn’t been
upset last August. At that time there was
£5OOO in' hand, with 25 tons of black tin.
That habit of storing up metal was developed
during the 1913 boom, when black tin
soared to £147 10s., and Vegetable was
lucky enough to sell some of its con-
centrates at the price. Sales actually aver-
aged £l2O during that 12 months.
The Southern Cross battery, Ardlethan,
is shut down, having no custom ore to treat,
and the co. has none of its own. If the co.
could get a buyer for its plant it would no
doubt be very glad to close and go into
liquidation. The flotation in the first place
was little short of wicked, for the thing
never had a faint hope as a mining proposi-
tion. But the battery is the best on the field
and the water-catchment is good ; and if the
Mines Department could get the whole out-
fit for a trifle it might pay the Government
to take it over and run it on the same lines
as the Westralian batteries. With milling
available at 10s. a ton and a good extrac-
tion there’s a good deal of fossicking to be
done on the field.
White Crystal battery, Ardlethan, is one
of the jokes of N. S. Wales mining, and if the!
co. were not ruined already the rattletrap
would do it. Meantime right alongside the
shaft a bore is going down, and has 200 ft.
of water in it. This supply is valuable, but
unfortunately is not to be relied on. The
best opinion is that it is neither artesian
nor sub-artesian, but that the drill has gone
down in a fissure or lode channel, of which
there are many on the field. That is to say,
the intake is all local, and therefore small.
Still there may be a big lot of water to pump
out before the channel is drained.
Just over £25,000,000 in dividends have
now been paid by gold-mines in Westralia.
Of this sum Great Boulder has distributed
£4,547,425; Ivanhoe, £3,373,750; Golden
1 lorsehoe. £3,135,000; Oroya Links (includ-
ing the old Oroya Brown Hill), £2,218,116;
Great Fingall, £1,746,875; Lake View and
Star, £1.567.000; Boulder Perseverance,
£1,461.116; Kalgurli, £1,494700; Sons of
Gwalia, £1.021,737; Associated Northern,
£726,250; Associated, £716,217. Then follow
the leaders of the second flight in the follow-
ing order: Fenian, £250,000; Black Range,
£243,000; Westralia Mount Morgans,
£226,832 ; South Kalgurli, £200,363; Golden
Ridge, £140,000; Mararoa, £125,000;
Yuanmi, £122.750; Edna May. £98,555; Ida
TI., £89,299; Sand Queen. £88,500; and Bull-
finch, £77,375.
Ivanhoe (W.A.) remarks in its annual
report that there has been no change in the
conditions under which development in the
bottom levels has been conducted, the lode
being still in porphyry. It is proposed to
continue sinking flic shaft with all speed
and to put another borehole, this time at
3200 ft., to obtain further information as to
the probable dip of the porphyry and the
lode. Reserves are about the same as they
were in December, when approximately a
million tons of 375. 3d. ore were estimated
to be in sight. Exclusive of £lO,OOO put
aside for new hoisting plant and shaft head-
gear estimated to cost £30,000, the year’s
profit amounted to £108.391. Add the unap-
propriated balance of £14.612 and you get
a total credit of £123,003. Dividends and
taxes absorbed all but £14,591 of this. The
total outlay on buildings, plant and develop-
ment since the formation of the co. has
amounted to £977,975, of which all but
£54,295 has been provided out of revenue.
* -X- * *
A Yuanmi circular issued in London a
month ago confirms Stock Exchange reports
as to the improved position of the co.’s
Yuanmi property (W.A.). The No. 3 level
is said to have ore worth 435. over a length
of 111 ft. and width of 52 inches, and ore
reserves are stated to be more than keeping
pace with the mill. As a result of this
announcement and the publication of favor-
able accounts of the Burma mines, the
shares of the Lake View and Oroya Explor-
ation, which controls both, have had a bit
of a rise in Lvudon.
Kalgoorlie and Boulder Miners’ Union
emphatically denies a recent Departmental
report that 90 p.c. of the dust underground
had been suppressed. The improvement
effected is, it asserts, nothing like that, and
a communication saying so has been sent to
the Minister.
Westhead and party, who gave an option
to a Melbourne syndicate over the British
Flag, Laverton (W.A.), have extracted
3200 z. of gold from 601 b. of stone broken
in shaft-sinking. A parcel of 40 tons
obtained in the same way is dumped on the
surface and looks good for 4oz. per ton.
Another Melbourne crowd is busy at work
on the British Lion, late Cock of the North,
in the same district, and is breaking ore at
various points. With commendable caution
the manager of this show has recommended
the treatment of a test parcel of 500 tons
before spending any money on surface
trimmings.
* * -x- *
According to what was told shareholders
at the North Kalgurli meeting the Board
proposes to continue the tribute system,
as there is nothing showing to warrant the
co. having a go on its own account. Last
year 4475 tons out of 7144 tons broken and
raised by the tributors were too low grade
to yield royalty under the conditions of the
tribute agreements, and the little the co.
did collect was mostly on returns from a
relatively small tonnage of high-grade ore.
If the co. ever does resume work it will
probably be to sink below the 1000 ft. level,
where the Board, backed up by experts’
reports, has a notion that some good ore
may be found. Meantime cash resources
amounting to about £12.000 arc being held
on to.
Golden Ridge (W.A.) showed a working
profit of £4017 for the half-year ended
March, but depreciation and inspection exes,
of . optioned shows lopped £2947 off, leaving
a balance of £lO7O. Cash assets at March
31 totalled £23,451. The manager states
that only a small quantity of ore is left in
the mine, and as the co. is not likely to con-
tinue operations on its own account after
the end of this month, the property has been
thrown open to tributors. The Board’s in-
ability so far to find a suitable new property
is mentioned, and shareholders are assured
that if one cannot be obtained within a
reasonable time there will be a distribution of
assets.
Victor Lansell and McGowan, of Bendigo,
join in the cry of E. J. Hartley that the
mining industry of Victoria won’t stand the
wage rate wanted by the A.M.A. McGowan
represents a good many cos., most of them
on the call list; but he clings principally to
Clarence, which never did much more than
hang on to the skirts of South New Moon.
McGowan figures it out that it costs £7 to
win each ounce got in Victoria. Lansell’s
talk is about Williams United, whose profit
for 1 hree years wouldn’t be more -t
decent gift to the Bed Cross fund. Yet
there are dozens of horrid mining examples
in Bendigo and Ballarat a lot worse than
either Clarence or Williams United. At
last, in fact, the cruel truth is out that
mining in Victoria is in a very bad way.
The A.M.A. is therefore butt up against
secretary Little’s proposition that if mining
can’t stand bigger wages it had better give
up the ghost. No doubt it ought to in
scores of cases ; but is the A.M.A. prepared
to be heroic and take the consequences?
* * -x- *
Fire and poor dirt in the Helvetia forma-
tion brought William Tell, Daylesford, up
with a round turn. Nothing better than
road metal is now showing in Nos. 4 and
5 levels, so the management wants the State
to help it to sink 200 ft. to test the two
formations there. Whether Drysdale Brown
gives consent will depend on his liver and
the report of. Herman, Government geolo-
gist. Generally, deep sinking at Daylesford
has resulted in mullocky stuff being opened
up; but as William Tell is on a side line
and works in newish country it may reverse
experience.
Beaufort Deep Leads (Vic.) is convincing
itself and Beaufort that it has a mine. To
help to that conclusion it has shed off a
block of its lease for £750, and then gravely
notifies that this money will considerably
relieve shareholders’ liability. Seeing that
it only saves a cal i, directors must be feeling
the high price of living in their palatial
’ernes. D. 11. Browne now waves his rod
over the show and does it a lot more happily
than when he was beating up things at Cath-
cart Central. So far lie has put three rise*
into the gutter covering a length of 500 ft.,
and he grades prospects in the drives from
payable to fair. The latter phrase in allu-
vial mining means that a bit of luck is
needed to make the wash earn a crust. . A
surprise may come in the tributary, in which
prospecting drives have yielded up to 35dwt.
This bit of a sweetener and the decent
ground off No. 4 rise put some color into
the old drab picture.
Mount Lyell smelter in the most recent
return was asking for only 42 tons of crude
ore to run out a ton of copper, so with elec-
trolytic quoted at £B6 the gross value is
easily over 40s. per ton of crudes for copper
alone. In four weeks 29,063 tons were
smelted for 702 tons copper, 35,2530 z. silver,
and 810 oz. gold. The war is on and costs
may rise; but even if all the silver-gold value
is taken to pay for these extras, there would
still be gross profit of from 15s. to 20s. per
ton of ore. Harvest prospects have also
improved, so Lyell will do well out of its
superphosphate trade, which is considerable.
* * * *
Lode Hills flicker again. Stage whispers
give the. reason that Lewis, of the Anchor,
is to inspect and advise.
* * * *
Larut, one of the Sydney-owned Malay tin
propositions, has thus far no organisation
in Malaysia; and to get the hang of things
before the dredge now under construction is
shipped, Malcolm Newman, the co.’s techni-
cal adviser, left for the property last week.
Pratten, one of the directors, will follow.
Presumably while he is there Newman will
do some check-boring, and also satisfy him-
self that the design of the dredge is right
for the particular ground it has to shift.
* * * *
S.A. Oil Well Co.’s bore at Robe waits for
more casing. When stopped the other day
it was down 900 ft. or so, the last 17ft. in
heavy shale. The Ocean Oil Co.’s well at
Kingston has shown thick oil scums on the
water flowing from the drill hole; and as
this flow is a million gallons a day, the scum
had to be considerable to get any notice.
v- -X- -X- *
“R. 8.”: One of Dr. Wade’s reasons for
faintly- damning the chances of oil in the
south-east of S. Aus. was the presence of a
few granite boulders near the beach 12 miles
north of Kingston. It has plainly been shown
that this granite is intrusive, but even if it
weren’t granite is not such a terrible thing
as Wade would have us believe. The Iveru
Riverfield (Cal.) is but two miles off granite,
and its production is 250 million barrels.
The Golden Horseshoe, formerly Mount
Gossan, Oberon (N.S.W.), is crosscutting
for the reef at 90ft., but so far hasn’t got
anything material. Hopes are entertained
by the management, and probably also by
the Victorian crowd who are footing the
bill, that more driving will disclose some-
thing decent, but many people have enter-
tained those hopes about Mount Gossan be-
fore, and have watched them die of blight-
Its gold is of the class that looks good in
the dish and bad in an assay, and when
captured in the battery is largely silver.
The old Queenslander, Sofa la (N.S.-W.).
is to be again re-opened and have a 10-head
battery. This property has made more than
one start, but the biggest so far has been
the one its owners got when the value
of the clean-up was revealed. Still, it is
again said to be payable; if so, it will be
very welcome to a secluded ha inlet which is
not what it was when it was the centre of
the Turon diggings. Several good men have
looked at the Queenslander and reckoned it
worth leaving alone; but there is always
room for a wrong opinion.


G aid* forum I*** 4l *
sis
HEERINGd
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. JBlB.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
The elegantly appointed “verandah cafe” is now
closed in and heated for the winter months, and
diners are assured of every comfort as well as
perfect service and delightful cuisine.
Having engaged the services of a chef who was 17
years at the Vienna Caf6, Melbourne—we are
supplying special luncheons, dinners and after-
noon teas , superior to any Hotel in the Common-
wealth.
The Wentworth Orchestra is in attendance every even-
ing, and on all special occasions.
Reservations for supper should be received not later
than 8 p.m.
Telephone: City 1203. 1583.
COGNAC BRANDY
OTARD
15 YEARS OLD
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 31, 1915.
My Dear A rim.—
G.-G. Ferguson is keenly interested in
the Soldiers’ Club, which he opens on
King’s Birthday. This new rest-house for
the boys in khaki gives them suitable lounge
and refreshment rooms when they’re on
leave from the training camp.
In view of the toll of the Dardanelles, the
big Red Cross rally in the Town Hall
throbbed with enthusiasm. Governor Strick-
land took the chair, and had to call to order
I talkative veteran in the body of the hall.
This ancient made several efforts to address
the meeting at great length, while adjacent
Woman, content to be herself dumb for once,
tried to hush his loquacity.
Premier Holman having scattered some
promiscuous eloquence, Hugh Ward, who
leaves for ’Frisco this week, unbound a sheaf
of suggestions with regard to “Australia
Day,” a colossal effort, culminating on July
30, to gather in £200,000 from N. S. Wales.
But the applause which greeted most of Mr.
Ward’s suggestions fainted away when he
broke the news that he had asked a N’York
theatre to contribute to Australia Day funds.
This country, which has done something for
everyone else, isn’t looking across the sea
for help when Tommy Kangaroo limps home
in bandages. Mayor Richards called on the
smaller proprietary race clubs to follow the
patriotic lead of the A.J.C. ; and Minister
for Railways Hoyle made a rousing speech—
the sort that always ought to be made before
the collection plate goes round.
But nobody told what tens of thousands
want to know —just what the Red Cross
Society is and where its job begins
and ends. Everybody of course knows
in a vague sort of way that it has
something to do with the wounded. But
the nation doesn’t leave its wounded
quite to the mercies of Charity, which is
always spasmodic and not always tender.
So both Army and Navy have Medical De-
partments of their own—-matter-of-fact
branches of the regular service which supply,
as it were, the ba re bones of relief. The
purpose of the Red Cross Society is to put
flesh on them: to give “additional comforts
and such general help as may be considered
beyond the reasonable scope of the Medical
Departments.” And there’s really no end to
those additional comforts. They run from
hospital ships and trains to crutches and
small-tooth combs, and sweep in auxiliary
hospitals, convalescent homes, cardigan
jackets, pyjamas, socks, beef-extracts, calves’
foot jelly and a pipe o’ bacca. In peace-
time the Rod Cross is quite independent of
the War Office. But when the gong sounds
the society comes under the wing of Army
and Navy, and acts under the general con-
trol of their Medical Departments.
Melba has been laid up with a heavy
cold. The Voice, though muffled in blankets
as I write, expects to be on active ser-
vice again on June 3 —the date of the
Polish Relief Concert.
Governor Strickland goes to Newcastle in
the middle of this week to see the Governor-
General open the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
steel works —a business that thrills the local
Excellency far more than an evening with
Beethoven.
The highbrows of the Y.AV.C.A. drink tea
under the sub-regal roof this week.
Tasmania’s Governor Macartney and his
wife put in a day or two at Camden Park
before leaving N. S. Wales. Miss Maear-
thur Onslow, who was on the wing to Eng-
land when the war cracked Europe, is the
lady of the dairy manor-house.
Wilfred Smith, recently killed in action,
was known here as private secretary to
Beauchamp. Poor Smith was the green
hand held responsible for goading the equally
inexperienced young Governor on to the
famous seidlitz-powder ball. The blue and
white tickets, as the pure merinos remarked
with fury, didn’t even sort the sheen and
goats with approximate justice. Svdnev
never quite forgave the admirable Beauchamp
for that amateur bit of social drafting.
Aide Fane, who is slowly getting back his
health after his interview with the enemv
in France, is here with G.-G. Ferguson.
Mrs. Fane, who makes her first appearance
in Sydney, is staying in Maeleay-street with
Melba. Help Foxton, a useful emergency
man since the plumed warriors of the staff
have dashed off, also stands behind the Chief-
tain’s chair.
Captain Pasco. R.N., now dangling round
the steps of N.S.W. sub-royalty, was in the
survey branch of the Admiralty. His
specialty was to plumb the deep—a peaceful
trade not much followed since Wilhelm ran
amok. So the very senior Pasco has to sit
back in a shore billet, in spite of his wish to
get into the firing line.
Belgian Consul Watteeuw is quite satis-
fied that our good Australian money is going
to the right spot in his bruised country.
But, though he has official assurance of it,
he wishes he could get that or some other
word from his mother. She was in Brus-
sels when the enemy jumped on its beauty,
and hasn’t been able to send a line this way
for months. A brother, too, is silent —he
was taken prisoner in the first wild rush of
the Hoggenheimer. There is a younger
Watteeuw; but he is training in France to
do his bit for Belgium.
One of astute old Leopold’s last acts was
to sign his name to a decree insisting on one
son in each family doing his turn at soldier-
ing. Heroic Albert in 1913 had this altered
—in the light of a warning—to universal ser-
vice. “But,” says Consul Watteeuw, “what
will you? Those compulsorily trained since
then are much like your own —mere youths.
They would have made a fine army in a
few years; but, if I may say so, the blow
was struck at us, as it was at England,
before we were prepared to meet it.”
Captain Kingsmill, who used to be out
here in charge of the old Mildura, was
later on in command of the Majestic, which
has just been torpedoed. Kingsmill took
the battleship to France some years ago
when the British Admiralty and the Entente
Cordiale were having a great time together.
Australians lost sight of the breezy tar when
he was named Admiral of the Canadian
fleet that didn’t materialise. A Sydney
relative is Mrs. Jim Moir, of Neutral Bay.
The wealthy Mrs. Willie Smith, who often
tripped this way from Melbourne, is now in
Paris. She is renting a huge house there,
and is mothering instalments of convales-
cents from the Front. As the guests of
the AVidow Smith, some of our boys are
making a swift recovery.
Dr. Leslie Dunlop, the youthful superin-
tendent of Sydney Hospital who went to
I he Big Fight, is bandaging behind the firing
line which has the Fez as its objective.
Brother Albert leaves with the next expe-
dition on a similar errand. These tall,
strapping young men are sons of the
Queensland doctor who recently built a nest
on the crags of Wollstonecraft.
Bruce Smith, M.11.R., who fell into a
good deal of money a while ago, puts in his
spare time pottering round among bricks
and mortar at Bowral. The distaff side of
the Smith house is as keen as father about
life amongst the dandelions. So they camp
near the chalet that is building, that they
may frequently look over the 15 acres of
Promised Land around it.
Dr. Marshall, who is the Scotchbyterian
bishop of Melbourne, recently passed this
way with his missus. They left for the
Solomon and Shortland Islands on a five
weeks’ holiday tour. Son Norman, who was
a great sport and Society beau in Melbourne,
has just got his commission in the Dardan-
elles racket. He refused the junior officer’s
job before leaving, on the grounds that he
didn’t know enough of the practical side of
soldiering and preferred to enlist. Amongst
the seven surviving sons of Dr. Marshall is
a parson who is just back from Scotland.
While in the land of scones, he had the call
to preach in father’s old parish of Callander.
Flower Day was a mild raid on the pedes-
trian as compared with the wholesale piracy
on behalf of the Belgian. But the button-
hole brigade ought to add about £l2OO to our
own Red Cross funds. After trying to help
everyone else, Australia is now going to do
a bit for the men who scaled the cliffs of
Gallipoli in the face of Death. Flower
Day, of course, is merely a preliminary can-
tor. AVattle, which is early in bloom this
year, was a gorgeous feature of the
kiosks, and the plentiful autumn rose tore
the fingers of the Town Hall depot ladies
who tied it up from morn till eve.
The Twilight House was opened by Dr.
Alaekellar the other afternoon. Designed
t-> shelter, at a minimum of cost, elderly
educated women who are falling out of the
workers’ ranks by l’eason of age, the con-
tributions of the inmates or their friends
will have to be fortified by private gifts.
The house, a handsome building just com-
pleted, stands on a wooded hill, and has an
exquisite peep of Middle Harbor. Exile
doesn’t threaten the 24 old ladies who are
lucky enough to have been nominated as
occupants of the airy, well-furnished rooms.
The Spit tram is only a few minutes’ walk
from their retreat. The argument that it’s
fin uphill climb, if the residents get tired
of each other’s favorite stories of the past,
may be dismissed. A breezy hillside makes
a pleasanter pilgrimage than three or four
flights of dingy stairs leading to a top back
room in a cheap part of the city.
Mrs. Macartlmr Onslow, prominent in
pushing the Twilight House into its present,
successful shape, hurled the names of sub-
scribers over the rail of a high verandah
50 feet by 10. Mrs. Finn—who was pre-
sent with her General—-had furnished two
or three rooms in the hostel. Mrs. Gordon
Wesche and Mrs. Arthur Allen had each
organised an entertainment for the cause;
they, too, inspected the premises on opening
day. Hon. sec. Innes-Noad, a bland, healthy-
looking gentleman, put his head over the
verandah-rail ta pass on glad tidings of
cheques, past, present and (let’s hope) to
come.
Melba had about £2600 in hand before
the Polish concert plan was opened at
Paling’s. In the getting of it, the bare
patch on top of director Marieh’s head had
a few hard cracks. As an auctioneer out
for big returns, the songstress wielded the
little hammer with enthusiasm on the plat-
form of Paling’s concert hall. John Lem-
mone as a watchdog to identify the bidders,
and J. E. Brownlow, armed with a pencil
to take down their names, hovered round
the crowded room. But whenever the aue-
tioneeress got excited, she warmly knocked
down the seats and the hammer on the
adjacent head of Marich. George Earp.
M.L.C., gave £25 for two seats, and handed
them back to be re-sold. , The Willie
Coopers parted with 30 guineas for half a
dozen seats. George Armstrong gave 10
more for the Earp returns. Neville May-
man, a bidder who modestly gave his name
as Jones, and Adrian Knox were amongst
the first to bring the hammer down on satis-
factory offers.
Artist Bertha Merfield, over here from
Melbourne, is showing her decorative work
in Anthony Horderns’ gallery. Originally a
pupil of Phillips Fox, she has studied since
in Paris and London.
Gerald, one of the Garvau family of
poloists, is now attached to an English
regiment in training.
Miss Ivy Maclntyre, private secretary to
Swedish Consul Goes, recently said “I will”
to C. B. MacFarlane, who adds up millions
in a local bank. But a little thing like
that isn’t going to interfere with her duties
in the Consulate.
The Anderson Stuart dame presides over
a preliminary meeting of doctors’ wives this
week. The notion is that Mrs. Stethoscope
shall organise herself into a committee, with
elastic sides, to make the best use of her
efforts on Australia Day.
The ball in aid of the Woolloomooloo Day
Nursery occurs at the Salon de Luxe on June
22. The war, by disturbing the shipping
trade, has hit Woolloomooloo harder than
any other suburb ; and the nursery’s appeal
for food for its daily average of 35 toddlers
is therefore rather more urgent than usual.
J. 11. C. Stuart, formerly general man-
ager here for the Dutch Packet Co., sends a
few woi’ds from Holland. The Scotch half
of Stuart goaded him into giving up a good
billet to go and offer his arm to Belgium
early in the war. In Java, where the Dutch
population does not let sentiment run away
with them, the resignation of Stuart of Am-
sterdam caused an explosion. And evidently
there was some sort of an explosion also in
neutral Holland; for the plucky little Dutch-
man has been kept drilling in his native land
thus far. Judging, however, by his photo
in khaki, and the fact that he hoped to go
to Russia when he closed his epistle, the
personal oninions of Stuart are not of the
same neutral complexion as the Dutch Gov-
ernment’s.
Linden Brown, an athletic specimen of
Australian manhood, left in the Moldavia for
England to offer his services in any capacity
to the War Office. He is a younger son
of the medical family of Brown of pictur-
esque old Parramatta. Nephew Keith has
gone to the same address with his lancet.
Captain Cook’s best portrait is said to be
in Greenwich Hospital. A copy of it. by
Phillips Fox, is housed in Melbourne Gallery.
Another picture of the famous navigator’s
visage, by the late Nat Dance, R.A., was to
have been sold at Christie’s on April 25 for
the benefit of the British Red Cross. Aus-
tralians in London have suggested that this
picture—one of the only five genuine portraits
of Cook —should be bought for the Common-
wealth.
Miss Isabelle Ramsay, now on leave from
the Sun office, drops in from ’Frisco. She
says it’s “some city.” The cabarets and
dance halls seem to be open all night, and
they “rag,” more or less, from to-day’s lunch
till" it’s time for to-morrow’s breakfast.
They are all at it—the young, middle-aged
and decrepit. The women, according to the
Sydney girl, are very smart —too smart at
times. They wear their day skirts so short
that they barely reach the tops of their high
boots, and evening finery is a cut above even
that. The sleeveless gown is their pet vogue
just now, and there is no waste of material
in the suggestion of a corsage.
The Ladies’ Town Planning Association
has gone up in fury and feathers. Last
week there was a convention called by notice
which said that Mrs. W. A. Holman would
preside, and set out a particular motion for
a mighty concentration of thought. Over
this motion the camp was divided, and those
opposed to it manoeuvred president Sulman,
of the fee-planners, into the chair. When
Mrs. William Holman arrived presently and
saw -the unsuspecting old gentleman perched
on her throne, the mercury fell through the
bottom of things. The storm broke over a
point of order. “I resign my presidency of
this association,” said Mrs. 11., in a tone
reminiscent of an icicle falling on a tomb-
stone at dawn. Before the astonished Sul-
man could get his wind he was frozen some
more by another lady who said, “I resign
the vice-presidency,” and followed Mrs. Hol-
man’s procession to the door. The chief-
tailless of a suburban branch was the next
to go, and then it rained resignations anu
sniffs, and shrewd, sharp-elbowed nudgings
and whispered articulations that sounded
like “Cats!” Almost all that was left in the
end was an inoffensive and bewildered old
gentleman in urgent need of an ambulance
or a brandy and soda.
The general public opened on Sunday
the new railway station at Milson’s I piot-
The landing jetty on the Lavender Bay
side is a cross between a glass house and a
monkey cage. Passing through this heavily
wire-netted receptacle, the crowd wearily
climbs almost interminabLg steps.. AccusV
toined to the old “hurry on’Cpry, it arrives
breathless on the summit, and. begins the
descent to the platform. Why it should be
necessary to mount so many steps, appar-
ently for the purpose of
as many, is beyond woman’s ken. To old
folks and very small children the new
arrangements add a fresh terror to resi-
dence oil the North Sydney side.
The general secretary of the Red Cross in
France sends his grateful thanks to the
people of Sydney for the support they gave
to Mrs. Charvin’s October concert in the
Town Hall. This big financial success is
likely to be repeated. The same brilliant
pianist, who was Yvonne Leverrier before
marriage, intends to press the patriotic but-
ton again. The effort (as yet the date is
not definitely nailed down) will be. for our
own wounded soldiers from Gallipoli.
In Graham Moffat’s “Scrape o’ the Pen.”
fhe mid-Victorian bustle —made of the
Family Herald —looms largest in the first
scene. Here the farm’s handmaiden, Beenie,
obligingly lets the audience into the secrets
of her wardrobe, and adjusts the paper
hump under a withering cross-fire from her
own sex. Otherwise the fashions, of that
day, in the diluted form in which they
reached the Scottish farm-house, do not pro-
vide the comic relief that the pork-pie hats
did in “Bunty.” In fact, the frocking in
“A Scrape o’ the Pen” isn’t more than a
milestone distant from this winter’s modes.
We are travelling back to the style.s wherein
tlie feminine form was laid out in flower-
bed designs edged with flat flounces. Even
Mrs. Moffat, as handsome old Leezie Inglis,
is almost 1915 in her dark tartan dress with
slabs of black velvet. And that's why the
bustle sounds the chief note of alarm in the
humorous dialogue.
Since Italy stepped into the scrimmage
there has been a flutter amongst Australian
songsters in Milan. J. I). Fitzgerald’s only
daughter returns this way with her mother
in the Orontes, leaving Naples in June.
The girl has made some notable student
successes in grand opera in \ olterra a
musical town in Northern Italy. The war
is also likely to shake up the vocal studies
of Headley, Cecil Sherwood, the Redwoods
and the Maoriland Prowses, who were still
running up and down their scales in Milan
when last heard of.
Artist Arthur Streeton, once more in his
old camp in St. John’s Wood, has over
3000 golden reasons for being pleased with
his recent trip to Australia. But for the
war he expected to have added another
£lOOO to the handsome total of his sales.
He is now shouldering arms in the Hamp-
stead Volunteer < ’orps.
Dr. Jenner, formerly of Leichhardt, who
went to England with his family early in
1914, is now honorary medical -officer in the
East! London Hospital for youngsters. It
was a “sporting” thing of fhe doctor to take
this job, for he had intended to retire from
the stethoscope business on account of ill-
health. London East, he reports, was less
hungry than it might have been during the
recent winter, thanks to the Sydney Cham-
ber of Commerce food fund. Some of the
money went to feed the destitute youngsters
in the Sydney man’s hospital —the outdoor
casualties, of course.
Joyce Brown, a youthful fiddler from the
Apple Isle, has been drawing her bow in the
old Pump Room, Bath, at Saturday concerts.
Considerable applause greeted the girl's
attack on the big Paganini Concerto.
Farmer’s have given the use of their tea-
room and roof-garden for the bridge party in
aid of the Red Cross funds. Melba has
been helping to shape this appeal to our
Best People. At half a crown a head
plain citizens can rub shoulders with our old
nobility, who will pay an extra shilling
apiece to sit at bridge from 2.30 p.m. till
dusk on Friday, June 4. The Cullen lady
and a committee which is after your last
threepence are in charge of the show.
The Babies’ Kit Society, which sends
monthly consignments of garments to Bel-
gian babes who are otherwise dressed in old
newspapers, has moved to the Union S.S.
Co.’s offices.
Florence Rod way is working, to Melba’s
order, at a pastel portrait of the warbler's
daughter-in-law, Mrs. George Armstrong.
The military coats, which have high col-
lars at the rear, are distinctly burying to the
short and plump. The stiff cloth roll behind
catches the back of the hat, and is warmly
recommended only to ladies ivho are built like
giraffes. The multitude of kilts also tends
to the undoing of any woman who is so dead
to Fashion as to own a pair of hips. In the
tailor-made no male designer can beat his
original notion of severely plain lines. Still,
we cannot take our walks abroad to-day
without meeting five foot nothing with quite
three terraces of pleats around her person.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


THE RUDGE-MDLTI
rStands the Test of Efficiency^
V'\ '
See the
Latest 1915
Models.
The British and Allied Governments have clearly expressed their beliel
in the efficiency of the Rudge Motor-Cycles for Military Work.
In addition to the large war orders for Rudge Machines placed by the
British Government, a big contract was received from Russia for 400
Rudge-Multis.
The whole shipment was completed within 18 days of signing the contract.
The Commonwealth Government has just
placed an Order with us for a Number
of RUDGE-MULTIS for Military Work .
Convincing proof of the efficiency of the Rudge under the most difficult
conditions continues to come forward from the despatch riders at the
Front.
We are now showing the latest 1915
Models of the Rudge-Multis in our
Showrooms, and invite your inspec-
tion. Catalogs free on request.
I I
O 0
06' CO
00 oO
C»|
o o
as as
a
03
VO
LO
ex,
rH|©»
*0
CASH F. 0.8. SYDNEY.
THE RUDGE WAR RECORD.
Write for a copy of the “Rudge War Record.” It is full of
interesting reading, and we post it free on application.
BENNETT 8 BARKELL Ltd.
“THE HOUSE FOR BRITISH GOODS”
Agents for Rudge=Whitworth, New Hudson, Triumph and Bat Motor Cycles,
J. A.P. Engines; and Manufacturers of B. & B. Cycles & Motor Cycles,
124=132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
THE LEADING HOUSE IN THE COMMONWEALTH FOR
HIGH-GRADE WEDDING PRESENTS
6 "Chippendale” Pattern Soup Spoons in Case,
in the Best Quality Silver Plate - £l/15/-
“Old English” Pattern - £l6/-
Old English” Pattern
HARDY BROS. LTD. INVITE AN INSPECTION OF THEIR EXTEN-
SIVE STOCK OF SOLID SILVER AND SILVER-PLATED GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR WEDDING AND COMPLIMENTARY PRESENTS,
SELECTIONS OF WHICH CAN BE FORWARDED ON APPROVAL.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE ON REQUEST.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
LONDON AGENCY: 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET W.
Prices
from 14/6
You are Under No
Obligation for Fitting
if you have a “CROWLEY DRESS MODEL” standing ready.
Your sisters and friends are not wearied by repeated “tryons”
when you can slip your frock on one of the famous
“CROWLEY DRESS MODELS.” A simple and reliable
friend to the home dressmaker. Saves enough in material to
pay for itself in a very short time.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, OR RING
CITY 7918 FOR PARTICULARS.
C. CROWLEY & SONS,
5 Q. V. Markets, George Street, SYDNEY.
And at
148 King Street, NEWCASTLE.
u
h
“TEACH THEM TO SHOOT”
with Remington-UMC .22 Calibre Cartridges
These little cartridges—. 22 short, long or long rifle —have an
unrivalled reputation for accurate shooting and are used by the
leading small bore experts the world over.
All three sizes may be used in a .22 Remington Repeater without
mechanical adjustment. Ask your dealer to show you a Remington
Repeater and [i insist always on the Red Ball Brand of cartridges.
The genuine are stamped with a “U” on the cartridge head.
We shall be pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When writing, send us the name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
VSMTISSf
wR^V
XookforTKis’U:
on.
Hour
ĥ
The Biggest Selling RECORDS of the Day
ħ
h
10-inch
Double-sided
2-
New Zealand
2/6
ENORMOUS SUCCESS OF No. 7 SUPPLEMENT
NOW ON SALE AT ALL UP=TO=DATE DEALERS.
King’s Military Band —
I Thunderer March
( Shoulder Arms March
/ Royal Italian March
06 ' J 1 Garibaldi Hymn—March
rraor J Land of the Maple—March
° \ Medley of Canadian Airs
Aecordeon Solos by Pietro Deiro—
/ Blaze Away March
06,70 t Tranquilla Waltz
Duets by John Adams and Harrison
Latimer —
rr ~~. j Watchman. What of the Night?
‘ 1 Love and War
Collins and Harlan, Comedians —
/"Me and Mandy Lee
G(!778 ■: When They Christened Brother
t Johnson’s Child— Regal Qtte.
Sidney' Eden, Tenor—
{Old Jim’s Christmas Hymn—
with Quartette.
The Miner’s Dream of Home —
with Quartette.
) Make Me the King of Your Heart
06,70 I Wonderful Rose of Love.
William Halley, Baritone—
I Sit Down, You're Rocking the
f Boat
1680 j Stop Thief! (You Stole My
\ Heart Away)
Billy Watkins, Tenor—
fWho Paid the Rent for Mrs. Rip
Van Winkle?
GC?Bl<. You’re Here and I’m Here—Duet
I by Stanley Kirkby and Maie
v Courtney
Stanley Kirkby, Baritone—
' That Was the End of My Dream
t i’ll Make You Want Me
You’ve Got Me and I’ve Got You
* I When the Angelas is Kinging
I Here We Are Again !
(><>B2o-[ The Flag That Never Comes
l Down—Harrison Latimer
f We’re All Plain Civilians
G 6822 { The Red. White and Blue —
I. Harrison Latimer
Harrison Latimer, Baritone—
f Are We Downhearted? —No!
06817 [ Bravo Territorials! (While Jack
1 is Busy on the Sea)
f Cheer, Boys, Cheer
G 6821 < Fall In and Follow Me (War
l Version)
| When an Irishman Goes Fight-
( .6Bi3 ) Takes an Irish Heart to Sing
l an Irish Song
Regal Orchestra —
l Popular Patriotic Songs—-Part 1
06818 1 Part 2
Descriptive—
Christmhs in Camp with Kitch-
-06819 ( ener’s Boys—ln Two Parts
„„ Q „. ) Bugle Calls of the British Army.
° 6B ~ * 1 In 2 Parts (with Printed Words)
Billy Williams, Comedian —
( There’s Life in the Old Dog Yet
G 6783 -J I’ll Have to Ask My Mother if
l She’ll Let Me
Miss Doris Dean, Soprano-
r „»„J Never Mind
,i6(,)8 ( j iove as y ou used t 0 Love Me
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd.. Daldng House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Hinsdale’s Proprietary, i,td., 'if!!) Swanston Street.
BRISBANE, Q. —King; and King, Etd., Queen Street.
ADEEAIDE, S.A.—W. Cornell and Sons, Pirie Street.
PERTH, \V.A.—H. R. Eirth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—A. 11, Nathan and Co., Ltd., Customs Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—VVebley Sons and Cotton, Ltd., 243 High Street
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garrett.
Regal Records—British-made


Fitted Dressing Cases
FOR TRAVELLING OR HOME USE.
FR3I. Farmer’s Fitted Dressing Cases are
practical, 'handsome in appearance and appeal to
nyn of critical taste.
When in use, hangs up as illustrated, but when
folded, goes into a space of 74x4x4 inches, a
very convenient size for travelling. It is made
of solid leather, and fitted with superior quality
fittings, comprising two Hair Brushes, Comb,
Bevelled Mirror, Razor and Strop, Shaving Brush
and Soap Case. Price Complete, 21/-
WE PAY THE CARRIAGE.
Farmer’®, Sydney,
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
r ®
•K
PAULINE et CIE
are showing their Exclusive Millinery Models,
Motor Hats, etc., at their Showroom, 3rd Floor,
DENISON HOUSE, GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Also at
THE CENTREWAY, COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Or
i I. *
v;v\\"
A j j
New Delicacies
FOR
Afternoon Tea
“ CRISS-CROSS ” “ KIDDIES ”
“ORANGE SLICE”
& “ROYAL CROWN” BISCUITS
Baked by Arnott!
Sure to be good!
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, May 31, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Amy Castles had a great reception on
Saturday niglit. People jumped upon chairs
and cried “Horroo!” when she entered. They
looked perfectly respectable, but I am told
that Brother Snowball, M.L.A., suspects
many of them of having maleficent designs
upon the Empire. Some who were there,
in all the superficial innocence of evening
clothes, are believed by the Martin Derry
Dodge, No. 27, L.0.L., to have engineered
the war —their aim being to aggrandise
Borne by causing the destruction of
Luther’s birth-place. A subtle and far-
sighted crowd these religionists, are they
not, my dear?
The concert began effectively. Amy sang
the first verse of “God Save” by herself, and
at the second a white-robed choir of con-
traltos joined in with the utmost vigor. The
third verse was committed by Amy, the
organ, the contraltos and the audience. It
was like a patriotic earthquake, and I am
sure if Kaiser Bill had entered at that
moment he would have been handed back
his admission-money and told curtly to get
outside. Great is the power of song.
Lady Helen wore red, as usual. This
time it was in the form of a vast claret-
colored over-cloak or gaberdine, cut on the
severely classical lines of a Mexican
rancher’s sleeping-gnnment. These cloaks
are cosy to wear, handsome to look at, and
above all, easy tp make. You simply take
an area of velvet, plush or blanketing, as
the case may be, cut a hole in the middle
with an axe, circular saw or other handy
weapon, hem neatly with ruche insertions
of applique in the Redfern-Paquin style,
and label it “Paris Model.” The price will
be a matter largely of the seller’s estimate
of the prospective buyer’s intellect. Lady
Helen’s confection left her head and a tiara
of diamonds in view, and both were unim-
peachable.
Amy had apparently been poured or
spilled into a white silk costume lined with
black satin. The black dessous touch ap-
peared when she flirted her skirt or lashed
out behind with one or other of her feet,
and was most alluring. There was no waist
line, and the creation came to an abrupt
end in the region of the chest, with a riot
of cut squares like the castellated ramparts
of some old Norman castle. I hope that
from these few hints you may be able to
fashion a similar evening costume for your-
self. Mascagni’s Octopus song was the hit
of the evening. Someone gave the singer
a parasol made of white roses. She carried
if off across her shoulder, but did not sing
one of her “Butterfly” numbers by way of
encore, as she doubtless would have done
had she connected parasols with Japs and
Japs with Puccini (a very obvious process
of thought), and taken the broad hint. The
Festival Choir under J. J. Bailey (it used
to be under Freddie Beard’s baton) helped
all along the line. Tenor Hector Goldspink
stood on one toe and sang “O Paradise,”
Amadio played his flute, and Bryce Carter,
who mostly inhabits Sydney and possesses a
spare form and long, pale hair, played yearn-
ing things on the ’cello, and everything was
perfectly beautiful.
The audience was Very Rich —I could
tell it by its clothes. One handsome dame
wore a crimson cloak of thick silk inter-
woven with gold threads. She was with a
gill in blue who had wonderful hair and a
cute little retrousse nose. The nose did not
add to the color scheme, but the hair did.
The Hunt Club meeting at Moonce
Valley was as successful as if there were
no wax-. The grandstands wei-e packed,
and the smartest of smart country women
paraded the lawn in irreproachable tailor-
mades and furs. These Hunt Club races
have an ovex-poweringly domestic tinge. The
baby comes along and howls bitterly until
a nurse gags it with a bottle or a pound of
biscuits, and then lialf stifles it under a pile
of motor rugs. Grandmother also transpires
in her expensive sable “tippet” which was
fashionable 14 years ago, is still quite good
and lustrous, and happens to liave
lived far enough round the clock to
be fashionable again—whereby grand-
mamma gets a fictitioixs look of ex-
treme worldliness. Flappers were in
great form. They invai-iably accompany
the family caravan to watch their own and
their neighbors’ hox-ses run, and to cheer on
brother Cedric or cousin Reginald in the
amateur races. The Arthur Symes, from
Lilydale, won a race with Charlatan —a
hoc favorite—and another with Glenfmnan
—a rank outsidei*. Winthorpe, the winner
of the Gowrie Welter Handicap, belongs to
Graham Lewis. The general crowd never
looked at it, but one small block of grand-
standites twisted itself into knots and. went
into violent hysterics during the animal’s
progress, and when it won —well, the scene
transcended the descriptive power even of
my pen.
In the Amateur Steeplechase young Grice
had a bad fall from Hand Grenade; but the
Grice boys are always tumbling about. They
actually seem to like it —just as eels like
being skinned. One of them has just
given up horses to join the Flying Corps.
The Stantons came along to watch Dhuldul.
Mrs. Whitehead wore a wonderful blue
dress and had a tea party. What a life
these social butterflies do lead ! Mrs. Tveast,
muffled to the eyes with squirrel fur, also
had a tea-and-bun spread in the comfortable,
homely members’ rooms. Mrs. Ambrose
Pratt, topped with mink fur, was visiting
with a Lilydale party. The McCrackens
pervaded the place wrapped in lovely clothes
and local racing talk. Any visitor Avas out
of it who neither o\\ r ned a horse nor Avas
close friends Avith neighbors Avho did. Some
of the Mitchell people were about. Amongst
those I didn’t see Avere Melba, the Lem-
priere lady, who has gone to Sydney, and
George Armstrong (hero of a hundred acci-
dents on and about this course) and his
pretty Avife.
Lady Helen had tea with the Open Air
Physical Culture maidens, last Aveek.' It Avas
in return for their patriotic efforts in the
Government Plouse grounds the other day.
What a thing it is to be a Governoress —to
be in a position to pay your debts in full
by the simple acceptance of a tea invita-
tion ! The festivity took place on the roof
of the Auditorium, nine storeys up. Miss
Webb (who has the statuesque nose of a
Grecian goddess) greeted her Excellency
at the last spring of the electric lift, and
Miss Lorimer attended to the commissariat.
Culture girls flashed about with provisions,
clad (the girls, not the sustenance) in tight-
fitting high stockings, very brief ballet skirts
and soft shoes. They ahvays dress like that
when on the roof, partly because it is re-
mote from vulgar sneers, partly because
their figures are good. Lady Doris was
there; also an eight-year-old BlackAvood
nephew, who immediately got to work on
the punching-ball. Lady Helen thanked
everybody, prettily, for earning the Red
Cross Fund £6O, and Avas sympathetic about
a suggestion of the energetic girls to Avork
up something for the wounded who are
returning to Australia. Then the vice-
regals shot down in the lift and the Culture
girls went on culturing.
The Distressed Actors’ Fund had a mighty
matinee at the Royal on Friday. It com-
menced at a quarter to two and Avandered
along into dim dusk. Amongst those absent
were Lady Helen, Lady Stanley and the
Mayoress, Avhose husband was represented
by a cheque. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme, in ermine
furs, had a party of 12 females in the dress-
circle. Her daughter Jane, aged four, looked
like a ball of white fur, Avith a Belgian flag
waving aloft, Avhat time she sold buttons.
She gathered in six or seven pounds in this
way, off her own small bat. Mrs. Watt and
Josie Cohan Niblo had a box party. The
Alawa Robertsons, who also had a party,
looked like Polar bears, so heavily Avere they
furred. These days and nights Sassiety in
general is smothered to its ears in hairy stuff.
Which reminds me that the goat has recently
come to the fore as a calorific. The skin of the
domestic Nannv is so disguised by clipping,
dyeing and other processes that its own kid
would not know it, and, when so transformed,
is used freely by ruthless humans to keep
the cold out.
To get back to the show, there Avas an All-
Star programme. Fifty-five star turns. It
was enough to upset modern astronomy.
Gregan McMahon and the Reps, gave “The
Dark Lady of the Sonnets,” but, aaMFeir
turn came last, it was played about dinner-
time, to a dark dress-circle vacated by hungry
people. Niblo figured as auctioneer. A
McCubbin picture was bought by Hugh
Mclntosh for £7O, and handed back for re-
selling. In the re-selling Niblo got a nasty
knock. The bidding was spirited and had
reached £3O when Mrs. Niblo rashly chipped
in with the Avords “Thirty-five.” No-
body climbed on her bid and there
was an ominous silence in answer to
Niblo’s frenzied cries for an offer
of £4O. The picture was knocked down
to the lady, and a dejected-looking auctioneer
put it to one side. If it had been £35 worth
of grease-paint, now, or a case of N’York
clothes! But a picture. I tell you, gyurl,
it was just fierce.
Amy Castles was all chirpiness and beau-
tiful mouse-brown clothes at the Overseas
Club party in her honor last week. She
told the story of her life all over again—
how she escaped from the ravening Germans
just in time; but not before they had taken
her down for most of her clothes. I am
thinking of getting up a fund to buy, and
present to Germany, about a million of
those Courtesy-books which Avere so popular
in the Middle Ages. They became necessary
during the Renaissance period, owing to
the horrible customs imported to Europe by
the barbarians. Did you ever read the
Archbishop of Benevento’s discourse on the
table-habits of some of the Kaiser’s fore-
bears? It provides a powerful argument in
favor of the heredity theory. So if you
hear that a “Johanna Day” has been insti-
tuted do not be surprised.
To return to the Castles family, George
of that famous house is at present doing
advance-agency work for his gifted sister.
He tried to enlist for the war, but was re-
jected as too fat or something. So he is
getting his weight down by concert-agenting
—a sure method if you take the job seriously
and Follow the King. The party was femi-
nine but for the Mayor, who made a speech
a proxy for his Lady, who is away in N. S.
Wales. Mrs. James hostessed the show in a
very cute blue hat. Mrs. Keating’s hat was
smaller than ever. It was the very last
yelp in smartness, like the lid of a matchbox
viewed through the wrong end of a pair of
race-glasses. Mrs. Godfrey wore about 20
glossy, black fox-skins, and a bonnet of
violets. There were other garments, but
these impressed me most. Miss St. George
told everybody informally that they were
to be invited to a view of her sister’s
sketches, and the people so told brightened
up and said, “Charming” and “But how
nice,” and then fell back into vague silence.
There was no music—it is forbidden at the
Club —but Mrs. Vincent obliged with some
original recitations instead, just as at the
Front they use shrapnel when high explo-
sives are unobtainable.
The devotees of the Purple Cross, who
work in the Besant Lodge high up in the
Centreway, have a fine record behind them
and a glowing future in front. They have
already made and sent away 20,800
bandages for horses. Also innumerable
chloroform foot-bags and other veterinary
necessities. They have equipped from 20
to 30 transport-ships with horse-comforts,
thereby doing good service to their country
as well as to the Friend of Man. Lord
Lonsdale, who saw the Australian troops in
England, said that he had never seen horses
in such splendid trim, and as an ex-M.F.H.
and Yeomanry officer he has seen some
horseflesh in his time. Mrs. Monash, the
Colonel’s wife, is an ardent Purple Cross
worker, and she and Miss Maude Harvie
and Mrs. Theosophical Hunt form the local
committee.
Harrison Owen, a young Melbourne jour-
nalist, whose name is familiar to Bulletin
readers, married into the Dyson family last
week. Picturesque Hettie Dyson, sister to
Edward and “Bill,” was the confiding lady
in the transaction, and “II.O.,” being evi-
dently a whale for literary atmosphere, in-
duced her to change her name at the office
of the registrar in Collins-street, where a
son of Marcus Clarke officiates. Registrar
Ernest Clarke told Owen that he was the
first journalist he had ever booked. Strange
that so many of them should go to church
to get married. They rarely go there for
other purposes.
“Mind you,” said the middle-aged suburb-
anite Avith the incurably solemn manner, “I
don’t mind giving money to the Bel-
gians. but I hate to be bullied into
it! The other morning a well-dressed girl-
child walked into the smoking carriage and
sang at me for three minutes, so that I
couldn’t read my paper. It was something
about giving her a penny to buy bread,
because she hadn’t any father or mother and
her boots wanted mending. And her boots
were quite good—better than my own, in
fact. What does a child want to come and
sing at me for? I hate to be sung at. Who
lets these children loose to sing at people
for money and say they are hungry and their
boots broken? No! I don’t mind giving
money—but I won’t be bullied ! I simply
tvon’t be bullied !”
It seems that some of the young students
at Melbourne University Conservatorium are
feeling prettv bad about it. The German
gases have, as it were, got into their lungs.
The McArthur and Manifold girls, who
took cars to Paris, have had to give them
up. A sure way of losing a good car is to
take it to the war-zone. Under regulation
1 (a) of every nation’s Army Act all pri-
vate cars are confiscatable for military pur-
poses. The maidens are now happily settled
in a London hospital. One is a cook, the
other a runner, which, I am told, is Eng-
lish for Domestic Rouseabout.
In a Block shop I recently beheld a lady
mingling her tears with those of a Society
matron whose only son is in Turkey. “My
dear,” sobbed the latter, “I am broken-
hearted with suspense and anxiety. How
do I know that my boy is not already
(lead!” “Come home with me,” said the
friend tenderly; “it is better than being
alone.” “I can’t,” wailed the distracted
mother, “I am full up—a dinner and theatre
party, with a supper to follow. Ask me
some night next week when there is less
doing.” And the broken woman reeled
moaning to her limousine.
George Blackwood is off to the Front. He
is a younger brother of Bob, whose wife, as
I told you last week, has already left to do
a bit of nursing or something. George is
one of our local moulds of form. He has
a tremendous admiration —I had almost said
love —for the local working man, especially
where the latter is a Unionist. His Riv-
erina station is known as the Toilers’
Retreat, owing to its owner’s habit of in-
sisting that all passing workers, who can
prove that they are financial members of a
Union, shall walk right in and partake of
refreshments.
Janet Ralston, of Craig Elachie, Arma-
dale, is to marry one Oscar Piggott, a Syd-
neyite.
Dr. Lewers is to marry Nellie Gray—no
relatiqn of the poet’s friend, but a daughter
of the late Alexander Gray, of Rosebank,
Geelong.
London is rhapsodising somewhat over
William Murdoch’s musical gifts. You will
remember that he revisited this his native
land with Kirkby Lunn the other day. He
is a keen golfer, and a frantic football-
barracker, also a billiard-player to whom no
marker can safely give 80 in a hundred. And
yet he has enthralled London with his in-
terpretations of Debussy and Ravel. What
a many-sided creature is man !
Captain Herbert Hunter, lately killed at
the Dardanelles, was a most-popular member
of the Bendigo brewery family.
Ernilie Dyason, the pianiste, and Prof.
Ernest Scott, who specialises in Australian
history, were married by a registrar last
week. “Quiet” was no name for the cere-
mony. There wasn’t even a honeymoon.
They just returned to a new home in
Brighton, where a music room and a study
adjoin, and resumed their ordinary lives as
though marriage was a mere episode.
Parliament shook to its foundations last
week, when Anstey howled for the confession
which is said to lurk behind the Rabaut
court-martials. The proceedings were most
thrilling—noisier than a dog-fight and more
electrical than a street riot. The
calmest legislator present was Willie
Kelly, who reclined in nonchalant fashion
along the Opposition bench and made
cold and sneering interjections from time
to time. If lie hadn’t done this 1
should have taken him to be in a swoon
or dead. He made an effective foil for the
deafening and anguished Anstey.
Katherine Brook, an actress-journalist who
was here recently, is now in New York with
Marion Grey. (Marion Grey was a leading-
lady in stageland and a star relation of the
Chirnside-Fenners in private life when she
visited Melbourne,) They were waiting duti-
fully for Mr. Grey—if that is Marion’s
husband’s name —when the mail left. He
has been touring with the Forbes-Robert-
sons.
The Steads are giving a party at Men-
zies’ on June 5. There will be a feast of
Reason and Soul as well as of mere food.
The entertainment will be an echo of the
almost-political Salon which was run by the
intellectual pair in London in the long ago.
Captain 11. do Pentheny O’Kelly, killed
in France <m the 18lh, was the husband of
Kathleen Fitzgerald, third daughter of
Edward Fitzgerald, late of Castlemaine. The
widow is a sister of R. J. Fitzgerald, who
practises on Melbourne ’Change, and a
cousin of tall bachelor Edward.
An Adelaide correspondent tells me:—
The Supreme Court has authorised the wife of
Gordon Ayers—grandson of the old-time politician
and capitalist in Adelaide—to “presume” that she is
a widow, and to prove his will. He was last seen on
the P. and (). Egypt, one evening in February, when
it was 40 miles off the Victorian coast; so the Court
thought it might chance it and reckon him dead.
When Guy Boothby gave up his position as pri-
vate-secretary to the Mayor of Adelaide, 20 years
back, to go in for literature, bis place was taken by
T. G. Ellery. This young man (he is still under
45) worked up so quickly that he became Town Clerk
in 1899, might have been Town Clerk of Sydney a
few years later, and now has been chosen for the
same job in Melbourne.
Dr. William Warren, tlie Collins-street
medico with a large faith in homoeopathy,
who some months ago left on a health trip,
has been appointed resident physician to
the London Homoeopathic Hospital. Apart
from his medical practice Warren took a
great interest in the soul of Ah Sin, and for
many years liis residence 'was a home for
young women in training for missionaries.
Mr. Charles Orr has just arrived from
Sydney. Before the war began be was a
mere social butterfly who materialised in
Melbourne at the helm of a motor-car, from
time to time, and then fled- back to Potts
Point, where he lives. Now he is a soldier.
He has a commission in the Artillery, and
after a bit more training lie is off to one
or other of the Fronts.
The young Menniker-Heaton baronet was
in London when the last mails left. You
will remember him as an earnest, frail, in-
tellectual-looking character with a tiny
Kaiserish moustache, who went as a trooper
with the Light Horse. He was the one
titled trooper in the regiment. From the
Imperial point of view, the only thing
against him was a “Marching Song’’ which
lie wrote for his comrades. It appeared
in one of the newspapers, and was all
about "Here’s to tlie bonnie, brown trooper
gay,” and so on. I don’t know if the sol-
diers ever sang it in public, but you never
can tell. Some soldiers are very reckless.
To get back to young Henniker-Heaton, he
must liave been invalided to England, the
desert life being too strenuous for him. He
didn’t look to have the sort of constitution
which fits a man for carting a rifle through
miles of shifting sand.
Albert Miller, whose all-white colors were
never a-top of any but triers, was one of
those conservative men who wouldn’t listen
to a word in favor of the tote. But there
was a lot in his favor, including a family of
five sons and a few girls. As a youngster.
Albert turned up at Melbourne Grammar
School on the day it was opened—Easter.
1858.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


r
$s
-ir
ĥ
u
l I
, wi im «\ it ■®\I P
\
.. 1 \


CASTGR-OIL, SALTS & DRUGS REPLACED
BY “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Delicious “fruit laxative” cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of old
and young folks.
*
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, indi-
gestion, coated tongue, sallowness take
“California Syrup of Figs.” For the cause
of all this distress lies in a toripd liver and
sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all consti-
pation poison, waste, matter, fermenting food
and bile gently moved out of your system by
morning without griping.-- Please don't think
of “California Syrup of Figs” as a physic.
Don’t think yon are drugging yourself or
your children. This delicious fruit laxative
cannot cause injury. Even a delicate child
can take it as safely as a robust man. It
is the most harmless, effective stomach, liver
and bowel regulator and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs,” which has full direc-
tions for babies, children of all ages and fox-
grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Beware of counterfeits sold here. Get the
genuine, made by “California Fig Syrup
Company.” Refuse any other kind with
contempt. “California Syrup of Figs” is
sold by all leading chemists, 1/lid and 1/9.-
“TOP NOTCH"
&LOKC W
<ScotcffW!l
•ftlL
3W-
THE “TOP NOTCH" SCOTCH.
KING GEORGE IV.”
WHISKY.
A UNIFORM STANDARD of QUALITY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Furneaux” : In Hobson’s Bay (Vic.)
the antidote for cobbler-sting consists of two-parts
muriatic acid and one-part water. A glass-stoppered
bottle of this mixture can generally be found in the
stern lockers of the Bay boats, and, if liberally
applied to the punctures, gives immediate ease from
the pain.
"Ses”: I was standing on the railway
platform when 1 was suddenly hooked up and dragged
away bv a young woman who was arriving in great
haste for the Sydney show. She wore a straw hat
which bristled with murderous pins. As she dived
into the crowd one of these ploughed into the hack
of my hand and jerked it along after her. I said,
“Excuse me, that’s my hand you’ve got.” She didn’t
take any notice —didn't pause or look back, though
she must have had a glimmering of an idea that she
had something hanging to her head. She was a
bull-r.eckcd female, and took long strides, with her
head well forward as though she had been used to
hauling logs. 1 took long strides, too, and stirred
the bile in a dozen people in half as many seconds.
1 had to follow my hand even if I knocked the
Governor-General down. I endeavored to inform her
that I wasn't the proper thing to wear in a hat, and
that I hadn’t come into fashion yet as an ornament.
She didn’t hear. 1 shouted to her that her hat was
getting damaged, hut she still reefed on. A man
and a woman were darting along in front of her, and
I saw now that she was frantically trying to keep
them in sight. I grabbed her by the lace work
round her neck and steadied her somewhat until I
tore my bleeding- hand free of the dagger. Even
then she didn’t look back. I think she must have
come from the solitudes of the Pilliga Scrub.
“Snell”: Billy Mills (“Puffing Billy”)
had been threatening the life and happiness of Tom
Mclver for over seven months. At Anderson’s bar at
about half-past 10 on Saturday nights we could
always hear exactly what “Puffing Billy” would do
to Mclver when (hey met, and the butcheries were
never alike two nights running. The final breaking
up of the engine-driver was to be a long and excruci-
ating frightfulness. What the trouble was all about
we could never understand, hut Munro was credibly
informed that Tom Mclver had said, deliberately and
in cold blood, that Billy Mills had a mouth like a
trapped sow. “Puffing Billy” enjoyed certain license
in threatening Mclver with protracted torment,
because Tom lived at The Whip, 11 miles off, and
rarely visited Pinchbeck. But Mrs. Scott, the little
widow Mac was courting, shifted her small shop to
Pinchbeck when they struck good gold at the Home
Paddock, and one Saturday Tom came across to visit
her. He stayed over the night at Pinchbeck, and
heard things greatly to his disadvantage. On Sunday
afternoon he came unexpectedly upon “Puffing Billy”
watching a two-up game on Pick Hill. “Lord!” said
“Puffing Billy,” and shot up a tree. It is declared in
Pinchbeck that it is not possible for a mere man to
go up a tree as Billy did. Tom Mclver stood under-
neath. “You’ve been saying that if ever we met
you’d massacre me,” said he. “Yes, 1 have,” replied
Billy Mills. “Well,” said Mac, “what the Devil
are you doing up that tree?” “What ’m I doin’?”
retorted “Puffing Billy.” “What ’m I doin’? I’m
restrainin’ mcselj !”
GOOD EVIDENCE.
B ILLUM: “Fer ’Eaven’s sake, put a hit more steam on your cud. can’t yer?”
W ILLUM: "Wot’s wrong with yer? Ain’t my ’andle goin’ round as fast as yours?”
THE LOYALTY OF JOCK McWHUSKY.
At a meeting of the Council it was proposed that Scottish societies should be recommended to
abolish the use of intoxicating liquors during the war. Mr. A. McDonald said that the constitution of
(lie Union would not permit them to do this. The proposal was withdrawn. —News item.
THE PATRIOT: “Ah. Mr. McWhusky, I'm surprised pour Union is not following the
King in this national crisis."
THE McWHUSKY: “Hoots! Toots! Oor constitootion'll no’ let us.”
“Wancli" : A jqckoroo was consigned to a
squaltage in the Northern Territory. Train and
mail-trap took him from Port Darwin to the Kather-
ine. At the hotel there a hack and pack-horse were
awaiting him, hut no guide. The latter was consid-
ered unnecessary, as there was a good road all the
way, following the telegraph line. There was an
Older at the hotel for a demijohn of whisky and one
of rum, which he had to take with him. The publi-
can packed his horse, and sent him off fine and
early, instructing him that his way followed the
course of the line right out. Now the road crossed
and recrossed the line, touching the waterholes en
route. Griddle started on the line and never left
it; and there being no water visible from it for a
stretch of 100 miles, lie was soon experiencing the
tortures of thirst. In desperation, on the second
night, he broached the spirits. Being- a teetotaller, he
did not care to take whisky neat, and thought it
would be an improvement if he made tea with it.
He boiled a quart of it accordingly, and, .having
nothing to eat, but plenty of flour in the pack, he
mixed up a few johnny-cakes with the rum. The
meal was disastrous. For awhile after he had dined
he was the happiest man in the bush. He sang him-
self quickly to sleep : thereafter it was oblivion. When
found late next day by a youth horse-hunting from
Maud Creek be was barefooted and bareheaded, his
face was bruised and cut, and he was knocking the
gum out of a sapling.
* * * »
“Ilan”: Lake Teraug (Vic.) lias been
dry for the first time within living man’s memory.
Jn the 'so’s it carried 40ft. of water. Lake Gorang-
amite has been thin, too, though it was thinner in
1805. But this gradual loss of inland waters is
general throughout the world. Many of the basins
which once gave a great surface of moisture in Australia
soon dry now after heavy rains. The Mother of
Ducks at Guyra, Lake George at Bathurst, and Lake
Killarney in Southern Queensland all come within
this indictment. "What is the game that old Dame
Nature is playing? Not only is the drying-up pro-
cess noticeable in regard to what were termed lakes,
but in the big swamps also, though many of these
have been drained. Has the denudation of timber
anything to do with it ? Or the cussedness of the weather
clerk? The same thing applies to the coast of
Eastern Australia, for while heavy floods were quite
common up to 1893 there has scarcely been a decent
fresh since. In the old days the towns of the
N.SAV. North Coast thought there was something
wrong if no flood c..me to turn their centres into a
Venice at least two or three times in a year. Now
the flood gauges have disappeared, the rescue brigades
disbanded, and the Government flood-boats long since
mouldered to decay.
“S.S.”: An eloquent parson in Melbourne
has been crying- out against the White Australia
policy, declaring that it “retards the spread of
Christianity.” I gather that it is much easier to lure
the black sheep into the fold if the shepherd finds
them to his hand within (he Commonwealth. Besides,
there are- “special disadvantages” attached to the
present system of sending the shepherd to the sheep
in distant places. One of these disadvantages, I
suppose, is that the sheep occasionally eat the shep-
herd. But since one must go to pot, Australia or the
missionary—-well, personally, while wishing the mis-
sionary no harm, 1 prefer that it should not be
Australia.
* * * *
A curiosity came tlic way of the Belgian
Fund in Auckland (M.L.) the other day in the
shape of a greenstone ear ornament. During the
war in the Waikato a tv hare containing 16 brown
warriors was surrounded by a British detachment
under Colonel Nixon. There was no earthly hope
for Henare and no sign or token that heavenly hope
was adjacent. So the Colonel climbed off his horse
and walked towards the hut carrying a white flag
with a view to advising the Maoris to down tools
ami surrender. But one war-maddened Henare shot
him in his tracks, and that was the end of the
section. The white troopers fired' the whare and
waited for the enemy to come out. Only one came
and ho was volleyed. The others died in the fire
rather than quit. From the ear of one the green-
stone was taken, and it is this ornament that is
taking a hand in the present disturbance.
* -X- -x-
-laituin : llie olden time bullock-driver,
like the Woolloomooloo pushite, is degenerating out
of sight almost. What has become of the bobsided
blitherer with hair on his teeth and blasphemy on
bis lips? I haven't seen one of him now for five
years,, and I’ve been west of Bathurst for quite a
long time. The other day two teams (18 bullocks in
each) canm to our town with loads of chaff. The
men in charge wore straw boater hats, with badges
on the blue bands, tailor-mades and, boots that a
member of Parliament would look well in. Thev
smoked cigarettes and talked like tea-agents. Thev
were kind to their animals, too, and never once used
the whip-handles on their ribs, as the old-timers did.
One laid liis lash gently on Rattler’s broad back
as a man might lay a hand on the neck of a ladv he
wasn t sure of; and the other requested Smiler to
curnmyway, and he cmnmywayed. There was a con-
cert in aid of the Belgian Fund at night; and both
persuaders slung away their fags and assisted. On*
sang “Alice, Where Art Thou?” The other supplied
“ihe Holy City.” In future, artists will have to be
careful how they portray Bullocky Bill, it seems to
me he must be mostly Augustus or Cyril.
(Continued on page 2J t .)
MY FRIEND THE SHERIFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My friend the Sheriff is a chap
Who notices the queerest things;
!\ hen I presented him to Papp,
The biggest of financial kings,
He sat there calmly and- took stock
Of Papp, who is a human block.
I’d pumped Papp's praises into him
And told him of Papp’s wondrous brain;
But over his gold glasses’ rim
lie stared at Papp with doubt and pain
\\ rit largo upon his forehead white.
1 don't think Papp enjoyed it quite.
At last the interview was o’er.
I led the Sheriff quickly out.
And breathed more freely when the door
With rumblings banged our heels about.
(I seem to stumble o’er my feet
When, through my plottings, great men meet.)
1 told the Sheriff as we walked
(He’d often heard me state this view),
That Papp with intuition talked,
And was the greatest man I knew.
In answer to this friendly fizz,
My friend said, “I suppose he is.”
With honest, friendly pride I glowed—
For approbation warms the soul—
And led the Sheriff o’er the road
To join me in the flowing bowl.
I asked, as ’twere a passing whim,
“Well, now, what do you think of him?”
The Sheriff tied his brow in knots,
And hummed and lia’d as though in doubt;
His eve strayed off amongst the pots
As if to drag some secret 0ut....
“His neck’s too short!”—the curt speech rang—
“A very awkward man to hang!”
N.SAV.
KODAK.


WHEN YOU BUY A
LITTLE WONDER ENGINE
YOU GET A PRACTICAL OUTFIT.
I
YOU GET—
A Modern 2-Brake llorse-powcr Engine,
strong and sturdy, with substantial hi) wheels
and Extra Driving Pulley.
When not pumping it can be used with a
20-inch Cross-cut Saw, 2-knil'e 8-inch (. I ialf
Cutter, or any Machinery requiring a 2-horse-
power Engine.
THE LITTLE WONDER is fitted with
High-tension Magneto, Automatic Lubrica-
tors, Full-size Water-cooling Tank, Governor,
etc.
Runs All Day on 4 Quarts of Benzine.
You can attach it to your Windmill, or we
will supply you with a Pump specially
adapted to your conditions, to deliver the
greatest volume of water possible at a mini-
mum cost.
the price of the
LITTLE WONDER ENGINE IS
Pumps, Piping, Saw Benches, Chaff
Cutters, etc., at Lowest Market Prices.
IF YOU NEED A LARGER ENGINE WE CAN QUOTE PRICE
AND QUALITY NOT EQUALLED ELSEWHERE.
COOPER ENGINEERING COMPANY,
129 SUSSEX STREET (Near King Street), SYDNEY
MURDOCH’S
Rain-proof Cold-proof
OVERCOATS.
Price
30
They are down, right down below the
line in price, but they come above it for
quality and workmanship, and rise
even higher still for value. They com-
bine all the features you desire in your
new Winter Overcoat, at a price you
thought impossible for such high-grade
garments. As regards their rain-proof
and cold-proof qualities, nothing else
can equal them. They reach the high-
est standard oL’ comfort.
Each Coat represents the best the
Tailoring world can produce, and the
set of the collar, the shaping of the
shoulders, the roll of the lapels and
the hang of the skirt are points which
every man will recognise as essential
to style and comfort.
We stock these in Irish Frieze and rough
Scotch Tweeds, designed with Storm
Collars, Patch Pockets, and Vent in back.
Note the price—it is special.
t
PRICE
30 1-
ħ
i
'Z
m
! m
1 is!!
Post Free to Any Part of Australia.
M U RDOCH’S
In Park Street Ltd., Sydney
“The Overcoat Spot of the Commonwealth.”
NELSON VICTORY
BAR DISPENSING ARM
TT
m
WTi
■
■ 1 E
-»f*j**
US
:
"
Electric Automatic Carbonator.
h
Xo Hotelkeeper can afford to be without this excellent
appliance. It represents the result of years of expert
study to arrive at its present condition of practical
perfection.
By its use big saving’s can be effected on the
Aerated Water Account.
COST OF PRODUCTION TS REDUCED
by the elimination of manual labor. The Dispenser
is ingeniously constructed to work in conjunction
with our “BANKER” —or AutOMati c—Ca rbon a tor,
so that the whole concern is under the entire control
of the Bar Attendant. This means a substantial
saving.
in addition it renders Absolutely Superior
Service.
Ist. —In respect to Flow of Soda —More Rapid and
Even.
2nd. —Quantity of Syrup can be Accurately ad-
justed at will.
3rd. —Syrup Storage Tank is placed immediately
under the apparatus, thus doing away with over-
head jars with metal pipes connecting same.
This is a decided improvement.
The COST has been worked out very low, and is
a mere trifle compared with its Time-, Labor- and
Money-saving power.
We can give full details that will convince you of the wonderful cash savings that can be
effected by using the Victory Dispenser. These particulars will cost you nothing, and you should
write for them at once.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also Turbot Buildings, Turbot St., Brisbane. SUTHERLAND & CO., 632-4 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Little Journey to Music Land
ĥ
In prehistoric times, primitive man’s first idea of
music was just noise, and was produced by bang-
ing two objects together. As times advanced,
however, and became more civilised, the idea of
music improved. Gradual advancement has
developed the modern Piano and Piano Player,
also those which, from less frequent use, may be
termed the “Lesser luminaries” —the Violin and
other Stringed and Brass Instruments.
The full joy of music belongs to everyone, and is
placed within YOUE reach by
THE BRITISH PIANOFORTE DEPOT LTD.
Our vast resources, musical knowledge, honorable
dealing and easy terms have placed the joy of
music in thousands of homes. Let us serve YOU.
IN PIANOS WE OFFER
The “Broadwood,” the 200-year-
old British-made Instrument that
is par excellence in Tonal Quality,
Construction and Endurance.
The “Allison.” Another English
Instrument, bidding fair to out-
rival many older Pianos.
FOR THOSE WHO CANNOT PLAY
—the glorious “Apollo” Player
Piano —the only Player that
touches down cn the keys and
lends itself to the perfect inter-
pretation of all the old Masters.
OUR PLAYER LIBRARY
is the largest in the Southern
Hemisphere. It is augmented
by every Mail with 58-, 65- and
8 8-note music. Fees are low.
Enquire.
STRING and BRASS MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS
We represent the World’s Best
Makers in Violins, Zithers,
Harps, Accordions, Gramophones,
Accessories, etc.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
(Opposite Wynyard Street).


ACTRESS TELLS SECRET
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Harkened Her Grey Hair and Promoted
Its Growth With a Simple, Home-made
Mixture.
Miss Blanche Itose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview made the following state-
ment : “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home: To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum, a small box of Orlex Compound,
and {ox. of glycerine. These ingredients
can be bought at any chemist’s at very little
cost. Apply to the hair twice a week until
it becomes the required shade. This will
make a grey-haired person look 20 years
younger. It is also fine to promote the
growth of hair, relieves itching and scalp
humors, and is excellent for dandruff and
falling hair.”* [2
Martin's Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
WHEN'"
BRISBANE
STAY AT
♦ORBIUM
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SVDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
gtref/ng tni Spelling am re /mpaani/e
45'
TO I CLOSING
emsculator.
This" SAFETY”
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding - .
Postage Free 45/-
My “Hints on Castrating"
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “ Safety ”
either Colts, Bulls, Kams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of 3j. to 53
Emaseulators from
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely hit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It’s FREE
“Harrison O.” : Has Tub Bulletin any
squatter princesses among its Abo. contributors? If
not, there is one from whom an occasional par.
should bo welcome. 1 conclude so after reading “Five
1 ears I nder the Southern Cross,” a romance by F. C.
Spun-, an imported parson who until lately thumped
a Baptist pulpit in Melbourne. Spurr mentions with
amazement that he met a squatter’s daughter “who
showed absolutely nothing' to indicate that she had
been brought lip in the wilds of Australia,” and, oh,
my dear brethren, how shamefully did she pull the
reverend gentleman’s leg! The hussy told the poor
parson that yarn of the new-chum who was sent to
muster the sheep and afterwards announced: “That
h'ttlo brown over there, lie was more trouble
than all the rest put together. Run! He can run!”
—and the poor parson gravely recounts this ancient
rabbit-mendacity as a fact. The squatter's daughter
also related other adventures “with diffidence,” and
no wonder, for the most hardened liar might feel
diffident about telling of how on seeing a dingo she
“mounted a horse”—by which time the most gradual
dingo would have been well on the way to Tipperary
—“and proceeded to enclose the animal, chasing it
from place to place, until at last it was brought to
bay and forthwith dispatched with a blow from a
stick. ’ Naturally the parson cannot restrain his
admiration, and shouts: “This little, frail-looking girl
did this! She does not boast of it; she merely re-
counts the deed at my request. And her eyes blaze
at the recital!” After this, one is not surprised to
read of how the same maiden “started a rabbit, raced
it, doubled back when it doubled, and finally caught
it, killing it with a blow from her hand.” What a
wonderful book Spurr might have written had be
chanced to meet A. William-Cann in the course of
bis divigations West o’ Sunset and Back o’ the Marble
Bar!
Billjim is a casual cuss at times. The
other day on the South Coast (N.S.W.) bis father,
an eccentric old man, was found drowned in a dam.
When the policeman and Billjim, who had been
searching for him, brought him ashore Billjim said,
“Is he dead?” “Yes,” answered J. Hop. “-’Strath!”
Long pause. Then: “He wasn’t a bad old blanker,
wnzi be?”
A FLYING
BECKER.
SCRTB COCKY: "Yes, I’m (join’ to sell this
cove for the tear, lie'll take a bit of
heatin’ , Jacky!”
MULLUMBIMBY JACKY: “My oath, Boss.
Mine bin! inkit take it pinery good flyin’
shot cateh that pheller .”
“P C.” : “Bill Hickory” tolls (B. 6/5/’l5)
of certain dead trees standing in 15ft. of water in a
lakelet' near Cunnamulla (Q.), and earnestly desires
(o know how they got there. Well, they may have
been dropped there from an aeroplane or been
humped out by some energetic bullockv with nothing
else to do; but the probability is that they grew
there. The ground may have subsided while they
were alive or afterwards (trees don’t live for ever) ;
or, more probably, drifting soil has accumulated and
imprisoned flood waters, which in time ki'led them.
THE THREAT.
It has been resolved that if members of the force do not discharge their debts to civilians their ser-
vices will be dispensed with, and room will thus be made for other men who are now among the unem-
ployed.—Chief Commissioner Sainsbury (Fie.).
PROFESSIONAL UNEMPLOYED: “Orright; but don't you fergit—I may he movin’ you on
if yer don’t pay yer bloomin’ debts.”
“Wal”: When the young Papuan gentle-
man thinks it is time he took, unto himself a female
to cook his food, weed' his garden, catch crabs, and
do his other domestic duties, he begins to save up
the necessary wealth to buy his fancy from her pa.
The list of articles required for the purchase of the
girl varies considerably in different tribes. The fol-
lowing are reckoned about a fair thing: A few
strings of dog’s teeth, a fathom of native money
(made from a rare red shell worked into small discs
with a hole in the centre and strung on fibre), a
dozen hunting spears, three manv-pronged spears
for fishing, several armlets made from the giant
cone-shell, two lady-dogs, a large-sized pig', many
fibre armlets and leg-bands, some mats for making
into the crab-claw sails that are used on canoes, a
couple of head-dresses of paradise plumes, a breast-
let garnished with dog’s teeth, two wooden food-
dislies, some Eilropean tomahawks and knives, a
fishing net or two, and odds and ends in the food
line —bundles of sago, baskets of yams and taro,
and numerous bunches of bananas. The whole lot
might he worth in civilised currency 10 pounds or
so. The happy youth then sets up housekeeping
and becomes one of the leaders in the tribe, with
all the prerogatives of a married man—unlimited
betel-chewing, and long, restful days of sleep under
his house on the platform, varied with a little
physical culture obtained with a billet of wood
when his better-half does not bring him his food
at the right time, or fails to have his smoking-gear
handy.
“A.G.M.”; It was at Weemabung, and
the long, lean Jinibill was tapping (lie boss for “a
stand.” Part of liis recommendation was that he
“shore two centuries and straddle me own spark.”
He got the job. The boss, after raising his eye-
brows at my ignorance, explained that Billjim could
shear 200 sheep a day and rode his own motor-bike.
Which further meant that he was fast and didn’t
have two horses to help eat the station grass.
* * * *
“Yanco”: “Ibis's” chimneys (B. G/5/’l5)
may be very picturesque and all that, but they mean
five or six trips to the woodlieap a day. And a
moderately busy bachelor cocky hasn’t got time for
that. Our fireplace and chimney takes up one side of
the room. At each end of it there’s a gate, and when
the fire goes out a couple of horses are hitched to a
log, drag it in at one end, drop it, and go out the
other end. Put a shovel of ashes under the log and
you needn’t worry about another supply of wood
for a week. Also, you don’t have to keep a woodlieap.
“Rag”: Some years ago I was side-tracked
at an overland telegraph station just back of the
Great Australian Bight, and on Sundays made one of
a prospecting party to the huge sand dunes near the
coast in search of whisky. Some years previous a
vessel from Britain had been wrecked thereabout, and
the survivors salved many casks and cases of spirits
and buried them in the sand beyond high-water mark.
But, in order to keep from being down-hearted, they
also buried such a lot of the snake-juice inside them-
selves that when the relief ship arrived not one of
them could discover the plant. Occasionally a pro-
specting party after a wind storm or heavy rain
stumbles across a few loaded cases or casks of O.P.
liquor. A little thing like that helps to break the
monotony of things.
CONVINCED.
FIRST SWAGGIE (after producing proof of
dreadful experience with lions): “Now
do yer believe met?"
SECOND SWAGGIE: “Yes, Bill, I believe yer
word, but I ain’t so sure about yer leg.”
“Rury” divulges liis crime:—
Some time ago a dog was left upon my hands by
a female idiot who thought I wanted one, and
couldn’t be persuaded to take him away. The
animal stayed with me and grew most affectionate.
This was somewhat embarrassing, because I didn't
want a dog', and, if I had wanted a dog, 1 didn't
want that dog. Also, he was the sort of dog that
insisted on following me wherever 1 went, causing
rows with oilier dogs, threatening the public, chas-
ing' horses and cows and running to me for protec-
tion when a toy terrier spoke angrily to him, but,
at the same time, treating my commands as mud
and refusing to come to me when called. Ife was
the most truculent, cowardly, genial, kindly and
utterly unnecessary thing on four legs I have ever
known.
He refused to eat raw meat, but would steal bread
from bakers’ carts and doorsteps, and bring it home
proudly to eat at the front gate. .Most of the night
he barked in a voice that would have done credit
to a fighting bull; most of the day he was lost,
except when I was going out and wanted him lost.
He was a medium-sized beast of a browny-yellow
color, with the stump of a tail and the aspect of a
prick-eared dingo. Still, in a weak moment, I went
to the dog registrar, got his lines and made him an
honest do"-.
One day as the thing followed at my heels through
the nearest township I heard a slightly thick and
beery conversation rise behind me.
“1 fell you he’s a mastiff, a genuine English
mastiff, trained a bit fine,” the owner of the voice
said.
“Mastiff bo bio wed! That there dog’s a dingo-
pure dingo, straight out of the scrub.”
“Bet you he’s a mastiff. Look at the ears of
him !... .I’d like to own that dog.”
“Bet you a quid lie’s a dingo—pure ’Stralian
dingo.”
“Bet you two quid lie’s mastiff... .Hey, mister,
wot’s the breed of that there dog? Ain’t he pure-
bred mastiff?”
I turned and stretched a hand towards the canine.
“This dog,” I said, “is a fine specimen of the
Polish mouse-hound.”
“A wliat, mister?”
“Polish mouse-hound,” I said airily.
The two dog-wise persons walked round him ad-
miringly, if a little unsteadily.
“Want to sell him, mister?”
I shook my head.
“Suppose a ouid won’t tempt you ?”
“Money wouldn’t buy him,” I said.
“Polish mouse-hound, von say?”
“I’ll tell von what I'll do,” T said, after pausing
to think the matter well over., “I’m leaving for Mel-
bourne to-night. If you promise to give him a good
home and not exhibit him at the show, he’s yours. I
wouldn’t sell him, but I know you’ll take a pride in
him, and I have more dogs than I need.”
“Wot luck. Bill! I’ll put me handkerchief round
his neck and hold him while you buy a chain and
collar. Wot’s his name?”
“Dogs of his breed answer to no name,” I said,
“lie is called Xerxes Lissaphernes in the mouse-
hound stud book.”
For once the animal allowed himself to be caught,
and Bill was back in quick time with the chain.
“Give him plenty of bread and treacle,” I said
ns a parting injunction, “give him sandstone to lie
on, and don’t let him get into the turnip crops.
You’ll find him a first-rate mouser.”
The last I saw of the beast he was looking around
in wonder, while two burly toilers, breathing beer
and enthusiasm, towed him home by the chain.
“Outcast”: The Papuan doesn’t like hair
on his face and body, and I have seen him with razors
of bamboo (bamboo knives are also used to cut off
heads), shell and stone. Each hair has to be ampu-
tated separately, and the process is painful. Another
favorite method is to twist a loop of thin fibre round
each hair, and drag it out bodily. A shave takes
an afternoon. Empty bottles are most popular in
the Orokaiva country for breaking up into razors.
In the bad old days of the Yodda there was never
any lack of the commodity, which was Number One
trade. Nowadays, the storekeeper has every month
to import two or three sacks of empties to meet
the demand. Recently I heard an Orokaiva badger-
ing him. Said he to his assistant., “Here, take this
boy and give him a bottle. Blank him, give him
two bottles , and tell him not to bother me.”
“Loco” : What is the effect of crude castor
oil on dirty water? Here in Victoria we enginemen
have been having a bad time with inferior water.
Somebody, by accident or design, put a tablespoonful
or so of castor-oil into his 4000-g'allon tender-tank.
The effect was magical. Instead of the boiler prim-
ing furiously every time be faced a bank, he found
it impossible to make her prime. Y 7 ears ago we
used to put castor-oil in the boiler via the injector
or gauge glass, and it appeared beneficial as long
as the oil lasted —half an hour or so. But how
does the floating oil have such an instantaneous
effect on the water taken from the bottom of the
taut: ?
SO LIFELIKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hike Harßgan was very dead.
Ho lay in state
Among the wilting daisies spread.
We'd drunk in whisky of (he host
And bottled; beer
To Harrigan’s eternal rest.
And now the time had come for Brown,
The carpenter,
To well and truly screw him down.
The widow stood before the crowd
In blackest crepe,
And raised her voice, and wailed aloud.
“Oil, Mike, mo darlin’ b’y,” she said,
“It isn’t true.
I will not have it ye arc dead.
“Ye look,” she moaned above the trunk,
“So natural.
Sure, annyo'ne might think ye drunk!"
VICTOR! \.
SNELL.
THE HERO OF A DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was a public hero once ;
The people gave me cheers ;
I got a lot of rum for bunce,
And barmaids offered beers;
All in my khaki dress I had
The envy wild of every lad.
My head was wrapped in calico;
A stain of iodine
Shone through the bandages, and so
A hero’s pride was mine;
The girls would point me out, and say
I’d come back, wounded, from the fray.
One little girl behind a bar
Made quite a lot of me.
But now I am a fallen star;
My popularity
With all the pretty maidens slumps—
The doctor's cured me of the mumps 1
VICTORIA,
EDDY SOX.


Model 80
5-Passeng'er Touring Car,
£395
ħ
Model 81
s«Passeng'er Touring Car,
£345
Finest Electrical Equipment
THE Overland is supplied with the
most advanced and efficient two unit
electrical svstem.
j
An electric motor starts the car.
An electric generator furnishes current
for the motor and the lights.
Motor and generator are separate
machines. Each does its work more
efficiently than a machine which serves
both purposes.
A high-tension magneto furnishes
ignition. No uncertain and troublesome
dry batteries are required.
There is a full-toned electric horn.
The entire electrical equipment is
controlled by buttons on the steering post.
The buttons, placed in the most con-
venient position, are reached without even
leaning forward. ? r .
The Overland is as completely satis-
factory in point of electrical equipment as
it is in point of beauty, comfort, economy,
safety and durability. I hese qualities are
ouaranteed by the fact that the Overland is
made entirely by the tremendous Willys-
Overland organisation. It is not an
“assembled” car. Every part is made by
our own workmen under our own direction.
Inspection may be made at the local
showrooms.
Silent, powerful motor
Instrument board on cowl dasli
Individual front seats, liiah backs
Tonneau, long and wide
Genuine leather upholstery, deep & soft
Windshield, rain-vision, ventilating type,
built in
Crowned fenders
Electric starter—Electric lights
High-tension magneto
SPECIFICATIONS—MODEL 80.
Thermo-syphon cooling:
Five-hearing crankshaft
Hear axle, floating type
Springs, rear, % elliptic, extra long,
underslung
Wheelbase 11+ inches (289.56 c.m.)
Targe tyres, 35 x +}4 inches
Heautiful dark-green body finish, with
ivory striping; nickel and aluminium
trimmings
Demountable, detachable rims—-one
extra
Right-hand drive
Electric engine starter and generator;
electric head, side, dash and tail
lamps; storage battery; mohair top
and top boot; top curtain box; wind-
shield; speedometer; electric 'horn;
robe rail; loot rest; tyre-carrier in
rear; full set of tools; tyre-repair kit,
jack and pump.
E. G. EAGER & SON Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
The CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY Ltd., 49 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Tke KELLOW-FALlONffe MOTOR CO., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., Hay Street, Pertk ;
sa
■mi
MODEL 80
The Willys-Overland Company,
Manufacturers of the famous Overland Delivery Cars.
Toledo, Ohio, U.S.A.
Full information on request.


Why Sore Throat is so Prevalent.
'pHESE three striking illustra-
tions reveal at once the reason
why Sore Throat, in all its varied,
painful and depressing forms, in-
cluding Tonsillitis, is so common
a complaint; how it may be readily
cured, on the one hand, and effec-
tually prevented on the other.
Sore Throat and Tonsillitis,
with other infectious diseases, like
Diphtheria, Scarlet Fever, Measles,
Mumps, Whooping-cough and
Consumption, are due to germs.
These float in the air, settle and
develop in the throat. In vigorous
health, they are destroyed by the
blood. If, however, the individual
is below par the blood is not able
to contend against the rapidity
with which the germs multiply,
and he gets the disease wdiose
germs he has inhaled.
During the winter disease-germs
are particularly prevalent, for the
weather conditions are then most
favourable to their growth. People
with Sore Throat and Tonsillitis;
those sickening for the diseases
already mentioned, and convales-
cents from them, are constantly
passing through the streets, and
going to theatres, music-halls, con-
certs, and other public gatherings.
Not only do they exhale germs
which infect the air, but they carry
a great deal of dust with them.
The dust particles, like the sooty
particles in fogs, act as rafts to
float the germs into the throat.
It is obvious, therefore, that these
germs must be destroyed to prevent
them destroying us.
Their enormous number is sug-
gested by Figs, i and 2.
Fig. 1. represents a microscope
plate which was exposed for a short
time to the air and afterwards kept
for two days at the temperature of
•
1
Fig. 1. How air germs develop in two days.
Fig. 2. How dust 'germs develop in two days.
Fig. 3. How Formamint prevents any development of air and dust germa.
tlie human body. The white dots
represent the growth of colonies of
germs, seen under the microscope.
Bach dot contains thousands of
germs.
Fig. 2 is a similar plate exposed
to fine dust and treated in the same
way. The colonies of germs car-
ried by it are seen as the white
patches on the plate, the blurred
and fainter markings being the
particles of dust themselves.
Fig. 3 is a similarly-exposed
plate which was previously dis-
infected with saliva containing
Waiting's Formamint, the pleasant-
tasting throat tablet which a
physician, writing in one of the
leading medical periodicals, re-
cently declared was “ Unquestion-
ably the germ-destroyer of the
age.” The power of Wulfing’s
Formainint is adequately proved
by tlie fact that neither from the
air nor from the dust were any
germs able to develop. In other
words, Formainint completely
killed all the germs. It is, there-
fore, a trustworthy cure for Sore
Throat, and a complete preventive
of diseases wlioee germs multiply
in the throat
The highest medical testimony
endorses these statements of the
efficacy of the preparation. The
Chief Medical Officer of one of
our largest Infectious Diseases’
Hospitals states in one of the
leading medical journals, “I
have never had Sore Throat myself
since I began to use Wulfiug’s
Porniamint, although I suffered
periodically before.”
Another physician writes in the
Practitioner : “ Having tried all
the British Pharmacopoeia
lozenges, and most of the well-
known proprietary antiseptic
lozenges, I have become reduced
to one, and one only (for sore
throat), namely, Formamint.”
Over ten thousand doctors have
also written describing the re-
markable results they have ob-
tained in curing the various forms
of Sore Throat and Tonsillitis, and
preventing the diseases mentioned
above, by Wulfing’s Formamint.
Of all Chemists, price 2/6d. per
bottle. All imitations of Forma-
mint are worthless. Insist on
having Wulfing’s Formamint.
Prove its value for yourself
by writing to-day for a Free
Sample to A. Wulfing & Co., 17,
Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
mentioning the “ Bulletin ” and
enclosing two penny stamps to-
wards postage. An interesting
and instructive Booklet will also
be sent, which contains vital in-
formation to all who suffer with
their throats.
“Vagabond” returns to his puddle in
Fianders *
After the racket of Neuve Ghapelle a couple of
weeks ago, we get quiet and unquiet in streaks,
for the opposing trenches appear to have curious
spasms of lassitude alternating with outbursts of
anger and shell, bullet and bomb.
For some time past I have been “observing” my
battery’s fire from the forward firing trench, and thus
getting familiar with the dodges of dug-in fighting,
Usually a gunner’s acquaintance with the trench
troglodytes is confined to a swim along the communi-
cation canal and a flounder down some of the
by-ways of the firing ditch on the road to some little
spot where a burst haystack or the torn fragments of
somebody’s happy home offer a decent outlook over
the German trenches, or to gather dislocated infor-
mation from some agitated infantry which has sent
a message begging the gunner’s “forward” officer to
lob half a ton of lyddite on a hostile trench-mortar
that is disturbing its peace ot mind and body But
the zone which my battery at present covers doesn t
have anv convenient evrie overlooking it; so another
„ ' , , , ~ ~ ,
fellow and l take 24-hour spells each of hung in the
trenches.
om- habitation is a dug-out scooped in the wall of
the trench, and it would puzzle a house-agent's adver-
tiser to work up any really pleasant description of
it. Its only good points are that it is “convenient
and accessible to business” (the Germ trench is only
about 100 yards off); that there is a copious cold-
water supply laid on everywhere; and a free tide-
phone is provided. There is just room to lie down
and not enough to sit upright. But under present
circs, the great virtue of my dwelling is that inside
it one is more or less safe from shrapnel and bullets,
and unless a shell makes a direct hit, or a bomb
drops on the doorstep 1 have every hope of handing
the house over intact to my successor. When busi-
ness is brisk I emerge from my lair tow-
ing a telephonist, a portable telephone and
a length of wire to “tap in” with, and
choose a loophole in the firing trench to peep
through. The telephonist hooks on to my wire,
which runs along the trench, and we get going. A
each remark ot my battery s guns I observe the
bursting shell on or over the Germ trench, and tell
the battery it it touched the spot required, or to
“put it across em a lew yards to the right or left,
or to change the medicine from lyddite to shrapnel,
or to slacken or increase rate ot lire, and so on. I tie
battery, of course, is tucked away out of sight a
good many hundred yards behind, and can’t see a
yard of the trench or one of the shells bursting’, and
has to depend utterly on the forward officer’s ’phone
for instructions. Hence our friends’ gunners, as well
as our own, make a hobby of shelling to pieces any
old building or object suspected of harboring a
“forward” observing officer.
When trench business is slack, there is only a
ragged “pop-pop-pop” of rifle sniping, with now and
then a shell howling .up and bursting lumps off the
land, or a bomb pitching in and obliterating any-
thing or anyone that happens to lie near. This may
go on for an hour or a day or more. Then suddenly
something will rouse the opposing trenches to frenzy,
It may be nothing more than an extra number of
shots accidentally loosing - off together, or a few
batteries firing about the same moment, or it may
be nothing but sheer imagination—this last at night
especially. Whatever it is, the result is always the
same. The infantry jumps for the loop-holes and
starts pouring out lead; hand-grenades are got
ready, and the “forward” officer (“F.0.0.” in shop-
talk) rings up the battery to stand by. There is
a few minutes’ fiendish pandemonium, the air shriek-
ing with bullets and the rifle fire running up into
one long, roaring roll. If it doesn’t die down, then
j[ le p. 0.0. passes the word, and the shells begin to
splash down on both sides. This may carry on for
anything up to an hour. Then one side or both will
conclude it was a false start, knock off firing and go
back to bed—or to fry iis breakfast on a brazier.
You see, a real, genuine Neuve Chapelle attack may
start in exactly this fashion, and neither side wants
to be caught napping.
After it’s all over there isn’t much to show for it,
except a few yards of trench and parapet to repair,
another ruined house or two knocked into a new
shape of shapeless wreck, and a turn of work for
the stretcher-bearers. Then for a few hours
you will meet Red Cross motors stringing along the
road behind the position at a crawl, trying to avoid
the ruts and save bumping their perishable—maybe
perishing—freight.
“j ermyn Street” . A sample 0 £ the porten-
touB _ looking tripe which the cables dish up :
/ ' ' 1 .
London, Saturday.—Reports from Brindisi, Italv,
dedare that Greece is abandoning her neutrality
and joining the Triple Entente.
Brindisi has about as much importance in
Europe as Port Hacking, Sorrento, or any
other insignificant seaside town in Australia,
j c has a pub or two and a waterfront, and
supports a few loafers disguised as fisher-
men. In Brindisi you can hire a
I) ag0 for a lire to row you to an
island where there arc some ruins,
while for half a lire you can go to
all Opera House which looks like an Odd-
fCl lows’ Hall, smells abominably, and sup-
plies some of the worst drama extant. The
products are fish and goats. Most of the
inhabitants are illiterate and therefore credu-
j onS- Reports issuing from them are con-
soqnontly unreliable. When the big P. and
0 liuers llse d to call, Brindisi did a small but
steady business with passing practitioners in
PXotic vice ; but since the boats call no
longer it lias lost touch with the outside
Its inhabitants are all right at
Rooming goats, peeling garlic, or scaling
(ish . but thov know nothing of high
(lip]oriiacy , and in nnv case about 80 per cent,
()f th ape habitually asleep,
“Harrison 0./’ after buying some prawns :
If Greece joins the A nj es there should be a bad
, „ ~ „ , ~ ~ T ,
tlme ahead tor tho Germ and thc } know
nothing of the numerical strength of Greece s army,
or the quality of the men and artillery ; but a lenow-
ledge of the local or fish-shop Dago convinces me that
the race retains many of the qualities that moved
Homer to admiring rhyme. The Greek s poweis oi
endurance are demonstrated by the fact that under no
circumstances has a Dago fish-shop ever been known
to close. Surrounded by smells, compared with which
the Gerhog’s asphyxiating gases must seem like rose-
water, the proprietors of these tiled mausoleums spend
their days and nights opening da oyst, fondling doubt-
ful flounders, listening to the conversation of the day
before yesterday’s lobsters, and cutting up loaves of
bread. When the last drunk has been shooed from
the premises the Dago lingers on amidst his smells,
taking heart-breaking farewells from “fresh” fish
that positively decline to remain any longer un-
buried; and while the first milkman is still irrigat-
ing the day’s supply of cow-juice, Antonio is at work
hosing his slabs and laying out his corpses to the
best advantage. Of all the Dagos (they numbered
about three army corps) with whom I was acquainted
in my oyster days I never knew one to tear himself
away from his mortuary for sleep and refreshments for
more than two or three hours in twenty-four. Also,
1 have yet to meet one who is not ready to declare a
vendetta against the entire Commonwealth because of
the presence of a tlirippenny-bit with a hole in it in
the fly specked cash register. In a matter of this sort
Antonio can display a concentrated fury and lust for
vengeance positively epic. Imagination boggles at
the thought of how he would behave towards an enemy
who had given him serious ground for annoyance!
These qualities—superhuman endurance and an in-
finite capacity for developing berserk rage at a
moment’s notice—are of the kind that go towards
making a bayonet charge irresistible. I am mindful,
too, of the fact that when the tug-of-war craze was
raging in Australia a team of Greeks pulled all the
other nations of the earth across the line—a remark-
able achievement considering the numerical weakness
of the Greek community in S’Australia, where it hap-
pened. So, between one thing and another, I am
looking forward to interesting things when the steuk-
da oyst nation hurls itself into the disturbance.
“Row Z” trios to excuse himself: —
1 am not a good joiner. I know plenty of men who
are Freemasons, Oddfellows, Hibernians, Grand Elks,
itoehabites and wrecks without the bites. But I
think 1 must be made of different clay. I get un-
comfortable if asked to join an association, become a
member of a league or enrol myself in a sodality.
I hate to be sworn in or out or to find myself on a
committee. 1 would rather find myself on my uppers.
J have never been a past grand anything, and you
couldn’t find an illuminated address from the lodge
or tent if you searched my house for two hours with
detectives. No complete stranger is entitled to wring
my hand and call me “Brother.” Though a timid
man ordinarily, 1 have resolutely dissociated myself
from movements, agitations, strikes, lock-outs and
uprisings, and nobody has ever discovered me amongst
a deputation. It seems to me that there is a special
kind of pushful human being who specialises in these
things, and I am quite content to leave it to him.
1 have never classified myself; but I think 1 must be
a stalwart back-rower by training and instinct. There
are occasions when it seems to me that I should be
up in the front row fussing; but I always think better
of it —or worse, I am not sure which. Having pro-
jected myself into notice, I will now scuttle back into
the obscure seat from which I never should
have emerged and breathe hard through my nose.
Am I a mere human snail feeding on the cauliflower
of human progress, or what? I would be most awfully
obliged if somebody would rise and make a few well-
chosen remarks about me.
"Bible-backed Jack”: I am preparing a
sermon on “The Great Ones of the. Earth
Build Desolate Places for Themselves,” and
with this in view have studied the follow-
ing mansions in or around Melbourne.
Those of a generation old are nearly all
deserted, dilapidated, or more or less neg-
lected. Banyule, Heidelberg, Dr. Martin’s,
is a splendid, moth-eaten chateau. Brack-
nell, Mat Davies’s —enough said. Cluden,
cut up. Bart. Clarke’s Cliveden, a lodging-
house. Ilis Rupertswood, Sunbury, is pretty
well left alone. Lawyer Duerdin’s, in Flin-
ders-street, a wonderful place, where the
law library was in the cellar instead of
wine, is a lodging-house. Henty’s Findon.
Kew, is chopped up. Octavius Browne's
Como, Toorak, is cut and slashed to pieces.
Goldsbrough’s Victoria Parade ho '
German club. Mc-Eacharn s
Kew, is forlorn —he had another Goathland
at Balaclava, and a third m Scotland.
Nothing like meat. Grice’s, at Mol ' iaa f I to ’
is well kept up. King George remaiktd on
its likeness to Osborne while the s-s- Oplrn,
having arrived a day too soon. lay ’>
day off it. Glenferrie, beautiful and Wank
Ilerford, East Elstermvick, remarkably hne
place, auctioned in bits. Hawthorn h e ,
bought by Scotch College. Joseph Claike.s
superbly decorated Mentmore, looi< v,
mincemeat. Knox’s Glen Dus, , dtt T °;
McMillan’s Landcox, Brighton, with lovely
frescoes by English artists, a wilderness.
Bent lived there. Professor McCoy s Man-
tima, Brighton, has overgrowth and undei-
growth like Rip Van W inkle s hair and
board. Sargood’s Rippon Eee is mangled.
Shrublands, Canterbury, is mouldy. OMian-
a ssy’s Tara, torn up. Goldbroker Iv hulls
Tooronga has its grand park half cut away
for brickworks. Lastly, Maddens latala.
at Frankston, is beautiful for ever, * rank-
ston, by the way, was named after Ins
father-in-law, Frank Stephen.
The American Meihcal Times, writing
of "The Progress of Gymecology in IJI4,
mentions in the list of the great specialists
in women’s diseases I)r. Frank Jsyulasy. ot
Perth (WA.). The allusion is commenda-
tory, and the Medical Times thinks inure
of Australia because Nyulasy is part of it.
Colonel Braund’s death at the Dardanelles
recalls the first time he commanded en-
trenched troops using ball ammunition. It
was at Arniidale (N.S.W.) on May -4, 100-.
and he didn’t know it—till after A "con-
tinental” had been arranged for that night
on the showground, in aid of the hospital or
something. One of the events was n sham-
fight by the infantry, of which Braund was
then captain, the scheme being tlm defence
of a bridge against an armored train. The
“train” consisted of a horse-drawn lorry,
tilted with calico, loop-holed for musketry,
and manned by three or four riflemen. The
tilt was, of course, lighted inside. The
defenders were entrenched behind a breast-
work of bushes, and Braund, fearing that
the wads from the blank cartridges might
hurt some of the spectators, Ordered the
men to fire high. Disobedience by someone
of that order brought tragedy. One of_ the
riflemen in the “train” was an ex-S’African
contingenter named Edgar. lie bad done a
fair amount of scrapping against the Boer,
and it seemed a fantastic jest of Fate that
the bullet to lay him out should have been
waiting for him at home. In the midst of
the “sham” firing Edgar fell, hit just below
the left hip. Me died before they got him
to the hospital. The inquest lasted six days:
the whole company of about 50 was called
as witnesses, and everyone was sure he had
no ball cartridges that night. The theory—-
unofficial, of course —was that as the com-
pany 7 had been shooting at the targets during
the day one (or perhaps more) of the men
had not fired all his ammunition, and had
managed to get some of" the live cartridges
mixed up with the blank material served out
for evening use. The affair haunted Braund
for months—years, in fact.


if
1
32
m
&
$
/y-
-,i‘ili
Cm a MBCf?(./i i n
vCopv pt i cm r e d )
w
s
3
IS
5S*
Good fcr the Whole Family.
“ A good cough remedy is one that can be depended upon to cure coughs.
Not some particular cough, but coughs in general.
It must be a remedy for all the different coughs that are so prevalent.
While the cause of all coughs is primarily the same, the condition of the patient is what makes the
difference in the nature of the cough. Coughs of healthy persons are easier to cure than those of invalids.
The powerful cough of a man is harder to cure than that of a baby. If you get a remedy that will cure a
man’s cough, and yet not be too strong for the baby, you have a good cough remedy.
; ?CCI/SiKJ CD E B G=£lD
COUCH REMEDY
(MADE IN AUSTRALIA)
is just this kind of a remedy. It is good for any member of the family. It cures coughs of all kinds,
easily and soothingly, without harming the most delicate tissues of the throat. It acts safely on young
and old.
Jox J^ecuddx
&
'Suva
&
m
15he
WATWORTH CO.’S
TI-SARKIN
h
POSITIVELY TAKES FAT OFF. SAFE TO USE!
ABSOLUTELY HARiILESS.
LET US SEND YOU
BY RETURN POST A
FREE SAMPLE
There are many
reasons why you
should get rid of
all that EXCESS
FAT
Excess fat injures your health, impedes your move-
ments, and makes you the joke-butt of your unfeeling
normal-weight friends. People who are excessively
fat never feel well and vigorous like normal fiolks. You know this is true.
People who have been fat and are now reduced to normal, think other fat people
ridiculous. Excess fat, also, impedes the heart action, rendering its functions
difficult, and interferes with the breathing. Not alone does excess fat injure your
health and endanger your existence, it absolutely destroys your figure and makes
you a ludicrous sight. Why do you stay over fat?
“TI-SARK.IN”
positively removes' excess fat
and will restore your spoiled
figure to genteel and pleasing proportions, and is always a sure and lasting cure
for obesity and corpulency. A few doses improves your breathing wonderfully, and
the course of treatment will cure you. It is the only successful and at the same
time harmless fat-reducer that has ever been discovered. Its efficacy has been
undeniably demonstrated in thousand® of successfully treated cases. It is totally
and absolutely non-poisonous, and ca* in no wise work any injury to tlm general
health, even though it often reduces excess weight by as much as a pound a day.
On the contrary, improved conditions* in the general health become noticeable in less
than a week after its use is begun. CJuarantqe given.
“ TI-SARKIN ” is not a patent pill sold regardless of individual
symptoms, but is a scientific treatment in each special case.
Obesity cannot be cured bv drastic purging pills. Don't use them.
Samlgate, Queensland.
Manager, Watworth Co.
Dear Sir, —When I wrote you in July last my niece
was rapidly improving under your treatment. She was
then over 15 stone in weight, but, has since been reduced
to truly genteel proportions, and is now a very pleasing
figure. She continued her usual diet while undet treat-
ment and was in no way inconvenienced, and I am
truly grateful to you for the result, for before the
treatment she was absolutely devoid of any semblance
of a figure, a burden to herself and friends, and un-
happy generally. She has reduced considerably over
three stone, and her health has improved to a splendid
extent.—Yours respectfully, M. CRA3IB.
GET A FREE SAMPLE.
It does not matter how far away you live, we can treat you
and reduce you successfully by post. We want you to see what
hundreds say of “Ti-Sarkin’’ after using it. We want you
to know all about it.
SEND 2d. STAMP FOR FREE TRIAL. If you cannot call,
send a 2d. stamp and let us send you a free sample and a very-
interesting booklet on the subject of obesity. We will post
same to you in plain package, and free from observation. IF
YOU CAN CALL, we will weigh you privately and supply all
particulars. LADY ATTENDANT and private rooms for inter-
view's. Write or Call to-day.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily. Saturday’s till 12.
THE WATWORTH CO.,
1903 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
(5802.)
I


Combination Case 4 o’clock Cake
Forks, Teaspoons and Sugar Tongs, Pure
Silver-plated, complete in Silk-lined Case,
10/0.
POSTAGE
PAID
TO ANY
ADDRESS.
Oak Cutlery Canteen, containing 1-doz. Table Knives, J-doz.
Dessert Knives, 5-pieoe Meat and Game Carvers, finest Sheffield Steel,
Xylonite Handles, -3-doz. Table Forks, X-doz. Dessert Forks, *-doz.
Table Spoons, 4-doz. Dessert Spoons, -J-doz. Tea Spoons, 1 pair
Sugar Tongs, and X pair Silver-plated Knife Rests.
In A Quality, £9/9/- B Quality, £B/10/- C Quality, £7/10/-
Good Cutlery
A. SAUNDE.RS
The House with the Largest Variety of A 1 Up-to-date Goods. Write for Free Catalog.
SE£SS&SAyNDERSJp=®=
LONDON i&-SYDNEY
■0"
3 Piece Carving Set, Stag Handles, Silver-plated Ferrules and Mounts, finest
Sheffield Silver Steel Blade, complete in Velvet-lined Case, 15/0.
CAT-
ALOG
FREE
6 Pairs Dessert Knives and Forks, Pure silver-plated,
Carved Xylonite Handles, Hand-engraved Blades, £2/10/-
CAT-
ALOG
FREE
807=817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Cutlery Set, comprising t-doz. Table
Knives and Forks, Finest Sheffield Steel,
Xylonite Handles. Complete in Case,
20/-
Polished English Oak Cutlery
Canteen, lined throughout, containing
1 doz. Table Knives, 1 doz Dessert Knives,
5-piece Meat and Game Carvers, Finest Shef-
field Steel, Xylonite Handles, 1 doz. Table
Forks, 1 doz. Dessert Forks, 6 Tablespoons,
12 Dessert Spoons, 12 Teaspoons, 6 Egg
Spoons, 4 Salt Spoons, 1 Mustard Spoon, 1
Butter Knife, 2 pair Knife Rests.
In A Quality, £l7/10/- B Quality, £l5.
C Quality, £l2/10/-
To hear yourself
as others hear you.
a m, »
When practising speaking, singing,
whistling, mimicry, or the playing of
any instrument whatever, absolutely the
greatest aid you can have is to “ hear
yourself as others hear you.”
Tin's enables you to be your own critic, to
judge your own voice as anybody else would
judge it, and to overcome all defects with
the utmost ease.
An Edison Phonograph is the only talking
machine upon which you can satisfactorily
make your own records at home. It gives
a clear, life-like reproduction that will sur-
prise and please you.
If you own an Edison Phonograph you
should try making records. It will repay
you well. All you need is a Recorder —if your phonograph is not
already equipped with one —and a Blank record.
*
On the very'first opportunity call on your nearest Edison dealer. He
will gladly demonstrate exactly how the Records are made, which is
a verv simple matter, and give the fullest possible information. This
will not put you under any obligation whatever, and will prove very
interesting.
H you prefer, write direct to us for a booklet entitled “To Hear
Ourselves as Others Hear Us,” which is post free, and gives full par-
ticulars regarding the making of records at home. Write for it XOW.
THOMAS A- EDISON, Ltd. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney,
SIEMENS
Machine &. Switchgear WorKs: Stafford, England.
Cable &. Telegraph ‘WorKs: Woolwich, London.
Incandescent Lamp WorKs: Dalston, Condon.
R TYPE
INDUCTION MOTORS
Give Satisfactory Service*
TRY THEM AND SEE.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
WorKs Limited
Head Office —London.
59 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
42 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


ĥ
ħ
% No.l W
w
This is fhe famous Liniment that has
been used at the well-known Willows
Hospital.with unfailing success for nearly
sixty years in all cases of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, t/urabago. Stiff Joints, fluid on
the Knee, etc.
Athletes and Sportsmen will find it
an ideal Embrocation tor naming purposes,
it being very soothing, invigorating, and
penetrating.
SOLO EVERYWHERE AT
Fr/ce 2 '6 PerßoF/e.
PREPARED ONLY ti Y
W. H. SCHOL2 & SON,
WILLOWS HOSPITAL,
NURIOOTPA, S.A.
Wholesale at all Warehouses.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
h
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FUNDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
I s ****. «•***;
////
Drink
Horlick’s Malted
Milk and you know
that you are buying purity
plus strength. Recommended
bv Doctors.
HORLIGK3
MALTED MILK ~
Sample will be sent on receipt of
2d. in stamps to Hutchinson /
h Co.. 26, Jamieson St.,
Sydney, N.S.W
WHEN YOUR INVITATION TO A
FANCY-DRESS BALL
comes along, don’t puzzle over what you will
go as, but call on
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO.,
and they will suggest for you from a wonder-
land of fancy dresses and costumes. For
years The Buttonhole Co., 1.0.0. F. Temple,
Elizabeth Street (opp. Mark Foy’s), Sydney,
has won all the first prizes at carnivals and
displays. Wigs made and sold.
Special attention given to the dressing
of operas, children’s plays & fancy sets.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
AGGREGATE
BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE
Bank of New South Wales, 31st March, 1915.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in circula-
tion .. .. £870,918 0 0
Deposits, accrued
interest and
rebate.. .. 38,778,055 10 10
£39,148,973 10 10
Bills payable and other liabilities
(which include reserves held for
doubtful debts and amounts at
credit of Investments Fluctuation
Account, Officers’ Fidelity Guar-
antee and Provident Fund, the
Buckland Fund, and amounts due
to other banks) .. .. .. 7,007,532 19 5
Paid-up capital £3,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 2,500,000 0 0
Profit and Loss. . 330,135 14 G
Less interim divi-
dend to Dec.
31, 1914 .. 87,500 0 0
£242,635 14 6 6,242,635 14 6
£52,399,142 4 9
Contingent liabilities—
Outstanding credits, as per contra 1.184.623 0 9,
£53,583,765 5 6
ASSETS.
Coin, bullion and
cash balances £10,707,401 1 11
Australian Com-
monwealth notes 4,552,573 10 0
Fiji Government
notes . . 5,599 0 0
Notes of other
banks. . . . 57,440 10 0
Money at short
call in London 665,000 0 0
Investments—•
British a n d
Colonial Gov-
ernment securi-
ties . . . . 3,904,054 14 9
~ Municipal and
other securities 431,000 0 0
Due bv other
banks' . . 137,815 15 0
Bills receivable
in London and
remittances in
transit.. .. 5,412,085 0 5
£25,872,969 12 1
Bills discounted and loans and
advances to customers . . .. 25,726,172 12 8
Bank premises .. . . .. 800,000 0 0
£52,399,142 4 9
Liabilities of customers and others
on letters of credit, as per contra 1,184,623 0 9
£53,583,765 5 6
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, 31st MARCH, 1915.
Cr.
To interim dividend for quarter
ended December 31, 1914, at 10
per cent, per annum, paid in terms
of Clause CV. of Deed of Settlement £87,500 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as
follows: —-
To quarter’s dividend
to March 31, 1915,
at the. rate of 10
per cent, per annum £87,500 0 0
„ Augmentation of
the reserve fund.. 50,000 0 0
~ Balance carried for-
ward .. .. 105,135 14 6
■ 242,635 14 C
£330,135 14 6
By Amount from last Account .. £90,729 0 9
„ Balance of half-year’s profits after
deducting rebate on current bills,
interest on deposits, paying note
and other taxes, reducing valua-
tion of bank premises, providing
for bad and doubtful debts and
fluctuations in the value of invest-
ment securities; and including
recoveries from debts previously
written off as bad.. .. .. 239,400 13 9
£330,135 14 C
Cr.
RESERVE FUND, 31st MARCH, 1915,
To Balance £2,550,000 0 0
(Of which £750,000 is invested
in British Government Securities •
and £500,000 in those of States
where we are represented—in all,
£1,250,000. The balance is cm-
ployed in the business of the bank.)
£2,550,000 0 0
By Balance .. . . . . . . £2,500,000 0 0
„ Amount from Profit and Lo=s .. 60,000 0 0
£2,560,000 0 0
By Balance .
. £2,550,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
W. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant.
HARRINGTON PALMER
S. E. LAIDLEY
Auditors.
Audited May 20, 1915.
ĥ
THE BEST
,-SMOKE
is
YELLOW
ASTER
Li TOBACCO
Dinneford's
Magnesia
ħ
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“OINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Catalog
Free to
YOU.
h
for this Magnificent
Centrepiece
This handsome CENTREPIECE is richly
embossed on the finest Al. QUALITY Silver-
plate, and stands 18i inches high. Those
seeking something unique and novel for a
Wedding Present should not overlook this
wonderful Value. Posted free, £4.
Stewart Dawson’s,
strand Corner,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, May 22, 1015.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for Supplies at Henderson Naval
Base (Western Australia).
(a) Wheels & Axles and Pedestal Axle
Bearings for Muck Waggon;
(b) Double Friction Winch with Petrol
Engine;
(d) Steam Crane Navvy.
Tenders will be received at the under-
mentioned address, subject to the conditions
of tendering, until 12 noon on Monday 14th
June, 1915, for the supply and delivery of
above. Delivery to be f.o.b. Fremantle.
Tender forms, specifications, etc., can be
obtained at the office of the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne;
and at the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane.
Edgecliff (Sydney), Largs Bay (S.A.),
Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders are. to be endorsed ‘‘Tender for
. ” on top left-hand corner of
envelope and addressed (if by post prepaid)
to the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne; or the Director of Navy
Contracts, care Naval Staff Office, Brisbane,
Edgecliff (Sydney), Largs Bay (S.A.).
Fremantle or Hobart.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders are to be in all cases on the
printed forms, which can be obtained as
above.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
Department of External Affairs,
Melbourne, 26th May, 1915.
Northern Territory of Australia.
Applications win be received by the
Secretary, Department of External
Affairs, up to the 80th June, 1.9.15, from
persons qualified for appointment as Super-
visor of Hotels in the Northern Territory.
Each applicant must state his age, and set
out fully, by letter, his qualifications and
experience in hotel management. Copies
of testimonials should be furnished; if the
originals are required they will he asked
for.
First-class steamer fare to Darwin will
be defrayed by the Government, providing
appointee stays in the Territory Service for
at least twelve months.
Successful applicant will be required to
obtain first-class medical certificate from
Commonwealth Medical Referee.
Salary, £6OO to £750 per annum.
AT LEE HUNT,
Secretary, Department of External Affairs.
Missing: Friends.
TO STELLA MARY JONES (nee
Cunningham), who was married to
Frederick William David Jones in Welling-
ton, New Zealand, 18 years ago, and who
was last heard of in Sydney; AND TO
DAVID JONES (otherwise called Frederick
David Jones), wjio left Waikouaiti, New
Zealand, for Victoria 88 years ago ; and to
all persons claiming by, through or under
the said Stella Mary .Tones and David Jones.
PURSUANT to the directions of the
Honorable Mr. Justice Chapman, a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand, under
Section 23 of The Public Trust Office
Amendment Act 1918, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the on of
before the Ist day of October, 1915, your
respective claims to a share,: of the estate of
Frederick:' William David Jones, late of
Oringi. Hawkes Bay, New Zealand, shep-
herd. deceased, who died on the 27th March.
1914, Intestate, failing which such estate
will be distributed among the persons en-
titled thereto disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 19th day of
April, 1915.
J. .W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
WILSON, JAMES ALEXANDER. —
Will James Alexander Wilson, last
heard of at Gordon House, Little Bourke
Street, Melbourne, nephew of the late Robert
Hill, of Acland Street, St. Ivilda, or any
person knowing his whereabouts, or able to
give any information concerning him, please
communicate immediately with The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WANTED: The names and addresses of
any of the relatives of BENJAMIN
LEVESON, deceased, formerly of Sydney.
Address R. B. Ellis. Official Administrator,
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
Business Notices.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE.
It is suitable for men, women <fe children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Colline-st., Melbourne, Vic,


FOR
TOURISTS.
HOTEL DANIELL,
BRISBANE.
Tariff from
12/6.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(H ind and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand— amson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
IMffl
LAND.
vv rite for
particulars to
“DROTT’
Swedish
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
(or all purposes on
G
MARINE.
FARM, STATION, COUNTRY OR MoTOR- BOAT,
WOOD AND CHAFF CUTTING, PUMPING, ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
Crude oil is cheaper than kerosene and safer. Power costs only
one-third that of a petrol engine with our system of water injection.
Our Marine type, for Fishing Boats and small Tugs, a Speciality.
Swedish Drott Motors,
C. HILDEBRAND, Affent,
306 Kent Street, Syoney.
P.O. Box 2097.
HUSBAND AND WIFE
RELIEVED OF CONSTIPATION AND
BILIOUSNESS.
“For Biliousness and Constipation both
myself and husband have found Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills most satisfactory,” writes
Mrs. Lottie Parkes, of Chalder Street, Mar-
rickville. “Personally, I suffered with terri-
ble Bilious Headaches, and found a dose of
two pills would soon relieve these distress-
ing bilious symptoms, and I now keep your
remedy by me for use when necessary. You
can use this testimony for publication.”
In thousands of homes Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are the sole family remedy for all
general complaints. They purify the blood,
cleanse the stomach and put life into the
liver, and will prevent many of the ailments
so common if taken occasionally to keep
the system in proper working order.*
SOAPKO.
It Surpasses
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR IN TABLETS;
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS.
Send Six Penny Stamps for Box containing Sample
Manager, of each kind.
SOAPKO PROPY., Box 685 G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Presently it won’t be Dor Tag—it will bo
Her Rag Tag.
A curious sort of entertainment, announced
as one of a series, haupened in Sydney the
other evening. It was given under the
auspices of the Millions Club, which hopes,
by a continued course of these slioavs, “to
promote Australian trade.” Tlie entertain-
ment consisted of a compressed-pill lecture
on the call for an Australian boycott of
cheap German goods and a patriotic thirst
for the local article. For the rest, instead
of a discourse on the necessity of a thumping
tariff, Avhich is the only boycott in the world
that can be effective, there Avere tableaus,
and a one-act play Avith a German as vil-
lain, and classic dances, and a “pome” read
“in a pleasing voice” by the lady herself,
some humorous stories, and a fancy-dress
procession “in Avliich types of Great Britain
figured.” If Australian trade won’t revive
on that dope, the darned thing must be hope-
less.
THE SEARCHLIGHT.
A special Federal Gazette notifies that the
Governor-General has issued an order empower-
ing Mr. AV. M. Hughes, Attorney-General, Mr.
R. R. Garran, Secretary to the Department, and
all officers of the Department whom either might
appoint, to make full inquiries into the sugar ques-
tion. The order was promulgated under the War
Precautions Act, which gives the Attorney-General’s
Department almost unlimited powers of investigation.
News item.
INQUISITOR HUGHES: “Now, I’ll let you tell
me the story of your life."
The Gaud Mayor of Melbourne has stated
that “the ratepayers of Melbourne should
have no fault to find with their municipal
government in comparison with some of the
conditions _ that obtain in Sydney.” Mel-
bourne citizens will now be able to judge
what Sydney has to put up with.
The dilemma: War in Frauce or
re-trenchment at home?
The A ictorian Ministry has frowned
sternly on the Richmond Council for its
declaration in favor of preference to union-
ists, and the Council has been informed that
AA’hile it continues to act on that decision it
will n °t be able to borroAV money from or
through the Government. But if Richmond
decides, as it should, to find its own cash for
works instead of borrowing, and strikes an
additional rate on property for the purpose,
some of Peacock’s supporters may con-
sider that Liberal sentiment in favor of free
labor is being forced a bit too far.
. Botany (N.S.W.), where the smells are,
is to have its gifts multiplied. The State
Parliament is to be given a chance of con-
sidering a Bill to compel all factories likely
to be a nuisance iu the city to be located
at Botany; and the legislation Avhich pro-
poses to create a Harbor Trust for the
Northern harbors and extend the jurisdic-
tion of the Sydney 1 larbor Trust southward,
includes a scheme for the coiwersion of
Botany Bay into a commercial port Avliere
ships can load direct from the factories.
This, presumably, is part of the Holman
Government’s great decentralisation scheme
You see, you can get nicely to Sydney from
Botany by a tAvopenny tram.
THE POTSDAM GASMAN.
T he Kaiser, in acknowledging a message from the
citizens of Achen, said: “The heroism and self-sacri-
fice of the people in this war, which has been forced
upon us, and in which we have already gained such
wonderful successes, are a guarantee, next to God's
grace, that the heaviest affliction which has ever
befallen Germany will be overcome.”
THE TOMMY: “More gas, logs—look out!”
After what Uncle Sam has taken, we’d
better change it to the Almighty Swollar!
A Sydney foreign-trade daily looks
proudly out of the office window at the
bloating of Sydney and advocates more
bloat:—•
Sydney is the best port on the eastern coast of Aus-
tralia, the centre of all our shipping, and the most
convenient point of departure for distribution
throughout the country. Nothing can alter these con-
ditions.
Of course not. If, for a start, quays were
established at Port Stephens and Jervis
Bay ships would still decline to go there,
and wool and wheat and butter and hides
would rot on the shore. The bloaters know
the whole thing would be a failure, because
the fattening of Sydney was ordained by
Providence ; it is as immutable as the pas-
sage of Time, and is, moreover, opposed
only by disloyalists and infidels.
The Argus was always a good place in
which to rave, and since the war started it
is used as scenery by people who foam at
the mouth every day. One signs himself
“No Longer a Pool,” and, says he: —
A\ e Australians with one accord should freely let
it be noted among shopkeepers, storekeepers and mer-
chants that the offering for sale of German goods at
any time in the future will be considered a gross
insult.
And thus do the Argus and its fool
readers continue to rage over German
imports instead of replacing them with
Australian goods made inside a tariff Avail
as high as Mt. Kosciusko.
Another imported genius will enrich the
Commonwealth presently, while he tells
various State Insects about a mysterious
animal known as the Canadian grain ele-
vator, and draAA T s up plans and specifications
tor its housing and maintenance, as approved
in last year’s American handbooks and tech-
nical journals. Victoria is to give the gentle-
man £l4OO and expenses for 10 weeks of
liis valuable time, and any other States may
employ him as much or as little as they
like for what he wall take. The expert’s
name is Jones, and he will be accompanied
by an engineer and draftsman, who will
design the pigeonhole for the report.
David Hall, the distinguished N. S. Wales
statesman, who is kept busy wondering
what he can “fix” the price of next, broke
out into a song of triumph the other day: —
The State Attorney-General is now buying wheat
abroad to make good the shortage found to exist in
the State. Mr. Hall, who paid ss. per bushel to
the State farmers, is now paying from two to three
shillings per bushel more for Argentine grain.
In short, wheat is worth “from two to three
shillings” more than Hall’s Government
made the drought-stricken producers of the
State sell their poor little crop for. It
ought to make the farmers, who are mostly
in debt for last year’s stores, feel nice and
pleasant.
Fowler, M.H.R., ridicules the censoring of
letters from Australia to Europe, on the
ground that no enemy would dream of send-
ing- important information by mail when he
could “send it through an individual.” Well,
the mail travels to Europe rather faster
than an individual, unless the latter goes
ashore when the mail does and takes train
immediately, in which case he invites sus-
picion. Moreover, if there were no censor-
ship over letters the mail would carry all the
information that couldn’t be cabled, and was
worth sending. Fowler lacks the detective
instinct. His name belies him.
THE GENTLE HINT.
“Any shooting around heah?”
“Nothin' much here, young fellah; but I
’ear there's plenty in Europe."
The cheerful announcement is made that
all the States have fallen into line and that
the same rolls will henceforward be used
for Federal and State elections. If it was
the fact there would be no earthly excuse
for the present seven Parliaments. But of
course it is not a fact. There isn’t a Legis-
lative Council in Australia with a franchise
and a roll like that of the Senate. That is
what is at the bottom of the State Rights
which some misguided Labor people fight
for—the right of Property to have a
Chamber which can refuse to do what the
people’s House wants done.
It is stated that Australian swaddles
return the Turkish bombs. You can never
tell what an Australian court-martial may
do.
MISUNDERSTOOD.
PATRIOTIC NEIGHBOR: “ Young man! you're
wanted at the Front."
POETIC NEIGHBOR: “ Good Lord! Tell 'em
I'm not in, will you! If it isn't the land-
lord it’s someone with a bill."
The Argus with its hair doAvn and an air
of general dishevelment :
The lodger franchise in Sydney is directly responsi-
ble for the high rates and charges which impressed
the Mayor of Melbourne so disagreeably; and the
double fares which tram passengers have to pay on
Sunday are the result of Government control.
Hennessy and the Argus are using the
lodger to fight the one-ratepayer-one-vote
franchise which is sure to be the elective
basis of the Greater Melbourne Bill; and
although the illusion is mysterious enough
to deceive people who don’t know, the attack
on Government ownership of transport gives
the shoAV away. But the lodger needn’t
dread the comparison. In Melbourne there
are no trams at any price until half the
Sabbath has passed; and Sydney’s double
fares are cheaper than Melbourne’s fares at
any time. Further, as to Government
ownership, Avliich the Argus connects in
some mysterious way with a broad franchise
would a private-enterprise post-office carry
an Argus three or four thousand miles for a
halfpenny, or telegraph the stuff the Argus
prints over 5000 miles of land lines at the
rate of a shilling for 100 words?
Queensland raised 225,000 tons
of sugar last year. Suppose Den-
ham, inspired by Holman’s ex-
ample, had commandeered the lot
and raised the price from £2l to
£25 per ton, thereby scooping in
nearly a million to counterbalance
the “profit” made by Holman and
his man Friday through the wheat
seizure, what would the Ma State
have said?
N.S.W. Railway Department’s
Eveleigli shops have made their
hundredth locomotive since thes'
started in 1907; and amongst the
engines are several AA’hich have
established Avorld’s records in the
matter of mileage covered without
overhaul —a proud record in manu-
facture for a country which, we
are told, can’t make a clothes-peg
and a mouse-trap. For each
engine about 275 separate drawings
have to be prepared for the guid-
ance of the workmen. And yet.
because Australia has been so lax
in the encouragement of her indus-
tries, every wheel and axle, all
the copper sheets, copper bars and
tubes, and all the steel and iron boiler plates
have to be imported. Australia is able to
produce complicated machines of the highest
quality, but can’t roll the plates that are
required !
There begins, to be some doubt whether it
is Sosh or Private Enterprise that is the
tiger. Never a day passes now without
somebody coming forward to ask that some
other claw of P. Enterprise may be clipped,
or the muzzle nulled tighter over the beast’s
head. The loudest howls are coming, too,
from people who think they approve of Pri-
vate Enterprise—like the Gundagai squat-
ters, who have just asked that the wire-net-
ting merchants shall be stopped from rum
ning their prices up any higher.
THE CHEERER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My patr’otism’s burnin’ ’ot;
There’s not a cove wot goes
But I don't wave at ’im and cheer,
And sool ’im on the foes.
I am a big, upstandin’ bloke;
Me lungs is good and strong,
An’ so I give loud, soundin’ ljow'ls
To ’elp Hie war erlong.
Whenever there’s a farewell spree,
Yours faithfully appears.
The local pub supplies the drinks,
And I supplies the cheers.
I am the type of cove wot proves
Our country does not lack
Strong, ’earty blokes ’oo’s place (like mine)
Is always at the back.
It’s us as ’owls: “Give William ’ell 1 ”
Or, “Stick the ’Uns!” and cheer;
You take your oath, it’s always us,
Because we’re always ’ere 1
They need some cheerin’ on, our blokes;
This war is lookin’ black.
No, I ain’t going! As I said,
My place is at the back.
X.S.W.
HAMER.
THE PROPHETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Australian submarine AE2 lost in the Sea of
Marmora.— Cable.
Fifty thousand Irish Nationalists fighting the
Germans in Belgium and France.— Another.
The AE2 sank to the ooze, but passed the Dardanelles,
Though the Fusion said Australian ships were rank
disloyalty;
And fifty thousand Catholics are fighting in the hells
At Neuve Chapclle and Ypres, with their backs turned
to the sea.
The Army of Home Rulers gave the Prussians a cold
douche;
But unabashed are Snowball and Digges de la Touche.
Digges de la Touche de Everard’s a loyal citizen—
He flaps the flag and lifts his voice on every Empire
Day;
This year, alas! he’s silenced by the tramp of soldier
men,
And from his cool, sequestered place we hear no more
his bray.
They talked our navy down, and thought that they
had talked it out,
l ntil war's contradictions put the wowsers to the
rout.
And dear old Oswald Snowball and his Walls of
Derry myth!
But a few months since he prophesied Home Rule
meant anarchy,
And cabled traitor Carson that he’d be supported
with
The moral force and hymns of Orangemen across the
sea.
But Australia has a navy, and Home Rulers with
the Roosh
And French and Belgian contradict Snowball and do
la Touche.
VICTORIA.
MARTIN LUTHER.


Chappell Bijou Grand.
CHAPPELL
PIANOS
Chappell Model 111
(ALL BRITISH-BUILT)
SPECIALLY CONSTRUCTED FOR THE AUSTRALIAN CLIMATE.
CHAPPELL FaAories were established in 1812. Over a century’s experience is
incorporated in every CHAPPELL Piano. CHAPPELL’S are the most progressive
manufadurers in Great Britain. Their pianos are used in the foremost Englis
Conservatoires.
The Royal Academy of Music
The Royal College of Music
The Guildhall School of Music and
Trinity College, London.
We stocK the models shown
connoisseurs and musicians these
on our Easy Time Payment System.
in this advertisement, and shall be pleased to show intending buyers,
exquisite pianos. Call to-day and see them any model can be bought
Catalogues are post free on request. Write to-night.
Chappell Model V.
Sole Agents:
PALINGS,
338 George Street, Sydney.
Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba &. Lismore.
Chappell Model IV.
r
r:
ms
The BRITISH-MADE
ENSIGN Cameras
can be used for either
Roll Films o<* Plates —
That's why they are so Popular.
ĥ
Some photographers stand for Plates, others for Daylight-loading Roll-films.
The individual advantages of both are available to the possessor of a
“REGULAR ENSIGN ” Camera. With this model one may insert a
spool of film for six or twelve pictures, or, when one exposure only is
required, it simply means removing the back panel and the insertion of a
dark slide. The reversible view-finder, with spirit-level attached, the
rigidity of the stirrup front, the beautifully-constructed shutter and lens,
are some of the most striking features of the “REGULAR ENSIGN.”
PRICES:
REGULAR ENSIGN, Model A.Y.— 4’in. x3|in. sJin. x3iin.
Fitted with Symmetrical Lens ... 65/- 87/6
REGULAR ENSIGN, Model A.K.—
Fitted with Ensign Anastigmat Lens 82 6 102/6
REGULAR ENSIGN, Model S.D—
Fitted with Aldis Anastigmat Lens... 100 - 125 -
Send for 400-page Catalogue—Gratis.
SYDNEY-
-386 George Street.
MELBOURNE-
-266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE —
93-95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE-
-43 Rtmdle Street
Also at AUCKLAND and WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ħ
TOOLS of QUALITY
FOR THE PRUNING SEASON
Pruning is an operation which is of the utmost importance for ensur-
ing the unchecked and healthy growth of the fruit tree, and to enable it to
bear that quantity of fruit which distinguishes it from the tree that has
not received the necessary "careful attention. The following are a < w o
the types of pruning tools which we have in stock, lliese aie in< uc ec in
our pamphlet of Pruning Points. Write for it.
No. 47952.
Malh handle
Steel Blades.
Bin., 1/-
No. 2669.
B lade and
handle in one
piece.
8-lin., 2/6
9in., 2/9
3S T o. 8286.
French pat.
Coil Spring.
Bin., 2/9.
Genuine
“Mexeur” Prun-
ing: Shears.
Bi>in., 6/-
No. 47955.
Straight Handle
Steel Blades.
91in., 3/6.
Write for a Copy of our 300-page Catalogue of Tools for the Farm,
Home and Workshop.
Proprietary Limited,
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.


In catching hand grenades thrown by the
Turks, and making hot returns, the Aus-
tralians played excellent cricket. The spirit
of sport is the winning spirit, like that of
King George IV. top-notch Scotch.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
■=:h!
Immediately you enter “Scott’s” you
are impressed with the comfort, sump-
tuousness, convenience of its accommo-
dation —for everything in modern
“hotel service” is at YOUR service.
“Stay at Scott’s” is the recommenda-
tion of those who have experienced
its comforts and advantages.
Single Rooms or Private Suites,
including Bedrooms, Sitting-room,
Bathroom, etc.
Private-attendance ’phones in all rooms.
Par excellence Cuisine. Hotel orchestra.
SCOTT’S HOTEL.
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Telegrams—“ Scott’s,” Melbourne.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
h
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE l/« PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc*
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
That bright spirit, Rev. Hulton-Sams
(“the Fighting Parson”), who swapped texts and
left-hooks with the best of them in Queensland, and
is now somewhere putting a head on Von Lager-
sausage, has been wrfting to his friends a word of
appreciation of the infernal Australian climate. Some
surprise had been expressed in England at his good
showing as an athlete, and he took it as a hint that
his critics looked upon him as a has-been. “They
don’t know,” he says, “how young the Australian
climate keeps y0u.... I took on a fellow who was
reported to have fought a draw of 20 rounds with
Driscoll, but he was not as good as his reputation
and I stoushed him.” A regiment of Hulton-Samses
would be a sore trial to somebody. He carries
round a lieutenant’s commission these days.
* * * *
Tom Cowler, the English white hope who
has already knocked out Les O’Donnell and Gordon
Cogliill, met Ben Doyle at Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night. Ben was handed a smack on the jaw in
the first round that would have settled a less hardy
and courageous pug. He took a nine-seconds’ spell
on his hands and knees, and resumed in an anxious
frame of mind. In the next round, after a little
preliminary sparring, the Australian was smitten
cruelly upon the nose and chin, after which he was
upper-cut, and, as he reeled away, presented with a
right swing to the side of the jaw, which put him
out. He never looked to have a hope from the first
interchange of blows. Cowler must have a terrific
punch, on his record here ; but his work looks crude.
Also, he appears to lack the fire which characterises
champions. He didn’t seem to be trying to hurt his
adversary till he got the encouragement of a smash
on the nose to wake him up—a trait that one noticed
in that other good-natured giant, Jack Massie, now
at the Dardanelles. A ruthless precisian like John-
son would have Cowler out, or thereabouts, before he
began to get annoyed.
* * * *
When the last U.S. mail left, Mike Gib-
bons and Packey McFarland had signed articles to
fight in N’York at lOst. 51b. ringside. This was con-
sidered, locally, to be the match of the year. If
Gibbons is really capable of doing his best at this
weight it is hard to see him as the master of husky
performers like Les Darcv and Mick King, who
enter the ring in the vicinity of list. 71b. Vet he
is classed as the equal, if not the superior, of both
Olabby, who is a genuine middleweight, and McGoorty,
who never boxed in Australia under about 12st.
McFarland has been out of the game for some time.
He is said to be about the finest welter that the
U.S. ever produced, and has made so much out of
the game that he can afford to keep motor-cars, and
live on friendly terms with Yankee Senators.
* * * *
It was an uninteresting and one-sided
scrap at Christchurch (M.L.) the other night, when
Peter Cook (holder) met J. Penrose for the light-
weight supremacy of louland and a purse of £5O.
Cook weighed 9st. SJlb., and Penrose 9st. 81b.; so,
in one respect, it was beautifully even. In all
others it was magnificently lopsided. Bight from Hie
start it was evident that the challenger’s name was
an alias for Mud. The champion’s footwork made
the unchampion look like a novice, and Cook’s well-
judged hitting was cruel to a simple lad who should
never have left his home for a hard world. In the
fourth round Penrose’s eyebrow was badly torpedoed,
and after that he was either hanging on or fraying
out the ropes. In the seventh round the police
stopped tiie assault, and Cook collected the cash and
went off to spend the evening'.
* * * *
This is how London Field audits the
position: “Clean sport, either in this country or else-
where, in 1914 or any other year, is not open to the
attacks which have been made upon it; and unclean
sport should be swept out of the country, whether
we are at war or not. Visitors to racecourses can
behave themselves just as decently as visitors to
music-halls. English sport has given us the fit,
plucky, alert and honorable soldiers and sailors who
are fighting for us now ; it has given our army and
our fleet the one element of success which Germany
will never understand and on which she never calcu-
lated ; it has given the nation a consistent balance
of common sense and courage which will enable us
to face this crisis, and whatever worse may be our
lot, better than could any of the alternations between
feverish exritabilitv and ponderous gloom. . . .We may
have had too much pleasure in the past; but is that
any reason for our Puritans to insist on too much
nain in the present? We have to ‘last the course’
bettor than the Germans. We shall do so in the
English way, which is not given to parading' what it
feels most deeply.”
* * * *
The V.R.C. is this year running its King’s
Birthday Meeting as a two-days’ fixture —June 5 and
7 : —on behalf of the war funds. All the profits will
go to the Cause, and the public is being led to expect
that on these two special occasions every competing'
gee will be encouraged to do its best.
* * * *
For many years the rider of the Mel-
bourne Cun winner was presented with a gold-
mounted whip by “Paddy” Reynolds, who died the
other day at Balaclava (Vic.). Paddy was licensee of
the Royal Mail Hotel in Bourke-street for a long
time, and, later, kept the pub known as the Cathe-
dral, in Swans ton-street. The steeplechaser Zouroff.
killed at Flemington in ’9B, ran under his colors. He
was also the reputed owner of Solution.
* * * *
Malt Mark’s ' success in Brisbane “Thou-
sand” with the top weight of 9st. 101 b. was a spark-
ling performance. To tbe 16 other starters weight
ranging from 71b. to 401 b. was conceded; but the
winner jumped off first and kept there. Malt Mark
is by Malster from Simper, and is owned in Queens-
land, where he was bred.
* * » *
The 3000 guineas paid in Adelaide for the
three-year-old Naxberv (Positano—Our Queen, a
Wallace mare), is easily the largest sum given for a
racer in South Aus. since the far-back days when
Thomas Elder was at the head of things there, and
gave 4000 guineas for Gang Forward. The colt has
come on a lot since his failure in the Melbourne
Cup and Derby, and his new owner, Joseph Timms,
contractor for the East-West railway, has the fancy
to start racing with a good one. Naxbery is to
remain for training: with Burn, the owner for whom
he lately won the Adelaide Cup.
Some winnings by Maoriland horses dur-
ing the past season: Warstep, £6300, the most ever
won by a horse in M.L. in one season ; Reputation,
£4690, the record for three-year-olds; and Desert
Gold, £3740, the same for two-year-olds.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The first pro-
fessional bookmaker in Australasia was Sammy Isaacs,
a little Hebrew who started the game at Kirk’s
Bazaar, Bourke-street, Melbourne, 50 odd years ago.
Sammy is still about Melbourne, not exactly a
millionaire, but neat, respectable and respected.
He was one of the lightweights of the P.R. when he
took to pencilling in a primitive wa3q and was fol-
lowed by other “bare-knuckle’’ men —Bill Branch,
Jack Thompson, Fred Pollock, etc.
* * * *
The Vic. Football Association is starting
a fund for the dependents of any of its members
who may suffer at the Front. The proceeds of all
matches on June 26 are to go that way, and the
Assoc, is asking ground attendants to forego their
usual wage and throw it in, too. There should be
bumper attendances. The League has so far done
nothing, intending perhaps to rely upon its annual
exploitation of the public in the final matches, when
the entrance charge is doubled.
* * * *
The recent doings of South and Essendon
promised a cheerful collision when the two met
on the East Melbourne ground last Saturday, so a
full house attended to watch the performance. It
came very near to being a rout through the Southern
team’s painful inability to kick goals, its score at
half-time being 1 goal 13 behinds to 'Don's 5 goals
3 behinds. Otherwise the Red-and-Whites played the
quicker and surer game; but of what avail is skill
on the rearward lines when the forwards kick as
wildly as a mule? Somebody apparently communed
with these long-eared experts during the interval,
and in the last half of the game they booted 7 goals
3 behinds to ’Don’s 3 goals 4 behinds, winning out
by 9 points. It was a case where behinds counted.
Melbourne went over to St. Kilda and spiflicated the
locals by 89 points to 65. The Red Legs put in a
tremendous finish, but they would do well to distri-
bute their energies more evenly; four or five enthusi-
astic boggers-in can’t always carry a team through.
Carlton visited Geelong and walloped the Hollow in
a methodical fashion by 67 points to 40. ’Roy
accounted for Richmond by 60 points to 54, Rich-
mond’s strenuous finish nearly snatching a win on
the post. Talking of the post, O. Jove rode Menthe
into third place in the Springbank Corinthian at
Moonee Valley that afternoon, and then rushed back
to town and played wing-centre for Essendon for
two strenuous hours.
* * * *
At Swan Hill (Vie.) there will not be
any senior football this season. Thirty-five footballers
of the district have gone to kick goals with the
Turks; hence a paucity of players in that part of
the Murray. The enrolling officer at Swan Hill says
BILLIARDS CHAMPIONSHIP AT MEL-
BOURNE.
Walter Lindrum watches brother Freddy
rattle up a 200 break.
that 282 young men volunteered in tliat town, of
whom 209 were accepted and passed as medically fit,
and a number went straight to Melbourne to eidist.
* * * *
• The various Ass. games sent several
thousands of disgusted barrackers home in a state of
“Bli-me” mixed with “Whaffor,” ’Town failing to
make good against Brunswick with only 58 points to
G 5, and P’ran finishing up with a 17-point deficit
against Port —53 to 70. Also, Essendon’s 33 points
were hopeless against ’Scray’s 56. ’Cote put up a
great scuffle against the unbeaten North—43 to 57
and the select suburbs of Brighton and Hawthorn
contended in a courteous but hefty manner, Brighton
84, Hawthorn 69 being the measure of their respect-
ive merits.
* * * *
Queensland Rugby League had a great
dust-up at Brisbane on Saturday, when North defeated
South by 17 points to 7. It was the wind-up of the
“Country Carnival,” and most districts were repre-
sented. One hundred players took part. Northern
Queensland v. Brisbane was the hit of the programme,
the hit being particularly perceptible to the city
reps., who went doyvn by 14 points to 11. From the
gathered elans the selectors sorted out the invading
force for the South.
* * * *
Practically all Sydney grades will spell -oh
on the coming Saturday, as a tribute to the inter-
state match between Queensland avid N. S. Wales. The
Northerners have hunted up the best of their avail-
able talent, and the public has been promised some-
thing special. But in these days, when the “gate”
has as much attention from governing bodies as the
ticket office of a theatre gets from show managers, the
public is liable to have more or less exaggeration
served out. Still, League football in Labor’s newly-
acquired State has considerably improved.
* * * *
By donkey-licking Glebe on Saturday at
Wentworth Park, Balmain pushed that stalwart
Rugby outfit from the top rung of Sydney League’s
competition ladder and filled the vacancy with that
blushing modesty which is one of its characteristics.
The Glebe backs were most to blame for the state
of the score-sheet—lB points to 5 points. It was
their day to be not at home, and their ragged con-
duct was reflected upon the forwards. It was a day
of thuds. Annandale obliterated North Sydney by 30
points to 8. South Sydney fell upon Western
Suburbs, and when the wreckage was salvaged the
flag read: S.S., 30 points; W.S., 3 points. It should
have been kept a profound secret; but murder will
out. Newtown and Eastern Suburbs kept their
trouble more even. The latter’s argument was finally
blown out by 5 points to 3.
The state of parties now is: Balmain, 7 points-
South Sydney and Glebe, 6; Newtown, 5; Eastern
Suburbs, 4 ; Annandale, 2; and Western Suburbs,
nix, as before. The case of W.S. is like that of a
miner who died on the West Coast of Maoriland. A
Government Department had written to him, and
his mate returned the letter accompanied by a state-
ment that “old Bill is dead.” After a long inter-
val back came the letter —re-posted, apparently, by
some bright junior redtape. Deceased’s mate was
undisturbed. He merely returned the missile once
more with the information that “old Bill is still
dead.”
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League continues to
administer disqualification medicine to players who
mix fight with their play. The second list was com-
posed of first-graders, and the dose ®f correction
served out was a fortnight’s spell on the bank. It
isn’t nearly enough for some of them.
The Rugby Union, which is alternating
play with military drill, got off five matches on
Sydney grounds on Saturday. The pick of them
was at North Sydney, where Eastern Suburbs played
a draw with the local representative 15—8pts. each.
Other games resulted: Mosman (new to first-grade),
24pts. v. St. George, 3pts.; Randwick, 9pts. v.
South Sydney, 3pts.; University, 16pts. v. Manly,
nil. ; Glebe, 18pts. v. Balmain, llpts.
* * * *
In the Australian Rules game of football
as it struggles along in Sydney the six teams have
each played three matches. Central Western and
Paddington have each won three, and, with 12 points
apiece, lead the procession. Sydney has two wins
and eight points to its credit, and East Sydney has
won one game and accumulated four points. South
Sydney and Newtown share 0 between them. It isn’t
much in these hard times.
Followers of the game in Sydney mostly
ambled along to the Cricket Ground on Satur-
day, to see the Sydney-Newtown match. It
was no match; it was a severe rebuke. Sydney con-
cluded by helping itself to 121 points! Newtown
was grudgingly allowed 29.
* * * *
Ryrmont, the unbeaten team, is top clog
in the Soccer scuffle in Sydney. With lOpts. it is
exalted over Granville by 2pts., over Annandale and
Glebe by spts., over Balmain, Northern Suburbs and
Drummoyne by 6pts., and over Sydney by the whole
blazing lot.
* » *• *
This war is becoming a nuisance. Be-
cause he has to shake things up a bit extra in the
Royal Navy Victualling Stores at Sydney, Syd Hilder,
the rattling Soccer centre-half, has to drop out of the
game. He has played for Ma against every State
except S. Aus., and including Maoriland, since 1904.
This is the sort of thing that is sure to bring about
reprisals.
* * * *
Albert Miller passed out last week, aged
69. He was the second son of “Money”
Miller, the clever Melbourne financier
who started insurance companies and
banks in a workmanlike manner, and
left a vast fortune to be shared by a
numerous family. Albert and Septi-
mus Miller took to horse-racing during
the old man’s lifetime, and enlarged
their stable after his death, but they
never played the game to a risky ex-
tent. The Miller stable for many
years has been a power in Victorian
“cross-country” sport, and some clink-
ing good horses have been trained
there. Redleap, the finest jumping
racer on the Australian records, carried
Sep Miller’s colors, whereas Colonel
Shilinski ran in the all-white of bro-
ther Albert. They rarely owned a
first-class or even second-class flat-
racer, yet they probably went as near
to paying expenses as any old-eatab-
lished owners on the turf. With Bun-
dook, a son of Carbine, they had hopes
of winning a Melbourne Cup, but the
rough outsider was just beaten out of
a place.
They held a memorial service on Sunday at
St. Barnabas’s Church, George-street, Sydney, to Blair I.
Swannell, soldier (killed at the Dardanelles), sailor,
rover and true sport, and said Canon Charlton in his
review of Swannell’s life (he knew a good deal of
it) : “He was straight to a fault, wasted no time in
diplomacy, was as fair in his dealings, and good-natured
to a degree... .He roamed the world over, and played
the game as a man wherever he went.” A man who
can earn an epitaph like that can sleep sound.
* * * *
Both of South Australia’s crack wicket-
keepers have stepped into the limelight in connection
with the war. Fruit-grower Leigh Winser becomes
private secretary to Governor Galway; Mulholland,
who has lately had the job, returns to England to
join a regiment there. Mulholland’s elder brother,
heir to the Dunleath barony, was killed early in the
war. And lawyer Gordon Campbell, whose sound
batting has generally secured his place, in the S.A.
XI in preference to the other keeper, Winser, joins
the next Expeditionary Force.
* ' * * *
Victoria’s finest swimmer, Beaurepaire,
about whose status as an amateur so much fuss has
been made, has obtained a commission as lieutenant
in the next batch of Australians to move out on the
war trail. About the only “sports” not represented
in the great conflict are the bookmakers; but they
are so used to the dead and the stiffened that the
novelty no longer appeals to them.
* * * *
Baseball item in Sydney on Saturday:
“All Saints defeated All Souls by 44 to 4.” The way
their pots were put on leaves no doubt as to the
kind of souls they were.
* * * .*
This is how the Dunlop Rubber people
put it to The Bulletin: —
“We reckon that the time is ripe to push road-
racing among the younger generation of cyclists. The
best means is the promotion of juvenile races over
short distances on the road, an age limit of, say,
under 18 being adopted. Frequent events over a dis-
tance of from three to five miles, and, later in the
season, 10 miles, for small cash prizes, would attract
hundreds of young riders into clubs and leagues.
The cost of competing should be kept at the lowest
limit; in fact, the fees should be only nominal.
The movement, whilst being a cheap one to initiate,
would be invaluable to the sport, thereby laying the
foundation for active road-racing seasons ahead. If
the clubs and trade will combine in this direction,
road racing will receive a fillip that will have an
important bearing on the future of the sport through-
out the Commonwealth.”
The annual Australian Grand Prix 100
mile motor-cycle road-race is booked for .Tune -o-
The N.S.W. club has charge of the race, which will
be over the Yetholme-Suimv Corner course, as in
1914.
* * * *
Another Australasian record got the go-by
last week, when C. Nuria n (Vic.) belted his motor-
cycle over the half-mile in 21sec. That pans out at
about 85 miles per hour, and any fool can t do that
on a motor-cycle.
* * * *
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association and
Victorian A.A.A., having agreed to hang up the Aus-
tralian cross-country championships for the coming
year, have now recommended to the other States that
the track and field championships should be sus-
pended until the gas poison and the smoke of battle
lift. The enlistment of hundreds of athletes has left
no other course feasible. The Ma State, however,
will hold its own five-mile cross-country run at Hand-
wick on July 31.
* * * *
Three athletes usurped the limelight at
Sydney ’Varsity championships last week. 1!. Pittar
won the 100yds. in llsec., 220yds. in 24 3-ssec*
440yds. in 56 4-ssee., and was third in the 161 b. shot-
put with 28ft. Bin. ; B. M. Beith’s successes were in
the 120yds. hurdles (18sec.), and a dcad-heat in
the high jump at sft. 4in. ; and C. B. Furrier won
the half-mile in 2min. Usee, and one mile in 4min.
59 2-ssec. It was a cold day for the rest of the
competitors.
The shindykit behind Arthur B. Bustle
(who defeated '“Mick” Carter for the Australian
short-sprints championship recently) is making an
effort to entice English professional ped. W. R.
Applegarth to Australia. The Englishman has been
challenged to a match at Sydney over 100yds. for
£2OO, and if he makes the trip, a three-cornered
match between Donaldson, Postle and Applegartli is
almost certain to be staged.
* * * *
Sam Peters, who died lit Sydney last
week, aged 72, was a bright boy of the sporting
school which flourished a quarter of a century ago.
When Ned Hanlan defeated K. Trickett on the Thames
on Nov. 15, 1880, for the world’s sculling champion-
ship, Peters and John Decide were responsible for
the movement to find Bill Beach's stake to replant the
title in Australia. Beach won the title again
on the Parramatta River on August 16, 1884. When
Beach retired in 1887 Peters put his shoulders behind
pony-racing in Sydney, and successfully piloted un-
registered horse-racing at Lillie Bridge, Brighton
and Victoria Park. He was a sportsman of broad
principles, and Sydney has sheltered few with better
ideals of fairness.
**•■**
“Bias”: Sydney, bowlers are iu the throes
of disputation as to whether their hobby is a pastime
or a game of skill. In the eyes of the man in the
street bowls is a harmless opportunity for elderly
gentlemen to get some sunshine and soda. But a
noisy playing faction lias arisen to say that latter-
day bowls isn’t a social-Saturday-afternoon sort of
sport, but a strenuous brace-breaking business, and
that the sole object of its votaries should be to get
into “O’l pennant team, thence to “B,” thence to
“A,” thence to the Champion Rink, thence to the
Single Championship, thence to the Champion of
Champions class, The result df this gospel is that
the greens are monopolised by the members who are
playing all-in —men who train all the week, and
become more grim and deadly-earnest the higher
they climb the competitions ladder. The ordinary
club member who wants his week-end bowl gets it
with difficulty, while the cheery old sport who has played
at bowls all his life without becoming skilful is ieft
to troll the merry bowl around in the bar so long
that when he does get a game he can’t be sure if
there are two dozen or three dozen bowls to troll
round the jack. A compromise is suggested bv the
abandonment of the “Cl,” or junior pennant, compe-
tition.
* * * *
A famous golfer went to the Links of
Paradise when A. M. Ross died recently at Edin-
burgh. For years he was practically unbeatable
on the links at Musselburgh in the competitions pro-
moted by the Edinburgh Burgess Society. In one
competition he took the long second or Linkfield hole
each round in three strokes, which is looked upon
as one of the most remarkable feats in the history of
golf. He was 65 when he handed in his card.
Out of the 1,200,000 men accepted for
Kitchener’s first army 900,000 were married, most of
them with children. It looks suspiciously as if the
single young Bull, who should be the first into the
fray, has been hanging back. Which explains the
dead-set made in some quarters against.the continu-
ance of the sports programmes.
* * * *
A new indoor pole-vault record goes on
the books. Samuel Beulah, at Portland, Oregon,
lifted himself over the bar at 12ft. 7fin. —fin.
further skyward than the previous best.


You Can’t Expect to Win Unless You Learn to Box!
ii±.
®fa
You may have all the" qualifications, but strength, determination
and pluck, WITHOUT SKILL, will not avail you against a Scientific
Boxer. •
The Scientific Boxer is cool, calm and collected. lie is constantly
drawing his opponent into position, puts the weight of his body behind
his blows, plants his punches where they are most felt. He confuses and
bewilders his opponent by evading and countering his attempts to
“land.”
The Scientific Boxer is master of his movements. ITis muscles are
lithe and elastic. He can hit from any position, without “telegraph-
ing” the blows.
You would surely like to be a Scientific Boxer. And now is your
opportunity to be so.
I Teach Boxing by Post!
The instruction is practical, simple and easily
understood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates
every serviceable move in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the,benefit of my many years’ experience
and keen observation of the best moves of the
World’s Best Boxers.
You now have the opportunity of cultivating your
natural ability, of making .good use of the means
which Nature gave you for protecting yourself.
You will surely be fair to yourself and learn
Scientific Boxing.
You ought to write for my illustrated booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which gives
fuller particulars, cost of tuition. Just write your
name and address on this advertisement, and post to
me. I’ll know what you mean. Send three penny
stamps for postage.
Full particulars are yours for the asking. Kindly send 3d. to cover postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
410 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
THE
vzWt
ft ™
L~' &m£an
Ride it to work-
Ride it for fun
Write for
Catalogue “ D.”
HENDEE MANUFACTURING CO., 109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
“London Opinion”
Cigarettes
To cigarette smokers who
prefer a mild Virginia of
rare quality, I can highly
recommend
“LONDON OPINION.”
These cigarettes have a fine,
mild and distinctive flavor
that puts them in a class by
themselves.
They are manufactured by
the ARDATH TOBACCO
CO. of LONDON.
Being only 5/- per box of
100, they are certainly ex-
ceptional value.
Postage, N.S.W., 61
„ Inter-State, Bd.
Actual size
Write for a Free Copy of my
Catalog:, “A Discriminating
Smoker’s Guide.” It will
interest all smokers.
A. M SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
"Keep Smiling *
In other words #
-SHELL
O BTAI NABLE
EVER.YWHEP e
(fIPILLfIRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
!
ĥ
Capillarine will help
you to develop a
manly moustache. It
never fails to pro-
duce good results—
not a quack, but a
reliable preparation
that has proved its
merit.
Prove it Yourself—lo/6
Post
Free.
Craig & Aitken,
654 CEGRCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
HOTELKEEPERS ! HOTELKEEPERS !
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR ! NO BOTTLE-WASHING !
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS; Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
A
Regular Auction Sales of
WOOL, SKINS, HIDES,
TALLOW and
Sundries
held by
v »
V
Offices:
4 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY.
Stores: PYRMONT.
LIBERAL ADVANCES if required.
Correspondence Invited.
RIGNEY SHOES WILL PLEASE YOU
—we can safely say this, because MGNEY
SHOES are made in such a variety of
shapes and sizes, that there is a style to
suit every taste, and a fit for every foot.
MONEY SHOES give such wonderful ser-
vice that their daily wear is a real economy.
The illustration shows a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, latest perforations. A high-grade,
made-to-order style.
Price - 27|6
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf, 25/-
and 27 /0.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG, j
ħ
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
"The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
The lily grows near the dung-heap as well
as in the pot in the parlor behind the piano.
The other day the Waikato (M.L.) police
descended on the shack of a settler who was
judged to be neglecting liis children. They
found the place so appallingly filthy that it
could not be compared with anything they
had seen before; the youngsters were ill-fed,
half-naked and verminous ; their vocabulary
was awful. But in the midst of all the
horror the eldest boy had obeyed an impulse
to work with stubs of pencil and bits of char-
coal, and people who afterwards saw his
drawings were impressed by their beauty of
outline and their delicacy. He was 15, and
the magistrate could do nothing better than
send him and his sisters to a State school for
neglected kids.
The way they do the thing in America,
where Nielsen is trying to make a show <>i
earning his four guineas a day by selling an
occasional pound of butter. Nielsen has in-
formed Holman that California only allows
imported butter to be sold in wrappers
branded “Imported”; and the shopkeepers
who sell it have to display a conspicuous sign
announcing that imported goods are sold
within. As the word that indicates that a
thing has been dragged from some other part
of the globe hasn’t the blessed sound in
America that it carries to some alleged Aus-
tralians, the sign doesn’t exactly cause a
rush. Information coming from the N. >S.
Wales Trade Commissioner in ’Frisco is
pretty expensive; but in this case it would
be valuable enough for Australians if they
only learnt the right moral from it.
"Put on the Best! ”
There’s no doubt it pays to fit
DUNLOP
TYRES ®,
You have less trouble,
better service, and
greater satisfaction.
It costs no more to
order “Dunlops,” but
what a difference
in the service!
ALL GARAGES.
LIST ON APPLICATION.
★ ★
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. .
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, I
ADELAIDE. PERTH.
LAUNCESTON.
CHRISTCHURCH
WELLINGTON.
BRISBANE.
V///////L
■
m
\
m.
V
m
m
1
W
X.
JL
CP.
7
-=-•
✓
r**


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
2®
o^o
r
jC
C (
T Tf\
%
vm >%
a Mr .'TaV
(' ml
JlliM r
h'. \ - Sit
SS;
Hi.W&.iJ
<*WV**t3VK
>1
HI
W*~>
m
iw?
ay
n m, xi
?V.* &
owm
sr
?.y
WmSPb
?•••?•••') V< i&y ,*BK a'Vii s&\
M K
i#t)
v i;h ! )y
&S9T*
<SS?
'r —''"XT & v 3
O
o
pr
*r
S
o
IS
w^m
,■\ "' rf'jS*■* >:'JF
5®
V- ' '
7 s
''l?
«S 3
&
&&
is&s
✓v?
/3W 1
A£*s£
«sS
L
j*5W
0
'•‘•Tvt’V
V*v*v-/ r ,~#r< - •=?' 1
MA
2SW??
N 6T t_
M
Cobra, Boot PolisK
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
And his merry
Soldiers, too,
Make things willing
For the Turk—
Show him “points”
He’d rather shirk.
Listen !...With arp
Ani>'rv roar,
o j ’
Our brave boys
Sweep up the shore.
Guess the Turk savs,
“ H ome for mine ! ”
When the “ COBRA’
Bayonets shine !


vu
Do You Like to Draw?
If you are anxious to
develop your talent for
drawing so you can
make money, send us
a copy of tiiis sketch
and let us explain.
Black and white artists
make big incomes.
The Australian School of
Sketching 1 , Bond St., Sydney
h
Interstate Agents.— SYDNEY: Tucker & Co.;
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co. ; ADELAIDE:
IV. P. Auld & Co. ; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co.; GKRALDTON: A. 11. Mountain & Co.;
HOBART: J. Ferguson & Co. ; LAUNCESTON:
J. McKenzie & Co.; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M.
Heddrick & Co.
ĥ
METGI&S
IWJlßPfflf OCOAI3
Made in
Australia
for
Australians.
Barnet Glass
Motor=cycle Suits
Waterproof Raincoats
for Gentlemen
Waterproof Raincoats
for Ladies
are unsurpassed for Style, Quality and
Durability,
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
AH States and N.Z.
10 Shots in a post-card
ħ
at 500 Yards
The Ross .280 Rifle using the Ross Sport-
ing ammunition will group 10 shots in a rect-
angle the size of a post-card at 500 yards.
• 280 Calibre
High Velocity ••
Tty to equal this at 200 yards
with any other sporting rifle
and ammunition.
But its wonderful accuracy
is only one of the reasons why
you should carry a Ross .280
on your hunting trip.—Another
is the anchor'ng properties of
the Ross .280 Sporting Am-
munition with topper tube ex-
panding bullet. This projectile
delivers a smashing blow as it
expands in the body of your
quarry and fells the largest game
instead of allowing it to escape
and linger wounded in the bush
as happens so often with other
sporting bullets.
Ross Rifles
The Ross .280 Rifles and
Ammunition are used all
h
over the world wherever big game is hunted.
Illustrated Catalogue sent free cm request.
Ross Rif leCo.,Quebec,Canada.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERXJPXiONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2 9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS ANT) STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch
ĥ
“ARAoiO' vfiL,CiJi<AICU tiUtPiIAN
fIt£NINA for CiRtY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “X like the Celebrated ‘AIIAIUS’
Lgyptian Henna before all others; it is the Dest anti
cheapest I have ever used."
“Arabis" Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y-m. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
To the Showman who would give his
patrons the world’s most wonderful Film
production and at the same time
enhance the prestige of his theatre
2>e
©
1 B
The Master Picture that has taken the world
by storm will pack your theatre to overflowing.
Ask your patrons do they want “ CABIRIA.”
We know what the answer will be.
Norman Lindsay’s Praise.
Dear Mr. Mclntosh, —I have just come from seeing
“Cabiria,” and I must congratulate you on having been
the means of showing Australia the most wonderful film
ever produced here. It is more than a mere film produc-
tion in the usual sense, for, apart from its astonishing
mechanical construction, it is an artistic triumph of the
very highest order. I have always had a suspicion that
what was wrong with most actors is that they know how
to act. Tin; consequence is that one always makes a
distinction between an actor and a human being. In this
superb film the realism is so perfect that one never sus-
pects the presence of an actor. I have never had such a
sensation of reality as in the presence of this work of art.
The gesture, the expression of emotion, the understand-
ing of each individual character is so wonderfully
restrained and finished that the effect is powerful beyond
anything I, for one, have ever seen on the stage. The
accuracy with which the period has been presented is
astonishing, so vast is the ground of research that it
covers. This is a real vision of antiquity, not only in its
manners and mentality, but in the outward semblance of
its dress, houses, streets and peoples. Every detail is
perfect. Its scientific exactitude is equal to its wonderful
artistry. As a production its educational value is beyond
expression. Having once seen it no one could ever forget
it, and to have seen it is to have seen the ancient world.
I wish, for the better intelligence of this community, that
every school child in Australia were taken to this rare
performance. They would learn more of Rome and
Carthage in two hours than in two years of school teach-
ing.—With the best regards ever,
NORMAN LINDSAY.
are now
Austral
asian
Films Ltd,
SOLE HIRERS BY ARRANGEMENT WITH CABIRIA, LTD.,
HUGH D. McINTOSH, Managing Director.
The FILM MOUSE
2§la FITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS
A"o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. A o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
11. L.: Well, it’s a long shot, and even if
you hit the bull you are not likely to make a big
score W.J.M.: Can’t get a quotation in Sydney.
Nelson F.: Thanks; worth watching... .Nark:
But why were not the Austrians interned instead of
the Italians?....Speqktonian: Been told before....
Dico: No doubt the French sang the Marseillaise at
Jemappcs; but Jemappes is in Belgium. Buy an
Atlas or history book, or something.... Holy neux:
Apply to the author of the book for the alleged
reward. .. . Q.: Give the Devil his due, he knew most
about explosive shells and portable smells Lab:
We’ll read “The Life of the Princess Elizabeth”
when we are not so busy reading the death of
people we’re more concerned about.... Sal: Get a
job at a canteen.... Marrer: Inscrutable rigmarole.
Rar: Carried away by an excess of zeal? No.
By Martha Washington, as cleans out... .Irreden:
The Bulletin is not hostile to British officers.
What it is hostile to is the exclusion of Australian
officers from the jobs these imported persons are
shoved into Dell: If Private Enterprise keeps an
old letter-box on its door, why assail the G.P.O.
when a Sosh message-boy drops the order for 200
tons of onions into the ancient receptacle?....
Barks: The Law is a mule, of course; wherefore don’t
fool about at its heels.... Wonder: Australia’s bor-
rowings have been mainly for the temporary relief
of politicians who were bankrupt of imagination.. . .
R.Q.: Pays better to cultivate cabbages than flowers
of speech.... Charity: Suggestion that Church and
Stage should change places for a month looks im-
practicable. Have you considered a bishop as the
Moor of Venice or a sermon on humility by a ’bellow
star? R.W.X.: Get Boreas interned if he refuses
to leave the flags alone. We presume he’s a German.
Pot: Well, the Turk doesn’t fight on beer, any-
how. The beginning and the end of it is that a
man who often knocks off to blow the froth away
while he has a scrap on hand finds that booze rhymes
with lose G.K.S.: As you say, it’s “not a matter
of fighting a few Boers this time.” It’s rather a
matter of fighting a drove of hogs.... Tomtit: Back
to your nest! In a literary way, you are not fit
to brush his wide-brimmed hat... .Roderick: Is it
your own vesper hymn or one you bought in the
street for a penny ? We hope you didn’t pay more
for it... .Koranui: In memoriam verses of equal
quality can be clipped from almost any paper....
11.C.G.: Make'some brimstone remarks to yourself.
You’re handier to a good sulphur supply than we are.
H.G.R.: Unsuitable... .Fedcler B.: Humorous item
basketed with weary sighs. .. .Stadia H.: Can’t you
be brighter than that about the Devil? He’d
become a curate if be thought he was as dull as
that... .N.A.N.: It’s the basket’s 0wn.... Von G.:
A loud, confused noise on paper.... Rex: Printed as
a terrible warning:—
:. . . Bert F.: But why go on ? Why not Stop It
N0w?.... Carrie F.: Dear lady, we don’t want to
slate you publicly. Our one desire is to be rid of
the verses.
TO AUTISTIC fAN’D INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.V.T.: Whatever have we ever published that
makes you think that would be worth publishing?. . . .
W.J.K.: Would make a picture; but doubt whether
it would be generally understood.... Christopher B.:
Yes; with three years’ hard work, under the proper
guidance, you ought to do something acceptable....
E.A.P.: Is it a drawing of the Spirit of Stodge?. .. .
J.M.W.: Cupid and the football don't mix well
artistically, and the humor is thin. . . .H.M. (V.) :
You don’t make such a failure of the Grand Duke as
you do of the Australian cow; but both are far
below publication level... .M.H.W.: Try to learn
something about drawing. ... 8.M.D.: Strained humor
and finicky, hair-line drawing.
A word to the stay-at-home:—•
If you can’t go you may
Save the life of a man who can.
When the hand goes to the pocket the needs of
the Belgians are worth a deep dredge. So, too, are
those of the Poles (don’t forget the Poles). Like-
wise, those of the returned wounded ; and the women
and children who have given their men to the battle
line (don’t hesitate in their case; they are the
brave).
But there is another fund that requires more
attention than it is receiving. The Red Cross. A
mistaken idea is that the Red Cross is officially
supplied with all the money it requires, just like
the army itself. Far from that being the case,
it receives barely enough from Government sources
to pay for the firs-t direct attention to the men who
are stricken by lead or steel or sickness. And its
activities go far beyond that.
Yet, despite the appealing nature of its work,
it appears that there can be no picturesque call
made to the public for funds. The public would,
undoubtedly, rush to the help of one of the truest
of the succors that humanity has devised for the
afflicted. But, unfortunately, the public is not
apprised of the urgency and nature of the case. So
the Red Cross gets no boom.
It is, therefore, merely a matter of mentioning that
the doctors and nurses and stretcher-bearers (perhaps
the bearers should have been placed first, or maybe the
nurses should, or —but they all should be first) have
looked up a moment from their work in foreign
parts to ask The Bulletin to say that their good
Australian pals, the “blokes” we know and love,
are short of the things that would give them back to
us. Money will buy those things.
There are no limitations one way or the other in
regard to contributions —a postal note for a couple
of shillings or a couple of hundred sovereigns will be
equally welcomed. There are branches in every
State. Headquarters for N. S. Wales are in George-
street, Sydney.
How Billjim will welcome what the money will
buy—particularly in his convalesce*! stage; and con-
valescent hospitals are what the Red Cross people
are unusually anxious about at pVpsent—you can
think out for yourself. Remember all the time that
he is your Billjim, and has been aiTlict*d while doing
a job that was yours as well as his. He had the
strength and you had the money. He gave h-is
strength. Now you do your part, and give the
money.
AN APPEAL.
Darkened skies ; quietness flies ;
Stormclouds drive; fierce lightnings strive
With purpose cruel, the danger’s brought
1 masked, unsought; by none ’twas brought;
Carried upon a hurricane blast
Of hateful fury. In hell ’twas cast.
Cannons roar their loud furore,
The while scream shells, with hideous yells
And ghastly calls to bo\'s in brown,
Young boys, so lately called from town,
Dear boys, to some woman’s tender heart,
Who toils, though bitter teardrops start.


w.
17
<
Your love for
your children
makes you anxious to obtain for them
the best strength-maker that money
can buy.
This, SCOTT’S Emulsion can safely
claim to be. The cod liver oil used in
its preparation is the purest and most
nourishing in the world: whilst the
SCOTT process makes every drop
available as nourishment.
A course of SCOTT’S Eniulsion
strengthens the lungs, aids teething,
promotes growth and an increase in
weight and lays the foundation of
vigorous health and a sound con-
stitulion
TRADE MARK
on every package.
SCOTT’S Emulsion
should always be given
to children who are
subject to chills, bron-
chitis, whooping cough
or chest weakness, or
who are weak from
the effects of measles,
fevers and climatic
conditions.
In your own interest,
insist on genuine
scorn
Emulsion
IMITATED BUT NEVER EQUALLED.
Hare You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
British Prices, 1/114 and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, etc.
Mi
'
V
Mmii
m
'm
DT B. Allen's (U-SAI
Mxig&m
wabnutl
STAIN.
fGR
GREY
HAIR.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Fife Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. KF"AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Moitgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
U P J? 61 ce . nt \s f the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— the Hon. AW. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L C.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E Wiuchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian
Knox, Esq, K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A..
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE; 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY. Secretary.
HELMETS
of all First-class Hatters
throughout the Commonwealth.
The name TRESS stands for the height
■9
of English fashion and quality.
Makers —Tress Sc Co.. Ltd., London, Eng.
Wholesale Agents—Cox & Mailer,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, B.isbane
and Christchurch,
V
ħ
Shave Yourself.
The Gillette Company spend a
fortune every year for blade improve-
ments; experts working the year
round on just this one feature. And
it shows in the blades. Every new
lot is better. Take a packet home
to-day and try them. British made*
Gillette Standard Sets. One Guinea. Sold Everywhere.
Write for illustrated and descriptive booklet. Mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD,, LONDON. ENGLAND.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
Ihe “Swan-Safety"’ is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made: may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
t&WA
POVMTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, VV.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
h
EVERYTH!fIG 1M RIMGS' SEHD POR OUR SPECIAL RIHC CATALOGUE
CHOICE DIAMONDS MOUNTED IN SOUO IB" OOtO
..t.
<0
ml-
N 63-9
ĥ
-V? "
5/10/-
Mtll
I j I
I
n 600
r->.
MAKERS OF RINGS IM WHICH THE STONES DO STAY.
The Inky Way.
Frank T. Bullcn completed a volume of
'‘Recollections” a few weeks before bis
death. “King Dick” Secldon lie likens to
“Elijah” Dowie, of all people in the other
world. Both of them, he says, had the
peculiar power of spell-binding a crowd with
speeches that were often rubbish. Once lie
says lie listened to “King Dick” for an hour
and a quarter, and though he talked the most
“turbid rubbish,” inferior to the stuff usually
spouted at the street-corner, it seemed to
"hypnotise the audience.”
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
An incidental mention of Thadcly O'Kane (B.
13/5/T5) recalls North Queensland’s best-known jour-
nalist, dead these 25 years. He was brought to the
Northern State by James O’Quinn, the first R.C.
Bishop of Brisbane, who wanted to establish a first-
class daily in the South. But O’Kane was the wrong-
man for the job. A writer of great ability and a
journalist of energy, certainly, but the last man to
handle a pen with a priest guiding the holder. His
connection with this North Australian quickly ceased.
For a time he edited a paper in Central Queensland,
during the absence of the proprietor. The paper was
the organ of the squatters, and the interim editor
in his first article denounced these people in lurid
language. The proprietor rushed back home, and
O’Kane went still further north. He bought the
Northern Miner at Charters Towers, and made it
the most important journal north of Rockhampton.
Its editorial columns were soon unmatched. Thaddy’s
was a kind of IXmnybrook journalism ; if he saw a
head, he hit it. Conventional people, of course, said
that the Miner was a mere mass of scurrility ; and us
a set-off his opponents engaged a very scholarly
gentleman to crush O’Kane under his erudition.
Thaddy just loved it. If the don ventured on a
classical quotation Thaddy translated it into Charters
Towers English, with burlesque classics, and, finally,
beat the foe off the field. But it was only his
pen that roared; his 'own voice Was soft and his
manner almost deferential. Where Thaddy’s paper
would call for a lion chop, Thaddy himself would
ask for a lamb cutlet.
J.F.PI.” : A section of tlie original manu-
script of “Pickwick” lias come into a Lon-
don auction-room, and the excellence of
Dickens’s list is particularly noticed. And
yet it would not nave been in the least sur-
prising if Dickens wrote abominably, for he
had only just given up reporting for‘the Lon-
don Morning CnuoNici.E when he was com-
missioned by Chapman & Hall to write
Pickwick Papers,” and as a reporter he
had to turn out copy under most disturbing
conditions. The origin of Pickwick is asso-
ciated in a way with Melbourne. It was at
first intended to be merely a sort of literary
embroidery to a series of clever sketches
drawn by a talented artist named Seymour.
The commission to do the writing was
offered to Charles Whitehead, but the job
did not appeal to him and he suggested his
young friend, Charles Dickens, who was just
then emerging into prominence as a sketch-
writer over the signature of “Boz.” Dickens
was always very grateful to Whitehead and
remained his friend and helper when nearly
everybody else had dropped him in conse-
quence of his bad habits. He assisted
Whitehead to “make a fresh start in Aus-
tralia,” and personally saw him off on the
voyage. But poor Whitehead was unable
to make the new start, and, reaching Mel-
bourne, died literally in the gutter.
* * * *
Mark Cohen, who edits Dunedin (M L )
Stab competed 50 years’ battling on the
Inky W ay lately, and decided to take a holi-
dav with Uncle Sam. Mark is a rotund,
jovial little man with eyes that give him
more trouble than his digestion, and a nose
just the right shape for news. He had two
mild weaknesses before reaching the age of
discretion—politics and racing. Like many
another good man, though lie knows a lot
about the first, he lias a delusion that he
knows all about the second. But he doesn’t
Mark Cohen started right on the bottom
1 ung. with a bundle of papers under his arm,
and now three cheers!—he isn’t ashamed
of it.
* * * *
Plodder and Stoughton’s £lOOO prize-novel
competition was cut into quarters. As
reported already, the £250 for the best Aus-
tralian story went to Miss Katherine Su-
sannah Prichard, of Chelsea Gardens, Lon-
don, who weighed in with “The Pioneers.”
Charles Garvice was the judge—though only
the Lord and Plodder and Stoughton know
what are the qualifications of this Cockney
wnter of flapper novels for testing the merits
of a story dealing with Australian pioneers.
Gilbert Parker gave the £250 Canadian prize
to a Scottish lady, Mrs. Taylor, for “The
Land of the Scarlet Leaf.” Rider Haggard
judged “Golden Glory,” by Plorace Rose, of
Mantzburg, Natal, the champion among the
S’African competitors; and the best Indian
yarn—“ The Temple in the Tope”—was
written by a Newcastle-on-Tyne man named
I' oskett.
THE PEN AND THE SWORD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first Fritz Blutwiirst went to tight
He thought the Deutscher prospects bright,
And swaggered in his junker pride
To see the ordered Teuton tide
In docile valor break and reel
Upon the Allied lines of steel.
But soon the slaughter brought surprise,
And Fear chased Wonder in his eyes—
The stolid, pickelhaubened waves
Lay spent and torn in shallow graves.
Then bleated Fritz in anger deep:
“I’ll not be nuipliered with the sheep 1“
So, while his foolish comrades bled,
The soldier bold in terror fled ;
And to the British, tattered, lame,
Brave Blutwiirst in surrender came.
Whereon he tasted prison fare
Within a large enclosure bare.
He found the lodging rather grim,
But still the place appealed to him.
In fact, he said: “I thank the Lord—
This pen is better than the sword !’’
VICTORIA.
JEAN S.


□
It is commonly accepted that electricity will be the
power of the future. Progressive Manufacturers, how-
ever, are realising more and more fully that electricity is
the power of the present , and that as a means of
applying this power
ħ
tß<
T-H
h
ra:
v v
WHSsmatmmk
v. 1 ' J
■I ■'■■' •:i' ll
,;# .. . ' ' ■. ■
X
ir»
-«f£
S*.-:
Wm
S *
Q
fffl
0
B.T.H. Klectric Motors enable machines to be driven at their highest productive
speeds, while extensions are being carried out in the minimum of time and
without interrupting the operation of existing plant.
They are compact, reliable and safe; can be easily contioiled by mexpeilenced
persons. Write for Bulletin.
#
“ Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd. (W.A.), Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
—Agents
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen &. Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tulloch & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Macquarie Street, Hobart.
ENTYRELY BRITISH
S£
sa
c.
D
T RAOE MARK
AVON
RITISH directors, British shareholders and
British workmen benefit by the purchase
of Avon Tyres —in the first place.
U Secondly, there is substantial benefit for motorists—in
increased comfort, greater security, longer service. Not
problematic, but proven. In two private and independent
tests Avon Tyres showed a cost per mile less than half
that of their nearest competitor.
STOCKISTS and AGENTS :
N. J. HOWES & CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Market Street, Melbourne.
AVON GOLF BALLS:
NORMAN ALLWOOD, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Manufactured by the Avon India Rubber Co. Ltd.,
19 Newman Street, Oxford Street, London, W.
4
MAKE MOTORING CHEAPER
SAFER-MORE COMFORTABLE
His Masters Voice'
Big Successes in the June List!
Among many notable new records introduced for June, the following
are conspicuous for superb rendition and perfect reproduction.
They are records that you will really LIKE —records that you will
wish to hear over and over again.
03387 —Through Tove to Tight
Miss Alice Lakiu (Contralto)
2-054055—Parigi o Cara (Far from Gay
Paris)
Mme. Lucrezia Bori & John McCormack
02481—Good By© (Tosti)
Mr. John McCormack (Tenor)
l Military Gems Part I.
2-4207 < (British Grenadiers —A Soldier
I and a Mail—The Vacant Chair)
(Military Gems Part 11.
(Tet Me Tike a Soldier Fall —
Soldiers’ Chorus —God Save the
King)
By Cecilian Quartette.
8271 —A Humoresque on “Tong Way to
Tipperary.”
Parts I. and ll.—Double-sided record.
COLDSTREAM GUARDS BAND.
02544—President of The Republic.
George Robey (Humorous)
8266
i Caprice.
I Petite Caprice Valse
Miss Una Bourne
(Piano)
NEW PATRIOTIC RECORDS.
4-2507 —The Red-Crossed Flag.
Mr. John Harrison (Tenor)
4-2493 —One United Front.
Mr. Stewart Gardner
01107 —Why Britain is at War (From
“The Times”)
Mr. Henry Ainley (Talking)
1455 —Charge of the Eight Brigade
(Recit.)
Mr. Henry Ainley.
Sold by accredited “His Master’s Voice” dealers everywhere.
Complete list, instrument catalogue and name of nearest accredited
dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.


Hanking:, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS repeived from 1/- upwards.
INTEREST paid at 3J per cent, on first
£2OO and 3 per cent, on excess to £5OO.
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE GOV-
ERNMENT.
MONEY TO TEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest, 5 per
cent.
Branches and Agencies throughout the
State. Post Offices are not now Agencies for
this Bank.
By Order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THF.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act. - )
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000 000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198;679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1914) .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £55,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King- Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank n!
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq •
George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland,
throughout the Australian Commonwealth
r*ew Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 175.000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C :
James Love, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, 3lelbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£2,000,000 0 0
1,755,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
£5,755,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Coiien, Esq. . . . . Chairman.
Hon. IT E Kater. M.L.C. .. . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker Esq
General Manager: T. A. Dirbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Eire hi n Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. FI S
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Deui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING.
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £1,000,000
Preference Shares .. 500 000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
„ up „ ;• 500.000
Uncalled Capital 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
(at Interest for
’ fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial (|)utual tile
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments a:’.u
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping* &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D.
■ Geared Turbine 15,000 Regd. Tons.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
. OEONTES .
OMRAH
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
? u ® Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads ; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
®f lllillss from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
n ROPE ’ iu connection
Railways UmtCd States and Canadian
“ MARAMA,”
0500 tons register, 10,500 tons displacement.
■ J 1 ’ 1 ™ largest, finest and newest Steamer trading
between Sydney and San Francisco,
Sails 12 o’clock (noon), SATURDAY, JUNE 19.
Following Sailings: JULY 17, AUG. 14, SEPT. 11.
Panama Pacific Exhibition now
r raneisco.
open at San
Around Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
by Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line or via
Japan and China.
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
BOMBALA (40a0 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 5.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 9.
Leaves Sydney June 12.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 16.
Leaves Sydney June 19.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for f
S.A. and W.A. ports) J
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 12.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. Peregrine (3500 tons) leaves Brisbane every
Friday at 8 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at
GLADSTONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting
at TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOUItILYAN for ports
as far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
June 5; July 3; July 31; August 28.
Apply: — >o CE A NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
m
Z°Lo
2/9
THURSDAY
V
CAtBNS
V
,*1
' • *
ISBAWE
SyDNErJUE- LORO
/ I _ •»
NORFOID I?
MELBOURNE;
rfIOIUDAy^
,
> toPac/f/clsles.
TO PAPUA & RABAUL
TO SOLOMON I?
- fe. . .
TO NEW HEBRIDES
TO MARSHALL&
TO GILBERT I?
BurnsPh/lp& cpltp
Send for Pamphlet.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
:!??!*&>
DIRECTORS
£3,500,000
£2,550,000
£3,500,000
£9,550,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull', Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon, Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C:
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORS:—WiIIiam Harrington Palmer, Esq. Sheplieard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq. ■
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 i bread needle St., E.C.
346 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world
1 J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
l i l tiitlessp °te l l lialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offeis a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 1.16 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
h
JSanHtaralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking- Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
C f d t V and drafts draw “ on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and collected
F*ehlnvJ n • ,sBu ? d t 0 an f parto ' th » world - Bills or forwarded for collection Banking and
i esB 0i e^ er y des oriptio n transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
■from
1/- *o £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
AMES KELL, Deputy Governor. DENIS'>N MILLER. Governor.
,3
L
affl
W.
Spleodid WiQter To(irs
TO THE
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
FIJI
Quaint Customs,
Rugged Scenery.
TONGA
Palm-fringed
Coral Islands.
SAMOA
The Gem of the Pacific.
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION FROM
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WAKILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
- June 5 and July 3.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
GRANTALA (50U0 tons),
June 5.
WOLLOWRA, June 12.
MORIALTA, June 19.
Saloom Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the nrst Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL, & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST AND
FINEST VESSELS TRADING BETWEEN AUS-
TRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins cle luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Panama Pacific Exhibition is now the great
attraction.
AROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning from San
Francisco by Union S.S. Co.’s Royal Mail Line or
Via Japan and China.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITER),
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
T H !F. North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads- —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,634 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,476 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. "
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. . . . . . . £250,000
Capital Paid up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits . . £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trustee,
Administrator or Attorney under Power fob absentees,
and is the only Trustee Company empowered by Act
of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K.°MACKELLAR, M.L.C
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. I JAMES KIDD, Esq.
H. W. BELL. Esq. | R. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
arid at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


YOU ARE ALWAYS
well-dressed, stylish, and comfort-
able about the feet when you wear
ABBEY SHOES.
The boot illustrated is a GLACE
KID DERBY BAD.
Price 25/- and 27/6.
In Special Quality, Leather-lined,
30/-
Also in Box Calf, 21/-, 25/- and
27/6.
Tan Willow Calf, 25/- and 28/6.
Special Quality, Leather-lined, 30/-
Postage extra.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Write for Our New Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Savoy Hotel, Perth
(The Ritz of the West).
80 Luxurious Apartments.
Ball, Banquet, Reception and English Grill
Room.
SAVOY LOUNGE TEAS.
Perth’s Fashionable Function,
EXCLUSIVE ORCHESTRA.
BP
m
I
Recherche Dinners.
Smart Lunches.
Exquisite Suppers.
American Bar.
Wire “SAVOY, PERTH.”
(t. D. PORTUS, Proprietor.
TELESCOPES
A good Telescope affords a view of delight-
ful experiences, and makes each outing highly
instructive, as well as intensely interesting.
The “RANGER” is made of solid brass,
three draw tubes, cap for object glass, and
revolving disc for eye-piece, to keep out dust.
Good definition, and magnifies over eight
diameters, with splendid range.
The “Ranger” Telescope
Post Free, 12/0,
Only obtainable from
A. P. GreenfieldS Co. Ltd.,
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
ĥ
I am a Success!
It wouldn’t do for me to
say so myse ; f—l’m only repeating
what tens of thousands of thoughtful
friends of mine say as they watch the
even flow of ink recoid their words un-
failingly and unhf sitatingly on the paper.
I work silently, unceasingly, never splutter nor scratch.
I am safe in the hands of a child, the perfect fountain
pen, made in England by British labour.
—I do not leak
—I fill myself in a flash
—I clean myself in filling
—I cost 15/- (upwards for a larger size).
Tell your Stationer you want an introduction to
Onoto the pen —and ask him to show you how I work. i
Then take me away and use me daily. That’s what I
I’m meant for.
Booklet about me will be sent free to all inter-
ested on application to T. De La Rue &
Co., Ltd., 186 Bunhill Row, London,
or the Australasian Rt presentat i ve,
Eokman Bakek, 50 York St.,
Sydney.
12k**
and upwards,
at all Stationers, &c.
**
Pen
e
ħ
EVAN
Pastilles
h
THESE wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a
formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes : “ 1 thank you for
the boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Sole Manufacturers :
EVANS SONS LESCHER, & WEBB, Lid., LONDON. *
Ask for “EVANS” Pastilles and see you get them.
k EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accomir.odation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16- per day
AND UR WARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HAUL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
lIOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
■yOU begin to
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous, A
bottle of the
world-famed
ĥ
Lockyer's
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp ; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
What the whole Empire
uses for all forms of
KIDNEY TROUBLE.
Just a little exposure to cold or damp and
you liave got a pain in the back. Agony to
bend or move in any way, bad headache, puffl-
ness under the eyes, these mean for certain
that you have kidney trouble. Then you
should look out for deadly Bright’s disease,
which creeps on unawares.
It is positively dangerous to trifle or play
with the most simple form of kidney disease.
The moment any symptoms of kidney
trouble are detected a very simple and sure
remedy should be tried without delay.
What the Boers and other nations use
for Pains in different parts of the body.
You should use one which millions of people
are using throughout the wide world —one
which English sufferers have faith in, and so
have Scotch. Irish and Welsh people. Not
only these, the people in New Zealand, West
Africa, China and India, in their millions,
swear by it.
The people of Holland, the Belgian, the
Frenchman, yes, and the German, too, all
know that it is the only one certain remedy
for kidney trouble. Canada’s and America’s
millions use and recommend it daily, and now
in Australia the sale is growing enormously—
the sure remedy they are all using is De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
Why are all these millions of people using
De Witt’s- Kidney and Bladder Pills?
Because they have proved by experiena
that these wonderful little pills are really
life-savers.
If they are so good, if these multitudes of
people in every corner of the world are using
them with such great success, do you not think
it would be wise for you to give them a trial?
If you have such symptoms as a nasty taste
in the mouth first thing in the morning, con-
stipation, general feeling of weakness, and
Kidney&BladderPilis
( These Pills also act on the liven,
, /5 v 2fc&'>rtS%}
MIXED:
The Little Magic Box in Blue and Gold.
irritability, aches and pains in the muscles or
joints, puffiness under the eyes, or bad head-
ache, you certainly need De Witt’s Kidney and
{ladder Pills.
Or if you suffer from backache, rheumatism,
gout, sciatica, lumbago, stone, gravel or pains'
n the bladder, muscles and joints, you are
Polish to yourself if you do not commence to
ise these little wonder-workers immediately.
Many remedies claim to cure, and do. with-
out doubt, give relief for a time, but the one
remedy which will give you quick relief, and
most probably a permanent cure, is De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, for when once
cured by these wonderful little pills our
readers say they are cured for ever.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills can be
obtained at any of the branches of Washing-
ton H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., Ltd., Sydney;
Longmore’s, The Melbourne Pharmacy. Bourke
Street, Melbourne; and all leading chemists
at 2/9 and 5/0 per large box. The 5/6 size is
two and a half times as large as the 2/9 size,
and contains enough doses to last you three
weeks.
Try your nearest chemist, but if you have
any difficulty in obtaining De Witt's Pills
send the price of the package required to
either of the firms mentioned above and the
goods will be sent by return, post free.
To cure Kidney Trouble of any kind you
must positively get rid of the cause—the
poisonous Uric Acid. Remember, to do this,
a real remedy must pass through the kidneys
and the bladder, and not through the bowels
as most Kidney Pills do. When you see the
urine change to a muddy, bluish color —a fea-
ture which distinguishes De Witt’s Pills from
all others —you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing touch on. the right spot
—the kidneys and the bladder. A._wonderful
pill—straight to the kidneys—that is the
reason why De Witt’s-give such amazingly
quick relief every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that
blue color.
DeWitt s Pills
Sole Proprietors: E. C. De WITT & Co., Ltd., London, W.
When Weaning Baby
The Best Food to give is
The ‘Allenburys’ Milk Food No. 1.
On the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
4&llenburys Foods
i amr pamphlet on infant feeding and management free
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,


A “BORSALINO” MODEL THAT
WILL BE POPULAR THIS SEASON.
The “SVlaloa”
m
i m
Price 14/6.
A smart, stylish felt Hat that 'Will appeal to the man who
wants individuality and comfort, t 00... .It is a medium-
finished model, semi-lounge shape, with 2% in. brim —un-
bound. . . .It may be worn in any shape, as your inclination
dictates. Color: Mixture shades of Fawn or Grey.
SEND FOR ONE ON APPROVAL.
SIZE AND COLOR PREFERRED.
STATE
WE PAY POSTAGE
PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Toowoomba BRISBANE Townsville
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result —
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR, NO ICE NEEDED,
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN
BANANA LAND
A nest of most enthusiastic and patriotic
-Teutons is Pirn pain a Island. German is
• . aaiversa .l tongue on Pimpama, and pro-
British sentiments are about as frequent as
in Potsdam.
The most astounding election result in
Bananaland was the turning down of Min-
ister John White for the Musgrave. The
Musgrave is reputedly one of the most Con-
servative centres in Queensland, and the
putting in of an obscure Radical in place
ing an ° ld aDd tri6d T ° ry Was reall y stagger-
Of the 25 members of the Kidston party
who in 1909 coalesced with Philp, only one
Roberts is now in the Assembly. Of the
Philp Ministry not one is now in Parlia-
ment. The new Parliament is, in per-
sonnel, one of the very newest, and the job
ahead of it one of the very toughest.
A Brisbane daily that has cost its pro-
prietors some £50,000 cash in 11 years
passed into the hands of a thickly-gilded
Southern sport a few weeks ago. It may
the Courier's supremacy under the
new regime; it has not caused the Tory
journal one sleepless night under the old.
A veteran pressman passed out the other
day when P. J. Macnamara died in harness
at Nanango. He was one of the veterans
Ol the Queensland Labor movement, and
was tor a while an ardent disciple of “Billy”
Bane, and accompanied him to Paraguay
Like most of the “New Australia” pilgrims
he unlearned so much on that expedition
that he seldom cared to talk about it.
All the penalties in the world could not
make some Queenslanders vote. If the
new Government carry out the law, it will
ls , j and painful duty to prosecute
these defaulters and tell them to send the
blll to Lenhum. One electorate alone num-
bered 1600 non-voters, and the total for the
whole State runs into tens of thousands.
At ±_ apiece, the sluggards might prove a
handsome asset to the new Treasurer.
Brisbane, Maryborough, Ipswich, Bunda-
berg, Rockhampton, Bowen, Charters
Powers, Townsville and Cairns are now all
Labor represented. Toowoomba alone of
the bigger towns is stubbornly Liberal.
Burke, reversing the results of the earlier
boxes, still flies the flag of political inde-
pendence in solitary grandeur, and con-
aith to the loose garments
ot W. S. Murphy, who will boss, whip,
C °ntrol bis P art y as unitedly
The Brisbane Courier of May 22, 1865
reported that a meeting was held in the
Cafe de Paris to take steps to form a
Deutscher Turn Verein. The committee
appointed consisted of Messrs. Ilorstmann
Dulauf, Caesarowicz and Kieser
When the other day the Turn Verein was
closed by order of the authorities, it must
bav T f be ® a on or very near its 50th anniver-
founders were all, or mostly,
wb ° bad fl ed to escape the German
military madness that followed on ’4B It
was thus born of militarism, and it ’ died
ot the same disease.
Queensland’s first Premier is represented
at the Broadmeadows camp (Vic.) bv a
son—Sergeant-major Herbert. He is sure
tor a good commission presently. He was
a trooper in the Jameson Raid in 1896 •
vea, inu 0 the Matabale War in the same
fr? W °- n a Dlstin "uished Service
Medal _ foi ssiving a comrade’s life; was a
wßh e tbe B 6 S n ma War in 1903 - a flout.
RLimr h hi Con \ } n the Swaziland
rosing in 1904, and one of the officers who
suppressed the Zululand Rising in 1906
Bunda n berg! S bl '° ther haVe a plantation at
James Gawthorne Kidgell, who at 78 died
of pneumonia and heart trouble at Wan-
garatta (Vie.) the other day, represented
Wide Bay in Queensland Assembly for nine
years. The railway from Maryborough to
Gympie was his baby. When the authoris-
ing Bill came before the House, Kidgell was
in Gympie, and, missing the coach, had 108
miles between him and the division. The
extension was being strenuously opposed;
so Kidgell, taking a horse, rode right through
the night, and arrived just in time to record
the vote that gave the bare majority of one
in favor of the line. After his defeat by
Horace Tozer, he town-clerked at Gympie
for a spell, then edited the Gympie Times,
and later on the Gundagai (N.S.W.)
Times. Subsequently he established an ad-
vertising agency in Melbourne, and as a
side-line printed and published Tiif
Woman, the official shriek of the Vic.
Women’s League. N.S.W. Premier Holman
married a niece of his.
SIGNS AND PORTENTS.
ANGRY ANNIE: “You go away from here, or I’ll call my husband.”
WEARY WILLIE: “Yer ’usband ain’t at home.”
ANGRY ANNIE: “How do you know he ain’t?”
WEARY WILLIE: "I've allers noticed, mum, that when a man is married to a woman
what looks like you he’s never at ’ome except at meal times.”
It was _ bound to coine. An indignant
patriot writes to the Courier demanding to
know if the maternity bonus is to be paid
to German mothers in Australia.
With a majority of at least 20 seats,
Labor will have all its own way in the
Assembly; and already Laborites want to
know if Ryan will prevent the coming local
rise in sugar by prohibiting the export a la
Holman.
The man to whom the turn of the political
wheel in Queensland has given most delight
is John George Appel. Denham turned him
out of the Ministry shortly before the elec-
tion ; now Appel is back in the House un-
opposed, while five Ministers, including
Denham himself, have lost their seats.
Joseph Silver Collings is the unluckiest
politician in all Queensland. He has run
f°i'. Parliament repeatedly, and has failed
while much inferior men have succeeded.
This time he forged ahead for Murilla and
looked a certainty; but the Liberal pulled
up in the outside booths, and left him a
few votes to the bad. And the Parlia-
mentary Labor party could do with him
too. He is the right sort of critic to have
when a party’s over-big majority is likely
to make it slipshod.
They Died Afar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They died afar, the lads we knew,
The sturdy, stalwart, smiling crew
Who laughed good-bye and sailed away
i To Dardan Strait and Aegean Bay
That men might know our hearts were true.
Where wing&d Death upon them flew
The grass is wet with bloody dew ;
But not a tear is on the clay—
They died afar.
Beside that Asian water blue,
Sweet be your sleep, our chosen few,
Who that * iere y°ur kin might say
We held our .own in freedom’s fray.
And so we weep, but cannot rue—
They died afar!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, May 29, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
To-day some three thousand soldiers —
Light Horse, Artillery, and the 25th and
26th Infantry—marched through the streets.
The saluting base was at the G.P.0., where
Chief Justice Pope Cooper, Major Pendle-
bury (representing our Colonel Lee), Major
Wallace Brown, Commander Curtis and
others took the salute. The troops marched
like veterans, and the Light Horsemen were
the horsemen that Australia loves to pic-
ture.
After the last line had disappeared, re-
cruiting sergeants got busy in various parts.
One enlisting station was bv the Town
Hall, and here a tall youngster, with his
emu plumes high above the heads of those
surrounding him, called for men to join the
ranks. Another station was at the G.PO„
where urgings to enlist were mingled with
polite offers to provide unwarlike spirits
with petticoats.
The Imperial Service Club was opened
by his Ex. on Tuesday night. Lady Goold-
Aaams also blessed the occasion and re-
ceived a floral Union Jack from Mrs. A. H.
YV liittingham. Governor Adams, after dis-
charging a patriotic volley, tried to unfurl
the flag that lights the sailor on his way;
but whether his early-morning exercises
had unduly developed his muscles, or
whether the running-gear had been made in
Germany, I can’t say—all that is certain is
that the cordage carried away, and when I
left the under-sheriff was trying to coax
the national emblem to behave itself. The
club is excellently fitted up, and has one of
the best billiard tables in the city. His Ex.
and president A. H. Whittingham played
the first game on it. Later, Jack Cannot
and Isabelle D’Armonde and other people
sang or did things they could do better.
. Lieutenant F. L. Armstrong, recently
killed at the Dardanelles, first began the
game of war at 18, when he went to
S’Africa, and joined the Prince of Wales
ilorse at Durban. He had two years’ fight-
ing before being invalided home. Later, he
went back to South Africa, but returning to
Queensland about four years ago, joined the
QN. Bank. All his leisure moments he
gave to soldiering, and when the call to
arms came he at once volunteered, although
he had but recently married a daughter
of the late Captain John Mackay.
He was the fourth son of Mr. and Mrs.
Octavius Armstrong, and a cousin of W. D.
Armstrong, the late Speaker. He leaves a
little son whom he had never seen.
Yesterday afternoon Mrs. Peterson gave
a coin tea at Clayfield, to help the funds
of the Imperial Service Club. A miniature
rifle range was on the verandah, and that
and various guessing competitions helped
to coax cash from the guests. Mrs. Peter-
son is one of the committee of the club,
and has worked like a herd of elephants
for it. In the same interests, Mrs. Johp
Hicks, also a member of the committee, hajs
given two coin teas this week aboard her
motor-launch, and threatens to repeat the
experiment early and often. Misses Gladys
and Beatrice Hicks, and Mrs. Spencer
Smith (Portland, U.S.A.), sister of the
hostess, lent a helping hand on each occa-
sion. All tlie helping hands haven’t got a
gun in them, Thargomindah, I assure you.
A. L. Brewer, once a member of the
Daily Standakd staff, who has been
wounded, ought to be able to turn out a
few short stories while he convalesces. He
is the only writer I know who has had the
satisfaction of seeing his name to two short
stories in one edition of The Bulletin.
Another pressman who has recently for-
saken the pen for the bayonet is Powles, of
the Brisbane Telegraph. He has just gone
into camp. The boy, who is barely 19, was
handed a keepsake wristlet watch from the
Telegraph staff.
The Austral Choir held a patriotic con-
cert in the Exhibition hall to-night. There
was a big audience, and after everybody had
got into his or her chair, it was discovered
that the responsible parties were giving out
programmes free! At a patriotic show!
An unhappy secretary has been doing sums
ever since to see how much he has lost by
the oversight.
The J. Loves lent their grounds at Kedron
for a fete in aid of the Belgians and the
Red Cross Society. All the stalls did a
roaring business, and a Union Jack was
auctioned. It realised £32. Another
slice was added to the takings by the
sale of a horse, three goats and a lamb.
It is expected to cut up £250 between the
Belgians and the Red Cross.
A matinee in aid of the Nurses’ and
Ambulance Funds happened at the Tivoli
on Thursday. All the Follies helped, and
Minnie Love and Barry Lupino fled from
the pantomime to do their share. Also the
Empire Theatre . management lent George
Whitehead. There were more vacant seats
than full ones; yet about £lOO was gathered
up„
The march through the city of the troops
kept the great majority of usual race-goers
away from the course to-day. Mrs. Lex
Craig, who is spending the winter here,
looked handsome in black, and had daughter-
in-law Mrs. St. George Thorn, in grey,
under her wing. Mrs. Pierson wore a mili-
tary coat and skirt of navy blue, and Mrs.
Arthur Feez, Dr. Doyle’s handsome wife,
little Jean Ross Munro, the younger Cullen
chick, Alice Morgan and Alice Hawthorn
all favored navy blue, in coats and skirts
of a distinctly martial tone.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Names extracted from one small list of
Bananaland wounded : H. A. Eibel, H. Edel-
stein, E. F. Hahn, H. F. Storr, F. C. Taub-
mann. The strain may be Teuton, but the
blood shed is good Australian.
The vote that blew ex-Treasurer Barnes
out came from Cannon Hill, the place
where the meat trusts have their works, and
in whose trenches 2000 workmen waited for
the chance to shoot.
Five deaths have occurred at Dunwich
in a week. In three cases the deceased had
passed the 90th year; but the other two
were mere youths of about 70. Tropical
inclemencies were as usual at the root of
this untimely mortality.
Brisbane Courier holds a post-mortem and
reports to the Coroner:—
It is obvious that many people tired of a system
of government which had no empiricism to animate
it, but only prudence, equity, financial sagacity and
a reasonable spirit of progress.
The prudence and sagacity of the German
dredge contracts, for instance.
The most picturesque figure in the
Assembly has gone. Bluff Donald Mack-
intosh, of the raucous voice and the racy
humor, has been biffed out; and he and his
kilts and his Highland melodies will be
naught but a memory and a dream. The
Assembly could have spared a better man
and been happier.


Put it where the pain comes!
Sore Throat
Pneumonia
Sprains
Chest Colds
Backache
Pleurisy
Bronchitis
Neuralgia
Rheumatism
Quinsy
Neuritis
Lumbago
Complete relief from the pain caused by these and other ailments —no matter
of how long standing—follows the application of Themogene. Thermogene
is absolutely safe —suitable for both young and old. It is sure in action
and easy to apply. It stimulates the soothing inner warmth of Nature
and brings to the affected part an increased supply of health and invigor-
ating blood to battle with and take away the foreign irritating substance,
Its comforting warmth brings new life and strength to the aching part.
The joint that is throbbing, the chest that is
racked with coughing, the back, the head, or
hmb that is aching with pain, will find immediate
relief when Thermogene is applied. Pain will
subside, the throbbing will cease, and the com-
forting warmth will permeate the whole affected
part. Thermogene is far superior to the old-
time poultice. It is hygienic in use, clean to
handle and comfortable to wear. A piece
can be tacked to the underclothing, over the
affected part, or applied by means of a simple
tape bandage. It can be worn night and day
without any inconvenience or interference with
ordinary work. Thermogene is recommended
and used by Doctors and Nurses everywhere.
An unsolicited Testimonial from Driver T. Wilson,
i 249 i, A.S.C. 67, Coy, Indian Meerut Div.,
Expeditionary Force
“ I beg to give you this testimonial from the Front regarding
the value of your remedy, Thermogene, which has been used
by me with wonderful effects. I have been very bad with
rheumatics and bad chest owing to the hard weather which we
have had to endure out here. A comrade gave me a packet of
your Thermogene Wool, and I can surely say it did me a great
deal of good, and I am pleased to recommend it to my comrades
and the public at home. “ (Signed) Dr. T. WILSON.”
Another unsolicited Testimonial : —
“ The Crescent, Sutton.
“ I think you should have the following extract from a letter
I have just received from the firing line. We sent your
wadding to my brother, and he writes thus :
“ ‘ I will wrap the Thermogene Wool around my big toes the
first time we are allowed to take our boots off.' The wool
you sewed inside my belt before I came out completely cured
the pain in my back, and I have had no return of it.’
“E. BEST.”
%
&
f /
At all Chemists 1/3 per Box.
FREE.
Write for illustrated
book on Thermogene
treatment, which tells
how to get the best results. Send a
postcard to-day toThermogene Bureau,
5 & 7, Barrack Sreet, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
FASSETT & JOHNSON,
5 & 7, Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Manufactured by :
THERMOGENE Co., Ltd.,
Hayward’s Heath, Sussex, Eng.
hil*
i^tJ
ft
BRITISH OWNED & BRITISH MADE by BRITISH LABOUR


IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
tlie mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
HOW TO GET RID OF YOUR
BRET HAIR
A Simple, Sups, Harmless Treatment
which can be used at home with
complete success. Age no obstacle.
COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS
FREE
I AM A WOMAN who belongs to a prematurely
grey haired family. My father was grey before he
was 30, and two of my brothers as well as my sister
became grey early in life. Before the age of 25 I
developed grey hairs, which became quite embar-
rassing to me-socially, and also in business I
LOST THREE 000 D POSITIONS for no other reason
than my fading hair. The groyness increased with
alarming rapidity, and at 28 I LOOKED LIKE a
WOMAN OF 45. One day I was seriously thinking
of buying one of the many Grey Hair Restorers
that are extensively advertised, when I casuallv
mentioned the subject to an acquaintance-a scien-
tiftc man, and, as I after-
wards learnt, a great
student of the Che-
mistry of the Hair.
He strongly ad-
\ v ised me to have
\ nothing what-
ever to do with
these concoc-
tions. He poin-
ted out that
such prepar-
ations EVENT-
UALLY RUINED
THE HAIR, and
in the moantime
rarely deceived
even the casual
observer. He sug-
gested that I try a
formula that he had
perfected after a con-
siderable time, which,
by a certain chemical
NS
h*ir°fn u 9 rJ,gm T lta !' y flouring cells restored
the hair to its normal colour. In repN to mv en-
quiries he assured mo that the formula was not
only absolutely harmless, but would develoo A
STRONG AND BEAUTIFUL CROWTH OF HaS M?
friend wrote out Ins prescription, which I had made
up, and after carefully following the instruction” for
a few days, i was surprised and delighted to find my
hair becoming richer and darker in tone The re
colouring process continued until after‘some few
hair actually once again possessed the
natural shade of my girlish days. Since then I HAVE
SEEN INUNDATED WITH ENQUIRIES from friends
and also persons unknown to me, who came to hear
of this wonderful preparation. Having become con
ORDINARY MERIT Ve REMEDY OF EXTRA-
ORDINARY MERIT, and which is quite harmless T
have resolved to offer it for sale, as I am certain
from my own experience that it will prove an ines-
‘V® P OO . 1 ? to any m an or woman who finds grey
hair to be the same serious handicap it was to me.
a tr uara nteed Genuine Preparation and I
OFFER A REWARD OF £lOO if it will not ?e4doui
Grey Hair to Original, Natural Shade.
y T 0U are interested in this wonderful prepa-
«—l°.[i !.willing to send you COMPLETE IN.
STRUCTIONS FREE
under plain sealed
cover. Simply write
your name and full ad-
J wumruKic IN-
free
dress plainiy and enclose 2 stamps for postage, and I
will u rite you by return post, or if convenient call
Mrs. MARY K. CHAFMAM
Suite 88 Linden Court. SIDNEY
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received irom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder, ani every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
jggtP
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy for Asthma,
Hay Fever, Rose Cold or
ord nary Cough.
So A in Tins by all Chemists and Stares
throughout Australasia,
ħ
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
sufferin'? over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout--the States.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office. Sydney.
London’s Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty Experts Writing for
the English Press. Simple and Effective Methods.
By OLGA AMSDELL, Special Correspondent, London, Eng.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths of
superfluous hair wish to know not merely how
to temporarily remove the hair, but how to
kill the hair-roots permanently. For this pur-
pose pure powdered pheminol may be applied
directly to the objectionable hair-growth. The
recommended treatment is designed not only
to instantly remove the hair also, but to actu-
ally kill the roots so that the growth will not
return. About an ounce of pheminol, obtain-
able from the chemist, should be sufficient.
Lustrous Hair.
A simple lotion that can be made at home,
and which will positively force the hair to
grow, is within the reach of everybody. It
stops the hair from falling out, 'clears the
scalp of dandruff, and leaves a clean, tingling*
sensation which is a sure sign of healthy
action. Get from your chemist one ounce of
an( i mix it with J-pint of bay rum,
adding sufficient water to make a i-pint. This
quantity will last you several weeks, and is at
the same time both effective and economical.
Removing Her Skin.
The quickest and surest way to make a
good complexion out of a bad one is to actu-
ally remove the thin veil of faded or dis-
coloied outer skin from the face. This can be
done, easily, safely and privately by any
woman. Ihe process is one of gentle absorp-
G»t some pure mercolised wax from your
at night like cold cream,
washing it off in the morning. In a few days
the moron ide in the wax will have absorbed
the disfiguring cuticle, revealing the fresh
J oung skin underneath; you will have a beau-
tiful, clear, natural complexion. The process
hr/nfw,'* 1 a ?;' harmless, making the fa?e look
brilliantly attractive and youthful. It also
effectually removes such blemishes as freckles
tail, moth patches, liver spots, pimples, etc!
should keep a little mercolised
rentedv is s , lm P le - old-fashioned
pres'ertef known COmi)lexioll heautifier and
Blackheads Instantly Go.
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess is now used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores in the skin,
you have only to drop a tablet of stymol,
obtained from the chemist’s, into a glass of
hot water and bathe the face with the liquid
after the effervescence has subsided. The
blackheads will then come right off on the
towel. The enlarged pores immediately con-
tract to norma] and the greasiness disappears,
leaving the skin smooth, soft and cool and
free from blemish. But to make sure that
this desirable result is permanent it is advis-
able to repeat the treatment several times at
intervals of, say, about four or five days.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
One need not resort to the very questionable
expedient of hair dye in order not to have
grey hair. The grey hair can easily be
changed back to a natural color in a few clays’
time merely by the application of a simple,
old-fashioned and perfectly harmless home-
made lotion. Procure from your chemist an
ounce of tammalite concentrate and mix it
with four ounces of bay rum. Apply tliis to
the hair a few times with a small sponge and
you will soon have the pleasure of seeing your
grey hair gradually darkening to the desired
shade. The lotion is pleasant, not sticky or
greasy, and does not injure the hair in any
way.
Naturally Wavy Hair.
Good stallax not only makes the best possi-
ble shampoo, but has the peculiar property
of leaving the hair with a pronounced natural
“wave,” an effect presumably desired by many
ladies. A teaspoonful of the stallax granules,
dissolved in a cup of hot water, is ample for
a luxurious head wash, and leaves the hair
with a peculiar lustre and fluftlness obtainable
from nothing else as far as known. It
is perfectly harmless, and can be obtained
from most chemists, although since it has
been but little used for this purpose it comes
only in ilb. sealed original packages, enough
to make up 25 or 30 individual shampoos. [1
h
JOKES, TRICKS, PUZZLES,
NOVELTIES.
Write for our new Catalog, a Novelty in itself. We send it FREE.
Nickel-plated Change Purse.
Beautifully chased and nickel-
plated. Will hold any of the
coins as illustrated, and will
also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d.
compartments, and pennies
and half-pennies in the 2/6
and 2/- compartments. Ring
attached for a fixing to
watch chain.
Post Free, 1/2.
Pocket
Compasses.
Pocket compass in
nickel-plated case,
with ring for at-
taching to watch
chain.
Post free, 1/6.
The above two most useful novelties,
post free for 2/6.
ĥ
OUR SPECIAL BOX OF 6 WIRE PUZZLES, WITH FULL INSTRUCTIONS, POST FREE, 1/3.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.—New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 GEOROE. STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Firestone
Non-SRid Tyres.
For the hard road—for the hot pace—for the long
grind—for true economy and service -
The success of Firestone Tyres has proved that the motorist
can have comfort, safety and the u most miles per shilling.”
Firestone Tyres are preferred because of highest quality at the least
cost —as the greatest value, even though there are “cheaper” tyres.
The rubber in them is supremely good. It has the quality of greatest heat-
resistance, of greatest wear endurance. Every Firestone Tyre contains an extra quantity
of this extremely good rubber.
The Non-skid lettering is an imprint of safety. On every highway of the world it
challenges the need of other anti-skid safeguards. It holds the standard for endurance
and economy.. The letters prevent spin or skid in any direction, they radiate the heat
of road friction, insure perfect traction with gasoline economy, car-protection and
comfort beyond contradiction.
/
a:
Firestone Tyres are made by specialists in the largest
exclusive tyre factory in the world. This year’s Firestone
output has increased 78 per cent. Firestone are tyres of
greatest strength, sturdiness and safety—
for the Price of Only Ordinary Tyres.
Leading dealers everywhere endorse Firestone quality, and
motorists praise Firestone service.
'T'/'A 'Pj'P A T ThL>Q A Firestone Representative—from
1 W thB factory at Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.-
will shortly make calls on dealers and garages in person. Inter-
ested people may make appointments by writing to Firestone
Tyre & Rubber Co., G.P.O. Box 2521, Sydney.
Firestone Tyre & Rubber Co.,
Factory : Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.
Manufacturers of Pneumatic and Solid
Tyres; Motor Lorry Tyres; Fire Engine
Tyres; Rims, Tyre Accessories, etc.
We are
prepared
to supply
all sizes of
pneumatic
tyres.
“Toby”: Australian vaudeville manage-
ments are very reluctant to give local
acts a chance, and when they do pro-
pose to put one on they invariably
want it at a bargain price. Sometimes
local talent gets its revenge, hut not often.
An instance occurred recently. A very sound
act, which was born in Australia and had
worked hereabouts for years, went to Europe
and America and scored success under a
new name. In England it was booked by an
agent for Australia, under its altered name,
and in due course the performers arrived
here. When they reported themselves for
rehearsal they were informed by an aston-
ished boss, who had known them of old, that
there must be some mistake. “You’re not on
the bill,” said he. “Oh, yes,” said the vaude-
villains. “We are the so-and-so’s.” The
director was knocked out when he found that
he was paying three times as much for the
old act with a foreign trade-mark on it, as he
had paid for the very same thing when it
was a fresh young Australian novelty.
Tozart, the artist-chap recently at Mel-
bourne Bijou, is the old “poster king,”
Arthur Von Tossan. The wild and woolly
sketches he paints are not one whit better
than his old-time gaudy advertisements,
which led on to the poster-show boom.
His old Melbourne pitch at St. Kilda
is now a beautiful garden and lawns.
In _ his vaudeville turn Tozart paints
during a storm off stage, which re-
minds his Melbourne friends of some of
his old battles with the weather on the lee
of Kenny’s baths. The ex-poster king still
interrupts his brush work with unnecessary
patter. His tongue always was an unruly
member.
“Motley”: Apropos circus elephants,
Cooper and Bailey had a monster lady,
Titania. When they were about to leave
Auckland for Callao Titania ate up her
keeper’s monkey jacket, which unfortunately
contained a box of phosphorus matches.
They slew her. The ship Golden Sea towed
her out to ocean, and there left the carcase.
Terrified fishermen afterwards came to
Auckland with a yarn about having seen
the most awful sea-sarpint ever imagined.
Female elephants are the most popular with
managers, because males are so apt to be-
come rogues. Jumbo evinced symptoms of
it in the London Zoo, and had to be caged.
Barnum bought him. However, he did not
live long, and there was much commisera-
tion with the unlucky P.T. “Oh, never
mind,” says he. “I’ll get two shows out of
him at once.” And lie did. His stuffed skin
was shown in New York and his skeleton in
Philadelphia.
“S.T.S.” : A new playwright may be forth-
coming in Stephen Leacock, the Canadian
professor who writes comic stories. His new
book, “Arcadian Adventures,” is all savage
satire on the rich American. But there
'are several touches of the kind which Niblo
makes so successful: for instance, the mil-
lionaire who learns that an English duke
visiting him is really a borrower, not an
investor, and instantly rings up his rival
millionaire with an offer to introduce the
duke. And what could be sounder than the
incident of the new gold-mine millionaire
who is being shown over the university he
is going to heap wealth upon? Only one
door is closed against visitors, with “Busy
—keep out.” And that is the door of the
metallurgical laboratory, in which at that
moment an analysis is being conducted
which is eventually to prove his gold-mine
worthless. Leacock is already a busy novel-
ist ; he is not likely long to resist the much
bigger returns that the drama offers to the
successful.
From London:—
Lady Ida Sitwell, now doing three months in
Holloway for fraudulent conspiracy, is a daughter
of the late Lord Londesborough, who was a great
patron of the London theatres in his time. He con-
tinued a confirmed playgoer to a most advanced age,
when, white-bearded and nearly blind, he was led to
and from his box by Ida and her sisters. Their
senseless extravagance was possibly inherited from
papa, for he recklessly financed any amount of
speculations, theatrical and otherwise. It was he
who hacked old Dion Boucicault’s gigantic spectacu-
lar production at Oovent Garden, “Babel and Bijou.”
At another time a couple of exceedingly handsome
actresses, Ada Fowler and Helen Barry, were run
simultaneously at different theatres by my Lord, a
remarkable feat in its way. Londesborough was also
the founder and financier of the Lyric Club, a
pioneer of the all-night frisky establishments which
the Government is thinking of entirely suppressing
owing to the number of young military officers they
put off soda and milk.
“Monkbarns”: George Coppin’s favorite
song of “Con-stan-ti-nople” would be handy
just now. Other favorites were “Vilikins,”
“Billy Barlow” and “Old Dog Tray.” His
unctuous acting style was an imitation of
Liston. His best parts included Paul Pry,
Mould (in “Not Such a Fool as he Looks”),
Mawworm, Bob Acres, Tony Lumpkin,
Peckover (“Contested Election”), Billy
Lackaday (“Sweethearts and Wives”),
Ghrysos, Ben Bowbell (“The Illustrious
Stranger”), and the Artful Dodge, in a
farce so named, whence his nickname of the
Artful Dodger. As Gupid, at the Olympic,
he burlesqued Lola Mbntes in the Spider
Dance. Boys flung halfpence at him, and
he prosecuted some in the police court. The
worst of the old man was that he was apt to
be vulgar. His taste did not grow with
that of the time.
ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In “Dinner for Eight,’’ just produced at the
Ambassador’s Theatre, Sir Herbert Tree’s daughter
not only takes oil her stockings in the limelight,
but leisurely puts on another pair. This makes quite
a scrumptious performance.—B. 20/5/’l5.
To popular taste one has to pander ;
For a new idea I bang the drum ;
What’s sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander,
So the Beauty Actor’s chance has come.
“Walk up, walk up, for this great sensation!
My play all others fairly knocks!
See the scene that causes palpitation—
The lordly hero changes his socks!’’
N.S.W.
BILL BILE.


SHER'S
jjgEN Stripe
f.
1 1, i ,illllll, ,i,ii ill 11 iII iifi
k
l
•a
I
£1
I I
x\
8
w
IP
v
wmuimvwuftiuumtt
'/r.u \
'■/
7Jlfc
/A
I
a
i
y
£
I W-
%
32
/
- • 111. _ I
Va
-1 i -
i
raw \wJ/tu<
\
- m
s£
4
i
li f
k
s
51=
s
3£
I
5*
i
- -Vft
r =*
#1
v«
g


Amott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Lebbeus Hordern, who leaves Sydney this
week to join the Aerial Corps (Eng.), with
a further ambition to wreck a Zeppelin, is a
brother of Sam and Anthony Hordern, of the
Big Shop. Frenchman Guillaux taught the
intrepid Australian the whims of the air in
a seaplane; and the meagre tuition (for the
war called Guillaux home) has fired the
learner with a desire to go and do something
in that line. Having presented his first craft
t" the Ccpmonwealth Aerial School, he in-
tends to purchase a gun-mounted Vickers
machine; but his chance of flying in it in
Europe depends, of course, on the granting
of a certificate by the English body.
Albert Miller, one of the well-known
sporting sons of “Money,” M.L.C., died
last week. “Money” was son of Captain
Miller, of the 40th Regiment, an early
commandant at Moreton Bay. The son
as a youngster held a post in the Audit
Office in Hobart Town, but gave that up to
settle, 75 years ago, in Port Phillip. In
1852 he assisted to found the Bank of Vic-
toria and other financial institutions, and
was a famous money-spinner in his day.
“Y.Z.”: The effect of the war on Vic-
torian butter is remarkable. The grease has
turned deadly pale. The fact is, this help-
less country, knowing that it could not in'
any circumstances produce its own coloring
matter, trusted to Germany. But Germany is
no longer in a position to provide a healthy
complexion for our fresh country butter, so
the comestible is now dished up in its native
pallor, and the globules provided with the
ffiorning rolls are as pitifully anaemic as the
star lady boarder, who is in precisely the
same case as the butter.
“Flinderino”: A small schooner, the
Hawke, staggered through Port Phillip
Heads the other day after a three weeks’
hard battle. The little craft left Hobart
laden with 4000 cases of apples for Geelong,
and for a fortnight was plugging away in
heavy seas off Wilson’s Promontory. Old
Davy Jones made things so willing that the
crew heaved 1500 cases of fruit at him and
so kept him from engulfing them. The fact
that such a heavily laden craft defied the old
fellow is an excuse to splice the main brace
for the crew and tell the Australian builders
of these little Hobart traders that they are
No. 1 chop.
From a private letter from the Front, writ-
ten by a Victorian artist:—
Pom was fighting’ by my side in the trench all day
on Tuesday. He received four wounds, and yet when
the advance was ordered he staggered out;, I pulled
him back. . “You lie here, you d—d fool,” I said.
“No, blanky fear,” he answered, and pushed forward.
“I’m collecting bullets!” lie got two more before
he had to give it best.
That “no. blanky fear !” and the jest tell
more of the spirit of our lads than a column
of pretty talk.
m
w
ft
m
m
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s, cash
XQ YEARS’ WRITTEN.
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 Victoria, Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
iLejral Notices.
IN THE ESTATE of JOHN MORLAND,
late of Coledale —'South Coast —for-
merly of 361 Liverpool Street, Darlinghurst,
near Sydney, in the State of, New South
Wales, Gentleman, deceased; intestate.
Solicitors or other persons having any
knowledge of the affairs of the above-named
deceased, who died at Rookwood, near Syd-
ney, on the 13th October, 1910, or able to
give any information as to whether the said
deceased executed a will or otherwise dis-
posed of his estate and effects, are requested
to communicate with the undersigned.
ASH & MACLEAN,
Solicitors,
99a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
COUGH MIXTURE EXPENSES
REDUCED
By Using Mean’s Essence.
“ Kindly mail me another bottle of
your Hean’s Essence. I easily mixed
the last and with it made a big bottle
of cough mixture. It is really good
and cheap.”—Mrs A. A. Brown, May-
field, N.S.W.
The cough mixture expenses of
many thousands of homes have been
reduced by using Hean’s Essence.
Mothers everywhere recommend it
You save io/- on every pint. It
promptly relieves tickling sore throats,
jbhlegmy and chronic coughs, bron-
chitis, croup, whooping cough, and
asthma. Buy a bottle of “Hean’s”
now. Take home and add the sweet-
ening and water. Each dose sipped
slowly soothes and heals the inflamed
tissues and irritations of sore throats
and lungs. As Hean’s Essence con-
tains no injurious ingredients it may
be given with perfect safety to the
youngest children.
■ Sold by chemisis and stores, or promptly
post free on receipt of price, 2/-, from G. W.
ijleanv Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. Be sure you get H-E-A-N-’S. 9-15
fICHTINC^T>IECERWANS^
.And GUARDING THE TRADE OF THE EMPIRE I
a splendid and most exciting
WAR GAME. German
lie in wait at various places ■
ħ
Only 2/-
Frce Gift
•in the Atlantic* Pacific
land Indian Oceans to
I attack and capture mer-
chant vessels, but the
British men-o’-war are watchful and they come promptly'
to the rescue. Rich cargoes of manufactured goods are
carried to all parts of the world and the natural products
of tht oversea dominions are shipped to Britain. The l
Game is played on a LARGE MAP OF THE WORLD,i
10 x 16 inches with British and German cruisers and,
cargo steamers The price is only 2/-, including
delivery at any address, and, if you mention this paper
when ordering, you will receive a free gift of a Handbook
of the War, containing full particulars about the fighting
strengths of the nations, armies, fleets alliances, food
supplies., &c Obtainable only from
THE UNION MANUFACTURING COMPANY
. 299 Elizabeth_Street J _ Melbourne.. i
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Suitey—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALE, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Amusements.
TIVOLI THEATRE. '
Harry Rickards Tivoli Tlieatres Ltd.
Governing: Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JI VO'LI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, JUNE 5.
At the Mati nee and Twice Daily, the Second Edition
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
"I" IVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
GENERAL PISANO,
the World’s Foremost Sensational Sharpshooter, pre-
senting Bombarding Tripoli by the Italian Fleet.
THE TYRELLS. IDA BARR.
__ And a complete company.
JIVOLI THEATRE, BRISBANE.
SATURDAY, JUNE 5.
GEORGE MOZART,
the Master Mimic, in a series of Thumbnail Sketches.
JACK STERZELLY and his very human Dog LUCKY'.
WILF CONNOLLY. ROSA HAMEL.
Etc., etc.
|_| E R M A ,1 E S I' Y ’ S. S Y 1) N E Y.
* 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY.
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
SATURDAY, JUNE 5.
MA MIE ROSETTE.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
COLORED LOST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co.. 214 George Street. Sydney.
The
Enameller's
Art
is hundreds of
years old, and
various nations
have expressed
their charac-
teristics in
their Enamels.
Very choicely Enamelled on Sterling- Silver, six buttons in handsome Case,
8/6.
For many years the British people passed over this, the most difficult of all Art Work.
Now there is a revival of appreciation, and—what is more wonderful—the period of rest has
produced a refinement of production and a facility of expression unknown before.
We are showing- fine examples in Dress Buttons, Blouse Sets, Hat Pins, Salts Bottles, Blouse
Brooches, Vanity Boxes, Patriotic Brooches, etc. -
The lowness of price will astonish you.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
PLAIN FIGURES—
CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery
House m Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
57
AVa
S&
NR»" \V
MO***’* \\
«?
►
1>
KYNOCfi
AMMUNITION
“PRIM AX” and “BON AX”
CARTRIDGES—KYNOCII made
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
ing qualities, “PRIMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a 2£in. case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world.
Always specify RYNOCH Ammunition
when ordering from your dealer.
British Made Throughout.
[i.
h
If You Want an
Easy Shave
you must have a good razor. There is nothing
manufactured to beat
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
It’s a real gem, with a blade of Silver Steel
that keeps a keen edge and makes shaving a
pleasure. The “Plum” never drags or tears,
but glides over the face and leaves-it soft and
silky. We are practical tradesmen, and guaran-
tee a > Plum to have a keen edge always^
08DER ONE TO-DAY—lfl/6 Post Ena.
We keep it lh perfect .order for two years free
of charge.
Sin sle Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair iii Double Case, 30/-
This line makes- a handsome present.
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
6 54 GEORGE STREET. SYDNFV
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEE WEDNESDAY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Roi Cooper
Megrue’s Drama of Love, Thrills and Mystery,
UNDEE COVER.
Brilliant Cast, headed by MURIEL STARR.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
T II K A T R E It O Y A 1.. S Y ONE Y.
■ Lessees: Messrs. J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Sub-Lessess: The Directors of the BERT BAILEY CO.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 5,
Reappearance of the BERT BAILEY COMBINATION
in the Superlative Australian Success, STEELE
RUDD’S
ON OUR SELECTION.
THREE WEEKS’ SEASON ONLY. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Prices: 4/- (Reserved), 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
(Saturdays and Holidays excepted.)
DA LACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES: WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, at 2.30.
MR. and MRS. GRAHAM MOFFAT
in
A SCRAPE O’ THE PEN.
A Scottish Comedy in three acts.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
T 1115 PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
Ihe finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
G REA TER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrinoton Miller, General Manager.
IYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY
■“ TWICE DAILY—2.3O & 8.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
(by arrangement with Mr. W. J. SHEPHARD)
present,
DIRECT FROM SCALA THEATRE, LONDON,
Pi ITH THE FIGHTING FORCES OF
EUROPE,
IN KINEMACOLOR,
Vividly portraying the armies and navies of the
warring nations in beautiful natural colors.
T H EATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 5.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
the Great Spy Play,
THE MAN WHO STAYED AT
HOME.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
M KR MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Direction J, C. WILLIAMSON, 1/rp.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the Trans-Atlantic
Musical Comedy Success, -
THE MAP IiJAGE MARKET.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF EAST LYNNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 5.
George Willoughby Ltd. present the Great Detec-
tive Success,
NICK CARTER—DETECTIVE.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d.
Plan at Pianola.
OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
AMY CAS TLE S.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), JUNE 3, and
SATURDAY, JUNE 5.
Assisted by Victorian Festival Choir, Hector Gold-
spmk, Bryce Carter, Harold Whittle.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/-, Plan at Allan’s.
THE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
Direction R. & E. STEELE.
Manager R. T. TREGASKI
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The World-renowned
S T EEL E-PAYNES
„ (Direct from South Africa.)
Entertainers, Vocalists and Instrumentalists.
Prices : -3'/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
M
ELBO U R N E
GLACIARIUM
REAL ICE SKATING.
SEASON OPENS JUNE 3.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
D I J O U T H E A T RE, M IS L B O U R N K
FULLKR-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON. 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
SALTLEY AND HIS NIBS, THREE NEWMANS,
HERMANN & SHIRLEY, THE BLETSOES CO.,
GEORGE FORD AND ERB, ELOIS TAYLOR &
JOHN EARL.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, & 6d. Matingees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
HO Y T’S I’ICTU RE S, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOW&-
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA : Prince’s Bridge. ~
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
DIRCH&C A R R O L I.
** (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS!.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE


Assisted when necessary by Cu-
ti'ciira Ointment does much to
prevent pimples, blackheads and
other unsightly eruptions, and
promote permanent skin health.
Samples Free by Mail
Cuticnra Soap and Ointment, sold everywhere.
T.ibe .il sample of each, with 32-page book sent post-
free. Address R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N-. S. W.
ĥ
Keep Your
Tools in
Working
Order.
However expert a craftsman
may be, he cannot do first-class
work with dull, ill-cared-for
tools. They must be keen-
cutting, perfect in action,
before he can get good results.
“3-In-One” Oil
keeps all kinds of tools in
pertect condition.
Lubricates delicate action-
parts; m "tes metal bright and
clean.
“T> i-in-One” Oil is a
ieffectual rust preventive!
Won’t soil hands or clothes
—it is a highly refined Oil of
special quality.
Sold in Bottles and Handy
Pocket Oil Can.
Write far Free Sample Bottle.^
REID AND REID, \
Australasian Agents,
~j2i M, Harris Street,
N.Z.
10-Ha'i ne» S>i*-
12
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS.
firariag
Ujkgloii
C 8
IC
FOR
COLDS .
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSIRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWSRIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Lstter-papsr,
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing- you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Sin. x oin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size lOf x
B§, post free 4/6 : or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Sin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester, England,
h
ĥ
Ik
CM
VO
I
oo
CO
Use Big Ben all day long
Big Ben not only gets you up on
time every morning, but he serves
the whole family all day long as a
reliable clock to tell the right time by.
He’s really two good clocks in one
• —an excellent time-keeper and a
splendid alarm.
He can ring you up in the morning
just when you want, and either way
you want —five straight minutes or
every other half minute for all of
ten minutes.
If you’re a light sleeper, turn on
the half-minute taps before you go
to bed. If you sleep heavily set the
five-minute call and you can slumber
then without the get-up worry on
your mind.
Then when you’re up and doing,
carry Big Ben into the living room
so that the whole family can use him
to tell the right time by. He stands
seven inches tall, and his great big
open face can be seen distinctly across
the largest room.
Big Ben is triple nickel-plated and
wears an inner vest of steel that
insures him for life. His big, bold
figures and hands are easy to read
in the dim morning light. His large,
comfortable keys almost wind them-
selves. He rings five minutes steadily
or ten intermittently. If he is oiled
every other year, there is no telling
how long he will last.
, Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois, U.S.Aby Westclox. His
price is 12/6, postage 1/- extra. If
you cannot find him in your town,
send a money order to the makers’
Australian office, Westclox, cr. King
ami Kent Sts., Sydney, They will
have one mailed to you by the
nearest jeweller.
i- i
//
The Branded Underwear with the Guarantee.
m
ħ
h
UNDERWEAR.
‘Jason Underwear Is British made through and through—gives iong and honest
wear, complete comfort to evefy wearer, and is expertly finished by skilled British
labour with a soft silky “feel" enti ely unknown in any other make of underwear.
Shun the German-made unnamed underwear. It only brings discomfort, unworthy
service, and dislrusi -it is all profit, for the makers. You. the purchaser, are
not considered
Wear British ‘Jason, the perfect Underwear. It carries a good honest British guarantee:
“Any garment that shrinks will be replaced free of cost. ”
Your dealer can supply you. Insist on ‘Jason for every member of the family.
Sole Manufacturers The Jason Underwear Co., Leicester England.
ĥ
An Odorless
Breath
is but one of the many advantages that Pebeco provides,
Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer, healthier gums,
and a high standard; of mouth health all inevitably
follow its night and morning use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting, test. I ree
for three penny stamps, on application to the
Manufacturer.
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. A), G O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE, ONLY.)
There is never any question about a dress made of
LOUIS VELVETEEN. Fresh charm, dainty
grace, style and dignity characterise every length of
this beautiful material. For your protection see that
every yard is marked with the letters L-O-U-I-S.
tif If
Ll'ZJs*
'.W
Velveteen
h
Business, Robbery, etc.
TlliC MOLTEN QUID,
fi-'GK./J'm-: Bttt/letin'.I
I'd saved a. sovereign from my screw;
I'd planned exactly wind I'd do -
A bob for this, a bob for that,
My boots half-soled, a new felt hat,
A haircut, smokes ; and two-and-nine
M as left to buy the boys some wine.
“I'll buy the hat first,” was my thought....
“Oh, no, the smokes !” And smokes T bought.
And now the hat. But woe is me,
Too late to dodge, quite cheerfully
A pal pulled up. “Hullo, I think
The time is ripe to have a drink. ’
Now what the Devil eoukl I do?
M e had the drink —or, rather, two.
“Say, look, old man, I'd like to stay.
But really 1 must run away.
No, just some shopping—well, just one,
And then I’ll really have-to run.”
We had the third. Then .Tones came in.
“You’re just in time.” He called for gin.
He gulped it down. “Come on,” he said.
“Oh, rot, you’ll be a long time dead.'
1 hesitated, blushed with shame.
Then feebly muttered, “Mine’s the same.”
When my turn came around to shout
My half-soled boots went up the spout;
My felt hat very soon was swallowed,
And then my last half-dollar followed ;
At this T borrowed half a sov..
And to the barmaid murmured love.
What happened then till closing time
Cannot be clearly told in rhyme,
Though Rumor whispers round the town
1 went home in a cab with Brown,
And sought with lobsters to placate
The anger of his wedded mate.
T just don’t know, and just don’t care —
That’s Brown’s and Mrs. Brown’s affair.
The pencilled memos, on my cuff
Are contemplative food enough ;
I’m in a bright financial fix —
I owe exactly three-pounds-six.
From now the simple life is mine;
No pals, no barmaids fair, no wine;
Each day, with solemn visage, I
M ill loll my duns a specious lie
Till. pals are paid ; and then I’ll go
And 1 clo the same again, I know. ...
But won't we have a spree, what ho!
MAOEiPAKn. Y. McARIBT.
* * * *
“Jeainos”; One effect of the war is that
thousands of Semitic usurers all over Europe
will have to get work. Things are bad
enough in London, but they are worse in
newly-rich Berlin. Since the war began
unnumbered thousands of prodigals have
been killed. In ninny: oases their lives weren’t
insured. lfad raised money on bills
backed by friends who have also been killed.
Shyloek loses both his capital and interest
over these transactions. Further, thousands
of prodigals are at one or other of the Fronts.
They are not in a position to gamble, or pur-
chase racehorses, or take the chorus out iu
motor-cars and buy diamonds and furs and
dinners for it. So they don’t want loans at
usurious interest. It has been estimated by
a panic-stricken Empire-builder who trades
under the name of Alaric Fitz-Hugh (his
parents were the Glaubersteins of Dussc-1-
dorf) that if the war goes another two years
an army of about 50.000 trained usurers will
have to emigrate to Fiji.
*■ * *•
“T.O.I,” : I suppose it has gone now, hut
there used to he a sign at a gloomy place
called Takitimos, in Maoriland, which ran
this way : —•
R. MURRELL’S
Takitimos Hotel.
M ho Killed . Poor Trust ?
Bad Pay!
Oh, what a pity!
If you’re hard up" come in, my lad,
I will not see thee hungery sad;
Your meals and bed I give to you,
Next morn a nip and bid adieu.
- * * * *>
“Mary” : According to Knihbs the cost of
40 articles of diet in common use rose 13 per
cent, between April, 1914, and April. 1915.
This makes the outlook across the break-
fast table bleak, and has in it elements of
terror for the housewife who with diminished
income is trying to make one sixpence do the
work of two. Grocers remark the increased
demand for beans, peas and other star items
of the vegetarian menu, and hint that sup-
plies of these may run out in the near future.
There should be a tip in this for the small
farmer or large gardener. Blue peas, lima
and haricot beans ought to pay handsomely
to grow at present rates, and a permanent
iaste for these, substitutes for beef and mut-
ton is likely to be established. In view of
the blight that has come upon egg-harvesting,
food beans are'worth thinking about.
*' * * *
“Quill”: I read in the press that if I
trade with Germany I commit a criminal
act, and I want to say—Bah ! How does
the man* in the street know where his socks
come from or his singlet? But the trader
knows all right, and he is the joker these
valiant warriors who sprinkle the “great
dailies” with adjectives should be after.
But are they? Of course not! The shopper-
in-chief in the writer’s household acquired
n couple of boy’s jerseys the other day. and
discovered on later inspection a minute.
German tag. I made inquiries and found
that this poor country can’t make jerseys
for young Australians. All it can do is to
grow the wool. It takes brains to manu-
facture the wool, and we have no brains.
Bah! this time in the nearest politician’s
on r.
* * * *
“Burn”: Tlie war is giving a great fillip
to vegetarianism. Bean-eating has a lot to
recommend it in a country like Australia
where the son of the cow lias always played
too big a part in the national tucker bill ’ It
is in England, however, that tlie butcher is
really up against calamity. It was recently
stated, by the chairman of Eastman’s, Ltd’
that 2000 meat-shops had put up their shut-
ters since the war began.


THe BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
ĥ
REMINGTON HAMMERLESS REPEAT-
, . IXG RIFLE, Model 12, 22-calibre, solid
be d, su e ejector, straight grip, 24in. round barrel, handles lb
frm '. “a, '' l '" 01 ‘, !?, Ug riflG cartri( lges ; adjustable rear and open
Hont sights ; weight 411 b. Delivered, 52/6.
THE MAXIM SILENCER, for attaching to rifles. Improves
your marksmanship. Ensures noiseless shooting. The
marvel of the shooting world.
Silencer for 22-cal. rifles £l/5/-
Silencer for all other calibre rifles £2/2/0
Postage on one Silencer, N.S.W., 9<l. ; Inter-State, 1/2.
Wedging or screwing Silencer on 22-cal. barrel. . 7/6 extra
Screwing Silencer on all other barrels 12/6 extra
We Repair
All Kinds
of Q UNS
and
RIFLES.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
aii Sporting Goods
Post Free Anywhere.
MICK SIMMONS LTD
Held Depet: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City Sports Depot: 119 King' Street,
■Also at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Id
MAUSER CARBINE AND PISTOL COMBINED; 10-shot,
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards.
Delivered £6/15/-
c3b
iF=£Si
1 HE SAVAGE” Repeating Hammer*
less Rifle. 22-calibre rim fire, 24in. octagon
Darrel, slide action, demountable, pistol grip,
Handles short, long, or long rifle cartridges; is loaded with a
Hip similar to the Military Rifle, two clips with da eh rifle,
paeh clip holds 7 cartridges; weight about 5*11). Delivered.. £3/8/-
Extra Clips, 1/6 each.
ħ
REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. G Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel,
weight 3.Ub 17/G
With ladder rear sights, 21/-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.;
2/8 Inter-State.
h
STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
22-cal. R.F., round barrel, 20in. chambered
rifle cartridges, case-hardened frame, oiled
stock, open front and rear sights, weight, 41b.,
Postage—N.S.W. 1/9 ; Inter-State
for long
walnut
19/6
3/2.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always beeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVE REGARD TO VOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STR-EI, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
WONDERFUL BARGAINS!
Thi Final Quaint 5 0U ||j African Ostrich Feather-Plumes
LANCERS, ASCOTS, RUCHES, TIPS, BOAS & NECKLETTES, at about
one-third of the usual prices.
Some of our prices for Best-quality Dressed Feathers, 15 to 17 inches long, 5 to 7 inches wide—
IS inolns lons',
19
20
21
20
8 inches wide
9
S
7
9
7/6
7/6
10/6
10/6
10/6
12/6
From 4/6 to 6/-
BEAUTIFUL LAXCKK PLUMES (from 14 to 16 inches wide).
21 inches long
25
/
23 inches long
27
In White, Black, Natural Grey, Black and White or Colored,
Sent Post Free anywhere.
Money returned in full if we fail to please. Write now. Enclose Postal Notes.
E. LEEB & CO.
(of Capetown, South Africa),
29S Collins St. Milhfttirno
(Altson’s Buildings). ITItIUUVI lit
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
HOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamers Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History ok the Hod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ns. Nor Guilty (Blatcn-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor. 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Head Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowlers Human Scikncp.,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d
m
m
mm
m
m
m
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows’ up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It; will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH, -ag
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING GAUDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with lull directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secret,s and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj\ Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations' and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Sklk Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers ok Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hbptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, is post. Gay
Like in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. JMT-Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
ISE GOT FKOJI THIS A DVT.
Write for my....
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere (or the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford's Mid-
wife's Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coar.es), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bknnarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, lfiOOillus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyantr,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


A Mother of Eleven
Baby
Pinning ton
(from a
photo.).
■fr/s, t r v. :v
M »
*pr
an
I, imm
WM
mmt:W
C-XOIUIW ''V
Praises
REXONA.
“I have much pleasure in telling yon of the
great benefit to iny baby by the use of Rexona.
When about three months old he had a dread-
lul sore break out all over the top of liis head,
from a cliill. I tried two or three different
kinds of ointment, but none seemed to do it
any good, so. 1 thought 1 would try Rexona,
and got a pot. it did not seem to improve his
head much, but neither did it seem any worse,
so I thought I would persevere, and used it
until 1 had used three small pots, and then I
got a large pot, and used only a little of that
when his head was quite well. I was still
anxious, as one neighbor said it was too strong
for such a tiny baby. Another one said it
was teeth eczema, and would return every time
lie out any teeth, but lie is now two years old and
has all his teeth, and from the time it healed
to now he has not had the slightest sore or
eruption of any kind on any part of his body,
and has a head of beautiful, thick, curly hair.
Perhaps you would like to know how 1 used
the ointment. When 1 gave baby his daily
bath I did not wash his head, hut when I had
him dressed l bathed his head in nice warm
water, and then spread the ointment on a clean
piece of rag and laid it on the top of his head
to quite cover the sore, and kept it in its place
with an old, soft towel, very open, so as not
to make his head hot. You see the nearest
doctor was 11 miles away, so we have to trust
to ourselves very much, and I shall never he
without Rexona again. I always introduce
ltexona whenever I get a chance. I am so
thankful for what it did for my baby boy.”
(Signed) Mrs. W. PINNINGTON,
Port Vincent, South Australia.
REXONA—the Family Friend j
Rexona is a Reliable Remedy for. all Eruptions and Irritations of the Skin,
Sure Heard. Eczema, Pimples, Chilblains, Chapped Hands, Sciatica. Cuts, burns,
Bruises. (Scalds, Bad Legs. Stings of Insects, and all kinds of Inflammation.
Rexona is sold only in triangular pots, at 1/0, and in larger pots, containing
nearly foil? times the quantity, at 3/-
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
“ I*ll Praise Your
Booh but, dash
me if I'll Read it!”
said Doctor Johnson to an
aspiring poet who asked him to
read and recommend his book.
The writer of this not only
praises
“REX
i
f
CD
TS
■=ri
P/?OOt)C
FOO O
V?
E
N
ill
■k
L-W
on
m
Luncheon ChC6SO
but eats it, too. He finds “REX” LUNCHEON - CHEESE (tliafs right,
professor—in capitals, because it’s, capital Cheese) as piquant to the taste as
the strains of some beautiful, long-forgotten melody are welcome to the ear.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese possesses all the valuable properties of perfectly-
matured. Full Cream Cheese, and spreads as readily as butter. Fat a little
after each meal as an aid to digestion.
Sold by all Grocers in Sanitary, Solderless tins. Ask
for “Rex” Brand, and take no substitute.
OtHer “REX’* Canned Delicacies are
Ham Pate.
Veal and Tongue Pate.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork and Beans, 1111). tins.
Pigs’ Peet in Jelly, lib. tins.
Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
And
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.,
Cureis of “REX” HAMS and BACON.
Packers of “REX” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS.
&
E
X
Joi, the Glug.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rilllE Glugs abide in a. far. far land
I That is partly pebbles and stones and
sand,
But mainly earth of a chocolate hue.
When it isn't purple or slightly blue.
And the Glugs live there, with their aunts
and wives,
in draughtv tenements built like hives.
And they climb the trees when the weather
is wet,
To see how high they can really get.
Pray don’t forget.
This is chiefly done when the weather is
wet.
lud every shadow that /tits or glides.
L „d every stream that glistens and glide*
And laughs its way from a highland bright
All know the (Hugs quite welt by sight.
Ind they say: “Our test is the best by jar;
For a (ling is a (Hug, so there you are
And they climb the trees when it drizzles
or hails,
To get electricity into their nails.
And the (Hug that fails „
Is a luckless (Hug. if H drizzles or hails.
So w the Glugs abide in the Land of Gosh ;
And they work all day for the sake ol
Splosh.
For Splosh the First is the nation's pride,
And King of the Glugs, on his uncle's
side.
And they sleep at night, for the sake oi
rest;
For the doctors say this suits them best.
And they climb the trees, as a general rule,
For exercise, when the weather is cool.
They’re taught at school
To climb the trees when the weather is
cool.
And the whispering grass on the gay. green
hills,
And every cricket that skirls and shrills.
And every moonbeam, gleaming white.
All know the (Hugs quite well by sight.
And they say, “It is safe, the test we bring:
For a (Hug is an awfully (Hug-like thing. .
And Iliey climb the trees when there's
sign of a fog.
To scan the land for a feasible dog:
They love to jog
Through dells in quest of the feasible dog. ’
Now the Glugs eat meals three times a day.
Because their fathers ate that way.
And their grandpas said the scheme was
good,
To help the Glugs digest their food.
And it’s wholesome food the Glugs have got,
For it says so plain on the tin and the pot.
And they climb the trees when the weather
is dry
To get a glimpse of tin- pale green sky.
I don’t know why.
But they love to gaze on a pale green sky.
And every cloud that sails aloft.
And every breeze that blows so soft.
And every star that shines at night.
All know the Glugs quite well by sigh I.
For they say: “Our test is safe and true;
What one (Hug does the other (Hags do.
And they climb flic trees when the weather
is hot.
For a bird's-eye view of the garden plot.
Of course, it’s rot,
But they love that view of a garden plot."
At half-past two on a Wednesday morn
A most peculiar Glug was born ;
And. later on. when he grew a man.
He scoffed and sneered at the Chosen Plan.
“It’s wrong!” said this Glug. whose name
was .Toi.
“Bah!” said the Glugs “He's a crazy boy!"
And they climbed the trees, as the west
wind stirred.
To hark to the note of the gul’fer bird.
It seems absurd,
But they’re awfully fond of the goffer
bird.
And every reed that rustles and sways
By the gurgling river that plashes and plays.
And the beasts of the dread, neurotic night.
All know the (Hugs quite well by sight.
And, “Why.” say they, “it is easily done:
For a dexter (Hug's like a sinister one!
And they climb the trees, when the thun-
der rolls,
To soddenly salve tlieir small, pale souls.
For they fear the coals
That threaten to frizzle tlieir pale, pink
souls.''
Said the Glug called .loi : “This climbing
trees
Is a foolish art. and things like these
Cause much distress in the land of Gosh.
Let’s stay on the ground and kill King
Splosh !”
But Splosh, the King, he smiled a smile.
And beckoned once to his hangman. Guile.
Who climbed a tree while the weather
was calm :
And they hanged poor Joi on a snufflebust
palm ;
Then sang a psalm.
Did those pious Glugs ’neath the snullle-
bust palm.
And every bee that kisses a flown'.
And every blossom, born for an hour.
And every bird on its gladsome flight.
All know the (Hugs quite well by sight.
For they say: “’Tis a simple test we've got:
If you know one (Hug. why. you know the
lot!. ...”
So they climbed a tree in the bourgeoning
Spring.
And they hanged poor Joi with some
second-h and s f ring.
It’s a horrible thing
To be hanged by (Hugs with second-hand
string.
Then Splosh, the king, rose up and said:
“It’s not polite; but lie’s safer dead.
And there’s not much room in the land of
Gosh
For a Glug named Joi and a king called
Splosh !”
And every Glug flung high his hat.
And cried. “We’re Glugs 1 And you can't
change that!”
So they climbed the trees, since the
weather was cola,
As their great-grandmothers climbed of
old.
We are not told
Why Grandma climbed when the weather
was cold.
And every cloud that sails the blue,
And every dancing sunbeam too,
Amt even) sparkling dewdrop bright,
All know the (lings quite veil by sight.
“IFc tell.” say they, “by a simple test;
For any old (Hug is like the rest.
And'they climb the trees when there's
weather about,
In a general way. as a cure for gout.
Though some folk doubt
If the climbing of trees is good for gout.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
Amongst My Own People.
THE LAST SHAFT IN LOG
PADDOCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT is another rainy day. Rainy days seem
to be growing more frequent of late —I
wish I'd saved up for some of them. But
it's much too far along towards the end of
Elder Alan's Lane to hope to save up a
decent sum for the dreary, dry. sapped and
ring-barked Flat of Old Age.
Elder Alan's Lane looks a long lane before
you come to it, but when you reach it you
seem to be through it very quickly —some-
times. It’s where your hair gets like the
dead trees on Ringbarked Flat —and some-
times your heart's as hard. But enough of
that! There's such a thing as a green old
age, I suppose. I know there's such a thing
as a green youth. But we'll leave all that
out.
Elder Alan's Lane has brought me round
to the home of my boyhood, some two hun-
dred miles west and north of Sydney. Here,
in the Old Place, the west was always
where the east is in any other place. It
seems so still. But. to me, things have
always been more or less baek-to-front or
the-other-way-about. The AJudgee line always
seemed to branch off to the south, in-
stead of to the north-west, at Wallerawang
Junction, and vice versa coming down. But.
then. I’ve always passed the Junction in
the night, and that blight have something
to do with it. (There’s no day “passenger”
on the Aludgee line, except at holiday time;
so the ordinary passenger misses some of
the grandest scenery in Australia. But that’s
got nothing to do with it.)
Anyway, the Old Place always seemed
vague, and vaguely far off, like the Sunset
Islands, when we were away from it —as
other places were when we were at home —-
and the after-glow from sunset glares and
fades just as ghostly as it did when we used
to reckon that that same sun (which seems
to set in an east where the west ought to
be) went down behind the low ridges across
the Cudgegong River, and then travelled
all round behind the Aludgee Ilills and rose
again behind our hills. It took him all
night to go round, we reckoned. He seemed
to rise just back of our hills, and it was
hot enough in the droughts of the early
’eighties for that to be so.
So I. John Lawrence, sit in the House
that Father Built, and write painfully, in
the same room, at the same table, in the
same schoolboy hand that I started to
"form” here, nearly 40 years ago. And
with much the- same orthography and
grammar.
I think we’ll send the Other Self. “John
Lawrence,” back to Sydney. He’s out of
place Imre and is restless and depressed and
homesick: and no wonder. The old place
is very dark to-day, and the old tree-ivy in
front makes it darker still. We’ll send
John back down along the lines, and across
to North Sydney by the Horse Punt, where,
no doubt, his casual friend, Benno, will Jbe
wondering what become of that writin’
bloke. So long, Jack! Alect you down
below.
So I. Henry Ilertzbei'g Larsen, sit in the
House my Father Built.
The scene is little changed. Alary. At
least, it is little changed until you look into
it. It's something like an author reading
his own proofs ; he reads on all right for a
while, and then, no matter how he tries to
concentrate, he begins to read as lie wrote
the thing, or as it ought to be; and not as
the comps, think it ought to be.
But. later on. I noticed that “our hill’’—
The box-covered ridge where the five-corners grew—
has become a pine ridge. There were only
three tall pines on the peak above the saddle
in my time, but these had been cut down
for timber. I noticed no change on the last
visit, twenty years ago; but successive
ringbarkers. woodearters and buslifires had
cleared most of the box scrub away, and
given the young pines a chance. And, lo! a
pine ridge against sunrise where white box
was yesterday. It would look more fitting
against sunset. But. then, the sunset is
turned round here, as I said before.
All the old people seem alive, except my
father and one or two mates of his. who
happened to be of regular and steady habits.
We buried my father in another place, some
twenty-five years ago. and the rest of the
family have long left the old home; so it
doesn’t seem as haunted as it otherwise
might have been. There was a fair-haired,
blue-eyed Norwegian sister of mine, buried
over there under the darkening Aludgee Hills,
who might have helped to make my life very
different; but —damn these dark, rainy days !
Darkness and rain. And. behind the
ridge, the weird gullies of the past, the home
of many tragedies, with their flattened
waste-heaps—ghostly even in daylight,
amongst saplings that have grown to trees
—lying like the graves of diggers’ hopes.
The gullies with their sordid and ghastly
tragedies, strangely connected nearly always
with mysterious fossicking mates; a hut. a
bunk, a dead body and a shot-gun.
I remember the last in my time. An
acquaintance came down, as was customary
with him, to have a yarn with one of the
(Continued on next page.)


Coughs
Colds
The immediate and continuous success of the Peps treat=
ment for coughs, colds, sore throat, bronchitis and other throat
and chest ailments is due to the fact that Peps provide, in
1
nr
A
6
handy tablet form, a potent medicine
which is breathed direct into the bronchial
tubes and lungs. The dotted lines in this
diagram follow the direction of the air we
breathe, whether through the nostrils (i) or
the mouth (2). Passing over the tongue (3)
the air mingles with the fumes emitted from
the little Peps tablet dissolving on the tongue, and both are carried through
the opening (4) to the throat.
Note th.it the Peps fumes pass down a separate passage (5) direct to
the lungs, not down the gullet (6) to the stomach, which is the way all
liquid medicines must go. To swallow any medicine into the lungs is utterly
impossible ; and no medicine taken into the stomach can reach the lungs.
Hvv V
-’-1,1 v-;v.
'cviVc-y-v:
z,«J.
tofhe
Free from all
drowsy drugs,
always pure
and constant in
c o m p o sition,
Peps are of
incalculable
value as a
soothing, heal-
ing, restoring,
and ger m-
destroying
remedy for the
throat and
chest troubles
so prevalent at
this season.
Sold Everywhere
fj6 3 1 - per box.
h
Anaemia
Frequently Unrecognised
The Importance of its Detection
The Symptoms of Anaemia (Poorness
of Blood) are Difficulty of Breathing, Lack of
Energy, Depression, Pallor, and Exhaustion after
Slight Exertion. Many people fail to recognise
these symptoms of Anaemia—the disease creeps
on, obtains a firm grip of the system and eventually
becomes chronic. If the symptoms are recognised
at the beginning it is a very simple matter to enrich
the blood and so effectually check the disease.
Iron Jelloids
enrich the blood—renew vitality
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids,’ the blood becomes
enriched and strengthened, the distressing symptoms of
Anaemia quickly disappear, giving place to a state of
vigorous health and buoyant spirits.
DR. ANDREW WILSON wrote : —“ It can be definitely stated
“ that Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ constitute the most effective and desirable
“treatment for Anaemia or Poorness of Blood.”
A fortnight's trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
For Women, No- 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No, 1. Sold in England at l/lj and 2/9, per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt St.,Sydney,N.S.W.
Manufactured only by THE ‘JELLOID’ Co., 205, City Road. London, England.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
ĥ
Seven
Prsase Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
old mates on Sunday morning. lie knocked,
and called, and then pushed open the door
of the hut. The old fossicker was lying with
Ids face towards the wall, the gun in the
bunk beside him. lie had shot himself, or
had been shot, on the previous Friday. His
fossicking mate was drinking in town. He
swore that he had not gone up that gully
with his partner on Friday night, but had
turned back for more drink, and had slept
on the road. There was a story, strangely
familiar to me, that these two had been
mates in Queensland; that one had com-
mitted a murder there, and the dead man
knew it; that they had quarrelled on their
way home from a spree in town that night,
ami one had threatened to “inform” on the
other. A girl, belonging to a family at the
foot of the gully, said she heard the two
quarrelling as.they went up the gully. But,
then, girls—and women, too —will say
strange things. And for no apparent reason
on God's earth—things that hang men or
send them to gaol for life. Anyway, the
other mate got off. But angry men burnt
that hut to the last stick, and scattered the
ashes. I was shown the place yesterday, and
bare and ghostly, even ghastly, it looked
among the saplings on a dull day. I wonder
what it would look like in the twilight of a
tine day—or by moonlightV Ur in the ghostly
Bush daybreak? Children avoid it going
home from school, just as we avoided the
sites of other huts.
(Don’t bother. I’m coming to the “Last
Shaft in Log Paddock” presently. We’ll all
come to the last shaft soon enough.)
These two old fossickers were the last in
Sapling and Golden Gullies. Legend says
a similar tragedy was connected with the
hrst two prospecting mates, long ago, before
the Kush.
Then there was the strange case of old
Vat-you-Blease,” or “Sich-a-Vay,” the Ger-
man. He got his early nicknames from
expressions of his. They called him a
Dutchman, so most likely he wasn't; and
he wasn’t old—just about midway in Elder
Man s Lane.
Now, this place used to be called “Pipe-
clay, . on account of the quantity of that
stuff brought up from below. There were
great waste heaps of it on the flat. But
they’re all gone now, with the tailings and
gravel, to make roads or something. On
Specimen Flat, at the foot of Golden Gully,
they brought up heaps of stuff that felt fine
and silky, like pipeclay; bid it was black, of
the blue-blackest —a grass-killing stuff when
d rained and the clay “ran.” Old diggers
used to have a great prejudice against it;
but Vat-you-Blease” had great faith in it.
He called it “plack vitevash.” And so lie him-
self came to be “Black Vitevash,” or. as the
younger folk put it. “Old Black Vitevash.”
• ''ell, one (,a -7 “Black Vitevash” was miss-
ing. He wasn't missing long, for he was a
cheerful soul and popular. It was on a Mon-
day morning, and he hadn’t turned up any-
where over Sunday. Ilis bed was made up
mi the stretcher, almost hospital fashion.
Everything was neat and tidy. The tent
had been swept, and the space before it. too.
Ihe frying-pan was scoured and hanging on
the nail on its accustomed sapling. The
little camp-oven was clean. Ilis mullocky
moleskins had been hung out to dry, and the
<- ) a A icaked, so that it could be beaten
off. He had, evidently, had the digger’s usual
Saturday afternoon clean-up. A much-
patched shirt, washed and folded, lay on the
bunk. His heavy clay-clogged bluchers stood
outside the tent flap. But the rough serge
Sunday suit and everything else in the shape
of clothing were gone. And “Black Vite-
vash” was gone too. He’s been gone for
nearly live years. The police were out and
searched all the old digger holes ; and parties
were on the ridges and in the scrub for days.
Some kept up the search for weeks. But they
found no “Black Vitevash”—except the clay.
Maybe in town he had got important news
from “Home” or somewhere, and, with no
time to say good-bye to anybody, had slipped
into the train unnoticed. Maybe he had
found a nugget, or got a lot of coarse gold
in some forgotten “wash.” Maybe anything.
Maybe he was a hunted man. Maybe he’s a
happy man now in Christiana, Stockholm or
Helsingfors. And maybe lie’s tramping or
sailing somewhere in .the world, broken-
hearted and grey because of the Girl Who
Couldn t V ait. She was well known to
many diggers.
And that’s the tale of the “Fairy Fos-
sicker ” The children always found' lollies
at "Black Vitevash’s” camp after his fort-
nightly visit to the township; and, somehow,
they don’t avoid that site. They don’t mind
going past there in the dusk. They’ll even
play round it in the moonlight. There’s a
ring amongst the saplings that’s been there
since I can remember. Some said a travel-
ling circus made it in the hard ground. Some
say it is because of a peculiar ring of sub-
soil formation (maybe black whitewash)
that makes the grass above it grow a differ-
ent color. But the children don’t believe
these things. The Fairies made it.
And to finish with a rather pleasant story,
yet with a sort of sadness about it. There
were two old diggers named Frank and
George Dale. Not only brothers, but mates.
r hey had come out together as young men,
and had knocked about the diggings for many
years. And whatever romance they left be-
hind them stayed there. They had a neat
bark hut opposite where I am writing now,
in Log Paddock. They fossicked round and
did odd bush-carpentering and fencing jobs
to get the wherewithal to prospect. When
they had made a few pounds they “put down
a shaft.” I knew them as long as I can re-
member. They simply drifted into my child-
hood like something that had been there all
the time; and they faded out of my later,
wandering years like something that had
never been.
But Frank is very close to me to-night.
George was a personality in the background.
Every Saturday, digger-like, they’d knock
off at one o’clock, and go down to the creek
and wash their clothes; to appear on Sunday
afternoon in clean shirts and moles, with
fresh spotted handkerchiefs round their
necks. And every Sunday, between 12 and
one, we boys would go across to the hut, for
Frank could bake a joint as it should be
baked, with the best Yorkshire pudding I
ever tasted, coiled like a roly-poly round
the “roast” in the camp-oven, and done just
a nice yellow-brown. Frank, by the way,
had a face whereof the lower part always
smiled, whether he felt that way or not. So
they lived their harmless, useful lives, help-
ing neighbors _in sickness and trouble, and
going on their harmless, brotherly little
periodical sprees, till at last, having saved
a few pounds, they put down a shaft in
McDonald’s paddock; and there they struck
their Golden Hole—several hundred pounds.
In the first flush of victory, of course, they
were “Going Home” at last; and then they
suddenly found themselves too old. At
least, it was discovered that George was ;
in fact, he gave his share of the claim to
another old mate, and knocked off for good
before the gold was worked out.
Then the two brothers shifted over to
Budgee-Budgee, and built the neatest of all
their huts there, in a pleasant spot near a
spring, and made a garden. And each made
a will in favor of the other; the property of
the one who died last to go to a younger
brother—or was it a younger sister?' Some-
thing of that sort, in England. They went
to th(> Mudgee Hospital together at last—
the ultimate result of fighting the water in
many wet claims. There George died. And
Frank died later in the same day. So they
went Home, and were buried in the new
cemetery near the Racecourse, amongst
others of the last of the old diggers. The
gold that it had taken a lifetime (and God
knows how many buried hopes) to win, went
to some stodgy, retired tradesman in Eng-
land, who had faint recollection of Frank
or .Targe,” as went “abrard”—somebody who
didn’t know how to use money, and couldn’t
tell the map of Australia from a dog’s hind
leg.
* * * *
I shall have to leave the Last Shaft in
Log Paddock to another story, after all.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Patriots.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rpHOSE who say that the young man-
hood of Australia does not realise
the gravity of the struggle in which
the Empire is engaged should come to our
club. They will always be able to meet a num-
ber of fine fellows who .are there because they
have no homes and wives—or because they
have homes and wives.
Burgess—six-foot-two of youthful mus-
cularity, and unmarried—makes the third
trick by smashing his left bower on his
opponent’s ace.
“Euchre!” he remarks, shuffling compla-
cently. “Yes, as I was saying, w’e don’t
know what a debt we owe to the British
Navy! Seven of hearts up. Without the
navy did y’ ever think of what might be hap-
pening to us now? It’s down —have a
make.”
“That’s right,” says Brown. “It’s the
navy lets us sit comfortably here, playing
cards and billiards and so on! All away?
Well I’m alone in clubs !”
“What beats me,” remarks Ferguson, “is
why you unmarried fellows don’t see that
you ought to enlist. Aha, stopped you!
Had to keep the king of diamonds—it’s the
only good card I had! Take one. We
married men can’t get away.”
“Because you have to be in the club five
or six hours a day playing cards,” Brown
snaps. “I’m away from spades.”
“Away me,” echoes Ferguson. “What
you fellows don’t seem to understand is what
this war means to all of us. If we fail”—
“Oh, hang the war !” says Rodgers. “Pay
attention to the game. I’ve got drinks on
this.
The seriousness of the position being thus
brought home to the gathering, Ferguson
momentarily dismisses the question of Em-
pire from his mind and concentrates on the
business in hand.
At one of the billiard tables Mcriiee, hav-
ing snookered Kirby, leans on his cue and
babbles.
“There’s no doubt about it. we ought to
be making a much greater effort than we
are. I see by the Matin the British troops
are only spread over thirty-one miles of
front. I reckon we ought to do better than
that. Ah, you’ve put the black down! That’s
seven off you, my boy.”
He chalks his cue thoughtfully and pre-
pares to aim.
“If we don’t drive the Germans back be-
fore next winter we’ll be in a rotten way.
Got it! I’m on the blue !”
“Why don’t you enlist?” inquires Kirby,
'™ the bitterness of imminent defeat.
l Enlist! Me enlist!” responds McPhee in
a dazed manner, and then recovering him-
u aQ e ®°rt. “So I would only—well,
there s the tournament coming off. After
that —on the pink this time.”
Call this a game of whist!” comes a voice
from one of the tables. “Here’s my partner
talking so much war that he doesn’t know
whether the Kaiser’s trumps or whether I
took the Kiel Canal with the ace of Darda-
nelles or the Queen of England. Damn the
war!”
11 111 Hght, old chap; don’t lose your
bmck . says his partner soothingly.
“It’s enough to make a man talk!” wails
the other. “Why not leave the rotten old
war alone? What do toe want to blither
about it for? What do we know about the
TO .a2&°w,with the Papers full of lies, and
us 12,000 miles from it, and only a lot of
clerks and warehouse employees anyhow that
have, never seen warfare. I get so sick of
healing rot about the war sometimes that I
don t care what happens or who wins !”
Profound sensation, in the midst of which
one of tlie speaker’s opponents takes the
opportunity to fling his cards on the table
and spring to his feet with loud cries of
patriotic protest.
“Pin. finished !” lie announces. “No more
cards for me! I wouldn’t play with a man
wao talks like that!”
“Come off!” urges his other oppouent
SerSf! H l '! 11 ? " nt tI,P eaS
. You I 1 th / lt because you hadn’t a trump
m your hand, and no suit!” p
There is a painful pause. Then the
patriots move to the bar and drink the
Kaiser’s downfall in Yankee beer brewed by
someone with a name like Schmidt. y
HAMER.


WESTINGHOUSE
(Mon.) CHAIN DRIVES
;
■as**
f; J if
:
' -
For all types of high-speed power
transmission.
Positive in Action,
Siient in Operation,
Unrivaßled in Efficiency,
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to sliding
surfaces. Consequently you have
Full Power,
Continuous Power,
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents— Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
BOUNDERS No. 20 PLANED g MOULDER.
Unequalled Value. Strijdly Moderate Price.
PLANES, 12in. x 4in.
Double Row Ball Bear=
ings to all Spindles.
Feed Rollers ail Gear
Driven “and of Large
Diameter.
Vertical and Horizontal
Adjustment to Side
Heads,
Can be supplied with
Plain or Ball=bearing
Counter Shaft.
ħ
h
Descriptive Leaflet and Price from SOLE AGENTS—
THE AUSTRAL ENGINEERING SUPPLY CO. Limited,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Tube
Threading
is easier and
quicker with
OSTER
■'"(
Die Stocks
Eight unusual features are combined in
every tool. Ask your dealer about them.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
4] CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.
For Sale by
Leading
Dealers in
All Cities.
Have You Seen
SMITH & SONS ALL-BRITISH
MOTOR ACCESSORIES?
Speedometers “British” Tyres
Carburetters Pumps
Lighting Sets Mascots, etc.
WRITE OR CALL.
ERIC BOULT LTD.,
Telephone—City 2401.
Managing Agents,
79-81 Pitt St., Sydney
ft
JOIN THE RANKS-
"X\
'
<2
OF THOSE WHO TAKE
BfftHAMSta.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
I m, 2/9 & 4/6.
Made in
England.
ti/tlcrcdf*
Checks Fever-
ishness, an«
effectually
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
~•> ■' :v- ■ ■ :... • ■■. ;; : . x \ •' v~
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s Engrlish Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dogr’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
h
THE FAMOUS
Schebler Carburetter
has conclusively proved this season
(1914-15) at its home, in America,
that it is
The Best Carburetter
SCHEBEER Equipped Engines
won World’s Records with
CARS
« Stutz ” Road Record
75*03 miles
per hour.
BOATS
“ Baby Speed Demon "
53‘55 miles
per hour.
BICYC
" Excelsior ”
1 to 100
SCHEBLER is also the equipment for the
CURTIS FLYING BOATS
and the KINNARD HAINES PLOUGHING TRACTOR, the American Champion.
A Carburetter showing such Efficiency must be Economical.
Catalogues and all information free.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, Sole Agents for Australasia. [2


MANGROVTT
LEATHER
LTI
has been awarded the Gov-
ernment Contracts for 1915-
1916,
It is All-Australian —from
Australian Hides, tanned
and manufactured by Aus-
tralian Workmen.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Something New _ _ _
PIPE THREADING,
in
RKESSINSTSWR
TO THE LEFT -
OPE NS THE DIESj
“The Bulldog Grip never slips.”
foS&r**»ss.
°Y IDB d S and Hfted Sf*th““wwkwSTo/t
&3K? b“i““ ?b“e‘ fl «i>h.d ...read.,
Oster Bulldog Die Stocks
possess all these features, beside other
advantages which must appeal to a
users of pipe-threading tools.
Write for our descriptive booklet on Pipe
Threading, or call and see a demonstration ot
the Bulldog.
h
Engineers & Machinery Merchants.
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Traasmits
that
Counts. X
sx;
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole Agents-
Jas. HardieS Co
Circular Quay.
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
Is “Economy
Your
Watchword ?
If so you will be deeply
interested in the increased
steaming power of your boiler,
the more satisfactory working
of your engine, the greater
efficiency of your whole plant,
and, further, the big reduction
in your fuel bill, all of which
can be accomplished by the
adoption of
Newall’s Magnesia
Sectional Steam
Pipe Coverings and
Plastic Boiler
Covering
the EXCEPTIONAL EFFICIENCY of which has placed it
FAR ABOVE ALL OTHER MATERIALS.
The above claims are not merely “idle words,’’ but are all
clinched by FACTS in evidence of which we might mention
that Newall’s Coverings have been adopted exclusively by the
NSW and Victorian Governments, and have been used throughout
Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses, in addition to which we have
orders on hand for the insulating throughout of Perth, Melbourne
and Canberra Power Stations.
Should further argument be necessary, we append the comparative
covering capacities of Newall’s Plastic Boiler Covering and ordinary
asbestos.
lcwt. ordinary asbestos will cover 40 sq. ft. x lin. thick.
lcwt. Newall’s Plastic Magnesia will cover 100 Sq. ft. V. lin.
thick.
J.
WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, U.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fturning,
Patent “ Neiyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought iron Work,
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
J. A. Fay 8 Efruv Co.’s Woodworking Machinery.
FURNITURE, PIANO AND WOODWORKING SHOPS WILL BE
INTERESTED
to know that we have opened up, in our Showroom, a
No. 225 TRIPLE DRUM SAND-PAPERINC MACHINE,
and, if perfect surfaces are wanted, either for varnishing or painting, this is the
machine for YOU.
« Also in Stock—Arm, Column, Sash and Door Sanders.
No. 50 Special Patent Band Saw, for all kinds of plain or intricate bctoll
sawing. This machine represents the “Acme” of perfection in Band Saws.
PLANERS, MATCHERS, MOLDERS, JOINTERS,
DOOR CLAMPS, SURFACERS, TENONERS.
Carried in stock by Sole Agents:—•
H. P. GREGORY CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
&V!:Wi
rSp:
MH9H
lasan-iwas m
MARINE or
Sole Australian Agents:—
WARBURTON, FRANK.I, Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
ajllL
4111
tmr
l,l
•‘"uuitl
PjT
iiiiiiiMimiiiimmiiiis
iiiimiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiuiin
—rtrrttiTllUlil II
S! li ]B[ I
6
ĥ
ASTHE BRITISH EMPIRE
ISA POWER FOR JUSTICE
STRENGTHS REPUTATION
SO THE LISTER
ALL BRITISH
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINERY ISA POWERIN
SHEARING FOR EFFICIENCY
k ECONOMY&QUALITY^
-AGENTS^
MITCHELL & CO. PROPY. LTD.,
W. footscray, Melbourne,
Vic.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Townsville,Q.
MALLOCH BROS.,
Perth, W.A.
•sei 'iJeqou
‘ an ‘SNOS S H3ISB3M *9 *v
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Brisbane, Q.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS’
CO-OP. UNION, LTD.,
Adelaide, S.A.
MANUFACTURE^
THE “GUTHRIDG”
Garbage DESTRUCTOR.
SMOKELESS EFFICIENT SIMPLE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Health Department and the N.S.W. Education Department.
INVALUABLE FOR PRIVATE AND PUBLIC HOSPITALS AND PRIVATE RESIDENCES.
Manufactured by
N.
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
■D
