

the Veteran of Whiskies
R. Gh. & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Cla
' 1 ■ ‘ ■iSSaS ill
ss of SECURITY,
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
ail oD I'Q Q: 3131 d 3Q J.KJOW M-S KJ
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. Telephone: City 9325.
And at
186
159 George Street
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
•40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
"i! < :«>■ Mini MiuwiiiiWf iirti Mlfi ■
S^^iifelOTciaw|!{ga^allsH^mgaßE{[
'\ y VW' 'fia^v
I" VMY \W/ r >'«V A’«',
I llltß 'lll ll!
Irr^m
l?ll
■.-
'ipss^^-sj’:. H r '^-S' . Wfr-jUtfSS,
iM^EsnElPini
Bh r J. !J55 I y
HOBART
NOTICE TO READERS.
IP any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
Ofce'^ulleZZn,
214 George Street, Sydney.
UJJfIMC
“PINEAPPLE" HAMS & BACON
CHUBB’S
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
made from these, genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
HANSEN’S
J
I
fdhf
For INDIGESTION
ono DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.'
and the World’s. B
PALMER CORD
TYRES.
Interesting' Catalogue free from
The Silvertown Rubber Co.,
*
279 George Street, Sydney.
;
I
dghfd
SW
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
The finest material for panelling that
the builder can use. Do you know' it?
Then you don’t know what beautiful
Interior effects can be had by its* use.
liet us send you Samples and Booklets.
The Paraffine Paint Co,
Challis House, Sydney.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager,
H
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
WHITE LABEL s.v o
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE.
Is Australian Owned as well as Australian Made. Contains the rigrhfc proportion of Chlorate
of Potash to use. 1/- per large tube, 1/2 Post Free. On dozen lots we pay postage.
Sayers, All port Propt., 55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
OPALOID
The Bulletin
VoL 36.—N0. 1863. J
[Thursday, October 28, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOORS
(Postage tkmm
im pcrmthesu .)
My Recollection*. fllus. *l/- (Id.).
The Cinematograph Book, Ulus. */<* (*<*-)-
Wifeless Telegraphist's Pocket Book. 8/6
s*i Diversions of a NaturmLUfc. 8/0 (4d.).
Murdoch: Song* of the Open Air. */* (Id).
Hufctonli Attna and the linns. 8/8 (3d,i.
Wolf’s Philosophy of Nietzsche. 4/6 (2d.).
Spence’s Myths and Legend* of Ancient Egypt, lllus.
10/- (4d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD.. 258 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROUND TABLE, September.
Articles: NATIONAL DUTY IN WAB.
ENGLAND’S FINANCIAL TASK.
AMERICAN PUBLIC OPINION AND TUB WA*.
MACMILLAN & CO.,
109 Russell Street, Melbourne.
And all Booksellers.
2/6 per copy. Annual Subscription, 10/-
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
o
t*
vga*.- 'v-r*
iMg?Q
»88»'
S§f»
WAVI
‘A
9(1. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie" Dept. H.,
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, and
sample tin will be sent post
free, or forward Od. in stamps
for full-size tin.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
Adola Pankhurst, Pro-Hun
Put up the Sword, by Adela Pankhurst,
published by The Women’s Peace Army—
whatever that is! —2ls Latrobe-street,
Melb., is written by a pro-German, and as
such is kindly commended by this page to
the attention of the Censor. It is true that
the author qualifies—in her first chapter,
titled “Pro-German”: "If to deny the
theory that Germany prepared for 40 years
to destroy the British Empire and conquer
the world is to be a pro-German, I fear
that, being in possession of ordinary criti-
cal faculties, I must plead guilty to the
childish charge!” In the next paragraph
she speaks slightingly of "the apologists for
the Allies.” Then she asks with a snort,
“Am I to he labelled ‘Pro-German’ because
I dispute" certain suppositions? And when
asked, in reference to Belgian atrocities,
What about the Bryce Commission? she
makes this reply:—
"Suppose I have been in Australia for 18
months, and I have been ‘investigating’ Aus-
tralian conditions. I go into the police
courts day by day, and I discover that Aus-
tralian mefi murder men and women and
rape little children under horrible circum-
stances ; every one of these atrocities being
investigated by a court composed of the
criminal’s own oountrymen, and he himself
heard in his own defence. Having collected
these cases, I put them into a book, and
publish it as a picture of Australian man-
hood and of their behavior in times of peace.
Would this convince any impartial observer
that the-Australians are a nation of devils?”
Now, what inference does Adela Pank
hurst, whose book we courteously com-
mend to the attention of the Defence
authorities, mean us to draw from
that statement? Can it be anything
but the conviction that the Bryce
Commission points to nothing worse than
what happens in times of peace in the most
civilised country of the world? Is this
slighting of the Belgian atrocities anything
but an acquittal for the Hun? And she
remarks that the British South African
methods were responsible for far more
deaths of women and children than Ger-
many’s submarine campaign, and defiantly
adds, “Does this opinion prove me Pro-
German ?” That, this page politely sug-
gests, is a matter for the military authori-
ties.
J*
The general charge against Germany that
she aims at the construction of a great Con-
federation of States, including Germany,
Austro-Hungary, the Balkan States and
Turkey, Adela Paakhurst, who apparently
does not read her newspapers, calls a
"sweeping assertion lacking any shadow of
proof.” And she brands General lan Hamil-
ton as a man who loves war for war’s sake.
"The very horrors of it are what he likes
to see.” This from a few extracts from
A Staff Officer's Scrap Book, which, only
by straining at the meaning of certain quo-
tations, can be made even remotely to mean
what Adela Pankhurst declares they mean.
And she asserts that "England is fighting
for supremacy, to impose not our rule but
our domination over the world in the name
of liberty.” And she proclaims that Ger-
many was forced, willy-nilly,' to attack our
shipping, because we established a navy of
such colossal size, "which was to be used
for piracy and not for defence”!
Reverting to the atrocity question, the
author calmly asks her readers to “refuse
to be confused by atrocity commissions into
forgetting that war was determined upon
and declared before a solitary act of
cruelty had been committed.” Well, the
Huns had not much chance until they in-
vaded Belgium.
“We cannot fail to see that public opinion
.... only half convinced as to the righteous-
ness of the war, has been whipped up to the
necessity by hatred, and a desire to re-
venge acts which they believe have been
committed by the enemy.” Not believe, Miss
Pankhurst: know. And she states that
“even the Bryce Commission reports con-
tain no acts more disgusting than” certain
acts committed by our soldiers in South
Africa. And Adela Pankhurst’s case can
be judged by the fact that in these state-
ments quotea there is no mention of a soli-
tary act committed against a single woman
or child. Evidently women and children
do not matter to Adela Pankhurst, intent on
proving that our soldiers were sinners com-
pared with the German saints. Subsequently
the author admits that the Bryce Commis-
sion gives horrible details of murder, rape
and robbery. What is her answer? "The
violation of women and children is an almost
daily occurrence in Australia, where there
is a population of only five millions, and
where there is a settled social order.” And
she asks us kindly to "consider the deli-
cately poised nerves and brain of a young
man confronted for the first time with
death in its most awful shape... .When life
is so cheap....con we expect that to the
poor , forced murderers even the flesh and
blood of women and ohildren will be
sacred P” The Huns will be pleased to find
that they have so sympathetic an apologist
and defender in Australia, and that apolo-
gist a woman!
And she hopefully suggests: "It is useless
for us to try to comfort ourselves that only
one army amongst the belligerents is com-
mitting atrocities. 1 * She finds, too, that
drowning innocent children and women, in
the Lusitania, it, compared with the bom-
bardment by big guns or air bombs, a merci-
ful act. And atrocities are being committed
“even at Gallipoli" by the warships of the
Allies, because "the great guns sweeping the
coasts take in their range... .villages and
farmhouses where children cower and trem-
ble, where women weep and starve, and new
lives come to birth.” Compared with this
infamy, of course, the doings of the Huns in
Belgium are angelic. That, at least, is the
tone of Adela Pankhurst’s plaint. •
And thus Adela Pankhurst lays down her
policy for Australia: “First and foremost,
her relations toward other European nations
must be clearly defined. It must consist in
respect for their language and their institu-
tions, for their human qualities, and in abso-
lute neutrality in European politics... .Eng-
land must give way to some wiser people
unless she makes a speedy peace and removes
the barriers which block the natural outlet of
other European peoples.” Including, let us
hope, the starving Belgians wider the iron
rule of that “wiser power.”
There is much in this book that is well
said; there is acute criticism that does not
step beyond the domain of the loyalty that
is necessary for all British subjects in this
crisis; but all this side of the book is viti-
ated by suffragist bias, inaccurate statements
and a point of view that, to any unbiased
reader, can only be termed pro-German. Such
a book cannot be regarded as a representative
voice, of the women of Australia, though on
the face of it, it is evidently the representa-
tive voice of the publishers. “The Women’s
Peace Army,” which, with Adela Pankhurst,
we cordially recommend to the Censor and
the Australian Defence authorities.
• •
Everybody in Maoriland knows The
Triad, which has brightened the existence of
the inhabitants of the Dominion, chiefly by
annoying them, for the last 24 years. The
sixpenny monthly, devoted to “literary, pic-
torial, musical and dramatic art,” bears
throughout the impress of a twin-personal-
ity, that composed of C. N. Baeyertz (the
editor) and Frank Morton. Its chief and
comprehensive aim, judging by its contents,
is to teach teachers of elocution how to elo-
cute, reciters how to recite, actors how to act,
and singers how to sing. And it has been
blithely doing this, for Maorilanders,
for 24 years. Now The Tbiad has
come to Australia; and its first Aus-
tralian issue, true to type, contains
articles on Facial Expressions, A Remark-
able New Gramophone—no, that’s an advt.,
False Emphasis and Faulty Diction, some
brusque remarks about Lawrence Campbell,
Douglas Ancelon, J.C.W. Ltd., the Syd-
ney Harmonic Choral Society and other
annoying circumstances, stories by various
M.L. and Australian authors, a few book re-
views, some pictures and music. Doubtless
The Triad will find its special public—for
there is a public, usually young and with
aspirations towards the amateur stage, wait-
ing to be emphatically told they are all right
or all wrong. . But the first issue to those
who know the M.L. issues seems hardly
snappy or cheeky enough. There is a faint
flavor of provincialism about it. The edi-
tors have yet to learn, and doubtless will
quickly learn, for they are bright boys, that
Australia is a continent.
Louis Stone in reply to “Masetto’s” criti-
cisms :—'
“Masetto” la justly entitled to my scalp oa three
points—the method of setting a soundpost, the rela-
tion of conductors and soloists, and the applause of
orchestras when they are pleased. “Masetto” has
taught me a lesson, and for the future I shall
choose subjects with which 1 am tolerably familiar.
But wait a minute. I should not have made these
ludicrous errors. For twenty-five years I have
played the violin; for twenty-five years 1 have paid
good money (they wouldn’t take the other sort) to
hear grand operas, orchestras, quartets, singers and
players. I ought to have known what 1 was talking
about. And now I come to think of it, a sound-
post is not mentioned in Betty. It was not the
soundpoet but the soundbar, occasionally called the
bass bar, which was loosened when Walter dropped
the little “Duke.” Can it toe that “Masetto,’' that,
learned critic, doesn’t know the difference between
these parts of tire violin? The soundpost Is a small
round piece of wood like the stump of a pencil,
wedged between the back and the belly. The sound-
bar is a flat piece of wood eleven inches long, and
glued under the belly. They are as different in
shape and function as the rudder and keel of a boat.
■‘Masetto” cannot have mistaken one for the other,
for I have described the process of removing the
belly to get at the soundbar to glue it on again.
Also glue is mentioned several times. Can It be
that this learned critic of the violin raised no demur
because he thought the soundpost was glued in its
place? Again, any fool can see the soundpost, but
the soundbar is hidden out of sight under the belly.
Can it be that “Masetto” was not aware of the
soundbar’s existence? It begins to look as if
“Masetto” has had the nerve to credit me with his
own abysmal ignorance to discredit me in the eyes
of my readers.
The next item concerns Betty’s keeping in touch
with (but not following) the conductors beat. 1
know that this Is against custom, but I had to
make allowance for the fact that Betty was not a
Paderewski, and that Ricordi, the conductor, had
coached her In the Concerto. "Masetto” may take
half a point for that, If he chooses.
The last of these delectable items concerns the
method by which an orchestra shows its approval
of a performer. I will auote from Betty. “The
second violin, remembering his grand-opera days,
applauded In the traditional manner by tapping the
back of his violin with his bow.” To be called on
to prove this statement Is like being called on by
the Blind Institution to prove that eclipses of the
moon occur. Help, fellow-fiddlers, the Philistines
•re upon usi But the titbit of all, the piece of
green turtle in the soup, remains. “Masetto” gravely
announces that violinists applaud by hitting the
music-stand with the bowl Now a violin bow is a
(lender rod of wood with a delicate spring near the
head, and costing anything up to five or six guineas
tor a genuine Tubbs or Tourte. And “Masetto"
orders you to beat this fragile rod on the Ire*
edge of a music-stand. Ye gods and little fiddlers,
what a sight!
And now I think l have finished with dear
"Masetto.** But never again shall I (peak unkindly
of the hesthen In his blindness, remembering
“Masetto." Still I think that "Masetto” has »
future before him as a certain type of critie not yet
extinct Bis chief and only asset is a colossal and
abvsmal ignorance of hia Subject, coupled with a
childish malice and perversity, and knowledge would
only spoil him, even if he were capable of learning.
Australian
J. J. Malone, author of Wild Briar and
Wattle Blossom, a pleasant book of verse,
publishes in book form certain of his Talks
about Poets and Poetry (W. P. linelian,
Little Collins-street, Melb.). The selection
comprises lectures upon Gordon, Kendall,
Goldsmith and Anthologies of Irish Verse.
The lectures upon Gordon and Kendall were
delivered over 23 years ago, and are repub-
lished in their original form. Their value,
therefore, is that of an almost contemporary
judgment of these two writers ; and consid-
ered from that standpoint, Malone’s appreci-
ations are wonderfully acute, and, in their
main lines, still acceptable. That is a tri-
umph which few literary critics can con-
fidently foresee. In these and the other essays
the author’s style is lucid and ductile, and
his criticism comes from a twin fund of keen
appreciation of poetry and an alert sense of
literary values.
J*
Bugle Blasts, by Viva ( per Melville and
Mullen, Melb.; Is.), a collection of war and
other verses, is no bugle blast: it is the faint
tootling of a penny whistle. This sort of
thing:—
I send you this scarf I’ve been knitting,
’Tis my first, and I’m proud—(do not smile 1)
Of what I can send to a soldier,
Although it did take a good while I
Effie E. Barker’s new booklet of Australian
Wild Floicers (T. H. Hunter, Melb.) con-
sists of a series of artistic paintings of our
characteristic flora, reproduced by the three-
color process. The artist has chosen some of
the less-known flowers, and beautiful and
unique they are.
Margaret Fleming’s little Mirrors of Silver
(Watson, Ferguson, Brisbane, per Angus and
Robertson; Is.) clearly reflect some tiny
rays of poetic truth. Her verse never
sprawls: the author has a neat and tidy
soul. Her work has thought in it, and that
thought is emotionally expressed, without
loose ends. Sometimes Margaret Fleming
attempts too close a condensation, tries to
shut Life up in a tidy quatrain. But her
modest offering is very welcome; and if her
fancies are sometimes merely pretty, they are
prettily expressed. This page has only praise
for a poet who knows her own limitations
and yet can do such precise and admirable
work within them. Here are three of her
fragile, close-packed fancies:—
accurate: there is just one appearance of a
woman in the whole book. He tells of drov-
ing, of horse-breaking, of the characteristics
of dogs, of the lonely camp of men drilling
for water, and of strange facets of life about
the Pacific—Conrad’s country. Here is a
sample of his prose:—
“ ‘Droving’s the Devil,’ repeated the old
man.
“Ever since boyhood most of them had
been setting out on such journeys, and knew
that droving had no intimate connection
with romance or excitement, that it chiefly
demanded an infinite patience and endur-
ance, promising little but parched, dusty
throats in the summer, and a very wet camp
when the rains began to falL Yet there was
a sense of freshness and adventure in the
eyes of everyone as though that day had
brought a release. They seemed filled with
the quiet exaltation deep-sea sailors feel
when the coastline dips,.though their senses
pleasantly remember the comfort of this bar
or that fireside. Before us all lay the long
road, the quiet days of following the feed-
ing herd through the barley-grass, and the
quieter nights of watching the dark mass
beneath the stars.”
But it is the poet, not the prose Aus-
tralian Tchekov, that this page prefers.
J*
Under the modest title My Recollection
"The Hon’ble John Mildred Creed, Member
of the Legislative Council” (with portrait,
Jenkins; 10s.), publishes a large volume of
—well, his recollections. They are rather
dull recollections; but by those who like
recollections, and are prepared to pay lGs.
for them, some interesting facts may possi-
bly be dug out from these recollections of
the Hon’ble John Mildred Creed, Member
of the Legislative Council. But it is hardly
J. M. Creed’s fault that his volume about
himself should have been published just at
the time of the extraordinary slump in the
public antimation of Australian politicians.
—. — 9
"Ah Gee” wants books to be declared a
necessary commodity for Bulletin poets,
Aboriginaliars and himself:—
I want to buy a book, an article which Australian
booksellers are rapidly making a luxury. Consider
their ways. Some English books at la. net are
la. 3d. out here, others Is. fid. The 2s. fid. net book
becomes Bs. fid.; ss. net equals o*. fid. in Australia,
and 6a. met becomes 3s. fid. If you live in the
country postage generally makes these prices into
is. fid., Is. Bd>, 3s. 9d., fis. lOd. and 8«. 10d. After
December SI the postage rates will be doubled, so
you may pay Is. 7d. or Is. lOd. for the bob book, 4s.
for the half-crown voL, 7a 2d. for the 55., and
Bs. 2d. for the 6s. book. In fact, if you want about
three booke it will be almost as cheap to come to
Sydney as to have them posted.
“Te Babarantiko”: “Literary Taste in
the Fo’c’s’le” (B. 30/9/’l5) proves how
utterly ships’ forecastles have altered during
the last 20 years or less. I am asking in
dazed helplessness: What is a watch’s “boss”
and a “palm-needle”? The language is the
(alleged) talk of the shearing-sheds-—even to
the “blokes”; an expression I will take my
affidavit is new on board ship, and no im-
provement on the one-time “chaps” or
“boys”—provided the yarn deals with real
sailors and a real forecastle. As a
matter of fact, the average sailor is
as well spoken, and, on the whole, better
educated, than the ordinary shore-workman.
An omnivorous reader, you will find his bunk
stuffed full with books—surprisingly good
books, too. These books are usually ex-
changed, with ships abroad, for others he has
not read. If you wish to see this system of
swapping books on a large scale you should
go to one of the big South American West
Coast ports, such as Iquique, where some-
times there were moored a hundred or more
of the largest and finest sailing-ships in the
world. A fair number of sailing-ships carry
a small library, from which the men
can choose their favorites. The sailor
is particularly fond of the better class
of magazines—and there is no bet-
ter gauge of omnivorous reading than
that. Have travelled in steamers where it
was not safe to leave a good magazine out of
sight if one wanted to finish reading it.
It should be borne in mind that it is
nothing unusual for men with mate’s tickets
waiting a chance in an overcrowded profes-
sion to serve in ships’ forecastles.
“Myola” points out, what this page had
forgotten, that Germany has already claimed
the Belgian poet, Emile Verhae'ren, as a
fellow-Han. Stefan Zweig, a Hun, published
a critical volume upon Verhaeren early in
1914, since translated into English. Zweig,
in the course of his enthusiastic critical
study, asserts that Yerhaeren is most truly
appreciated in Germany. In considering him
a perfect type of “The New European”
Zweig actually wrote, “Verhaeren is part
and parcel of German Kultur”! What will
Zweig and company now have to say of that
bitter product of moret German Koltur,
Belgium''a Agony ?
We must add to our list of minus poets
the names of John Roycroft and J. E.
French. Rhyme and Rhythm, by John Roy-
croft (Brisbane), is neither. His verse is too
bad even to quote. J. E. French publishes A
Pearl of Price, a “western jewel once stolen
from the gems of an eastern crown by the
author” (Melb.), and The Aftermath, an
answer to Kipling’s “Recessional.” This page
is unable to understand what either book is
about. In case there is anybody who can,
here is the poet’s “Finale”:—
I AM.
With you in making to the moat
Of, till this day, her very ghost
Herself let well alone, entoast,
Th’ Lady till this day aboast,
With ne’er a word to tell the tale,
Enfrantic’d, even sure to fail
But nothing l —l’ve the sea to sail
Within mine egg shell useful—quail.
If from the wall it fell, awail
Should it not on the sea assail:
The enemy, encompassed, quell,
Before the victor of the shell.
BROWN RIBBONS.
Brown, brown ribbons—lengths of thread
In Life’s tangled skein,
Woven in the schemes of nations
For a country’s gain.
Brown, brown ribbons —tatters they
After battles fought,
Tom and ruined by the Weaver,
Yet the Weaver wrought I
Brown, brown ribbons—these are men
Marching with firm tread;
After Peace is bought—with ribbons —
Gather broken thread.
THE EMPTY CUP.
I gave a cup of wine to you
Drawn from Love’s bowl;
The wine—the nectar of the gods,
Tha cup—my souL
And cups seem very useless things
Without the wine;
Maybe their dust will find the grape.
So scatter mine.
A STRING OF PEARLS.
Tw ••me. You brought to me a string of pearls;
Each pearl a happy thought, a joyous gift,
A song within my heart, a living love
That came to me within a world adrift.
The glowing jewels long since have lost their glow.
Their love dissolved and vanished with, the years.
The pearls became a limpid, liquid pool:
1 now present to you a cup of tears.
Vance Palmer, whose poetry this page has
recently appreciated, proves himself an in-
teresting writer of prose. The World of
Men (Euston Press, London) is a series of
impressions of Australia and the East that
betray a wide experience of the Australian
Outback and a pretty facility in description.
Further confirmation comes with this small
volume of Vance Palmer’s ability, without
effort, to picture the essential Australian. He
describes men (white, mottled and black),
horses and dogs in vivid phrase, and he ad-
mirably evokes an atmosphere. His title is


JL
FASHION and ECONOMY at ANTHONY HORDERNS
Correct Summer Toilettes at Anthony Horderns’
vs
si*
n.
m
i
(Jsi
Win
//
toe
MJJ
S.
mm
KT-V33S
r
J o
S 18
M 16
MI4
37/6
37/6
29/6
m
.
I
AT*
®S
fclwß
MIS
S 17
47/6
47/6
S 19
35/6
£S
THE illustrations
on this page are
reduceel f,a c-
similes of two pages
in our Portfolio
of the Summer
Fashions, which
faithfully presents
the Season’s Styles.
Write for a copy,
post free on request.
It is an authorita-
tive guide to the
prevailing , modes,
and enables every-
one to combine
Fashion with Econ-
omy through the
agency of Anthony
Horderns’ Famous
Low Prices.
No.Ml6.—Neat Coat and Skirt in White Voile. Coat has short Basque finished
broad fold, fastens almost to throat, stand-up Collar with deep pleated frill effectively
trimmed Guipure Insertion and Edging. Skirt is slighty flared at foot and finished band of
Insertion .
No. Ml4.—Dainty White Voile Coat and Skirt. The short Coat’is’embroidered
and pleated and cut square at back, Medici Collar of Embroidery. The gathered skirt has
band of Embroidery at foot '
No. SlB.—White Embossed Voile Robe. Skirt has deep "flounce at” foot with
Insertion band below hips, smart Collar and small revers of fine ' Embroidery lon°-
SleeVes ’ 37 /6
u
No. Sl7. —Smartly-designed Robe of finely-embroidered Organdi Muslin.
Bodice has new Bolero fastened oyer hemstitched front. Collar, folded Belt and small Bow
are of silk in dainty colors, effectively trimmed Valenciennes Lace and Insertion.... 47/6
No. Ml 5 Coat and Skirt of White Voile. Coat has band of wide Guipure
Net Trimming- at waist and smartly-corded square Basque at back, Collar and three-quarter
Sleeves finished Guipure trimming, plain full skirt gathered at waist 47/6
No. Sl9. Dainty Robe of White Crepe Voile. Bodice is made with the new
Zouave effect, pin tucked on shoulders, Collar, Zouave and Cuffs are finished Irish Guipure
Edging. Skiit has panel front and is gathered into inlet bands of Guipure Insertion on
hips 35/6
ALLIES’ DAY
ART UNION
(By Permission of the
Attorney=General).
EffiE Tickets 1/-
Prizes presented by Anthony
Hordern & Sons Ltd.
FIRST PRIZE—SUITE OF
FURNITURE, value £lOO.
SECOND PRIZE—WATER
COLOR, by W. Lister
Lister, value £l5 15s.
THIRD PRI Z E—W HITE
CABINET SEWING MA-
CHINE, value £9 15s.
Winners have the option of selecting
goods to the value of the prizes in any
Department of
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS, LTD.
No deduction for Expenses. Total
proceeds go to Allies’ Day Fund.
Drawing takes place in December,
under direction of Allies’ Day Com-
mittee.
Prizes on view at Anthony Hor-
derns’ Fine Art Gallery.
SINGLE TICKETS, 1/- each.
BOOKS OF 20 FOR £l.
For Sale in every Department of
Anthony Hordern and Sons; Ltd.
■fr ■&
M46. 29'u
N 49. 35"6
Fashions of To-Day
M Anthony Xorderns*
« r-
a
S4B. 19'e
'll
u
a
545. 29e
M 47 35V
M 44. 47 / 6
No. M46. — Effective Robe, of Floral Voile; Raglan Bodice
has Vestette of Silk to tone, with French Frill Collar anil
Gilet of fancy Net, finished ball Pearl Buttons, Bow Tie of
Velvet; Full Skirt attached to Hip Yoke, Silk Belt; Black,
Navy, and AAhite Grounds, with various flora] designs 29/6
No. M49. — Dressy Floral Voile Robe; Bodice with
Collar and Vestette of Ivory Guipure Net, trimming is of plain
White Voile. The Floral Voile Zouave has corded frill of self,
laced at front, and cuffs with Black Ribbon Velvet; New full
Skirt has yoke from sides; in Helio and Fawn grounds 35/6
No. S4B. — Smart One-piece Dress, in Floral Voile; the
yoke bodice has plain Voile French Collar in shades to tone,
with Vestette and Cuffs of Embroidery Edging. The flared
Skirt is fulled to deep hip yoke; Black, Navy, and White
grounds 19/6
No. S4s. — Dainty Floral Voile Robe; Collar and Vest
of plain Voile, finished Crochet Buttons. Velvet. 1 Bow Tie at
throat; Skirt has two deep flounces edged band of plain Voile,
plain band at foot; in Black, Navy, Grey, and White
grounds 29/6
No. 3147.—Charming Embossed Net Lace Robe;
Bodice is effectively designed, with plain Net Cable-stitched
Collar, deep yoke belt of Silk in dainty Pale shades, finished
Silk Buttons, two deep flounces of Lace form double
No. 3144. A New style, in Voile, with small woven silk
design; Raglan Bodice has pleated French Collar and Cuffs
of White Voile, with hemstitched Vestette of same; Skirt is
corded on hips, and has deep flounce at foot and half-way
up; In Black with White or Helio Flower, and White with
Saxe and Black Spot design 47/g
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers.
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TRADE MARK,
wmumimmr
DOES 1
. j
VB tD
AB'
ter
u ?**«**
■ Thp^out
Th Swor lo^
I^s*^?
point
HP
F.
SM
ss
From Ingot to Case
Through all the various processes of manufacture,
from the metal in the ingot, or from the other raw
materials, to the packing in the shipping cases,
Winchester Rifle, Pistol and Shotgun Cartridges
are constantly watched over and inspected by
experts. This system of manufacture produces
ammunition as perfect as it can be made.
That is why
WINCHESTER
CARTRIDGES
enjoy the highest reputation for quality and de-
pendability. That is why they are the first
choice of shooters everywhere and the biggest
selling brand on the market. 'Winchester
Cartridges are made for all kinds of rifles,
revolvers and shotguns. All reputable
dealers keep them and will supply your
wants.
Ask For The w Brand
Fortify yourself
with Bovril
IT MUST BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
r>
It serves
Attila
right
He wouldn’t give his liver a
chance. And now see how pos-
terity treats his name.
It wasn’t his liver’s fault.' It
was his fault for neglecting it.
Like your liver, it was trying
always to get the poisons of
gloom and vindictiveness out of
his blood, trying to make him
sunny and sweet - tempered,
kindly and considerate. The
wonderful, persevering, well-
intentioned chemistry of his
liver was just the same as
yours, but it never was helped
to do its work. Be warned!
Gentle help at the right time —
gentle, not drastic—is all your
liver needs. And many years
of experience and comparison
have proved that the gentlest,
friendliest, most appreciated
help you can give it is to take
now and then, before your
liver is in serious trouble,
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemigis, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE <& CO., A Great Onmoi i St., London, Eng.
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
~- w ER THAIS All.
•*- : -
-v. - ■ .f* m J -^gjjP
Kirr :
&»&
13
m
&>
&;
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott 8 Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye 8 Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram 8 Son {*s;
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Works: 269 Toorak Road,
Melbourne.
B2
BROOKS Bgo Patent Road Saddle. Made in several sizes.
Our confidence in BROOKS Saddles is based upon the fact that for
over thirty-five years they have carried in comfort the great majority of cyclists,
and to-day their pre-eminence is more striking than ever before. That must
mean satisfaction.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
hfd
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, '. ho will quote you price for it.
:JS
Clements
Tonic
The Natural Remedy.
Miss Sylvia Bremer,
The talented young Australian
actress who played the distin-
finguished r6le of Virginia Blaine in
the thrilling drama, “Bought and
Paid For,” at the Criterion
Lneatre, as understudy to the great
American actress, Muriel Starr,
this season, writes her opinion of
a great medicine, which she de-
scribes as
Clements
Tonic
The Great Restorer.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“Keep the nerves sound. That is my advice to those who follow the
profession. I have not found a better medicine than Clements Tonic,
and I have tried many. It has soothed my irritated nerves and given me
sound sleep, and improved the general state of my health. It is good
because it does good.”
(Signed)
tuna
Never be without this medicine if you are run down or have Weak Nerves, Bad Digestion,
Poor Appetite or Constipation. It tones up the human system rapidly.
In cases where the nerves are shattered through exhaustive business studies, fever, influenza,
wasting illness or brain fag, this medicine is beneficial in its results in regenerating nerve
power. It is declared to be rich in those health-creating properties that create bodily health and
strength.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT. GET IT AND GET STRONG TO-DAY.


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
Tin* proper way for this to be done is to
drink trom three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
ho taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De \\ itt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes’ away
nil sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
solt by getting a box of De Witt's Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —all chem-
ists sell them —and you will, within a very
u
xx
w.
w>-
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in tho
Blood—like little bits of broken "glass.
I'ow hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
.1 he muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The uptick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
ieeling, dropsy. Ir!right’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
(he cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
\\ hen you see the urine change to a muddy,
blmsh. color—a feature which distinguishes
He \\ itt s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that
(hey have put their healing touch on the
righ‘ spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
ihat is why Do Witt's Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. .V perma-'
ncnt cure follows in almost every case. Look
(or that blue-colored urine.
Don't waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/0 box of
itt s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from-whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough—you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE.
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, yr«u' can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, poster# 1/9. J, WILKINSON, Chem.sl
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. I!. ,T. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W-,
writes :■
“It rives me great pleasure to inform you that 1
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
.you W wonderfu 1 Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for «even years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, l do not have the lea-t desire to
smoke; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp anti we will post you a FREE
SASIPEE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
N. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT, a,
20 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i
For Mother
Mothers also are liable to COUGHS
COLDS, INFLUENZA and BROn'
CHITIS. The best family remedy is one
that ALL may take,whether young or old.
For instant relief take "Bonnintfton's
Irish Moss/' only a few doses are re-
quired. Take none but—
w
60
m
S 3
CROUCHS.
fIiRDNCHiTJS.IfJIWS
o*= Thg ThQoei
BO/Jvi3
<ygi»uM.C»HV#;%SS»
Avoid all
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
i
m
m
S—jl
Three
Sizes
of
3% H. P.
Make Your Rowboat Self-Propelled
by attaching the
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor, attached at the stern of
any rowboat or canoe, will give all the service
and pleasure of efficient Motor-Boating. For
cruising up the river or around the coast.
For conveying cargo quickly at small cost. It
economizes space, being attached outside the rowboat,
and can be easily taken off without harm to the wood-
work and used on any other boat.
25,000 Satisfied Users. 9 Governments have
adopted the Evinrude Motor after rigid tests.
It is operated by Petrol (gasoline),
with battery ignition or MAGNETO,and
automatic lubrication. Steered by pro-
pellei no rudder required, but supplied if
desired. Reversible. Fully guaranteed.
Descriptive Booklet Post Free fiom
H. A. GODDARD, 404 Queen St., Brisbane; 82
1 itt St., Sydney; 3T6 Collins St., Melbourne;
Cliffe St., Fremantle; Remington Chambers
(opp. G.P.0.), Auckland.
■
t.
I£ any illustration appearing iu The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
hfd
'553*
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Saits
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sola
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire, Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
uschen Salt
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/"
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Bunch of Wild Flowers.
Not the great tame blooms from the tended
plots that nestle behind the hedge.
But bravo little busli-flowers gathered and
brought from many a crest and ledge :
A charm to watch by the evening lamp when
the sweets of the day are won
And I’m living again the Sunday stroll I
took with the little son.
Good luck to the gatherer, fast asleep and
dreaming under his rug!
He brought them all the way homo to “Mum,"
and was paid with a splendid hug.
May his thoughts bo ever as sweet as you—•
may his life like yours he free,
Dear blooms he picked for his only love when
he went for a walk with me!
N.S.W.
E. O’F.
Deeper than Death.
“Miss Annie 8., Wattle Grove, X Vale, Aust.”—
Address on soldier’s letter recovered from between
the trenches.
I see you gaze ’ncatlj shading hand,
Against the wattle's golden glow,
Along the main road’s dusty band,
Where he went out long months ago.
Sadder than all sad things is Love,
Miss Annie 8., of Wattle Grove.
The great grim ships swing' to and fro,
The great shells roar, the brown earth
flies;
The drab battalions ebb and flow,
Where Hell rains screaming from the skies ;
Greater than all great things is Love,
Miss Annie 8., of Wattle drove.
The yellow blooms drop soft along
Your lifted arm, high ir the tree;
A grey thrush pipes his mating song,
A love-sick magpie carols free:
Sioeeler than alt sweet things is Love.
Miss Annie 8., of Wattle Grove.
Across the scarred and battered hill.
The stretcher-bearers slowly creep.
Bearing- him down, so calm, so still.
Taking at last the soldiers’ sleep.
Beeper than Sleep or Death is Love .
Miss Annie 8.. of Watile Grove.
SOMEWHERE.
JACK SOMMERS.
Breaking Camp.
Bale stars are speeding down the sky
. Towards the plain’s dark rim ;
Grey forms on noiseless feet move bv ;
The firelight flickers dim.
Gold mists wreath round the stunted trees
On billabong and creek,
And through the grass the dank dawn-breeze
Steals silently and bleak.
A subtle earth,; fragrance comes
From Nature’s dew-deck’d lawn,
And stark and black the gnarled gums
Are etched against the Dawn.
The horses greet the coming day
. With clank of hobble chain f
The browsing sheep like phantoms grey
Move shuffling o’er the plain.
Behind a clump of salt-bush hid
A plaintive mother bleats :
And on the flame the billy-lid
A fierce staccato beats.
freed from Night's o’erwlielming shroud
ihe East resplendent grows.
And ev'ry castellated cloud
Burns with a heart of rose.
Before his steeds Apollo hurls
.One quiv’ring golden ray;
Then forth in flaming splendor whirls
The Chariot of Day.
VICTORIA.
GORDON J. HOLMES.
Lanes to His Mistress.
Your moods are variable as the moon
(The phrase is stolen from some trickier
poet) ;
As some ripe rose kissed by Arcadian June
You’re wonderful, aud very well you know it.
No other girl’s so exquisite to kiss
1 know, who in my time have known
a-plenty,
And when we go to woo the ecstasies
I have, the ardor still of two-and-twenfv.
But still I wonder sometimes, on my life,
I low I’d findure j ou, if you were my wife.
Adorable ! Your body’s witchery
Moves to despair the covetous beholders
Aho see your face. The sweets they cannot
see
Are mine....the Coyly-dimpled white sleek
shoulders,
Tiie light slight feet, the ankles’ fragile grace.
The round proud knees that scorn demanded
kisses,
The hips exuberant that quite efface
The oest attempts of prim, slab-sided misses.
Bat would you answer as the sort one
marries?
II ow should I fee] if you were Mrs. Harris?
Heart of my heart! Dear Fancy’s luring
star!
Unquiet eyes, curled lips, ensnaring tresses.
Hot breath a-quiver, curving waist!....yon
are
My luck-in life, as all my blood confesses!
Your words arc- spice and honey when you
talk,
Your fondling hands set all my manhood
singing,
Your mouth —oh. on incorporate air I walk
When mouth to mouth I have you, hold you.
clinging!
But I admit it, dearest —for my sins,
I simply can’t imagine you with twins!
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS HARRIS.


iiii upiiiiiiiiiiii
3
111 ill i 11.111 ii i • 1111111111 ‘ 111' 1 1 1
iiiiiiliiiiiiiijiiiiillllllllllmnimiiiiiiimiiinimiimiimnun
mi .....i!llll!
Jfully Guapanfppd'
spnd fop Prico
i. List .ill
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Brisbane
Perth
hfd
hfdh
YSA CMT
TRAD?
IARK
G U A R /\ N TEEP
SJ. 33 HS a 3ZINVAI V 0
PER F EC T
JOHN LYSAGHT LIMITED
will be pleased, upon application, to forward to
EVERY PROPERTY OWNER (&. GALVANISED IRON USER
a free copy of the new and enlarged edition of
their “REFEREE.” This booK contains a
Quantity of carefully compiled information
which will be found both useful and interesting.
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
SUPPLIED TO THE NAVAL and MILITARY AUTHORITIES
- IN GREAT BRITAIN and AUSTRALIA.
m
ii*ti
Hi*
i
'Y* UKm\s2
li&lt
A brighter shine
and less rubbing
Shi-n oleum is easy to use —not sloppy or
spilly —does not gather dust, resists smears
and scratches and is non-slippery. A
mere rub over with a soft cloth renews
the beautiful shine. Best for linoleums,
furniture and all leather goods.
Try it. Refuse substitutes.
Sample free on request. The Paget Manufacturing Co.
Ltd., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
The Jollvwells
Q
f '>
Now when it's hot,
Upon their yacht
The Jolly wells sail —
A happy lot!
Of all the fleet,
Hardest to heat
Is theirs —“The Foam,
With cretv so neat.
But now they treat
Themselves and cat,
Of “Rex” Gamp Fie,
’Tis better than meat.
Get Acquainted to-day
with “Rex” Camp Pie
Send round to your Grocer for a tin of this New “Rex” Product
and serve it at the very next meal.
It will be a change from t*he usual cold-lunch fare. And all
: your folks will like
“Rex” Camp Pie
It comes cooked, seasoned and ready to serve, from the famous
“Rex” Chefs, whose powers you already know.
It is prepared from only the choicest meats. If placed on the
ice for awhile before serving, or eaten with salad —so much the
better.
But anyway, anyhow, anytime “Rex” Camp Pie is great.
Ask your Grocer to-day for a Tin. Sold everywhere.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are.—
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Hunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in Decorated Tins and Opal
. Porcelain Jars of British Manufacture.
“Rex” Brand Hard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
R
£
E
X
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “REX” HAMS and BACON,
Packers of “ REX ” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS.
ap
X
u
■
/Greemock Distillery k
lio« House .lo*ik HuL.toftoon.Et
.IIHjSsIL
THORNES WHISKY
Incomparable


The Bulletin
Ptegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 36.—150. 1863.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1915.
Price (Id.
THE NEW CRUCIFIXION.
Jerusalem, Samaria and the Mount of Olives have been turned into Turkish drill areas under German control; and at Golgotha (or Calvary) rifle butts
have been erected, where the Turk may learn to shoot the Christian. —Cable.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
. The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending. MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line, or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to tOoz., 2\d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional n oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1915.
POT-HUNTING.
The English, slow, heavy and unrevolu-
tionary by instinct, are at last taking notice
of the excess luggage which the nation has
to carry in war as in peace. A few enthu-
siasts in the times of calm were continually
pointing to this antiquated lumber and
urging that it should be thrown out; but
only under the stress of German bombs and
shrapnel have the eyes of John Smith and
William Jones really been opened to the
relics of barbarism which have had to be
humped from platform to platform in the
national effort to catch the trains of pro-
gress. The request has gone forth —it is
only a request as yet, but any moment it
may develop into an order to be enforced
by the police—that deer parks should be
utilised, that game should not be nursed to
the detriment of agriculture, and that bird
and beast kept to feed the sporting
instincts of the wealthy should go into the
pot to feed the people. A year ago such an
idea would have been regarded by British
Fat as an attempt to strike at the roots of
the Constitution. Was it not laid down in
the unwritten code of every true patriot
that a pheasant was more than a peasant
and a salmon better worth preservation than
the life of a cottager’s baby? Was not a
fox a sacred thing, and a rabbit a creature
whose tufted tail must be guarded against
the teeth of the hungry? He who spoke in
contempt of these things was a traitor to
tradition, and it was but right that he
should be taken out and socially stoned.
Now, after a year of fighting, a change has
swept over the whole snobscape, and the
nation without a blush of shame goes pot-
hunting like a poacher.
* * * *
Pot-hunting in one form or another is
the serious business of life. Ever since the
first anthropoid creature standing on power-
ful but crooked legs learned to make a fire
and hollowed a vessel in which to boil
water, the necessity of filling the pot has
been first and foremost in the human mind.
Poets might sing their soulful songs, musi-
cians toss their tufted locks over the ting-
ling keys of a machine of subtle melody,
lovers press lip to lip in the moonlit rose-
garden of dreams, statesmen shadow their
great reforms and emperors plan their far-
reaching campaigns of murder, but close
behind them all walked (he day’s need, and
the essence of the day’s need was something
to put in the pot. England, mixing her
ideas of industrial supremacy with the
notion that she was a museum for the pre-
servation of ancient customs, kept the form
of antique pot-hunting under the guise of
sport. The ancestors of the nation had
chased game because they were hungry, and
the conviction was deep-seated that game
must be chased to the end of time in much
the same fashion, when the demands of hun-
ger could be more cheaply and better satis-
fied with tame beef and cultivated mutton.
Indeed, it came to be regarded as a crime
to be hungry, and the idea of killing game
because it was needed was held to be so
wicked and wanton that men were trans-
ported to penal settlements because they
caught a rabbit by stealth to fill an empty
pot. Multitudes of creatures were shot or
dogged to death by the well-fed who did not
want them, and the line was sternly drawn
between use and amusement, until slaughter
for pleasure became a virtue and the mere
hint of the food-value of wild things a crime
against the moss-incrusted glory of ances-
tral custom. Rotten ideas were fostered by
rotten feeding, and the table garbage of the
chase kept the feeder close in thought to
those carrion-eaters of antiouity to whose
holy and mouldering memories he sacrificed
the wholesome cleanliness of a modern pal-
ate. _ The conversion of game-preserving
Britain to the plain, natural virtue of the
pot-hunt marks a revolution far greater
than the mere suppression of the House of
Lords or the dusting out of the shelves of
the War Office.
* # * *
The rival claims of the pot-hunt and the
game preserve are closely linked up with
the question of the land. Years ago when
Bbadlaugii, that fierce rebel against the
shows and shams of custom, was denied
admission to the House of Commons on his
refusal to take an oath which to him had
no meaning, simple people marvelled at the
storm aroused by his action. For genera-
tions Quakers and some Presbyterians had
taken their seats on making a simple affir-
mation ; but no such favor was shown to
the big. revolutionary who called himself
an atheist. The explanation lay in the
fact that Bradlaugii’s first political aim
was to promote a Bill for the examination
of all land titles acquired within the pre-
vious two centuries, and that it was his
avowed desire to bring all the unused lands
of England into cultivation. He could have
believed or disbelieved what he liked about
the Lord had he only been sensible enough
to believe the right things about the land-
lord. It was his denial of the sacred rights
of land grabbers and game preservers that
roused the opposition to his presence in Par-
liament. But what Bradlaugh could not
accomplish with voice and pen, the Kaiser
is bringing about with cordite and poison
gas. The immense demands of the army
force upon Britain the need of using herself
to the last rabbit warren and grass blade,
and conscription of both lives and property
is every day drawing nearer. The last
appeal for voluntary enlistment is being
made, and with it goes the polite but firm
request that owners of game preserves and
deer-parks will realise that the days of the '
Plantagenets are over, and that all the
resources of the land must be used to hurl
at Wilhelm the Nark if he is to be kept
from subverting civilisation. And here is
shown one of those anomalies which from
age to age have made the page of history
the dazzling burlesque it really is. A year
ago Britain set out to fight for civilisation:
and to-day is still fighting for it. Yet the
civilisation which is now in view is a thing
utterly different from that against which
the German guns boomed in August of last
year. England went to fight for fair play
handicapped with all the shackles of musty
and mouldering tradition. But in the pro-
cess of the fight she sloughs the ancient
wrappings which kept her from realis-
ing herself, and now fights for fair play
and a lot of other things which the war
itself has taught her. When the last gun
is fired and the first big cheer goes up be-
cause the German is down and out, Eng-
land promises to be a different nation. That
she will be a better and cleaner and more
wholesome nation is a fact that may make
even the bitter blood of her sacrifice worth
while.
* * * *
The proof that a nation is alive is found
ia the possibility of its revolution from
within. While the world goes round the
sun and spins on its own axis all things
that are living in the world of thought and
action must revolve also. The fixed German
belief that Britain couldn’t revolve blinded
the Teutonic person to the fact that his own
private top was spinning the wrong why
round and whirling back at great speed to
plain barbarism. Now he scans his bread-
card doubtfully and rejoices mechanically at
alleged victories which only mean more
hunger. Meantime Britain has wakened up
to truths about the pot-hunt. Down under
the shows and shams of things lies the fun-
damental fact that a nation must be fed.
The half-fed nation may have a gilded top
and ermine sides and a trumnet in its mouth,
but it is a falling nation. The first business
of Statecraft and Parliaments and all the
machinery of national organisation is to
see that the pot is filled. On that founda-
tion build what you will of comfort, beauty
and delight, but without that foundation ail
else is vain. The British revolutionaries
have reached the point of seeing this —or of
nearly seeing it —and therein is cause for
rejoicing and hope. If Ensland. with her
heavyweight fashion of doing things, will
hoist the pot into its true place and make
the filling of it the first national business
all the future is assured. Let it be felt that
the honor of the whole people is involved
ia the feeding of its last and least family,
and the other things of value to nationhood
will 'follow.
THE WHIRLWIND TN THE POST-
OFFICE.
Nothing much more ironical has occurred in
the public life of Australia than the recent
exchange of incivilities between the Post
Office employees’ unions and Postmaster-
General Spence. In the history of the
Labor movement in this country W. G.
Spence has a place of high honor. He was
really one of its founders, and he fought the
long fight with fine courage and tenacity.
In the early days when Spence carried on
the propaganda the way was harder than it
is now ; and partly on that account his loy-
alty to unionism and all that it stood for and
should still stand for has never been ques-
tioned. Most Australians who know the man
and his earlier work will therefore be sorry to
see the veteran in this position of an Aunt
Sally bombarded by unionists; yet taking all
things into consideration, and viewing the
recalcitrant postboy without any enthusi-
asm whatever, this paper can come to no
other conclusion than that Spence is only
getting what was coming to him. And for
him the tragedy is that he knows it. He
has seen his party, first for the sake of tem-
porary tactical advantages, and later because
it had erected fresh images in the temple,
barter away its principles until little has
been left but the husks of the old creed. A
few months ago Spence mournfully com-
plained that Australian trades unions have
been expecting too much from Parliaments.
This was true enough in a sense; but the
people who have been in the wrong are not
the general body of workers. The greatest
blame rests with the politicians. Parlia-
ments have encouraged the people to expect,
not too much exactly, but too much of the
wrong thing.
* * * *
The Labor movement aimed to secure for
the man who toiled the full product of his
labor; to eliminate agencies which prey upon
the toil of others; to limit the exploitation of
the citizen and the State; to banish extrava-
gance in administration and government; to
build up an Australian nationalism on the
industry and enterprise of self-reliant
Australians. It was a very fine ideal
and still stands as the one from which the
people of the Commonwealth will alone derive
the impulses to carry them to better things.
But it is an ideal that was soon smirched
in the rough and tumble of politics, and now
scarcely finds a place in the politicians’
creed. A retrospective survey shows that
Labor has accomplished many things worth
fighting for, has perpetrated many things that
were worth fighting against, and has left
undone more things that needed doing. The
economic problems that confronted the nation
a quarter of a century ago are still in the
same place, and most of them more menacing
than before. Barnacles and parasites flour-
ish everywhere. Public enterprises, with a
few exceptions, are managed with scandalous
inefficiency. Public extravagance is so ag-
gressive that our cost of government is one
of the wonders of the earth. And there is in
addition the damning circumstance that our
foreign debt has grown to staggering size.
It is over £400.000.000, and the tribute to
Cohen somewhere about £15,000,000 a year.
Twenty years ago Spence would have said
that it was to prevent such calamities that
Labor was girding up its loins. To-day
he has the calamity and some of the conse-
quences that have grown out of it, including
hard words from the unionists of the Post
Office.
* * * *
Much of the legislation of recent years
has been built upon the conditions created
by this orgy of borrowing, in which Labor
Governments have led the procession. The
States and people have lived not upon their
own resources but partly on what they pro-
duced and partly on what they could bor-
row, thus getting themselves into the posi-
tion of the man who adds to the income he
makes growing potatoes by securing an
advance every Saturday on the spuds he
hopes to grow next year and the year after.
The broad result has been to inflate values
in every direction; to induce a bogus pro-
sperity ; to flood the country with imports,
largely of luxuries. By borrowing cash in
London and building a railway from God-
elpus to Dingbats, and then cadging some
more for a bridge at Dead Dog Creek, and
losing half a million a year running the
Post Office, it has of course been easy for
Governments to avoid constructive states-
manship resting on Work. And the boom-
ster and the land shark and the multitu-
dinous middleman and all the rest of the
right-thinking population who get away with
the fat have found Australia a very agree-
able place to be in. Meantime a consider-
able section of the population, knowing no
other conditions than those of Bloat, imagine
that they are normal; that it is the main
function of the Government to borrow and
provide a steady job with the proceeds ; that
anyone who takes the contrary view is a
dingo or a Turk or something equally un-
pleasant. Thus it happens that politicians
who betrayed their principles once felt com-
pelled to do it twice, and. like the opium
smoker, becoming progressively flaccid, have
gone on doing the same thing some more.
Having fed his bulldog on rump steak that
hasn’t been paid for, Spence has no reason
to expect very much sympathy when the
animal takes a bit out of his leg.
* * * *
This borrowing to hide political shirk has
been one of the wickedest things perpe-
trated by any country in the world. Every-
body connected with it has been demoralised,
and the politicians—Lib. and Lab. —who
have been responsible shrink from the job
of carrying on without it just as basely as
they did from that task of regeneration they
originally sought authority to perform. Yet
there must be an end of it some time. The
day must come when Australians will have
to earn their own living. Every addi-
tional year the recognition of this
distasteful fact is postponed makes the
job ahead more difficult. No country
can go on piling up debt indefinitely,
giving doles out of the loans to workers
on one side and monopolists on the
other. The right course for Australia to
follow is as clear as ever it was—to so
fashion the economic life of the nation that
the Australian people will depend upon what
they can earn from their own land and in
their own mines and factories and work-
shops. instead of drifting aimlessly along
subsidised by the eafnings of foreigners and
the pawning of the public estate. If Labor
had stuck to its guns there would have been
no p.n., and Spence would not have been
tearfully bemoaning the unreasonableness of
a unionism whose false ideas have been fos-
tered on the long-dated debenture and the
abnormal conditions of boom which it pro-
duces.
THE AUSTRALIAN VIEW OF THINGS.
The cables have been suggesting that Lon-
don is anxious to hear what Australia thinks
of the war in general and the Dardanelles
campaign in particular. It is said to he the
great desire of various unspecified people
that the State Premiers and a member of the
Federal Government should take passage for
the distant city and explain Australia’s
views. As the first thing the Premiers would
do on arrival would be to lead John Bull
into a secluded place and ask him for the
loan of a couple of bob to build a railway
with, this paper hopes that no such emigra-
tion will be permitted. Australian opinion
can be much more decently and effectively
expressed by the wounded soldiers who are
now in England, than by a delegation of im-
pecunious and mostly-discredited politicians
with a kitful of debentures. Otherwise the
opinion can be put into two words
which the cable can carry: “Fight on!”
If any person in London thinks that
because Billjim ran against a snag at Gal-
lipoli he is looking round for the towel, such
person is making the mistake of his life.
And he makes a greater mistake still if he
thinks that the discovery of the snag will
hold back the other thousands who are
getting ready for Gallipoli.
* * * *
On the other hand, if J. Bull imagines
that Australia likes this business of carry-
ing on war with the doors shut and the
blinds pulled down he is off the track. The
policy that has kept the people of this coun-
try on a diet of thistles has not been accept-
able to the Australian stomach, and if per-
sisted in is going to cause bitterness. Aus-
tralia is unable to understand why in rela-
tion to that part of the campaign with which
her troops are directly associated elaborate
machinery should have been established for
securing misrepresentation. This sort of
thing, suddenly introduced into the life of a
democratic people, to whom it. was quite
alien, has provoked resentment and distrust.
Australians are not accustomed to be —and
positively refuse to be —treated like menials,
to be thrown a few bones from the official
table. In relation to their public affairs they
insist upon being dealt with as principals,
and where information is withheld their
suspicion is measured by the importance of
the issues involved. In this war the issues to
the Australian people, enjoying the widest
liberty in government, are of the most vital
character. They are ready to defend that
liberty to the last gasp, and to resist with
the utmost of their strength a premature
peace; but they certainly are not ready to
agree that the struggle should be continued
in an atmosphere from which candor has
been eliminated. The essence of it all is
that the Australian mind is disposed to fear
that John Bull’s economy of frankness
towards the people in this part of the world
is evidence that he is not as frank with
himself as he ought to be.
* * # *
Britain has done some big things in the
last 12 months. Her navy, for instance, has
been even a greater factor in the war than
the German army. Its power is, so far, the one
outstanding feature of the mighty struggle.
But it is a war that called for great effort —
for the utmost of which the participants are
capable—and what Australia is unable to see
is that the full force of the Empire’s strength
is being exerted to pull the enemy down.
Six weeks ago Lloyd Geokge put it this
wav:—-
Every hour counts; every hour means death;
every hour takes us further from victory and nearer
defeat, unless it is an hour spent by the nation in
putting its whole strength into this great struggle
for victory and freedom for the democracies of
Europe.
Since then the position has grown no
brighter, the need for men no less;
but Australia has not heard that the boilers
are now carrying a full head of steam. What
it has heard is that “England is over-run
with soldiers,” and it has been told various
other vague, meaningless things, combined
with frequent assurances that there are enor-
mous numbers of men available if they will
only come forward. As the Germans are
beginning to over-run Servia and the Allies
are not over-running Turkey, and the enemy
is still somewhere about the old address in
Flanders, all this information tends to create
in Australia the opinion that if John Bull
has these resources it is time he made use of
them.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Men, Not Rabbits.
In one fertile valley in the Blue Mountains
of N. S, Wales, where almost anything can
be grown or reared, there were, 25 years or
so ago, at least 20 families who all made a
fair living in a primitive way by running a
few sheep and cattle on their holdings and
growing maize and potatoes on the fertile
creek flats. But they were a thriftless, old-
fashioned, happy-go-lucky lot; and one by
one the old men died, the rabbits invaded the
district, the young people, tired of the
monotonous life of a locality far from tele-
phones and railways and trams and bustle,
drifted away, and now the land is held by
a very few people, and they are people who
make poor use of it. The few old hands
sadly attribute the downfall of the place to
rabbits, and infer that the collapse was
inevitable. Apparently the fact that energy
and enterprise can dgal with even Brer Rab-
bit never dawned on them. Their fathers
or their grandfathers had built the old brush
fences, good enough for cattle and sheep,
and agreeably convenient to cross on horse-
back, and they never attempted to
rise above that standard in delineat-
ing the boundaries of their proper-
ties. Brush fences being, so to speak,
a dispensation of Providence to Bunny,
he scored an easy win when it came
to a contest, and behaved as if he had come
(o stay. But recently a bold invader
dropped in, 'reckoned there was money in
farming, purchased a property (inclusive of
all briars, thistles, rabbits, moss afad other
r>v’o- ? s-hrae'). and went in for new methods.
Totally disregarding the gloomy prophecies
of old hands, he wire-netted the place.
■ hopped out the briars and other irnpedi-


menta, fumigated and trapped the rabbits,
and this year has splendid crops of potatoes,
wheat, peas and other agricultural products,
besides pigs, sheep, cattle and horses feeding
on the land that before carried _ no stock
except rabbits. Even rural public opinion
is changing, and admiring old hands now
say: “If only more men like him would take
up land here!” All of which serves to show
that the old hand might have been very
well in his way, but as the backbone of a
country he is nowadays not much chop. The
main point attaching to this case, from a
national point of view, appears, however, to
be totally missed by the fcs. M. Flerald and
other news-distributors, and almost totally
missed also by politicians of both the Liberal
and Labor camps. This is that, under the
prevailing system of stacking as much as
possible on to income taxes and as little as
possible on to unimproved land-value taxa-
tion, for every hundred pounds this man
raises from his land he will be called upon
to contribute substantially to the revenue,
while his neighbors, holding infinitely more
land and raising very little from it, will, by
virtue of their lesser income, _ contribute
practically nothing. Were the incidence of
taxation so reversed that the value of the
land itself, and not the income derived from
it, would be the factor aimed at, the indolent,
unenterprising person holding much more
land than he put to proper use would be gal-
vanised into activity, or he would be obliged
to allow someone else to get busy instead.
In a great empty land like . Australia it
always was the time, but is more than ever
now the time, to make things as unpleasant
as possible for people who hold land that
they don’t use, or only very partially use,
and to make them as pleasant as possible for
the man who does his best with brain and
hands to produce the uttermost fraction
possible from the territory he owns. This
was, in the days when whole-souled demo-
crats were battling for the Labor party, a
firmly-held creed; but now, when place and
party success weigh more with political
leaders than principles or platforms, it is
almost forgotten. The time is therefore ripe
to insist that the man who makes a large
income is frequently not so much an enemy
to his country as the person who makes very
little, and prevents many others from making
any at all. Taxation of a super-Dread-
nought type is what the latter class require.
The holding of large tracts of valuable land
as rabbit farms should be seriously dis-
couraged in a country which already has
more than sufficient rabbits and now needs
more men.
The Aldermanic Creed.
Melbourne City Council was lately agi-
tated by a simple scheme for increasing its
electric-lighting business at the expense of
the Metropolitan Gas Co. Atkins, a com-
paratively young councillor, moved that the
lighting department undertake the installa-
tion of the current in any premises whose
tenant would agree to refund the cost by
30 monthly instalments. Thus far only 25
per cent, of city buildings get their light
from the municipal purveyor, the other 75
per cent, being mostly deterred by the
initial cost of substituting electric light for
gas fittings. They go on burning gas
because the alteration cost an imme-
diate £3O or £4O. Atkins proposed to
finance new customers on exactly the same
system as the Gas Co. finances customers
who buy stoves or the Board of Works
finances its sewage-rate payers. The Council
would not be cEUed on to take a risk, and
it would get good interest on its money. Yet
the plain, homely proposal alarmed the old-
est and stodgiest of the Tories. The aider-
men, being probably the most interested in
defeating attacks on the co., were up in
arms. Antique Alderman Snowden snorted
at it. Alderman Weedon suggested that
“a lot of small consumers would give an
infinite amount of trouble”—as though
“trouble,” otherwise business, was some-
thing. to be avoided by a commercial con-
cern. Alderman Creighton, more honest,
was “dead against nationalisation or muni-
cipalisation of any industry.” And Aider-
man Jeffries capped the senile piffle by
describing the simple commercial proposal
as ‘‘a beautiful Socialistic scheme wnich
would make the Council a monopolist of the
worst sort.” All because they were asked
to expand the business of the ratepayers
on exactly those lines that their compe-
titors follow! The plain fact for the citi-
zens is that they have put hundreds of
thousands of pounds into a business to sup-
ply light and power, and the body to which
the management of this most important
business is committed refuses to apply ordi-
nary commercial principles to it, in the
interests of a rival concern. There is only
one word to apply to such misconduct.
These people are traitors to their trust.
What is to be done with them? Under pre-
sent municipal conditions there appears to
bo no chance of shifting them. The only
hope is for Parliament to reform the fran-
chise and give common-sense a chance of
representation; and that is only practicable
through a Greater Melbourne Bill. The
urgency of that measure was never made
more apparent than by this discussion.
«.
Ten O’Clock Closing.
The compromise of the Holman Govern-
ment by which pubs are to close at 10 o’clock
instead of continuing their discussions until
11 is not satisfactory, and will not be endur-
ing. The weakness lies in the fact that the
Assembly itself named nine as the hour at
which the beer-pump should stop work. When
a majority of members of Parliament have
agreed qn the earlier hour, and the Ministry,
ignoring their views, fixes a time of its own
which is likely to be more pleasing to Bung,
it is pretty solid evidence that Bung has got
hold of that Ministry somehow. Further,
there is not the slightest doubt, as Holman
and his colleagues perfectly well know, that
if earlier closing of hotel bars were put to the
public vote there would be an overwhelming
majority in favor of nine o’clock or an even
earlier hour. How far is a Ministry justified
in thwarting the expressed wishes of Parlia-
ment and the general trend of public opinion?
Holman and his brothers have dodged a
good many issues in their time; but their
latest action clamorously demands explana-
tion. The abolition of the Second Chamber
may be postponed indefinitely by one as
skilled as Holman in the art of political
contortion; a party pledged to non-borrowing
may be dragged again and again to the
pawnshop by one of his special gifts; for in
dealing with such matters there are obvious
modes of talking round difficulties which the
N.S.W. Premier knows and employs. Here,
however, is something of an altogether differ-
ent nature. The Ministry, ignoring both
Parliamentary and public opinion, takes a
course of its own, and the only conclusion
available is that that course has been chosen
i i the interests of a small but wealthy section
of the commur ity which has a solid cash in-
terest in an additional hour of hotel trading.
What will be the conclusion inevitably
drawn from this? The Ministry must know.
But apparently it has reached the point
when it doesn’t care.
+.
Gentleman One, Embezzler.
The case of William Coleman, of Auck-
land, adds one more to the long list of solici-
tors short in trust funds in Maoriland.
Coleman resided on the topmost peak of
utter respectability in Auckland, and was
usually referred to as one of the “good old
school” of practitioners opposed to taking
risks, and too conservative to touch many of
the slender-margin mortgages which are
popular in the light-hearted Rickety Islands.
The deficiency is at present estimated at
£40,000. The majority of Maoriland solici-
tors are loan-brokers and nothing else, and
the moneys handled by even the most obscure
country Gent One run to staggering amounts.
A Timaru man led off in 1912 with a defici-
ency of over £50,000. He had been handling
some £300,000 or £400,000 yearly. Then
came in quick succession half a dozen, with
deficiencies running into many thousands,
and there are a dozen or more of small fry
who have been struck off for smaller offences,
mostly shortages. In one case a young man
of about 30 was handling cheerfully and
casually between half and threequarters of
a million of loan moneys each year. Often
—as in the last-mentioned case —there seems
to have been no intentional theft; yet always
flagrant muddling is disclosed and haphazard
tumbling and twisting of moneys and securi-
ties. The Government some time ago dealt
with the thing in the tender way Govern-
ments have with the profession, and every
solicitor must now have his trust account
audited by an accountant. This has been
the law for two years, and Coleman’s case,
following on the others, proves it quite
useless. If Parliament is not pre-
pared to say that this financial busi-
ness is not lawyers’ work at all, the
least it can do is to institute Gov-
ernment audit of trust accounts, with power
to examine the solicitor’s private dealings and
accounts. Every Gent One looks hurt when
this course is mentioned, and the proposi-
tion when brought forward has always been
shrapnelled out. But it is the only way.
Apart from the actual diversion of trust
funds from their propter channels, there
are a hundred and one devious little games
which would have to be dropped if an audit
inspector was liable to be on the job at
any time. The expense could be divided
between the practitioner and the investor,
and a fee could be charged that would be
sufficient, after paying the net cost of the
audit, to create an insurance fund to pro-
tect the next investor whose moneys wan-
dered out of the trust account. Another
solution might be to do without mort-
gages ; but this suggestion is received
with a silence in which you could
hear a mangle drop. There is an
average of two mortgages to each farm
in the Wellington province, and there
are plenty of instances of six and seven
successive plasters on one place. The stock
in some districts have their work cut out
nosing about among the mortgage deeds to get
at the pasture. So for some time yet the
merry old game of calling in, refending,
borrowing on the old mortgage to lend again,
exchanging, selling and thieving will go on;
and while it lasts the regulation of the
industry is badly vvanted.
The Triumphant Policy of Making a
Mess.
Thebe is only one thing to feel glad about
in the Commissioner’s report on the work-
ing of the Yanco irrigation area —that the
capacity of the N.S.VV. Government to get
things into a mess and lose public money
emerges absolutely unimpaired. Otherwise
the situation is one of chaos. There seems
to be muddle in connection with everything
relating to the scheme. The butter factory
has been a failure; the canning factory a
joke; the joinery and carpentry business
such that the Commissioner recommends the
Government to shut the wretched thing up
on the spot. The system of keeping accounts
is cumbersome and full of inaccuracy. The
imported dairy cows and bulls have been
turned into sausages, or something. Any-
how, they have disappeared. The experi-
ment farm has proved worthless. The
officials have apparently spent as much time
fighting one another as in overcoming
the other plagues. The bulk of the
settlers are a long way behind in payments
of rent, loan money and water charges. And
over everything there broods the great shadow
of Loan —somewhere about three and a half
millions of Cohen’s good cash for which
the credit of the State has been pawned.
Of course, there should have been no need
for appointing a Royal Commissioner to dig
up this fresh supply of bones. The facts
were well enough known to Ministers long
ago. But they couldn’t make up their minds
what to do. What they will do now hardly
interests a weary public which has got to
a stage of cynicism where it is ready to
back whatever may be done as a sure loser.
How long this dreadful fumbling with pub-
lic enterprise is going to continue Heaven
only knows ; but as things are now it looks
as if the poor old Ma State had joined a
conspiracy to show how many holes a Gov-
ernment which applies itself whole-heartedly
to the job can knock in the public cashbox.
Obviously Yanco requires overhauling from
top to bottom and the administration vested
in a man with courage, sympathy and vision.
Unless this is done promptly the official pic-
tures of Cocky sitting under a figtree there-
abouts will have to be withdrawn, and the
whole concern will either pass over to a
shindykit or go back to the big squatter’s
sheep.
The officers of the permanent forces who
have been departmentally barred from volun-
teering for service abroad lately pointed out
that modern methods of warfare were so
radically different from those of the text-
books that they would presently be incom-
petent to instruct soldiers, unless the De-
fence Department afforded them a chance of
seeing the real thing. The battlefields of the
world are swarming with amateur and semi-
amateur soldiers who are rapidly being trans-
formed into hardened veterans; and the men
who have had to stay at home clearly see
that there will presently be no demand for
the warrior who last smelt powder in the
Boer War. The thing the men who have
given their whole lives to the job of soldier-
ing rightly fear is already looming up. It
made its appearance in the following news
telegram of last week :
If returned soldiers care to apply for positions as
area officers when vacancies are advertised, they
will, provided they can prove their suitability for
the work, receive preference. All other things being
equal, the- man who has seen active service will be
appointed before an officer who has remained at
home.
That is the writing on the barrack wall for
the stay-at-home. Denied the opportunity
of going after the first-hand knowledge of
modern fighting which every competent in-
structor should have, he will presently be
passed over for not possessing it.
From “Maxim,” one of the little Australian
crowd —airmen mostly—who are in Meso-
potamia :
“W.A.R.” (B. 29/7/’l5) makes a wild statement
when he says that “the war can be won only by
the machine-gun, and not by that archaic hand-
weapon—the rifle; and, further, that it is time Aus-
tralia woke up to this fact.” After long experience
with both weapons I come to these conclusions: —
(1) The machine-gun has the power of letting
loose at the rate of from 450 rounds per minute a
concentrated fire which can be rapidly directed
against any object.
(2) On account of its small frontage it is valu-
able in cramped localities.
(3) The power of being able to slew round in any
direction with the least movement makes it almost
impossible to enfilade ; and as fire can be opened at
any time, the gun can be laid by day to fire at
night.
But —■
(4) The expenditure of ammunition, the transport
of which to the firing-line is one of the greatest
difficulties in war, is out of all proportion to the
results obtained, unless under very favorable cir-
cumstances.
(5) Owing to the concentration of machine-gun
fire, errors in ranging or sighting limit the number
of hits much more than with rifles.
(6) Being more conspicuous than infantry, especi-
ally when brigaded or massed, or when on the
march, machine-guns attract more attention; and
by their peculiar rattle when firing draw the fire of
hostile artillery, by which they can soon be out-
ranged and, put out of action, the. effective range of
a machine-gun being only the same as that of a
rifle. Moreover, when on the move, they are use-
less.
(7) Owing to the liability of their delicate
mechanism to fail at critical moments, which
necessitates their being employed in pairs (although
there is no doubt that this chance is minimised with
the Caldwell gun), and also owing to the great
expenditure of ammunitior, the gun is not suited
for sustained fire action.
(8) Rifle fire can be combined with shock
action— i.e., the charge with the bayonet—and can
be used with effect against any targets, especially
against scattered ones, such as an extended firing
line or gun detachments.
To sum up, the machine-gun is a powerful
auxiliary to, and well adapted for, close operations
with infantry, but it is essentially a weapon of
opportunity, and its power can be best utilised to
develop unexpected or surprise fire against favorable
targets.
I agree with “W.A.R.” that more guns than are
laid down —two per battalion—are necessary. That
was proved in the Russo-Jap war. In the present
war, as was the case also in the Russo-Jap, more
guns actually are used than are shown on establish-
ments. I’m surprised to learn, by the way, that
there are five makes of machine-gun in use in the
British army. I have seen no other than the Maxim,
although in Australia we also at one time used the
Colt with Light Horse.
Infantry and the rifle will always be the deciding
factors in a campaign, and the other arms and
weapons will always be auxiliary to them.
“Rag” : Is it incompetence or pure, plain
“graft”? At one training dep6t—particu-
lars herewith —90 non-coms, have been study-
ing for commissioned rank for three months
and more. These men have not yet received
a complete equipment. Some have received
caps, puttees and boot ; others dungarees
and underclothes; others, again, boots, a
shirt and an overcoat. If they were lined
up in their miscellaneous gear as supplied
by the Defence Dept, you would opine that
they were a troop of bankrupt actors. What
discipline could these men expect in squads
of uniformed troops? Fortunately many of
them have been able to purchase proper uni-
form and etceteras privately, and this is
what it has cost them :
2 pairs khaki drill trousers . . ..£ll7 0
2 khaki tunics . . . . . . ...220
2 pairs puttees . . . . . . . . 018 6
2 khaki shirts . . .... .. 1 17 0
2 caps .. .. .. .. ..150
Badges and sundries .. . . ..140
£9 3 6
Seeing that until actually commissioned the}
receive but ss. per diem, that’s the limit
No doubt the military tailoring firms wh
can supply what the Commonwealth quarter
masters cannot, are satisfied as things are:
so that’s something to be thankful for.
: *
“Mokimoto” : Notv that Japan is pouring
its cheap-labor goods into Australia, where
the importing worm dieth not, it is neces-
sary to say again that Nippon’s merchants
have trade methods which are —Japanese.
Possibly they have, from our point of view,
improved, but since the Japanese business
code is merely a result of the Japanese moral
code, which is entirely different from our
own, the change will only be in degree. A
favorite plan was to order goods from
Europe, say, and then to refuse to take
delivery for some trivial reason. The con-
signor’s only hope of cutting his loss was
to put the goods up for auction in the
Japanese port, when the consignee or his
nominee promptly bought them up at sacri-
fice price. A Japanese firm once asked for
a sample from an English maker of a cer-
tain patented article with a view to big
orders. The sample was sent, but no orders
came. Frequent inquiries from the pro-
prietary firm having been met with dead
silence, a representative was despatched to
investigate. He was amazed to find beauti-
fully-made copies of the article sold far and
wide in Japan. In cases like that foreign
firms would rather suffer than take their
case to the Jap. courts of law. They would
only be throwing good money after bad.
After the small brown nation had learnt all
it wanted, a steady discouragement of for-
eign enterprise began. Japan saw her
necessities clearer than did Great Britain.
With a poor soil and a growing population
her only course was the swift creation of
secondary industries, and no hampering
principles were allowed to stand in her way.
That Australians now should buy the pro-
duction of these most sweated people in the
world, for lack of a tariff to stop the rush,
is a splendid advertisement for Australian
statesmanship—especially the sort that
brands itself Labor !
The Labor party’s selection of Ministers by
Caucus is a long way from what it ought to
be; still it is a vast improvement on the ola
plan, and the nearest approach we have to
Elective Ministries. People who approve of
the abolition of the present bad old system
of Party Government can’t therefore have
much patience with the personal attack
which is being made in Adelaide on the
members of the Vaughan Government.
Their effenee is that a majority of them are
members of one family. There are two
Vaughan brothers and a brother-in-law.
But they were all chosen by the Caucus, and
all Ckawford Vaughan, the Premier, had
to do was to allocate their duties. To attack
them for being Ministers is therefore to
attack the elective system; and one has to
swallow most of one’s democratic principles
to do that. It is quite a different matter, of
course, to charge them with battering or neg-
lecting the Labor platform. In that respect
they are as much open to criticism as any
and every other Ministry.
♦
The question as to whether the personal
opinions and enthusiasms of the individual
soldier count much or little in modern war-
fare has not yet been definitely settled.
Certainly the retreat from Mons did look
as if it depended almost entirely on the
steady valor of the few British soldiers who,
against such terrific odds, refused to be
broken, as by all the rules of warfare they
should have been; but there is just a possi-
bility that perfection of training and not
superior courage was the factor that really
counted. Now, however, the question is
likely to be settled as to how far the soldier
is a machine and how far his feelings
matter. Bulgaria rushed the Turks in the
recent Balkan war with the energy of wild
bulls driven by infuriated tigers, and crum-
pled the Ottoman person quickly and effec-
tively ; but when her arms were turned
against her sister States in the Balkans her
fighting appeared quite second-rate. That
might have been due to the_ fact that her
armies were tired or stale; but now after a
reasonable rest, Ferdinand, ignoring every
natural tie and sentimental claim, has
ordered his soldiers/to turn their guns upon
Bulgaria’s old deliverer and steady friend,
Russia, in order to crush the Servian who
stands in the road of the Kaiser’s plans.
The common Bulgarian soldier' can have uo
heart in the war against such a foe, but it
remains to be seen whether that 'will have
any real effect on his fighting power once
the blood is fairly set flowing. If the Bul-
gar puts uo the same sort of scrap that he
did aaainsL Turkey under the changed con-
ditions, it will go far to prove that feelings
and sentiments are of no account in battle.
Well, What Then?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hard towards the foe we drove our fist,
The firm, trained knuckles clenched and
white.
The sky was full of battle mist;
Who knew if we had struck aright?
But this, at least, we had to show —
We barked our knuckles with the blow!
The praises of the world we won;
Our blood the battered trenches splashed;
No deed of death our arms might shun
Though steel and lead the ridges lashed ;
And through the cannon’s ceaseless roar
We guessed the tasks that lay before.
Always the dream of victory urged
Our hopeful spirits to the fray;
Flashing with steel our charges surged
O’er barriers set our march to stay ;
And always while our wounded groaned
The victory was marked “postponed.”
We cannot yield to aught but death
The ground our bitter strife made good.
The nraise of men is but a breath,
But in our soldier hardihood
We stand, that young Australia’s name
May know no hint of wrong and shame.
What have we won? Where have we failed?
Strange murmurs run about the world
Of heights of death no foot has scaled,
And legions to destruction hurled ;
And blunders past our power to heal
To other eyes these hills reveal.
Are we downhearted? Tell them, No!
Blind we may be, and full of pride.
The hills are high ; the grim, set foe
Our forward march has still denied ;
But we are game to face again
The toil, the danger and the pain.
Send us Australians! With our own
To aid us in the rugged task,
The Turks’ chief stronghold overthrown
Shall yield at last the thing ye ask.
This is our faith: through deaths and hells
We yet shall win the Dardanelles.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


GAELIC WHISKY
THE OLD SMUGGLER
ffii
GAELIC
i' * .
The Perfect Whisky
•• • in • • •
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
&
tiOOßti Bl SON
V ioiiDOM. ENGLAND. * '
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
L Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1872.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
INSURANCES EFFECTED FOR—
Fire, Personal, Accident, Hailstone, Live Stock, „
Workmen’s Compensation, Plate Glass, etc., at Lowest Kates.
Head Office: Corner Pitt and King Streets, Sydney. ©; HOWARD POPE. General
Kultur and a Game of Poker.
The German Government had made its
excuses regarding the trial and execution of
Nurse Cavell, and thereby removes any
possible suspicion that, in the report on
this atrocity furnished by the-Ameifican Min-
ister at Brussels, material facts had, owing
to imperfect knowledge, been omitted. The
Minister’s account of what took place is not
contradicted, and the best that can appar-
ently be said for the bloodstained brutes who
carried out the degrading business is that
Frightfulness must prevail wherever the
German armies make war. Of course, there
is no arguing with people in this frame of
mind, and as the subjects of the unmajestic
Kaiser have to be butchers as well as
soldiers there is nothing to do but let it go
at that. Apparently the execution of this
nurse was designed by the Teutonic heroes
to have a depressing moral influence on the
Allies—to show them that the Hun is as
inflexible as iron. What it really suggests to
them is that outbursts of this sort are evidence
of terror on the part of the perpetrator —
that the execution of Miss Cavell is proof
of German fears that the hold on Belgium is
as precarious as the Allies know it to be.
Meanwhile, if the position generally is not
particularly cheerful for the opponents of
Kultur’s spread, the multitudinous Fritz is
litiding his barrow pretty hard to push. Even
the Servians are putting up a fairly success-
ful fight, and if the Allies can get a punch
in on the Bulgar within reasonable time and
thereupon dig themselves in, the various
Vons will find themselves with a fresh job in
a new place. But guessing as to whether
the Allies can deliver the goods, or whether
the Iloumanian will come in directly, or how
much longer the Greek is going to play
’possum, or trying to arrive at even tempo-
rary conclusions about the state of Abdul’s
health is, in the midst of a great darkness,
about as profitable as chasing a cat across
the roof at midnight.
“ Jwosp”: Pluck seems to be the principal
ingredient of Maoriland’s first V.C. of the
war, Corporal Cyril Bassett, of Auckland,
the bantam son of a dancing-master.
When he was in his teens he one
night went back to the bank that
employed him and found himself in
front of two armed burglars. He couldn’t
fight them, so lie took a chance and hollered
for help. Bassett got the V.C. for coolly lay-
ing telephone wires under heavy fire, and
the decoration was the first information his
parents had that their son had done any
work at all.
Melbourne has been the scene of the last
chapter of a romance. Six weeks ago a
young couple, since identified as Albert
Edward Greenwood and Lottie Williams,
both previously employed at the State Audit
Office, Perth, took rooms in chambers in
Collins-street, and devoted themselves to the
primrose way. Then, after nobody had seen
either for a few days, other residents of the
chambers and the caretaker were constrained
to take notice, and broke in to find the
couple lying in bed hand in hand, and very
dead. The key was in the locked door, in-
side, and egress from the windows was im-
possible ; there were no signs of a struggle,
and the remains of a meal on the table and
the placid appearance of all parties sug-
gested concerted suicide: only, the girl was
apparently much deader than the man. Also,
there was by the bedside one glass and a
little whitish fluid. The inquest will dis-
close the immediate cause of death, and pro-
bably no more. Whether the man came to
the end of his financial resources and decided
to assure his monopoly of his ladylove, or
whether they agreed to drop into the long
sleep together, will never be known for cer-
tain —and doesn’t matter much, anyhow.
Thus Maurice Blackburn, who won Willie
Watt’s seat in the Vic. Assembly :
The Bulletin’s outline of my political past (B.
21/10/’l5) does not mention that in my first cam-
paign at Essendon I declared myself a Socialist, and
said that I had been for 12 months the unpaid editor of
the Melbourne Socialist. I was attacked as a “red-
rag Socialist” and won notwithstanding. My letter
has been considered by two of my branches, who
have carried unanimous votes of confidence in me. T
have not been a member of the Socialist party of
Victoria for over two years. I resigned when the
present editor of the Socialist committed the party
to opposition to the Citizen Army. Many members
of the Labor party, including union officials, Labor
municipal councillors, past and prospective Parlia-
mentary candidates, are also members of the Socialist
party of Victoria, which is purely a propagandist
body. I am a Socialist who holds that reforms within
the capitalist system are palliatives only, but still
necessary to make the system endurable by those who
are not yet strong enough to overthrow it. I belong
to the Labor party because it is controlled by the
workers, and because it has no place for leaders. If
the workers are to do anything politically it is only
through such a party. I signed the Labor platform
because I believed in it. But I adheie to the paitv
not for what it has done, or for what it proposes to
do, but for what I hope and believe it will do in the
days to come.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .... “The Man Who Stayed at Home
Criterion “A Fair of Sixes
Royal Panama Pacific Exposition Pictures
Palace “The Waybacks”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Garden The Violet Dandies
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MEF.BOrRNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Old Guard’’
Royal “Bought and Paid For”
Princess’s “A Scrape o’ th Pen”
King’s “O Leary, V.C.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Wirths’ Park Wirths’ Circus
An innovation in the programme of “A
Pair of Sixes,” at Sydney Criterion, is the
placing of the characters, not in the order
in which they appear, but in the order in
which they are named by the characters on
the stage. The result is to confuse an audi-
ence which has acquired the easy habit of
identifying each character as he or she
appears by simply referring to the pro-
gramme at each new entrance. The mere
naming of a character in the dialogue may
be missed ; and in the case of a new com-
pany this would lead to confusion. Another
matter that is not an innovation is the men-
tion in large letters that the typewriting
machines have been lent by a Sydney firm.
J.C.W. Ltd. ought by now to have saved
enough money to invest in a stage type-
writing machine or two; since every play
they produce nowadays has one or more of
these instruments in operation. The sug-
gestion that the Firm has to go round beg-
ging for the loan of a typewriting machine
is hardly dignified.
sj: afc sit #
“Potash and Perlmutter” put up the shut-
ters at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, after the
Friday-night row. Next evening “The Man
YVho Stayed at Home” will take them down
again for a week. Violet Paget says good-bye
to Sydney in this piece.
Two amateur performances were given
last week at Sydney’s Little Theatre, in each
case a revival: “The Tyranny of Tears,”
by the N.S.W. Theatre League, and “The
Manoeuvres of Jane,” presented by Fred-
erick Ward. Both productions, though ad-
mirably staged, proved how quickly fashions
change in modern comedy. No wife nowa-
days tyrannises over her husband by copious
weeping, and no modern Jane has to
manoeuvre like this in order to marry the
man she wants. Both these comedies re-
quire delicate and subtle characterisation,
and both in production dragged. “The
Tyranny of Tears” was punctuated by
pauses that, to audiences accustomed to the
swifter pace of modern comedy, proved
wearisome, for the performers had not the
personality to inform those pauses with
meaning. Pearl D. Plogsted suffered from
suppressed emotion, without indicating that
she had emotion to suppress; and Mary
Butler, lacking charm as the weeping wife,
quite failed to suggest a wife that could do
anything else but weep. F. Robert For-
ster, as the husband, also lacked person-
ality, though his was a careful and, in
some respects, a clever characterisation of
that almost impossible person on the stage,
an author. Frank C. Grimsley and Hector
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Coy De Trickey—
ragtime in a futu-
rigt costume.
Ed. Marshall,
chalkographist,
casting evil eyes
at the audience.
Hamilton, with less exacting parts, man-
aged better to cope with them. “The
Manoeuvres of Jane” was elaborately staged,
and was more within the limits of amateur
acting. Frederick Ward gave a delightful
and finished impression of the foolish Lord
Bapchild; and clever Cathleen Eakin
Stormed easily through the part of the
charming and ingenuous Jane. Her work
was highly promising. Dorothy Dowland
got every ounce of meaning out of the pait
of the girl who hunts Bapchild into matri-
mony. Two out of the long list of minor
characters that immediately won favor were
those taken by Lily Molloy, a precocious
child, and Ellis Troughton, who in the char-
acter of a ludicrous parson brought to life
a Norman Lindsay caricature of the wowser
curate.
There is nothing new to report from the
Palace (Sydney) sector this week except
that an attempt to crowd it out on Saturday
night was repulsed by Lytton
and General MacMahon. Large quantities of
loot have been taken, and the company is
strongly entrenched and in good spirits.
Three new turns at Sydney Tivoli this
week: No. 1, Coy de Trickey (“The Cinna-
mon Girl”) ; No. 2, J. and M. Harkins
(musical comedy nonsense) ; No. 3 Nolan
and Nolan (comedy jugglersj. The Harkins
gentleman-partner takes the audience into his
confidence about a stage love-affair he is
carrying on unknown to the lady-partner, and
shuffles through his programmed turn in a
way that looks perfunctory. The gag is clev-
erly worked. The other new turns are up to
sample, and Coy’s fallen hair (not falling
hair!) recalls all the restorer advertisements
that have been printed for 50 years. Mary
Law and her fiddle are still the best of the
new season’s goods; then come Ella Caspers,
Hector Goldsp.nk and the other show-people
who have received honorable mention here
before.
* * *
The Violet Dandies, at Branscombe’s Gar-
den Theatre, liau a cold snap to contend with
this week, which is not good for business at
an out-door show. Cold snaps in Sydney,
however, will very soon be as novel as some
of the Dandies’ turns are, and then the Gar-
den Theatre will come into its own.
The jugglers home-coming, according to
Nolan and Nolan, the comedy jugglers
at Sydney Tivoli.
The official film-ghost of the Panama Expo-
sition is still reeling across the white picture-
sheet at Sydney Royal. This is positively the
last week, and the managerial advertisement
implores us not to miss it.
** * *
This week’s Sydney films: —
Empress: “The Girl Who Might Have Been”—an
unusual photo-play wherein the' heroine becomes a
corpse in Act I, Acts II and 111 being devoted to
trailing the heroine’s ghost around to view a little
of the fun she missed by getting out so early.
Crystal Palace: “The Eagle’s Nest”—a splendid
Lubin revival of a favorite of years ago, with its
veteran author, Edwin Arden, still in the leading
idle.
Colonial: “When Hungry Hamlet Fled”— two
reels of humor concerning Lancelot Fortesque, tragic
actor, and his fruit and vegetable-gathering propen-
*t* P
Lyric: “Five Nights,” the flickedramatisation of
the Victoria Cross naughtiness.
** * *
Gregan McMahon’s Repertory Theatre
Co put on a comparatively frivolous enter-
tainment at Melbourne Athemeum last
Saturday. “The Convict on the Ileaitn,
previously tried on the dog with howling
results, is a bunch of commonplace char-
acter sketches tied together with a Dickens-
esque ribbon. The dialogue is all human
and humorous, and the moral of the droll
story is that a young Cockney bloke who has
done three years in quod is likely to work
out his own salvation on a salary of
bob a week and upwards if a seraphic dis-
trict parson finds him a billet and restores
his red-robed donah to his fond clutches.
The optimistic spirit of Dickens pervades
the humble family gathering. The character
tvpes are cleverly grouped. Frank Keon, as
before, made a success of the shame-faced
penitent who complains that yer carn’t hitch
on to yer self-rerspect w’en fokes is always
forgivin’ yer. Mrs. Fowler was convincing
again as the anxious rnUvver, likewise Miss
Hughston, Miss Appleton, Miss Moverley,
McMurtrie (the seraphic parson), T. Skewes
and others in their respective places.
“Hiatus,” the second short piece, proved to
be a melodramatic revelation of an incident
in the career of a deceased literary man.
An artistic spinster, having put him on a
pedestal, is pained to hear of his former in-
fatuation for a vulgar Amy. Plump Amy
comes along and sells a bundle of the dead
genius’s letters for 50 guineas. A duologue
by Hugh McCrae and Helton Daniell intro-
The fickle J. and the dainty M. Harkins
providing “a feast of mirth” at Sydney
Tivoli.
duces the interview between the aesthetic
Miss Elsie Probert and the vulgarly virtuous
other woman (Miss Elsie Parker). This
other woman’s disclosure of how the
late keen analyst of female character
had gone barmy on a common wench’s
fleshly charms is easily the “hit” of
the performance. Nevertheless Miss Pro-
bert deserves praise for her correct
handling of the sentimental heroine char-
acter. The construction of the playlet is con-
ventionally theatrical, and the “atmosphere”
reeks of magazine short story. The third
item on the bill was “Lonesomelike,” a
three-character comedy. Gregan McMahon,
in a grotesque chawbacon make-up, came to
the cottage of poor old Sarah (Mrs.
Fowler), a widow with naowt but t’ work-
house to look forward to. Miss Gwen
Richardson, as a bonnie lass with a weird
dialect of her own, had rejected Gregan’s
offer to share his lonesomeness .wi’ her, so
he offered his heart and home to the old
woman, and she preferred him to the work-
house. The three principals and Hugh Rose
as an incidental curate made a good job of
the sordid little curtain-dropper; and the
Repertory audience went away feeling more
cheerful but less soulful than usual.
A six-nights revival of “Within the Law,”
at Melbourne Royal, is a reminder of the
exceeding fatness of the part in which Miss
Muriel Starr first struck Australia. She
seems to have lost a little of her early force
in her interview with draper Gilder, ter-
minating in her confident threat to make
that soft father and tough capitalist pay,
pay, pay for every hour she spends in prison,
but she runs her precious black-mail factory
much the same as before. Alterations in
the cast are improvements in two or three
cases. George Bryant presents a. Gilder
senior with more than one side to his char-
acter. Miss Boswell lends an air of realism
to Helen the thief, and Sydney Stirling car-
ries a little more melodramatic weight, per-
haps, than the previous Forger Joe. For
the rest there are Harry Sweeney, Plumer,
Blakiston (insufficiently boyish), and other
people new and old. “Bought and Paid
For” is for next Saturday, and then comes
“Madame X” once more:
& * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s the ancient
glories of “The Old Guard” will be revived
next Saturday. For two more nights “The
Dancing Mistress” provides Maggie Dickin-
son with opportunities larger than she can
grasp. She and Leslie Holland—especially
She —are unequal to the “Fly Away,
Jack” duet, which is the brightest of sev-
eral tuneful numbers. Moreover the little
lady has still a lot to learn in the arts of
“straight” acting and plain diction. Her
artificial method is a striking contrast to
the frank straightforwardness of Minnie
Love, whose Scawtch song in the second
act, with a Patagonian dance to follow, is
the jolliest feature of an uneven show. Last
week John Ralston appeared in Derek Hud-
son's part, and gave a more acceptable idea
of the sentimental villain. Ralston sings
“When You are in Love all the World is
Fair” like one who has dined well and feels
happy, whereas Hudson is a restless Baron
with a frown that invites suspicion.
'* * *
A brief revival of “The Ninety and Nine"
is bringing the Bert Bailey synod to a close
at Melbourne King’s.' In this plain and
obvious temperance parable Guy Hastings
is again the gentlemanly boozer, while Miss
Adrienne appears as his soulful adorer who
drops a tactful sermon into every beer.
Much preaching will, so the saying goes, wear
away the irresolution of the hardest pro-
digal. and there is great joy-in Boroma


VP
ft
Si
wm
$
c. ?
DANIELCRAWFORDS
* e WHISKY.
O'"
'fyf-
No^°
00
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCH BOX.
Something quite different from 1 any other
puzzle match box made. Absolutely the
Champion of puzzle match boxes, and has
defied all expert puzzle enthusiasts.
Inscription as shown engraved on each
box. Post free, with directions, 2/-
Jokes, Tricks, Puzzles, Novelties
Write for our New Catalog, a Novelty In itself.
We send it FREE.
The Mysterious
Whirl-about
Humming Top.
This top sings, and spins
f;>r • a very long time.
Whilst spinning a little
wheel is placed on the
Poor touching the edge of
the top, and the wheel
t.ien starts to run round
the top in a most mys-
terious manner. Really
the best and most, fascin-
ating top ever made.
Whirl-About Humming Top
Post free, 1/8.
ji ? l, Hutchinson Ltd.—New York Novelty C 0.—708-710 George St., Haymarket, Sydney
when Hastings is finally led to the water-
tap. The conversion naturally enrages the
local bottle-ob and upsets R. Bellairs, who
is the professional miscreant of the piece.
This blighter is alleged to be a menace to
the happiness of the leading man, but all
his plotting and perjury avail not when
the hero wipes away the beer-stains on his
character by a great act of rescue from a
quantity of burning scenery. The moral
of “The Ninety and Nine” is that the thirst
that goeth often to the beer-pump may be
broken by feminine influence; but Miss
Adrienne (who plays the influence this
time) fails to give that conclusion the force
of a proverb. Other members of the synod
are Miss Laura Roberts, Miss Adeson, Miss
Bevan, Ned Duggan, Arthur Bertram and
Fred McDonald, and Bert Bailey is also
there firing off sententious patter from his
machine-gun. Next Saturday Allen Doone
commences business at the King’s in
“O’Leary. V.C.” This is understood to be
full of shrapnel and high explosives, but
Tiie Bulletin confidently expects in the
lulls of battle to hear the usual hivh-pitched
references to Erin and Norali’s blue eyes.
* # * sk
“The Christian” is up again at Melbourne
Princess’s and a Lord Robert Ure with an
eyeglass and a seedy wardrobe is repudiating
his illicit offspring with a louder roar of
derision than before. The noble sinner has
depreciated in raiment since this paper last
“THE DANCING MISTRESS,” AT HER
MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
A little hop.
The millionaire’s
daughter.
saw him, and the appearance of his dissi-
pated pals who help him to eject the Rev.
Storm from his flourishing female refuge
hardly amounts to a tailor’s triumph. On
the other hand, the Church represented by
Storm, Archdeacon Wealthy and others is
as spruce and dapper as ever, and even the
fallen ladies under the Rev. Tornado’s care
manage a welcome bit of finery in their
hurried tumble back to virtuous conduct.
George Cross is again John Storm; Vera
Remee throbs with the requisite emotion as
Glory Quayle; and Miss Hellmrich,. Miss
Hotson. Miss Bowman, Herbert Linden,
John Kirby and others keep the faded old
drama active in other directions. The
revival is only until to-morrow, for .on
Saturday the Graham Moffat co. arrives
with “A Scrape o’ tli’ Pen.”
The equestrian portion of the circus show
in Melbourne got a big lift on Saturday.
The Royal Wirth Family came to hand,
fresh from foreign touring, and May Martin
Wirth turned somersaults on horseback until
the congregation felt quite exhausted, with
watching her. Huling’s seals, Maximo on
the wobbling wire, and sundry bounding
brothers and muscular sistern are behaving
as before ; also the animals that live on
butcher’s meat are roaring for their daily
bones, and the hippopotamus is growing
all the time. On Cup night, according to
historic custom, the. hero jockey of the hour
will turn up in the arena to be presented
with the Whip of Wirth.
* * * *
At the Tivoli (Melbourne edition) a
couple of good musical turns are sandwich-
ing Terry and Lambert in the first part,
whilst Duncan and Godfrey, of the coster
persuasion, are doing their bit among the
I’ollies. The Belgian Concert Party—vio-
lin, ’cello, piano and Goossens, the dramatic
baritone—are the people who lately con-
certed at the Auditorium, Warwick’s Bur-
lesquers, who do all things tunefully, are
new to Melbourne, and the city is going to
like them. All the men are comedians, more
or less, as well as capable vocalists, and
Miss Maud ITane, the only lady of the
crowd, combines a pretty sense of fun with
a positively beautiful soprano voice.
# * Sfc Sk
Reg Wykeham as a loud, apoplectic
colonel, and Pressy Preston in the part of . a
buxom actress, are overborne by dullness.in
a trivial little sketch at Melbourne Bijou
this week. Maud Miles still reveals a strong,
fresh voice in an interesting repertoire;
Hilda Felstead scores more points as an imi-
tator than as a singer-at-the-piano; and
Lumley and Rhodes reappear in a patter .act
that? leaves a lot of brilliance to be desired
Among the rest of the Bijou featuies tfle
unique legs of King and Brown .continue to
provide' a biglily-original entertainment.
J { #
Adelaide theatres have brought off a double
in doubles. At the Tivoli, hitzheibeit
nightly strives to get Conway hanged for the
death of Fitz.’s brother—played by hits,
himself. At the Royal, \ alentine Sidney
plays two sisters cleverly, but unaccountably
takes little trouble to differentiate them.
Press-agent stuff has the nerve to assert
that: audiences think two separate actresses
are at work ; so far is this from being true
that the audience can be heard asking itsei
which sister Miss Sidney is representing at
the moment. A strange play, this Rosaij
—excellent in what is written round the
jolly priest (finely played by Harrington
Reynolds) ; simply awful in its American
comic-relief; and as to its general action
defying any analysis. There is a basebal-
player with a batting average of 32U—a
trifle in itself, but it serves as a sample ot
carelessness. The players are better than
the play. The new Pink Dandies are a
capable crowd at the Exhibition; fiord \yal-
tham, Brennan, and the Fitzgerald sisters
are among them. Across the road there is
keen opposition from a just-arriving team, of
“Ideals,” who will have to be great to. live
up to their advertisements. Good music is
everywhere, Clara Serena’s Town Hall con-
cert ranking first. The King’s, has a new
bill in Variety, with the quick-changing
Marion at its head.
Parliament has practically made up its
mind, and unless it twists at the last
moment the opening and closing hour for
pubs in Westralia will be nine o’clock. Rent
reductions to compensate for the curtailment
of hours of trading are to be allowed, and an
anti shouting clause has been added by the
Council.
The State Government of Tasmania has a
bad head after a year’s financial jag. Accord-
ing to Treasurer Lyons’s statement, for the
financial year 1914-1915 it raked in from all
sources, including a £90,000 instalment of
the Commonwealth charitable- grant,
£1,244,094. It ran through £1.384,150, so
that there was a shortage of £140,056. For
the preeed’ng year there was an alleged sur-
plus of £35.284 ; deducting this, the accounts
are still £104.772 short. The debt on June
30 stood at £13.128,046, a trifle of £65 per
head of population, and during the 12
months the non-borrowing Labor Govern-
ment had put on £869,534. For the present
year it proposes to sober up and get along
with a loan of £350,000 at 44 per cent, (the
Commonwealth Bank is to find this), and
the balance of the £1,000,000 loan from the
Commonwealth, of which there is about
£lOO,OOO still to come. The main reason for
this virtuous resolution is. of course, that
there’s no more beer in the barrel.
“THE DANCING MISTRESS,” AT HER
The fair dinkum
lord.
MAJESTY’S
MELBOURNE.
The French teacher
i tv t u a .x
Birthdays in November: Dr. John Smyth,
M.A. (principal Melb. Teachers Training
College>, 51 on 3rd; Judge 1 ltzhardmge
(N-S-M.), <0 on 6th ; 1 rof. M oodhou.
(Syd. Uni.), 49 Prof. Williams (las. Lm.j,
63, and ex-Chi.ef Justice Parker (W.A. ), 60,
on 7 th; A. G. Ralston, Iv.C., Sydney, oo on
10th ; Dr. Andrew Harper (fee. Andrew s,
Syd.), 71 on loth; William McMillan (Sjd-
ney), 65, Rabbi Cohen (Great _Synagogue,
Syd.), 53, and “Steele Rudd, 47, on 14th;
Ada Cambridge, novelist, <1 on -Ist; 'Villie
Watt. Victoria« ex-I remier, 44, and Arch-
bishop Lowther Clarke, 60, on 23rd; poet
Rod. Quinn, 46, and Canon Andrews (Adel-
aide), 86, on 26th; Dr. Ramsay Smith
(Adelaide), 56 on 27th; Justice Cussen
(Vic.), 56 on 29th.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“R.F.” : “E.N.M.,” , who is evidently no
musician, says that after the “English
pitch” the ‘'Continental pitch sounds dull
and tuneless. What bosh! The low (or
Continental) pitch, used everywhere in
Europe, is now adopted by all the leading
orchestras in the United Kingdom and by
the Carl Rosa, Moody-Manners, Quinlan
•and other opera companies, as well as at
Covent Garden, where it has been employed
for many years. The high . (or Philhar-
monic) pitch, introduced 6y Costa, is re-
tained only by military bands and by some
firms ,of pianoforte makers. Brilliancy is
not the sole consideration in either vocal or
instrumental tone, and the high pitch has
been found most detrimental to the voice.
Such great artists as Patti and Sims Reeves
have flatly refused to sing to it, and thus
helped to bring about its abolition. More-
over, it means that the works of the great
classical composers are played and sung
half a tone above their original pitch, an
E flat symphony being thus virtually trans-
posed into E natural, which was not what
the composer intended. “Elijah,” originally
sung by a heavy bass, is at the high pitch
only possible to a baritone, and the effect
upon choral singing is manifest in the
strained high tones of our local tenors and
sopranos. Mr. V erbrugghen . should be
thanked for endeavoring to bring Sydney
into line with other musical communities,
and it is to be hoped that eventually the
Town Hall organ will be re-adjusted, so
that choral works can be given under proper
conditions.
“Trooper Bluegum”: I’ve been listening
to the weird and wonderful noises which
emanate from the! trenches and dug-outs on
Gallipoli Peninsula. Some of the Austra-
lians can sing, and some make you wish the
Turkish artillery would open fire, not neces-
sarily to kill the singers but to drown the
discord. But now and then we hear pleas-
ing little excerpts from the old, loved
operas: “Maritana,” ‘'Faust,” Pinafoie,
“Bohbme.” “Tipperary,” thank Heaven,
is nearly dead. But “Little Grey Home in
the West” is still going strong. Now and
then I hear a burly trooper beefing out
“This Bit of the World Belongs to Us. ’ or
“So-Long.” Other items that are popular
are “Red Wing,” “My old Shako,” “The
Trumpeter.” “Barcarole, ’ “Mary of Argyle,
“Robert E. Lee,” “You Made Me Love
You.” and various ragtime melodies. Hymns
are popular on Sundays, even when the
chaplains are absent. Said a trooper to me
of his pal: “There was Bill snugghn up
’longside the padre, and yellin’ ‘Nearer my
Gord to Thee’ in barrertone.”
“J.F.H.,” from the other end :
Oscar Asche’s new play, “The Spanish Main,’ has
had its first production at the Wimbledon, a London
suburban theatre, where it has enjoyed so much
popular favor for a week that the boss has arranged
to transfer it to a West-end house. It is a breezy,
bustling, piratical yarn obviously owing its inspira-
tion to Stevenson’s “Treasure Islam).” Lily Brayt.on
is a beautiful Spaniard, a charming Juanita, the
daughter of a villainous old pirate, and she has the
route to the buried treasure tattooed on her arm,
the only known clue to its whereabouts. Every
Spanish girl has to smoke on the stage, and Lily
conscientiously uses up several cheroots in the course
of the voyage. Oscar is the jovial, rollicking Cap-
tain Pat O’Gorman, the. master of the Irish barque
Albatross, chartered to go in quest of the treasure.
He. makes energetic efforts to encompass an Irish
brogue, and by constant practice may succeed, but
at present his accent would not pass muster -among
the O’Gradys. The scenery is first-class, arranged
in the best “Kismet” style. According- to the play-
bills the piece was written by “Vasco Marenas,”
but-there is a growing suspicion that Vasco’s other
name is Oscar. Asche is developing a good deal of
literary activity. He has completed a new Arabian
Nights play and a revue, and Fred Norton is now'
supplying them with music.
The Hoyt’s Picture people, headed by
Arthur Russell, have now secured a site for
their Sydney house in George-street;
and will commence operations about the end
of the surfing season. They project a well-
ventilated theatre capable of holding 2000
people. It is oiWthe cards that they will
extend their operations still further. Mean-
while manager Nicholson is holding big con-
tracts for exclusive features.
“Mid-Channel”: “0.K.” says (B.
21/10/T5) lie is “not struck on the cold,
unbending mannerisms of Millward”; fur-
ther, that Millward “belongs to the Cuyler
Hastings school?’ If Millward is the pupil
he has surpassed the master. His Kayton,
of “The Argyle Case,” was vastly superior
to Hastings’s cocaine fiend. In supposedly
tense situations Cu.vler’s formidable efforts
to maintain his outward calm marred
his performance. This could not be said of
Mill ward’s Kayton. Moreover, Millward's
deliveries sound as if coming from a man
and not from a machine. Just think of what
Hastings was like in “If I Were King”!
Generous Geoige Marlow hands out
another example. Some of the hands at
the Adelphi (Sydney) have left for the
Front, and others are preparing for the
journey. All of them have been told (1)
that their places will be available for them
on their return; (2) that those coming back
safe and sound will also be handed £25;
(3) that those disabled will receive £100;
(4) that any amongst them winning the
V.C. will get £250 and the boss’s admiration.
“Y.Z.”: Sitting out “Playing the Game”
at Melbourne King’s, I am convinced wo
have had too much of nature’s gentlemen, a
curious American product possessed of all
the virtues essential to the money-maker,
and investing those virtues with the highest
moral values for the gratification of men
who make money no matter how. The sub-
lime hero of “Playing the Game” runs gamb-
ling hells, buys votes wholesale in pursuance
of his desire to become senator, and has been
made mayor on similar lines, but, bless you !
he is a magnificent raw product, a nature’s
gentleman ! He may eat peas with a seoop,
and gnaw his chop with guttural noises, but
he has fought his way up, by God! and he
has never played it low down, by G —! and
(by G —!) he wouldn't shoot a chance
acquaintance in the back unnecessarily—
no. siree! Everybody in the little Western
town just adores him because he uses his
“gun” with such judgment, and gambles so
desperately, and only cheats when it is
highly advisable, and never in any circum-
stances uses correct English, or eats silent
soup, or puts on dog in the presence of the
meek and lowly comic pugilists and inno-
cent faro-bankers who are his body-
guard, Lord love him! In short, the
hero who is a nature’s gentleman is the
usual melodramatic villain regarded in a
wholly different light. Really in the aver-
age drama there is no good and bad. There
are only, prejudices and preferences.
“Ex-Nil” : If you want to forget the war
for a few minutes (if possible) go to a movie
show where they are featuring a child
actorrr. If it be properly advertised the
kiddies will roll up in hundreds and give you
quite a good time. When the Hero climbs
through the Burning Window which is fall-
ing into the River and snatches the Heroine
from the Jaws of Death, there is a dead
silence. Even deader than the Heroine
would have been if the fire were not on a
separate film and the smoke were not steam.
But when the child actorrr jumps on a
bicycle and rides 200 yards and telephones
for the police (American police of course)
there is a juvenile roar mixed with an in-
fantile (how do you spell skreem?) of tri-
umph and delight. I have never heard any-
thing so rousing at a fight or a football
match. I have not been to Gallipoli.
Sousa, the sprightly Yankee composer and
erratic conductor, is apparently to have
official honor. An “influential committee”
has memorialised Congress to the effect
that the U.S.A. are destitute of an official
march, and suggests a couple of Sousa’s for
choice—“ Dixie” and “The Stars and
Stripes for Ever.”
Sarah Bernhardt made her first appear-
ance after the loss of her leg at a Sunday
afternoon miscellaneous entertainment for
a French war charity. A vast audience
gave her a touching welcome. She did no
acting, but contented herself with three
patriotic recitations, one of them written
by her son Maurice and another by a grand-
daughter. She recited standing and “with
the fervor and beautiful golden voice of
former days.” Then came her struggle back
to the regular stage, and, as the cable said
last week, realisation at last that her acting
days are closed.
After joyfully detailing how the manage-
ment of Sydney Adelphi proposed to spend
£20.000 in completely. remodelling the big
auditorium Sydney Telegraph grew pessi-
mistic, and wound up a recent article by re-
marking that the Christmas attraction
would be “Dick Writtington.” Let’s hope
not!
(Continued on page 34.)
Charles Doudney, killed in Flanders, was
an unusual mixture of Anglican vicar and
crack rifle-shot. He had parishes in various
parts of South Aus. from 1896 onwards,
always joined the local rifle club, once won
a “Kingship,” and shot at least once in the
State team. Ten years ago he returned to
England, and he was one of the first to
leave his country vicarage arid get to the
Front as chaplain.
When the call comes they just drop their
job and go. For instance, there’s A. E.
Wearne, who for years has been Reuter’s
Press Agency representative at Pekin. He
heard the call last week while on a visit to
his relatives in Sydney and crowded himself
into khaki. This isn’t his first helping of
war. He got that from brother Boer as one
of N. S. Wales’s first contingent, and re-
turned to his native land as adjutant to
Rupert Carington.
THE UNKINDEST CUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Few actors have the dignity
Of Arthur Sterne Macready Brown.
A man of many inches he,
And once of inter-State renown.
That to the bunglers of our time
He must give place he holds a crime.
Yet only fell the bitter curse
Upon his noble head that day
When he was called on to rehearse
In Bills and Phillet’s touching play.
The star was little Tottie Waite,
Child-actress she, and rising eight.
When Arthur strode across the stage
The fat producer sadly smiled.
“Another lead we must engage,”
He said. “You do not suit the child.
I know you do your best, but there,
My boy, you can’t act up to her!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


7-' -
RIDING BREECHES
Ready-to-Wear from 16/6 pr,
C ut to ensure perfect ease in the saddle, and specially
strengthened m all parts that are subject to strain, thus
assuring the maximum amount of comfort and wear. Full
strapped knees, laced, belt loops, cross pockets. In
All Sizes..
Khaki Drill, drab or white Canton Moleskin... J6/6 pr.
White Cotton Twillette 19/6 ,
Grey or drab Geelong saddle twist Cord or drab
twill Gabardine 25/- »»
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
n-m
ONE
SEVEN
NIN
1
PARV/OLA
Cologne .
British made and
of rare luxuriance.
Sample Bottle Id
post Free. Box
239 G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Parviola Perfumery Co.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENEOLDS
WINES
The Epistle of Billjim, by the hand of his
friend Ted Colies, formerly black-and-white
artist, now ambulance-carrier in Gallipoli:—
You want . the dinkum oil about thia bit uv
trouble? Well, here goes. First of all, Lawd
knows what th’ flamin’ Turks number, but we’ve
accounted fer thousands of ’em, anyway 1 Bein’
in their own country, an’ knowin’ the distances an’
elevation of all these gullies an’ hills, an’ bein’
acquainted with every twist an’ corner uv the blanky
place, they can put us at a disadvantage whenever
we move. Yet ’ere we are, a handful, not only
holdin’ our own, but gradually—if only a few
’undred yards every few days—beatin’ ’em back an’
winnin’. But, cripes! it’s tough work for a little
push. Consequently a lot of us gets “knocked.”
And a lot more gets fair done-up an’ in bad condi-
tion for th’ next scrap. Th’ strain, not only in
dealin’ out stoush, but in havin’ to keep awake after-
wards to hang on to what we got out uv it—well,
after a couple of months it’s Hell! If we had the
INHUMAN TREATMENT OF AUSTRALIAN WOUNDED.
SOMEBODY SOMEWHERE IN BRITAIN: “Oh, you can’t tell me Australia has such a beauti-
ful climate. Why, that’s where our frozen rabbits come from.”
blokes who haven’t come, an’ could foller up an
advantage an’ keep th’ cows on th’ run, instead of
havin’ to ease off and be satisfied with a little, so’s
there’ll be enough of us “fit” to take ’em on again
later on why, the cows would be settled in no time,
an’ there’d be a finish to th’ sufferin’ an’ losses of
us blokes. As it is, we are fritterin’ away our
lives an’ strength in little dribs an’ drabs, in pilin’
up hard-earned points, when, if we could be fresh-
ened up, we could settle th’ whole thing with a
clean knock-out! This ain’t no good to us! We’re
“fixin’ ” Abdul all right—but it’s hard work. There’s
only a handful of us — an’ we’re gettin’ full of it l
So, just shift yourselves—not in twos an’ threes;
bring the whole push I We want this job finished
quick !
Ford, who makes the motor-ears that have
hitherto had a large sale in this country, has
something to answ T er. A month ago, when
the Allies were busy looking for money in
the U.S.A., the ’Frisco Examiner, among
other papers, published this, received through
the International News Service: —
New York, September 24. —“If I find any of the
banks in which my company or myself have deposits
taking part in the proposed loan to the Allies I will
immediately close our accounts. I won’t have any
part of my personal funds or the Ford company
funds, directly or indirectly, aiding the flotation of
this loan.”
This was the statement made to-day by Henry
Ford, the millionaire automobile manufacturer. He
continued:—
“If I had my way I would tie a tincan to this
joint Anglo-French Commission, and chase it back to
Europe.
“One of my strong objections to this loan is
that the foreign commissioners are trying to put
over a huge loan without putting up'real security.
“Why, you know who is back of this loan proposi-
tion, and making every effort to win its favor with
the American people? It is the militarist. He sees
big profits in the scheme.
“The British war loan is dangerous because it will
connect the American people with the war. It is
hardly to be expected that a nation with its pocket-
book at stake can remain peaceful.
“If England wants the money, why doesn't she
bring the American securities she holds over there
and sell them ?”
The Ford company is regarded as the largest bank
depositor in the country holding accounts subject to
cheque. It is estimated that the amounts held sub-
ject to cheque are as high as 530,000,000.
Presuming that the International News Ser-
vice isn’t a liar, this country at any rate
will know what to do with Henry Ford.
Fie has a perfect right to stand off any in-
vestment ; bat if he has used his power to
squeeze banks in which he is merely a
depositor into boycotting the loan, then Aus-
tralia at any rate is going to tell Mr. Ford
that it doesn’t propose to help him to acquire
any more money and power than he has at
piesent.
* * * *
“Haka”: The kind-hearted Society dame
who was making a name for herself by
supplying soldiers with tobacco accosted
Bill Hardial. “And w T hat brand of cigar-
ettes do you smoke V’’ she beamed. “Well,
lady.” says his Bills, “I ain’t got no made-
ups, but if you'll wait ’arf-a-mo. I’ll roll y’
one.”
# * * #
Dissatisfaction has been sizzling over the
manner in which the Artists’ lied Cross Art
Union was conducted in Sydney by Nelson
Illingworth and E. J. Henry, treasurer and
secretary. The Attorney-General sanctioned
the scheme on the condition that not less
than half of the gross proceeds was paid to
the Red Cross. This was more than com-
plied with, a sum of £660 being handed over;
but the books are in such a dreadful muddle
that it is not easy to prove anything. The
Attorney-General stated in the Assembly the
other night that so far as he knew the com-
mittee had not published either a balance-
sheet or the names or numbers of the win-
ners of the prizes. Further, members of
the committee had been paid for their works
various amounts ranging from fl tl in the
case of Nelson Illingworth himself down to
a trifling guinea or two. Apparently no
suggestion is made that these people ran the
art union to “make a bit” for themselves;
undoubtedly their desire was to “do their
bit” with the rest of the community. But it
15 .,? Pity that the affair was not managed
with less of the notoriously haphazard
methods of the artist. Then the helpers
might have reaped credit instead of a har-
vest of suspicion.
UNDER SUSPICION.
Dr : E . Robertson, chairman, reported at the meeting of the Board of Health to-day that 124 cases
of meningitis had occurred for the fortnight ended yesterday in Melbourne and 29 outside municipalities.
It was a peculiar thing that no cases, he had been informed, had occurred among sufferers from
venereal diseases.
SEVERE RESPECTABLE P ARENT: “ Here, you young rascal, explain yourself—why have you
not had meningitis?”
“0.K.”: At the outbreak of the cerebro-
spinal meningitis epidemic in Melbourne
(which seems to have originated among the
troops who were hastily and damply herded
together on the Agricultural Showgrounds),
the local medical profession missed a great
financial opportunity: it weakly admitted
its inability to supply means of resistance
to the disease. Thus far the outbreak is
known to have killed more than 150 persons
outright, and of another 350 who caught the
disease in camp or from a “carrier,” the
majority will be permanently injured,
physically or mentally, or both. The policy
of the Public Health authorities was to
belittle the wickedness of the meningitis
demon, in order that the local troops might
remain at liberty to see life outside of camp.
A. few cases of “small-pox,” such as called
for emergency legislation two years ago,
would have necessitated a quarantining of
all the camps; yet the Health authorities,
who had insisted upon the isolation of con-
tacts when the non-deadly small-pox scare
was raging, were content to let the deadly
meningitis have a fair field and no disfavor.
They did nothing to prevent it being
carried everywhere. And the doctors! Was
it their business to make a song about the
hideous danger? Having no anti-meningitis
treatment to sell they just watched the
course of the contagion and casually men-
tioned that eucalyptus-oil is a valuable thing
as popular household prescriptions go.
* * * *
From “Vagabond,” who has now had 14
months of it in the trenches in France and
i landers
It is a bit difficult to answer “S.T.S.” (B.
17/6/’l5) as to just what makes defensive Are so
much less “unbearable” that, after one lot of
attackers have been irresistibly swept away, another
lot can make a rush and get home. I’ve seen the
thing happen again and again, and although I
can t explain the reason with certainty I can give a
personal opinion.
The human factor counts for a lot; perhaps for
more than ever in this killing-by-machinerv age.
All troops have a breaking strain, and it is the side
that reaches this point first that goes under. That
a line Can hold off one attack is no sound reason
why it should hold off the next. The defenders are
getting cruelly hammered before, during and after
an attack. They are gradually working up to that
point where they begin to crack up. They may
never actually reach that point simply because the
attack may come too soon and fail. On the other
hand, the attackers may stand the strain better, and
by persistent pushing may break through. The first
attack may meet a fire which is physically impossi-
ble. Tlie next regiment or even (though this sel-
dom) the remnants of the first regiment may make
another push, and the defence, badly mauled by the
first attack and by constant artillery fire, may meet
the new onslaught with a less rapid and accurate
fire, and so fail to hold off the new rush. A lot
depends, again, on the supports pushed up to main-
tain the wastage of the defence—whether there are
enough of them or of good enough stuff.
Another point is important. Up to the moment
of the actual attack the defenders of a position are
keeping as far as possible under cover, well down
behind parapets, or even for a large part in dug-outs
or the deeper ditch behind the firing step or plat-
form. When the first attack is launched the
defenders must crowd up on to the firing step and
to the loopholes, or actually fire over the parapet.
Naturally they get it in the neck to a much greater
extent from hostile shell, machine-gun and rifle fire.
They beat off the first attack, and it is even possible
that, being busy doing it, they individually don’t
notice what they are suffering. When they get time
to look round and see the pile of casualties and the
wreck the parapets and other defences are in, they
begin to wonder if they can stick out another rush.
When they arrive at that frame of mind, the difficulty
of the attackers’ job begins to slide down the scale.
It is the amazing slowness of the British fighter to
realise that he may be going to get licked, or to
arrive at that state of wondering whether he can
stick it out any longer, that provides the secret of
most of his success. It is going to win us this war.
# #■ * *
“Hamer”: Britain can still have its glad
’rags; but it mustn’t ask for too much color
in them. _ A great effort was made to pre-
vent a crisis in the textile industries when
the country’s foolish dependence on a for-
eigner for dyes was discovered; and British
Dyes, Ltd., was created by a large subscrip-
tion of Government money. But it won’t
be able to catch up properly for two years.
Out of the £2,000,000 worth of dyes used
every year in the English industries.
£.1,800,000 were imported from Germany,
and that is too much leeway to make up in
a hurry. Meantime, the stupid Freetrade
person can’t even go into mourning for his
own past follies, since black dyes are speci-
ally affected.
*** ■ *
“Reuben Henry,” from a point of van-
tage :
How the pendulum swings 1 I remember that
“The Old Soldier” in The Bulletin about 18
months ago placed marching as the first accom-
plishment of the soldier, shooting second, and cere-
monial a bad third. Since then marching has
got down among the also-rans. The soldier does
not march. If he has a long way to go he goes by
ship, train or motor, otherwise it is not worth going,
as the other bloke will be there about a week before
him. If he has a short way to go he just walks.
He never troubles to march. To shoot and not to
shoot come second and third. To shoot like blazes
when there’s something to shoot at is important;
almost as important is to refrain from shooting'
when shooting would merely waste ammunition. “The
Old Soldier” quite missed the modern winner. The
one thing the soldier must be really good at is the
use of the pick and shovel, or, in trench terms,
“Mad Mick and Mrs. Lovell.” That and to win is
all there is in war.
THE RIGHT GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The rarest thing of all, my boy,”
Said old-man What’s-his-name,
“Is not in winning shallow joy
With piles of minted gold alloy,
Or working up to fame;
But it is this—to take to wife
The right girl. That’s success in life.”
Now that was many j-ears ago—
I’ve seen some life since then,
And in my age have come to know
A rarer thing than he could show.
’Tis giv’n to many men
To get the right girl now ; but, oh,
How hard it is to keep her so!
The right girl’s caught at twenty-two,
Again at twenty-five;
When thirty years have faded, you
Another right girl have in view;
At forty, man alive!
You know that light girls don’t exist
For any but the bigamist.
VICTORIA.
Y. Z.


Over toleration may be more unjustifiable
than necessary force when dealing with small
States obstructing the Goddess of Right.
Thus inspireth that wise spirit, King
George IV. top-notch Scotch.*
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS
MADAPOLAMS and DRILLS
Have a guarantee if they will see HORROCKSES’
name on Sel /ed?e that they are getting the very
best that the Old Country produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all Fi st-Class Drapers and “Storekeeper#
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. •
Good Shade —Good Shape.
Hot days are near —some consid-
eration must now be paid to head-
protection when choosing hats.
We quote a light, cool, shady
lounge felt of neat smooth finish,
with raw-edged 21-ijich brim.
The hat is adaptable "to any shape,
and will prove very comfortable
'■or hot-day wear.
Colors: Fawn, Mid and Dark Grey.
Please state size and color.
Peapes 8 Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
* ar
“Mujik": f It was at a recruiting meet-
ing and the orator was holding forth about
the duty of Young Australia :
Should you not keep the enemy away ? Is Aus-
tralia to suffer the inconvenience of war on her own
soil ?
I’ut that way, I can see that war may be a
bit inconvenient. Having the office tor-
pedoed and the shop punched inside out and
being compelled to get up in the dark and
rush across country with one boot and an
uncooked spud in order to escape being
butchered —yes, distinctly inconvenient
How uncomfortable, to say the least of it,
ii Mrs. Pure Merino, instead of going round
to the McChiffons for dinner after golf, had
to toast a rabbit on the end of a stick after
walking IT miles! Really most inconveni-
ent. It was nearly midnight, and wet and
cold. A boy felt himself lifted out of his
hunk, and in the darkness a 16-year-old
sister’s arms went around him and her
steady voice said in his ear—“ Hush.” He
was carried swiftly into the next room, and
in the half light could make out his father
standing by the window with a rifle, two
arpied settlers beside him. A woman kissed
him his mother. The back door was
silently opened and as the girl scurried into
the dark a rifle rang out, and then its
answer, and after that many another. With
the hoy in her grip she kept on for about
a quarter of a mile, and then collapsed into
the undergrowth. There the shivering pair
remained and were found next day by a
trooper. Of the four who had stayed behind
in the house waiting for death or the help
they had sent for, the boy and his sister
saw none again. You see the Maoris got in
before the help arrived. I happen to know',
because that girl was my sister, and it was
me she carried. Yes, w r ar is inconvenient
—-when it arrives on the doormat.
* * * *
“The Pariah”: “Feng Shui’s” par (B.
21/10/’l5) about Chinese officers and archery
reminds me. In 1907, returning from a
walking trip to the Yangtse gorges, I saw a
big arsenal which contained hundreds of
thousands of pounds’ worth of modern guns
and ammunition, yet the guard of Manchu
bannermen was armed with spears and bows.
Cantlie, in his life of Sun Yat Sen, says he
saw the same thing in Northern China. Still,
it wouldn’t do for Australia to be misled by
a little thing like that.
THE MISCHIEVOUS POSTER.
The christening was over and O’Grady
was about to leave the church when Mrs.
O’Grady nudged him sharply. “Oh, yis,”
lie said; “have a drink. Father.” And with
that he slipped half a. sovereign into his
Rivirence’s hand.
The Vie. Attorney-General has recently
been calling upon promoters of raffles on be-
half of Belgians, Red Cross funds, etc., to
produce balance-sheets. Some of the docu-
ments —many of them sent in after much
pressure—make heavy reading. One pro-
moter obtained permission to raffle for “the
poor Belgians” a jinker worth £3O, a silver
tea-set, a travelling-bag, and other “gjlts.”
His balance-sheet set forth that £lO5 3s.
had been received, out of which he had
deducted £52 11s. Gd. as the cost of selling
tickets, £3 17s. 4d. for printing, £6 15s. Gd.
for stamps and stationery, and £27 for the
A FINANCIAL DISASTER.
PETER (arriving breathless): “Please, Dan
sent me t’say he can't marry yeh t’day,
he’s been ’n’ lost Die ’arfer crown!”
jinker. It was found that the contraption
was a second-hand affair done up for the
occasion. The “poor Belgians” received £l4.
A benevolent individual from a country town
obtained permission to raffle a “unique walk-
ing stick.” His balance-sheet showed that he
received 225. 6d. from sale of tickets, and
he debited the revenue with 3s. for purchase
of the “unique” waddy, 4s. for “soliciting,”
9d. for stationery, and a bob for advertising.
It looks as if dear Brother McSnuffle, who
denounces all raffles as works of the Devil,
knows a thing or two, after all.
* * * *
The South Coast (N.S.W.) miners con-
tinue to show their disrespect for wages
and the authority of the Arbitration laws.
The other morning, when 250 of them rolled
up to the Bulli mine prepared for work or
whatever else might happen, they discovered
that the deputies were annoyed because they
had been asked to do a job which they
thought somebody else should have done. It
was the sort of trouble that a little volun-
tary arbitration should have adjusted in five
minutes; but as that would be beneath the
dignity of a South Coast miner the 250 men
turned their backs and went without a
day’s pay. The loathing of these miners
for money will yet compel the owners to en-
gage special men to chase them with pay
envelopes and a lasso.
* * ■* * ,
“Oyez” : Anew habit which has grown up
with the Holman Government got a bump
the other day. For some time past Ministers
have been signing notices in the Gazette
with their bare, undecorated names—as H.
C. Hoyle, Arthur Griffith, J. H. Cann, in-
stead of adding Assistant-Treasurer, Secre-
tary for Public Instruction, Secretary for
Public Works, etc. Now, the Mines Act
requires that before any mining lease is can-
celled notice must. appear in the Gazette
purporting to be signed by the Minister in
charge. The Yerranderie leases were can-
celled in June last, under a notice signed by
John Estell, who didn’t claim to be Minister
for Mines or Minister for anything else.
On the matter being brought before Equitv
Justice Simpson he decided that this was
insufficient to cancel the leases and that the
Gazette notice aws bad in law. The
decision is likely to affect thousands
of Gazette notices, and there is much
lack of jubilation in the Public Service
Departments, which don’t know where they
are.
Were it not for the war more space
would be given on the newspaper contents-
bills to the inquiry in Melbourne into the
alleged ill-treatment of
Gunner W i 11 i a m
Walter Perry, a re-
turned soldier who
asserts that he was
roughly handled by a
doctor in the Base
Hospital. The doc-
tor flatly denies it,
and everybody who
ever came into contact
with Perry is being
called as a witness for
or against. The in-
quiry is the result of
agitation by Billy
Maloney, M.H.R., who
seemed at first to have
an excellent case. The
chief point at issue is
whether Perry is a
shattered and suffering
victim of brutal offi-
cialdom. or a finished
and resourceful malin-
gerer. The evidence
ranges from medical
certificates to love-
letters, and the wit-
nesses from military
officers to curates. One
particular clerk in holy
orders testified that
Perry had tried to con-
vert him to atheism—
a Perry at the gate of
Paradise, so to speak,
and on the wrong side.
The same clergyman
swore that Perry be-
fore going to the Front
told him that he would
see the Defence De-
partment in Hell be-
fore he fired a shot.
“I looked upon him as
an ordinary Socialist,”
said this witness, and
the Court smiled.
Perry, whose physical
and mental condition is problematical, is in
a receiving house awaiting the result of the
inquiry.
* * * *
A man with the name of an ancient liti-
gant appeared in a Sydney Court last week.
When lawyers are arguing a supposititious
case to illustrate their meaning, they have a
habit of referring to Roe and Doe as the
mythical litigants, and the names figure
in dozens of legal text-books. This
time Doe was actually the plaintiff in a
claim for breach of warranty. He had hired
a house in the Glebe, which was in such
splendid repair that one day the leg of his
chair went through the floor and he received
injuries for which he wanted compensation.
The facts were not disputed, but the land-
lord, who happened to be a lady, pleaded
that there was no warranty that the floor
was sound, and no agreement to make it so,
and she got a verdict. According to this
a landlord is entitled to let a house though
the floor may open and pass the tenants to
the worms beneath. In Paddington a few
years ago a confiding tenant leaned a side-
board against a wall, which promptly fell
out. In that case also the Law w T as kind to
the landlord, and gave a dark hint that the
tenant who was foolish enough to think that
a wall was so strong that it could stand a
push might be liable for damage to property.
Many artless Melbourne moralists will be
surprised to hear that the bookmakers of
Victoria are a union for the purpose of
fighting the tote. A lot of nobbled parsons
and other anti-tote workers have known or
guessed about the union, but to the unin-
formed purists who view “the legalisation
of gambling” with righteous horror even
when they are having their own little flutter
with mining stock—to these poor snufflers it
came as a shock to read that the Federated
Bookmakers of Victoria gave their assist-
ance to the Police Charity Carnival at Mel-
bourne Exhibition in aid of Hospital Sun-
day. The legality of bookmaking is threat-
ened. The Tote Bill which Ikey Mo is
scheming in the first place to keep out, and
in the second place to block when it arrives,
would bring the police in collision with the
books. So, in an audacious bid for public
sympathy and the Force’s friendship, the
Federated Bookmakers have allied themselves
with, the police in charitable endeavor! But
nothing that Ikey Mo ever does for the hospi-
tals is worth considering in comparison with
what the tote would do. There are half a dozen
crying needs for the legalisation of a clean,
democratic tote in place of the unclean, mis-
chievous bookmaker. And the hospitals’
need is one of them.
* * * *
The Australian Patriots’ League is at it
again. Not content with initiating a move-
ment for supplying a badge to rejects, and
thus doing a foolish fritter with good money
greatly needed for more practical war-pur-
poses, ,the„League is now issuing what.it ghoul-
ishly terms a “mourner’s badge,” Avhich is a
b 1 ack-wbite-and-b lue blob of enamel with the
inscription; “Australian roll of honor. In
memory, of ,” the blank being filled in
with the words “my brother,” or whatever the
dead soldier’s relationship may have been.
The monstrosity is to be made of silver, and
the League has publicly stated that they
’will not cost more than ss. each.” And all
the time that the mechanic is stamping out
these valueless ; toys all sorts of trouble is
heaping up at the Dardanelles for lack of
men. Patriots! %
~v * * * *
Pxtract from Fed. income tax return :
Deduction ,of j£ 13 for each child under IC. (To
be made only when the return is made by a single
individual.)
At last Sosh breaks out in its true colors',
and’bang goes the marriage tie.
“Nor’-nor’ West”: The light on Karon
Rock, Cook Strait (M.L.), is burning at
last. Many a shipmaster dropping in there-
abouts will feel more comfortable now for the
gleam that warns him of the foul ground
running from Terawhiti to Island. Bay. The
Maoriland skippers had a battle to get this
light, and many of them will see tiie long
arm of coincidence in the dead heat between
its installation and the death of Jack Millar,
formerly Minister for Marine. When the
Penguin, poking about in the wrong place
for the pocketed light on Pencarrow Head
at the entrance to Wellington, ripped her
bottom out off Terawhiti, the public de-
manded to know why such an obviouslv
dangerous place was not decorated with a
lantern. Millar, who in the long ago had
been mate of a coaster waddling along at
seven knots, said the idea was absurd,
whereupon the whole seagoing fraternity
rushed ashore to say that Millar didn’t know
what he was talking about; that in these
days of high-powered steamers making quirk
passages and rapid landfalls it was a
scandal to leave Terawhiti sicking out its
long, dark nose right in the track of traffic:
HER DILEMMA.
“If Cynthia is so frightened that George is
marrying her for her money, why doesn't
she pretend she has lost it all?"
“Well, she's frightened he'd believe it.”
and that unless the place was lighted some-
thing more terrible than the wreck of the
Penguin and other small vessels was certain
to occur. The riot raged with great fury for
a time, and at the end thereof Millar was
thrown out of his job and another Govern-
ment came in to start next day and put the
lamp-post where it was most wanted. Talk-
ing about lights and wrecks reminds me.
The evening after The Bulletin is pub-
lished this week will be the 21st anniver
sary of the night on which Mclntosh, miss-
ing the light on Mokohinau, while inward
bound from Sydney, piled the Wairarapa on
to the Great Barrier, full steam ahead, and
gave. Davy Jones the biggest haul he ever-
had in Maoriland waters.
THE INTERRUPTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What does it matter if, in love with life,
In love with love, exultantly we sing?
What boots the risk? What boots the barren strife
Of day? The garden-god is king!
We fear no foe, nor dread the undertaker. ...
Oh, hang it! —what a nuisance !... . Here’s the baker,
Who says that Mrs. Jinks is very ill,
And will we kindly pay his little bill?
Why should we sigh who, in the meads of June,
Pluck lazy flowers to deck the blazing day?
Why should we weep, when all the world’s in tune
With youth, and pleasure thrills our raptured
clay ?
We praise smooth Venus. Gratefully we elutib
her....
The knocker.... Here’s a go! That rascal butcher,
Demanding coin, shouts hoarsely from his seat
His ultimatum vile—No pay, no meat!
Oh, little flies that spoil our honeymoon,
And mar the melodies our hearts adore!
Oh, vandals grim that, as we doze and croon,
Disturb domestic blisses evermore!
We have to work—to work!.... the Devil’s in it!
Joy’s summer must be paid for by the minute.
(Here’s that fish-hawker now who says we must
Pay cash, because he won’t sell fish on trust!)
X.S.W.
ELLERSLIE GREY.
THE PATRIOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Large, assortment of patriotic ties. Latest fashion-
able designs:—flags, ships, pyramids, etc. — Advt.
He ogled the girls with a dauntless eye
While his cobbers the Germans slew,
And ever upon his splendid tie
The banner of England flew.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
ERNEST CASEY.


MR. BULL’S DIVERTING LITTLE SHOW.


WAITING FOR THE TIDE.


£2Sr.
Insure in
Thc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock,
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,255
Paid=up 82,500
n nriiTc mi «u T cn Blanches in every State.
AGENTS WANTED. Write for particulars.
XV. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
BOATERS
World-Famed
for their Unequalled
Excellence in Style,
Quality, Comfort & Value.
*
*
niEii*/
V
m
x
m
fife
tv.*
/^6/e
<v
n
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul.
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
LAUNCHES
NEW and SECOND-HAND.
Also Outboard Motors and Marine Engines.
PRITCHARD BROTHERS LTD.,
and Boatbuflders, North Sydney, N.S.W.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The recruiting campaign in X. 8. Wales
has dug out one orator —Sergeant P. 11.
Coates, who used to be a Deputy-Registrar-
General, but has promoted himself into
khaki. Coates takes the gloves off to the
crowd. “Can’t you see? Can’t you feel?
If the Germans come here —and that is one
of the possibilities of the present situation—-
what of your sisters? What of your
mothers?” _ As Coates was speaking the
other day in Sydney a press photographer
snapped the orator. He should have “got”
the faces of the crowd. It would have made
a far more interesting study.
“Eko” : From the little one-pub township
of Longwood (. Vic.) two men have gone
forth to get the Victoria Cross. One, Major
Maygar, now at the Front, won the decora-
tion in South Africa ; the other, Lieut. Fred
IT. Tubb, acquired his at Lonesome Pine, the
other day. He is one of the live sons of
a former schoolmaster at Longwood, and all
are doing their bit in the Big Row. The
youngster got a nice safe billet as a transport
officer in Egypt, but that was no good to
him. He exchanged into the trenches and
in the fulness of time got one in the arm
and another in the head, which sent him to a
hospital in England. He is as white a little
fellow as ever was born in Australia, and
you couldn’t say more if you included the
universe.
P. .T. Clara, who used to make things
lively in the N.S.W. Assembly over a decade
ago, passed out at Waverley last week. Clara
was a strong Laborite with a command of
violent language. Although he has been lost
sight of politically for years he had not lost
his interest in politics, and was in the list of
X.S.W. Labor candidates for the Senate.
TIME WORKS WONDERS.
DIDO (to ex-police constable and old enemy):
“ 'Struth, if a man ’ader told me a year
ago that you an’ me 'd be cobbers ruu-
nin’ blokes in I’d ha’ passed ’im one.”
When some troops were being embarked at
Wellington (M.L.) years ago for South
Africa, a young sub-lieutenant fainted. In
Gallipoli a few weeks ago, when a Maori-
land regiment was ordered to inter-
view the Turk with the bayonet, the
way up the fire-swept hillside to the
trenches was led by the Colonel —Bau-
chop, of Dunedin. The test of officers
and men was supreme. They responded
with a splendid gallantry and suffered hor-
ribly. "I saw him when he. was brought
down, desperately wounded,” says General
Godley in a despatch. “‘I hope we did what
what you wanted,’ he said to me.” Bau-
chop was the youngster who had fainted on
the Wellington wharf 15 years before.
An Adelaide schoolmaster, John L. Young,
u ho died in 1881, leaving no successor, vet
whose memory is so cherished by his old-
boys that on the 30th anniversary of his
death they founded an association to keep
his memory green, is to be commemorated
by two University scholarships. One, on a
bequest from J. 11. Finlayson, formerly edi-
tor and part owner of the Register, is for
political economy; the other, founded by
subscription, for general research work. It
was suggested at the last Old Boys’ meeting
that the really interesting way in which
Young used to teach them political economy,
and other practical matters which a school-
master commonly neglects, is responsible for
the big share they have since taken —for a
comparatively small body—in public affairs
in S.A. Among the best known of them
still living are Herbert Phillips, Peter Wood,
Scammell, Bullock, Harry Bickford and Dr.
•T. C. Verco. Of the dead the greatest was
C. 0. Kingston.
THE DANGER.
R ECRUIT: "Well, doctor, if you can't pass
me, couldn't you give me a certificate to
say so? I wouldn’t like my friends to
think I was rejected' on account of a
bad character, y' know!"
Wade's followers in the N.S.W. Assembly
dul a. mean thing when, in pursuit of their
anti-German campaign, they alleged that
Conrad von Hagen had been interned as an
enemy subject, and made a fuss about the
enlistment of one of his sons under the name
of Hagen. Von Hagen’s father was a British
subject 70 years ago, before the German
States were Prussianised, and before his
native State of Hesse had been conquered by
the Prussians; and two elder brothers served
in the British army and navy. Jack von
Hagen was in the Light Horse before the
war started, and dropped the “von,” with the
approval of the military authorities when
lie enlisted. Old-man von Hagen lias been
in the N.S.W. Labor movement ever since
there was one, and at one time opposed
Wade; and the assault bears, therefore, a
nasty flavor.
S. Aus. ex-Judge James Penn Boueaut
has his S4th birthday on October 29. The
veteran, who was thrice Premier of S. Aus.
and nearly 27 years Judge, retired from the
Supreme Court Bench in February, 1905,
with faculties unimpaired and with a keen
interest in life’s affairs. But he is now very
feeble and lias almost passed out of the
general public’s life.
Brewarrina (N.S.W.) rectory, which is
under the control of the Bush Brotherhood
has supplied two recruities —Private Martin
Andrews and Private Wilfred Hartridge.
The former was vice-principal of tin-
Brotherhood, and hoped to obtain a nomina-
tion as chaplain. So did the then principal,
the Rev. E. C. Kempe. They were both good
sports and line men ; but their views were too
“high” to be acceptable to the nominators
m Sydney. Kempe therefore returned to
Emil and, where he expected to have better
luck. Andrews joined the A.M.C.; Hart-
ridge, who was a lay brother, reading for the
priesthood, went with the 3rd Battalion.
Lately he was killed; and now his friend
Douglas Jackson, also a Bush Brother from
Bom ke, has gone to see if he can find out
who did it.
One of Victoria’s earliest squatters joined
the big muster in Ireland the other day—
Edmund McNeill, of Craigdunn, County An-
trim, Ireland. Long Ned. as they called
him. came to the Port Phillip Settlement in
the first ’4o’s and took up stations —Glen-
mona, among others. Rolf Boldrewood has
embalmed him in his “Memories of Old Mel-
bourne,” where he describes how he rode his
bay horse, Thur’mpogue in the Woodlands
Steeplechase, near Melbourne, and fell.
McNeill was one of a party that explored the
new country north of the Pyrenees. Re-
turning to Ireland, he became Deputy-Lieu-
tenant of the county. His only son, Ronald,
M.P., is the assistant-editor of the Ency-
clopedia Britannica, and was formerly
assistant-editor of St. James’s Gazette.
Died, a victim to meningitis, at Hobart,
Major Hugh Hunt, another good example
of the dominie turned soldier. He was a
graduate of Sydney Uni., who, after a spell
at school-teaching in N. S. Wales, moved
West, and in 1906 joined the Defence forces,
lie was second in command in Perth for
some time, and was shifted last year to a
similar position in Tasmania, where he was
much more of a driving force than the State
Commandant, his nominal boss. He was
only 45.
Dead, Paddy Lyons, who was for many
years confidential detective to N. S. Wales
Chief Secretary’s department. One of his
jobs was to discreetly ascertain the boim
tides of inconvenient persons who sought to
“bite” the State Excellency’s ear. It used
to be fairly common for stranded dukes and
belted earls to “tap” the Governor for succor
on the ground that they were long-lost
cousins of his or his wife’s family, and it
was Lyons’s business to push them through
the window or keep them quiet with as little
outlay as possible, and without publicity.
Later, he was appointed an inspector and
protector of derelict children. When he was
sent for his time-sheet showed 84.
Alexander Deeper, warden of Trinity Col-
h'go, Melbourne, has just completed his
fortieth year in office. Deeper came to
Australia in 1875 as a newly-hedged gradu-
ate of Trinity College, Dublin, and before
receiving his present appointment put in a
few months as a master at Sydney Grammar
under A. B. Weigall, head there for half a
century. While in Sydney, Deeper mar-
ried the eldest daughter of George Wigram
Allen, an old-time solicitor and politician in
the Ma State. Though he is himself a lay-
man, under his rule Trinity has produced six
Anglican bishops—a record which leaves all
similar institutions in Australasia out of
sight.
Crossed over the other day, the widow of
the late Rev. W. B. Boyce, of Sydney, presi-
dent of the first Australian Methodist Con-
ference. Her father was George Allen,
M.L.C., a pillar of the church from his arri-
val at Port Jackson in 1816. In ’23 he
married the daughter of Thomas Bowden,
who was sent out by the English Govern-
ment as a schoolmaster in 1811. Bowden
was a Methody, and soon gathered the few
other Methodies there were then in the
colony, and sent off an application for a
Parson with that brand on his collar. This
resulted in the arrival of Samuel Leigh in
’l5.
THE SHIRKER'S HORRORS.
The shirker has drunk success to the boys at
the Front, for so long that he is begin-
ning to sec snakes!
Jim _ Ward ley. president of the Victorian
Operative Bakers' Society, who at Melbourne
the other day had what is alleged to have
been his 100th birthday, reckons he is the
oldest living trades unionist. He says he
was born in Devonshire a few months after
Waterloo. Anyway, he came to Australia in
1852, and has always been a good unionist.
A fine young Queenslander, Private Ray-
mond F. Shirley, of B company, 9th Bat-
talion, 3rd Brigade, Ist Division A.1.F., is
missing. The first news his relatives had of
him alter he landed at Gallipoli was that
he had been wounded; that was in May or
June. Since then he has been reported
wounded on April 25, but where he has got
to is a mystery. All attempts to locate him
have so far failed. Does any returned
soldier know anything of him, and, if so.
will he tell Dr. John Shirley, Bowen Hills.
Brisbane?
THE: CHOSEN RACE.
TOTALISATOR BILL: “In the name of charily
what couldn't I do with a percentage
of that!”
Leave of absence has been granted to two
more Ma State legislators in khaki —Colonel
Onslow and Major Nicholson, who are on
service. And some of the same thing will
be granted, shortly, to Fern and Chaffey.
who have both enlisted. There arc several
other legislators who arc likely-looking re-
cruits, but have yet made no respouse to the
call, and their position in the N.S.W. Par-
liament, where the recruiting enthusiasm is
strong, isn't happy. At a little send-off to
one of the recent political recruits a Parlia-
mentarian of florid speech urged the guest
to “Be pattern now to men of grosser blood.
And teach them how to war.” It made one
eligible stay-at-home M.L.A. wince. He re-
membered (and so did others) that his father
was a grocer.
Thomas Cawthron, who let go his moorings
at Nelson (M.F.) the other day, first struck
the sleepy place in ’4B, and later on started
a shipping business. He was agent for all
the shipping concerns trading to Nelson
when it was about the most important p rt
in Loan Land, and being also a shipping eon-
tractor he spent most of his time
going round to the bank with rash.
Having accumulated largely, he got
busy spending. lie handed the
Nelson citizens Cawthron Park, a
beautiful forest reserve of 2500
acres close to the town; built a
fine flight of stone steps up Church
Hill, at a cost of £1800; gave the
local School of Music £2500 to get
it out of the grip of Financial Diffi-
culty, Esq,, and followed this up
with an organ that made him £lBOO
poorer. But the gift that made
him really famous in lOUland was
a cheque for £15,000 that he casu-
ally handed the Hospital Board to
go towards building a new repair-
ing shop. Maoriland subsidises
free-will gifts of this kind to the
tune of 255. in the £ ; and the Min-
ister of Finance was very hard up
at the moment. Cawthron at the
time of his death was planning to
hand out more cash, and was talk-
ing of planting a solar physics ob-
servatory at Nelson at a cost of £30,000. The
will dealt with a matter of a quarter of
a million, much of which goes to education
and science. Croesus was 82.
Two of the patriarchs of the Sydney
agency business came to the final audit of
accounts within a week —A. W. S. Gregg and
Josiah Mullens, who had been chasing the
com. within a hundred yards or so of one
another for half a century. Aleck Gregg,
senior managing-director of Richardson and
Wrench, commenced as office lad with the
long-deceased R. P. Richardson, one of the
earliest of real-estate salesmen; and Josiah
Mullens was a stockbroker when there was
no Stock Exchange and the only other man
in the business in Sydney ivas the present
Justice Barton’s father. Gregg stuck to it
to the end : the other retired nearly 20 years
ago, and filled in time learning things about
ancient Egypt.
There has been a lot of trouble in the
Punjaub, India, but a man by the name of
Michael O’Dwyer has made things all right.
This Sir M. O’Dwyer, the Lieut.-Governor.
is brother of Father J. O’Dwyer, who is head
of the R.C. College at Ivew. near Melbourne.
Seventy years ago Henry Flardinge became
Gov.-General of India, and now another
Ilardinge, who is Viceroy, has been praising
Governor O’Dwyer for the way he has man-
aged the cleverly-engineered difficulty. An-
other O’Dwyer brother is a professor at St.
Patrick’s College, East Melbourne.
PLEASE DON’T FORGET
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T" post that letter to the lad you knew
la happier times along' the daily track;
lie's taken on a job that’s*stern and new,
From which there is no rest or turning back;
Orop him a line to say his country needs
Jlore of his sort, brimful of gallant deeds!
And don’t forget to spare his nibs a smoke —•
the chaps who’re back tell how a timely whiff
A\ ill turn the closest “shave” into a joke,
And stiffen a fighter’s pecker in a jiff.
It's up to us (that’s me and likewise you!)
To spare our fighting lads a puff or two!
And don’t forget that life is short, and where
Our boys arc settling things with Kaiser Bill
They're up against it, and, what’s more, that there,
When shells are shrieking, life is shorter still;
So don’t forget (don’t merely drop a tear!)
To make it Christmas for them all the year!
VICTORIA.
BITA SUNYASER.


In the spring a young man’s fan <
lightly turns to thoughts of Lore.
A YOUNG MAN’S
FANCY
EVEN’ IX THESE PROSAIC DAYS,
DRESS COUNTS SO MUCH in the
favorable impression we would create
upon others, that it is more than likely
a Young Man's fancy is given before
anything else to thoughts of Apparel
befitting the Season of Spring.
EVERY MAN KNOWS THAT A
DAT XTILY-CLAD MAIDEN ex-
presses not only the charm of person-
ality, but appreciation also of the
esteem of others. Moreover he knows
that any Woman who cares for the per-
sonal appearance of any Man looks for
and expects from him the self-same
evidences of self-esteem and individu-
ality.
“Austral” Tailoring fulfils
every expectation of the man
or woman who cares.
1 he really Well-Dressed Man is much
lesh concerned about following extremes
style than he is about quality of
hibiie, nicety of fit, and appropriateness
of cut and color.
The growing desire to have the
details of ones dress express the
weaier s personality is making men in-
creasingly independent of fashion
plates. This does not by any means
signify a disregard of conventional form
merely for the sake of being different.
Individuality in dress is expressed more
by the seeming trifles which appeal to
the Well-Dressed. Man’s taste or prefer-
ment, and imparts an "air” of distinc-
tion quite its own.
All of which goes to demonstrate the
character of service we offer von with
“Austral" Tailoring for Men.
rv*
f 7
IT
)
&f.
■w
fwmw
&/i
m
:Sk
- 4 }? 3*
;ZjF
, V?^
mm
/n
r
V“>
&
Si!
£
>
ft
<a\*
9 v,—•
v
<►<l
,V s -:'#^
‘-vSj
1
>
Ss!J\fri&! r T*‘-
r!K-
Austral” Sac Suits
To Measure, 63/- to 75/-
Hand-made, 84 - to 126/-
CLALIIA OF FABRIC. Nowhere .will }ou find a more varied or select range of quality Suitings for the new Season’s Wear. These fine fabrics
include many exclusive weaves and patterns of both English and. Australian production.
MALTA Oh 111. ihe pi oven skill of our cutters is the best assurance you could have of a "'better fit.” And the certainty of a correct-fitting suit
not only places you at perfect ease.' but adds dignity to your appearance.
VPPBOPLIAThAESS OF CL I. The tailor should no longer dictate what you should wear. Our cutters may suggest or advise, but the customer
leci.de,,. . And. with tailors at their back who use brains as well as fingers at their work, von can count on all those Style Features which are deemed
appropriate being built as well as cut into the fabric of your Suit.
YOU W ILL COUNT THE TIME Well repaid by an inspection of the
New Season’s Suitings now being shown, and we would be more than
pleased to answer your enquiries and to keep you up to date with the
fashion changes for the New Season’s Wear.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS and those who find it inconvenient to call,
may make an inspection merely by requesting us to send samples and
patterns which, with our big Catalogue of Fashions, we send free to
any address.
CARRIAGE PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
484-490
Georg'e Street.
Sydney
o
ro
£2
Pioneer Distributors Goods
3-17
Royal Arcade
Sydney


IRRIGATION.
We carry Largs Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Ptpwpps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St„ Sydney
New Zealand Insurance Company Limited
PREMIER COLONIAL COMPANY.
Fire, Marine,* Accident, Sickness, Workmen’s Compensation and General
Insurance. 79-8 t PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
A £ £ £
Mar., 1908.. 13,517 7 p.c.= 7,000 6,517 91,458
Sept., 1908.. 14,697 7 ~ „ 7,000 7,697 99,155
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 111,655
Mar., 1909.. 18,003 7 p.c.=10,062 7,941 119,596
Sept., 1909.. 17,974 7„„ 10,500 7,474 127,070
Mar., 1910.. 18,549 7 „ ~10,500 8,049 135,119
Sept., 1910. .18,844 7,, ~ 10,500 8,344 143.463
Mar., 1911.. 20,529 7 „„ 10.500 10,029 153,492
Sept., 1911.. 20,180 7„„ 10,500 9,680 163,172
Mar., 1912.. 22,771 8 „ ~12,000 10,771 173,943
Sept., 1912.. 22,464 8 „., 12,000 10,464 184,407
Mar., 1913.. 23,052 8 ~ ~12,000 11.052 195,459
Sept., 1913.. 22,637 S „ ~ 12.000 10,637 206,096
Mar., 1914.. 23,069 8„„ 12,000 11,069 217,165
Reserves disclosed . . . . 15,000 232,165
Sept., 1914. . 20,180 8 p.c.=12,000 8,180 240,345
Mar., 1915.. 19,310 8 „ ~12,000 7,316 247,661
Sept., 1915.. 17,255 8 „ ~12,000 5,255 252,916
All things considered, the profits for the
past half-year have not fallen away as much
as might reasonably have been expected. Had
there been no war at all Victoria’s unusually
severe drought might well have pulled the
figures down from the recent average of
about £22,000 to £17,255. Drought not only
cut into the internal exchange business, but
also seriously affected foreign transactions:
a glimpse of that,is given in the item “Bills
and remittances in transit and payable in
London,” which has diminished from an
average of £425,000 or so to £290,974. The
drought being well over so far as Victoria
is concerned, there is good reason to expect
improved figures for the coming year. Not
that the figures of the few terms prior to
the war will necessarily be at once repeated.
For one thing, taxation will cut banks’
profits as well as other people’s, though the
bulk of the burden will be carried by indi-
vidual shareholders. Further, partly from
patriotic motives, the bank has put a good
deal of money into public securities. Twelve
months ago these assets stood at £69,955.
Since then no less than £321,700 has been
invested that way ; and though a good deal
of this money, when the Government has
spent it, may come back to the bank in
deposits, the investment, while giving extra
solidity, is likely to steady the earnings for
a while. Still even on last half-year’s figures
there was a good, wide margin between
profits made and profits divided, so the 8 p.c.
is not in danger. The Avar rather makes
this difference: in vieiv of income tax the
8 p.c. will not be worth to the shareholder
what it Avas a Avhile ago.
The position of the Royal at September
30 Avas unusually strong. This table shows
the principal features: —
Sept.,’l4. Sept.,’ls.
Notes in circula-
tion .. .. £1,014 £953 Dec. £6l
Bills in circulation,
etc 241,497 276,452 Inc. 34,955
Deposits at interest 1,414,121 1,451,085 Inc. 36,964
Free deposits .. 845,781 970,257 Inc. 124,476
Liquid assets . . 1,288,004 1,340,429 Inc. 52,425
Advances . . . . 1,704,154 1,840,142 Inc. 135,988
Premises, etc. . . 62,600 83,090 Inc. 20,490
Liquid assets thus represent just upon 50
p.c. of all liabilities. There is £1,358,316
of debt not represented by liquid assets, and
against that £1,358,316 there are advances
£1,840,142 and bank premises £78,820 —a
margin of well over half a million to pro-
tect a debt of £1,358,316; and that of course
is exclusive of the margin required by the
bank itself when making an advance. The
security is excellent; and it isn’t astonishing
that, even in the past dry year, the Royal
has been favored by the public with in-
creased deposits to the extent of £217,368.
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1904 ..£4226 8 p.c. =£"2000 £2226 £9,799
1905 .. 6724 10 „ ~ 2500 4224 14,023
1906 .. 5172 10 ~ „ 2500 2672 16,695
1907 .. 5118 10 „ „ 2500 2618 19,313
1908 . . 6013 10 „ „ 2500 3513 22,826
1909 .. 5712 10 ~ ~ 2500 3212 26,038
1910 . . 6463 10 „ „ 2500 3963 30,001
1911 .. 6241 10 „ „ 2500 3741 33,742
1912 .. 5833 10 „ „ 3000 2833 36,575
1913 . . 6237 10 ~ „ 5000 1237 37,812
1914 .. 6488 10 „ „ 5000 1488 39,300
1915 . . 6609 10 ~ „ 5000 1609 40,909
The profits for 1904-5 just beat those for
the past year; but since 1905 none have
been so good. Two things havm no doubt
been responsible for this co. doing ivell at
a time when so many others have done badly.
First, the co.’s fine new office buildings in
O’Connell-street were lately finished, and
the co. began to get revenue from a capital
expenditure which in the previous couple of
years had earned nothing at all. In the
second place the co., while it may have suf-
fered a little from shrunken incomes from
country properties, is likely to have bene-
fited much more from the higher interest
available for loans on mortgage and deposits.
A trustee co. gets its living from four
sources —(1) interest on its own funds; (2)
commission on the annual earnings of trust
estates; (3) agency commissions; (4) a
single commission on the capital value of
every trust estate. The bulk of the earn-
ings of the average trustee co. consists of
either interest on its own funds or commis-
sions on interest earned by trust funds; and
since interest is going to be higher instead
of lower in the stressful times ahead of us,
the earnings of these trustee cos. are not
likely to suffer. The capital value of trust
estates will no doubt generally shrink ; but
if anything is lost in corpus commission in
that way. it is likely to be more than made
up the other way.
Such times of great uncertainty as the
present are bound to suggest to a whole lot
of people that the only reasonably safe trus-
tee to appoint is one that can’t go away and
be killed. In times of peace you strike quite
enough reasons for pinning your faith only to
an executor who has put up a money guaran-
tee that he will be there when you want him.
Times of war merely add to those reasons.
The guarantee in the case of the Sydney
Permanent consists of a paid capital of
£50,000, reserves of £40,909 and callable
capital of £950,000; and, though the co.
does not guarantee either the beneficiary’s
principal or his interest, it does hold itself
responsible for any wrongful handling of
trust funds. Further, not only the right
but the most judicious handling of trust
funds is the life-job of trustee cos.’ officers.
They are experts in that, just as the pri-
vate trustee is liable to be an expert in
blaeksmithing or fellmongering or drawing
briefs.
The co.’s position is further shown in this
table:—
1905. 1910. 1914. 1915.
Capital ..£25,000 £25,000 £50.000 £50,000
Liabilities . . 23 42 6,720 16,679
Deposit with
Government 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Mortgages . . 20.289 34,204 23,790 21,558
Premises . . Nil Nil 56,903 67,902
Sundry debtors 98 98 98 98
Cash . . . . 959 3,041 30 30
Liabilities have run up lately. This no
doubt is owing to the big and now ended out-
lay on the city office property, and is there-
fore not of serious consequence. The trust
estates in hand (including agencies) amount
to £4,221,154, as against £2,533,515 ten
years and £3,029,970 five years ago—
figures which suggest that the co.’s business
is growing solidly. State competition may
compel one concession after another; but
the figures just quoted give shareholders
every reason to expect that, even so, they are
going to do very well.
The Modern Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne), from
the date of the great cleaning up:—
Trad- Profit
big on To Re- Re-
•l'lly, Profit. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
1911. . £4819 £329 34 p.e. = £B3Bl £1767 £23,863
1912.. 4954 1267 5 „ „ 4830 1391 25,254
1913.. 5733 2422 64 „ „ 6279 1876 27,130
1914.. 6944 7469 7 „ „ 6762 7651 34,781
1915.. 8103 116 84 ~ ~ 8211 8 34,789
In a manner of speaking, that table is a
whited sepulchre—and the white qf the sep-
ulchre is in these days mostly made of toilet
powder. On what is referred"fo above as
“the great cleaning up,” there was a big
deficit; but that was turned into reserves
by the simple process of writing off capital.
One-half of it disappeared. For the purpose
of ascertaining how much capital was really
intact the assets were of course appraised.
The “profits on sales” seem to show that
they, were undervalued. But it isn’t safe to
say it and leave it at that. Any barrowman
can tell you that you mustn’t judge a bagful
of bananas by the first two you take out.
And, even if properties are valued on the
one basis, you can’t be sure that you will
get in 1916 what you were able to get in
1913; so that the fact that the 1913 sales
showed a profit mustn’t be regarded as proof
that the whole lot are going to show a pro-
fit. Anyway, profits from that source
suffered a violent sltlinp in the past year;
and as the next table shows there is no great
quantity of old written-down assets left from
which to make future profits even if the mar-
ket kept good :
1911. 1913. 1914. 1915.
Liabilities ..£29,588 £35,372 £44,098 £43,941
Balances owing 85,511 101,640 124,516 120,866
Freehold house
property . . 8,000 2,500 2,500 2,500
Vacant land . . 8,542 5,962 1,299 1,292
Premises . . 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,’000
Other assets . . 1,384 2,870 550 5,506
Business had been growing very slowly up
to 1913; then it got brisker, but slackened
down again last year. The way of the building
society nowadays is not easy. For one thing
the State, through the Savings Bank, offers
terms which make the outlook pretty blue
for any concern that wants to make divi-
dends out of the same kind of business. Even
allowing that they own substantial reserves,
the shareholders are likely to have difficulty
in keeping their 8 p.c. dividend going unless
they can extend their borrowing connection ;
and that means taking more deposits to
finance, the loans; and that again means
more risks. But that of course is what you
get more than 34 or 4 p.c. for —for taking
risks. The whole art of money-lending is to
get paid for taking them when they are risks
only in name.
The People’s Prudential Assurance
Co. (Sydney) :—-
Expenses Total Assur-
and Divi- Out- ance
Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund.
1903 . . £12,684 £4484 £6,706 £11,190 £4,325
1904 .. 13,425 5273 6,689 11,962 5,788
1905 . . 13,956 5467 • 7,081 12,548 7,196
1906 . . 14,738 5871 7,060 12,931 9,003
1907 . . 15,919 6291 7,401 13,692 11,230
1908 . . 17,796 7041 8,094 15,135 13 891
1909 .. 18,644 7418 8,375 15,793 16,742
1910 .. 19,586 8291 8,44.3 16,734 19,594
1911 .. 21,165 8737 8,997 17,734 23,025
1912 . . 22*389 8144 9,633 17,777 27,637
1913 . . 24,070 8996 10,202 19.198 32 509
1914 .. 25,252 9049 11,544 20,593 37’168
1915 .. 25,577 9178 9,690 18,868 43’’877
You can best tell the nature of the business
by looking at tbe claims for the past year:—
Payments to doctors and chemists .. £3399
Death claims . . . . . . . . 2968
Maturities . . .. . , .. 1153
Surrenders . . . . . . . . 950
Compensation (accident and disease) 708
Total £9178
Table A provides for funeral benefits and
medical attendance and medicine. The
funeral benefits are £3O on the death of a
member. £l2 10s. to a member on the death
of his wife, and from £5 to £3 to pay the
undertaker when a child has to be buried.
The medical attendance and medicine is for
the whole family from one month to 16 years
old. And for the lot a member pays, accord-
ing to his age, from Is. 2d. to 2s. 3d. a week.
There are a number of other tables —heaps
of them; almost as many as the big A.M.P.
has: tables for widows and widowers; tables
for the benefits above-mentioned with sick
benefits added; even Ordinary insurance.
So far as the sick and funeral funds are
concerned the insurer could probably do bet-
ter with one of the best friendly societies.
The latter are more cheaply run and they
don’t have to pay dividends. There was a
time when they were so badly run that they
couldn’t pay the promised benefits either;
but nowadays they are under proper actu-
arial supervision. Yet, even so, this co. does
a good work. It certainly isn’t at all likely
to attract anybody away from the more de-
sirable friendly society; on the other hand,
it is likely to get hold of a good many people
who wouldn’t “keep good” with a lodge, be-
cause the lodge wouldn’t chase them, as this
society does, for their contributions. And
the people it thus gets hold of are the very
people who are in most urgent need of being
chased.
For the shareholders there are nice pick-
ings in it, though it is scarcely likely to he
permitted to ever become a big money-mak-
ing concern. As a general thing a Of p.c.
dividend is paid; and for 1914 there was an
extra 10 p.c., the consulting actuary having
reported that the reserves could spare that
much. As the rable shows, the present re-
serves are £43,877, and E. M. Moors, a capable
man, is to make a valuation this year
and say whether that is enough, or
more than enough, towards meeting
policy obligations. The capital is £lO,OOO.
The funds are in mortgages £35,719, Govern-
ment securities £8729, cash £4302. and loans
on policies £4671. From the very nature of
the bulk of the policies the expenses are
heavy. This table shows what the outgoings,
apart from claims, amount to in proportion
to the total income:—
1900 . .£47 18 0 p.c. 1911 ..£4210 2 p.c.
1907 . . 10 9 9 „ 1912 . . 43 0 0 ~
1908 . . 45 9 8 „ 1913 . . 42 7 8
1909 .. 44 18 4 ~ 1914 .. 45 14 4 ~
1910 . . 43 2 2 „ 1915 . . 37 17 9 „
All things considered, the business appears
to be run very economically.
*•*•#•*
The Western • Australian Insurance
Co. (Perth) :
Deficit.
Towards £260
June, Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1913. . £1,233 5 p.c! = £5OO £733 473
1914.. 215 Nil 215 688
1915.. 20.512 6 p.c. = 3600 10,912 17,600
"Subject to remarks hereunder.
You can’t tell the profit made by an insur-
ance office in the first year of its life by
deducting the actual outgoings from the
actual incomings, because a great part of
the revenue has been in. respect of policies
which have anything up to 12 months to run.
You could only ascertain the actual profits
at the end of the first year by finding out
what yon v* uld have to pay some other
concern lo taxe over your unexpired risks.
And in order to ascertain what your accu-
mulated profits are at the end of any subse-
quent 12 months you must similarly deduct
whatever the re-insurance of unexpired cur-
rent risks would cost. This reinsurance
reserve really consists of unearned pre-
miums.
As a co. increases its premium income
(and therefore its unexpired risks) it must,
in order to show its true position, increase
its reinsurance reserve. In the case of this
co.. for instance, there has been during the
past year a huge increase of business. The
net premiums have gone from £3519 to
£52,061. That is to say, in a general way,
new policies bringing in £45,542 of pre-
miums have come in during the year. Now
the chances are that one-half of those new
policies for a year have been taken during
the past six months, and, as an average,
the new policies have half a year to run.
Which means that thus far only one-half of
the net premium has yet been really earned.
The general idea among insurance men is
that 40 p.c. of the year’s premiums ought
to he put by to cover unexpired risks. On
that rule £19,416 should be put by to re-
insure last year’s new risks here; and on
that basis, instead of £20,512, as the table
shows, there would be an actual profit of
only £1096. Certainly one can’t say for
certain. Very much depends upon when the
bulk of the new insurance for last' year was
taken. If, for instance, it was taken in a
lump early in the year, then there would be
little risk now unexpired. But in a case of
this sort one can only assume average con-
ditions ; and that has been done in the fore-
going.
Further details (still subject to the
remarks as to unearned premiums) are
shown hereunder: —
Net Toss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1913. . £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1914.. 3,519 770 3,429 21.8 ~ 97.4 „
1915.. 52,061 17,424 16,074 33.4 „ 30.8 „
Apparently the tremendous spring in net
premiums was due to the efforts of the
chairman, 8. W. Copley, who went to Lon-
don early in the co.’s year, and evidently
plunged in underwriting. It ought to turn
out very profitably, thanks to the remark-
able success of J. Bull’s navy. In view of
the extraordinary expansion of business the
proper thing was done during the year in
increasing the paid capital to £60.000. Even
that is not too much, considering the size
of the present premium income. But it is
highly probable that the latter will not be
maintained under normal conditions. If it
can be maintained at the present expense
rate, the co. will have achieved a greater
success than any other new insurance con-
cera of recent years. Of the co.’s funds
£7500 is with the Victorian Government
(the new Workmen’s Compensation law
demands a substantial deposit) ; £17,559 is
in book debts (including agents’ balances),
and that is too much; and £47,514 is in
“mortgages and investments” —a descrip-
tion much too vague to be creditable. People
who insure with a young office —or for that
matter, any office—are entitled to more pre-
cise information than that about the co.’s
means.
The Langridge Mutual Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne) :
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1904. . £4225 4 p.e. = £3042 £1,378 -- £29,253
1905.. 4335 4 „ „ 3012 5,401 —• 25,175
1906.. 4404 4 ~ „ 2966 2,514 24,099
1907.. 4724 44 ~ „ 3323 1,424 24,076
1908.. 4838 5 ~ 3667 2,810 22,437
1909.. 5336 5 ~ ~ 3662 3,462 20,649
1910.. 564.3 5 „„ 3676 664 £1303 21,952
1911.. 6338 5 ~ „ 3681 13,679 —• 10,930
1912.. 6815 6 „ „ 4354 ■ 2461 13,391
Shares forfeited . . 394 13,785
1913.. 7169 6 p.e. -• 4348 2821 16,606
1914.. 6940 6 „ „ 4262 2678 19,284
1915.. 6935 8 ~ „ 5637 1298 20.552
The Langridge is almost the only Melbourne
building society which escaped reconstruc-
tion after the bank smash of 21 years ago.
Of course it didn’t escape with a whole
skin, but it pulled through and paid every-
body 20s. in the £ by merely foregoing divs. :
for it was not till 1912 that shareholders
got anything beyond 5 p.e. For the past
year it pays 8 p.e. and seems to be able to
do it comfortably, thanks to the earn-
ings of the reserves which have been
steadily accumulated. So far as figures
tell, the position is exceptionally good:
for the 8 p.e. is made without risking any
outsiders’ money to speak of. This shows
various details: —
Deposits, Fore- Other
etc. Advances. closures. Assets.
1905 .. £12,229 £59,172 £54,245 £3678
1910 . . 21,351 96,143 24,997 Nil
1911 .. 27,944 107,052 9,675 Nil
1912 .. 33,234 119,905 4,158 Nil
1913 .. 24,370 111,239 4,016 3091
1914 .. 26,826 115,745 3,996 Nil
1915 . . 21,402 103,022 3,962 9139
The depositors and other creditors are there-
fore in this happy position: apart from the
liabilities not covered by cash, the co. owes
only £12,263, and it: has very nearly nine
times that much in mortgages, etc.
And the mortgages are all or nearly all
doubtless of the building-society pattern :
that is to say, the principal is gradually
reduced by repayments. From the sudden
collapse of a real property boom no concern
is likely to. suffer more seriously than a
building society. Where the ordinary mort-
gagee would not advance beyond 55 or GO p.e.
of a. valuation, a building society fre-
quently advances 80 p.e. on the theory that
if anything bad was going to happen inside
12 months or so one ought to be able to
foresee it, and that in 12 months’ time the
SO p.e. advance will be down to 70 p.e. or
so, and thereafter the risk will go on de-
creasing, whereas it doesn’t decrease at
all in the case of a fixed mortgage. Even
if property values should suffer very seri-
ously, as they are quite likely to, this and
other prudently-managed building societies
should lose little' or nothing. On the
advances made upon the excessive valua-
tions of two or three or more years ago
large repayments have now been made; and
the newest advances, which are always the
dangerous ones, have (unless the manage-
ment has suddenly gone mad) been made on
a most conservative basis, with a full know-
ledge of the uncertainties ahead. From
this point of view the shrinkage of
“advances,” as shown in the second table,
is very satisfactory.
* * ' * *
The Federal Deposit Bank (Brisbane),
which began with a deficit of £l7l, repre-
senting preliminary expenses:—
To Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1908 £l7l
Reserves.
1909 . £739 Nil £739 £568
1910 .. 1251 4 p.e. = £B9l 360 928
1911 .. 1727 5 ~ „ 1115 612 1,540
1912 .. 3030 6 ~ „ 1438 1592 3,132
1913 .. 3326 7 ~ „ 1951 1375 4,507
Internal reserves disclosed. . 5000 9,507
1914 . . 4289 7 p.e. = 1951 2338 11,845
1915 . . 3945 8 „ 2230 1715 13,560
Heaven and the directors only know why
they do it. The deposits have run up to
£104,490, and the office holds £59,480 in cash
—including, of course, fixed deposits with
banks that really are banks. Five years
ago the deposits were £47,303, and the cash
£7966. The co. has since then taken another
£57,187 of deposits and has had no better
use for the money than to put £51,514
on deposit. How it can be profitable for this
co. to take deposits and pass them on, pre-
sumably to banks, The Bulletin doesn’t
profess to know. Under ordinary circum-
stances one would guess that the regular
banks could borrow direct from the public at
a lower rate. Deducting the cash in hand
from the liabilities, the co. owes £48,606, and
against that there are assets, mostly loans
and balances owing (£89,370) and properties
(£12,323), totalling £104,974. The security
is therefore all right. Past history sug-
gests, however, that, so far as shareholders
are concerned, the business isn’t free from
peril. Present paid share capital is £27,SGS ;
20 years ago it was just on to £150,000. At
that time property alleged to be worth
£102,656 was in the co.’s hands and loans and
balances (mostly loans) amounted to another
£76,000. Terrific depreciation of property
values_ followed ; and corresponding amounts
of capital had to be written off as lost.
The question now is to what extent can
history repeat itself. Apart from some
national catastrophe which can be put out of
the question, there appear to be no circum-
stances at all likely to produce any great


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
BOOKLET ON APPLICATION,
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed £9,300,000
Annual Income Exceeds ••• £1,400,000
The Company is distinguished for
FINANCIAL STRENGTH
and
ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
The war teaches us that it is a wise plan to
encourage our own manufactures. At the same time
we want to buy that, which is good and reliable.
The engineer cannot be bothered with belting that
is not reliable, no matter where it is made. But he
has not. to look to the outside world for a good
belting, because he knows that “Pioneer” Australian-
made leather belting is equal to the world’s best.
“Pioneer” is obtainable from the only manufacturers,
J. C. Ludowiei & Son Ltd., 117 York Street, Sydney;
and Queensland Machinery Co., Brisbane; H. Sum-
mers, Howard Street, Perth, W.A. ; .1. Mcliell,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.*
ALUMINOFKIIIIIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.*
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Ilecla
Milling Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they sav this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
* * * *
Extract from Commercial World, London, Novem-
ber 15, 1913: —“Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited.—Most life offices have a certain
individuality of their own or some special feature
which is impressed upon us whenever we look into
their affairs, and in the case of the Colonial Mutual
it would perhaps be correct to say that enterprise
and activity are the characteristics chiefly in evi-
dence.”* * [1
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has earned a reputation
for efficiency under all conditions, for mining and
engineering work, for water supply, for irrigation
and for sewerage. Catalogue from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., contractors to Federal and
State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney (head
office).*
* * * *
The Australian Provincial Assurance Associa-
tion Ltd. —Steady progress continues in all Depart-
ments and New Business in the Life and Accident
Departments has been very satisfactory. Renewals
also show marked progress. Prompt settlement of
claims has always been a leading feature of the
A.P.A., and has considerably popularised this young
and progressive Association.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and llassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs, Meplian Ferguson Pro
prietary Limited, of Footscra.v, Victoria, have one ot
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Com-
pany of Australia, Li mited. —By mutual consent
Mr. Francis H. Snow has retired from the above
company, and the Ore Purchase Department at Bridge
Street, Sydney, has been Closed. Sellers of ore must
now communicate direct with the Works, Port Kembla.*
* * * *
Large-size Rock Crushers, also McCully Gyratory
Crushers, Mining, Smelting and Cement-making
Machinery-—made by the Power and Mining Machin-
ery Company, U.S.A. Represented by Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., head office, Sydney.*
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,660 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,451 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 80,500 0 0
£781.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
sudden slump. That removes the worst fea-
ture of the Australian position as it was in
the early ’9o’s, when the collapse was caused
by the rapid withdrawal of foreign deposit
money. But, if it is not likely that there
will be a sudden severe shrinkage, it is
likely that there will be a gradual severe
shrinkage. Values would tend downward
in any case; and the chances are that
the movement will be hurried on by
legislation, since there is a growing con-
viction that high land values are a
national curse. Such concerns as this
will back their own judgment; but it seems
to this paper that they are liable to make
pretty heavy losses in the next seven years
unless they are very conservatively managed.
* * * *
Can’t somebody who has some influence
with Hughes, the biggest man in Australian
politics, persuade him to leave off talking
about metals—-one of the few things he
knows less than nothing at all about? Speak-
ing in Sydney the other day he announced
that arrangements had been made in Britain
to treat all Australia’s zinc. Of course,
metal men knew it was nonsense and scoffed.
Hughes knows it now, too; his latest remark
on the subject is that “negotiations are pro-
ceeding which, it is hoped, will enable a
large proportion of the zinc concentrates of
the Commonwealth to be distilled in Great
Britain.” As a matter of fact, the negotia-
tions so far have been an utter failure, and
they will continue to be a failure until the
Government agrees to support the industry
with a heavy bonus or a guarantee of in-
terest. “After 14 months of war we are
able to say that the Australian metal indus-
try is completely free from the grip of Ger-
many,” Hughes says ; and he goes on talk-
ing of the virtues of the practically useless
Metals Exchange. To which The Bulletin
merely replies that, if the war stopped to-
morrow’, and war prices for zinc stopped with
it, Australia, even if it had a dozen Metal
Exchanges, would not be able to find a Brit-
ish market for one-twentieth of its output of
concentrates. That is the situation. Now
how is Hughes going to get Australia out of
it?
* * . * *
A rumor was current recently that the
surveyors on the railway-duplication works
near Sodwalls (N.S.W.) had discovered
something or other of great value —alleged
to be enough to pay for the cutting. Though
reported to be molybdenite, details seemed
to point rather to seheelite. As the works
are in granite country, not so far from the
much-advertised Yetholme, it should be quite
possible to stumble on a find in a railway cut-
ting. But as there has been no excitement
in the way of pegging out adjoining land, it
seems safe to conclude that posterity has as
good a chance of paying for that cutting as
any other.
“Jaques”: The Newcastle coal trade is
going to receive a bump if the action of a
nitrate co. on the West Coast of South
America is not misleading. This show
recently bought 1000 tons of Chilian coal and
reckons it is as good as any imported. The
price was 355. per ton, whereas the imported
costs about 465.
* * * *
Chaffers (W.A.) still has a chance of
being raised from the dead. 'The directors
have cabled their willingness to take over
the debenture liability and pay preferential
claims amounting to £7OOO, provided the
unsecured creditors (£21,000) let the Board
have a first mortgage for their outlay and
accept a second charge in settlement of their
accounts. A meeting of those interested
has been convened.
* * * *
The Augusta (W.A.) has proved to be the
delusion The Bulletin predicted. After
years of fiddling and the absorption of a
large sum in plant, underground rooting and
directors’ visits, the co. now finds itself
weighted down with liabilities. Still the
Board has hopes ; and despite the fact that
everything has, according to the new man-
ager, “been run to a standstill,” the directors
look forward to “steady crushings with pay-
able results.” They might almost as well
look forward to an exchange of jobs by
Woodrow Wilson and the Kaiser.
* * * *
Cbmmodore (W.A.) hopes to have its
slimes plant going in November, and after
that a div. will not be far off. There is
estimated to be a few thousands clear profit
in the dump, and development in progress
is expected to somewhat improve the posi-
tion. At 35., shares are alleged to be cheap;
but although the market has at times risen
a shilling or two above that, it has soon
fallen back exhausted. There is no depend-
ing on it.
* * -s{• *
From Westonia: “Good stone,” “nice
stone,” “fair stone,” “payable stone,” and
other such vague expressions are creeping
into some official mining reports from this
field. This may do in Victoria, but it won’t
be tolerated for very long over here. The
Westralian practice is to express widths in
feet and inches, and values in fine gold or
shillings. Thus the exact size and value of
the stone or ore can be determined right
away. The local system of sampling, assay-
ing and mine working badly needs improve-
ment in the case of some shows. Frequently
only the best assays are published and made
to represent the value of the whole, and
more than one “trial” crushing has been
made up of only the richest ore. Why V
Well, the directors want to make things
look as bright as possible, and as the man-
ager gets only a few pounds a week and has
a wife and family to support he cannot
afford to fall out with them.
A graph of the Empress market resembles
that of the Lode Hill, hard though it may be
to say it. Lode Hill went sky-rocketing
because brother Jack Nortliey took it on.
Empress soared because Edna May Hartrick
and Fred Tricks approved of it. Somehow,
too, a generally wise lot in the West froze
on to the little stranger. A 9oz. prospect
was reported ; but when this prospect materi-
alised into a lOdwt. yield, there was a rush
for prompt wires. Whether Empress is
worth averaging depends on what Hartrick
has! in reserve —mostly on what his winzes
disclose. At the moment, the Imperial cos-
tume is far from being royal purple.
“Oof Bird”: I will try to enlighten
“Rigolo” <B. 7./10/T5) in a few words.
There is a State Mining Engineer in West-
ralia, and he and his staff are supposed to
look into the things “Rigolo” complains of,
but their hands are tied. There is not, and
never has been, any power under the Mines
Act to order an inspection with a view to
safeguarding the interests of mining inves-
tors in the State. The object of the Act is
to ensure the safety of persons employed.
The duty of the State geologists is, as
“Rigolo” says, to “get out in the field, sur-
vey the rocks, and make plenty of plans;”
and, as I said before, they are doing this
work uncommonly well. They endeavor to
protect the public against boomsters who
reckon they have found oil and other wealth
in country where geological conditions are
dead against the possibility of any such
discovery.
* * * *
Edna May Deep Levels (W.A.) persists
in its determination to have a mill, and has
acquired the old 10-head battery on the
grave of the Greenmount. Greenmount is
five miles south of Southern Cross, and was
once managed by Stuckey, who now runs the
Deeps. What the mill is going to do on
the Deeps until the Edna May shoot is
reached and opened up goodness only knows.
Stuckey reports he has located a couple of
quartz veins in the old workings, but with-
out reserves to work on the installation of
such a plant is unwarranted, and is bound
to lead to the suspicion that the State of the
market is weighing more with the controllers
than the state of the mine.
* *• * *
A Bulletin man writes: The water at
the No. 4 level of the Edna May is now very
heavy, and has to be seen to be realised.
Seven pipes witli valves attached have been
inserted in the face of the crosscut, and when
one of the valves is opened the water shoots
out as it does from a city street-hydrant, and
seems just about as inexhaustible. The new
pumping plant may, and most likely will,
cope with the flow, but there is no dead
certainty about it. What the Deeps and
Central will do if the Edna May stops shaft-
sinking and the flow comes their way is
something for shareholders to sit down and
have a hard think about.
* * * *
The Etheridge, an offshoot from the Chil-
lagoe, is thus far as complete a failure as
the parent. In fact, the whole family are
undesirables. Since the Chillagoe furnaces
went cold nothing had been done until the
other day, when work was started again at
the Queenslander, and the concentrates are
coming south. The small loss made last
year brings the total to £6344, or £12,027
if you include the money spent on develop-
ment, and mostly without result. Reserves
in the four mines run to about 17,000 tons,
worth from 15 to 21 dwt., all more or less
intractable. The co. has no money left, and
the profits from the Queenslander are relied
upon to see the co. through for the next
couple of years. After that ?
* * * *
In the first nine months of this year
Charters Towers produced gold and other
mineral worth £191,605. Dividends totalled
only £13,620. The stone averaged over £4
per ton, but costs are high, and so heavily
capitalised are some of the old mines that it
takes from £5OOO to £6OOO to hand out a
sixpenny. Such conditions deaden the market.
For instance, Clark’s has opened up a nar-
row streak of stone worth about £lO per ton,
but there are 180,000 shares to spread the
streak over.
* * *
Four sixpenny divs. came out of the
Duke and Main Leads Consols, Mary-
borough (Vie.), last term. These raised the
total to £66,250. or 265, 6d. per share, on a
capital of £61,458. It has taken gold and
slimes worth £365,000 to provide these
divs. Other outlay has been as follows: —
Plant and buildings.. . . £21,854
Wages 228,256
Fuel and stores . . . . 84,108
Head office costs . . . . 7,685
Royalty .. .. . . 7,016
Taxes and charges . . . . 5,106
If 50 p.e. were added to wages (and that’s
what the miners are now asking) it would
bring the total up to £342,000, so that only
£23,000 would be available out of the pro-
ceeds of the gold for other expenses. It is
impossible. The average gold value per
fathom of wash for the half-year was £3
3s Sd. Mining costs £2 ss. lOd.; and
as this is a comfortable mine to work, that
represents the dead-limit of cheapness for
Victorian deep-lead work. In the northern
end of the claim the drives have got out of
the scoured area, and a run of gold 250 ft.
wide is being opened out. The wash is
draining well, and as the co. is now 1300 ft.
ahead of the panelling line, the mine posi-
tion has improved a lot of late. And it
would improve a lot more if good ground
was opened in the western end. Here
Glover talks of “unseen possibilities.” as if
deep lead mining anywhere was ever any-
thing else.
Northern Hope, Beaufort (Vic.), sent out
a cheerless half-yearly report, but the declar-
ation of a dividend has since restored the
balance. In all, about £38,000 of gold has
been scratched out of the Hope gutter, and
as the wash was rich £6OOO has been avail-
able in divs. Of gold Avon about 15s. out of
every ounce has found its Avay into the
pocket of the shareholder, and there is £2OOO
cash in hand. The programme of the direc-
tors issued on the 12th inst. is “to conserve
profits” until the course of the run of rich
ground found in the north-west level off No. 2
rise is determined. As the Board iioav pro-
duces another div., does that mean that the
rich ground has been picked up? A second
string would be added to the co.’s bow by
hustling work towards the All Nations Ex-
tended tributary. This gave gold in its
upper section, but waits to be tapped in the
lower ground by Bryant and his Ballarat
friends.
* *■ * *
New Bendigo runs its neighbor New Chum
Goldfields close in the matter of cheap costs.
Most of its gold comes from about 1000 ft.,
and Avlien once the water was turned on
after the drought it soon swept the debit
balance into the sluice boxes. Houghed out,
5632 tons yielded a shade under 20s. per
ton. This gave a neat profit, as despite
trucking stone 600 ft. from the shaft, hauling
1000 ft. and double-handling a portion of the
quartz, costfe ‘ were kept at about 10s. per
ton. All goes to show that Bendigo has not
lost its deftness in treating stone cheaply.
The co. at 913 ft. has got to the Goldfields
boundary, but is bringing along a stope to
join up with the Nell Gwynne workings.
What is more to the point is that the vvest
leg is to be tried. Next door the stone on
this leg kept the pot boiling fairly Avell. If
nothing happens there, North Bendigo will
want the aurora borealis to brighten it up
after the present payable shoots are Avorked
out.
* * * *
From Pine Creek (N.T.) :
A new gold reef has been discovered near Brock’s
Creek, and close to the tin-show recently found. The
fact that the owners declined a Government subsidy
to Work it speaks well for its prospects. Surface
lots give from 12dwt. to 4oz. per ton, and the reef
can be traced for some hundreds of feet. Several
abandoned shows have recently been taken up, with
good prospects of success, and it looks as if mining
here is to take a new lease of life.
* * * *
They’ve dropped on to something promising
in the way of goldfields in the Nelson dis-
trict (M.L.). A number of men are on the
ground, which carries coarse gold, easily
saved. A few nuggets have been found, the
largest so far weighing Soz. The best yield
from a claim to date is £lOOO.
* * * *
Blythe River Iron Mines, Ltd., still hangs
on to the big Tas. deposit from which nearly
20 years ago William Jamieson had visions
of feeding works to be built on the Parra-
matta River. That scheme failed, and the
little co. has simply hung on since. Lately,
the B. 11. Prop., having put up works to use
ore from S. Aus., Willie Jamieson has gone
off the Blythe River Board, and W. S. Rob-
inson has taken his place. The co. has only
a few hundreds left and it has to keep the
labor conditions complied with ; so a recon-
struction is ahead. Of course it will be
easy; for the Blythe River is a Fat man’s
gamble.
* * * *
Ivalgurli (W.A.) has, in view of dwin-
dling ore reserves, cut its quarterly div. to
2s. 6d., or ,Is. 6d. less than it has regularly
paid since the beginning of 1911. The co.
doesn’t seem at all inclined to look out for a
neAV show, and will probably give up busi-
ness when the present one snuffs out.
* * # #
“Oof Bird”: Melbourne is taking on the
Fraser’s and Central group at Southern
Cross (W.A.), together Avith the machinery
erected on the Maori Lass, about a mile
west of Fraser’s. Frank Connor, M.L.C.
and cattle man, fathered the Maori Lass
about two years ago and was induced to
finance the erection of a mill when the
mine workings were only 15ft. deep.
Some well-intentioned friends tried to stop
him, but failed, and the price he paid for his
optimism was about £5OOO. The man who
mentions the Maori Lass to Frank Connor
these days runs the risk of injury. As for
Fraser’s and Central, the former Avas at one
time a good mine Avell managed by a man
Avho adopted a developmental policy rare in
those days, and unfortunately not too com-
mon noAv. 8., M. & Co. took an option over
and thoroughly sampled it about six years
ago, when the firm could have got the
capital for asking. Assays, particularly
those at depth, were so disappointing that
they turned the show down. Later a small
diamond drilling co. was formed to test the
country at depth. About six holes were
bored to a depth of 1000 ft., but with no
better results. The Central was a pocket
show at the best, and some of its pockets
were very acceptable to others besides share-
holders. Both mines have since been pig-
rooted by tributors and are now flooded.
Deeming’s cottage is not mentioned in the
prospectus, which is a wonder, for it has
possibilities almost equal to anything con-
tained in the alluring delusion. So much
for the “mines.” As for the Maori Lass
plant, it was second-hand 12 years ago. It
is now an out-of-date and weird contraption.


Charles
leidsieckS
Vintage" 1906
CfflilMffi
N£ PLUS OLTR/I
5?
K
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR
SALLOW COMPLEXIONS.
Everyone may have a clear and bright
complexion, free from furrows or wrinkles, if
they will only take a little daily trouble in
the following manner : Buy some Puritol wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply every
night, lap a little cold water on the face ten
times with the hands every morning', allow-
ing it to get thoroughly round the closed
eyes, and pinch the skin very gently across
all wrinkles. Puritol Wax Soap, which
leaves a fine film of wax on the skin, should
be used; this acts as a protective during the
day. This treatment arouses the dormant
nerves and blood vessels, and undoubtedly
accounts for many of the clear complexions
so much admired by those who do not yet
know the secret.* [3
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE
MOET <& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney,
COGNAC e i7S>s BRANDY
OTARD
15 YEARS OLD
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, Octoiser _5. 1915.
My Dear .Muni, —
The Institute of Architects fathered the
ideal Home Exhibition which is open in the
Town Hall. The State Governor spoke the
usual preface, while the hammers suspended
action, amidst a smell of wet paint and
shavings. Monday is a bad day to start an
item of this kind. Though mayors and
aldermen may do a bit of carpentering in
their own back yards on the Sabbath, they
forbid the desecration of the Town ITali.
So the Ideal Homes were being hurriedly
dragged out of boxes when Monday morn
blew in.
The vestibule shrines the plans of the
dream-homes in which Mrs. Suburbs might
hold her first and fourth Thursdays. Near
the entrance to the main hall is a full-size
cot which has a large and handsome exterior
and rather scanty verandah accommodation.
It was having its turf lawns laid out while
the committee hung on the horizon to wait
for his Ex. The small models, however, are
much worse off in the matter of lungs. Here,
for instance, is an “ideal home” with only
a porch doormat for father to sleep-out on
in sultry weather. The Arts and Grafters
have a. good display of stuff—notably Mil-
dred Creed, Eirene Mort, Madeline King
and Mrs. Sansom. But tilings were so
unready on the opening day that housewives
were _ nol able to feast their eyes on the
electrical appliances that wash up without
sulking and do other unexplainable things.
The . organising secretary is Nicholas
Shields, with W. Aiming and Grace Bur-
rows helping him variously.
The Yaralla strawberry fete for a Bat-
talion Comforts Fund went off as briskly
as a damp cracker. The rain poured down
on the more or less draggled visitors as they
ran to catch the wherry at Fort Macquarie.
Then came clearing showers, a dead-low tide
and mudbanks. After the ferry had bobbed
and backed over this more or less solid
portion of Parramatta River and yawned
over the mangrove swamps, the voyage came
to an end in front of the Eaditii Walker
chalet.
Local society slopped over the "wet ground
to the house, or whizzed up by car. Then
it gathered in the usual dreary crowd to
wait for the official opening that never came.
Lady Helen walked round the grounds, with
Help Haskett-Smith in immaculate garb at
her elbow. Then his Ex., in khaki, with the
large Foxton at his heels, tramped up to the
portal. The lady of the house hurried out
of her bower to give him her hand and
toss a nod to the Help. Convalescent sol-
diers sat patiently with their feet on the
wet grass till the vice-regals passed on.
And still the crowd hung on to its bit of
gravel to wait for the opening. There was
nothing to open, as a matter of fact. They
realised this when hunger drove them, a
dejected herd, to the tea tents. Here pretty
waitresses fed the multitude on a modest
tariff. _ Tliea Stephen, a helping of the
Knox girls, young Macarthur Onslows and
other buds passed round the food atten-
tively to business. They bumped each other
in the usual amateur style, and I didn't hear
what one beauty said to another when she
got some cream on her neck.
The G.-G.’s staff is to be reinforced by
Aide Kerr-Pearse almost immediately. He
lias been in and out of the Help business
for years, and leaves the vice-regal Macart-
neys for the chieftain's bigger paysheet.
The last Strickland tour Outback gave
Lady Edeline the chance to hold a few Red
Cross gatherings amongst western sheep. She
formed a centre at Barren Junction. It
starts 30 strong, and hopes to bring all the
adjacent lady fleece-farmers into the pen
before Christmas.
The State Governor’s eldest treasure- had
the joy of digging out some opal stone at
Lightning Ridge on the recent tour. Besides
doing this bit of gougin’ (that’s the right
word for this sort of fossicking. I’m told),
some local lease-holders gave her a gem
they’d found before she came.
Lady Helen watched the Rose Hall con-
valescent home for soldiers blossom last week.
The morning was fine and warm, and the
air was thick with cameras. Voluntary-aid
nurses are allowed to wear the Red Cross
uniform, and they bustled to the fore to
have their appearance recorded in the pic-
turesque garb. With the Red Cross on a
dead white ground, the effect is striking.
The sun made faces wrinkle under the small
tight caps that are becoming only to young-
sters ; but the camera is sometimes kind.
New arrivals whose humble shoe-leather
crunched the gravel track were sharply
ordered to move on as the vice-regal car
snorted in the distance. Society was in
charge, and the herd got to heel forthwith.
Her Ex. was followed by vhe Sphinx-like
expression that Aide Haskett Smith brings
to these functions. Committee dames panted
up and tore her Ex. off to see the premises.
This ex-school for boys should make an ideal
rfest-kouse for nerve-shattered warriors.
Standing high above the city, its bright and
airy wards are the last word in cheery com-
fort. Mrs. Tony Hordern and Mrs. Laidley
kept an eye on the paperhanger and the
decorator; and Hanbury Davies bared his
brow to the morning sun to tell Lady Helen
all about it. Mayor Richards and Mrs. Jim
Ashton threw in a few side-lines of oratory,
and the thing was done.
Lady Doris Blackwood, who goes every-
where with Auntie Helen, is a very unassum-
ing Miss compared with a few of our own
belles, and steps out in substantial shoes
with the tread of a good golfer. When the
British aristocracy comes this way one
notices that the feminine part of it reserves
its splendor for evening wear, and gets about
o’ days in a coat and skirt and thick leather.
The male sprig, however, turns out wonder-
fully spatted about the feet, and is a strik-
ing example of the Right Way to wear a
silk hat. Since the war tore the dressy
young aides away the Sydney girl hasn’t
seen such millinery as Haskett-Smith’s
superb silk gear.
Major de Burgh Griffith, an Indian officer
who came ashore the other day in charge of
some of our wounded, is a brother of Arthur,
Minister of Education. The traveller has
been under his relative’s roof during his
stay.
Pretty Mrs. George Vi vers is blooming
again after a bout of ill-health. She is
emphasising the charm of the wide hat, and
appeared at a function the other day under
the drooping brim of burnt-straw millinery
of the rustic type.
Still another military change. This time
it is the appointment of Col. Ramaciotti,
o*’ the citizen forces, as Acting-Commandant
of N. S. Wales. The present man, Col.
Wallaek, takes a health trip to Egypt in
charge of a troopship. Ramaciotti, a soli-
citor in days of peace, used to be a partner
in J. C. Williamson’s ; and when he sold out
to Hugh Ward four years ago he was rich
enough to cultivate his military hobby dur-
ing a long stay in Europe.
News filters through that Miss Knatch-
bull-Hugessen, who was out here with Lady
Denman, is engaged to a brother of her
former hostess. She was a girl with cream-
and-roses complexion, you’ll remember, who
had a good time in the glad days when
Young Australia had not much to do but
enjoy itself in the sun.
Killed in action, somewhere in Flanders
recently, Captain R. W. Braithwaite, of the
Durham Light infantry. He was once a
helpful Aide to Governor Ranfurly, of M.L.
The swarthy London actress, Lilian Braith-
waite, who usually plays tragedy, is a sister.
Dick Braithwaite was much liked in M.L.,
specially in the sporting spaces.
The death of young Leslie Beauchamp,
only son of Harold Beauchamp, chairman of
the Bank of N.Z., will affect a large circle of
M.L. people, as well as the Redleaf Lassetters
of Sydney. Mrs. Lassetter, sen., was his
aunt. Mrs. “King Dick” Seddon was an
aunt, too- —a sister of Mrs. Beauchamp. The
young man was accidentally killed in France
while holding a commission in the Bth South
Lancashire Regiment—St. Helens, Lanca-
shire, is the place where Richard Seddon
first blinked at the sunlight. The Beau-
champ girl who wrote so charmingly about
a German Garden was one of this clan.
Dressed in their best clothes the Red
Cross dames waited impatiently for the arri-
val of Lady Helen the other afternoon.
Someone had given the nod too soon, and
the early arrivals at the George-street depot
passed the time thus: "Do you think she’ll
speak?” “Oh, surely they’d never get us
here if she wasn’t going to speak.” After
it had mastered its fears that a suddenly-dumb
Excellency might wave her hands in Dreadful
Silence over the Good Works, the company
readjusted its bangles and proceeded: “Do
you think they’ll give us tea?” “Oh, I don’t
think any but the executive and Lady Helen
will have refreshments.” Subdued wails:
"Oli. zurely they wouldn’t bring us here and
give us nothing! I hear them coming—
hus-s-sh !” Later, Mrs. .Tim Ashton gave the
word that there was plenty of fodder for
everybody, so peace flew its pennons.
Mrs. Johnstone, of Til pal station, on the
Queensland side, is in town. She’s doing
her bit for Allies’ Day by presenting a
locked casket trimmed with gems. In it
lurks a lucky charm. Tickets are selling-
fast for the raffle, and the result will be
mentioned on New Year’s Eve.
Government architect MeCrae is designing
the big stalls that will turn Martin Place
into an avenue of pavilions representing
every country on our side of the fight. Vene-
tian masts with flapping streamers and
pointers to index the way will be features
of the day. And illuminated tramcars are
going to procesh to the Cricket Ground
Now that the cobbler lias half-soled and
heeled old Government House, the State
Governor and his kindergarten move out of
Granbrook. The big meeting of the lied
Cross in November occurs in the Macquarie-
street residence. The Strickland lady comes
down from Moss Vale for the event, which
threatens to be full of ginger. A new execu-
tive is to be chosen, and the fight will be to
the last ditch. Mr. Holman is among those
who will be very interested in the result.
Melba, writing from Pasadena, in Cali-
fornia, after her final concert there, says
she had her photo taken in the Universal
World movie-city. As an extra thrill she
was “photographed with a tiger, and put
my hand on him—most gingerly. He did
growl!” Pavlova had just been there, and
had relieved the treasury of 100,000dol. as
a film star.
Artist B. B. Minns, home after 20 years
in Europe, has retained the typical Aus-
tralian exterior of the long lean man of
Outback. Under the brim of a shady
Panama, Minus looks as if he had just
blown in to the city from the tasseled fringe
of the Sunset. He chats of artist George
Coates as having “arrived” after the usual
struggle in England. Longstaff has moved
into a smaller studio while the war makes
the outlook blue for even the top-notchers.
Americans, who are great customers of por-
trait-painters, have mostly flitted off to sit
under Woodrow Wilson’s gamp till the
storm blows over, and duchesses are not
“sitting” just now. Minns confirms the
story of other Australian artists about Hol-
land. “The Dutch are clean in their per-
sons, but cling to their own household
arrangements. Everything from the baby to
the cow is huddled under one roof. By the
light of a table lamp you see the straw
sticking out of the barn above your head.
And if you find that the drainage soaks into
the well from which the water is pumped
for domestic use, you mustn't mind.”
From an artist friend in England :
These things should come under the head of Eng-
lish atrocities. They are committed by the numer-
ous swagger, sometimes alpinely exalted, dames who
visit the poor dear wounded, and talk to them, and
patronise them through the long, drawling hours, till
the poor dear wounded almost yell aloud in the
agony of boredom. I am not exaggerating. I have
the confidences of scores to the above effect; a dozen
friends at ambulance work corroborate the tale of
woe. “If the blighters only wouldn’t talk war!’’
wailed one Cornstalk in my ear the other day.
“But they will! They’ll talk nothing else. And
they talk as if they knew and I didn’t. And, God
o’ pity, I’ve had my heel shot off, and can’t run!”
Tommy Atkins stands it better; he’s more used to
the appalling superiority of the uppish classes.
One of our Australian artists, a rouseabout with the
Red Cross here, has a yarn of a fat dowager, who
had talked to a morc-or-less-riddled Victorian for
an hour, rising and saying with great satisfaction:
“Ah, poor follow, lie is better now.” So he was —he
had fainted.
The brilliant Elliot Smith, M.D., who is
attracting the world’s notice with his treat-
ment of mental patients, is a Cornstalk.
When the Science Congress came this way in
1914 he was with it and had a happy time
at Killara with father—a school-inspector
—mother and a couple of sisters. A brother.
Dr. S. A. Smith, lectures on anatomy in
Sydney Uni.
A former Manly school marm, Mildred
Fry, M.A., made a recent pilgrimage to the
altar with Prof. Muscio, of Cambridge. For
the last two or three years the Australian
’Varsity-woman has been teaching in Eng-
land. The groom is also an Australian, and,
as his name warns you, of Italian parents.
He is a professor of philosophy. Sydney
Uni. has borrowed him for 10 months, so the
Muscio duet come this way in January.
Another member of the clever Fry family,
Edith, 8.A., is in Paris. She took up art
decorative work in that city with such suc-
cess that at present she is doing the work
of a. man who is fighting the Hun. A bril-
liant young brother died here a few weeks
ago.
Bill and Co. generously lend a whole third-
floor back—nine rooms in all —-in their new
Bridge-street buildings for Red Cross cen-
tral offices; and the. ladies moved in on
Saturday. The offices are worth £550 per
year, and the big meat-shipping co. hands
them over for six months at least. It isn’t
the first Birt benefaction either; the co. has
been lending a shipping clerk for manly
moons.
Leonardo de Lorenzo, the great U.S.
Italian flautist, has written a concert waltz
anu dedicated it to his “cherished colleague”
John Lemmone. The Australian hasn’t even
a bowing acquaintance—except in Art—
with Lorenzo. The latter followed John’s
tracks in S’Africa about 20 years ago, and
has been throwing bouquets at him ever
since.
There is great interest among the girls
to know just what Julius Superbus Knight’s
next move may be. Once he carved wood :
now he knits socks for soldiers. I’m told
he lias finished 20 pairs—some of them
made of heather wool with a green stripe.
He plies his needles whilst living in a new
hostel in Castlereagh-street.
The Woolwich Pierrots, with Topsy Kely-
nack as hon. sec., had a bumper house a
Hunter’s Hill on October 22. The 12th
Light Horse Comfort Fund was the objec-
tive. In blissful ignorance of the majesty
of the Law, some of the girls and boys in-
dustriously plastered the scenery with pos-
ters. By the light o’ the moon they even
gummed notices on the telegraph posts. Then
some mean person “laid information” at
headquarters, and a deputation of trembling
maidens, with the fear of six months’ hard
in their hearts, tottered up to town to in-
terview a postal tetrarch. He rvas nor
adamant, and darkly hinted at a way out.
Now anyone who meets a Woolwich maiden
brandishing a knife on her native crags can
remain calm. She is only looking for proofs
of her crime, and clasps the means to scrape
it off.
The Violet Dandies* outdoor show in Bays-
vvater-road has a clever Dunedin girl, Doro-
thy Gardner, as stage-boss and producer. This
streak of energy has a pair of sparkling
black eyes and a ton of vim in a willow-
wand frame. She has done a bit of writing
as a side-line to dancing, acting and produc-
ing. Cuthbert Rose, the comic man, and
baritone George Brooke are the meat of a
lively programme.
A brisk and brainy old lady, Airs. Evans,
passed out at Killara the other afternoon.
She was the widow of the late Markham
Evans, one of the founders of the Sunday
Times. Heart failure was responsible for
a swift call. The only daughter. Airs. Aid-
worth, was an organiser of the big patriotic
show that was to have occurred the same
evening in Killara; so the committee post-
poned the party and packed up cakes and
sweets for return to t lie donors.
That fine, upstanding lass, Jean Brunton.
has accepted an engagement ring from Cap-
tain Adrian Aloreing, an Englishman whose
homelet is in the hop county, Kent. The
Sydney girl is a daughter of Air. John S.
Brunton, of the flour-mill firm. Jean and
mamma, after a stay in N’York, went on to
England, where the crisis occurred.
Fred J. Mortleman, of the other side, and
Mary Doutty, of Marina. Mosman, were re-
sponsible for the few bits of pretty wedding
finery this month. Choristers proceshed to
the altar ahead of the bride and her maidens,
and the “I will” was said under a white
anchor hung from a decorated arch. The
bridal plumage was a shimmer of white
satin and Brussels lace, with pink tulle flush-
ing through the white foam. The Alortle-
man pair go off in the Medina on October 30.
The Tom Hughes lady took the best chair
at last week’s meet for the Passionist
Fathers’ entertainment. The big charity
fete is an Easter fixture.
The Babies’ Kit Society, with the busi-
ness-like Airs. Tom Raine in charge, is mak-
ing a dash for warm garments. Infant
refugees in England, who arrive in swaddling
garb of newspaper, are clothed and com-
forted from the Sydney hive. The depot is
at George and Jamieson streets.
Alaisie Scott has favorably considered a
question put by Jock Allan, eldest son of
Captain Alex. Allan, of Gosford. Great-
grandpa was the founder of the Allan line.
The girl’s parent was the late Gavan Scott,
of Neutral Bay.
A cool snap brought back the tartlet mil-
linery. It is oval, with two little tails
dangling down behind. A wreath of liny
blooms is apparently gummed round the
microscopic crown.
Last week I told you that Aliss Pudney.
who leaves for India and a wedding next
week, had been a “sympathetic honorary-
secretary” to Aladame Calve on her lasi
visit to Australia. I now learn that Aliss
Pudney was merely a fellow-passenger to
Australia with Calve, and for a few days
her guest; and the report that she had any
other association with the singer is an error.
One of the few younger concert singers
who have kept the pot boiling in spite of the
war is the Westralian soprano, Lucille Ben-
stead. When the last news came she was
in Dublin.
Ladies who plunged into scalloped flounces
are not making many converts. Even the
very slim look too much like the draped leg
of a chair in the billowy waves of glace. As
compensation for the new fashions women
can now run when they see a motor heaving
up to them. For quite three years we have
only hopped, but the chauffeur’s honk now
finds us unafraid.
Still they come! This time it’s a word
from the 2nd Battalion Comforts Com-
mittee. They remark, in italics, that they
are having plum puddings made at the
nominal price of threepence each. Send
your cash to the depot, 39 Pitt-street. Ail
parcels for Christmas gifts must oe rushed
in to this address not later than October 20.
Yours affectionately.
VAN DORIAN.


CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME.
-At the War.
JrP
■rl4
X
V f.
Wt
3*
wm
' Sffl
P
:
ss*r
'y^v%
6§t
HI
1 i
Si&S
ffisw
IS
if
1
m
m
m
v$
Si
ii#
:7s
li
/
II
77
s
■& %
;JV
a
■*&!
M
t&t#
a®
7-7
'rX-
fi
i@?a
77
."V',.' v-
iSg
®s
m
kS
-V
ilii
ISSBi
as
SK
m
mm
: -
oa
7
m
*
»
73
757
•>(C\
4siA-*
.7
SSSS
I*3
££§3
:
mt
affifi
H
m
aV;
ns
-
7*~x
\: ;
H
7
ass :
«K
w:
7
s£7"’
2*5
7
7
77
\ sr-i
\J
73
o
/ o
Cobra,” ISho. Boot PolisH.
Chunder "Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Is a cunning;
o-
Sapper, too.
When Turks’ mines
Are going to burst
Chunder always
Gets there first.
Cheery soldiers
Love to eo
To a “COBRA’
Firework show.
You can bet
Wh en he is by
Turks will soon
Be flying high.


FOR THE MEN IN GALLIPOLI.
Chamois Leather Vests
Nothing’ surpasses these Chamois Vests for com-
fort and complete protection from severe cold.
Specially made to give protection where most-
needed, and fasten in such a way as to give
double material over the chest, and complete
cover up to the neck. Cut and finished in
Farmer’s best style, and have cosy Wool Check
Lining.
We undertake to despatch the Vests to any
address at the Front. Orders booked in
Tailoring Department.
PRICE,
MADE TO ORDER,
fdh
Farmer’s, Sydney.
PITT. MARKET & GEORGE STREETS.
"
WOMEN
MUST DRILL
themselves into the. idea of buying
British Corsets Only
as a means of helping the nation
through the present crisis.
NAUTILUS
CORSETS
are
BRITISH MADE
and their manufacture keeps thousands
of British Avomen in employment.
AUSTRALIAN WOMEN
should support the
British Corset Makers
as against the
Foreign Makers.
You will show
YOUR PATRIOTISM
by 'wearing the
POPULAR
NAUTILUS
CORSETS
which are the recognised leaders of
the correct style in corsets.
Ask Your Draper
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, October 25. 1915.
My Dear Yariue, —
Unto the Stanleys a son is born. It hap-
pened last Friday, and is the only event of
the kind to occur in Victorian vice-regal
circles since Charles Melbourne Hope, second
son of the late Hopetoun, arrived at the Lin-
lithgow’s country-place near Ararat. Before
baby Hope there had been nothing doing in
that line, for very many years—back as far
as the ’6o’s, anyhow, when widower Sir
Henry Barkly picked a young Australian
bride to act as relieving bazaar-opener.
The Soldiers’ Rest Room at Wirths’ is
under most distinguished patronage. But
though Distinguished Pat is a nice fellow
to have about the house, he doesn’t contri-
bute much to the larder. This by the way.
The State Governor and John Madden and
some others spoke at the opening. Allawa
Buchanan, the social organiser, gave a
library and an organ ; Byron Moore and the
V.R.C. were responsible for a grand piano ;
and Alcock’s donated a billiard table. A
brigade of Sassiety girls are attending in de-
tachments to scrub and dust and tidy up,
and honoraries will see to the cooking and
serving. This help idea is being extended
to all the rest rooms; it is in operation at
the Quamby as well as at Wirths’.
The Western District has a fine reputa-
tion for looking after its doctors once they
have overcome the stiff and uncomfortable
feeling of their first 10 years’ practice among
the grassocracy. Brown, of Colac, is one of
these tried and trusted medicine men; and
the fact partly accounts for young Geoffrey
Brown having been at Cambridge, doing-
medical studies, when the first German
bomb burst in Belgium. The lad, who pre-
sently became a lieutenant in a British
regiment, was wounded in ’France early this
month.
Pianist Goll and violinist Verbrugghen
(the Belgian at the wheel of Sydney. Con-
servatorium) played together twice last
week. The second concert had a packed
house and a madly enthusiastic musical
audience of the all-wool variety. Ver-
brugghen plays well —and knows it. When
he saws you off a length of sonata he does
it languidly, as if he doesn’t feel
quite sure that you really deserve the
treat. He made me feel so humble
that I longed to build a pyramid
of Vienna chairs and crawl under it. When
he raised his eyebrows at me in that super-
cilious way geniuses have I almost howled
for mercy. And you mustn’t run away with
the idea that his violin is cheap. It is a
genuine Something-or-other, and he would
certainly refuse to take 15s. for it. He
made some beautiful sounds with it —
sounds that made me think of dew and
honey and roast beef. It was a very mellow
machine.
. Goll wore a child-like smile and showed
his very white teeth all the time he was
tickling the piano to death. He had student
Peggy Sutherland to turn his music for
him. Peggy, in bright greeny-blue, was a
picturesque improvement on the
saic crow-like anonymous male
does the job. Mrs. Goll, in black, sat in
the front row and beamed. Mrs. Janson,
in shining red. set me thinking of chemists’
lamps. The University people were there
thick as bees and drinking hard with their
ears. Professor Masson made a speech and
formally thanked Verbrugghen on behalf of
the Lady Northcote Permanent Orchestra
Trust Fund Committee (deep breath here!),
which was mixed up in some way with the
recital.
Dr. Hamilton Russell brought his lovely
silver hair and Alan Newton, a clever young
local surgeon who is causing an immense
fuss in medical circles here. Mrs. Sander-
son (shipping interests was wrapped in
silk Paisley and looked her handsomest.
Pianist Gunning Sat in the crowd and be-
came more and more demonstrative as the
evening wore on. Verbrugghen’s playing
seemed to go to his hair. All the musical
folk wore that characteristic look of yearn-
ing for unutterable things when the fiddler
got off something by Franck —-his favorite
composer.
For his stay in Melbourne Verbrugghen
has been the guest of pianist Edward Goll,
down the Hobson’s Bay shore. Verbrugg-
hen has a personality apart from his music
achievements; he’s a born talker and
thinks quickly enough to give art-words in
a torrent. He finds the Australian has
“wonderful natural talent,” and believes
the prospects of the Conservatorium are
marvellous. Edward Goll’s fine work at
Verbrugghen’s three violin and piano
recitals may be the last of his Melbourne
appearances for a time, as he is understood
to be booked for the N. S. Wales Conserva-
torium also.
For quite a while the Overseas Club has
been looking around for somebody to help it
with the rent, and the quaint little Ancient
Mariners’ Club has just taken over part of
the basement, fitting it out to represent a
ship’s deck. In times past the Mariners
sometimes met at the houseboat-restaurant
which is to be found afloat on the Yarra
alongside Queen’s-bridge, or dined with
entire respectability at some rather more
central and expensive city eatery; but with
a persistent increase of membership the club
found it necessary to have a permanent
anchorage. The affable Charles Atkins is
the Mariners’ president-navigator, and it was
Mrs. Atkins who named the new “ship” at
its “launching” the other evening.
Belle White and Percy Alderton were
married with the blessing of the Best People
last Thursday. The youthful bride was
steered to the altar rails by Uncle Bowes
Kelly, and moans of admiration went up as
she rustled past the congregation obscured
by yards of lace, and so forth. Somebody
whispered in my ear that the lace was worn
by William the Conqueror when he landed
in 1066. Bridesmaid Violet Kelly (cousin)
blossomed in palest pink chiffon, and Arthur
Cooke, who shortly proceeds to the wars,
lent her one of his arms. About a hundred
of the local peerage sat down to refresh-
ments, and after George Fairbairn, Herbert
Power, Charlie Bright and some others had
seen the bridegroom’s hair ruffled and rose
leaves forced down his back, the motor
whirred away with lucky footwear and one
kerosene tin trailing behind.
Hilda Morrison, sister of the famous
George, the late Norman (of Geelong Col-
lege) and of our Dr. Reggie, has gone
off to Rangoon to marry Lance Gaunt, son
of the late Judge and brother of
writer Mary. Lance is one of the two
brothers who pursue law. All the rest are
terrible fire-eaters.
Vera Madden, the pretty daughter of
Frank, is blushfully accepting congratula-
tions. Lieutenant Johnson, of H.M.A.S.
Confetti, is the happy sailor. You don’t
know the Confetti? Neither do I. But we
must be very careful not to give the enemy
any information. So Confetti let it be.
Last week Clarence Smart, only son of cx-
Collector of Customs Archibald Smart,
paused long enough in his war-preparations
to get married to a dan ah ter of the George
Laverses of Kew. Clarence is a sergeant in
the A.I.F. The Smarts had another lad, an
amateur entomologist, who was killed some
years ago through a fall in the dark, while
pursuing a specimen for his collection. He
was engaged to Nurse Yeaman, once of Mel-
bourne Hospital, but now abroad on military
service.
Merrie Boyd (Merrick is the full-dress
style) was married last week to Miss Gough,
daughter of Mrs. Evelyn Gough. They
“celebrated” later at the Grand Hotel. Mer-
rick is the artistic young man who has made
some noticeably good art pottery from Aus-
tralian clays. Brother Penleigh is the
landscape artist (now soldiering) who car-
ried off the prize offered for the best picture
of the Federal capital, and they are both
related to the clan of Boyds and a’Becketts
hereabouts. The bride is artistic also, and
modelled gum-leaf designs on her own wed-
ding cake.
The Maoriland Cowpers (she is bachelor
Dr. Nyulasy’s sister) have returned after
honeymooning for a year and a half. Quite
accidentally, of course, they happen to strike
Melbourne during the Cup season, on their
way home, and (quite accidentally again!)
Mrs. Cowper has some fascinating clothes
with her. Catch a poorly-dressed woman
coining near Melbourne at this time of year !
Adelaide will now say a few words; —
Lieut. H. V. Throssell, the Westralian who has
earned a V.C., sheds a reflected glory on this State,
as he and his brother were at Prince Alfred College
from 1896 till 1902. The hall-marked hero is at
present in hospital in London.
“Billy” Wood, who went to England in the Mon-
golia, has a commission in the Scottish Horse. He
used to be a well-known follower of the local
hounds ; his sport is now pig-sticking.
E. Stokes, who has just come to the fag-end of
six months’ leave, left for Bombay by the Khyber;
his wife and family remain here for a month or so
longer. One of the Pewsey Vale Gilberts, who has
also been here on leave, was a passenger by the
same boat.
The Government House f6te in aid of Belgian and
Red Cross funds, which is billed for November 11,
12 and 13, threatens to lay over anything this
village has yet witnessed.
Dr. Pitcher, of the 2nd Light Horse Ambulance,
is returning on sick-leavq. Lieut. Neil Campbell
also is coming in from England, where he went
for repairs, after being severely wounded: at Galli-
poli.
The Rose Show, at the Town Hall, on Thursday,
provided conclusive proof that the drought in the
suburban gardens has finally broken. The Governor
“declared” in the usual way,- at the instigation of
T. E. Barr Smith, who is the society’s • president.
There were other things than roses—sweet-pea,
poppies, columbines, orchids, pansies, carnations and
stocks in a welter of color and a riot of scent that
made even the dingy Town Hall a place to dream in.
Hilda Felstead, who has accepted an engagement
with the Brennan-Fuller eo., and who has used her
talent generously for patriotic entertainments ever
since the war began, was farewelled at the Unley
Town Hall the other night, with complimentary
music, an address and a dressing-case.
Mrs. Crawford Vaughan is recovering from her
influenza, and expects soon to be making sandbags
again. This should improve the situation in Galli-
poli. Ponder, M.P., has undergone an appendicitis
operation in Melbourne; but his little show has not
so much bearing on the war.
The Navy League celebrated Trafalgar Day with
a special public meeting, which was sanctified by
the Galways and a party (God bless it!) from
Government House. A sufficient quantity of the
general public attended. The League’s president,
E. B. Grundy, gave an address (you know the sort
of thing!), and the secretary, Mr. Tyler, gave a
short lantern lecture with special slides. (Hooray!)
Mrs. Symon and her Girl Guides have presented the
League with a banner bearing the names of the
British battleships and submarines that have been
lost in the war, and this sad reminder was on view
on Thursday night. On the same evening the foun-
dations of a Returned Soldiers’ Association were
laid in the Cheer-Up Club rooms.
The land that Peter Waite gave to the Govern-
ment for the purposes of agricultural education is
going to be utilised. The deeds of about 120 acres
between the Fullarton and Unley roads have already
been handed over, and the University authorities
have been given the deeds for part of the Netherby
estate. The Urrbrae estate, which comes to the
Government later, will be used for residential
quarters for the University and as a recreation
reserve.
The Governor is making a round of the manufac-
turing industries of the State, and has already looked
in at a good many factories, including a harness
mill where big military contracts are in hand.
Engagement.—Miss M. Law Smith to IT. S. lludd,
the ex-politician -who is now in camp.
John Verran is the chief dispenser of texts in the
South Aus. Assembly, but other members know a few
too, and Peake last week “capped” a hymn-book
quotation for him. Verran was chaffing Peake and
Co. with having been thrown out of office:
How blest the hours 1 once enjoyed!
How sweet their memory still!
quoted Verran; then Peake took up the running:
Now there is left an aching void
Your crowd can never fill!
The Higginses and other seasiders who
were engineering the Beaumaris Carnival
on Saturday have been moaning ever since
the week-end rain partially burst their show.
A Governor had been engaged to do the
opening, and some of the motored classes
had shown signs of following his dust; but
when the day arrived there was no dust —
only mud and a razor-edged wind. Still the
indoor part of the revel went on, and Gov-
ernor Stanley left his new boy at home
and manfully sat out the Kirby concert and
the Rose Tea. The Lady Stanley Fund gets
about £2OO from it.
Mrs. Dick Casey is smiling again. The
big V.R.C. husband is out of hospital, and
is being tended devotedly by herself and a
trained nurse or two. No visitors are
allowed yet, but the regulations will be less
strict presently.
The Frank Austin widow has gone back
to Egypt with golden-haired daughter
Avalon. They're going to devote their spare
time and money to the wounded soldiers.
One of our most precious bachelors.
Lieutenant Steel, is off to the beastly old
war with Colonel Grimwade’s explosive
ironmongery. He is as like as a twin tc
brother Freddie Steel, who was killed is
France just this time last year while lead
ing a charge.
Carrie Haase, who used to do platform
reciting here before she went to England
and won eminence in the “legitimate,” is
back in Melbourne. The war cancelled her
plans, but she will make some fresh ones
as soon as the atmosphere clears.
Another returned traveller is Talworth
Burder, who was looked upon as a musical
prodigy in these parts 10 or 11 years ago.
After getting European experience as com-
poser and conductor, he returns as Regin-
ald de Talworth and talks of producing a
couple of his musical plays locally. I don’t
like the new hiccup in his name.
Actor George Titheradge, who has pitched
camp in Sydney, is putting in a week or
two here in the hope that the change will
help his nerves to behave better. For the
last three months he has been troubled with
neuritis.
Dorothea, the youngest Mark Moss
daughter, has had to exist without her sol-
dier fiance ever since the first boom of the
wars. However, she is cheered somewhat to
find that he is now Major Dare —which is
a fine, brave name and title for a young man
of 26.
The Savoy dinner in aid of the Red Cross
is still in anticipation. Some exalted Appe-
tite had not enough edge on, or something,
so the food has been put back to catch the
Melbourne Cuppers.
After all, Leslie Stuart is not going to
Egypt. Another man who toiled on local
Red Crossings takes Stuart’s place.
On Friday night the most fanatical music-
drinkers rolled up to the Conservatorium for
a deep draught of Fritz Hart’s best brew.
The whole programme was Fritz, yet nobody
came away with a headache. Evidently the
curly-haired director can make the right
stuff.
In “The Dancing Mistress” young Maggie
Dickinson, now trying her wings as leading
lady, gets the iceberg stare from most of the
walking duchesses. As most curates are
aware, jealousy is one of the failings of the
mumming profession, and the budding Bern-
hardts cannot get over Maggie’s well-earned
promotion. All through her turn the looks
of the chorus are sidelong and gloomy.
Maggie now wears her own brown hair,
which is an improvement on the heavy red
wig she used to support. As the D.M. (not
the D.C.M. !) she weighs herself down with
tons of Paris-green toggery.
Chubby Edward Sugden, the Methodist
parson who is Master of Queen’s, is now
Captain Sugden, in a tightly-fitting uniform
and a broad smile.
Mrs. R. G. Baldock is in Melbourne to say
good-bye to her people and see the Cup run
before making off to India with hubby, who
is giving what spare time remains to him
to the Clifton Downs sheep-run. The Ban-
analand drought has cleared the place almost
to a sheep, and I think he is busy furnishing
it with drought-resisting lambs. The Bal-
dock pet racing horse, Scotch Artillery, is
being told to win the Brisbane Cup.
Postmaster Linton, of the Northern Terri-
tory, who has passed out so tragically, was
a brother of Colonel Linton. One daughter
(an extremely pretty girl) comes to Mel-
bourne occasionally, and another is at school
here. The Lintons are related to wealthy
Victorian families —the Hentys and Mac-
phersons and McLeans, for instance.
Dr. C«cil McAdarn, son of a Brighton
medico, is at work in France. He has a
breathlessly interesting job at the chief clear-
ing hospital, alongside some of cleverest
French surgeons.
The "Dick” Hawkers are over from Adel-
aide, holding on to the tail of their Carbine
horse, Cyklon. There would have been jun-
ketings if the noble extravagance had won
the Caulfield Cup, but it saved everybody’s
digestion by not doing so.
Kathleen Graham, one of the rich damsels
of Cliveden Mansions, has given up the
gentle sport of programme-selling for charity,
and gone as a voluntary helper to a con-
valescent hospital for soldiers. Truly the
Empire is Waking Up.
The Innes-Noads (she is a sister of the
Spruce Myth) have taken a gorgeous country
place in Berks, England. Every now and
then—or oftener —Mrs. Innes-Noad runs a
motor-load of wounded down to her lean-to
for a rest cure. Some of the Melbourne
brides whose husbands are away at the war
have been entertained and comforted at the
Berks house by the big-hearted matron.
These lone ones include May Grice-Wilson,
sister Mrs. Collins, and Molly-Atherton-
Erskine-White. (That runs me out of hy-
phens!) Daughter Mrs. Geoffrey Stuart is
another refugee on Mother’s hearth.
Now that theatrical-manager George Ed-
wardes is dead, Melbourne is wondering if
the nephew it met has stepped into the mana-
gerial boots he used to talk about. The
nephew struck Melbourne in company with
a sunburnt captain from the Balkans.
While they lingered here the supper cafes
never went to sleep. It is said that the
irrepressible pair started the town on the
outburst of night life that ended .in the sen-
sational cafe raid. Nephew passed as a
millionaire—or a millionheir, I forget which.
The committee of the Women’s Hospital
is delighted with itself. The institution is
now spreading a new wing, and the money
to feather it flowed in from friends without
any public drum-beating—£lloo of it.
A most beautiful bachelor, who stands
6ft. 4in. in his socks when his boots are
being mended, and has gone with the Field
Artillery, spent his last leave in ringing-up
favorite girls and working off a poor
little joke. As this : “Oh !Is that you ?... .
Ye-s, I’m off this time, old girl. Au rev-
war/” Then the wires would carry a fatuous
chuckle and the sly inquiry, “See the point?”
The girls thought it “most awfully funny,”
and have been maddening their men-friends
by repeating it. Which shows that when a
man is beautiful and looks like a skyscraper
in his hosiery he can work off any old thing.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


■sUO.t}s £21200 //2/9
OSgl UAOQ
lltSuj®
Qualifications-.
Ji
AGE
Hti
N»V
■S
M
WF
X
/
'TS
k\
\
s
D
*y
I'f
1
A
<
A
\
o
1
*a>
■■
**•»
»c
f/
//
/
n
v \
Johnnie Walker : “ What ! Are you trying to pass the
age test ?”
Enthusiastic Friend'. “No. Unfortunately I cannot do
that as easily as you, but I am going to make a
bare-faced attempt to join the National Guard.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whiskvt Distillers. KILMARNOCK


• '*3'l
, -J
THE INVISIBLE
NECK REINFORCEMENT
MEANS DOUBLE WEAR.
THIS TAB
SLEEVE
LIFT MEANS
COMFORT.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW MEN’S
WEAR CATALOG. SENT FREE.
MEN! HERE’S A
FINE SHIRT
which we offer conscientiously as the best
value obtainable in Australia, introducing
special features which have popularised
The Double Life Shirt
with numbers of discriminating men.
'the invisible neck reinforcement ensures
uouble wear, while the attached sleeve lift is
extremely useful and permits comfort.
Perfectly cut and made in Cot Taffeta
materials, stripes of all widths. Blue with
white and white with black stripes.
A GREAT
VALUE.
PRICE
4 6.
SENT POST
FREE TO
ANY STATE.
GHAS. LANE & GO.
PTY,
LTD.
I HE MAIL ORDER HOUSE FOR MEN,
Elizabeth S'reet, MELBOURNE,
Produced entirely under the British
Flag by British Labour, from
Australasian Wool.
«#
PliHilr^lET^™
IWjMlj
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men.
Comfortable in all weathers, Jason Stockings and Socks lie snug to
the skin, and possess a remarkable silky finish. Many tasteful
designs plain, embroidered, lace ; anklets, clox, pendants.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks —which are albwool, and o 3
soft, silky finish. See the Jason Tab on every pair. Diapers
and Outfitters everywhere. in case of difficulty wnte *o
JASON HOSIERY CO.. lEICESTER, ENG.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“J.M.”: I support “Pick” (B. ,30/9/’l5)
in disputing the lyre-bird’s mimicry of bulloekies,
sawyers, splitters, etc. I lived for years where these
national assets were unknown, and have heard the
lyres utter their various alleged imitations of sounds
never produced in the locality. 1 quote a paragraph,
from the “New Australian Heading Book l\.” in
use in the public schools, which is responsible for
much of the belief regarding the alleged mimicry
aforesaid: “The lyre-bird is a great mimic. It
mocks the cries of other birds, such as magpies and
laughing-jackasses, the barking of dogs, and even
such camp sounds as the sawing of timber. Often 1
have mistaken it for the thrush.” 1 dunno why
these immigrants are allowed to write our Public
Instruction books.
“McNorth” : Let me buy iuto the auto-
matic-pistol versus revolver argument. The auto,
might suit the requirements of city householders
during burglar scares, or suburban explorers who
are always handy to a gunsmith’s, but for the man
who knocks around in regions where Black Brother
has a habit of suddenly becoming nasty, it is not
a weapon to be relied on. Under my pillow is
an old-style .450 Colt revolver which I have humped
for years through parts where a squirt is apt to be
wanted in a hurry. Through the capsizing of boats
and canoes, it has been under water for days at a
stretch. It has been fired so rapidly as to become
almost red-hot. Hornets have built nests in its in-
nards. It has been wet with rain and caked with
mud scores of times, and it: once fell over a precipice.
In short, it has suffered all those things which it
should not have suffered. Yet the old gun is still
serviceable, and a bit more rough usage wouldn’t
ruin it. What automatic would stand such hand-
ling and remain reliable? Even when new the auto,
is liable to go wrung. Werner had one of the latest
pattern when he was killed by niggers in
Papua a year or two ago. It was found near the
spot where the tragedy occurred —with a cartridge
stuck in it. A few empty shells were lying about.
'The theory is that Werner kept the cannibals off'
till the automatic, on which his life depended,
jambed, and then
“Panhandle Pete": The soldier here—
“here” being- Gallipoli—is stringing together some
bright new expressions. For instance, “blightv,”
otherwise “old blightv,” means England. If we have
a blighty it is a wound assuring a visit to John
Bull’s island.. “Cushy” is soft, pleasant. \ o t
merely yielding, like a cushion, but—well, they talk
about “a cushy trench,” “a cushy wound.” A
“jammy” wound entitles the holder merely to a trip
to the base or some such abhorrent spot. Next we
have one of Germanic origin, and of very varied
usage—“straf.” Used as a noun “straf” refers to
a “scrap” of small proportions, in which neither
Party attempts any advance. The verb “straf” has
a parallel noun, and is often applied to sniping-.
One “poops” at the enemy’s trench or at his trans-
ports. But rifles do not poop, only guns. “Pip-
squeak.” is a shell thrown by a trench gun. The
name is appropriate. The 77m.m. shell is “Whiz-
bang,” also very appropriate. One’s acquaintance
with it begins and ends with exactly that
whiz-bang-, and the thing is over. However, this
shell is not recognised in the best trenches. Next
is the “lu-ump”—some spell it “crump,” but lirupps
make it, so krump she is. You hear krump coming,
and you can locate the spot where it is going to
land. Owing, however, to atmospheric conditions,
wind, drift, etc., it generally falls elsewhere, and
makes a noise like “krump” ; just like that
“krump.” Its chest measurement is Oin., and it
isn t at all popular. The “coal-box” and the “Jack
Johnson” are one and the same, and answer to Biu.
odd. The “portmanteau” and the “black Maria”
hover round Uiu. and 12in., and the notorious 17in-
sheli is the “Brighton Express.” If you stand up
to the rails as the inter-State tears through Sun-
shine, say, you will get a vivid idea of what the
shell sounds like as it passes overhead. “Archi-
balds” are anti-air craft guns of either party. They
are all “Archies,” for short.
* -if * *
“Blauky”: After Australia it is weird to
SC’ these Egyptians conducting their farming opera-
tions. The plough is an awkward-looking* turnout
generally made of wood, and is drawn by a cow
with unexpected lumps distributed over it, or some-
times a camel, or a donkey, or any old thing; in
fact, wallabies and 'roos ought to consider them-
selves lucky they’re Australians. Several times I
have seen a camel and a bent cow yoked together
to a plough. It looks ridiculous, but looks don’t
worry the Egyptian, any more than dirt and flics do.
* * -If *
“Sarto": This ought to be a record for
lady bush-laborers. A Riverina (N.S.W.) district
has two fairies, about 12 feet all told, mother and
daughter, who earn a crust by navigating a plough
when the time is ripe. When it isn’t they revert to
grubbing, fencing, wood-carting, etc. They recog-
nise no union but their own, work as long- as it's
light, and pick up plenty jobs. They help to supply
Albury with the fuel to fry its morning sausage.
Last summer they were in great demand as water-
carters. Seated on a red lOOgal. tank, with slouch
felt hat, man's coat and —no, a skirt, they look
just the thing-. One day I saw them nearing home
with a good-sized leak in the tank about a foot
from the bottom, of which they were unaware. People
say the tank was blue the next trip, but I don't
believe it.
NOTHINGS LIKE BEING ACQUAINTED.
J ONES: "Excuse me, sir, but you appear to
be following me —is there anything you
want?”
McPHERSON: “ Weel, I'm just trying to find
where ye tired and introduce mysel'
like. Em McPherson, the new under-
taker.”
J ONES: "Great Scott, Em pleased to meet
you, Em sure. But there's nobody dead
at my place.”
McP HERSON: "Nac. nae! But I jin' hcerd
peer cough, an’ I hae hopes!”
“M.P.A.’ : They’re a coul lot these bush
youngsters of ours. A small girl named Daphne
Morgan, the other day, riding a trained steer, drove
So head of cattle nine miles from her home to the
Bairnsdale (Vic.) saleyards.
TO BE EXACT.
HUSBAND (in the usual course of argument): "Liar! You told your wretched old mother
that I come home drunk every night.”
WIFE: "I never. I said you come home drunk every morning.”
“1 ndulla : I don’t know anything?, about
gidya, but 1. can assure “Billy Hunger” that when it
lasts longer than mulga it will be very tired. I
know one fence about 00 miles from Mitchell 1 (Q.)
which the. manager of the station told mo was
erected over 40 years ago. The posts are about 4in.
thick at the small end, and the fence is as firm as a
rock now. Mulga doesn't, as a rule, split very-
easy, and it would take about two weeks to burn
one post down. It is also hard to cut, and white
ants use frightful language about it. Sandal wood
is another good lasting timber, but it fires ea.-ilv
and also splits.
* ,/*i * *
“Billy Bunker” : It is usually arranged
that two shearers catch their sheep from the one
pen. As the pen gets cut out there is keen rivalry
amongst these pen-mates, each trying to force tin-
other to take the roughs. The hist sheep left in the
pen is always a very rough one, and is termed the
“cobbler” or the “snob.” This is an allusion, by
a devious way. to the article with which tin
cobbler is reputed to have killed his mU-us with
the last. The part of the woolshed where the har-
boring is done is the hoard,” atid the party who
supervises the work is the “boss of the hoard,” “the
boss,” “pitch-en-toss,” “the bloke,” or “
Most often . A shed-hand is a “rousic,”
“loppy.” “blue-tongue” or “wop-wop.” Ii was left
to the manage]- of a contract shearing co. to earn
undying fame (and blasphemy) by explaining in the
Arbitration Court that a rouseabout was a “dere-
lict.” The expert who attends all machinery is in-
variably “the squirt.” The boss, expert, classer and
bookkeeper don’t dine in the same lmt as the rest:
of the camp, and are in consequence "Silvertails.”
The cook is “the babbler'’ or “dough-puncher,” the
former an allusion to “the babbling brook”; or he
may be the “rusty hook” or “the poisoner.” The
cook’s offside)- is “the slushy.” The yarder-up,
picker-up and penner-up need no explanation. The
“broomie” is the “blue tongue” who sweeps the
board free of locks, etc. Wool-rollers and pieee-
pickers are recognisable terms. A “pony” is a rouse-
about who carries the fleeces from the classer to the
wool-bins. A “barrower” is one who tries his
'prentice hand at shearing during; the smoke-o’s.
Bay-rowing has been stopped by the last Arbitration
award. The expression “tar” is still used, although
sheep-dip .has now replaced it for dressing cuts,
etc. A jumbuck-barber always refers to himself as
a “shearer man.” If a shearer man is spoken to for
rough work, he is “chipped” or “gets a wire.” By
the way, he never gets “sacked.” He always “pelts
it in” or “snatches iiis bit.”
“Uloola”: The succession of dry years in
some N.S.W. districts lias driven the animals to tese
the nutritive properties of quite unexpected plants,
for instance, hereabouts (Upper Murrumbidgee) I
noticed slice]) browsing on what I had regarded as a
curse —Scotch thistle. Inquiring Of a jumbuek cocky
I was told that for several years the spiny foreigner
had been the salvation of the sheepman's flock. The
other day I saw a sheep tearing the dry, flufflike
growth off the dead spear of a grass-tree. Speaking
of the grass-tree (Xnnthorrhea liaslilis), there is a
hillside here on which during the past four rears.
HOPEFUL.
BOTTLE-O: "Any oottles?”
except for brief periods, the grazing has cousi ted
of dry “rung” timber and grass-trees. This un-
promising pasture has carried some scores of rabbits
to the acre. They have lived, most of the time,
entirely on the younger leaves of the grass-trees,
all the crowns, on which bunny sits as he makes his
meal, being eaten down flat.
(Continued on page 21.)
THE COLLIER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A dirt patch on the mornin’ sea,
Smudgin’ grey wi’ black ;
A rusty ocean parasite,
A broken-kneed old hack ;
A wastrel o’ the water ways,
Lumberin’ on the track.
See her chopped-off end a-liftin’
To the surgin' o’ the seas ;
M atch her stumpy masts a-rakin’
O’ the blue sky an’ the breeze !
Oh, just listen to her engines—-
Clank an’ rattle, bang an’ wheeze !
She s an awesome thing to look at,
Hither light or deep wi’ coal —-
A balloon o’ rusty side-plates,
Or submerged too deep to roll.
She s a swashin’, bashin’ horror
M i’ the iron in ’er soul.
She's an architect’ral marvel
MT an unsurprisin’ pace:
She’s a bleary, weary wonder,
Lackin every sign o’ grace :
An’ slic’d break an angel's temper,
if she didn’t break his face.
She s a rattlin’, shakin" scrapheap,
M i’ her screw a-ehurnin’ air ;
Just a snub-nosed, dirty coal-boat,
Bound for any bloomin’ where;
An offence upon the ocean,
Yet she doesn’t seem to care.
1‘ or she’s faithful as a grafter
In 'er dour-faced sort o’ way;
In the tempest an’ in sunshine
She’s a-rakin’ in the hay,
An she’s built some dandy liner
in ’er rough-an’-tumble day.
I’itchin’, rollin’, grindin', sliakin’,
She’s a demon in a fit,
Makin’ horrid stinks an' noises
That’d make a pole-cat spit:
She goes bruisin’ air an’ water,
An’ just fancyin' she's It.
M hen the Lord from out o’ chaos
liaised the smilin’ earth an’ sea,
Found His handiwork was pleasin',
I'm a wonderin’ if He
Hver reckoned on the coil-boat.
Ever guessed what she could be.
Lurchin' through the mornin’ grey.
Nosin’ to the gale,
Masts an’ funnel steerin' south.
Scrap o’ coal-black sail,
Heelin’ like a drunken thing
Down the coastwise trail.
VICTORIA.
ROBERT M. HEDDLE.


Inspect our Magnificent Display of Jacobean Furniture
Tim “PLVMPTON” Dining
Chair, Spring' Seats, Uphol-
stered in Tabrikoid.
KSssSSs!:
mmmmm
■
i
m
■
m
£7/51-
The “PLYMPTOX,” 4ft. Dinner Wassron. to match Sideboard.
, ,^«Bi&&g£Sg3ti»ga&aßa*si»isi^^
Tiie “PLYMPTON 0 Extension Dining Table.
6ft. x 3ft. 6in„ £5/17/6
7ft. x 3ft. 9in., £O/17/6
32 6
Tiie “PTAMI'TON” Dining
Chair, Spring Seats, L’phol-
ctereil in Tahrlkoid,
fd
AH ALL & CO.
mmmmm.
Curiosity.
*> 7 u
Exhaustive Test.
Survival
The Survival of
the Fittest.
The Lamp that
Withstands
“Monkeying,”
Tire qualities that survive are
embodied in the OSEAM LAMP.
Before leaving the Works every lamp
is subjected to exhaustive tests, to
ensure that it is up to the OSEAM
standard in life, brilliancy, etc.
Only the fit lamps survive.
Osrara Lamps are
entirely British made
at the Osram Lamp Works,
Hammersmith, London.
Sole Agents lor Australia^
THE BRITISH GENERAL
ELECTRIC CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY'—2S7 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE'—S9O Bourke Street.
WELLINGTON —8 Willeston Street.
BRISBANE—SoIe Agents for Queensland:
N. BELL & CO., 83 Eagle Street.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
21-
(N.Z. 2/6.)
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
Msm.
10-inch
21-
(N z. 2/e.)
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
hfdh
SUPPLEMENT No. 12 NOW ON SALE.
Remarkable First Records by
WINGATE’S Temperance Prize BAND.
10=inch ... ... ... 2/- each.
G 6897
A Military Church Parade— With Unique Bell Effects, etc.
(J. Ord Hume)
3rd Dragoon Guards March (J. Bropliy)
(36898
j The Elephants Marched Around .March (H. Schvijn Lloyd)
< Punchinello March (AY.' Runnier)
G 6899
f Australasian March (W. Rimmer)
l Egyptian March (A If Brady)
GG9OO
\ Venus on Earth Waltz (Paul Linde)
I Jeunesse Doree Valse (Emile Wahlteufcl)
G 6901
I “Zampa” Overture— Part I (Ifcrold, arr.
I “Zampa” Overture— Part II (Herold, arr.
Itimmcr)
Ri aimer)
TROMBONE SOLOS BY MR, H. MOSS
(Accompanied by Wingate’s Prize Band).
00902
( The Switchback (/■]. Sutton)
) Drinking Song
King’s Military Band—
G 6911
( “A Country Girl” Selection—l*t. I.
"I „ l't. 11.
Cornet Solos by Sergeant -Leggett-
(56913
f The Sunshine of Your Smile
I. When Irish Eyes Are Smiling-
Irving- (iillette, Tenor —
G69U
I The Rosary— lrving Gillette
, Then You’ll Remember .Me—
l .Tolm Adams
Fife and Drum Band-
Campbells Are Cominjf and
Garry Owen
British Grenadiers and Johnny
Cope
G 6.903
Orchestre Beige
C 6904
/ Marclie Jtusse
t Father of Victory March
Harry Santre.v, Haritone—
GC9I6
Tip-Top Tipperary Mary—
Ilarr.v San trey
Over the Hills to Mary—
Duet by Reed and Harrison
Bell Solos (with Orcli.)
G 6906 J
Khaki Hoys March
Naval Cadets March
Stanley Kirkby—
80!!!)!)
I’m Glad My Boy Grew Up to be
a Soldier
Be Broad that You’re fighting
for England— Harrison Latimer
(iGDIO
Sfi
oo«i-bye, Dolly Gray
luebell — Irving Gillette
INSIST ON “REGALS.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS
SIDNEY, N.S.W. Grafonola, Ltd.. Halving House, Rawson Place.
MEEHOkItNE VlC.—Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Etd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q.—King and King, Etd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell. Etd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. AV.A.—II. R. Pirth. Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur 11. Nathan, Etd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., AVakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.—AVebley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 316 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


HOW I DARKENED MY
GREY HAIR.
Lady gives Simple Home Recipe That
She Used to Darken Her Grey Hair.
For years I tried to restore my grey hair
to its natural color with the prepared dyes
and stains, but none of them gave satisfac-
tion, and they were all expensive. I finally
came across a simple recipe, which I mixed
at home, that gives wonderful results. I
gave the recipe, which is as follows, to a
number of my friends, and they are all de-
lighted with it. To 7oz. of water add a small
box of Orlex Compound, loz. of bay rum and
i o z. of glycerine. These ingredients can be
bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Use every other day until the hair becomes
the required shade, then every two weeks.
It will not only darken the grey hair, but
removes dandruff and scalp humors, and acts
as a tonic to the hair. It is not sticky or
greasy, does not rub off, and does not color
the scalp.* [5
i
Add exchange
to country
cheques:
Victoria, 6d ;
1/- Inter-State.
Buy Direct from the Manufacturer,
and Save 25 Per Cent.
Our Illustration is in Glace Kid or Box Calf. Fair
stitched to heel, on an up-to-date Anglo-American
Model. This is an Ideal Country Boot, with an
appearance fit for a Prince or a Premier. At the price
— l6/6 Carriage Paid—it is the Best Boot Value
being offered in the Commonwealth.
Send To-day for Full Illustrated
Catalogue. .
HY. HARRIS,
50 McKean Street, N. Fitzroy,
... MELBOURNE.
IIDB^S
•FOUNDED' 1888'
PHILLIPS • ORMONDE&O
Consu/A/np AT npmeer-3 ,
one/7Aac/e A7on* A/pcn/n ■ 17QUEEN S T
MELBOURNE
txyJima.
Cures ECZEMA.
No matter how this terrible disease manifests
itself, either dry; scaly or mattery, quickly
vanishes under the wonderful influence of EXZERMA.
Exzerma is a liquid compound, is non-poisonous,
and cure’s Eczema with amazing rapidity and
thoroughness.
The worst and most obstinate cases are cured in
two weeks.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS,
or by
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney, [X
“Ringbolt”: The Papuan boatman (B.
16/9/T5) isn’t alone in his fancy for a belayed
sheet. There’s no better boat-hand anywhere than
an Orang-Laut (sea-Malay), but if you leave him
to tend sheets in a blow he’s pretty sure to earn
you a capsize. I was caught once in a Sumatra-
squall off Bintang Island. This specialty has a
nasty trick of slacking-off almost to nothing, and
then springing at you again in an instant like a
young typhoon. We had luffed and let fly a
couple of times, when, having to go for’ard for
something, I left the mainsheet to S’li Mahlat to
hold, with a single turn round the cleat. Ten
seconds later we were over, and, since a shark-
haunted seaway doesn’t lend itself to dignified
expostulation, I vigorously cursed S’li as we
swam. By all his gods he swore that he was blame-
less, but when we had been picked up by a prahu
and had righted our craft I found that the sheet
had been knotted as if for all eternity.
WILLING.
RECRRITING OFFICER: “Ever served a term of imprisonment?”
APPLICANT: “No, sir; but I don’t mind doin’ a short sentence if yer think it neces-
sary.”
AFTER THE SCRAP.
THE PEACEMAKER: “Now, Mick, he’s had enough—two black eyes!”
MICK: “ Yis! An’ fer two pins I’d give him two more.”
“Barcoo” : A number of the leading char-
acteristics of the Gulf and Territory are upside down
or wrong way about. For instance, the tide flows
only once in 24 hours, but is a very high one. On
most stations the smartest “stockmen” are gins.
The highest and driest ground during the “wet” season
is right along each bank of the streams and rivers,
and the back-country cattle have to be collared as
soon as possible after the deluge begins to dry up,
or else good-bye till next wet season drives them
from the low-lying land out from the water-courses.
In the McDonnell Ranges, S.W. of Burketown, huge
gorges, which were the beds of ancient rivers
flowing south, pierce and cleave the hills at inter-
vals, while the present water-courses run north.
“Boona Blue”: Anent “Sarto” and his
bower birds’ palaces (B. 2/9/'l5). There is one in
Condobolin (N.S.W.) district now which is seven
years old. It is about Bft. x 2ft., and is built of
grass, about 14in. high, and as thickly studded and
as solidly set as an ordinary millet broom. The
ornaments include various colored glasses, screws,
nails, every nut and berry growing roundabouts, and
even pins. A piece of mirror thrown to the birds
recently has not yet been seized. At each entrance
to their majestic hall the owners have built a portico
about 3ft. long, composed of nuts only.
* * * *
“Elgar” : As to this argument about the
warping of Australian timbers. Some years ago I
built a workshop and wash-house of Victorian hard-
wood —alleged to be messmate. The floor was of Tas-
manian blue-gum. Although the studs were 2ft. apart
there is no visible warp about any of the boards,
; while the floor, though subject to hard usage, is as
sound as the day it was laid. Some of the stuff
had been lying in the timber-yard a long while and
' was well seasoned, but the weatherboards were beauti-
fully green and juicy; yet there is still no more
weatherproof building on earth.
* * * *
“Kuku-Kuku”: Samarai, the island town
at the tail of New Guinea, is the Pearl of the
Pacific, so far as my experience goes. Tahiti, with
the splendid spire of Orohena rising 7000
feel above your little steamer, and weirdly wonder-
fed Moorea looking at you across the bay, is very,
very lovely. Manahilci’s windy blue lagoon, sur-
rounded by an irregular wreath of cocoanut forest
tossed upon the sea (for that is what an atoll is),
fascinates everyone who has ever seen it. There is
something irresistible about every bit of Samoa —
an attraction hard to describe, but felt by many
before and after Robert Louis Stevenson. For a
perfect little “high island,” Raratonga’s outfit of
snowy beach, fringing cocoanut, and central peaks
veiled in falling creepers would be hard to beat.
Suva and Ovalau are famous. The green lawns and
orange woods of Yavau, overlooking a harbor that
is better even than —(sh!) —body out in reality all
men’s boyish dreams of a South Sea Island. But
Samarai ! It is a real island town, in the first
place—a sparkling village of red roofs and deep
verandahs, set upon a green-velvet island that fits
it as closely as if it were a toy on a stand. It
has been gardened and planted, and is full of
flowers, and its palms are, or seem, taller and whiter-
stemmed than any others in New Guinea. It is in
the midst of a group of lovely islands,
and the coloring of the straits and inlets is the sort
of blue and green that you see in opal matrix. All
day long launches, schooners, cutters, dinghies, come
sailing or chug-chugging up to the various jetties,
and people from the goldfields, from plantations,
from Government expeditions, get out and come ashore
with their bags and boxes, as at a railway station.
In Samarai you rank partly by your moral char-
acter, no doubt, but very largely by the tonnage
and nature of your boat. If you have none you are
nobodj r . If you have a dinghy it is well. If you
have a good-sized cutter it is better. Do you pos-
sess either a small launch or a schooner you are
a person worthy of all respect. And if you are one
of the few who own a large launch or a sailing
vessel fitted with auxiliary you take your place at
once among the aristocracy. These are, as Mrs.
Gamp might put it, the consequences of living on a
Pearl. But the Pearl itself... .When you come up
by the steamer you immediately go for a walk round
the island. This takes you 20 minutes, if you
hurry, which of course you do not; and every half
minute of the walk shows you some new and won-
derful combination of island, wood and water. It
is all views and view. You go back to the steamer,
exclaiming that here is Paradise upon earth, and
someone off the island tells you that it is Purgatory
to live in, and that people are always fighting. You
needn’t believe him. Samarai has reformed of late
years to an extent that puts all ancient descriptions
of the island out of date. It is astonishingly sober,
and stiff with respectability. It has got to that
point where it absolutely loves to be shocked; 10
years ago you couldn’t have shocked it with a herd
of wild Huns. It has calls, and cards, and teas;
it has tongues with a razor edge, but hands that
overflow with kindness. It is civilised —O Lord,
yes ; church three times on Sunday, library, Chamber
of Commerce. Yet the other afternoon I met a
Ferguson Island pigmy cannibal swaggering down
the main street, dressed in a boar’s tusk, some teeth
and a couple of leaves. He was about four feet ten
perpendicularly, and something not much less later-
ally. He was full of bounce and impudence, and his
canoe, carved and hung with shells, lay just below
the two storeyed, acetylene-lighted Cosmopolitan
Hotel. The Pearl of the Pacific is interesting yet.
* # * *
“S. S. Severn” : When Br’er Mosquito in
the Gulf country becomes “too obsessive,” local
binghis of the Koko-bundi tribe build an image of
wood and grass-straw interwoven with a dead man’s
hair and kidney fat. This they call N’guru. They
set up the idol in their midst and dance and bow
before it, after which the old man of the crowd takes
it, and, holding it at arm’s length aloft, and fol-
lowed by the tribe howling and banging drums and
making all the noise it is capable of, capers into
the scrub until the moon goes behind a cloud. Then
a funeral pyre is raised, and N’guru is cast upon it
and cremated. It may be magic, or maybe noise,
hue whatever it is (Binghi says it is the spirit of
the man whose hair and fat is used) the mosquito
savees it and absents himself for some considerable
time.
* * * *
“A. 8.” : Some history of the Darling, as
per “Ess” (B. 30/9/’l5), is wrong in parts. W. G.
Spence, in “The History of the A.W.U.,” gives a
true account of the Rodney matter. When she was
burnt she was moored to a gum-tree on an island
off Moorara. A dozen men waded through the mud
during the night of August 20, 1894 (not 1890 as
THREATENING THE IMPOSSIBLE.
SHE: "He said he’d knock your brains out.”
HE: " Oh kid stakes! ’E couldn’t knock
no brains outer ME.”
■“Ess” wrote), and captured 45 “scabs” who were
going to Tolarno. The boat was then burned and
cut adrift. In the case of nine men who were
arrested, 30 witnesses successfully proved an alibi.
A second lot were run in, and they, too, got clear.
Thomas Bonner was eventually given seven years
on a charge of firing the barge, although he was not
within 100 miles of the flare-up. However, that
made no difference in those days, when it was a
crime to be a shearer.
THE TRAIL OF PRAWNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gloom of beers that no one shares
Lurked blackly in my mind ;
I wandered with a heart that longed
For converse with my kind.
I wished to march in festive song
With some kin spirit, who
Would help me wake the sleeping earth,
And make it join us two;
To face the morn when it should break
And sing of other dawns.
Then, in my hour of loneliness,
I found a trail of prawns!
I felt my heart in rapture start;
No more I uttered groans.
“Some festive soul this track has left,”
1 said—“most likely Jones !”
Then, blvthe and gay, that festive way
I followed, prawn by prawn,
As through a maze of dizzy streets
A fretwork path was sawn.
In circles wide from side to side
Of many streets it passed,
Till, holding up a falling lamp,
I came on Jones at last!
Two quarts of stout from pockets peeped,
As if they’d like to spill,
And from a parcel in his arm
The prawns were dropping still.
With joy, and prawn, and stout, the morn
Brought up the cheerful day :
We greeted it with jest and song
And laughter full and gay.
And with the break of dawn the thought
Flooded my happy mind:
The genial soul, where’er it goes,
Must leave its trail behind!
And it may lead the hearts whose need
Is such, to newer dawns,
Tf they, within their hours of gloom,
Should find the trail of prawns.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


! !
an9.B
ADV
AUSTRALIA’S FUTURE!
ITS TRADE, ITS INDUSTRIES.
ONE lesson the war has taught is that Australians must make this country as self contained as possible.
They must build up industries that will employ Australian workmen, in lieu of importing goods and sending
money overseas to build up the prosperity of other countries to the detriment of their own National expansion
and prosperity do not follow along those lines. This country calls for more people, but not more imported goods.
Take the Rubber Goods Trade in the Commonwealth. The imports into this country, during the twelve months
previous to the war, totalled over £350,000 and yet there was
No need for one penny of this huge sum to have gone
out of the Commonwealth, except for raw materials.
The sum mentioned meant the employment of thousands of hands, but unfortunately not Australian hands. The
work could and should have been done here, and Australia would have benefited, and users of Rubber Goods would
have benefited, for in addition to keeping the money circulated in the country, they would have had satisfaction,
for despite the influx of foreign-made Rubber Goods, the Australian-made article has gained ground and beaten
the imported goods for Quality, Workmanship and Price.
There’s not one sound reason why Australians
should prefer imported Rubber Goods!
Quality for quality—and price for price—we, as the largest Rubber Manufacturers in the Southern Hemisphere,
can supply your requirements in this direction, and with a better article and at no greater cost—in fact in most
instances at less than the imported goods. Furthermore, we are on the spot to stand by our reputation for
Quality, Service and Satisfaction. The name “ Dunlop” is a household word in Australia to-day, and it ■is
synonymous with the highest standard in the Rubber World. We manufacture:—
MOTOR TYRES
(Pneumatic and Solid)
CYCLE TYRES
VEHICLE TYRES
TENNIS BALLS
RUBBER HEELS
MINING GOODS
SPORTING GOODS
PLUMBERS’ GOODS
ENGINEERING REQUISITES
WATERPROOF GARMENTS and RUGS
RUBBER TILES—MATTING
HOSES-GARDEN, ENGINEERING, &c.
MILKING MACHINE REQUISITES
Etc. Etc.
These goods are worthy of this country and the workmen that make them. They at present command
owing to their reputation for Quality and Service—a big trade throughout the length and breadth of the
Commonwealth—a reputation they have justly earned, and one we are determined to uphold. This trade can
be doubled if unjustifiable preference for imported wares is overcome. Our Mill workers can be raised
from 1,400 to 2,800 and our annual wage sheet increased from £150,000 to £300,000. It’s a result that you can
help achieve, if you will always specify “ DUNLOP ” branded Rubber Goods, and see that you get them. You
thereby not only help yourself by obtaining a superior article every time, but you help to materially assist in
the expansion of the industries of our Country
ARE
YOU
WILLING?
x£. f • XU
r~ -t
a J > i,
9P
mi
1®
fes
«/
fflgm
W%O/
m
t t T *»»»
WMBiK
3
if
y&m
signs
* " n 11 * « i! » *
- - -
'UNcOP
ÜBB Largest in Southern Hemisphere -Area 5 5 A acres.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD. (Founders of the Fneumatic Tyre Industry),
All States and N.Z.


¥
Wi
\ N
,
m
M.
mmsm
1
Nestles Condensed Nilk
NEW RECIPES FOR THIS WEEK.
ingredients: '/ 2 lb sta ] e baked bread pudding
C “' ran,S ’ ’ - -** !• pin,
— Mj b,tc - -g- '■• °" J ■** -
Bread and Butter Pudding.
METHOD—6 thin slices bread and butter, Y? oz. butter, 1 oz. ,
currants, 2 eggs, 1 pint water, 3 tablespoonfuls NESTLE’S CONDENSED
MILK.
INGREDIENTS—DissoIve the milk in the water, butter a pie-dish, I
and place the slices of bread and butter in it, with the currants in be-
tween each slice. Beat the eggs, add the milk and stir them together
well. Pour this over the bread and butter and bake in a moderately i
heated oven for about half an hour.
ud oing-
: or lemon) to 2gl s w *ter 1 *. * ** les P°onf u l N Fqti i-,
“ d "SSftss
ha,f hours. Wh ha w Uttered Papef’ , Pour Si, a<W 3 *'“»e
-4 done ’ turn :^ n *^z h f z m d °£}:£zii
isu z*r I^nt
ta bL
S\sj
Ss
'l'L‘'bl o,'.’ J ' es f^ s - 3
°°<l
k
s Pr
a Prj
y of Hesti'?,:
L.
/Co t
o r / Cor ide n °* S
ev
e/i/
Op/3
? u f?a
a/jc/
o/ e
0/3
Of/
U/3f//
'or
on
2'>c/
e Pa
°Uf
s //r
£o//
r ec/
0/3
( '/3
op
*nd
Pap
: s oupf le
V '^oVtu d: Mix the s , * ° f ,
&7htV sC^b lr r“"*S |'/, r “»Su I
whites of p eaten yolks° rb *j d • Then j * nd a,/ I
and stea ggs * Pour nd *he stiffl co °h J!*
£•"» «»ce 8 f»"‘°,* i
Serve with 8
nestles
CONDENSHF
e
!'r /*
BRAND
min
CONDENSED o['0 [ '
SWISS
VEVey
Sydney
London
“Billy T.'s" dale of a Bad Man :
I was walking up Bourke-street with my Jong
friend, Captain Iline, of the tramp ship Helen. Iline
was never a demonstrative seaman, hut to-day he Had
taken his drink in the shadows, and oppression sat
upon his brow like an undertaker’s horse. Suddenly
he stopped in his long- stride, and stood gazing- at
a lean Asiatic who dawdled on the kerb humbly offer-
ing fragile silk handkerchiefs for sale. Captain
Hine took two strides, and wound his large, mari-
time hand in the ear of the pedlar. The coolie
burst into a splutter of unintelligible invective.
“Be damned!” was all ; Captain Iline said, and bo
restored his pipe and went smoking- down Bourke-
street again, towing his captive, whose language, if
comprehensible, would have corrupted the town.
Captain [line found a policeman and explained.
“Nigger sailor off my ship,” he said. “Infernal
scamp ran away. I sail in the morning. Must take
the blackguard. My company is up against a £2OO
fine.” “Blear liar!” squealed the coolie. “Nev"
see. Not know. No come out ship me. Blear
liar.” “Will you tow him, constable, or will I?”
said Captain Hine. The discolored brother was
borne off,' reviling the “blear liar” in odds and
ends of 11 languages. That night I met Captain
Iline, and lie was his old, happy self. “If a captain
loses a nigger in an Australian port his company has
it into him a yard,” he said. “The fine’s
a corker. I simply had to have that coolie
back.” “Well, your luck was good,” said I.
“Why, you ran right into him!” He shook his head
and winked. I am told that this is how it's done
ill many eases.
Commenting on George Reid’s attempt to
boom Australian meat at the. Front in
France, the Age suggests that, after all, the
High Commissioner’s destiny may be to act
as sandwich man for Australia. It won't pay
-—far too much meat in the sandwich.
“Skeeter”: Allegations about the preva-
lence of child-slavery in the cow districts
have my hacking as a school-teacher. One
hoy told me, when I remonstrated with him
for sleeping during lesson, that before com-
ing to school he had gathered between 30
and 40 rabbit traps spread along a line of
nearly a mile, collected and made his catch
ready for the carrier to take to town, milked
live cows, drawn a load of wood and a cask
of water, and walked to the post-office, 11
miles away (father wanted the horse). On
the way lo school he dropped his traps and,
after school, on the way back, -set them.
Later lie penned the calves. Early tea. and
then to the traps again for the* sundown
catch, the most important of all. When lie
go! hack he did home-work if lie had a.iy,
and if not tin' lazy young animal went to
bed for a few hours.
From “Rosna,” in London :—-
The infant London A.V.A. lnid a party the other
night for prominent Maorilanders on this side, the
chief guests being, as far as I could see, Rosina
Buckman, G. B. Lancaster and Private Wellington,
Corporal Auckland, and Lieut. Dunedin, the last three
all war-scarred. It was a jolly little revel
held at the Palace Hotel, Bloomsbury, with supper,
and a speech and song or two. The Buckman star,
with her new grand-opera honors thick upon her,
contributed, and High Commissioner Mackenzie said
a word or two—which was mighty sporting- of him,
since his son had just reached here from the Darda-
nelles, hopelessly blind. The plucky youngster, an
unassuming trooper in a Maoriland battalion, had
to walk five miles to a hospital ship, and when he
reached Egypt his eves were so injured by concus-
sion that they had to be removed. He didn’t men-
tion he had a High Commissioner in the family, and
it was only when a cable of inquiry reached' Cairo
that his identity was discovered.
“Compulsory service is contrary to the
genius of the British race,” says the party
or muddle and drift portentously. But lis-
ten to William Elliott (the best living-
authority on the history of certain English
counties) —-
A thousand years ago, and for centuries after
that, every able-bodied man between the ages of 16
and 60 was subject to compulsory military service.
Landholders had to appear properly armed, but the
poorer sort made such provisions as they could.
The Bulletin doesn't know for certain
what “the genius of the British race" is ; it
merely knows, on the highest authority,
that, when the British race was making it-
self great it not only had to come and carve
—it had also to provide the knife and fork.
“Mark C.”: What is the most numerous
Australian family? There’s one in Youa-
rang (Vic.) which a week or so ago cele-
brated the christening of the twenty-second
child. I’m solemnly assured, too, that there
is a family at Euroa (Vic.) 33 strong, and
that nineteen of the hoys are footballers.
Andrew Fisher lias further explained his
doctrine that a Tory Government should
appoint none but a Tory to be High Com-
missioner. Listen
Positions in Great Britain are filled from the pre-
dominant party, and to say that this was spoils to
the victors was absurd. It was proposed to follow
the same system as under the British Constitution.
What in the name of the sacred gumtree has.
the British Cons’toosliun got to do with the
appointment of G. Reid or ? Andrew
was a miner. Now what would Andrew
have said if a Eat mine-owner, wanting a
mulloeker, had asked Andrew what his poli-
tics were, and on finding that they were
Labor had said that that fact debarred him
from the job under the Br’ish Cons’toosliun?
“Galvin”: Surely the official description
of Peter Lalor, quoted by "Kettledrum” (B.
30/9/T5), must have been wrong. I was in
Ballarat during the great deep-alluvial
boom. Peter was a director of one of the
big Creswick mines, and I, who saw him
frequently with his friend Tnomas Drum-
mond Wanliss, proprietor of the Ballarat
Star, would reckon him as about oft. Oin.,
and not the sft. Min. of the official descrip-
tion. I frequently saw him, too, in the
Chair of the Assembly, and lie always ap-
peared to be a big man in every way,
whether sitting or standing. But what I
remember most about him was the tremen-
dous strength of his jaw. Had lie gone to
South America instead of to Australia that
jaw would have made him the dictator of
some republic of his own creation.
From London :—-
The diary of the Rev. Bobby Kuopwood lias just
been dug up out of the dust. Fragments of it,
copied long ago in llobart, were printed by the Vic-
torian Government in 1879, in a collection of early
records edited hv the late .T. J. Shilling-law. The
man who did the transcript in Tlohart was a rela-
tive of Colonel Collins, the Governor, and that tnav
explain why lie turned a blind eye to the pages
in which Parson Bobby with brutal candor recorded
the relations between Collins and the best-looking-
of the female convicts. In the hitherto-missing pages
Bobby describes a violent scene between Collins
and Lieutenant Lord over an attractive lady-convict
named Mrs. Powers, who was the Governor’s favorite
at the time, a member of his establishment and a
regular diner at his table. Lord threatened to
knock Collins down and then “kick him for falling”;
lie also accused Collins of “keeping Powers as a
pimp,” and used a variety of other language cal-
culated to lead to riot and confusion. Bobby also
mentions that Collins sentenced a soldier to 200
lashes for drinking with a convict on the very dav
that he himself was entertaining- Mrs. Powers at his
own table, lie adds that the soldier and the convict
received 100 lashes each- —a division of the awarded
punishment. The streets in Melbourne and Hobart-
named after Collins seem to be. in urgent need of
rechristening.
Colonel Moore, a Melbourne surgeon, has
succeeded iu supplying an Australian sol-
dier with a new face. Most of the old one
was lost in the Dardanelles.
After all, the mostly-Tory Victorian shire
councils are not entirely hopeless. The other
day the Kara Kara council, consisting
chiefly of hardshell Mallee fringers, had be-
fore it a proposal to go to the Government
and cadge £4OO for some job or other. When
this was urged one councillor upended him-
self and remarked that as they had previ-
ously carried a motion asking the Govern-
ment to economise, it was tough hide to
pass the hat for money. The other coun-
cillors said that that seemed reasonable, and
threw the cadging resolution in the tire.
From Jas. Stewart, of Windsor (N.S.W.) :
Re “Itan’s” par on Queensland’s water-diviners.
The real Mackay can be found, hired or inter-
viewed any day in this district. Young- Charlie
Nicholls is 12 years old, and when looking for water
he extends his arms and walks about the country.
As soon as he comes across, or travels with, under-
ground moving- water, his arms are drawn down to
his sides. He has located 20 wells without a
.failure. True, h.e hasn't been tested on ground that
covers streams more than 40ft. down, but then 30ft.
is the limit for a common or garden pump. If
anyone doubts this he need only carry his doubts
as far as the Freeman’s Reach district, Windsor,
and the inhabitants to a man will relieve him of
them. I am prepared to hand over £lO to any
fund The Bulletin likes if this boy fails to locate
running- underground water, first shot, as far down
as, sav, 35ft., in any part of Australia. No ex-
penses wanted. Now, come on.
Buttons made in France from “galalitli”
are now being sold in Australia. A factory
for the material from which these buttons
are machined was established in the Western
District of Victoria before the war started,
but so far no cards of buttons marked "Made
iu Australia” are on the local market. Gala-
litli (milk-stone) is celluloid. The Vic.
factory makes or made its product out of the
skim-milk which would otherwise go for pigs'
food, and it seems absurd that Australia
should import more pigs’ food when there is
a plentiful supply at hand, ready for treat-
ment by this country’s own wage-earners.
From an anti-conscription pamphlet on
“The Military Menace in Australia” :
An Australian editor, travelling recently on the
Continent, was struck by the absence of men from
the harvest fields of Germany. Women everywhere
were reaping the crops, The men wore busy at
drill. Could one have a better illustration of what
conscription means to a nation ?
Well, the women might rather harvest a
crop of wheat than of widows’ weeds; and
the latter is what Englishwomen hare har-
vested as the result of England's foolish
system of drift and muddle and general
unpreparedness.
THE FAT FLIRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O fat, flirtatious lady,
You must be forty-two!
’Neath lashes long and shady
I glimpse your eyes of blue!
But, though you flash them boldly,
They don't set me on lire —•
I eye your gambols coldly ,
• For soon, I know, you’ll tire.
Yes, middle-age is horrid
To those in love with love I
Though your desires are torrid,
You’ve aged, old turtle-dove.
So, when awhile you’ve flirted,
You’ll silent sit and stare,
Till Demon Sleep has spurted
And drugged you in your chair.
Staid gentlemen of forty
(Polite, safe gallants all )
Re-peet your instincts sporty.
And, when you challenge, fall;
Your ancient fascinations,
They one and all pretend,
Bear modern innovations—
Till you’re asleep, my friend!
When you are safely snoring',
And look your age and more,
These cavaliers adoring
Converse across Ihc floor.
No jealous, youthful patter
Do these old veterans pass ;
They make a friendly clatter,
And drain the whisky glass.
O fat, flirtatious lady,
' Why don’t you give it best?
You're far from Youth’s A ready l
Your beaux deserve a rest!
E'en as you're smiling sweetly
Sleep flits across the floor
And chloroforms you neatly.
Sleep, flirt! Sleep on and snore!
WESTRAI.IA.
JOHN COMPANY.
if only half a head survive
Beneath the soldier’s bonnet,
Some cheerful doctor will contrive
To put a good face on it!


(OPEN)
- „ (CLOSED)
Handsome Figured Oak
“TG3CA”
Adjustable Shutters to Horn, Magnificent Double
Spring Nickel led Motor, Plays H Records at one
m hiding, Speed Indicator, Needle Bowl, Nickel
Fittings, Special Kalophone Taper Tone-arm and
Sound Box.
Price, £22/10/-
The BEALE
KALOPHONE
Talking Machine
BRINGS to your home the most refined, pleasing, yet
inexpensive entertainment, entirely at your will.
Merely by a selection of Records it will provide your
friends an entire evening’s entertainment, changing from
vocal to instrumental music, of all kinds, rendering each item
with an astonishing degree of lifelike purity of tone and
distinctness. Or you may enjoy by yourself when tired by
the demands of your business, the most pleasant refreshment,
of good music—a beautiful ballad ; operatic music by Melba,
Caruso, and all the greatest singers ; orchestral music by the
leading orchestras of the world ; or a comic by the inimitable
Harry Lauder.
IHE BEALE HALO PHONE is not an ordinary talking
machine. It is a scientifically constructed musical instrument,
manufactured to designs dictated by a lifelong experience of
the talking machine trade and a full appreciation of the
fundamental limitations of the ordinary “ commercial ”
talking machine. It has not been designed primarily with
an idea of the great volume of tone, but, whilst having ample
power for the largest hall, sufficient to cause the listener
frequently to remark, “ One would believe the singer in this
room,” it possesses an entirely unequalled purity of tone,
free from scratch and brazen foreign sounds. By reason of
its extremely sensitive reproducing mechanism, magnificent
motor and scientifically constructed wooden horn, it is ;h.
first machine which will reproduce any possible musical effect
—a vocal item with the true beauty of the human voice : a
violin solo with the proper “woody” tones of flie violin;
or band music with the bold military challenge of the brass band.
Be sure and hear the Beale Kalophone
BEALE & CO. Ltd.
Head Office: 41-47 Trafalgar St., ANNANDALE
(OPEN)
(CLOSED)
Handsome Figured Oak
“VERDI”
Double Spring Nickel Motor, Beautiful Brass
Grille. Height 17 inches, Width 24 inches.
Price, £l6/16/-
SHOW ROOMS
136 a-b Liverpool Street, City
232 King Street, Newtown
14 Oxford Street, Paddington
And at
George Street, Bathurst
Summer Street, Orange
Molesworth Street, Lismore
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Armidale
Yass Street, Young
Fitzmaurice Street, Wagga
Argent Street, Broken Hill
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
273 Little Collins St., Melbourne
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane,
and at Maryborough, Towns-
ville, Rockhampton, Cairns and
Mackay, Qld.


4-Cup Egg Frame and
Spoons, pure Silver-plated, em-
bossed border, gilt-lined Cups and
Spoons, 27/6.
Honey Jar ancl Spoon, pure
Silver-plated, richly burnished
Frame, Cut Crystal Glass, 12/6.
Teapot, pure Silver-plated, hand engraved
and fluted, 32/6.
Sugar Scuttle and Scoop,
pure Silver-plated, “Thistle”
design, 25/-
sßSswww
iVAV.fi s
KMVAVAVA'
'VMM Ilf
Nut Dish, pure Silver-plated,
pierced design, complete with two
pairs Nut Cracks, 30/“
Butter Dish, pure Silver-plated white
glass lining, complete with Lid and K ,
20/-
Specimen
Tube, pure
Silver-plated
Nickel Silver,
gilt lined,
richly
burnished,
5/6.
Afternoon Tea Stand, comprising handsome Floral China Dish,
Sugar Basin, Cream Jug, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished, gut
lined, 25/-
Specimen
Tube, pure
Silver-plated,
on Nickel Sil-
ver, gilt lined,
richly
burnished,
5/6.
'sTs—sr
Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, hand-
somely engraved, £2 /10 /-
Presentation Folding Biscuit Box, pure
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, hand-fluted Snell
design, £5/12/6.
Cake Basket, pure Silver-
plated White Metal, handsomely
embossed, 25/-
Serviette Ring,
pure Silver-plated, en-
graved and embossed,
4/6.
m
i/s
mu
A
7/
Luncheon Cruet, pure Sil-
ver-plated, Nickel Silver, Cut
Crystal Bottles, 25/-
Oak Biscuit Barrel, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, richly burnished, with
Porcelain Lining, 30/-
807-817 George Street,
A. SAUNDERS 9 Opp. Railway Station, Sydney.
NYAL’S FACE CREAM
(with
Peroxide)
This daintilv perfumed, vanishing, peroxide
cream does NOT promote the growth of hair.
Non-greasv, nourishing and easily absorbed —
leaves no'shine. Ideal for sunburn, and acts
as a mild skin bleach. Applied freely it will
keep the skin soft and elastic.
Price 1/6 & 2/6 per Jar, from Retail Chemists only.
FREDERICK STEARNS & COMPANY,
358 Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney.
Send 2d. Stamp for Sample Jar and Name of
Agent, i
Made in
Australia.
HHH
THE, GIES REVERSE GEAR.
The GIES is built in three sizes of the enclosed and open type, so that it
is the best-fitted reverse gear for the greatest number of powerboats. It
tlie simplest reversing mechanism made. the few parts it has are all inter
chano-eable as they are iig made to accuracy. High-grade materials and fust-
class 8 workmanship, combined with right design, make the GIES the most depend-
able reversing tte market. they are the result of
•o vears’ experience in building reverse gears exclusively. Over
30 000 satisfied customers are our best recommendations.
HEALERS: We wish to secur responsible dealers whereve
we have no representation. We feel certain that leliable
importers will want to represen 1 : the GIES line, once they have
investigated its merits. The GIES offers any dealer a com-
plete line of reverse gears to fit any make of
priced and widely advertised, th ■ GIES will be a quick-selling,
money-making line to handle. Write for our "jecjal _
proposition to-day.
GIES GEAR CO., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
GIESGEAR,
DETROIT.
fdh
“AustreJievn Made
A
Combs,
2/= each.
Cutters,
6d. each.
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, Sydney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARING CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
i sh
$
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2,tin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POST HD
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
*
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
tiENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ARABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.” . . ,
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
anv Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred .Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/-and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
m,
m
Do YOU fully realise what the
“UNIVERSAL” Machine does?
The “Universal” Drafting; Machine
is adapted to all forms of drafting—architectural, mechanical, structural,
man work and surveys. Thousands are in profitable use in every civilised
country in the world. In Australia we have the. Victorian Railways and
the leading Mining and Engineering Companies using them successfully.
You do better work with a Drafting Machine, because you are not repeatedly
distracted by handling and changing tools and watching their alignment. You
are thus able to concentrate your mind—put in your lines just as fast as
you can think them out.
Besides the speed gained by concentration, the Drafting Machine saves 25 to
50 per cent, in time through mechanical convenience. Summed up, the Uni-
versal Drafting Machine takes the drudgery out of drafting, makes it quick
lasy and—by giving you a chance to give more and closer attention to what
you are drawing—it improves the work.
We devote 14 pages in our Big, 532-page
Book of Engineering Tools and Supplies, to
the Universal Drafting Machine. If you
ire interested and cannot call, write, men-
ioning your business, and the Book will be
Mailed Post Free.
McPhersons)
Proorietarv Ltd.
554-66 and 582-88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.


REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
TkNational Bank of Australasia
LIMITED.
The Balance-sheet of the Bank as on 30th September last, and the Profit and Loss Account for the
Half-year which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
The net profit, after deduction of all expenses, including £10,539/18/6 for Note, Income and Land
Taxes,
Amounted to . . .. .. •• •• •• •• •• •• •• £81,481 4 10
Add Balance brought forward from previous Half-year .. .. .. .. 27,894 14 3
Leaving available
Which it is proposed to appropriate as follows: —
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £565,000)
Reduction of Bank Premises Account
Grant to Officers’ Provident Fund
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares
Carry forward
£109,375 19
£20,000 0 0
5,000 0 0
3,000 0 0
10,702 6 0
41,735 8 0
£80,437 14
28,938 5
1
0
1
£109,375 19 1
During the half-year a new City Office was opened in Equitable Buildings, George Street, Sydney, and
the Branches at Cressy and Goroke, in Victoria, were closed. Agencies were opened at Big Brook and
Corigin, in Western Australia, and that at Glenrowan, in Victoria, was closed.
In terms of the Chairman's intimation in the course of his speech at the Half-yearly Meeting in May
last, shareholders are asked to concur in the Directors’ proposal that the Bank’s future contributions to
the Officers’ Provident Fund shall bear a fixed relation to the salaries of the staff from time to time, and
be included in the current expenditure of each Half-year—a desirable reform recommended by Mr. E. J.
Stock, the actuary of the fund.
The number of Officers who have enlisted in the Commonwealth Expeditionary Forces is 178. Of
these 9 have unfortunately been killed in action, 13 wounded, and 18 invalided, viz.:—
KILLED. —Major E. F. D. Fethers, Sergeant H. Bick, and Privates D. M. Anderson, K. R. Brown,
11. R. C. Currie, C. V. Down, K. Harrington, V. B. Reid, and J. G. Turnock.
WOUNDED. —Compy-Sgt.-Major R. Hemingway, Sergt. J. E. 11. Swain, Corporals IT. R. Donnelly,
H. J. Johnston, D. A. McLean, L. T. Paroissien, and Privates F. M. Blackwell, D. H. Brooke,
D. C. Johnston, J. A. Lennie, P. Loxton, J. F. Shawe, and H. W. Trethewey.
INVALIDED. —Capt. John Walstal, Lieut. D. Duff, Sergt. W. A. Luke, Corporals D. Carmichael
and J. W. Kellow, L.-Corpl. R. W. Fincham, and Privates E. R. Etherton, E. 11. ICernot, H. N.
' King, W. D. King, J. E. McPhee, W. Thompson, and B. G. Walter.
In addition to the above there are 7 officers on leave of absence for the purpose of service with the
Commonwealth Military Forces in Australia.
These numbers are equal to about 22 per cent, ofthe Bank’s Staff at the outbreak of the War.
During the half-year the Bank’s contributions to the Red Cross and other War Funds have amounted
to £2200.
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Bank, Collins Street, Melbourne,
on Wednesday, 3rd November, at noon.
By order of the Board of Directors,
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Head Office, Melbourne, 21st October, 1915.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
For the Half-year Ended 30th September, 1915.
(Including London Office to 28th August, 1915, and Western Australian Branches to 13th September, 1915.)
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
To Proprietors’
Capital—
-30,578 preference
shares paid in
money to £lO
per sha r e,
£3 0 5,7 8 0 ;
238,488 ordi-
nary shares
paid up to £5
per slia r e,
£1,192,440 ..£1,498,220 0 0
To Reserve Fund
Account . . 545,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss
Account .. 109,375 19
85,282 10
851,670 15
626,525 10 S
To notes in cir-
culation
To hills in cir-
culation
T o Government
Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest, £26,4 87
10/-; bearing
i uteres t,
£600,038/0/8
T o Other De-
posits—-
Not bearing
interest,
£4 , 0 2 2,5 4 4
19/9; bearing
£5,9*15,255/1/11 9,937,800
T o interest ac-
crued and rebate
on current bills
To balances due to
other banks . .
121,857
317,098 15
£2,152,595 19 1
0 7
9
£11,890,234 13 8
£14,042,830 12 9
To contingent liability,
contra, £446,750.
as per
ASSETS.
Cr.
By coin, bullion
Australian notes
and cash at
bankers .. £2,899,505 13 S
By Government,
municipal, and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures and funds - 1,017,286 7 1
By bills and re-
mittances in
transitu .. 895,262 8 9
By notes and bills
of other banks 7,029 S 5
By balances due
from other banks 62,018 7 4
By duty stamps 5,890 4 9
£4,387,292 10 0
By real estate, consisting of bank
premises . . . . . . . . 392,489 18 1
By other real estate .. . . 33,406 4 0
By bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision
for bad and doubtful debts . ■ 9,229,642 0 8
£14,042,830 12 9
By liability, in the form of a
guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria)
sold in London, and which ‘ are
being duly provided for by sink-
ing funds, in terms of the Act
authorising their’ issue, £50,600 ;
and liabilities of customers and
others on letters of credit and
drafts, £396,150, as per contra,
PROFIT AND ROSS ACCOUNT.
£99,263 11 7
10,539 18 6
109,375 19 1
To expenses at head office, 170
branches, and 57 agencies
To note, income and land taxes ..
Balance
£219,179 9 2
£27,894 14 3
By balance brought forward
By gross profits, including recov-
eries, less rebate on bills current,
interest paid and accrued on de-
posits, repairs to premises, and rent
191,284 14 11
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
£545,000 0 0
£545,000 0 0
By balance last half-year. .
By transfer from profit and loss. .
£525,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
£545,000 0 0
The customary Auditors’ Report and the Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager, to comply
with the Companies Acts (Victoria), appear on the Official Report.
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
©
N
THE IDEAL COUNTRY LIGHT
A Complete Hou*o
Plant for
£l6/1716
No machinery, weights or derricks. \
No possible chance of explosion. \
500 candle-power light >£d. per hour.
The GLORIA is the Cheapest Light In Installation and
1 Maintenance. No smell.
VNo condensation. No danger.
\ Write for Particulars and Catalogue to
Gloria Chambers, 155 a Clarence St., Sydney;
and 152 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. J
FREE TRIAL GIVEN
m
The Sensation of the
Agricultural World.
as
m
■
Xl
m
m
m
mm£&
THE GREATEST FARM IMPLEMENT OF ALL TIME
The Bull Tractor
Makes horses too expensive to buy or keep. Designed and developed by the
people who put the Big Four on the market.
25 HORSE-POWER; 20 H.P. GUARANTEED.
ONLY THREE WHEELS. NO COMPENSATING GEAR TO BREAK.
DUAL IGNITION—BATTERIES AND MAGNETO. PATENTED IN ALL COUNTRIES.
5000 SOLD IN 1914.
9000 TO BE SOLD IN 1915.
AGENTS (live wires) WANTED IN STATES NOT REPRESENTED.
PLOWS WITHIN 12 INCHES OF THE FENCE.
Bull Wheel and Steering Wheel run in furrow. This ensures sub-packing of the land, and a
loose top.
HALF the PRICE of ORDINARY TRACTORS, and SIMPLEST on the MARKET.
SEND FOR FULL PARTICULARS. HARVEST TIME IS COMING.
Benson Brothers Ltd.
60 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
51 - 53 DRUITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FORD OWNERS
A. Pfanstiehl Master Vibrator will make your motor
run steadily and smoothly; will make starting
much easier; will save you the trouble of trying to
keep four vibrators working together.
iniimjiiiiiiimmiiimiiiiitn
m
r>.
ir f-JrfP
€£> . -ta
s?i
IS
aii
•Tiehl ELECTRICAL;
C R mC V,BRATOP
Pfanstiehl
Master
Vibrator
Increases the speed,
power and flexibility
of the motor; gives
your motor perfect
timing and conse-
quently increased
power. Does away
with missing and the
resulting loss of power.
Reduces carbonising.
The Pfanstiehl is the
standard Master Vibra-
tor. Small, neat, at-
tractive. Measures only
i x 4 x 4i inches.
Heavy black fibre body with lacquered spun-brass
cover. Price, 40/-. Shipped by prepaid Parcel Post,
registered, to any point in Australia for 2/- addi-
tional.
Made by PFANSTIEHL COMPANY, North Chicago, 111.
US A. Orders promptly filled by LYON PETCHELER
and CILLES, Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
r<?
V
BEFORE.
Wr fob
QUICK RESULTS
USE
AFTER
(dPILLfIRINE
Aspiring young Officers should
grow the Moustache —it improves
the military appearance and en-
sures greater respect. CAPIL-
LARINE will induce a full growth,
and give results in quick time.
It is a true Moustache-grower.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG g AITKEN,
‘AHMtJAS
■*S PS9
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—•
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard =
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
•T#
MARBLE’S Safety Pocket
Axe. Practical—perfectly .
balanced—tough and keen. The \
blade is made of best tool steel \
carefully tempered and sharpened.
The nickled.spring-hinged guard is
lined with soft lead and folds evenly
into the handle.
HIM)
MARBLE’S Woodcraft N
Hunting Knife has been
especially designed for
many uses: Adapted for stick-
ing:, skinning or clearing un-
derbrush. A new knife com-
bining the skill and ken of
world’s leading outers.
MARBLE’S Waterproof
Match Box sometimes
a life saver.
See these goods at your dealer. _
Write for complete
illustrated catalog of
MARBLE’S “Sixty
Sporting Specialties."
sent postpaid. y
Marble Arms & Mfg. Co.
611 Delta Avenue
Gladstone. Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address "MARBLE”
Gladstone.
Australian & New Zealand Rep'sent’s
HARRY MOLDEN, Box 1349, SYDNEY
fdh
fdh
Exclusive Agents Wanted
to Sell G asoline Engines
MARINE, STATIONARY AN D
PORTABLE OUTBOARD MOTORS.
2-H.P. PORTABLE.
Write at once to
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
506 CAILLE STREET,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
“WORLD’S LARGEST BUILDERS OF
TWO-CYCLE MOTORS.”
We manufacture every practical type of Gasoline
Motor. Prices Right. Quality First.


HYGEIA
Shaving-
Stick.
In
Hygeia
oil-foam
hard
bristles
grow soft
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. 7 ————.rr— - Send for Catalogue.
BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXIONS
WITHOUT ROUGE.
Ladies who dislike rouge and “make-up"
—and what lady of refinement does not —
often ask what they can do to restore. the
natural velvety bloom of childhood to faded,
sallow, wrinkled cheeks. All such ladies, as
well as those who now have good com-
plexions and wish to preserve them, can
realise their hearts’ desire by getting their
chemist to prepare a lotion composed of
2 07. rose water, 1 dram tincture of benzoin,
and 2oz. flowers of oxzoin. Before using
shake thoroughly, and then apply with a
soft cloth or sponge. When dry brush
lightly with a soft cloth or piece of chamois
leather. If you will do this whenever you
go out you will be astonished at the abso-
lutely natural and refined improvement in
your appearance. This lotion is also excep-
tionally beneficial in relieving and prevent-
ing chapped faces and hands as well as red-
ness due to exposure to wmather.*
POLITICAL
POINTS
PER CONTRA.
HOLMAN: "Here, I’m thinking of giving
you a new alarm dock—to go off at
ten!”
RUNG: " 'Arf a mo'! 'Ow about making a
reduction in me account?”
A Sydney paper last week solemnly
demanded that
If there are any irresponsible outsiders who know
better than the* responsible insiders how to carry on
the campaign. . . .they should be given command of
the naval and military forces.
Now who is this string being pulled for?
Joe Cook or George Reid?
South Aus. Liberal Unionists don’t know
where they are. Ever since they lost the
State elections last March the poor general
secretary, a decent fellow named Freeman,
has been blamed because the organisation
showed its defects alongside the superior
solidarity of the Labor side. Freeman’s
unhappy lot has been worse than the police-
man’s, and now he is told to quit. The
Liberal Union has had three secretaries in
about half a dozen years. The frequent
official changes make the Labor people glee-
fully rub their hands.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Hall: —-
I belong to a Government which, rightly or
wrongly, believes in extending the State’s functions.
Hence naturally the Government hires the
Norton Griffiths syndicate and hands out
£50,000 to the London speculators who are
interested in Great Cobar.
The Tasmanian Parliament has put up
another record. The other night a town-
planning expert brought a magic-lantern into
the sacred Chamber, hung a sheet on the wall
and gave lion, members an illustrated lec-
ture on laying out garden cities. But really
the Commonwealth is much more interested
in laying out the country. What about
that ?
Nielsen’s little business (£-1 4s. a day and
exes.) in ’Frisco has extended itself. A
similar office has been opened in New York,
and P. E. Quinn is in charge. A cabled
report of his remarks on the occasion of the
opening seems to hint that the new agency
was inspired by N.S.W.’s hunger for im-
ports. It hardly seems necessary to assume
that the Yanks will ignore a promising
market, even if that market doesn’t keep an
expensive official round the corner to remind
them of it. What this country really needs
is an inexpensive agent at every corner to
remind it that it ought to be doing a hundred
times more to supply its own wants.
Thomas, the English railway men’s organ-
ising secretary, babbling the other day
against conscription, spoke a bigger truth
than he thought:—
If everybody gave all, the result would be the
breaking down of the curse of militarism.
But it is not the curse of their own mili-
tarism that the Allies are concerned about
breaking down. Their present job is to
break down the German. If they don’t do
it, then the other fellow’s curse of militarism
will get its punch in, and Thomas and other
Englishmen will find themselves called upon
to keep the curse in full blast.
E. S. Keep, president of A r ic. Employers’
Federation, bitterly attacks Labor-leader
Elmslie’s proposal that production should be
increased by adopting the labor conditions
of mining for agricultural and pastoral
property. Says Mr. Keep :—-
Labor’s idea is that you can increase production
and provide employment by increasing taxation on
the land owner.
Labor’s idea is nothing of the sort. Labor’s
idea is that you can increase production and
provide employment by penalising the land-
owner if he doesn’t increase production.
Eimslie’s plan was so absurdly modest, how-
ever, that he didn’t really ask the land-
owner to increase production. He merely
asked him to begin it; the payment of a
paltry £125 a year in wages for every £5OOO
worth of land held would, under his scheme,
save the owner from punitive taxation.
The lily hands of Alban Morley, the long,
pallid, Melbourne barrister, are to take the
Liberal wheel during the next contest for
the Cork) (Vie.) seat in the Reps. The
Women’s National League has finally ap-
proved of Alban Morley; the rickety Lib-
era! machine lias been overhauled for
another burst of speed, and it is hoped that
with adequate lubricating the chariot will
complete the course without breaking down.
That is all that Liberalism may reasonably
expect, however. For his own part, Morley
apparently depends on his record of past
failures in State politics to carry him
through.
•Toe Cook encouraging Young Australia to
acquire a gun :
I sometimes think it would have a tightening-up
effect, if some day a few shells were dropped into
Sydney.
But why wait for the enemy to do this
thing? Why not make it part of the recruit-
ing campaign? Of course a roof would be
blown off and the citizen’s wife and children
sprinkled over the lawn. But then Brother
Cook would be able to call around and rake
his friend off the telephone wire and remark
that, things having been tightened up at
last, the time was ripe to do something be-
sides blow off hot air.
Sydney Telegraph ascended to the top-
most peak of its new skyscraper last week
and wildly yelled that “if anything so alien
to British character as political opportunism
is being allowed to split the Cabinet,” great
would be the disaster. Of course. Oppor-
tunism is the one thing .T. Bull will not
stand, and that is whv Peel (who bolted to
Cobdenism). Gladstone (who suddenly
embraced Home Rule), Disraeli (who
“dished the Whigs” over the franchise),
Salisbury (the gentleman who traded Heli-
goland to the Kaiser and gave him Samoa),
Chamberlain, Balfour and Lloyd-George are
never spoken of. Heaven only knows what
the agitated Telegraph would say if an
Australian newspaper, after virulently de-
nouncing the idea of an Australian navy
and compulsory military training, had later
on the cast-iron cheek to pose as the friend
of these things.
Speaking in the Vic. Assembly on the
McLeod no-confidence motion, Railways-
Minister Mackinnon offered some particulars
of economies in his deDartment. “In De-
cember, 1914,” he said, “we knocked off
360,000 miles per annum. In September
last we knocked off another 760.000 miles.
In the beginning of October 400,000 miles
were knocked oft around Melbourne. While
we are trying to put the finances square we
can’t be particular about a little inconveni-
ence.” On the morning following these Minis-
terial remarks, a daily paper reported that
“while the Railways Commissioners’ special
train was on its way from Ballarat to Mel-
bourne an empty champagne bottle was
thrown from one of the care, near Warren-
heip. It struck a line-repairer named
Michael Quirk and knocked him insensible.”
It will no doubt mean a little inconvenience
to Quirk ; but, dash it all, this is no time
for airing petty grievances—not while the
Commissioners are so earnestly engaged in
attempting to squeeze the price of a few
more cases of wine out of the railway
revenue.
The Vic. Anglican Synod has considered
J,, . totalisator. Dr. Deeper, warden of
Trinity College, moved a vote against
th< machine, objecting “legal approbation
ot the vice of gambling,” and the tally of
the dearly beloved brethren went six to one
in. favor of Deeper and the bookmaker, who
is a, parasite. Randal Alcock, who helps
the firm of James Service and Co. to its divi-
deiuls, was the most emphatic supporter of
TROUBLE INSIDE.
JOE: "Pc careful, W ithelm—I link der verdom menagerie is in dere. too!"
the machine, and invited the clergy to say
how they liked their new allies, the para-
sires before mentioned. Archbishop Clarke
and the Dean of Melbourne both brought
their guns to bear on Alcock, but neither of
them even attempted to explain why it is
better for Parliament to permit gambling
through bookmakers, who are active cor-
rupters of morals, rather than through a
machine, which at most is a passive cor-
rupter. Moreover, according to Anglican
teachings, the bookmaker has a soul to
be damned —by the “vice of gambling,” say;
but the tote has no soul to be in peril of
damnation. Even from the theological
point of view, then, the tote ought to have
the gaitered support which it somehow
doesn’t get.
FIRST THINGS FIRST.
COUSIN JACK (well primed with war news):
“Things he lookin' up in the West,
Billy!"
THE S ECOND: “ 'Bout time they did; Coheir
and Ballarat's knocked, and Broken
'Ill keen on 'all pay—'bout time they
did look up."
At a time like this it is well to have a
calm, strong man at the head of affairs.
Such a one is Victoria’s Health Minister,
J. Dry Brown. The State is afflicted with
an epidemic of meningitis, and the tale of
deaths, averaging 34 per cent, of those
attacked, is now well over 150 ; but Brown
remains calm. The Health Board, which
has been threatened with reform by three
successive Premiers, avers it has no power
to do anything; and the military authorities
are dealing with their own cases with their
well-known incompetence. In these circum-
stances Dry Brown opines that it would be
better if the press was muzzled, so that it
could not tell the public about the preval-
ence of the disease. Then the public would
make no fuss and no wearied Minister or
official would be harried into doing anything.
play with. Anyhow, if when investigating
the explosive character of certain gases a
student had his nose blown off, thai would
be his funeral. But when a politician mon-
keys with commercial transactions and
blows a gaping hole in the national eashbox,
that is the public’s little trouble. Suppose
little David had fractured his own pocket
with these experiments, would he still be
keen about going on?
The S. M. Herald lays down the law: —
If there are to be combinations these combinations
should be combinations of producers for self-protec-
tion. If prices are to bei controlled they should bo
controlled in the interests of those who mine the
metals, and not in the interests of those who use
them.
It’s a fool of a rule that can't be applied
all round. Employers are the users of
labor. In controlling wages the users’ in-
terests should not be considered. Therefore
in future “arbitration” matters affecting
wages The Bulletin invites the Herald
to he consistent and say that wages should
be fixed in the interests only of the laborers.
If it isn’t prepared to apply the rule to the
miner, the Herald had better throw it over-
board so far as the mine-owner is con-
cerned. It is a rotten rule, in any case, and
overboard is the best place for it.
“Copabella” from the little ohice at the
back :—•
We storekeepers are now buying toys fov Christ-
mas. A year ago the local patriots said exultantly:
“No more German toys after this year!” and we
began to look round for something to take their
place—Australian for choice; British, anyhow.
This year we’ve got them —from Japan. And
what ? The same gaudiness; the same flimsi-
ness; the same spring that winds once (when
the salesman does it) ; the same variety;
and cheaper than ever. Travellers show their sam-
ples in pieces ; and if a careful salesman can't keep
them whole even while he is selling them, what will
the children do? They are economic crimes, these
toys, every one of them; unsatisfactory to the
seller, Ttrfeatisfactory to the purchaser, and a taunt
and a delusion to the child who receives the
dubious gift. But they’re right up to the moment
—lead A.I.F. expeditionaries ; tin motor-ambulances ;
wooden Australia battleships; cardboard hospitals—
and they’re cheap! What does anything matter as
long as things are imported—and cheap?
William Brooks, president of the
Employers’ Federation of N. S. Wales,
repeated at the annual meeting of that body
an ancient, futile protest against December’s
referendum-poll:
When we consider that on the day the referendum
vote is taken some drama may be enacted on the
battlefield, involving the sacrifice of thousands of
our manhood, the prosecution of this political and
party strategem becomes a crime.
Now will W. Brooks or any of his pals be
at the Melbourne Cup?
Babbling at Bathurst (N.S.W.), David
Hall, State Attorney-General and dealer in
Yankee butter, wheat and chaff, cheerfully
observed that bis price-fixing experiments
were dangerous; “but in no branch of science
was it contended that merely because there
was an element of danger in an experiment,
such experiment should be abandoned.” It
all depends on the experimenter. School
beys are not given the bacillus of cholera to
THE CONVINCING KAPLANATION OF CERTAIN
TREASURERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The State Budget in South Australia shows that
the income for the coming year will probably amount
to £4,328,000. Expenditure is set down at
£4,838,000, leaving an expected deficit of £510,000.
The population of South Australia is estimated at
100,000.
The S.A. State debt is about £35,000,000.
—Plain fcwt-s.
To us the acme of sublimity
Is just to paint the State vermilion ;
And so we face with equanimity
A deficit of half a million.
Though war and drought may cause disparity
Between incomings and outgoings,
The murky Future takes on clarity
When we arrange for further owings.
This war, that Time’s deep stream is bloodying,
Brings us not doubt nor hesitation;
Our simple methods are worth studying
By all who would “finance” a nation.
Wo first take years of great prosperity,
And count their revenues as normal- -
And then put down, with much celerity,
“Expenditure”—but this is formal,
Because—by some most strange perversity,
Or outside factors left unheeded—
1 n days of affluence, or adversity,
We find that estimate exceeded !
Whereas the revenue, so essential
To Treasurers, power and place enjoying,
Is often sadly differential
And unexpectedly annoying!
This Ancient Problem was confronted,
And, after anxious meditation,
We solved it in a way unwonted
Which, ive think, meets the situation.
This is our modus operand*,
Which outworn methods made a sport of
And knocked the old-time bankers bandy:
We always borrow what we're short of !
N.S.W.
O.C.C.


Ajnbrcu* Piatt
Novels of
the Turf.
A few of the Sporting
Novels in the
r
EROS?
B
. oy - - -
FAGAR - -
“Bookstall” Scries of Australian Books.
1/- each —All One Price 1/1 posted.
“WOLAROPS CUP” by Ambrose Pratt
A first-class novel of the turf, which presents a Melbourne Cup winner in the
making, and describes in detail the methods adopted by owners, trainers and
jockeys. The story possesses a powerful love interest.
'PROS! EROS WINS!” by F. Agar
A story quite as exciting as its title indicates. It performs good service also
by exposing much of the villainy practised by' the unscrupulous.
“IN RACING SILK” by Gerald R. Baldwin
A powerful tale of the turf with a strong love interest.
“THE CALLING VOICE” by E. F. Christie
A charming and interesting bush novel, with an exciting racing adventure as
the outstanding feature.
“ I'HE SPORT FROM HOLLOVVLOG FLAT” by Arthur Wright
An exceptionally bright and entertaining novel by the most popular of Aus-
tralian sporting fiction writers.
“THE MARE WITH THE SILVER HOOF” by Bob Allen
“Easily the best racing novel that has come under our notice,” says the Sydnev
Stock and Station Journal.
AN IMPORTANT AUSTRALIAN COOKERY BOOK.
“INVALID & CONVALESCENT COOKERY.”
By KATE HARRIOTT.
PRICE 1/- Posted 1/1.
Miss Harriott has had considerable experience in instructing trained nurses on the
subject °t invalid cookery, and this volume consists of an excellent collection of tried
lecipes. Sickness comes to every home, and the proper feeding of the sick being of
primary importance, no Australian home should be without this splendid volume.
Write to the Publishers for a copy of the just-published
SPRING 1915 “BOOKSTALL” SERIES CATALOGUE.
Ninety Splendid Australian Shilling Novels.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers.
N. S. W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY .
LEAKS IN YODR PROFITS.
'O
Mistakes
fflMSSi
'Laziness
Larelizssness
Forgotten
Charges
Indifferenca
Ask Yourself These Questions:
Does my present way of handling my money protect
me from loss through mistakes?
Do I forget to record cash and credit sales, money
received on account, and money paid out?
Are not my assistants as liable to make errors as I am ?
THINK!
It would pay me to find out how an up-to-date National
Cash Register will stop these leaks and increase my profits.
The National Cash Register Company
of Australasia Ltd.,
Head Office: 119 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
Braaches in all the principal Cities.
I Jfcct'iath
Cool Underwear
at The Leviathan
VjM
ERE are Summer Undergarments of
absolute comfort. Cool enough
for the scorching days ahead—well
worth their price—easy fitting—
and feather weight, with the
strength of heavy woollen.
Every garment is guaranteed unshrinkable
and strongly reinforced—that means DOUBLE
the usual service. Sizes for Tall, Short,
Slender or Stout figures.
Order by Post
a sample suit of this desirable
underwear. State Chest and Waist
Measurements—also Height. AVe
guarantee complete satisfaction or
money back.
We Pay Full Freight
throughout Australia.
/ . \
V
hfd
CREAM CELLNETT.
Strongly made from the
best-quality soft cotton,
open-mesh fabric. “Gives”
with each body movement
—and delightfully cool.
UNDERVESTS, with short
sleeve s—Men’s Size
(36in. Chest), 3/6.
Out Size (40in. Chest),
4/6.
UNDERPANTS, or knee-
length drawers—Men’s
Size, 4/6. Out Size.
5/6.
COMBINATIONS, to knee
or ankle length—Men’s
Size, 9/6. Out Size,
11/-
ATHLETIC STYLE.
M.i <le from a Zephyr-
weight, smooth, soft white
cotton fabric with a dur-
able linen finish. Cut full
to prevent tightness at
any part, and “As cool
as an Ocean breeze.”
The latest, greatest Under-
wear idea. Try a sample
suit for Summer.
COAT STYLE, Undervests
(32in. to 11 in. Chest),
3/9.
LOOSE, KNEE-LENGTH
DRAWERS, 3/9.
Zh
G
evtalAaa
Always Pay Freight
—Mail Order Tailors Ete
Corner Swanston mid Dourke Streets
r>na
The British
Wcs
<■mss
Electric & Manufacturing C? L*?,
1000 K.W. 6 phase, £5 period, COO volt, 375 rpm. rotary, for
N.S.W. Government.
ROTARY Converters.
F rom 1 to 3000 Kilowatts.
The Aggregate Capacity of British Westinghouse Rotaries
installed amounts to over 500,000 Kilowatts.
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84 William Street, Melbourne.
New Zealand Agents: TURNBULL & JONES, Wellington, Auckland,
Australian AGENTS: Christchurch, Dunedin.
WORKS—MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
NEXT OF KIN WANTED.
A NY person knowing the whereabouts of
v\ the relatives of THOMAS McGOWEN,
late of Waingongoro, Brickmaker, deceased,
intestate, is requested to communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE. Wellington. New
Zealand, forwarding copy of this advertise-
ment.
CTMITH, EDMOND, son of Thomas and Margaret
Smith, and brother of the late Reverend Michael
Smith, of Chiltern, Victoria, or anyone acquainted
with his whereabouts, please communicate with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
IF this should meet the eye of JOSEPH
GREINER or any person who knows
of his whereabouts, would he please commu-
nicate with the undersigned and he will
hear of something to his advantage.
E. .T. BRENNAN, Solicitor,
Grafton Street, Warwick. Q.
BILIOUS ATTACKS.
A FORMER SUFFERER NOW WARDS
THEM OFF BY REGULAR DOSES
OF DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT
PILLS.
“I was a very bad sufferer with bilious
attacks and consequent headaches there-
from,” writes Mrs. Annie Sutherland, of
Byrnes Street, Mareeba, Q. “Seeing one
of your pamphlets I decided on giving Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills a trial, and so
much benefit from their use have I derived
that they are now our family medicine. I
might say, that since undergoing a course
of this remedy I am entirely free from all
bilious symptoms, and I am never even
troubled with headache now, as I find a pill
or two taken regularly wards off any repeti-
tion of my old complaint. You have my
consent to publish this testimony. I have
been a resident here eight years, and highly
recommend your medicine personally to my
friends, as is well known.”*
For Sale.
SHOWMEN and Amusement Caterers —For Sale,
Cheap, 11 handsomely constructed Sterephone Slot
Machines, Phonograph Music and Pictures; also, 16
Silver Bell Machine. All in good order and fine
furnishing. MILLER. Printer, Post Office Place,
Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The first day of the V.R.C. meeting should
be full of valuable information for Cup punters if
the Derby is a fast-run race, and the most fancied
of the entrants have a go "for either the Melbourne
Stakes or Hotharn Handicap, the latter being a test
race in which more than one subsequent Cup winner
lias been sent to earn a penalty. But the Derby,
however it may eventuate, is not likely to bring' the
winner into first favoritism for the Cup on Tuesday.
This is not a year when any three-year-old weighted
at 7st. 61b. will be preferred to the older “ehucked-
in” horses, provided that they are fit and fancied on
the day. Besides, Cetigne is already placed on the
7st. 91b. mark, and if the son of Grafton beats "Wal-
lace Isinglass again, with Westcourt, Panacre, Pat-
robas and others in the rear, it will be at least 12
to 1 against a three-year-old capturing the Cup.
This writer, however, expects Wallace Isinglass to
do the trick on Saturday, and start at less than 10
to 1 for the Cup. “Baron” Brown’s colt was not
quite ripe at Randwick three or four weeks ago.
Probably he will do better at Flemington, and prove
himself a stayer when he is asked to go two miles.
At time of writing, the six nags that had most to
say at the finish of the Caulfield Cup look likely
to include the winner of the rich Melbourne ditto
—Lavendo, William the Silent, Cyklon, Garlin, Repu-
tation and Patrobas. Three of them were in the
first four at the finish of the Metropolitan, but one
of these—Garlin—is apparently a non-stayer, so he
may be counted out. Also Reputation (Bst. 101 b.)
is open to the objection that he has to carry a
rather heavy burden for his size, and is quite as
unfavorably situated as Mountain Knight (9st.) and
St. Carwyne (Bst. 131 b.). The top-weights will be
up against some very hot stuff this journey.
The only thing to be said against Carlita (Bst.
41b.) is that she has run her best in long-distance
races when allowed to lead all the way, and even
Bst. 41b. is a trying weight for a pacemaker in
a Melbourne Cup. The time for the two miles last
year was 3min. 26sec. Of the likely other ones
that didn’t run in the Caulfield Oup the writer
prefers Naxberry, Marculfus and Lempriere (a very
likely one) to the mucli-talked-of Christian Brother.
Marculfus (7st. 41b.) has been backed for as much
money as Christian Brother. On his best perform-
ances he looks a very dangerous candidate. But he
is undoubtedly a difficult, sluggish animal for a 7st.
41b. jockey to ride.
As for the well-proved chances —Lavendo (7st.
131 b.), Cyklon (Bst.) and William the Silent (7st.
21b.) —William promises thus far to be just as
sound on Cup day as the other two, or not more
unsound. lie ran like a plucky little horse at
Randwick and Caulfield, and if he should happen
to be in better nick next Tuesday nothing but bad
luck can stop him. William the Silent is a reason-
able tip for a win outright. Wallace Isinglass is
worth backing for a place, on the assumption that
the colt’s A.J.C. Derby running was wrong.
“R.L.F.” : Another little lot to add to the
list of coincidences. On Saturday, October 16, at
Caulfield, the first and second horses in the second
race. Belgian Consort and Irish Comedy, figured as
five and six on the card. In the Cup, Lavendo
(Ist) and William the Silent (2nd) were 14 and
15. In the Steeple, Highland Clan (Ist) and Expia-
tion (2nd) carried the numbers six and seven on
their respective saddlecloths; while in the last race
Fidelio (Ist) and Linass (2nd) were together on the
card as 12 and 13. And yet we can’t pick winners.
A.J.C. (Sydney) notifies tlie cutting down
of prize-money for Villiers Stakes from £lOOO to
£BOO and for the Summer Cup from £l5OO to
£l2OO. These are the principal events at the
Band wick Summer Meeting. Also, the Westralian
Turf Club reduces the value of the Perth Cup
from £2OOO to £l6OO. There’s more to follow
before the war-beast is hamstrung'.
* * * *
Capital has sustained a nasty blow in
Adelaide. A man with a few pounds ready cash can
buy winning- totalisator tickets on the racecourse for
a shade under their value, winners often liking to
avoid the crush and the waiting at a pay-out win-
dow. The 3d. or 6d. difference is generally regarded
as a commission for collecting, but in fact and in
law it is not so, but profit on a purchase. A
bought B’s Devron ticket—announced as winning
235. 6d.—for 235. 3d. Before he could collect a
warning flag went up, pay-out clerks said “Wait a
bit,’’ and presently Devron was disqualified. A
claimed return of his 235. 3d., but B said “No,"
and a Court has said “No,’’ too. Reckoning on a
small profit, it said, but one that seemed to him
sufficient, A had bought a piece of paper, with all
rights attaching to it —if any. It was a straight-out
sale and purchase, and that ends the matter.
“Moana” : Tlie tote has a good chance of
collapsing under the weight of the cash it will be
asked to carry on Warstep in the M.L. Cup early in
November. The faith in the mare for the big event
is almost pathetic, seeing that she will be asked to
hump 9st. 51b. over the two miles. What most
impresses me is that Warstep’s half-brother, Snub,
from the same stable, can sprint and can stay, and
that he got into the race at 6st. 7/6/ He has since
been handed a penalty of 71b. for winning the Dune-
din Guineas, but even with that will go to the post
carrying nearly 21st. less than his brilliant half-
sister, and he will find that allowance mighty handv
at the business end of two miles. Snub is worth
risking money on. If you back Warstep and she
wins, you might get 19s. 6d. back for your £1; but
if Snub lands the bacon for you there will be some-
thing waiting at the tote worth doing a songandance
about.
**•*«•
‘'Gosh": So stupid in liis work and un-
couth in his habits was Denis O’Murphy, recruit,
that the camp authorities, in desperation, fired him
out. Directly his mother heard of the ejection she
put on her bonnet and shawl and caught the first
’bus for Victoria Barracks. “What’s this I ’ear
about me bhoy Dinis?” she angrily demanded as she
stormed the inquiry citadel. The alarmed attendant
summoned the boss, who attempted pacification.
“Yes, yes, madam,” lie said in a soothing sort of
fashion. “Er—Private O’Murphy—ah—the truth is,
Mrs. O’Murphy, your son is—well—er—-rather dull
and—er—illiterate, so to speak.” Relief glowed
over her face like a December sunrise when she saw-
how simple the misunderstanding was. “Illiterate,
yer say!” she exclaimed amiably. “No, no!
Patrick ’is father (rist ’is sowl!) an’ me was married
11 years before Dinis come. Ye’re thinkin’ uv
M icky.”
Passes tlie famous old cricketer, Dr. W. G.'
Grace, at Eltham (Eng.), aged 67. His death pulls up
a root of the game, for there was a time when W.G.
was cricket personified—“the matchless Grace,”
as George Giffen said of him. His first appearance
in Australia was in 1873, as captain of the third
English NI. Great was the excitement concerning-
him, and at Melbourne, where Victoria was repre-
sented by 18 men against the visitors, 40,000 specta-
tors paid 2s. 6d. a head at the gates during the
three days of the match. At Sydney, after 18 N. S.
Wales players had followed the lead of Victoria and
defeated the Englishmen, seven of the latter played
12 of the home men at single wicket. The 12
made 29 ; Grace then went to the crease, made 28,
not out, and, plus two byes, won the game on his
own. He finished the tour with an average of 39.17
runs. In 1882 the great batsman played in his first
“test” match against Australia (Murdoch’s team)
in England, scoring 152 in the first innings and
nine, not out, in the second. Ten years later he
again visited Australia as captain of Sheffield’s team.
But ’ neither, then nor at any other time was he up
to his best form in this country. During the 36
years, from 1865 up to the end of the 1900 season,
he made 51,000 runs, with an average of 43, and
with the ball took more than 2800 wickets at an
average cost of 20 runs each. He was not a graceful
batsman, but as to his soundness and effectiveness
there, have" never been two opinions. On two occa-
sions national testimonials were given him, one in
1879 (£1500) and another in 1896 (£10,000).
Some items from the career of W. G. Grace: 344
runs was his highest score in first-class cricket
(M.C.C. v. Kent), made in 1876... .In the same year,
for , the South of England against 22 of Grimsby, he
made 400 not out, the highest recorded individual
score against 0dd5....1n 1886 he bagged 10 wickets
for 49 in one innings for M.C.C. against Oxford.. . .In
1876 for Gloucester his batting aggregate was 2622
and his bowling total 124 wickets.... Playing for
England against Australia at Kennington Oval, in
1886, he had knocked up 170 runs when the total
score stood at 216....0n three occasions he scored
over a century in both innings of a match....He
made every figure from 0 to 100. .. .In 1895 he
scored 1000 runs in the month of May alone (he
was 47 years old then) . . . .In 26 different seasons he
piled up over 1000 runs....He played in first-class
cricket when he was 15 years old, and scored 32
against an All-England XI. ; and when he was 53
years old he made nearly 1300 in a season (aver-
aging 42) amongst the top-notchers.
When the 1884 Australian Eleven was in England
it met a team of Lord Sheffield’s. Grace was
one of the eleven, and created some feel-
ing by demanding that the gauge be put over Alec
Bannerman’s and Percy McDonnell’s bats,- despite the
fact that they were branded with the names of high-
class English makers. McDonnell’s bat, spread by
hard knocks, failed in the test, and Grace beamed ;
but that beam came off when the gauge was put on
to his bat, and showed it to be broader even than
the Australian’s.
* * * *
From the annual report of tlie Yic.
Cricket Association: “The season 1914-15 proved
harmonious, progressive and eminently successful. . . .
It was, in fact, a glorious season. .. .and but for
the gloom that has been cast,” etc., etc. Special
praise in the general congratulations over winning
the Sheffield Shield is given to the left-handed
bowler Ironmonger. “Experience,” says the report,
“cannot fail to make him the most deadly bowler
in Australia, and when the war is ended and the
exchanging of trips with the Old Country is resumed,
the probability is he will prove Australia’s best
trump card.” Maybe; but it’s a cruel long way
to Lord’s!
And this tribute: “It is deeply and universally
regretted that death removed the most gifted bats-
man and the most highly esteemed cricketer Aus-
tralia or the world has produced. Victor Trumper
during his brilliant career commanded the admira-
tion of cricketers and cricket patrons in every part
of the dominions.”
T.F. : Central Cumberland cricket club,
which has dropped out of Sydney grade cricket, has
excellent reasons for doing so. Out of 41 active
members the 31st folded away the flannels for the
puttees last week. Better average recruiting, and
claimed as a record percentage, comes from Kelly-
ville, in the orange district outside Parramatta,
where 21 of the 23 members of a local football club
have joined in the rush for the Turk’s scalp.
* * * *
Saturday’s dust-up at Sydney Stadium
between Les Darcy and Jimmy Clabby was almost
wholly one-sided. Except for one round the Mait-
lander held the upper hand all the way and had
he not been too eager the combat would have ended
at the eighth, when Clabby reeled back to the ropes,
his defences down, completely at the other’s mercy.
Of Darcy’s metal there can now be no possible doubt,
for Clabby is a boxer of rare skill, a ring strategist
of exceptional craftiness and holder of a long record
of successful performances among the first flight of
his class in the States. lie brought into the ring
his whole box of tricks, and while he certainly
showed a varied assortment, backed by a fine cour-
age, this writer at any rate is convinced that
Clabby’s tactics over the greater part of the journey
DRIVER TOMMY ADRIAN, swimmer,
note with Field Artillery, 5th Brigade,
shortly going to the Front.
were the worst he could possibly have followed. He
went in wholly for in-fighting from the first round,
and at this the other fellow’s strength and quickness
left his opponent no sort of chance. Thus it went
on for 14 weary rounds, with Clabby mostly on the
run or hanging on in clinches, getting severely
punched and handing back scarcely anything in
return. Then in the fifteenth he uppercut Darcy in
a breakaway, and encouraged by this success livened
up considerably, at least holding his own in two or
three of the remaining rounds. It was rather a
haymaking sort of effort by a man who had been
severely battered, but it afforded sufficient evidence
to show that Clabby’s methods in the earlier stages
had been all wrong. Considerable admiration has
been expressed for Clabby’s skill in weathering the
storm without meeting the disaster of unconscious-
ness, but in a case like this, where the aforesaid
skill didn’t help towards winning, and guns which
might have done so were kept masked, praise of
Clabby’s adroitness can only be regarded as testi-
mony to Darcy’s superiority. After all* Clabby
didn’t pull his gloves on to show that .he could
remain in the ring although beaten.
Arthur Scott, who had not been seen in
the Stadium arena since that decision of his in the
McCoorty-Jeff Smith affair early last year, was back
in his old place on Saturday, and the crowd roared
him a great welcome. Harald Baker, who has been
in the referee’s angle lately, is off to hold a hand
in the Big Game, and hopes to be soon taking a
more one-sided part in the proceedings than he has
been used to. In fact, Lieut. Baker will disqualify
the Turk without the slightest provocation, and fling
him over the ropes afterwards.
Bert Spargo, who inside six months has
battered his way to the top of the feather division,
put all the signs of the Zodiac ov'er Jimmy. Hill at
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday, in spite of the
latter’s advantage of 4-Jlb. and a shrewd head.
Spargo bored in from the start, sending in every
variety of wallop in his catalogue. Hill’s frequent
retaliation was to bang with the left and clinch, in
which position Spargo gleefully tattooed on his
learned friend’s ribs and ear, occasionally varying
the menu of bones by uppercutting half a dozen
times in as many seconds. From the ninth round
Hill’s stock began to slump, and at the end of the
nineteenth his backers were sufficiently satisfied to
pay out. One of Hill’s friends credited him with
superiority in six of the 20 rounds, but Jimmy him-
self reckoned that half a dozen less would have been
nearer the mark. Which proves him to be an honest
lad inculcated with the righteous spirit of truth.
-* * * *
“Bad Australian”: A small, one-sided
squabble over what is termed the boxing champion-
ship of South America occurred in this pueblo last
night, and the following rough translation of the
Los Andes’ report of the proceedings will give you
a good idea of the way in which “el box’’ is run
and reported in this country :
BOX.
El Match, Murray—Priano.
Triunfo ue Murray.
According to announcement, the match de box
between the boxeadors Jak Murray (Norteamericano)
and Ferdinando Priano (Italiano), disputing the
championship of South America, was realised at the
Casino last night. From an early moment the house
was full, so that not a single place remained. Ter-
minated the preparations which the case required,
the pugilists appeared and were introduced to the
public.
Round 1. —After some brief moments Murray,
with a straight from the left, touched the mandi-
bula of his opponent, producing “un clinch.” Sepa-
rated, Murray entered again with a new straight
of the left, also on the mandibula (jaw).
Round 2.—Murray directed a straight of the left
and an invitation of the right (feint), and a for-
midable straight at the mandibula. Priano at-
tempted an attack on the estomago, which was side-
stepped with disdain by Murray, who then entered
with a straight of the right, which touched Priano
very seriously. The clinch being again produced
the men were separated by the referee. Priano
attacked and was again side-stepped with much
asperity, and it was noted at this stage that Murray
had a marked advantage over Priano.
Round 3.—Priano is attacked of left and right
simultaneously many times, which he answered with
very weak blows that gave no result. In this
round. Murray showed his grand superiority, and on
two occasions refrained from hitting nis opponent.
Round 4.—Priano received various straights, and
fell twice, lifting himself with much difficulty. He
replied weakly and Murray managed to secure an
uppercut in clinch.
sth, and last, round.—Priano tried to repel Mur-
ray with one arm, as the other bad been injured in
a fall, and he received several straights and crosses
until he fell nokout. The regulation 10 seconds
were counted, and thereafter Murray was proclaimed
champion of South America.
The encounter in general was devoid of the in-
terest which it merited, as from the beginning the
superiority of Murray’s style was apparent to all.
The conqueror during the whole time demonstrated
the most gentlemanly feeling, even at times to the
extent of refusing to strike liis opponent. The con-
queror was applauded with great heat by the public.
That’s the scrap for the championship of a con-
tinent, and I as one of the public who didn’t
applaud, have to say that the promoters and the
gentlemanly Jack Murray should be handed six
months’ calaboose for the tired feeling they engen-
dered.
* * * *
“La Blanche” : Re Frank Slavin and the
statement that he has joined the ranks in France
(“.John P.,” R. 21/10/’l5), Eugene Corri recently
said of his (Slavin’s) fight with Peter Jackson at
London National Sporting Club, in May, 1892, when
Jackson won in 10 rounds: “I doubt very much
whether any man living would give that fight second
place to any other heavyweight fight.” Corri, who
was in Slavin’s corner, has given a telling descrip-
tion of the terrible blow which nearly settled Jack-
son in the sixth round:—
“With explosive suddenness Slavin seemed to com-
pletely overwhelm Jackson as he forced him to the
ropes. This done, the white man stepped back a
pace and summoned the whole of the resources for
a blow which seemed to spring from the calves of
his legs and upwards to the muscles of his right
shoulder and right arm. I have never seen such an
expression of consummate deadliness upon a human
face as that which spread across the features of
Slavin at this crucial stage. ITe threw himself at
the black man like a battering ram, landing a
terrific punch under the heart which made Jackson
gasp and groan audibly. The blow echoed through
the building. It literally doubled Jackson up like
a shut knife. . . .With characteristic ingenuousness
Jackson let his seconds and all within earshot know
how terribly Slavin’s blow had stricken him....
‘lf he hits me like that again I am done,’ he
gasped.”
If that wallop had been delivered earlier in the
round Corri reckons nothing could have saved Jack-
son ; but coming near the gong Peter had time to
recover, and he never gave his opponent another
chance.
* * * *
“Micko”: Some bloke wants to know if
the sports of Britain are getting war-busy enough.
Well, I dunno, but, strewth! look at this
written by John Murray, editor of Boxing. He was
discussing Victor McLaglen, the bloke who stood
up to Johnson (I dunno whether he got John’s per-
mission or not) for six rounds, at Vancouver, when
the big coon was at his best. McLaglen holds a
commission in an English regiment, which knocks
Murray apparently. Says he: “In some respects it
is a pity that Victor should have felt he had to
go, or, rather, to do him justice, that he should
have been so keen on joining the army. For it '-'ls
impossible to say how the tear may affect his pro-
spects.” I leave it to j T ous—isn’t that the blanky
limit!
* * * »
The Bowling Association of N. 8. Wales
has decided upon its season’s programme, which has
been framed with a desire to do the impossibler—
please everybody. It may work in this instance,
as the portly sports do not worry much about
details, although a terrible lot of froth is blown off
in preliminaries. The difficulty in this State seems
to be that the grass won’t act contrary to the laws
of nature. Hence, instead of commencing play in
a sensible month, such as September would be,
players have to wait until December; and
when other States have half finished their compe-
titions the mother State makes a commencement.
Can’t somebody tell how to make couch grass spring
earlier in the season?
* * * *
Two East Maitland (N.S.W.) lads shone
conspicuously at the combined High School cham-
pionships at Sydney last week. W. Hutton won the
100yds. and 220yds. sprints and K. Harbison the
broad jump (19ft.), high jump (sft. 4iin.), and
pole vault (9ft. lOlin.). Sydney Technical won
the championship with 33J points; East Maitland
second, 21 points. The Maitlanders took the honors
in the junior championship.
THE STRAIGHT GRIFFIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bertha, at the private bar,
Took my order with a smile,
Saying to the boj-s, “Ta-ta!”
As they left her for a while.
Bertha at the private bar
Deems herself a bit of style.
Touts and jockeys, small and young,
List enchanted to her quips ;
Bertha has a nimble tongue,
Dimpled cheeks and pouting lips,
And the jockeys, small and young,
Give her arms audacious nips.
Bertha learns a lot of things
Touching gee-gees on the job ;
When the dead-bird spreads its wings
Bertha bids me risk ten bob.
Oh, she learns a lot of things
From the rowdy racing mob !
She gives me her latest news.
I, too critical and cold,
State my pessimistic views
Re the tale she doth unfold ;
Still I find that Bertha’s news
Oft is worth a bit of gold.
Talking of the Cup to-day
With an air of mystery,
In her confidential way
Bertha whispered this to me:
“Wallace Isinglass, they say—-
Back it—win and 1,2, 3 !”
I replied in accents low,
Accents crafty and subdued:
“Why not tell me all you know,
Give me further mental food ?”
Bertha answered, soft and slow:
“Wallace Isinglass is good.”
Many other tips I’ve heard
Coming straight from “stable” source,
Each of them the deadest bird
Ever raced on any course.
(Most of them had names absurd,
Quite unsuited to a horse.)
Wallace Isinglass ! The name
Lacks the sound of sense or wit ;
Yet upon the scroll of fame
This will probably be writ.
Foolish name! —But all the same,
Like a fool, I’m backing it.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


Taddy’s GRAPNEL Mixture
HIGHEST-GRADE TOBACCO.
■tvs
r •
‘iiif
j»
H
R
1
r -.
; *6 :
Manufactured by
James Taddy
and Co.,
LONDON.
Established 150 Years.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
1/6
PER 2oz. TIN.
Sole Agents for New South
Wales and Queensland
Scott, Henderson (D, Co.,
lO LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY.
OZETTI
Cigarettes
(Egyptian)
are very popular with smokers who
like a high-grade Egyptian Cigarette.
JLhey are fairly large in size (see
02ET
B si
illustration) and mild in
flavor. Manufactured by
TIIE ARDATII TOBACCO
CO. of London.
Owing to the extensive
demand for OZETTI CIG-
ARETTES I am able to
import them in very large
quantities, and at special
rates. For this reason I am
able to sell them at a price
considerably below what they
were originally sold for.
Original Price. Reduced Price.
Per 100, 9/0 Per 100,6'-
Per 50, 5/- Per 50, 3/-
Per 25, 2/6 Per 25, 16
Postage on 100—'
N. S. Wales, 6d.
Actual Size.
Other States, Bd.
My illustrated Catalog will interest all
smokers. Write for a free copy.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ill ..
r m
0 L
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on
SHELL'
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD.
Ask Yourself These
Questions when Purchasing
Has the machine PROVED its superl» ty
ority in open competition ■
is it easy to drive, simple of control and fy
luxurious to ride ■
Does it possess ample reserves of power fy
for all exigencies •
Has it been built to last
Shall I get 20 shillings in the £ value for ty
the money 1 spend »
Ask the man who rides an
Q^iidian
Catalogue D Post Free upon request.
JftNDffMaNtJmNQCd 3
109 Russell St,MELBOURNE.
WHEN YOU WEAR RICNEY SHOES
you can step out into the world with the
comforting knowledge that your feet are
perfectly shod—that the shoes you wear
are the best you could procure anywhere.
The illustration shows a PATENT CALF
OXFORD SHOE, latest perforations. A
High-grade “Made-to-order” style.
Price - 27(6
In Black and Tan Velour Calf,
25/- and 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
hfd
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
•And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
MENINGITIS.
Dr. Bull, the well-known bacteriologist, recently declared
that Eucalyptus Oil destroyed the germ of meningitis.
Some years ago medical men stated in the London
•‘Lancet” that Eucalyptus Oil destroyed the influenza germ.
Bosisto’s
“PARROT BRAND
Eucalyptus Oil
will destroy the germs of Meningitis,
Influenza, Scarlet Fever, Measles
and other Infectious Diseases.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
Take two or three drops of the oil on sugar or in water several times a day.
Sprinkle a few drops on the pillow at night. Inhale the vapor by means of a
handkerchief.
CAUTION. —The public will do well when purchasing to be sure to look
for the parrot on yellow band on top of bottle-wrapper, and to insist upon
having nolle other than Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus
Oil is sold throughout Australia.
•«««
m
/ .
If you’d be completely
satisfied with your
Riding Trousers and
Breeches —Have your
next pair “Lincoln Stuart” Tailored to Order.
You can’t “Go Wrong” in having your Riding Garments
“Lincoln Stuart” Tailored to Order. It’s impossible to get
from us a Material not “All Right,” because we stock
nothing but Guaranteed Stuffs of Proved Suitability for
Saddle Use. There’ll be nothing wrong with the Cut or
Pit, because we know all there is to be known about the
Production of Riding Garments, while over all there is
OUR GUARANTEE TO PLEASE YOU.
UNDER PENALTY OF A FULL REFUND.
Riding Trousers, 12 6; Riding Breeches, 22/6.
Tailored to Order in Khaki Drill, as used by the Military.
A Stuff of Sterling Quality—can hardly be Worn Out, and
Improves in the Wash.
WRITE for Patterns of this and our other Riding Textures.
They’re Post Free, with Catalog, Tapes. Self-measurement
Forms, etc., to any address.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd ,
“Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,”
244=254 Flinders Street
-Melbourne


1
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
IO YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packer & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
“I simply can’t account for this
trouble with my teeth —and I’ve
been so particular to keep them
immaculately clean always.” This
is the complaint of thousands.
It’s just this w r ay, Madam.
You’ve spent your time watching
the highwaymen robbers of tooth-
health—Decay Germs —and for-
got all about their sly, insidious
accomplice, “Acid Mouth.” Acids
are constantly forming in the
mouth. They are constantly
“working.” But they work
“incognito.”
And here lies the danger.
These mouth-acids, unmolested,
unsuspected, gradually dissolve,
and break down the enamel. The
tooth then becomes easy prey to
decay germs.
Look out for “acid mouth,”
that filcher and falcon of healthy
tooth life. Pebeco Tooth Paste
users have a good chance to keep
their teeth for life.
Send 3d. Stamps for sample
tube and interesting test of Acid
Mouth.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
PEBECO is Made in Australia by
O. ARNOLD,
G O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [6
Calverts
iletSoap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing, A healthy sotp
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-takl.- boxes.)
Sold by Local Chem s/s and Stores.
Hade by F. C. Calvert & Co ., Manchester. Eno.
nit
Hg
Incubatßh
©
BROODY HENS for 10/0.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg incubator
will hatch every fertile egg, simple
to use, cannot get out of order. Now
is the time to make money by hatch-
ing chicks with the “HATCHO.”
Price,. 10/6 complete, carriage paid.
Hgg-testers, 1/- each. Agents wanted.
11. Caston & Co., Dept. R.,
40 Hunter Street. Sydney.
I U’©k
fhfuf appear.
'
Mil#
1
LLEN’S (USA)
FAR
GREY
HAIR.
i* 1 ■ » I ' I t I
Mr. H. GRINDELL MATTHEWS (the Inventor
of Wireless Telephony) writes: —“I suflered from _
TISWf. s l c ®S s €^ s |ij|S fatl
y 1 d|
some conditions, or for dejection, tend it'imme-
diately renews the strength of my nerves, and
exercises a stimulating effect M the whole of
the nervous
Mr. ROBERT RADFORD (the well-known|
Bass Singer> writes: —“I have derived the greatest*
J-
o o
. l
vocally relaxed, Phosferine immediately restores
resonance and brightness to the voice, baftishesj
lassitude, and generally tones up the system.* *J
63, Haverstock Hill, London, England.
Miss the talented and charming!
I have used Phosferine with really I
general health. The unusual exertions E
£als make one nervously anxious and j
much induces dull |
n effectually
tonic for
HONORED
-ROYAL
COMMAND
Actress, w
excel
and ex
firsi
lv miracu-
>st effv*:
g in all
r) there
sm
Rflg dreary
to weather,
f order % and
ssity as my
ndon, Eng.
hosferinc
B?pebf>lc will find it as d
164, High Rd., Wo
any inval
mother an
cen,
Mr. B. C. HUCK.S (the w $$
Englishman to “ Loop thsg
eally must express my ap"
PKpe back 1 felt mysilf in a
brought on, no doubt, by thesj
under all sorts of weather co
tour last summer. I had an (?•
becoming shaken. 1 was "*
quite astonished at the beneficial e
the first few doses. 1 am now feel
and ready to start upon a season’s promises to
onsiderabie more arduous than the lasj.”—ll6, Piccadilly
>Lor. on. finglood
At the hands of any Chemist this is what you should obtain
PKOSFERINE is a World-wide Remedy for
Indigestion
Anaemia
Insomnia
Lassitude
Debility
Neuralgia
Loss of Appetite
All Nerve Trouble
Jud 5 to 10 drops of this golden remedy in a wineg'ass of water.
The original and Genuine PHOSFERINE is in buff packages, and be particular to
piotice th' ti is spelt P-H-O-S-F-E-R-I-N-E. Price —1/, 2/6 & 4/6. If you find any diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies send Postal Note to Ashton & Parsons, 408 Collins St. Melb.
flnsarpassedQc
Mia
J#r%
BARNET GLASS
ftOSE
AUSTRfILI-fl/N /vj/qDE
Will not'KinkCrack
BARNET GOISS ROBBER C?L TD
189-93 Swa.nsl'on SK He I bourne
All SHates Sr /New Zealand.
Sj’fjSSS
fcjiimjijvj
hfd
Shave Yourself.
The Gillette Company spend a
fortune every year for blade improve-
ments; experts working the year
round on just this one feature. And
it shows in the blades. Every new
lot is better. Take a packet home
to-day and try them. British made*
Gillette Standard Sets. One Guinea. Sold Everywhere.
W rite for illustrated and descriptive booklet. Mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON. ENGLAND.
[ffllEKKj
«
NO STROPPING , NO HONING
“II.O.” : The statement of the Melbourne
Royal programme that the comedy spirit of
"Nobody's Widow” is “really more 'Frenchy'
than American” leaves my boiled shirt limp
with astonishment. The blatanc-y of the
Yankee and the delicacy of the Gaul are as
unlike as Berlin and Paris communiques,
and this musical comedy without music or
legs does nothing to bridge the gulf. Where
French sentiment is champagne that of the
U.S.A. is ginger-beer; French humor lias
the subtlety of phul-nana and Amurkan the
obviousness of a boiling-down works ; where
one treads lightly the path of naughtiness,
the other stumbles clumsily; and whereas
Alphonse tells a story and finishes it at the
end, or a little before, Cyrus B. Hoggen-
heimer shouts the yarn, and having told it
adds a couple more acts. After the first
half-hour “Nobody’s Widow” scintillates like
a piece of blotting-paper.
“Moana” : During the past theatrical sea-
son iu Noo Yark five plays reached the •"00-
night mark. They were “Twin Beds,” “It
Pays to Advertise,” “Potash and Perl-
mutter,” “On Trial,” and “The Law of the
Land.” “Potash and Perlmutter” headed
the list with over 600 nights; but when the
last mail left it was about to be replaced by
some more of the same stuff with the same
characters under the extended title of “Pot-
ash and Perlmutter Incorporated.”
“Monkbarns”: “Whittington” has been
performed more often in Melbourne than any
other pantomime theme. Two theatres
had it in one season 34 years ago,
the Royal and the old wooden Prin-
cess’s, where the brothers Marshall were
in the caste with Whyte, and Annie
Taylor took Dick. I passed little Ted
Marshall in Swanston-street just a
minute before he was killed by the new-
fangled tram, rounding the Hospital corner.
Ted was one of the three Alehouse cronies in
the original Melbourne- “Silver King,” with
Sefton and Daniels. Freddy Marshall, Ted’s
brother, was a genius, as Titheradge rightly
says, naming him as the only conspicuous
member of Garner’s Comedy Company, which
opened with “Friends.” Fred’s mind went,
lie tried to rehearse Touchstone in London,
with Mrs. Langtry, for America, but had to
give up. His Quilp was astonishing. The
Whittington pantomime was first given in
Melbourne at the Iloyal, during Christmas,
1857. The Leopold Family made their first
appearance in the harlequinade. Fanny
Morgan, said to be Lambert’s niece, amazed
the public as Dick, with an imitation of
Joey Gougenheim (Josephine Geoghegan),
then in the acme of favor at the Princess’s,
with her sister Adelaide, supported by
Rogers. 11. N. Warner, Fawcett and Jimmy
Milne.
After a long spell in Australia following
upon the death of brother Jim, Charles Mac-
Mahon takes the Maoriland road again with
the cino. This time it is an exclusive set
illustrating, as far as the Censor will allow
(and in this case he has given a good deal
of latitude), the work of the Navy. Australia
will see the films after Maoriland.
London Sporting Times, arguing that
financing musical-comedy is a sheer gamble,
gives what it claims to be the correct figures
for one week of the enormously successful
“Watch Your Step” at the Empire. Takings.
£2BOO. Running expenses, £2000: author’s
fees, £430; written off cost of production
(£8000), £2OO. Profit. £l7o—which -a
merely trifling drop in the attendances would
turn into a loss. And 40 weeks to go before
the initial cost of producing is written off!
“Stargazer” : For a time I figured as press
representative with a variety eo., and just
before dead weariness assailed me there came
an infant prodigy, a small girl with a gift
of mimicry. It was this sweet child who
said to me: “Pa wants watchin’. That’s why
nia’s here. Pa is always giving shillings to
actors. He’s so kind to animals.” I asked
her if any of her relations had histrionic
gifts. “Oh, yes,” she said. “It was pa bred
the cow with seven legs. We’re a very
artistic family.”
“Mid-Channel”: If Australian managers
are to be excused for “glutting the market
with Yankee dramatic goods” (B. 23/0/T5l
they are not to be excused for inundating
Australia with Yankee trash. The modern
plays of Pinero (“Letty,” “The Thunder-
bolt,” “Mid-Channel,” “Preserving Mr. Pan-
mure” and “The Mind the Paint Girl”) have
all been big successes in the U.S.A., yet
one performance of “Mid-Channel” and a
season by an indifferent company of “His
House in Order” is all Australia has seen of
the modern Pinero. The reason for the some-
what tepid reception in England of the plays
mentioned is that Pinero has drawn his pic-
ture of the various types of English life with
too deadly an accuracy. The idle rich of
London who live in flats and have no time fc v
“brats of children” are not fond of being
caught at the looking glass unawares. I heard
a theatrical manager say: “Oh, so-and-so is
a beautiful play, but there’s isn’t enough
muck in it for Australia.”
“J.F.H.” recalls the pleasures of the last
great wartime : —-
In 1870 George Leybourne was singing “Up in a
Balloon, Boys,” and “If Ever I Cease to Love.” Tile
latter was distributed in many unauthorised versions.
No song ever written lent itself so readily to local
allusions. The “Great Vance” was warbling “He's
a Pal of Mine” and “Walking in the Zoo.” Harry
Rickards, who had not then discovered Australia and
its Tivoli gold-mines, was giving “Costermonger .Toe ’
and “I Wish I Was a Fish.” “Tommy Dodd” was
having its boom mainly by reason of its rollicking
chorus. The Alhambra that year lost its license for
permitting the naughty Parisian “Can Can,” which
would now be voted almost too dull for a Young
Ladies’ College “speech-day.” Negro minstrelsy was
in its zenith. No fewer than five big burnt-cork com
panies were drawing crowded houses in London, not
counting a. troupe of “Scotch Niggers” . who were
doing a turn in the halls. Salaries were very small.
No more than £lO a week was drawn by men like
Leybourne and Vance. It was not until 187 S that
this figure was raised to £2O, the “great McDer-
mott” securing that sum on account of the pro-
digious popularity of his anti-Russian ditty of
defiance: “We don’t want to tight, but, by Jingo,
if we do.”


PICTURE-RECORDS YOU WILL NEVER FORGET
can be made with the Autographic Kodak
■
i ■
W
m
«■
WBBm
'VHBH
■
IMWiitt
mm
mmm
m
BE ■
HI
iiiiKia
b mm. t
HHH
Wherever you go lor your holiday be sure you
take a Kodak —a holiday is not complete
without one.
You may choose a delightful place; you may
have brilliant weather; you may meet charming
people; everything may go absolutely smoothly;
but unless you take a Kodak your holiday is
soon forgotten and lost forever.
Autographic Kodak pictures keep all your jolly
times fresh in the memory, and are a continuous
source of pleasure.
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/- to £l5/2 -, and you
can learn to use any one of them in half an hour —even if von
never used a camera before.
The 3 A Autographic Kodak is the most popular camera in the
world. Takes pictures postcard size— 5 Jin. x 3Jin. Price £5/19 -
Remember no other camera but the Kodak can be fitted with
the Autographic idea—the greatest photographic improvement
in 20 years.
It is as easy to write your note on the Autographic Kodak as it is
to make an entry in your diary; it is simplicity itself.
If you already own a Kodak you can make it Autographic for a
few shillings.
For example, an Autographic back for the 3 A Kodak costs onl v 15/6.
Full information will be supplied by any Kodak dealer, or
KODAK (A ustralasia) L, X D.
Incorporating' Baker (Si. Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street. MELBOURNE: “The 810ck,”284 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street,
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
HOBART; 45 Elizabeth Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Hinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HIEE: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 3 Come Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 70 Stuart Street.
With Music’s Golden Key
. . . you can unlock a treasure-house of infinite delight
enwrap yourself in an atmosphere of pure enjoyment, and
leave the petty cares of the world while you revel in the
lap of harmony.
But you must have an instrument of merit, and you could
not choose a better instrument than one of our
“ALLISON”
PIANOS.
These splendid English-made Instruments
are unexcelled in musical quality they reach
the highest standard in Piano construction,
possessing a pure tonal quality and a light,
elastic touch which satisfies the necessities
of every musician.
Durable and efficient in construction
specially built to withstand climatic changes.
They are superb in all those expressive
features which critical people expect in the
piano of their choice.
WE ASK YOUR INSPECTION
OF THESE BEAUTIFUL PIANOS.
Mav we send vou our Booklet ?
The British Pianoforte Depot, Limited,
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. WYNYARD STREET).
THE
vvooP
THE
W
©
/
■"’V
'Whe^ure
W* ih(, «~J&and
A Remarkable Pen Picture
of Australian Bush Life
and an Absorbingly Interesting Story.
A full-size novel of 348 pages, printed on a special, light-weight paper, and hand-
somely bound in full cloth, with picture wrapper in three colors, specially painted bv
Mr. I -.ouis McCubbin.
Read what the Age says:—
“An intimate acquaintance with Australian conditions, both ‘out back’ and in the city, is
revealed in ‘The Lure of the Land,’ and it has been turned to good account in the production "of a
genuinely interesting- novel. The picture of the drought-stricken station, with which the book opens,
is impressive in its realism, and the tragic sequel to little Mary Brown’s night ride to bring the
doctor is in melancholy keeping with the sombre prelude. But brighter days are in store for the
self-reliant young heroine, whose unhappy experience in childhood has but strengthened her courage and
resourcefulness: and, bringing her broken-down father with her, she faces the task of earning- a
livelihood in Melbourne. After making a start as a typiste, Mary shrewdly sees the possibilities that
exist in the purchase of seaside and suburban allotments. Her first investment is a modest one or
flO, hut it is the beginning of a steady march to success. Not that the fair student in land valiu-s
is engrossed in the pursuit to the exclusion of other interests, for sentiment has its claims, and heart-
aches have to be suffered before the haven of contentment is reached. The story moves brisklv
throughout, and the numerous people in its pages are all clearly drawn.”
“The Lure of the Land” i.s an attractive book that will please you. We think it
one of the best Australian stories we have read for some time, and can recommend it
to you both for your own reading or to send to a friend outside Australia.
Price Three Shillings and Ninepence
Simply write your name on the mar (fin here, tear it oat. attach ’/6 pen ay slumps to it.
and the hook trill <jo either to your own address or any oilier.
PUBLISHED BV
The Lothian Book Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd.,
100 Fiinders street, EVtslftourne ; and at Sydney.


FOR .. .
FORTY YEARS
Fisher’s
Phospherine
■
US?
\ * ,X
'Ws* ■ * ■■
lias proved itself successful in
the treatment of Indigestion,
Backache, Headache, Brain Fag,
Nervousness and Rheumatism.
It is specially beneficial in
restoring the health and vigor
of women who are worried by
ill-health, business troubles and
family cares. The depletion of
the system incurred by nursing-
mothers is quickly counteracted
and restored by a course of
Fishers Phospherine
The Great Nerve Tonic
IT MAKES ALL THE
DIFFERENCE.
hfd
Sold by all
Chemists and
Stoves, 1/- per
bottle; four
times the quan-
tity, 2/6.
Insist upon get-
ting FISHER’S.
F.99.1\
9
FISHER & GO.
Chemists,
337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
11 so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Trv the great British Remedy: —
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained St any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Kites.
British Prices, 1/1 and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
\V. 11. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, etc.
K
c
INTKTtsTATE Agents.— SYDNEY : Tucker & Co. ;
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co. ; ADELAIDE:
\V. P. Auld & Co.; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co. ; GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co. ;
HOBART: J. Ferguson & Co. ; LAUNCESTON :
J. McKenzie & Co. ; ROCKHAMPTON; J. M.
Heddrick & Co.
SOAPKO
It Surpasses Soap.
Toilet and Motor in
TABLETS.
Household in BARS.
SOAPKO CLEANSER
(in Canisters), BEST and
CHEAPEST on Market.
ALL PURELY AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE.
SOAPKA PROP’Y, Box 685, G.P.0., Adelaide,
Wanted Lady Home Workers
£1 weekly and upwards may be
earned in spare time at home. Dainty,
fascinating work. No teacher required.
Suitable town or country. Send 3d. (in .
stamps) for BOOKLET and particulars of our
offer.
TORCHON LACE CO.,
229 b Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Letters Copied Wwu Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paps^
8$
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
si"-n of copying. 400 octavo Bm. x oin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10J x
81, post free 4/0; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies Sin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester, England.
BEFORE THE MIRROR.
By “JEANNETTE.”
‘‘Jeannette,” the well-known writer on Beauty Culture and author of “The Book of Beauty,”
will be pleased to help and advise any reader on matters of the toilet. Queries should be accom-
panied by a stamped addressed envelope, and directed tc “Jeannette,” c/o Before the Mirror,
43 Gray’s Inn Road, London, W.C., England.
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and all of
us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow over the
lives of many of us women, and while, perhaps, a few the more stoical amongst
us —can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we may all, with a little
care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results of worry from being notice-
able in our appearance. To these fortunate few this little chat will, however, be
as interesting and instructive as to those who stand in real need of help in toilet
matters, and may be the means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown
method of retaining, or regaining, that beauty of face and figure which is the birth-
right of every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present,
not generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Some Hints about the Hair.—An Excellent
Shampoo. —Few women realise how all-im-
portant a really good shampoo is if the hair
is to be kept in perfect condition. To shampoo
the hair properly, shake it down, comb it out,
then dip the lingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil, and thoroughly massage the scalp.
Then, mix a teaspoonful of stallax granules
in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin with
warm water, into which the ends of the hair
can fall, and shampoo the stallax mixture into
the roots in the usual way. Rinse, and dry
by fanning, or in the open air. if the weather
permits. Should the hair be exceptionally
greasy, the oil massage of the scalp should be
omitted. Stallax can be bought at any chem-
ist’s in quarter-pound sealed packages; it keeps
indefinitely, and one package is sufficient, for
twenty-five or thirty shampoos.
A Tonic for Thin or Falling Hair. —When the
hair falls unduly, or has become thin and im-
poverished. a tonic should be applied every
night for six or eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most . efficacious
lotion, at home, take a quarter of a pint, of
bay rum and add to it one ounce of boranium.
Shake thoroughly, and leave for thirty
minutes, then strain, and add sufficient water
to make half a pint. Every night, massage
the scalp for ten minutes, going over the
entire head, then dab the mixture into the roots
with a soft sponge. Regular brushing for a
few minutes every morning will also help to
improve the condition of the hair.
The Question of Grey Hair.—The arrival of the
first grey hair is always a worry to a woman,
for, while silver hair is undoubtedly beauti-
ful. iron grey or streaked tresses are far
from being so, and they are not only unbe-
coming. but a sure tell-tale of age in these
days of eternal youth. It is not generally
known that one ounce of tammalite. procur-
able at the chemist’s, mixed with four ounces
of bav rum, makes a most satisfactory lotion
for restoring grey hair to its original color.
All that is necessary is to apply the lotion
night and morning with a soft tooth-brush.
In a few days the hair will be found to be
gradually regaining its proper shade.
To Wave the Hair.— Never wave the hair with
hot irons—if you value the beauty of your
tresses. The heat makes the hair harsh and
brittle, and in the case of fair or auburn hair
entirely spoils the color, while it undoubtedly
hastens the advent of grey hairs. To give a
wave to straight hair it is only necessary to
damp it with silmerine, and either plait it
tightly, tying the ends, or arrange it in wav-
ing pins for a short time. A couple of ounces
will last quite a long time.
A Greasy Skin anti Blackheads. —A greasy,
oily skin with blackheads and enlarged pores
is a sore trial, and many a girl goes through
life with her appearance entirely spoiled with
these unsightly blemishes, which may now be
so quickly and effectively removed with but
little trouble. To remove blackheads, and
the dull, dirty look of the skin which acconi
panies them, dissolve one stymol tablet in a
glass of hot water. Allow the effervesceucc-
to subside, then dip a small, soft sponge into
the liquid and bathe the face, heave on the
skin for a few minutes, then dry with a towel,
and the blackheads will come right off. For
a greasy skin, bathe the face three times a
week with stymol, and spray with cold water
every morning, using a vulcanite throat spray.
The Secret of a Good Complexion. —The secret
of a good complexion is so simple, that were
it only more widely known there would be
no such thing as a rough, blotchy skin.
Nature has decreed that the outer cuticle, when
it shrivels and dies, shall be removed, but so
manv women fail to realise this. To remove,
by absorption, the dead outer skin, and pre-
serve the complexion in all its pristine beauty,
mercolised wax is recommended; ordinary-
creams and lotions being quite ineffectual for
this purpose. Smear the wax over the face
and neck, rub it gently into the skin, and
leave for the night. In the morning wash il
off using a good soap, such as Pilenta, and
all the dead skin will bo removed with the
wax. Then apply a lotion to remove any
trace of greasiness and brace up the skin,
making it firm and white. The lotion can be
made at home quite easily, by mixing one
ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls ot
hot water. Bottle, and, when cool, apply to
the face with a soft sponge or the tips of the
fingers, allowing it to dry on the skin.
To Remove Superfluous Hair. —Superfluous
hair is the bane of many an otherwise pretty
woman’s life. Sometimes it is due to hereditary
tendencies; with others, it is the result of had
soap or greasy face creams; but be the cause
what it mav. 'the result is always disfiguring
To remove the growth, apply a little powdered
plieminol. First dust the skin with powdered
alum, then mix the pheminol with cold water
to a paste, which should be spread on the
skin with a bone knife. Leave on for two
minutes, then wash ofl. About one ounce
should be sufficient for the most stubborn case.
Powdered pheminol can be obtained from any
reliable chemist, and its use not only re-
moves the growth but eventually kills the
roots permanently. U
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
Fountain Pen
THEY answered their
Country’s call, now
give them the means
to answer their Country’s s
letters. Send your friend on
Active Service a Waterman's Ideal, the World’s
Best Pen. Choose the Safety Type because
it is handiest for the Soldier. It can be
carried loose in the pocket in any position, and
will not leak.
4 Types—Regular, Safety,
Self-Filling, Pump-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Clje |)ctl Center, London, England.
AUSTRALIA-350, George St.. Sydney.
%
m
sm
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
m
lliSllllplllllSlSil
99
gHHII
GUN
\
METAL
_D
c
11 i
KING ST
ton
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. bo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Interpreter: Don’t worry so much about
the imperfections of the other fellow. You should
hear what the other fellow says about you. For
instance, you are fearfully annoyed with him for
talking of the kumera instead of the kumara. and
then you explain that it is the sweet “potatoe. ’. . • .
Llib : Australia isn’t interested in the Chow who sold
some onions on the Sabbath at Rockhampton. .
Sif: Never mind what other people do. What are
you doing?... .Rationalist: This paper has been
howling against the loan horror for a quarter of a
century... .F. 8.: Large, heavy remarks received and
treated with dynamite.... Alivo: Pars, go either in
or out. There isn’t space to acknowledge them... .
Solio: So you knocked off work for a day to write
us “a few thoughts” about the Constitution....
Whip: It sleeps the sleep that knows no waking....
Auto: If you are banking on “a boom following the
war,” you ought to sec a doctor about it. .. .F.P.S.:
Thanks. But why not have a'shot at it yourself?
In dealing with matters of that sort knowledge is
everything. Literary style is nothing, or next to
nothing Hugo K.: “Horroeks” well enough
written, but you give away your climax (such as
there is) in the first paragraph.... Clancy: Good
par. Glad to hear from y0u.... Laurie Foster:
Some good work in your serious verse, but, for the
basket’s sake, don’t try to be funny. .. .XYZ: IVhat
has become of all the long-wool German music pro-
fessors? Don't know. Been the victims of hair
raids, probably.... G.J.H.: Too little meat in
“Supper.” A.G.J.: “See Breeze” is a thin little
zephyr. .. .N.C.: “Passion and the P” too obvious.
....Ben S.: “Gaol” intolerably spread out
T.D. (S.A.) : “On reflection I have come to
the conclusion that my effusion is not suitable for
The Bulletin. . . .beg to withdraw will be
obliged if you will kindly return.... forwarded
stamps.” We wring your hand in silence. •..
Ranner: Thanks for the verses, but can’t reprint old
stuff. It is interesting in a way.'. ..M. Cutts: Sorry
but it isn’t suitable.... J.W.0.: Poem would need
re-writing, and, anyhow, the air is quite dead now.
....Dead Struck: Proceed: — 1
Rudolf R.: It isn’t good enough John M.
(Q.) : Don’t send us the others.. . .H.G.11.: Not
enough punch A.M.W.: If you could fill in all the
blanks it might make a story. Or, again, it might
not. Depends on what you filled in the blanks with.
. ...S.G.C.: Carefully written, but lacks innards
and movement... .R.N.C.: Sorry unsuitable....
L.A.G.: They probably remember the circumstance v
but things like that don’t count in modern diplo-
macy May D. (Q.) : Abdul has been beaten off.
. ...L.A.S.: Can’t reprint.... Sapphire S.: No go.
.S.D. (8.H.) : Too rough. . . .Clyde L. C.:
Nothing enticing in the batch... .T.C.R.: Your
curse is no good. .. .Fernleaf : Plenty of vigor, but
you stumble here and there.... Pittsburg: AVe are
not angry with Unc. Sam. But we are sorry for him.
A nation of 100,000,000 people which is so con-
stituted that while it can remember the Maine it
has to forget the Lusitania is surely in a position
that no one cares to see a friend in.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Eve M.: Wrong in 19 different ways.... Lily M.:
\y e are as hard on careless amateur artists as ive
are on careless amateur plumbers. If you really
want to draw—but do you really want to draw?
E.M.: As flat as the Devil and twice _as dull
AD L ■ So you are the jester who invented the
sheep that was killed because it tried to bite the
sundowner! We’re glad to meet von. Our great-
grandfather knew you when he was a nipper. . . .
FGB ' Yes, there are several ways of looking at a
drawing. If we ever have to do it again we shall
look at yours in. the dark Ceefpy: The drawing
is no good, and the gag has the beer-stains of 10,000
pubs on it, and for your sin in writing a useless
note on the back of the drawing the G.P.O. charged
us Is. lOd. deficient postage.
Few Australians have pursued the dogs
of war so far in recent years as Lieut-
Commander Bracegirdle, reported wounded
in the Dardanelles. He got a start in ISIKS
when he went to China. Then he attended
the Boer war. Each time he was with N. S.
Wales forces. He volunteered immediately
the Hun war broke out, and was ordered to
Rabaul last year. A few months ago he
started from Australia for France in com-
mand of a naval unit known as a bridging
train, but the little force was diverted to
Gallipoli. Bracegirdle’s father is a survivor
of the old Marine Board, and one of Syd-
ney's most ancient mariners.
A SQUARE-DINKUM LOVE LYRIC.
Sing me a nice spooney song, darling,
Sing me a nice spooney song,
A song of sighs and genuine passion to tear my soul
asunder,
Not merely a soupy, sloppy song
Like Shelley wrote when he felt all wrong;
Not a song of milky sentiment
To dazzle my eyes like meat in Lent;
But a fierv, eloquent, passionate song,
To lift me up and cart me along,
And place me amid the deities’ throng •
In fact, a nice spooney song, darling,
Harold S.: Cannot use it. For one thing, it
arrives late, and for another your estimate is too
high for us W.W.: Verses full of knots Ama-
teur: Very!.... John R. (Q.) : The Red Page
has written your fate in green ink. It will he
printed presently. Verses forwarded would have to
be administered with chloroformed beer Walter
D.: Our basket is like Hades —it requires no artificial
filling M.E.F.: The only effective reply must be
written with a gun....Nel Y.: Don’t take off your
mask! Walk backwards into the dark, close the
door after you, and we will say nothing about it. . . .
Bellerive: Put the clock back : —•
Poetic Diary Verses from ■ childhood To manhood.
THE LOST SCHOOL PRIZE
(Recollections of childhood)
’Twas on the verge of Christmas,
And flowers in grand array
Did decorate the schoolhouse
To celebrate the Day ;
I’d proved a slowful pupil
And to my great surprise
I was presented by the master
Witn a gilt edged little prize
Which for years 1 treasured
When by mistake was cast
Into a pile of rubbish
My token of the past;
I endeavored for to find it
Rut my effort was in vain;
It had vanished from the refuse
Of the dust bin in the lane.


The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
THE FORTY-FIFTH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
OF
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
To be Presented to the Shareholders at the Forty-flfth Ordinary General Meeting, to be held at the
Bank, 126 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, at noon on Tuesday, 26th uctoner,
REPORT
The Directors beg to submit to the shareholders then- Forty-fifth Report, au a di g ance - Sheet and
statement of profit and loss for the half-year ended 30 th relate on bills current,
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued p , ,nubtful debts, the
tax on note circulation, income tax, land taxes, and making provision for bad and doubtful elect ,
net profit amounted to .. .. • • • • • • • • •' '' ’' '' g’277 1
Brought forward from Slst March, 1915
Which the directors propose to apportion as follows, viz.
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on preference shares
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares
To Reserve Fund (making it £250,000)
To Officers’ Provident Fund .... • • • • • •
Balance carried forward . .
£35,079 3 5
£10,641 10 9
4,733 6 6
10,000 0 0
1,000 0 0
8,704 7 2
£35,079
:- - lhe
„ lr „ n ° £ thC Boaul ’ SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
Melbourne, 15tli October, 191 o. “
balance-sheet of
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
For the half-year ending 30tli September, 1915.
(Including London Office to 31st August, 1915.)
Dr.
To Capital Paid-up, viz.:■
31,184 Preference
Shares paid in
cash to £9/15/-
per share
77,278 Ordinary
Shares paid in
cash to £1/15/-
per share
£304,044 0 0
135,236 10 0
To Reserve Fund
To Profit and Loss
£439,280 10
250,000 0
25,079 3
To notes in circulation
To bills in circulation -
To balances due to other banks
To Government De-
posits—
Not bearing in-
terest, £44,966
9/5, bearing
interest,
£302,903/11/9 £347,870 1 2
To Other Deposits,
Rebate and In-
terest Accrued—
Not bearing in-
terest, £1,693,825
16/7; bearing
£2,099,614/19/10 £3,693,440 16
£714,359 13 5
18,811
131,042
622
0 0
4 9
2 11
£4,041,310 17 7
To Contingent Lia-
bilities, as per
r.r»ntra . . £153.730 19
£4,906,145 18 8
6
Cr.
By coin, bullion
Australian notes,
and cash at
bankers.. ..£904,024 1 10
By British Treasury
Bills, £250,000 ;
by British War
Loan Debentures
at £97 l'Os. per
cent., £138,559
14s. Id.; by-Com?
monwealth of Aus-
tralia War Loan
.V» -utures. i ic-
toria Govern-
ment Stock and
Debentures, Met-
ropolitan Board
of Works and
Municipal Deben-
tures, £60,253
18s. 8d
By Bills and remit-
tances in tran-
situ and in Lon-
don
By notes and bills
of other banks..
By balances due
from other banks
By stamps..
448,813 12 9
361,066 9 7
1,962 2 0
19,423 7 10
1,613 0 1
By Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank premises
Other Real Estate
By bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts ..
£1,736,902 14 1
189,198 10 10
8,244 13 0
2,971,800 0 9
By liabilities of customers and
others in respect of contingent
liabilities, as per contra
£4,906,145 18
£153,730 19
8
6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To current expenses (including sal-
aries, rents, repairs, stationery, etc.) £37,843 3 8 11
To note, income and land taxes . . 2,733 14 /
To transfer to Reserve Fund .. 10,000 0 0
To balance .. .. .. •• 25,079 3 5
£75,656 16 11
Bv balance brought forward ..
By gross profits for the half-year,
after allowing for interest accrued
on deposits, rebate on bills current,
arid making provision for'bad and
doubtful debts
£8,277 1 1
67,379 l 5 10
£75,656 16 11
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance . . . . . . • • £250,000 0 0
£250,000 0 0
By balance brought forward..
By transfer from profit and loss
".£240,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
£250,000 0 0
u
••TEACH THEM TO SHOOT”
with Remington-UMC .22 Calibre Cartridges
These little cartridges—. 22 short, long or long rifle—have an
unrivalled reputation for accurate shooting and are used by tne
leading small bore experts the world over..
All three sizes may be used in a .22 Remington Repeater without
mechanical adjustment. Ask your dealer to show you a Remington
Repeater and |insist always on the Red Ball Brand of cartridges.
The genuine are stamped with a “U” on the cartridge head.
We shall he ■pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When writing, send us the name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building. New York City
T>. I). BRYANT, Australian Representative,
P.O. Box <!B6, Melbourne.
Lookfor This "IT,
on.
I Tour |
wR
■U2MK
Contractors to the British and Colonial Governments.
WHY FRET AND FUME
hr
tyrte
yr
and waste time in the morning with a
trouble? There’s an end to all your shaving difficulties if you try
&he “PLUM” RAZOR.
The Rtiffest beard yields to its all-conquering keen edge, which is
tempered with such scientific accuracy that it shaves swiftly and easily
foi months. pRICE IQ/6 — POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the Above Post Free.
This line makes a handsome present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
The Royal Bank of Australia
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
FIFTY-FIFTH REPORT,
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 29th October, 1915,
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to Shareholders the
Sheet and Statement of Accounts for the Half-year ending September 00, duly audited
and certified.
The net profits (including £7661 Os. 4d. brought from last half-
year ) amount to.. .. • • • • • ■ • •
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz.:
To pay a Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £245,0001
And to carry forward the balance
£24,916 5 7
£12,000 0
5,000 0
7.916 5
£24,916 5 7
During the Half-year Branches have been opened at. Perth, Western Australia, and
GlenfSe (Hawthorn), at both of which places the Bank has important connections.
By order of the J.oaid, WTT.SON. General Manager.
balance-sheet
OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIHITED.
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1915
(Including London Branch Figures to August 16, 1915). &L
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 shares
of £4 each.. £2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed —
300,000 shares
of £4 each.. £1,200,000
0 0
To Capital Paid-up £300,000
To Reserve Fund.. 240,000
To Profit and Loss
Account .. 24,916
To notes in circulation ..
To bills in circulation
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest .. • • £32,692 11
Bearing interest.. 410,179 11
To Other Deposits —Rebate
Interest Accrued —•
Not bearing in-
terest.. .. £937,563 14
Bearing interest 1,040,904 13
To balances due to other banks
£564,916
953
270,639 17
and
442,872 2 6
1,978.468 7
5,812 2
To contingent liabilities as per
contra
£3,263,661 i 5 3
297,942 0 0
£3,561,603 15 3
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion,
"Australian notes
and cash at
bankers .. .. £645,319 15 7
By notes and bills
of other banks 387 5 1
By balances due
from other banks 5,133 9 6
By bills and remit-
tances in transit,
and payable in
London.. .. 296,974 10 11
By Govern ment,
municipal and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures and funds 391,655 0 0
By stamps .. 959 9 7
Cr.
By real estate,. consisting of-
Bank premises
By bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts
By bank furniture, fittings, station-
' ery, etc.
-£1,340,429 10 8
78,820 0 0
1,840,142 4 7 1
4,270 0 .0
By liabilities and securities of cus-
tomers and others in respect of
contingent liabilities as per contra
£3,263,661 15 3
297,942 0 0
£3,561,603 15 3
PROF IT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, rent, income, and land
taxes, and other charges
To balance
£17,171 9 4
24,910 5 7
£42,087 14 11
By balance at Slst March, 1915
Less dividend declared
30th •April, 1915 £12,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve
Fund .. .• 7,500 0 0
By balance carried down
By profits for the half-year after de-
ducting interest accrued on de-
posits and rebate oYi-bills current,
less reserves for bad and doubtful
debts
£27,161 0 4
19,500 0 0
£7,661 0 4
31,426 11 7
£42,087 11 11
reserve fund account.
To balance ..
.. £240,000 0 0
£240.000 0 0
By balance at 31st March, 1915
By transfer from Profit and Loss
Account
£232,500 0 0
7,500 0 0
£240,000 0 0
The Indispensable
Military Watch
Whatever else may suggest itself there
can be no more useful Gift for our
brave Fighting Boys than a Wristlet
Watch. We offer
The “Suvla” Lever
for two main reasons. First, because it reprints -
the high-water mark of value at a moderate price.
Second, because in addition to wonderful '-time-
keeping accuracy, the movement is specially adapted
to the roughest conditions that can fall to
the lot of the soldier.
Post Free
Send for our useful little List of Soldiers' Gifts.
37/6
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney.
n
11
10
4
-35
The “ SUVLA” Lever
7-Jewel Nickel Lever Move-
ment, dust- and water-proof
Case, Screw-Off Front,
regulation Military, covered
Pigskin, Wristlet.
Posted Free .... 37 / 6
°, F $
THE J PEN.
duplicating.
&
\xr^
a \)B
T
y
Ask Your Stationer or Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Bex—BRITISH Made.


•fcj'UßJuioj -Miqiij ‘JSu|?|iiuj(
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners —
R. A. WARDEN (President). W. H. O'M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS received from Is. upwards.
INTEREST paid at 3| per cent, per annum
on all balances up to £5OO on accounts
opened under the conditions of Government
Savings Bank Acts, and up to £2OO on
accounts opened with the late Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Deposits guaranteed by the Government.
MONEY TO TEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS.
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest 5
per cent.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGH-
OUT THE STATE.
POST OFFICES are NOT NOW Agencies
for this Bank.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES. Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
lion. Sir ROBERT PIITLP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heart Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000.000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1915) .. £1,195,831
RESERVE FUND £65,000
nEAD OFFICE :.George& King Streets. Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37TlireadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R.
Lysaght, Esq.; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON. General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital ~ .. . t 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. ; '190.000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 6
All new business since JB9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edvvd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq.; lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.;
James Love, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa. China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up . . ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,780,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,7811,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman. *■
Hon. IT. E. Kater. M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
ITon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esg.
General Manager: H. 11. Massie.
Heart Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)em Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £528.988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 975,710
Uncalled Canital .. .. .. 524,290
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170-
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
roR
Mutual Life Assurance. Endowments a:id
Annuities without Mutual Liability;; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3.4-IS,UOQ>
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directorsi
The lion. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping «-r.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine 15,000 Regd. Tons.
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
Triple-Screw
. .Tw
n-Screw
13,000
12.130
12.129
12.124
12.077
12.036
9,023
8.252
ons Fit S < tlmi t r h » Wi n eI K? S T ® le ? ra Phy- New and luxuri-
herkfl t c , Cabines-de-inxe ; Staterooms, with
ElSrio »,£““■ I>ri '""'
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
TI i\nmrn t BOOKINGS to any part of
wi/h EUROPE, in connection
Railways U “ ed States and Canadian
MOANA
SAILS
SATURDAY, NOON, NOV. 6.
STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE
The pearl of the pacific.” ’
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
Townsville
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping’ for
this and other
Queensland ports)..
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Oct. 30.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 3.
Leaves Sydney Nov. 6.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 10.
Leaves Sydney Nov. 13.
MELBOURNE .
(Transb ppirj; for f<
S.A. andft r .A. ports) J
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 6.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
_ Offices at all Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Svdnev:—
NOV. 20, DEC. 15, JAN. 6, JAN. 26.
Apply:— OCE A NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
r %
/ *«
/ -
. - *
«ORFOU) I?
Bruises
to Pac/f/c Isles,
BurnsPh/lp& C°L T P
Send for Pamphlet.
TO PAPUA & RABAUL
TO SOLOMON IS
TO NEW HEBRIDES
TO MARSHALL&
TO GILBERT I?
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
DIRECTORS: —
£3,500.000
£2,550.000
£3,500,000
£9, 550.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel l'aithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORS: —William Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepbeard Edgeeliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
346 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and' collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world.
.T. RUSFFT.L FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
land offers a field of .unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU. Brisbane.
T. C. TBOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
rtey
JBaitk ot ßustra!ta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for a.ll
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Kxchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1/'
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
up to £300
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL. Depu-y Governor June, 19 V, DENIS N MILLER. Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up.. .. .. ..£lOO.OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is the only Trustee Company empowered by
Act of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
Directors.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES Iv. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq,
H. \V. BELL, Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
R. M. I'ITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS;. by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.
“THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE; BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-ciass rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwilluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £fi 8- fid.: second-class rail and steerage
on steampr. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director. |
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POUT PIUIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Nov. 20
and Dec. 18.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
PARING A, Oct 30.
MORIALTA, Aov. 6.
INNAMINCKA, Nov. 13
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIIX & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SI/HVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTB AT, ASIAN lUT.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
tTwin-Screw. *Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z.. LTD.
Managing Agents, 269 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” "Westralia,”
"Ulimaroa,” "Wimmera,”
“Riverina," "Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And All Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services
between Australia and United
Kingdom via Suez Canal, Cape
of Good Hope, Torres Straits.
FAST MODERN PASSENGER STEAMERS,
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large, airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
Fare to London or Liverpool, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, Etc.,
apply to
Birt & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane; Turnbull,
Martin & Co., Brisbane; Mellwraith, MeEacharn
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne and Newcastle;
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide; H. Jones
and Co., Ltd., Hobart.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports'! Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T. 5.5. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience imd com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP § COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, .11 BRIDGE.. STREET, SYDNEY,


r
r
(
L
THE
FINISHING
TOUCH
to a well-dressed appearance is a
pair of
ABBEY SHOES
The illustration shows one of our
latest models —a Choice Patent
Oxford Bah, with Dull Calf
Legs 357-
In highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf 32/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for a copy of our new Cata-
log, which shows all the latest
models in high-grade footwear.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
HEALTH INSURANCE.
Some people are naturally thin. There is
also a natural pallor, but most people who
are both thin and pale are far from well, and
they need a tonic.
Many people neglect to take a tonic until
they get so sick that a tonic is not sufficient,
just because the demand of the debilitated
body is not insistent enough, x'he pale face,
weak nerves, enfeebled digestion, are
neglected until the point where pain or
actual breakdown requires medical treat-
ment. A tonic taken in time is the best
health insurance. It supports the overtaxed
system, the worried nerves until nature can
make repairs.
Build up the blood and you are sending
renewed health and strength to every part
of the body. The appetite is improved, the
digestion is toned up, there is new color in
the cheeks and lips, you worry less, become
good-natured where before you were irri-
table, and you find new joys in living.
Tonic _ treatment is useful in dyspepsia,
rheumatism, anaemia and nervous disorders.
In many cases it is all the medical treat-
ment that is required.
Free booklets on the blood, nerves and
diet will be sent on request by the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney. Your own
chemist sells Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.*
Caused by Carelessness.
If you are constipated it is your own
fault. It is caused by carelessness, and can
be corrected by cultivating careful habits.
Diet is of the first importance, then exer-
cise and the use of a laxative until healthful
habits are established. Harsh purgatives
are harmful and make matters worse, but
Pinkettes, the little pink ovals prepared by
the Dr. Williams’ Meuicine Co., Sydney, give
nature the gentle assistance required and
they really do correct constipation. If the
laxative you are using is unsatisfactory try
Pinkettes. •*
Write for a free sample, mentioning The
Bulletin, or get a full-size Is. bottle of
Pinkettes from your own chemist.*
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WOY, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
“Make it better”
This is the standing order in every Michelin
manufacturing department.
“ Good Enough " never was a
Michelin opinion of Michelin
Tyres.
Research work and exhaustive
tests are constantly being carried
cut in the Michelin factories, with
a view to the improvement of
Michelin Tyres.
The result of this careful study
means that each year the Michelin
Quality is better, and that Michelin
Tyres become more and more suited
for the arduous conditions to which
they are subjected*
Q
-X
Michelin Tyres have never been so good
as they are at present.
The quality of a cigar can only te proved by smoking it; similarly the
quality of a tyre can only be proved by trying it.
This is why we urge you to try
Michelin Tyres,
and compare the mileage obtained with that given by the tyres you have
previously used.
Michelin Tyres and Accessories can be
obtained from all the Leading Agents.
1 A 1516
Motor-
cycling
at its
best.
IT will pay you to remember that
it is not necessary to have a heavy
high powered machine. The B.S.A.
4i h.p. Motor Bicycle develops suffi-
cient power to take you anywhere solo
or sidecar. It is most economical to
run, simple to control, and by its won-
derful reliability consistently maintains
the well known B.S.A. reputation.
RIDE A
MOTORBI CYCLE
Fitted with
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT THREE-SPEED GEAR.
'THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.”
B.S.A
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle
List Free.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co.
Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
m
3
V
£
i
m
A
•Viri
%
»*/?/.?
II
a. jni.LEDGE BROS. LTD., George Street, Sydney
AtfJfiA I
ANTHONY HORDERN’S UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free
Wheel on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS BIRTRES. £l2 10s. Write for Price Rist,
post free.
ANTHONY NORPERN & SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth
There are no teeth like those furnished hi
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve .their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/-tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSTTT & CO., Melbourne.
PORLICKS
.MALTED
MILK
J«t»
«AIH»
J*. pa
is needed.
L
;eps 1
ipver '
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk,Wheat,'
and Malt). Keeps
for years and never
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made
in a moment, any-i
where. Only water/
In hot climates it isj
invaluab’e.


e
‘flnsriXy
A MAN
may shine among his fellows
by wearing this 'fine, even plait, snow-white
bleach, “light as *ca-foam”
PERFECT PANAMA
POST 211- FREE
FINNEY SPECIAL
Manv other shapes and prices—some with the
Alpine Valley in the- crown, others with a
ridge, wide brims, narrow brims, side or
back bows.' All perfectly blocked, bleached
s and keenly priced from
12/6 to 42/-
FINNEY’S
The Big B’ock,
BRISBANE.
THE BEST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL STATIONERY
IN THE WORLD
carries the KOLOK trade mark. No office is
sending* out the best British-made stationery
unless KOLOK TYPEWRITER CARBONS,
PEN AND PENCIL CARBONS and TYPE-
WRITER RIBBONS are used. The KOLOIv
ECONOMY BINDER has no equal. Every
businessman should at once see that his
office uses Kolok makes. .
ALL STATIONERS.
Australasian Agent:—C. F. BICKFORD,
5 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
The HAT for YOB
At once stylish, cojnfortable, thorough in
quality and exceptionally good value,
Latest BOATERS, pedal straw, finest
plait, with the fashionable new high crown,
smart loose bow, brim 2 jin. ; also in medium
crown, 2ifin. brim, 9/6 and 14/6. I y . v
Fitting Leather.
“DEREHAM” SOFT FELT HAT,
bv Woodrow. In Oxford Grey, Black Band;
Dark Blue Mixture, Drab, Black Band ; Slate,
Dark Grev and Brown Self and Black Bands,
bow at back or side, smart cut edge brim,
15/-
Write. for specially-illustrated Catalogue “T,”
low being compiled.
C'a r riat;e Paid in the Commonwealth.
<mt SIGN of
LxcellehJs
Henry Buck
and Co.,
74 Swanston Street,
Melbourne. .
(Corner Queen’s Waik)
IN
BANANA LAND
“Itan”: The Chamber of Fossils has
emasculated the Compensation Bill by de-
stroying the clauses which declared the in-
surance business to be a State monopoly.
With only three Labor men in the Council
the Government has a poor show of forcing
its radical legislation through, and, accord-
ing to a Ividston Act, Bills must be rejected-,
twice before the question at issue can go to
the people by referendum. That means a
short session early next year to complete
the details of an appeal. Ryan is deter-
mined that at least two questions shall be
submitted to the electors, and one of them’
will decide the fate of the second House.
It’s about time.
Archie Human, teacher of the Coen’
State school, up near Cape York, has put
down chalk and duster to go and help Bill
and Jim. Hurman filled the place that the
pedagogue of old was expected to fill —was
physician, lawyer, dentist, chemist and
schoolmaster to all the Coen country. His
shelf of bottles of medicine was hardly less
a part of his stock-in-trade than his
geography and grammar. He will do good
work where lie’s going, but that won’t be
much of a change, for he has been doing a
lot'of it in a place where it was a matter
of a six days’ journey to get a doctor out
and back. .
“W.G.8.”: Just when the A.W.U. was
kicking up a row and demanding a K hite
Australia in the sugar industry, I picked up
the paper to see an announcement to the
effect that Ah Yam was applying for the
transfer of his hotel license to C. Ah Tie
for the premises known as the Canton Hotel
in the mining district of Thornborough.
Frankly, isn’t, it about time that the North-
ern and Western unionist either repudiated
the White Australia doctrine altogether or
accepted it consistently? At present he
merely insists that nobody shall have tire
doubtful benefit of cheap yellow labor out
himself.
“Politicus” : Passage money for the year’s
assisted immigration to Queensland has just
been reduced from £22 500 to £12,500.
Apropos of this reduction Premier Ryan
remarked that the Government did not
want any able-oodied immigrants who were
capable of serving at the Front. He
added: “Immigration would not cease abso-
lutely, but no one would be allowed to
come as an assisted immigrant who was
RECOGNITION.
JONES (to seedy friend): “Hullo, Dobbs, 'got change for a quid about you?
SEEDY FRIEND: "Sorry, dear. boy, I haven’t. Thanks for the compliment, all the same."
capable of serving.” But this was no-
reason for slaughtering the vote. Tne
£22,500 (a trivial sum for so vast a country
to spend on immigration) could easily have
been spent in bringing out middle-aged men
with families, domestic, servants, and so
forth. The fact of the matter .is the Queens-
land Labor party is vat heart opposed to
immigration, and just cut out of
its platform the 'insane plank which declared
for the stoppage of State aid. Australia is
sending away the pick of her young men by
tens of thousands, and her semi-demented
State Governments are preventing the resto-
ration-of the balance by discouraging the
influx of the human factor that can alone
make good the losses. Meantime the empty
spaces gape an invitation to less desirable
immigrants as much as ever they did. The
attitude is worthy of Bedlam —or of a State
Parliament.
Treasurer Theodore anticipates a rise in
ordinary expenditure for the coming finan-
cial year of nearly half a million pounds—
or nearly one pound per head for every soul
in Bananaland ! It’s no use preaching thrift
•“to Queensland on Monday and inviting Hol-
man to lecture there on Tuesday.
Minister Adamson, in justification of a
rise of SJ per cent, in the wages of railway
men: —
I found there was a serious difference in favor of
the men emoloyed outside the Department 1 have
faced it squarely, and the men have given me credit
for having faced it as no other man has faced it.
We must increase their wages to the rates lulmg
outside.
This is precisely the brand of “courage”
with which Jack Sc-addan has been filled tor
some years, and which has resulted in an
accumulated 1\ estralian deficit of lv mil-
lions. The truth is that Queensland rail-
way men are the aristocrats of Northern
Labor, and for every vacant billet you could
get 50 applicants in 24 hours. There could
be no better proof that even in the past the
railway servant has been much better off
than the general taxpayer; yet the general
taxpayer is now to be called upon to make
the Labor aristocrat's position better still.
And the Minister calls it “courage” !
The recent State generosity to railway
employees in. Queensland is, of course,
counterbalanced by the new Budget propo-
sals to raise fares and freights. The town
worker, however, will not suffer, for the
increased charge will not fall on toilers who
live adjacent to the cities and take season
tickets, but on the country population en-
gaged in primary production. Go on the
land, young man —go on the land!
A proud man is Charles Lewis, of Too-
woomba. He , has a family of seven sons,
of whom four are in camp, training, while
two more have applied to be enlisted, the
seventh intends getting into the ranks as
soon as they will take him, and the old man
is"under strong suspicion of wanting to push
in, himself.
“Weemurra” : The Estimates provide £470
for the water-diviners whom Bananaland is
going to put on their trial. The salary is
poor, but £2 a day as travelling expenses
and a free, railway pass ought to console
them. I didn’t see any provision for a
Christian Scientist in the Health Depart-
ment, but I expect it’s somewhere in the
Occult and Witchcraft division.
The Tragedy of Lou.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We waited long an’ eagerly, as young folks allers do,
To see wot sort o’ luck we’d ’ave w’en all wuz
worried through;
O’ course a boy wuz all ’is thought (the men is all
the same) —•
A boy ’oo’d foller in ’is steps an’ bear ’is daddy’s
name;
I’d nothin’ ’gin a boy meself, but, if it wuz a girl,
1 think a smile would find the way around my lips
to curl.
A month ago the stranger came, orl right from off
the cruise;
The bonus landed Friday, last, an’ Bill is on the
booze!
An’ Willyum is his little name, as we agreed it
should,
In compliment ter Willyum’s dad (o’ course that s
understood) ;
’E’s got the look o’ brazen-bold a-lurkin’ in ’is eye,
The sort o’ boy that’s got the grit ter ’old ’is own
or die ;
I wuz so filled with ’appiness I couldn’t wear a
frown
No matter ’oo wuz lookin’ black or wot wuz lookin’
down.
But now me cup’s wiv bitter dashed, a cloud is on
me views,
For, since the night o’ Friday last, my Bill is on
the booze.
The neighbors all wuz good an’ kind, an’ called me
lucky Lou,
An’ ev’ryone ’oo gave a call would ask wot she
could do;
An’ Missis Jones, of Ginger’s Lane, she sez a finer
boy
(’E turned the scale at nearly nine) wuz never
mother's joy;
But now I know they whisper low: “ ’Er man is on
the licker :
A burnin’ shame to leave her so an’ spend the note
on shicker.”
J ’ides me tears in bubby’s neck — ’e ’asn’t ’eard the .
news
That since the night o’ Friday last ’is Dad is on the
booze.
An’ Bill is not the worst o’ men. ’E's mostly good
ter me ;
’ls weakness is ’is fellow-man ’n’ soshability;
’E simply met his mates an’ sed: “I m shoutin,
coves, to-day ;
We christened bub this mornin’, an’ I’m feelin’ sort
o’ gay.
Just nominate yer pizen, boys, an’ drink ter )\ ill-
yum’s luck —
’E’s orl yer fancy painted ’im, an’ quite ’is mother’s
duck.
I wouldn’t call ther Queen me aunt, or wear the
Kaiser's shoes;
So fill yer pewters up again!” an’ Bill is on the
booze.
’Ow is it somethin’ alius comes yer cup. o joy to
spile?
W’y can’t I drink the comfort in I find in bubby’s
smile?
’Ow bent I wuz on dressin’ ’im just like a little lord
In orl the giddy vanities my pocket could afford ;
An’ Bill wuz just as keen as me —but now es clean
fergotten,
An’ took up with that soakin’ crowd, a low-down
lot an’ rotten.
O Gawd! Yer rod wuz never meant a mother's
. heart ter bruise,
But at the core she’s bleedin’ sore —since Bill is
on the booze!
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, October 23. 1915.
My Dear Tii argomin dah,—
The Governor, chaperoned by her Ex.,
flirted with a flower fete this afternoon at
Claytield, and on Tuesday , night the pan
escorted each other to the Orchestra
Society’s concert. What with a few otlie
strenuous jobs, and dressing for dinner anti
so on, I don’t know when he gets any time
for himself. I haven’t seen him at a single
picture-show since he arrived. Coming bar
to the concert, Betty Cockburn was the lacii
soloist, and her rich contralto resounded m
“Softly Awakes My Heart.” I don't know
the name of the carrying firm that remover
the flowers heaped upon her. The other fea-
ture of the show was the orchestra s playing
of Elgar’s “Carillon.”
Lena Hammond’s pupils give a concert
on November 20 for the wounded soldiers
fund. The same fund will benefit by a sale
of work that the Arts and Crafts Society
announces for October 27 and following day -.
Members of the Art Society and pupil.-
of the art classes at the Tech, tarewellec
Godfrey Rivers in the studio he lias worked
in for so many years. W. H. Campbell
president of the Art Society, handed over a
leather suit-case and other traps. Beton
Mr. Rivers, who is a very shy artist, could
escape, Mr. Morris, director of the Tech., in
sisted upon him taking an address and a
book filled with the names of the art pupils.
A wristlet watch for Mrs. Rivers was in-
cluded in the booty. .Winifred Burston,
Gwen Stanley. Mary Grant and Air. Temple-
ton gradually chased the hunted look from
the guest’s countenance with songs and in-
strumental music, and refreshments brought
about a complete reconciliation.
Miss Kate Caiman arranged a juvenile
dance on Wednesday night in aid of the
wounded soldiers’ fund ; and to-night some
of Miss St. Ledger’s pupils are following the
good example.
A committee of women is busy arranging
a scheme to provide Christmas toys for
kiddies whose fathers are too busy at Galli-
poli or Somewhere to attend to the joyous
and ancient ceremony. Lady Goold-Adams
is the patroness, and Mrs. Ryan president.
Freda Sternberg is the sec., and Mrs. Stan-
ley Chapman the treasurer. The latter is
jiist itching to start the receipts side of her
books, so please hurry.
A young Queensland soldier who is in an
English hospital after a bout with enteric
lost the letter which contained the address
of some English cousins* To a visitor he
confided this fact, and the visitor mentioned
it to a pressman, who in turn mentioned ii
in the London Daily Mail. By the next,
post the Australian received news from those
he sought, and each succeeding mail bulged
with letters and parcels. So large became
the number of parcels addressed to him that
the local postmaster sent ;„long a man with
a barrow to deliver them, and at latest
information (1 p.m.) was making efforts to
borrow an elephant and a string of trucks
The overwhelmed invalid was young Ear.
.Tenkinson, son of our last year’s mayor.
Mrs. A. S. Priestley read a paper on the
laying out of garden cities to the Women s
Club on Thursday night. Two mere men
also spoke, their remarks being listened to
with the most flattering attention. But it s
reallv much more important to Queensland
to know how to lay out prickly pear.
Maurice Little, son of Rev. W. Little, of
North Ipswich, -was one of the most badLj
wounded of our early contingents. He is
being invalided home, and as some compen-
sation for his pains is bringing with lnm a
bride (his own, my dear). She was a medi-
cal missionary in the Soudan, and had been
nursing in one of the military hospitals at
Alexandria. . . '
Cupid still is busy. His latest piece of
work is the engagement of Lucy M. Beil, ot
Sand-rare, to Edgar King-Harman. son of
the late Major King-Harman The bride-
elect is at present visiting Sydney.
Mrs. J. Mclntyre, a very old resident of
the Loean district, died this week. Her
husband was- an early stock-raiser, and her
sons established the famous Mclntyre herd,
iours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
So far the Bananaland Assembly has con-
tributed only one warrior to the ranks—
Colonel Rankin, of the Burram. Thats
1 4 per cent. If Australia’s adult males had
answered in that proportion, there would
now be a vast army of nearly 20.000 men.


■Blue
Ribbon
ILager
The Beer of Quality
8
1
ft
&
’ |
*
■
Tea&del <£
<So/e Controlling Agent's for Australasia
7 Ham/ltoh ST, Sydney.
m
SMS
Hear the Edison
Diamond Disc
Phonograph.
It is the grandest achievement known to the
world of musical invention, and is the one
sound-reproducing instrument that gives the
exact character and quality of the finest music
and the richest voices.
An all-important point for the music-loving
person is that the Edison Diamond Disc
Phonograph appeals to the most cultured ear.
World-famed musicians applaud it.
Since it is the master of all musical instru-
ments, it is necessarily the greatest of all
musical educators.
If you are interested in this delightful instru-
ment —and you certainly should be —call on
the nearest Edison dealer for particulars, or
write direct to us for illustrated catalog.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale Only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
NOTICE TO READERS.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to tlie
Manager, who will quote you price for the
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY 1115 MO YES
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin bootless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2 9
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
r e'l ness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. PF.rPER & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch
mam nran
1
agfe- '
:'■■■■■■ ■ - : - . :
\ \ ;"■>••■• • v : v"
—a
'" :
■
V J
ill
*m
a
m
m
>
m
i i
i
't-i-
-'<■ 1 f -/i-i
' 3;®!
Igl
1®
~i
-• ' .A
. I
1®
Stllli
m
' fh
m CARLSBERG
COPENHAGEN
PUNISH U6£?
■*■ HHj
MELLOW
MOONLIGHT
Brewed in a Neutral Goun try
and having that fine Neutral flavorpeciiisar
only tothelishtestof high Quality ales
KTCARLSBERG
THE DANISM LAGER.
Sharp, clear and sparkling— with a topping of deliciousiy-inviting foam that clings in a web-like network to the
sides of the glass. This is why you can always “tell the superior quality of
NY CARLSBERG The Danish Lager
even before you taste it. But judge further—judge it by the taste; notice its fascinating flavor and consistent
smoothness? combined with that 'palatable lightness that irresistibly appeals to all Lager drinkers.
Ny Carlsberg has a yearly sale of one hundred and thirteen million bottles, which demonstrates its high quality.
HENRY OLSEN 8 CO. PTY. LTD., 255 a George Street, Sydney ; BROWN 8 CO., 21 Lang Street, Sydney—Joint Agents.


3HS
yr:
n
r r!nl
fsa
*niat:
sa
m
£r
■ i !i
sTS;
si
mm
}jjp}
■
P*!
s>
fed
•? !{
IP 1
£@ii
“*-r
Pi
if*^:
M
■*Q
sir S
m
•Ms!
estu*
a
m
The Most
Wonderful of all
Polishes 8 Cleaners
“BON AMI” is more than a
perfect polish, it is the finest
cleanser known. Apply a thin
lather only. It attacks and
loosens all dirt and tarnish,
leaving it free to be just wiped
off. On all metal and enamel-
ware, windows, mirrors, baths,
paintwork, silver- and kitchen-
ware, the finest glassware,
porcelain, brasswork, “BON
AMI” produces an absolutely
clean and sparkling surface.
“BON AMI” does not injure
the hands, but leaves them
beautifully clean.
Obtainable at all leading Stores
and Grocers.
* ! Like the chick that V nenvly hatched
Bon Ami has heater scratchedl ’ ’
aSySSBSSS—
=H:S3Ie3!ni^W
6piP«!«!h!?nin*ii»
-
Hnaauciffl
m
SE
mm
are: you
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS ? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
NEW SOUTH
rey
WALES.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor, Administrator, Attorney or Agent.
STATE GUARANTEE.
LOWEST CHARGES IN AUSTRALIA,
NO PROFITS.
INCREASED BUSINESS MEANS REDUCED CHARGES.
Apply for Particulars to Public Trustee Office, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Largest Tyre &. Tube Repairers in the State.
The Curotta Rubber Co.
Buyers, Sellers and Repairers of Motor Tyres, Tubes and Accessories. Makers of Protector lyres;
Largest Rubber Buyers in the State. THE ONLY FIRM IN AUSTRALASIA GUARANTEEING
SECOND-HAND TYRES. Also Sole Distributors for Firestone Tyres, Tubes and Accessories. Largest
Rubber Buyers from all Government Water and Sewerage Institutions.
193 a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone City 3170 or Randwiok 1158,
Mellins
Food
FREE!
A Sample of Mellin’s
Food, together with a
useful Handbook for
Mothers, “ lhe Care of
Infants in Australia,”
will be sent Free. Write:
MESSRS. GOLLIN &
CO. PROPRIETARY,
LTD.,- SYDNEY
If a proper supply of healthy
mother’s milk is not forth-
coming, fresh cow’s milk,
to which Mellin’s Food has
been added, is the next best
thing because Melhris Food
‘humanises the fresh cow’s milk whilst
preserving those valuable qualities
which only Jresh milk offers.
With Mellin’s Food, cow’s milk can be instantly
modified to suit the requirements of a babe from birth,
and through every stage cf babyhood Mellin’s Food
provides just those substances which ensure the full,
healthy, and well-balanced development of the child.
TO use ordinal y hand-mixed lead and
oil paint instead of “ B-P ” on the
job—whatever it is—would cost you
25 per cent, more money for materials
alone, because “ B-P ” goes so much
further than ordinary paint. To apply
the hand-mixed paint would cost you more
in labour —for “B-P” works easier—
and finally the hand-mixed article would
not look so well, and certainly it would
not protect and preserve your property
so long as “ B-P” would. Ask your
painter to use “B-P,”
Ber
“ B-P ” Berger’s Paint (pre-
pared) for painting buildings inside
and outside is guaranteed to work
easier, cover more surface, look
better and wear longer than any
other paint made. Colour folder of
52 standard shades free on request.
Paints
& Varnishes
Get Colour Folders and Particulars,
together with name of local
Agent, from Head Office:
16 & 18 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Ask to=fiay
for your
colour folder.
1
WEAR WELL EVERYWHERE
'UNDER THE SUN.
Lewis Berger & Sons
(Australia), Ltd.,
16 & 18 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Makers of Paints, Colours and
Varnishes at
HOMERTON. LONDON,'ENQ,
Since 1760.
Diamonds Rising Rapidly.
Owing to the British Government
prohibiting in June last the importa-
tion of diamonds into England, prices
have risen largely.
The Germans took Antwerp and
were pouring diamonds into England
and taking sovereigns away. The
Government stopped that.
3 Fine-quality
Diamonds, set
i n Platinum,
choicely eased,
£l2.
Choice White
Diamonds, set
i n Platinum,
choicely cased,
£lO/10/-
Fine Sapphires
and choice Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum,
choicely cased,
£B7B/-
Then America, with its plethora of gold, rushed the diamond market, and up went prices. As
there was a shortage of trained cutters to cut the gems, there were not enough diamonds to fill
the purchasing orders.
Fortunately for us, when the diamonds slumped on the war’s declaration, we secured an enor-
mous stock, and so are able to continue our famous cut prices for the highest grades of diamonds.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures. Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Austin S.” : Let me as a confirmed bush-
whacker discourse on axes, with a special
curse for the American brand. Three men
going on a contract of bush falling on a
couple of hundred acres (about three months'
work) need about a dozen axes and several
cart-loads of patience to grind them and take
out the gaps—an every day, sometimes every
hour, performance. Has the world lost the
art of tempering steel? There are thousands
of bushmen who would give a quid each
for an axe that could be relied upon in any
timber, and there’s a fortune waiting for
an Australian or M.L. co. that will manu-
facture it.
* * * *
“C.P.R.” : I am a young Australian, with
Australia’s interests at heart, on a visit to
America. I made a stop-over in ’Frisco of
a few days in order to go to the Exposition.
It was a fine sight. Of course the thing I
was most anxious about was to see how my
own Australia was represented. That part
of the show was closed. All the rest was
open. I made inquiries and was informed
that the Australian exhibit was always closed
on Sundays. The chief clerk in the Southern
Pacific Railway office (also an Australian)
told me he had been to the show a dozen
times and had not seen the Australian
exhibit once, as Sunday was the only day
he could get away. The U.S.A. is the place
where they work; and my friend is, in the
same position as millions more. Is it wow-
ser-ism or plain tiredness? In any case, see
this: The average attendance at the Expo-
sition is 55,000 per day. On Sunday it is
100,000. The industrial man is the one we
want to encourage into Australia, and he is
just the one who doesn’t see our turnout,
because he is among the extra 45,000 who
go along on Sunday, the only time he can
get away.
* * * *-
“W.C.M.” : Each week we learn, of Aus-
tralian dependence upon Germany for things
of which we took no notice. The latest is
tinfoil —the “silver paper” in which choco-
lates and other goods are wrapped. Buying
the youngsters their penn’orth to-day, I
noticed that the silver paper had given place
to grease-proof paper. Now I am wonder-
ing where the grease-proof paper came from,
and, as I’m assured it “can’t be made in
Australia,” I’m trying to figure out how
much better off we are.
* * * *
“Garrie”: I gloat over the discomfiture
of one of our big English-owned banks*.
Some time ago this institution circularised
its branches stating that it was importing a
six-years’ supply of ledgers of a standard
pattern, so that in future branches would
have to be content with one size only, and
could not order them to the particular size
that would best suit the business done. It
is stated that the bank saved £lOOO on the
difference in cost of six years’ supply of the
old Australian-made ledgers and the new im-
ported line. In one metropolitan branch the
new books have now been in use for three
months, and already leaves are falling out
and backs are loosening. The ruling is also
irregular. Instead of lasting a year or 18.
months, as the old Australian ledgers did,
new ones will have to be opened at the end
of six months, and at that rate the supply
will be used up in three years; ledger-keepers
will have the delight of heading new ledgers
twice a year, and the £lOOO will be in the
end on the wrong side of the profit and loss
account.
“D.F.” : It will take another loan to pay
off what A. O. Norman, of Hobart, reckons
the Commonwealth owes him. He puts it
down at a million or two, but is willing to
take half a million and call things square.
It’s a long, tangled business; but his end
of the story is that four or five years ago
he submitted to the Federal Government a
dead-sure cure for bitter-pit in apples,
that both A. H. Benson, now Director of
Fruit Culture in Queensland, and Professor
Ewart, of the Melbourne University, re-
ported favorably on it, but that the Gov-
ernment has sat tight and done nothing with
it. However, his cure is being tried in
Maoriland and other places, and he pro-
mises that when the evidence of its value
rolls in he will get busy.
* * •* *
“Mil”: “Carfax” (B. 7/10/’l5) apparently
thinks that, because the Germans have cellu-
lose and alcohol, the English stupidity in not
declaring cotton contraband during nearly
nine months of the war doesn’t matter. But
when cotton reached the German it made his
munition manufacture easier, anyhow. Eng-
lish factories fed the Hun with 17,000,000
pounds of cocoa exported through Holland in
three months. Presumably if the cocoa ex-
port had been proscribed the omnipotent Ger-
man could have made a substitute out of
mud. What’s the good of finding excuses for
criminal foolishness and suicidal dritr."
THE FIRST CONSIDERATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have always insisted upon plenty of nourish-
ment. Many doctors, for one motive or another, set
their faces ''against honest eating; but you cannot
restore waste with fresh air, and where the patient’s
welfare is the first consideration starvation in any
shape is criminal foolishness. —Melbourne medico in
protesting print.
He was a genial M.D.,
And Mat and red of fa«e was he;
He liked, I’ve often heard him say,
A six-course dinner once a day;
And I had reason, too, to think
He rather fancied things to drink.
But .when he took in hand my case,
He turned on me a solemn face.
“You must not drink,” he said, “nor eat—
Abjure such stuff as bread and meat.”
And then to save me from despair
He recommended loads of air.
I pulled through with a long, hard fight,
And still am gaunt, and weak, and white.
The treatment now I know to be
Inspired by grasping policy,
Since patients who are frugal will
Save money for the doctor's bill.
VICTORIA.
Y. Z


Magnetic Blowout Lightning Arrester
Severe lightning' disturbances
are easily discharged by the
Type IVM. Magnetic
Blowout Lightning Arresters
1 ‘ ' ' m 1 f "" Baaßß ■ 'II * WB—M —CaCggM
When lightning potential rises
on the line, the spark gap breaks
clown, and a discharge occurs
through the gap to earth.
Part of the current shunts through
O
the blowout coil, producing a
strong magnetic field across the
spark gap. The magnetic field
immediately blows out the dis-
charge arc and restores normal
conditions.
1
m
m
am
is
Magnetic
Blowout Arresters
protect because they have a small
fixed spark gap. The series
resistance is stable and low. The
discharge arc is extinguished by
the blowout action of a magnetic
field which is quick, positive, and
powerful for all conditions of
discharge.
rey
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
BERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland. Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street. Hobart.
The
COOPER Little Giant
PUMPING PLANT.
Strong, Practical 8 Efficient.
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR AUSTRALIA.
Will pump 275 to 1200 gallons of water per
hour, according to depth. You can start it
up in the morning and go away and leave it
all day—runs on 4 quarts of Benzine —has
high-tension Magneto and Automatic Lubri-
cation. The Cylinder is not a Hopper or
Air-cooled affair, but is fitted with ample
water-cooling tank, which can be filled in
the morning and left for the day without any
danger of the Cylinder overheating. The all-
iron pump Jack is not attached to the Engine
frame with bolts, but is mounted on a
separate substantial base with white-metal
bearings, oil-wells, etc. The plant includes
a stuffing-box and rod-guide as illustrated.
You do not have to buy an extra pumping
head. After pumping, the engine can be
unbolted from the substantial Iron bed and
placed elsewhere for chaff-cutting,' wood-
sawfing and other work.
Price, complete as illustrated and described,
We can supply The Little Giant with Centrifugal Pump
if desired, instead of Deep Well, at Same Price.
£35
Cooper Engineering Company Limited,
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Zonophone Records
ONE
rey
THE RECORD THE PUBLIC WILL HAVE
10-INCH
formerly 3/-
NOW 2/3
12-INCH
formerly 5/-
NOW 3 6
Reduced
in Price.
Another triumph for the British
“Zono” records. This time the
sensation is in THE PRICE.
Zonophone records being as good
as records CAN be made, are now
priced as low as good records can
V
he priced.
2000 titles. The greatest value
ever offered. Price reduced, but
the famous Zono quality remains
the same.
Complete Record Lists and
name of nearest dealer
supplied on request.
The British Zonophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney .


G overnment Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 19th October, 1910.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL COL-
LEGE, JERVIS BAY, N.S.W.
Appointment of Two Instructors.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as Naval
Instructors to teach Physics and/or Mathe-
matics at the Royal Australian Naval Col-
lege, Jervis Bay, N.S.W.
The following qualifications are necessary
| for appointment
j (a) Applicants must be of Australian
birth, or permanently domiciled in
Australia;
1 (b) Must not be more than 45 years of
age;
(c) Must be able to pass a Government
Medical Examination ;
(d) Must be University graduates, with,
preferably, Honors Degrees in these
subjects, and must be experienced
teachers.
RATES OF PAY.—£35O per annum, ris-
ing to £425 per annum by biennial incre-
ments of £25.
Applicants should state whether they are
married or single; should furnish full infor-
mation as to education, University Degrees,
teaching experience, and general qualifica-
tions ; and should also state whether they are
specially qualified to teach these subjects.
Successful applicants will be appointed on
probation for a period of Twelve Months,
and subject to confirmation at the end of that
period.
Applications, accompanied by copies of
credentials, should be addressed to the Naval
Secretary, Department of the Navy, Mel-
bourne, so as to reach him not later than
15th November, 1915.
Further information may be obtained on
application to the Naval Secretary, or from
the Commanding Officer, Royal Australian
Naval College, Jervis Bay, N.S.W.
GEO. L. MACANDIE,
Naval Secretary.
Genuine Dutch Pipes
re
Nearly a Yard Long.
THE PERFECTION OF SMOKING
COOL AND SWEET
those who have smoked a Real Dutch
Pipe know how different is the flavor of
tobacco, how cool aud sweet and freo from all
unpleasant taste and odour. These are Genuine
Dutch Pipes, with natural Cherry or polished
white wood stem, porcelain bowl and fittings,
ebonite mouthpiece with flexible connection and
fine cord and tassel; over 30 inches in length.
DR. LB MAKG, of Eudunda, S.A., wrote:— 44 1
am very pleased with my Dutch Pipe. It is
exactly what I wanted for years.” Our
Hamburg agent having bought these Pipe*
very cheaply, we are selling them at
only 6/6 each
tworth double - ), and we pack carefully and
pay carriage to any address. You should
treat yourself to one or make your friend
a nice present. Will soon be all sold at
this price.
The Union Company
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Amusements,
Harry Rickards 'i'ivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing ‘Director HUGH D. McINi'OSII.
I'IVOLI THEA T K E. SYDNEY.
TWICE DAILY: 2.30 AND 8.
NOLAN & NOLAN.
.1. & M. HARKINS.
COY DE TRICKEY, MARY LAW. ELLA CASPERS,
IDA BARR, ANNIE KENT, MORRIS GOLDEN,
HECTOR GOLDSPINK, EDWARD MARSHALL,
LE ROY SISTERS, THE PAYOLAS, etc.
"JMVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE GREAT BOOM SHOW.
Going on for ever with new features every day
THE FAMOUS
TIVOLI FOLLIES.
AUSTRALIA’S BIG FUN SHOW.
All the old favorites and many new stars.
HE R M A .1 E S T Y ’ S. S Y I) N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30,
THE MAN WHO STAYED
AT HOME.
A BRIEF REVIVAL OF THIS FAMOUS SPY PLAY.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
continue to present . >
A PA [lt OF SIXES.
THE HIT OF THE CENTURY.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
T 11 E A T It E It O Y A L, S Y D N E Y.
1 Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
2.3 O—TWICE DAILY—B.IS.
FOR THIS WEEK ONLY.
THE OFFICIAL MOTION PICTURES
of
THE PANAMA PACIFIC EXPOSITION,
Presented by
WILLIAM A. READ, the Producer.
P
A LAC 12 TIIEA T It E. S Y I) N E
Lessees PHILIP LYTTON LTD.
Representative ...... GEO, L. MERRIMAN.
Y.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8; EVERY WEDNESDAY
AFTERNOON (ONLY) AT 2.
PHILTP LYTTON
presents
THE WAYBACKS
AT HOME AND IN TOWN.
Dramatised from Henry Fletcher’s famous stories.
True Australian comedy at'its happiest'and brightest,
Capacity business nightly.
NO OTHER AUSTRALIAN COMELY TO TOUCH IT!
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s till
5; then White Rose.
Don’t delay ! Particularly now during the changeable
weather keep by you a bottle of GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE, one dose of which is an excellent preventa-
tive in cases of
Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, In-
fluenza, Bronchitis, Quinsy, Etc.
For over 40 years this household remedy has been a friend
to the sufferer from seasonable ailments.
GREATHEAD’S MIXTURE, besides having special re-
medial properties, is also a healthful strength-giving tonic.
Mothers! Give it to your children with honey. Obtainable everywhere
Try GREATOIDS-The Great but small Liver Pills.
TC.X
r.v»
Xri
v*C3?,
S?
XtS&fetf
t>.f
s»Mi>
iViVjti;
sf?
n
*XI?SS
M
8202 m
DINNEFORD'S
yre
DINNEFORD'S
Magnesia
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
li DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Amusements.
\ou havent seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THIS I’ICXUKE BLOCK THEATRES.
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Baruingtqn Miller, General Manager.
THE GARDEN" THEATRE.
(Open Air),
DARLING HURST, SYDNEY.
Iwo Minutes from top of William Street,
SYDNEY’S ONLY OPEN-AIR THEATRE.
Mr. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE
presents
VIOLET DANDIES CO.
EVERY EVENING AT 5.15.
Programmes Changed Every Friday.
SUMMER ALLOCATIONS OTHER COS.:
DANDIES (Green) MANLY
DANDIES (Scarlet) BRISBANE
DANDIES (Oranp-e) ST. KILDA
DANDIES (Pink) ADELAIDE
DANDIES (Red) PERTH
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, 1/-.
Box Plans at CARNEGIE’S, 334 George Street,
and at SINCLAIR’S, top William Street.
TH IS AT R E ROV A L, .11 ISI.ItOU KN K.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 30.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present MURIEL STARR
and a Brilliant Company in
BOUGHT AND PA ID FOB.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
14 HR M A.IHM V S Til HAT UK. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present the ROYAL COMIC
OPERA CO. in
THU OLD GUARD.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- .and ,1/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRIC. MELBOURNE.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30 (DERBY NIGHT).
MR. AND MRS. GRAHAM MOFFAT
in their delightful play,
A SCBAPF O’ TIP PEN.
Plans at Allan’s.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
Commencing
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30.
ALLEN DOONE
as - *
O’LEARY, y.C.
BIJOU T II IC A T R E. M E L B O U It N K.
FULLKR-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director .... BEN .J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
MONS. POINCAIRE, MAUD MILES, KING &
BROWN, WYKEHAM & PRESTON, HILDA FEL-
STED, LUMLEY & RHODES, WALTER D’ORIA.
EDWARD NOBLE & CONNIE MILNE.
Prices: 2/6, 2/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
yyiRTlI BROS. LTD. CIRCUS AND ZOO.
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING.
HIPPODROME, WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
ALL NEW STAR COMPANY, including:—
The ROYAL WIRTH FAMILY.
CAPTAIN FRANK HULING’S FAMOUS RIDING
SEALS ON HORSEBACK.
The ERNESTONIA -NOUIKOFF TROUPE.
The LORETTA TWINS, only Lady Horizontal Bar
Performers.
The LE VANS. MAXINO, the Drunk on Wire.
STAMPINE, the Steel-skinned Man.
MUSSA MAMIEV, Russian Cossack Rider.
ALL OLD FAVORITES IN NEW ACTS.
Matiijees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
' Plan of Reserved Seats at Glen’s.
OYT ’ S PICTU RIS S, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO RIG SHOVV S.
HOYT'S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
Birch & c a r k o l l
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charter! Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
11 had Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
m,
The Delicate Magneto
is the very life of your cycle or car. It requires the
skill of the expert to adjust and repair. Send yours to
Moody & Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney,
who have specialised in electrical work for years, and
who undertake to repair quickly and cheaply, and
guarantee to make it work equal to new again or
make no charge.
A 10-stone female defendant appeared in
a Melbourne court last week. The charge
was beer and behavior —both bad. “She's
well known as Helen of Troy, your Wor-
ship,” said the presiding policeman. Helen
of Troy? Helen of Avoirdupois!
“The Wanderer”: They cut their teeth on
corn-cobs on the Hawkesbury, live long and
die hard. The billet of postman in Windsor
has passed down to three generations of Cam-
bridges. Tom has been on the job for the
past 24 years. His father before him had it
for 2G years, and his grandfather for 28
years. I reckon that stands alone south of
the line.
Adelaide’s established reputation for com-
mon-sense moved up another one the other
day, when Rabbi Boas spoke from the pulpit
of Stow Church on Hebrew ideas of right-
eousness. Dr. Bevan, the ancient cherub
of the Independents, claimed that it was the
first time in the history of the Congrega-
tional body that such a thing had been done
or allowed, and made a promise to recipro-
cate by speaking in the Synagogue some time.
A startling illustration of the influence of
environment was given Frank Tudor, Minis-
ter for Customs, when he was in Sydney : a
deputation of people who handle hides waited
on him and asked him to lift the embargo
on the export of sheepskins, on the ground
that the “industry” of shipping the raw
material for somebody else to use employed
juite a number of storemen !
“B. Cee”: At the beginning of this war
officers of a Military Department (it was
not in Ecuador) hired six tarpaulins from
i. Railway Department. It still has them
ind has paid over £lOO for the hire, and the
;arpaulins still belong to the railway. Any-
oody but the Military could buy about 25
arpaulins for the money. And probably the
dx are covering some junk everybody has
’orgotten. Do you wonder that money is
'oing out like water, with a mere handful
if trained men to show for it?
Maorila'ud’s Cold Hash Government armed
tself with a sparrow’s tail the other night
ind attacked the cost of living bogey with
?reat fury. The result of the combat was
:hat the municipalities have been given cer-
tain alleged powers to deal with “bread,
milk and bricks.” and a couple of officials
are to be appointed to investigate things
generally and give the Ministry occasional
reports. What is going to happen then
seems to depend on the juxtaposition of the
planets.
“F.H.”: Of agricultural students, The
Bulletin remarks (14/10/’l5) that “the
old man has mostly discovered that, to merely
equip a decent-sized farm and hang on till
it produces something costs as much is it
does to equip a youngster for a profession.”
Here and there you find an “old man” who
decides not to risk the farm, after all. Judge
Winneke, of Victoria, spent a couple of years
at Dookie after leaving Scotch College, and
then he pulled out. In his case, the shortage
of cheap land meant a good thing for him
later on. Not many farmers at 40 have a
judge’s income, no matter how much they
know about silo-construction and soil-bacilli.
Jabez Wright, who the other night offered
to punch the nose of a fellow Labor member
in the Assembly, brought with him from
Broken Ilill solid Unionistic notions, one of
which is a belief in day-work. His idea is !
familiar to people who used to meet him on |
Labor Conferences and Trade Union Con- j
gresses, where he always battled against !
night sittings. Directly he reached Parlia-
ment lie proposed the same scheme: Parlia-
ment should meet at 10.30 a.m. and close at
0 p.m.; and he got it before the House again
the other day. In this matter, at any rate,
Wright is not wrong. How can he decently
ask the mine-owners in his own constituency
to abolish the night shift ivhen his own
crowd in Parliament deliberately chooses it?
The jury in the Kidman conspiracy case
acquitted the accused and found the prosecu-
tor guilty, the prosecutor being the Defence
Department. It decided, in effect, that there
were such tremendous opportunities for loot
in the muddled department that it would be
amazing if Australia hadn’t been rooked. Of
course, the expected Ministerial explana-
tion was at once forthcoming—things were
rotten yesterday, but they are all right to-
day. The public is very tired of that story,
thopgli; there never was a time in Pearce’s
Ministerial history when things weren’t all
right to-day though all rotten yesterday. The
fact is the Defence Department is still put-
ting soldiers to solve business problems—
which is as absurd as it would be to set the
grocer at the little corner store to train an
artillery brigade.
At latest advices, Elwood Mead, formerly
chairman of the Victorian Water Commis-
sion, was in Arizona, seeking to unravel an
irrigation tangle! He had the company of
an Echuca resident named Syd. Smith, who
is honeymooning in the States. This parti-
cular grain of sand on the. seashore of
Smiths is in the seed line, and gave the
Yuma Examiner some facts about the Vic-
torian Government’s helping hand to settlers
that made the Yuma sheet whoop, and now
the print wants-to know when “Dr.” Mead
is going to recommend that some of this
pleasant physic be prescribed to sick Ameri-
can irrigation settlers, of whom, it seems,
there are thousands.
At the Showgrounds camp (Vic.), the
meningitis outbreak was recently introduced
to a new military surgeon, Captain Charles
Johnson, lately of Ivor ng. an Australian-
horn bacteriologist of the first order. At
that time the Showgrounds bacillus was
receiving attention from several medical
officers. On the authorities asking Captain
Johnson his opinion of the treatment given,
he suggested that the subduing of the nest
should be left to one M. 0., who should be
strictly isolated. This was done, aiid John-
son himself was put into close confinement.
The results of his labors have been so com-
forting that he has been called on to bring
his extensive laboratory from Kerang and
place it at the service of his country in a
wider sphere. Captain Johnson is a young
man ot 42, but he has a trunkful of degrees,
which give him the right to wear no less
Ilian 22 letters after his name in case of
i mergency.


iIU CAME OUT
JiIFULS
Dandruff Fell Out in Shower, Scalp
Hot and Itchy, Used Cuticura.
Now Free From Trouble.
Amphitheatre, Victoria. —“My hair used
to come out in handfuls and was dry and
M fft
. fo o) i-N-r
gif ci
scurfy.. If I shook it the dan-
druff used to fall out in a
shower. The scalp got very
hot and itchy. The hot itch-
ing got worse and at night I
would wake with the itching
of my scalp. I had only to
touch my hair and it would
come out in strands.
“After using one tin of Cuti-
cura Ointment the itching had ceased and
the hair was not falling out nearly so much.
§o I continued using Cuticura Soap and
Ointment and I feel I am now free from all
my old trouble.” (Signed) Miss Marie
.Agnes Mangan, Jan., 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
Benger’s is
natural food entire-
ly free from any
chemical substance
whatsoever.
Vic
It is different
from all other
foods in being
scientifically
combined with
natural diges-
tive principles.
*
Food
is prepared for child, invalid,
or aged person, with fresh new milk,
and in course of preparation, both
the Food and the milk are partially
digested, as desired.
This unique feature enables Benger's Food
to be assimilated under almost all conditions
of illness and digestive disorder .
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists , etc., everywhere.
An interesting booklet explaining how Benger’s Food 'assists Nature*
for Invalids and Convalescents, post f ee from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Branch Offices:
NEW YORK (U.S A.) 92, William St.' SYDNEY (N.5.W.1T17, Eitt St.
Canadian Agents— Nat : o al Dru<; & Chemical Co„ I.td., 34, St
! 7 j A Gabriel St., MONTREAL, and branches throughout CANADA.
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
Treat your
hair kindly
You desire fine, beautiful hair.
Therefore you must treat it
kindly—nourish it, preserve it,
care for it by regularly using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
“ For Your Hair.”
This preparation has been used for over
120 years—it has proved its value time
and time again. Do not try experi-
mental remedies on your hair—get a
bottle of Rowland’s Macassar Oil at
your chemist’s. Also sold in a Golden
colour for Fair or Grey Hair. Rowland
& Son, 67, Hatton-garden, London, E.C.
TO “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
The Motor in Australia, 16 Pitt Street, Sydney
pays standard price for motor, motor-bike, aero
plane or motor-boat jokes for illustration.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on tl.e Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of I*’reehol<l or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. 9f*AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the. privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hop. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Samuel Hordern, Esq. General Manager and Actuary; Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
i/^i
THIS instep-strap shoe has been specially
designed to look trim and dainty
beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and flounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
pretty shoe, with a fine air of individuality
about it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black flowered
brocade, set off by an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. The picture gives
some idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than the picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted shape and with that smart
Cuban heel which makes walking so comfort-
able, it really is a. “find’’ in the way of
shoes. And ladies will see other and equally
delightful shoes in the latest Rostock ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Bostock No.
OqBoo
820
tr
None genuine
u nless stamped
“Bostock.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
A
X
!' :
JOftDAN
The Marv
Who Knows
More ——
Cams More
For the Electrician the line above might well be written, “I earn more
because I own
The Book of Electrical Installations
For to possess it means to “know more” —to be au fait with every late
development in the great new realm of electricity to have at your
elbow an unfailing source of information on any subject in electric
science, from Wireless Telegraphy to Electric Clocks, fiom the details
of the construction of a 3600-Amps, switchboard tor electrolytic
work to the best means of making a trifling repair. Comprehen-
sive and scientifically accurate, the work is free from dry-as-
dust theory and abstrusity, whilst numerous illustrations
valuably contribute to the easy grasp of the many subjects
treated in its pages. Here it is possible to convey the
merest bint of the scope and value of the work—mail
the coupon for an illustrated prospectus.
me /•
standard Publishing C 9
too Flinders st fiEL& E
19 HUNTER 5T SYDNEY
Adelaide $ London/
o
V
&
jg'.- r
v> <«
NT
0 v
N
v < o-
-v
<?'€Kf ‘
A#
4t
U*
V* 4?
V -A,
•:/
v .1
.•«*>
.« v
The Inky Way.
More inappropriate propinquity. The S.
M. Herald came out the other day with
these two headlines, one on the other: —
PRICE.OF HAMS.
SUFFERINGS’ OF THE JEWS.
* * * *
“E.K.11.” reports an interchange of trench
courtesies: —
Having captured a line of Turkish trenches, only
10 or 15 yards separated us from the enemy. A
favorite pastime of our friends opposite during the
day was to treat us to a fusillade of Turkish cartoons
taken from their papers. They wrapped them around
stones and threw them into our burrows. One
depicted a mob of Turks contemptuously pelting Aus-
tralian troops with gibbers. But the monopoly of
cartoons was not held by the enemy. A mail
having arrived in which The Bulletin played a
prominent part, we treated them to some of our
own. Norman Lindsay’s “Onward, Christian
Soldiers,” must have created some interest, for a
cautious hand was'seen to emerge front a'loop hole
and. haul in a stone that had fallen short.., Then we
treated them to the spiked helmet spurring on the
Turkish army. That tickled them up. Within 10
minutes they were showering live bombs on our
trenches to such an extent that we had to take
advantage of our overhead cover, and courtesies were
“off” for the day.
* * * *
Pushed on to the Inky Way last week the
first Australian edition of the Triad, a
monthly devoted to music, literature and
the drama, which has for some years been
on a good wicket in Maoriland. The Triad
is a hospitable print to anyone having some-
thing to say that matters, and as it has a
confirmed habit of saying what it thinks
about the famous tenor and the distinguished
pianist and the star act-or, these people will
henceforth find the heat of the Australian
summer agreeably tempered by the breeze
of candor from a new quarter.
* * * *
“8.X.”: My claim to greatness as a
reporter is based on the fact that I once
took a verbatim note of a' speech by John
Duthie, who has just passed out in Welling-
ton (M.L.). Duthie's friends used to re-
gard him as a financial critic; hence it was
liis custom to get up in the House and try
to knock holes in Dick Seddon’s Budgets;
but as he talked in amazing jerks, and in a
Scottish dialect which led him to deplore
the missing twopences as “matther f’ink-
wherry,” the Gallery used to curse these
occasions with enthusiasm. He had the
Aberdonian’s proverbial lack of humor. But
he made one joke. It was after Seddon’s
return from England with an honorary
degree, John called him “the right honor-
able and lairrrned doctor.” It was his one
wonderful stroke of wit, and the effort nearly
killed him.
. * -X- * *
There was a mighty slump of tripe in
Maoriland newspaper officer hen the Gov-
ernment announced that the press telegrrm
rate would be doubled. A circular was sent
from the head olfice of the Pre s Association
to all agents telling them to in future bury
at least three parts of their copy in the
ash heap. One result is that the thief with
the scissors and paste is working overtime
to keep the linos, going.
* * * *
“The Book-shark” : War Fund Gift Books
—still they come. Maoriland, not content
with absorbing huge quantities of the im-
ported variety—Queen Mary’s, King
Albert’s, Scottish, French, and Melba’s—
is bent on having one of her own. It is
modelled on the lines of Melba’s —best of all
to date —and is on the stocks at Whitcombe’s
printery at Christchurch. Local writers and
artists are enthusiastically helping it along,
and it deserves to be the success they’re
working for. Maoriland’s wonderful pro-
sperity, largely war-brought, ought to ensure
that, though.
“Rosna” (London); Katherine Prichard,
who took Plodder and Stoughton’s £250 prize
for an Australian novel, goes homewards
for a visit next month. Her book, “The
Pioneers,” just out, is reaping good reviews.
The clever damsel first received a printed
slip from the publishers telling her the MS.
was no good and she could have it back
on application. When she was properly
subdued, a- note -arrived apologising for the
mistake, and saying -she’d won the £250
instead. Incidentally she resisted an at-
tempt to make her change her artistic end-
ing for one of the popular variety—for which
more power -to her elbow !
, * * * *
“W’lang”: Mention of Davison (Peter)
Symmons (B. 7/10/T5) brings to mind the
fact that Corowa Free Press turned out
Donald McDonald, Symmons and Albert
Goldberg in succession. McDonald left the
border weekly to take on sport for the Argus
evening sheet, the Mail, which, although
retailed at a ha’penny, had a very short life.
Symmons went to the Age first, then to the
Argus. The Corowa paper was run by J. C.
Leslie, founder of N.S.W. Country Press
Association. His “copy” was a joy to
comps. No commercial clerk ever wrote a
tidier fist.
“O’Phimerty”: According to Fenton’s
“History of Tasmania” one of the earliest
papers in the island was the Tasmanian
and Austral-Asiatic Review, edited by
Robert Lathrop Murray, and started in 1828.
I have hunted in every likely spot in Hobart
for a copy, but haven’t found one. Any way-
farer know anything about it?
* * *
“J.F.H.” : Sir Harry Johnston has a yarn
about Lord Salisbury and the press which
he and all the Cecils more or less affect to
despise. Johnston was surprised to see
Salisbury buying newspapers for the journey,
and said so. Salisbury : “I read them for the
news which I very seldom get in despatches.
Commenting on this reminiscence Johnston,
who has himself done a good deal of-writing
since he gave up exploring and governing
in Africa, declares that, in his experience,
the average journalist know’s far more, than
the average ambassador. But the ambassador
scores, because the less he says the more he
is credited with knowing, while if the jour-
nalist is silent it is, of course, because he
doesn’t know anything!


The BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
yuret
breech, side <
short, .12 lon,
front sights ;
B32—REMINGTON HAMMERLESS REPEAT-
ING RIFLE, Model 12, 22-calibre, solid
sector, straight, grip, 24in. round barrel, handles 15
° on » r^e cartridges; adjustable rear and open
weight 411 b. Delivered, 52/6.
THE MAXIM SILENCER, for attaching to rifles. Improves
your marksmanship. Ensures noiseless shooting. The
marvel of the shooting world.
Silencer for 22-cal. rifles £l/s'-
Sileneei- for all other calibre rifles £2/2/6
Po>tage on one Silencer—N.S.W., 9d.; Inter-State, 1/2.
Wedging or screwing Silencer on 22-cal. barrel. . 7/6 extra
Screwing Silencer on all other barrels 12/6 extra
$
We Repair
All Kinds
of GUNS
and
RIFLES.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
aii Sporting Goods
Post Free Anywhere.
HAYMAPKET
•SYDNEY-
&s
SfeSHH!
B49—MAUSER CARBIXE AND PISTOL COMBINED; 10 shot,
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards.
Delivered £6/10/-
ut
BI9—“THE SAVAGE” REPEATING
HAMMERLESS RIFLE, 1914
MODEL, 22-eal. rim fire, 24in.
octagon barrel, slide action, de-
mountable, pistol grip, handles short, long or
cartridges; magazine holds 20 short. 17 long or 15
cartridges; length over all 40in.. taken apart 27 Jir
about 551 b. Delivered
long rifle
long rifle
i.; weight.
. £3/8/-
urt
B29—REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. 6 Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel,
weight 3ilb 17 /C
B3o —With ladder rear sights 21/-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W. ;
2/8 Inter-State.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE, British made. Sample Box of 5—2/6 (post free).
ut
B2—STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
22-cal. R.F., round barrel, 20in. chambered for lon*,
rifle cartridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut
stock, open front and rear sights, weight 41b.. 19/0
Postage—N.S.W. 1/9; Inter-State 3/2.
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot: 119 KINO STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
•ptjSaiStSjsi
US
? *
'mmm
IH
Iffii
all
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourna.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16 - per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
' _s< appointed Hotel in Sydney,
ggpw
RllterUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
I lAN DSOME DR AWING -ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms clay
and night.
LIFTS running clay and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. 1 RE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Information for tHe Housewife.
CLARK’S
CAST- IRON
SAUCEPANS,
BOILERS, KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as the lightest Enamelled Ware, and will last
a lifetime instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust. Handles that will not slip in the hand.
Please note the
Hygienic Shape
;md the Patent.
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
£3
SECTION,
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S HOLLOW-WARE IS THE BEST
Australasian Agent: A, J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
• *•' '■ ‘ - ‘ . ■ o • - ■ ••• -
Ray’s Hair Dye.
uKl
NO
.•» <3,^dpH
m
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
KAY'S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/i).
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
£
<
n
£
V
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
“AP ” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
“ Angling Department,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE.
318 Little Collins St. Melbourne
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
1500 K OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s Cd posted. Merrik
England, Od. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friknd, Is 6d. Nkd Donnelly's Art
OF Boxikg, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
llow to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestlk, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tub
Horsf,, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datf. Comic Rkcitfr, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
.Toys of Life, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.. Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, ls6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Fiagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, Cd. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sport's, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses.
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/8.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Cd. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is Cd
05
9
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. S 6 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows' up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which- they feel a delicacv in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, anu wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH.**!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAROS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, esc., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games;, Is. How TO
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter. Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3c posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3n posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new). 4s ' 6d-
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers ofSupkih: Manhood. ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee's Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets. Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The VVaybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OE JIY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADYT,
Write for my.
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT' IN STAMPS. MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tiie Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Caros, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d nost. Dr; Milkouij’s Mid-
wife's Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 8/6. Adam L. Gordon's Poems, complete.
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
Kino, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering. 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Kev to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s «d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Kead Heads
(Jas. Coar.es), Is 3d posted, Ciikvassk’s Advice to a
Wife. 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 3uo latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posred.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, is 3d. The Wife's Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pav 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing" Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic;, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyant e,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs t words and music coni'
p'lete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, dv Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA V.


,"Y
Miss blwi'n Harvey
(from a /ihoto.)
MISS ELWYN HARVEY, the Talented and Beautiful Australian Astre&s, praises
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
1 wish to teii you liow much benefit i have received from the use of Dr. Sheldon'S
New Discovery. In my work my throat often becomes irritated from strain and
theatre dust, and often it would he impossible for me to so through my part if it
iyere not fof the benefit 1 get from li dose or two of Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery.
Aistti on two occasions i have been so unfortunate as to contract a heavy cold, and on
each of these occasions Dr. Sheldon'S New Discovery helped me at once, and Soon fid
mC Entirely of the trouble.
i think there is nothing like it, and always have a bottle at home, for during the
winter I look to it dS my safeguard against the throat chills contracted so
easily when leaving the heated dressing-room and going into the chilly night air.
I assure you 1 will always recommend it to all my friends.
Yours sincerely, I Signed l ELWYN HARVEY.
STOPS COUGHS ——BANISHES COLDS.
Mehj women and children all over the country use and know the worth of
New Discover}'. \re you. one of them ? if not, don't delay, but buy bottle at
ready to pounce on to the first cold that makes its appearance. Don’t forget.
New Discovery is the eVei'-ready friend that should be iil every household; to protect
Winter Ills. DriCe i/0 and 3/-.
Dr. Sheldon’s
oncC, and be
Dr. Sheldon'S
you iron! all
D? Sheldon’s
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
urt
Decorating,
™ ™ Remodeling or
Building, be assured of
SANITARY as well
as Beautiful Walls and
Ceilings use
BEAVER
BOARD
You need hygienic walls, not only
in sleeping rooms but in every
room in the house.
Beaver Board takes the place of lath, plaster
and wall paper. Better, stronger and more
sanitary walls and ceilings are quickly and
easily built with Beaver Board.
Beaver Board is made of Pure
VFood Fibre. It beautifies and
brightens the home. It won't crack,
and will last a lifetime.
Beaver Board is especially recommended for
residences, offices, schools, shops, hospitals,
and churches. It assures well designed, well
built walls and ceilings that give greater
satisfaction, freedom from cracks and repair
expense, and permanent satisfaction,
MADE IN CANADA
Your architect will tell you all about Beaver
Board. Booklets, designs and free samples
are obtainable from any Beaver Board stockist
WARNING: All wall hoard, are not
Beaver Board. There are imitations. Be
•are to get the genuine with name and
trade mark on hack of every faaneh
n v
0
0
Solid Comfort!
No torn or dingy wall paper in
this room. No cracked plaster.
The walls and ceilings are
made of Beaver Board.
Easily put up at any season
of the year without mess or
bother. Lasts without repairs
as long as the house. Resists
heat, cold and sound.
Treated on both sides to pre-
vent absorption of moisture,
and to protect against changes
of weather. Is scrupulously
clean and makes any room
more cheerful and inviting.
Make a spare room out of the
attic. Use Beaver Board for
partitions. Use it to brighten up
the living room or dining room.
Supplied ready for nailing to
joists or studding or over old
walls. Panels about A" thick,
36" and 48" wide and in even
foot lengths up to 16 feet
Tke Beaver Board Companies
Ottawa, Canada
4 Southampton Row, London, W. C. England
REPRESENTATIVES:
0. D. Garden, G. P. 0. 1893, Sydney R. S, Ward, 40 William Street, Melbourne
STOCKISTS:
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide
Cowell Bros. & Co., Adelaide
Guilnersen, Crockett, Ltd.,
379 Kent St., Sydney
James Hardie k Co., Melbourne
G. Gunnersen & Co., Melbourne
Geo. Wills and Qo., Ltd., Perth
G. P. Harris Scarfs & Co., Ltd., Perth
Geo. Wilis ind Co., Ltd., Brisbane
JaittSs Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane
BEAVER
BOARD
Looking Backward.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF I could write down all the things I’m
dreaming,
And coin my fancies into something real;
If I could be myself, instead of seeming
The pitiful result of all I feel;
If I could stamp from out times gone their
sorrows,
Strangled resolves, and weariness, and
shame:
If I could think the long, long round of
morrows
Would not recall sins dead and all their
blame;
If I could murder Conscience and her off-
spring,
Blaek-draperied Remorse and wild Regret,
And in their place Youth’s joy of living bring,
I might make something of my future yet;
If I could journey back where Hope forsook
me
And fight the battle from the start anew,
Blot out the bitter track that careless took
me
Fast from the zest of things, and —You!
But naked Thought comes out wth gibes and
sneering
To mock the vanitv of further strife ;
The Devil and my Past keep on appearing,
Hot from that wreck of days I call my life ;
My promises unkept, the faith I’ve broken,
Reproaching eyes and all I valued most
Tell what I know without it being spoken :
“You've run your race, poor sinner, and
you've lost!”
x.s.w.
W.W.P.
The Skirmish at Makauri Flat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was a hot February day, and at play-
time the kids had no energy to do more
than bang lazily round the water tank.
But a different spirit obsessed a stout,
whiskered, coatless, corduroy-trousered indi-
vidual who, stick in hand, strode across the
playground with all tin; speed his ungainly
lines and heavy tonnage would allow. Jen-
kins, the recently-arrived sole teacher at
Makauri Elat, was engaged in making ftp
quarterly returns from his attendance regis-
ter as the one exit from the barn-like edifice
was filled by a burly form. The intruder
rapidly closed the door, turned the key
which projected on the inside of it, and
deposited that small piece of metal in a
pocket so far in rear that it took consider-
able reaching. The teacher, surprised
beyond words at this unwarrantable intru-
sion, and anticipating the man to be a
member of the school committee, thought to
preserve his dignity by remaining seated.
He always felt that short stature and
spectacles were more effective in a chair.
Three strides sufficed to bring a bulky form
towering all over and round him.
“Yer blarsted bully, yer!” burst from a
cavity among the whiskers. “Yer glass-
eyed, snivelling cur, yer! Yer walloped me
.Timmy, did yer! Then, be cripes, I’m ago-
in’ ter wallop yous.”
The stick flourished above the head of the
astonished Jenkins. A method of dealing
with situations of this sort had not been
taught at the Auckland Training College.
"I—l—er —had to,” came the plea. “You
—er —see —er —discipline must be —er —
maintained.”
“Discipline be damned,” was the allitera-
tive retort. “Yous beaten me Jimmy so
hard ’e carn’t milk me blarsted cows. Now,
'oo’s goin’ ter milk the blamed creatures, I’d
like ter know? D’ye expec' me ter do ’is
work, yer blessed coward ?”
No mental effort on Jenkins’s part could
produce a suitable reply. “Six cuts yer give
'im,” roared the whiskers. “Yous’ll ’ave the
same.” Whack! The stick emphasised the
last remark by a rapid descent upon the
meek one’s shoulders.
“Wow!” he yelled, springing from his four-
shilling chair, and hastily beating for cover
of the more substantial desks.
“One, yer crawler!” shouted corduroy-
trousers, starting in pursuit, and barking
his shins over the first form. A torrent of
invective burst forth, and the mercury in the
school thermometer hit the top of the tube.
The kids, aroused to excitement at the
unusual appearance of .Timmy Jinks’s father,
had collected in the porch, all ears to catch
what eventuated within. At the opening
outburst there were smothered chuckles, but
when actual hostilities commenced discretion
was thrown to the winds, and they screamed
with delight. Billy Jones saw the strategic
advantage of the keyhole as a view point,
and bending down attached his eye thereto.
This was too much for Timms, who produced
a pin from his coat and applied half an inch
of it. Jones’s head and the doorknob re-
ceived mutual impressions, and, during the
reprisals upon the venturesome Timms,
Brady occupied the coveted post, graphically
describing all that came within his limited
field of vision.
“The old bloke’s after him.” gasped Brady
excitedly. “Gee whiz! He’s fallen over a
form !” A crash and further expletives bore
out this statement to the delighted scholars.
“Goggles is too quick for him,” communi-
cated the keyhole look-out. “My, that was
a close go! Whiskers nearly got him. Oh.
hang it! Now they’re in the far corner, and
I can’t see.”
But unmistakable sounds bore testimony
to the continuance of the chase, Jenkins
perceived the advantage of his superior
mobility, and kept his pursuer moving in
the hope of tiring him out, or of finding some
opportunity of escape from the small room
and its rapidly collapsing furniture. But
the parent would not tire, and the teacher,
in flying-column fashion, started to harass
him. The first effort was successful. A
well-directed inkwell produced upon the
farmer’s left Optic a splash of black that
was rapidly heightened by a sub-cutaneous
discoloration. The attacking force wa&
roused to language and a desperate effort at
a flanking movem&at. Jenkins skipped round
the room, lightly hurdling a capsized desk.
The pursuit had to clamber over this
obstacle, and the chance for further guerilla
warfare presentee] itself. Whiz went another
inkwell, but at the same moment the coat*
less individual tripped and fell with a yell
like that of a dozen Maoris finishing a war*
cry. The bottle passed harmlessly over him.
and a map of Africa hanging on the wall
showed indications of once again being the
Dark Continent.
With his adversary rising slowly, and
invoking curses on all the school desks in
creation, Jenkins made a hurried bound for
the door, and for one brief instant tugged
furiously at the handle. Brady, seeing this
intention, hung on fiercely outside till the
enemy’s forces within were again mar-
shalled and the pursuit had recommenced.
Whiskers now copied the teacher’s tactics.
Grabbing an armful of articles from the
school table, he waded in with an attempt
to close under cover of his own fire. Jenkins
ducked his presentation inkpot, hurled at
his head, and a portrait of the King and
Queen immediately assumed deep mourning.
The ebony ruler, from a closer range, nar-
rowly missed, while the teacher’s reply with
a pencil case failed to disconcert the attack.
Rapid flight was the master’s only chance,
and he caught the hand-bell fairly on the
back of the head in attempting this.
Smarting with rage at being hit on the
head with a school bell, Jenkins lost that
coolness which was essential to his safety.
Seizing a large slate he tised it as a shield,
successfully stopping the flight of the dic-
tionary and a geography book as he replied
with Doolan’s parcel of lunch and an
enamel mug from the capsized desk. But
the farmer was within range. The stick
smote fiercely, and a sho tit of “Two 1” whs
greeted by cheers from the listeners without.
“Cur!” shrieked the teacher. Biff! And
the slate descended upon a bullet head, an
astounded face and bush of whiskers appear-
ing above il frame which hflng effectively
round a thick neck.
“Damnation! Tons’ll stiller fet this!”
Corduroy panted. But Jenkins had snatched
the window pole, and mounting a desk in the
far corner, set himself, bayonet-drill fashion,
to the “ready.”
The parent manoeuvred for an opening in
this effective guard. Meanwhile Ginger
Thomson and Porky Edwards had realised
the fine View that might be obtained from
the windows. Mounted on Porky’s shoul-
ders, Ginger could easily look over the sill.
Whiskers had just hurled the bottie of red
ink, but ill holding it up preparatory to
firing, had poured a liberal quantity of the
fluid over his oWn shirt.
“Gee!” exclaimed Ginger, “Goggle’s
stabbed him in the Weskit with the winder
pole, an’ he’s bleedin’ like a stuck pig.” Porky
begged “swaps” so that lie could see. Ginger
implored him to be patient. Just then, to
divert the direction of the window pole, the
invader essayed a shot with the sixth stan-
dard reader. Ginger saw the fault in the
elevation, and ducked as the book flew out
of the window. Porky wobbled beneath
him, and the tower of observation collapsed
instantly.
“You sneak, you!” roared Ginger. “Just
’cos I wouldn’t swap places at once, you let
me down.”
“Liar!” replied his erstwhile support.
“You fell and pulled me with you.”
“Who’s a liar?”
“You are, an’ there’s yer blow,” and the
exasperated Porky lashed out. Billy Jones,
hearing the additional row, looked round -the
corner of the porch.
“Hey!” he called. “Here’s Ginger and
Porky a-scrappin’ under the window.”
There was an immediate rush to see a fight
of which a good view could be obtained.
Only Brady, at the keyhole, stayed in the
porch.
“’E let me down,” explained Ginger as
the kids gathered round.
“ ’E’s a liar!” gasped Porky, lunging
fiercely at Ginger. The boys immediately
took sides.
“ ’lt ’im low, Ginger!” urged Timms, see-
ing his classmate’s features rapidly changing
under Porky’s attentions.
“Shut yer gob!” retaliated Jones.
“Shan’t. Go an’ stick pins in yerself!”
This reminder of a previous insult was too
much for anyone of the name of Jones. In
a second another “mill” was in progress, and
the delighted spectators forgot all about the
proceedings within.
The Reverend Waters, commonly rejoicing
in the nickname of “Milk-and-Waters,” was
doing the round of his Presbyterian flock on
a nag borrowed from his deacon, and as he
approached the school was pondering over
whom he might call upon for a midday meal.
The sight of sanguinary contest in the play-
ground caught his eye, and the man of
peace cantered up to the scene.
“Hey ! Look out! The preacher bloke !”
cried one of the boys.
Hostilities ceased instantly. Timms
crawled under the school and the other com :
batants dodged round the corner of the build -
ing.
“Children ! children ! Why this shocking,
this awful behavior? Remember your Sun-
day-school lesson last week about”-—-
A string of oaths and blasphemies came
from the window. The teacher had got
home with the window pole. A crash of
furniture followed. The minister gazed in
pious horror. Timms’s head peeped out from
under the school.
“Please, sir, Jimmy Jings’s father’s locked
teacher inside, an’s killin’ ’im.”
“Oh! Awful! Horrible!” gasped the
entablature of truth. “Run away, children.
Run away from such frightful contamina-
tion.” The minister rode up to the window,
through which, from the vantage of his
safldle. he surveyed a scene of wreckage that
froze his soul. Beneath him the teacher
stood on one of the few upright desks bran-
dishing a window pole, a scarlet weal across
one cheek. The farmer, opposite, flourished
a stick in one hand and a box of chalk in the
other, cursing in furious tones the while.
“Brethren ! Brethren ! Stop”
He did. An ineffectual reach with the
pole caused the wild discharge of the clialk-
box. The minister’s face arrested its im-
petus. The children outside were treated to
an exhibition of descent frbfil horseback that
would have proved a star turn in Wirths’
Circus, and were next aware of an animal
careering through the gates, and a figure in
clerical garb but minus clerical dianity sit-
ting on the ground spitting invocation's.
(Continued on next page.)


DROPSY
Watery Swellings under the Eyes and in the Ankles,
The fluid you take with your food,
in a single month , weighs as much as
your entire body.*
Most of this fluid has to pass out
through the kidneys, bladder and
urinary system.
Imagine what would happen if the
outlets for this water were stopped up !
In a few hours the limbs and body
would swell to a great size with the
collected water.
That is what actually takes place in
dropsy.
Dropsy is the name given to the
soft, watery swellings which appear in
the ankles, limbs and body, under the
eyes or in the eyelids, or on the backs
of the hands. If you press your finger
into the swollen flesh the pitting slowly
fills up with the water again.
*(i.e. —If you are of average weight.)
f
F
DROPSICAL EYES.
DROPSY is not a disease in itself,
but it is serious because it indicates
serious disease.
It may show that the kidneys are
failing to separate the waste water from
the blood, or that there is something
obstructing the urinary canals and
preventing the waste water passing out;
or it may be caused by defective action
of the heart.
Tapping takes away the water from
under the skin, but more water soon
collects, because tapping cannot reach
the cause of the dropsy, and as long
as the cause remains the dropsy will
continue.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
a quick and direct action on the kidneys
and bladder. They promote a free flow
from the system, washing out clogging
impurities from the passages, and
draining out the collected water through
the natural channels. They gently
lead the kidneys back to health and
activity, and thus reach the cause of
most cases of dropsy.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
no action on the heart, nor on the liver,
stomach or bowels ; they are solely for
the kidneys and urinary system, and
are, therefore, of the highest value in
dropsy, gravel, stone and all diseases
arising from kidney and bladder trouble.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Fitt Street,
Sydney.
u
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
■
rtu
“ ’Oo ’it yer, sir?” gasped Ginger, running
up. “Which one was it?”
“Go away, confound you !” And the par-
son expectorated a half-tooth. A minute
later Brady, still at the keyhole, was pushed
roughly aside. A force hurled itself against
the door; the cheap lock gave, and the Rev.
Milk-and-Waters precipitated himself, like
Bayard or Goliath, against a mass of flesh
as this mass was preparing to proceed in a
direction at right angles to the impact. Down
went the two over a Avreckage of forms and
desks. The farmer, furious, smote with
curses upon the ucav arrival. The latter
responded with a kick to the stomach that
silenced the invader. The Rev. Milk-and-
Waters fought like an army Avith banners.
Jenkins rushed to the door, and fell over an
inrush of school children. Then, realising
the probable plight of his rescuer, he seized
the extinguisher which a thoughtful school
committee had hung in the porch in case of
fire, and returned to the scene. Black
cloth and corduroy trousers still re-
mained entangled in the wreckage of the
furniture. The preacher Avas now doing
battle after the manner of one inspired.
“Stop, or I fire!” cried Jenkins dramati-
cally, pointing the nozzle of the extinguisher
at the whiskered face.
“Damn you!” roared its owner, and then
for the first time he saw Avith whom he was
struggling. “Hell! It’s the parson, and
I’ve blacked his eye.”
Ere the other two could say anything, the
huge form of Farmer Jinks had precipitated
itself through the doorway, and a dishevelled
object Avas making its way as rapidly as
possible along the road, a Avake of jeering
school kiddies following. Behind ran a
preacher with murder in his eye.
It took the Makauri Flat Committee three
meetings at the local pub to assess the
damage done, and two school concerts had to
be organised to raise the cash for repairs.
A relieving teacher acts at present in the
place of Jenkins. The Reverend Waters
possesses a presentation front tooth, the
faintest evidence of a once-very-black eye,
and a gift horse that is worth looking in the
mouth. A prominent member of his flock
has not since appeared at service, but the
collection-plate has not suffered, and the
pastor is hopeful of the eventual effect of the
prayers of the righteous.
A. A. HINTZ.
A Letter from Benno.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is written “On the Way to the lilanhy
■ Front,'' from “Marine Terrace, Any Old
Date .” You lenow Benno, our old
friend whom ive met in Elder Man’s
Lane.
“ 'P\EAB ’ARRY, —I can’t tell you much,
I W because, in the first place, I don’t
know much, and, in the second place,
I’m not allowed to tell the little I do know.
You’ve often complained that you’ve been
like that yourself in days of peace, so you
knoAV what it is in days of war.
“I might be able to tell you more when I
land. And then, agen, I mightn’t. You
see, there’s always some risk in landing in
a foreign country with unfriendly intentions.
There’s often some risk in landing in a for-
eign country even with friendly intentions;
and, as far as / can make out, our inten-
tions are most unfriendly. No. Consider-
ing the reception the fellows ahead of us got,
and the way they responded to it, ive’re not
likely to be met by the Mayor and Aldermen
with an Address of Welcome and a free feed
afterwards.
“Something similar —or not similar —to
being at home in times of peace. For
instance, I once went into the back yard of
an old pal with the fixed intention of stoush-
ing him, and his pretty sister gave me as
many empty bottles as I could hump to the
cart in one load for nothing. She didn’t
know that anything had come between us.
And the very next day I went into the back
yard of a new pal I liked (you, in fact)
with the friendliest intentions imaginable,
combatable with business, and his fool-dog
nearly et me. He was as big as the ass he
was. Dogs are mostly conservative about
their own back yards—especially mongrel
dogs—and their front gardens, too, when
they’ve got one. They don’t take the slight-
est notice of intentions. In fact, signs of
friendship will often make them madder than
the sight of a stick. It’s just the same
with the Front, as far as I can make out.
“The only difference between soldiers on a
transport and passengers on another trans-
port is that one lot do things because they
don’t have to do them, and the other lot do
things because they do have to do them.
And I think the passengers are the worst off.
“After you’re three or four days out
there’s nothing doing. One wave looks just
like another, except when one, bigger than
the rest, slaps you in the ear, and then it’s
just like the third one behind it, or the third
one in front of it. They seem to go by threes.
And in the flat, lazy, hazy days —you know
them—Sydney’s thousands of millions of
miles away, and in another world, and there
never was no Blue’s Point-road. And” ——
here Benno lapses into his half-pathetic, half-
comical bad grammar—“and it seems as if
the Old Uns never was.
“The ship is rolling lazy-like, and I lean
back comfortable against something, and
look sleepy and half stupid into the haze,
and doze off”—there’s Benno trying sleepily
to reconstruct the Old Uns, and being over-
powered by the tropical languor of the sea,
and dozing off —“and I wake, with a jerk
like, when the ship rolls over a bit
extra, and reach for old Geddup’s reins;
for I think I’m coming down Blue’s Point-
road with a load of empty bottles, on a
sleepy September day, and just struck the
steep place below the butcher’s shop.
“I left some of my pay to be drawn by old
Geddup. Y’ou see, I had no one to draw it
after the Old Uns was gone. And, anyway,
it was up to me to pension off old Geddup.
He’s Avith my brother-in-law. Jack Parker—
the contractor I told you about—who’s got
a bit of land and a little, nlace of his ,own
out Middle Harbor way. He’s a good, easy-
going fellow, Jack is, like most brothers-in-
law, but, like most easy-going chaps of his
sort, he ain’t easy-going when it comes to
sticking to his word. He'll look after old
Geddup, and just give him as much exercise,
under pretence of work, as is good for his
health; and Geddup’ll wonder, perhaps,
what’s become of Benno. No. I've got no
Arab-to-his-Steed ideas about horses. It
was just a sort of friendly partnership
arrangement between me and old Geddup,
though we got along a lot smoother than any
other two partners I ever knew.
“Well, and what do we think about, and
what do we do? Well, there’s this differ-
ence between us and ordinary steerage pas-
sengers : we’re got no anxiety about drop-
ping into work when we land. So we’ve got
nothing much to think about.
“The chaps talk about almost anything
except the war. Two or three of those long,
loose, lanky, easy-going, freckled Out-
backers of yours will drift together on
deck, and find out that they’ve been at some
place called Bungaroo, shearing or droving
or something, and though it’s been at differ-
ent times they’ll get excited about it. With
this kind of Australian, lankiness and
loose-builtness and freckles and easy-going-
ness all seem to go together. And something
else. Their great bony shoulders and arms
and hands, and their loose, nobby joints and
wrists, and their big, loose hips—and their
freckles —seem to me to be held together by
nothing but good nature. But I don’t sup-
pose they’d be extra-easy-going—and per-
haps they’d lose a lot of their good nature—-
if they were raked up a bit too much. Y’ou
can’t call them boys ; nor yet grown-up boys.
They’re just—well, they’re just men-boys.
With all the manliness of men and none of
the littleness, and all the boyishness of boys
and none of the ‘bigness.’
“Well, and then they’ll talk about Jack
W ilson the storekeeper, and his calico signs
on the trees along the tracks for miles out:
and ‘Ratty Bob’—he’s the town crank—and '
his politics; and how they sent letters to
him inviting him to stand for the next elec-
tions. And ‘Dick the Devil,’ who was always
in trouble with the police ; and ‘Mad Mick’
Martin the shearer; and they’ll wonder
where poor ‘Dick the Devil’ and ‘Mad Mick’
are now, and whether they’ve enlisted or are
already at the Front. And Mary Jane Hill,
or Mary Ann McKay, who kept the Post
Office Hotel on the bank of the river. I
always think of Mary Jane Hill or Mary
Ann McKay as a big, bony, grindstone-
faced woman with a sore about her face
somewhere. But she must be a real good
sort underneath. And they’ll talk about
fights and practical jokes and horse-racing,
and get excited and joyful, till you’d think
they were on their way back to Bungaroo
to see some life and excitement, instead of
being on the way to the biggest and blazing-
est war that ever was in this world.
“Ah well, these hazy, lazy, sleepy days!
Sometimes the Old Uns seem deader than
ever they were—just as if they’d never
been, I mean. And sometimes it seems as if
I’ll wake up out of this dream and find
myself on some bags and rags on top of the
load going across on the old Blue’s Point
Horse Ferry, to find the Old Uns well and
hearty.
“Ah well again—I suppose this dream
will end up, like all others ; and I suppose
it’ll end up suddenly, shortly after we land.
Perhaps shortly before. Anyway, I’ll do
my best to keep alive. I’m used to tUjs
world, but I ain't used to any of the others.
So good luck, Harry Lawson.—From Benno”
HENRY LAWSON.
The Ferry Damosel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I FANCY it was twelve o’clock—
’Twas after closing time. I know —
The silver night had tongues to mock
My errant heart that trembled so.
And all the wide seas seemed to rock
My tangled fancy to and fro.
My heating pulses were a-spin,
My intellect was but a thread
Through kissing the delightful sin
Of that warm opening in her head—-
I dreamt her love was good to win
Because her pleasant lips were red.
The wetness of the harbor broke
In foamy bubbles shining white
Before the engine’s throbbing stroke
That drove our keel across the night;
Her hair was soft as funnel smoke,
And curled and waved for my delight.
Beneath her velvet lids I saw
Tier soft eyes full of blackest fire;
Iler satin cheek against my jaw
Stirred all the whiskers of desire,
As Orpheus moved the tender raw
First catgut raptures of his lyre.
Short is the good the gods ordain,
And she was short as maidens go.
So was the time, I must explain,
And ferry-boats, though passing slow,
Are all too swift to ease the pain
Of love that may not overflow.
We reached the wharf, we said good bye;
We went across a cold, faint plank;
The little stars that ruled the sky
I neither sought to blame nor thank;
They winked, she went —the world was dry
As leaves of ledgers in a bank.
But still I think about that girl
Whenever I am very late,
Whene’er I see the crayfish curl
His rosy fingers round my plate;
I know that somewhere planets whirl
To weave my horoscope of fate;
I know that somewhere I may see
Iler soft eyes full of darkest night,
The while she gently leans to me
And stirs the whiskers of delight;
And when like smoke her hair shall be
Around me, I skull feel all right.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


An Economical Portable Outfit
CONSISTING OF
A WESTINCHQUSE “-CROSS*' OIL ENGINE
rtu
MOUNTED ON A
STEEL GIRDER
UNDERCARRIAGE.
The Engine has NO
delicate Mechanism to
get out of order, and con-
sumes the MINIMUM
amount of kerosene
per B.H.P.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8.0.5 to—
Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne /Zealand Office: 93-107,Featherston St., Wellington.
West, N.S
The Record of the
Stirling Boiler
SHOWS—
HIGHEST evaporation per sq. ft. of heating surface.
HIGHEST efficiency.
LOWEST coal costs. LOWEST maintenance costs.
40 Municipal undertakings use STIRLING BOILERS. Average
tube renewals ‘295 tubes per boiler per annum. Average
efficiency of 17 boiler tests in electricity stations was 79 %.
REPEAT ORDERS RECEIVED FROM 220 SATISFIED USERS.
The Austral Engineering Supply Go.
LIMITED,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney-
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Ganuina
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/6.
Made in England.
tru
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectuall y
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
OOUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aota tike a charm in
DIARRHOEA and simple
DYSENTERY.
What do you put
through your
Carburetor •
A car will go about
two miles more on a
gallon of
Plume
Benzine
Try it and prove it.
“Plume” is a new benzine. It has
come to stay. Read what a Ford
owner says:—
“ I used Plume Benzine in my Ford on my recent
expedition across Australia and found it gave ok~
•client results, as also did Gargoyle Mobiloils.”
(Sgd.) FRANCIS BIRTLES.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
0
9
ft Dominant position
among proprietary medicines is held to-day by Beecham’s Pills after being
before the public for the lengthy period of seventy years. This fact alone,
furnishes overwhelming proof of the splendid value of this preparation.
It shows very clearly that Beecham’s Pills have fully justified their claim
upon the public confidence. The unrivalled success of Beecham’s Pills
supplies the best guarantee that those who have not yet tried them will
derive benefit if they will but put this excellent medicine to the test.
Beecham’s Pilk contain in their composition nothing but the most health-
giving ingredients of the finest quality obtainable. Beecham’s Pills do not
claim to be a ** cure-all” but they may be relied upon to improve the
digestive powers, strengthen the stomach, correct and stimulate the liver
and generally promote a condition of sound health and abundant bodily
vigour. Their undoubted success in these directions is the explanation
of the dominant position held to-day by
ceckam’s pills
Sold in boxes, labelled, price Io|d. (36 pills) I/I| (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effect i ve—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
SSS3S&*
ms
ii-Vsifti
m
fees
}A\
hits
i'Z&Z,
■■■■:
m
S
: As
m
.v ; -
WMm
m
sHi
m
mi
V*
Sh
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.G., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Get the
Pen made and
Guaranteed by the
Largest Firm of
Fountain Pen
Manufacturers in
Great Britain:—
The Onoto. The
Onoto is made by
Thomas De La Rue &
Co., Ltd., who guar-
antee it all British,
and designed to last a
lifetime. If an Onoto
ever goes wrong, the
makers will put it
right at once.
/
t
%
'/ ,o
*0
f
Price 12/- and up-
wards of ad Stationers
Jewellers and Si ores,
Booklet about tire Onoto
Pen free on application
to Thos. De La Rue
ft Co. Ltd., 438 Bun-
hill Row, London, E.C.,
or the Australasian Man-
aging Agents, Norman
Baker and Longhurst,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Onoto
Self-Filling - - m|
Safety Fountain
The Standard Remedy *hich ha» ooOtred the Certlarte*
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book, CURES * "" Write for Book.
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
8» ®RFK>f, 2IP Lambeth Road. London, Bo£<
twixi d* '■ SfevMooY — all t.iUtiniw.
\%\\ : : /
SE
•cl
Lime Juice
Bring • to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT Is so Id by all leading Storekeepers.
fa
%
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness's) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.


The All
Power
NGRavrr
LEATHER
LTI
which la used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
The Pure
Spirit.
Certificates of Origin from
the British Pro-Consul at
Rotterdam accompany
each shipment.
Buy Whole
Hardie s Genuine
UMd In place of Weatherboard* and Plutef
for Walls, Ceilings and Partition*.
FIRE, ROT. HEAT. ACID g ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on appHnetlaa
JAMES NARDIE A CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
"Courier" Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
Certificates of Origin from
the British Pro-Consul at
Rotterdam accompany
each shipment.
A
Oy
St?
0
«
4
&
EXCLUSIVELY
MANUFACTURED
IN HOLLAND.
SCHNAPPS
f
RELIABLE MOTIVE POWERS
for Shearing, Pumping, Woodcutting, Milking, irrigating, Chaffcutting.
* *
m TAN6YE ** New Pattern Lampless Kerosene OH Engine, started Immediately without
Blow Lamp. Particularly Reliable and Economical to run.
** CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH " Portable Steam Engine, the long established favorite
on the Australian market Has large wheels, giving plenty of clearance.
DALGETY & CO. LTD ~ Miller’s Point Sydney. Sole Agents, also, for Tangye Pumps, Suction Gas Plants, etc.,
Nicholson & Morrow Agricultural Implements, Munro Chaffcutters, Gane Milking Machines, Wolseley Shearing Machines.
mMm
■l r ~7T\
l m /\
m
£
3*
•fosfea
!ll
IMifilifilißfTfmHPf
u
ft
the most favoured by both squat TeasANosntApSs
1 DALGETY & CO. LTD. AGENTS
SVIEE7>
SHEARING
'ft*.;
■ll & r |
If ll * -''s^
I nr i
L . J**:
;ai
f-Wrs?
■ y.*-% *• ' •■#
<T v ■>.;■■ ;■■ %.
■"■ ■■•■•' .-‘jsasay- V
r° v« w - r
m
#* - £ ; -.i
*
h. - ... f
Milp*
Faster Work —Lower Costs —Long'er Service
Three important factors in the
Successful Machine Shop to-day.
Kempsmith Universal Milling Machines
stand for all three-fast, accurate work; are economical machines to
operate, and Have the strength and rigidity to cope with the severest
strains imposed by modern milling methods.
In stock also: Engine Lathes, Shaping, Drilling, Screwing and Grinding Machines.
Call and inspect our stocK, or write for full Descriptive Catalogue.
PARKE 8 LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE “CARD” CONCENTRATOR
MODEL “D" PATENTED.
Special Decks for Coarse and Fine Sands, as used by the leading
Australian mines on Tin, Copper, Gold, Silver, Lead, Wolfram, etc.
The “CARD" is manufactured ONLY by the SOLE. LICENSEES—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LIE-
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Camomile St. Chambers, London.
