

J3ES^CTIT j9LX£ 7 33 the Veteran of Whiskies
R. Gr. WATKINS SZ, 00-,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ ’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
usHaaiNi
ASHMOT QNV
N-5-W- MOIST DE PIETE D &l
C?
STREET,
YDN
74.
CASTLEREAGH
74
Head
Office:
City 9325
hone:
.
National
And
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Managrer.
HrttTrtpi! '9S! niirfimiatnMa
&
w
H.S.W NONT BE P»ETE.DEPOSIT HMVISTMUITCtIT? »*.
-
r>, ''•'A
COnnoi^stoPS
A
WHISKIES.
MAOKAY’S .. 4/9
CATTO’S . . 4/3,■ 4/9
DEWAR’S .. 4/8
WALKER’S 4/3, 4/8
WATSON’S 10 .. 4/8
BUCHANAN’S . . 4/8
USHER’S .. 4/6, 4/8
THORNE’S .. 4/8
LOCH DHU .. 4/-
MITCHELL’S
3/10, 5/6
PROOF . . 3/2, 6/3
DUNVILLE’S
2/10, 5/6
PROOF . . 3/2, 6/3
BRANDIES.
HENNESSY’S
6/3, 7/3
RICHARDSON’S
WINE SPIRIT STORES,
158 RUSSELL ST.
(Next Bourke St.).
259 LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Swanston St.).
BRANDIES.
MARTELL’S 6/3, 7/3
PRUNIER’S 5/9, 7/3
COOPER’S 4/3, 4/9
RUMS.
SHERRIFF’S .. 4/3
LAMB’S . . . . 3/6
QUEENSLAND 3/-
GINS & SCHNAPPS.
NICHOLSON’S . . 4/3
GILBEY’S . . 4/6 .
A.V.H. .. 3/4, 5/9
■T.D.K.Z. .. 3/4, 5/9
HOLLAND’S 2/3, 4/6
SCIIADE’S .. 4/-
ALES. Doz. Bt. i Bt.
M‘EWAN’S 13/- ‘B/9
PASS’S .. 13/- 8/6
BULL DOG 13/- 8/6
AB’TSFORD 6/6
STOUTS.
GUI NESS’S 13/- 8/6
AB’TSFORD 6/6
LAGERS.
C’RLSBERG 14/- 9/-
FOSTER’S 6/6
UttittH
HAMS
BACOH
at
H.B
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
J
L
U
ĥ
»r INDIGESTION
* n - DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared
most beneficially when taken daily
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
— vm —
Radley s Orient fjotel.
ħ
are entirely free from canvas. The rubber-cord
foundation ensures greater resiliency—longer life!
The Silvertown Rubber Co.
279 George Street, Sydney,
h
White
s
ĥ
You wear—or you like to wear—distinctive clothes—clothes that have character. Why
not have a distinctive Home—one that will display your ideas, one that will give expres=
sion to your tastes ? White Malthoid Roofing gives you the opportunity. It lends
itself to any scheme, and, moreover, it is absolutely the best roofing you can get,
no matter what you are prepared to pay. We gladly send samples and booklets.
D. S. EVANS,
Australasian Representative.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Challis House, Sydney,
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L-
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL. 8c AGRICULTURAL. ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL 8c FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8c MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
SHREDDER D!SC±S.
HADFIELD
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. 11
ROAD-MAKING
MACHINERY.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE.
Is Australian Owned as well as Australian Made. Contains the right proportion of Chlorate
of Potash to use. 1/- per large tube, 1/2 Post Free. On dozen lots we pay postage.
———
nPAi run
The Bulletin
Y01.36.—N0. 1850.]
[Thursday, July 29, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


MELBA’S GIFT BOOR
(NOW
READY).
Of Australian Art and Literature, for the Belgian Relief Fund.
Australian Authors and Artists, at the invitation of Madame Melba, have combined to make a worthy
Gift Book, to assist the Belgian Relief Fund. There are eight plates in full color, twenty full-page
etchings, two-color, and black-and-white drawings, as well as numerous drawings and decorative designs,
in the text of 176 pages. Everyone should possess a copy as a memento of this Great War.
Price, 4/-; posted, 4/3.
There is a limited Edition do Luxe, autographed by Madame Melba, on sale at One Guinea.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T'Y LTD., 23* PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Best Safeguard Against Disease is
CLEAN MOUTH 8 TEETH.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL
TOOTH POWDER.
Secure Sound White Teeth and a Healthy
Mouth.
The Lancet, London, January 17, 1914,
states * 't
“Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder.—This
Powder is designed on sound principles, and
is very agreeable to use. The distinctive
feature about it is that, in addition to some
approved germicides it contains —mg. .02,
which readily parts with free oxygen, as our
experiments have shown.... ...
“The Powder is finely divided, and is free
from harmful constituents and gritty sub-
stances. Analysis showed that the Powder
was capable of giving off oxygen equal to one
cubic centimetre per gramme.”
NOW TO U*« TH« POWOItI
1/6
per
tin
h
1/6
per
tin
The Red Page
Fiction
The cunning publishers have chosen the
title, The German Lieutenant, for the latest
collection of Strindberg’s short stories
(Laurie) with an appreciation of its
topical war-time value. It is only fair to
presumptive readers to warn them that the
story is one of the war of 1870, and that
the JHun depicted is so kind-hearted that
he cannot bear to watch an execution of
alleged French spies! He broods so in-
tensely upon this act that he suffers from
the obsession that he has committed a mur-
der, and becomes insane. The gentle Hun!
On his recovery he settles in Switzerland,
renounces his country, becomes \a Swiss,
thus imagining that he has for ever disso-
ciated himself from war. If by any chance
this German lieutenant had chosen Belgium
for his neutralised haven! As for the other
stories, if you are a Strindbergian you will
like them ; if not, you will find them some-
what childish and dull.
Jt
Bealby: A Holiday, the latest output
from the H. G. Weils factory, is pure joy.
This story of Bealby, the boy who from
hatred of becoming a servant ran away
from the butler and adventured upon the
highway, in the company of silly women
playing at caravaning, and the tramp—-
this story of the hunting of Bealby and his
capture, a chastened Bealby, reads like the
early Wells of his Love and Mr. Lewisham
days; in fact, a suspicion arises whether
Bealby (Methuen, per Dymock’s Library)
isn’t a discarded novel that Wells has fur-
bished up or disinterred from some forgot-
ten manuscript bf those ante-bellum days.
It is full of delightful characterisations,
ranging from a Lord Chancellor to a pinky-
faced and irrepressible army captain—Wells
could not really help making him deeply
interested in aviation- —and from the popular
actress to the tramp. The book needs no
further criticism than the statement that it
is a genuine Wells of the Wells’ pre-socialis-
tic and pre-sex days.
J*
A. Neil Lyons has never done more humor-
ous work than in his Kitchener Chaps
(Lane, Is.). These amusing studies of the
modern recruit are real —as real as Clara;
and if A. Neil Lyons cannot help seeing the
humorous side of even so massive an institu-
tion as the British Army, he can also show
the pathos beneath the light-hearted comedy.
This little book is the most humorous of all
the war publications, not even excluding
Hun Hedin’s heroic effort to picture the
Kaiser as a benevolent Deity. Take, for
instance, the views of Private Dodd, men-
tioned in despatches.” This honor, he ex-
plains, with a desperate modesty, is nothing.
“A kind of a custom, sir, that’s all. If
there’s any Distinguished Conduct Medals
to spare, one o’ them might come a fellow’s
way; but that ain’t likely, not with so many
sergeants about. They mostly gets the
medals. One of our sergeants got a D.C.M.
in the Bower War for sitting (which kindly
read as such) between the lines. No, sir,
there’s no particular cop about these men-
tions’ : only something for your pals to read.
The chaps in the regiment will know about
it, of course, and it’s nice to think they know
about it. A bit o’ swank. See? And if a
Distinguished Conduct Medal does come
your way, why that’s a bit of all right, be-
cause they give you a five-pound gratooty
along with it.” And this wounded soldier
was eager to get hack to the Front. Heroism ?
Hardly. “Soon me rib’sll grow together
once again, and then they’ll have me out o’
this and send me back to what they calls
‘light duty.’ Back to Aldershot or Salis-
bury Plain or Colchester. I don’t want none
o’ that. I’d rather go back to the Front
again—to dror me second ration. They ain t
so rigimental at the Front. They don't
mess a man about so much.. . .There’s more
peace for a man out there at the Front.”
Lord Dunsany, whose Five Plays display
so remarkable an imagination and so delight-
ful a sense of humor, evidences the same
rare characteristics in his Fifty-One Tales
(Elkin Mathews, per Sydney Book Club).
In these tiny tales, seldom more than a page
in length, Dunsany manages to compress
all time and space, together with a tremen-
dous allotment of chaos and a long lease-
hold of eternity. His art consists equally
of an exquisite arrangement and choice of
words, of a rigid selection and compression
of material, and of an eerie and grotesque
humor. “The Guest,” in which a young
man dines with Death, is a short story that
is flawless. “A Moral Little Tale” puts
into brief compass all that need be said about
the Wowser. This Wowser held that it
was wrong to dance. To him came the
Devil, hailing him as “Friend!” For the
Wowser had done the Devil’s work.
“ ‘Have you not put apart the couples that
would dance? Have you not checked their
laughter and their accursed mirth? O friend,
friend, you do not know what a detestable
thing it is to sit in Hell and hear people
being happy, and singing in theatres and
singing in the fields, and whispering after
dances under the moon?’
“ "Then,’ said the man, ‘I have mistaken
right for wrong; but as soon as I wake I
will fight you yet.’
“ ‘Oh. no you don’t,’ said the Devil. ‘You
don’t wake up out of this sleep.’
“And somewhere far away Hell’s black
steel doors were opened, and arm in arm
those two were drawn within, and the doors
shut behind them, and still they went arm
in arm, trudging further and further into
the deeps of Hell, and it was that Puritan’s
punishment to know that those he cared for
on Earth would do evil as he had done.”
Dunsany’s art is the most individual thing
that has yet come out of Irish literature.
Dunsany Tales
AFTER THE FIBE.
When that happened which had been so
long in happening and the world hit a blade,
uncharted star, certain tremendous crea-
tures out of some other world came peering
among the cinders to see if .there were any-
thing there that it were worth while to
remember. They spolce of the great things
that the world was known to have had;
they mentioned the mammoth. And pre-
sently they sate man’s temples, silent and
windowless, staring like empty skulls.
“Some great thing has been here,” one
said, “in these huge places.”
“It teas the mammoth,” said one.
“Something greater than he,” said
another.
And then they found that the greatest
thing in the world had been the dreams of
man.
The Demagogue and the Demi-monde.
A demagogue and a demi-mondaine
chanced to arrive together at the gate of
Paradise. And the Saint looked sorrowfully
at them both.
“Why were you a demagoguef” he said to
the first.
“Because,” said the demagogue, “I stood
for those principles that have made us what
we are and have endeared our Party to
the great heart of the people. In a word, I
stood unflinchingly on the plank of popular
representation.”
“And you?” said the Saint to her of the
demi-monde.
“I wanted money,” said the demi-mon-
daine.
And after some moments’ thought the
Saint saidr “Well, come in; though you
don’t deserve to.”
But to the demagogue he said: “We genu-
inely regret that the limited space at our
disposal and our unfortunate lack of inter-
est in those Questions that you have gone so
far to inculcate and have so ably upheld in
the past, prevent us from giving you the
support for which you seek.”
And he shut the golden door.
The Food of Death.
Death was sick. But they brought him
bread that the modern bakers make,
whitened with alum, and the tinned meats
of Chicago, with a pinch of our modern sub-
stitute for salt. They carried him into the
dining-room of a great hotel (in that close
atmosphere Death breathed more freely),
and there they gave him their cheap Indian
tea. They brought him a bottle of unne
that they called champagne. Death drank
it up. They bought a newspaper and
looked up the patent medicines; they gave
him the foods that it recommended for
invalids, and a little medicine as prescribed
in the paper. They gave him some milk and
borax, such as children drink in England.
Death arose ravening, strong, and strode
again through the cities.
The Raft-builders.
All we who ivrite put me in mind of sailors
hastily making rafts upon doomed ships.
When we break up under the heavy years
and go down into Eternity with all that is
ours, our thoughts, like small rafts, float on
aiohile upon Oblivion’s sea. They will not
carry much over those tides, our names and
a phrase or two, and little else ;
See now Oblivion shimmering all around
us, its very tranquillity deadlier than tem-
pest. Hoto little all our keels have troubled
it. Time in its deeps swims like a mon-
strous whale; and, like a whale, feeds on the
littlest things—small tunes and little un-
skilled songs of the olden, golden evenings—
and anon turneth whale-like to overthrow
whole ships.
See now the wreckage of Babylon floating
idly, and something there that once was
Nineveh; already their kings and queens are
in the deeps among the iveedy masses of old
centuries that hide the sodden hulk of sunken
Tyre, and make a darkness round Persepolis.
For the rest, I dimly see the forms of foun-
dered ships on a sea-floor strewn with
crowns.
Our ships were all unseaworthy from the
There goes the raft that Homer made for
Helen.
From “Fifty-One Tales,” by Lord Dun-
sany (Mathews, per Sydney Book Club).
•
The suggestion that possibly a corres-
pondent might be able to identify the old
Frenchman, without hands, who figured in
Conrad’s gruesome story, published in Within
the Tides, brought forth J.H.R., who (R.P.
17/6/T5) claimed to have found the bloke in
an inventor of a water bicycle that was once
seen about Sydney Harbor. L.L.W. now
states that the old Frenchman’s name was
Pierre Marc de Sers, that he kept for some
years the Bayswater Hotel at Rushcutter’s
Bay, and that he had numerous daughters
and one son, by various wives. L.L.W. was
the. person employed to paddle the ill-fated
water-bicycle. Pierre’s hair was not black,
but a very ordinary brown. His English was
very fauity, but though L.L.W. lived with
him some months he never heard any of the
variety of languages with which J.H.R.
credits him. Still even a Frenchman might
be silent in 17 languages for a year. Pierre,
according to his latest discoverer, lost his left
arm while in the French navy. He smoked a
pipe more often than he smoked cigarettes.
L.L.W. does not think that Pierre is Con-
rad’s Frenchman at all. We shall try to get
Conrad’s opinion on this quite unimportant
matter.
Galsworthy
John Galsworthy has descended to doing
dainty little things delicately. The Little
Man 'and Other Satires (iMnemiann) is a
collection of little plays, little stories and
little essays. The title play is a delightful
satire upon—well, what? Anyhow, it is a
delightful little satire. “The Voice of • •”
shows. Galsworthy deliberately forcing his
accent in the effort to achieve sensational-
ism. A voice from the “gods” in a music-
hall sternly orders a dancer off the stage:
“Woman! Blasphemous creature! You have
profaned Beauty! Go!” And immediately
things begin to happen. The owner of the
voice cannot be discovered. “Limes,” ordered
to cut off his light, replies that he has done
so —and still a brilliant ray showers down
upon the stage! The audience thinks it is a
fire, and disappears. The manager orders
every light to be cut off, and every light goes
out except the “golden pathway still flowing
down the darkness.” Gradually the sus-
picion grows that the voice did not come
from the gallery, but from higher up. Then
the golden ray disappears.
“The boss spun round. ‘Electrics! You
blazing ass. Ten to one but. you’ve cut my
connection, turning up the lights like that.
The voice of Great snakes! What a
turn! I’d have given it a thou’ a week!
Hullo ! up there ! Hullo!’
“But there came no answer from under
the gilt-starred dome.”
Infinitely finer work is a series of
“Studies of Extravagance,” where Gals-
worthy’s subtle irony flickers round such
types as the writer, the critic,-the plain man,
the artist, the housewife, and other dealers
in superlatives. Each is a clever little cameo
of snobbery. The housewife shows us the
difficulties in the way of a conventional
mother trying to bring up her daughters in
the way Mrs. Grundy would have them go.
“It was her principle to rule them with
good, motherly sense* as became a woman in
whose hands the family life of her country
centred; and it was satisfactory, on the.
whole, to find that they obeyed her whenever
they wished to. On this occasion, however,
she spoke to them severely: ‘The place of
woman,’ she said, ‘is in the home.’
“ ‘The whole home —and nothing but the
home.’
“‘Ella! The place of woman is by the
side of man; counselling, supporting, ruling,
but never competing with him. The place
of woman is in the shop, the kitchen,
and’
“ ‘The —bed !’
“ ‘Ella!’
“ ‘ln the soup !’
“ ‘ Beatrice ! I wish —I do wish you girls
would be more respectful. The place of
woman is in the home. Yes, I’ve said that
before, but I shall say it again, and don’t
you forget it! The place of woman is—the
most important thing in national life. If
you want to realise that, just think of your
own mother ; and’
“ ‘Our own father.'
“ ‘Ella! The place of woman is in
the’ She left the room, feeling that, for
the moment, she had said enough.”
The housewife, too, has trouble with her
servants. “The ‘day out’ was, perhaps, the
most fruitful source of disillusionment —girls
of that class, no matter how much they pro-
tested their innocence, seemed utterly unable
to keep away from man’s society. It was
only once a fortnight that she required
them to exercise their control and self-
respect in that regard, for on the other 13
days she took care that they had no chance,
suffering nd male footstep in her basement.
And yet—would you believe it?—on those
fourteenth days she was never able to be
easy in her mind... .It was as if these girls
were always rudely saying to themselves:
‘What do you know of us? We wish you’d
leave us alone!’ The idea! As if she could,
or would !... .No, no! If the well-to-do did
not look after and control the poor, no one
would, which was just what they would like.
“A religious woman, she rarely missed the
morning, and seldom went to evening, ser-
vice, feeling that in daylight she could best
set an example to her neighbors.... She
made a point of never drawing Frederick’s
attention to female beauty; not that she felt
she had any real reason to be alarmed, for
she was a fine woman: but because men
were so funny... .It was often said that she
was a vanishing type, but she knew better.
Pedantic fools murmured that Ibsen had
destroyed her, but she had not yet heard of
him.”
But it is perhaps unfair to quote the per-
fect housewife, because Galsworthy is just as
delightfully ironical about the perfect men
that he pillories in this pleasant little series.
Still, one would give a dozen of such books
for another Country House or Man of Pro-
perty, another Justice or Strife.
. E. V. Lucas and George Morrow have
done an unnecessary thing. They have
parodied Hun Hedin’s With the German
Armies in the West in a shilling book called
In Gentlest Germany, by Hun Svedend
(Lane).
Vers-librettists and blank-versifiers are re-
minded that the competition for the guinea
prize for the best poem in blank verse or
vers libre upon the subject, “Gallipoli,” will
close on August 7. Poems must be addressed
to this page.. As several competitors have
already submitted verses rimed and regular,
it is necessary once more to state that only
contributions in the two forms mentioned
above are admissible.
Katherine Prichard, who won the Hodder
and Stoughton’s Australian novel competi-
tion, the judge being Charles Garbage, who
has never seen Australia, spent her youth in
Victoria and Tassy. She attended J. B.
O’Hara’s school, and, later, became a
teacher. She contributed to this paper and
the Melb. Herald. Some years ago she
became society editor of the latter paper. Her
first volume, a tiny book of verses, Clovelly
Verses, was published last year. In 1910 a
play of hers was produced in Melbourne.
Anyhow, The Pioneers couldn’t be worse
than any novel written by her judge.
Samuel Butler
There is much more Gilbert Caiman than
Samuel Butler in the former’s critical study
of the latter, published in Seeker’s valuable
series. Yet he contrives to indicate, though
in Cannanese, the mentality of this delight-
ful personality. Butler narrowly escaped
becoming a parson ; and in order to explain
why this escape became a turning-point in
Butler’s life, it is necessary to remember in
what environment and century Butler lived.
“Nowadays a young man’s refusal at the last
moment to take orders would not be taken
tragically. It is not uncommon for young-
men to leave the lean prospects of the' Church
for the more exciting hopes of the stage.
But in the mid-nineteenth century, when
Paley was a prophet and sectarian quarrels
could shake the country, secession from the
Church was an insult to tradition and breed-
ing and the best hopes of England, which
then believed that it had made a corner in
true religion and was destined to prove the
salvation of the world. As this belief coin-
cided with commercial expansion, and was
very useful to it, it was extremely popular.”
Samuel Butler fled to Maoriland. It was'
there, a Canterbury sheep-farmer, that he
received, in common with the world, a greater
shock. He read Darwin’s The Origin of
Species. The immediate < result was
Erewhon. “It is an amateur’s book.
Its author regarded himself as a painter
by profession, and wrote it with vari-
ous intentions. First, to collect his
contributions to the M.L. press; second,
because a friend suggested it; third, because
England was too interestingly absurd to
escape ironic description.... Few good books
have so many faults, and yet it remains the
one enduring satire of the 19th century in
England. It cuts deep.”
Cannan is probably right in stressing the
importance of Butler’s sojourn in M.L. There
he made enough money by sheep-farming to
assure his support for life. And had he
remained in England he would probably have
become a journalist, becoming a professional
writer instead of the delightful amateur he
never ceased to be.
Butler’s second book, The Fair Haven, pub-
lished under a pseudonym, had so mixed a
reception and its irony so deceived its re-
viewers that when it became known as But-
ler’s work he was regarded finally as too
dangerous for the literary world. As Butler
admits, he made enemies of the parsons once
for all with Erewhon and The Fair Haven,
while his criticism of Darwinian evolution
made the scientific world even more angry
than The Fair Haven made the clergy. As
proof, Butler’s novel, The Way of All Flesh,
is vet so little known that Bernard Shaw re-
centlv complained that his “Butlensms had
been ascribed to Ibsen and Nietzsche. Lan-
nan compares this novel, “in a smaller way,
with Tom Jones, Pickwick. Jude the Obscure
War and Peace, and The Idiot, The subject
of this novel is now particularly the subject
of Shaw —the relation of parents and kiddies.
“In thought, as in painting, writing and
music, Butler was an amateur; and rather
in the French sense of the word than tne
Engiish. a collector, with knowledge and
taste, hut without profound purpose and the
power of concentration that goes with it. ...
But he loved his thoughts, and lavished hi?
humor on them, and decorated even . his
index with his humor. And every now and
then when he saw how ideas wei e being
mangled in public, he would take out some
of his choicest specimens just to show what
could be done with them. However, as the
public never paid any attention, be would
laugh and put them back again. Whether
they liked it or not he would leave his. col-
lection to the nation. A picture of his is in
fhe Tate Gallery, his portrait is in the
National Portrait Gallery, his manuscripts
are in the British Museum. .. -The tragodv
of the 19th centnry in England cauvht
Butler bv the scruff of his neck and tried
to shake the humor out of him. as it had
done with the divines and the politicians and
the scientists. .. .Butler found himself after
his shaking with liis brain rather rattled,
hut with no serious damage done. His con-
temporaries ... -hated being shaken, whereas
he. after the first astonishment, had rather
liked it.” . ~ _
So Cannan, interminably. Fdr those in-
terested in Butler and his narrow tract of
satire — and they ought to be niany—the
following works are worth notice: The Fair
Haven, The Notebooks of Samuel Butler.
Erewhon. Erewhon Revisited. T.ife . ana
Habit, The Way of All Flesh, all published
by Fifield.


Jk
i
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE
IN FULL SWING.
LAST DAY i WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 18, 1915-
THOUSANDS OF BARGAINS
IN EVERY DEPARTMENT.
THERE are many cogent reasons why everyone should embrace the exceptional opportunity
for money=saving that is afforded during ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE.
Apart from the reductions in prices shown in the Sale Catalogue, it must be borne in
mind that the advance in laid=down cost of the principal commodities imported into Australia
now averages over fifteen per cent.
Buyers can therefore obtain their requirements at three=fourths of the true value, and
it is improbable that such a chance is likely to occur again.
It is our privilege to be in a position to offer over half a million pounds’ worth of
merchandise purchased at before=War prices; and these goods are, in accordance with our
usual custom, available to customers whether set out in the Sale List or not.
Owing to the large assortment of Ladies and Children’s Coats and Costumes, Blouses,
Ready=to=wear Skirts, etc., offered in the Green Room, which cannot be listed in the Sale
Book, a Supplementary Illustrated Sale List has been issued for the convenience of Country
Customers, to furnish full particulars of the Ready=to=wear Garments which are offered at
GREATLY REDUCED PRICES DURING THE SALE. These Fashionable and Serviceable Goods
all constitute eloquent arguments in favor of SPOT CASH.
OUR ADVICE, therefore, is—Pop your orders in the post in the full assurance that
ANTHONY HORDERNS' FAMOUS SALE PRICES REIGN SUPREME.
Send for Sale Catalogues, post free on request, and Reap
the Full Benefit of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS SALE PRICES.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ĥ
Repeating Rifees
Rot Hunting, Target Shooting Or Protection
In choosing a rifle for any purpose, its reliability and
accuracy should be carefully considered. Winchester
rifles enjoy the highest reputation the world over for
reliability, accuracy, strong shooting qualities and
finish. They are made in all de-
sirable calibers from .22 to .50,
and in eleven different models.
From these a Winchester can be
selected that will meet any shoot-
ing requirement.
IP YOU WANT A GOOD RIPER
BUY A WINCHESTER
s
THE
sgSSg
*
i
m
:
WSSSiSI,
c
WAVEfiLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE j;
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS.
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
j DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
o
(Pstn
James Cockle
tm
KINCMIS
OKU
PREPARATION
♦.Greal Ormond btreei
Qto
s (Or*
nB
¥
or*at
dnl
A Reputation
of over 100
years.
ANTJBILIOUS
A tried and trusted family medicine,
prescribed by medical men for the
common ailments of everyday life,
such as
ACIDITY,
INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS,
SICK HEADACHE,
DISORDERED LIVER.
These famous pills cleanse and regulate the
whole system, leaving it free from all
impurities. To use them always is 10 keep
yourself in perfect health —the bowels f ee,
the liver active, the head clear, a d the skin
and complexion free from blemish
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes.
Price, 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE Sc Co., 4 Great Ormond Street, London, Eng.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
D
D
FITTINGS
“THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.”
=B=
' U'<
• N
ITS the accuracy of every part of
B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle that makes
the machine run so smoothly and
with so little effort, and more than
that, the wear on the bearings is so
slight that a B.S.A. Bicycle will last a
lifetime. No matter what other machine
you get or what price you pay
YOU WILL NOT GET
BETTER VALUE THAN A B.S.A.
Beside, think of the time when you
will be cycling with friends riding
B.S.A’s —you wouldn’t like to be riding
a cheap “pattern” machine would you?
Cer.ainly not! Then have a B.S.A.
B.S.A. Handbook Free.
D. Y. RENNIE, (Represen'.ing B.S A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
B. S. A . CHEAPEST IN THE END
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two,«speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write ior Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN O, SONS LTD.
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE M\RK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/0. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 21 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A verv accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
‘ON THE HOP’
A superb library volume of historic interest, handsomely printed and
bound, containing upwards of Three Hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings.
Reproduced full “Bulletin” size. Price 215., from “The Bulletin” Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“I SUFFERED DREADFULLY
FROM
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN
AND
INSOMNIA. I WAS CURED BY
Clements Tonic”
Mrs. Hoare, the wife of the Officer-in-charge of the Guilford Police
Station, N.S.W., writes :
“For about five years I suffered from Nervous Breakdown and
insomnia. I would shake all over. I had given up all hope of ever
being well again. There is no need to tell people who see me now of
the wonderful results of Clements Tonic. After I had taken SIX
bottles I w r as restored to my present state of health, WHICH IS
PERFECT.
“You may publish this, as I think everyone should know about
Clements Tonic and what it can do for them.”
(Signed) MRS. MARY ETHEL HOARE.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL THIS SIMPLY WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
GET IT AND GET WELL TO-DAY. IT MEANS HEALTH.


{LEY
CARTRIDGES
Eley
‘Grand Prix*
Cartridge Case,
loaded with Eley
Smokele s, Ballis-
tite, Smokeless <J>
Diamond, Schultze,
or any standard
smokeless powders
Always
Reliable
Cadet
Smokeless
Eley
■450
No. 1
Rifle
Eley4so
Revolver
Eley32o
Revolver
Eley
Single Rise
Expert Trap
EleyTargets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Streep Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale: Eleyßros., Ltd., London
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
Est. 15 yrs.\
MEAD
M. Planes on a 7 year 01. l British-made All-
Steel Mead Modele Superbe
‘ COVENTRY FLYER >
Rode 34*366 Miles in 365 Bays
(officially authenticated'. Beat ov« r 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Latest
Models
£3-10 to £9
Direct from facrory, Packed Free, Carriage
Paid to your port. Ten Days’ Free Trial.
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices. Write for Free Art Catalogue^
and Marvellous Offers. A penis Wanted.
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL.
WAR
Prompt Shipment 8 Safe Delivery
Guaranteed. No Advance in Prices
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES
**■ VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS OX HAND. ALL MODEL
Exclusive Agent
Wanted
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames and novelties
in art goods. Excellent
i opportunity for any
1 Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is very re-
munerative. You may
charge good prices for our
portrait novelties. No ex-
perience required. We will send free of charge, our
book of instructions and general catalog. We furnish
bank references. 20 successful years in the export
business is our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co.
1029 —D-10 W. Adams St., Chicago. 111.. U. S. A.
ħ
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
h
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Sb CO.,
Dept. O,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
BONN!
RISH
COUGHS
BRONCHmSkINr
OP THE THC*
x\W
<V-C\V^V
k}m
r. zr~r
For Business Men
Keep a bottle of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss ’’
on your office desk, or on the mantelpiece at
home. It will quickly rid you of an annoying
COUGH or COLD, and relieve BRON-
CHITIS or INFLUENZA. Take none
but —
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
D
E
The Great, Harmless Pain-Killer.
UNTIL the advent of Kephaldol there had
been no certain and reliable remedy for
the lumbago sufferer. Those afflicted
know the agony that this complaint can cause,
and are only too well acquainted with the violent.
Lumbago
symptoms of
which it is charac-
teristic —stiffening
of the back —impossibility of making the
silghtest movement without absolute agony,
enforced rest and immobility, etc.
Kephaldol is the doctors’ remedy. It was
discovered by a noted doctor —is used by doctors
—prescribed by doctors —and most enthusiasti-
cally endorsed by doctors. It cures Lumbago.
Sold in Tubes by Chemists and Storekeepers.
Prices 1/6 and 3/6. (Made in Australia.)
(4000)
\XZI
4
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Rheumatism
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War. enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago. -
ĥ
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
6S, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SJ>ZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/
4
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
A Year Ago.
Last year by beach and headland
Night was glorious to behold,
And the heavens were full of splendor
And the stars were made of gold.
Then ’twas little that we reckoned
Of the evil days to come ;
For no voices gave us warning,
And the prophets all were dumb.
’Twas of Art and Song we gossiped
As we walked the coast by night—
Of the pictures you intended,
Or the verses I would write.
Or perchance our thoughts, expanding.
In a wider channel ran,
And we talked of Peace and Progress
And the Brotherhood of Man.
That was then ; but now ’tis altered,
And alone I walk the coast;
And the cliffs are grey and spectral,
And each wave is like a ghost.
And it seems, as I go walking,
That a shadow walks with me.
And I think of you, my artist,
And of far Gallipoli.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
In a Tram.
It was in a tram I saw her —
Small and pale, with eyes pathetic,
Big and brown, that held the mem’ry
Of a half-forgotten sorrow.
But still slumbered in their brown depths
Power to wake, to love and suffer;
And her woman’s dower immortal
Of forgiveness, self forgetting.
And I looked and wondered greatly
What had drawn those lines of patience,
What that look of world-old sorrow,
With such knowledge pack’d behind it,
On a face so young and girlish;
Stoop’d those shoulders, starved that
bosom,
That seemed yet so full of promise !
And while life brims o’er with beauty,
Thrilling sweetness, joy of living
On this Earth so lit with sunshine,
Where the rivers, reed-embowered,
Laugh their way through gum : clad
mountains ;
Where the gorgeous colored bird life,
Sailing under skies of sapphire,
Hymns the long days, warm with sun-
shine,
Nests at night ’mid velvet darkness,
Scented, star-gemmed and prophetic
Of the glory of to-morrow —
In a world of so much beauty,
What should brand a lasting sorrow
On a face where youth and brightness
Should sit smilingly together?
Oh, a plague on man-made sadness !
Life is spilling joys a-plenty.
Little Brown Eyes—wake to gladness !
.VICTORIA.
M. B. PATON.
The Last Struggle.
Within the ante-room of Heaven,
A place of spectral gloom,
Sat shadows twain, who did not heed
The magazines and things to read
That decked the dismal room.
Their wait was likely to be long;
With Europe running red
Saint Peter’s staff was overtasked.
At last one shadow turned and asked:
“Why is it you are dead?”
The other spectre’s eyeballs flashed:
“A tyrant foe arose
To war against my peaceful land
With outrage, shell and fiery brand.
To guard her from her foes
“My country called her patriot sons,
And I—l heard the call
To battle for her righteous cause :
I joined her splendid arms, and was
Amongst the first to fall.”
Two cold hands met in friendly grip.
“I. too, for freedom fought,
And fell! But there are more to slay
The tyrant foemen, and repay
The villainies they wrought!
“Their crimes were terrible! God help
The world should they prevail!
Wild beasts they seem in all their acts.
Wild beasts? Why, words, by all the facts,
To name them right must fail!
“But, after all, they’re coward curs.
Our braves will never yi Id.
Look at the battles we ha e won!
Think of the way the foe has run
When our men take the iield !”
To this the other shade agreed,
And said he: “After all,
God’s with our arms, for greed and sin
And craft and cunning cannot win.
Base Germany must fall!”
But, here, the other screamed aloud,
Hot anger in his face.
“Why, Gott in Hijnmel, this is wrong!
You. you yourself—you must belong
To England’s lying race!”
“Why, then, you are a cursed Hun,”
Rose in a kindred yell.
Regardless of their future life.
They closed at once in vengeful strife,
And into space they fell.
Saint Peter shortly came to tell
The pair their time was due :
But. looking out through Heaven’s bars,
A wild commotion in the stars
Was all that met his view,
iN'.S.W.
HAMER.


•* ■■
ft
Wrm
mssm
wm
NEW
PARIAN WARE
ELECTROLIERS
We are Sole Agents for
H. W. Johns —Manville ex-
clusive designs in Parian
Ware.
This beautiful Ware resembles Parian
Marble, and can be used with most
artistic effect.
You will appreciate our charming
Electroliers. Your inspection is in-
vited. Prices ' are moderate. Fuller
particulars on request.
W. G. WATSON fa CO., L T D,,
“Suppliers of Everything: Electrical,”
279 Clarence Street; 426-430 Kent Street, Sydney
(Just round from the Town Hall).
VICTORIAN REPRESENTATIVE: George Smith Morison, Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Leading
Residential Hotel of Melbourne
m
™o
mmm
eIIEP
UfgSfiS
LENT
«cj
MOD??.,
EVENTS
|MPP^
nabl e
re c A hAROE|-
Single Rooms from 4/- per day.
Special Weekly Rates
=lariff Card posted on application.
Letters & Telegrams to Manager Grand Hotel
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
TFveDisfmguishmgMark
of the genuine
REMINGTON-UMC
.22 calibre Cartridges is the
“U” stamped on the head.
That “U
99 is a guarantee of accuracy
and uniform quality.
Short, Long and Long Rifle .22 Calibre Cartridges are
noted for their great accuracy and penetrative powers. The next
time you buy .22’s ask for the REMINGTON-UMC brand. Also
ask your dealerj to show you the REMINGTON-UMC .22 calibre
Repeating Rifle. Its many exclusive features will surprise and delight you.
We shall be pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When writing, send us the name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building. New York City
I>. T). BRYANT, Australian Representative,
I’.O. Box 686. Melbourne.
h
WI2MV
LAM)
Write fur
particulars to
‘DROIT’
Swedish
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
for all purposes on
ĥ
MARINE.
HARM, STATION, COUNTRY HOUSE OR MOTOR-BOAT.
WOOD AND CHAFE CUTTING, PUMPING, ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
Crude oil is cheaper than kerosene and safer. Power costs only
one-third that of a petrol engine with our system of water injection.
Our Marine type, for Fishing Boats and Small Tugs, a Speciality,
Swedish Drott Motors,
c. H«"LDEBRAND, Affent,
306 Kent Street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 2097.
ħ
PERDRIAI OILSKINS
The “ LITAZAIR ” SILK OILSKINS
illustrated herewith, are admirably najned
the average-weight, being only 240 z. They
are made from pure silk, oiled throughout by a
special process, giving a semi-transpapent
eftect. Tailor-made and exceptionally well
finished.
In Black, Brown, Blue, Mole and Purple
shades.
PRICE (Carriage Paid): Men’s, 45/-;
Women’s, 45/-
The “MJGONG-WATERSHED” OILSKIN
is specially .designed for
BIDING, DRIVING, MOTORING, etc.
Made from finest Egyptian Cambric, double
throughout. Average weight, 41b.
In two shades: —
BLACK . . . . 32/6
TAN (the latest color) . . 35/-
Carriage Paid.
Sample of materials from which the above
oilskins are made will be sent post free
together with our latest illustrated List.
“WATERSHED” Oilskins are obtainable
from all leading stores or direct from
h
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
105 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
67a GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
307 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
JSFt
, e //u Model Store ||fca
BROADWAY, SYDNEY ||S|
TkM, aowU ftM-^uokt,
To bus. uow do M 3
vi\%\onw
The Model Bicycle is Built for Reliability.
What are the particular points about a bicycle that will cause you to make your final
selection? Will you take the bicycle that has the best gloss to its enamel, or glitter to its
nickel? No, hardly that. You of course prefer a bicycle to have these things, but then you
must first consider more important features. It must be strong; it must be light; it must be
moderately priced.
The “Model” has these attributes. Every turn of the wheel, every flash of the spokes in the
sun, and the steady whirr of the chain as it carries you along swiftly, quietly and safely, tells
of strength, reliability and power.
It is made to our own order
by one of the best bicycle
builders in Australia. Each part
is the latest, the best known,
and the most widely approved.
Below are the specifications
of this machine, which we
consider to be the best value
on the market.
£6
£6
THE MODEL BICYCLE. Guaranteed for 12 months.
SPECIFICATION. —Highest-grade English components, interchangeable with B.S.A. ; 22in. or
24in. frames of Reynolds’ double-butted tubing; 28in. wheel's, fitted with Broadway or
Oceanic tyres (guaranteed six months); Brampton rat-trap pedals; Perry twin-roller chain
(lin. x 3-16 in) ; Coventry saddle; Major Taylor or North Road adjustable handle bars;
B.S.A. free-wheel clutch; front rim brake. Complete with bell, pump and clips, tool bag,
spanners, tyre lever, oilcan, lamp bracket and Midget outfit. PRICE £6.
LADIES* MODEL BICYCLE.
As above, with celluloid chain-guard, laced dress-guard, front and rear rim brakes. Price £6/17 / 6
Fitted with Model or Dunlop Tyres (guaranteed 12 months). £1 extra.
Fitted with Eadie Coaster Hub, 10/- extra.
WHAT DO YOU PAY FOR. TYRES?
COVER,
12/6.
TUBE,
5/6.
Complete
18/-
S-SSfjs
'it
COVER,
12/6.
TUBE,
5/6.
Complete
I*/-
With the object of making ourselves directly responsible to our _ customers, we have had
manufactured to our special requirements the Model and Broadway Bicycle Tyres. Both these
Tyres (although two distinct qualities) are fully guaranteed against defects in material and
workmanship, and all guarantee claims will be recognised by Grace Bros. The Model Tyre, as
illustrated above, is made of the highest-quality Rubber and Fabric, with beaded tread, and can
be had in three sizes: 28in. x 1 Jin.; 28in. x ljin.,’ and 28in. x lfin., fully guaranteed for
12 months. PRICE: Cover, 12/(i; Inner Tube, 5/6; Complete for 18/-
COVER,
91-
TUBE,
4/6.
Complete
1316.
«•«««***.
1
a
COVER,
91-
TUBE,
4/6.
Complete
13|6.
Tho Broadway Tv-re, although somewhat lighter in manufacture to that of the Model, is
made to the same high standard of excellence. This Tyre is guaranteed for six months, and can
be had in the following sizes: 28in x. lfin., 28in x IJm add 28m. x Igin.
PHTCF,: Cover. 9/-: Tube, 4/6; Complete for 13/6.
The Model Store,
GRACES BROS
Broadway, SYDNEY


The Bulletin
R-egistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 36.—N0. 1850.
THURSDAY, JULY 29, 1915.
Pbice 6d.
THE CALL TO THE OTHERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
If anager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letter's or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.J G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.- — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., B ioz. to 10oz., 2\d.;
10oz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
JTuTlßi tlleZz/Ti,
THURSDAY, JULY 29, 1915.
TO TEST THE NECESSITY FOR THE
REFERENDA BILLS.
The contending parties to the Referenda dis-
cussion are radically at issue except on one
point. All agree that “for the purposes of
the war” the National Parliament must have
practically unbounded powers. For the rest,
upholders of the Bilis, like W. M. Hughes,
say that Parliament under the existing Con-
stitution is “powerless” (which may turn
out to be wrong the first time, and every
other time, one of Parliament’s war meas-
ures is tested in the High Court) ; and op-
ponents of them, such as Joseph Cook,
Anstey, M.P., and the Age, assert without
qualification that Parliament’s powers are
“infinite and illimitable” —which is, of course,
absurd. E. F. Mitchell, K.C., of Victoria,
a Tory who has been fighting the Referenda
for years, put the position fairly in the
Argus. “If,” he wrote, “such matters of
legislation are really required for the defence
of Australia, then there is full power to legis-
late as to them under section 51, paragraph
vi.” The crux of the whole dispute is to
be found in the italicised words. What
measures are necessary for the defence of
Australia? There is not one Commonwealth
citizen who can decide with anything like
certainty; and there is only one body—
namely, the High Court —which has a right
to decide. The section says:—
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution,
have power to make laws for .... the .... Defence
of the Commonwealth and of the several States.
The words “subject to this Constitution”
must mean that Parliament could not, under
cover of exercising the powers conferred by
the section, exercise a power which was for-
bidden to it elsewhere, merely by putting
forward the excuse that a state of war
existed. On the other hand, there can be no
doubt that the existence of a state of war
brings into being a large category of mat-
ters which would be beyond the Common-
wealth’s powers if there were no war.
Moreover, there is equally no doubt that this
category would extend as the danger in-
creased and diminish as it contracted. For
example, it is certain that the Federal Par-
liament can now so far spurn the Trade and
Commerce clause as to censor intra-State
newspapers, and it is practically certain
that it could seize all the wheat and meat
in N. S. Wales or Queensland. But it is
also certain that it could not, at the present
stage, claim to fix all rents in a given area
as Britain did the other day. Yet if things
got very desperate it might even be intra
vires the National Parliament to close down
the Parliaments and Courts of the differ-
ent States, or do any other revolutionary
thing imaginable. And again it might not.
All would depend on what interpretation the
High Court put on the measure in relation to
the defence of Australia. And it must be
remembered that the High Court —which is
composed of citizens who, like the rest of us,
get their war-views from severely-censored
newspapers—is in no better position to esti-
mate the way the war is going than anyone
else. It must clearly be much more in the
dark in regard to the situation at the Front,
and Imperial affairs generally, than the
Ministers who are responsible for the legis-
lation on which it adjudicates. We thus
have the anomaly of a judicial body which is
insufficiently supplied with the facts em-
powered to allow or invalidate, on the
grounds of its apiilicahility or otherwise to
the defence of Australia, legislation eman-
ating from men who are in a position to
know everything possible about the Common-
wealth’s war requirements.
* * * *
One constantly finds Labor writers and
speakers demanding that the country shall
be “freed from the domination of the High
Court.” People of this school of thought
desire that all power should centre in the
National Parliament. The dream can never
come true so long as Australia remains a
Federation. If the Government’s Refer-
enda questions were carried to-morrow, two
things would still stand higher than Par-
liament— (1) the Constitution and (2) the
Court charged with the interpretation of the
Constitution. At present there is hardly a
war-measure passed by the National Parlia-
ment which is not fairly challengeable, on the
score of being ultra vires the Constitution
Act, by the first unpatriotic pointer who
happens along. If the Referenda are car-
ried next December the position will, of
course, be greatly eased. Parliament will
be given a host of powers which no reason-
able man would waste money contesting.
But even in that case an appeal to the
High Court is conceivable on any given war
Bill, since the High Court alone can decide
what legislation is or is not valid. The
undesirability of such an arrangement at
the present juncture is plain. It is cal-
culated to produce uncertainty and wild
allegations and party rancor. The per-
petually changing exigencies of the war will
have to be met, whether the Referenda go
through or not, by Parliamentary Bills,
each one of which must involve discussion,
and the wranglings of conflicting interests,
the loss of precious time, and, in the. end,
maybe, invalidation. The Bulletin is as
whole-hearted a supporter of the Referenda
principle as ever. But for the purposes, of
the present crisis it is in favor of something
much more sudden. The Referenda cannot
be carried for months. The Bulletin’s
scheme could be made operative in days.
The Referenda will cost £lOO,OOO or more.
The Bulletin’s scheme will not cost as
many farthings. The Referenda will arouse
—has already aroused —party bitterness.
The Bulletin’s scheme cannot shock . the
susceptibilities of either party. The idea
is to put into one measure all the powers
which the Commonwealth needs in relation to
Defence, and by a simple device to place those
powers in the hands of the Executive. The
Bill (which would be about the same size
as the Defence of the Realm Act) would
run,, without preamble, as follows: —
(1) This Act shall come into operation on a date
to be proclaimed, and shall expire on the th day
of or upon the Declaration of Peace, whichever
shall first happen. .
(2) The Governor-General, acting with the advice
of the Executive Council, shall have power by procla-
mation or proclamations to acquire, take over and
control for the purpose of the proper organisation
of the Defence of the Commonwealth and of the
several States as and so far as necessity arises in
respect thereof, all the industries, activities, matters
and things set out in the schedule hereto.
(3) At the first sitting of the High Court of Aus-
tralia after the passing of this Act the question shall
be submitted to the said Court whether or not this
Act is within the legislative power of the Parliament.
* * * *
Section 1 is intended to still all outcry
about Federal despotism by removing the
possibility of it beyond the period during
which all are agreed that it is necessary for
the safety of the nation. It is on similar
lines that England avoids militarism.
Englishmen at the beginning of the eighteenth cen-
tury found themselves placed in this dilemma. With
a standing army the country could not, they feared,
escape from despotism ; without a standing army the
country could not, they were sure, avert invasion.
The maintenance of national liberty appeared to in-
volve the sacrifice of national independence.— -Dicey.
Wherefore Britain invented the Mutiny Act
-—nowadays called the Army Act —as a
result of which the British Army dies each
year and could not revive unless Parlia-
ment so willed it. The objects of Section 2
are certainty and speed. The schedule would
specify all those “matters . and things”
which properly relate to Section 51 of the
Constitution Act; and it would. enable all
or any of them to be dealt with by the
simple and speedy method of Proclamation
instead of the slow and cumbrous method
of Bills and debates. The specified matters
and things would comprise the national
food, including its production, supply and
distribution, coal and all other minerals,
explosives, munitions, clothing and all the
factories suitable to the production of the
same, and all matters pertaining to the
supply, production and distribution thereof.
It would be the business of the Attorney-
General to advise the Navy and Defence
Departments with regard to the compila-
tion of this list. Section 3 would enable
the Act to be “put upon its trial.” A High
Court judgment which affirmed the validity
of the schedule to Section 2 in its entirety
would clear up all doubt, reduce chaos to
order, and enable the war to be prosecuted
with as near an approach to efficiency as
our Constitution allows. If any item of the
schedule was ultra vires the Parliament it
would be “severable” in accordance with a
well-known legal principle, without invali-
dating any other part of the Act. Incor-
rigible Tories on the one hand and bigoted
Referenda enthusiasts on the other may
claim hopefully that the High Court would
refuse to pronounce upon such an Act: on
the ground that its determination would
not be an exercise of the Judicial power.
But the High Court contains some of Aus-
tralia’s greatest citizens. Bearing }n mind
the beneficial effect which the Court’s affir--
mation of the Act would have upon the
national welfare, and the countless in=
stances in legal history of the adaptability
of the Judiciary to the necessities of the
time", it is hard to believe that the Court
would shirk the exercise of a power which
it would acquire by the simple process of
saying that it had it.
* * * *
Here is a scheme which should satisfy
every Australian who is for his country
first and his party afterwards. It will be
no good to the Liberal who is using the
war as an argument against every sort of
political change; and it will be revolting to
the Laborite who wants to use the war as
an argument in favor of the Referenda. It
will effect the reforms at which the Refer-
enda aims while leaving the Referenda to
be carried or otherwise in less strenuous
times. But no Laborite who believes in
the Referenda should fear to see the prin-
ciple given a chance to justify itself by a
temporary trial ; and no consistent Liberal
can doubt that, provided the electors are
allowed to behold “Unification” at work,
they will turn the Referenda questions down
at the end of the war. If the High Court
on some abstract technical nicety refuses
to touch the Act as an Act, then, in view
of the notorious inadequacy of the War
Precautions Act, the carriage of the Refer-
enda will be a certainty in December. And,
furthermore, in such an unthinkable event,
the High Court, which so many Laborites
distrust, would damn itself as a body that
had proved incapable of rising to the neces-
sities of a great occasion. Unification
would then come with a rush.
THE WAY OF THE GREAT BEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have crossed the land from Dan to Beer-
sheba, and it has cost us £l4. Look at the map
and put your finger on Vladivostok and
then run it through to Petrograd. Six thou-
sand miles, isn’t it? I don’t know. It
may have been sixty thousand. We were 14
nights in the train, and 14 days when we
went no further from our carriage than the
length of a railway station. The Russian
steppe is as the sea —a sea that blows up
a fine dust like sea-fog into your eyes and
nostrils, and fills your mouth with grit and
your soul with a longing for clean air and a
bath. In the midst of a vast, interminable
ocean of heaving green hills that you have
travelled through for days, you get down
and survey your engine. It is like a ship.
The single track stretches into the distance
like the course of a sea chart. There is a
single station building beside you, a tall,
gaunt water-tower, a narrow platform with
an armed and uniformed guard upon it, a
ragged porter and a solitary, wild-eyed Tar-
tar tribesman beside him. The blue sky is
above, and the immense green sea around.
The passengers get down and hurry into the
buffet for hot water and tea. Two bells
sound and they scramble back into the train.
Three bells sound, a faint whistle blows, the
engine snorts twice, a belated traveller runs
out of the buffet and scrambles aboard. We
jolt twice uncertainly and then suddenly
resume the leisurely pace at which we have
eaten up 3000 miles, and at which we have
to eat up 3000 miles more.
Sometimes in the midst of a desolation,
unrelieved even by a railway building, we
draw up on a siding and wait for an east-
ward-bound train of immigrants. One or
two people get down and stretch their legs.
The wait drags on for an hour or more.
Women and children begin to climb down.
They grow bolder and scatter over the hills
in search of wild flowers. Our engine aban-
dons us and goes off to do some haulage else-
where. The railway people chat with the
military patrol which mounts guard over the
train whenever we pull up. The train we
have waited for creeps in. Returning peas-
ants fraternise with immigrants sent out by
a paternal and far-seeing Government to
people the vast, empty garden of Siberia.
Our train still lingers, having lost its engine.
Our engine returns, but there is no haste.
Two bells ring, and flower-laden children
come running from the hills. Three bells
ring and we bump slowly back on to the
main track again.
Sometimes you wake up at night amidst
the soft breathing of 30 Russian nostrils
that share the bottled atmosphere of your
compartment with you, and find the train
stock-still in an intense silence, broken only
by the distant panting of the engine. There
are the lights of a city in the distance, shin-
ing on the edge of the dark plain like the
lights of a seaport on the sea horizon. People
pass up and down, and lantern-light gleams
on bayonets. You fall asleep and wake up
again in the morning to the steady motion of
the train, progressing westward.
* * * *
There are two classes of trains on the
Siberian railways. There are those of the
Compagnie Internationale des Wagon-lits
and those of the Russian Government. The
trains of the foreign company are fast
trains. They minister to the foreigner’s
incomprehensible love of rushing from one
place to another place at the highest speed.
They are likewise expensive trains. They carry
doctors, trained nurses, interpreters and
enamelled baths. They run up to scheduled
time, much to the discomfort and annoyance
of the Russian officials, and great is the in-
dignation of their passengers if they are an
hour late in a journey of 6000 miles. The
Russian travels on the Russian State train.
He is never too late to catch a Russian
train. He is never too poor to travel, with
his wife and family and all his worldly
possessions, for any distance on a Russian
train. The slow train is to the fast train
as the wild interior is to the seaboard. A
foreigner is rara avis on the slow train. He
is looked at with wild amaze which changes
to kindly interest. Until he solves the mys-
teries of the 50-odd letters of the Russian
alphabet, the time-tables and the station
names are a sealed book to him.
Our fellow-passengers were mostly soldiers.
The stations were full of soldiers. An
armed guard sat on our tailboard, and an-
other surrounded our engine. Every few
miles a soldier stepped smartly out of a log
cabin, a grinning brood of children staring
between bis legs, and stood to the salute till
the train had passed > and where the line ran
through the Chinese province of Manchuria a
little Russian army tumbled out of a block-
house every mile py so and stood to atten-
tion, the occasional Chinese soldier, repre-
senting the Republic’s sovereign authority,
looking perfectly impotent beside them.
We had no reading matter with us on that
interminable journey. We had no need of
reading matter. The panorama of a new
continent was spread for us outside the
windows. The country which two weeks
ago had been one sheet of snow was now a
mass of magnificent wild flowers. Vast herds,
locked up during the bitter winter, were now
roaming over incomparable pasture, camels,
donkeys, Siberian ponies, fat-tailed sheep and
oxen all mixed in one mob. The humps of
the camels and the tails of the sheep, after
the long winter fast, were mere folds of flap-
ping integument. Some vicious insect, worse
than any Australian summer pest, infested
the air, and all the Siberians wore thick nets
over hands and faces. At the stations fresh
butter, brick tea, curdled milk, huge sour
cheeses and roasted fowls were to be bought
from peasant women at open-air booths.
Manchurian women with queer head-dresses,
Mongolian priests, Kirghiz tribesmen mounted
on extraordinary wooden saddles, descendants
of the ancient Tartar invaders of Europe,
came into the stations to greet the violator
of their ancient fastnesses. At intervals of
days we passed big towns, new, aggressive,
in the green desolation of the unpeopled
plains. Almost hourly immigrant trains
passed us going east, to fill a land
crying for population. These are the
modern representatives of the old con-
vict gangs which have tramped the
same w r on foot through the pages of Eng-
lish fiction for a hundred years past, and
which are still doing it. The enlightened
public opinion of Siberia long ago compelled
the Government to check the transportation
of criminals and nolitical offenders into what
will one day be among the fairest countries
in the world. Twice we passed long rows
of American harvesting machinery going
east to take the place of the wooden plough
with which Asia has scratched the soil from
time immemorial.
As we drew nearer to the boundaries of
Europe towns became more frequent. Vast
virgin forests of pine divided vaster stretches
of cultivated land. Big grain elevators ap-
peared at the side of the line, and such reck-
less quantities of spare rolling stock awaiting
the necessities of the harvest as would make
an Australian wheatgrower long for the
benevolent despotism of the Russian Tsar.
The same benevolent despotism showed it-
self in the railway line which runs as straight
as the crow flies between Moscow and Petro-
grad, ignoring all the cities on its way. Like
all railways in all countries, a mass of cor-
x'uption and intrigue centred in the selec-
tion of its route, one wealthy landlord obtain-
ing a deviation in one direction and another
in another. The Tsar on being appealed to
for a final decision, took a ruler, drew a
straight line between the two principal points
and commanded the surveyors to take that
route. Many a democratic country would be
the better for an autocratic hand occasionally
to rule a straight line through its
“diplomacy.”
Moscow has a golden roof of church spires
and domes. The great fire of 1812, when
Moscow was burnt about Napoleon’s ears by
its own patriotic inhabitants, was probably
as splendid a sanitary measure as the Fire
of London. Moscow has wide streets and
squares as vast as deserts, on whose hither
side the buildings look like distant ranges of
blue hills. Magnificent shops, full of Pari-
sian millinery, alternate with ancient ornate
shrines to the Virgin and Child. Our
bloated drosky driver in passing drops his
reins and crosses himself fervently. The
skyline is dominated by the grotesque domes
of the churches, like monstrous vegetable
shapes erected to some pagan god of agricul-
ture —golden oranges gleaming in the sun ;
enormous, variegated, spiky things, like pine-
apples ; smaller bulbous things like onions
on long stalks. Inside these curious monu-
ments to the God of Greek Orthodoxy is col-
lected vast wealth —golden ikons set with
precious stones, a barbarous profusion of
silver, gilt and jewelled ornaments spread on
the altars like offerings to an infernal God of
Wealth. Mothers held children up to kiss
each jewel in turn, and performed the act of
worship before each sacred emblem.
Inside the Kremlin is gathered a magnifi-
cent collection of cathedrals, royal palaces
and monuments. Parties of ragged people
were shepherded up and down marble stair-
ways and in and out of gorgeous rooms
amongst the pomp and splendor of imperial
residences. Outside the Kremlin a cathedral,
as mad a freak of architecture as the childish
mind of barbarism ever perpetrated. Driving
back from a crowded cafd we passed a shrine
whose steps were covered with sleeping
figures crouching in the cold twilight at the
feet of an effigy of Christ, as if they hoped
to get warmth out of its sparkling jewels.
It was fitting that, after a journey of 14
days, our train should arrive at Petrograd
four days late. Russia never hurries. No
other country sets the pace for Russia. On
its trains, in its factories, in its social devel-
opment, it has no schedule times. Russia is
not a country, it is a world; and those travel-
ling aldermen and town councillors who draw
invidious comparisons between its backward-
ness and the civic perfections of their own
blest municipalities forget the fact. Such criti-
cisms are as relevant as comparisons of the
rival merits of the Earth and Mars. Russia
has faced tremendous problems courageously.
Fifty-five years ago the vast mass of the
population were slaves, without land, without-
rights, without hope. In 1860, Alexander
11., with one sweep of his autocratic hand,;
gave 50 million slaves their freedom. Fifty
million landless serfs, unused to and unaware
of the dangers and the privileges of freedom,
had to be absorbed into the State as free
individuals, against the opposition of their
rich and powerful masters. And this was
done successfully. The United States of.
America did not do so well. The same Tsar
that liberated the slaves was blown to pieces
by a revolutionary, the draft of a Constitu-
tion he had drawn up in his Royal pocket.
But 40 years afterwards the Russians got
their Duma, which is slowly gaining recogni-
tion from the State and people. In 1906 c.
despite the intolerance of the vast bulk of
the established Church, general religious
freedom was granted, and now the spires of
churches of every creed may be seen ming-
ling with the golden domes.
Since then there has been continuous re-
form in the civil, military and police admin-
istrations ; corrupt officials have followed in
the footsteps of political exiles to Siberia;


greater and greater sums have been spent
on education, and attempts have been made
to control the sale of vodka, m
August, 1914, the Tsar instituted complete
and permanent prohibition throughout the
country. " Even England has not been able
to follow that lead.
Mervyn G. Skipper.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Archbishop Misses the ’Bus.
Archbishop Clarke, of Melbourne, has told
a meeting of churchmen that he does not
consider it advisable for their profession to
join the ranks of the army. And therein
the Archbishop makes a grievous error of
ecclesiastical policy. For generations his
Church and other Churches have been get-
ting more and more out of touch with the
people, and especially with the male half of
the people. It has become a truism with
clergymen everywhere that the young men —
the section from which the Expeditionaries
are drawn —have almost ceased going to
church. Here was a chance that may not
come again in centuries for the Church to
revivify itself by showing the world unan-
swerably that it teaches a man’s religion;
and the first step which occurs to its chiefs
is to anchor the able-bodied priests of the
Faith in the puerile arena of the bun-fight.
The Bulletin has never been hostile to
any religion. But it has always objected,
and does still, to clerical humbugs and self-
advertisers ; and it has found matter for
derision in the weaklings and asses who are
fostered by the attitude of prelates such as
Archbishop Clarke. If this constitutes hos-
tility to religion, then the surgeon is hostile
to life who tries to cut out a cancer. The
truth is the Church has labored for years
beneath the futility of its parsons. There
have been brilliant exceptions—plenty of
them—but mostly the parson is a futile, in-
efficient little man, in absurd clothes, who
for a starvation wage hurries about minister-
ing to the already “converted,” pouring spirit-
ual comfort into the ears of those who are
regenerate and know it. It is a rare thing
to find in him the golden mean between
the bleater and the bellower. The young
man whom the Church desires to allure
watches the efforts of both varieties with dis-
favor, and decides that they are not the per-
sons to save him. Which is only natural.
No one is going to feel confident of being
snatched from Beelzebub by a human ab-
surdity. The tragedy of normal, peaceable
times is that owing to the obtrusiveness of
the actor-parson and his foil the fool-parson,
the sensible, understanding and manly par-
son never gets a show. Billjim avoids him
so firmly, on the reputation of his class, that
he finds the utmost difficulty in coming
within a mile of that elusive citizen’s blanky.
Armageddon comes and offers the Church
an opportunity to get right up alongside
Billjim ; to be with him in the great and
burning moments of his career; to win his
confidence ; and to prove to him that a par-
son can be as good a man as any. And the
unique chance is being spurned. What a mis-
take that is French experience is showing at
this moment. A year ago the priest was
one of the stock jokes of the French press.
There was no position too degrading to de-
pict him in, no story too obscene to write
round him. To-day, since thousands of him
have been and still are serving with the
colors, the priest jest has died out of the
papers. But with us, though we too are
fighting for Justice and Freedom against
premeditated robbery with violence, and
every description of moral infamy, foolish
Archbishops gather their parsons of a fight-
ing age around them and say: “You ought
not to join in this struggle. Your herma-
phroditic job is here, in comfortable security,
among the women and children !” How can
such an institution hope to grip those whom
it says it is the most anxious to grip?
• <>
A Nation with Its Head in the Sand.
When will the daily newspapers start tell-
ing the whole truth about the war? They
have stopped talking of German “routs”; of
famine in Berlin and Vienna; and of the
likelihood of the whole trouble being at an
end in a few weeks. But their reservations
are almost as damaging now as their mis-
statements were six months ago. What
object has anyone but a German, for ex-
ample, in concealing the fact that the posi-
tion on the whole of the Russian front is
most alarming? The German objective is
Warsaw. The capture of that city will
mean vast stores of clothing and provisions
for the enemy; worse still, it will mean the
descent upon the British and French, on the
Western front, of a horde of picked soldiers.
There is no sense in the papers bleating
about the Russians’ genius for fighting a
rearguard action, and the likelihood that
Russia will, in the end, “weather the
storm.” If Russia is beaten within the
next few months there will be no comfort
to the British Empire in the knowledge that
the Bear must still “weather the storm” in
the end, since there is grave peril of our
armies being met and exterminated in the
interim. If anyone wants to understand how
well the Austro-German forces have done
in the East during the past three months,
let him follow their progress on a map, and
then imagine the degree of confidence which
would justifiably exist amongst the Allies if
they had such achievements to their credit.
In the beginning of May the Germans, hav-
ing got together enormous stores of muni-
tions from their well-organised war-shops,
and having put in the field another 2,000,000
men (the compulsory trainees of the preced-
ing nine months), were in a position to start
pushing the invader out of Galicia. It
was no half-hearted push. The Russians
were bustled briskly over the Western Car-
pathians through Gorlice to Jaroslav, which
was taken. Przemysl fell next, and shortly
afterwards L/emberg. Supposing our armies
had, in a month, hunted the Germans
through Flanders, killing 750,000 of them and
capturing a quarter of a million prisoners
and a thousand guns; and supposing that we
Fad retaken Brussels and Antwerp, and found
in these cities war-materials as. valuable as
the products of the Galiciam oil-wells—sup-
posing these things, we would be" justified ifr
feeling as the Germans doubtless feel to-day.
In the past week the Russians have been
driven out of Prasnysz—or, as the papers
put it, “the attack on Prasnysz forced us to
concentrate on a position nearer the Narew.”
The strongholds around Warsaw have been
systematically invested. And it was men-
tioned encouragingly by one of the daily-
paper war-experts on Friday, that ‘ even
if Warsaw fell the Russians would fight
steadily, falling back on the Volga if neces-
sary.” Things are as bad for us, in effect,
as they would be for Germany if the Allied
troops had crossed the Rhine after investing
Cologne and Dusseldorf, and were pouring
towards the Weser. The curse which falls
upon us for the persistent suppression of the
truth is that old men of means do not help
financially, and young men of good physique
do not enlist —both justifying themselves on
the plea that the Germans are being beaten.
The time is due, and long since overdue, to
tell the truth and shame the devil, the devil
in this hour of the nation’s great need being
the shirker who withholds his service either
of muscle or of money.
♦
Muddle Goes Down in a Heap.
Maoriland rocked on its foundations lately.
The storm centre was the big military camp
at Trentham, near Wellington. There had
been much sickness in it; recruits contracted
a habit of dying in a hurry; strong men
were swiftly flattened out by something call-
ing for a nurse ; friends and relatives at a
distance found themselves unable to get in-
formation about the condition of Bill or
Jim until a telegram came to say he would
be buried to-morrow. Red tape did its best
to hold the community down; but the rumb-
ling grew so ominous, and the accusative
paragraph in the newspapers so frequent,
that Minister for Defence Allen felt the
time was about ripe to say something. He
therefore ascended to a high place and said
the population was being needlessly alarmed
by agitators ; that the camp was a most de-
lightful sanatorium; that the boys were
doing well, and were too happy to write
home and explain the situation. Then a
great deluge of letters poured over the land
from the happy lads to say they had measles,
influenza, wet fet and damp beds; that if
mother didn’t hear from them again she
would know they were dead; that things
were misery and woe. After that Parlia-
ment met. The first squall carried the
Speaker’s wig away; at the second the Ser-
geant-at-Arms heroically lashed the Mace to
a granite pillar. The fury of the storm
staggered the oldest inhabitant. It was
shown that the camp was a pest hole, a bog,
a breeding place for microbes; that the sick
were numbered by hundreds ; that the hospi-
tal arrangements were a tragic jest; that
there was muddle and incompetence in
everything connected with the place. The
upshot of the riot was that the Government
hastily evacuated Trentham and set up
camps at other places. Then Allen was re-
lieved of a couple of portfolios, and a Com-
mission was appointed to let the Governor
know who should be scalped. At latest
everybody who had a finger in the pie was
accusing everybody else of being the Jonah.
Also Massey’s feet were feeling very cold,
and the brown majority of one was sus-
pected of having chilblains.
-
An Idol with Cast-iron Feet.
Germany must be well satisfied with Mr.
Asquith as Prime Minister of Great
Britain. Asquith, who enjoys a strong-
man superstition, is opposed to sweeping
reforms. He mourned the temporary sus-
pension of Party Government, the errors of
which arc dear to him through long
acquaintance. His consideration for vested
interests over-ruled his colleague, Lloyd
George, when that “iconoclast” proposed
to make Britain less unsober by Act of
Parliament. Whilst every other leading
member of the previous Asquith Govern-
ment (bar the spiritually-German Hal-
dane) was denouncing the evils of drink,
the Prime Minister was opposed to any
legislation of which Socialists could
approve. To restrict the consumption of
alcohol and interfere with its manufacture
was to move in the direction of nationalisa-
tion of the liquor trade; therefore Asquith
was against “drastic” reform of the trade.
Again, his shocking lack of pluck to deal
reasonably with the Welsh miners’ rebel-
lion was evidently due rather to anti-
socialism than to natural affection for the
private mine-owners. The workers wanted
nationalisation of the industry for their
own protection; therefore, at a moment
when their labor was of paramount im-
portance to the nation, they tried to force
Asquith to transfer the private property
to the State. But to Asquith—calm,
strong, upright, gentlemanly Asquith—
the bare idea of establishing Government
control was positively alarming. It would
be a triumph for Socialism, and a blow at
the prejudices of all the Asquiths of
Britain. The coal strike became a national
peril for the same reason that the short-
comings of the private munition factories
were a national peril—because Asquith
is a Premier who shies off drastic reforms.
The drink evil, the evil of strikes in coal
mines and munition works, the German spy
and German intriguing perils, the War
Office scandals —all these things have been
paltered with by the Governments in which
Asquith has had chief say. When one
thinks of all the things that Asquith has
been with difficulty compelled by public
opinion to sanction within the past year—
the ousting of Haldane from the War
Office and his subsequent ousting from the
Cabinet; the appointment of clever com-
mercial men to take the management of
war-supply business, the internment and
deportation of thousands of Germans for
whose arrest the wisest newspapers had
long clamored in vain, the obliteration of
party lines, and finally the introduction of a
sort of national service—when one thinks
of these things and of how soundly England
slept under Asquith’s -leadership,- the ques-
tion is: .Can England ever be quite awake
whilst he remains in charge? These are
times for swift reform, and Asquith is no
reformer. He is too inherently Conserva-
tive. All tjie influential people whom he
respected' before the war he still respects.
He hates to make himself unpleasant.
Everybody speaks nicely of him. He is
the hope of Germunj'. Lim despair of evei*y-
one who wanted the Allies to win the war
this year.
— ♦
Big Wrongs and Little Remedies.
The recent case of J. G. Jardine —he is an
actor who was hit by a revolver wad whilst
playing in “The Kelly Gang” at Perth—
illustrates the prehistoric inequity of the
law of Master and Servant. Jardine lost
his eye and recovered £200 from the manage-
ment. Julius Knigiit could have got no
more in Australia, and in England he
couldn’t have got anything. This is because
an actor is excluded by the nature of his
calling from the benefits of the Employers’
Liability Act, and can only sue under the
Workman’s Compensation Act. A plaintiff
suing under the Employers’ Liability Act is
faced by two “doctrines” which are obstacles
for all persons, and insuperable ones for
actors. These are (a) the doctrine of
Common Employment, and (b) the doctrine
of volentia. The one means that for
damage caused to an employee by the act
of a fellow-servant the employer is not
liable; the other says in effect that all em-
ployees embark on their jobs with notice
of the perils involved, and have no right to
complain if the risk falls in. Church v.
Appleby is an example of volentia. Church
worked on a staging over the Thames. _ It
was protected on one side only. One night
he fell over the unprotected side and was
drowned. Since he had voluntarily under-
taken the risk his widow got nothing. As
for Common Employment, one Hutchinson,
a servant of a railway company, was travel-
ling from work in the co.’s train, when a
collision took place owing to the negligence
of other servants, and he was killed. It
was held that because he was one of the
servants—though he had nothing to do with
the accident —his widow could not recover.
Either of these doctrines would have sufficed
to defeat Jardine had he proceeded under
the Employers’ Liability Act. Mepiiisto
and Faust mangled by an accident to the
“trap”; the son of William Tell taking
the arrow in the neck; Henry Y. falling off
his horse at Agincourt; the melodrama
heroine crushed to death by the property
train—all would fail because of volentia;
whilst it is impossible to imagine anything
that an actor does which would not arise
from an act of “common service.” For the
purposes of the Workman’s Compensation
Act these two doctrines are, happily, abo-
lished. As long as a workman has been
injured “in and about” the course of his
employment the employer is liable—but only
to a very small amount, as little in some
States as £200. This legislation was copied
by Lloyd George from Germany, and by
Australia from Lloyd George. In the
English edition only persons earning less
than £150 a year may claim, which is why
Julius Knight could have recovered
nothing in England had he instead of
Jardine got the pistol-wad in the eye. He
would not have been “a workman.” Australia
has improved on this by putting the limit at
the other end. Anyone can claim, but nobody
can recover more than £200, or a little more
in some parts. Whatever may be said for
volentia, the “Common Employment” doc-
trine forms no part of the symmetrical body
of the law, and it hasn’t even reason at the
back of, it. Until 1837 no one had ever
heard of it, and it was then evolved from the
air by Chief Baron Abinger to meet a par-
ticular circumstance, which was that for the
first time in history a servant had dared to
sue his master. Plaintiff was a butcher-boy
who fractured his thigh because the cart
which he drove had been badly loaded by a
fellow-servant. The Court was paralysed
at his claim for damages. Lord Abinger
said: —•
To allow this sort of action to prevail would be
an encouragement to the servant to omit that dili-
gence and caution which he is in duty bound to exer-
cise on the behalf of his master.... and which dili-
gence and caution, while they protect the master, are
a much better security against any injury the ser-
vant may sustain by the negligence of others engaged
under the same master, than any recourse against his
master for damages could possibly afford.
A truly splendid bit of Tory cant! As to
volentia, it is contrary to the whole spirit
of modern sociology. It is based on the
fiction that the working man is in a position
to pick and choose his jobs. In any case, it
is monstrous that a man may have no more
for the loss of an eye or a widow for the
loss of a husband —than £200. If a piece of
inanimate machinery is broken, no matter
how, the employer must replace it. The
State or private charity does not give him
half the money to restore his plant, or com-
pensate him for going without it. But
when a part of his human machinery is
destroyed or damaged, he is not called upon
to pay more than a very limited amount,
which may and generally does bear no rela-
tion to the value of the human “machine”
affected. Mostly public benevolence or pri-
vate charity has then to come to the rescue.
It is uneconomic; it is unjust.
“Moresby” on a matter of administration
Re Papua (B. 3/6/’15). It is stated that when
the costly mountain zig-zag up the Hombron Bluff
and the Vaigana swamp stud farm were carried out,
the Lieut.-Governor was absent and unaware of the
idiocies. The site of the stud farm was selected in
December, 1907. The road up Hombron Bluff was
laid out in 1908 (see Annual Report 1908). Judge
Murray did not leave the Territory from the date
of his appointment in 1907 until June, 1910. The
road is the only one used to the Sogeri Tablelands-—
the most prosperous district in the Territory. If it
was a mistake, why have travellers absolutely dis-
carded the old road ?
Whether the stud farm is a success or not can be
judged by the fact that it was started with 41 head
of stock, and by natural increase it has now 74 head.
If the Kikori exploration was “a comic-opera ven-
ture,” I wonder why Staniforth Smith is the only
British New Guinea explorer since Sir William
Macgregor who has been invited to lecture before
the Royal Geographical Society of London, which is
the final Court of Appeal regarding the merits of
exploration? His lecture was given pride of place in
the Geographical Journal of April, 1912. The Vice-
President, Major Leonard Darwin, said: “There are
three qualifications every explorer must have. He
must have personal courage, he must have fore-
thought, and he must have the aptitude of making
friends with the natives. I think our lecturer has
been conspicuous in all these three qualities.”
•
Defence Minister Allen, of Maoriland,
has announced that in the case of certain
soldiers who have been returned from
abroad on account “of disability caused by
their own misconduct,” he has decided that
they must be “punished” by being refused
for further enlistment. Which shows that
Allen has some queer notions about con-
tagious disease. If these men have been
restored and are now physically fit to join
the colors, the talk about punishing them
by turning them down is blank idiocy. Men
are wanted badly, and it is wildly grotesque
to refuse the services of a lad because he has
been an unlucky young ignoramus who fell
into the soup prepared for him by the asses
that prevent the spread of essential knowledge.
If, on the other hand, a man will not stand
the physical test required for service, who
in the name of Mangaweka does Allen
imagine he is punishing while the unsani-
tary culprit wanders casually round the
landscape? If Allen has turned any .of
these disease-disseminators loose on the com-
munity, he deserves to be shot out of his
job ; if he is still preventing the enlistment
of eligible men by assuming the functions
of a Minister of Retribution, he deserves a
straight waistcoat decorated with the Iron
Cross qf Ihc Kaiser.
Drift.
Randolph Bedfoed meets the British
Empiah:—
News that the Germans’ aerial torpedo steered by
wireless is the invention of Australians—the Rob-
erts brothers —lifted by the Germans from the
specifications for patent, brings the memory of the
fact that the Robertses offered their invention to
the British War Office, and, after being delayed until,
their patience was exhausted, were finally turned’
down. It is the experience repeated of that brilliant
Australian, the inventor of the range-finder, who,
after being driven almost crazy by the drifters of :
English officialdom, abandoned in despair his attempt;
to help the Empire, and returned to Australia with a
record of lost time. The Caldwell gun was offered!
them a year ago, and they are still paltering. They
were offered it direct, but the Australian syndicate
had finally to pass it on to a “placing” and ex-
ploiting syndicate for £65,000 and a royalty—which
means that the British nation is to pay just so much
unnecessary money as represents the syndicate’s pro-
fit.
Twelve years or so ago I joined H. H. Drysdale
in London in the attempt to float the 15,000,000
acres of Arafura into a pastoral company. I got out
of the active job after six months—which is quite
enough to waste on any one scheme—but Drysdale
stood by for a further 18 months; and formed the
Eastern and African Cold Storage Supply Go., Ltd.-,'
in 500,000 shares of £1. It was the time the
remount scandals were raging. Certain British
officers and gentlemen had been discovered in league
with German-Jew horse-copers buying worn-out Hun-
garian cab-horses at £4 or £5 a head and selling
them as British remounts for S’Africa at £40 a
head. The treason in selling in war-time a menace
to the life of any British soldier who mounted it
called for somebody’s death; but when in London
I asked, “Who is to be hanged?” they looked shocked,
after the manner of the English when the word
“scandal” is mentioned, and said “Ssh! Bad form I
Ssh! ”
Drysdale and I talked over getting another string
to the Arafura bow by trying to arrange a remount
scheme with the War Office. There is no better horse-
breeding ground in the world than the big limestone
plains south of the Roper, and there, in addition to
Arafura itself, we had many thousand square miles
of country. Chamberlain was then Secretary for
the Colonies, and my introduction to the War Office
had to come through him. The “colonies” is slow
enough, but it does not sutler the red-tape worm so
continuously as the other Departments. I was
handed over to a man of energy—Lord Monkhurst
—and he gave me an introduction to Major-General
Truman, and lie sent me to a very high and very
weary official of the Remount Department in the
little, old, faded-red brick building of the War
Office in St. James. The gentleman was frankly
bored, not only by my business, but by all business;
his mind seemed to have a chronic habit of yawning
at everything—Australia, me and the Firmament.
He seemed to have a detestation of horses, and
especially of remounts —and remounts were his job.
He waxed almost enthusiastic as I explained the pro-
position—the War Office to pay a retaining fee per
head per annum, and for that insurance we to guaran-
tee delivery of a stated number at a stated price
when called upon. He asked me to call again.
Another call, and he threw me down to a wearier
gentleman than himself; a man whose brains de-
manded a 41 hat, and whose feet asked for number
14 boots. He also took a 13 collar. After one
interview with him I sent out the S.O.S. signal, and
was returned to the man who had been enthusiastic
over remounts for five minutes.
I got him enthusiastic again, and he gave me
reason to believe that I would have finality next day.
The Government, he said, was stuck for horses, and
whether the Boer War lasted 10 years or 10 days
longer, the Government was determined to put its
remount business into organisation for this war or
any other war of the future. And would I call
to-morrow? I called to-morrow, and was asked to
call to-morrow. And I called to-morrow, and was
asked to call to-morrow for a fortnight. At the end
of the fortnight I was asked to call in a few days
for three weeks, and at the end of three weeks I was
asked to call next week for two weeks.
When I last called the man who had been enthu-
siastic looked at me in a puzzled way, repeated my
name, searched a basket of papers, and said help-
lessly: “Let me see; what was your mattah?” I
explained that my matter was horses; real horse
made of meat, with a leg at each of his four cor-
ners, some tail, and a place in his face to put a bit
to which were attached two lines, one to pull him
to the right, the other to pull him to the left.
“Oh! Quaite,” said he. “Come again next week.”
That day we went out of the remount business for
keeps. The only thing they seemed to know about
horses in that department was stringhalt, which is
the disease of English administration.
Drift! Drift! Stringhalt! Bad form! Hush it
up! Ssh!
And half a mile or so eastward—in the grimy
Exeter Hall, stuffed with vanity and lunacy, the
other ruler of England, the Nonconformist Con-
science, which is mostly brainless and conscienceless,
bleated of the things which do not matter.
These are the rulers who should be pilloried and
then abolished after the war —the petticoat influence
at the Foreign Office, and all the other offices, for
that matter; the cult of “birth,” which is often to
say scrofula; Government by bishops; the Noncon-
formist Conscience, the myth of a ruling class, and
the immorality of a starving one.
Drift! Stringhalt! Bad form! Hush it up! Sssssh!


Hotel Steyne,
Manly, N.S.W.
(SYDNEY).
Victorians,
South and West Australians,
Tasmanians,
Queenslanders,
And people of our own State
Should Winter in Manly,
the most fascinating and delightful of
all Seaside Resorts.
The Brighton and Folkestone of
Australia.
Hot Salt-water Baths and Golf
Links (18 holes) in close proximity.
Surf-bathing all the year round.
WINTER TARIFF, from May to
September, from i 63/3/- per week
Rest and Comfort
for
the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human milk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digestibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING
~ AND MANAGEMENT FREE.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome time
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Allen &. Hanburys Ltd., London, England, and Market Street, Sydney.
9
Amongst the liberal helping of confused
war cablegrams published in Australia dur-
ing the week, there are at least two that
have not been contradicted. One is that
Russia is praying for victory; the other
that the Hun has a vast number of flags
ready to unfurl when the triumph of Yon
Hindenbtjkg in Poland shall be complete.
That Ivan is being still hard pressed is
certain. But equally clear is it that the
German arms have not yet been carried to
a point where decisive victory can be claimed.
Both are as clear as the evidence that our
part of the world is profoundly ignorant
about the progress of the struggle in detail.
As to the . broad, general course of events
there remains, however, not much room for
doubt, and that course is not of a character
to make the German particularly sad. If
the allied forces in France and Belgium
were making as much progress as the asso-
ciated Huns have achieved during the last
couple of months in Galicia and thereabouts,
the end of the war would not look so re-
mote as it does just now. Nor perhaps
would the attitude of the several Balkan
States be quite the same. What is taking
place there remains more or less shrouded
in mystery, although it appears that Bul-
garia has secured a slice of territory from
Turkey and sent over, to Berlin for a loan,
that Roumania is being addressed in per-
emptory. language by Potsdam, and that
Greece is trembling on the verge of some-
thing critical. In Gallipoli bayonet and
bomb are still hard at work at the same old
spot. Incidentally Uncle Sam has spoken
about murder to Berlin in terms of such
studied emphasis that on his birthday
William is not likely to be cheered by the
usual cable message from Washington.
Also the borrowing of money goes on at
frantic speed all over the world, the maimed
and wounded are creeping back from the
line of battle, and the call for volunteers to
take their place is as urgent as ever it was.
A good scheme to help the fund for
the wounded has been evolved by the
Commonwealth Patriotic Playing Card
Association. D. H. Souter, Sydney Ure
Smith and Harry Julius have de-
signed a series of playing cards, which
will be on sale throughout the world
immediately. The picture cards will repre-
sent the four Kings and four Queens of the
Allies, while for the four knaves there is
considerable competition among the Huns.
Australians who buy these cards, which are
sold at various prices, will know that they
are doing a patriotic service. The manage-
ment of the association, which is non-profit-
bearing, is in the hands of very capable
business men. General-manager Conley, of
the S. M. Herald, is chairman; F. H. G.
Chambers (Hardie and Gorman) is trea-
surer ; and Arch Annan (Parsons Trading
Co.) hon. sec.
From the Defence Department:—
In connection with the work of the Munitions
Committee, a sub-committee has been appointed to
make initial inquiries regarding the possibilities
of producing toluene in Australia. Toluene is
obtained either by extraction from coal gas or by
distillation of coal tar, and is the necessary base
for the manufacture of high explosives. The mem-
bers of the sub-committee are Messrs. Marcus Bell and
P. C. Holmes Hunt, and Dr. P. H. Campbell; and the
Minister will be glad if cos., councils and others
that may be communicated with by the sub-com-
mittee will reply promptly to any inquiries put ta
them in order that data may be collected as soon as-
possible.
If Hughes is speaking without reserva-
tion when he says that the Commonwealth
Govt, does not contemplate conscription or
compulsory service, what earthly use is this
war census going to be, except to provide
work of great futility for a multitude of
officials? In any case, what is the point of
all this vast mass of hurried intelligence
about the value of Smith’s furniture, the
amount Jones pays for rent, the number of
camels in Robinson’s herd? All the broad
facts necessary for the Government’s pur-
poses when considering methods of taxation
can easily be obtained at 24 hours’ notice
from sources which are already at command'
—and, what is more, they will be obtained
in that way, since the piles of matter now
about to be dredged up and sorted out at
great expense will simply hide the few things
the Government really wants to know.
Last week in N.S.W. Assembly three
Labor members voted against a measure
introduced by the Minister for Education
relating to the acquisition of a certain home
for children. The point at issue was one
on which there was ample room for reason-
able difference of opinion, and the vote of
the Assembly went against the Minister.
The immediate consequence was a wild
escape of steam from party engines and
large headings in the daily papers and pon-
derous head-shaking about “splits” and
“discipline” and “a crisis.” Consideration!
of whether the Assembly had come to a wise
decision was, of course, a matter no one
took the slightest interest in. All of which
again shows what a fine democratic animal
Party Government is and how ludicrous it
is when mere representatives of the people
dare to get tired of being marionettes.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty's “The Arcadians”
Royal “Who’s the Lady?”
Criterion “Sunday”
Palace The Royal Strollers
Little “Charley’s Aunt”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Chocolate Soldier”
Royal “Potash and Perlmutter”
Princess’s “The Silence of Dean Maitland”
King's “On Our Selection”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville,Co.
Hoyt's Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating
*
“Sunday,” revived for Muriel Starr at
Sydney Criterion last Saturday, belongs to
the shivery type of drama. At the middle
of each act the violins become tremulous,
and they keep on being tremulous till the
curtain falls. The story appeals equally to
the violin strings of the orchestra and the
heart-strings of the audience. Life in this
Wild West is idyllically Bret Hartian. The
Wild Westers may occasionally swear, but
otherwise they are good as gold. There are
no villains there, except one visiting Eng-
lishman, and even he is conveniently shot
before the end of the first act. For the rest
of the play it has to get along without a
villain, and in consequence it suffers from a
fatty-degeneration-of-the-heart interest. But
this deliberate appeal to the handkerchiefs of
the audience is welcome after a long course
of the crudities and artificialities of the
modern U.S. melodrama. Both types of play
are false: the tremolo type is the more
pleasingly false.
* * * *
Once again Muriel Starr surprises us.
The part of the youthful Sunday seems at
first sight quite beyond her range, yet she
contrives to portray the innocent youth and
careless vivacity of this young girl with a
charming naivetg. Muriel Starr has many
faults, but when one considers that her
characters comprise “Madame X” and a girl
young enough to be that person’s grand-
daughter, it is evident she possesses a varied
artistic equipment. Incidentally, her frock-
ing in the second and third acts is daringly
and delightfully up to the moment in fashion.
* %’j * *
Charles Millward’s mannerisms are lost in
the conventional character of an English
aristocrat. The stiffness and carefully-re-
hearsed gestures habitual to him are quite
in the picture he has to present. Sydney
Stirling, the one bad man of the play, makes
love _ with difficulty, but otherwise is a
sufficiently agreeable villain. As Jacky, Clar-
ence Blakiston gets every pathetic ounce out
of this patently theatrical part. It is a re-
lief to find Lincoln Plumer having a holiday
from the U.S. detective service; but he
makes a better policeman than he does a
Father Christmas. Maurice Dudley is more
at home. in his pathos as Davy; but George
Bryant is much too gloomy and melodramatic
a member of Sunday’s Sabbath-school of
good little boys. Dorothy Davies, Gertrude
Boswell and Boyd Irwin do their best with
colorless parts. Handkerchiefs at 10.30.
“MY MATE,” AT SYDNEY ADELPHI.
’Three humorists. Ethel Buckley as Bunny,
Frank Crossley who refused a colored kiss,
and the wallaby that nearly leapt into the
orchestra.
Edmund Duggan has had his eye to the
theatrical keyhole long enough to know
what the public wants ; and when he wrote
“My Mate” he delivered the goods. But no
one, not even Duggan himself, is likely to
say that “My Mate” will go down as an im-
perishable monument of what Australia was
like in the bad, bold days of 1915. On Satur-
day night at Sydney Adelphi the house
laughed—at times roared —and when a
house behaves like that it is satisfied. But
“My Mate” won’t satisfy everybody. By
this time the Adelphi will have received a
cargo of expostulatory Notes from China,
along with a four-column protest from A.
G. Huie against its damnable heresy of
Protection. Also, every abo. in Australia is
liable to threaten instant death to Miss
Ethel Buckley for her portrait of black
sister. As Bunny Miss Buckley is allegedly an
Australian half-caste; the other half seems
to be Yankee comic-paper nigger. Neverthe-
less, the house enjoyed Bunny with the rest.
Gunyah, another Australian native, is the
long-distance black tracker. On Saturday
night he crawled 376 miles, and no doubt is
still crawling. Walter Hunt and . Frank
Nielson provide excellent representations of
repentant curates who have gone on the
land, although the programme for some un-
known reason makes no mention of their
being curates. John Cosgrove as Jinks, a
heavyweight drunk, is another star per-
former —one, two, or three star: it is all
the same to Jinks. Add to these a wallaby,
a star, too, doing what he pleases and taking
no notice of what is laid down for him to
do. “My Mate” will continue at the Adelphi
until Gunyah has crawled himself to a
standstill, or Jerry Jerome has smitten
Ethel Buckley on the neck. It might even
suffer the horrible fate of seeing its two
Australian settlers rejoin the Church; or
the wallaby may become tired of Bunny and
leap over the footlights and murder the big
drum. There are heaps of other possibili-
ties, one of them being that “My Mate” may
be hurriedly withdrawn some time in De-
cember to make room for the usual Christ-
mas panto.
* * * *
“Charley’s Aunt” is not a play but an
institution. It will probably outlast the
war. And Sydney’s Little Theatre revival by
George Willoughby on Saturday evening
proves that it still possesses its draw-
ing power. Those who have seen it before
“MY MATE ,” AT SYDNEY ADELPHI.
Rear, side and front elevations of John
Cosgrove as Booser Juicy Jinks.
have a reminiscent smile for its absurdities ;
those who were too young to have seen it
before shriek with laughter. The produc-
tion drags when neither Tom Cannam, who
plays the part of the nice old lady, nor
George Willoughby, who is a pleasantly
absurd Uncle Spettigue, is upon the stage ;
but fortunately these occasions are rare.
Tom Cannam’s aunt is a direct descendant
of Penley’s relative; a few points are missed,
but most of the others are incisively made.
Nellie Calvin shows what a charming lady
the real Brazilian aunt is. Eirene de Grant,
a newcomer, has much to unlearn. As the
ingenue she shows charm, but her acting
would be much better if, for a few moments
at least, she would forget to act.
In the Assembly last night the Minister
for Public Entertainment was asked if it
were a fact (1) that the Royal Strollers
were offering a poor show at Sydney Palace
at exorbitant prices; (2) that, in conse-
quence, it was the intention of the Govern-
ment to borrow £6,000,000 at 51 per cent, to
improve the show. The Minister replied that
the hon. member had been grossly misin-
formed. The Strollers were providing a
charming entertainment at very reasonable
prices for admission. He was prepared to
put the matter of charges to the public
before the Unnecessary Commodities’ Com-
mission if the hon. member gave notice of
motion. It was true that the Government
intended to go on the market to raise
£6,000,000, but that was merely the usual
monthly application to meet interest and
pay for the construction of permanent and
reproductive monkey-houses and elephant-
temples at the new Zoo. It was a matter
of the most urgent public importance that
the construction of the monkey-houses and
elephant-temples should not be suspended
while the Empire was in danger.
* * ❖ *
“Who’s the Lady?” is the question before
the house at Sydney Royal this week, with
Beaumont Smith as chief instigator of the
conundrum. Ethel Dane, as Gobette, the
actress, still steers the play along the top of
the fence, and doesn’t once allow it to go
over. The identity of the minx will occupy
the attention of the clergy till the end of
next week. “Stop Your Nonsense” will
be then substituted.
* * * *
There is to be a mighty upheaval in the
Sydney Tivoli programme at the end of this
“CHARLEY’S AUNT,” AT SYDNEY
LITTLE THEATRE.
George Willoughby proposes to the imitation
aunt (Tom Gannum).
week, and a practically new show will arise
from the ruins. Meanwhile Pisano will
continue to snipe matches from the dress-
circle, instead of sniping the imported lady
who sings through her nose and wears
dresses that match her turn; and Nella
Webb, Jarvis and Dare and Jimmy Britt
will do their share in the intervals between
packing.
* * * *
“The Arcadians” is to be revived at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday night, the
management having belatedly changed its
mind with regard to the staging of Paul
Rubens’s revusical comedy.
* * * *
So far as the present Sydney season is
concerned, the last nights of Louise Mack’s
unconventional lectures upon the war in
Belgium are announced. The lady has
quite found her feet now, and the longer
the season runs the more obviously glad
this bright observer is that she started it.
$ * * *
This week’s comment on “Potash and
Perlmutter” at Melbourne Royal will go no
further than three interrogatives as to the
exact measure of the worth of Henry
Steuerman, the Pride of New York. Steuer-
man is the incidental philanthropist, imper-
sonated by Edwin Kelly, who meets P. and
P. by appointment after they have been
worshipping an unsuspected book-agent by
mistake. Steuerman, it seems, is the golden
calf who goes around in a shiny belltopper
seeking whom he may philanthropise, and
The Bulletin would like to know how he
came to be rolling in ducats, and what his
present financial business is, and how, in the
name of Holy Moses, he can be at once a
multi-millionaire and a paragon of all the
virtues. Evidently a lot of Jewish faith is
necessary to a satisfactory solving of the-
Steuerman problem, which simply staggers
a Gentile newspaper, and leaves it scratch-
ing its troubled head.
* * * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s a six-nights’
revival of “The Chocolate Soldier,” begin-
ning on Saturday, will end the musical-
comedy season pro tem. Muriel Starr comes
a week later and brings “Sunday.” To-
morrow (Friday) there is to be a matineg
performance in aid of sick and wounded
Australian soldiers, and the programme is
a guarantee that all who book seats will get
full value for their half-guineas.
* * * *
“The Girl Without a Home,” revived at
Melbourne Princess’s last Saturday night, is
an old. low-grade nightmare full of Costers
and Beer. Several of its unruly per-
sons belong to the underworld of pearl-
buttoned clobber and feathered ’ats,
while nearly every member of the
cast, barring the heroine and her sis-
ter, becomes an unsober victim of the mis-
spent “tray.” One female vagrant, who is
child-beater by appointment to the head vil-
lain, is so attached to the bottle that she
performs her office in a sort of gin-sodden
tango, with her countenance twisted into a
permanent gibber. In this elevating atmo-
sphere the poor heroine, Nell Maitland, is
doomed to express her pessimism in ragged
black, and wring her hands fitfully over the
tragedy of her lot. Seeing that Nell’s woes
include a blind sister, a ticket-of-leave father
and a convict lover, she has plenty of suffer-
ings to signal. During her semaphoring
exercise she comes into a fortune of


Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 15th July, 1915.
Appointment of a Nursing Sister at the
Royal Australian Naval College, Jervis
Bay, New South Wales.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as
Nursing Sister at the Royal Australian
Naval College, Jervis Bay, N.S.W.
Salary will be at the rate of £lOO per
annum, with free quarters, rations, and
laundry.
Duties.
(a) In charge of all patients in the hos-
pital ;
(6) Performance of all dressings;
(cj In charge of all bedding, equipment,
etc., issued to her;
( d ) In addition to the wards, to be in
charge of the operating theatre and
casualty room, but not of any other
stores, or of the dispensary;
(e) To be responsible for the good order
and conduct of the wards ;
(/) To assist, at the discretion of the
Medical Officer, in the treatment of
the wives and children of officers,
petty officers and men attached to the
College, should occasion arise.
( g ) When not required to act in her
capacity as Nurse she will be required
to assist the Matron of the College,
and at needlework, as necessary.
Applications, stating age, and full parti-
culars of training and experience, accom-
panied by. copies of credentials, should be
forwarded to the Naval Secretary, Navy
Office, Melbourne, so as to react him not
later than 16th August, 1915.
GEO. L. MACANDIE,
Naval Secretary.
The heroism of the Australasians at Gal-
lipoli shows what a great fighting force is
the spirit of comradeship. And a great
comrade is that royal spirit, King George
VI. top-notch Scotch.*
A GREAT CARTOONIST ON SORE THROAT.
Punch’s cartoons have been particularly good dur-
ing the War, and are often reproduced here. The
principal ones are drawn by Mr. Bernard Partridge,
who, by the way, is a great admirer of the young
Australian cartoonist, Mr. Will Dyson. Mr. Part-
ridge writes: “I find Formamint invaluable for sore
throat. I always keep a bottle by me.” You should
do likewise; buy a bottle of Formamint at your
chemist to-day. Price 2/6.*
AVON
n
TRADE mark
THe TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
GIVE “NAZETHA” A TRIAL
FOR THAT COLD
You will be agreeably surprised with the pleasant-
ness and simplicity by which you can effect a cure.
WHY SWALLOW DRUGS
when the Trouble is in the Head ?
A couple of drops on your handkerchief, inhaled
through the nose, gets right to the seat of the
trouble, and is soothing and refreshing in its result.
Sufferers from CATARRH
=v s
I*3
find it a great remedy. Recommended by everyone who
has given it a trial.
AsK your Chemist for "NAZETHA.”
1/6 Bottle Price 1/6 Bottle.
Or write A. P. MILLER & SON, Hobart.
Sent Post Free.
Sydney (Wholesale): Australian Drug Co., Elliott Bros.,
Brausch Ss Delaney.
"NAZETHA”
i s Splendid
for Children.
You just pour a couple of
drops on the pillow at
night, which is inhaled
while sleeping, giving
much relief.
£lOO,OOO, and is immediately necessary to
the villain’s happiness; but these trilling
circumstances fail to distract her from the
anguish in hand. As the much-tortured
female, Vera Remee has to mourn audibly lor
two hours and a half and dip her visage
freely in the flour bag to replenish a pallor
damaged by many tears. Undoubtedly the
pasty-faced moaner is a great success; but
the present writer, being a vegetarian in
the matter of heroines, prefers something
combining the lusty health of rhubarb with
the sweetness of the rose. A dubious lady
(Miss Hotson), who dresses like the missus
of a nigger potentate, relieves the heroine
occasionally with bits of tucker, and in one
particular burst of kindness acts as Nell s
buffer against the biffs of cruel and out-
rageous fortune. George Cross is the young
hero who goes into gaol like a tourist and
comes out like a tramp; and Ward Lyons is
Nell’s innocent lag of a father. Most of the
other characters are slum identities, spec-
tators of dog fights, and slouching graduates
from the Spielers’ College, whose clothes
merely illuminate the background of coster
life, as it were. All are excention-
ally thirsty, and the sight of them “indulg-
ing” after 9.30 p.m. on Saturday was most
unsettling to several members of Marlow’s
audience. Next Saturday “The Silence of
Dean Maitland” will be staged, with George
Cross in the part of the speechless sinner.
•!* v •I*
At Melbourne Bijou a restless character
named Zoli, with rings in his ears and no
bells in his voice, is endeavoring to exploit
the humor of the Dago nation. The Musical
Ibsons and Eleanor and Bertie, the tight-
wire specialists, are acceptable rearrivals;
and the two Franklins are dovetailing their
patter in an act that refuses to conceal its
Yankee identity. As for the Bert Le Blanc
people, they have become solemn roysterers
in a familiar arrangement of legs and colored
lights entitled “At the San Francisco Expo-
sition.” The cast includes Carlton Chase,
Carrie Moore, the New York Comedy Four,
and others; but Israel, represented by Le
Blanc and another Hebrew, mostly holds the
floor. In fact, Israel gets so eloquent at
times that it almost succeeds in holding the
audience.
•A< * * *
The most interesting feature of the pro-
gramme at Hoyt’s headquarters in Melbourne
last Saturday was the old-fashioned Amur-
kan sentiment of the leading item, “A
Woman at Bay.” This picture showed how
a damsel in Noo Yark actually defended her-
self against wicked men, instead of following
“POTASH AND PERLMUTTER ,” AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Mrs. Potash shows
signs of jealousy.
Sam Le Bert as
Perlmutter.
the modern practice of handing them a Note
praying them to be careful in their dealings
with ladies. At Hoyt’s branch establish-
ment over Princes Bridge the main suit
was “Capital v. Labor,” a study of toil suf-
ficiently heartrending to turn even Willie
Kelly into an agitatah.
* * * *
“On Our Selection” will flourish as before
at Melbourne King’s until further notice.
The Steele Rudd play has passed through
the controversial stage, and Dad, Dave, Dan,
Sarah and the rest are characters that bring
their reputations along and run. the secret
of success on co-operative principles. The
Bert Bailey Co. has 15 weeks of work cut
out for it at the King’s, and “Our Selec-
tion” should account for a fat slice of the
season.
#* * *
The new faces at the Melbourne Tivoli
last Saturday were those of A 1 Ripon, ven-
triloquist, and his dummy, both of whom
talk with a powerful Scawtch accent and
are 1 most saddening when they sing. Ripon
is an acceptable duologue merchant of the
old school, but his two voices are uncom-
monly alike, and his occasional smacking of
the dummy’s hpad has no points of novelty
about it. The Randell Jackson concertists
were to finish on Tuesday this week. Clemons
and Dean Galvin, Stone, Marie Terry and
the wearisome monkeys are still there ; also
the jubilant Fields, who states, with un-
conscious humor, that he becomes more
amusing as he proceeds. If he went on for
a whole year he might grow absolutely
funny.
** * *
Annette Kellerman continues to figure
weekly on the film at the Auditorium.
Talking of films, 50 of Melbourne’s
picture theatres are to do their bit next
Sunday on behalf of the Australia Day
Fund, and, for this occasion only, the Sab-
batarians are expected to swallow their
scruples and pass up a shilling for admission.
** * *
The orchestral concert at Melbourne
Town Hall next Saturday afternoon (Aug-
ust 1) will be in aid of the wounded. Laver
conducts an orchestra of 100. who will open
the concert with Beethoven’s Funeral March
in memory of their departed friend Mar-
shall Hall.
** * *
With the blessing of The Bulletin’s
Melbourne critic: —
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Davidson, of Oakleigh (Melb.),
have added a theatre-room to their home, and hope
to “stimulate the growth of a National Drama,
which shall deal with all those themes and aims—
romantic, religious, social, moral, political—that
affect the lives of Australian people.” The times
may seem difficult for the project, but the experi-
menters argue that, “since no nation ever did great
things that had not faced great tragedies, so no
person ever created great work whose soul had not
been wed to tragedy. And who shall say what songs,
what music or what art will not awaken in a nation
at present facing its first dark Gethsemanean hour?”
The little playhouse at wayout suburban Oakleigh,
where new Australian dramatists are to go through the
furnace of criticism, is just big enough to seat 100
persons, and its stage is “slightly larger than that
upon which Moliere presented his comedies.” Free
admission is offered as a set-off to the cost of time
and railway fare. But the cash necessary for nour-
ishing the proposed enterprise? It is to come from
the enthusiasts, the patrons, in the form of “gratui-
ties ranging from half a guinea per annum,” which
will be “supplemented surely by a small grant from
the nation.” Given sufficient funds, the promoters,
guided by “a Board of Readers,” will pay prizes to
the chosen dramatists and “fees for all plays pro-
duced.” The prospects of successfully rocking
National Drama in a cradle at Oakleigh are not bril-
liant ; still, the outlook for many another presump-
tuous artistic venture has been not more promising.
The Davidsons, anyhow, should get the sympathy of
the most possible Australian play-makers, as well as
the embarrassing attention of the wildly impossible.
They hope to have a house-warming production early
in August—a four-act play hy George Byfield, deal-
ing with “the segregation of the unfit.” The address
of the little theatre is Niagaroom, Warrigal-road,
Oakleigh, where any good Australian is welcome to
inquire further into the whole matter.
* * * %
Adelaide shows are almost unanimously
warlike. At the Tivoli Brandon Cremer’s
“For King and Country” goes with a bang,
and gets so far ahead of French and Joffre
that it includes the entrance of the vic-
torious Allies into Berlin. It is now mak-
ing way for a Turk drama, “Secrets of the
Harem,” which the management booms on
the strength of “risque revelations.” The
Royal has finished with the jolly, impro-
bable Stay-at-Home Man. It has also held
a crammed house at fancy prices for patri-
otic purposes, with a stirring speech by
Lady Galway and a reckless auction sale
to supplement a big mixed programme. At
West’s the “Hero of the Dardanelles,” well
faked on the N.S.W. coast, shows neverthe-
less too many villas. That shore of Turkey
is almost unrelieved barrenness. The same
film, given at short intervals all day at the
Pav., is rushed. The Central introduces a
baby-competition on the screen. At the
King’s, now that the hard-working and mod-
erately humorous Bletsoes have gone, the
most striking thing is the return of Jennie
Opie’s fine contralto to the stage, after a
long lapse of years—of course in a recruit-
ing song. The Steele-Paynes have left the
Town Hall, much regretted.
Clever Willie Holman commandeered the
wheat of N. S. Wales and let Queensland
have a little at £6 per ton more than it cost
him. Now the Ryan Government seizes
Queensland. butter, and lets N. S. Wales
have what it can’t dispose of in Queensland
at 245. per cwt. more than it cost in the
State where it was made. What Big Aus-
tralians they all are!
AT POVERTY POINT.
“POTASH AND PERLMUTTER,” AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Paul Burns as Abe Potash.
Now it is William Laver’s turn. Though
he hasn’t held the Ormond Chair of Music
at Melbourne University, he has acted as
director of the Conservatorium when, on
various occasions, a professor was not avail-
able. He is a fine, large person of com-
manding aspect, who has turned out many
highly-qualified artists; he can teach till the
pupil wilts from fatigue, and then go on
with the next one; he is a conductor and
lecturer of repute, and has proved a business
success when he has “run” the Conserva-
torium pro tem. At length the time seems
ripe to give the Australian a chance to fill
the shoes now empty through Marshall
Hall’s death.
“0.K.”: A Poverty Pointer speaks of
Fred Cowen as as- English conductor who
was “brought to shake a stick among better
men in Australia.” Older men, but hardly
better. The young Hebraic Cowen (he was
understood to have had Cohen for an ances-
tor) had a reputation then, and has a larger
one now. And let’s remember this to his
credit: he didn’t kick the Australian ladder
from his patent-leather shoes when he climbed
up among the minor composers. Also he
spoke of the splendid education he got during
his six months with a fine orchestra on great
musical works at Melbourne Exhibition;
and he never complained that the perform-
ances were not generally patronised.
Manager Courtneidge, at London Shaftes-
bury, started a new departure by engaging
a call-girl to replace the call-boy who had
enlisted. The novelty has come to stay, no
doubt. Why should an able-bodied man
devote his life to the business of rounding-
up mummers to take their cues?
“J.F.H.” (from London) : Actor-manager
Arthur Bourchier, of London Garrick, an-
nounces that one of the plays he has in view
is “a new Australian piece by Mr. Adams,
a well-known Melbourne joux-nalist—his first
stage effort and full of Antipodean atmo-
sphere.” It is entitled “Mrs. Pretty and
the Premier,” and, according to Bourchier, is
of more consequence than any Australian
production “since Haddon Chambers came
along nearly 30 years ago with ‘Captain
Swift.’ ”
Poet Stephen Phillips’s ambitious war play,
“Armageddon,” at the New Theatre, London,
was such a hopeless failure that actor-man-
ager Martin Harvey had to take it off after a
run of a week or so. He replaced it with the
good old “Corsican Brothers.”
“E.T.”: “Sunday,” revived at Sydney Cri-
terion, was originally produced in England
12 years ago. It made a lot of money there
as here, but the world has heard nothing of
the author, Thomas Raceward, since. And
he is still alive —-all three of him. Which
being interpreted means that “Thomas Race-
ward” was an amalgam compounded of the
Christian names of three mummers who
started play-writing about the time they
were in Australia with the first Wilson Bar-
rett combination. “Thomas” stands for T.
W. Percyval; “Race” for Ho-race Hodges;
“Ward” for Ed-ward Irwin. The last-named
fell out with, and so out of, the firm. There-
upon the two remaining members set to work
and scored again with another piece bearing
a similar six-lettered, single-word title. This
play, “Grumpy,” which luckily for all con-
cerned fell into the hands of Cyril Maude,
will probably reach these shores before very
long, as Maude’s idea is to tour the world
with his money-spinner, just as Joe Jeffer-
son did with “Rip,” and Jennie Lee with
“Jo.”
From London: The Times critic says of
Marie Lohr, in Knoblauch’s new war-play,
“Marie Odile,” that she was “wonderfully
sweet” as the impossibly-innocent novice;
the Daily Telegraph declares she “made
an adorable figure in her novice’s habit, and
was so natural, so sincere, that you could
not resist her appeal”; the Morning Post
alleges that the Australian girl “has never
looked more entrancing than in the white
veil and brown habit of the novice”; the
Standard says she was “quite splendid,
made a wonderful figure of the sweet but
ignorant girl, and held us enraptured all
the time”; the Daily News thinks Marie
“has never done anything half so g00d....
a veritable triumph”; while the Westmin-
ster Gazette eulogises the “great personal
charm and quite exquisite simplicity that
carried her successfully through a very dif-
ficult role.” Queenslander William Archer,
dramatic critic of the Star, is patriotically
complimentary to a charming sister-Austra-
lian and says nice things about the “sin-
cerity and beauty of Miss Marie Lohr’s
acting.” But he candidly confesses that he
did not like the play: “I sat on pins and
needles, and would have given any reasonable
sum to be free to leave the theatre.” At
the same time he acknowledged that “the
workmanship of the play is good, and its
moral —the sin of confounding innocence
with ignorance—is excellent.” The discord
is supplied by the Daily Chronicle, which
simply declines to regard the piece seriously.
“S.S.”: Somebody complains in a Mel-
bourne paper that actors are notoriously
backward in coming forward at recruiting.
It’s just as well; about 90 per cent, of
them have defective feet. It rarely hap-
pens that an actor who has been long in the
game has a sole to call his own.
“S” : Reading the Argus theatrical criti-
cisms I am forcibly impressed with the idea
that that powerful organ should rearrange
the letters of its name. Sugar would be
much more appropriate.
(Continued on page 26.)
Monsignor Byrne, dead in Adelaide at 81,
was one of a remarkable batch of three
young priests who came from Ireland to
Westralia in 1855. Bourke stayed there,
and became Vicar-General. Reynolds and
Byrne moved on to South Aus., where the
former in time became Archbishop. Byrne
became Vicar-General. Perhaps he would
have been Archbishop at Reynolds’s death
but that the diocese seemed to need the
financial genius which it found in O’Reily.
Anyway, he “administered” the diocese at
various times, and was its most distin-
guished priest, barring the archbishop.
Before another chance came he was too old
to take it. He had a “golden jubilee” in
1910, and latterly has lived in retirement.
He survived Archbishop O’Reily only a
month.
August birthdays: Judge Murray
(N.S.W.), 73 on Ist; Alfred Deakin, 59
on 3rd ; Justice Isaacs, of the High Court,
60 on 6th; George Turner, late Federal
Treasurer, 64 on Bth; Justice Street
(N.S.W.), 52, and Colonel E. T. Wallack,
N.S.W. State Commandant, 58, on 9th;
Foster, M.H.R., 59 on 20th; Bishop Pain,
of Gippsland, 74, ex-Senator Simon Fraser
(Vic.), 83, and Tasmanian Senator O’Keefe,
51, on 21st; Bigjohn Forrest, 68 on 22nd ;
P. McM. Glynn, K.C., M.H.R., 60, and
Justice Heydon, 70, on 25th.
Civilisation has not yet robbed the Maori
of his picturesque phraseology. Wiremu
Nikora, M.L.C., died the other day; and
Dr. Pomare, Minister representing the
native race, told the House of Reps, about
it
The stars are getting scarce; the giant of the
forest is laid low; the midpost of the tribal house
has fallen; the ridge pole has snapped asunder; the
house leaks and the shivering orphans of Tu are left
disconsolate. The canoe of fate (Karamu-Rauriki),
fashioned out of the tree of sorrow and tears in
mythologic Hawaiki, has visited the home of my
friend, as it must visit the home of every man, and
has borne him to those mysterious realms of night,
whose gates open but the one way, from which the
canoe ever returns empty:
THE IDENTIFICATION OF EUSTACE PUGH*
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Candy’s boarding-house in town
Lives Pugh, a seedy gentleman,
With figure sadly broken down.
He borrows sprats from all the clan,
And earns his weekly quid, I hear,
As stoker, cook and overseer
On Buffet’s baked-potato can.
We wondered what the man might be.
His manners were extremely fine,
His “touch” was delicate, and he
Had uppish tastes—his drink was wine.
We knew that better days he’d seen—
Biggs swore he was an earl, and Green
Had met him as a swell divine.
We’d eggs to-day. We opened two,
And when the pungent odor spread,
We cursed the waiting dame. But Pugh
Burst into tears, and bowed his head.
“Excuse me,” said he, “that bouquet
Reminds me of my better day!”
“Betrayed—betrayed ! ” was all we said.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Officers SERVICE UNIFORMS
Having secured from London the services of a special Military-
Cutter, we are making a Speciality of Military Outfits.
Officer’s Uniform, Regulation Cloth, All-wool Khaki, exact to
Military Specifications.
Field Service Jacket (“Orient,” to measure) £2 15 0
Breeches, Regulation Military Cord, strapped
(“Orient,” to measure) 1 15 0
Field Service Jacket, made to measure (high-grade
tailoring) 3 7 6
Breeches, made to measure, Mounted Service, Woollen
Cord, strapped with material (high-grade
tailoring) .. 2 10 0
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
COMPLETE MILITARY BOOKLET FREE ON REQUEST.
DAVID JONES LTD.
OPP. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
TflK
■
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you'll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
2] Wlckl m Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Editorship
Queensland “Worker”
Applications invited for the position
of Editor, Queensland Worker.
Salary, Four Hundred and Sixteen Pounds
(£416) per annum. Applicants to state
qualifications and be willing to serve proba-
tion period of three months. Applications
must reach undersigned not later than 24th
August next.
ALBERT HINCHCLIFFE,
Business Manager,
Queensland Worker,
Brisbane.
GIiOWS HAIR, OR MONEY BACK.
NOVEL OFFER OF LEADING
CHEMISTS.
The remarkable improvement in the hair
that has so frequently and invariably been
reported following the use of a simple hair
remedy composed of lcz. Lavona de Cem-
posee, i dram Menthol Crystals and 3oz.
Bay Rum has caused such widespread in-
terest and comment that many chemists
now keep it put up complete and ready for
use under the name of Lavona Hair Tonic.
Its uniform success in destroying dandruff,
stopping falling hair, promoting hair growth
and making thin, dry, brittle hair thick,
soft, glossy and luxuriant, lias been so
astonishing that the manufacturers of
Lavona Hair Tonic, in order to show their
unlimited confidence in its merits, have
arranged with leading chemists everywhere
to sell it under an absolute guarantee of
satisfaction or money back, signed by the
chemist from whom you purchase it. No
claim is made that Lavona Hair Tonic is
any better than that which any chemist
can prepare from the above formula, but if
you wish to convince yourself of its truly
remarkable merits without risking the ''oss
of a penny, go to any good chemist to- lay
and ask for a bottle of Lavona Hair Tonic,
“the kind they guarantee.”*
SOCIETY
“Jaques”: Let’s be logical. When a man
wants to get married he hasn’t to go to court
and satisfy the Judge that he is entitled to
do it. Then why should he have to go to a
court to get unmarried? There ought to be
a ceremony, similar to marriage, which would
legally separate a couple without costs, etc.
The co-re. could act as worst man, and
“Society” pages would come out with reports
like the following :
UNMARRIAGES.
St. Smitheram’s Church was the scene of a pretty
but quiet umvedding on Wednesday afternon, solem-
nised by the Rev. O. U. Wowser, when Henry James
Jones, eldest son of Captain J. J. Jones, late of the
R.M.S. Mary Ann, was unmarried from Gwendolyn
Sophia Smith, second daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. P.
Smith, of Potts Gully. The bride, who was taken
back by her father, wore a gown of black satin
designed with a long tunic of net shirred at the
waist, a soft corsage of net and silk lace with pearls,
long ruched sleeves, the whole being finished with a
broad soft satin belt. Mr. O. U. Later (co-re.) acted
as worst man. A reception was held at Belinda Hall,
and later the bride left with the worst man for the
South.
SAFETY.
SHE: “There’s father! For goodness sake, don’t let him see me!”
HE: “ You’re all right. Just stay behind me.”
“D.” : No wonder there are 429 applicants
for the 30 vacancies at the Australian Naval
College at Jervis Bay. Apart from the fas-
cination of the future that lies ahead of the
cadet, the college itself is a far more luxuri-
ous place than the most fashionable of Eng-
lish public schools. Dormitories and studies
are the last word in modernity and com-
fort ; there is a gymnasium with every device
to enthrall the heart of youth; and then
there is the bay. There can be nothing
lovelier than Jervis Bay in fine weather,
viewed from the “quarter-deck” of the col-
lege. The only sign of civilisation is the
distant lighthouse on the North Head. All
else is amethyst blue water, shining white
beach, and sage-green bush. On the waters
of the bay the boys learn to swim, surf, sail
boats and manoeuvre steam launches. Ashore,
picked naval officers teach them the rudi-
ments of every branch of their profession,
and the discipline, ethics and conventions
which the British navy has taken about 900
years to amass. The cadets are as carefully
selected as their instructors. Each of them
has to be a sort of physical, moral and men-
tal super-boy. As recently as two vears ago
Australian parents were sending their young-
sters to the other side of the earth to enter
the British navy. The idea was that the
Australian navy was a fleeting folly that
would die with the downfall of the Labor
Government, and that, in any case, no Naval
or Military College of worth could be insti-
tuted in Australia. Since then the Aus-
tralian navy has won fame, and the local
Service Colleges have become almost em-
barrassingly popular. Never in history has
a great idea been justified so quickly.
Some people never know their luck ! In
1913 six Australian couples whose wedding-
day was back five years in the last century
had to face for the first time the music of a
squalling infant by night; three couples,
who had got into the settled ways induced
by 21 years of childless bliss, had to recast
their dull conceptions of matrimony; four
other couples, married for 22 years, hur-
riedly bought cradles and layouts ; and one
couple, after 2.4 years ! But the record was
attained by the lady who presented her
astounded Father Abraham with a first baby
on or about the “silver” anniversary of
their wedding 17
* * ¥■ *
From Constable X 651: —
Dennis’s verse-stories of “The Sentimental Bloke”
and “The Sentimental Bloke’s” lovely description of
“Ginger” and “Ginger’s Cobber” at Gallipoli remind
me that of the Emu “push,” an offshoot of the once
notorious “Boveroos,” of Carlton, no less than 70
members are on the way to Constantinople; and
South Melbourne's “Flying Angels” have done not
too badly either. Who wrote of the frequent capers
of the push that they were “chivalry upside-down” ?
He wasn’t far wrong, anyway.
IN RE THE BUTTER FAMINE.
HIS R IVIRENCE: “Yes, Mrs. O'Ryan, but isn’t dripping good enough for you?”
MRS. O’RYAN: “Why, yis, yer Rivirince; but haven’t I heard yourself say that conshtant
drippin’ will wear away a shtone?”
“Nobby” : The best recruiting agent I
know is busy at the port o’ Newcastle.
, , -j i
Twice he was turned down on account of
‘teeth.’ Now he spends his time getting
into arguments with pub-frequenters and
others. When things are at white heat he
snarls : “Well, you’re SO blanky game, what
about enlisting ! Come on ; I’ll sign on if
you will !” Generally there’s an adjourn-
ment to the recruiting officer, where only one
is thrown out.
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: I have noticed some little agita-
tion in the house of my neighbor Pillington.
During two nights a week for three weeks
past sounds of argument have been wafted
, . i
across my property from Pillington’s draw-
mg room. Pillington is _ about sft. m his
socks , and he has a lisp. I have made a cata-
logue °t the public attendance at his lues-
day and 1 riday night meetings. The most con-
spicuous conspirators are two old maids
from an adjacent white-work shop, a retired
clergyman, a placid widow and a spectacled
youth who is attended by his ma. This bunch
contrive to make quite a deal of noise in our
little world, and they provoked my cun-
osity to such a heat that yesterday I waylaid
Pillington, and asked him what the deuce it
all meant. He paled two shades. Hush,
he said. “We are organising to stop the
wai ‘ t t # #
“Fourth Class” : As to the formation of
“ladies’” rifle clubs at Malvern and many
other places (B. 15/7/’l5), the time seems
fully ripe to make a few remarks. All I
can sav hoiria- almost supcuhloss with annov-
a“e fs W*
saved from disaster by its womenfolk taking
to the rifle; (2) that therefore the animuni
tion now being used by women is wasted,
at a juncture when such waste is criminal
(3) that this is no time for encouraging Aus-
tralian women to waste ammunition, or frit-
ter away their time on learning to shoot,
when they should be employed knit-
ting shirts for soldiers; (4) that,
sincp flip Dpfpncp Dpoartment is shnw-
ing signs of an intention to w°th-
draw its loan rifles from the men’s clubs,
and those clubs are fairly swarming with
members who can hardly get a look at a
weapon, it is madness to side-track rifles
for female practice. What strings have
been pulled that the Defence Department
should sanction this frilly folly?
The Confession of “10-2-4” :
There is no one who has a greater capacity to
make me feel a mean and paltry cur, not to say a
pusillanimous worm, than my old friend, Eustace Boost.
He is one of our soldiers of alcohol; a drinker sans
peur et sans reproche; a very Paladin of Booze. I
am one of those miserable creatures to whom drink-
ing is not a rite. The ceremony has no significance
for me. I imbibe because I am thirsty, and when
the thirst has gone I stop. Sometimes I feci like
a weak lager shandy. It is a dreadful experi-
ence to enter a bar, and order a shandy (or, even
worse, a straight soda), and find that Boost is there
and has heard. He radiates on such occasions the
atmosphere of Kitchener or General French in the
presence of an officer whose nerve has failed him. i
long to summon the barmaid with an expansive ges-
ture, arid cry “Port and brandy mixed, old dear, and
top it up with a small stout.” It would make Boost
revere, if not love me, I know; but it would also
make me sick, so I refrain. There is something
extraordinarily fearless about Eustace Boost’s man-
ner in, a bar. I never see him without thinking of
Sari Bair and Hill 60 and Neuve Chapelle. Each
“go” of whisky, each flagon of beer, is a fresh posi-
tion gained in face of dreadful odds. The weaklings
and the cowards lag behind drinking nothing, or,
still more degrading, “filling up on soft stuff.”
During the opening shots of the engagement it takes
a nor.-alcoholist with a pronounced “temperament” to
sense that he is regarded on the field of Soak as a
poltroon and an outcast. But as the action warms
up he is left in no doubt. “Fill ’em up again,
boy s ,” cries Boost, after the manner of Wellington
ordering the line to advance. Then, in a very daring
manner to the barmaid, “The old usual for me, my
dear. Yes, all whiskies, except our friend here.
Another lemonade for him.” (Shouts of laughter, in
which the lady sycophant at the pump joins.)
I have often sought for the origin of the pride
which the drinker takes in his work, and the con-
tempt which he obviously feels for the abstainer and
the partial abstainer. It is so universal that there
must be some justification for it. Possibly the bar-
haunter argues that it is as brave to risk your
digestion as any other part of your anatomy. Our
compulsorily teetotal expeditionaries dash through
a rain of lead at the Turkish trenches. Boost and
his unsober compeers dash a rain of whisky at their
stomachs. Both take aw;ul risks, the soldiers of
death and mutilation ; Bcost and his friends of death
and a ruined waist-line. When the millennium arrives
and wars cease for ever the State will perhaps give a
D.S.O. to every proved case of delirium tremens, and
V.C.’s to those who qualify for committal to an
inebriate hom'e.
STEAL A GLANCE AND BE GLAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A little hat cocked like a yacht in the wind ;
Eyes like wet violets ; more violets pinned
To the beautiful furs some one bought;
A short veil to the tip of an aquiline nose,
And a skin like new milk ; in each cheek a pink rose ;
And a coil of black hair deftly caught.
Her hat sits with joy on her dear little head ;
The flowers all weep that they’ll soon be too dead
To be carried about on her coat.
But the happiest thing is the narrow black band,
Which is rivalled alone by the rings on her hand,
For it clings to her beautiful throat.
Steal a look and pretend that you didn't. Don’t shy !
She is watching you out of the tail of her eye!
Take another glance quickly ! Don’t stare !
Yes, she dressed herself up to be looked at, old beau,
Ar.d, when next the train stops, she may get up
and go.
Steal a glance—and rejoice she is there!
N.S.W.
PICTURE LOVER.


Don’t Trifle
with a Cough
take
Of all Chemists,
1/3, 2/9, 4/6-
There is positively nothing equal to Angier’s
Emulsion for coughs. bronchitis, and all
chest affections. Not only does it heal and
strengthen throat and lungs, but it promotes
appetite, aids digestion, and builds up
strength. For upwards of twenty-two years
Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by
the medical profession and used in hospitals.
It is the standard approved remedy for
coughs and lung troubles.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney,
m
COAT-SWEATERS SCARCE.
ADVISABLE TO BUY NOW.
Lately we landed what will undoubtedly be the last ship-
ment of British Coat Sweaters while the war lasts. Our
London buyer advises that it is useless to send for more. If
you need one of the comfortable and convenient garments
take this final opportunity to get the genuine BRITISH
make —the most-dependable and best-finished sweaters ever
sent to Australia
Coat style, buttoning to neck, Polo Collar, Two Patch
Pockets.
White, Grey or Navy Wool,
Small Men’s.
14/6
Medium.
15/6
Outsizes.
16/6
Vest Sweaters, open at neck like vest.
White, Grey, Navy, 1/- less.
Please state chest measurement when writing.
PE-APES & CO. Ltd.
Men's Outfitters, 309 8 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
An astonished eaotain at Gallipoli got a
lesson in caste the other day. He had put
50 picked men on to a digging job. A lieu-
tenant told him that another gang would be
required for trucking. The captain pro-
tested that these were not necessary—the
diggers could do the whole job. “But I tell
you they are Bendigo miners,” the lieu-
tenant explained. It took a lot more argu-
ment than that to convince the captain that
the Bendigonians would rather die than
“truck their own muck” ; but he gave way in
the end.
The sordid old Government House row
still proceeds in the N. S. Wales Cabinet.
Holman, Ashford, Estell and Grahame are
the only members who haven’t been nobbled
in the Strickland interest. There is not a
reason—other than that of satisfying the
vanity of an imported figurehead, to whose
office Labor is supposed to be hostile- —for
diverting the Macquarie-street mansion from
the use to which Holman engaged originally
to put it. The arguments to the contrary
are numerous. One may assume, presum-
ably, that Labor means sometime to carry
out the plank of its platform which in-
sists on the abolition of the office of State
Governor. The translation of the potentate
to Macquarie-street will make it more diffi-
cult. if not impossible. Cranbrook is in the
middle of a popular residential suburb. If
the Governor left it to-morrow, it
could be sold at a profit the next day. It
will always be in that position. But no such
use will ever be made of the grounds sur-
rounding the other edifice. Cranbrook is the
sort of modest mansion which is readily sale-
able to a rich man. It might be turned into
a hash-house, a private hospital, or an hotel.
Old Federal Government House can never be
anything but a public institution. One may
take it, therefore, that if the State Governor
BETTER THAN NOTHING.
BEAUTY: “Do you think I should put a
little more red on?”
BEAST: “If you aren’t putting on anything
else I would.”
goes to the place which Holman said
was to be used as a museum or hospital, he
will go there for good. Labor will have the
credit of having pushed one Governor out on
a false pretence, and pushed another in,
over the ruins of its platform, for the price
of a vice-regal smile and a few free meals.
HIS WAY.
MISS SMITH: “Oh, Mr. Jones, are you hurt?”
MR. JONES: “Oh, ah, no! I always yet off like this.”
“D. Dotty” : Never mind about the war.
There is too much talk about the war and
too little about the things that matter. Take
my two schemes, for instance. At the pre-
sent moment I am appealing for subscrip-
tions to the Association for Dusting Tram-
guards. Every time I go out my fare is
collected by a clambering
scarecrow with dust all
over him and unscrubbed
hands. Sometimes he
even has chaff in his hair.
It is very painful to me
to have dealings with
these apparitions, and I
will not rest till every
tram terminus is equipped
with a cleaning depot and
a staff which will dust
every guard before he
goes out again. Then
there is my Rotten Hats
Suppression Society. The
place is full of people
who are carrying absurd
hats on their heads. All
that is wanted is a staff
of inspectors armed with
the necessary authority,
long wire tongs and port-
able furnaces mounted
on the side-cars of motor-
cycles. They will scout
along the streets, and,
immediately on catching
sight of a rotten hat, will
intercept the wearer, and,
pointing the tongs
straight at the offending
headgear, say in a loud
voice, “Wrong !” The hat
will then be delivered or,
if necessary, taken by
force from the offender
and cremated on the spot.
There will be no appeal
from an inspector’s deci-
sion ; but, in order to
avoid a possible repetition of the offence, the
inspector will accompany the patient to the
nearest hatter’s and see that he is hatted
fittingly at his own expense. The system
might later on be applied to other wearing
apparel; but we can try it first on the hats.
The Law in N. S. Wales has recently-
been busy with the mean frauds who make
a dishonest pound or so out of the despera-
tion of people badly enough in want of em-
ployment to pay for it. After letting the
heartless business go on until it reached the
dimensions of a scandal, the Law launched
a series of prosecutions, and secured a
batch of heavy sentences for deserving
swindlers, the sentences being usually garn-
ished with remarks by the Judge. But the
Law will have to keep an alarm clock in
the bedroom if it wants to hold this noxious
trade down properly. An advertisement re-
lating to an alluring job which requires no
special qualifications except ability to part
up a small premium costs a shilling, and in
times when work is scanty it seldom fails to
draw its simple-minded victims. Appar-
ently it is drawing the usual number of vic-
tims at present. Anyhow, it is quite as
common as it was before the Law spoke.
The bones of the strike that shook Maori-
land up in 1913 are still kicking about. The
other day a petition fell into the M.L. House
of Reps, praying for cash for three people
who had suffered loss by helping the Minis-
terial rouglmders to bash the strikers. One
man wanted £2O for a horse he had lent, and
concerning which everybody had since been
deaf and dumb. Two others asked for £6 10s.
and £4 10s. for saddles and bridles they had
handed out and never seen again. The
trouble is that everyone promised to do all
kinds of things while the bashing was in pro-
gress, but no one could afterwards be found
to accept any responsibility for money spent
or things lent. When the last riot had been
quelled everybody rushed back to business
and left ttie mess to posterity, while lone
cockies wandered about the landscape looking-
for compensation.
* * * *
The women’s meeting at the Melbourne
Town Hall was reported by Age and Argus
as to the utterances of the bright lights of
the A.W.N.L. and the eloquence of Mrs.
Deakin, Mayoress Ilennessy also found half
a column. But the best situation of the
meeting got two lines in the Age and nothing
at all in the Argus. The silvertail ladies invited
two Trades Hall women —Mrs. Felsted, who
talks without notes and like a seasoned poli-
tician, and Mrs. Laurie Cohen. The
A.W.N.L.’s slogan was “For God and Coun-
try.” and Mrs. Felsted was asked to for-
mally second a motion, and told what to
say. But instead of saying it Mrs. Fel-
sted made a human speech to the hall full
of knitting women ; and when she remarked
that she belonged to the Labor party which
had saved Australia by preparing for war,
a couple of thousand knitting needles stopped
while the A.W.N.L. gasped. By some over-
sight there was no guillotine.
* * * *
An interesting souvenir from Gallipoli was
forwarded to this paper by Lieut. ,T. New-
man, of the heroic Third Brigade, A.I.F. It
is a muddied copy of “The Bulletin Story
Book,” with a shraonel bullet embedded in
its pages. It is probably unique among war
souvenirs, in that the owner makes no claim
that it saved his life. The battered volume
from the trenches was raffled in the office for
the Australia Day fund, and £3 was raised.
The man who won the prize intends handing
it over to the fund, to be re-sold by auction.
From a man in England who is getting
angry
While the War Office and the British press are
shrieking for munitions, ambulances, transports and
the like the Australian Divisional Ammunition Park
and Motor Transport section of the Expeditionary
Force are rusting in Hampshire. They are being
used, not as soldiers, but as navvies. They were
employed carting gravel for some time, and have
even been ordered to make roads, an invitation which
they cordially refused. Those men—and they are not
a few—who gave their own cars to the corps have
had the dubious satisfaction of seeing them practi-
cally ruined over corporation jobs. As a result, the
great Australian slanguage is being spoken with some
vigor in Hants these days. The men naturally feel
the Commonwealth Govt. Isn’t paying them a big
daily wage to help tidy up Britain, and clamor that
they should be given a chance to justify their existence
as a corps, to say nothing of avenging their pals who
have fallen in the Dardanelles. We don’t want to
say unkind things about the tens of thousands in
England who wouldn’t go to the Front unless they
were kicked; but at least those who have come
12,000 miles expressly to do so might be allowed to
get there.
* * * *
“W.A.Jt.”: My suggestion (B. 8/7/’l5)
that it was time Australia woke up to the
fact that this war can be won only by the
machine gun, and not by that archaic hand
weapon, the rifle, has been answered—by
Canada. The Canadian army has not only
discovered the necessity of a plentiful supply
of machine guns, but it is feverishly manu-
facturing them in hundreds, and every
Canadian unit that goes to the Front will
carry many more of these weapons than are
mentioned as necessary in the British “In-
fantry Manual.” Incidentally, it may be
stated that there are in use in the British
army five tynes of machine guns. The addi
tion of the Caldwell invention to the Aus-
tralian forces will, therefore, not violate
British army traditions or break any red-
tape.
* * * * *
The wowsers of Christchurch have been
regularly having hysterics ever since the
Maoriland Exhibition closed in 1907 and left
behind in Hagley Park to mark the site of
the Maori pa a nude figure carved on top of
a pole by a long-dead Maori artist. Like most
antique art of its kind the figure is power-
fully realistic; nevertheless, when it was de-
cided to leave it as an historic mark, even
the local curates thought the idea good. But
the lone sentinel, standing with awful pro-
minence on a rise in a much-frequented part
of the park, got on the nerves of the wow-
sers on moonlit nights, and every now and
again an agitation burst out to have him put
in an overcoat. At last the howls of McSnuffle
became so persistent that the Domain Board,
fearing a riot, dug the post up the other day
and carried it into the adjoining museum.
MODERATE CURIOSITY.
HE (crossly): “I suppose you want to know
my reason for getting home so late last
night?”
SHE: “Oh, no, that would be too much to
expect. But I’d like to know what your
excuse is.”
“Billy T.”: We’d been to a suburban
party, and were returning with a mixed
company at about two o’ the morn, when we
came upon a house behind a high hedge, and
bedded in a large garden, from which unusual
quantities of smoke were issuing. While we
were debating whether it was or was not a
case of house afire, a tali gentleman in even-
ing-dress, trailing an overcoat after him,
came swinging through the gate, closed it
behind him, leaned against it, and eyed us all
with great amiability. “ ’Sh all ri’,” lie said.
“ ’Sh qui’ all ri’. I was passliin’ goin’ ’ome
from thearer, when I notished smoke. ‘Housh
afire,’ I says, ‘mus’ let ’em know.’ So, it’sli
qui’ all ri’. I’ve put a note tinner the door.”
CUI BONO?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘Hill 60 has practically disappeared. The guns
have blown it away.”
We blasted, we strived and we fought,
While dead men poisoned the air;
With shell and with mine we wrought
In the searchlight’s ghostly glare;
And the tortured Hill leapt up and fell
To the rending tune of our powder-hell.
We mined, we bombed and we sapped;
We grappled and stabbed and yelled,
While the chatt’ring Maxims snapped,
And the great guns’ chorus swelled.
Week after week, in our wild despair,
We died for the Hill. Now no Hill is there!
N.S.W.
CASUALTY LIST.


THE RISING TIDE.
Australia will shortly have 100,000 men in the field. — Defence Minister Pearce.
BILL: “Yen I called up spirits from der vasty deep I didn’t mean dis brand!”


John Weary dreams of himself
I as a sprinter about to cut out the
100 yards in even time.^
Bigjohn Forrest as a buttons
conld give great satisfaction.
Attorney-General Billy Hughes is
really cut out for a mild curate
that would feed from the hand.
Smiler Peacock reckons that
a good undertaker was lost
when he became a politician.
I Dr. Arthur is really a dor-
mant Colossus when it comes
i to a matter of chucking out.
Dismal Joe Cook’s
j manner is merely an
affectation. By nature |
he is quite a knut.
Munro-Fereusorij
Would stick to.
. the G.-G.
iiiiuiiiiiiiiiimi iiiii i ii '' 1 "" 1
A&S9 Smlrbins, aged—well,
no matter—could easily be a
flapper if she cared to be.
Premier Holman reckons he could
he an impregnable force against
the allurements of Cohen. <The
| other person begs to be allowed to
remain just Cohen.)
mi i ii ii ii ii ii 111 imi min inn i
lAs for Willie Kelly, give h™
a pick and shoved if you want
to fill his cup of happiness to
the brim.
IF I WASN’T WHAT I AM.
In the schedule to the War Census it is proposed to ask every male resident of 18 or over (1) IVhat is your occupation? (2) What other
occupation (if any) could you undertake?


HYGEIA
Shaving;
Stick.
Xox
Face and
razor
agree
with
Hygeia
oil-foam.
SOAPKO.
It Surpasses
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR IN TABLETS;
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS.
Send Six Penny Stamps for Box containing Samp
Manager, of each kind '
SOAPKO PROPY., Box 685 G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
&
&
THE
Wherever you ao. the world over, leading men wear WOODROW
HATS. They are unequalled in quality, style, durabality and
comfort. ALL STORES.
LEWIS &
ummm*
MAKERS
s
t i uM
mmmm.
YIN©
TO CURE COUGHS USE PINE TAR
AND SUGAR.
A SPECIALIST’S SUGGESTION.
Obstinate, tickling coughs, the kind that
racks you to pieces and keeps you awake at
night, can be instantly relieved and quickly
cured by 10 or 15 drops of bitrate of tar on
a lump of sugar, and letting it slowly dis-
solve in the mouth. The specialist who
recommends this plan says it is superior to
anything he has ever tried, and may be used
with perfect safety and success on children
three or four years of age. To make an
excellent inexpensive cough syrup which
children like, he says there is nothing better
at any price than half a pound of granu-
lated sugar dissolved in half a pint of hot
water, and then stir in 2oz. of bitrate of
tar. When cool pour into a pint bottle, and
it is ready for use. From half a teaspoonful
to a teaspoonful every hour or two will
quickly relieve coughs and colds, and if
regularly used for a few days will give
remarkable benefit in cases of catarrh,
asthma and bronchial affections.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
THE ULTIMATUM.
WOODROW: “Impudent and offensive dog, I
am too proud to throw stones at you
myself, but I shall find the stones for
those who are not too proud.”
J. M. Arnott, Lieutenant-Colonel iu the
Light Horse, who has been wounded in the
Dardanelles, is one of the “Biscuit” Aruotts.
He is a man of fine physical proportions and
a splendid horseman, and was a prominent
member of the old Sydney Lancers. As a
sideline he can play a fine game of chess.
One of the Sultan’s worries at present is
Oft. Bin. long. Its name is Private William
Buckley, and it comes from Gulgong
(N.S.W.). Little Willie, standing on tip-
toe, can just see Constantinople. If he ever
gets to France the Germans are certain to
mistake him for a cathedral spire, which will
be very bad for Willie.
Attorney-General Hughes, who is tilting
at the big metal-mining cos. and Mount
Morgan in particular,- feels very sore. The
fact is R. G. Casey, the chairman of Mount
Morgan, put Billy Hughes into a hole, and
Billy had to cave in. That was pretty early
in the war. The Government had stopped
the co. from using its old channels to mar-
ket. Then Casey saw Hughes, and told him
that he had an offer for a big parcel of cop-
per from an allegedly-British firm. Would he
give permission to ship? Hughes said he
didn’t like the crowd. “I don’t care whether
you like the crowd or not,” said Casey. “If
we can’t sell the copper the whole mine
must close down. Tell us we can place this
copper and the mine remains open. Tell us
we can’t, and the men must stand off.”
Hughes gave the consent; but he hasn’t for-
given the people who squeezed it out of him.
HEATED CORRESPONDENCE.
JEALOUS HUSBAND: “I’m using bread for
bait, so if I land a bit of toast I’ll know
that Brungle’s bin writing to my wife
again.”
Are there any triplets in this war? There
are heroic twins, certainly. The Grenfells,
both of them captains in the 9th Lancers,
arrived at one birth. One brother was killed
in action in Flanders last September. The
other, Captain Francis Grenfell, who won
the Victoria Cross in August, went to join
his brother seven months later.
Sandford Fleming, just deceased at Hali-
fax, Nova Scotia, at the age of 88, was an
empire builder. He constructed a large slice
of the Canadian Pacific railway, and for
some years was engineer-in-chief of the
whole transcontinental outfit. He w T as one
of the pioneers of the Pacific Cable, or “All
Red Route,” and as such has a claim on the
kindly remembrance of Australian people.
W. C. Yahland has just passed away at
87, in Bendigo, where he had lived since
1853. Vahland, though a German, was an
old-fashioned one, kindly, simple, good
natured, and at his profession one of the
best. He designed the Bendigo Town Hall,
Hospital, Benevolent Asylum, School of
Mines, and Masonic Hall. Amongst the
pioneer diggers Vahland put down his first
pot-hole as a contemporary of J. B. Wat-
son, Major R. Moorhead, Barnet Lazarus,
Captain Standish (afterwards Chief Com-
missioner of Police), J. A. Panton and
Lachlan McLachlan (two notable police
magistrates), Angus Mackay (of the Ben-
digo Advertiser) and W. D. C. Denovan —-
a rare galaxy of celebrities.
Charles Bright, one of the Victorian ori-
ginals of the Gibbs Bright firm, died in Eng-
land last week. He came to Melbourne 92
years ago, was the first chairman of. the
local Harbor Trust —then a live and re-
spected body—and continued in the very
front rank of the city’s business affairs until
-his return to London in the early ’Bo’s.
Having married a daughter of the reigning
Governor when he was a 40-year-old “nut,”
Charley Bright was for many years the un-
crowned king of Sassiety. He was 87 when
he died —a, reminder that his brother Reggie,
still of the Gibbs Bright firm, is hardly as
young a bachelor as he used to be.
Ben Hoare, for so long the Age’s chief
leader-writer, passed into his 74th year last
week. Coming from Bucks in 1856, Ben
was apprenticed in 1858 to the Portland
Chronicle, and wrote articles and rhyme
for that paper and Hamilton Spectator till
1866. Later he edited the Gawler Bunyip
(S.A.) till IS7O. There he published a
volume of “Figures of Fancy.” Returning
to Victoria in 1871 he established the Gee-
long Times, and edited it until ISB6, when
he joined the editorial staff of the pious
Daily Telegraph, and was a leader-writer
till 1890. Then David Syme collared him
for the Age, and he continued to forge
most of the paper’s loudest political thunder
till May of last year, when he retired.
Five daughters and two sons, 5o grand-
children, 122 descendants of the third gene-
ration and 25 of the fourth came from the
marriage of Anne Potter, who died at \\ el-
lington (M.L.) lately. She landed m Port
Nicholson away back in ’l9 when \\ ellmg-
ton was mostly wind and scrub and brown
brother, and the rigors of colonisation played
such havoc with her constitution that she
lived to be only 97.
The cable brings news of the death in Eng-
land of Henry Edward Gurner, l ie. County
Court Judge, who was son of Henry luekl
Gurner, for many years Crown Solicitor of
Victoria. The latter was a Sydney native,
his father coming to the colony in early
days with Henry Barron Field, _ a Judge,
after whom the \ ic. Crown Solicitor was
named. When a Supreme Court was estab-
lished at Port Phillip, in 1842. Mr. Gurner
went there as Clerk under Mr. Willis, the
erratic first Resident Judge.
The little band of survivors of the charge
of the Light Brigade at Balaclava was re-
duced by one the other day when James
Wilson passed out at Christchurch (M.L.).
James was a Scot, and rode with the 10th
Hussars to the Russian guns on the -lay
after arrival at the Crimean front. About
three years ago he married his neighbor, a
slip of a girl of 75. He was 84 when the
call came; lie had lived in Canterbury since
’59.
Fact keeps fiction moving in war time.
Two cousins, named Harold and William
Anderson, whose parents reside near each
other in Melbourne, enlisted, one with the
Victorians, the other with the Maorilanders.
They had not seen each other for years.
Both went away to fight in April and went
into reserve behind the trenches of Galli-
poli in May without being aware of their
proximity. Then one day an order came to
reinforce the fast-thinning firing line. In a
rush up hill Harold paused to take a
breather. The man in front stopped too.
The cousins had met. A word, a handshake,
and they swept on in the rush. Five min-
utes afterwards Harold was killed and
William taken to hospital with a bullet in
his neck.
One of the oldest solicitors on the N. S.
Wales roll, George de Vial Pilcher, has been
sent on for judgment. He and a brother,
Charles E., K.C., were sons of Henry Iceldon
Pilcher, who was admitted as a solicitor in
N. S. Wales on September 1, 1830. There
was another brother, a parson, who obtained
the Broughton and Forrest Exhibition at
King’s School, Parramatta, which took him
to Oriel College, Oxford. He died in Eng-
land some two years since.
JIM PAGE, Federal Government
Whip.
11. 11. Massie, who steps into the shoes of
his father-in-law, Mr. T. A. Dibbs, as gen-
eral manager of the Commercial Bank of
Sydney, joined it in 1878. four years before
he went to England with Murdoch’s famous
Australian XI of 1882. The new g.m. will
require to be a remarkable banker before
he wins that way the fame he attained as the
brilliant hitter of the ’SO’s. To be able to
“score as fast as Massie” is a test that few
modern cricketers hope to satisfy. R. J. A.
Massie, his soldier son, wounded in Galli-
poli, is as fast a bowler as 11.11. was a scorer.
“DIED OF WOUNDS,"
[For The Bulletin.]
Biown eyes that held the laughter, are you closed
Now on all joyance, in your earth-lapped rest,
Where the grey Straits to pale moon, following,
heave ?
I, who have laughed with you, can scarce believe
You find in Death itself no cause for jest.
QUEENSLAND. M. FORREST.
BILLY VIGIL, footballer, Victoria.
Bigjolm Forrest will be celebrating a
jubilee while Referenda votes are being
counted. On December IS he will complete
the 50th year of his public service in Wes-
tralia. It is proposed to mark the event
with fireworks and a free distribution of
butter.
Jack Horan, the youngest son of “Tommy”
Horan, the hero of many Australian Elevens,
has gone to be a soldier. The once hefty
“Tommy” is not so agile as he used to be,
but Jack, wide, thick and six feet deep, looks
good enough to keep up the old man’s reputa-
tion for ability to smite hard at the right
time and in the right place.
In G. H. Knibbs’s latest “Year Book”
there is one entry that stands out in pure
purple. Under the head of “Occupations
and Ages of Bridegrooms,” there is the
record of one full-blown married man of 15.
who gives his occupation as “professional.”
The ‘‘profession” followed by the patriarch
of 15 isn’t mentioned. Knibbs, dealing with
the same lot of statistics, records the mar-
riage during the year of one giddy spinster
of 95! Oil. the joyous romances that
Knibbs could, but never does, tell!
Macquarie Fields, which is likely to super-
sede Liverpool as the site of the military
camp near Sydney, was one of the estates
given in the Macquarie era to an historical
old character. It was originally a grant of
2020 acres to James Meehan, the assistant
surveyor of the colony. Meehan had come
to the colony early in 1800 with a number
of others concerned in the Irish demonstra-
tion of ’9B. First he was an assistant to
Surveyor-General Grimes when the latter
was surveying Newcastle. Then lie was sent
with Grimes to explore and survey King
Island and Port Phillip. It was Meehan
who surveyed and measured John McAr-
thur's grants at Camden Park in 1805. In
the disturbance which led to the arrest
of Governor Bligh, Meehan kept quiet; but
when Major Johnston sent Grimes to
England with dispatches he appointed
Meehan Acting Surveyor-General, and when
Macquarie took charge two years later he
confirmed the appointment and recommended
that it should be permanent; but John Oxley
got the job and Meehan was gazetted
assistant. From 1817 to 1819 Meehan and
Hamilton Ilume led important exploring
expeditions. They first went south as far
as the Goulburn Plains and discovered
Lakes George and Bathurst, and in 1819
they explored Illawarra as far ■ down as
Jervis Bay, and from there overland to
Bong Bong. It was for these services that
Macquarie gave Meehan the grant which he
called Macquarie Field; and he died there.
It remained in the family for two genera-
tions. Subsequently it was occupied by the
Rev. George Fairfowl McArthur, who went
from there to take charge of King’s School,
Parramatta.
THE CONQUEROR’S MERCY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Woe to the vanquished ! The conqueror knows no
mercy.— Speech by the Kaiser.
You that decreed no mercy, wherefore should mercy
he yours
When the guns of your trust are broken and the
strength of our arm endures?
Death was the word of your , speaking, iron and tor-
ture and shame;
If you reap of your own black sowing, to you alone
is the blame.
High set on a throne of nations, unheeding the curse
or cry,
You watched where your spike-capped legions in long
array marched by ;
Your cannon, black-mouthed and horrent, were ready
to speak your thought,
And a sword, that your eyes might dazzle, the light-
ning of doom had caught.
Proud in your strength, and boasting the power that
you held in trust,
Trembling lest clear and bloodless the arms of your
strength should rust,
You, in your wanton vaunting, threw gage and chal-
lenge to Fate,
Spoke, and your war-whipped millions surged over
bar and gate.
I.eaped to their arms the nations where dry and
rusted they lay,
Thrown from the warriors’ shoulders in the peace of
an elder day;
Leaped on the forges the hammers, leaped through
the night the flame,
To hold you back in your madness that the world
might be saved from shame.
They held you—drove you and held you—through the
months of stress and pain,
Save there where in short-lived triumph you
stretched at the tightening chain ;
And in pride of your eastward marching, where the
Russian lines fell back,
You uttered the mortal treason of the mercy that
conquerors lack !
You with no mercy to show us? Show us your
conquest first!
Is it Liege and Brussels, where your name is held
accurs’d ?
Forty years were you making ready, and when all but
a year is run —-
A year of your bitter striving—-what is it your arms
have won?
Belgium, bruised and broken under your iron heel,
Knows for an hour in her darkness the anguish the
vanquished feel.
Almost you conquered Belgium—mark well how you
made her bleed !
Boast in your hour of triumph—the triumph was
great indeed !
You with no mercy to show us! What shall our
answer be
When your last stand breaks before us, and the
world of your threats is free?
We shall have mercy—yes, mercy—and bring to the
nations hope.
And mercy to them, proud boaster, to you were a
hangman’s rope!
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


Illlt!
m
sr.
sr-
©
&
0
W,
m
j®
s
i
A\
pfY'
A Man needs a Good
Tobacco these Times —
HavelocK
Special Mixture
is the sort of tobacco that Keeps you
from getting' flurried or down-
hearted It’s good to thinK on —to
work on —Yes, and
TO FIGHT ON.
TRY IT! and send
some to the boys
if you can’t go.
m
\f! /
9.
r
W‘j
&
Special Havelock
Smoking Mixture
3 Strengths : Mild, Medium, Full
-oz. Airtight Tins
THE LAST WORD IN
PIPES
CLMNJ
400
*
.
tv er/ p, P eQuaran '^


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUiS CO.
Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agefitp—'WlL/LIAM ADAMS <©. COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commonwealth Government does the
sensible thing and makes new War Loan
stock good tender at par for Commonwealth
probate and succession duties. Interest
will also be free of Commonwealth and
State income tax. For a third concession
a full six months’ interest (44 p.c. per
annum) will be payable on December 15
next, though the final instalment of the
principal will not be called for till Novem-
ber 30. Any bank or any member of any
Stock Exchange or any post-office where
money-order business is done will accept an
application, along with 10 p.c. An appli-
cant may ask for as little as £lOO, and the
instalments on that amount will be payable
as follows:—£10 on application (prior to
August 31), £l5 on September 15, £2O on
October 15, £25 on November 15, £3O on
November 30. Interest will be paid free
of exchange at any branch of the Common-
wealth Bank anywhere in Australia. As an in-
vestment, yielding well over 44 p.c.. nothing
so good has ever been offered in Australia,
since thus far the Commonwealth has bor-
rowed almost nothing, so that both capital
and interest are a charge upon the prac-
tically virgin security of the Consolidated
Revenue of Australia. And, besides being
an investment of the very highest char-
acter, the Loan ought to present itself to
the moneyed people of the continent as a
patriotic duty, no less urgent than that
which is calling the young men to the
trenches.
The Commercial Bank of Australia :
Dividends
Profits on
dess loss Pref. Writ- Added
on Assets Shares. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). (3 p.c.) Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’OB.. 55,217 31.760 23,457 306,118
Written off. £295,000 .. 11,118
June, ’09.. 53,573 31,760 25,000 7,931
Dec., ’09.. 56,302 31,760 25,000 7,473
June, ’lO.. 55,002 31.760 25,000)
£2OOO voted to Officers’ Provident I —• 3,715
Fund 1
Dec., ’lO.. 59,557 31.760 25.000 2,797 6,512
.Tune, ’ll.. 58,804 31,760 30,000 3,556
Dec., ’ll.. 61.082 31.760 28.000 1,322 4,878
June, ’12.. 65.109 31.760 30,0001
£2OOO voted to Officers’ Provident ). 1,349 6,227
Fund
Dec., ’12.. 66,892 31,760 35,000 . 132 6,359
.Tune, ’13.. 68.076 31,760 35,000 1,316 7,675
Dec., ’13.. 66,775 31,760 35,000 15 7,690
(4 p.c.)
June, ’14.. 64,533 42,347 20,000 2,186 9,876
Dec., ’14.. 65,121 42,347 25,000 7.650
June, ’l5. . 44,273 42,347 1,926 9,576
This bank’s customers are mostly in those
parts which have had a particularly bad
year. There are about 90 branches in Vic-
toria ; you can’t move in the north and nor’-
west without falling up against one, and
the north and nor’-west have had a sicken-
ing time. Of its other 90 or so branches
more tliah a half are in S. Aus., Westralia
and the Riverina; and they have all had a
sickening time, too. As if that wasn’t bad
enough, the bank has probably been earn-
ing very little in London. All through the
half-year you could hardly give away call
money there. The fact was there was no-
thing to do with it. Usually the C. B. of A.
has about a million and a quarter or more
on the other side, and 4 p.c. on that lot
means at least £0250 a year. Further, owing
partly to the war and more largely to the
drought, there have been few meat and wool
and produce bills on London to buy; and
this branch of the exchange business, in
which the Commercial has rather special-
ised. has been far less profitable than usual.
Meantime the 180 branches or thereabouts
have had to be kept going. In all the cir-
cumstances it isn’t surprising that the pro-
fits fell from about £05.000 to £44.000. The
astonishing thing is that the bank earned
that much.
The Commercial of Australia had a dis-
tressing experience after the great Victorian
boom of the late ’eighties and early ’nineties.
Ai that time, as the bulk of the assets were
really too atrocious to be seen with, the
bank cut them off and turned the worst of
them over to an assets trust, whose job was
to get rid of them with the least possible
loss. As losses were ascertained most of the
share capital was written off. Depositors,
seeing that it was hopeless to keep going
without further capital, converted a large
mass of their paper into pref. shares; and
in the course of the realisation of the old
assets a large part of this capital has also
been absorbed. Combining the operations of
the bank and the trust, which are really one,
suice the bank is responsible for the trust’s
liabilities, this is how things stand :
Pref. Writ- To
Dividend, ten Reduce— _
Profit. 3 p.c. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1909.. 58,301 31,760 5000 21,541 1.058,850
Dec., 1909.. 66,711 31,760 5000 29,951 1,028,899
June, 1910.. 62,826 31,760 5000 1 „„„ , nn , „„„
Provident Fund . . 2000 f 24 ’066 1,004,833
Dec., 1910.. 66,035 31.760 5000 29,275 975,558
June, 1911.. 63,239 31,760 5000 26,479 949,079
Doe., 1911.. 61.991 31,760 5000 25,231 923,848
J “" e - 191 1v„,fd« 9 5 60 ISSS} 27 -” 8 •".»»
Dec., 1912.. 67,088 31,760 5000 30,328 866,401
June, 1913.. 68,977 31,760 5000 32.217 834,184
Dec., 1913.. 67,144 31,760 5000 30,384 803,800
4 p.c.
June, 1914.. 80,062 42.347 5000 32,715 771,085
Dec., 1914.. 65,419.42,347 5000 18,072 753,013
June, 1915.. 44,273 42,347 1,926 751,087
So in six years something over £307.000 of
the lost capital has been restored, really out
of the current profits of the bank; and at
the same rate of progress the capital will
all be restored somewhere about 1930. But
as the next six years are not likely to see
the same prosperity as the last six, the
period is quite likely to be extended to 1940,
or some other date in the far-distant future.
A more sensible plan would be to write
down. the. capital and pay a decent rate of
dividend forthwith. But there is a conflict
of interests between ordinary and pref.
shares; and the management plainly hasn’t
the courage to take the two bulls by the
horns. So the bank faces its second time of
stress handicapped by having to publish a
balance-sheet which, simply because it hasn’t
been cleaned up, is by far the worst-looking
in Australia. It is all so unnecessary.
There have been no very notable changes
in the figures during the 12 months, not-
withstanding the serious things that have
been happening :—-
June, 1914. June, 1915.
Notes .. .. £21,053 £39,124 Inc. £18,071
Bills, etc. . . 868,816 503,080 Dec. 365,736
Free deposits . . 3,912,537 3,835,906 Dec. 76,631
Deposits at in-
terest. . .. 3,256,251 3,256,063 Dec. 188
Old debts . . 56,601 36,301 Dec. 20,300
Liquid assets . . 3,975,199 3,624,432 Dec. 350,767
Advances . . 5,171,696 5,071,075 Dec. 100,621
Old bank assets 32,000 16,998 Dec. 15,002
Premises .. 420,635 462,240 Inc. 41,605
The shrinkage of bills, etc., is due to the
contraction of sea-going trade, and appears
on the other side as a reduction of liquid
assets. And the drawing-in of advances to
the extent of about £lOO,OOO is balanced by
a. contraction of free deposits and old debts.
The C. B. of A. is still exceptionally strong
in liquid assets, and the advances are ex-
ceptionally well protected by shareholders’
funds. The two features taken together re-
duce the risks of depositors and other
creditors to practically nil.
As for the future, Mill long ago noted the
extraordinary rapidity with which an agri-
cultural community recovers its prosperity
after a war ; and the same country connec-
tion which was responsible for the serious
shrinkage of the C. B. of A.’s profit last
half-year will most likely fill this bank’s
bunkers with prosperity even while other
interests are still feeling pretty sore and
miserable after the war.
* * * *
The Commercial Banking Co. of Syd-
ney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., ’07.. 83,005 10 p.e.= 61,288 21,717 1,248,612
Premiums on new shares .. 765 1,249,377
June, ’OB.. 90,973 10 p.c.= 62,420 28,553 1,277,930
Dec., ’OB.. 91,706 10 „ „ 68,184 23,522 1,301,452
June, ’09.. 104,438 10 „ „ 74.776 29,662 1,331,114
Dec., ’09.. 116,490 10 „ „ 75,000 41,496 1,372,610
June, ’lO.. 117,000 10 „ ~ 75,000 42,000 1,414.610
Dec., ’lO.. 117,955 10 „ ~ 75,000 42,955 1,457,565
June, ’ll.. 118,095 10 „ „ 75,000 43,095 1,500.660
Dec., ’ll.. 119,897 10 „ „ 75,000 44,897 1,545,557
June, ’12.. 123,983 10 „ „ 75,000 48,983 1,594,540
Dec., ’12.. 132,011 10 „ ~ 86,302 45,709 1,640,249
June, ’13.. 134,122 10 „ „ 87,383 46,739 1,686,988
Dec., ’13.. 138,242 10 „ „ 87,500 50,742 1,737,730
June, ’14.. 149,382 10 „ „ 99,258 50,124 1,787,854
Dee., ’14.. 138,107 10 „ 100,000 38,107 1,825,961
June, ’15.. 126,773 10 „ ~100,000 26,773 1,852,734
For 48 years the accounts have been signed
“T. A. Dibbs, general manager.” Now Mr.
Dibbs has gone, and assistant-G.M. H. 11.
Massie takes the wheel. Nobody doubts
that he has left the ship snug for the dirty
weather that is ahead. The next seven years
are not going to be the past seven fat smooth
years over again. We may have as good
seasons, on the whole, but we shall be pay-
ing instead of spending. The wicked policy
of the N. S. Wales Labor Government has
produced a boom which can only be main-
tained as long as the borrowings continue:
and they are very near their end now. It
is true that the Norton Griffiths syndicates
have undertaken to provide £10,000,000 in
the next four years—£4,ooo,ooo the first
year, and £2,000,000 a year thereafter. But
it is by no means certain that the British
Government will sanction these loans. And,
anyhow, if they are available, any indepen-
dent issues will on present appearances be
utterly out of the question. This traitor
Government has withdrawn 20,000 men
from ordinary occupations to scramble for
loan money at boom rates of pay. Within
the next year or so most of them will be
thrown out. Meantime artificial rates of pay
have been established, a ruinous system of
slowing-down has come into vogue, and,
generally, almost every conceivable discour-
agement has been offered to the private
employment of labor. The working-man of
N. S. Wales, in particular, has been living in
a fool’s paradise, constructed for him by a
Labor Government which has been a traitor
to almost every Labor principle, and the
awakening is not far off. Everybody knows
where the Devil landed when he fell out of
Paradise. The working-man, when the
bottom falls out of his paradise, will not be
much better; and then he will know what
the “Labor” Government has done for him.
While the artificial conditions have lasted,
nobody has profited so much as the middle-
men and gamblers in land and supplies. Con-
cerns which were worth only a few hundreds
12 years ago are worth tens of thousands to-
day. Prices have been forced up and up, and
holders of stocks of merchandise have made
fortunes out of advancing markets. Inci-
dentally, the banks, which to a great extent
are middlemen, too, have been in clover. But
at least it can be said to their credit that,
with a very few exceptions, they have never
sought to disguise the fact that they were
boom conditions under which we have been
living. Hence, as the business of this bank
has grown with extraordinary rapidity, gen-
eral-manager Dibbs and his directors have
dropped more anchors overboard against the
breaking of the storm. In eight years they
have doubled the share capital and added
substantially to the reserves by way of pre-
mium capital. All the time approximately
50 p.c. of the public’s money in the business
has been kept liquid. The following figures
show the movements in the past 25 years and
in the past 10: — „ „
1890. 1905. 1915.
Capital .. .. £600,000 £1,000,000 £2,000,000
Capital and re-
serves combined 1,411,960 1,106,593 3,852,(34
Total liabilities . . 11,205,375 13,366,202 25,774,099
Advances. . . . 9,440,046 8,723,456 14,236,405
Liquid assets . . 2,990,789 6,347,800 14,890,785
Compare the position as at June, 1890, with
the present, and see how vastly better
equipped the bank is now to meet the diffi-
culties ahead than it was to face those which
followed the last boom.
A bank has to meet two dangers. It must
be able to stand a quick, sharp blow, the re-
sult of more or less sudden pressure from
creditors; and it must be able to stand a
long, steady drain upon its resources through
having overvalued securities and lent too
much on them. To meet the firSt danger it
must be strong in liquid assets; to overcome
the other, its capital and reserves must be
large in proportion to its advances and other
risks. To take the second —the more impor-
tant —first. In 1890 the Commercial of Syd-
ney had £9,440,046 of advances, and could
lose £1,411,960 before the creditors’ money
would be touched—that is, 3s. in the £. Now
it has £14,236,405 of advances and £3,852,734
of its own funds, so it could lose ss. sd. in
the £ before the creditors would be affected.
In 1890 its capital and reserves were equal
to only 15 p.c. of the advances ; now they are
equal to 27 p.c. As to any danger from a
run, there is at no time much risk nowa-
days, on account of the understanding
between the associated banks. But, in any
case, while this bank owes £25.774,099, it has
no less than £14,890,785 liquid. That is to
say, nearly 5S p.c. In ordinary circum-
stances, that would be far too much. There
is usually no need for such strength. But
these are very extraordinary times. People
are putting the'r money in banks like the
Commercial of Sydney for safe custody as
much as anything. Hardly anybody is seek-
ing permanent investments. Governments
have succeeded in thoroughly unsettling
nearly everybody. And prudent bankers like
those of the Commercial of Sydney, knowing
that they are to a great extent being made a
convenience of, simply put the lponey by, to
be available when called upon. Thus while
Mr. Dibbs leaves his brawny successor to
face a period maybe of reduced profits, cer-
tainly of stress, he also leaves him dug in as
no bank in Australia was when the last great
trouble came to the country 24 years ago.
* * * *
The Queensland National Bank :
Towards
Repaying
Gross Written Private Nominal
Profits. Off. Depositors. Reserves.
Dec., 1907.. £43,606 £23,606 £15,000 £64,000
June, 1908.. 43,482 23,482 15,000 69,000
Dec., 1908.. 43,737 18,737 20,000 74,000
June, 1909.. 44,158 19,158 20,000 79,000
Dec.. 1909.. 44,432 19,432 20,000 84,000
June, 1910.. 45,626 20,626 20,000 89,000
Dec., 1910.. 46,174 21,174 20,000 94,000
June, 1911.. 46,275 10,275 30,000 100,000
Dec., 1911.. 47,542 11,542 30,000 106,000
June, 1912.. 48,159 36,159 118.000
Dec., 1912.. 48,179 36,179 130,000
June, 1913.. 48,214 36,214 142,000
Dec., 1913.. 49,915 37,915 154,000
June, 1914.. 50,090 38,090 166,000
Dec., 1914.. 50,104 38,104 178,000
June, 1915.. 51,746 39,746 190,000
Though Queensland has had a bad summer,
and though it is difficult to understand .how
banking profits could have been maintained,
the Q.N. shows actually better results than
in any previous recent period. The most
likely explanation is that past figures have
really not given much of an indication of the
true current profits. It is impossible for
any bank to say positively “We made (say)
£40,000 profit this half-year—just that and
no more or less.” A bank only once in its
life starts a half-year with no old sins to
atone for, and it never winds up within the
term all the business it has taken in hand
during that term. A manager may make a
loan to-day on security which to-morrow
may not look to s him half so good as it did
24 hours before; and he may then decide
that, to be on the safe side, he ought to put
by £lOOO of the half-year’s profit to wipe
out the possible loss on the loan he is sorry
he made. Or he may believe that the values
on which he is making advances are all so
high that he cannot reasonably escape some
heavy losses presently; and he may there-
fore resolve that he ought to put aside in
the good times a great deal of what looks
like profit to presently meet the losses that
will show up on the old transactions. It
seems very likely that this is what the Q.N.
has been doing.
There is usually one incentive to a mana-
ger to show all that he reasonably can show
(and sometimes more than that), viz., the
hunger of the shareholders for the profits.
But in this bank no profits go to the share-
holders, and none can go to them for some
time to come. This is because of an old
arrangement with the private depositors
who couldn’t get their money back when
the bank closed its doors in the early ’9o’s.
There were, it was reckoned, assets to repre-
sent only three-fourths of the deposits; so
it was agreed that the other fourth should be
made good out of future profits, and that
no dividend should be paid until this fourth
was returned. Hence so far as dividends
are concerned it hasn’t mattered whether
the Q.N. said it made £40.000 or £60.000.
The disclosure of a small profit if a large
one has been made would no doubt affect the
market value of shares; but bank manage-
ments have a habit of saying that the
market value of shares does not concern
them. Whether the Q.N. management has
been playing a very safe game and building
up a large inner reserve for contingencies
The Bulletin doesn’t know for certain;
but the fact that general-manager Ralston
can show a bigger profit than ever in spite
of bad times strongly suggests that that
policy has been pursued.
The resumption of dividends depends first,
then, upon the repayment of that ss. in the
£ of old deposits previously mentioned. To-
wards that discharge the following shows
approximately the progress made: —
Current Repaid Balance
11 years Profits to in
to Appropriated Depositors. Hand.
Dec., 1908. .£ 188,000 3s. in £ = £155,818 £32,182
June, 1909.. 20,000 9d. in £ = 38,657 13.525
Dec., 1909.. 2(1,000 33,525
.June, 1910.. 2,0,000 53,525
Dec., 1910.. 20,000 9d. in £ = 38,642 34,883
June, 1911.. 30,000 64,883
Dec., 1911.. 30,000 Is. in £ = 51,527 43,356
June, 1912.. 36,159 6d. in £ = 25,763 53,752
Dec.. 1912.. 36,179 6d. in £ = 25,762 64,169
June, 1913.. 36,214 9d. in £ = 38,643 61,740
Nov., 1913.. Special Is. in £ = 50,900
Dec., 1913.. 37,915 9d. in £ = 38,162 61,493
June, 1914.. 38,090 9d. in £ = 38,652 60.931
Dec., 1914.. 38,104 9d. in £ = 38.462 60,393
June, 1915.. 39,746 9d. in £= 38,500 61,639
£590,407 11/3 in £= £579,488 £61,639
The “special” payment made in 1913 was
apparently out of the contingency fund men-
tioned just now ; and it was said some time
ago that another “special” could be expected
in 1916. In four years 6s. 9d. has been paid
off, and there is Bs. 9d. still to pay, of which
approximately Is. 3d. is in hand. In view
of the war it might be expected that a longer
period than (say) 44 years would now be
required to pay off the balance; but if the
bank can put aside £39,746 in so bad a half-
year as that just passed, it can hardly be ex-
pected to do worse during the next five
years; and even without any “special” pav-
ment at all out of contingency funds, five
years would see the removal of the last bone
of the venerable dead-llorse.
As usual, the Q.N.’s cash position is very
strong. In coin, cash at bankers, Australian
notes and sliort-call money in London it
holds no less than £4,364,992; and, apart
from its interminable stock, it owes the
public only £7,969,157. It is thus in a posi-
tion to pay 55 p.c. of all withdrawable money
practically on the nail and without realising
on a single security- If there is any weak-
ness at all in the position it lies in the com-
parative smallness of the shareholders’ visi-
ble funds. There is £6,288,587 in advances,
etc., and another £318,821 in premises, etc.,
and there is at present only £670,000 of
share capital and reserves to protect those
advances. The rest of the money belongs to
outsiders. But there is no less than
£3,091,669 of interminable stock ; and so far
as depositors are concerned that is as good
as share capital. So they are right; nobody
could reasonably wish to be more right.
* * * * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1908. .£4892 8 p.c. = £3600 £1292 £31,421
Dec., 1908.. 4657 6 „ „ 2700 1957 33,378
June, 1909.. 5965 6 „ ~ 2700 3265 36,643
Dec., 1909.. 4523 8 „ ~ 3600 923 37,566
June, 1910.. 4994 7 „ „ 3150 1844 39,410
Dec., 1910.. 5659 7 „„ 3150 2509 41,919
June, 1911.. 5416 9 „ „ 4050 1366 43,285
Dec., 1911.. 5742 7 „ „ 3150 2592 45,877
June, 1912.. 5015 7 „ „ 3150 1865 47,742
Dec., 1912.. 6366 9 ~,, 4050 2316 50,058
June, 1913.. 5485 7 „„ 3150 2335 52,393
Dec., 1913.. 5959 8 „ „ 3600 2359 54,752
Written off premises, £2500 .. 52,252
June, 1914.. 9738 10 p.c. = 4500 5238 57,490-
Written off premises, £5OOO .. 52,490
Dec., 1914.. 6282 8 p.c. = 3600 2682 55,172
Written off premises, £2500 .. 52,672
June, 1915.. 5073 8 p.c. = 3600 1473 54,145
That comparatively poor profit is the result
of drought rather than of war. A trustee
co.’s revenue flows in through three chan-
nels: (1) Annual commission on earnings
of trust estates; (2) single commission on
the'capital value of estates; (3) interest on
the co.’s own funds. Owing to the drought
the earnings of many country estates have
been very small during the past couple of
years. Last year most farmers and wool-
growers made an actual loss. That cut into
this co.’s commission earnings.
But what of the future? In one respect a
trustee co. is unusually well placed. All the
plant and stock which such a co. needs could
be bought for a couple of hundred pounds—a
brass plate, a few boxes of pens, a rubber
stamp or two, and a seal. Actually this big
co.’s furniture and fittings, which constitute
all its stock and plant, are valued in the
books at only £5OO. Necessary till-money
might run to another £5OO or £lOOO. All the
rest of the capital and reserves can be in-
vested. As a matter of fact, the investments
of this co., apart from the business, amount
to £138,000, while the total of the capital
and reserves is £144,145. For a co. with
money to lend, the high rates of interest
which the world is going to pay for some
years to come is plainly a good thing. And
a trustee co.’s advantages don’t stop there.
Among this co.’s trust assets are very nearly
£3,000,000 of mortgage advances and fixed
deposits, and they will soon bring in from
£30,000 to £45.000 a year more than they did
a while ago. The co.’s commission on that
will be worth a trifle. On the other hand,
its income from commission on the corpus or
capital value will shrink. When interest
rises, capital values fall —unless the property
is of the sort that becomes more productive
with the rise of interest. The shrinkage
applies to public securities, shares and real
estate. Further, the war taxes that are ahead
of us will depreciate values. When a farm
brings in £lOOO a year, it is worth more than
when it brings in only £950 a year—£so
being added to the outgoings to pay tax.
There are tens of thousands of propertied
people in Australia who will not get a farth-
ing of benefit from the high rate of interest:
for them there is nothing ahead but extra
payments. The T., E. &A. and other trustee
cos. will have to make extra payments, too,
and they will witness a reduced flow of re-
venue through certain channels; but they are
fortunate in being able to score a larger flow
than usual through other channels.


The British
&
Electric & Manufacturing C? Ii?,
ĥ
Complete Power Installations.
As the largest British firm of its kind, the British Westing-house Co. is in the unique position
of being able to supply everything electrical, also Steam Turbines, Gas Engines, Condensers,
Pumps, etc., in fact, complete power equipments.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA:
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
New Zealand Agents: TURNBULL & JONES, Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch,
AFSTRALIAN AGENTS: Dunedin.
WORKS, MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
“After all, the real test of anything is the test
of service.’’ Your faithful servant in the solution of
power-transmission problems is “Chromol” belting.
This type of belt, which we formerly sold under the
name of “Raw Hide,” possesses the widest possible
range of usefulness, and the keenest engineers at
Broken Hill, Kalgoorlie and on other mining fields
swear by it, because they have proved its worth in
competition with all others. Made only by .T. C.
Ludovvici & Son, Ltd., 117 York Street, Sydney.
Inter-State agents: H, Summers, Perth, W.A. ;
Queensland Machinery C'o., Ltd., Albert Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.*
* * * *
ALUMTNOFERRIC is used by the Sydnev Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
tor precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
leservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents; William Adams & Company Limited,
Sidney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.*
* * * *
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. Bv
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
Ver -Y short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng
particulars Melbourne > wiU be Phased to furnish
* * * #
Extract from Tin? Ponicr-HoLnER, London, Novem-
ber 26, 1913 re the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Ltd.: —“Then, 'too. in another'wav it
5 lder a PP e al than many mutual assurance
nrtrUtVf 8 ’ J i ts 1 .P rogram,T ' e of operations including, in
which ? ? Ife .assurance and annuities, life policies
include sickness and accident benefits and per-
sonal accident and sickness insurance on the usual
c.fhVTl 1 ! 6 u as .° bas a young industrial branch—
MHvitv h nn/ boUt h f n Ur years a =°— in which the usual
activity and push have been manifested, as may be
been e bnilr fr ?n the fact + <, hat “'ready a ’busing has
neadv 40 non reP r S - 6 1 0,1 1912) hy an iss ue of
nearly 40,000 policies for sums assuring over a
million and a quarter sterling.”* [2
PIONEER WOOD PIPE finds many satisfied users
who find it the most suitable
pipe for irrigation, for conveying water-power and
for domestic water supply. Catalogue from The Aus-
t /, aban ' Vood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydnev
(head office). Contractors to all State Governments.'*
* * *
Patents. Have you an idea worth patentiii"? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney.*
* * * #
P „ Mt Kembla works of the Electrolytic
ff""” Company are freely buying ores containing
S sll ™ r ’ Sold from all parts of the Common-
wealth. The Ore Purchase Department is at-
-9 Bridge Street, Sydney.*
* * a
* *
“Robey-Leplastrier” Road-Building Machinery
means big saving. One shire in N.S.W. saved last
year £4OOO. Sixty shires equipped already. Apply
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., head office, Sydney.*
* * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison * Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H B
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street. Svdnev ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.* * ' ’
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock)
£545,660
155,451
80,500
0 0
0 0
0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
£781,611 0 o
Gen Man.: Edwd 1). Day. ' Asst? Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street. London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
lareßornto
Insure in
Tl “ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid=up ... 82,500
AGENTS WANTED
(tranches in every State.
Write for particulars
VV U r.AVK. (General Manager.
263 George Street. Svdnev
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
Attorney-General Hughes .says it isn r
necessary to have a Commission to get at
the inside of the metal-buying business, let
the things there are to be found out might
surprise even W. M. Hughes, in spite of all
he has learned about the business during the
month or two he has been getting himself
informed and misinformed about it. Early
in the war action was taken against the
Australian agent of Aaron Hirsch & Son, big
German buyers. That agent’s business being
blocked, another firm —H. R. Merton & Co.
—stepped in and collared a good part of it.
“Are you sure Merton’s are all right.’ the
Attorney-General’s Department was asked.
“Oh, yes.” they said; “Merton’s are metal
contractors to the British Admiralty.” Those
in the inside of the business could have told
them then, what Hughes knows now, that
you can also spell Merton Melirten, and
that you can find that name at Frankfort.
The legs of people in high places were thus
being pulled then, and they are being pulled
now. The best-known English metal firm—
anyway, the one best known iii Australia —
is largely German. One of the partners in
it is the former manager of the Australian
Metal Co.—the German concern whose man-
aging director was interned the other day.
The Electrolytic Refining Co., at Port
Kembla (N.5.W.),. is partly German owned.
In the spelter business what isn’t German
is mostly Belgian; and in the nickel and
cobalt business the Austrian Rothschilds
are interested with their French (chiefly
French), German and English partners. In
fact, the world’s metal business isn't so
much German as Germanised. Germany
has a finger everywhere. And it has more
than a finger in the London Metal Exchange,
for the members of that body are mostly
either foreigners or dummies for foreigners.
The most thoroughly British firm in the
copper business in a big way in London is
Smith’s; and, curiously enough, Smith’s was
amongst the first firms turned down by the
ill-informed Commonwealth Government.
Heaven only knows what sinister influences
were at work pulling the strings.
The thing that Germany has aimed at all
along has been to secure the final treatment
of the ore or metal. As long as it had that
it knew it had the control of the metal.
That was the text on which a series of
Bulletin articles was written three or
four years ago, and the Government was
then implored to do something for the smelt-
ing and refining business in Australia. As
usual, it “couldn’t see its way.” And Brit-
ain couldn’t see its way either. To fool
about with metal exchanges, as Hughes is
now dome, is useless, or almost useless.
The Bulletin wouldn’t be a bit surprised
to hear that the scheme could be traced
back to some German with his tongue in his
cheek. The thing Great Britain and Aus-
tralia must do is exactly what Germany has
done— vis., to spend money on smelting
works and refineries, subsidising tliem, if
necessary. Until those works and refineries
are established, or until there is assurance
that they will be established, the Australian
mining cos. will not annul their contracts
with the foreigners, because they know that
if they did they would fall between two
stools. Give them reasonable assurance of
Australian or British works to displace
those in Germany and Belgium, and there
isn’t any doubt in the world that the con-
tracts will be torn up to-morrow.
After consulting the British authorities,
tlie Commonwealth Government has lifted
the embargo placed on the Amalgamated
Zinc (De Bavay) Co.’s proposed shipment of
zinc concentrates from Broken Hill to the
TT.S.A. The first lot of 6000 tons will go
away at once. The contract runs to 50,000
tons, which will bring in about £475,000.
* * * *
Cope’s Creek Central (N.S.W.) made only
£778 for six months to May 31. The two
plants were a.t work only part of the half
year. At Tingha 59,980 yards averaged
1.0131 b., but costs at 10.75 d. per yard prac-
tically ate the proceeds. 'At Skeleton Creek
101,630 yards of wash produced 50 tons
6cwt. black tin, averaging I.llb. per yard.
Altogether 78 tons of oxide worth £8955
were produced. The co. has purchased for
£6OO 58 acres adjoining its own area at
Skeleton Creek, and dredging ground has
been applied for on the Mann River.
* ■* * *
A promising little gold show that merits
development is the Bob and Billv, about
five miles from Oberon (N.S.W.). Many
years ago good stone, crushing about an
ounce, besides rich specimens, was obtained
from this claim, and it has lately been
opened up again by a working party which
includes one of the original prospectors.
A fair-sized quartz reef, which gives every
sign of permanence, is showing, and some
nice specimen stuff has been obtained.
* * * *
A sale of plant has occurred to disturb the
Mabel, at Wiseman’s Creek (N.S.W.), which
has been slumbering for about 12 months.
This is the finale of the ill-judged attempt
of a Sydney crowd to apply the all-solution
system to an ore carrying, besides gold, a
more than appreciable quantity of copper and
acid from partially decomposed copper pyrites.
Besides these drawbacks, the ore contains a
good deal of baryta, and baryta is by reason
of its high specific gravity a curse to the
mill-man and cyanider. Situated in an out-
of-the-way corner, with about 255. a ton car-
riage from the railway, little Mabel was
sadly handicapped, but she was given a game
try, and the pity is that she was a failure.
Since the old Phoenix (copper) further up
the hill closed down, there isn’t a working
mine in the vicinity.
* * * *
Corella Copper (Q.) closed its half-year
on April 30 with a net profit of £4932. The
smelter was in commission about two months,
and in that time 3442 tons ore were reduced
to 470 tons high-grade matte, which went by
motor and rail to the Hampden converter.
The contents were 234 tons copper and
1460 z. gold. Profit averaged £1 Bs. Bd. per
ton of ore, and £2l per ton of copper. The
grade was 6.8 p.c. copper, so the ore was
worth £4 15s. with copper at £75. But a
good deal of stuff was obtained in developing
the Bosebud, and that no doubt helped these
figures. Just at present the water supply is
low, so it is quite possible the smelter will
close down. Reserves are 16,700 tons, con-
taining 1596 tons copper; also 15,000 tons
of low-grade calcite ore useful as flux.
-X * * *
Mount Elliott (Q.) is about to start smelt-
ing again. It now controls.the Dobbin and
Cloncurry mines, and will doubtless draw
on them, and maybe on the Oxide. But the
future of the Oxide depends on an exten-
sion of the Mount Cuthbert line: and there
is some rough country to cross.
* -X- * #
A. 11. Moline has cleaned up the bottom at
Cock’s Pioneer, Eldorado (Vic.), for 1728:>z.
gold and 25 tons stream tin, got from 70,000
cubic yards of drift. This is the plum in
the pudding. Taking the whole run, 30510 z.
gold and 40 tons of black tin came from
380,000 cubic yards. This should yield a
profit if costs weren’t very much affected by
having to remove the props and laths from
old McEvoy workings. These covered
3100 sq. yards of a total of 11.300 sq. yards
of bottom, and they must have cut out a
fair-sized slab of highly profitable ground.
* * * *
Rose of Denmark, Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.),
has fallen to 7dwt., but even on that divi-
dends can be made. The co. does best in
the winter, when water is plentiful and
crushing costs lowest. Stopes are kept going
from No. 3 to No. 6 level, where small floors
in a big dyke are being smashed down. The
best-looking just now lies above No. 3 level
and is being prospected. As a rule in the
Vic. mountains the best stone is nearest the
sunlight, so a sweetening may be got here
to bring divs. up a bit. As Al, near by, is
burning dimly, any blossoming by the Rose
will help to improve the feeling of Gaffney’s.
* * * *
“G.D.M.” : One ought always to be chary
about castigating a young and rising mining
expert, yet all consideration for the young'
man’s future must be laid aside while I tell
“R. 8.” (B. 15/7/T5) that his data regard-
ing the Railton-Latrobe oil-shale deposits
are utterly erroneous. Let me be categorical:
(1) Prom what “R. 8.” saw five years ago he is
incompetent to write about the present Railton-
Latrobe Co.’s shale mine and distilling plant. 1
was there one month ago and saw the new retorts
being completed and the tunnelling, which “R. 8.”
declares* is not possible, being carried on with much
success.
(2) I’ve been to Pumpherston, Scotland. The
average of Scotch shale is 28 gallons to the ton of
ore, not 18. This fact was given me. by Mr. Robert
Moore, chairman of the company, with whom I
travelled through India.
(3) The grade of Scottish shale has not been fol-
lowed down to vanishing point. The Scottish cos.
suffered and are suffering from the dishonest com-
petition of the Standard Oil Trust of Yankeeland,
which is to-day busy trying to stifle the petroleum
industry in Australia.
(4) Crude oil is worth 4d., not 24d., per gal.
(5) The profits are certainly not in the refining,
although Latrobe petrol in quality beats the im-
ported article. In a car from Devonport to Launces-
ton, using Latrobe petrol, we did 30 miles to the
gallon.
(6) The residue after distillation of the crude oil is
not manure, but spraying oil for use in the local
orchards—better in quality than the Yankee rubbish.
At the Railton Co.’s office I saw samples of 22
different oil products.
(7) Of course, Latrobe is not in the same street
as Wolgan and Capertee, but its shale is more
cheaply and easily worked. I’ve been in the Wolgan
mine.
* * * *
Westralia’s ore average for last year was
37.81 shillings, or 1.38 shillings below that
for 1913. Phillips River at 158.91 shil-
lings had the highest average, and Broad
Arrow with 27.82 shillings the lowest.
East Coolgardie (Ivalgoorlie), with 34.20
shillings, was the second lowest; and Yil-
garn came next with 35.64 shillings. Other
averages were: Pilbarra, 81.66; West Pil-
barra, 92.72 ; Peak Hill, 95.19 ; East Murchi-
son, 39.82 ; Murchison, 48.78 ; Yalgoo, 72.27 ;
Mount Margaret, 39.63; North Coolgardie.
61.04 ; North-East Coolgardie, 53.20; Cool-
gardie, 46.34; Dundas, 41.30. The men em-
ployed in mining were distributed thus: East
Coolgardie, 5003; Yilgarn, 884; Murchison,
1394; Mount Margaret, 1067; North Cool-
gardie, 1159; East Murchison. 968; Collie,
525; and Coolgardie, 498. Broad Arrow,
Dundas, North East Coolgardie, Yalgoo, Pil-
barra, West Pilbarra, Peak Hill, Phillips
River, Kimberley, Ashburton. Gascoyne,
Greenbushes and Northampton had 1676
between them,
* * * *
Westralia’s June dividends amounted to
£128,177, and made a total for the half-
year of £388,468. Of this Great Boulder
paid £131,250, Ivanhoe £55,000, Ka'lgurli
£48,000. Golden Horseshoe £45,000, Edna
May £38,565, Sand Queen £28,500, Sons of
Gwalia £16,250, Bullfinch Prop. £11,903,
Lake View and Star £lO,OOO. Mararoa
£5OOO, and Ivyarra £2OOO. This current
month £70,000 has so far been loosed. Great
Boulder has now distributed £4,613,050,
Ivanhoe £3,373,750, and Golden Horseshoe
£3,180,000.
* * * *
The average value of gold produced per
man employed in the industry in Westralia
last year was £435, or approximately £l6
more than in 1913. The average tonnage
of ore raised per man increased from 214 to
230. East Coolgardie was again the highest
with 339 tons, and Yilgarn next with 250.
The average profit per ton last year was
ss. lid. In 1903, the year of record gold-
production. it was 18s. 9d.; in 1904 it was
2s. less; in the following year it was a
decimal lower. After that the fall was
rapid.
* * * *
Golden Ridge got leave in the Perth
Supreme Court the other day to reduce its
capital, which it had found to be in excess
of requirements. The Board denies a story
current in the West that the co. has taken
an option on the Yellow .Jacket at Broad
A rrow.
* * * *
Most accounts don’t rate highly a new
goldfield alleged to have been unearthed at
what is known as the Middle Ironeap, 100
miles south of Southern Cross (W.A.). and
which some venturesome papers reckoned a
second Kalgoorlie. The find is now declared
to be low grade, and appearances don’t
inspire confidence.
* * * *
In December last the news was gently
broken to Kalgurli shareholders that a fur-
ther reduction in dividends was imminent.
Since then two of 4s. have been paid, and
a third (notice of which was accompanied
by the announcement that the Board pur-
poses cutting down the quarterly distribu-
tions from 4s. to 2s. 6d.) was paid on July
6. Although the mine is dying slowly,
shareholders can rest assured that the man-
agement is doing everything possible for it
and for them.
* * * *
A Melbourne-financed syndicate has made
a start to work a magnesite deposit at
Bulong (W.A.). Operations are stated to
be under the control of a firm which is said
to be the only one in Australia dealing with
this mineral in a large way, and 500 tons
are to be taken out as a test parcel.
* * * *
Associated Northern’s June profit of £2lOO
from the Ora Banda (W.A.) is the best since
treatment was resumed in December. The
ore treated was 1000 tons more than that
put through in the first month’s run, but the
recovery at 28s. 4d. a ton was down 7s. Bd.
During the past six months 18,615 tons have
been treated for a net profit of £4139, and in
the same period an additional £1192 has been
netted from the treatment of ti’ibutors’ ore
and accumulated residues at the co.’s Iron
Duke (Kalgoorlie) lease.
* * * *
From the first man who examined the lot:
When I said the Edna belt (W.A.) was a large
one, I was talking generally of the region as a pros-
pecting field. I meant Westonia, from Boodallin to
anywhere “the other man” (B. 15/7/T5) likes. It’s
useless this gentleman trying to get back on my esti-
mate of value in the Edna by talking of ore not yet
developed. I put present values at 665. a share, or
22 months’ work, and providing that No. 4 is as good
as No. 3, there is another 335. a share. I may be
wrong, but I believe I’m right; and the other fellow
can’t contradict me with speculations as to ore un-
exposed. My figures deal with the mine as it is, and
the probable developments at No. 4 are taken on an
optimistic basis. The fact that the Edna does all the
pumping doesn’t affect the truth that the Central's
costs—mining and milling—are the lowest on the
field. Pumping is a big item, and will be a greater;
and if the Deeps—which the other fellow, inferenti-
ally, loves —wants to earn its name, it must sink for
its life and then pump the field. There is no call for
the petulance of the irritated barracker for the Deeps.
A mine is a matter of opinion, but all the same I
believe that £5 a share is the value of the Edna.
* * * * -
The Ida 11. Co. has decided to stick to
legitimate gold mining. Having an idea that
it could make more money elsewhere, the •
Board, a while ago, let things slide a bit at
the Laverton property, and gave Nigerian tin
WEES 8 the .“glad eye.” In one lump
£12,000 was invested in the Rokuha mine,
which, according to a gaudy estimate, had
hundreds of thousands of pounds in sight.
As the venture has since been abandoned the
inference is that this wealth only existed in
somebody’s imagination.
* * * *
There is no telling what these transcon-
tinental railways won’t lead to. Four and
a half miles from the East-and-West line.
76 miles out from Port Augusta, a Broken
Hill co. has been put on to what looks like
something special in a manganese show.
It is on Pernatty Lake. For 400 yards ore
of high grade has*been opened up, hut the
lateral extent of the deposit has not been
determined. A lot of 50 tons has been
sampled and the lcwt. sample analysed by
the S. Aus. School of Mines. It showed
50.12 p.c. manganese dioxide and 1.56 man-
ganese oxide, together equal to 51.86 p.c.
manganese; while for phosphorus it went
only 0.01 p.c., sulphur 0.01 p.c., and silica
1.36 p.c. The manganese contents are good
and the content of the three prejudicial
elements exceedingly small. There isn’t a
greedy market for the ore; but the dis-
covery ought to be of great assistance pre-
sently in developing the Australian steel
and steel-alloys industries.


I3IK)1S
HEERING<§
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. JBIB.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
The elegantly appointed “verandah cafe” is now
closed in and heated for the winter months, and
diners are assured of every comfort as well as
perfect service and delightful cuisine.
Having engaged the services of a chef who was 17
years at the Vienna Cafe, Melbourne —we are
supplying special luncheons, dinners and after-
noon teas superior to any Hotel in the Common-
wealth.
The Wentworth Orchestra is in attendance every even-
ing, and on all special occasions.
Reservations for supper should be received not later
than 8 p.m.
Telephone: City 1203, 1583.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (Sl chandon.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FE.SQ <Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
JEFFREY’S
SCOTCH LAGER
BREWED IN EDINBURGH
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 2G, 1915.
My Deal Arini, —
The Munro Ferguson visit lo the Hope
Osbornes’ sheep-run at Coolac came to an
end when his Ex. was summoned to sign his
name or something in Melbourne. Excel-
lency Helen came on to Sydney and again
put up with Miss Eaclith Walker at
Yaralla.
The patriotic show at the Agricultural
Ground stood out in a plethora of week-end
raids for the Cause. Hon. organisers
■'Snowy” Baker and 11. M. Somer gave the
public a big helping of sport for their cash.
The rain which flirted round at noon kept
Away. In spite of a soft, spongy take-off
for the high jump, this event was up to the
average. Dolly Fogg and Myra Smith, very
trim in divided coats, sat astride their
hunters in the New Girl manner. But a
bit of old Satan, or perhaps a dash of
caution, animated their mounts. The gee-
gees were quite affable until the hurdle had
reached a certain height. After that,
Balaam’s ass was their model in deportment.
They looked at the timber, and even smelt it.
Over it they would not budge. At the
normal six feet or thereabouts Bandolier and
Sunstar (owned by Mr. Judd) carried their
ladies in sporting style. A colored rider,
who gave a sleek black hunter a trial sprint
at one of the high hurdles, sat down sud-
denly on the wet sod. But he cleared the
obstacle at the second effort. Loud applause.
G.-G. Ferguson, very jovial in khaki, came
along with Lady Helen. Even the great
are not without their minor sorrows. His
Ex.’s Gladstone collar —of a smaller size than
those the famous William used to bandage
his throat in—suffered from an insufficiency
of starch, and took a most unmilitary lurch
under one ear. Her Ex., faithful to cherry-
colored ostrich plumes, was snugly sheltered
in a black velvet coat, worn over a frock in
the same lively shade as her top-hamper,
Help Fane looks a sick man still, and his
slim wife is a mere wraith compared with
our upstanding Australian Amazons. Gov-
ernor Strickland, with a helping from the
vice-regal kindergarten, had Aide Pasco and
the Hunter’s Hill mountaineer, d’Apice, at
his heels. The Strickland lady enjoyed an
unbroken view of the sports from her chaise,
where the Munro Ferguson dame presently
shared her rug and carriage seat.
In the official stand was the Jap Consul-
General, who was inadvertently mislaid for
a time. When the teacups tinkled in the
sacred enclosure where Governors and poli-
ticians nibble plunvcake together, a hurried
deputation dashed up to the retiring Shimizu
to lead him forward into the official splendor
of the point-lace tea-tables.
The trotting duet between Mrs. Emslie
and a man in khaki showed the woman rider
to advantage. Bareheaded, with a short
white coat over her dark skirt, this fine
horsewoman sits forward astride in a Tod
Sloan attitude, and gets a wonderful pace
out of her hack.
The Muuro-Ferguson lady is one of the
fleet footed, and she went to her tremendous
tasks at the double last week. In the
absence of Himself —recalled to Melbourne
for a day—she delivered some wise remarks
at the Scots College. The occasion was the
airing of a new set of class-rooms. The
wisdom lay in reproving the traditional
British snub that lies in waiting for the
inventor and man of science. “Our indif-
ference,” said she, “is perhaps why Ger-
many is where it is to-day, instead of being
pushed back on to its own territory.” The
ascetic-looking Professor Mclntyre was in
charge of the welcome.
Apropos of the Scots’ College, Dr. Jessie
Aspinall, a daughter of the former prin-
cipal, is now Mrs. A. W. Freeman. The
wedding is about a month old. Husband —
a mining engineer—is a brother of the gal-
lant young Captain who was killed in the
first rush on Gallipoli. Hence the silence
which surrounded the ceremony.
Governor Strickland took his young daugh-
ters to the Chamber of Commerce the other
morning, to see the things we used to buy
from Germany—and will again, unless a tariff
stops us. One table was draped with the
cheap stocking that deceived the pre-war
bargain-hunter. It looked so fine and lacy,
but it wore out in record time in holes big
enough to step straight through. On
another section were the artificial flowers
sold for their violent colors and low prices.
German knltur never exnressed itself, in the
artistic French or Italian manner. Even
the table stacked with enemy toys showed
the coarser methods of Kaiser land in the
grotesque pictures on the boxes of games.
In the perfumery department they made a
bold bid for the female purse. Less deli-
cate than the French or best English goods,
here again the Germans supplied articles
that Australia might beat out of sight if
it had as much application and the same
kind of protection at the Customs. In the
matter of household and kitchen goods the
ITuns had a big pull. This was their best
suit and they played their cards to take
every trick. Comparatively few women
have visited the Chamber of Commerce show.
As local dames have been banding them-
selves together to do Dreadful things to
enemy goods, they ought to step into the
Commerce parlor this week.
And when they come out they might ask
themselves if it really matters whether the
goods are made at Stuttgart or Timbuctoo.
The thing that really does matter is that
they should be made in Australia; or, if
they can’t be made in Australia, then in
Britain. Twenty-five years ago Australia
was saying “France is the enemy—we
mustn’t buy things from France.” So we
bought things from Germany instead —and
made Germany great. There’s only one
country we can afford to make great. Our
own Country.
Grenville Miller, the mild, youngish man
who was Private Sec. to Governor Rawson,
is somewhere in the North Sea just now.
He is the official nib on the staff of H.M.S.
(say) Woolloomooloo. Miller, who mar-
ried Clara McKay, a relative of the Knox
family, which deals in sugar and acid, was
on Admiral Poore’s clerical staff for a while.
He had the luck, by the way, to be on a
ship that took part in the Falkland Islands
battle.
The arrival of the soldiers who were
wounded and those who were merely “re-
turned” by the authorities, was full of
minor humors. The "disciplinary cases”
looked as heroic as they could —stuck a hand
inside their noble vests or limped slowly
along the station, giving the Bed Cross
ladies the idea that here was plenty _of
material to purr over. A hard-hearted citi-
zen, who watched the excited dames take on
the importance of field-marshals and dash
at the “disciplinary” hard-cases, says the
situation was Gilbertian. However, the
genuine brand of hero was eventually sal-
vaged from the wastage and sent to the
Randwick hospital; and the Bed Cross ladies
bustled out to offer their sympathy and a
vacuum cleaner.
Adrian Stephen, the Sydney lawyer who
has the miqyobe that drives a man to write
drama, took a sheaf of his playlets to
London. He went there primarily, of course,
to get into the firing line—a fairly easy thing
for those who are built that way—and was
recently at the Front with a commission in
the Itoyal Field Artillery.
Australia Day this week makes a purple
patch in the useful drab of Bed Cross meet-
ings. Martin-place will be, for that great
event, such a market-garden as Sydney does
not grow in ordinary times. Here, one feels,
is the germ of something which the average
housekeeper may yet call blessed —some
central place where, armed with anything
from a string bag to a wheelbarrow navi-
gated by her juvenile Hope, she may buy
fruit or vegetables in the Continental man-
ner. Hedged by convention, Materfamilias
is as yet helpless in the hands of the itiner-
ant hawker. On Friday only mounted
police will be able to tear her away from the
glut of green feed in the neighborhood of the
post office.
Miss Bud Neill, daughter of a former Syd-
ney banker, is back here after much gadding
about. On Australia Day she will have a
fine stand in Castlereagh-street, nearly oppo-
site the Theatre Royal. Among the myriad
other helpers are two nurses who came home
with the Kyarra wounded, and are making
themselves thus useful before bustling back
to active service.
Three cheers to be given for the Allies
and ourselves on July 30 will again congest
the traffic outside the Town Hall. The item
might well have been cut out. On Belgian
Day it made for nothing but infuriated
language and the loss of peggy-bags.
The woolbuyers’ evening at the Wentworth
Hotel earned about £7OOO for the Red Cross.
Unfortunately for those who missed the fun
at this auction of a bale of wool and other
goods (Harry Ilolt, auctioneer), there were
other shows that evening. Some of those not
present, for instance, spent an icy-cold hour
or two in the Stadium, where the same cause
was being ministered to.
The United Charities’ Fund had its report
and balance-sheet well aired in the Town
Hall the other showery afternoon. As
spokesman, Governor Strickland handed out
small envelopes, with cheques to match ; for
the Charities suffered badly in their last
street collection from the clash of war.
Archbishop Wright, who has a cosy dimple
in his chin, made a few remarks. Tom
Hughes, M.L.C., goaded those present to
consider the urgency of the cry of the
smaller charities which have been almost
suffocated by the mountainous war. And
then Archdeacon D’Arcy Irvine told the
company of Tconversation he had just had
with an informative fowl, which had
whispered him that ins Ex. had to
hurry off. So the meeting grabbed
its umbrellas and stampeded; and a
pretty damsel behind a large white
fish-net veil gathered up any balance-sheets
left over, and put them away for Sunday
reading.
Her Majesty’s on Australia Day will over-
flow with a matinee that threatens to con-
tinue into next week. Something will liap-
pen, of course, to prevent the tail of the
programme getting involved with Sunday
morning’s church bells. But, even so, those
who have given five guineas for a stall will
get an awful lot for their cash.
Having torn most of her clothes off her
back for Belgian Day (I allude, of course, to
the outer shell of coney seal) Woman has
now come down to mere pearls and diamond
pendants. Florence Young parted with a
neck ornament which was aft-unioned at the
Town Hall the other day. Any lady who
happens to own a diamond tiara she lias no
further use for can communicate with the
Martin-place market ladies. They will cheer-
fully dispose of it, or a pound of butter and
a sucking pig, on strict!} 7 business lines.
At last week’s concert in aid of the Hob-
i.icp fnr Hip Dviilv Dolores samr her best,
But the night was wet, and the audience had
cold feet, and the atmosphere was against
the booming success of the auction. Henri
Staell, bringing a caged canary on to the
Town Hall platform, looked as if he feared
the worst. Yet the tiny songster brought
£11; and a very fluffy puppy, with its legs
giving way under it (stage fright, I sup-
pose), fetched about nine guineas.
mi ATT ,-,1 . . „ i. |,u.„
Ihe Womens Club
course j between the bridge pai ties ot the
Queen s Club and the _pohtical erne tions
the Queen \ lclona eyne for Right-1 hi k g
unaccustomed plunge into Beer. Mrs. David
ping up a new following for the Temperance
Cause. But youths in khaki, staggering
from one city pub to another, seem to need
the military rod more than the female rliet-
oric. It used to be a terrific offence for
anything in uniform to be found in a con-
dition to see two lamp-posts where the lamp-
lighter could discover only one. There is
slack discipline somewhere-—a slackness
which Justice Rich has already noted.
... , . . , , ,
G.-G. rerguson and _ his lady sand-
Wiched a trip to the .Tenis Lay Naial Col-
lege between the beginning and the end of
their recent N.S.A\. scampei.
The news that a native bear will chew
gum-leaves on Australia Day in the Mav-
oress’s Town Hall stall is supplemented by
the intelligence that a crow and other Aus-
tralian trophies mav be secured at the same
acldress. I don’t think there’s anything you
won’t be able to buy in Sydney that day.
Foremost in the little group of women
who have toiled steadily for nearly a year
for genuine Red Cross needs is Mrs. Danger
Owen. Untrumpeted—for she is no adver-
tiser—this slender streak has used up her
tireless energy, and has so worn herself that
some day she’ll glide through a Town Hall
keyliole. '
Dr. Hankins, who used to have a brass-
plate in this hamlet, lias been saying good-
bye to old pals here. A while ago, as a
widower, he went back to England and mar-
ried the sweetheart of his youth. But the
fates sent a motor accident to upset the new
Mrs. Hankins’s desire for travel. So he
returned alone and took his stethoscope to
Warwick (Q.). As the lady wants to go on
living under an English umbrella, hubby
packed up again and left last week.
.... Ax , . . __ •
A lolet Day (Aug. lo) will follow Aus-
tralia Day like a small postcript. Its pur-
pose is to claw more cash in for the Soldiers
Club. Dr. Mary Booth has stirred up the
Guls Realm to lend its aid. The Cit}
Council has given the lady bandits peinns-
sion to go ahead and rob tame citizens
linit, floweis, bands and eiystallised violet
—succulent joys boiled in sugar—are to be
(a llies o n ai. ».
Greatly daring, the Aits and Eiafts
Society has arranged a_ special _ note of
interrogation for August <. At this gather-
mg, 9: notifies all and sundry, membeis ca
ask any questions they, choose. As the
society is chiefly feminine, a cataract of
conundrums may be expected.
AT -* r +- * - r>,ii f a nc ,f« n
A Juvenile Matinee Ball tor the Austi a-
ha Day Fund is timed tor August o at the
Town Hall. Ethel Turner Curlewis las
written a song for the party, and the kid-
dms in the Seven Little Australians Co.
will warble it in tlieir best treble. Claude
Bantock is going to wear the petticoats of
Mrs. Jarley, of immortal waxworks fame;
and the Hooper ballets will be devoured at
ease during the afternoon.
Lister-Listers big c ‘<™vas> “Loading the
duiker, is going to find an m.nei at ha .
crown. The winner of this raffle—-one ol
19,413 now in progress-lias this advantage:
there is a buyer of the half-crown s woith of
bush scenery for £2oO. ihe Education De-
partment will pay that money for it, and
hand it over to the National •
the winner happens to be the lord ol a sub-
ui ban palace, he may have room to house
the acreage himself; in that case,, he maj
keep it. There is no obligation to sell.
Louise Mack varies her story of the inva-
sion 0 f Belgium with a good deal of naive
ingenuity. On Saturday night, after a brisk
canter through her passports, etc., she dis-
mounted for her best anecdote. This is the
narrative of her service as a Belgian peasant
washing up in an Antwerp restaurant, where
she watched the German spies fall upon the
necks of their friends the invaders,
Young Wmekler, a brother of artist Ruby,
has been badly wounded. Ihe bullet took a
track through his shoulder; nevertheless he
is likely to be up and at ’em again later on.
Ruby, by the way, recently sent her proud
father a book from Boston, which repro-
duced her charming cobweb illustrations for
a new “Arabian Nights.”
Westralia has done this country and its
women the injustice of capturing an overseas
blue-stocking, Miss Macdonald Clark, for its
Training College at Ojaremont. The new
school mann is LL.A. of St. Andrew s Uni-
versity and ALA- and Heaven knows what
morei of Edinburgh.. In fact, she: appeals t)
be almost as well qualified foi tlie job a..
score or two of mere Austialian w< v
would, no doubt, be very glad o ,it. She
said to be resuming lici studies (piesun
ably in gunnery) in lianee befoie sailm*
i°f Westralia.. .
Amid the fierce rattle of knitting-needles
a few mild suburban joys are still to be
chronicled. Who at such a time can remain
unmoved when the Home Reading Union
polishes its spectacles? Mrs. Ralston, a
eutra j Bay enthusiast on Culture, will
Se £ e Augist.^^While” cwdiimiw S mort?is
, domesti habits b f Henry VIII.
1 “ * : . „ T>-%1
-Die Stadium enteitaimm nt for t e Lid
Cross introduced a Queensland abongines
turn to a large audience. Chaperoned by a
white gentleman with flowing locks, the
native company scrambled on to the plat-
form. Only one of our black brothers could
be accused of redundancy. A wavy toque
fuzzy stuff and a little drapery cn suite
were quite inadequate to disguise Ins gener-
ous enrv( j S . The rest of the party can be c’on-
gratulated on having the fashionable figure,
gucb ]ean B ij boue ttes only required last
season’s eelskin skirts to drive Darling Point
i n t o an ecstasy of dry husks and lemon tea.
The blackfellows’ shadowy frames were fear-
fudy and wonderfully daubed with colored
ocbr e, but their corroboree was a strict!y-
edited, Sunday-school volume. Nearly £OOO
; s expected to result from the evening’s
show.
A patient bulldog permitted himself to
be towed round St. James’s Hall the other
afternoon. He belonged to the raffle depart-
ment of a Sale of Everything. The James
Graham dame having said one-two-three,
the well-organised raid began. Ham and
eggs, with the pathetic trussed legs of pre-
pared poultry, tempted desperate housewives
t° replenish tlieir larders. Ihe average
larder, 1 may mention, lias been so begged
°J’ stolen from that Mrs. Suburbs is real >
gDd of an excuse to buy something for her
°wn starving family. The private hospital
staffs combined to run this successful show.
Cecil Donne, a son oi the 1. E. Donn
w^lo S ave ie YLU lourist Office so vigoious
a push some years ago, is lion, deiital sur-
goon of the Dominions Auxiliary Hospital
afc AAalton-on-lliames. Mount Telix is
described as a roomy country house standing
j n 20 acres of park land overlooking the grey
o]d Thames. Dr. Bernard Myers, another
vinorilander is to be in charge
* Mrg ‘ Ber ; ard Newmarch. of' North Syd-
ney wb o i iag be en nursing Tommy Kangaroo
• Bgypt, lias bad some painful excitement,
ghe ~J a ’ bitten by au early-Egyptian mon-
grej and as a precautionary measure was
| ent ’ to Cairo for tbe p as tenr treatment.
Thank goodness, the State schools’ sports
wd j ao f OCCUI . on Friday. Those who sur-
yive tb e thousand-and-one temptations to
gpend tb eir uttermost farthing will struggle
to gee tbe youngsters at the Sydney
Ground on Saturday,
Skirts have been short during the last tew
weeks, hut tucks will have to be let down
be £ ore | be north-easter comes along. The
gigbt of a ] ar g e dame with the hem of her
w i n ter-dress well above the tops of her high
boot CRn be borne now. But the same
gbortage on a mus li n frock with a brisk
w - nd . gend i n g it over the lady’s millinery,
Woldd be something to tremble at.
y Mfeotionatelv
louis affectionate},
VANDORIAN.


a
3?
Q
©
UOSptlff-MdfsJ
FIT FOR THE HEAVYWEIGHT CLASS.
Though very light this machine is
of “full strength" and is a
thoroughly reliable and efficient
solo mount for any man.
It is sturdy and handsome, and
combines handiness with undoubted
high-grade workmanship and finish.
Its simplicity of construction ren-
ders this model easy to control—
any novice can handle it with all
confidence.
To low first cost is added remark-
able economy of up-keep—one
gallon of petrol runs it well over
100 miles. Fitted with 2-stroke
Engine capable of developing great
power, countershaft 2-speed gear,
and ehain-cum-belt Drive. Gear
changes are easily arid noiselessly
effected —the machine is thoroughly
up-to-date on all points.
£57/10/-
CASH
F. 0.8.
SYDNEY.
(*
\S
You should really call in and see
this machine in our showrooms—
Friday nights we remain open till
nine o’clock. Ask for Catalogue
No. 54. We are also showing the
new Military Model of the New
Hudson at £B5 cash, and would
like you to see this also. We are
proud of it.
If you cannot call we will send you
FREE our New Motor-cycle and
Side-car Catalogue No. 54, a
beautifully printed and illustrated
publication worth having.
We recommend Wells' Oil for all
Motor-cycles—“ Every drop Per-
fect.” Also Bates’s No. 1 Non-skid
Super Rubber Motor-cycle Covers
and Tubes.
BENNETT § BARKELL Ltd.
“THE HOUSE FOR BRITISH GOODS,”
Agents for New Hudson, Triumph, Rudge=Whitworth and Bat Motor Cycles,
J. A.P. Engines; and Manufacturers of B. & 8. Cycles & Motor Cycles,
124=132 CASILEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
£35.
£l3 10 0
£l2.
£33.
v i i
a *'
£l7.
£23.
HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED,
VICE-REGAL
h
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
DIAMOND RINGS
Hardy Bros., Ltd., have a choice selec-
tion of beautiful Diamond Rings of
varied design on view in their Show-
rooms. All the stones are of the finest
quality, and are mounted in all plati-
num and 18ct. gold.
Special Ring List and finger size card
forwarded on application.
SHOWROOMS :
13 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
116-118 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
LONDON AGENCY:
32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET W.
~n
) i
,3
'■V4
t \
/
%
Youthful
Figure Lines!
EaSc in
Any Position!
The beauty of WARNER'S CORSETS lies not
only in their appearance—the material and general
.finish of which are undeniably of the first grade—
but also in the exquisite ease and comfort afforded
while moulding the figure to graceful proportions*
Every Pair GUARANTEED Not
to Rust. Break or Tear. Any
unsatisfactory will be replaced.
ffii/vierj (onsets
STOCK SIZES.
Prices from 14/6
Crowley Dress Models
are really economical when you consider the amount of material
they save which would otherwise he cut to waste. They are
really a boon when you consider the inconvenience and annoy-
ance you are saved, and the facility with which you can fit
your frocks. The price will surprise you; the comfort will
delight you.
Come in and inspect, or Ring City 7918 for particulars.
C. CROWLEY & SONS,
5 Queen Victoria Markets,
George Street, SYDNEY.
“HERSELF AND CHILDREN.”
“ The mixture I make from Hean’s
Essence has proved the best and
cheapest cough and cold medicine I
have ever tried. Myself and children
have all been cured with it from heavy
colds.” —Mrs. Thompson, Nelson’s
Bay, N.S.W.
Mrs. Thompson's experience will be
repeated in your home whenever you try
Hean’s Essence, the great money-saving
cough, cold and sore throat remedy. One
bottle makes a pint and saves io/- for your .
pocket. v At chemists or stores, or post free
on receipt of price, 2/-, from G. W. Hean,
Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Be sure you get H-E-A-N-'S. 4.15
For PATRIOTIC DISPLAYS
HIRE YOUR COSTUME EROM
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY
COSTUME CO.
whose characters are handsomely and completely
finished in every detail, whether dressed for FANCY-
DRESS BALLS, OPERAS, PLAYS, AMATEUR
THEATRICALS, CARNIVALS, or CHILDREN’S
FAIRY PLAYS.
Ladies’ Hairdressing and all kinds of hair work,
wigs, beards, moustaches, grease-paint, and make-up
material at
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO.,
1.0.0. F. Temple, Elizabeth Street
(opposite Mark Foy’s), SYDNEY.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OE
Q U E E N SUANI). MATRIMONIAL
JURISDICTION. Mr. Justice Chubb.
No. 202 of 1915.
Between JEAN MADELENE MARTYN
Plaintiff and HENRY HERBERT
MARTYN, Defendant.
To the abovenamed Defendant, Henry
Herbert Martyn.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on
the seventh day of July, 1915, commenced
against you and that the plaintiff by her
petition and writ .of summons claims a
dissolution of her marriage with you and the
custody of the child of the said marriage
and FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the
Court has by order dated the fourteenth day
of July, 1915, authorised service of the said
Petition and writ of summons on you by the
insertion of this notice once in the Brisbane
Courier, Daily. Mail, the Toowoomba
Chronicle, Darling Downs Gazette, and
the Sydney Bulletin newspapers INI)
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that you are
required within thirty days from the publica-
tion of the last of the said advertisements
inclusive of the date of such advertisement to
cause an appearance to be entered for you at
the Registry of the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Brisbane and that in default
of your so doing the Plaintff may proceed
with this action and judgment may be given
against you in your absence.
Dated this 19th day of July. 1915.
(1.5.) W. A. DOUGLAS, Registrar.
Wonderley & Hall, Solicitors for Plaintiff.
Toowoomba. Brisbane Agents: Morris
Fletcher & Jensen, Solicitors. P>i •ishrmn


WRISTLET
50/-
WATCHES
We would suggest that one of these Watches would make a most
pleasing and practical souvenir for friend or relative off to the
Front.
The Regulation Military Wristlet Watch, as illustrated, is a
very Reliable Timekeeper. In Sterling Silver or G unmetal Case-
The hands and figures are of luminous composition which
enables the wearer to see the time as well by night as by day.
The Watch is enclosed in Solid Leather Wristlet Strap, with pro-
tecting cover which fastens with clasp.
Please quote No. FR37 when ordering.
Price 50 -, Carriage Paid.
SO
ny
FK37
FASMEK’S
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets.
SYDNEY.
HATS, BLOUSES, FROCKS, etc.
PAULINE et CIE
(3rd Floor, Denison House, George St., Sydney),
Announce that they have received and are now
showing their latest models for Spring and
Summer.
Missing rrieiuls.
JABEZ BEDFORD, DECEASED.
~VT ESTOR BEDFORD (a son of the
JLI above-named), who emigrated to Aus*
tralia many years ago, and who was last
heard of in Melbourne in 1910, is requested
to communicate at once with Mr. F. W.
Livesey, Solicitor, 16 John Dalton Street,
Manchester, England.
ARNOTTS
N ew Delicacies
FOR
Afternoon Tea
“CRISS-CROSS” “KIDDIES”
“ORANGE SLICE”
& “ROYAL CROWN” BISCUITS
Baked by Arnott!
Sure to be good!
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, July 2G, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
There is amiable rivalry between the
wives of the G.-G. and the State Governor
in the way of good Imperial works. The
bun of greater merit looks like going to
Lady Stanley. The M.F. lady has plumped
steadily all along for the Red Cross, which
originally sent Susie’s sewing to English
soldiers. Then the opposition suddenly put
its money on an “appeal for wounded Aus-
tralian soldiers.” The thing was an unwit-
ting master-stroke. The other benefactress’s
efforts were pushed right out of the lime-
light. The modest little Stonington person-
age awoke to find herself billed and photo-
graphed and advertised in every town and
country paper like a new theatrical star.
The Stanleys’ recent party for the mem-
bers of the Victorian Red Cross executive
committee (which consists of weighty men
of business and war) reminds me of a
story. One afternoon a matron of the in-
quiring-chook species got mixed in her
numerous patriotic meeting dates. She
transpired at Government House and asked
the butler if the meeting was on. The
wretched fellow said “Yes,” and led her to a
curtained doorway. She bustled inside and
found a serious conclave of elderly men, in
tl\e posture of responsible citizens who are
settling the affairs of a nation. Did they
throw things at her or give her in charge
for intrusion? No! The Governor* ad-
vanced with a surprised but polite smile.
He offered his patrician hand, which she
took and waggled in an embarrassed man-
ner. The Empire-savers rose as one man,
and offered her the best chair. • Someone
rang for tea, and when the interloper had
been thoroughly soothed, she was parcelled
up for despatch by an aide and put in a
taxi. It was a pleasing interlude amid the
grim realities of war. I have not heard
what happened to the erring butler. Pro-
bably he was beheaded. But these military
punishments are always censored.
Reverting to the Stanley partv, it was
necessarily a solemn function. As an offset
to a surplusage of Importance the women’s
party dresses were all that is frivolously
beautiful. Lady Stanley looked adorable,
not to say heavenly, in Paradise blue silk
veiled with fine gold lace. Her sleeves hung
wide and long, like those of Henry. VIII.’s
time, and there was patterned black crepe
de chine swathed round in drapings some-
where in the design. Some quaint old
Florentine jewels, with emeralds and pearls
in the settings, added to the glory, the
emerald earrings being most fascinating.
The Madden dame in black and Mrs. Pea-
cock in black and white led the fashion of
dark frocking all round the room, though a
University, matron wore old gold satin" and
old gold lace, and Roma Clarke was in a
gorgeously-colored frock. Miss Ada Army-
tage was in black. There were also some
Grimwade dames and a Baillieu in black.
The party lasted decorously from 8.30 till
10, with a dignified divergence from talk
to the consumption of food. The new aide
with the large, lustrous eves looked. I
thought, a shade peevish. It may be that
he is finding the life less thrilling than that
at the Front. Di Gilio and his minions
played in the shadowy gallery of the hall
like hidden angels; and the wild flowers
and heath—specially ordered, on patriotic
grounds, from Mrs. Murray’s shop—pro-
duced a fine decorative effect.
How the'Gilds are changing, to be sui’c!
I have just met one of ancient lineage and
vast wealth rushing down Collins-street with
a billy in her hand. “Soup-stock to heat
up for the recruits,” she explained breath-
lessly. “I made it yesterday and skimmed
the fat off this morning. Mrs. Horribly-
Fashionable is waiting for me now at the
Depot. The Vacuum Oil people have lent
her a stove and supplied the oil.” And she
fled on, leaving me aghast.
Matron Tait, of the Melbourne Hospital,
is being badgered to death by inexperienced
young things who want to come into the
hospital and be got ready to nurse
returned soldiers. She has grown weary
of explaining that nurses of a few
months’ experience are useless for special
cases; also that an influx of more
than the regulation number of trainees
disturbs the whole delicate system of hospi-
tal management. She tvishes it to be known,
however, that she can use hundreds of
helpers when the rush comes. It would
be of incalculable value to her to have the
names and abodes of helpers whom she could
call upon when necessai’y. But it would
not be their job to nurse patients. They
would just do odd, but none the less useful,
jobs—mending, sorting linen, rolling band-
ages, and so on.
A few favored maidens have been taken
in ; they were called upon as vacancies hap-
pened in the ordinary routine. One of the
Grice girls got her summons in the middle of
a dinner party. She had to report on duty
(with full kit ready) at six o’clock the next
morning. Her name had been on the list
for ages, and she had begun to forget there
was a hospital in existence. Admiral
Bridges’s niece got in early and now is up
to her neck in the joyous business of scrub-
bing wards and washing Chinamen —the in-
variable work of the new chum. Any leis-
ured women following Mrs. Deakin’s appeal
for volunteers for work can enter their
names at the Central Depot. If they are
prepared to be taken on to help in hospital
toil, their names will be sent on from the
Central Depot to the Hospital.
I have been told of a wealthy man who
is condemned to life in a hash-house as a
punishment for wedding an undomesticated
woman ; and mother has reared a daughter
to “take after her.” He went off like a
bomb when the two ladies asked to be
allowed to go to the war and get work —
“any work.”
The Kennel Club show, whose pi-oceeds go
to (he Red Cross, occurred in the Exhibition
Building. Donald Mackinnon, as president,
showed the notabilities round, specialising,
if anything, in Governors. The latter, with
their respective wives, marched resolutely
through the sawdust and the din and made
polite signs of approval. Ordinary speech
was, of course, impossible, and the thought-
less aides had forgotten somehow to bring
the family megaphones. There was an official
luncheon party behind the Cats section,
which is less uproarious and smellful than
the Dog area.
Mrs. Elliot swept the board in her own
line. A field-spaniel, by name Bonny Bobby,
won her the Wavenor trophy of twenty
guineas. Mrs. J. E. Chubb’s black-and-tan
terriers were victorious on every side. Mrs.
Waters (in a lovely blue toque) put in some
masterly work with her imported Poms. So
did Miss Brown, but she was taken very i’ll
at the opening ceremony and had to he
removed in an ambulance. She is still at
St. Vincent’s Hospital near by. Her special
little Pom got a blue ribbon, though. Mrs.
David Syme, who has some wonderful Aus-
tralian terriers, was very much missed,
She was seriously ill—too much so to even
think about her beloved dogs—when I last
heard of her. Till a fortnight ago Mrs.
Syme was as active as any of her numerous
daughters-in-law. Then one low-ebb day
she was seized with a heart attack. So far,
however, her Scotch vitality has kept her
going.
Theodore Fink has been hard hit by the
death in action of his son Gordon. The young
man was athletic, bi-ainy and artistic, and
it was a sideways ending of a good Aus-
tltalian. In temperament he resembled the
recently-deceased barrister Wolfe Fink, one
of the kindliest men this side of the Line.
Geelong is chuckling again. Of course
everybody knows that Geelong is never
really awake. But, says the good-tempered
township, what odds —we can win the Y.G.
in our sleep! Young Jacka, the one Aus-
tralian to _ thus far get the gx*eat prize at
Gallipoli, is a Geelong youngster. Worse
still, he is a policeman’s child; and you
know how dull policemen are. And, worst
of all, he has always worked for the State;
and you know what the Government stroke
does for a man. This young Jacka, being
left in a trench by himself, killed all the
Turks who attacked it—shot five and
bayonetted two. If he had been born of
other parents in a really live town and had
been brought up differently he might have
done something unpleasant to those seven
Turks.
Howard Leon, lately in practice at
Torrensyille (S.A.), is going as an A.M.C.
officer to the Front, or as near as he can get
to it. His father is the ancient and massive
Sam Leon. K.C., Victorian Crown Prose-
cutor, a glance at whose large and piercing
eye and fiercely Roman nose has put the fear
of the law into many a wobbling witness for
the defence during the several decades of his
Victorian bar-practice.
Nigel Prichard (brother of- Katherine,
who raked in Hodder and Stftughton’s prize
for her first novel) is bound for the Front
and Glory. .Before leaving he got his medi-
cal degree.,
William Borwick, who used to teach viti-
culture to the youths at Dookie, is also leav-
ing for the customary address. He is a
brother of Leonard, the “poet-pianist.”
Lieutenant de la Poer Beresford, killed
in action in France last month, was a
grandson of the late Warrington Rogers,
K.C., Acting Judge in Victoria. Laura
Rogers married Lieutenant de la Poer
Beresford, R.N., and the dead soldier was
their son.
Reggie Power, who has been cursing at
his inability to get away for the last six
months, has now swept up the ravages
worked by the di-ought on his sheep-run, and
is leaving for the seat of trouble. He de-
parts with his wife early next month.
Eustace Miller, better known to his inti-
mates as EsrnA son of handsome Mrs.
Edward Miller, has just received a commis-
sion in the Grenadier Guards. He was
known to fame in this city chiefly .
kaiserish moustache, his nimble wit, and h a
dislike of anything bucolic. I d° n t fV, 1 . ®
he has shorn a sheep, or milked, or killed a
pig for years.
Frank Carse, whose mother was a lal-
kiner (and hence rich), is oil: to the war. me
British authorities want some experienced
gunners to serve as instructors, and r rank
is one of the chosen.
A color note from a girl at Alexandria
Just opposite is the house of the Sultans cousin.
The approach fascinates me. A long drive; on each
side lovely acacia trees and date palms; a thick
hedge of scarlet hibiscus; then wide marble steps
leading up to the palace. The small son of the
house is coming down the drive dressed in a white
Jersey suit, white tarboosh, white socks and strap
black shoes. Singing “Tipperary.” Servants in
many-colored robes. Now one of “the' ladies” comes
into the picture. She wears a black, nun-like cloak ;
a white, very thin chiffon yasniak; high-heeled
French shoes ; and carries a royal blue umbrella.
The Sultan arrived on May 23 to spend the sum-
mer here. The town was en fete. Right from
the station to the palace at Ras-el-tin there were
beautiful arches of welcome, and in between Vene-
tian poles, from which hung gold baskets filled with
bougainvillea creeper in gorgeous shades of purple
and pink. From every window along the Rue Cherif
Pasha, flags of the Allies waved ; and with them the
Egyptian flag, the new one, scarlet with three white
crescents on it. The crowds were kept back by police
on white chargers; their uniforms of white, with
gold belts, black riding boots and scarlet fez, looked
very smart.
The Sultan’s bodyguard surrounds him closely—a
magnificent lot of men, riding with the horses’ noses
nearly touching him. Since the attempt on his life
at Cairo they guard him jealously. The procession
went past at a hand-gallop, with the Yeomanry
(British) bringing up the rear and winning the most
cheers from natives and foreigners alike.
I got this last week :
Mr. T. Geo. Ellery, the Town Clerk-elect of Mel-
bourne, accompanied by Mrs. Ellery, arrived in Mel-
bourne by the express on Sunday. They are staying at
Menzies for the present. Mr. Ellery will commence
bis new duties on August 1.
It is as well that Melbourne should know,
even before the grim reality of town-clerking
begins, that Mr. Ellery is no blithe, hello-
old-man type of official.
A new scheme for raising Red Cross cash
has been started in Christchurch by Mrs.
Rhodes. The idea is for the knitting sex
to make a scarf for Queen Mary, no one
to knit more than a single row and to pay
a mere shilling for the privilege. Her Ex.
of Maorilaiul is to knit the first row, and
then the scarf is to start and keep going
at a shilling a row until it is finished.
Everyone who has a hand in it will write
her name and address in a book. When
the affair that keeps out the cold is finished
it will be forwarded to the Queen with the
books of signatures, and her Majesty will
be asked to hand the warmth to her son
at the Front. The best point about the
idea is that the wool to be used was grown
and tcoven in Maoriland. The worst com-
plaint the scheme is afflicted with is the
charge for having a cut. It might have
been a guinea a row and kept the lad just
as comfortable.
Maud Grantham is to give a concert in aid
of Australia’s wounded at the Assembly
Hall, in Collins-street, some time next
month ; and Hall Gye has promised to contri-
bute black-and-white work to the cause. The
tabernacle next Scots’ Church is a pretty
little hall, which is working up a concert-
business connection in spite of its name.
The Fairbairn ball for children —due on
the last night of July—seems to be working
up well. The latest helper is Grace Palotta,
who will lead the children in a grand march,
singing “Oh, Listen to the Band.”
Mr. and Mrs. Phillips Fox are preparing
hundreds of gum leaves with little sketched
designs for sale on Australia Day. Handled
in the best possible business way, the pic-
torial gum leaf should be a first-class seller.
The Oriental Hotel is doing its bit for
Australia Day, and the bit takes the shape
of an after-theatre supper-party.
The Amy Castles concert on August 11
promises to be a tremendous affair. All
the Governors, their women folk and the
Church are to be there.
Conductor Laver and the professional
players who have volunteered their services
expect a good financial result from the
Orchestral concert in aid of the Wounded
Soldiers’ Fund at the Town Hall next Satur-
day afternoon. The hall is given free, and
an enthusiastic concert-goer opened the plan
by booking 10 seats at £5 each. A fine body
of players from the Musicians’ Union are
rehearsing selections from English, French,
Russian and Italian orchestral works—just
to show that music doesn’t begin and end in
“Gott’s own country.”
Florence Ilodway is now painting Mrs.
George Armstrong, Melba’s good-looking
daughter-in-law. Florence’s portrait of Melba,
which is reproduced as a frontispiece in the
‘Gift Book,” is a fine effort, notwith-
standing that Melba proved a difficult model.
Berenice Edwell will give an exhibition of
miniatures and sketches in the Centreway
from the 3rd to the 17th August. Lady
Stanley will see the portrait of her
daughter Pamela, for the first time, at the
private view.
Grace Palotta has gone into the Clapp
sisters’ business. If she makes clothes as
well as she wears them she should be a gain
to the firm.
Commander Cornellie, he of the twirling
moustaches and bold blue eyes, writes from
Calais (9/6/’l5) : “My beautiful ship,
L’Avenir, is bound for Australia again, but
not with her former commander and cadets.
Her errand is to let Australian people see
that although we have fallen we are not
yet vanquished.” Cornellie and his Belgian
cadets are all in the fighting line.
Mrs. Masseran, the lady upon whom
Melbourne Sassiety depended to change its
figure every season, is in a French hospital
cooking for the patients. The latter are in
luck. Mrs. Masseran could distil ambrosia
out of an old boot when she was not making
fashionable figures out of lumps of fat.
From my Adelaide correspondent: —•
Mrs. Talbot Smith leaves by the Malwa next week.
You will remember that one of her sons was about
the first S. Australian to be killed at the Dardanelles,
and another is still there.
There was a monster recruiting meeting at Isling-
ton a day or so ago, when the men from the Govern-
ment Loco, works were addressed by the Governor,
Commissioner of Public Works Jackson, Colonel
Sandford and others. Meanwhile, one of those ex-
amples which are worth more than illimitable talk
is being set by Napier Birlcs, managing-director of
Charles Birks and Co. Although he is a married
man with a family he has elected to begin his mili-
tary career as a private in an Australian camp. His
ambition is to go to the Front as an Australian from
Australia. There is a less inspiring variety of
affluent Australian who prefers England and a com-
mission, and the likelihood of a pleasant job garri-
soning a county town. Another of the S. Australian
Birkses, Inspector of Agriculture in N. S. Wales, has
enlisted in that State.
There was an amateur show at the Theatre Royal
on Friday night in aid of the Red Cross and the
S.P.C.A. Grace Palotta was the only professional
who appeared. The dress-circle and stalls were
packed at 10s. 6d. and 6s. per head (mostly 10s.
6d.), and in the gallery you paid 3s. Everything
young and charming that wasn’t in the show was
selling things in front —sweets, devilled almonds,
flowers and programmes—and A. G. Fenner netted
just on £5OO by auctioning anything from a Teddy
Bear to an antique tea service. Lady Galway made
a speech from her box before the curtain went up.
News arrives of the death of Douglas Byard, of
Hahndorf, who was reported as missing .soon after
the Dardanelles landing. He was a son of Mr. and
Mrs. D. J. Byard, of Hahndorf, and a brother or
Mrs. Carew Reynell, whose husband is also at the
Dardanelles. The Frank Goodes’ son is severely
wounded.
The Mayor is still on the sick list, and his place
is being taken by Alderman Prosser.
A cable mentions that Baron Yon Bissing
is still uninterned in England ; though there
is an agitation on foot to have him run in,
and though lie has already been pushed in
and let out again once. Can this be the
fascinating Hun who flashed through Mel-
bourne a couple of years ago, creating an
aching void in many a maidenly heart when
lie left?
Sylvia, youngest daughter of the late
General Bingham, has become the wife of
an eligible Scotsman —Major Kennedy. The
pretty bride is a sister of Mrs. Tony Hor-
dern.
An echo of a cause celebre comes from the
marriage of Mrs. Ruby Wallace with one
William McGrath, an official in the Forestry
Department, Burma. After leaving these
shores the lady pursued a brief footlight
career at the London Gaiety Theatre.
The popular skipper of the Mongolia was
dined at a well-known cafe the other evening.
At about 9.30, while the revellers were
reminiscing hard on old college days,
the manager applied the move-on clause.
“But,” gasped one of the organisers
of the meal, “this is a caf'6, not
a pub—we don't want more fizz.”
After an awful pause the manager, more in
sorrow than in anger, asked the merrymakers
what consideration could be expected by a
dozen men whose wine bill fell short of £5
for the lot? Moral: Be careful where you
follow the King.
The Dowager-Imperial Armytage granch
mamma (forgive me if I have the title a little
wrong; but you will know whom I mean)
is returning. She was in a German eye-
hospital when the war broke out. There
is a story extant that her devoted grandson
Hugh, who is a British officer, went to
Germany to collect her, and managed to do
it without his identity being discovered.
Mrs. Purchase, wife of the Auckland man
who is Surgeon-Major in the A.M.C., re-
cently died of typhoid in Egypt. Having
been one of the early toilers at an Alex-
andria hospital, she was given a military
funeral.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


&
\
HV'v ■ r;,ws
r
'i
%
i
S'
\
H
«
«U
kill'.
n
>
%
o, 4
WWi
/
4
i e
Chen§>
«
is
!A
li
VI
ZMt,
\
r
u
Born 1820
-—still going
stror/g .
Johnnie Walker : “ What do they say ? ”
Bluejacket : “‘ In Splendid Condition —Still Going
Strong.’ Any reply ? ”
Johnnie Walker : “ Just say, ‘Same with me!”’
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillkus, KILMARNOCK.


GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
ijook, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish liver
and bowels.
Mother! Your child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy,” with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act natur-
ally, or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, re-
member, a gentle liver and bowel cleansing
should always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals “California Syrup of Figs”
for children’s ills; give a teaspoonful, and
in a few hours all the waste matter, sour bile
and fermenting food clogged in the bowels
pass out of the system, an’, you have a
healthy and playful child again. All chil-
dren love this harmless, delicious “fruit laxa-
tive,” and it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.” Directions for babies,
children of all ages and grown-ups are plainly
on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a bottle of “California Syrup of Figs,” then
look and see that it is made by the “Cali-
fornia Fig Syrup Company/’ Counterfeits
are being sold here. Refuse substitutes.
All leading chemists sell “California Syrup
of Figs,” 1/1$ and 1/9 per bottle.
ft
An Inspiring Tonic
the
’TOP NOTCH”
WHISKY
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Outcast”: Re “Lagani Namo” ai d
Papuan drums (B. 29/4/’l5). They are not all of
the hour-glass pattern by any means. The Bamu
River specimens are almost straight, and open out
at the end opposite the tympanum into two widely
divergent jaws, very reminiscent of the crocodile’s
mouth, which, in fact, they are made to represent.
The carvings on the body of the instruments are made
to represent the croc.’s scales. These drums are
very highly' prized, and are traded all through the
Fly and as far as the Torres Straits islands. The
famous long drums of the inland swamp-dwellers of
the Fly', which take one man to hold and another to
beat, are also straight and of the same ty'pe. Like
nine-tenths of the western inland drums, they are
topped with scraped kangaroo skin, not snake or
lizard skin. The Orokaivas of the North use for
certain dances a very small drum, about a foot long,
and the mountain folk of the same district don’t
use a drum at all, but a length of split bamboo.
THE SPORTING CHANCE.
COUNSEL: "Note, sir, as a sporting man,
would you bet the accused was not near
the house on that day?”
W ITNESS: “ Vell, yeh, I vould, if I got der
right odds aboud it.”
“R.T.N.”: If “Zaniia's” horses had been
broken in by niggers they would exhibit the same*
nervousness when first cauidit and handled by a white
man. It’s the “smell,” not the color, that they go
ty. I have frequently handled horses all day in a
dusty yard, and had them quite tractable. In th:
evening, after I had had a wash and a change, they
would be frightened of me till 1 had caught one and
got the horse smell on me again.
“Lagani Namo”: Between the Ply and
Bamu (Papua) I meandered into an obscure village.
An unusually big dubu house attracted me to spend
trade tobacco to gain entrance. Vatigi, they told
me, was the principal chief, and I had ready for him
a gay loin-cloth, mirror, tobacco and matches. The
interior of the dubu was so gloomy that I could
barely find my way between the cubicles, and there
seemed to be something ominous in the atmosphere.
My Kiwai “boy” and myself went cautiously side by
side until we’d penetrated about 60 yards, when day-
light filtered up through an exit in the floor. Then
we saw an elderly native bedaubed with purple and
yellow pigments, bedecked with scarlet hibiscus flow-
ers, a wealth of dog’s-teeth necklaces and pig’s tusks,
leaning back against a rack containing scores of
human skulls. I was face to face with Vatigi. He
stared stonily at me as I stepped forward to place my
presents on his knee. I asked why he had not come
to see us. He made no answer. Again I spoke to
him, and again there was no reply—-nothing except
ominous whisperings in the gloom. Then I knew
what had tingled my nostrils. It was dead man. As
I touched him he fell sideways, and my guide shouted
a warning and leaped through the exit in the floor.
As I dropped after him pandemonium cut loose, and
the way we bolted to the river and aboard the
schooner would have been a revelation to Jack Don-
aldson. In the hurry I forgot to ask what all the
fuss was about.
* * * *
“S.E.”: One Clouston, while prowling
about in the backblocks of the Nelson district
(M.L.) the other day, made a discovery that has set
all the naturalists of the country arguing. As quite
a. lot of the poultry that belongs to Maoriland had
not been seen for many years, the writers on bird lore
conveniently agreed that they were extinct. Lately
£BO was offered in Auckland for a pair of kakapos
—the big ground parrots that used to swarm on the
ranges. Clouston, who is an enthusiast in such
stock, found a great colony of the birds. With them
there were hundreds of the giant kiwi, a wingless
angel that was thought to have passed in its marble
some years ago. He also discovered a number of
smaller fry that are rare, and he brought back to
town a lot of specimens. One kakapo was 3ft. high.
The Government then did a thing that it had not
done in such a hurry for many a day. It at once
gazetted the place a sanctuary, so that the collector
and his shot-gun will be kept out. The discoverer ex-
plains that the place he found was ideal for the
birds, as some of the earth-worms were sft. long.
At time of writing the old controversy is raging as
to whether there may not be a stra.v moa or two in
some fastness.
*•**■*
“Boronia” : When the argument about the
length of vegetable roots was on the table I hadn’t the
limit handy. I now deposit it from the Yallingup
Caves, near Busselton (W.A.). It was about 4in. in
diameter, protruding from the centre of one of the
caverns. The guide informed me that the depth
from the surface of the hillside, under which the
caves are situated, to where the tendril makes its
appearance is 90ft., and from there to the floor 14ft.
This makes a length of 104 ft., and anything asserted
to be longer will have 1o be forwarded to my private
address before I will believe it.
“Devilfish”: Dunno if you can class the
conger-eel as a musical fish, but on the off-chance
I formally enter him for “A Nehoe’s” competition
(B. 24/6/’l5). He (the conger) barks like a
medium-tailed pup suffering from measles. As a
stable mate to the conger accept the silver perch
of the Murray. When caught it announces its dis-
approval by a grunting or snorting note. You might
call it “gnorting” and be about right.
EASILY REPAID.
GRATEFUL PATIENT: "Well, good-bye, doctor. Hoo can I thank ye for what ye've done
for me?”
PRACTICAL MEDIO (who knows McPherson’s weakness): “By cheque, post-office order,
or cash!”
“J.G.” : “Hardface” takes me to task (B.
24/6/’l5) for criticising the Broadford Shire (Vic.)
bumbles for slaughtering native trees on the Sydney-
road. “Hardface” says these trees were an unin-
viting lot. They were—when chopped down by the
Broadford vandals. Before the axes got going the
trees about there were equal to the very picturesque
patches on each side of the township. But even if the
native trees did not come up to specifications at
Broadford, will “Hardface” seriously admit that the
wretched imported planes will equal the trees
chopped out ? And if it was necessary to plant
more street trees, why were not some of our beauti-
ful eucalypt.s chosen instead of the much less desir-
able foreigners? “Hardface” further says that all
the trees that were on the Sydney-road from the
Dividing Range to beyond Seymour 30 years ago are
still there. If they are, will “Hardface” please
explain how the thousands of tree-stumps on the
sides of the road got there? 1 personally know
that hundreds of these stumps are all that remain
of beautiful shade trees that were growing on the
roadway less than five years ago. I don’t want
“Hardface” to pay my fare to Gippsland to see the
avenues there, as I have already sampled a good
many of them, and I will assert again that the
natural avenues that were once on the Sydney-road
were unexcelled by any. I would refer “Hardface”
to the last annual report of the Victorian Road'
Board, in which a full account is given of the roads
of Gippsland, the Western, Central and North-
eastern districts. Among the many illustrations
the only one that shows the beauties of a natural
avenue is a section of the Sydney-road between
.Wallan and Kilmore which so far has escaped the
murderous axe of those who despise Australian
things.
* * * ■ *
“Mujik” : One of the habits of the masked
owl, also known as the white or screech owl, is not
altogether ladylike:. . Whether perching on a public
tree or a private fence 'ft proceeds to disgorge num-
bers of pellets composed of the indigestible residue
from breakfast. The bird’s usual habit is to do this
at night, and beneath the perching place of such an
owl at Reedbeds (S.A.) a patient investigator recently
accumulated 172 complete pellets and 100 broken
ones. Then he got a gun, and later exhibited a
stuffed pellet-factory, supported by a treatise on the
contents thereof, at a meeting of the Royal Society at
Adelaide. Disintegration of numerous pellets and
arithmetical calculations showed that 1 the collector
had found the residue of a menu composed of assorted
span-ow, starling, lorikeet, mouse, rabbit, rat, bat,
frog, beetle and lizard. As probably many pellets
were negligently disgorged elsewhere, the conclusion
was arrived at that an average owl would during life
digest 640 sparrows, 64 starlings, 40 lorikeets, 20
other small birds, 1600 mice, 60 rabbits, four bats and
192 frogs, besides rats and insects. There seems a
plentiful supply of mouse to a meagre allowance of
bat in this ration, but the only thing to regret about
it ail is that there appears to be a complete absence
of Hun.
“Rag” : They used to make it pretty steep
in the West—and not so long ago, either. The
tobacconist lady, having handed me some silver as
change, suggested that I should take a half-crown
ticket in a raffle for a week-end girl and a bottle of
whisky to be drawn on the Saturday night! I fled and
told a boarding-house acquaintance of the incident. He
was unperturbed, merely mentioning that he had a
ticket in the gamble, too. About midnight on
Saturday he came unsteadily to my room. “Any
luck?’’ I asked. “No, ole man—hie! Duzzen
marrer ; got ’nurrer ticket—hie—for nex‘ Sarraday.”
R-R-R-R-R-EVENGE.
“The villain, sir-r-r! The damnable villain!
I — er —caught him, sir-r-r, r-r-r-r-ed —er
— handed, kissssssssing me waife!”
“Did you kill him?”
“ No, sir-r-r—I did not kill him! I—er—
took his umb-er-ella, sir-r-r, and ber-r-
-roke it — er—cross me knee. ‘There,’ said
I, ‘NOW I HOPE IT WILL B-B-R-R-RAIN!’”
A bushman who wandered into Victoria
Barracks (Sydney) to enlist a few mornings ago
was the Real Thing. He had done a 200-mile trip
to rail, partly on horseback, partly per boot. His
appearance yelled that he was from the Back.
Trailing behind him was his cattle dog, which had
stuck to him all the way down. It even followed
him into the recruiting rooms, and when the bush-
whacker undressed for medical inspection, sat tight
and kept an eye on the clothes. Then they both left
for Constantinople.
(Continued on page 2J/.)
PITCHING CAMP.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
Behind the hills the sun goes down
And throws soft bands of light
Athwart the shadows, purple-brown,
Swift-fading into night.
From lofty gum-trees smooth and strong,
Re-echoed joyously,
The kookaburra’s even-song
Comes pealing clear and free.
And hark ! a chorus high and shrill
The surpliced magpies raise,
Waking their church upon the hill
With ringing trills of praise.
And from the twilight of a dell,
Soft-carpeted and green,
Rings suddenly a. tuneful bell
By elfin hands, unseen.
The black swans whir across the sky'.
With steady, rhythmic sound
The swift, well-ordered squadrons fly
Chanting their “Homeward Bound.”
Among the leaves the cheerful noise,
Of twitterings and cheeps,
And, eager for nocturnal joys,
A bright-eyed ’possum peeps.
A red fox calling for his mate
Makes empty echoes ring ;
A top-knot pigeon, homing late,
Flits by on noiseless wing.
The stars have put the day to flight,
And from a near-b.y hill
A mopoke calls “Good-night! Good-night!”
And all the Bush is still.
VICTORIA.
GORDON J. HOLMES.


Old English Proverb illustrated No. 1
“One good tern drierres another.''
•c-
-m
Nervy* *nd Run down'*
Anamli »»d WmiiM*
New Health for the Weak
and the Ailing.
There is nothing to equal “ Wincarnis
for Anaemia, Weakness, Nerve
Troubles, Sleeplessness, Weariness,
Indigestion or that “Run-down” feel-
ine because “Wincarnis’ is a lonic, a
O
Restorative, a Blood-maker and a
Nerve Food —all in one. It is recom-
mended by over 10,000 Doctors.
And it is the only wine tonic of any
repute that does not contain drugs.
You really ought to try it.
Are you Weak?
Do you feel incapable of exer-
tion ? Does your work exhaust
you ? Do you feel intensely
weary in all your limbs? If
so, take “Wincarnis” three
times a day, and it will give
you new strength and new
vigor. And each day more
strength and more vigor, until,
step by step, it rebuilds your
weakened constitution and re-
creates your lost vitality.
Are you “Nervy”?
Do you jump at a sudden
sound? Do you feel irritable?
Are you nervous ? Do you get
headaches ? Do you have neur-
algia? Do you suffer from
nervous debility? That is be-
cause your nerves want “ton-
ing up.” You need a short
course of “Wincarnis.” “Win-
carnis” is a powerful nerve
builder which acts directly
upon the nerve centres and
thus transmits new vigor and
and new life to the nerves all
over the body.
Are you Anaemic?
Is your face white? Are your
lips and gums bloodless? Are
your eyes dull? Does your
heart palpitate? If so, you
need “Wincarnis” to fill your
veins with new, rich, red blood.
Take “Wincarnis” three times
a day. You will feel better
from even the first wineglass-
ful—you will feel the new, rich
blood dancing through your
veins like a stream of new life.
Arc you Run-down?
Do you feel listless, low-
spirited and weary of every-
thing? Do you find your
work irksome and your recrea-
tion exhausting? If so, you
are “Run-down” and “out-of-
sorts.” But a few doses of
“Wincarnis” will quickly put
you right. Take a wineglass-
ful of “Wincarnis” in the
middle of the morning, and
another the last thing at night.
You will be delighted with
the new vigor and new vitality
it will give you.
|
AAAAAAAiAAAAAAAAiiCA
t
m
rv
fffff
Begin to get well TO-DAY
“Wincarnis” is made in England by COLEMAN & CO., LTD.,
“Wincarnis” Works, Norwich. You can buy “Wincarnis” from
any Wine Merchant, Licensed Chemist or Grocer, but if you
experience any difficulty in obtaining it, write direct to the Sole
Distributing Agents, Eassett & Johnson, 5-7 Barrack Street,
Sydney.
Nelson’s Electric Carbonator
Means EFFICIENT SERVICE. You get
much more than the plant when you instai
an Electric Carbonator —you get service,
service from the best organisation of its
kind in the field.
This Electric Carbonator is the most profit-
able. It embodies two systems of carbona-
tion —“Spray and Agitation.” It is self-
operating. Cost of Power is exceedingly low,
while Labor is almost entirely eliminated.
It is a plant well worth investigating.
This Perfect Carbonating Plant is now
building up big business for many who were
for years merely existing. Why not share
its benefits?
Write to-day—before it slips your memory
—and we will tell you all about it.
NELSON CONCENTRATED FRUIT JIIICES.
Practically every successful Soda-Fountain Dispenser
will admit that a high-grade Fruit Juice improves
the flavor and quality of a drink. But there are
quite a few, no doubt, who do not know all the
advantages that result from the use of NEL-
SON’S FRESH FRUIT JUTCES, and for
the information of these we should like to -point
out one or two facts which we believe will prove
of genuine interest to every Fountain-Drink Supplier.
NELSON’S
FRESH FRUIT
JUICES are as
pure, wholesome,
healthful a n d
nutritious as the
fruit itself. The
Juice is pressed
from the choicest
of fresh, ripe
fruit, and in its
preparation
throughout th e
utmost care is
taken to exclude
a 11 impurities.
Our aim has been
“Quality,” and
the popularity of
the drinks dis-
pensed from these
JUICES prove
how far it has
been accom-
plished.
Many through-
out Australia are
making a lot of
money serving
these drinks —they
create a thirst
for more. How
about you ? You
can do the same
just as easily by
starting on the
right basis.
m
u-
m
ise
Write and give us the opportunity of telling you more about it.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at TURBOT BUILDINGS, TURBOT STREET, BRISBANE.
ii
There's Music in All Things/'
wrote Byron —“if men had ears.” Most people Lave
ears for music, but they require it interpreted by a
beautiful instrument.
We can supply you with an Instrument that will inter-
pret accurately the most charming music, and open up
avenues of untold delight. Let us prove it to YOU.
-BROADWOOD” AND -ALLISON” PIANOS
Are British Instruments famed for their wonderful tonal qualities
and superb construction. They help performers to realise their
highest aspirations, and are a delight to all who listen.
THE -APOLLO” PLAYER PIANO
is the only Player Piano that plays down on the keys and possesses
a human touch. The construction features of this Instrument
enable the most difficult music to be played with the greatest ease
and accuracy.
OUR PLAYER LIBRARY FEES
are within the compass of your means—they are the lowest in
Australia. We have a wide selection of Rolls to fit any standard
cabinet or combination Player, in 58-, 65- and 88-note sizes. Join
to-day—may we send you our Library List?
STRING AND BRASS INSTRUMENTS
A splendid selection of Instruments to select from—by the world’s
best makers.
* Call and inspect —qur price lists will be forwarded on request.
♦ ♦ ♦
♦ ♦ ♦
The
British Pianoforte Depot, Ltd.,
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. "Wvnyard Street).


BEAUTY DOCTOR TELLS
SECRET.
A Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe
to Darken Grey Hair and Promote
Its Growth.
Miss Alice Whitney, a well-known beauty
doctor, recently made the following state-
ment: “Anyone can prepare a simple mix-
ture at home, at very little cost, that will
darken grey liair, promote its growth, and
make it soft and glossy. To half a pint of
water add loz. of bay rum, a small box of
Orlex Compound, and Joz. of glycerine.
These ingredients can be bought at any
chemist’s at very little cost. Apply to the
hair twice a week until the desired shade is
obtained. This will make a grey-haired
person look 20 years younger. It is also fine
to promote the growth of the hair, relieve
itching and scalp troubles, and is excellent
for dandruff and falling hair.* [lO
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
WHEN
IN
BRISBANE
STAY AT
GRESHAM
*
*
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SVDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH-
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
ED S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
amateurS
CLOSING
emasculator.
This" SAFETY"
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding.
Postage Free 45/-
Sly "Hints on Castrating ”
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of gg ■
Emasculators from* '
to 50
Zoeller’s “ Handy ”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
I It's FREE
’ m.
“Rasmus": The bed of Lake Mackatle
(Q.), one of the places where the pelican builds lier
nest, on Chun station, was the Waterloo of Francis
Birtles-s overlanding car recently.- This enormous
(tract ashy ground, which becomes
inundated by the simultaneous overflow of King’s
Creek and the Georgina in high flood, has been filled
twice or thrice in the memory of man, the last time
many years ago. Writer has seen innumerable young
and okl pelicans and their eggs on the small islets
that formed in its floodwaters on the occasion of its
filling in 1894, and many strange orgies of the blacks,
who used to draft the half-grown birds, unable to
fly, and drive a mob to the edge of the lake, where
wood could be got for cooking them.
A DIRTY TRICK.
In Victoria some Labor members of Parliament
and Labor Union officials have been buried by non-
unionists. Now a circular has been issued by the
Undertakers and Cemetery Employees’ Union “to
prevent, if possible, a recurrence.” —News item.
GOOD U NIONIST: “Sure, 'Iwas a sad day f'r
poor Mick bein' buried be a lot iv durty
scabs. If the poor malm had bin
aloive, he niver wild iv allowed ut.”
‘ Cane and Taws" : Only the country school-
teacher knows how strenuous things are in these days
o< drought, etc. This is how it was brought home to
me:--
Mr Cane and Taws,
Will you let Jack come home at dinner timer to
too keep the pots holing too kill 6 pigs M.
THE FRIEND OF MAN.
TINY: “Hullo, Ponto, what are you doing with that thing at the other end of the
chain?”
PONTO: “Hush, not a word! I'm taking it to the Zoo.”
“Wodji” : Alloav me to fall from a preci-
pice on “G.J.I-I.” His statement (B. 10/G/T5) that
an automatic pistol can he fired without movement
from between chalked lines is correct —always pro-
vided that there’s about a foot of atmosphere between
them. Even the small vest-pocket F.N. kicks up
like a show buckjumper. The novice, starting to
fire his first shot, punctures the wide world any-
where between sunrise and midday four or five times
before he can stop. The almost involuntary clutch
lo stop the’ weapon jumping from the hand is
sufficient to fire the second shot, and so on. And,
“G.J.H.” to the contrary, the auto, does jamb. Four
different specimens of the breed hate convinced me.
Further, who .-■wants, a. pistol -to fire LOOflyils. ? The
ordinary man demands a weapon that he can rely on
at from 40 to 60 yards, and not one that, when
most required, develops a nasty habit of jambing
or misfiring the first cartridge, and thus rendering
the whole- clip useless.’
* * * *
“Hay” : We were a party of well-sinkers
out AA'est of Sunset, and, as usual, were glad to see
Bill when he arrived with a dray-load of fresh
rations from the head station and a supply of news
from the world. Seeing that we had been all hal’d
at it, Bill asked casually, “D’you blokes always work
on Sunday?” “No,” was our reply, “we always
knock off for Sunday. AA'e did yesterday.” “But
it’s Sunday to-day,” declared Bill. Then argument
raged fiercely till Bill convinced the crowd that we
had dropped a day somewhere. Fortunately, as the
hour was early, there was still time to repent; and,
as we had done all our usual Sunday jobs of hair-
cutting, hoot-mending, washing, etc., the day before,
we had a luxurious time reading up the armful of
literature with which we were refreshed by Bill
every six weeks. The only one who growled about
having two Sundays in one week was the cook,
because we insisted on having the orthodox duff
over again.
•* *• * *
“MeG.” : To see a general spoiling of the
alimentary canal no better spot could he chosen
than a shearing shed. The day starts with tea or
cocoa, mixed with cake or bread, possibly a chop or
two; then to toil. At eight o’clock the rush for
breakfast would make a good “movie.” More tea
at ten; at mid-day a feed; tea again at two; at
four further tea and hunks of food; at six additional
assorted food; at eight supper. The rouseabout
whose work is light keeps going at this carnival of
grub as hard as the shearer, whose work is heavy
and performed in a stooping posture, which places a
hard strain on the digestive apparatus. This sys-
tem of feeding is all wrong, and one can only he
amazed that men so generally intelligent don’t see
through it. After a day or two they obey the
promptings of a clogged system and start hunting for
aperients. I know, worse luck, how shearing creates
desire for the stimulation of food, but I also know
that the whole business could be put on a more
rational basis, and our bingies given a better chance
of making good. This massive eating at the wrong-
time is the root reason for so many men breaking-
down, and the matter can only he settled by one of
the numerous McDaggs saying I’m a liar.
“Bendigonian”: Has “Pick” ever camped
out on a cold night in stringy-bark country? His
par about best burning woods (B. 8/7/15) makes
me doubt it. Stringy bark is about the worst
ever when it comes to burning; while gidgea (or
gidgy—the Abo. Phonetic Society has not quite
decided about tlie spelling) ensures almost perfect
combustion. Yarran and myall are good burners;
and. if flame is desired, what is the matter with
pine? As to gidgea “stinking,” the wood stinketh
not while burning. It is the leaves which hum —-
especially before rain. As a weather tipster, gidgea
is better than any AA'ragge and Bussell of them all.
I take it the test of a good lire is plenty of red,
and if so gidgea fills the bill.
“B.B.” : Johnny Jackass doesn’t have it all
his own way with Eve’s lover. Driving along a
hush track I happened upon the loveliest hold-up.
Apparently the joker of the bush had missed liis
grip when he ■ lobbed on the snake and the latter
hS’l embraced the enemy in all the coils lie had
available. AA’hen I • yelled “Break!” the snake
slithered off and his Nibs with great difficulty
elevated himself to a low-liung tree limb. AVhen I
left he was tenderly feeling- his ribs and talking
horrible hullocky.
“Pick”: The bush theory that lightning-
shattered timber is hard to burn, and that splinters
from it when used as toothpicks will cure ingrowing
toenail, may be dismissed without a character. It is
false. AVhen a green tree is struck the hunks of wood
pelted abroad will, of course, repel fire for a time,
because any green-split timber will long- retain its
sappiness .if left lying fiat upon the ground. But
when a dry tree receives the bolt it not only isn’t
rendered inflammable, but in half the cases, or there-
abouts, it takes fire and is consumed. AVax matches
have had many libels posted up against them on
account of bush fires that had their origin in this
way, especially ip striiig-y-bnrk country.
“Wayback”: In tlie scientific method of
dealing with finance and other issues of great
moment Parliament is a long way behind- our
Literary Institute. AA’e meet every month. To put
in another billiard table, to close the billiard room
altogether, or to just sack the marker; to raise the
subscription or to lower it; to borrow money from
the building fund (which is about £25 in credit)
—or to let the general account sink or swim; to go
and seize the Premier and illtreat him for stopping
payment of the subsidy, or to just pass a severely -
worded motion of censure on him —these questions
are raised at every meeting and dealt with, to-
gether, one after another; upside down and inside
out. AVhen the extent to. which subscriptions should
be raised is under discussion, up pops a member
with the bright idea that if the wall between the
billiard room and the recreation room were knocked
out and another table put in it would make a vast
difference, as it is a well-known fact that men play
better billiards if there is another table in the
room. That brings up again the question of sack-
ing the marker, followed by detailed accounts of
many instances in which players have scored much
better when marking for themselves. “Mr. Chair-
man,” protests tlie oldest man on the committee,
“I think we are getting a bit off the tract. Now.
if we held little entertainments during the summer
evenings out on the vacant land next to this build-
ing, they could be made to be a great success. It
would not be necessary to have a piano there. AVe
could have music and refreshments. Of course, a
loc of people would stand outside and loolc over the
fence, but we would not want them; the ones we
wanted would be inside among tlie trees and tlie
Chinese lanterns.” He is jostled for tlie floor by
someone wanting to know where the sense is in
paying one bank 6 p.e. interest on a loan while the
Institute has £25 to credit in tlie Savings Bank at
3$ p.e. AA'liv not pay off the loan ? “Ah,” puts in
another member, “but if we pay it off how do we
know the Government will let us borrow again?
That’s the point.” So it is, and it lias to he dealt
with for an hour and a half every month.
“Firestick”: Have any Abo.-scribes ever
seen a horse with a perfectly straight backbone?
A couple have recently been imported by E. P. Tapp,
of Yaneannia station (N.S.AAL), from A’ictoria. The
backbones of these beasts are absolutely straight,
solid hone, having no joints, from the coupling to
tlie wither. They were the property of, and bred by,
Mr. Tapp’s father in A’ie. The ancestral dam was
originally purchased in Queensland, and herself had
a straight backbone, which peculiarity has been in-
herited by all her progeny. The animals are a par-
ticularly good sort, their pet pace is trotting, and they
are excellent harness horses.
* * * *
“Hay”: As one who has sampled many
kinds of firing I nominate belali, or, as it is called
in some parts, black oak, as easily first. One may
hank up the camp fire and find a good start for a
fresh light-up after a week’s absence. Once set
alight "a belah will burn right out to the ends
of the roots. I’ve seen a fallen tree traced upon the
ground in fine ashes to the ends of its smallest
branches. But let the bushman beware how lie
uses his well-sharpened axe upon the herb- —green
or dry—for its short-grained density will gap (lie
bes't of axes, unless ground short after the manner
of a cold chisel. Like the mallee root it makes the
clean, hot, smokeless fire beloved by the Outback
chef. By the way, the hush cook’s pet, aversion
is sandal-wood, which blazes all the time and blackens
everything within range with a horrible kind of
soot. The abo. prized the sandalwood because of its
habit of keeping alight, and he used to find it easier
to carry a stick of it along with him when Shifting
camp than to make a fire by the tedious process of
rubbing a twig in a cleft log.
ALL ENDS WELL!
THE HERO: “Villain, to-night all of us die.”
A DISPLEASED VOICE FROM ALOFT: “Thank
Gawd.”
“W.C.F.”: Evidently “G.J.H.” (B.
10/6/’l5) knows as little about revolvers as he says
“Bad Australian” knows about auto, pistols. No
revolver will throw 1000 yards? Bless me, a revolver
using as small a -cartridge as the .22 long will do
that. I haven't seen an auto, pistol yet to equal the
.32-20 Colt revolver, which has a higher velocity than
any pistol of the same calibre. In the Territory and
the parts of Queensland where men still carry firearms
there are 50 revolvers to every pistol. These are the
places where reliability is needed, and it has been
proved there that the pistol is not so trustworthy as
the revolver.
“Silas Snell”: It had been hot and dry in
and about Halligun's Flat. Ruin and empty plates
stared the cookies in the face, and the terrific effort of
the time was not to mollify and soften the mortgage,
but to pay “the insurance" in anticipation of fire.
“ ’Twill niver jist bur-rn, rnar-rlt me wor-rd,” said
Minahan. “ ’Twill ixplode.” At this crisis Mann had
his fire. Minahan was there. Minahan was nervous
and reproachful. He cornered Mann with anxious
complainings. “How c’u’d yeh do ut, Antlirew?" he
said. “Tliim’s har-rd times fer the Insurance. Have
yeh no consideration fer yer neighbors at all, thirn
iv yer own blood V religion? Wid the many fires
’n’ the hardness iv the times, ’tis possible the Insur-
ance can’t afford it.” A few nights later Peter
Wheelan had his fire. Minahan nearly took a fit.
Wheel an, like Mann, was insured in the same com-
pany as himself. “We can afford t’ wait no longer,
Maggie,” said Minahan to his missus. “Sure, if we
do there’ll be nothin’ left for us. The Insurance is
near impty, I’m thinkin’.” Then Minahan pushed a
firestick under his front-room floor, and rode across
L for leather to cateli the 9.15 train for Melbourne,
intent (upon putting in his claim before Wheelan
could come along and clean out the last few pounds
the Insurance possessed. Minahan was up bright and
early; he reached the insurance office 40 minutes
before opening time. Wheelan was there, sitting on
the step. Minahan’s disgust had the tragic force of a
Greek drama. “Yeh dir-rty bla-guar-rd !” he said;
“you thievin’, poor, lawless scounthril!” said he.
“Ye’re here t’ rob me iv me money, are yeh? Ye’d
take the last penny they have, ’iv lave me homeless
wid me sorrers. But ye’ll hate me first, Peter
Wheelan; ye’ll bate a better man first, so you will.”
He rushed Peter, and a great fight raged on the foot-
path, lasting for half an hour. Minahan was
carried off to the hospital in an unconscious state.
Ho could not get to the insurance office till next day,
when he arrived with six stitches in his scalp and
his head in a bundle. “Is Peter Wheelan paid?”
cried he. “Have ye anny money left at all? I’m
Uanyill Minahan, of Hallig-an’s Flat, ’n’ me house is
bur-rned on me.” “Daniel Minahan?” said the
clerk. “There's a letter for you.” Mrs. Minahan
had addressed the letter to Dan, not knowing how
else to find him in Melbourne. The letter ran:
“Come home, will yeh, ’n’ not be makin’ a born
fool iv yersilf, Danyill Minahan? Yer fire wint out!”
Minahan took home a sore heart and a sore head,
llis house Was not even singed.
THE GRIMMEST SACRIFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When we encountered the" battleship Majestic we
saw through our periscope that the crew were pre-
paring’ lunch. We-hesitated, but duty triumphed over
geh|huent, and we torpedoed her.
-—German communique.
AYe've heaped a hitter load of scorn
On German heroes, I’m afraid
Their massacre of babes newborn,
Their actions of all honor shorn
AA'hen making a domestic raid,
Their way with Belgian wife and maid.
But here we find the Kaiser’s tribe
One kindly weakness can confess,
And when in future we’d describe
Their feats with oath and biting gibe,
Let’s not forget for grub they stress
A very human tenderness.
They saw the sailors cutting meat,
Saw sausages, and pork, and fruit,
And many things to drink and eat,
Then thought a moment of retreat,
Of sparing goods they couldn’t loot.
Stern Duty shrieked before they’d shoot!
They fired, and there before their eyes
They saw the fat polonies fall,
Saw floating chops and portly pies.
Aeh Gott, thefr agonising cries!
They’d sacrificed at duty’s call
Their holiest sentiment of all!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


a*
j
i
•* \r
*;•" ..
" r .
ss?
R
I;
sfei
r - e
r
%
*
11- s
%
f *
: V*«
In the future.
O' •
see the wine is


London’s Beauty Writers.
Weeklv Selections from Noted Beauty Experts Writing for
the English Press. Simple and Effective Methods.
Kv OLGA AMSDELL, Special Correspondent,
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths ot
wish to know not merely bow .
to temporarily remove the ,^ u ’ F or this r»ur
kill the hair-roots permanently, hor turn pur
nose nure powdered pheminol may he applied
directly to the objectionable hair-growth The
recommended treatment is designed not only
to instantly remove the hair also, but to> actu
ally kill the roots so that the growth will not
return. About an ounce ot pheminol, obtain-
able from the chemist, should be sufficient.
Lustrous Hair.
A simple lotion that can he made at home,
and which will positively force the hair to
grow, is within the reach ot everybody. It
stops the hair from falling out, clears the
scalp of dandruff, and leaves a clean, tingling
sensation which is a sure sign of healthy
action. Get from your chemist one ounce ot
horanimn and mix it with i-pint of bay rum
adding sufficient water to make a i-pint this
quantity will last ton several weeks, and is at
the same time both effective and economical.
Removing Her Skin.
The quickest and surest wmy to make a
good complexion out of a bad one is to actu-
ally remove the thin veil of faded or dis-
colored outer skin from the face. This can be
done, easily, safely and privately by any
woman. The process is one of gentle absorp-
tion. . , .
O o t some pure mercolised wax from your
chemist, and apply it at night like cold cream,
washing it off in the morning. In a few days
the mcrcolide in the wax will have absorbed
the disfiguring cuticle, revealing the fresh
young skin underneath: you will have a beau-
tiful, clear, natural complexion. The process
is pleasant and harmless, making the face look
brilliantly attractive and youthful. It also
effectually removes such blemishes as freckles,
tan, moth patches, liver spots, pimples, etc.
Every woman should keep a little mercolised
wax on hand, as this simple, old-fashioned
remedy is the. best complexion beautifier and
preserver known.
Blackheads Instantly Go.
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess ?snow used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores 111 f tll< ' v ,'
You have only to drop a tablet of stymol.
obtained from the chemists, hito a glass of
hot water and bathe the face with the linmd
after the effervescence has subsided. lhe
blackheads will then come right off on the
towel. The enlarged pores immediately con-
tract to normal and the greasiness disappears
leaving the skin smooth, sott and cool and
free from blemish. But to make sure that
this desirable result is permanent it « advis-
able to repeat the treatment several times at
intervals of, say, about four or five dajs.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
One need not resort to the very questionable
expedient of hair dye in order not to have
grey hair. The grey hair can easily be
changed back to a natural color in a few days
time merely by the application of a simple,
old-fashioned and perfectly harmless home-
made lotion. Procure from your chemist an
ounce of tammalite concentrate and mix it
with four ounces of bay rum. Apply this to
the hair a few times with a small sponge and
you will soon have the pleasure of seeing your
grey hair gradually darkening to the desired
shade. The lotion is pleasant, not sticky or
greasy, and does not injure the hair in any
way- ... .. .
Naturally Wavy Hair.
Good stallax not only makes the best possi-
ble shampoo, but has the peculiar property
of leaving the hair with a pronounced natural
“wave ” an effect presumably desired by many
ladies.’ A teaspoonful of the stallax granules,
dissolved in a cup of hot water, is ample for
a luxurious head wash, and leaves the hair
with a peculiar lustre and fluliiness obtainable
from nothing else as far as known. • It
is perfectly harmless, and can be obtained
from most chemists, although since it has
been but little used for this purpose it comes
only in 41b. sealed original packages, enough
to make up 25 or 30 individual shampoos. [1
z?
Drs. Wimpole and Harley-Streete,
Compare their notes whene’er they meet,
And It pleases us to hear them say,
They ’re prescribing'Jeilolds ’ every day.
After taking IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ are commended by the Medical Profession.
ĥ
The “ Nursing Record and Hospital World ” : The prices of them
“are very moderate, and the invention deserves the approval of the
“ Medical Profession, which it is obtaining in such a marked measure.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/H and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
ħ
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works: Birmingham, England
Bos/ocA
THE outstanding charm and originality of the
shoe here illustrated lie in its side fastening
and fascinating side ornament. The effect
gained by this mere transposing of a buckle is
amazing. It gives the foot a delightfully smart,
almost saucy look, besides accentuating the arch of
the instep. Indeed, so charming is this type
of shoe that, in a pleasant variety of styles
and lasts, it figures largely in the new Bos-
toek range of models lately arrived at the
leading stores.
Ladies will find this range a perfect
treasure-trove of delightful shoes, all striking
that particular note of individuality which
makes them elegant as well as smart, and all
possessed of unrivalled fitting properties.
Purchasers should see that the name Bostock
is stamped oh the soles of every pair.
m
. CM
m
HU
Bostock No.
P 6385
820
“T. 0.1.”: In that long list of Poverty
Pointers drafted by “Busk” (B. 15/7/’l5)
the oldest in length of service, as in years,
is W. H. Ford, now living at North Fitz-
roy. Born in 1830 he appeared at Astley’s,
London, with his mother in or about 1845.
Coming to Sydney in 1847, he could not
get an engagement, so took the advice of the
old Vic.’s stage doorkeeper and accepted a
job up-country. The job was on Tarampa
station, where to amuse the kiddies he con-
verted the woolslied into a theatre, “The
Royal.” Some beef-buying butchers were
present at one of the shows there, and ad-
vised Ford to go to Brisbane, lie did so,
and built the first theatre in that city, llis
company, mostly amateurs, made a living,
but not much more. Ford pioneered the
drama as far as Townsville and Ravens-
wood. Likewise he was first manager and
director of the Sydney Music Hall, on the
site of which now stands the Tivoli. The
old ’un at 85 is chirpy, but a matinee “ben.”
might not come amiss. In Brooke’s and
Barry Sullivan’s day he was wardrobe
keeper, taking his stage business as a sort
of side issue.
Ivy Shilling has to work off an old, full-
flavored joke in the latest London fugitive
success, “Watch Your Step”—American-
built. She has a small part as a laundress
in a street window with a double shutter.
With one shutter closed, you can read “I
shall undress in this window at” —such an
hour. A tnen-only crowd gathers. Then
Ivy casually closes the other shutter, and
the whole advertisement can be read. “I”
is an initial, “shall” the end of the name
Marshall, “undress” the end of the word
“laundress,” and so on.
The Co-op. Film Exchange of Australia
is stepping out into the 5-reel film business
now that it has reached the div.-paying
stage. Two films just imported, “Hearts
in Exile” and “The Dollar Mark,” measure
2i hours each, and look like good money-
makers. The growing demand in pictures
is for a long meal of melodrama, with
astounding scenic effects to compensate for
the silence of the mummers.
“Cockaigne”: A play by the late Mon-
signor Benson has just been refused the
Chamberlain’s license in London. Of course
it is quite innocent. The only ground of
objection is the introduction of the \ irgin
Mary. Yet the Chamberlain is quite liable
to license a smutty musical comedy. Ben-
son’s play is called “The Upper Room,” evi-
dently suggested by Jerome’s “Third Floor
Back.” A representation had been given in
Manchester* by the Lancashire Catholic
Players’ Society, with the approbation of
Bishop Casartelli. The critics were, unani-
mous in praise; and doubtless the script will
be sent to Australia so that the thing may
be done by Catholic societies here. Ros-
tand, by the way, went a step further by
introducing Christ in “La Samaritaine,”
written for Bernhardt, and beautifully acted
at the Renaissance Theatre, Paris, on a
Good Friday night.
“Haresfoot”: G. V. Brooke was born in
1818, Coppin in ISI9. They first met about
1840, when Coppin was a low comedian in
the English provincial company of Daven-
port, the original of Vincent Crummies. Cop-
pin, by the way, was possibly the Folair of
“Nicholas Nickleby.” He acted Osric to the
Ilamlet of Brooke, who was always a star.
For 14 years afterwards he kept Brooke
in mind as having more genius than any per-
former he had seen. In 1854 he went to
England, and signed articles with Brooke
behind the scenes of the Birmingham Theatre,
then managed by Mr. and Mrs. Rignold,
parents of George and William. The engage-
ment was for 100 nights. Brooke engaged
Fanny Cathcart as his apprentice at £2 a
week. Fanny’s father and her brothers Row-
ley and James F. (our Australian friend)
handed her in confidence to the charge of
Mrs. Brooke. She was engaged to Bob Heir,
but Brooke would not take him —he was too
inexperienced. However, he followed. Cop-
pin had no wife, and wanted to marry
Fanny; but she was true to her old love.
Later there was a separation; but harmony
was restored by Brooke, Coppin, Heir and
Mrs. Heir all performing together in “The
Honeymoon.”
“C. Ockney”: It seems curious that Aus-
tralia has never seen “Ruddigore,” the G.
and S. opera that contains, to my mind,
some of the most delightful numbers Arthur
Sullivan ever composed. True, it was looked
upon as a failure in London; nevertheless,
according to Gilbert, it brought them in a
lot of money. The title, maybe, is against
it. When originally produced it was even
more unattractive —“Ruddy Gore.” On the
first night at the Savoy the gallery shouted
on the fall of the curtain: -'Take it off and
give us the ‘Mikado.’ ” The notices next
morning were not encouraging. Just about
that time there had been a good deal of
pirating of the Gilbert-and-Sullivan works.
Said Labouchere: “ ‘Ruddigore’ could be left
on the Embankment all night and nobody
would touch it.” All the same, it’s a thing
well worth hearing, and Australia ought to
be given the chance.
“‘Scallywag” c Graham Moffat’s “Scrape
o’ the Feu” leaves me wondering what our
own play-builders are a-doing. Or is it the
fact that a play with a universal theme
must be given a foreign setting to succeed
in Australia? The bush teems with obstinate
grandfathers and benevolent grandmothers,
and has many an Alec Ingles whose prodi-
gality has not been without dramatic in-
terest. But —a word of warning.. The
smart Alecs who fool innocent girls out
beyond the Darling seldom live to make
fortunes and come home triumphant like
they do in Bonnie Scotland. They have
a habit of falling down abandoned shafts;
they get knocked about distressingly after
the pub closes; sometimes, even, the pro-
digal makes research at the wrong end of
a Winchester. Most of them, however,
whether Scottish or civilised, issue invita-
tions to a wedding. I cannot recall one
Australian who had the crimson effrontery
to stroll home five years too late for the
wedding. Perhaps they go to Scotland to
repair the wastage due to the influence of
civilisation on conventional immorality, and
give Graham Moffat inspiration.
To be in the fashion. Edward Knoblauch,
author of “Kismet,” has also written a war
play. It is called “Marie Odile,” and has
made a hit in N’York, where David Belasco
produced it with sumptuous scenery. Tree,
who blundered badly in declining “Kismet.”
has secured the new piece for London. The
action takes place in a convent in Alsace.
A feature is made of convent life, the reci-
tation of the rosary, the chanting of psalms
and the reception of a novice being among
the scenes. Needless to say, the convent
is invaded. The irruption leads up to “a
series of events of a decidedly unconven-
tional and somewhat daring description”;
but, on the unimpeachable word of the press
agent, “Mr. Knoblauch has handled a sub-
ject not by any means free from danger
with rare delicacy and skill.”
The clean-shave movement seems to have
taken hold of the seniors now in the U.S.A.
The “Uncle Sam” goatee beard of caricature
became extinct in the cities long ago; and
the typical American politician became a
heavy man with a heavy moustache. Now,
however, a photo of Wilson, Bryan and the
Cabinet discussing the Lusitania question
shows one small moustache, one set of mut-
ton-chop whiskers, and all the rest of the
table-full as hare-faced as Holman.
“Chemist”: John Bull has lately pro-
hibited the export of acetyl-salicylic acid,
carbolic acid, salicylic acid, phenacetitt,
phenazone, salicylate of soda and naph-
thaline. Most of these things are
largely used in medicine, being daily
prescribed by doctors the world over.
They have been mainly manufactured in
Germany. Why not in Australia? They
are nearly all derivatives of coal tar. and
the only reason why we may have to go
without them is that we have neglected our
opportunities, while Germany has seized all
the opportunities it saw. Of cyanide we
are one of the largest users in the world,
and the materials are all here and mostly
wasted. Yet every particle of its supplies
of this poison Australia gets from the for-
eigner. The old gag was that we didn’t
bother about making these little things
because we could find much more profitable
employment in primary industries. Isn’t
it about time we dropped that plausible
yarn, in view of the fact that one State_Gov-
ernment alone is borrowing money at 5 per
cent, frankly in order to give its supporters
something to do?
An Australian belonging to the Supply
Column wrote from the south coast of Eng-
land on June 1 and said he was ohe of half
a million trained soldiers who were being
held in readiness to move for Flanders at a
moment’s notice. The letter was held up by
the censor and was only delivered last week.
From an Adelaide correspondent:—
London Opinion throws a light on the Orpen picture,
“Sowing New Seed,” which Adelaide Art Gallery
bought—or, rather, the artist, Rose McPherson,
bought—and which, after being hung for a time, was
withdrawn. The local objections were: (1) Sheer
ugliness, (2) lack of interest, and (on the part of a
few) nudity, though there are really artistic nudes
in the same gallery that raise no protest. The
London writer dropped in on Orpen, and mentioned
the picture and the row in Adelaide. “I am afraid
some of them don’t quite Understand it,” he smiled.
“I am not quite sure that I do myself.” A badly-
drawn caricature of a purely-loeal squabble, and so
obscure a caricature that the artist isn’t sure what
it means himself!
One of the Australian Red Cross nurses
who were decorated at Buckingham Palace
last week told the Times that “the King
looked very tired.” Three hundred persons
had been invested with one order or another,
and the nurses came at the end of the pro-
cession. It would be a fair thing for his
Gracious to feel very tired.
Lieut. W. S. Kent-lluglies, wounded by
the Turk, is a son of the Collins-street
doctor, now in England with the Australian
Field Hospital, and a nephew of Canon
Hughes, of Eastern Hill, and of lolonel
F. G. Hughes, of the Light Horse. SToung
Hughes’s wound is not his only disl fetion.
He was the first student to enlist ) Vic-
toria, being captain of the Grammal fcphool
when the German began to show f £ real
self to the world.
W. 11. Page, formerly member of t_e Tas.
Assembly, and before that a judge in India,
had a son, Bernard, who is now at the
Front as a military chaplain. When the
ex-Judge left Tasmania he settled in Bel-
gium—at Bruges—and lie and his family
were there when the Germans came in, and
are there still and cannot get out. In a
letter lately sent thi3 way by Father Bernard,
who is with a cavalry division, the writer
says he has not heard from his parents for
seven months, and can find out nothing
about them. A Jesuit of his acquaintance,
however, once saw them and told him they
looked “all right.” But the son of the ex-
Tasmanian says he does not know how they
manage to live, as they had no money in
any Belgian bank, and none to talk about
in their pockets. Another of the Page boys,
Leo, is in the Royal Flying Corps.
A LEADER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The crowd about the depbt stood,
And talked ot war. Near by, a man—
One of the acting brotherhood,
His coat bedecked with astrachan—■
Poised on the kerb. All ill-content,
Upon the day a scowl he bent.
I’d seen him oft in stormy plays
Of blood and thunder, when he wore
A uniform with gold ablaze,
And waded deep in foreign gore.
“Nay, nay,” said he, “I will not start 1
These cads have no respect for art!
“I offered, sir, to face the foe —■
You know the training I have had.
They told me I was free to go,
But only in the ranks. By gad,
A private, I! Fine thing, indeed,
For one who’s always playing lead!”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


i a
i
£3
#\ //
' /
1
paafi
•Mil
X' \
lIIMIJ
iiHiiiininiiiiii/MirriMiiii
mium
2.
r*
c/3
&
O
c/2
S>.
o
£2
%
£2
c 2
cZ
i?
&s
c/
A:
m
v 4
dff/INNY £hWMBEf?L4!N
<r OPvEicnTED)
Whooping Cough
is the disease I most dread for children are often permanently injured by
the awful straining cough. You should never neglect it, and treatment
should be started at the first symptom. You cannot mistake the
symptoms. protracted coughing, worse at night; peculiar whoop;
laboured expectoration of mucus; apparent suffocation after coughing.
COUCH REMEDY i
(MADE IN AUSTRALIA)
is a positive remedy for this disease—repeat the dose frequently, for if given freely it liquifies the tough mucus,
makes it easy to expectorate and counteracts any tendency towards pneumonia.
:
mm
IS
EVERY WOMAN CAN ENJOY
FULL PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT.
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the one essential that creates a perfedt appear-
kack of proper bust development, hollow cheeks, and “salt-cellars” quids ly take from a woman
the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in so far as natural
de\elopment is concerned, but science has found a way to correct your deficiency. Kven though vou
have never been full-bosomed, and though you have been attenuated all your life, if you suffer from
no wasting disease, your bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased to normal.
READ THE EVIDENCE OF THESE WOMEN WHO FAITHFULLY FOLLOWED OUR ADVICE.
Manager, Falliere Co. Ballarat. Vic.
ir „ D f Slr £T^ mCe '* e & ,nnin S Flesh-Food I have derived
great benefit from the treatment. Sly bust lias developed,
and my weight has increased as much as 1 desired, and
no lurther treatment will be necessary.
Yours sincerely,
N. SULLIVAN.
Falliere Flesh-Food Co. JUST AS WE ** ROM *SED.
you®splendTd treatment* * 0 u" Y ° U ° f * he deU shtful results witl.
much cause I havp t n h you could see me to-day. you would readily realise how
•BpeamS wilE ” h ,*, o |, be w « O, ' < ’ *‘ , ‘ n ' d ”‘* h ,I,e " h “ "W
h t sE s KAm„rv,dr"v e .MZ , , , iv‘ , * v< ' iu,t - you "■«
«u deETa ,¥.*?.“ on ’ ,n< ' yo ” r T-
Yours very gratefully. ELDA PEARL UNGER.
WHAT A WELL-KNOWN NURSE SAYS.
Gympie, Queensland,
Manager Flesli-Food Co. jyj av g
Bear Sir. —As a nurse. I was very interested in your Flesh-Food treatment and
was greatly surprised at the wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote to you I
was only skin and bone, and I have good' cause to be thankful that I wrote you for a
free sample, for I feel certain now that I am one of the very best advertisements you
could possibly have, as I am developed in every way satisfactory to myself, and I have
waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in its effect, and I am now glad to say that
your splendid treatment has done all you claimed it would, my weight and measurements
being ample.
I am. yours gratefully.
MRS. E. WINGROVE.
DR. FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD is totally
harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond
question, and its use is no demand upon the subject’s
time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a
week, and an increase in bust measurement up to
eight and ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers
relief and development to the thousands of chronically
thin women who have despaired of ever possessing u
presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food-
treatment that adds weight and permanent develop-
ment to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every
case accepted.
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
SAMPLE OF
“FLESH-FOOD”
We suggest that all lady readers who
see this article will do well to investi-
gate the truth of these assertions. Send
two penny stamps and we will post you
full particulars and a FREE SAMPLE OF
TREATMENT. Write to-day. If con-
venient, call for interview. Lady atten-
dant. Advice and consultation free.
(5803.)
FALLIERE, CO.,
1103 Ash Street, Sydney.
~
m
m
m
m
:/ A
m


Lady's Solid Silver
H u n ting Keyless
Watch, full jewelled Lever
movement, patent adjusted
balance, £3, Extra jewelled,
£3/10/- Solid Gold, £4.
Guaranteed.
Lady’r Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled Lever movement,
compensation balance, £5. Other styles, £5/10/*,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
12/6
Cl
/
Sr
■=3
X
\
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face
Keyless Watch, jewelled, non-
magnetic. dust- and water-proof cases,
12/6, 15/- Higher Grades,
20/-, 25/-, 30/-
15/-
A. SAUNDERS
Sydney’s Great Watch House for
Watches! Watches!
The largest variety of
first-class, reliable Time-
keepers to choose from,
personally guaranteed.
h
Hundreds of new designs
in our Jewellery Catalogue*
Write for a free copy*
and try us with an order*
Lady’s Black,
Face Keyless
Watch, full
compensation b a
25/- Extra
30/-
Open-
Lever
jewelled,
lance,
jewelled,
Gent.’s Extra Heavy Solid
Gold Elgin or Waltham Lever
Watch, full jewelled and adjusted
with Chronometer Balance, heavy
case, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
WE PAY POSTAGE
ON ALL OUR
JEWELLERY.
Lady’s Gold-filled,
10-years’ guaranteed
Keystone ease “El-
gin” Lever Watch,
£2/15/- 2 0-years’
guaranteed, extra quality,
£3/10/- Extra jew-
elled, £4. 25-years’ guar-
anteed, £5/5/-
Lady’s Solid Silver Wristlet Watch,
strong keyless works, full jewelled, accurate, set
in smart Leather Wristlet, 25/ - Higher Grade,
30/-, 35/-. Solid Gold, £2.
Gent.’s Military Keyless Wristlet Wateli, Nickel or
Gunmetal Case, high-grade Lever movement, 20/- Extra
Jewelled, 25/-, 30/- Solid Silver, £2. £2/10/-, £3.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Lady’s Solid Silver
Open-faced Keyless
Watch, full jewelled, ac-
curate, 20/-. Extra quality,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-
Solid Gold, 50/-, 00/-,
70/-
aa
&
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewel u .1, £3/10/-
Lever movement, £4, 4/10/*
30/
Gent.’s Solid Nickel Silver
Hutting Keyless Lever
Watch, non-magnetic, dust-proof
case, 30/- Higher Grade, 35/-
Extra heavy solid Silver Case, £2.
10-years’ Guaranteed Gold Cased,
£2/10/- Extra jewelled, £3,
£4/4/-, £5/5/- Solid Geld,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
351-
A Powerful Magnifier.
#
THEFINOER
A.P.CRiEHritLD
* C 5 ltd.
BRISBANE/
To examine any object no
matter liow small or what it
is use a “FINDER.” With H
you can see minute detail,
distinctly which without its
aid. would be absolutely in-
visible.
The “FINDER” Magnifier is
a valuable aid to Mining men,
Botanists and others.
The "FINDER" MAGNIFIER,
7/6 Free
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO, LTD.,
189*191 GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
ĥ
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received trom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
, post brings similar letters
to-day
\Yc
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy for Asthma,
Hay Fever, Hose Co d, or
•rd nary Cough.
Scld in Tins *y ail Chtmists ana hurts
throughout Australasia.
SUL P « O L I N E,
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2 9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
has been the remedy for
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulnholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
AIT CHEMISI^ n AND P &TOEES I THnOt;QHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly remyyesthegffectsofSunscorch^
ill
sms
PI±IIIIFI|3II3I
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay .
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day fromi®.
(id. and upwards. Cards of lanff and all 1 ai-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
“PRIM AX” and “BON AX”
CARTRIDGES — KYNOCH made
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
ing qualities, “PRIMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a 2lin. case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world.
Always specify KYNOCH Ammunition
when ordering from your dealer.
[i.
VC X 7
L4>
m- : A
l”pwwW4SKi®
auagwifey^jL
r.w.
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1801.
Murphy's Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years. .. ,
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY:
WO Y, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists ..and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
OPEN
Portable
Folding
Organs.
“ FOLD LIKE A
SUIT CASE."
For Camp, Church
or Home.
Used by
Mawson’s
Ohapman-Alexander Missions, Dr
South Pole Expedition, Military and
Seaside --Ca-tups.
PRICES.
“Wonder” Folding Organ, £f*/l<|/“
“Marvel” Folding Organ, £O/10;/-
“Gem” Folding Organ, £9/10/-
for Australian—
SUTTON’S,
280 & 292 Bourke St.,
MELBOURNE.
BALLARAT, BENDIGO, GEELONG.
ORLICK'S
MALTED
NOW IS THE TIME TO TEST IT.
To all those who are laching in robust health or are run i res t o rativc
cause whatsoever, Horlicks is warmly recommended. is an . .
(or the wife and mother in the home, as well as for the husband or business ma
unduly harassed at his daily calling. Children upon 1 •
Sample Will le sent on receipt of 2d. tn s ‘ a "^ s ' T , c w
HUTCHINSON & CO., 26. Jamieson Street, SYDNEY. ! • ■
“ON THE HOP!”
A superb library volume, handsomely pnnteo
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price. 21s.


ENJOY AN EASY SHAVE!
Why cut your face about, anrl spend double the time in shaving when
Sfce “PLUM” RAZOR
is such a pleasure to use? It’s slick and easy work shaving with the
“PLUM.” The blade is tempered to such a nicety that its keen edge
remains keen. Send for a “PLUM” to-day.
Price 10/6—Post Free.
We keep this Razor in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
h
ĥ
ħ
h
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the Above Post Free.
This line makes a handsome present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITH.EN, 63 *
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Automatic
' -Amx I
WHEN YOU BUY A
Cooper
Little
Wonder
You get the world’s most popular
2 Brake Horse Power Engine
More than 5000 sold annually
Water Cooled
Magneto Ignition
Automatic Lubrication
Hit and Miss Governor
Runs all day on Four Quarts
of Benzine
THE PRICE
£25
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. Ltd.
134 Sussex St.,
SYDNEY.
r5^V
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
Commonwealth of Australia
£5,000,000 4J Per Cent. War Loan, 1925
PRICE OF ISSUE, PAR.
The Subscription List will be closed on 31st AUGUST, 1915.
THE LOAN IS TO BE UTILISED BY THE COMMONWEALTH FOR WAR PURPOSES ONLY AND
WILL TAKE THE FORM EITHER OF INSCRIBED STOCK OR TREASURY BONDS, AT THE OPTION
OF THE SUBSCRIBER.
Bonds and Transfers of Inscribed Stock will be free of Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty and
Interest will be free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax. Bonds and Inscribed Stock will be
accepted at par in payment of Probate and Succession Duty due to the Commonwealth. The Issue is a
Trustee Investment, and Trustees may invest therein.
Bonds will be issued in denominations of £lO, £lOO, £5OO, and £lOOO, and will be payable to
Bearer, or Stock will be Inscribed in amounts of £lOO or any multiple thereof.
The Loan will be repaid at par at the Offices of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia IN. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH or HOBART, on 15th DECEMBER, 1925.
Interest on Bonds and Stock will be paid half -yea ly on 15th June and 15th December.
A FULL HALF-YEAR’S INTEREST MULL BE PAID ON 15th DECEMBER, 1915.
Both Interest Warrants and Coupons will be payable free of exchange at any Branch of the Common-
wealth Bank of Australia throughout the Commonwealth.
The above Loan is authorised under ACT OF PARLIAMENT of the Commonwealth of Australia, and
both Capital and Interest, will be a charge upon the Consolidated Revenue of the Commonwealth.
The COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA is authorised on behalf of the TREASURER OF
THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA to receive applications for the above Loan.
Applications, which must be accompanied by a Deposit of £lO per cent., and which should be on
the special printed forms, will be received at any Branch of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, or may
lie forwarded through the medium of Head Offices and Branches of ANY BANK, or anv recognised
STOCKBROKER or any POST-OFFICE WHERE MONEY ORDER BUSINESS IS CONDUCTED.
Instalments will also be received at any Branch of the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
or may be forwarded through the medium of Head Offices and Branches of ANY BANK, or any recognised
STOCKBROKER or any POST OFFICE WHERE MONEY ORDER BUSINESS IS CONDUCTED, and
will be payable as follows: £lO per cent, on Application; £l5 per cent, on 15th September, 1915: £2O
per cent, on 15th October, 1915 ; £25 per cent, on 15th November, 1915; £3O per cent, on 30th
November, 1915.
Any or all of the Instalments may be prepaid. In case of default in the payment of any instalment
at its due date, the deposit and instalments previously paid will be liable to forfeiture.
The Stock will be inscribed in accordance with the provisions of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock
Act 1911-15, and Inscription Books of the Loan will be kept at the Commonwealth Treasury at the Seat
of Government, where all transfers of Stock will be made.
Provisional Receipts will be issued on payment of £lO per cent, on application, and Scrip Certificates
to Bearer with Coupon attached for Interest payable on 15th December, 1915, will be issued in exchange
for such Provisional Receipts. As soon as these Scrip Certificates have been paid in full and payment
indorsed accordingly, they may be exchanged for Bonds to Bearer (as soon as the latter can be
prepared) or may be converted into Inscribed Stock in denominations of £lOO or any multiple thereof.
Holders of Inscribed Stock will have the right to convert into Bonds and holders of Bonds will have
the right to convert into Inscribed Stock at any time on application in writing to the Commonwealth
Treasury, Melbourne, or any Branch of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. *
Recognised STOCKBROKERS will be allowed a Commission of ss. per £lOO on allotments made
in respect of applications for this issue, received from them, and which bear their Stamp.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
24th July, 1915.
Application Forms can be obtained from any Bank throughout the Common-
wealth, or any Post Office where Money Order Business is conducted,
or THIS FORM MAY BE USED.
FORM OF APPLICATION.
To the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
I
Mbs hereby apply for pounds £ . of
Commonwealth of Australia 41 per cent. War Loan, 1925, according to the Prospectus of the 24th July,
1915, and hereby engage to pay instalments due thereon according to the terms of the Prospectus.
The sum of £ , being the amount of the required deposit (namely 10 per cent.
of amount applied for) is enclosed herewith,* and also £ in payment
of Instalments.
Signature
Name of Applicant in full
Communications to be addressed, to
(State Mr., Mrs., or Miss.)
At
Date . It) 15.
Cheques should be crossed “NOT NEGOTIABLE,” and will be accepted free of exchange.
Applications must be accompanied by the amount of deposit thereon.
If Treasury Bonds are required, state here the number and denominations which are desired.
@ £lO @ £lOO @ £5OO @ £lOOO.
Total, £ ..
BALANCE-SHEET of
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
(INCLUDING LONDON OFFICE—BY CABLE.)
Dr.
30tH JUNE, 1915.
€r.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital . .
LIABILITIES
Less Amount payable by instalments . .
To Paid-up Capital
„ Reserve Fund
„ Inscribed Deposits
„ Customers’ Deposits and other Liabilities..
„ Government Deposits
„ Accrued Interest on Deposits and Rebate on
Current Bills
„ Notes in Circulation..
„ Bills in Circulation and other amounts payable
„ Balances due to other Banks
(This sum of £3,368,403 19s. Id. is a first charge on the whole of
the Bank’s assets.)
Profit and Loss Account
£2,875,520 11 0
£3,363,403 19 1
20,487 14 1
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of Credit,
for which customers are responsible to the Bank. .
£6,259,412 4
etc.;
.. £214,658 6 0
2
ASSETS.
By Coin and Bullion .. .. . . . . . . £756,628 13 3
„ Australian Notes .... . . . . . . 311.364 0 0
~ Cash at London Bankers and at short call in London 316,795 10 10
„ Government and Municipal Securities . . . . 146,548 8 0
„ Notes of other Banks .. . . .. . . 337 0 0
„ Balances due by other Banks . . . . . . 88,129 17 9
„ Bills Receivable in London and Remittances in transit 286,784 4 7
„ Bills Discounted, Loans, Advances, all other Debts
due to the Bank and other Assets
„ Provision in term,s of Clause 163 of the Bank’s Articles
„ Bank Premises
£1,906,587
.. 3,980,587
of Association 15,000
357,236
14
10
0
19
8
0
1
£6,259,412 4 2
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS
€r.
To Interest on Inscribed Deposits
~ Reserve Fund (making it £65,000)
£32,293 15 9
10,000 0 0
„ Dividend at tlie rate of 3
the paid-up Capital
„ Balance to carry forward
£42.293 15 9
per cent, per annum on
£17,937 9 3
2,550 4 10
20,487 14 1
£62,781 9 10
By Amount undivided from last half-year .. .. . . .. £3,240 1 6
„ Profits for the half-year ended 30th June, 1915 . . £68.565 2 6
„ Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes .. 9,029 14 2
59,535 S 4
£62,781 9 10
.. Balance carried forward
£2,550 4 10
Dr.
RESERVE FUND
or.
By Balance at 31st December, 1914 . .
„ Amount transferred from Profit and Loss Account as above
£55,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
Total £65.000 0 0
MARK SHELDON, Chairman. WILLIAM CRAIG, F.C.P.A.. 1
C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager. G MASON ALLARD, F.C.P.A., f manors.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the above Balance-sheet, made up to 30th .Tune. 1015, and report that we find the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances in the
General Ledger, and the Balance-sheets of the respective Branches of the Bank collectively.
We have counted the cash and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Sydney on the 30th June, 1015, and hereby certify that we have found them
correct. We further certify that all Vouchers, Accounts and Documents necessary for verifying the Balance-sheet have been submitted to us.
The Cash, Bills and other Securities held at the Branch Banks in New South Wales and Queensland on the date of Balancing have been certified to as being correct
by the usual documents, and the figures of the Balance-sheet of the London Branch have been received by cable.
In our opinion the above is a full and fair Balanpe-»s}p?et, containing the particulars required by the Articles of Association of The Australian Bank of Commerce,
Limited, and properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs as shown by the Books of the Company.
WILLIAM CRAIG, F.C.P.A.. \
G AfASOTV ATT, ART) FG P A I
Auditors


/ FOR x
TOURISTS.
HOTEL DANIELL,
v BRISBANE. /
Ny'Tariff from
\ 12/6./
a i
im
/ .
w /yf'm
Wool from Australasia, plus British Labour.
u Stockings & Socks
for Men, Women and Children.
, That is the combination that constitutes the world’s best value in
Stockings and Socks. The materials are expertly woven by skilled British workers,
and beautifully finished with the soft silky “feel’' exclusively ‘Jasons’ own, and
is branded with an honest British mark that signifies the maker s
confidence in the goods.
<822.
This brand protects you from the cheap unnamed German-made hosiery that lacks finish, and
stability—obviously a pretence .and a false economy. Support the industry of the Home Country
—buy the branded ‘'&U6o7l* that protect your interest and your pocket.
Your Draper or Outfitter will, if you insist upon having only ’23S2S- supply you.
Sole Manufacturers —The Jason Hosiery Co.. Leicester, England.
Aasl
<?>
SYDNEY CARRIER
EULOGISES DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS AS A LIVER MEDICINE.
“I have great pleasure in giving my testi-
mony to the benefits derived from Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills,” writes Mr. John
Hackland of 41 Westmoreland Street,
Forest Lodge, Sydney. “For years I suf-
fered with a very bad liver. Only those so
afflicted know what agony one has to endure.
Constant sick headaches that made life a
burden and sleep impossible; I could not
attend to business or speak a civil word to
anyone, always in a bad temper, unable to
eat or drink anything without due consider-
ation as to how it would affect my liver, for
fear of a bilious attack. I tried a lot of
medicines, for I have been a member of a
Benefit Society for over 25 years, and got
advice from some of the very good doctors
of my lodge. Nothing gave me any relief
until a friend told me to try Indian Root
Pills ; I did so and found relief after the
first night I took two. I kept on for a
couple of weeks taking two each night on
o-oing to bed j now I feel as well as I did 20
years ago. I still take a pill occasionally,
and by so doing never have the dreadful sick
headache with that irritable, cantakerous
feeling that made me quite unfit for work or
pleasure. To those who suffer like I did I
would advise a course of Indian Root Pills,
they have made a different man of me and
they will soon feel as well as I do. This is
my' own unsolicited testimony, and you have
my full permission to use it for advertising
purposes.— John llackland.''
POLITICAL
POINTS
By the middle of July Victoria had so
eaten into its stocks of meat in cold stor-
age, the current supply of fat stock being
quite unequal to the demand, that before
spring can bring meat into the market there
threatens to be almost a famine. In this
connection it is interesting to note that
nothing has happened to Angliss, M.L.C.,
who, by exporting 37,000 carcases in June
in defiance of the Government order, helped
to cause this shortage and produce the in-
creased prices. The smallest thing the
Government can do is.to seize at June prices
the meat now held in stock by Angliss. It
is a mere accident, no doubt, that he holds
the greater part of the present stored supply.
THE GENTLE PROD.
RISING YOUNG ACTOR: “Did you see my
photo, in the paper yesterday?”
THE LADY (toho thinks every man should he
at the Front) : "No; were you killed or
wounded?”
Though George Black’s experience with
the N.S.W. State trawlers has been so shock-
ing, still the things have been valuable in a
way. They have shown, perhaps, that the
State hasn’t a hope of making the business
a success with-the present imported vessels.
But they have shown as well that there is a
great store of fish to bring in, and that men
working for themselves could make a fine fat
thing. There are dozens of lines that lend
themselves to co-operative toil, and George
Black’s stormy experiment proves trawling
to be one of them.
The Vaughan Government is at grips
with S.A.’s infrequent fat ox and occasional
well-nourished sheep, a State retail butchery
having been established in Adelaide, and
proud Liberal dames resort to it for chops
and steak. The sight of a haughty Libera 1-
ette making dignified exit from a Sosh meat
depot with a bulging kit of raw flesh must
stir all right-thinking people to realise h >w
rapidly things are going from bad to worse.
A “representative deputation,” including
a score of pseudo-Protectionist members of
Australia’s Parliament, interviewed Customs
Minister Tudor lately, and got a less chilly
reception than it deserved. In the interests
of the “poor farmer” it urged the immediate
remission of the 10 per cent, duty on jute
goods. These articles—bran bags, sacks,
wool packs, etc. —are made by the cheap
colored labor which Minister Tudor and
most other Australians abhor and will not
admit to the Commonwealth; and the sacks
which might be, and once were, made here
are "protected” against such labor by a 10
per cent, duty! If the Government was
honest enough to carry out its declared
policy—White Australia and effective Pro-
tection—it would levy a duty of 60 or 70
per cent, on manufactured jute goods. Then
the white Australian would get a lot more
work and the farmer would get his bags for
a lot less than 9s. per dozen. A duty of 10
per cent, is merely annoying the farmer and
fooling the electors who sent professing Pro-
tectionists to Parliament.
Some men call tenders for trouble. There
is a vacancy in N. S. IVales for an assistant
Railway Commissioner, and all the “heads”
are in the scramble for the job. Yet, accord-
ing to a return lately made to the Assembly,
awards of Wages Boards, etc., last year
added £543.000 to the bill the Commissioners
have to pay; and when they did what any
business man would do and put up the
charge for the service that was costing more,
there was a yell of protest from Bourke to
Byron Bay, and the railway bosses were told
that the right thing to do was to meet the
higher cost with lower fares, so that people
would give their truck of potatoes two trips
instead of one. If a Wages Board which
found that the cost of living was rising
told a union -that the best thing for the
trouble was to reduce wages so as to encour-
age employers to hand out more work, there
would be a request for a commission to in-
quire into the Board’s state of health.
“I see they’re still talking about collaring
German trade,” said the chemist as he
opened the showcase where the toothbrushes
were. He picked a sample out of the cheap
tray and passed it over for inspection.
“That’s a Jap-made brush. Three months
after war was declared, and just when our
stocks of these things were running out, the
Jap’s representatives were in here with sam-
ples looking for orders. Now I suppose
they’ve got a jiu-jitsu hold on the business.
Of course, when an- Australian bumps up
against this sort of thing he knows there is
no need to hurry with the tariff. All we’ve
got to do is to sit down and wait for the
war to finish. There’s no hurry—no hurry
at all!”
Attorney-General Hughes woke up last
week to the horrible alleged fact that,
whereas Germany is getting all the zinc
(spelter) it wants for under £3O per ton,
the British Government has to pay more
than £lOO. Hitting out wildly, he decided
that there must he a Metal Exchange, con-
trolled for the present by the Government,
and open only to pro-Britisli. Germany, if
it ever hears of this, will enjoy another
laugh. Hughes’s idea seems to he that the
Broken Hill cos. are not selling to English
buyers because, out of pure cussedness
apparently, those cos. will not annul their
old contracts with German firms. The
simple fact is that there are no English
buyers worth mentioning. As with so many
other industries, freetrade Britain let this
spelter business slip right away to protec-
tionist Germany. Fifteen years ago the
very-English Sulphide Corporation, whose
chairman is Kintore. an ex-Gov. of S. Aus.,
tried to establish the. spelter business at
Newcastle, in Australia. When it failed,
the c-o. could find no sale for its concen-
trates except'to Germany. But the very-
English co. didn’t like that, and formed a
subsidiary co. —of which Wallington, of the
King’s household at Buckingham Palace, is
a director —to treat the Sulphide Cor-
poration’s product. For 10 years or
so that subsidiary co. has been strug-
gling against tremendous difficulties to
again plant the business solidly in
England, and it lias never earned a divi-
dend, and it isn’t even yet in a position to
take one-twentieth part of the .one mine’s
output of zinc concentrates. As remarked
just now, this co. is very English; also, its
general manager is very English and very
able; and its managing agents in Australia
are Gibbs, Bright and Co., who are very
English when they are not Australian. If
that co. hasn’t been able to find a market
in England for its zinc output, and to get
its smelting done either here or there, how
much good does Hughes think his Metal
Exchange is going to do?
Anywhere out of Australia for examples
and mentors. The Argus regrets that we
have not a Botha at the head of affairs in
Australia.” Better a Prime Minister
imported from Canton than one from Wide
Bay—which has the fault of being in Aus-
tralia.
THE INCUBUS.
TIME: “How long! How long!”
In one act Fisher placed the Common-
wealth services on a war basis last week.
The Commonwealth civil servant only gets
his advancement after qualifying by exami-
nation for each push ahead, and there will
be no more examinations until the war is
over. It is the logical position, of course,
otherwise men who stay at home would
score over those who go to the Front.
London Times, still easily the most power-
ful press factor in Britain, showed its teeth
on the issue of the recent N. S. Wales loan.
After mentioning that the reception of the
loan was “less cordial” than it might have
been if underwriters were not still nursing
a large number of recent infants, it added:
“Moreover, the sanctioning of the enormous
amount of new capital which has been raised
this year seems scarcely compatible with
the policy of husbanding the resources of
the country.” Prime Minister Fisher, by
the way, told the Reps, the other evening
that the Commonwealth Government had
asked the Imperial Government for a loan
to carry on railway works, and had been
turned down. The prospects of new State
loans therefore get gloomier and gloomier.
It is questionable whether the British Gov-
ernment will even sanction the Norton
Griffiths (N.S.W.) loans, though they have
teen underwritten.
Thus Prime Minister Fisher during the
debate on the Loan Bill: —
The principle of equality of sacrifice is that a
man getting- .Cl a clay and a man getting £lO a
day each shall give a clay’s wages.
This may be the Fisher principle, but the
only other individual who could be found to
give the shabby old doctrine a nod of recog-
nition would be some antiquated pillar of
Fat. A man in receipt of £lO a day is
drawing nearly £4OOO a year. Put it at
£7O weekly. Take even a day’s wages
per week from him and he will • not
be deprived of anything to eat, nor
will his family. lie will not be called
upon to appear in public with a patch in
his trousers. His car will still be a public
scent. If the children are not feeling well
they will go to the seaside or up to the
mountains just the same as before. But
take £1 a week from the Australian man
with a wage of £6, and he must shift into
a shabbier street; his wife and children must
pinch here and pinch there, on meat and
butter and clothing and books. They must
make real sacrifices with every hour of their
lives. Of course Fisher, who is really one
of the duller members of the Cabinet, would
never be permitted to put his amazing theory
into practice. The fact that Ministers are
talking of graduated land and income taxes
proves that
Borrowing is such a national habit now-
that the lines of G. Essex Evans’s “Ode to
the Commonwealth” have to be given a new
rendering:—
Awake! Awake! The wings of pawn
Are beating hack the thoughts of pay!
Those politicians wln>
are conspiring to sink
the tariff should have
a look at mercantile
invoices and then go
back to their job. In
Yankee hardware lines
discounts on 'articles
which could be easily
manufactured in Aus-
tralia, and on which the
duty is high—say, 30
per cent, ad valorem —■
are staggering. This
makes the Australian
invoice price some-
times as much as 50
per cent, lower than
the ordinary sale price
in the U.S.A.; and
even with freight, cost
of carriage and pack-
ing, exchange and
other charges, the
landed cost of goods
is, in many cases,
lower than the manu-
facturers’ listed price.
Those who are in the
trade witnessed a sig-
nificant movement a
week or two ago. As
soon as it was an-
nounced that Fisher
wouldn’t go on with
tariff reform, off came
some of the Yankee
discounts. In other
words, up went prices
to the Australian
wholesaler and re-
tailer. The foreign-
trader says prices go
up when you put on n
duty. What has just
happened shows that
]irices go up when the
foreigner finds out that
the local Government
has been drugged and
that duties will not go on.
Chief Secretary Black (N.S.W.) got dis-
tinctly the best of an encounter the other
day with a Sydney paper which raised
horrified hands at liis action in loosening
the regulations for the sale of peanuts on
Sundays. Black pointed out that until the
censorious journal was consistent enough to
only collect and handle the news of its Mon-
day edition after midnight on Sunday it was
itself. violating a law which applies as much
to papers as to peanuts.
THE FORGE OF EXAMPLE.
SLEEPLESS PARTY: “Didyer read Holman's
appeal in Jars’ night’s papert ’E wants
men to go to the Front. Wot are you
pointer do about it ?”
VOICE OF SLEEP (drowsily): “Same as
’Olman, I s’pose!”
The Russians are establishing at Moscow
large works for the manufacture of dyes
and chemical products from native raw
material. This shows our ally up in his true
light, basely trying to capture German trade
with something more tangible than a noise
made through his whiskers. That at the
moment when something might be done in
Australia the tariff should be thrown over-
board by the Fisher Government is merely
an instance of Australian thoroughness.
“Lots o’ time,” says Fisher! Certainly.
Three cheers.
A SONG OF ECONOMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Avaunt, red beef! Call not the mutton chop
From its dear rest upon the butcher's hook 1
Avoid the snare of butter! Let it stop
Where the cow grazes by the purling brook.
Speak not of sugar! While the war shall last
Such luxuries to me are dead and past.
We must economise. The cabbage green
Is far too high in price to use as food.
The eauliblossom’s smile is seldom seen;
Potatoes are as coy as Ermyntrude.
Beans have grown scarce, and yellow peas may fade
Down the long’ vistas of my feeding glade.
Porridge remains, and sometimes tea and bread,
And fish may gather to the public trawl,
And highly-flavored margarine instead
Of butter still may answer to my call;
Or, at the worst, in famine’s lofty scorn,
I may subsist, like poultry, on cracked corn.
We must economise. My Mary’s hat
Is that she wore in happy summers gone;
She yet may skin the mild domestic cat
Ere winter die for something to put on;
While I, but for the stern police restraint,
1« lieu of trousers might be clothed in paint.
We must economise! We really must!
Will someone tell us where we should begin?
But importations won’t be stopped, 1 trust;
And barring foreign loans would be a sin.
I want to do my best for England’s star;
But let us see that we don’t go too far!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


PALING’S PIANOS
OFFER MOST VALUE
Buy your new piano at
Paling's. It pays you to
buy from them. They
are experts witb over
62 years’ experience.
Just think of their vast
experience, and ask
yourself, “Can I afford
to do without it?”
Every instrument sold
by them carries their
well-known guarantee.
H
■
Permanent satisfaction
is what Paling's offer
you. They are not
satisfied unless the
piano gives satisfac-
tion. Then why take
any risks ? It is impos-
sible for you to obtain
as good value. Write
for Catalogue and
printed price list—'they
are free. Write to-night.
We sell CHAPPELL Pianos, SAMES
Pianos, ESTEY Pianos, VICTOR Pianos,
and BELLING Pianos on Easy Time
Payment. Old Pianos taKen in
exchange at their utmost valuation.
W. H. PALING ®. CO. LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA and LISMORE,
F-2
FOR A SOLDIER
THE ONE CAMERA
IS THE
BRITISH-MADE
No. 1 “ENSIGNETTE,” for Pictures 2 Jin. x ljin.
complete in Pocket Case
THE “EXSIGNETTE” is a tiny, Daylight-loading Camera,
made to take Roll-Films. Full-sized postcard pictures
can be made from “Ensignette” negatives by using the
special printing box instead of an ordinary frame. It means that
one can produce full-sized postcard pictures with a camera that
slips into the vest pocket, a camera that you can carry on every
occasion, and one that will never be in the way.
The “Ensignette” is built of metal, and measures, when closed,
B|in. x l|in. x jin. It has a good lens, with adjustable diaphragm
openings F/11. F/16 and F/22. There is a self-contained, brilliant
view-finder and a new Everset Instantaneous and Time Shutter.
The No. 2 Model is a little bigger, but it will easily fit the
waistcoat pocket.
An “Ensignette.” which can be stowed away in a tunic pocket
or strapped to a belt, is the one and only camera that is i*eally
strong, easy to load, and useful under all circumstances. Every-
thing else is too big or too bothersome. Besides, the “Ensignette”
is British made.
ENSIGNETTE
2716
No. 2 “ENSIGNETTE,” for Pictures 3in. x 2in.
complete in Pocket Case
FREE INSTRUCTION.
3716
All purchasers of a Camera from us are entitled to our Free
Instruction Course, either personally or by Correspondence.
D
Photographic and Cinematograph Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Also at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE;
AUCKLAND and WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Siii'Pt.y—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard =
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6Si PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all pans of the world.
r
i
n
CROWS MOUSTACHES |
QUICKLY ! j
A splendid growth of
Hair can be pro-
duced on the upper
lip by the aid of
Capillarine. Hun-
dreds have proved
the efficacy of this
true Moust a c h e
Grower. You try it.
Price 10 6 Jar—Post Free.
Craig: & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
' EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney,
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAH.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night. #
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Another Surprising Line
is the Solid Silver Sugar Basin that
we illustrate to-day.
Our managing- director, when in
England, ordered thousands, of pounds’
worth of Solid Silver Goods, and asked
for a special cut quotation for hun-
dreds of Solid Silver Sugars and
Creams, to be made in slack times,
and to be paid for Spot Cash against
delivery.
Result—-we are offering the daintiest
designs in extra-heavy Solid Silver
Sugars and Creams at prices less than
those usually charged for Electroplate.
They are unheard-of value, and vet
of exquisite finish, and the last word
in designs.
Heavy, Solid Silver
Sugar Basin, as il-
lustrated .. 25/-
Less 20% dis-
count .. 5/-
20/-
Heavy, Solid Silver Cream
.Tug:, as illustrated 22/6
Less 20% discount 4/6
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.


RESCHS Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORUE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
ħ
Immediately you enter “Scott’s” you
are impressed with the comfort, sump-
tuousness, convenience of its accommo-
dation—for everything in modern
“hotel service” is at YOUlt service.
“Stay at Scott’s” is the recommenda-
tion of those who have experienced
its comforts and advantages.-
Single Rooms or Private Suites,
including Bedrooms, Sitting-room,
Bathroom, etc.
Private-attendance ’phones in all rooms.
Par excellence Cuisine. Hotel orchestra.
SCOTT’S HOTEL,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Telegrams—“ Scott’s,” Melbourne.
THE CHINESE CURE FOR SORE THROAT.
The Chinese method of curing sore throat is to
scratch the neck in order to produce counter-irrita-
tion. But even Chinese doctors are now adopting
Western methods, and many of them prescribe
Formamint for curing throat troubles and preventing
infectious diseases. Try it yourself next time you
have a sore throat. Buy a bottle at the chemist’s.
Price 2/6.*
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ĥ
TO
HUM. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubh & Co. on each Bottle.
ħ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
It was a wise suggestion that the inter-
state cricket matches should be abandoned this year.
Otherwise an unfair condition of affairs, either on
the playing or, what would be worse, on the fighting
field, would arise and leave an unpleasant odor.
For instance, in regard to the Sheffield Shield, a
weaker cricket State, observing Victoria (the
holder) despatching the flower of her players, might
be tempted to restrain good men who would other-
wise enlist in order to snatch possession of the
hardware. Two or three or even all the States
might more or less succumb to such a temptation.
It is far from likely, of course, but the abolition
of the possibility is a matter that earns congratula-
tion. But while that is so there is no call to shut
down on the game as a game. Nor on football;
nor on tennis; nor on any of the athletic pastimes.
Indeed, it would be a calamity if the athlete, upon
whom the nation so largely depends for its exist-
ence at the Front, should not be encouraged to his
utmost fitness. He is enlisting well; there need be
no fear that he will not continue to enlist well; and
as he drafts out from the sward to the camp the
physical pick of the race is marching.
* * * *
There are so many different ways of
getting into the war. George Gunn, the cricketer,
has enlisted for the mechanical transport section of
the Army Service Corps.
* * * *
V.R.C. committee, in camera, has given
a hard knock to the stipendiary stewards’ authority.
Recently the stipes held a long and careful inquiry
into the startling reversal of form of Linrose, with
the result that Killorn, who rode the mare both times,
was disqualified for three years, whereas the owner
and trainer were exonerated from blame. The ver-
dict argued that the stipes, working behind closed
doors, had convinced themselves, by means of bet-
ting books, that some person or persons had “got at”
Killorn, and reaped a harvest. But when Ivillorn’s
appeal to the com. was heard, after a week’s post-
ponement, the sentence was quashed. “Fresh evi-
dence” convinced the secret tribunal that everything
had been honest as honest could be in the Linrose
matter, and even the stipes, “it is believed,” ad-
mitted that the fresh evidence justified the decision
which made them look such dangerouslv unsatisfac-
tory inquirers. As to the nature of the stale old
evidence and the fresh new evidence, the V.R.C. com-
mittee remains discreetly mum. A punishment of
three years’ disqualification for a leading jockey has
been annulled, but he gets no apology for the slur
cast on his character, nor do the stipes get repri-
manded for casting it. The reversal of judgment
is more staggering than the reversal of form. Another
jockey was suspended for three months by the
same stipendiary stewards for careless riding in a
hurdle race; but the same committee, which hadn’t
seen the race, decided that the boy was not careless.
Another lot of appeals from stipe law in connection
with the steeplechaser Battleship will be discussed
on Friday, and the Melbourne racing world wonders
whether any invidious distinctions will be made in
this case, and, if so, why ? The Battleship case recks
with mvsterv.
V * * *
The balance-sheets of the V.R.C. and
Q.T.C. —-the controlling bodies in their respective
States—throw a beam of light on the size of the
business of horse-racing. This is the condensed
result of the year’s operations:—
Credit—Pro-
Stake- fit and Loss
Profits. money. Accounts.
V.R.C. .. £17,309 £76,489 £22,880
Q.T.C. .. 1,949 39,460 42,702
The bulky credit balances make it clear that the
decision to hand over profits during the coming year
to the Australian war funds is not likely to leave
the clubs utterly stranded on the rocks when the tide
goes out.
*'•**«
“T.F.”: In Bananaland those to whom
the short road to wealth seemeth through specula-
tion on the totalisator are making a noise over the
bulkiness of the tax. In the past season over 15
per cent, was cut out of tote investments thuswise: —
Government, 5 per cent. . . . . £11,299
Queensland Turf Club, 6f per cent. 15,254
Totalisator contractors, 2 per cent 4,519
Fractions retained, 1.17 per cent. 2,661
'Total deduction . . . . £33,733
In N. S. Wales last year the A.J.C. (Sydney)
gathered £15,450 in license fees from bookmakers
before the “books” commenced to shear the lambs.
The Bananalanders should think of that and then
present an illuminated address to the machine for
letting them off so lightly.
George Clifford, one of Maoriland’s best-
known sportsmen, entered upon his 21st year of
office as president of the M.L. Racing Conference
last week. He was born in 1847, turned his back
on the Bar in the ’7o’s to take up farming amongst
the station kings of Canterbury, and for a quarter of
a century or more has probably done more towards
purifying the sport of kings, spielers, etc., than any
man in the Ricketty Isles.
Some of the Maoriland Jockey Clubs are
taking the axe to the Tod Sloan or crouch style of
riding as far as hurdle races and steeplechases are
concerned. The Taranaki Club has been the first to
come forward with a motion to pass out this stvle of
navigating a mount. The chief arguments against it
are that a horse pilot who is perched on his vehicle
like a monkey on a stick has no command over the
moke, arid is a danger to himself and to every other
rider in the race. Which sounds suspiciously like
an excellent imitation of the truth.
* * * *
At the Bundaberg (Q.) Racing Club’s
recent meeting there was something suspiciously
like a record on the totalisator (ss. a ticket). In
the Time Trot Handicap there was one ticket on the
first horse, one on the second and none on the third.
These were the only starters. The dividend was Bs.
In the Club Handicap, three starters, the dividend
was 7s. In another race, with 89 tickets in the
machine, the first nag paid 12s. and the second
animal 3s. Sheer recklessness!
More racing coincidences: Royal (Royal
Artillery—Fay) recently woh three races at Carrie-
ton (S. Aus.). In two of them, Ladle and Enver
Bey were second and third respectively, and the
dividend in each case was £1 6s. for £l. Enver
Bey was second in Royal’s third win.
**‘ * *
The well-known mare Slipper, which was
owned by the late Murkand Lai of Melbourne, was
sold last week to E. Bones, an Essendon publican.
The price paid was £2OO.
“P.A.Q,”: Some years ago in London I
witnessed a struggle between the “Terrible Turk,”
then at the zenith of his fame as a wrestler, and one
D'Arcy, a popular Cockney Tommy and champion
wrestler. The place was crowded, more than half
the audience being brother Tommies. The first
bout, a ding-dong go, lasted fully 20 minutes, during
which time D’Arcy clung to his maji with the
tenacity of a leech. By this time the Turk must
have brought his sweating powers into action, and
when a Turk sweats —whew ! Things got so slippery
that D’Arcy let go, and as a result was on the mat
in a second. There was no applause. The silence
was at last broken by a Tommy from the top gal-
lery calling out in a very hurt voice: “Why didn’t
yer ’old ’im, D’Arcy?” “’Old ’im,” answered the
disgusted D’Arcy ; “ ’Old ’im ! ’Ow could I ’old the
greasy ?” Then two ladies fainted and
the lights went out.
* * * *
Fighting Billy Murray, a sallow youth
from the U.S., whose right name is Vasco de Gama
or Torquemada, or something similar, and who dis-
closes the passionate mouth- and bullet-head of old
Africa, encountered Mick King, of Australia, at Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday night. Murray has an
impressive record, which includes fights with
McGoorty, Chip and Clabby, in all of which he
escaped extermination. He is strong and combative,
as rugged as the side of a cliff, and almost as slow.
He cannot box. Or at least lie could not box
Mick King. His best —in fact) -about his only effec-
tive —hit was a pile-driving hinge to the body which
painted his adversary’s ribs scarlet before the con-
test was half through. This punch was delivered
with either hand, but preferably the left. King
fought on the retreat a good deal, more especially in
the closing rounds. It made the affair less thrilling
than it might have been, but it was sound general-
ship. Not many men, unless in armor, could afford
to engage in a slogging match with one of Murray's
strength and gameness. Despite his manifestly
superior skill, King did not win by any great mar-
gin. While he cut the foreigner’s face to pieces
with accurately-directed straight lefts, the latter
bombarded him down below, asi above described, and
was always the aggressor.' Murray should put up a
blithering display with a venturesome, forceful
fighter like Darcy.
* * * *
That fine old veteran, Hughie Mehegan.
was knocked out by Herb McCoy at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. The lethal blow was a
right uppercut to the jaw applied in the 15th round.
Hughie had already been dropped for nine in the
preceding round. Rc.fh men were within a trifle of
9st. 121 b.
CLARENCE
WEBER,
Champion
Wrestler and
Physical
Guitarist.
Freddy Kerr, one of the best feather-
weights in Maoriland, has taken the final count at
Gallipoli. Norman Bennetts, who won the Aus-
tralasian featherweight title at Dunedin three years
ago, promptly volunteered to fill the gap, and is
. training for the Front. Two other well-known M.L.
boxers, Paul McQuarrie and Geo. Matthewson, have
recently been wounded at the Dardanelles, but are
doing well, and will soon be back upper-cutting the
harassed Turk again.
From Harry Stone, png: Since leaving
God s country, Australia, I have been anxious to
return, and you can expect me soon and lively. I
have been boxing in the United States since my arri-
val here, and won every battle I had. One boxer
whom Tom Andrews thinks is a world-beater, Kid
Graves, I out-pointed in every round, and seven
other battles I have won easy. Regards to all who
know me.
* * * *
x\t Queensland’s athletic championship
meeting last week-end Ray Gray, of East Brisbane,
did the 120.yds. hurdles in 15 3-lOsec., thus equalling
the Australasian record established by G. P. Keddell
(M.L.). W. Hamilton, of Toowong, in winning the
three miles in 15min. 29 4-ssec., lowered the State
record. W. J. Comerford won the 100yds. in
10 l-ssee. ; A. R. McMurdo the mile walk in 7min.
llsec. (nothing stirring about that) ; C. E. White
the high jump, with sft. 2in (nor that) ; and J. A.
Prout the broad jump, with a mere 21ft. lin.
* * * *
minister for External Affairs Hugh
Mahon has a son (Austin) preparing to leave for the
Front. First of all he will complete his final year of
medicine at Melbourne . Uni. In sport he has done
well on the running track.
* * * *
League football in Melbourne, from now
on until the finals, will practically be exhibition
games. Nothing but a full-blown miracle can wrench
Collingwood, Carlton. Fitzroy and Melbourne from
the play-off places. On Saturday the first-mentioned
proceeded to Geelong' and dished the seasiders by
91 points to 51, champion goal-kicker Lee adding
another seven to his tally. Carlton—without Challis,
.whose over-lapping toe has not obstructed his path
to war-glory on a second application—collared 74
points to x'lelbourne’s 45 ; and Fitzroy pushed South
further into oblivion by 8 goals 6 behinds to South’s
7 goals 6 behinds. The Saints and ’Dons also col-
lided, the former winning by 10 goals 10 behinds to
3 goals 13 behinds.
For some mysterious reason the only
Ass. game, semi-final between Brunswick and Ports,
failed to draw enough spectators -to pay the gate-
keepers. Yet the play was pleasing and vigorous.
Ports, with some swift and early goals, got a good
lead, but towards the end organisation and training
wore them down, and the Brickies won into the final
with 74 points to 56.
The League has decided to play on to the
scheduled end of the season, and will by then be in
a position of splendid isolation, the Ass., the Melb.
District’s Ass., the Midland Ass., Katamatite District
Ass. and sundry other country football bodies hav-
ing decided to wind matters up more or less sud-
denly.
* * * *
Following- the lead of the Vic. Football
Association, the Vic. Junior Association has deter-
mined to bring the season to an early close. No
fewer than 124 players have enlisted. Ascot Vale
Club has contributed 22 and Footscray and Port
Melbourne 20 each.
* * * *
The remarkable run of success of Prince
Alfred College in Adelaide school athletics has now
lasted over a year without a break; and it still
goes on. Last week the Saint Peter’s boys were
taken down at football. They were a young and
light team, and a horribly wet day extinguished any
chance they might have had. They scored nine
points in the first 10 minutes, and didn’t look in
again. “Princes” won by 12 goals 18 behinds to
one goal three behinds, the most hollow victory in
the 30-odd years' record of the match.
* * * *
There was, a unique football match at
Dunedin the other day in aid: of the M.L. Wounded
.Soldiers’ Fiirid,- when two elevens, composed entirely
of the sleeker sex played, two spells of 20 minutes
each under the Soccer code at the Caledonian Ground.
One lot of girls represented the Mutual Stores and
the other Mollison’s—two big fluff palaces in the
Scawtch and soda metropolis. The players had been
well coached for some weeks previously and, in short
skirts and jerseys, they gave a surprisingly good
display—of the game, of course. Mutual Stores
won after an equal tussle by two goals to one.
* * * *
Over 1000 footballers in Melbourne have
enlisted, but that’s not all that have tried to crowd
into khaki. Last week a batch of men turned their
backs on the playing fields and offered themselves for
service, but were told they couldn’t go into camp
yet. In Maoriland many athletes unable to get into
the ranks promptly are stringing across to N. S.
Wales to enlist. Yet you hear some people still
burble: “Why don’t the big, hulking footballers stop
the game and go to the Front?”
* * * •
Cecil McVilly, who won the Diamond
Sculls at Henley in 1913, is now in camp at Clare-
mont (Tas.) getting ready for a row with the Turk.'
He represented Australia in the 1912 Olympic games
at Stockholm, and as he did not shine there he
stayed on in London and pulled off what is practi-
cally the world's amateur sculling championship the
following year. The professional side of sculling has
as its star khaki representative Ernest Barry, the
world’s champion.
*** . *
Six of last year’s eight-oar crew
from Tasmania have given up the scull for the
rifle; and in the other States so many topnotchers
have enlisted that the abandonment of inter-State
regattas is generally regarded as a fair thing.
* * * *
N.S.W. heavyweight sculling champion-
ship is stirring up further argument. Last week
champion Ben Tlioroughgood accepted S. Penfold’s
challenge for the title and £5O stake-money. Also,
he notified Syd. Pearce that if he wins he will issue
an ultimatum in his direction. Thoroughgood, who
alleges that his race with Pearce at Middle Harbor
left him 30s. out of pocket when all exes, were paid,
sticks out for both events to be held on the -Hunter
River, and reckons that it will pay to allow reason-
able expenses to challengers to go north. The
Penfold match is set down for August 21.
*** ‘ *
Lady Goold-Adams, wife of Bananaland’s
Governor, is a good shot. She has a fine eve with
the miniature rifle, and the other day at the opening
of a range she lay out on the firing platform and
put up a score of 53 out of a possible 70. She
and his Ex. donkey-licked their two opponents, though
one of the latter (the smiling lady captain of the
club) made top score of 63, and the other was a
major of the Headquarters Staff (whose score was
20).
* * * *
Good hunting at Tauranga (M.L.) ! Said
an English ranger to The Bulletin: “Taking cli-
mate into consideration it would be hard to beat any-
where on earth.” Curlew (godwit) flock in thou-
sands on the mud flats; large, quantities of : grey
duck, teal and swan (shooting of these starts in
May) along the estuary; pigeons in the bush ; fallow
and red deer to stalk ; peasant and quail; rabbit and
hare. When you become tired of filling the - bags
you can change the subject with the trout.
* * * *
Is this the record for persistency? It
took S. Thomas, of Sydney, and G. Horsburgh, of
East Melbourne, both baseballers, five attempts at
the recruiting bases before they got to the home
plate. They say they would have been at it yet
if the umpire hadn’t given them “in.” His heart
was broke. Gillies Campbell, who shares with
Itippax the pitching honors in Sydney ’ball, has
been turned down owing to chest deficiency. But
that’s only the first flutter.
* * * *
Leichhardt’s temporary disqualification
still causes un-Christian language amongst Sydney
baseballers. Last week the club, backed up by “legal
opinion,” appealed -for the immediate removal of the
disqualification, but the State Association merely
acknowledged receipt of the letter and put it
aside amongst the ornaments. Leichhardt is now
pondering whether it will follow up the “legal
opinion” or iust sit down in a chastened spirit till
the disqualification has run its. length.
**• * *
“Moana”: “0.K.” (B. l/7/’l5) com-
plains that Wilding and J. J. Addison were used in
France merely as “cannon fodder,” when their train-
ing as tennis players had equipped them splendidly
for aviation. I don’t know anything about Addison,
but I do know that poor Anthony was “Captain
Wilding, of the Air Wing.” He had done a lot of
air work with Grahame White as pilot, and was
regarded as one of the best observers in the service.
He came to be killed in a trench in this way. He
was doing some important ground-scouting in con-
nection with the Air Service, and was riding a
motor-bike along a road in North France, when sud-
denly German shells began to hit the road just
ahead. A regiment of the Suffolks was entrenched
along the side of the road. Knowing one of the
officers, Wilding took shelter with him and some
others in a dug-out. They had hardly got into it
when it was wrecked by a shell, the whole of those in
it being buried. All the officers and Wilding were
killed. Anthony didn’t lose his life because he was
put to do work that “any two stodgy, resolute
patriots” could have done as well, but simply because
his luck chanced to be very much out that day.
T * * *
The billiard match for the professional
championship of Maoriland at Auckland was won by
C. McConachy, of Timaru, from W. E. Stephenson, of
Auckland, the holder. The play was 9000 up, and
McConachy won with 725 points to spare. Scarcely
more than a decent-sized break separated the pair
at any time. Some good judges hold that the
winner has a stylish and crisp losing hazard game
that even George Gray could not excel.
* * * *
Some evidence of the increasing efficiency
of the motor-car engine can be gathered from the
times of the winners of the great Indianapolis “500.”
When Harroun won in 1911 he averaged 74.8 m.p.h.
In 1912 Dawson registered 78.7 m.p.h. Goux had an
easy win in 1913, his figure being 75.93 m.p.h., but
he could easily have done better if pushed. In 1914
Thomas jumped to 82.47, whilst this year Ralph de
Palma broke all existing American records by cover-
ing the 500 miles at a speed of 89.84 m.p.h. In
connection with de Palma’s great drive it is interest-
ing to note that his time of shr. 33min. 55sec. is
only 17min. 15sec. slower than the world’s record of
shr. 16min. 40sec., which was established by Messrs.
Lee, Guinness, de Resta (who ran second to de
Palma this year, and Chassagigne, who all took turn
about at the wheel of the Sunbeam, when the record
was put up at Brooklands (Eng.) in October, 1913.
Of the two performances de Palma’s is undoubtedlv
the better, for he drove right through the contest bv
himself, and also had to contend with a big field of
competitors in the early part of the race.
* . * * *
Birtles, overlanding in his car, telegraphed
from Hughenden this week that he had arrived there
from Cape York, and was heading for Brisbane with
a poisoned hand prior to making the long, lonely run
to Perth. “I have now,” he wired, “completed
35,000 miles in two years.”
* * * *
When it is warm enough for surfing
again somebody might go to a quiet beach and give a
trial to a device described in Outing. A surf-board
is fitted with cylinders ahead and astern to keep it
well up in the water, a small propeller, and a
bicycle-pedal arrangement—stated to be easily
worked in water —to make the propeller-blades turn.
Then you lie flat on it and behave accordingly. It
sounds a weird idea, but is said to give delightful
results after a little practice. American, of course.
The fact was elicited in the State Parlia-
ment that the N.S.W. Government owns 111
motor-cars. Thirty-three of them are used
for carriage of goods. The balance, no less
than 78, are for conveying other things—
sometimes hot air through the* country; at
other times chiffon through the city.
Further results of the Big Australian
policy of the N. S. Wales State Govern-
ment :—•
Here in the Albury district hay-chaff has been
practically unprocurable since the decree issued that
the N. S. Wales cocky shall not ask more than
£7 10s. for his fodder. In Victoria far higher prices
are obtainable, so the Ma Cocky takes his supplies
where he can get £l4 or £l5 a ton. The State
railways, 'acting under instructions, won’t load N. S.
Wales chaff for Victoria, but they will carry it as
far as, say, Culcairn or Gerogery; and then
a man can cart it 20 or 30 miles to Wodonga, over
the border, whence it can be trucked anywhere in
Victoria. the grass has been growing very
slowly, and N. S. Wales stock have been perishing by
the tens of thousand—killed by the stupidity of
the N. S. Wales Government which has once more at-
tempted to butcher the country producers to serve
the ends of the city consumers.


Let Me Increase Your Ghest Measurement,
broaden your shoulders, develop your Lung capacity;
in fact, make you a healthy, sturdy man, erect in
figure, firm in step, with an easy, natural and con-
fident bearing.
My Special Chest Development Exercises have
enabled many rejected applicants for admission to
Police Force, Army and other Government positions
to be successful at their second application.
This letter is an example:—
“In reply to your inquiries I beg to state
that under your course of instruction in exer-
cises for chest development I was enabled to
get through my examination for appointment in
the Police Service. The increase in chest expan-
sion amounted to nearly two inches in less than
a fortnight. These exercises are indispensable
to Police candidates who are deficient in chest
measurement.”- —W.P.C., Annandale.
This will show you the efficiency of my system.
It is of advantage to you and every man who takes
interest in his physical well-being—in building him-
self up to resist disease and avoid doctors’ pills.
You know “Prevention is better than Cure.”
Writ? for my illustrated booklet, which fully
describes and gives cost of tuition of my Course of
Physical Culture by Post. Just write your name
and address on this announcement and post to me.
I’ll know what vou mean. Send three penny stamps
for postage.
h
ĥ
REG. L.
(“Snowy”)
BAKER
418 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
THE
tia£
Ride it to work-
Ride it for fun
Write for
Catalogue “ D.”
HENDEE MANUFACTURING CO., 109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Hygienic Cigarette
ħ
and
Cigar Holders.
- Every cigarette and cigar,
smoker should have one.
They are easily the best,
holders one could use —neat
in appearance, serviceable
and hygienic. They are of
Solid Silver, with Quill
Mouthpieces that can be
changed as often as desired.
The silver can be
scalded, thus you |
have practically a
new holder as
oft e n as you
please.
No. 1 :
Cigarette,
No. 1.
QUILLS, 6d. per doz.
No. 2:
Cigar, I/O.
QUILLS, 9d. per doz.
Postage 2d. extra.
My Catalog of Smokers’ Goods,
Cigars, Cigarettes, Pipes, etc.,
will be mailed free on request. No. 2.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
h
'Keep Smiling /
In other words #
"“Shell
O S TA INABLE
E"V/E RYWHE P E
smoke Al irHTs
A Cool, Satisfy ng Smoke
of Delightful Fragrance.
Not Made by
ANY TRUST
or COMBINE.
All Tobacconists—
Out and Plug-.
ugH* s
SMOKE
APP YTH tc
TOBACCO
HOTELKEEPERS ! HOTELKEEPERS !
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR ! NO BOTTLE-WASHING !
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
powei instantly supplies the required drink.
; Write for descriptive Catalog: to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
I
THE MASCOT OF THE DAY,
“ROBERT,”
BY HASSALL.
BIGGEST SELECTION OF MASCOTS in Australia.
Smith’s Patent
Foot Pump.
“British” Tyres.
Smith’s Lighting Sets
ĥ
Smith’s
Speedometers.
Smith’s
Carburetters.
PRICE £1 10s .
Managing Agents:
ERIC BOULT LTD.,
79=81 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telephone—ClTY 2401.
Flizabeth House,
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
CENTRAL 9527.
RIGNEY SHOES WILL PLEASE YOU.
Quite apart from their distinctive, high-grade
appearance, their remarkable wearing quali-
ties and great comfort are additional reasons
why you should wear RIGNEY SHOES.
The illustration shows a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, latest perforations. A high-grade,
made-to-order style.
Price - 27|6
Also in Black and Tan Velour Calf, 25/-
and 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ħ
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE,
What fine Big Australians some of these
Democrats are! Following the example of
Holman and Hall, of N. S. Wales, who
objected to Vic. and Bananaland getting
wheat grown in their part of Australia, the
Labor Government at Brisbane shut down on
the crime whereby Australians living over
the border were getting Queensland butter.
Now the same patriots have decided to “pro-
hibit Southerners getting meat at the ex-
pense of the people in this State” by stop-
ping them from buying any of the briskets
severed from Queensland beef carcases before
export. That the wretched foreigners in
other parts,of the Commonwealth are going
to make good a big loss on sugar for the
benefit of Bananaland is, of course, a mere
incident. Federation a rumor V Not at all.
It is a great joke.
DOUBLE THE PLEASURE OFDRIVING
By
Fitting -
1
,if • • >
I if ' x MixiL S’
y.
i '
E 3
( 4
115
Mm
Ok
s»=
■K=3^g__ =
SOLID RUBBER TYRES
No passenger vehicle is complete or up-to-date unless shod with
these High-grade Resilient Tyres. No Vibration —No Rattling—and
increased comfort —besides doubling the life of your vehicle.
Prices range from £5 per pair and upwards. Send for Price List.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
lOS FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE
."55 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
92 PIRXE ST.. ADELAIDE. 67 KI&O ST. fc PERT«
208-270 ADELAIDE.STNEET; BRISBANE
95 COURTENAY PLACE. WELLINGTON
IXO WORCESTER ST., CHRISTCHURCH


Severe COUGH
CURED
THE EVIDENCE
10a Munn Street, Sydney,N.S.W. 3/0/1914
*' My little grandson suffered
from infancy with a weak chest.
He was nearly always troubled
with a severe cough, and was
very puny. After taking
‘SCOTT’S Emulsion’ he coughed
much less and his appetite
greatly improved. Now he eats
and sleeps well, and, having
become quite fat, looks a dif-
ferent child, and is never trou-
bled with a cough.”
(Mrs.) J. MELDRUM.
A course of SCOTT’S Emulsion
casts out coughs, colds, bron-
chitis and chest weakness. It
relieves the worst catarrh and
overcomes the weakness and
after effects of influenza, mea-
sles, scarlet fever and
whooping cough.
It replaces weakness
by health and
strength. For more
than forty years
doctors have recoin
mended
1
scorns
Emulsion
IMITATED BUT NEYER EQUALLED.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your linger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Trv the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
.which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
British Prices, 1/1M and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng,
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN k SONS, etc.
Dr B. Allen's (USA-)
mxi&m ™
WALNUT hair.
STAIN.
Tb« STATE SAVINGS BANK of VICTORIA
INCREASE in rate of interest.
ON DEPOSITS
The Rate of Interest Payable
FROM Ist JULY, 1915,
Will be
3y 2 PER CENT. ON SUMS FROM £1 TO £350.
(Instead of 3$ on first £lOO and 3 on excess up to £350.)
Also,
The Rate of Interest Payable on
VICTORIAN SAVINGS BANK DEPOSIT STOCK
Will be
3 1/ Z PER CENT. ON SUMS FROM £lO TO £lOOO.
From Ist JULY, 1915.
Any depositor may invest sums up to £lOOO in this Stock, in addition to the amount in his
ordinary Savings Bank account.
This Stock is FREE OF INCOME TAX.
Head Office, State Savings Bank, MELBOURNE.
GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General.
The EDISON
AMBEROLA
will play your
favorite airs!
No matter what kind of music appeals to
you most, an Edison Phonograph will _ play
it for you. There are many real, vital
advantages in owning an Edison Amberola,
and there is one suitable for all homes.
The Edison Amberola V is a beautiful instru-
ment. Cabinet is Mahogany, piano finish.
Diamond Point Reproducer. Powerful Spring-
Motor, belt drive; can be wound while rim-
ing. Plays Blue Amberol Records.
Si/.c: 101 inches high; lOf inches wide; 22
inches deep. Price £2O.
There are Amberolas from £B/10/- to
£45.
Call on your nearest , Edison dealer, for
demonstration, or write to us for printed
matter.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 304-372 Kent St., Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS
fWjridq
es
Ujunglon
ic
FOR
COLDS
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL. ENGLAND.
WRIGLEYSk.
SPEARMINT
the perfect gum rl^ts
■ ■■■■,■■■ , r) yt ...iiw )>}}}))) y>>)>'>'»>}»'>'}r>'m»)»>»»'f7>»}r»m
\ *Z&
S!
ftl
Remember!
When you’re hot and tired,
head awhirl, appetite gone,
digestion poor, throat
parched I
Remember then
WRIGLEYS
SPEARMINT
V
The famous US. Chewing
Sweet that quenches thirst,
soothes the throat, steadies
stomach and nerves.
Its delightful mint flavor
refreshes and benefits wonderfully,
3d. per packet of five big bars, at
Chemists, Confectioners and Stores.
Sample packet by post for three penny stamps from
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Commerce House, Melbourne.
Be Sure it's Whaley's.
The Flavor Lasts
Ex-Governor-General Denman, who has
Ivon warning England that it had better
shake itself up and go in for universal train-
ing and compulsory military service, recently
put these points amongst others: —
Tlie experience of Australia and Maoriland goes
to prove that no more democratic measure could be
placed on the Statute book.
We are told it will disorganise trade. It is
precisely because our trade must be organised for
war that compulsion is vitally necessary.
The fact that the War Office is taking married
men up to 40 and reducing the standard of height to
sft. 2in. is proof in itself that the voluntary system
has broken down.
Denman took the opportunity to put in their
class the Tory crowd in Australia, who, hav-
ing fruitlessly fought the compulsory defence
scheme, afterwards claimed it as a child of
their own. Said he :
The system was first introduced in the Common-
wealth by a Labor Government.... The of
the scheme is largely due to their administration.
The Labor Government and the Labor party of that
day are fairly entitled to take credit for this
success.
Three men, Fisher, Hughes and Pearce, are
particularly selected for the ex-G.-G.'s con-
gratulations.
Alf Eddcn. the veteran Laborite of N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly, is seriously ill, but still can
laugh over one of his yarns. Up at little
Adamstown, where he lives, he overheard a
couple of constituents discussing him. One
was an old-age pensioner, and the other had
an invalidity pension. Says Old Age to In-
validity : “See old Alf there —lie gets bigger
every day.” “Yus,” agreed Invalidity, “and
it's the likes o’ you and me that’s taxed to
fatten the likes o’ ’im.”
From “Rosna” in London: —
Among the wounded here is E. Y. Butler, formerly
inspecting clerk in Wtstralia’s Crown Law Depart-
ment, now a lieut. in ttie 12th Australian Infantry.
After getting a bullet through the peak of his cap
lie was shot in the light thumb and packed off to
England, much annoyed at being put out of the great
game by such a trifling mishap. In his battalion
was Captain Lalor, grandson of Peter of Eureka.
He left a staff appointment in Victoria to join the
12th, where he was familiarly known as “our little
captain,” and was the most popular man in the
battalion. We have heard that he has gone down,
too.
The Commonwealth, by the way, has established a
Casualty office here. When the first Australian
list of 4000 struck the Commissioner’s Office in one
heap the Records secretary (Smart) had a staff of
only three to help him grapple with it. The staff
has since grown to 30, but even so there are not
many pauses for refreshments. Wounded Tommy
Kangaroo's mail runs into thousands; and those
letters take some sorting out. There’s a good
arrangement, too, by which friends and relatives of
men at the Front can register their names and
addresses for instant information of any casualty.
“Garnishor” is in doubt as to whether he
may hammer his wife :
Jacob Bonaker. the N.S.W. Northern Rivers cocky
who kept his wife tied to a tree, may possibly have
been a profounder lawyer than the Beak who admon-
ished him. The law is hazy. In Ilardyman’s case a
sort of negative imprisonment was imposed on a
frivolous wife. Lord Chief Justice Raymond said
that the husband had ruled of her “that she should
neither sit at his table, nor have any government
of his children, but should he kept to a garret;
and,” his Lordship added, “she deserved no better
usage.” On the same set of facts Ilardyman's case
would presumably be sound law to-day. More or
less on the other hand, it was decided in Jackson’s
ease that “where a wife refuses to live with her hus-
band he is not entitled to keep her in confinement
in order to enforce restitution of conjugal rights,”
and the Court ordered the husband to bring up her
body.
Collins, afterwards a. Law Lord and one of the
greatest of twentieth-century jurists, cited Lord
Chancellor Bacon: “The husband hath by law power
and dominion over his wife, and may keep her by
force within the bounds of duty, and may beat her,
but not in a violent or cruel manner.” Collins did
not contend that a husband was entitled to beat his
wife. It was unnecessary for his purpose. He put
it no higher than Coleridge put it in Cochrane's
case: “There can be no doubt of the general
dominion which the law attributes to the husband
over the wife.” But Lords Ilalsbury and Esher held
against Collins in this particular case, and made
some general remarks about the legal history of the
matter which were more emotional than accurate.
Blackstone may be the best guide. He says that
a wife “is called in our lavv-French a feme-covert,
being under her husband’s cover, protection and in-
fluence, so that as to her person the custody of this
belongs of right to her husband, and by some ancient
authorities it was considered so far under his power
that he might give her moderate correction. For
graver misdemeanors sharper whippings (flag elite et
fustibus acriter), and for others on! y -modicum casti-
(jationem. Though with us;-in the politer reign of
Charles the Second, this power of correction began
to be doubted, yet the lower rank of' people, who
were always fond of the old Common Law, still
claim and exert their ancient privilege.” Then as
now for certain matters she could swear the peace
against him. Blaekstone’s last sentence really con-
tains the gist of the whole matter, . which is that
you cannot enforce any law if it is against the in-
stinct of the people. That is the law supreme which
lies at the root of Bonaker’s case. He may have
been in order in tying his wife to a tree. On the
other hand, he may have been as poor a lawyer as
—well, as some Chancellors have been.
“G..T.11.”: “The border railway” . from
Swan Hill (Vic.), mentioned in The
Bulletin as opened the other day, doesn’t,
of course, cross the border. It • runs from
Swan Hill to Piangil, about 28 miles, and
finishes up still a couple of miles short of
X. S. Wales territory. The nearest railway
town in N. S. Wales is Hay, about 160 miles
away ; and although Piangil is within three
miles of Tooleybuc (N.S.W.) the only
means of communication is a dilapidated old
punt over the Murray, at the latter place.
The Northern Riverina settler now has added
to his other woes the exasperation of know-
ing there is a railway almost at his elbow
which, through the jealousy of State Spiters,
is as much good to him as if it were in the
moon. Of course if Holman bridged the
Murray at Tooleybuc he would be commit-
ting the heinous offence' of diverting the
trade of that district from Sydney (nearly
TOO miles away) to Melbourne (about 140
miles away), and no statesman with an eye
to city votes would be guilty of such an
offence as that.


a
MMUfiESStt
-
•iJ;
m
mam
I mm
■ ■
■V ;.: --,::- ■
111
«
1:1
■■
fcs
m
W
SI:
LES. DARCY, the Champion Middleweight,
in his Three=Guinea Hurdoch Suit.
'V es, Sir, lies a front ranker —a man who is direct
and aggressive. He has a personality that
impresses, and he makes his individuality felt.
Les Darcy —the middle-weight champion of the
Boxing World —is a “Murdoch” man, and wears a
MURDOCH
Everrite Blue Serg
Suit-to-Measure,
631
There’s an appropriate connection between the two, as “ Everrite”
emphasises the points that Darcy excels in.
Everrite” Serge never flinches in color—it withstands evety attack of
sun, lain 01 sea air it has remarkaole staying power and wears well.
Tailored in the “ Murdoch ” way, it is trained to give the utmost in
service. The “Murdoch” guarantee is a safe backer —“ your money
returned if you are not satisfied. ’ ’ ... /
Now, Sir ! Be a Murdoch Man
Let your appearance count in your favor, so that men will be attracted
oy your personality —be a leader, not a hanger-on.
An “Bverrite” Serge Suit is the king-pin of Suits for Spring and
kunnner wear. Bverv man ’owes it to himself to investigate tlievalue
of ‘ Bverrite. ’ 5 Let us tailor you a Spring Suit from this splendid Serge.
Order an“Everrite”Suit To-day
Call and see the fabrics—if you live out of town fill in the pattern
coupon right away.
DESK R.
MESSRS. MURDOCH'S IN PARK STREET LTD., SYDNEY.
Please send patterns of your “ Ererrite " Suits-to-measure at 63/-.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE TRUTH OF
THIS ADVERTISE-
MENT is Vouched
FOR PERSONALLY
BY MR. MURDOCH.
M
*
□
m
freet Ltd., Sy
f
Awstralia's Mammoth Store for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.’’


h
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
10 YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Del i vered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
ĥ
It you are
a nxious to de-
velop your
talent for
drawing so that
you caii make
money, copy
this sketch and
send it tp us
for free criti-
cism. Black-
a n d - white
Artists make
big incomes.
Let us see what you can do with
this sketch.
The AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF SKETCHING
Dept. E.,
Bond Street, SYDNEY.
-c-
-rv:
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is i her of ore, regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
NYAL’S FACE CREAM
(with
Peroxide)
Made in
Australia.
This daintily perfumed, vanishing, peroxide
cream does NOT promote the growth of hair.
Non-greasy, nourishing and easily absorbed—
leaves no shine. Ideal for sunburn, and acts
as a mild skin bleach. Applied freely it will
keep the skin soft and elastic.
Price 1/6 & 2/6 per Jar, from Retail Chemists only.
FREDERICK STEARNS & COMPANY,
358 Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney.
Send 2d. Stamp for Sample Jar and Name of
-I mm—Nearest Agent. -
“A GRAND REMEDY”
“The cough mixture I make from
Hean’s Essence is a grand remedy for
colds. It would be difficult to obtain
a better preparation, while its cheap-
ness appeals to the pocket.”—Mrs. E.
R. Monro, Berrico, Gloucester, N.S.W.
This Hearns Essence mixture is so easy to
make in your own home, is so good and
saves such a lot of money—io/- on a pint—
that it is popular in thousands of Australian
homes. Try it in yours. At chemists and
stores, or post free on receipt of price, 2/-,
from G. W. I Jean, Chemist, 178 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. Read the circular. 5-15
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 33 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY-FOURTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT of
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head
Banking House, George Street, Sydney on Tuesday, 20th July, 1915.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance-sheet showing the Liabilities
and Assets of the Bank on the 30th June, 1015, and present the following report:—
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on
current bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying
Note and other taxes, and providing for bad and doubtful debts, as well as granting to
the Officers a bonus on their salaries, amounts to ilJ<,7do lo J
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations
To Payment of a Dividend for the half-year n inAAAA A A
at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum .. flOO,OOO 0 0
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund .. .. • • 35,000 0 U
„ Balance being undivided Profit.. .. •• (2,166 Id
£197,733 13 9
Since the beginning of the vear the Bank has lost the valuable services of its two
youngest Directors: Mr. Norman Shelley, who died suddenly; and Lieutenant-Colonel
A. J. Onslow Thompson, of the Fourth Battalion, of the I irst Infantry Brigade,
Australian Imperial Force, who was killed in action at the Daidanelles. lhe
Directors mourn their loss. , r „, _ , T ,
The Honorable James Burns, M.L.C., and Thomas Forster Knox, Esquire, were
appointed, in terms of Article 94, to fill the vacancies thereby created. These gentlemen
are eligible for election and have given notice of candidature.
This meeting is also called upon to elect a Director, consequent on the retirement,
in terms of the Articles of Association, of the Honorable Henry Moses, M.L.C., who is
eligible for re-election, and has given the requisite notice that he is a candidate tor the
office. It also rests with the meeting to appoint Auditors for the ensuing year.
During the half-year the Branch at Quambone, in this State, has been closed.
The Dividend is now payable.
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(Including London Branch to 30tli June, by Cable.)
Dr.
Cr.
Capital . . ..£2.000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 1,755,000 0 0
Reserve Capital.. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,755,000 0 0
To Capital paid-
up .. £2,000,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund 1,755,000 0 0
£3,755,000 0 0
~ Notes in circulation .. . . 16,952 0 0
„ Bills in circulation .. .. 665,369 1 8
„ Deposits and other liabilities . . 25,071,778 8 3
„ Profit and Loss Account ~ 197,733 13 9
-V J-
- :
£29,706.833 3 8
By Coin and bul-
lion in hand £4,611,434 8 6
„ Cash at bankers 301,071 0 7
~ A u s t r alian
Commonwealth
Notes (Legal
Tender) . . 4,809,666 10 0
~ Money at short
. call in London 279,737 10 0
~ British Consols
and War Loan
Stock and Gov-
ernment and
Municipal
Securities .. 3,361,525 0 0
~ Bills rebeiv- '
able in London *?.■
an d remit-
tances in tran-
sit . . .. 1,495,216 3 6
„ Notes and
bills of other
banks . . 32,134 17 10
r ——£14,890,785 10 5
~ Bills %hd all debts & ~■
due to ilie bank . . . . ; ..14,236,404 13 3
~ Bank premises, furpitm#, etc. 0 0
£29,706,833 3 8
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Dividend Account for payment of
a dividend for past half-year at
the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum .. .. .. ..£lOO,OOO 0 0
„ Reserve Fund . . . . . . 25,000 0 0
~ Balance of undivided profit a*
carried to next half-year .. 73p"if8 Tf! 0
-’■sSf- —-—*—
£197,733 13 9
By Amount undivided from lust half-
year £70,900 13 8
~ Profit for half-year ended June
30, 1,915 126,773 0 1
RESERVE FUND.
1915—June 30 , £1,725,000 0 0
By Transfer from Profit and Loss Account.. 55,000 0 0
V *1.780,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman. T. A. .DTBBS, General Manager. IV. R. SAYERS, Accountant.
Sydney, July 14, 1915.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the coin in
the Head Office of The Commercial Banking Corppany of Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns
of the blanches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance-Sheet.
F. W. HIXSON \ .
W. L. DOCKER / Audltors -
The following resolutions were carried unanimously:—•
“That the Report and Statement of Account be received and adopted, and ordered
to be circulated among the Proprietors.”
“That the Honorable Henry Moses, M.L.C., be re-elected a Director of the Bank
and that the Honorable James Burns, M.L.C., and Thomas Forster Knox,
Esquire, be elected Directors.” .
“That W. L. Docker, Esquire, and J. J. Brenan, Esquire, be appointed Auditors for
the ensuing year.” 7
“That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General
Manager and Officers of the Bank for their very satisfactory management of
the affairs of the institution.” V T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
SPECIAL RESOLUTION.
That this meeting places on record its very high appreciation of the distinguished
services rendered to the Bank by Mr. T. A. Dibbs during the 48 years he has held the
position of General Manager, this whole term of office having been marked by a
devotion to the welfare of this institution; which could not be surpassed.
In moving the adoption of the Report and Balance-sheet the Chairman, Mr. George
J. Cohen, said
Before moving the adoption of the Directors’ Report and the Balance-sheet for the
half-year just ended I will occupy your time for a few minutes in comparing the
principal items with those of twelve months ago. Though nearly the whole period of
the twelve months has been covered by the War, which .unfortunately still continues,
it will be seen that the Bank has made good progress.
Of; the items on the debit side, Reserve Fund shows an increase of £75,000, and,
with the further appropriation now recommended, that Fund will stand at £1,780,000.
Our Deposits have increased by £2,793,000, but this expansion we look upon as of a
somewhat transitory character. There appears to be a disposition on the part of many
of our customers to let funds remain idle and aw r ait more favorable opportunities for
investment. The Government accounts too, at the moment, are largely in credit.
The item, Notes in Circulation, is down by £4BOO by payment of Notes that have
come in, and now stands at £16,952.
Bills in Circulation are less by £448,000, largely due to shrinkage in trade.
Profit and Loss Acount, as rriight be expected, shows slightly less.
With these changes our total figures are £29,700,000, showing an increase for the
twelve months of £2,400,000.
On the other side of the Balance-sheet our Coin and Cash at Bankers, Australian
Legal Tender Notes, and Notes and Bills of other Banks, are together more iffian
£3,300,000 over the figures of last year.
Our coin is less, partly by payments under the agreement by the Banks witll the
Commonwealth Government, and by the export of gold to keep ourselves stroij in
London.
Our holding under the four headings I have just mentioned is slightly over ine
and three-quarter millions.
Money at Short Call in London has been reduced by £1,550,000. Rates *. (ere
latterly have been low, and our funds have been more profitably employed in % fili-
tating the operations of our customers:
British Consols and Government Securities an increase of £920.000 princi-
pally caused by the holding of Government Securities shortly maturing, which will
presently disappear from our books, and our deposits will then be correspondingly
reduced.
Bills Receivable in London and Remittances in transit shows a shrinkage of
£570.000, the natural outcome of our reduced exports.
I may add that the total of our Liquid Assets, largely increased and aggregating-
close on fifteen millions, bears a ratio of £57 16s. 4d. per cent, to our liabilities to the
Publ Advances are higher on the year by £273,000, but lower than they were six
months ago. Bank Premises Account is £ll,OOO higher.
When we last met I mentioned that a number of our men had joined the
Expeditionary Forces. • Up to the present eiglity-seven have been released from Bank
duties in Australia, and about seventy of them have been engaged at the Front. I
very much regret to say that intelligence has been received that eight of these have
been killed in action, seven have been wounded, and one is missing.
Thirty-six more of our men have volunteered for service, and arrangements
being made for their release as early as possible.
Seven men from our London Office are also on active seivice.
are
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
. Zamia: Older than the Oldest Inhabi-
tant’s grandfather. .. .L. Forbes: Try again....
C.AV.C. : Pound-note yarn first appeared about 30
years ago. . . .A.L.F.: Long, inconsequential poser
about Germany and Belgium and Henry VIII. dashed
into 15 pieces.... Merski: Do you write with the
family mangle ? A hairpin is better.... Rex: Oh,
yes, snails as big as whales are often seen in the
AVest.... Sandy: There is no answer from the grave.
....Mary: This way, please. Mind the step....
Teck: Tried it on the office bulldog. He looks
fearfully sorry.... Sol: The five-eighths gave it a
run, the centre-threequarter let it pass, but the full-
back brutally assassinated it with a blue goal post.
. ...V.R.T.: The writers of the daily war-notes must
get a crust somehow, poor chaps. Let them toil
away.... Never: Try a blister behind each ear....
Q.M.: Navvying is not the hardest work in the
world. AVrestling with stodgy pars, and inebriated
writing beats it by a shovelful Nurse: A nib
entered its vitals, and it perished on the pad....
Smell: Hung on the line in the Awful AVarning
Department.... Marsella: Elongated prattling about
nothing in particular on 17 sides of manuscript....
Sin: All together..now. O-ver ! P.R.Q.: Nighties
are off.... Ramon: You “wrote a paragraph, but it
must have gone astray.” Or away. Most likely
away. . . . AVallaby: Tenders will be received at The
Bulletin for a simple method of tanning skins —
wallaby, ’possum and rabbit —to make them suitable
for stitching into waistcoats for the trenches....
Cambridge: Needn’t argue about it. The creeping
curse kills hundreds of horses every year in the
Riverina and AVestern N. S. AVales Protein: Sin-
work. Not enough elbow-grease used on it.
Don t leave off. . . . Jaques: AA’e’d like further details
of that cross-examination. It isn’t a matter to be
dealt with in an Abo. par. 1 .-. .AV.B.G.: The hoggerel
market is congested... . G.R.: Poor. .. . F.R.M.: No,
it doesn’t get to the boundary... .Eric: Go home,
reckless curate! AA’e refuse to hear your confession.
....B. Evans D.: Sincere but rather amateurish.,
Try again. .. .C.E.H.: A brief acknowledgment that
the verses were originally published in this paper
is all that is required. Don’t care for latest con-
tribution forwarded with letter. .. .D.M.R.: “March”
barely moves.... Bellerive: Always glad to meet an
optimist:—■
. ...Caroli: Not good enough, and what’s your name
and address?. .. .H.G.H.: Your artificial literary pro-
duct looks pale beside the real stuff that is coming
through.... Fernleaf: Not a bad third offence, but
it s a miss, all the same. .. . J.T.N.: Sorry, unsuit-
able... .Mull: Did the war produce your poems, or
did your poems produce the war ?. .. . H.G.R.: Good
idea, but needs finer treatment. .. .E.D. (S.A.) : It
doesn’t belong to Australia or to this age. . . .L.R.W. :
One of those unoiled heavyweight poems. ... Feather:
Carried up in a whirlwind of hostile criticism....
G.C.AA.: You are unlucky. The Melbourne cartoonist
beat you by about eight days.... Madge P.: Not
what we want. (P.S.—There are a lot of things we
don’t want.) N.L.F.: Reads as if it had come out
of a slang factory run by a deacon. . . .S.T. (S.A.) :
Immature verse.... Boronia: Both miss.... Hardy
P.: If only the poets who can’t write poetry would
go to the war! Hy.H. (Q.) : But would the U.S.
take any notice of your brick? Rose C. (Q.) :
Pleasant but a little uneven, and the opening recalls
a well-known ode W.AV.P.: Good try. It’s a bit
thin.... Rex W. B.: Stories handed on as requested.
Not suitable for B \V.J. (V.): Apparently it was
rejected for some reason. The final weeding-out is
necessarily severe, and matter that is otherwise suit-
able has to go out if there is something better avail-
able. It isn’t possible to ackpowledge or keep track
of pars.—there are too many of them. .. .Taniwha:
Will have another look. If it was a first attempt it
was a good one. Keep going.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Frank S. E.: Don’t want two ironbark figures with
stumps instead of hands.... Homo: What’s wrong
with your lion’s mouth ?... .Jack McM.: Beginner’s
stuff. You need a lot of tuition... .A.M.: The joke
is not apparent, but the crudity of the drawing' is
obvious.... AY. J.: If we didn’t object on artistic
grounds the Censor would on grounds of public
policy.... W.E.C.: A ready-made, cracked and ruined
masterpiece.... Cap M.: Three wooden figures and a
dim joke. . . .Claude B.: You have constructed a news-
boy of an entirely new shape. AA’e may like 1 him
better when we get used to him. . . . A.AV.: There are
a few elementary points you haven’t yet picked up.
Start picking now.
The abnormal rush for steam tonnage for
Government work has dislocated the. world’s
freight markets. One result has been the
return of the wind-jammer to duty. Twelve
months ago the disappearance of the sailing
ship, especially the British sailing ship, was
nominated to occur within a decade. The
shipbuilder who laid down the keel of a
sailer would have been regarded much as a
city coachbuilder who commenced to build a
liorse-’bus. But now the wind-jammer com-
mands high freights, and when tenders were
invited for the chartering of the German
sailing ships interned in Australia there
was very keen competition among shipping
men who long ago thought they had done
with sailing ships for ever. Eo.ually keen
is the demand for officers who will ship on .
them. Owners of old hulks, particularly in
America, have suddenly found they are the
proprietors of little gold mines. The Yan-
kee lumber-schooners which discharge in
Australian ports, instead of going leisurely
to Newcastle to load coal, now skip back to
the Pacific slope in ballast, in order to fill
up again at the high freights ruling. Sub-
marine warfare is helping these arks to earn
dividends in their old age, as the loss of
tonnage this way isn’t made up fast enough
by building new steamers. The wind-
jammer would, of course, be an easy prey
for the “sub.”; but such vessels are being
used on routes outside the Gerliogs’ sphere
of uselessness.
Despite their powerful forces
Their science and their guns,
AVe never will be conquered
By the monarch of the hull’s.
Upon brave and neutral Belgian
They threw their brutal weight
But never upon the empire
AVill they deal a crushing fate.
Their threats to invade old england
Don’t fill our hearts with fear,
Their power will be broken
Before the dawn of the new year.


For All Conditions of Service
and every class of work there is a B.T.H. ELECTRIC MOTOR which possesses
just the required characteristics.
BRITISH
( B<
T-H
MADE
Totally Enclosed Type D.H. Motor —
Commutator End.
\
\
\
1 v
mm.
HBM|
Protected Type D.H. Motor—Commutator End.
ELECTRIC MOTORS
————^l—
are the outcome of years of experience in the design and manufacture
of electrical apparatus, and embody workmanship and material of the |
highest quality. f
l:
B.T.H. Electric Motors, for both alternating and direct current,
are so designed that by simply adding suitable covers which are
trifling in cost they can be converted from protected into totally
enclosed or drip=proof types in a few seconds.
This feature enables the motor to be quickly and inexpensively
modified to suit changing conditions when alterations are being made
in the workshop.
B.T.H. Electric Motors are low in first cost and inexpensive to
maintain, require the minimum of attention, and are capable of
dealing with heavy overloads.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BULLETIN.
h
ĥ
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY,
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
—Agents-
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen <& Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
Dinneford's
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
'■ m >
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
For your
Soldier Chum.
Give him something useful—some little
present that will prove its worth out there
in the trenches. We have thousands of
novel and inexpensive presents suitable for
Soldiers, and show many of them in our new
Mail Order Catalogue.
Send for a copy TO-NIGHT, if you cannot
call and inspect our display personally.
We Pay Postage on all Goods.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, SYDNEY.
ħ
This is a neat POCKET
BOOK in Sealskin, with
a Memo Pad, Pencil and
Pockets for carrying let-
ters or stamps.
Posted
10/6.
Our Country’s Call
A patriotic air that has some “soul” to it —sung
by an artist who knew how to fully convey its
appeal value.
Hear it on Record No. 0339, by Madame Edna
Thornton.
His Master’s Voice
Records
Sf
The Watch Dogs.
are always right up to the very moment, with the very best. The complete
record catalogue will prove somewhat of a surprise to those who have not'
seen it.
When you get YOUR copy you will understand why “His Master’s Voice”- is
called “The Home Theatre.”
The records cover the whole scope of musical art, and every number represents
a triumphal success!
Complete record catalogue, supplementary lists, and instrument catalogue FREE
from accredited “His Master’s Voice” dealers everywhere, or direct from
The Gramophone
Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
h


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W..K, 0 - M. WOOD,
H. D. lIALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS
INTEREST
received from 1/- upwards,
paid at 34 per cent, on first
£2OO and 3 per cent, on excess to £5OO.
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE GOV-
ERNMENT.
MONEY TO TEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest, 5 per
cent.
Branches and Agencies throughout the
State. Post Offices are not now Agencies for
this Bank.
By Order of tlie Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE-
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and. Reserves, £385,000.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.O.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
✓ SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE AVORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Bommeree
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1914) .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £55,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street, BJ.C.
DIRECTORS — -Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R,
Lysaght, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South AVales & Queensland.
.Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 178,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All ney) business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.;
James Love, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
.-U throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Qo.
of Sydney, [united.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. • • 1,780,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,780,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater. M.L.C. .. . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the* State of New South Wales
and in Queensland, Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)ero Z e *land.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £ 528,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000 t
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. •• .. 975,710
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 524,290
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS
DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all ether usual Banking business.
The Colonial [flutual t'ie
1 assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments a:xu
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 431 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Arcumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceedl £6,000 000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: .
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping. &c.
ORrENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMRAH
Pitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads ; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
With all United States and Canadian
Railways.
The largest, finest and newest steamer trading
between Sydney and San Francisco.
Panama Pacific Exhibition now open at San
Francisco. •• ** •
Return Tickets available by various routes.
Steamers stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of
the Pacific.”
Steamers equipped with AVireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting).
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(*Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports)-
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 31.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 4.
Leaves'Sydney August 7.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 11.
Leaves Sydney August 14.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W. A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney August 7.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. Peregrine (3500 tons) leaves Brisbane every
Friday at 8 a.ra. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at
GLADSTONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting
at TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports
as far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.;
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii
giving I
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
July 31; August 28; Sept. 25; Oct. 23.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
TMURSDAyv£g>g\<t
1 IS A'W » C
CAIRNS
V
IS SANE
ayoNfy
MELBOURNE
22
I "
NOR FOLD 15
LORO
HOWE
BurnsPhilp& C°UP
Send for Pamphlet.
BRUISES
m Pacific Isles,
TO PAPUA &RABAUL
TO SOLOMON I?
TO NEW HEBRIDES
TO MARSHALL*
TO GILBERT I?
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
ĥ
£3,500,000
£2,550,000
£3,500,000
£9,550,000
DIRECTORS:—
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G.,
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
M.L.C.
AUDITORSWiIIiam Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepbeard EdgecHfl Laidley, Esq. __
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
346 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
ASen clb a ie d remimnces de made h to, U lnT t dr t af e ts W driwn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued wortj
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Illiberal Eand Eaws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
X. C. TKOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Eocal Director.
Commonwealth
ħ
llmli-'Hustralia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
CITIES and TOWMS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts , drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the vvwld.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
Uuijted Kingdom and abroad. Current; accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at «o/
per annum w/ 0
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMBS KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1915 DENIS W MILLER, Governor
1
iV,
Splendid WiQter ToOrS
TO THE
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
FIJI
Quaint Customs,
Rugged Scenery.
TONGA
Palm-fringed
Coral Islands.
SAMOA
The Cem of the Pacific.
Union Company’s GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at SUVA is NOW OPEN.
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION FROM
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Yictorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports. ,
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
- July 31 and Aug. 28.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers;)
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
| GRANT ALA, July 31.
-WOLLOWRA, Aug. 7.
MORI ALT A, Aug. 14.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on' application at the Company s Omce.
G. S. YUIXIi & CO., UTIL,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE* “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS :
fTwin-Screw. *Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe, suites, bedstead- rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW, OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel., . Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and' pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
’Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £0 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. fid.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd
Capital ‘Subscribed
Capital Paid up
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
. . £250,000
.. £lOO,OOO
.. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trustee,
Administrate r or Attorney under Power for absentees,
and is the only Trustee Company empowered by Act
cf Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES M.L.C.
H. Y. BIiADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL. Esq.
JAMES KIL»D. Esq
R. M. Pi l l. Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet _ their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.


11111
The Aged and Infirm
Are sometimes more susceptible to Coughs and Colds on the Chest than the Young and
Vigorous. When an Aged Person gets a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not
only is the Best Remedy taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that does
not cause any Heart Depression nor in any way weaken an already frail constitution.
In such a case, Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure is just the proper Medicine to use as
tt is the Quickest, Safest and Best-a Remedy that makes good every time.
0}
a;
n
1
Wf
c
S''-*,
■V
t
I
&
i
s
K
k
#
\
II
s
%
I
s,
/
m
/
fi
i
&
I
m
IS
rP*u£uf 3,
7
Hear nes
Bronchitis
Cure
The Finest Remedy
in the World
For
COUGHS
and
COLDS
Equally Beneficial
to Young Children
If not obtainable
in your District
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.,
Geelong. Victoria.
“Brad” : Recently five brothers, Parsell
hv name bush-whackina- at Black Hill near
by name, busii whacking at Black Will near
Kyneton (Vic.), sallied xOith on a fox hunt.
The day’s bag was 26. The crack marksman
of this family of sharpshooters lately volun-
teered for the big mix-up, but was turned
down on account of decayed fangs. Fangs
, , ~ . . , .
must be the most important things in the
battle against the dreaded Germans when
rifle-shots like that are refused because
their teeth are not as perfect as a chorus
girl’s. Are recruits expected to eat the
p ,
Germans .
“M.G.” meets his first co-editor : -
J. H. Greene, whose striking “Kultur” verse ap-
+. t>
peared at the top of the Red Page (8/7/’ls), was a
. b \ i / />
schoolfellow of mine at Queen’s College, St. Kilda
(Vic.). He went to Melbourne Uni. and had a
brilliant career, winning scholarship after scholar-
ship; but, before he could finish his course (Science)
in.j , ... ...
the land-boom smash came and forced him, like many
’ 3
other students, to look for an immediate living. He
went west, saw Cooigardie within a month or two
of Bayley s discovery, and returned, a year later, to
make his first incursion into adult journalism with
a graphic series of goldfields sketches in the Argus.
About this time Greene was appointed analyst to the
Melbourne. Gas Cos., and that kept him going,
Between times he wrote stories and verses for The
Bulletin, and, taking his work as a whole, I don’t
think any other Australian writer has ever reached
such a high standard. The comparison is, perhaps,
not quite fair, because Greene wrote so infrequently—
a face which led to his name being overlooked by
many of those who were careful readers of The
Bulletin’s literary work. Two of his contributions,
however, may be remembered —a set of verses called
“The Jester of the Damned,” and a story telling how
tropical heat germinated insect life on a vessel full
of logwood and caused the whole crew to take to the
freshly-tarred rigging, while the insect pirates held
the ship. Later, Greene became stage-struck. He
joined Dan Barry, and I went one night to see him
act. My conclusion was that acting was the only
thing that Greene could not do. However, he stuck
to it, and embodied his experiences in a series of
backblock barnstorming, which ran in The Bulletin,
signed “The Stroller.” About 10 years ago Greene,
who had married an American girl in the same com-
pany, decided to cross the Pacific on a visit io her
people. He has not since returned, and the verse
taken from the New York Times is the first hint I’ve
had of his existence on the other side. In our
schooldays, Greene, Jim Cramsie—now a well-known
squatter of the New England district (N.S.W.) —and
I fan a school-paper called the Queen’s College
Bulletin. It was my first experience in journalism,
but I am still in it, and so, seemingly, is Greene,
whom we all expected would be professor of science
at some university before he was 25. Cramsie was
the only one with sufficient sense to escape. He got
into something much better —the art of letting the
sheep amuse themselves for their owner’s profit.
Died recently in Oaklands, U.S.A., John
David Thorpe, a Rochester (Yic.) native
who invented an auto-sledge that made the
Klondyke regions somewhat accessible. Pri-
vations in the cold Far North hastened the
call.
“D.” on an ancient mystery:—
What a thing personality is! The Kaiser has
achieved nothing in this war. In fact, he has proved
such a failure as a generalissimo that he is under-
stood to have dropped interfering in the carnage.
Yet all over the world people think of him first.
Kitchener has done no fighting; French has been in
the field from the beginning. Yet Wellington was
not more trusted than Kitchener, nor a tenth part
so popular. But the queerest instance comes from
tha navies. The German high secs fleet has become
almost an object of derision by reason of its in-
activity. The British fleet, on the other hand, has
done much. The world’s public knows no British
Admiral by sight, barring perhaps Jellicoe; and the
average citizen would be doubtful about him. But
who does not know the appearance of the apparently
futile von Tirpitz? It cannot merely be his whis-
kers. It must be something in the man himself.
When von Ingenohl was deposed from the command
of the German fleet early in the war the papers
stated it in two-line paragraphs. If anything hap-
pened to Yon Tirpitz the headlines would stretch
across the page.
Parson Frank Lynch, of Holy Trinity,
Williamstown (Vic.), who punched a man
on the nose the other day at a recruiting
meeting for Empire’s sake, and then found
out that he had mistakenly stoushed a fellow-
patriot, gets frequent limelight. Holy
Trinity regards him with mixed views. So
did his previous congregation at East Caul-
field. But as the contention only involves
the question of high-church ritual where
some members wish to be low-church, Lynch
toils on serenely in the vineyard. On one
occasion he put some anti-Labor politics in
his church paper. The venerable Chanter,
M.11.R., was one of the congregation, and in
the ensuing argument Lynch politely hauled
down his flag, publicly admitting that most
of Labor’s aims were above reproach. This
was the act of either a shirker or a white
pan—and nobody who knows him could ever
imagine the impetuous Lynch as shirking
either a controversy or a brick.
Eden George, who once made a surprise
entry into N.S.W. Leg. Assembly by defeat-
ing Dr. James Graham, is a member of the
French Red Cross service. He was on the
job in France when last heard from, and
mentioned that if he was asked how long
it would be necessary for him to remain
there he would say two years.


Elastic Sides
that won’t
stretch out after
a few weeks’
wear.
h
—Next time you need
Riding Boots, buy
“WALLABY
EMPERORS.” —«
They are soft and light. They
are strong and durable. Made
in Queensland from genuine
Wallaby Hides, fitted with
comfortable elastic sides that
will not perish or stretch after
a few weeks’ wear.
Price:
Black, 16/6 pr.
Tan, 18/6 pr.
W£ PAY THE POSTAGE.
SEND FOR A PAIR ON APPROVAL,
STATING SIZE AND COLOR PREFERRED.
PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Toowoomba. BRISBANE. Townsville.
Jokes, Puzzles,
Tricks, Novelties.
Here are four more New Puzzles, something to set you thinking for a while, Solidly made, and
nickel plated Post free, with full directions, 6d. each, or the Four for 1/6.
Also a Box of Six Puzzles (different from the above), post free, with full
instructions, 1/3, or the box of six and the four Puzzles illustrated for 2/6,
post free.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.—New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Write for our New
Catalog, a Novelty
in itself, sent FREE.
BANANA LAND
“Barcoo”: Three cheers, Australia, for
Evesham, a station on the Darr River, Cen-
tral Queensland. It has thus far sent to
the Front 24 soldiers, ranging from Watt,
the manager, down to the newest jackeroo.
John Turnbull, the principal owner, has two
sons out of four in the thick of it. Well-
shot, in the same district, runs a good sec-
ond with 16 volunteers.
“P.F.”: Home-Secretary Bowman pro-
poses now to nationalise hospitals. Good;
but is this the time for the change? National-
isation in Queensland means, roughly,
£lOO,OOO a year more to pay out. The
Ryan Government has already handed back
the public servants some £60,000 of deferred
automatic increases, and Adamson confesses
to having railway implications on hand that
mean over millions of loan money, while
every variety of official, high and low, is
clamoring for more, more. Will Australia
ever have a Labor Administration that
understands the meaning of restraint in
matters of expenditure?
“Viki”: Charles Seymour, editor of the
Worker, handed in his resignation last
week. With Matt Reid, Gilbert Casey, Lane
and a couple more, Seymour practically
commenced the latter-day Labor movement
in Queensland. “Charlie” and Lane were
the founders of the Worker, the first issue
of which was distributed from a handcart
because the newsagents, under instructions,
would not touch it. For 12 years Seymour
occupied the room marked “Sub-Eflitor.”
He has helped the party grow from a small,
victimised coterie to attain a majority in
the Assembly and the Hopse of Reps., and
he has seen the paper expand from a monthly
leaflet to a solidly established weekly.
The Brisbane police a few days ago
arrested one Karl Waldraff, a reservist who
had been trained on a German submarine.
Although simply laboring on a farm, Wal-
draff was found to be loaded with a Win-
chester rifle, a Webley revolver, heaps of
ammunition, and an arsenal of anti-Britisli
feelings. As to the anti-British feelings, if
the police would only carefully and intel-
ligently inquire they could find barrow-loads
of bitter German newspapers (come by way
of America) circulating in certain districts
of South Queensland.
The Northern climate makes even the Law
unusually tired. On July 12, at Townsville
Police Court, a man was charged with
stealing from the person. He was com-
mitted for trial at the District Court, then
sitting, and was released on bail at 12 noon.
At 12.30 he obtained a blank cheque form,
forged a demand for £l5, and, shortly after
one o’clock, presented it at a jeweller’s,
where he owed a small account. The trades-
INSENSITIVE.
C OMMERCIAL: “Well, Sissy, how’s the boy?”
S ISSY: “Oh, ’e’s orlright.”
COMMERCIAL: “Is he? I’m surprised. I thought you’d turned him down.”
SISSY: “So I did. I told ’im ’undreds of times to clear out, that I didn’t want ’im. But
he won’t take the ’int.”
man, being suspicious, handed the scrap of
paper to the bank (two doors away). But
it wasn’t until nearly two o’clock that his
nibs was arrested, and it was going on for
three o’clock when he was charged and com-
mitted for trial. But the most shocking
dilatoriness of all followed. It was a whole
two days before he was handed four years’
hard labor for King and country. In the
more energetic South they could have done
the whole job easily in six months.
Rockhampton’s anti-Socialist Harbor
Board pleads desperately with the Govern-
ment to “nationalise Port Alma.” It is
difficult to say which struggles harder for
nationalisation —the Socialists or the anti-
Socialists. The only difference is that one
lot wants to nationalise the commercial
successes; the other's the commercial fail-
ures.
“Old Settler”: What’s all this blither
about drought ’nd high prices ’nd hard-
ships? Butter? Why, for years we never
saw it ? ’nd the first farmers on the Oxley
lived mainly on pumpkin ’nd bandicoot. I
rfemember the first Germans in the Rose-
wood goin’ nine miles to the Bremer to get
water ’nd having to cart it home in kero-
sene-tins. Hardships be jiggered!
The protest made against the killing off
of the gentle koala in Queensland needs to
be repeated in view of the fact that all does
shot just now carry a young bear m the
pouch. The open season begins two months
too soon —if there must be an open season
at all.
Queensland’s Museum librarian, Douglas
Rannie, handed in liis checks a few days
ago at the too-early age of 54. Rannie
hailed from Banff (Scotland), and served
Bananaland for over 30 years in various
capacities. He went all through the bad
old days of the “blackbird” traffic as a labor
agent, and knew the murky ins and outs ot
that shady business better than any man
in Australia. Always he was guilty ot
literary leanings, and his book, ‘‘Adventures
among South Sea Cannibals,' contains
some good reading, despite a tendency to
paint the lily and dip Tanna Tommy in
pitch. In bis reminiscent vein Rannie
talked better than he wrote.
Benson, Director of Agriculture in Tas-
mania, goes back to Bananaland as Director
of Fruit Culture. He went to the Speck
as a reply to the Denham Government’s
failure to redeem a promise about salary.
One of Ryan’s first acts was to send him a
telegram on the subject. Benson once offered
a Minister for Agriculture to stake his repu-
tation that if allowed to plant an area with
olive trees around a Queensland reformatory
the place would be self-supporting when the
trees were in full bearing. But the Tory
boss turned down the project as absurd.
Thus the nucleus of an important industry
was lost, and Queensland still buys most of
its olive oil from the Dago.
Not only are Billjim and Jimbill at the
Front, but Percy and Marmaduke are there,
too. Among Bananaland’s big squatters the
Fairbairns, Ramsays (Oondoroo), Jowetts
and Clarkes have ail sons or brothers to the
fore in France, Belgium or Gallipoli.
Something for Our Consideration.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Harold Cox, editor of the Edinburgh Review,
says it will be necessary for Britain to borrow
£2,000,000,000 during the war. — Cable.
The attention of the Premier was directed to the
official announcement that no loan money would be
available in Great Britain during the financial year.
Mr. Ryan said it was a matter that would require
serious consideration. — News item.
When the days of boom and boost
Pass like smoke from some old pipe;
When the fowls come home to roost
And the loan is over-ripe;
When there’s drought
About,
And the cocky is knocked out,
And a war is daily weakening the nation;
Even maniac-borrowers pause in the middle
of a clause of their little, tinpot laws,
and remark, amid applause, that in
Freedom’s sacred cause,
The matter will require consideration!
When a gentleman like Cox- —•
A Freetrader born and bred —
Says we’ll run upon the rocks
If we do not look ahead ;
When we dash
Much' cash
Into Everlasting Smash
On the strength of some fill-’em-up-again
oration —
It is tiifie to “take a pull,” and to hearken
to John Bull; for our cup of Jag is
full,
And the matter will require consideration!
When the warnings of the past
Were contemptuously shelved
(For they reckoned it would last,
Did the crowd who dug and delved
At per day,
So gay,
In the old and futile way,
As they charged for work which was mere
imitation)
Did it never strike the blokes, who cared
more about their smokes than their
liftings and their strokes, that the very
best of jokes in the end would come to
folks
As a matter that required consideration?
No! The wasters and the drones
Who have made the honey fly—
Who have scattered round the loans,
Who have milked the State cow dry—
Do not flinch
One inch !
For the men who’ll feel the pinch,
And have to face the awkward situation,
Are you—and me! We must find the
£ s. d. which they sling around with
glee ; but it, somehow, seems to be just
a weird that we must dree, for our good
old friend J. 8., far away across the
sea, now requests us to agree _
To give the matter our consideration —-
Immediate, earnest, deep consideration!
QUEENSLAND.
E. N. M.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 24, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Their Excellencies rolled up their sleeves
to it this week. On Monday they were at
the annual meeting of the Lady Bowen Hos-
pital, where He made a fine speech and She
listened carefully. This afternoon her Ex.
cracked open a fete at Ashgrove in aid of
the patriotic funds. Next week the duty-
book’s entries include two hospital meetings
—the Children’s and the Lady Lamington
—and a journey to Rosewood for the Show.
Thousands of people congregated at the
Central Station on Monday night to wel-
come back 39 wounded soldiers. Since the
names of the men had not been published,
scores of women endeavored, more or less
successfully, to fight their way up to the
barrier to see whether they owned any of
the stray heroes. It was an unnecessarily
painful ordeal for anxious mothers, sisters
and wives. If you know the address of the
brilliant individual responsible for the whole
or any part of the thoughtful arrangements,
Thargomindah, send it on and I’ll pass it
round to 1050 women who want a lock of
his hair.
The invalids, who are all chirpy, have
been accommodated in our first military hos-
pital (it used to be the Immigration Depot
at Kangaroo Point), and when all is ship-
shape there will be room for 200 or more
patients and a nursing staff of 10. The
orderlies, drawn from the citizen forces,
camp in adjacent tents.
Private “Jerry” Tamblyn, one of the re-
turned party, who collided with shrapnel, is
a veteran of the S’African war, and has a
“derry” on shells. So when one fell into
a trench in which there were 14 useful Aus-
tralians, he rushed up and tried to kick it
into Constantinople. Unfortunately it
kicked back, and he was winged. Tamblyn,
an English boy named Anderson, and Bob
Ralston, a member of a well-known Downs
family, were all wounded early in the opera-
tions.
Dr. Mordaunt Sutton, a son of Lieut.-
Colonel Sutton, is one of the latest to offer
for medical service. He was lately a “resi-
dent” at the General Hospital.
Lieut. Bond, who was with the naval
forces at Rabaul, brought back a memento
any man should be proud of. It is a gold
watch, inscribed: “To Lt. T. Bond, in recog-
nition of his exceptional services, from their
Excellencies Colonel Paton, V.D., D. 5.0.,
and Colonel Pethebridge, D. 5.0.” “Their
Excellencies” —pheugh !
The executives of the Red Cross Society
and of the Patriotic Fund Committee held
a joint meeting on Friday afternoon, to
decide who was to do the appealing to the
public for funds for the sick and wounded,
and who was to control the funds collected.
Lady Goold-Adams presided, and explained
that there was no need for overlapping, as
the Patriotic Fund commenced where the
Red Cross i left off. . She suggested that the
Patriotic Committee should call their fund
the “Special Fund for Disabled Soldiers.”
However, it was decided to get the wishes
of the Red Cross in writing, so that no dif-
ferences may arise. This amiability was
born none too soon, as there was a feeling of
bewilderment in some quarters as to who
was administering the funds and how.
Two extraordinary statements are con-
tained in letters received this week from
lads in hospital in the vicinity of the Dar-
danelles. One was to the effect that
stretcher-bearers and others at a dressing-
station objected to attending to the writer
because they considered it impossible for
him to live, and bandaging was waste of
time. He reckons he would have bled to
death but that a R.C. chaplain insisted on
his being bandaged and given a chance. The
other boy, in his letter, said that he thought
the cable system an elaborate joke at
the men’s expense. They were told to
write out their cables, and three weeks
later they were informed that the messages
hadn’t been sent, and would have to be paid
for before they could go. I’ve heard some-
thing about the delays in attending to the
soldiers’ cablegrams before, but the alleged
delay in attending to their wounds in a
dressing-station is hard to swallow.
Io Qualtrough, one of Brisbane’s prettiest
daughters, is forsaking the way of the bache-
lor girl on August 4. Mr. Harry Benson,
of Sydney, is going to cheer her up.
Another wedding next week is that of the
Pelham Clayton chick to a youth from a
station near Barcaldine.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


*y
srfsm
r,.;-;-K~t;
<v
&
o'
A
%
<&&
a
O'
3
oV
<*
d/
'
f
Y 7
4^
m
ws
%*
iltt
\fsr*
Ns, f\i?v
ALADDIN’S
WONDERFUL LAMP
could not produce better value
than the new State Express
RED PACKING No. 333.
ci Introduced in response to
numerous enquiries from
the smoking public of the
Commonwealth, these cigar-
ettes, which are sold at the
popular price of 10 for 6d., are
a blend of the purest natural
Virginia Tobacco, manufac-
tured in the world’s most up-
to-date and hygienic factory.
CIGARETTES
N ? 333 10 for 6°
THE RED PACKING
OTHER STATE EXPRESS PRODUCTIONS
STATE EXPRESS Virginia No. 555 10 for -/9
>» ~ , ' ■%', De Luxe 25 for 2/3
» >, ~ His Majesty 2 5 for 2/9
.. ~ ~ Astorias 10 for 1/-
STATE EXPRESS Virginia My Darling 10 for -/9
„ „ „ ' Ifo. 999 10 for 1/-
~ ~ Turkish H.R.H. 20 for 2/9
~ „ „ VNo. 1 10 for l/-
__ • *. '-K,
State Express Cigarettes are obtainable of all High-Class Tobacconists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO., L TD LONDON.


‘CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
i/Mkj
n
imp-ru
' J V
Ms
■*»
a
« •'’ ■ V
if'y
m, mmM?- ¥s
<f*s
SK
mmMm
?£&&imsBr& i: J/ r ,. t r
si*
Jgl
i&Mife
AV^
rs?*§?
tm&msMk&tmJu
WwsmssPm.
wmmm,
MmM
mmmm
Mm
m
•j>t«v*> y
* S9 '®— tfl®?
’vo v- f *
wm&s4
H
MJ
Mw
§#l
lagpipi
#ii||
HU
@§ll
/x'
3BS
m
jfMgf®
mMM
$m
P
X
fps 3
I »
V
liiimwfe
1111
m
XX
>.<&&
m
mm.
vA
m
«•*
&V\S?
r
x
a®
7
1M
'< : XalcX
3®
?>iw«
A,
fflb
;«•
:&
WWtWW&MjfcM
xifx '
W-
€
F.a rasa
ytaiip^i
jf.4S
J&tSi
sr~.
%ssj
svap
ifcw
X
fS&g
M
ÜBS
/im
fes=^
n*
%vv,
/j{
ifslla
lgg|
i£&§i
HSif
m
&TFT' i, 1
»•“«**
11
fe:!
>
U;V
;.,-X§px
&&•
■ :: y; ■
iPUt
if*
ft®
■*s
i *
t#^r4J|
*i I
|v|||?|| :
-..■- x||
X
i®"
gmglfrA
sLw«g
SJS«^S«S
XXS
gei£j
ns*
SKSS
»•* ‘-X /.v i'.'.'-:?' /.^.•j:'«'4.t,ir,<‘',^.
JIM
ISiS** a
m
Wo*~
$€V
*7mm v Uyi&i
•Vi f-~y/\ i rX-.nN.-V
u*>
55^rr
■ ■■
K.nK
X/
5®
?
g@S®
«ga
Mt
s'.'isr
. f **' ./ ->•■'
>X
tQ
}>•■ ~ivfy- -if” rj** .p'r-W
'$WWk
zmm
al
fMM
mm
t 'V.I3^ 1 ' X.v4v /j^r . '
1-4^4^' V' 1 ,-/
v«
,>i’ ~
mmg. '&
A'.r.i
; &
,«^!,
y
XsXX
*■ <r* .•■».(
:X*- ,y :
fXX':
ai€
WHB !MMM
je# iMraiSr*
xs
:
Ss
•@it
Wa
ii
l»i
m
-/ _
*3«
' tfl
V/lfS
[ ?t> tv*g i, CT L. < j
Cobra,” U/jg Boot PolisK
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Has a day foi
Washing too.
How all love to
Scour and scrub
And with clean towels
Fiercely rub
Faces stiff with
Battle-grime !
Washing- dav’s a
o j
“COBRA” time
Comrades greet them
With loud cheers ;
“ Good-day Polish
Musketeers ! ”


Why Don’t You,
too, wear ABBEY SHOES?
Although they are so superior to
the ordinary run of footwear in ap-
pearance and style, they really cost
no more, judged by the extra service
they give. „ .
Above we illustrate our latest model
—a Choice Patent, Oxford Bal.,
with Dull Calf Legs. PRICE 35/-
In Highest-G'rade Tan Willow
Calf 32/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for our New Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ĥ
Interstate Agents.—SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. ;
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co. ; ADELAIDE:
W. P. Auld & Co. ; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co.; GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.;
HOBART: J. Ferguson & Co. ; LAUNCESTON:
J. McKenzie & Co. ; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M.
lieddrick & Co.
BIG GAME
sometimes turns!
Big game sometimes turns,
and then life hangs on tlie speed,
the accuracy, the power of olie’s
rifle. THE ROSS .280
RIFEE does not fail.
Five aimed shots have
been fired from it in
2 2-5 seconds and the
.280 Ross sporting cart-
ridge with copper tube
expanding bullet
(patented) delivers a
smashing blow which
fells the largest game.
Not only for the sake
of bringing home the
game you go after, but
just a little for your
own sake take a Ross
.280 with you on your
next trip.
Rossßifles
,
• 280 Oalibre
High. Velocity**
Full illustrated catalogue on request .
Ross Rifle Co.,Quebec,Canada.
4JS
/
“ARABiS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated 'AIIAIHS
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.” ,
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale ot
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior irnitatidns to dec&ive y«U. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred A-rdley.. on genuine. .Erice 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
| He’s the biggest thing in the
jS alarm clock business to-day—
Always on the Job
Big Ben stays on two good clocks in one
the job twenty-four \ a time-keeper and a
hours a day to make > rehable alarm -
your work lighter.
He’s the alarm clock i has ” or ? fli ,'; nds l : and m ? ke , s
with a biam a clockh a jj ve> He i s built for service,
smart enough to kwowhow |•' ant i plenty of it.
and when to get you up. g Big Ben is made in La Salle,
. . olllinois, U.S.A by Westclox. H>s
Big Ben IS a big, watch- price is 'l2/6, postage 1/- extra. If
like alarm with larcre 1 y° u cannot find him in your town,
nice alarm Wltn lai K e )f;,. s "end a money order to the makers'
easy-to-wmd keys, a jolly; P Australian office, Westclox, cr. King
deep-toned bell and clean- Kent Sts .\ S A d \ l * y vn J h hl Thi
x Wslhave one mailed to you by the
cut face and hands. He Sg|%:nearest jeweller.
ħ
h
ĥ
The Smile
of' .
Satisfaction
(3 always prominent on Cyclists
using “8.G.” Tyres. They know
no “tyre troubles." The specially
selected rubber, treated to stand the wear
and tear of Australian roads, gives satis-
faction in place of worry. Owing to the close and hne grain of
the rubber in all “8.G.” Tyres, punctures are reduced to a minimum,
join the happy throng of satisfied, c/chsts by using “B.G " Tyres.
CYCLE TYRES
BARNET GLASS RCIBBER C? I.- V
289"93 3r flel b. All & (Hew Zealand.
GUN
METAL
gtf
\
full:
ETLL
-
UARANTEED
0"NI
Business, Robbery, etc.
“D.F.”: The paddler Kangaroo, that ex-
cellent imitation of Noah’s Ark which
carries vehicles and live-stock between
Hobart and Bellerive (Tas.), is the oldest
steamship built south of the line now in
active service, and a close competitor for the
title of being the oldest in the world. She
celebrates a 60th birthday this year, and has
been running the whole time. Captain
Chamberlain built Jjer at Hobart out _ of
Tasmanian hardwood, and the original tim-
bers in her hulls (she has two) are as sound
to-day as when they took the. axe. Since the
old hooker was put together it has of course
been learned that native woods 6re not much
use for building things with, because they
don’t fall to pieces quickly enough after-
wards.
“Le Pecheur” : “Nobby” . (B. 8/7/T5)
makes an error in computation which has
put more sawmillers through the Bankruptcy
Courts of Australia than any other respon-
sible foolishness. If there is 40 per cent, of
waste in conversion from log to sawn timber
you should add, he says, 40 per cent, to the
log cost. Thus : “Total log cost 6s. per 100,
plus 40 per cent, loss in conversion brings
the cost up to Bs. 5d.” If the loss is 40 per
cent, you must add not 40 per cent, to your
log cost, but 66§ per cent. If the log cost
was 6s. per 100 and the waste percentage
40 per cent., the cost before milling is 10s.
per .100, not Bs. 5d., and the Sydney landed
cost is 195., not 17s. sd. I agree with
“Nobby” that all this talk about sawmillers
making huge profits is rot. Timber mer-
chants make most of their profits out of saw-
millers who don’t know how to cost, and
from imported timbers. Anyhow, what with
an inefficient tariff, exorbitant wages,, ab-
surd working conditions, and a general
opinion throughout Australia that the man
who manufactures and employs Australians
is fair game for every huckstering, pilfering
politician to shoot at, the importer is the
only sensible man.
* * * *
“Viking”: “Ananias” (B. 24/6/T5) is
Sapphira’s husband still. Australian pine
did not get its bad name from the Darling
Harbor episode. The first little lot of the
timber used to make butter-boxes was on the
young side, and had a slight odor. This was
accentuated by the smell of Stinking Fish
which pervaded the air at the t-ime. Suit-
able pine (hoop) is absolutely without taint-
ing properties, as witness the well-estab-
lished and growing butter-box industry on
the Richmond River.
“Mainshaft” : The two pockets of gas met
by the S.A. Oilwell Co.’s drill at Robe and
the two spurts of oil in the Ocean Oil Co.’s
well at Kingston are probably the fore-
runners of much gas or oil, or both. A gas
well may be as payable as an oil well, but it
is more difficult to control. A gas well that
made the record for running wild was at
Caddo, Louisiana. Work started on it in
March, 1908. On May 11, 1908, it blew out
from the 1800 ft. gas stratum, and the next
day the hole was blowing off 40 million
cubic feet in 24 hours. Mud was forced
down, and the gas then blew out under the
derrick floor. In three weeks the escaping
gas and water formed a crater 100 ft. in
diameter, and as the escaping gas became a
continuous danger, the well was set on fire
and allowed to run wild from June, 1908,
to July, 1913. The crater became 225 ft. in
diameter. To decisively kill the devil, a
relief well was drilled close by. When
it had been drilled to 832 ft., water was
pumped into the gas strata, and in seven
days the devil was tamed and the eruption
ceased. The gas lost was 27 billion cubic
feet. And the cost of the relief well was
only £l2OO.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Everyone knows that spuds run
to an exalted size on the north-west coast
of Tassy. Urging the claims of the Wilmot
district to a railway the other day, Blytli,
M.H.A., stated that the murphies up there
average 20 to the cwt. Blyth thereupon
brandished a specimen which he explained
was a mere cull, .left over after the real
representatives had been sent away to
market. It was a paltry 51b. 3oz.
* * * *
“Hamer” : Amongst the callings that the
war has created is the peddling of photo-
graphs of war celebrities. A man called the
other day with large-sized pictures of Kit-
chener, French, Jellicoe and some others.
These, he explained, would look very nice
properly framed. For an additional bob or
two he could supply autographed copies.
With me he- was not successful —at the pre-
sent price of butter how could he be? —but
through a side window I watched him being-
successful next door, sold an auto-
graphed copy. The signature was genuine
all right —he produced a letter signed by
Kitchener" certifying to i-fi.
THE CURRENCY OF LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Joy is the Currency of Life,
I always say ;
Would that my creditors would come
To think my way!
I would with gladness pay their bills
If I but could ;
But all my creditors declare
That that’s no good.
They say that gladness pays no debts,
And seek for cash.
Mounting their hopes, they soar. To me
It seems most rash.
I tell them, truly, that I hate
The thought of debt;
That is the reason why my bills
I would forget.
Yet will they worry o’er my debts —
So do they choose;
Joy is the Currency of Life,
Which they refuse.
I have a ling’ring hope there is
A fair hereafter ;
Then will I pay my bills in Heav’n
With minted laughter.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’* FOOD.”
Amusements.
TIVOLI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
* Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
WEEK COMMENCING JULY 31.
ROCHEZ’ MONKEYS.
JARVIS & DARE, MAY ERNE & HE, COE,
DETRICKEY, WALTER WEEMS, CROUCH &
WELCH, EXCELLAS, TIVOLI GIRLS, FRANK WIL-
SON, DORA SAWYER.
Plan Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
1" IYOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
JAMES E. BRITT.
MARY ELIZABETH, CLEMONS & DEAN.
BILLY KINKAID, .KAJIYAMA.
BIRCHLEY, AL RIPON.
HERBERT WINTER, ESTELLE ROSE.
Plan at Glen’s.
yiVOLI THEATRE, BRISBANE.
GENERAL PISANO.
THE ITALIAN SHOOTING STAR.
WALLACE GALVIN. LOUIS STONE.
PAUL STEPHENS. IDA BARR.
TYRELLS, LEE TIY WARS.
MARIE TERRY. VAUPE & VERNE.
UERMAJESTY' S, S Y 1) N E Y.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
’ SATURDAY, JULY 31.
THE FAMOUS ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
THE ARCADIANS.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 7.
AFTER THE GIRL.
A Revusical Comedy.
Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales, Callose’s.
r H E A T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Direction Beaumont Smith and Leslie Hoskins.
EVERY EVENING.
WHO’S THE LADY?
A roar of laughter from start to finish.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Reserved, 4/-.
Plan at Paling’s.
QRITERION THE ATR E, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE: WEDNESDAY, 2.
MURIEL - STARR
SUNDAY.
Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Matinees WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30.
J. & N. TAIT present
THE 110 YAL STROLLERS.
(By arrangement with Austral Gardens —Mr.
J. Waller.)
THE BRIGHTEST SHOW IN SYDNEY.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.. Reserved 4/-.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
IIE LITTLE T II E A T R E
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.’
NIGHTLY AT 8.15.
THE 3-ACT SCREAM:
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
Presented by George Willoughby and his New
Company of Comedians.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS, 2.30.
Plans at Paling’s and Hotel Australia,
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
1 lIE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES.
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/- \
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
1“II EAT R E ROY A L, .MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAJdSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present something new in
Comedy,
POTASH AND PER LM OTTER.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan's.
H
Hit MAJESTY'S Til EAT HE. MEIJIOIItXK.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 31.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. revive the Delightful Opera,
THE CHOCOLATE SOLDIER.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-. 2/- and 1/-.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 24.
George Marlow Ltd. present a Dramatised Version
of Maxwell Gray’s Story,
THE SILENCE OF DEAN MAITLAND.
Prices: 2/-, II- and 6d. Plan at Pianola.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
■Reappearance of the Ever Popular BERT BAILEY
CO. in. *•
, ON OUR SELECTION.
Pricps: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at" Allan’s.
BIJOU T It K A T BE, M E 111 OUB N E.
I’TTLLK R ■ BIIE NNA N VAU DE VILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TIVO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON. 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
MUSICAL IBSONS, TWO FRANKLINS, MARZON
% FLORENCE. CHARLES ZOLI, AND BERT LE
BLANC'S TRAVESTY STARS in “THE SAN
I'RANCISCO EXPOSITION.”
Prices: 2/6, 2/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
Amusements.
THE FREDERIC SHIPMAN ENTERPRISES
* present
ħ
ANNETTE
KELLERMAN
THE AUSTRALIAN VENUS,
In the Thrilling Picture Play,
NEPTUNE’S
DAUGHTER,
Now playing
AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
TIVOLI THEATRE, ADEL-
AIDE, AUGUST 7.
H. M. THEATRE, PERTH,
SEPTEMBER 11.
The Second Big Shipman
Feature,
DAMON & PYTHIAS,
Will be screened for the first
time in Australia at the
AUDITORIUM, MEL-
BOURNE, AUGUST 5.
All inquiries to
FREDERIC SHIPMAN,
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
|n| OYT’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST,
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bouike Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
M EIBOUKNE GLACIAKIEM.
HEAL ICE SKATING.
AFTERNOONS, 3 to 5.
EVENINGS, 7.45 to 10.
RICCO’S ORCHESTRA.
BRISBANE.
OPENING JULY 31.
pALACE GARDENS THEATRE.
HARRINGTON REYNOLDS
ASSOCIATE PLAYERS.
IN HIGH-CLASS COMEDY. - t
Birch & car roue
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Heaii Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE |
Business Announcements.
2IA i
Belling our new unequalled PETROL |
table and hanging lamp for lighting
city and rural homes, stores, halls,
and churches. Most powerful light
known. ABSOLUTELY SAFE.
COSTS y 2 PENNY A NIGHT
More brilliant and many times
cheaper than gas or electricity. Guar-
anteed five years. Everyone a possi-
ble customer. No experience neces-
sary, Exclusive territory free.
Write for prices today.
SUNSHINE SAFETY LAMP CO.
IS factory Bldg., Kansas City, Mo., U. S. A.
BE
CRITICAL
as critical as you
like over the services
you require from
Calvert’s Carbolic
Tooth Powder.
For the efficient cleansing
and antiseptic properties this
dentifrice possesses, make it
easy to maintain that standard
of cleanliness, which satisfies
people who want their teeth
to last well and to look well.
m
Wm
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,Manchester,Eng.
Have You Had Influenza?
There are certain disorders such as influ-
enza that especially debilitate and make the
body an easy prey for more dangerous dis-
eases. Ask those who have had the influenza
regarding the present condition of their
health, and most of them will answer : “Since
I had influenza I have never been well.”
They still have profuse perspiration, the per-
sistent weakness of the limbs, the disorgan-
ised digestion, shortness of breath and palpi-
tation of the heart caused by the thin-
blooded condition in which influenza almost
always leaves its victim after the fever and
influenza have subsided. They are, further-
more, at the mercy of relapses and complica-
tions, often very serious. In an attack of
influenza there is a rapid thinning of the
blood, and not until the blood is built up
again is complete health restored.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills quickly make the
blood rich and red, drive out the lingering
germs from the system, and transform des-
pondent influenza victims into cheerful,
healthy men and women.
Try the pills for any form of debility
caused by thin blood.
All chemists sell Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Get a box to-day and begin at once to regain
your health.
Write to-day to the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Go., Sydney, for the free book, “Build-
ing Up the Blood.” If you have stomach
trouble, ask for a diet book also.*
BIG PILLS OUT OF DATE.
The big nauseous pill, so long in use for
regulating the bowels, is out of date. It
has been largely superseded by Pinkettes*
the dainty new laxative, which does all that
a good laxative ought to do without causing
sickness and unpleasantness. They neither
upset the stomach nor irritate the bowels,
yet they act thoroughly and efficiently.
Pinkettes will be found valuable by
sufferers from constipation. Taken accord-
ing to directions they help to correct the
irregularity, so that the use of an opening
medicine is not a constant necessity. They
are just the thing that ought to be kept
handy in every home, and mothers will find
that children will take them without
trouble. Mention The Bulletin, and
write for a free trial sample to the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia,
Ltd., Sydney. Sold by all medicine dealers
at Is. per bottle.*
guttrip”
Forest Devil.
Land Clearing Made
a Delight & Profit!
Forest giants, fallen logs, deeply-rooted
stumps, obtrusive boulders are all promptly
and simply removed by the BUNYIP FOREST
DEVIL.
This truly wonderful invention is of in-
dispensable service to men on the land.
Saves money, saves time, saves trouble.
Write for Details.
John Cooper & Sons
287-89 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY: Local Agents, CLUTTERBUCK BROS.,
26-38 City Road.
BRISBANE : Local Agent, A. H. BISSELL,
95-7 Eagle Street.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumberaome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does eftoay altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins*at., Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES " w’r'ite for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, En&
Insist on “Singleton's* refuse all substitutes.
h
Get the
Pen made and
guaranteed by the
Largest Firm of
Fountain Pen
Manufacturers in
Great Britain :
the Onoto.
The Onoto is made by
Thomas. de la Rue & Co.,
Ltd., who guaianlee it all
British, and designed to
last a lifetime.
The Onoto fills itself in a
flash, from any ink supply.
The 'Onoto cannot leak,' no
matter how you carry it.
Onoto
lelf-Fllling - - l
Safety Fountain JTdl
Price 12/- and upwards of
all Stationers, Jewellers, and
Stores. . Booklet about the
Onoto Pen free on appl ca-
tion to Thomas de la Rue
& Co., Ltd., 194 Bunhill
Row, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Representa-
tives, Norman Baker and
Longhurst, 50 York Street,
Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK
Best for all pens.
HOW TO GET RID OF YOUR
GREY HAIR
A Simple, Sure, Harmless Treatment
which can be used at home with
complete success. Age no obstacle.
COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS
FREE
I AM A WOMAN who belongs to a prematurely
grey haired family. My father was grey before he
was 30, and two of my brothers as well as my sister
became grey early in life. Before the age of 25 I
developed grey hairs, which became quite embar-
rassing to me—socially, and also in business. I
LOST THREE GOOD POSITIONS for no other reason
than my fading hair. The groyness increased with
alarming rapidity, and at 28 I LOOKED LIKE A
WOMAN OF 4-5. One day I was seriously thinking
of buying one of the many Grey Hair Restorers
that are extensively advertised, when I casually
mentioned the subject to an acquaintance—a scien-
tific man, and, as I after-
wards learnt, a great
student of the Che-
mistry of the Hair.
He strongly ad-
vised me to have
nothing what-
ever to do with
these concoc-
tions. He poin-
ted out that
SUCH PREPAR-
ATIONSEVENT-
UALLY RUINED
THE HAIR, and
in the moantime
rarely deceived
even the casual
observer. He sug-
gested that I try a
formula that he had
perfected after a con-
siderable time, which,
by a certain chemical
action on the pigmentary colouring cells restored
the hair to its normal colour. In replv to my en-
quiries, he assured me that the formula was not
only absolutely harmless, but would develop A
STRONC AND BEAUTIFUL CROWTH OF HAIR. My
friend wrote out his prescription, which I had made
up, and after carefully following the instructions for
a few days, I was surprised and delighted to find my
hair becoming richer and darker in tone. The re-
colouring process continued until after some few
weeks my hair actually once again possessed the
natural shade of my girlish days. Since then I HAVE
SEEN INUNDATED WITH ENQUIRIES from friends
and also persons unknown to me, who came to hear
of this wonderful preparation. Having become con-
vinced that I have found A REMEDY OF EXTRA-
ORDINARY MERIT, and which is quite harmless, I
have resolved to offer it for sale, as I -am- certain
from my own experience that it will prove an ines-
timable boon to any man or woman who finds grey
hair to be the same serious handicap it was to me.
It is a Guaranteed Genuine Preparation, and I
OFFER A REWARD OF £lOO if it will not re-colour
Grey Hair to Original, Natural Shade.
If you are interested in this wonderful prepa-
ration I am willing to send you COMPLETE IN-
ĥ
ħ
STRUCTIONS FREE
under plain sealed
cover. Simply write
your name and full ad-
FREE
dress plainly and enclose 2 stamps for postage, and I
will write you by return post, or if convenient call.
Mrs. MARY K. CHAPMAM
Suite 88 Linden Court. SYDNEY


It Is So Easy
lo Get Rid of
r^E
r
By Using
Cuticura
Soap
exclusively
and a little
Cuticura
Ointment
occasionally that it is a pity
not to do so in all cases of pim-
ples, redness, roughness, itch-
ings and irritations. Nothing
better for skin and scalp.
Samples Free by Mail
Cuticura Soap and Ointment sold everywhere.
Liberal sample of each, with 32-page book, sent post-
free Address R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
A Razor Saver
For Every Shaver !
The edge of a razor consists
of minute saw-like teeth.
Rust eats away these teeth,
making the razor “drag.”
A keen-cutting and perfect
edge is maintained if you put
a few drops of
3
IN ONE
IN ONE
f f
U 1 Li
on the strop; and a few on the
blade, before and after shaving.
It prevents corrosion, makes
the razor glide over the face,
ensures a shave of infinite joy.
Golf Clubs
Are kept in ideal condi-
tion with “ Three-in-One ” Oil.
Roller Skates
1 Run -with delightful
smoothness when cleaned and
lubricated with “ Three-in-
One.”
On sale everywhere.
Write for Free Sample Bottle !
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 S, Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
16
h
Runs on Alcohol
Aguardiente, Rhum and simi*
lar liquids, anywhere without
electricity, springs or bat-
teries. Superb construction.
12in. blades. Adjustable Roller
Bearing. Reliable. A proved
comfort. Prompt delivery.
KEEP COOL.
Shipped to any port in any part of the world,
carriage prepaid, for $2O gold. Send remittance
by International Money Order, Bank draft, or
order through your commission merchant.
WM. J. H. STRONG, 114 North Jefferson St.,
CHICAGO, ILL., U.S.A.
ADD TO STEWS
a little Bisto which
thickens, colours and
salts them saves
bothering with flour,
and gives a fine rich
colour. Bisto makes
splendid gravy.
gjSTO
.
" Everything
hut the meat.”
All Grocers.
In Tins. Made by CEREBOS, LTD.
TO “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
The Motor in Australia, 16 Pitt Street, Sydney,
pays standard price for motor, motor-bike, aero-
plane or motor-boat jokes for illustration.
Australian Mutual
Establish!;!) 1849. For File
Provident Society.
Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of I'reeholil or leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on J' reenold
M C.P. (Combined), «»«. ” i'n.STr" n“v‘
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or 1 LOWEST CURRENT HATES OF INTEREST.
Zealand. , f ( . rp i^ eec | contains a condition allowing Borrower? the privilege of repaying
°ur new Moit,a,e I ~ n duri „ K any year, without notidfe or payment of any fine.
Directors —Tlie Hon. A. V. Meeks M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon J T. A.I.S
lion. James Burns ML 0; J Tecool F.1.A.,
wlXk* ' HEAD OFFI.OE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ... W. AIM’EKLY, Secretary.
*
L&S
SmoKers and
Non-SmoKers
« i pwßirro TOOTH TASTE the best remedy for any
Sr s a t ree?ble tft" It makes your breath sweet and
fragrant, and restores tinted teeth, without injury, -to
their natural color. Tebeco is a complete and ideal
health course for the mouth and teeth.
obtainable all chemists.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, I ree
for three penny stamps, on application to the
Manufacturer.
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. A), 6 O’Connell St., Sydney. a
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) 15
THE
HEAD
Directors:
H. M.
ssa*. -
K
ss
.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1858.
OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £545,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £710,404.
JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman
STRACIIAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
SYDNEY OFFICE, CO PITT STREET
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bisbopsgratc, E.C.
Manager,-R. S. Gresson; Acct., F. Cleave.
Firestone
Non-SRid Tyres.
For the hard road—for the hot pace—for the long
grind—for true economy and service.
The success of Firestone Tyres has proved that the motorist
can have comfort, safety and the “ most miles per shilling.”
Firestone Tyres are preferred because of highest quality at the least
cost—as the greatest value, even though there are ** cheaper" tyres.
The rubber in them is supremely good. It has the quality of greatest heat-
resistance, of greatest wear endurance. Every Firestone Tyre contains an extra quantity
of this extremely good rubber.
The Non-skid lettering is an imprint of safety. On every highway of the world it
challenges the need of other anti-skid safeguards. It holds the standard for endurance
and economy. The letters prevent spin or skid in any direction, they radiate the heat
of road friction, insure perfect traction with gasoline economy, car-protection and
comfort beyond contradiction.
Firestone Tyres are made by specialists in the largest
exclusive tyre factory in the world. This year's Firestone
output has increased 7<S per cent. Firestone are tyres of
greatest strength, sturdiness and safety—
for the Price of Only Ordinary Tyres.
Leading dealers everywhere endorse Firestone quality, and
motorists praise Firestone service.
io
TO DEALERS.
A Firestone Representative from
the factory at Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.—
will shortly make calls on dealers and garages In person. Inter-
ested people may make appointments by writing to Firestone
Tyre & Rubber Co., C.P.O. Box 2521, Sydney.
Firestone Tyre & Rubber Co.,
Factory : Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.
Manufacturers of Pneumatic and Solid
Tyres ; Motor Lorry Tyres ; Fire Engine
Tyres ; Rims, Tyre Accessories, etc.
We ar&
prepared
to supply
all sizewf
pneumafio
tyres.
The Inky Way.
Forty-three years ago W. O. Mirfin sat
down in Reef ton (M.L.) as editor of the
Inangahua Herald, and stayed on the 30b
till the other day, when a man came round
and took him away. Half a century ago
Mirfin was getting his nib in on the Otago
Daily Times with Vogel, Fox, For jeon and
Judge Robinson. Among other things he
did the courts and oatmeal quotations, and
of all the old-time crew stayed longest on
deck.
* * * *
“Neroly”: A handy practice of the re-
porter has now extended to the war cables,
wherein the remarks of the guns • have be-
come commonplace through repetition. Still
it must have been galling to Wilhelm the
first time he read in his Melbourne morning
paper that, after machine-gun fire, “20,000
German guns also spoke.” Nothing so
pricks the vanity of the victim as to be an
“also spoke.” #
“R”: “J.II.R.’s” par. (B. 8/7/T5) is
difficult of reply, seeing that the writer is
dead. But in the interests of facts some-
thing must be said. The writing of a column
of “strike” stuff doesn’t necessarily make
Mr. Bean anything but a reporter, and that’s
all I said he was. By “visualising” a thing
“faking” is surely not mentioned or thought
of —the more the thing is “visualised” the
more true and intimate must have been the
knowledge of it by the writer. As to Bean’s
stuff being censored into dullness, that is
impossible. * » *
“Bullant” Mclntyre, of Southern Cross
Times (W.A.), writes in his paper
ambiguously:—
There is a man roaming about this field _ named
, who was born in Mexico and reared in Ger-
many. Some time ago this fellow was interned until
he produced proof of German birth. At bullfinch
recently said “I vos Prittish until dey vos yale
me; now I vait my time, und den I shoot der Prit-
tish like dogs.” Our informant is absolutely
reliable, but went to one of the outback parts of
Yilgarn without informing the police of the greaser’s
disloyal utterances. We have known for years.
He is a professional claim-jumper, and a loafer who
imposes upon those who back him. We informed the
police of this German greaser, and learned that they
could not take action ; and so we hereby warn the
German swine that if we meet him he will be in-
terned in the nearest eosteen, and we shall risk the
consequences. So beware. Mr. Pro-German, for this
country is not large enough to hold a brute like you.
We are not going to allow greasy hogs like you to
breathe a syllable against our nation while our
bravest and best are fighting liberty’s great battle.
More than one man has decided to puncture you, and
are now wearing guns for that purpose; so sneak in
and get interned as soon as you read this if you
want to save your own hide; and do it quickly, for
you are not worthy of even this warning.
The trouble with “Bullant” is that he will
write in double entendres.
* * * *
Tim Gooch, one of the few caricaturists
of any quality that Queensland has
developed, has gone under in the Darda-
nelles fury. Before joining the Seventh
Light Horse he had served with honor in
the S’African trouble.
* * * *
Two more Melbourne inky-wayfarers are
exchanging their pens for the more fashion-
able weapon. W. Hervey Phipps, the
Herald’s military reporter, has secured an
appointment on the headquarters staff of the
Tropical Force, and leaves at once for
Rabaul; and J. A. Raws, who flays Labor
politicians for the Argus when he isn’t
playing tennis (he has captained Victoria’s
inter-State team), has gone into camp at
Seymour.
* * * *
The unbounded faith of some people in ad-
vertising ! A Maoriland society in announc-
ing a lecture on “Profitable Poultry” extends
a hearty invitation to every egg-producer.
* * * *
In fiction the literary worker always has
a “den” or a “study” in which he works in
holy calm. In real life he toils as best he
can while a genial caller hangs over him
and talks as if all the clocks in the world
had stopped and groceries were distributed
free. The other day a Sydney pressman
kept a scribbling-pad record of his visitors.
It worked out this way;—
Time. Name. Stay. Topics.
10.10. Smith-Jones. 15miu.Rifle-shooting, servants,
wives.
10.25. Picsnap. 15 ~ Social failings of a mutual
friend.
10.45. Dodgewick. 10 ~ MS. of a person in gaol.
11.55. Ditehwater. 10 ~ Liter-ifore and awful
weather.
12.5, Ditehwater
(2nd session) 10 ~ More literature and more
weather.
12.15. Smith-Jones. 5 „ Suburban roads and
weather.
1.20. Boodle’s Ad-:
vance Agent. 10 „ Boodle’s forthcoming
season at the Tripe Theatre.
2.45. Picsnap. 10 ~ War pictures and artillery.
3. Foodie. 5 „ Mislaid key.
3.45. Poodle. 15 ~ Bouquets, Melba Gift Book,
weather and himself.
After Poodle had gone the pressman
smashed the spare chair, set and laid two
man : traps. left a few poisoned beers in the
passage and took his work home.
“NOTHING DOING.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Across the dim and quaking sky
The heralds of destruction fly,
And as the distant thunder wakes
A hellish storm of shrapnel breaks.
The blood of riven comrades drenches
The soldiers kneeling in the trenches.
Now crumpled on the crimson sod,
Stark eyeballs glaring up to God,
Like slaughtered vermin in a field
The heroes lie who would not yield,
And as a boundless ocean sighing
Sobs out the murmur of the dying.
Comrades in arms, the dead embrace.
The victors, backing from the chase,
Step gingerly, convulsed to feel
What was a Christian ’neath the heel.
With these red bodies broke and battered,
Behold a thousand homes lie shattered 1
The papers say: “The foe's attack
At La Chapelle was driven back.”
The portly reader thrusts aside
His journal, deeply mortified.
“What use,” growls he, “the theme pursuing?
No news at all —there’s nothing doing!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


SPORTING RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
am
“WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate,
weight 2|lb.
above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
19 6
22 6
"THE MAINE"
Pifle
m
<Sheunng Pif/e Apart.
“THE MAINE” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed ac-
curate ; about 31b., fitted with sporting rear sight to 300yds.
Postage on one Rifle—l/6 N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
16/6
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Speciality.
Send for our Price
List of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
ail Sporting Goods.
Post Free, Anywhere.
: •
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
1(> shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
Postage— 2/- N.S.W., 3/S Inter-State.
47 6
ĥ
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
qui Round Steel Barrel, length over all
, 2>n., weight 3flb., handles short or
long cartridges,
24 -
Postage—l/6N.5.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
m
Stevens’ “FAVORITE,”
22 W.R.F., or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear nsw
sights, weight 4|lb. Postage-1/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State. 24 i
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sisrht and Vernier Rear, 40/- .
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each extra.
ħ
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37gin., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9N.S.AV. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
261-
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
City Sports Depot: 119 King 1 Street, Sydney;
and at Newcastle and Brisbane.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BELL, &, Co, Ltd
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.
Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
h
THE BEST
SMOKE
IS
YELLOW
ASTER
w TOBACCO
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrir
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Sii.knt Friund, Is 6d. Nf,d Donnelly's Art
ok Boxing, new' enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book i>v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurstons Card Thicks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horsf,, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyrook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ G uidk (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. . How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
i s 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
'iND Staining, 1/2, Photography Self-Taught, 1/8.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
*1 ricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d
m
gas
ss
m
m
home cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
gipsy fortune telling cards- love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is: post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d tiosted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, ail at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gat
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Watbacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. gßT'Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere tor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO .DUTY.
\\'Y BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handisook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife. 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bbnnarp. Macfadden's Works, all at 5s pos ed.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar,
boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is ?a. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyani k,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (. words and music com.’
piete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-IMy’


ĥ
ħ
ALL EYES ARE TURNED
TOWARDS
ifi
rtUCt IMyW HAK»
-
DISCOVERY
Coughs 1
COLDS
CROUP j
INFLUENZA|
AND ALL
Bronchial
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
OF THE
Throat lungs
and CHEST
PREPARED BY
UDIOW
rtSW,
Do You
Dread
the
Winter ?
Most people tlo,
for it means
coughs & colds,
but you need
not fear if you
have a bottle of
Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery
in the house.
A dose taken
at the beginning
of a cold will
relieve and pre-
vent Induenza,
Bronchitis and
all Throat
Troubles. You
can buy Dr.
Sheldon’s New
Discovery
everywhere.
Best for
All the
Family.
J>r. Sheldon’s
New Discovery
is the mother’s
helper, and the
children’s friend
through all the
winter months.
It can be given
to the youngest
child and to the
sturdy school
children, to the
college student,
or to the father
of a family.
Wherever there
is a cold Dr.
Sheldon’s New
Discovery is the
shortest path-
way to good
health.
h
Price
1/6
and
5/-
Dr.SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
£
,1
ft
y
& v
» i*
«“gj£
■BBS
BB
B&fiai
fb
&
■"S'
Cl' IfV/’S
6
1
fe_W
4
ISVBBBIA
'That cosy tea-taHa
When You Entertain
There is a beautiful old Dutch legend that
is almost a part of .the religion of Holland.
Ii says: “Set before your guests something
prepared with your own hands.”
Rut when unexpected visitors arrive at meal hour, friends “drop-
ping in” to lunch—you cannot always do this. With
“REX” Pork and Beans
you can meet the occasion “on the instant” without the least
embarrassment or fuss. They are rich and extremely satisfying.
Every Bean in “REX” PORK AND BEANS is nutlike, mealy
and whole with the flavor of the rich Tomato Sauce right through
them.
The zest is delicious—“REX” PORK AND BEANS are a super-
lative dish, wholesome, and always ready for serving.
REX
Ask your grocer for the Australian
product—“REX” Pork and lieans.
Sold in 111 b. tins by all good grocers.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are: -
“Rex” liaui Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet. in Jelly, lib.
tins.
“Rex” hunch Tongues In Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
‘Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in deco-
rated tins, and
Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking
purposes, in lib. prints.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD,
Curers of “ REX ” HAMS and BACON,
Packers of “ REX ” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS
The Chant Royal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I' AM the marvel which came. Mine
was the wonder-birth.
Sired by sweat and by flame from the
innermost womb of the earth,
Fettered by cunning of hand, fashioned by
wisdom of brain,
I have furrowed tlie length of your land and
winnowed your harvest of grain ;
And the sign of my-coming, my march, and
the voice of my singing, my. cry,
Was the raising of girder and arch, clang-
ing ’twixt earth and the sky.
Of my bounty I strengthened your keels.
Oh, the rivets which burred to the
stroke,
And the murmur of glimmering wheels as 1
levelled m,v neck to the yoke !
For I gave of my wealth to your need, that
the glory of Man might increase,
For the Glory of Man was my creed ; with
Wisdom and Beauty and Peace.
From the uttermost lands and the sea I
have carried your riches of freight,
And knelt as a slave at your knee —till ye
taught me to hate!
For the anger which hammered the blade,
and the edge growing keen to the stone;
For the tube which in anger was laid the
soul of Mankind must atone!
And the homes of Mankind shall be dearth,
and waste as the desolate years ;
For my wrath is outspewed o’er the earth,
and her portion is travail and tears.
The sign of my coming, my might, the voice
of my singing, my lilt,
Are rumbling wheels through the night, and
the clashing of sabre and hilt.
Stark terror is haunting your coasts —Oh,
the women who wail in their dread !
Comes the tramping of ravening hosts, and
the prayers will go down with the dead !
Yea! vex not the gods with your prayers,
for the mumbling gods are blind !
I have broken your altar stairs and scat-
tered your shrines to the wind !
Oh, the teeth which are gnashed in the dust!
Oh. the fingers which clutch and which
tear!
All the red hate which guided the thrust is
the hate that I bear!
I have done marvellous things. Mine was
the wonder-birth —
I who have humbled your kings to hide in
the lap of the earth !
Little people in burrow and trench, with
bellies close-set to the mud ;
’Mid the shattering roar and the stench, I
have taken my toll of your blood !
The sign of my coming, my cry, is the whine
of my flight through the dark.
And ye quail at my hurrying by, or blench
as I crash to the mark.
And with voice of the sabre I speak :—the
breath of the gun is my breath ;
Where the thundering tubes ’mid the reek
out-point like the fingers of Death.
Dio - deep from the light at my sound ! Pro-
claim neither shadow nor trace ;
Thus I who was sired from the ground,
have trampled you down in my place.
And as ye have taught me to hate, so hope
for no mercy from Zion.
I am the master of Fate ! Bow down ! I
am Iron! !
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Our Dear Converts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I MADE one of a hungry horde of Chris-
tians at a “tea” given by our Chinese
converts. We were being entertained by
our yellow brothers “in token of affection
and regard.” so the entrance ticket said.
Whatever the feeling that prompted the
givers, there was no doubt as to the satis-
faction of the guests at the eating at some-
one else's expense.
Steadily we undermined pyramids of
sweets and demolished bowls of strawberries-,
and the gratitude of our host was because we
taught him. every Sunday, the ABC of our
language, thus enabling him to compete with
and beat the vegetable-grower and wood-
worker of our own race.
But we of the wowser type don’t let this
outcome worry the peace of mind secured to
us in having “done right.” As for our own
out-o’-works —will not the ravens come, bear-
ing- manna ? And so we eat, and bask in the
smiles of our slant eyed hosts.
At the table-ends ladies, interested in “the
work,” pour tea, and, sweetly imperious,
patronise and hector Willie Li or Te Hung,
who —petted pupil in the Mission class—is
now faithful-dog Tray, and docile in the role
of butler. Li and Te Hung, smiling through
the steam from big kettles, are suggestive of
heathen gods seen through a cloud of incense.
They carry away dirty plates and bring
clean, distribute salad and open lemonade-
agile, deft, born kitchen-men.
When nothing but a vast emptiness re-
mains with the tables and a vast fullness
with ourselves, we filter away to another
hall while the aliens wash up.
Here we find ourselves amid decorations
of Japanese wind-bells a-cliink and a-wave ;
rustling Chinese lanterns arranged round
and about a Chinese dragon, who had pre-
served the entente cordiale by draping the
Union Jack round his hindquarters. Evi-
dently he was a “converted” dragon, or else
the head-decorator, ’spite of our teaching,
was not a converted Chinaman. I mused as
to which was the correct solution as we
broke slowly into song at the instigation of
an evangelist, who aimed at being the “lov-
able bully” type.
“Now,” ordered this person, turning upon
us, “be Sunny Jims ! Sing with vim ! Vim !
But soul into it! Put body into it! Put
elbow-grease into it!”
Useless exhortation. As well expect songs
of praise from a school of sluggish croco-
diles. We have eaten unwisely and too well.
He scorches us with a blazing eye. “Stop!
Stop!” Evidently we are not vinnny
enough.
“You may call that singing,” ho says. “/
call it howling—and very poor howling, too !”
We shuffle our feet, and, _ grinning pain-
fully, try to look as though we enjoy his
comments.
“Sing!” he thunders. Some of us make a
great effort. Personally, I find it impossible,
for I am already in the throes of indigestion,
unable even to grunt “praises.” But he is
not satisfied, and starts nagging again,
pointing an accusing finger at specially
sluggish parts of his audience. Those seated
within the radius of the suspected districts
try to look casual and unconcerned, none
more so than myself. In vain ; I am at the
end of a row, as well as being conspicuous
by reason of great girth. He picks me out
and covers me with the hovering finger.
Taking the audience into his confidence he
says:—•
“There’s a man there, ninth row, end
chair, who has not yet opened bis mouth!"
An awful moment of shocked silence,
while every head in front is turned to stare
at me—the flouter of Sankey !. The eyes of
those behind try to bore holes in me so that
they’ll know me again next time we meet
for food. I mean, for “praise.”
Having thus knocked me down- —in a
spiritual sense —lie starts jumping on me.
“Your favorite hymn?” he demands. “Give
me your favorite hymn !”
He waits breathlessly for it, his mouth,
< >-shaped, ready to bellow the opening line,
his fingers fluttering the pages of “The Song-
ster.”
Hymn? Hymn? Favorite hymn? I am
afraid of his displeasure, and would do much
to avert it; but, alas, I am unable to recall
my favorite—or anyone else’s favorite —
or any hymn. I am not to blame. “Tipper-
ary” has wiped- all lesser compositions from
my mind. ■ ,
Having thus trapped me like a rat and
shaken me he leaves me for dead and calls
for others’ “favorites.” He has no further
reason of complaint. Hymns flow in bounti-
fully. “Onlv time for one verse of each,
friends,” lie hustles. “Sing up and win the
game! Sing up!”
The singing breaks up in disorder at the
entrance of a squad of pupil converts,
headed by the chairman.
Inscrutable, the heathen, having ceased to
be smiling butlers, take the seats set apart
for them as serious performers. I tried to
read the thoughts of the slant-eyed band;
some smooth, banana-skinned; some like
unto the shrivelled lemon, but giving no
clue to the soul of the man from China.
The audience, in possession of propri-
etorial rights, clucked in anticipation of joys
to come, in hearing Hee Mee, Li Yick and
Li Moon sing trios. For, though we teach
our dear brothers the English language, we
reserve the right to make merry at their
efforts to sing it, on such occasions as now,
when they are paying their tuition bill in
cake and tea. And what cares Li Moon for
our mirth? He is a grateful Christian, and
a wise one at that. While we laugh, lie
laughs also —at us.
The chairman—a florid, fat, long-haired
man, used to good living—mounts tile plat-
form. Frock-coated, with a red tie, he strikes
a cheerful note. Neat boots peep from
lavender trouserings, and he sports a red
rose over his heart. Altogether a re-assur-
ing figure against the background of yellow
peril.
Hush! The chairman waits to address
us. One plump hand is raised; he combs
his beard with the other. Ilis complacent
voice pierces my inert brain.
“As you’re aware, friends, the object of
our Mission is to take these poor, friendless
people”—l look for corroboration at the
Chinese faces: they remain null and void—-
“by the hand and ‘teach them our lan-
guage.” (Loud applause.)
“They come to us, these children—chil-
dren, friends, in simplicity, in gratitood, in,
in—er” — (more applause)—“they come to us
earnest and grateful, glad to learn, and are
enabled to earn a living for their dear ones
on the same footing as the misguided Aus-
tralian who. in his —er —in his un-Christian
blindness, seeks to keep him out of this—our
Commonwealth.” (Stampings and clappings
and fond looks showered on the heathen.)
Yes, we teach them. We help them, and
they m their turn are full of grateful love
for us”
The evangelist breaks in here with one
verse of “Love, kindly love”—evidently sung
with vim, for he beams.
The chairman looks annoyed. The inter-
ruption has thrown him out of his stride.
“Love, love filleth our soul,” we sing. Again
I glance at our hosts, hoping to find an
answering gleam of this warm sentiment in
their narrow eyes. I don’t get it. Probably
not sufficiently learned in English to under-
stand the chairman’s drift altogether, they
have missed the cue, and remain unmoved
and inscrutable*
7 grateful love for us,” continues the
chairman. “They are simple, kindly souls—
their hearts filled with brotherly feelings.
—er—cleared of all —er —superstition !’’
(Stupendous applause.)
One expects the Chinese squad to be lifted
shoulder-high by their admirers, or to go off
like a cracker. But, no. With an air of
biding their time they sit immovable.
’Now,” says the speaker, “I will intro-
duce you to Looy Hau. 11 will give an
example of what may be done by patient
Christian teaching. Come along, Looy.”
Looy comes, approaching the piano like a
Stoic going to the stake.
“Looy is a dear brother. We all love him
very much,” adds the chairman encourag-
ingly. ■ And lie loves us.”
Does he?_ I interrogated him with my
eye. He neither affirms nor denies—blushes
not, nor pales. His black eyes glint—but
his expression is nil.
“Looy,” again adds the talkative chair-
man, pressing a hard but affectionate knuckle
into his protege’s ribs, “is modest. He does
not care to lift his voice in praise outside
the confines of his own laundry. A good
laundry man, as well as a good pupil, is
Looy—do up your collar, ally li”-
A tornado of mirth shakes us at this ex-
ample of the chairman’s knowledge of pure
Chinese —we had not known that he was a
linguist. Shoulders, pressed together for
lack of room, shake and heave as one with
joy in the lon mot. A few isolated pupils,
all young, seated in the audience, hemmed in
and lionised by young girl teachers, are
prodded and jabbed in the ribs in excess of
tutorial and sisterly love, as to say, “Where
we love we laugh.” One such, before me
turns upon his fair girl guide a queer look
Can it be gratitude? If so, let gratitude be
knocked on the head.
(Continued on next page.)


Don’t Neglect Y our Skin
)
ODBC
m
m
Rub ZAM-BUK In, and Avoid
All Winter Skin Troubles.
The skin is one of the most sensitive parts
of the human body; and because it is also the
most exposed to injury and disease, it ought
to get, more attention than most people think
is necessary.
A sudden chill, dirt in a cold-crack or small
abrasion, and skin-weaknesses are all likely
to lead to trouble. Neglected chafings,
“chaps,” chilblains, cold-sores, or
cuts may also cause more serious
disease in the shape of festering
wounds, ulcers or itching sores, and
even chronic eczema is often trace-
able to neglect in the early stages of
a simple affection.
Zam-Buk is the ideal application
for the skin at this season.
No ordinary ointments or salves,
concocted from rancid animal fats or
mineral irritants, can do for the
skin what Zam-Buk does. Such
coarse and harmful preparations
never give lasting satisfaction —the
sort that is undoubtedly got from
_ rubbing in Zam-Buk.
Smearing the skin with Zam-Buk has an almost instantaneous
cleansing and restorative effect. So mire are the juices in Zam-Buk
that they sink deep into the pores, permeating all the minute
“machinery” of the tissue, and they just go to work right away to
end the trouble thoroughly.
No skin looks so well —or is, in fact, so soft, sound and healthy
throughout—as the skin that has had frequent dressings of Zam-Buk.
And this perfection is more than “skin-deep,” seeing that a healthy
skin exerts a wholesome influence upon the rest of the body. The
Zam-Buk treatment can reasonably claim to be a revival of one of the
LOST ARTS of the old Grecian days, when proper care of the skin was
universal.
| THE EVER-READY HOME HEALER , |
Zam-Buk is excellent for eczema, ulcers, ringworm, bad legs, rashes, erup-
tions, pimples, sores, scabs, scales, piles, pains, swellings, chapped hands, sore
faces, cold sores, chilblains, cuts, burns, festerings, gatherings, poisoned wounds,
children’s sores, and injured and diseased, irritated, inflamed and unhealthy
conditions of the skin. Of all chemists and stores at 1/6 and 3/6 per pot (3/6
amßuk
‘RUB IT IN,**
holds nearly
four times
the Is. Gd.) ;
or post free
from the Sole
P r oprietors.
C. B. Fulford
(Austr a 1-
asia), Ltd.,
3 9 Pitt
St., Sydney.
mmmmnmmm
Sillllllll!lllinilllllllllllllllllllll!IIIIH
a,iiiiitiiiiiimmniiyitiHiiiiimiiu>
Hats capS
AND
helmets
of all First-class Hatters
throughout the Commonwealth.
The name TRESS stands for the height
of English fashion and quality.
Makers— Tress & Co., Ltd., London, Eng.
Wholesale Agents—Cox & Mailer,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Christchurch,
ĥ
9*
\e*
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
iSWA
POWMTPEfS.
is 'old by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Bequest.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only):
J. A. BURKE, 5 Pyjmrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
ħ
Looy’s item, though long delayed, is sin-
gularly appropriate. Regardless of the
accompaniment he strikes up in thread-like
voice
Wass me-e-e whi-ite ass s-snow,
Wass lne-e-e ass pure ass s-snow.
Now he is too fast, with the pianist in hot
pursuit. Now a laggard, being pulled up the
steeps of s-snow by the piano's insistence.
The audience, sympathetic souls, titter and
sway at Looy’s quaintness, yet he sings on
with holy calm.
At the finish our chairman is witty again.
“Looy,” he says, "is not an operatic singer.”
(Shouts of mirth.) “Not a singer; no —but
we teach him —so —and he sings for us his
little hymn of praise.”
Looy, released, regains his clan and does
not give an encore.
“Now we have Ming Ming—a great favorite
with the lady teachers. He is known among
us as one greatly imbued with the Spirit,
lie has been an assiduous scholar at our
feet, and can now converse fluently in the
transaction of his business, that of a market
gardener.”
Ming is a Caruso among Chinamen, and
knows it. He lifts up his voice and tosses
it higher than the highest C, chucks it to the
bass, recaptures it from a flight among the
mirth-ridden audience, disembowels it from
the piano’s interior, and Anally leaves the
ragged remains quivering in the atmosphere.
There is trouble in getting Ming off the
stage. Learning has taught him the value
of an encore. He knows his own popular-
ity ; and I can see that conceit is not an
unknown characteristic of a Chinese con-
vert. But he at last gives place to other
performers. Duets, quartettes and choruses
stumble through their parts in mutilated
English.
Heavy man that I am, and dull, yet am I
a mystic. Insensibly the scene before me
merged itself into another —a picture I once
saw on the tea-caddy. It was a Chinese
town. A-down its street young maidens
trotted, native jugglers chased and caught
butterflies for the sheer fun of the thing
along its garden walks. An ancient Chinese
—a noble, I felt him to be—rode by in a
palanquin. In a lovely pagoda were learned
men studying the sciences; and along the
water’s edge celestial boatmen, wise yet
humble, plied the oar, while Chinese chil-
dren clumped their wooden shoes up and
down the steps. Suddenly across the godlike
scene there came a blur. A mist afar off
near the market place, where peaceful trad-
ing went on. Nearer and nearer it came,
rolling, resolving itself at length into a cloud
of dust and legs, out of which burst a podgy,
tub-like figure, puffins:, sobbing, sweat and
tears streaming down its mottled face, its
stumpy fingers outspread, whiskers flowing.
Our chairman! Whence came he, and why?
His intrusion in such plight was an insult to
fair Pekin. Onward he sped, growing in
size as he neared me ; grunting in agony as
his fat encumbered him.
Cause enough for terror. Behind rushed a
murderer in wooden boots and slacks of blue,
llis right arm Avas raised. He clutched a
curved scimitar —the one I saAV in the
Museum yesterday. His left hand held his
pigtail in leash, ready for throwing, lasso-
like, round the fat throat of the flying Chris-
tian. Spellbound, I looked at the assassin.
Horror! It is our Looy Hau! Looy the
gentle. Looy the lo\ r ed. Looy a renegade;
now an assassin, a butcher, a heathen in his
true colors. No more would he meekly sing
Sankey out of tune. No more Avould he be
satisfied Avith metaphorical blood. The blood
he wanted hoav Avas real, neAv, fresh —the
blood of our chairman.
On he came. He Avas gaining on his vic-
tim. His meek face Avas hideously changed.
The clack of his shoes split the other’s pant-
ing silence like a revolver shot.
On, on comes the chairman. On also
comes Looy. Nearer, nearer. Oh, oh, but-
cher ! He swings his scimitar —ugh !—Avith
an almighty sweep—and cleaves the chairman
in twain.
With a start I awake from comtemplat-
ing the two halves of the plump victim as
they litter the pavement in old Pekin....
I find the evening is over. The audience,
tramping out. is Avalking over my corns.
The chairman, in his very best manner,
shakes hands Avith us at the door. And, in
the obscurity of the porch, a pretty girl is
giving the iemon-faced Ming Ming an im-
promptu lesson in the language.
WEEROONA.
A Tragedy of Suburbia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A BUTTER LESS breakfast so obviously
called for preventive measures that
Chumper spoke about the matter to
Mrs. Chumper.
“My love,” be explained, “this is just one
of those occasions when a man should assert
himself. I know you do everything calcu-
lated to annoy—l mean, to add joy to this
life, but we are in the throes of a crisis.
Famine is staring us in the face. The chil-
dren may die. I will relieve you of respon-
sibility about butter. You, Evangeline, can
concentrate on cheap fish.”
That morning Chumper dropped into a
couple of city shops. No butter. Three
shops in the lunch hour. A trio of blanks.
Rang up the Premier’s office. None left
there; all used at. lied Cross committee meet-
ings. More shops on the way to the ferry.
Each had sold out a. week ago.
Then Chumper had an inspiration. He
remembered reading magazine yarns setting
forth that the manufacture of margarine had
reached a stage of absolute perfection ; that
only an analytical chemist could tell the
difference between margarine and butter:
that it was going to revolutionise the kit-
chen. Chumper captured a pound, and fled
for the steamer.
“My love,” he remarked as he kissed the
gentle Evangeline, “these infernal parasites
who live by the sweat of their brow milking
animals have got us by the throat. Australia
is without butter. But the scoundrels have
not reckoned on the triumphant progress of
science. Chemistry is coming to rescue little
children from the clutch of these tyrannical
eowspankers. We shall have synthetic butter.
Margarine is a nutritious article of diet, and
here is a pound to go on with.”
Evangeline departed from her habit, and
said nothing. Chumper felt she was im-
pressed, not to say knocked endways, and
rejoiced.
The family sat down to the evening meal,
and there was. something in the butter-dish.
"Is that the margarine, dear';”
“No—-it is not the margarine.” Evange-
line seemed to Chumper unnecessarily em-
phatic, even frigid. "It is a quarter ot a
pound of butter which I obtained after great
difficulty from the wife of the bootmaker at
the corner!”
“The wife of the bootmaker, my dear
Evangeline!”
“Yes, the wife of the bootmaker, whose
husband lias sufficient confidence in her not
to interfere with household administration.”
This sounded distinctly ominous to Chum-
per.
“But, my dear girl, I only”
“Don’t; please don’t go further,” she an-
swered, with haughty precision of tone. “If
it is not enough that I should be censured
for failing to squander my meagre house-
allowance upon boxes of butter —buying
butter in wholesale quantities for a man
whose appetite no one could satisfy”
“Meagre allowance, Evangeline! Butter
in wholesale quantities ! Immoderate appe-
tite ! This is really”
“The truth, every word ! Are you not con-
tent with this exhibition of niggardliness, of
man’s selfishness? I am not going to allow
my children to perish by eating this horrible
mixture that you want to feed them on.”
This was clean over the edge to Chum-
per. “My God,” he mutely reflected, “I
only had thruppence for myself last week,
have used butter with the greatest care,
and narrowly escaped being run down by a
motor, rushing from one beastly grocer’s to
another.” The position seemed to call for
definition.
“What are you referring to as horrible
mixture?” he asked, with dignified restraint.
“I am referring to margarine.”
“But I assure you it is most nutritious.
An admirable food in every way. Surely
you would not have us capitulate to these
sordid cockies —this ring of plutocrats who
think because their wretched cows have gone
dry they can terrorise us into going without
butter! I tell you, Evangeline, I refuse to
be trampled on by these men. I’ll fight to
the bitter end.”
That settled it. One of the youngsters
started to snivel: the other followed the blub-
bering example. Evangeline rushed to their
side.
“I thought so,” she moaned. “Threatening
me and the children with violence-—coming
home to talk like a truculent prize-fighter!
I wonder whether you are quite sober!”
Evangeline gathered her brood and hurried
them off to bed.
Morning broke bleak and dour over the
Chumper household. Instead of a joyful
Evangeline and kids with challenges to jiu-
jitsu, the place was full of an abysmal
silence. Chumper found breakfast set in
solemn state for one on the end of the table,
surrounded by a new smell —not the elusive
smell of bacon, but something that drove the
morning appetite back into its entrench-
ments ; a menacing smell that threatened to
quickly assume the dignity of an able-bodied
stink. Chumper ran it to its lair —a pale-
looking object right in the fairway of plates ;
an inert cube which might have been ex-
tracted from the recess of an Egyptian sar-
cophagus. Clinging to the side of the dish
a scrap of paper. Margarine !
“Thank Heaven!” he murmured, “I still
have presence of mind.” The window was
open. A noise of shattered crockery rent the
stricken atmosphere.
“Gripes!” muttered Chumper.
Evangeline and the boys were in the yard.
Chumper assumed a magisterial air.
“Why are you out here?”
“Why? Because we are driven from the
house—the home you brought me to a bride.”
“But who has driven you? Are we always
going to live apart, isolated in this way?”
“William, I know my duty. I will do it.
These children must not be brought up in a
demoralising atmosphere. When you have
gone I will endeavor to remove any remnants
of that stuff you may have left on the table,
and after burning sulphur”
“But there is none left, Evangeline ! I”
“Great Scot, William, you don’t mean to
say you’ve eaten it all!”
Chumper climbed right down. While the
boys stood out by the gate the triumph of
science, which had been set up in rivalry to
Evangeline’s quarter-pound of butter from
the bootmaker’s, was interred in the little
garden.
There was a packet of chocolates sticking
out of the old man’s pocket when he got home
that night, and there was butter at the old
address.
I know all about it. I’m Chumper.
MUJIK.
An Irish Heart.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OCH, the queerest thing is an Irish
heart!
Will you take it away, Roseen, in
your shawl?
For ’tis sore to stay and ’tis ill to part,
And there’s nothing to ease its beating at all.
Is it drink with the boys till the day is light?
(Will you take it away, Roseen, in your
shawl?)
Ocli, sure, ’tis the heart of the world for
fight
Or friendship or talk while it beats at all!
Is it sighs for pain, is jt tears for pride?
(Will you take it away, Roseen, in your
shaiol?)
’Tis a red-blood heart that is ill deiilSlh
And it plays all tunes while it beats at all.
Is it girls that laugh, is it girls to kiss?
(Will you take it away, Roseen, in your
shawl?)
Bright eyes can teach it a beat to miss,
For it loves all girls while it loves at all.
Is it one soft girl with a clear brown eye?
Will you take it away, Roseen, in your
shawl ?
Och, nurse it warm and ’twill surely try
To be loving no other at all at all!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


NGROVITE
LEATHER
LTI
has been awarded the Gov-
ernment Contracts for 1915-
1916.
It is All-Australian—from
Australian Hides, tanned
and manufactured by Aus-
tralian Workmen.
Sole Manufacturer aPd Proprietor:
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Something New
PIPE THREADING.
RELEASING LEVER
TO THE LEFT
OPE NS THE DIES
“ The Bulldog Grip never slips.”
A High-grade Die Stock, with SELF-
DOCKING DIES, SELF-LOCKING
GLIDES. A Stock that can be instantly
released and lifted off the work without
turning back over the finished threads.
Oster Bulldog Die Stocks
possess all these features, beside other
advantages which must appeal to all
users of pipe-threading tools.
Write for our descriptive booklet on Pipe
Threading, or call and see a demonstration of
the Bulldog.
AGENTS:
& LACY CO. LTD
•>
Engineers & Machinery Merchants
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
It is the Power
Your Belt W
Transmits
that
Counts.
m
JS-
n
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
' Sole Agents—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
Is “Economy
Your
Watchword ?
If so you will be deeply
interested in the increased
steaming power of your boiler,
the more satisfactory working
of your engine, the greater
efficiency of your whole plant,
and, further, the big reduction
in yobr fuel bill, all of which
can be accomplished by the
adoption of
Newail’s Magnesia
Sectional Steam
i—
Pipe Coverings and
Plastic Boiler
Covering
the EXCEPTIONAL EFFICIENCY of which lias placed it
FAR ABOVE ALL OTHER MATERIALS.
The above claims are not merely “idle words,” but are all
clinched by FACTS in evidence of which we might mention
that ' Newall’s Coverings have been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments, and have been used throughout
Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses, in addition to which we have
orders on hand for the insulating throughout of Perth, Melbourne
and Canberra Power Stations.
Should further argument be necessary, we append the comparative
covering capacities of Newall’s Plastic Boiler Covering and ordinary
asbestos.
lewt. ordinary asbestos will cover 40 sq. .ft. x lin. thick.
lewt. Newall’s Plastic Magnesia will cover 100 SO. ft. x lin.
thick.
JL WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyamho ” Scoops for Cleaning Ou t Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
J. A. Fay U Egaa Co.’s Woodworking Machinery.
FURNITURE, PIANO AND WOODWORKING SHOPS WILD BE
INTERESTED
to know that we have opened up, in our Showroom, a
No. 225 TRIPLE DRUM SAND PAPERING MACHINE,
and, if perfect surfaces are wanted, either for varnishing or painting, this is the
machine for YOU.
Also in Stock—Arm. Column, Sash and Door Sanders,
No. 50 Special Patent Band Saw, for all kinds of plain or intricate scroll
sawing. This machine represents the “Acme” of perfection in Band Saws.
PLANERS, MATCHERS, MOLDERS, JOINTERS,
DOOR CLAMPS, SURFACERS, TENONERS.
Carried in stock by Sole Agents:—
H. P. GREGORY CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
OIL ENGINES
MARINE or STATIONARY.
Sole Australian Agents
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
DANGAR
GEDYE 6C° SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
SUB-AGENTS
MITCHELL & CO. PROPY. LTD.,
W. footscray, Melbourne,
i Vic.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Townsville.
MALLOCH BROS.,
Perth, W.A.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD.,
Hobart, Tas.
WINCHCOMBf, CARSON, LTD.
Brisbane, Queensland
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS'
CO-OP. UNION, LTD.,
Adelaide. S.A.
I _
99
ausi
MBS
L&S-l
iiM uiffif
1 ' -
Pressure Filters,
Fountain Filters,
Glass Filters.
Water Bag' Filters.
Specia/ Filters for Hotels, Cordial Factories, Breweries, etc.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
350 George St., SYDNEY ; Church Lane, MELBOURNE
[jg-iangs^
THE “‘ABBOTT.”
nfaaßHPN's
■J
J


We ate Confident that
THE WESTINGHOUSE-MORSE SILENT
Wbi MMHE
■ i ';2 : \
V
V. :■-,*'
ROCKER-
JOINT
CHAIN
will appeal to you as
an important factor
in the problem of
Costs reduction*
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8M.310 to-
The Westinghouse Brake
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Concord West, N.5.W.
A POWERFU
BINATIOIM.
SAW BENCH
and PLANER
BRITISH MADE
Saw—l 6 inches.
Planing—6 inches.
Moulding and Thicknessing—4 *4 in.
Double Rising and Falling Tables—
-26 x 22 and 26 x 12 inches.
Weight, about scwt.
h
PRICE, INCLUDING
ADJUSTABLE FENCE,
ĥ
Austral Engineering
189 Clarence Street,
■J
0*
v
Sydney
ħ
Tube
Threading
is easier and
quicker with
OSTEFI
Bulldog Die Stocks
Eight unusual features are combined in
every tool. Ask your dealer about them.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
4] CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.
For Sale by
Leading
Dealers in
All Cities.
h
EVA N sa
Pastilles
rrrsH
fff
THESE wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a
formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading singers throughout the world.
The celebrated' Madame Tetrazzini writes : “ 1 tnank you for
the boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which 1 find excellent and
efficacious."
Sole Manufacturers :—
EVANS SONS LESCHER, & WEBB, Lti, LONDON.
Ask for “ EVANS ” Pastilles and see you get them.
'c?
8-Hour Diamond Jubilee Art Union
PRIZES VALUE £4OOO.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN OCTOBER 30, 1915.
Ist Prize, value £B5O. 2nd Prize, value £450.
3rd Prize, value £3OO.
And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. M. M. Whitt, Sydney
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING
GET A TICKET & HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1915
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from
Agents in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE. Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney
A Good Toitit 'to
■ ■
•take
. sSBwm m3*wl
is Tills
The Officer at the Front 9 from whom this drawing has
been received, writes : —“ it is done as well as possible under
the difficulties of the situation. The details of the ‘Hun
were obtained by close inspection on Xmas day”
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
I Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY AU
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
*/I*. 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
ffltiervdf*
Checks Fever-
ishness, end
effectually
cuts short all
attacks et
" SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine fo r
COUQHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, ant* In
rhe cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aota like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
ĥ
THE FAMOUS
Schebler Carburetter
has conclusively proved this season
(1914-15) at its home, in America,
that it is
The Best Carburetter
SCHEBLER Equipped Engines
won World’s Records with
cars
Stutz” Road Record
75'03 miles
per hour.
BOATS
“ Baby Speed Demon ”
53*55 miles
per hour.
BICYCLES
“ Excelsior”
1 to 100 miles
SCHEBLER is also the equipment for the
CURTIS FLYING BOATS
and the KINNARD HAINES PLOUGHING TRACTOR, the American Champion.
A Carburetter showing such Efficiency must be Economical.
Catalogues and all information free,
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, Sole Agents for Australasia. [2
