

D EWAR’S
the Veteran of Whiskies
R. O. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUC TIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
o
a
a
LU
HI
LjJ
CL
UJ
O
h-
Z
o
- •
£
i
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. An<J >t Telephone: City 0825.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Qanural Manager.
rm i
'rr»i> I
8
11
1
II
li ivvi Uli ilwluiluHii 1
■ I IMS II
— Ufa —
fiadleys Orient [jotel.
SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
RICHARDSON’S
WINE SPIRIT STORES,
250 LIT. COLLINS BT.,
NEXT BWANBTON BT.
158 RUSSELL ST.,
NEXT BOURKE ST.
I2
L*
9
dfghdfgh
Take it back*
I must have-
HUTTON’S
fincApplc Brand
MAMS ©
BACON.
CHUBBS
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JIJNKKT made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
J
fdg
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specialty prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Entirely BRITISH,
and the World’s BEST!
PALMER CORD
TYRES.
Interesting Catalogue free from
The Silvertown Rubber Co.*
270 George Street, Sydney.
I
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
hd
You can buy Amiwud plain or grained. The plain is for work
that is to receive a coat of paint or other coloring f the
grained has a hardwood finish, perfect in grain and color.
Let us send you samples and illustrations of Australian
homes treated with Amiwud.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY
(D. S. EVANS, Attst. Rep.), CHALLIS
HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Agencies Everywhere.
w
0
1
n
n
The Ideal Panelling.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTP.A
SPECIAL
S V: C.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OSALOIh
JiXS V UL
HXOOX
Ik Australian Owned as well as Australian Made. Contains the rljrht proportion of Chlorate
of Totash to nse. 1/- per large tube. 1/2 Post Free. On dosen lots we pay postage.
viiu ivau
The Bulletin
V01.36.—N0. 1857.]
[Thursday, September 16, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOORS
(Postage* *houm
in parmthea**.)
(M-).
Statesman’* Year Book, 1918. 14/-
llasefleld's The Faithful. 4/0 (2«L).
PheUo’s Straight Path. S/4 (2d.).
Book of France (The), ftha*. 0/6 (4d.).
Jenkins' Educational Handwork. S/t (2d.).
C-outU* Ventures in Thought. 4/6 (Jd.).
Walker's AH About Zeppelins, td. (Id.).
Daeoo's All About rising. 1/6 (2d.).
At GEORCE ROBERTSON 8 CO PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
Eumgivthol
JUJUBES
For COUGHS,
COLDS, SORE
THROAT,
and the
Prevention of
Consumption.
A. The
organ , y * w .
B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
C. The
'l'ubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A lobe of one
of the lungs.
■m
•i'S
m
LET THE BUYER BEWARE!
CAUTION.—The large sale for “Buroen-
thol JUJUUES” has led to » number of imita-
tions being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes.. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be wire and get
HUDSON'S “Eumenthol Jujubes.” You may
be asked to buy other Jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson's “Eumen-
thol Jujubes." This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’* “Eumen-
thoi Jujubes.”
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Tins, 1/6.
The Red Page
GALLIPOLI.
The Young Gods knew this land
And loved Her, as Leander loved his maid.
Then ancient armies fought across Her hills
Till the red rocks grew ruddier with their
blood
And the lay desolate and agonised.
Through endless centuries
This land has wearied in the arms of TFor.
And now Her earth is drenched afresh with
blood—
And all the Gods are fled.
She cares not for the causes of the war
Or that the Youngest Nation gains its fame
Upon Her hills.
The land is tired of this endless strife,
Tired and forlorn,
And all the Gods are fled.
The serene beauty of the radiant sea
And sun-bathed hills
Is broken by the blighting sights of war.
The limpid loveliness of green-clothed heights
And sapphire skies
Is turned to terror by the greasy smoke
Of funeral pyres.
And where the shepherds and the goatherds
sang
And played upon their pipes
As in old times,
Is only heard the ravening of the guns,
The tortured shrieks of mangled men and
beasts
'Mid other bestial sounds of brutal war.
What wonder that the land cries out for
peace,
Weeps for the foyance of its early days
When men and Gods were young
And Life was innocent.
When love and laughter lilted through the
land,
When fauns and dryads played among the
hills
And centaurs set the scented vales a-ring
With crashing hooves;
When Life, expectant in its infancy
Looked on the sweetness of this land
And found it gladt
m
And now we see it shattered, torn and worn,
A sentient land grown over old through tear.
Who, since her youngest infancy, has known
Nought else but sorrow and the face of fear;
She is worn out with pain and fear of pain,
Her whole soul cries in anguish to the Gods
To rid her of mankind and give again
The wine and honey of the golden youth
ller hills and purple valleys knew of old.
But man—with all the futile strife of man —
Has left her nought but faded memories —
And all the Gods are fled.
E. PERUGINI.
The Mark of the Teuton
Two of the awkward facts that net even
the drilled and docile Hun professors can
explain away are named Emile Verhaeren
and Maurice Maeterlinck. There is to be
only one European civilisation, only one
kultur: the other kulturs are to be extermi-
nated. And the first civilisation to feel the
effects of this holy cultural crusade happened
to be Belgium, the only country that pos-
sesses a living poet and a living dramatist
with world-wide reputations—Verhaeren and
Maeterlinck. According to the Ilun pundits
these two geniuses should have been German
—and probably instructions have already
been given to the 11 qn professors to discover
that they ere German —just as they have
discovered that Christ was German. Bat
first it was necessary to bombard the village
of Saint-Amand (where Verhaeren waa
born), to destroy Louvain (where Ver-
haeren was educated), and smash the little
country farm near Mons (where Verhaeren
used, every year, to spend the spring and
autumn). Much must be sacrificed in the
crusade in the holy cause of kultur. The
man who made Flanders famous by his
poems wherever the French language is read
or spoken is now a fugitive in London. And
in the hour of Belgium's agony her poet
sings of Belgium’s glory. Belgium's Agony
(Constable, per Dymock’s Library) is a ter-
rible indictment of German kpltur.
“The deepest shame of Germany” is that
she chose the little nation most deserving of
life and growth to suffer for German opinion
of the labor and existence of the non-Ger-
man world.
She schemed and lied and flattered. To
within two hoars of a cruel ultimatum she
was breathing forth the purity of her inten-
tions.... And by this deed she . has created
against herself in the hearts of Belgians a
hatred, so passionate and so universal, that
it will go down from generation to genera-
tion to a depth that no man can foretell.
So far as any human sentiment can be. this
hatred will be eternal. It will become a
part of the education of our primary schools,
it will be a tradition in our families, an in-
stinct in our, homes.
J*
Poosibly it did not occur to the Huns that
the Belgians could write a “Chant of Hate,"
that it would be written by the
greatest poet in Europe! And with bitter
reason. Verhaeren knows the facts. He
admits 4 that:—
The extremes of horror to which these
German warriors can go have benefited
them to this extent, namely, that the world's
imagination will never wholly credit the per-
verted ingenuity they displayed in brutalis-
ing Belgium... .When I first came to Eng-
land every story of atrocities was suspect.
People said: "That’s all very well, but show
us the man who has had his hands cut off,
or the woman with the mangled breasts.”
And as it was unfortunately impossible to
comply with this request, because the man
who had lost his hands and the woman who
had been mutilated had involuntarily died of
the wounds, the sceptics concluded that the
Germans were not murderers.
Summing up his list of horrors, Verhaeren
uses this stinging irony:—
In the case of women German military
usage inevitably orders rape or violation as
a preliminary. Husband, brother and child
having been done to death, the wife, the
sister or the mother is given a spade and
told to bury her dead. Pregnant women un-
failingly receive the bayonet thrust in the
womb.
And he tells the authenticated story of a
country house near Antwerp. A merchant
of the city had chosen to remain in his home,
with his two daughters, aged respectively 20
and 17 years. He received with hospitality
the officers quartered upon him. Five Ger-
man officers sat down to dinner, but none of
them were drunk. Before the dinner began
the German captain ordered the owner of
the house to be thrust into his cellar. Then :
The two girls are commanded by the
revellers to undress. They protest, resist,
implore. As answer to their prayers the
captain orders some of his men to strip them
naked and hold them during the meal before
the leering eyes of the diners. At last, sated
with eating and pleasingly drunk, the sav-
ages, before the amused eyes of common
soldiers, themselves reeling with drink, take
the two poor, children for their amusement.
You will forgive me for not reproducing here
the further details quoted by the Minister of
War. It is enough to say that when, the
following morning, the merchant was set free
from his prison, his daughters had been
handed over to the tender mercies of the
common soldiery. One had gone raving
mad; the other has since killed herself in
shame and grief.
(By the way, it is to smash the nest of
this brood of perverts that Kitchener is now
calling to every Australian who can shoulder
a rifle, and that, incidentally, the leaders of
our nation are imploring every able-bodied
youth to take a hand in the hunt.)
German military usage has methods also
of dealing with children. They have little
hands that are delightfully easy to cut off.
Their feet are barely attached to their legs
at all. A little blood-spilling, and the thing
is done. But there are refinements... .chil-
dren’s nostrils and children’s ears have been
burnt with the flaring stumps of lighted
cigars.
(Are there any Australian mothers who
are still dissuading their sons who wish to
enlist? Is there a single Australian man
who is still opposed to conscription?)
Jt
Nowadays we are forced to believe, how-
ever sadly, that the true Germany is, only
by accident, that of Goethe, Beethoven and
Heine. Generally, almost always, she is a
country of cruel barons and brutal soldiery.
Thousands of years ago she let loose her
hordes upon Europe, and she is doing the
same to-day; it is her awful and sinister
function. Let ns make no mistake for the
future. She is dangerous because she can-
not be civilised, and in her castles, her val-
leys and her barracks is a store unex-
hausted, and perhaps inexhaustible, of human
Bavagery.
And, If the Hun wins, Verhaeren foresees
a terrible future, where “the rhythm of the
goose-step shall dominate all other rhythms;
it shall be heard even in poetry. Free and
personal art has had its day; the art of the
future shall be hard, sharp and glittering as
a sword.”
And he utters a warning to those who see
peace coming like a benediction —a final,
eternal peace—arriving on a definite date.
Those who talk of exterminating the Ger-
mans do not realise that a young people
cannot be exterminated. But the world has
to defend itself against Germany with cour-
age and tenacity. France and England must
prepare to abandon confidence and live in
mistrust. They must accept a future in
which life will be harsh and at extreme ten-
won, like a drawn bow. Germany must be
countered as soon as she goes too far. We
must not seek to kill her. She must be
crippled, like her Emperor.
For Germany is imbued with the spirit of
Asia. We have often sought for a compari-
son for this new frightful ness. Verhaeren
has found it- The German is an Asiatic-
He is the world’s red peril.
Prussian methods recall those bas-reliefs
of the relentless Assurbanipal, commanding
the torture of his conquered foes, their total
extermination. Pillage, arson, wholesale
destruction were the orders given in war by
the Babylonians of Asia centuries ago. They
are the orders given in war by the Germans
of Europe to-day. The two empires are
actuated by the same insane pride. It is
reflected in those ancient documents pre-
served by the. Louvre and the British
Museum. It finds expression in this docu-
ment of yesterday: “After a short term of
years we shall see some snch sight as this.
The German flag will wave over 86 millions
of Germans, and they will govern a dominion
peopled by 130 millions of Europeans. In
this great empire only the Germans will have
political rights, only the Germans will be
owners of property. They will be a nation
of masters, permitting, by condescension, that
the peoples under their rule should perform
menial labor.”
(One wonders whether the conquering
Germans would permit a trades union of Aus-
tralian menial laborers, and what would
happen in the event of a strike?)
Yet Verhaeren glorifies, not Belgium’s
agony, but her re-birth.
From the ashes of these towns and vil-
lages a new and splendid life will arise. The
library of Louvain will be rebuilt, the church
of St. Pierre, the Market Hall of Ypres, the
towers of Dixmude and Nieuport, and each
stone will be set in its place with mortar as
hard and as solid as is the hatred which
now we feel for Germany.
It is in such blazing and -bitter prose
that Verhaeren makes his indictment. But
he is, above all, a poet. And the inclusion
in this volume of three fine poems, in the
original French, dealing with “Ceux de
Li6ge,” “La Belgique -Sanglante,” and
“Guillaume II.,” reveals how fine a poet he
is.
Anatole France
In order to write his volume upon Anatole
France (Nisbet; Is.) W. L. George tells us
that he had to read every one of his works
over again, “in the last few weeks,” and
adds that if there is anything calculated to
make one hate a writer for evermore it is to
read all his works one after the other.
Hardly the proper frame of mind for a seri-
ous appreciation of a great writer; but this
“Writers of the Day” library is apparently
written by the week. George writes well,
but drearily. Three-quarters of his book is
devoted to an analysis of France’s five
volumes of satire, Penguin Island and the
four volumes of Contemporary History: one
gets tired of the details of the plots of
Contemporary History, vols. 1-4. George
complains that: “People dare not say the
things which should be obvious; that France
repeats himself; that he is sentimental; that
his novels are, from the point of view of
French technique, incoherent; that, as ex-
pressed by his characters, his conception of
love is rather disgusting.” The reason is
that in order to understand Anatole France
and the French we must understand “the
gay, sensual, garrulous French of the Middle
Ages; the gay, sensual, courteous French of
the 17th century; the gay, sensual, cynical
French of Voltarian times; and the sensual,
cynical French of to-day. Anatole France is
all these.” Also, Anatole France is Sylves-
tre Bonnard; he is Bergeret, Coignard, Brot-
teaux—all those nice old gentlemen who pass
through his pages.
According to George, Anatole France will
be remembered, if remembered, as a critic
and as a satirist. George has doubts: you
see, he has had to read all Anatole within a
few weeks. “He may share the fate of
Flaubert, who is menaced; of de Maupas-
sant, who is going; of Schiller, forgotten;
of Walter Scott, reduced to a juvenile circu-
lation ; of Thackeray, staking all upon one
novel; of Dickens, surviving by the pictur-
esque ; of Tolstoy, convicted as a moralist;
of Greeks, uneasily staggering under the bur-
den of illogical murder and absurd incest. ...
I do not think that he will join the glorious
band; Homer, Shakespeare, Moli&re. For
Anatole France has understood all things,
but mainly in their details.”
Yet, “he is the only living satirist. He
has actually no rivals: there are men such
as Max Becrbolim, Ilansi, Mirbeau, Hector
Munro, F. P. Dunne, who have a glimmer-
ing of what satire means; Mr. Wells would
have more than a glimmering if, unfortu-
nately, he did not hold deep convictions
about right and wrong, a weakness to which,
in spite of all appearances, Mr. Shaw also
succumbs; but Anatole France alone unholds
the ancient tradition of Voltaire, of Defoe
and Swift. His satire is always effective
because it is always light, always pointed
and always smiling. He has none of the
bitterness of Swift, and, therefore, he is the
‘ truer cynic, for true cynicism is not fierce;
it is always genial.”
It is evidently going to be a close finish
between J. 11. Maiden and the war. The
third part of the third volume of A Critical
Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus (2s. Gd.)
marks another stage of this monumental
undertaking. The amount of miscellaneous
knowledge embedded in this official blue
book is immense, and worth digging for.
A new edition of llousekeeping for Two—
or Mope, by Mrs. Theo. Winning (Cole,
C.A.), incorporates the more valuable in-
gredients of The Australian Housewife’s
Guide, and specialises upon casserole cook-
ery. Like most cookery books this volume
has no index: perhaps it was due to this
omission that this page was unable to dis-
cover: (1) how to make tea, and (2) how
to boil an egg —subjects in which this page
takes a passionate interest. However, there
is “a simple remedy for sleeplessness,” which
is sufficiently valuable to quote, though the
author warns us that all her recipe's are
copyright: ‘‘Fill a pillow-case with fresh-
picked hops and sew up the end. Use the
hop pillow instead of an ordinary one. This
simple recipe has saved many a valuable life.
The late King Edward VII. owed his life to
it in 1872.” There is also a recipe “To make
the hair a golden color,” which this page,
tired of its pinkness, has already trium-
phantly tried. Thera is also another, not
sampled by this page, “To get rid of bugs.”
It is a nice recipe, but there is attached to it
a note: “If any ®f the above-mentioned
methods fail to accomplish their object, write
to me (Mrs. Theo. Winning) for my own
specific.” And there is a “pretty pattern
for baby’s socks,” unfortunately too long to
quote. Altogether a valuable shilling’s
worth.
The Fourth Arm
Aeroplanes and Dirigibles of War, by
Frederick A. Talbot (Heinemann, 3s. Gd.),
furnishes useful information about the proved
capabilities of the fourth arm. Talbot makes
the modest claim that “the use of aircraft
has changed the whole art and science of
warfare. With its disabilities well in hand,
with its strength but half revealed, the
aerial service has revolutionised strategy
and shorn the unexpected attack of half its
terrors.” Most non-technical readers will
b? surprised to learn that the Zeppelin,
despite the Hun’s fanatical belief in it. is
not the best type of the German dirigibles.
The Parseval is the finest type of baby-
killer. The Parseval is non-rigid, but it
couveys an impression of great solidity. It
is built, on lines quite distinct from that of
its more famous rival. There are no planes
for vertical steering, but the movement is
accomplished by tilting the craft, and thus
driving the gas from one end of the balloon
to the other. Thus it ascends and descends
almost in the manner of the aeroplane. Its
speed compares favorably with the latest
type of Zeppelin. Its main drawback is the
resistance to the air caused by the suspen-
sion ropes. The air is broken up in such a
manner by the ropes that it is converted
into a brake, seriously diminishing speed.
The Zeppelin’s sole superiority, which en-
ables it, despite its many defects, to show
such a turn for speed, lies in the fact that
its cars are not suspended, but built in,
reducing air-resistance to a remarkable
degree. However, a Spanish engineer has
invented the Astra-Torres dirigible, which
is an improvement upon the German air-
ships. Tts speed is remarkable. A small
Astra-Torres is performing valuable ser-
vices for the British in France; Russia has
adopted the type; and France has built some
Astra-Torres monsters whose speed, over GO
miles an hour, would enable them to over-
take the fastest Zeppelin. The Astra-Torres
is non-rigid, and is said to be scientifically
perfect and extremely simple. Owing to its
peculiar construction, air-resistance is
diminished to an extraordinary degree. And
it may be said that France is now in a posi-
tion to contest every step that Germany may
make in this field.
Talbot furnishes full information about
the use of aeroplanes during this war.
Methods of scouting, range-finding, and ob-
servation are fully detailed; the question of
arming aeroplanes and of the anti-aircraft
gun is lucidly discussed ; while various curi-
ous proposed methods of combating the Zep-
pelin are carefully examined. The hook was
issued before Flight-Lieutenant Warneford
proved that an aeroplane conld destroy
even a Zeppelin.
—
“Baby language shouted through a mega-
phone” is how James Stephens, author of
The Crock of Gold, describes the literature
of the United States. In an angry article in
May Century he says that American litera-
ture is written solely for the middle-aged
woman and,the boy. “Are Americans quite
as hypocritical, sentimental, greedy and fool-
ish as their writers proclaim?... .Much of
American fiction is an unconscious appeal to
the middle-aged woman. Its literature has
become brutally feminine. Instead of being
sensuous it is sensual, and often indelicately
so.” U.S. novelists have expressed sex as a
liaison; they treat sex as sexuality. “That
grease is thick on American literature, and
it wduld not be so unpleasant if it were ex-
pressed less sentimentally.. . .American writ-
ers must discover or create a vocabulary
which is not a jumble of worn-out phrases;
they must ruthlessly cut out the boyish boy
and girlish girl, and they must deport
that middle-aged woman who seems to be
their paymaster, or is it paymistress?”
In the illustration of an edition of The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments, published by
Ginn, U.S.A., Ruby Winekler, of Australia,
finds her metier. Her dainty pen-work and
original ideas make the book a treasure of
black-and-white art. Apparently the artist
is finding her way through the wilds of
American book-illustration.
The July issue of Science Progress, the
ss. quarterly for tough minds, is brightened
by Charles Mercier’s delightful attack on
Logic: and A. G- Tlmcker scientifically dis-
poses of the popular fear that the war will
result in the lowering of the stature and
other eugenic qualities of what is left of the
. combatant Taces. Ilis conclusion is that the
facts at, our disposal are too few and the lack
of our knowledge of eugenics precludes any
possibility of useful prophecy.


A.
me
’ for EVERYTHING
Anthony Horderns’
for Dixie Grass Rugs
DIXIE GRASS MATTING is sold in squares
(woven in ONE piece), also in HUGS, and in BOR-
DERED WIDTHS, by the yard. These WONDER-
FULLY EFFECTIVE Matting SQUARES and RUGS
are suitable for almost any ROOM where an artistic
yet INEXPENSIVE Floor Covering is required.
DIXIE MATTING SQUARES are made in
various DESIGNS, and can be supplied in shades of
BLUE, GREEN, BROWN or CRIMSON, to harmon-
ise with almost ANY COLOR SCHEME.
One of tiie GREATEST CHARMS of DIXIE MAT-
TING is that it will LIE PERFECTLY FLAT on the
floor WITHOUT CURLING; it is also EASILY
ROLLED up and removed ; it will NOT HOLD
DUST or DIRT ; it is COOL, CLEAN, DURABLE
AND ARTISTIC; and it is, moreover, quite INEX-
PENSIVE. It is WARM and SOFT to the tread,
NOISELESS to walk on, and NO TROUBLE to
CLEAN.
There are imitations of this Celebrated Matting,
but there is but ONE DIXIE Matting, which can
ONLY be obtained at the NEW PALACE EMPOR-
IUM.
DIXIE MATTING SQUARES
WOVEN IN ONE PIECE.
BORDERED Dixie Matting
SOLD BY THE YARD.
SUITABLE FOR HALLS. CORRIDORS,
VERANDAHS.
27 inches wide. Price per yard .... 1/ J 1
30 inches wide. Price per yard .... 2/3
36 inches wide. Price per yard .... 2/9
45 inches wide. Price per yard .... 3/0
54 inches wide. Price per yard .... 4/-
72 inches wide. Price per yard .... 5/0
DIXIE GRASS MATTING
SECOND QUALITY.
A Heavy Grass Matting of the same weave as the
Standard Quality DIXIE ; but, being made of
coarser grass, it has not the same smooth, high-class
finish. It will, however, give excellent results in
almost any room where a very inexpensive Rug is
required.
ft. in. ft. in. Price
• J 0 x 2 f > 2/9 each
® 0 x 3 0 3/11 each
,2 ® x « ® 11/6 each
0 x 8 0 17/0 each
0 x 9 0 23/6 each
WISTERIA RUGS.
WISTERIA RUGS are a superior qualitv of
the ordinary JAPANESE JUTE RUGS, and ' are
FINELY WOVEN of EXTRA HEAVY MATERIAL.
These Rugs are recommended for Halls, Dining-
rooms, or any place where a heavy, INEXPENSIVE
CARPET is required.
WISTERIA RUGS may be had in EASTERN
Designs, in RED, BLUE, GREEN, PINK or CREAM
GROUNDS,
ft. in.
3 0
5 0
6 0 x
7 0 x
9 0
9 0
10 6
12 0
OHAHA RUGS.
OHAMA HEMP RUGS are CLOSELY
WO\ E.N in ONE piece, without seam, and are strong
and durable. These Rugs will lie perfectly flat, and
will NOT curl up.
OHAMA RUGS are made in soft shades of
BROWN, BLUE and GREEN, having a. SELF-COLOR
CENTRE, with ARTISTIC Borders, in conventional
designs. A further advantage is that these Rugs
are REVERSIBLE, and have a DIFFERENT DESIGN
on the reverse side,
ft. in. ft. in
5 0x26
6 ox3o
7 ox4o
9 ox6o
12 0 x 9 0
Price
3/11 each
5/6 each
9/6 each
17/6 each
35/- each
Anthony Horderns’
for Drawing Instruments
We make a speciality of Mathematical Instruments
and Drawing Materials suitable for Technical Colleges,
Schools, Architects and Draughtsmen. Far and away
the best value in the land is assured by
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
HARLING’<T SELECTED
SETS.
No. ..7.26.— POCKET Ck§E of ;long-joint Electrum
instruments, with Pjaiii SteelrToints. The case
is lined Blue Velvet, with spring fastening and
name plate. Contents: 6in. Half Set of Com-
passes, sin. Divider, Ink Bow, Pencil Bow, Set
of 3 Spring Bows, Drawing Pen, Boxwood Pro-
tractor, Box of Leads, and Compass Key 30/-
No. 733 a MAHOGANY LOCK AND TRAY
.CASE, containing the following instruments:
: Cin, . Half Set of -Ele&trunv Compasses, Sin.
Divider, Ink .Bow, Pencil Bow, Set of 3 Spring
Bows, 2 Drawing Pgbs, Boxwood Protractor,
Boxwood Scale, Compass Kev, Box of Leads—
-37/6
No. 722 a —POCKET CASE, with name plate
and snap fastening, Velvet lined, containing the
following Electrum Instruments, with Knee
Joints: 6in. Half Set with Ink and Pencil
Points and lengthening bar, Sin. Divider, Ink
Bow, Pencil Bow, Set of 3 Spring Bows, Draw-
ing Pen, Boxwood Protractor, Boxwood Scale,
Compass Key, Box of Leads 42/6
No. 714 a — POLISHED MAHOGANY CASE,
tray velvet lined, containing the following Elee-
trum Instruments, having' Knee Joints and
Clamp Needle Points: 6in. Half Set of Com-
passes, sin. Divider, Ink Bow, Pencil Bow, 2
Drawing Pens, Compass Key, Box of Needles,
Box of Leads, Adjusting Pin for Leads, Gin.
Ivory Scale 50/-
No. 721 a CASE, Electrum Instru-
ments, having Knee Joints and Clamp Needle
Points. The case is leather covered, lined with
blue velvet, spring fastening and name plate.
Contents: 6in. Half Set of Compasses, sin. Hair
Divider, Ink Bow, Pencil Bow, Set of 3 Spring
Bows, 2 Drawing Pens, 6in. Ivory Scale, Box of
Leads, Adjusting Pin for Leads?- Box of
Needles 63/-
No. 720 a. —POCKET CASE, Electrum Instru-
ments, having Knee Joints and Nut and Bolt
Needle Points. The case has rounded corners,
and is covered with Morocco leather, lined with
blue velvet, long hinge, spring fastening and
name plate. Contents: Half Set of Compasses,
sin. Hair Divider, Ink Bow, Pencil Bow, Set
of 3 Spring Bows, 2 Drawing Pens, Pricker,
Knife Key and Bow Key, Cin. Ivory Scale, Box
of Leads, Adjusting Pin for Leads, Box of
Needles 75/6
HARLING’S
DRAWING INSTRUMENTS
TEE SQUARES. The new .Transparent Edge
Tee Square. This Tee Square is made of well-
seasoned Spanish Mahogany, and has a strip
of thin celluloid let into a saw cut made in the
edge of the blade, to which it is attached by
means of rivets passing through elongated holes
in the celluloid, which allows for shrinkage or
expansion without the blade of the square becom-
ing twisted.
32in . 8/6 each
36in TV (■)/. each
42in 10/6 each
54in 12/6 each
Pear Tree, Taper Blade, Best London make: —
32in.
36in.
42in.
2/6 each
3/- each
3/6 each
DRAWING HOARDS, Architects’ and Engin-
eers'. Made of the Finest Dry Pine procurable,
■ with Grooved Back, Mahogany Battens, Brass-
Slots ; one edge inlaid with Ebony.
32 x 23in 15/- each
42 x 29in 23/6 each
54 x 32in .. 33/6 each
POCKET CALCULATORS. The “Mechani-
cal Engineer” Pocket Calculator for solving
arithmetical problems, watch shape, large size,
3jm. diameter, with instructions 12/6 each
THE “J.R.R.” PATENT ADJUSTABLE
CURVE RULER, for Architects, Engineers,
Shipbuilders, Designers and Draughtsmen gener-
ally- 10/6 each
DRAWING PAPERS.
Michallet’s Hand-made
Charcoal Paper 24 xl9 -/IJ4 1/3
Flat Drawing Cart-
ridge Paper—
Imperial .... 30 x 22 /I -/ll
Anthony Horderns’
Harvest for Poultrymcn
NOW that the MARKETS for POULTRY FOODS
are EASIER, BREEDERS are showing MARKED
ACTIVITY, and a STEADY DEMAND for ALL
SORTS OF POULTRY REQUISITES has set in.
POULTRY FOR PROFIT.
STATISTICS published by the DEPARTMENT OF
AGRICULTURE go to SHOW that there is MONEY
to be made by the POULTRY-BREEDER. Indeed,
successful POULTRY MEN have LONG SINCE recog-
nised that the LAYING HEN is the PAYING HEN.
The PRACTICAL MAN —the man who makes
poultry pay—puts in a PLANT that will REAR
STRONG, HEALTHY CHICKS —incubators that have
PROVED their merit —the NEWEST ideas in
BROODERS, and the most EFFICIENT BONE
CUTTERS and Grinding MILLS, and the wise man
who keeps a check on his expenditure saves money
by buying POULTRY REQUISITES through the
AGENCY or ANTHONY HORDERNS' FAMOUS LOW
PRICES.
Cyphers Incubators.
, The CYPHERS NON-MOISTURE INCU-
BATORS are guaranteed by the makers to be self-
ventilating, self-regulating, to operate with less oil
and at less expense than many other makes, and to
produce larger and stronger chicks. The Cyphers is
simple and easy to operate.
Number .... 0 1 2 3
Approx, capacity
(Eggs) ..CO 140 240 390
Price £7 £lO/15/- £l4/5/- £l7
New Buffalo Incubators.
In the construction of the NEW BUFFALO
INCUBATORS (designed and manufactured by
CHARLES A. CYPHERS) little wood is used. The
easing is of galvanised iron, and can never rust. It
is lined with fibre board, which eliminates any loss
of heat by radiation. The walls are double, the
space between the inner and outer cases being well
packed. This makes an incubator as" substantial and
well insulated as it is possible to manufacture. The
front is made of hardwood, finished in the natural
grain. In addition to a glass door it has an outer
hardwood panelled door to darken the hatching
chamber and to preserve the heat.
The NEW BUFFALO is a non-moisture incu-
bator. The pure air is heated in a three-compart-
ment heater, and evenly diffused through porous
diaphragms into the hatching chamber and bottom
ease, assuring perfect ventilation and heating.
Poultry-breeders are invited to inspect the NEW
BUFFALO. It possesses many points which stand
tor efficiency, simplicity, durability and accurate
heat regulation.
THE NEW BUFFALO INCUBATOR.
Designed and Manufactured by Charles A. Cyphers.
Number 0 12 3
Approx, capa-
city (Eggs) GO 120 240 360
Price £4/12/6 £5/17/6 £7/15/- £9/15/-
Brooders.
Indoor Brooder, 50 Chick Capacity, 17/6.
Outdoor Brooder, 50 Chick Capacity, 25/-
Raised Run, to suit above, 12/6 extra.
Prairie State Pattern, Indoor Brooder, so
Chick, 25/-; ioo, 35/-; Outdoor, 100
Chicks, 50/-
“Peep o’ Day,” ioo Chicks, £3/10/-
Buffalo Outdoor, ioo Chicks, £6.
Covered Runs for any of the above, from 23/6.
The Buffalo Handy Hiver, self-contained,
ready for use, £3/10/-
Green Bone Cutters have made a firm and lasting
(dace for themselves in the yards of leading practical
poultrymen. The successful poultrvman who does
not have a Bone Cutter is an exception. A Green
Bone Cutter will enable you to so feed your hens that
they will join the ranks of the layers, and it will be
odds on that you’ll have plenty of eggs.
Green Bone Cutters.
MANN’S GREEN BONE CUTTERS. No. 5,
48/6, 63/6
HUMPHREY’S No. 1 GREEN BONE
CUTTER, hand-power, weight 1201 b., is re-
commended for flocks of 18 to 200 hens. It has
a large open hopper, ready for large bones at
any time, and is powerfully backgeared—
£4/12/6
HUMPHREY’S No. 6 GREEN BONE
CUTTER, for power; capacity, 1000 to 1500
hens, weight 1741 b. The Cutter-head is 101 in.
in diameter, carrying four heavy corrugated and
oil-tempered cutters, and the bearings are bushed
with bronze £7
HUMPHREY’S No. 3 GREEN BONE
CUTTER, for direct power, capacity un-
limited, weight 2401 b. Will cut 47flb. of bone
in four and three-quarter minutes, and is recom-
mended for the use of butchers and poultry
raisers £ll/2/6
WILSON’S GEM CLOVER CUTTER, for
hand use, cuts green or dry feed. All iron and
steel construction.
With Short Legs (weight 501 b.).... 60/-
With Long Legs (weight 601 b).... 65/-
THORPE’S CHICK FOOD, in 6(1. and 1/-
packets; 281 b., 5/3; 561 b., 10/-
EGGLO, 6(1. and 1/- bag; 141 b., 2/-; 281 b.,
4/-; 561 b., 7/9.
Write for Illustrated Price List Eggs and Honey,
Post Free on request.
Anthony Horderns’
for Spring Cleaners
Bv the very VOLUME of business and the CON-
SISTENT SUPPORT extended bv PATRONS, we are
at the Top of the TREE in the ranks as FAMILY
DRAPERS, easily FIRST in the FIELD as COM-
PLETE HOUSE FURNISHERS, and FIRM FAV-
ORITES with MASTER BUILDERS and PROPERTY
OWNERS who have proved from TIME to TIME that
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
SAVE THEM SOVS.
SPRINGTIME is CLEANING TIME, a process
which FREQUENTLY calls for PAINT and WALL-
PAPER. Here are some SELECTIONS from the
PAINT DEPT., which will make this YEAR’S
SPRING-CLEANING quite INEXPENSIVE.
Decorative Wall Papers.
WALL PAPERS. Our Stock of Wall Papers
comprises an endless variety of high-class artistic
hand and machine-printed decorations, such as
Satin Stripes, Figured Satins, Tapestry Effects,
Burlap Pebbles, Panelling and Crown Decorations,
Plain and Figured Oatmeals, Plain and Figured
Ingrains, hand and machine-printed Friezes, etc.
Patterns sent Post Free anywhere.
WALL PAPER FRIEZES. The Selection
at the New Palace Emporium of these goods em-
braces the productions of makers of repute, and
are manufactured to match all Wall Papers sold by
us. They can be supplied in width l(Uin. and
21in., at prices according to width and design:-
Prices range from 4d. to 2/3 per yard.
NARROW RORDERS for Wall Papers can be
supplied in the following widths:—
3in„ 9(1.; 4in., 1/.; sin., 4/6; Vin., 2/-
doz. yards. \
LION OM UR, a most suitable material- for wall
and ceiling decoration, in high relief, and 'df light
texture. It adapts itself to any scheme of decora-
tion. Sold in rolls of 12yds. long by 21in. wide.
Samples of Lignonmr, and instructions for hang-
ing, forwarded on application.
Prices range from 6/- per roll.
Jap=a=lac Varnish Stain.
JAP-A-LAC is a wonderful renovator of old furni-
ture, as it covers up all marks, scratches and dis-
figurements, producing a brilliant and beautiful
finish, and can be successfully applied, even by an
inexperienced person. It is not affected by hot
or cold water nor by soap and water, and does not.
mark white when used on floors.
Sold in the following colors: Walnut, Oak,
Mahogany, Satinwood, Cherry and Green.
1-quart tins. 1-pint tins. 1-pint tins.
, 4/- 2/3 ... ' 1/4
Color cards free on application.
Docker’s Varnish Stains.
DOCKER’S VARNISH STAINS are for the
housewife who has nice things and wishes to keep
them so. The stains can be applied as a finish 1o
Furniture, Floors, Picture Frames, and any article
of woodwork. Supplied in Light Oak, Dark Oak,
Walnut, Mahogany, Cedar, and Rosewood. Ready
■ for-use and‘easily applied.
1-pint tins, -/ 9 ; pint tins, 1/4; quart tins, 2/5
The Universal Paint.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL
PAINT is prepared to meet the demand for a
Mixed Paint ready for use, and one that is inex-
pensive, yet wears well. The UNIVERSAL PAINT
is put up in many shades, and the large range of
colors affords ample scope for decorative work.
lib. 21b. 41b. 71b. 141 b. 281 b. tins.
. -/5 -/9 1/4 2/4 4/4 8/4
Sapolin Stove Enamel.
SAPOLIN STOVE PIPE ENAMEL assures
a rich permanent gloss black finish for all kinds of
metal work. It prevents rust, and stands a high
temperature. Used everywhere, in home, office,
store or factory—Size, No. 15, 8(1.; No. 25, 1/1.
Glidden’s Liquid Cement
(COATING.)
FOR OUTDOORS OR INDOORS.
This coating for Cement, Concrete, Stuceo, Brick
and Stone Surfaces is a modified cement, incorporated
with or carried in suspension by a durable, water-
resisting vehicle. Its functions are to damp-proof
and uniform the surface color of Cement, Concrete,
Stuceo, Brick and Stone, without destroying the sur-
face texture, producing a pleasant decorative effect.
In the following shades: Pale Cream, Mid Stone,
Dark Brick, Dark Grey, Light Stone, Brown, Light
Grey, Light Brick, Buff.
1-gallon tin. -J,-gallon. J-gallon
12/6 6/9 3/9
Shade Card Free on application.
Calzic, the Cooler.
CALZIC is. a most efficient Roof Cooling Paint.
It is Snow White in color, and will not wash off;
will not rust the iron, but protects it from corrosion,
and reduces the temperature by 25 to 30 degrees. A
square yards, two coats. In tins, 501 b., 10/-•
251 b., 5/3; 12Jib., 2/9 per tin.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace E,m-pori\zm,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


- m
WINCHESTER
20, 16 AND 12 GAUGE
Lightweight Ha mmeihess
Repeating Shotguns
The Winchester Model 1912 is the strongest, safest and
most perfect repeating shotgun ever made. In either of the
three gauges in which it is made, it is lighter, better
balanced and more correctly proportioned than any other
repeater. Its Nickel steel construction, solid breech,
and its cross-bolt trigger lock make it strong and safe.
This gun has a smooth and easy action, a simple
take-down system, and its shooting qualities are not
excelled by the highest priced double guns. The 20
gauge weighs about 5 3 /i pounds, the 16 gauge about
6 pounds, and the 12 gauge about 7% pounds.
If in the market for a shotgun, don’t fail to
kook Over a Winchester
Model 1912 at Your Dealer’s
Fortify yourself
with Bovril
IT MUST BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
y
Coeur de Lion
understood
perfectly
He knew that courage and cheer-
fulness depended on good
digestion and perfect elimination.
He didn’t have Cockle’s
Pills. But he managed
as well as he could
without them. All the
brave hearts, all the bright
and cheery and successful
men and women of to-day,
know what Richard Cceur
de Lion knew. Human
nature, human digestion
and elimination, have not
changed in the least. But
now, instead of the violent
remedies that Richard
took, we know that the
best possible way is to
give nature the gentle
help she needs, by taking
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond St., London, Eng.
The Booty-Croaker
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene,
ER THAN All.
m
m
m
at,ROTATE AGErtl
Buzacott 8 Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye 8 Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
! . Bartram 8 Son [*£
jourke St., Melbourne.
Vcrks : 269 Toorak Road,
Melbourne.
Ask for
at the
Use Horlick’s Malted Milk —
the invigorating Food-Drink
in cases of Mental Exhaus-
tion, impaired digestion, in
fact all nerve troubles.
HORLICKiS
HO RUCKS
MALTEDHiIk
>fess:s'
Horlick’s
Soda Fountain.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps,
Write Hutchinson & Co., 26,
Jamieson Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
MALTED
MILK
Dinneford’sl
Magnesia J
Tn
IMPOKTAttI
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S"
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
The Nerve Medicine
for
Professional People
is
CLEMENTS
TONIC
There are certain classes of pro-
fessional duties that worry the nerves
because of the strain upon them,
dental work particularly. This testi-
mony to Clements Tonic has been re-
ceived from Miss M. Griffith, Mar-
rickville Road, who has for a number
of years been associated with profes-
sional dental surgeons as assistant,
and her opinion is, in consequence, of
a valuable nature. She writes,
12/3/’l5
“Owing to the trying professional nature of my duties in dental
surgery, I found myself at times very much run down and nervous.
Although never in real bad health, yet I had need of a good medicine, and
I found in Clements Tonic a splendid ‘weak-nerve remedy’ and promoter
of appetite.
“Whenever I need it I use it, and always find the greatest benefit
from its use.
“You may use this testimonial as you wish.”
“(Signed) MISS M. GRIFFITH.”
Never be without this medicine if you are run-down or have Weak Nerves,
Bad Digestion, I’oor Appetite, or Constipation. It tones up the human system
rapidly.
In cases where the nerves are shattered through exhaustive business studies,
fever, influenza, wasting illness or, brain fag, this medicine is beneficial in*
results in regenerating nerve power. It is declared to be rich in those health-
creating properties that ensure bodily health and strength.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere. Get it to=day and get well.


Kidney Trouble
A Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
lic. r l he proper one to take is contained
m De YV itt s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s—all chem-
ists sell them—and you will, within a very
*l2
■
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
Blood like little bits of broken g'lass.
fejv hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy. Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
. To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish, color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidnevs and the bladder. A
wonderful .pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from-whether Asthma, Hay
Fever. Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough —you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled-
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists a?id Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office. Svdnev.
TOBACCO KILLS!
P
fCH
0
’JZ
Face to Face with Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette ITnbits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for 30
years, hut since talzinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. Q,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. {3.
M
BONN!
IRISH
**>-
COUCHS,
bronchitis mr
Of THE THOU,
1
\\\>
V-s\VSNvV
rr<
For Business Men
Keep a bottle of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss ’’
on your office desk, or on the mantelpiece at
.home. It will quickly rid you of an annoying
COUGH or COLD, and relieve BRON-
CHITIS or INFLUENZA. Take none
but —
fcsZ££ BONNINGTON’S
£1
~*mn
ii
A WOMAN'S BIRTHRIGHT !
A CORRECTLY
B U ST!
Every woman can have a perfect figure. A deficiency in bust is
readily corrected by Du. Falmekb’s Flush-Food treatment The best
evidence is that of those who have used it. It is never-failing. See
what MRS, K. WIN GROVE, of Gympie, Queensland, a skilled nurse,
says of its efficacy:— ;
“After leaving off your treatment I waited several months
to see if the results were permanent before writing von, and
I now wish to say that I think the treatment is absolutely
marvellous. Before adopting it 1 was only skin and bones,
but now I am one of the best walking advertisements you
could have. It did all you claimed for it and really more
and the results were startlingly ahead of my fondest expec-
tations. My health and appearance have improved most
satisfactorily, and I now thank you for urging me to have
the treatment.’’
Wo haven’t room to give you more letters here like this one, but we will send vou scores of
them upon request. We possess thousands of grateful testimonials.
Many cases gain as much as 51b. a week, and improvements up to as much as ten inches
have been made in the bust measurements. Guarantee given in every case.
• Put II P j n tablet form, it is pleasant to take, and palatable. It leaves no unpleasant after-
effects, and the results are permanent and lasting. It can be taken secretly.
Free Illustrated Book ! Free Trial Sample !
We want you to know just what FLESH-FOOD is, and will gladly give vou a free samrile
end a -d. stamp, and let us forward a free trial sample and our instructive book on attenua-
Don, Lovely Women.’ No matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post All
correspondence is confidential and private, and all our literature is sent closelv covered and free
from observation. Write at once. You are placed under no obligation whatever to buv because
you send for a sample. Call if convenient. Lady attendant. Hours: 10 to 4.30. ‘ [lB2l*
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD GO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
uschenSalt;
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FGR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia!
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
6S, Deansgate Arcade. Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOVSVERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring, 1915.
Last year we watched the buds unfurl and
break,
A rosy foam on the brown orchard trees.
Last year the breath of wattle on the breeze
Stirred in the heart Spring’s immemorial
ache.
A stranger tocsin dins the earth awake,
Across this season's hushed’ and blossoming
peace,
A here the blind Horror, crimsoned to the
knees,
Stalks, mad with thirst that onlv blood may
slake.
Now in my garden, rich with scent and
bloom
A voice, persistent, mutters in my ear:
"For every bud that blows a man lies
dead!"....
Then the bee’s drone takes on a sound of
doom,
And all the horizon’s blue of yester-year
Is lost in one dim, hideous haze of red !
TASMANIA.
HELEN POWER.
Tale of a Termagant.
I met a man who wavered in the breeze—
So slight a breeze for such a lot of wavering.
His eye beamed milkily. He yearned to
please.
His voice with sensibility was quavering.
lie said : “Ole fell’r, woe intermerable
’As schkumter me an’ shent me almosht
dotty.
My heart ish broke. My cupper grief ish full.
I’ve har’ a rnosh’ upshettin’ time with Tottie.
‘‘When firsh’ I married h-er, mosli’ sorremly
She swore she’d lovanonner an' o-bey me ;
But late lars’ night she threw a chair at me.
An’ chased me wi’ the wozzisname to slay
me.
“And all for wha’sh? Wha’ had I done?
I’d not ’
Shpoke one unkinely jy or’ to h-er. I wurr’ent.
She said: ‘You promise norrer touch a pot
O’ beer again. Thash strai’.’ O’ course I
eurr’ent.
“I am a thirshy pershon. Sho wus Dad
An’ Gra-an’farrer, ash I ’ave heard, before
me.
Mhy shour’ I die of thirsh’ ’cause of a fad
Of my zhear ‘ wife who promish’d to adore
me?
“These women are not reasorable. Maybe
Bars’ ni’ I wazzer lirrle warm an’ merry.
But why shou’r’ I not try to climb er tree
When shrollin’ home —hie —homewar’s from
the ferry?
“I’d called for her. I said I’d call fo’ h-er.
I called at Brown’s with Phelan and
McCarty.
Why shou’ she raise the devil of a stir
Because I shang to liven up th’ party?
“But later on she threw tha’ chair at me
An’ ashked why slm’r’ I always tliush dish-
graysh’ ’er.
I said I dirrent—rnever di’; but she
Brandished the wozzisname. I wurr’ent
faysh ’er
“To-day. I wurr’ent do it. I’m too prou’
To plea’ for deshen’ treatmen’ fr'm the
missis;
I wurr’ent shpeak unkinely to a cow.
It is a hor—hie —sishuation, this is !
“I know I've gorrer remer.v, of course.
There'sh a way out f'r me if I won’ take it.
But my—hie—oluirsh does not a p prove
divorce.
I've got relish’n lef’. I’ll no' forshake it!’’
He wavered visibly, exuding woe,
He drew deep breaths in sudden gulps and
dashes.
All desolate and still he was. and oh !
His tears fell on the asphalt in big splashes.
I said a drink perhaps would do him good.
Ilis loose, uncanny smile grew much uncan-
nier
As simply ho assured me that it would.
We drank. I left him singing “Rule Britan-
nia !”
N.S.W.
SELWYN RIDER.
Fidelity.
Once I took Pain to bed (and how she
clings !).
Money and Love I found were wanton
things;
Pain is a constant jade, I must confess,
Shaming all others with her faithfulness !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Prom a Balcony.
From my small balcony I used to watch
The hyaeinthine hills ; how long ago,
A space of time-—or was it ever so?
Here, far away, I see the alien hills,
Strange hills, capped with strange shrines
arid trees
And blown upon by the unscented breeze.
And, near, I see quaint, brown-limbed work-
ers bend
Above their little fields of shaking grain.
(When shall I see my own far hills again !)
And fireflies in the glimmering twilight move
lane little wandering spirits, timidly;
And thin weird songs come floating up to
me.
W hich have I dreamed—the wind-swept hills
of home,
The starlit spaces and the open sea,
Or this old land of shrine and stunted tree?
JAPAN.
G. J.


‘w YXX'
mm r
4
>-%
PLAY SHOES, Rubber Soled.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL SPORTING SHOE,
For all Games and Pastimes.
MEN’S BOYS’ WOMEN’S MISSF.S YOUTHS’ CHILDS’
6/6 6 /- 6/- 5/6 5/6 5/-
MADL IN AUSTRALIA. Obtainable from
SAND SHOES.
White canvas uppers. Black moulded rubber soles.
MEN’S BOYS’ WOMEN’S MISSES YOUTHS’ CHILDS’
3/3 3/3 3/3 3.A 3/- 2/9
all Shoe Stores. MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
fg
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
69 Gawler Place, Adelaide
Also Perth and Brisbane.
TOOTH &l CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price. 21s.
"// *
wi iiirtinm
* nn iiii im tr
Mi (Hi lIH lit
li Ml iiii Hu Pr
HU 1111 igpujj
II mi Mikmii i
I iiii mi it&uiM
111 III!
fllll till W 1111*31
■Hu iiii mi nii nr
In mi mi iw uni
I mi nn iin iiniinE
',»r
11 81*
'Hr ftff tf!'
Wf<f HP *" ftf> tut MM U]
J£ U(t uu nu an um uni
fin Utt nn tin ifffffifl
V an an n« mi an <m
nn an an an an 'aim
zjttt nn jin j/aMM
SwX. tin an 1 1 1 LHmH
fa
When Picnic Pays Come
fill the lunch baskets good and full —they’ll all be hungry with plenty
of sandwiches spread with
“Rex’ Ham Pate
What would anv picnic be like without the tantalising taste of “REX”
HAM PATE spread in sandwiches of fresh white bread '
One tin will start you making dozens of delicious sandwiches won-
derful new taste surprises in every morsel.
“REX” lIAM PATE is the choicest cooked “REX” HAM, containing
all the delicious ham savor, ground line, and mixed with the famous
“REX” dressing of mild, aromatic spices.
r Sold by all Grocers in handy-sized tins. Ask for “REX” HAM
PATE—take no proffered.substitute.
Other "REX” Canned Delicacies include
“Ilex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Ilex” Pork Brawn, 111), tins.
“Hex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans., 111 b. tins.
“Ilex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, 11b. tins.
“Rex” Punch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, 111*, tins.
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, in decorated tins, an
British .Manufacture.
“Hex” Brand Bard, i'or cooking purposes, in
d Opal Porcelain Jars
lib. prints.
of
FOGGITT, JONES (a CO. LTD.
Curers of "Sex” Hams S Bacon; Packers of "Rex” Pore Food Products.
<
For linoleums
and furniture
Staircase banisters, wood floors, suit cases, tan
boots and all kinds of leather goods there is
nothing to equal Shi-noleum. It shines best and
quickest, lasts longest and is most economical.
Prove how good it is. Never accept a substitute.
Simple free on request- The Paget Manufacturing Co. Ltd-,
109 Regent Street. Sydney.
T
H
u
BLACK SQUABt
Greenock Distillery
Wi#
THORNES WHISKY
Incomparable’’
* ....urinTlimTr


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 36.—N0. 1857.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1915.
Price G».
SOMEWHERE IN RUSSIA.
The Bear that fights and runs away
Will raise blue H—1 some other day.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 <ls. 6il. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused. ~
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or N ewspaper Clippings. All communications
ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B,C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie' Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealtht Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2kd.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
ffif&aHeim,.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1915.
A FORGOTTEN VIRTUE.
A century ago England was solid against
the “ furriner.” The Napoleonic cam-
paigns were just ended. For 22 years the
nation had been struggling for the command
of the seas. During much of that time Eng-
land had quite as much • reason to fear
invasion as it has now. For 10 years good
British blood was poured out on the Euro-
pean Continent from Flanders to the Penin-
sula. Wellington found the Prussians
with whom he was associated to be. a “mur-
derous gang of criminals” ; the army’s opinion
of the Spaniards and other southern Euro-
peans amongst whom it fought was low;
and no patriotic Briton of the period could
express himself with enough force concern-
ing the qualities of the French. Heavy taxa-
tion ; big casualty lists; the loss of such
idols of the nation as Nelson ; rage against
the countries responsible for these calamities ;
contempt at their proven inability to destroy
or even muzzle the British bulldog—the
effect of all these things was to produce
what we have been accustomed to call “in-
sular prejudice.” For 30 years England was
proud of its detestation of the foreigner.
It ruled the latter right out. When William
IV. died the nation had little use for the
young Queen who followed him, because she
was suspect of foreign ways, and when she
took a German Consort the lack of enthusi
asm for the Boyal Family grew deeper than
ever. Behind an impassable tariff wall Bir-
mingham, Manchester. Bolton and othei'
manufacturing towns doubled and trebled
themselves, and the United Kingdom grew
swiftly in wealth and strength.
* * . * *
In the ’3o’s there came to the fore a
visionary with a persuasive tongue and
pen, who aspired to eliminate the spirit
which had filled the British race for so long.
Cobden preached, with astonishing skill,
Freetrade, peace and universal brotherhood.
Russia was the enemy of the moment. He
claimed that Russia would be so impressed
by disarmament on the part of Britain that
its Government would yield to British wishes
in regard to Turkey. He invented inter-
national arbitration, and organised a num-
ber of peace congresses. He managed, as he
put it. “to overturn England’s Protection
policy.” He then took himself and his
theories to the Continent. Germany, France,
Russia and Italy all listened to him with
courtesy—and promptly raised their tariffs
higher than ever. One of the reasons why
Germany, an upstart empire of semi-bar-
baric provinces, has been able to pit its might
against Britain in addition to the enemies
which it expected to meet, is to be found in
.the scorn which it always has displayed for
Freetrade and anti-militarism. The growth
of CoBDEN-ism produced a slump in the
“cursed foreigner” business. Superior people
grew ashamed of the adjective “insular.”
The mania to import things increased by
leaps and bounds. By the time Euward
VII. came to the throne it was beginning
to be quite hard to find anything in Eng-
land that didn’t belong by rights to some
other country. The high finance of the
nation was in the hands of foreign Jews.
Teutonic. Hebrews, who had come to London
via the mines at Kimberley, occupied the
biggest Park Lane palaces and owned the
most costly racehorses. Alien Yids from
every Ghetto in Eastern Europe, swarmed
between Liverpool-street station and the
Docks, beating the poorer sort of British
worker wherever they met him. Soho filled
up with anarchists. At one time, to the
despair of several foreign kingdoms, it was
a recognised sanctuary for the political
assassins of Europe. German waiters;
French food; Yankee plays, producers and
players; manufactured articles from every
conceivable foreign country on earth —these
together with their corollaries, a falling
birth-rate and a serious unemployment
problem, have been increasingly the charac-
teristics of the United Kingdom during the
last 15 years or so.
* * * *
It is questionable if there, is, or ever was,
anything of national value in all this proud
cosmopolitanism. It made things more
luxurious for a handful of rich Britishers
(naturalised and otherwise) ; but it made
the lot of millions of indigent Britons far
harder. When the great war started, the
innumerable spies which such a system gives
birth to caused the Defence authorities stren-
uous days and nights; and undoubtedly they
cost the nation many valuable lives. Here
in Australia we have never properly lost the
insular spirit. With 96.99 of the population
of British origin the Commonwealth can
claim to be more British, as regards race,
than the United Kingdom. And it has acted
accordingly. Its alien-exclusion legislation
went through without a murmur from the
quarters that mattered. The yarns with
which Liberals of the old school tried later
to discredit this legislation—the “Hatters”
invention and the “Petriana” fabrication- —
were treated in a jesting spirit by the public.
An outcome of it all was that when the great
war hit us we were at least cohesive. W> e
had not an army of Teuton servitors to deal
with. Our stock of anarchists was small.
We all spoke the same language, and held the
same opinion in regard to the urgent neces-
sity of outing the common foe, no matter
what the cost. It seems to be established
that the small amount of trouble that did
arise was the work of resident Germans.
The lesson of all of which is that there are
valuable points about the despised old “fail-
ing” of insularity. It was not so much a
manifestation of ignorance and the narrow
provincial outlook as a wise instinct. And
instinct, which may be termed the accumu-
lated common-sense of innumerable fore-
bears, is not a bad light to follow.
* * * *
The Bulletin doesn’t suggest the per-
secution of inoffensive Germans who, to
their misfortune and ours, happen to be in
the Commonwealth during the currency of
the war. But it does hold that when the
great trouble is ended neither Germans,
Austrians nor any other foreigners shall
be unduly encouraged to settle here. In
Alsass if one German and 10 Frenchmen
went after a Government job the billet
would be a certainty for the Teuton. In
Bohemia a native of the country would have
no chance avainst a Viennese. In. Aus-
tralia, while the bulk of the population is
almost as exclusive in its mental attitude
towards foreigners as England was a cen-
tury ago, certain officials and business firms
persistently feature the cosmopolitan, touch.
A chemist named Brown may be just as
good, after all, as one whose father was
called Erbiiardt or Rosenfeldt ; and a
Melbourne musician named Smith might be
fully as competent as a Belgian one called
Verbrugghen. The agony of the. war will
have its compensations if one of its effects
is to remove the 60-year-old. CoBDEN.-born
superstition about the essential superiority
of the foreigner. The foreigner who comes
to Australia in future should understand
that he comes on sufferance. If he forges
ahead well and good ; but he ought not to
be given a fraction of an opportunity to do
it at the expense of the Australian or Brit-
ish product. Fifty years of the cold, sus-
picious exclusiveness.-both social and fiscal,
which Britain displayed at the beginning
of last century would go towards the making
of this young nation.
“HELPING THE ENEMY TO FORGE
GUNS.”
Numbers of Australians —mostly foreign-
traders —have been marvelling publicly for
months past at the grip which Germany
had on the business of the Commonwealth
when the war began. In hundreds of
cases the tragedy is self-evident; any refer-
ence book proves it. The Sydney Tele-
graph, which has been in favor of unlimited
foreign imports for as long as anyone can
remember, arose from a study of its Knibbs
last week, and said in a pained manner:
For years money has been sent out of this country
to Germany and Austria for commodities that can
without any question be manufactured here.
And it proceeded to reckon up about six
million pounds’ worth of German goods
that had come in during 1913 and to quote
the list in support of its statement. At a
public meeting in the Wentworth (N.S.W.)
electorate, which is one of the most anti-
Protectionist in the Commonwealth, W. H.
Kelly, the local member, and C. W. Oakes,
who used to be an M.L.A. in the district,
referred bitterly to this state of _ affairs.
They spoke of the good old business of
importing—at any rate, so far as it con-
cerned Germany—as though it were a viper.
W. H. Kelly remarked, amid cheers—and
0. W. Oakes heartily agreed with him
that as the outcome of indiscriminate in-
denting “we might be helping the enemy
to forge gun§ to be used against ourselves.
In saying which the new converts to
the perils of Freetrade spoke more truly
perhaps than they knew themselves.
Here are some unchallengeable figures
showing the way in which the State of N. 8.
Wales itself, as distinguished from private
individuals, has done its bit to boost not
merely the mills and breweries of Germany,
but the mighty institution whose cannons
are at this moment mowing down our
fellow-countrymen. In 1912 the N.S.n.
Railway Department bought 40 engine axles
from the Steel Co. of Scotland and 80 from
the German Krupp’s, the respective prices
(duty paid and delivered in Sydney) show-
ing a preference to the German of £1 1-s.
and £1 9s. 9d. each over the British maker.
In a further purchase of engine axles two
orders were given, again to the Steel Od.
of Scotland and to Krupp’s. The price
paid to the Scotch firm averaged £7 125.;
the German concern got £9 Bs. 3d.= 24 per
cent. more. The total quantity ol these
axles ordered amounted to £5032, divided as
follows
Steel Co. .. •• £3660 = 72.53
Krupp’s .. •• 1372 = 27.47
£5032 = 100%
Orders for another lot of axles to the value
of £27,137 were placed with various foreign
firms. Krupp’s share amounted to £5208,
or 20 per cent, of the whole. In a later
deal £30,952 was sent abroad for axles,
Krupp’s getting £5268, or 17 per cent, of
the total. Practically the whole of the
Railway Department’s foreign supply of
steel biooms was got from Krupp’s ; that
is to say £1650 worth out of a total of
£2004 worth ordered from abroad within a
given period.
It would be easy to amplify this list. It
is significant of what was going on all over
Australia up to this time last year. In
those days, and for many years preceding
them, anyone who drew attention to such
facts and argued that they represented a
national danger, that they amounted, as
W. 11. Kelly, Freetrader, put it last week,
to “helping the enemy to forge guns to be
used against ourselves,” was regarded by
the CoBDEN-ite crowd as some weird, unthink-
ing animal. This section did not believe
in a tariff as a means of building, up indus-
tries in Australia. Their idea of the more
scientific and economic way was to raise the
money in London and buy the needed goods
in Germany. The same disastrous old gang
still cling, deep down in the elemental parts
of them, to the theories that have assisted
to make Germany the powerful enemy that it
is. They do not call for a tariff to make
Australia great; they. only plead for the
institution of an “Anti-German League” to
make Germany small. After a mountain
of fustian and platitude had been heaped up
the other night, this was the small field
animal which was finally brought forth —
that all present should pledge themselves
to abstain from buying German goods for
five years, or some such period! It is
about the most dirt-cheap way of being
patriotic on record. The war, so far as
the British Empire is concerned, has hardly
begun. While it lasts anyone convicted of
dealing in German goods Will be criminally
liable. After it is over the feeling against
the assassin of the world is likely to be so
vehement that sellers of German products
will have to hawk them under an alias.
An anti-German league has about as much
point so far as the coming decade is con-
cerned in these circumstances as a league
to prevent people from boiling themselves
to death.
*- * * *
What really is needed is a pro-Australian
League, an institution which shall be con-
cerned to push on the fortunes of the .Com-
monwealth, in a level-headed and business-
like spirit, and without the intervention, of
any milk-and-water imitations of the idi- -
otic “strafe” business that has made a laugh-,
ing stock of Potsdam. There is nothing
material to be gained by frothy anti-Ger-
manism, though it makes a pleasing diver-
sion when conversation languishes in bars
and such-like resorts. Germany happens to
be the Empire’s enemy to-day; a little
while ago, as historians measure time, Ger-
mans were fighting side by side with Eng-
lishmen. Russia is our friend now ; on many
occasions in the past half-century the Czar’s
country was regarded by Britishers as a
menace. Seventeen years ago we were ready
to fight France over Fashoda; to-day Brit-
ishers are dying cheerfully to save France.
Treaties and alliances perish. Trade only re-
mains. And it is trade, business, factories,
commercial expansion that a country needs
if it is not to go down in the rush for the
world’s spoil. Australia can do good service
to the British Empire, and give loyal help
to the Empire’s allies, without wasting use-
ful energy on superfluities like anti-Ger-
man leagues; but it can’t help itself with-
out the thing which the anti-German leaguers
never, never mention —-namely, an effective
tariff. Japan is the Empire’s faithful ally.
But it is still, and legitimately so, our
trade rival. As a local foreign-trade paper
complacently put it the other day:—
Japan is ousting Germany. It is taking advantage
of the commercial embargo which the enemy coun-
tries have placed upon their own goods by their
act of war.
Hats, clothes and shirts; boots, toothbrushes
and pianos; machinery, fancygoods and fur-
niture —all these and a thousand other
articles that should be made in Australia
are pouring over our defective tariff wall
from Japan. Except that the money to pay
for these articles goes north instead of
west, and that it helps to forge guns at
Kure instead of Essen, the situation from
Australia’s point of view is the same as it
was in the beginning of 1914. There is a
crying need just now for politicians who will
cease cursing our enemies in a spectacu.,..
but profitless manner, and who will put in
the time saved helping to benefit the coun-
try which pays them their salaries, in the
drab, unsensational manner which lies near-
est to their hands.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Politician’s Incurable Ambition to
be a Kaiser.
A British constitutional writer long ago
expressed the view that one of the great
tasks before Parliament would be to curb the
rapidly-growing power of the Executive —to
make Ministers the servants of Parliament
and of the people, instead of their masters.
Book at what has been going on in Australia,
and you will find plenty of proof that he was
right. Everywhere Governments are assum-
ing to themselves the functions of Dictators.
Yet nothing can be more certain than that
along those lines there is for the democracy
nothing hut disappointment- and failure. The
disappointments already on hand are fairly
bulky; and suspicions of failure haunt more
than' one democratic Australian. Listen to
Prime Minister Fisher, during one of his
daily squabbles with Cook, laying down this
beautiful doctrine
No Government is going to accept what is practi-
cally an instruction as to how they should conduct
the war.
Of course not! Such an outrage as Parlia-
ment instructing an Executive in anything is
not to be thought of. But under these con-
ditions what is the good of Parliaments .and
Speakers and Black Rods and all the rest of
it? What are they for, apart from furnish-
ing jobs to a crowd of marionettes and‘.offi-
cials? Whatever the answer may be is of
little moment, anyhow. The main things are
that Party is a mighty fine institution for
the little coterie near the lunch basket, and a
dismal-looking arrangement for the common
herd outside ; that Parliament begins to have
no more control over the Executive than it
has over the weather; and that from the
blare and riot of a general election someone
scrambles on top, and takes charge of the
public and its purse and its soul. Notice in
this connection how Fisher is dodging the
Initiative Referendum—-a reform to which he
is pledged absolutely. That would mean in-
structions ; and no instructions for Fisher !
He knows how to run things and what’the
people want and what is best to do. So do
Cook and Holman and Jack Scaddan. So
did Denham. And Duncan Gillies and
the Victorian land and bank boomsters!
Partly a Matter of Business.
The only real argument advanced against the
conscription movement which was started
last week is that the change isn’t needed—
yet. The people and papers who say this are
the ones that always have employed the same
argument against every new proposal. If
their views had carried more weight we
should have had a couple of obsolete cruisers
in place of the Australia, Melbourne and
Sydney wherewith to face Germany’s
Pacific squadron; on the other hand, if their
struggle for the perpetuation of the volun-
tary service principle had been a shade less
successful we should have begun the war
with a large force of adult trainees—and
the path to Constantinople might now be
clear. Of course national service isn t
needed for the moment. Hardly any great
reform is, or at any rate, it oughtn’t to .be.
The people who are calling for conscription
now are envisaging the world as it is likely
to be a year or a few years hence. It is,
for one thing, a hard business proposition
with the same basis of reason at the bottom
of it as inspires a pugilist to start training
some weeks before a boxing contest, or
which causes an actor to rehearse in
order to be a first-night success. The Brit-
ish Empire will feel the need for a big army
most when the war is drawing to a close.
It. is regrettable from the point of view of
our Allies that an overwhelming British
force was not available a year ago, though
nothing of the sort was included in. the
original bargain with them; but it will be
disastrous" from our point of view if we lack
an effective army when peace terms come to
b? discussed. Just as a private individual
bargains with his cheque-book, so nations
bargain with their armed forces. No one
seriously expects to crush Germany in Ger-
many. ' That vast fighting nation couldn t
crush France 40 years ago, and it can’t even
crush Belgium now. But if Germany s
colonies are held ; if its access to the trading
centres of the world is controlled by the
countries which are now fighting with the
Allies ; if it is allowed to do business abroad
so long as its behavior is correct, and boy-
cotted by means of discriminatory tariffs the
moment it resumes the armament business
in- that event the same results will be
achieved as though Berlin were sacked. But
to succeed in such an enterprise Britain and
the overseas dominions will require to be
as strong relatively when Germany starts to
weary as Germany was when it started out
to burgle the world. It is an end that can
only be attained with any certainty by uni-
versal service, which, moreover, is the one
equitable and democratic system thus far
suggested.
+
Thimble and Pea Politics.
Party Government presented itself with an-
other framed diploma of imbecility in N. b.
.Wales last week. It was all about the early
closing of pubs this time. A month or so
ago- the Assembly, by 25 votes to. 17, threw
out a motion to take a plebiscite on the
question. Last week, by 44 to 26, it carried
a resolution affirming the desirableness ot
turning the beer off at 9 p.m. Next day
Holman announced that he would consider
the situation and decide later on what to do
about it. In his cogitations he will, no
doubt, be assisted by a contingent of the 44
who voted for the motion, and who will
prayerfully urge him to keep on thinking.
The' only thing a considerable number ot
them want to do is to save their faces. Hav-
ing voted for early closing, they have made
good with a certain section of electors ; and
if nothing follows they will not hq.ve offended
another section. A vote in Parliament can
in this way be the most dishonest thing m
t’-.e world, since the forms of Parliament
ie;.d themselves to the job of fooling the
public and facilitating the unclean tactics o
Party. In this particular case the resolu-
tion of the Assembly means nothing. It B
not a direction to the Ministry; and imle
it suits the coterie who, under the Party


system, hold Parliament in thrall, nothing
more need be heard of it. It can be ignored,
side-stepped, thrown out of the window,
strangled or submitted to any kind or mal-
treatment the Cabinet may decide upon.
Under a rational system Parliament, instead
of being the creature of a Ministry, would
be its master. ; |Clie business of an elective
Ministry would be to submit Bills to cairy
out the intention of the House, and responsi-
bility for the measure would rest on 1 arlia-
ment, not on the Ministry. As things are
now, whether the question of booze is at
issue, or the totalisator, or the Norton
Griffiths shindykit, or Ragtown, or any-
thing else, large or small, the demoralising
blight of Party falls upon it, the Legislature
is poisoned by its own breath and the con-
stituencies are cheated.
The Self-Reliance of lou Ward.
Treasures Ward, of Maoriland, puts it this
way:— ■
One of our supreme duties for the future must be
to make our people into a self-reliant and self-con-
tained nation... .There is no doubt but that facilities
offered in the past to the German manufacturer and
merchant to gain access to British markets has helped
to supply Germany with the sinews of war.
Therefore lie proposes an additional tax of
50 per cent, on goods imported from Ger-
many. Th.e stout little man who is now run-,
ning round with a key to lock up the men-
agerie after the tig.er has half-demolished the
audience has been mixed up in Maoriland
politics for 25 years. For the greater part of
that time he has been on the box S'eat or
thereabouts. Twenty years ago he was talk-
ing with Seddon and Ballance about self-
reliance. At that time —1895 —the debt was
40 millions. To day- it is 100 millions. Then
the tribute to Cohen was a million and a
half a year. Now it is three millions. And
in the last full year Ward was in office the
German's share of the Maoriland market,
under a tariff framed by Ward himself, was
£653,230. So much for Joseph’s measures
of self-r'eliance hitherto. Nor is the measure
lie now proposes any better. The additional
tax of 50 per cent., though it might do Ger-
many some harm by and bye, is not at all
likely to do Maoriland any good. It will
simply give other countries a preference over
Germany. Already the cash that once was
collared by Hans is being nabbed by Bro-
ther Fritz Jonathan, of Chicago, and
Messrs. Subiyama and Hokio, of Kobe. This
change doesn’t put a farthing into Maori-
land’s pock'et; economically the situation re-
presents the same old mess. And even if
Maoriland could manage to hang on to her
50 per cent, after peace, do the trustful
yokels thereabouts imagin'e that this would
keep out German goods? Or that they could
be kefrt out with a machine gun once our
kith and kin in London begin to get their fine
work’ in again?
. ; _ : -♦ .
Australian Kindness Takes a Hard
Knock.
To merely say that there has been a scandal
in connection with the treatment of
wounded Australian soldiers in Egypt shows
a timid choice of words. There has been
a flaming outrage, for which the National
Government must bear as large a share of
.reproach as the semi-private organisation
to which the citizens opened their purses
with such ready self-denial. Thousands
upon thousands of pounds were subscribed
to the Red Cross; almost countless bales and
bundles of requisites for men in hospitals
and the trenches were handed to the care
of this society. All over the Common-
wealth women have labored unceasingly tor
our men. With what result? Dr. Spring-
thorpe’s report, dragged to light by the
insistence of the Melbourne Age, reads
almost like an indictment for murder. Most
people knew that the administration in
Egypt was bad, but who, outside ol
official circles, had conceived that it
was so appallingly inept as it turns
out to have been —that shattered _ sol-
diers were without handkerchiefs and shirts;
that convalescent men were without clothes
and tooth brushes and tobacco; that money
subscribed for comforts was spent in con-
verting band rotundas into hospitals; that
after months of war the Red Cross had no
depot at Gallipoli, nor even one at Lemnos
Island? And the exasperating reflection
remains that it all might: have been averted,
or at any rate nipped in the bud, had it not
been for the insane policy of “Hush!” im-
posed upon the nation. Here was a matter
of purely domestic concern to the Australian
people; yet the blighting hand of the cen-
sorship fell ruthlessly upon it. An institu-
tion created by the State to prevent the
enemy learning news of military value was
used to keep the Australian citizen in ignor-
ance about his wounded brother. What was
going on in Egypt must have been known
to the Defence Department from the first.
If it wasn’t it ought to have been, and a plea
of ignorance from that quarter would be a
plea of grotesque incompetence. Yet the De-
partment was silent and commanded every-
one else to be silent. The truth was that
the official military organisation, so far as
the surgical side was concerned, was no
whit better than the Red Cross organisa-
tion. Nor is there any reason to believe
that the military or official side has improved
now in a greater degree than the non-official.
If it had, the demand for the transfer of
the administration of these funds to some
public authority could not be resisted. In
Australia there is urgent need, not to trans-
fer more work to the military, but to relieve
officers of those business responsibilities for
which they have had no training, and for
which the training they have had unfits
rather than fits them- There is no reason
to believe that the principle applies less to
Egypt than to Australia —that the policy
which seems good here should work satisfac-
torily when turned upside down in Egypt.
If the Red Cross had still only the machinery
with which it started, any change at all
might be an advantage. But something far
better may now reasonably be expected. Cer-
tainly no Australian Government could for
such a job command the services of three
men with qualifications approaching those of
Adrtan Knox, Norman Brookes and C. L.
Jones, who are either on the spot or on the
way there.
♦
The Speck’s Latest Electoral
Experiment.
One advantage possessed by a small State
like Tasmania is that experiments in voting
systems can be tried without upsetting
mountains of tradition or scrapping _ vast
quantities of expensive electoral machinery.
The Speck had a flutter with the Hare
system of voting (single transferable vote)
a decade and a half ago, applying it to the
elections for Hobart and Launceston. The
thing worked all right; but as nobody was
particularly interested in methods of elec-
tion in those days, and the results of the
new experiment were about the same as
they would have been under the old style, the
Legislature did not take the trouble to renew
the Act when its time was up. The advent
of Labor stirred Tasmanian politics a
little, and the growing strength of the Labor
party filled the Tories with such alarm that
in 1907 Premier Jacky Evans looked about
for a weapon with which to bash the
intruder. The Hare system, which was sup-
posed to secure the Parliamentary represen-
tation of small sectional interests, and by
so doing split any big organised party into
warring factions, looked a likely implement,
and Jacky seized it with both hands and
rushed it back on to the statute book. Then
he smilingly awaited the general elections. But
the event proved that the Labor policy was
more popular than mere sectional interests
such as liquor or temperance, yellow or
green, farming or factories. These subsidi-
ary sections disappeared in the struggle
between Labor and anti-Labor, with the
result that the Labor party came back with
an increase of nearly 80 per cent., and the
anticipatory smile of the mariner sagged like
a fathom of kelp flung across a bobstay.
This was in 1909. Again, in 1912, the Labor
crowd increased, this time from 12 to 14 in
a House of 30. The relative strength of
parties remained the same after the lvlo
elections. By this time it was seen that the
Hare-Clark system was faulty in several
respects; for instance, a party with a
majority of votes in the State might not
secure a majority of the seats. As the Tas.
political parties were so nearly of a size
this defect called aloud for amendment;
but while the Liberals retained office
by ever so small a margin it was not likely
that any alteration of the law would be
attempted, especially as the chief defect
of the system seemed likely to make the
Liberals a fixture for years. But by the
accident of a by-election Labor won an
extra seat —one to which it was not entitled
under the proportional representation which
the Hare system was supposed to preserve —
and by the" defection of one of the Liberals
the party was enabled to appoint the
Speaker and command a majority of one
(15 to 14) in the Assembly. The by-elec-
tion which gave Labor the 15th seat drew
attention to another grave defect of
the law. A further patent defect was shown
in the election figures for Wilmot and
Franklin: both divisions return the same
number of members, though Franklin polls
18.000 as against Wilmot’s 12.000. To cure
these and smaller troubles the Earle Gov-
ernment last session introduced a bill. The
document was referred to a Select Commit-
tee, which took evidence during the just-
passed six-weeks’ adjournment from experts
in electoral reform. The report, which will
be tabled when the House meets on Septem-
ber 15, unanimously recommends: '
The Assembly to consist of an odd number of mem-
bers (31, now 30). Speaker to have a deliberative,
instead of a casting, vote. :
Voting to be on the present system (single trans-
ferable vote), but names of candidates to be printed
on ballot papers in party lists. .
The Uniform Quota, to provide equalisation of
representation without alteration of electoral boun-
daries ; to secure that a majority of electors shall
return a majority of members by allotting seats to
the largest remainders after the full-quota seats are
filled; and to increase the interest in elections by
giving all votes a party as well as a personal value.
Casual vacancies to be filled by counting the next
available choices on the ballot-papers by which the
vacating member was elected.
Minor reforms are proposed, but discussion
will rage more or less furiously around
those quoted. One party is sure to suspect
the other of seeking an advantage ; the fact
that the suspectors cannot possibly explain
where the suspected but non-existent party-
advantage lies will not make any difference
to the vigor of the accusation. For Tas-
mania, with all her electoral experiments,
has not yet seen fit to abolish the Party sys-
tem. But it may be said that if this latest
experiment gets through Parliament with-
out serious mutilation, the Speck will pos-
sess the theoretically most perfect electoral
law on earth, even if it still maintains the
old faulty legislative and administrative
scheme.
The Nark in Our Midst.
The righteous indignation of “Tripps
Clark” :
Let me quote a few remarks made by a person
named Huie, whose job seems to be to curse every-
thing that is made in the country that affords him
an easy living. His letters seem to appear only in
country papers. Presumably he thinks, like many
others of his kidney, that the man who will put up
with being robbed for the benefit of the wharf-
-1 uni ping and city-laboring vote, is brainless enough
to be influenced by any rubbish.
Under the heading of “Our Annual Infliction” he
spits his venom upon Manufacturers’ Week in Sydney.
The mere hint of making anything in Australia ap-
pears to drive this person daft. For instance: “ ‘Man-
ufacturers' Week’ is one of the methods adopted to
appeal to prejudice and to impose on ignorance. In
fact, the parents of Protection are Cupidity and
Ignorance. Apart from them it could not exirt.”
This seems rather ungrateful of Huie, because it is
just possible that Protection keeps Huie in his
billet. At any rate, Protection has not yet bred a
Chinese coolie sired by Cupidity out of Ignorance,
reared on rice and clothed in a yard of calico, to
curse Australian industries at a salary that would
defy white competition. If it had, Huie’s howls of
rage would be explained.
Listen further to this anti-Australian: “ ‘Manu-
facturers’ Week’ should be treated with scorn by
every honest man. It is an attempt to further Ger-
man ideas in Australia. The United Kingdom has
done much for us. It gave us our freedom. It set us
a noble example, freedom of exchange. Its national
ideals are the best in the world, yet so invincible is
the ignorance of Australians that the least creditable
class of manufacturing capitalists has induced this
new country to bite the hand that fed it. The efforts
of the Chamber of Manufactures are chiefly directed
against the Mother Country.” If Huie means that
our manufacturers are attempting to further German
ideas in Australia to the extent of employing our
own people in making goods that will enable us to be
less dependent upon our enemies, he has accidentally
stated a truth. It is fairly plain, however, that his
remark is merely the small boy’s “Yah, you’re a
German!” That the “manufacturing capitalists”
bite the hand that fed them apparently means that
the patriotic importers import goods only from the
United Kingdom, and wouldn’t dream of encouraging
German ideas, even if those ideas were 20 per cent,
cheaper. If that is so, then the unpatriotic scoun-
drels who used to import all the things I can’t get
now because “they were made in Germany” ought
to be rubbing their noses against the inside of
barbed-wire entanglements.
Finally, Huie furnishes this valuable information:
“Interference by a tariff really means a reduction
qf the wages of labor in Australia.” In that case,
seeing there is no such interference in the Mother
Country, wages there ought to be gorgeous. Well, I
asked a manufacturing relative of mine in London
why he did not establish a factory in this poor
Hui E-blasted country. He laughed contemptuously
and replied: “Australian workers in our industry are
paid from £3 to £5 per week of 48 hours. Here,
my men serve a seven-years' apprenticeship, starting
at 2s. fid. per week and rising to 21s. for the last
year of their time. The best of our men —the fore-
men —get only 40s. per week of 56 hours, the rest
anything down to 18s. for porters.” He might have
added that even at that rate of pay they had to be
mighty- careful and respectful to keep their jobs. I
particularly remember one of his “porters” who used
to haul goods around London in a small spring-van
with a tilt on it. The way that ill-paid human
donkey used to dig his toes into the wood-blocks to
keep his caravan moving against a head-wind im-
pressed me with the blessings of unrestricted Free-
trade more than all the literature distributed by the
Freeraiders’ Association. Apparently, Huie and his
tribe look upon a country where men are cheaper
than horses as an ideal place to live in.
Maybe it is—for the men who don’t have to get
into the collar.
The proper, place at present for those who throw
dirt at the people who are striving to make Australia
independent of enemy imports in the future —now
that our weakness has been exposed by the war—
is with their friends whom we are entertaining at
Iloldsworthy.
♦
“E.N.M.”: If ever “a pig in a poke” was
bought it was the Federal Govern-
ment’s shipbuilding works at Cockatoo
Dock —a sink of ineptness and indus-
trial iniquity. The Brisbane —not yet
launched and not half-finished, because
all the important work has to be
done under the shears —was planned in 1909,
a good six years ago. With her sister-ships,
the Melbourne and Sydney, she was to have
cost £1,050.000 ready for sea. Last April
or May, Jensen, on being pressed, stated
in the House of Reps, that: —
(1) The Sydney actually cost £385,000, ready for
sea.
(2) The Melbourne actually cost £405,000, ready
for sea.
(3) The Brisbane had cost, so far, £475,000.
But this did not include all sorts of extra
charges, such as the £30,000 coffer-dam
(estimated, and probably exceeded), neces-
sitated by somebody’s bungling. At the
moment, the Brisbane represents £600,000
of public money, and to complete her and
send her to sea will cost another £300,000 —
perhaps more. In short, Australia, thanks
to Cockatoo Bock, will pay about as much for
the Brisbane as the estimated first cost of the
three protected cruisers authorised in 1910.
And she will be obsolete. It wasn’t the
Sydney that beat the Emden; it was really
the Brisbane —or it should have been!
The protest of The Bulletin’s old con-
tributor “Rosna” from Britain
Thomas Kangaroo, wounded in the Dardanelles
and shipped to London for repairs, is immediately
thrust within the barbed-wire entanglements of what
in Britain passes for military discipline. Even at
Harefield Park, which is nominally an Australian
hospital, War Office regulations sit on his chest,
particularly in the matter of food. For instance, he
is allowed half a pound of meat daily. Naturally
Private Kangaroo, accustomed to three meat meals
a day in his own country and the generous rations
of the Australian Expeditionary Force, resents this
treatment. He is also fed with margarine when
tons of Australian butter are being sent to Britain
as a free gift for the troops. At Harefield supplies
have actually been supplemented by the staff out. of
its own pocket. And all because Australia isn’t con-
sidered sufficiently civilised to run a hospital of her
own! The British Australasian and numero s
Australians in London have been protesting, and some
plain-spoken cables from the Commonwealth on the
subject might do good. It is incongruous that or.r
boys should be the best paid and best equipped on
earth while they are good fighting material, but
directly they are wounded should be subjected to
this inferior treatment and all sorts of silly restric-
tions. The excuse that T. Kangaroo must not have
more privileges than T. Atkins is rubbish. He has
them so long as he is unwounded, and the Com-
monwealth should insist that he be treated no less
well when he has the bad luck to be wounded.
+
Melbourne University Council got a patri-
otic pain in its conscience the other day and
decided to dispense at once with the services
of its Bechstein piano in the College of
Music. If there was one grain of humor in
a university directorate, the learned men
would have seen the absurdity of thus
straining at the German piano (which knows
nothing of politics and merely says what
the pianist demands of it) whilst swallowing
the German teachers who instil sentiments
into their pupils’ minds. But the council-
lors have no humor at all, so they asked
Prof. Laver to select a non-German brand of
instrument to replace the suddenly-abhorred
Bechstein ; and Laver, who long-time
studied music in Hamburg, chose a Stein-
way in preference to any piano under the
British flag. This was presumably an un-
conscious joke at the Council’s expense. The
Steinway ranks as an American piano
because Steinway, a Yankee of German
ancestry, started his business in New York.
For some years, however, the headquarters
of the firm’s export trade has been Hamburg,
where it runs a big factory. Last year an
English piano-trade paper quoted from an
interview with Mr. Fred Steinway, pub-
lished in The Music Trade (19/9/Y4), an
American journal. These are extracts :
Mr. Steinway reported that the Hamburg factories
of Steinway and Sons had been completely shut down
since the beginning of hostilities. The half-thousand
employees have gone to the defence of the Empire-
German Empire, if you please!—
against the Allies. .. .Instead of having our important
South American and Australian business suddenly cut
off, we have been enabled to guard against a sudden
shortage by means of our stock of pianos on hand.
Just as the war broke out we cleared a steamer from
Hamburg with a consignment for Leith, Scotland,
which ultimately reached London....We are now
making arrangements to ship our pianos—-
those German-made pianos that he spoke of
just now —
through Germany and Switzerland to the Italian
ports, and then to South America and Australia.
So the Council, apparently, sacked its
Bechstein instrument in order to take on a
Steinway shipped from Hamburg to Aus-
tralia by way of Switzerland and Italy, or it
may be "by way of Leith and London! What
a dismal joke has this University body
been thus unwittingly guilty of! It tardily-
repudiated an “enemy” piano which was;
bought long before the enemy declared him-
self, in order to replace it with an instrument
that was probably traded from the enemy
country in a tortuous German way what time
the enemy was playing and singing the
beautiful Hymn of Hate!
The case of H. P. Stacey, ship-builder, who>
served two years and eight months with the
Commonwealth Naval Department, calls for
open public inquiry. Stacey, an Australian,,
went to England and was, as The Bulletin
is informed, particularly well spoken of ac
Birkenhead. Being interested as a good
Australian in the building of the cruisers*
Melbourne and Sydney, he gave up a promis-
ing billet to come back to his native country..
He thought he was the sort of man the- young;
Naval Department was looking for. But he'
proved to be quite out in his calculations..
Some trouble arose between him and the
Defence Department while he was acting;
naval transport-officer in Brisbane. The
trouble had to do with tenders and con-
tracts ; and though the evidence is alleged!
to have acquitted Stacey, the dispute
appears to have been seized as a peg., on.
whjch to hang his dismissal for the crime of
getting work speeded up. Stacey is, however,,
not going to stay and compel the Depart-
ment to justify itself. He is returning to.
England, where ship-building is a brisk in-
dustry ; and the Admiralty wants., all the
brisk Staceys it can get. But /while that
may best suit Stacey, it doesn’t best suit
Australia. The matter ought to be cleared
up; and if an official has been sacked, as
certainly seems to have been the case, for-
trying to hurry things when things so badly
need to be hurried, then we should know who
the responsible party is. He is far too dan-
gerous a person to be left in authority.
♦
With an estimated deficit of £827,941 on
the current year unless additional taxation
is levied, and about £1,000,000 to find foi-
war pensions and charges on war loans,
Maoriland’s Cold Hash Government had to
do some hard thinking.. The results are
budget proposals to raise £2,032,000 by
increased taxation; and to get this Massey-
Ward has decided to take 15 bites at the
apple- instead of one good mouthful of land
values and a few oddments. The new taxes
include imposts on lemonade, kerosene,
incomes, bank cheques, beer, land, and tote
divs.; also the railway and postal charges
Good Old Monday Morning!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 have tried all sorts of hobbies and I’ve
played all sorts of games,
And I’ve singed my wings for ever in the
matrimonial flames ;
I have sported with my kiddies —yes, I
think I’ve done my round,
But a better game than working I have
never, never found.
So here’s how to Monday morning and the
work it always brings!
When I amble off to start it I feel sorry for
all kings,
And the tribe of leisured persons who can
never really~know
The delight of Monday morning when you
get your hat and Go!
Oh, when I was young and foolish and
Life’s beer was mostly foam,
I regretted very often that I could not stay
at home,
Or go courting something foolish in a sum-
mer frock of white ;
At that stage in Monday morning I could
find no rare delight—
’Twas the hard and drear beginning of the
long and anxious wait
For the week-end picnic basket and the
meeting at the gate.
I could see no brooding beauty in the city’s
smoky murk ;
I was young, and fresh, and foolish, and I
found no joy in work.
But I’m older now and wiser and I know
it is for crime
That the wealthy have been sentenced to be
always killing time;
For no hobby or no travel, though one ■
journey to Hell’s hob,
Gives that sense of solid comfort one can
find in any job.
For it beckons every Monday like a brave
and trusty friend
Saying, “Come along, old fellow! Now the
foolery must end !
Leave the Things That Do Not Matter!
•Trot along and raise a sweat _
Like a son of Father Adam, and like Adam
you’ll forget!”
So good luck to Monday morning when we
leave Life’s frills behind
And get back to where we started ! Oh, I
guess I am resigned
To the toil that pays the grocer, for it also
oils the clock.
I would hate to be so wealthy that I had to
do the Block,
And go hunting for diversion with a pocket
full of cash —
No, I’d rather hold a job down and devour
my humble hash.
It’s the price of Monday morning, but the
bill I’ll never shirk.
For the salt of life is Monday and the Get-
ting Back to Work.
ANYWHERE.
PAST THIRTY.


GAELIC WHISKY
THE OLD SMUGGLER
ft
B
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
r.
6^
&
L
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian A Kents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
INSURANCES EFFECTED FOR—
Fire, Personal, Accident, Hailstone, Live Stock,
Workmen’s Compensation, Plate Glass, etc., at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: Corner Pitt and King Streets, Sydney. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
are substantially increased. The reliable
old loan is also expected to give the poli-
ticians something to offer in the way of
patronage; and as the Ricketty Islands are
lifting at the rate of three millions a year
or so from John Bull for war purposes
and has six millions falling due this year,
with a little matter of 10 millions in 1916,
the demented determination to go on
splodging cash seems to be as strong as
ever. This new loan, instead of being used
to pay off old debt, will be frittered away
on the good old drain at Sirjobotiki and the
decrepit culvert at McNabsville, and the
baby will get the old p.n. and the new one,
and the need for still more taxation will
rise up like a ghost next year.
“Mil” : Mr. Verbrugghen, the recently-
imported Belgian director of N.S.W. State
Conservatorium of Music, has done N. S.
Wales a good turn by asking a great deal at
once and very early (B. 2/9/T5). To
begin with, Mr. Verbrugghen is perfectly
right in outing British musical methods in
Australia. There is practically no British
music. There is of high-grade music much
German, Russian, Norwegian, Austrian,
French and Italian in that order —but where
is the British music or the Belgian? The
notable English composer was Purcell, and
he was Irish and died before Napoleon’s
mother put him into long trousers. The
Russian is fascinatingly gloomy stuff; the
Swedish and Norwegian arresting—almost
“pretty”—which is a bad thing; but really
there has not been a great composer for 50
years. The world can do without Prussia,
and hopes against hope that the Bear can yet
<say “Outski” with a hope of being listened
to; but the world cannot do without
Beethoven, Brahms, Bach and Schumann,
and to a lesser degree Handel, any more
than it can do without Shakspeare.
(Genius doesn’t know any politics anyhow—
in which, by the way, genius resembles
Bruce Smith.) Certainly politics and war-
fever must have been used in the appoint-
ment 'ff Mr. Verbrugghen, for the job would
no doubt otherwise have gone to a German.
But why should it go to any foreigner?
Australia is building its own art and litera-
ture and must have its own music, and the
importance of a Belgian gentleman who
should be playing tunes on a rifle or of a
German sodden with Wagner are alike
wrong. What was the matter will) Alfred
Hill or half a dozen other Australians?
Nothing, except that they were Australians
who didn’t have to unlearn European sym-
pathies and assimilate Australian condi-
tions. Now quite naturally the imported
gentleman wants to be an importer and im-
port his friends. This importation business
is just plain craziness, the anti-Australians,
who are the loudest people in- Australia,
apparently believing that we can produce
only wool, gold, opal, wheat, meat and other
raw material—and soldiers.
*
From the scraps of confused information
coming from the Russian Front only this
vague conclusion is possible —though the
Bear is still being severely handled, the
German is meeting with a tougher resist-
ance. It is now fairly clear that the
Hun can do nothing - decisive this
autumn ; and after he has crawled
through a Russian winter he is liable
to be a debilitated Hun indeed. Other-
wise it is impossible to extract any particu-
larly comforting reflections from the week’s
cablegrams. Lloyd George has been speak-
ing of fortresses supposed to be impregnable
falling like castles of sand before the tide.
A reminder this that if the same, tide
washes quickly backwards, the strain .on
the Western Allies must be one of terrible
intensity. In such an event the organisa-
tion on the French and Belgian lines will
be put to a supreme test. If the prepara-
tions are what they should be, then Russia
will have time to recover and again throw
her tremendous weight against the enemy.
But if the West is unable through lack of
national resolution and defects of adminis-
tration to keep the bleeding Hun pinned
down on the rack, the errors of the past will
afterwards be very hard to redeem. The
advantages of money, men and mechanical
equipment are, however, all on the side of
Britain and her friends, and time is also
in their camp, to be used if they will. From
the Dardanelles news is scarce to the point
of famine. Viewed from a distance Con-
stantinople looks no closer than before, and
a winter for our men in the trenches seems
as certain as that many additional bayonets
are wanted to root the Turk out of his cover.
There seem to be persons who still have
the idea that the war is only a rumor, the
late drought a dream, the threatened. Vic-
torian deficit of a million and a quarter a
well-built piece of fiction, the falling railway
i*evenue purely imaginary. Half a dozen
of them spoke with Minister Hagelthorn,
of Victoria, the other day—and wished
afterwards they hadn’t. Hagelthorn was
cantankerous and outspoken, even brutally
plain. Yet these people—a deputation from
a country shire —had done no more than
coolly ask him for £IOOO or so to build a road
to a tourist resort.
SUNDAY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMINO WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “High Jinks”
Criterion “Potash and Perlmutter”
Palace The Royal Strollers
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Ma Mie Rosette”
Royal “Under Cover”
Princess’s “Mary Latimer—Nun”
King’s “What Happened to Mary”
Bijou “Babes in the Wood”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
The Adelphi is still dragging the rank
and fashion of Sydney; but The Bulletin
regrets that it has lost its notes of the
house’s latest play. Speaking from memory,
“It’s Never Too Late to Glean” is a drama-
tisation of somebody’s soap advertisement
and points the agreeable moral that the
scrubbing brush must triumph in the end,
and that Virtue is always found with a
broom in its hand and a spring cleaning
look in its stai’-bright eye. The villain is a
man who is bent on keeping dogs in the
theatre, mistaking it for a large and negli-
gent kennel; but the heroine defies him to
introduce his loathly hounds, and her
fiancS, the vacuum-cleaner man, says that
the accursed brutes will only enter over his
dead body. The comic sailor rushes through
four acts with a bundle of assorted soaps
and dog-washes, and finally foils the villain
and his brutes in Act 4 with a tin of some
new disinfectant. The villain then swallows
a well-known brand of carbolic, and, foam-
ing with rage, kicks the hated bucket for
the very last time.
* * * *
“High Jinks” comes to an end on the
22nd inst., which is a Wednesday. The
show which succeeds it at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, is “Stop Thief,” about which noth-
ing unfavorable is known by the uuthorities.
It features some new artists from the land
of the submarined eagle.
** * *
Business is booming at Sydney Criterion.
This well-known house is now occupied by
Messrs. Potash and Perlmutter, clothing
and wrangle manufacturers. Tilings look
so good that the shutters have been chopped
up and burnt to heat the irons. Incident-
ally. The Bulletin does wish that some
of the tribes of Israel who go to the show
would chatter less with their tongues and
more with their hands, if they must do it
with something.
* * * *
Sydney Royal is enjoying a doze in the
dark. Owing to a change in the wind or the
fall in butter, managerial arrangements
were altered last week, and “The Barrier”
will not go up till Saturday, September 25.
** * *
The show at Sydney Tivoli is an
£sdeserving one. Mary Elizabeth, a cheer-
ful little lady who speaks musically in a
saft Amurrican voice, insists on being a
bright, confidential little sister to all pre-
sent, and nat a soul dreams of ob-jecting,
yew bet! Edgar Warwick’s burlesque
troupe sing and piano briskly through a
harmonious 20 minutes, during which the
fun never runs thin. The pianist can make
a piano purr, and Miss Maud Fane, the only
lady member, has a sense of humor and an
unusually powerful voice. Minnie Duncan
and Arthur Godfrey supply a natural coster
flirtation; Cyril Mackay, Styan and Olive
Wilton serve up “The Destiny,” a weak
melodramatic trifle; Kajiyama makes most
heads buzz with his tangled wi'itings; and
Terry and Lambert are diverting in an old
turn with modern trimmings.
“THE DESTINY,” AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Arthur Styan decides to shoot Cyril Mackay.
The Strollers who came to Sydney Palace
to scoff at gloom for four weeks and
remained to play for three months will,
after Friday, October 1, roll their swag and
go. A very comfortable swag it is, too!
Sydney filmography for this week: —
Crystal Palace: “Whom the Gods Would De-
stroy,” in which Australian Lily Leslie assiduously
seeks R-revenge in every foot of three reels, and in-
cidentally demonstrates that the Australian can
cinemact as well as the best.
. Lyric : "Women and Wine,” a flicked revival of
Bland Holt’s faithful old money-spinner.
Colonial: “The Resolve,” a domestic disturbance
in which Winifred Greenwood and Ed. Coxen, re-
cently balloted as Woodrow Wilson’s most popular
leading picture lady and gent, excel at the business
of wrecking the ’appy ’ome.
Empress : “How Callahan Cleaned up Little Hell,'
in which Callahan is shown to be a more successful
man than the Rev. Yarrington at this business.
* * * *
“Mary Latimer,” the Wandering Nun, is
making night humorous at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s for a week or two. Sister Mary comes
first to notice in an alleged convent cell,
where a sudden income of £12,000 a year
befalls her. Then, with the warm approval
of Mother Church, she goes forth on a mis-
sion of administering outdoor relief to a
coster family named Stubbs. Her philan-
thropy centres in the case of Larky Stubbs,
spinster. Larky has broken off her engage-
ment with the Hon. Alfred Pierpoint owing
partly to her impecuniosity and plebeian
birth, and largely to the fact that the Hon.
Alfred’s high-born cousin Clarice has
threatened to jug his lordly father for
forgery unless the young man marries her
in preference to his coster donah aforesaid.
All the parties concerned meet together out-
side St. Bardolph’s Church. The Hon.
Clarice is about to bounce poor Hon. Alfred
up to God’s altar and marry him, nght-
away, but Mary Nun Latimer hands over her
£12,000 a year to Larky, thus constituting
the festive child of the slums an eligible
match. So the Hon. Alfred marries his
true love, after all, and Clarice is baulked
of her prey. Thenceforward the drama is a
weird farrago of matrimonial misunder-
standings and crimes that come _ to
grief. Clarice and Lord Pierpoint
“LOVEMAKING” AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
John Terry proposes to Mattel Lamhert.
arrange the crimes, and _ the oppor-
tune Mary Latimer drops in to baffle
them, as a rule. She is too late to
prevent Larky signing away the £12,000 a
year to father-in-law under false pretences,
but she comes in time to stop the old man
from burying his long-lost daughter Grace,
whom he had recently slain with a weapon
resembling a black pudding or poloney.
Pierpoint pdre and Clarice left the corpse
lying in the drawing-room. When Mary the
Nun wanders in the corpse revives and goes
away with the lady, for the purpose of being
restored to her husband, a Great Financier,
who had allowed the poor innocent to do
seven years’ hard labor for his own particu-
lar crime. Meanwhile Larky, being deserted
by Hon. Alfred, is supporting herself in
vaudeville and attending to the baby. False
Clarice and her noble uncle fail to dispose
of the new serio-chronic star by a fatal acci-
dent, but they are slowly poisoning her infant
when Sister L. drops in and thwarts them
some more. After which the Hon. Alfred
returns from America with gold-mines to
burn, and the guilty pair are treated as well
as could be expected considering their near
blood relationship tQ the mushy hero and his
wife’s baby.
* * * *
Miss Ethel Buckley, in a number of start-
ling frocks and gowns, dominates the noisy
coster life of this amazing romance. Her
exuberance is frequently excessive, but never
out of favor with the audience. Miss Muriel
Dale revels in the artless wickedness of
Clarice, and Miss Sidney walks sedately
through the part of the pious thwarter.
Charles Throsby, as the paternal coster, lends
a touch of realism to the most Marlow-
dramatic situation, whilst the raucous tones
of Frank Reis, as a younger Stubbs, are
heard to advantage. Vivian Edwards plays
the inane hero with a sad sense of his ab-
surdity, and the others are mostly too medi-
ocre to mention. After the present piece of
nonsense has done its duty “The Rosary”
will be revived.
** * *
“Our Miss Gibbs” comes to her thirteenth
and last performance at Her Majesty’s in
Melbourne to-morrow. “Ma Mie Rosette”
is the revival for Saturday. Any old
admirers of that capital comic opera who
may come along with the idea of making
invidious comparisons,, are desired to swal-
low their prejudices and let bygones be
bygones.
Costers Duncan and Godfrey at Sydney
Tivoli.
In “Under Cover’’ at Melbourne Royal
Muriel Starr is still tracking down the dis-
guised bloodhound, Charles Millward, and
finding the pursuit crowded with exciting
situations. One of the most trying of these
occurs in the third act, where Muriel is
caught by Charles at 2 a.m. in burglarious
occupation of his private apartment. This
episode takes an embarrassing turn when
the sleuth, suddenly discarding his well-
laundered, Broadway style, commences talk-
ing in sinister, Scarpia-like terms with the
support of locked doors. But, like every-
thing else in the show, his attitude is only a
spoof, and the lady is soon allowed to leave,
thanking the Lord that the ’tec is One of
the Best, though her pretty, provocative
nightie obviously had other expectations.
** * *
“The Babes in the Wood” panto., which
lately appeared at the Princess’s, is now
waving its legs in a more restricted com-
pass at Melbourne Bijou. Most of the old
characters prevail and endeavor to keep the
proceedings at a high level of insanity for
the better part of three hours.
*$ $ #
At Melbourne King’s next Saturday
(18th) they will give a re-explanation of
“What Happened to Mary,” a quaint and
wholesome little comedy-drama that has
been kindly spoken of in Melbourne
by all persons who sampled it last
year. Meanwhile “Not Understood” is
passing quietly hence. Very quietly. The
plot lacks ginger, and the villain is so mild
that even the mystery of the balcony, in the
last scene, excites no comment. If he seemed
more deserving of a violent death everybody
would resent the fact of his climbing harm-
lessly over the balustrade of the balcony after
he has cut away the supports and the struc-
ture is said to be sure to collapse the moment
it is trodden on.
** * *
There comes a period in this wartime
when the most patriotic vocalists want, to
vary the monotony of carolling for charities.
Walter Kirby is going to sing for himself at
the Auditorium on Monday, the 27th, and
all the Excellencies have promised to be
there to hear him.
** * *
At Melbourne Tivoli a new impersonator,
Clement May, is moving about in semi-gloom,
apparently that the audience may only see
his characters from Dickens as through. a
glass darkly. Among others Clement pic-
tures Uriah Heep, and provides enough
imaginary handwashing to amount to a
bath. He scores best perhaps with a refined
study of the ancient who dodders and
grieves over Little Nell. In another part of
the bill the Amurkan patter, of one Mysto
is not helping his coin act ) Ella Caspers'
nice voice is still splodging through
the mush of “The Rosary”; and
among others still present is Edward
Marshall, the alleged “chalkologist,” who
wreaks his crude art on sundry stall-holders.
* Hs * *
“0.K.” after another visit to the show: —
In all his war cartoons where the Kaiser figures as
the Hun of Kultur the work of Will Dyson has the
German style strongly marked. He is a brilliant
pupil in the German school of caricature. But his
most popular drawings are British-Australian in
design and execution. For instance, “Diplomatic
Corpse” and “Herod the King was Troubled.” These
are priced 10 guineas each, whilst some of perhaps
greater merit as bits of black-and-white are going at
six or eight guineas. Two or three capital drawings
are down to four guineas. But the satire in the
subjects is popular, and Will Dyson is a very sane


GOODRICH tyres
DUVAL 8 CO.,
13 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
300 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
CORNELL LTD.* Adelaide.
Best in the Long Run.
ONCE
TASTED
n
DANICL
CRAWFORD’S
RED STAR^\_WHISKY
Rock-Steady Speedometers
For Motor-cycle Tours,
Here is shown a combination Speedometer and motor-watch—the ideal
type for the motor-cyclist. Unlike most of the motor-cycle speed-
ometers this make is ABSOLUTELY STEADY under the severest
vibration. It is never sluggish. It is very similar in principle to
the famous Smith Motor-car Speedometer, and is the Best British make
throughout.
Get one for the coming Summer tours.
Price complete, £5/5/-
ERIC BOULT LTD.,
Managing Agents for S. Smith & Sons Ltd., London.
40 >
25 4
Is^®/s)©Q*>o
SSM
*79-81 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Elizabeth House, Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
business man in the pricing of his goods. He marks
“Compulsion?” low because the fat newspaper pro-
prietor, dictating the policy of an article to his long,
lean minion, says: “Castigate Prussianism and all
its works in unmeasured terms —and—er we
roust be ruined unless we imitate ’em.” Dyson
couldn’t have expected an eager demand at the pre-
sent moment for the cleverest of pictures with that
legend attached. It is what Bernard Shaw might
have suggested. And it is false satire, seeing that
compulsory service for defence purposes is not an
imitation of Germany’s old-established conscription
for world-conquest purposes.
** * *
Cannot’s Follies have had another success?
ful week at the Tivoli, Adelaide, only puli-
ng down their average a bit when for a
rnght or. two some good athletes were un-
wisely given talking parts. Those delight-
healthy young rompers, Yakovlenko
and Vera Pearce, are dancing effectively as
usual, and Miss D’armond is showing her-
self a fine actress. Incidentally, the co. did
good service in collecting for French Day,
when the Huguenot descent of Jack “Canno”
was freely pressed. The King’s people also
worked hard in the same cause. Daisy
Jerome is the same effective artist, with
some new songs, and a Gassman piccaninny
imitates her uncannily. “In the Soup” has
rim at the Royal for a week. Barring
Brandon Cremer himself, almost the whole
co. gave too thoughtful a rendering. These
farcical things want to go with a bang. They
ended -the week with a repetition of their
much-better work in “Dean Maitland.”
From J. A, Davidson, the enthusiast who
founded the theatre :
Re “Harrison O.” on “The Fight” (B. 9/9/’l5).
The Australian National Theatre at Oakleigh asks
for plays which deal with all those themes and aims
—social, moral, political, etc.—-which affect the,
lives of Australians -(videß. 29/7/’l5), and when*
such plays contain a gleam of gold they will be pro-
duced. “The Fight” presents a subject of vital in-
terest to Australians. But even if it were “a loose,
amorphous happening,” and “did not rise above the
soliloquy and even the aside,” why should “Harrison
O.” ignore the fact that the play deals with syphilis
and not consumption? The consumptive is thrown
over by the heroine because she learns the real reason
of his unfitness. Does the moral have to be pointed
out with an axe?
Thomas Richard Wisby, the oldest prop-
erty man in Australia, died the other day
at South Yarra (Melb.) In his day Wisby
worked for Bland Holt, John F. Sheridan,
Harry Rickards, Brough and Boucicault,
and many others. His eldest son was Wil-
liam Wisby, the well-known jockey, who
won the Newmarket Handicap on Laundress
and was prevented by illness from climbing
on Glenloth when the Melbourne Cup boiled
over. Two other sons are Houten, the
“manacle king,” now showing in Queens-
land, and Fred Wisby, a bio operator.
“OUR MISS GIBBS,” AT HER
The flunkey.
MAJESTY’S.
MELBOURNE.
The Duchess of Min-
ster (Maggie Moore).
Bert Leywood, comedian of Taits’ Follies
at St. Kilda (Melb.), three or four years
ago, is returning to Australia on the Mcln-
tosh circuit. The enterprising funny man
has done pretty well since he left the sea-
side show. “Leywood and Narell, Australian
Impressionists,” are an established turn,
with a lot of English bookings in front of
them. Just now they are touring Asia
with Horace Goldin, the illusionist. A
while ago they struck the Australian boys
at Cairo, and were coo-ed to the skies. Two
of Leywood’s brothers and his wife’s only
brother are with the troops.
Though the Amurkan lady who lately
turned up in London and got a fine advt. by
calling herself Miss Kyrle Bellew had to
acknowledge that she had no family connec-
tion with the old beauty actor, she still
hangs on to the title. She was in the
recent “Peter Ibbefson” performance, and,
according to one critic, looked “supremely
lovely.”
AT POVEBTY POINT.
“Phrenologist”: If I were a musical-
comedy producer, I would insist on the extra
singing gentlemen keeping their hats on
throughout the piece. These honest workers
look tolerably good imitations of idle
johnnies so long as their stage “business”
allows them to keep their property bell-
toppers on their skulls. But directly they
whip them off to salute the singing ladies
the imposture is obvious. Their hair is
invariably too long and shaggy, and their
heads the wrong shape. I would like to
know who sculps the heads of singing gents,
and if the defects of his work can’t be
remedied with butter pats. Or do they start
out with their heads the right shape and
spoil them with singing?
“OUR MISS GIBBS,” AT HER
MAJESTY’S, MELBOURNE.
Mary Gibbs (Thelma
Raye).
The audience when
“Yip-I-Addy” was
heard again.
“Elleena”: The originality of librettists
(and others) is overpowering. For in-
stance, note how different all these are:—
(1) Mrs. Smith (Maggie Moore) to Peter Doody
(R. Whyte, jun.), in “The Arcadians”: “Not quite
so much of the Old, my dear.”
(2) Lord Arrandale (Frank Bradley) to Belle Trott
(Clarice Hardwick), in “Stop Your Nonsense”: “My
dear, not so much of the Old, if you please.”
(3) Baron Dauvray (W. H. Rawlins) to son
Hubert (Fred Maguire), in “The Girl in the Taxi”:
“Steady on ; not so much of the Old, my boy.”
I haven’t heard the Old gag yet in “Spot-
cash and Pearlbutton,” but it is five nights
since I went to the Criterion Synagogue.
“Mil”: I suppose The Bulletin didn’t
know what an impressionable man Geo.
Black, N.S.W. Chief Secretary, was when
in the old days it put him on to do its “Sun-
dry Shows.” Atmyay, see the result.
George opened a State fish-shop, being made
up as a fishmonger from Paris ; but if Syd-
ney gets cheap fish that fancy-dress per-
formance. is forgivable. Then he strode
into the limelight with an impassioned
appeal to female trafii passengers not to
cross their legs. After that he advocated
the _ abolition of kissing, the most popular
of indoor sports. He wasn’t drawing too
well with that sketch, so he put up another,
defying the Commonwealth’s prohibition
against meat export. It amounted to sound
and fury for 24 hours, but the meat didn’t
get itself embarked, and George returned to
the mullet. He is confidently expected to
make a police ordinance against waggling
both ears at once in a public place, and
band parts for the ificidental music are in
preparation.
“J.F.H.” : White-whiskered old Australians
who were dandies in the ’6o’s will remember
Julia Mathews, the stage divinity of those
rollicking times. Julia was a fascinating
creature, and turned many heads in Mel-
bourne—one of the heads being explorer
Burke s. When she closed her Australian
career Julia migrated to London, and became
the queen of comic opera. Her son, James
Mathews, has for the past 18 years been
business manager of the Duke of York’s, the
London headquarters of Charles Frohman,
who went down on the torpedoed Lusitania.
The future of the Frohman theatrical busi-
ness in England is cloudy and uncertain, so
Mathews has thought it wise to trans-
fer himself to New York as manager of the
Hippodrome.
. Screen : A U.S.A. picture-show maga-
zine lately held a ballot for the most popu-
lar artists. Palpably women were chief
voters. Here are some of the polls regis-
tered by performers known to Australia-
Warren Kerrigan, 176.714; Alice Jovce'
162.390; Francis Bushman, 110,090; G. m!
Anderson, 98,397; Edith Storey, 78,044;
Maurice Costello, 76,884; Mary Fuller,
66,147; Blanche Sweet, 58,655; Mary Pick-
ford, 52,302; Florence La Badie, 48,496;
Florence Turner, 40,113; Lilian Walker,
34,928. Of course the awful Chaplin will
have a million in the next. Lots of the
people who scored well we hardly see, be-
cause there is a mistaken notion in America
that Australia cares only for the fiercely
sensational and the frantically cuddlesome.
Rather late in her career Clara Butt
turns to opera. True, she did make a juven-
ile appearance, in “Orfeo,” but that hardly
counts. Now she contemplates doing the
thing seriously: “I am going to act one of
these days in an opera, composed expressly
for me, based on the beautiful story written
by W. B. Yeats, ‘The Countess Kathleen.’ ”
It was by way of a trial trip that the large
lady has had a little rQle in the recent pro-
duction of “Peter Ibbetson,” one of the novels
of George Du Maurier, of London Punch.
From London: Amy Sherwin’s new find
is Doris Carol, the 13-year-old sister of
Stella, whom “The Tasmanian Nightingale”
discovered one Christmas night singing in
the streets of London. Queen Alexandra
came to the Coliseum for the debut of Doris,
who was demonstratively applauded for her
singing of “The Swallows” and “The Dash-
ing White Hussar.” Doris has a voice of
good range, and most people think she indi-
cates greater histrionic abilities than her
elder sister.
“J.F.H.”: The London County Council
gives picture theatres permission to open
on Sundays provided the profits are handed
over to some charity or other; and just
there the profession winks its innocent eye.
The. latest annual return shows that gross
receipts were £181,944, while expenses in-
cluded £103,012 for rent, films, etc., and
£45,901 for wages. Nominally, “Charity”
got £33,031 —about 18 per cent, of the
receipts. But the percentage is really much
less, because many of the charitable societies
that are supposed to benefit have no real
existence—they are invented for colorable
compliance with the law —while others that
do exist merely lend their names in con-
sideration of an occasional guinea or two.
“Fair”: About “Harrison O.’s” wild
tirade against U.S.A. plays. Three are
given as examples. Hard luck for “Harri-
son O.” ; they were not written by Americans !
George. 11. Broadhurst, author of “Bought
and Paid For” and “The Law of the Land,”
is an Englishman ; Montagu Glass, writer of
the “Potash and Perlmutter” stories, was
born in Manchester. The late Claries Klein,
who dramatised the stories, was born in
London. In Dollarland, by the way, the
imported play greatly outnumbers the home-
grown article, and nearly 40 per cent, of
“American” actors are English.
Adeline Gen£e and Ellen Terry—a curi-
ous conjunction—have appeared together at
a matinee at the Haymarket, London, for
the benefit of a Kitchen Fund. Queen Alex-
andra and a fashionable crowd turned up,
and a profit of £IOOO was bagged. Anew
ballet pantomime—“ The Princess and the
Fea” —brought the sprightly Genee and the
ancient Terry together. Neither had any-
thing to say—happily so far as Miss Terry
is concerned, for her memory continues to
fade.
William Desmond, who came to Australia
with Katherine Grey, and later with Hilda
Spong, is doing flickers nowadays in ’Murka.
He is prospering at it, too.
“Moana”: There is a volcanic outbreak
of amateur opera here in Maoriland. “The
Gondoliers” is being produced in Dunedin;
Wellington is wrestling with “Les Cloches
de Corneville”; Ashburton is busy over
“H.M.S. Pinafore”; Masterton is taking
liberties with “The Toreador,” and Palmer-
ston North is threatening to hand out “Paul
Jones.” No disturbance was ever quite so
widespread before.
“E.T.”: Re “Leslie Stuart” Barrett, who
wrote “Mr. Riley,” the supplanter of “Tip-
perary” (B. 26/8/’ls). There are more
unlikely things than the tuneful “Flora-
dora” composer’s appearance on a vaude-
ville circuit in Australia. One of the newest
and most taking turns in Dondon is “May
Stuart and her famous father, Leslie
Stuart.” May sings two or three numbers
—all composed by dad —including “Mr.
Riley,” while dad accompanies on the piano
and anon, conducts the orchestra in a selec-
tion of his songs. And a fine conductor is
Stuart. His concerts at the big Free Trade
Hall in Manchester, with himself in charge
of the baton, were as good as Charles Halle’s
in the same building, though they never
attained the vogue of Hallo’s. But how
could they? Halle’s name wasn’t English,
and Barrett’s was.
“Viking”:. Now playing the Brennan-
Fuller circuit, “the Musical Ibsons.” When
first before the public some years ago they
consisted of three sisters and a brother, all
Australians born. They went to the U.S.A.,
where they appeared as “the four Aus-
trals,” and made good. Now they are back,
minus a sister, as “the Musical Ibsons.”
In America, “Austral” was seemingly a
title to be proud of. Here, in the home
land, it evidently is no good. Who is to
blame? Surely it cannot be to the liking of
performers to suppress information that
they were made in Australia!
A defendant in a Melbourne suburban
maintenance case the other day entered the
box carrying a conspicuous black eye. He
said his wife had kicked him as he was
leaving the house that morning. “What,
while you were on your feet?” asked a J.P.
“Yes, your Worship. She used to be a ballet
girl,” replied the man mournfully. Young
man, have a care! The high-kicker in pub-
lic may drop the h in private life.
Amazonian Ida Bart carried het‘ thth a
trifle too far for one stalls patron at Mel-
bourne Tivoli the other night. There Whs
one song too many, and the song was, too
long. The weary one seized an opening for
a long yawn and the gaping comment: “All
Bari’s close at half-past nine.”
“Harrison O.”: Success in vaudeville is
largely a matter of agility in bouncing back
before misguided patrons have time to stop
applauding. Vaudevillains of more or less
established popularity can afford to take
liberties. The applause mostly ' lasts long
enough for them to bow a couple of times
and pretend that they want to leave off
work for the night; but as soon as the noise
shows signs of tailing into silence they
shoot back and apply themselves furiously
to their job. The legion of lesser lights
takes no risks. The hopeless comedian
drops his last chestnut with a loud thud
over the footlights and steps to the wings,
but, in response to twopenn’orth of approval,
rebounds to provide an extra number. The
slickness of the artist deceives the audience,
while he for his part recognises that he
only gives twice who gives quickly.
“Stargazer”: With 30-odd years’ experi-
ence of Australian vaudeville I cannot recall
the time when a Melbourne music-hall ran
to the extravagance of two such voices as
are now tickling the ears of the groundlings
at the local Tiv. Ella Caspers is a contralto
with a delicious voice and a pleasing per-
sonality, aided by perfect production.
Hector Goldspink is a tenor who has still
something to learn before liis remarkable
voice will be put to its best possible use, but
it is a great voice. Both performers are of
grand-opera quality, but their voices have a
charm that is often lacking in celebrities;
they have freshness, the fine flavor and
resonance of youth. There has been no
particular noise about these singers, for the
sufficient reason that they are Australians.
“The less said the better” is a theatrical
rule where native entertainers are con-
cerned.
“Jean S.”: Henry Arthur Jones is loom-
ing larger in Noo Yark, where “The Lie,”
his latest, has been inspiring twangful com-
ment for nearly nine months. Jones has also
scored with “Mary Goes First,” which has
had the great distinction of saving the author
from a knighthood. It appears that Henry
Arthur had been sentenced to a K.C.M.G.
or something similar; but having hoarded up
disrespectful thoughts on titles, and pub-
lished them jestingly in the aforesaid drama,
he badly huffed constitooshnal authority
(King George happened to graciously attend
a performance), and now he is sentenced to
remain Mister for the rest of his life.
“False Alarm” : It is good to know that
the theatrical critics are keeping a keen look-
out for home-made successes. Last week one
of them officially called for three cheers for
the modest unknown who is credited with
the authorship of a current military melo.,
one scene of which is laid in the congested
Sydney suburb of Darling Point. In this
scene the faithful old sometliing-or-other
appears, pulls his forelock and his employer’s
leg, and mumbles: “Master, I have been to
the gate but I cannot see the young squire.”
Isn’t that characteristically Australian!
“J.S.”: Berlin lately disclosed the agony
of War in a freak musical recital by a one-
armed Hungarian pianist before an audi-
ence that had been similarly maimed in
battle.
(Continued on page 28.)
A TRUE BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“House Full,” the Orpheum’s placard read;
I took a peep inside,
And row on row of empty chairs
Was all I first descried;
Then in a front row saw a waif
Whose wat’ry eye was dull;
He hiccuped, and his nose was red.
I saw ’twas as the notice said:
The Orpheum’s house was “full”!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON.
TRADE USAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bad times had struck the great perfesh.
Poor Horace Biggs had bust his boot
While seeking for a “shop.” A mesh
His trousers were. He longed for fresh
And greener fields where he might shoot
At bigger game and hope for loot.
He sought the depfit out, and there
He offered for a soldier true.
His length was right, his chest was fair;
Some of his teeth were as they were;
His eyes were good; his toes were, too.
They thought that, on the whole, he’d do.
For camp they said that Biggs must start
And drill a while, and learn to bear
His rifle like a noble heart
That soon must act the hero’s part.
“But first,” he said, “may I infer
You pay me for rehearsals, sir?”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


JUST ARRIVED FROM SOUTH AMERICA—
Genuine Panamas 12/6
The correct new shape for summer wear in fine
plait of whitest bleach. Brims from 21 in. to 3in.
wide. Black bands ; fitted with sweat-proof leathers.
In all Men’s sizes 12/0
Superior qualities, 15/6 and 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
to 50/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
OPP. (i.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
J
'
\
f
For all Lung
Troubles
tak
m
1/3, 2/9, 4/6
Of all Chemists
Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-two years Angier’s Emulsion is now
universally recognised as a standard approved
treatment for coughs, bronchitis, asthma,
consumption, and for all catarrhal affections of
the resoiratorv or digestive organs. Angier's
Emulsion is soothing and healing to throat,
lungs, stomach and intestines, and it has a
most invigorating, tonic influence upon the
general health. Equally useful for children
or adults, it is an invaluable household
remedy for chest affections.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this p. per
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney,
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
A picture in a current London magazine
shows Lloyd George addressing an open-air
meeting on the right of women to take part
industrially in war service. Thousands of
men formed the audience. What beautiful
visions some of them must have had! A
wage-earning addition to the wash-tub-
hooray !
“Utensil J.”: “Moana” (B. 26/S/’l5)
holds up his hands in horror at the accept-
ance o| tips by steamer stewards, in contra-
ventiofi of the Maoriland Arbitration award.
The fault lies not with the tippee but with
the tipper. What is really wanted is a
law to make it a criminal offence for people
to give away what is rightfully theirs. This
might stop tipping. Nothing else will. As
to the “dignity” of which “Moana” speaks,
there is none where money-grubbing is. con-
cerned. Thousands of passengers want
thousands of odd jobs done ; and the “dish-
walloper” does a few of them as an extra and
is paid for them. There is nothing more im-
moral about that than there is about a ship-
ping co. charging more for first-class than for
llth-class passages.
* * * #
From a London savage :
The O’Bryanites, otherwise Bible Christians, have
been celebrating their centenary at Exeter, England,
The most distinguished figure of their little sect,
Samuel Way, Chief Justice of South Aus., had pro-
mised to come over and do an oratorical turn ; but
unspecified reasons (probably not unconnected with
German submarines) decided him to remain in com-
fortable Adelaide. However, he cabled a long lay
sermon which could not have left much change out of
a ten-pound note. “Sammy” Way is the son of the
first Bible Christian minister to land in Australia,
and, though the sect has been swallowed up in his
country in a Methody union, he has stuck to his
old, humble, religious friendships. William O’Bryan,
the founder of the little iot, was an Irishman who
caine under the influence Of John Wesley, made a
name as “a man of immense zeal and a powerful
preacher,” quarrelled With the Methodies, and set up
for himself in the business. In one place and an-
other thete are 700 “chapeis” and over 100,000 ad-
herents, most of them, so far as Britain is concerned,
in the counties of Cornwall and Devon, where O’Bryan
concentrated his evangelistic efforts.
* * * *
The cable tells that George V. inspected d
batch of wounded prisoners returned from Gel-
many and, on asking one poor wretch how they
had been fed, got the bitter reply “Like
cattle!” Some time ago a British committee
of inspection went down to have a look over
a ship on which German prisoners were
interned, and saw the other page of the
ledger. To their astonishment they found
dozens of loaves of bread floating about on
the water adjacent to the prison craft. They
bombarded the gaolers With inquiries as to
Why stich Waste WdS j allowed When the Gov-
ernment was imploring English mothers to
practise economy, and were told that the out-
rage happened every day—had to happen, in
fact, because the fat-headed War Office would
insist on sending more bread than the Huns
could possibly use. As in Britain, so it is
in Australia, where Justice Rich found that
the ‘ Germans’ concentration camp was an
Australia Hotel alongside the fourpenny doss-
house of the Liverpool training camp. If
this war can be won by mushy kindness to
the enemy the British are going to gain the
greatest of all victories.
A CLOSE RELATIONSHIP.
KIND LADY (new friend of the family): “And what relation was your pa to the Carltons,
dear?”
BILLY : “Dunno exactly. But Auntie says pa’s their co-respondents.”
THE STRAIGHT GRIFFEN.
WILLY (entering for the sixth time): “ Hey, yous two! Dad says it's getting late.”
PERSISTENT WOOER: “Yes, Willy.” (Pause.)
WILLY: “Hey, Mr. Stringer, why are you like two into one!”
P.W.: “I really can’t say, Willy.”
WILLY : “ ’Cos yer WON’T GO.”
“H.V.”: Leatkerjacket, a fish formerly
despised, now fetches from 4s. to 7s. per
basket in the Sydney market. Its firm
white flesh so resembles that of the John
Dory—a choice deep-sea fish rarely procur-
able —that for some time leatherjacket cut-
lets were served up regularly as John Dory
at one of the largest Sydney clubs. The
trick was only discovered after an eminent
ichthyologist had dined there and taken some
of the alleged John Dory bones home for
examination. They were labelled as the ver-
tebras of leather-jackets, and “John Dory”
disappeared from the menu of that caravan-
sary. Since the trawlers have got to work,
however - , John is beginning to take a regular
place in the programme. As regards the
Australian (or black) sole, although this fish
is not the equal of its congener of the Dogger-
bank, it was considerably prized by old
gourmets. A fisherman of three decades ago
averred that he had a sure market at 10s.
apiece for every sole he could catch. His
market was the late W. B. Dailey, no mean
judge, and himself a clever cook. Dailey’s
oysters, rolled in thin slices of bacon, and
fried in a wrapper of lettuce leaves, were
voted perfection.
•*■'***
Sentencing a prisoner at Sydney to seven
years’ gaol for having attempted to choke a
man with intent to rob him, Judge Docker
casually dragged some ancient law out of its
lair. He mentioned that the term imposed
was the minimum penalty ; it was within his
province to order that the prisoner be kept
for the first three years in irons, but he
would not go as far as that. Seeing how far
Docker is prepared to go sometimes, that was
encouraging. Although chains are generally
supposed to have disappeared from our gaol
system, laws with chains in them apparently
remain. But the ass is full of anomalies.
Seven years is the minimum for attempted
robbery with intent to rob ; but six months
mav be the meed of a man who hits another
on the head with a bottle and does rob him.
For the matter of that a man may both choke
and smite with bottles and subsequently
jump with both feet upon the wife of his
bosom without incurring any greater hurt
than a fine of a few pounds.
When some German-Australian, moved by
beer and the blood-wliich-is-tliieker-than-
water, publicly hopes that der Allies vill
not vin, he is shot into gaol or fined. But
listen to the words of wisdom of which
Herbert Heaton, M.A., the University of
Tasmania’s latest importation from England,
delivered himself while lecturing on “The
Great War” :
Sad though it might be, perhaps a better effect
would be made on the nations by the ending of the
present war in a draw than in a decisive victory to
either side, as countries engaged in conflict would
then see that they had sacrificed their best manhood,
spared no money or effort, and were no better off,
and would determine that a calamity like this would
never happen again.
This imported person, w T ho doubts whether
any good purpose would be served by wal-
loping the apostles of Kultur who ravished
Belgium, gets a salary from the State, and
this is one of his ways of earnirtg it.
* * * *
The Kaiser having insisted on the women
of Germany cutting their skirts short in
conformity with the general nCed, humanity
wonders where the deprivation will end.
On present appearances, if the Early
Closing Bill goes through the Westralian
Parliament, the State (which is to be
divided into four districts) is likely to. see
the beer-pumps in the Perth and agricul-
tural districts out of action at 6 p.m., while
on the Goldfields and in the Nor’-West they
will keep going until 11 p.m.—with over-
time when the Law isn't, looking. The
metropolitan Bung is working'hard to per-
suade the Leg. Council that this is a ridicu-
lous anomaly. His real hope, if he can’t
defeat the Bill altogether, is to have the
State sent to the poll as one dis-
trict, so that he may get the bene-
fit of the thirsty Goldfields’ vote.. But
the Goldfields’ vote isn’t keen on helping its
thirsty brother of the city, because it sees
that, though it might help to keep the city
pump going till nine, it is also liable to have
its own supply cut off then or earlier.
HOPS SPRING ETERNAL IN THE HUMAN
BREAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We miss Sydney beer.”— From a soldier's letter.
It is good upon the water, and the transport is a
gem ;
It is grand to see the sun rise and the night’s star-
diadem ;
It is fine to loaf on hatches and to dream of someone
deaf-;
But I’m longing, how I’m longing', for a swig of
Sydney beer!
Oh, it’s brown and sweet and whotetonie,
ItoX I wish that I could “pole” sortie,
Or that somebody would roll Some Sydney beer!
It's hooray in Gairb City, for we know we're moving
off
To the place that we are bound for —-hbw 1 wish that
I had gone
With the bbys that struck Red Sunday when they
landed in that Heff!
Never one shall tell that story ’eept the glory-boys
who fell.
They are chatting it together in a better place than
this,
’Midst the flannel flowers of Heaven and the wattle
blooms of bliss.
Yes, it’s good to be in trenches, though fny eyes are
battle red,
Thanking God for those who’re iiving, praying hard
for tho> e who're dead —-
Hot or cold, or sick or dying; mad with courage
or with fear,
Through delirium I’m dreaming of a pint of Sydney
beer.
How I wish that I could pole some
Of that nut-brown, sweet and wholesome
Sydney beer!
x.s.w.
THE SNAKE.
For as the weeks go on they know
The German need will surely grow;
Each moon the fraus curtailed perceive
They’re rapidly approaching Eve.
■* * ' * *


FOR YOUR AFTERNOONS
INTRODUCE
ARNOTT’S
‘Orange Slice’
m
T
A DELICIOUS
NOVELTY
P4RV/OL4
(Luxum Series)
w m
One
Seven
Moe
THE GENUINE'IS brands
ipARVIOLAfo.
ll ERPUMERY U
An fixQc/hfie/c/ refined sod
Laxar/oas /o/'/efi wafer.
m
- -
tffcfL
SHOT-SILK HALF-HOSE
RE-INFORCED TO ENSURE SERVICE.
•Dpuble soles and strengthened toes and heels make these dis-
tinctive fancy silk socks as serviceable as cashmere; and they
are so light in weight and cool to wear that they are ideal for
the warm weather. The shot effects are pleasingly produced in
Grey, Red, Gold and Blue—just conveying the suggestion of
color without obtrusiveness. In every respect a neat distinc-
tive and serviceable style.
3/6 Pair 20/- Half-Dozen Pairs.
Please state boot size and color preferred.
PEAPES S CO. LTD.,
Men’s
Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
CONSTANCY.
[For The Bulletin-.]
Betty’s eyes of azure blue
Haunt me to the office door.
Doreen, on the second floor,
Winks at me a “How d'you do?”
Wisps of lace about her throat,
Fragrant violets at her waist,
Kitty’s lips T dare to taste
As she types a trifling note.
Business worries me till ten.
Daphne rings at half the hour ;
Would I only had the power
To resist her there and then.
Maurine with her witehery
Beekons mo to lunch at one.
When the weary day is done
Smiling Dolly captures me.
Betty's eyes of azure blue
Haunt me like a glimpse_ of heaven. . . .
1 shall call on her at seven.
Shall I find her faithful, too?
QUEENSLAND. ZORA CROSS.
“Out pug”: How is this for a mix-up?
Twenty-five years ago Billjim came to Aus-
tralia with his parents, who were Dutch.
After his parents had been a couple of years
in the best country on earth they became
naturalised; but Billjim having been here
since ho was five months old was not
bothered about. Recently when lie went to
HIS POINT OF VIEW.
“And what struck you most when they
turned the machine guns on you?"
“The bullets that didn't hit me.”
enlist, he was told that he was not a British
subject and was therefore rejected. Next
day he visited the Dutch Consulate, where
he was informed that being over 2x, and not
having reported himself previously, he was
not a Dutch subject. Now Billjim, being
good Australian, is wondering what the
he is.
Adelaide started last week, on an other-
wise bare part of the park-lands, a Wattle
Grove to commemorate the landing at Gaba
Tepe on April 25. The inscribed central
obelisk was unveiled by the Governor-Gen-
eral. It stands under a pergola which will
presently he covered by climbing roses, and
all about it some hundred young wattles
were planted, the first being entrusted to a
venerable lady who was present when South
Aus. was proclaimed a “province” on
December 28, 1836. The design of the whole
affair was started by Walter Torode, a con-
tractor, and enthusiastically taken up by
the Wattle League, and material and labor
for the pillar, etc., were freely given by a
community which practises civics more "sin-
cerely than any other in Australia.
“Y.Z.”: We have ' had another case of
the gay dog in the car who lures girls to
destruction. The Prodigal picked her up in
Collins-street. He was loitering at the kerb
in his pearl-grey push cart, aimlessly devour-
ing rhe butt of a cigar, when Marguerita
ducked across the prow, and dropped her
kit in her haste. Prodigal sprang out, and
recovered the pack. Marguerita was all
gratitude and maidenly confusion. Would
she care for a spin this lovely afternoon/
Oh. no, she dare not; Auntie was waiting.
Beally she should like to —say for half an
hour. But did he think it would be right
Tush! why not? Where’s the harm? But
she didn’t know him. That discrepancy
could' he remedied with a card. Oh, very
well then, just a little run. The little run
took them to Aspendale. Marguerita was
naturally timid. She was small and fair,
and had great, grave eyes. And Prodigal
was a great, strong fellow. She could fee]
safe with him, he was so big and so kind
And he had such kind eyes. Well, poo
Auptie had a long wait. They partook oi
dinner at Aspendale. Prodigal came to or
the sands at 2 o’clock next morning. Mar-
guerita was gone; the car. of which pooi
little Marguerita was so deadly afraid, was
gone; and Prodigal had been thorough!,
emptied out. He had either to telegrap
for a fare or walk iiome. The car was
found butt into a tree. Prodigal will no
say wliat the sweet little girl got away with
nor what it was Marguerita put in his sod:
and whisky. But he sees clearly that pro
miscuous mashing has its disadvantages.
“Kismet”: None hut we wives whose mei
have gone know the little things that hurt
the glimnse of a trembling woman openim
the door to the parson; the street corne
quavering “Let M<
Like a Soldier Fall” :
the hand gaily play-
ing that tune we
heard the last day
in camp; the sight
of an able-bodied
man-thing swagger-
ing to the links at
10 a.m., followed by
a caddie laden with
golf-sticks. But what
hurts most of all is
when another woman
- —usually childless
from choice, and well
provided for—meets
one and with a smirk
says: “I hear your
husband has gone to
the war. I am so
sorry. My husband
wouldn’t leave me
under any circum-
stances.” When one’s
man has given up
more than most men
to go, and the Little
One coming may
never kn o w a
father’s care—oh,
this sort of thing
outs deep. Smarting, how we long to tell
her that nothing but the bravery of our man
can save her man from being sent!
From Tiie Sanitary Becord and Muni-
cipal Engineering (2/7/’l5) :
UXBRIDGE UNION—LABOR MASTER.
, Wanted, a Labor Master, at the Union Institution,
, Hillingdon, near Uxbridge. Salary, tos per annum ;
rising £2 10s. per annum to £4O, with rations,
apartments, and use of uniform, and an allowance of
£3 6s. fid. per annum in lieu of Beer.
An Australian would he puzzled to know
which was the master and which the pauper
in that British workhouse.
Adelaide is a fine hunting-ground for
those who throw easy charges of disloyalty
at every German-sounding name. An aston-
ishing proportion of well-known people in
every profession, trade, and calling in South
Aus. are descendants of Danes or South-
Germans who came away to avoid Prussian
tyranny 70 years back. Usually the present
good Australian ; can’t speak the German
language, and hais no personal association
with the country; but the name continues-
on the male side. The luck of the thing
is shown where a Schmidt brother and sis-
ter have married a Smith sister and
brother. The ohe family are Smiths all
right; the others, with identical parentage
and interests, are liable to be called Ger-
mans. A few cases of specially-bad slander
have been traced and nailed down lately.
The worst is the subject of a humble apology
in the Adelaide dailies, a clerk in the big
chemical firm of Bickford’s having to
advertise that he “deeply regrets the cruel
and wicked rumor” that a doctor with a
German name had given an order for “cul-
ture media”—nature and malignancy left to
be imagined. The firm joins in repudiating
the action of its employee. So far slandered
people have been content with apologies in
similar cases, but lawyers are sure to urge
pursuit of fat 'damages soon. There can
hardly he a worse libel, these times, than to
call a man pro-German when he isn’t.
“Private 445”: The casualness of the
Australian at the Front is a constant marvel
men amongst ourselves. The other day a
fellow in my dug-out had a little finger
blown oft and another left hanging by a
strip of skin. Tearing off the remnant he
placed it in a cartridge pouch, with the cool
remark, “That’s a proper sort of blnnky
souvenir ”
LOVERS — 1915.
“Petifi”: The Shades who are most upset
about the war are said to he the late
Prophet Dowie and Dr. Boss, of the N.S.W.
Assembly; and if these public characters
haven’t already called meetings of protest
in the Jasper Hall then they have lost their
punch since their promotion upstairs. While
they were with us both were the sworn foes
of tobacco. Dowie fulminated against the
"stinkpot,” and poor old Boss spent half a
long life-time trying to coax a Juvenile
Smoking Bill through a flippant Assembly.
And now the war has set the pipe and the
fag on a pedestal and called them Blessed.
What can the Prophet and the Physician
think of it all? I can’t help wondering if
the old baby-kissing do'etor is as certain now
as aforetime that the cigarette spells
degeneracy. If he does, he can’t have read
the aerograms from Gallipoli where certain
Australians —fag-suckers to a soldier —
lately did something which it is scarcely
given to degenerates to do.
“Quidam” : If anyone had said a few years
ago that a time was near when many Aus-
tralian butchers’ shops would have to shut
up, meat being unprocurable, he would have
been looked on with suspicion, and anxious
mothers would have kept their babies out of
his way. set it has come to pass; and.
somehow, the abandonment of the habit of
gulping down a pound of badly-
cooked meat three times a day doe’s
not seem to have worked any seri-
ous effect on the community. In
this connection the training of the
young, not only of big cities but
of, the backblocks, in the art of
scientific cookery, with instruction
in the values of different foods,
would be invaluable not only in
shortening bills but in lengthening
lives. A doctor or chemist who
only prescribes or dispenses occa-
sionally to make the sick well must
know the nature and effects of the
drugs he uses; but the ruler of the
domestic hearth, who is prescrib-
ing and dispensing chemicals all
the time, doesn’t, as a rule, know
protein from potash, or carbohy-
drates from a cash-register. Cons'e-
quently a lot of people get too much
of something, and go broke in diges-
tion over it, while others get too
little. Even in connection with
rational defence, the necessity for
proper tuition in the art of slaugh-
tering someone else is of less im-
portance than the necessity for
being pretty well up in the "art of
keeping oneself alive, and for all
our boasted educational advances
that aspect of the question has been
materially neglected. An enormous
amount of chemical lore is not
necessary; but when the cooks of
a nation have a working idea of
what meal-constituents mankind
wants to sustain and cheer him.
that nation will he likely to con-
serve a lot of cash and energy by
eating what it really wants instead
of what it really doesn’t. When
the world gets out of its topsy-turvy habit
of looking down on all the most useful
things, such as cookery and hard work, and
looking up to all the least, useful, such as
making dreadful noises on weird instruments,
it is possible that Honors in Scientific Cook-
ery will rank higher than Honors in Music.
“Bio” : Does everyone know that an officer
cannot get the D.C.M.? He is not eligible.
It is only awarded to rankers. The officer’s
equivalent is the D.S.O. Major Dick Hol-
man, of N.S.W., is the only soldier I know
of who has both the D.C.M. and D. 5.0., and
he got them in the one campaign. Going out
to South Africa in 1899 as a regimental ser-
geant-major he was awarded tlfe D.C.M.
He returned home, but went back to the
front in 1901 as adjutant of the 2nd Mounted
Bifles, and this time earned the D.S.O. The
performance was unique until lately, I
believe; but this war may produce the same
kind of thing in abundance.
A DILEMMA.
PIOUS OLD GENT: “Now, what would you do if a constable were to come along?"
KID: “Dunno. What’d you do, Mister?"


He. KELPT Him >&e.i_F
Fit AX TE.HHIS
HE ATTENOeO
/V PRIZE FIChT ANO
Got VERY EXCITELO
l-»E_ DREW UP A CArMPA'C^
AT AFTERNOON "TEA
HE. v/vtrote_ a Poem
urging other s To Co
t m e| I^lr
•dloiVeiiUs
he
f //had enlisted
HE CAVJCMV
COLD IN “THE
TRtNCHES AT
n'Cht
HE CHCERED Hir'iSE.LP HOARSE
WHEN THE WOUNDED SoLDtERs RETURNED
HOW THE SHIRKER ANSWERED HIS COUNTRY’S CALL.


DISTRACTED CITIZEN (struggling with his War Census Card) : “1 say,
Jane, how much did you find in my pockets on the night of June
30, when I caught you ransacking my trousers?”
HIS WIFE: “I found just three ha’pence and six poker-machine checks
for 6d. each. But how do you happen to remember the date?”
CITIZEN: “Because at the moment I caught you at it the clock struck
thirteen, and I made a note of the curious circumstance.”
Qtt. 9: “What other occupation (if any) could you
undertake?’’
Ans,: “Well, I think I could conduct popular politi-
cal funerals, in an amateurish kind of way, if
somebody would supply the remains.”
PERSONAL CARD (question 8): “What is your
present occupation ?”
Ans.: “Artist.”
Qu. 8A: “State grade of occupation.”
Ans.: “Oh,'very low! They call me a
i ‘Pictorial Humorist.’ ”
A QUESTION (“without notice’’):
Qu. 8A: “Your occupation?”
Ans.: M.H.R., £6OO a year!”
Qu. 9: “What other occupation (if
any) could you undertake?’’
Ans. of puzzled statesman:
“Uamfiuo!”
fakir fisher and
THE CELEBRATED
COIN TRICK.
HANDY ANDY: “Why, dear me! here’s another concealed beneath your waist-
coat! Hold steady, sir—won’t hurt much.”
Qu. 10: “What military training (if any) have you had?”
Ans.: I drove a mule-team hitched to an ammunition "waggon in the Boer War.’*
Ana 7 “Got S | 8 ‘' IOSS ° f ® Ul^ ticulars.” V
. «“> "“*-«*»* «»o near
head.” sleepin it other way round I s’pose I’d lost any
As the War Census papers were issued, they called for returns from
persons “aged 18 years and upwards.” Since, however, urgent
telegrams have been despatched from Melbourne tr follow-
ing effect:
Returns are required by the Commonwealth Statistician for
all persons under 18 who possess any income or property.
THK FAKIR (searching the audience)':' “Aaflj
I declare! Here is a ha’penny up tbo
sleeve of the baby. I almost over*
looked that,
HOP’S WAR-CENSUS RETURN.


Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid-up ... 82,500
agents wanted.
Branches in every State.
AVrite for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
SOAPKO
It Surpasses Soap,
Toilet and Motor in
TABLETS.
Household in BARS.
SOAPKO CLEANSER
(in Canisters), BEST and
CHEAPEST on Market.
ALL PURELY AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE.
SOAPKA PROP'Y, Box 6*5, G.P.0., Adelaide.
r-zr:i:
THE
hdf
Wherever vou go, the world over, leading men
HATS. They are unequalled in quality, style,
comfort. ALL STORES.
pear WOOujcvOW
durabality and
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GOROUN# ?
gh
I EWIS&WrIITTY MAKERS
THE VALUE OF MAGNESIA TO
DYSPEPTICS.
ITS ACTION EXPLAINED.
“Of inestimable value in all forms of
stomach trouble,” recently remarked an
eminent specialist when asked his opinion
ufon the ever-increasing use of magnesia m
cases of indigestion, dyspepsia, heartburn,
flatulence, wind, etc., but. of course, it must
he pure hi unrated magnesia; this is the toini
invariably prescribed by physicians who
recognise that in many cases serious haim
might result from the use of other forms,
such as the acetates, citrates or sulphates
of magnesia. Most chemists now stock puu
Usurated magnesia in powder and tablet
form, and I would advise sufferers from
anv form of stomach trouble to take halt a
teaspoonful of the powder or _ two com-
pressed tablets in a little water immediately
after each meal. This will instantly neu-
tralise the excessive acid in the stomach
and prevent fermentation of the food, thus
ensuring normal digestion and freedom
from discomfort and pain.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The few hundreds of Victorians who actu-
ally saw Sir John Fuller at close quarters
when he was posing unsteadily as State
Excellency, and the many thousands who
heard about him the while,. couldn’t have
been shocked to learn of liis death last week.
Fuller was only 51, but no English baronet
with a thirst like his could fairly expect to
recover from a surgical operation on his
liver. He was looking for trouble all the
time he was in Victoria. To speak quite
honestly, he went around to rural agricul-
tural shows, suburban bazaars and other
solemn functions and almost invariably
made a shocking example of himself. Once
he entered a private box at Her Majesty’s
like a John o’ Dreams, and started to pro-
pose the audience’s health whilst holding on
to the parapet. He was the limit in Excel-
lencies.
RILEY, M.H.R.
Carew Reynell,
major of Bight
Horse, reported
killed io action,
was one of the
most popular of
Adelaide’s younger
men —an ex-Master
of the Hunt Club,
and, in spite of his
heavy weight, a fine
Show-jumper. In
private life he was
an expert vine-
grower, the family
having a winery
at Reynella. His
brother Rupert,
Rhodes scholar, is
a doctor doing
good work with the
British army, and
an ancestor was a
general at Water-
loo.
Cecil Hartt, whose black-and-white work
constantly appeared in The Bulletin
before he left for the Front, was not long
ia drawing the. fire of the enemy. llie
18th Battalion had only just plunged into
the hostilities when he went down'wounded
in two places —the hip and the ankle. The
first bullet was in a good line for the ordi-
■ nary man’s head, but Ilartt towered abo\e
it.
Big D. G. O’Donnell, of the Vie. Police,
was pensioned off last week. In his detec-
tive capacity, before he came to be sub-
inspector, O’Donnell was a thorn in the
flesh of John Wren. It was he who led a
little army in blue to the Collingwood Tote
one ’midnight a dozen years ago and cap-
tured the fortress. The police held it for
nine weeks, but when the garrison had been
reduced to one man a party of masked
Wrenites came along and bundled the soli-
tary representative of the Law’s majesty off
the premises, after which betting was
resumed as usual. A couple of years later
O’Donnell worked up a case against the
“City Tattersall’s Club,” where Wren had
started business. He got a conviction in the
District Court, but Wren appealed and the
conviction was quashed. Meanwhile some-
body threw a home-made bombshell into the
domicile of Detective O’Donnell, and Wren
offered £lOO reward for the discovery of the
miscreant. Heigho! Those were the days
of romance in law-breaking. And now
O’Donnell is a sick man, retired from the
Force, and Private Wren is an exemplary
patriot, in training for service at the Front.
R. BARR SMITH, of Adelaide, the biggest
individual subscriber for the Australian
War Loan.
Justice G. B. Simpson, who died last week,
was born in Parramatta in 1838. His
father, an officer, was Commandant at the
convict settlement at Wellington Valley
(N.S.W.), where he remained till it was
abolished in 1831. Next he was located at
Parramatta, where he was engineer-captain
in charge of the Roads Department. The late
Judge was educated at King’s School, called
to the Bar in 1858, made a Q.O. in 1880,
appointed Crown Prosecutor and then Dis-
trict Court Judge, but resigned and joined
the Robertson Ministry as Attorney-General,
with a seat in the Legislative Council, in
1885; and in 1894, while Attorney-General
in the Reid Government, he was appointed
Judsre of the Supreme Court. He was the
first Judge of the higher bench to have the
evidence taken by an official shorthand re-
porter —a practice which has now become
general.
John Goodall, the doyen of the Melbourne
Stock Exchange, folded his tent the other
day, aged 85. John, with his brothers
Charles and Edwin, went to California in
1849 to dig for gold. The two brothers
stopped in ’Frisco and made fortunes out ot
shipping; John came on to Victoria, but
not before he had lost a finger while acting
as a vigilante on the Comstock goldfield.
Goodall did a little digging in Ballarat, but
he found dealing in scrip easier and more
payable, so he joined the Ballarat Stock
Exchange as an original member. Being
cautious and moderate he quickly became
popular, and did well as a sharebroker. Ile
went into all the early Ballarat quartz and
Berry alluvial mines, of course, with vary-
ing fortune. One of his mates on the Bal-
larat Exchange was “Billy” Jones, who
failed thrice, and like Robert Bruce’s spider
tried again, to finally succeed and ‘ sit
behind it.” Goodall never failed, but the
bank smash of 1893 nearly cleaned him out.
Then he made a big punch out of Glenfine
South, the Pitfield mine with the big lode
and the little gold in one corner of it.
Shares went from ss. to £l2. B. J. link,
Harry Karlbaum and John Goodall also
made' a “dry bit” out of the Mount Lyell
debenture issue, and from that time John
never looked back. He was a quiet, reserved
sliv man, very generous, and notably good
to liis relative's, whose name is Legion.
Passed out at 73 the Earl of Kilmorey,
who until 1880 was Lord Newry. That was
the title he wore when he accompanied the
Duke of Edinburgh to Australia, and
“attended” at Clontarf on the day of the
shooting incident. Of course wild stories
are woven round that affair; even London
Daily Telegraph, resurrecting it, now talks
of “Lord Newry collecting the men of the
Galatea, and with great difficulty and risk
to himself rescuing O’Farrell.” Newry for
some years afterwards was a conspicuous
figure in London theatrical circles and at one
time owned the Globe and St. James s
theatres.
A mayor who in official advertisements
calls himself “Joe” seems to promise uncon-
ventionality, and Joe (Houston, of Port
Adelaide, lias taken to acting as his own
cliucker-out. The other evening he told a
prosy speaker at a public meet-
ing, “If you don’t confine your-
self to the question I’ll put you
off the platform”—and the next
minute he did it. returning to
the chair to explain that the
orator had said “You are too
dense to understand it.”
The chucked rose to explain
(from the floor of the house)
that he was speaking to an
interjector in the audience
when he said that, and the
Mayor handsomely agreed to
give him “the benefit of the doubt.” But the
speech was not resumed.
A send-off from his friend Roderic Quinn :
Last week Charles Vincent Hynes handed in his
last copy. Born in Ireland, with the Irish aptitude
for journalism, he early drifted to this country, found
a youngster’s berth on a North Queensland joui nal,
had work accepted by The Bulletin, and was thus
encouraged to come to Sydney, where he became sub-
editor of the Australian Star, and later still of the
Freeman’s Journal. There nervous breakdown, the
lurking demon that shadows the steps of the stien-
uous journalist, tracked him, and sent him to the
country in a pathetic quest for health. The quest
proved elusive, mainly because he had to burn the
candle to save the candle. Probably, under the best
of circumstances the quest would have failed. For
Hynes was a little man whose head was almost
oversize, and his brain demanded too much from his
physique. As a journalist he was a political paia-
graphist of a high order, nosing out the vital point
unerringly. He lacked, perhaps, in literary finish;
but, after all, is it not a waste of mind to plane, and
trim, and polish the transient matters of a day? A
democrat to the marrow, much of the most telling
matter in the columns of the Sydney Worker of a
few years back was from his forceful pen. He left
the track at the 51st milestone ; too soon by far.
CHEEKY!
“Dear, I've got to confess to you—Captain
Cameron kissed me last night.”
“What cheek!”
“Both, dear!”
Novelist Conan Doyle has been resurrect-
ing Ned Kelly in England as an argument for
the utility of armor. “When Ned Kelly,
the bushranger, walked unhurt before the
rifles of the police, clad in his own hand-
made armor, he was an object-lesson to the
world. If the outlaw can do it, why not
the soldier?” But Ned forgot to beat plough-
shares around his legs as well as his body,
and that oversight hanged him. Conan
Doyle argues that “it is absolutely impos-
sible for unprotected troops to pass over a
zone that is swept by machine-guns, there-
fore you' must for ever abandon such
attacks"’ —or do as Ned did, with improve-
ments.
The influence of Australia’s little bit of
compulsory training spreads a long way.
Shortly after the oubreak of war J. H. C.
Stuart, general manager of the Dutch Packet
Co. in these parts, quitted for Holland,
where he was mobilised. Though Holland
has so far managed to keep out of the
POYNTON. M.H.R., listens.
trouble, the dreadful experience of Belgium
is in every Dutchman’s mind ; and the feel-
ing shows" itself in a movement in favor of
universal training. Stuart, convinced by
what he saw in Australia of the value of
that training, was one of the chief organisers
of the movement, and is hon. secretary of
a committee which has pushed so hard
that at latest the Government had decided
to bring in a Bill giving substantially all
that is asked for.
McKenzie, M.L.C. (W.A.), is going to the
war as driver of his own motor-ambulance.
McKenzie is a canny Scotchman who made
much money selling hardware at Kalgoorlie,
and who, after being Mayor of the town for
a while, got himself elected to the Leg. Coun-
cil. He was Honorary Minister in the Wil-
son Government, and soon after going out
of office he, together with Gregory, M.H.R.,
and Connolly. M.L.C., got some damages
from the Kalgoorlie Miner for an article
headed “Three Rotten Sticks,” and reflecting
on the sticks’ honor.
Shot at Gallipoli, Col. Malone, O.C. of
the Wellington (M.L.) Mounted Rifles, an
Irish soldier from Taranaki, who went on
the land as a youth, milked cows by day,
studied law at night, became one of the
leading lights of the legal fraternity in tha.t
part of the Dominion (which spells Cow
and Butter in capital letters), and led lus
mounted rifles with a dash and skill that
earned for him the reputation of being the
best mounted-infantry commander in the
North Island.
A recent casualty list recorded the death,
killed in action, of Private A. J. Carnell.
The private was really Captain Carnell, a
British armv officer who had fought m b.
Africa and 'sufficient other campaigns to
earn for him nine medals. Having settled
in Sydney, he tried to obtain a commission
with the Australian expeditionanes, but
was blocked by his age, Then, being young
in everything but years, he hid both Ins
qualifications and his disqualifications, and
had no difficulty in getting away. He had
a son who went to Rabaul, and will go to
the Dardanelles, or elsewhere, directly lie
recovers from the malaria he accumulated
there.
Westralian Assembly stood on what dig-
nity it has left, and the other night closed
the press gallery to J. C. Morrison, a leadei-
writer on the West Australian. Morri-
son’s offence was that,, having listened to
Minister of Lands Johnson call him a miser-
able cur for writing nasty things about Ins
(Johnson’s) connection with the Wyndham
freezing-works contract, he wrote the futile
words, “W. D. Johnson,—You doubly-miser-
able cur and liar,” on a scrap of. paper, and
sent the parcel down by a messenger to the
Premier, with an intimation that it was to
be delivered to Johnson when he had finished
his speech. The Premier, however, opened
and read the note, and promptly moved that
the offender be kept out of the gallery until
he apologised—which he did next day.. Dniy
on one other occasion has a pressman been
warned off the Parliamentary premises in the
West, and that was 17 years ago.. George,
M.L.A., and the late F. Piesse, who was then
Minister of Works and Railways, bumped
against each other in the backyard of the
old Assembly Chamber, and for sending a
full account of the commotion to the lval-
goorlie Miner Colebatch (now M.L.C. and
Liberal leader in the. Leg. Council) was
elected and excluded from the gallery by
order of the Speaker.. Another correspondent,
Harry Davies, who got flic item inserted in
bis goldfields’ papers under “Late Sporting,
for some unexplained reason escaped moles-
tation.
COLONEL RUST AND MAJOR ROT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Colonel Rust and Major Rot,
Writing- far from shot and shell,
Dip their pens, and write, and blot,
And they do it very well.
"Let the press and public roar—•
We know how to run the war!”
Major Rot and Colonel Rust
Are too old to go and tight ;
So they spin tape in the dust
Where no far-flung shell can light;
Each one thinks the war he’ll win
If but let alone to spin.
Strong men die somehow in camp—•
Colonel Rust is calm and dry.
While the funeral parties tramp,
Major Rot has glued his eye
To some papers left by Dash.
(Hear the farewell volleys crash !) .
Colonel Rust and Major Rot
Are queer members of their trade ;
It is hard to think they’re not
Merely things of cloth and braid.
AVe must take them both on trust
AVhilst they spin and sift the dust.
Soldiers staring at the mcon,
Soldiers face-down in the grass,
Died to save each tapercocoon
And its job inside. Alas !
Tougher foes they did not find
Than these old men, left behind 1
N.S.W.
LAST POST.


\ ,
\ -AV
I
: ys : ■■ '. - ■ XT'
mmmte
IlfittMT
sej SM!
~: 3
l@l®
■JvJ\:
V H;’{
Sfr-W
HH
iMiiwgfi
wmA
V I
mx
am
•mmm
giv
HH!
e v .
_.rv
>;•- ”
; , : \i
>:»
J*j
'g
S-rf
fsiss
?^;,
*£t
S '': '
-
msm
GERMANY’S DUMPING CAMPAIGN.
Germany has already laid her plans to
recapture the markets which she lost on the
outbreak of war, and to invade new markets.
From time to time we have heard of immense
stocks being stored in German warehouses
and manufactories, because of the impossi-
bility of export, which, to us, seemed
strange... .but these accumulations, it is
now asserted, have been made of set plan,
and fhey are for the purpose of enabling
Germany to command the trade of the world
when peace is declared. . . .
The people are still asked to believe that
Germany will make her enemies pay for the
war expenditure.... If no indemnity is
obtained from the Allies against whom Ger-
many and Austria are warring, what will
be the result ?. ... To prevent bankruptcy
'Germany has but one recourse: She must
flood the markets of the world with her ex-
ports, with the manufactures of which she
is now accumulating such vast stores....
Without doubt Great Britain and her
dominions will be exploited if the British
people are not awake. Is it not pertinent to
ask what will our action be?
— 5.M.11., August 23.
Help Us Beat Germany
at her own game.
To y0u.... to everybody, it must be self evident, that a declara-
tion of peace will not end the war. If German preparedness
(which we admit to our sorrow) robs us of the fruits of ultimate
victory.. . .of what avail will our sacrifices have been?
The way out is plain. If you have any pretence to Loyalty
... .buy only goods of British origin.
Australian-made goods demand your preference first of all, and
we invite you to consider our preparedness to meet the outfitting
needs of Man or Boy with goods of Australian Manufacture.
For nearly half a Century we have urged Australian People to
wear Australian Wool, and need no better justification than will be
found in our “Austral” apparel for Men and Boys.
Both your Pocket and your Patriotism
give us claim to your patronage.
If you are interested in what we have done and can do with
High-grade Apparel of Australian Manufacture for Men and Boys
.... ask us to send our special “Made in Australia” booklet.
We send it free to any address on request.
GOWING BROS.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484-490 George Street; 3-17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
(
mi
, "1
.„,» *£ .i j^»£3>.d
.-'•ft
sm
mm.
mm
-mm
mt&iszsM
m
JfSTjS
pm
-w
wmm
SSSaMSBra*S&J&»3
3SBS^
cm
4pv
r.-. -■*::!'
« ??
vumuif
«
i"‘Mu
,1f!«
r ■ ?
••' u '■■Xkrrs
C* I .:• ~i . 'i)jM:-n .
> ) « • 1 - 1 -m'i
m
*m
r
\f ? *
c=>\
r>


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stacks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
New Zealand Insurance Company Limited
PREMIER COLONIAL COMPANY.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Sickness, Workmen's Compensation and General
Insurance. 79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The question whether metal contracts
with German smelters have been voided by
the war has been taken a further stage by
the British courts. “Though not without
doubt” Justice Bray has decided in favor of
annulment; and, as might be expected on
such a hesitating judgment, the matter goes
to appeal. The complicated business is
therefore a long way from finality yet. And
unfortunately the difficulties will be far
from ended even if the final appeal court
agrees with Justice Bray. Certainly, with
these contracts annulled, the cos. interested
in Broken Hill will be unhampered in their
efforts to raise capital for building spelter
works in Australia or England. But the
experience of those cos. which have been
smelting zinc ores in Australia and Eng-
land is not good enough to cause the. busi-
ness to be rushed. The Earl of Kintore
presided on July 28 at the ninth annual
meeting of the Central Zinc Co. This is
the concern which was promoted by the
Sulphide Corporation to smelt in England
after the very costly attempt to establish
the business at Newcastle (N.S.W.) had
failed. The experience of the English co.
has not been very much better, and so far it
has not paid a single dividend except the
small one guaranteed by the Sulphide Cor-
poration.
In addressing shareholders Kintore said:
I have often heard -wonder expressed that in spite
of the fact that some of the most important sources
of supply of zinc ores are within the British Empire,
especially at Broken Hill, the industry of spelter-
making should be so much in German hands, and
the Broken Hill mines so dependent on German
buyers. But the fact is that hitherto British spelter
works have not been successful enough to attract
large capital to the industry owing mainly to the
difficulty both in this country and in Australia of
obtaining an adequate supply of skilled labor. We
have ourselves experienced our full share of this
difficulty, and have found that English workmen are
most reluctant to undertake work of this kind
to which they are unaccustomed, and which
although it is not dangerous to health is certainly
laborious. In this respect England is at a disadvan-
tage compared with those Continental countries in
which spelter-making has become almost an heredi-
tary industry, and which are also better situated in
respect of clays for the retorts, but even on the
Continent the average return on the large capital
involved in zinc w r orks is very moderate, and in some
cases very heavy losses have been incurred. I am
entirely in favor of England making herself more
independent of foreign countries in the manufacture
of this metal, and the Government, I think, should
assist by a duty on foreign spelter, or a bounty on
domestic spelter ; but any attempt to suddenly build
enormous new works here, such as I sometimes see
advocated by those who know little of the diffi-
culties, would, I am sure, lead to disappointing re-
sults, and whatever is done in increasing the output
of zinc will have to be done cautiously and gradually.
It must be remembered that the works on the Con-
tinent, built at the cost of many millions, were at
the outbreak of war quite sufficient to produce all
the zinc that Europe in normal times can absorb,
xnd if new works on a great scale are now to be
built in England, the result, unless some of the
Continental works should be destroyed before the
war ends, may be an over-production of the metal
and a fall in price, which would be calamitous to
the owners of spelter works and to the mines. Of
zinc ores there is great abundance in the world, and
the limiting factor in the supply of metallic zinc
does not lie in any scarcity of mineral deposits, but
mainly in the high cost of works and the difficulty
of obtaining an adequate supply of skilled labor.
The people interested in the Sulphide Cor-
poration and Central Zinc Co. are very
wealthy; also they are more patriotic than
most —there is proof of that in the fact
that, while others were content to send their
ores to Belgium and Germany (Belgium, by
the way, takes far more Australian ore than
Germany), they spent nearly £300,000 in
trying to establish works in Australia and
England. That the industry has held out
little inducement can be judged by the fact
that they can still produce less than 5000
tons a year, while the imports to England
amount to over 130,000 tons.
Further, even the comparatively little lot
which the co. has produced has been pro-
duced mostly with German and Belgian
labor. The manager (J. C. Moulden) and
assistant-manager (Wainwright), both Aus-
tralian metallurgists, long ago set them-
selves out to entice the British workman
to take on this job. Amongst other things,
to try to get them to settle down to it,
Moulden advised the co. to provide the
workmen with comfortable cottages; and
this was done. Yet, when the German and
Austrian employees were taken out and
interned, after the works had been bombed,
there were not men enough left to run half
the six furnaces. As for the prodigious
cost of works, you can best judge of that
by the fact that this co.’s capital is £150,000,
and its output, as mentioned just now,
under 5000 tons a year. The Broken Hill
Prop.’s spelter plant at Port Pirie cost
£116,000, and it hasn't averaged for the past
seven years 2000 tons a year.
Of course the difficulties will have to be
got over somehow. Neither Britain nor
Australia can afford to allow the foreigner
to continue in command of tills metal busi-
ness. But the job is a tremendously big
one, 'and the problem isn’t to be solved
merely by voiding these contracts. If it is
to the Empire’s advantage to have the
work done within its boundaries—as of
course it is, so that it may control metal
supplies—then the Empire must give very
substantial assistance to the people who
take the work in hand, as Germany has
done. Among other things, this means that
it must help the cos. to pay a wage which
will attract workmen. For, after all, the
fact that the Central works can’t get the
British labor simply means that the induce-
ments are not large enough. Yet the cos.
under old conditions plainly can’t offer more.
That is shown by the fact that they have
made a loss even when paying the wages
hitherto on offer.
* * * *
In Westralia the War Munitions Supply
Co. is being formed in 200,001) shares of ss.
each “to serve the Empire .by manufactur-
ing munitions for the Empire and its Allies.”
In its prospectus it says l
The earning of dividends for shareholders is no
part of the co.’s functions. Its operations may be
commercially unprofitable. It may cost more to
manufacture a shell than can be got for it, but this
must not be allowed to debar tile co. from accom-
plishing the urgent purpose for which it has been
formed. As far as contributions of capital are
concerned, the co. will at the close of its operations
repay the whole or as much as its assets will permit.
The directors include the leading engineers,
ironfounders and chemists of the State. They
and the solicitors and other officials give
their services ; and many voluntary workers
have offered whole or part of their time.
Everybody who has ss. is invited to take a
share and assist in carrying through an
admirable scheme. The office of the co. is in
Central Markets, Stirling-street, Perth.
The Commonwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia :
Loss. Deficit.
Dec., 1912 .. £14,606 £14,606
June, 1913 .. 32,030 46,636
Profit.
Dec., 1913 . . 1,547 45,089
June, 1914 .. 8,093 36,996
Dec., 1914 . . 13,429 23,567
Reserves.
June, 1915 . . 25,789 2,222
Though the authorised capital of this bank
was originally £1,000,000, to be raised on
debentures, none was actually issued. That
is to say, it started off without a penny of
its own ; and though subsequently the author-
ised capital was increased to £10,000,000,
no issue has even yet been made. Until the
last half-year it thus had no funds whatever ;
and all of its own that it has now to pro-
tect its transactions is the poor little £2222
of reserves which had been accumulated up
to June 30 last. However, the depositors
and other creditors are not likely to worry
about that. They know that behiud the
Commonwealth Bank is the Commonwealth,
which guarantees interest and principal.
At least it guarantees interest and principal
of the debentures up to £10,000,000; and
that is tantamount to giving the bank a
blank cheque. For besides formally backing
the bank up to £10.000,000 everybody knows
that informally, being pledged to that ex-
tent, it is pledged indefinitely.
With a customer like the Commonwealth
Government, Denison Miller, who had been
appointed governor, naturally didn’t have to
wait long on the doorstep before a tidy
deposit dropped in. The first day the de-
posits totalled £2,341,720, mostly the bal-
ances at the credit of various Government
departments. Six months previously a start
had been made with the Savings Bank De-
partment, for which the organisation was
already in existence in the post-offices. In
the next table the bank’s resources art-
divided, the savings bank deposits being-
separated from ordinary deposits and all
other liabilities, and the disposition of the
money is also set out: —
Liabilities.
June,’l3. June,’l4. Dec.,’l4. June,’ls.
Deposits, etc.
(Ordinary).. £2,351,893 £5,114,160 £5,265,932 £9,297,855
Deposits
(Savings) .. 2,694,774 4,645,268 6,078,392 7,420,647
Total
Liabilities . 5,046,667 9,759,428 11,334,324 16,718,502
Assets.
Coin and
Deposits .. 3,142,835 5,110,946 4,929,207 8,164,668
Gonunonw’lth
Notes .. 28,257 . 41,025 379,890 568,046
Public
Securities.. 1,312.992 2,818,981 3,292,209 5,479,480
Advances .. 483,192 1,713,100 2,634,263 2,379,953
Premises .. 32,753 38,379 75,189 128,576
It would be interesting to know the growth
of private as distinguished from Govern-
ment deposits; but they are not separated
in the published accounts. Australian Gov-
ernment accounts are so liable to be swollen
by loan moneys, which are available for only
a few months —are really dropped in merely
for safe custody—that, until this separation
is made, this bank’s deposit and coin figures
will be worth very little. In the past six
months, for instance, ordinary deposits in-
creased by over £4,000,000; but (here is no
significance whatever about that if the money
was merely lying there pending payment for
Defence or other services.
So far as ordinary advance business is
concerned, the Commonwealth Bank is get-
ting a very respectable connection. Doubtless
if the management had felt that way it
could have reached much larger figures; but
all along it has been very well understood
that it was no use going to Denison Miller
and his colleagues with anything that
wouldn’t stand being upended and inspected
from every point. This, of course, is the
only proper policy. Until the bank has
accumulated substantial reserves of its own
it has no right to take anything but
patentlyAsafe business.
Arthur Cocks & Co., Ltd., wholesale
traders in optical goods, etc. For goodwill
£12.000 was paid in shares, and that and
flotation exes, represent the deficit with
which the co. started :
Dividends. Towards
*■■■ ... K e . i)g.
July, Profit. Pref. 7 p.c. Ordinary, serves, licit.
1911.. -—£12,844
1912. .'£10,861 £lO9O 10 p.c. = £5404 £4367 8,477
1913.. 7,373 1112 8 „ „ 4327 1934 6,543
1914.. 7,333 1414 4 ~ „ 2164 3765 2,788
1915.. 0,071 1503 74 „ „ 4057 511 2,277
There is a general reserve of £B5OO and
£1223 of unappropriated profit; together
£9723. On the other side there is the £12,000
of capital represented by goodwill; hence, ‘so
far as tangible assets are concerned, £2277
of the capital has still to be made good.
Things may, however, be a bit better than
that, because in addition to the general re-
serve there is a debts reserve of £2520, and,
according to the directors, at least £lOOO of
that isn't wanted. Presuming, then, that
the assets are worth 20s. in the £, the co.
has in four years, besides paying a dividend
averaging 71 p.c., very nearly wiped out the
debt it incurred for the goodwill of the
business. That’s not bad going.
Twelve months ago the directors, not
knowing what might happen, asked the
shareholders to authorise them to pay a fur-
ther 4 p.c. if they should feel like it pre-
sently. They didn’t feel like it. They saw
that they owed just over £40,000; and
though other people owed them about £6OOO
more than that, they could be sure of only
one thing—that they would be expected to
pay up whether other people paid them or
not. However, things haven’t been so bad.
Book debts have been substantially re-
duced —from £46,830 to £38,615 and, as re-
ported just now, the directors are quite
satisfied that they are a good lot. This re-
duction of outstanding money along with a
reduction of stock from £61,849 to £57,50l
has given the co. most of the means to ie-
duce its own liabilities from £41,718 to
£23,038.
The capital is £75,563, in 54,093 ordinaries
of £1 each and 21,470 7 p.c. prefs. The
£23,03S of liabilities just mentioned are
about half cash on deposit and half money
owing to trade creditors. On the other side
the assets are' almost exclusively stocks
£57,851 and book debts £38,651. There are
no freeholds, and if leaseholds are worth any-
thing they are not valued; anything they
may be worth more than the co._ pays to the
lessor is a hidden reserve. Seeing that the
whole of the capital and about a third more
is in stock and book debts, and practically
nothing in freeholds and gilt-edged securi-
ties, the business can’t be regarded as one of
the very profitable sort. If Arthur Cocks's
name were as well known in the millinery
trade as it is in his own lines, he could
reasonably expect to make about twice the
profit on' capital similarly employed in the
business. Maybe the demand for the optical
and other goods that this co. handles will
persist when the fluff trade is depressed;
but even this, on recent experience, is doubt-
ful. True, it seems almost impossible that
a stock such as this could suffer any such
serious shrinkage as that of (say) a drapery
warehouse; so that, if the profits are no-
thing extra, the capital looks very well
secured. And if the war cuts into sales at
all, it seems quite likely that it also adds
considerably to the value of the co.’s stock,
seeing that so large a proportion of these
scientific goods came hitherto from Ger-
many.
* * * *
Wright, Heaton ano Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers and suppliers of station goods:—
Writ-
Dividends and tpn To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Jan., ’09.. 7,167 10 p.c. = 3500 5000 38,886
Julv, ’09.. 7,056 10 „ „ 3500 4500 37,942
Jan ’lO.. 7,415 10 „ „ 3500 3000 915 38,857
July, TO.. 7,252 10 „ „ 3500 3000 752 39,609
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 29,609
Jan., ’ll.. 7,450 10 p.c. = 4000 3000 450 30,059
Julv, ’ll.. 7,852 10 „ „ 4000 3000 852 30,911
Jan., T 2.. 10,445 10 „ ~ 4250 6195 37,106
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 27,106
Premiums on new shares .. .. 4000 31,106
July, ’12.. 10,742 10 p.c. = 4750 5992 37,098
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000 ... 58,098
Jan., T 3. . 9,124 10 p.c. - 5000 4124 62,222
July’, T 3.. 7,895 10 „ „ 5000 2895 65,117
Jan., ’ll.. 8,532 10 „ „ 5000 3532 68,649
July, ’14.. 7,670 10 .. ~ 5000 2670 /1,319
Jan.’ ’15.. 5,662 10 ~ „ 5000 3000 602 71,981
July, >15.. 8,203 10 „ „ 5000 1000 1203 74,184
The past half-year’s profits are shrunk £lOOO
by a bonus to employees; and the visible re-
serves are shrunk another £lOOO by this
entry: “Provision to assist members of the
staff, who have enlisted, upon their return
from the war.” (Knock off half a minute
here, please, while we give managing-direc-
tor F. W. Browne and his colleagues three
cheers.) Then, having a bit of an internal
reserve —special provision no doubt for con-
tingencies and bad debts and replacement of
plant, etc. —the directors decided to do their
little bit to help the war loan to be a great
success by dropping £lO,OOO into it. A few
years ago, as the table shows, assets were
re-valued and £31,000 of internal reserves
were then disclosed; that is to say, the assets
were written up to that extent. Now the
directors confess to having another £lO,OOO
up their sleeve. But they.propose to leave
it there for the present, merely changing its
form.
The various balance-sheet items have
moved like this: —
Liabilities.
.Tan., July, Jan., July,
1909. 1914. 1915. 1915.
General .'. .. £37,648 £49,472 £53,062 £54,912
Assets.
Cash .. . . 23,263 -16,760 37,352 44,735
Premises, plant, etc. 15,202 18,739 18,466 18,427
Stock ■ . . . . 27,501 45,719 42,417 48,727
Book debts . . 60,472 108,147 95,324 82,770
McCulloch Co. .. 21,846 34,926 36,985 38,937
The half-year’s figures are satisfactory. Cash
has improved £28.000 in 12 months, notwith-
standing that another £3OOO has been put
into stock and £4OOO into the Victorian busi-
ness which is run by Wright, Heaton’s,
though still known as the McCulloch Carry-
ing Co. This extra £35,000 in the three
solid items has been nrovided partly by get-
ling in book debts to the extent of £26,000.
partly by accumulated profit, and to a small
extent by increased liabilities. The reduction
of book debts is an excellent feature con-
sidering the conditions which have been pre-
vailing. The total certainly is still pretty
heavy ; but a large part of the trade is with
wool and wheat-growers, and you can't do
much business with them if you are not pre-
pared to wait till the annual cheque comes in.
But if they are slow pays they are as sure
pays as any in the country. Whether you
can wait till they are ready to pay generally
depends upon your own liabilities. Fortu-
nately Wright. Heaton and Co. have no more
liabilities than their cash actually in hand
could wipe out.
Finney, Isles & Co., Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of nearly everything, of Brisbane: —
Towards
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1905 .. £4,179 6p.e. = £1,768 £2,411 £15,155
1906 . . 5,323 6 „ „ 1,909 3,414 11,741
1907 .. 9,457 0 ~ ~ 2,189 7,268 4,475
Reserves.
1908 . . 12,767 0 „ 3,929 8,838 4,365
1909 . . 13,898 6 ~ ~ 3,983 9,915 14,280
1910 .. 11,694 6 ~ „ 4,03. 7,657 21,937
1911 .. 19,863 8 „ „ 6,815 13,048 34,985
Premiums on new shares.. 4,062 39,04.
1912 .. 16,856 S p.c. = 13,057 3,799 -42,846
1913 . . 14,617 8 „ „ 12,861 1,756 44,602
1914 . . 20,475 8 ~ ~ 12,944 7,531 52,135
1916 .. 17,744 8 ~ ~ 13,019 4,725 56,858
From the profits for the past year £2500
has been cut off and put by against war tax
and other war contingencies. If this and
the amount paid to the Patriotic fund were
included the profits would show up just
above those of the preceding year, This
result must be regarded as entirely satis-
factory, in view not only of the war but
of the fact that, while the other States got
well out of their drought in the middle pi
last half-year, Queensland is still pretty
badly afflicted in spots.
No changes of consequence have occurred
in the balance-sheet figures; in fact, con-
sidering what things have been going on in
the world, the variations here are amaz-
ingly small: —•
1905. 1910. 1913. 1914. 191 a.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital .. 29,462 67,293 153,193 154,393 155,293
Debt to
Finney’s 42,704 27,458
° t ties liab ! l . l 60,962 133,795 126,900 117,205 114,557
Stock .. 60,878 89,119 130,243 122,172 123,408
Real property 7,665 84,332 112,469 111,867 112,018
Book debts 25,550 45,122 60,616 67,407 70,333
Other assets 25,648 34,649 27,801 28, .69 29,9.1
Of the men responsible for the remarkable
progress which has been made dining the
decade two have died within the past 12
months—T. M. Davis, the accountant, who
took the business in hand when it looked as
though it might have to be liquidated, and
H M. Hicks, who put in some of the neces-
sary capital at the outset. These two
were directors tilL they died. But \Y. J.
Coakes and J. Kilroe, the two men who
had been the working partners m the old
Finney-Isles business, and who knew what
the possibilities were —these two are still
managing directors and very much alive;
and the financing, in connection with wlucli
the two men who have gone were once
invaluable, is now an easy matter. 00.
though they are missed, they don t make
the gap they would have made a few years
ago.
The profits for the year, after making the
deductions mentioned above, are equal to
11 p.c. of tlie capital; and that isn’t to be
growled at. especially if, as the directors
infer, the stock has been valued with a
fountain-pen in one hand and an axe m tin-
other. Certainly the co.’s liabilities are
heavy; and when shareholders risk other
people’s money they must expect somethinii
more in the way of return than when they
risk only their own. On the other hand
note that, while the co.’s liabilities tota 1
£114,557, there is no less than £9U,205 in
freeholds (apart from fixtures and fittings)
and £lO.OOO in cash and liquid sundries. fcv>
the whole of the liabilities are represented
by freeholds and cash, leaving the capital
and reserves to* be represented by £12d.40S
of stock and £68,876 of hook debts. The
principal is therefore very well secured. As
for prospective profits, though we must
expect duller times ahead when State loans
stop and the repayment starts. Finney Isles
shareholders can get a lot of comfort from
reflecting that their margin of profit in
excess of the 8 p.c. has been wide ; further,
while no goodwill appears on the balance-
sheet, their broadly-advertised name w ill
give them a pull in getting business cheaply
at a time when most other people will only
get it at heavy cost.
♦ * * *
The Co-operative Box Co. of N. S.
Wales, yvhich began yvith a deficit of foot,
representing formation exes.: —
Written Towards De-
June, Loss. Dividends. Off. Reserves, fleit.
1910 .. —„ “ *7^.
iqii .. £2 £156 -- 489
1912 .1 199 1154 - 1842
Profit. _
1913 2171 1507 £964 878
Reserves.
1914 4989 2389 2600 1722
1915 .. 9853 sp.c.= £837 1278 7738 9466
Loud applause. And not only this co., bul
also the co-operative butter factories yvhich
put up the capital and supply the custom
deserve it. The co. was promoted by tin-
Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Butter Co., the
big distributing concern which handles so
much of the output of N. 8. Wales fac-
tories. It came into being only after the
privately-owned box factories had gradually
pushed their prices up from Is. Id. to Is-
-Bd., and looked as though they were not
going to stop even there. An unfortunate
start was made with a big purchase of un-
suitable timber from Japan. At that time
there were difficulties in the way of getting
Maoriland or Queensland pine; but those
clouds soon dissipated when the millers ( saw
what was behind this co., and now con-
tracts extending over a considerable period
have been made in Maoriland at satisfac-
tory prices for all requirements. 4ne


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
booklet on application,
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager,
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate, is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America,, to *be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4Jd.
1/6
/ 9(1. (minimum
(15/-, 20 words)
Canada
. •• 2/4
1/2
( 7d. (minimum
1 11/8,20 words)
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
111/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. «PBS.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific.
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the best piping for
station use, being quickly installed by unskilled
labor for domestic supply conduit, for bore drains
and for irrigation. Catalogue from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., contractors to all State Govern
ments, 57 York Street, Sydney (head office).*
The Australian Provincial Assurance Associa-
tion, Ltd.- —Steadily and surely this popular young
and progressive Association is working its way into
public favor. Prompt payment of claims, one of
the first aims of the A.P.A., is meeting with public
approval, both as regards death claims and compen-
sation claims arising on accident policies. Letters
of appreciation testify to these prompt settlements,
and in every instance the satisfied claimant becomes
a staunch A.P.A. advocate. Each month sees the
Association making increased progress in all depart-
ments, and steadily gaining in public favor.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and llassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from. Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
In addition. to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one ot
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
* * -X- *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Com-
pany of Australia, Limited. —By mutual consent
Mr. Francis I-L Snow has retired from the above
company, and the Ore Purchase Department at Bridge
Street, Sydney, has been closed. Sellers of ore must
now communicate direct with the Works, Port Kcmbla.
* * * *
“Robey-Leplastrier” Road -Building Machines
means big saving. One shire in N.S.W. saved last
year £4OOO. Sixty shires ied already. Apple
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., hem office, Sydney.* ‘
* * * ' *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, arc i:ni’.ed ;o cc nmunicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
* * -X- #
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus.' Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545.660 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155 451 o 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 80,500 e 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. °- 0
Gen .Man..: Ed wd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannrn Street. Loncion
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Chaliis House, Sydney
iiiiiial troubles, besides producing a small
loss on operations, prevented the co. getting
as much capital as it should have had, and
for jsome time past it has been charging
Is. sd. for made boxes and Is. 4d. for boxes
iii stocks, which was Id. more than the box-
combine’s prices. This, although putting
a strain upon the weaker co-operators, has
placed the co. in a very fair financial posi-
tion ; and now with customers assured and
the outlook otherwise satisfactory, the time
has been judged ripe to knock off the penny,
This was done as from August 1. The
result may be to somewhat reduce the profit
for the current year; but if the co-operators
don't get it that way they will in cheaper
supplies. Even at the lower price there
should be a profit of, say, £5OOO, on a capital
of £16,732; and that is so splendid that when
the present liabilities, amounting to about
£14,500, have been substantially reduced,
there seems to be no reason why the co-
operators should not get further advantages.
Lyell, which had a labor trouble for a
couple of days, fixed things up comfortably;
and there is every prospect of settled peace.
But at Broken llill it is different. True,
Justice Higgins has taken a hand, and a
“compulsory conference” has held its first
sittings; but there is a wild red-rag party
at the Hill with as much mischief in it as
a cage of monkeys; and anything may still
happen there. To this crowd a small thing
like an Arbitration law is of no consequence
whatever.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Prop, is so well satisfied
with the outlook for its iron and steel works
that another £300.000 is to be spent on them.
Two more open-hearth furnaces and addi-
tional coke plant will go in. This expendi-
ture will secure an output of 170,000 tons of
steel per annum intead of the present 125,000
tons.
* * * *
. < treat Cobar wears a. sorry look these
days. For over 20 years smoke has been
issuing from the old hill through one Hue
or another; but all this came to a sudden
stop the other day, when the Government,
>eing appealed to as a last resort, refused
to advance £40,000 to enable the co. to go
on. All hands were put off, excepting, of
course, some of the staff. Only the Last
Trump could shift them. Water is now
rising in all the workings of the properties ;
but this will not do any serious damage for
a few weeks. A deputation from the towns-
people has waited on the Government and
asked it to re-consider its decision. This has
been agreed to. From the town’s point of
view it is urged that the railway reve-
nue from" the co. alone* amounts to about
£BO,OOO a year, and that the closing of the
mines will mean a heavy loss on the Nyngan-
' 'obar line. About £30,000 has also been
put into a water supply, which is valueless
without the mines. It is a dough problem.
Whether the State should consider the mat-
ter depends, however, upon what the co. is
prepared to concede to the Government for
taking a risk which apparently nobody else
will look at.
* * * *
Occidental, Cobar, held its usual six-
monthly meeting the other day. A strike of
engine-drivers hung the plant up for 10 or
11 weeks; but notwithstanding this the co.
felt pretty good, and kept its eye open for
cheap second-hand machinery. It purchased
three head of Nissen stamps complete (now
working), 20 head of Cobar Gold Mine
stamps (at present being erected), and a
rock cracker. 9340 tons of ore were crushed
for 41890 z. gold valued at £38,236. The co.
.is aiming to increase its output, and with
this in view the main shaft is being dropped
another lift. Meantime the directors don’t
say anything about ore reserves. What is
called the Little lode appears to have been
pulled on for more than a fair share of the
gold: S p.c. of the ore treated came from
there, and it produced about 25 p.c. of the
revenue. At the 540 ft. level this ore is almost
exhausted, but some is still available on the
640 ft. level. If the reserves of ore are
reasonable, and if the next level opens up as
anticipated by the co.. things will be better
than they have been for some time. But
many a mining co. has broken its neck over
one “if”; and here are two.
“ * * *
A bismuth and molybdenite property that
would take a lot of beating in a world's
championship is at Whipstiek. South Coast
(A.S.W.). After being scratched at for
nearly o 0 years it is still looking well at
the <ooft. level, and an oil flotation plant
is now being installed. Previous plant com-
prised lo head of stamps and four Wilfiey
tables. A He Bavay expert is to arrive
shortly to erect the flotation plant. Mean-
time little is being done in the mine, but
half-a-dozen men are picking over the old
dumps for ore thrown away in the earlier
days. _About 300 tons, estimated to be
worth 5. p.c. bismuth and 10 to 15 p.c.
molybdenite, are now ready, a substantial
little stock for the oil process to prove its
merits on.
When Mclntyre's well-boomed prospecting
expedition moved out of Southern Cross it
was a very modest affair, after all. Only
about 30 men accompanied it, instead of the
originally-intended 100. J. J. East is organ-
iser, Mclntyre is everything except the
expedition itself, and Tom Rowe super-
visor. Nobody knows how the parade will
end. There arc many surprises in pros-
pecting.
Associated Northern (W.A.) has started
drilling from the bottom of its Victorious
mine at Ora Banda. The show is all to
pieces at depth, and the bore is being put
in as a sort of last resource. The co.’s other
property at Ivalgoorlie has been on the point
of death for a year or more, but somehow
still manages to keep the undertaker at bay.
* * * *
Chaffers (W.A.) is causing its friends
anxiety. Nothing encouraging can be got
from London regarding the fate of the latest
reconstruction scheme, and as it has now
hung fire for months grave fears are ex-
pressed. Meantime creditors are getting
apprehensive, not to say abusive, and the
local attorney is wondering whether life is
worth living.
* * * *
Two working miners lately burrowed into
an abandoned lease known as the Rajah at
Leonora (W.A.), and took out 29 tons
which yielded, per dolly pot and battery
plates, 6050 z. gold. The Rajah has pro-
duced several rich crushings in its time, but
this one beat the band.
* * * *
Melbourne has raised the money to test
the Riverina South at Mulline (W.A.). The
option is for six months, and, if it is exercised,
the vendors will receive £BOOO in cash and
paid-up shares. The show is equipped with
a small crushing and leaching plant, has ore
exposed at various points, and is described
as a going concern. Almost everything else
in the district has gone.
**. * *
“Kalgaru” on the Edna controversy:—
“Oof-bird” twitters again (B. 19/8/T5) on the
subject of Edna May Deeps’ extravagance in putting
in a crosscut 50ft. at the 250 ft. level. It certainly
is enough to write to the papers about. It may have
cost £7O! Now a use is found for it, and a
diamond drill is being installed to make sure what
depth the Edna reef enters the property. The original
estimate was 450 ft. by the Deeps and 800 ft. or 900 ft.
by-the Edna May crowd. The tale will soon be told,
and if the statement that Edna May shareholders
are taking out an insurance policy in the Deeps is
correct, it looks as if the Deeps’ estimate was more
likely to be realised than the Edna’s. The Edna
May plan, moreover, shows that the reef was 250 ft.
from the boundary at 75ft., while at 225 ft. it is
only 150 ft. At this rate, the reef should enter the
Deeps at 450 ft.
“Oof-bird” charges Norman Stuckey, the manager,
with both extravagance and skimping. Verily, the
critic’s is an easy job. “The co. would have done
much better .... had it... .installed a good, service-
able plant and gone deeper.” And what has it done?
Since January last it has built in two boilers and
erected a poppet-head, winding engine, air-compressor,
air-receiver, 9in. Cornish pump and sunk the main
shaft 250 ft., cut a plat and cistern there, and put in
a crosscut. - "Gone deeper”? Why not suggest to a
man who is running from a bull that he is not a
trier? It is an excellent record, and has all been
accomplished on £BOOO or thereabouts. For some
time the shaft was in such rotten ground that only
constant vigilance averted a calamity, and share-
holders should remember with gratitude that but for
the pluck and skill of Stuckey and Hewitt (shift-
boss), who went into the shaft and secured it after
the miners had been taken out, it would have been
lost beyond recovery. The Edna May has been
years getting to 300 ft. ; the Deeps seven months in
getting to 250 ft. But the Edna is a big mine, so
everything is well. The Deeps at present is the
under-dog', and “Oof-bird” knows the good old adage:
“Never kick a man unless he’s down.”
* * * *
No. 4 bore at the Edna May (W.A.) is
well called "the depressed.” It went down
at an angle of 31 degrees from the hori-
zontal, and ought to have hit the lode about
190 ft. Instead it went through a granite
dyke into gneiss. Thence on it cut through
quartz veins and country up to 220 ft. The
managerial idea is that it skated along the
hanging wall. Some veins were 3ft. to 4ft.
thick and carried gold. The*last report told
of light country with the bore deflecting to
the north. It was then out 243 ft., and if
the direction was correct it was getting on
visiting terms with the Deeps.
Having a two to one majority, the Mel-
bourne crowd in Edna Central rubs out the
lerth .office and register. Chairman Snow-
ball gives as a reason that mailed reports
got to Perth five days before Melbourne had
them. But letters don’t matter. What
counts' is the urgent wire. It would help to
an understanding of things if Perth got
into the market first; but those who haunt
exchanges know that the intelligence depart-
in out isn’t there. Frank Savage, broker and
mining engineer, is named as the onlv pos-
sible candidate for a seat on the Board
probably on the strength of his Marvel
Loch and Daylesford halo.
Doubt is over as to the whereabouts or
the Cathcart (Vic.) gutter, Toole having
at last located it inside the New Langi
lease. This snuffs out the South Langi
story that the profitable tributary goes
meandering south into its claim —unless Dan
Murray rushes down a bore on the boundary
and proves that it is there. Not only is
Toole into the wash, but the whispered story
is that he has seen gold sticking in it like
pebbles in drift. Anyway, he certifies to a
dish prospect that multiplies into 12oz. per
fathom. These little calculations don’t,
however, always come out right. The office
didn’t have its wires in early, and could
late in the day only say that the rise off
No. 2 shaft was in good stuff. Whereat
some jobbers want to carpet all and sundry.
If Toole proves an extent of good wash off
his No. 2 shaft in the New Langi, Cathcart
Central ought to give him an Iron Cross,
as every foot of payable wash makes good
for the lead in the Central. In it nowadays
4oz. stuff is being got down the gutter. So
Ararat may have another flutter after its
two years’ rest.
•X* * * *
After running up and down the gamut
between 200 ft. and 485 ft. the Scarsdale,
near Berringa (Vic.), owns up that it can
find no reef in the bottom. Hence a bit
more wealth is cut out of the war census.
At 200 ft. things didn’t look altogether bad,
but sinking and driving the next two levels
showed less gold, less quartz and more calls.
* •* * *
John Goodall, Melbourne broker, who
passed away last week, was a big mining
gun in his day. One of his last flutters
before he handed the reins over to Cooper
was in dentine South. As an old Ballarat
man he ever had a weak spot for alluvial,
and among his close cronies were the Mad-
ame Berry double, Joe English and Jimmy
Randall. Of the latter it has been written
that he could see better down a bore with
his one gimlet eye than anyone else could
with two in the best working trim. John
Goodall lasted through the land boom, and
when times turned it wasn’t long before he
had the best investment business in Mel-
bourne joined on to a mining goodwill.
When he retired lie held shares in more con-
cerns than any man in Melbourne; and if
a float was on, from a State loan to a
mining shindycate, old John could turn on
more financial taps than any rival. All of
this made his end peace. And he deserved
it; for he bad many virtues,
- v - *• * 4C-
“Griff” Williams, after trying bis luck
on a molybdenite show in Bananaland, has
migrated to the Mungari find, near Cool-
gardie. His co. is to put up £4OOO and a
sixth interest if it takes over the prospec-
tors’ show. “Griffo’s” first report thrills
with “possibilities” ; but Melbourne is much
more anxious to see him punch out a patch
or two like the bag full of specimen be
landed in the city after the strike was made.
F. 11. Snow, the Adelaide man who repre-
sented the Aaron Hirsches and others in
Australia and was unsuccessfully prosecuted
at tremendous length for trading with the
enemy, has been bought out of the Kembla
(N.S.W.) copper-refining works, and has
retired altogether from the metal trade.
The heads of the old staff take over the busi-
ness and will run so much of it as is not con-
nected with enemy principals. It may be an
anomaly, but it is nevertheless a fact that
Snow, though the Australian agent for some
of the biggest German smelters, has at the
same time done large things for Australian
industries. For instance, it was he who,
noting that Wallaroo and Moonta were
wasting the materials out of which sul-
phuric acid might be made, promoted the
co. for the manufacture of superphosphates,
and so pioneered the chemical fertiliser
industry in S. Australia. Later Mount
Lyell established works, and when the two
amalgamated Snow became chairman of the
co.
* * -X-
Larut shareholders have had a report from
H. E. Pratten, dated Taiping (F.M.S.),
August 6. _He says that J. M. Newman,
who is now in the Malay Peninsula, “gener-
ally confirms the estimates of tin contents
and gross value of the co.’s property, though
somewhat modifying the yardage originally
thought to be payable.” Newman has also
been checking results from neighboring land,
and results to date “make it very doubtful
whether sufficient suitable land can be ac-
quired to justify another dredge.” Mr.
Pratten has gone on to Europe, and Mr.
Newman has been appointed managing
director.
Jock Finlayson has been chosen by the
Melbourne crowd to run the' Bangadang
(N.S.W.) with general-manager Wesley.
Five-ounce stuff is the latest reported. But,
as with all N. S. Wales gold-mines, it is
far more important to have word of ton-
nages than of values.
* * * *
“First Man”: Re the “Other Man” and
Edna May (B. 2/9/T5). He admits that
Central’s mining and milling costs are the
lowest at Westonia “on paper.” That is the
only way I can vet at them ; and such com-
parisons and modifications as “small” amount
of development and development charges
being “almost as much” as mining costs
don’t contradict the paper figures in anv
definite and tangible way. I repeat that if
the 300 ft. proves as good as the 225 ft. level
the Edna will have £5 a share in sight, and
the fact that I don’t bear Ednas at £8 doesn’t
discount the estimate worth tuppence. Edna
pavs 3s. a share a month and plenty of
holders think it’s a Great Boulder. ' The
last time I beared a waster show which had
only a few shilling divs. ahead it cost a hat-
ful of money to buy back the almost-worth-
less stuff at treble the price I sold at. And
the price I sold at was treble the real value,
and the co. had four times the share issue of
the Edna. The bear who tries to bite a
stock with 34 three-shilling divs. ahead of
it will have to retire north of Grodno.
* -X- * *
Westralia’s State batteries had crushed
1,039,092 tons gold ore to the end of June, for
bullion valued at £4,377,301. Two State
tin-dressing plants had up to that date
treated 69,748 tons for 80,222 tons concen-
trates.
* * *
One of the first manufacturing industries of Aus-
tralia was that of leather belting. Fifty-seven, years
ago we commenced the- manufacture of “Pioneer’'
leather belting. “Pioneer” has outlived all the pre-
judices in favor of the imported article, and because
of its excellent quality it to-day occupies a position
as Australia’s leading power-transmitter. Made only
by J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York Street, Syd-
ney (opp. Q. V. Markets), and sold in the other
States by Geo. Russell & Sons P’t’y, Ltd., Flinders
Street, Melbourne) Victoria; The Queensland Machin-
ery Company, Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland : Mr. .John
MqKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia ; Mr. Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth,
Western Australia; Mr. G. C. Dempster, Argent
Street, Broken Hill.*
* # * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.*
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“ttie Ilardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
* » * *
Extract from The Policy-Holder. London, 26th
November, 1913, re The Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society, Ltd.: “Then, too, in another way it
makes a wider appeal than many mutual assurance
societies, its programme of operations including, in
addition to life assurance and annuities, life policies
which include sickness and accident-benefits and per-
sonal accident and sickness insurance on the usual
lines, while it also has a young industrial branch —
established about four years ago—in which the usual
activity and push have been manifested, as may be
gathered from the fact that already a business has
been built up represented (in 1912) by an issue of
nearly 40,000 policies for sums assuring over a mil-
lion and a quarter sterling.” ■ [2
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 33.)


Under
Royal
Warrant
dfg
ToH.NL
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
champagne
OtirlesHeidsieoC
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR
SALLOW COMPLEXIONS.
Everyone may have a clear and bright
complexion, free from furrows or wrinkles, if
they will only take a little daily trouble in
the following manner : Buy some Puritol wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply every
night, lap a little cold water on the face ten
times with the hands every morning, allow-
ing it to get thoroughly round the closed
eyes, and pinch the skin very gently across
all wrinkles. Puritol Wax Soap, which
leaves a fine film of wax on the skin, should
be used ; this acts as a protective during the
day. This treatment arouses the dormant
nerves and -blood vessels, and undoubtedly
accounts for many of the clear complexions
so much admired by those who do not .yet
know the secret.* [3
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <& CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
COGNAC
eSTB?
1795
BRANDY
OTARD
15 YEARS OLD
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 13, 1915.
My Dear Arini, —
Australia Day committee purred over the
cream-puff at Government House on Friday
afternoon. A huge muster answered Lady
Edeline’s call, and replied in person to kind
inquiries about its money-bags.
The sub-regal visit to the Northern Rivers
will be shadowed by Secretary Budge. The
chief event comes off next Monday, when
the combined musical effort of the Northern
district opens in Lismore.
The Bananaland Governor and his wife
are going to meet the Stricklands this week.
The sub-regal Goold-Adamses ax-e entertain-
ing company, and the party may in conse-
quence wear a more frequent smile than
usual.
Heaton Rhodes, the wealthy Maorilander
who has gone as envoy to Egypt, spent about
three hours in Sydney. This gave him time
to eat his dinner here, have a look round,
and board the express for Melbourne. His
errand to Egypt is one of peace, though he
is a colonel. He is going to look into Red
Cross and other matters which touch the
welfare of ALL. troops. The Dominion man,
who grows daffodils and other blooms by the
aci-e in his Christchurch garden, has a
polished .exterior that sometimes brings him
trouble. In a Sydney lift last week he
stepped aside and bowed in his usual Ches-
terfield style to allow two fat old ladies to
step out. They were sure so polite a man
must be a very wicked one, so they promptly
offered him a handful of tx-acts. He passed
them to his private secretary, Mr. Crow, who
is a younger man, and is going to Cairo, too.
As _ with the Australian Red Cross emis-
saries, all exes, come out of the envoy’s own
pocket.
One dear lady wrote in an English paper
of the first batch of Australian wounded
that “there was none of the ‘blow’ usually
associated with Austi-alians.” Then I
counted the “I’s” in the half-column written
by the representative of the modest people
who sang “The Bulldog Breed” and were
surprised by war without a cartridge for
their gun. She used 47.
Danger Owen, Iv.C., who fathers the new
Red Cross Information Bureau, implores
inquii-ers to be definite. It is no good ask-
ing aboxit John Smith unless you tell more
than the color of his hair. His numbei*,
regiment and battalion must be added to
the usual descriptive matter about the shape
of his nose. Woodstock Chambers, S 8 Pitt-
street, is the address.
Mi*. Holman will begin to suspect pre-
sently that cold shoulder is the national
dish. The Australia Day Committee was
invited in his name to accept the Govern-
ment’s hospitality at a week-end at Kos-
ciusko, and straightway they began to make
excuses. In the end only a small party of
six set out for the freeze. Of these' the
Neville May mans returned intact: but W.
G. Layton had to be left behind for a day
ox* two. The change from being a Deputy
Town Clerk at 40ft. above sea level to being
a chamois at nearly 7000 ft. is a form of
week-ending not to he undertaken lightly.
The Strickland youngsters improved their
minds by going to Ilawkesbury College with
lather the other day. As they are keen on
the outdoor life they were able to enjoy the
thrill of seeing young chickens step oixt of
• heir shells, and hear the baby porkers say
what they think aboxit Russian strategy.
Miss Onslow, of Camden Park, was in the
party, and could an she would have given
an inspiring address on the dairy section.
Captain Segrave, R.N., who was to have
joined the chorus for the day, sub-edited his
plans and stayed in town.
The Loretto Convent fete for the damaged
kangaroo was unofficially opened by a
thundeivlap. Tn the waterspout that fol-
lowed the lady helps seized the goods and
rushed them under cover. When the storm
passed over, the Ivirribilli school damsels
returned to the attack. The ex-pnpils who
had arranged the affair wore x*einforced
by pupils from Normanhurst. These
joyful pilgrims raided the sweet stall
where Airs. Norman Alacleod and Eva
O'Sullivan were in charge. The girls who
wore white frocks with purple paper hats
were most decoi-ative assistants. Miss
Leonard, two sisters Lynch. Aliss Alonie
and Miss'Polin vigorously assaulted the new
arrivals, and the voice of the raffler was loud
in the land. Airs. John Hughes, sen., was
president of the piratical committee.
Before ascending the hill to the Loretto
fete, travellers had to encounter a gang of
robbers on the Ivirribilli wharf. They were
like young wolves howling for your all.
Some _ battalion comforts’ fund was their
objective. Plain citizens carefully climbing
off the gangway had cakes, cushions and
other side-lines thrust under their noses,
while raffle tickets brushed their eyelashes.
Ai. elderly pessimist inquired if they were
going to raffle an adjacent baby. Gladly,
the pirates answered, if the mother wasn’t
looking!
Miss Hilda Wallack, a younger daughter
of the N.S.W. State Commandant, said “I
will” to Ernest Jones, of Nelson, the Alaoi’i-
land hop village, the other afternoon.
Manufacturers’ week is spreading before
prospective customers a big display of Aus-
tralian goods. It would take a column or two
to detail the wares; but again one notices
the excellent quality of the woollen stuffs.
Also the rapidly-improving standard of
home-grown artificial flowers and other lines
that demand a sense of form and color.
The Sydney woman seems to be fiercely in
earnest in the matter of boycotting enemy
goods. If she is of course she won’t offer
the slightest objection to a 100 per cent.
Customs tariff even should a horrid Labor
man propose it. That, anyhow, will be the
practical test. Mere Hymns of Hate are of
no value.
The competitions in the Repertory
Theatre, promoted as a tail to Australian
Manufacturers’ Week, produced a brisk pro-
cession of prodigies. Albert Goldie stage-
managed these entertainments. Judged by
what happened on Saturday night they were
•‘i weird addition to an Australian week.
Very little attention was given to home-grown
songs or recitations; mostly the com-
petitors attacked such well-worn goods as
Longfellow’s “Vision Beautiful.” The young
pianists made an indifferent effort, but the
songbirds were average infants. For some
reason “The Little Grey House in the
West” is at an acute stage in popularity.
It was warbled twice, the last canary being
rather larger than a plump, pale-pink worm
with a hairbow on top.
Concerning Manufacturers’ Week, Lady
Edeline Strickland has hit the right tack on
the head —or one of the right tacks. “It’s
the women who do the shopping, and I
earnestly ask them to see that German goods
should be for ever banished, and replaced by
those made in Australia or Britain.” This
is the crux of her official appeal to Us when
we sot out with pay-day coin in our peggy-
bags.
( The Society Tableaux for the Light Hoi-se
Comforts Fund were a solid financial suc-
cess ; so the Repertory will be taken at the
end of the month and the show repeated to
buy odds and ends for another regiment. “In
a Persian Garden” was sung by Mrs. Ward,
Mrs. Alex. Gordon, Gerald Cooper and Frank
Hannell—a quaint contrast in sizes. The
bass, Hannell, who brought his thunder from
Newcastle, was a valuable asset to the
songsters, who had the support of Mirrie
Solomon at the piano. Ruth Lumsdaine
and a sister, Valerie Davenport, Joyce Allen
and other damsels apneared in the tableaux.
An odd male or two had been impounded for
the occasion, but even our Best People are
getting desperately short of cavaliers. About
£l5O was netted by the show.
The Society of Artists is seriously cogitat-
ing over its annual show. The big display
generally takes place in November; but for
many reasons the chief. Julian Ashton, feels
like waiting this year till after Christmas.
Amongst the guests at the wedding party of
Lieut. Goodchild. R.N., and Miss Essie South-
wai’d Avas the dashing Captain Cumberlege,
R.N., famous in peace-time as a dancing man
and dandy. Malta used to be dazzled by the
Cumberlege wardrobe —in the dead days
when a black-and-white check was consid-
ered the acme of male fashion. Since then
the feminine form has taken to this pattern
with such violence that the average man
would rather perish t-han do the block in
sliephei-d’s plaid.
Archbishop Kelly opened the fair in aid
of the Ivincumber and Gore Hill orphanages.
Greatly daring, a committee had induced the
Sisters of St. Joseph to take the Town Hall
for 10 days. The big building was pei’ilously
empty at the official opening, but the affair
may pull through without the financial frost
that threatened it last week. Local interest
is a big asset in these matters. If Mrs.
Smith suspects that Mrs. Brown makes
better jam than she does, Mrs. S. assiduously
attends the produce stall to try to wrest the
secret from her rival. But it’s a far ci*y
from the Town Hall to Kincumber, and the
host money-spinner may be the art union.
Louis Ileydon was on the platform at the
opening, and T. Waddell, M.L.A., also sup-
ported the orphans’ cause.
Some time ago the Pat O’Briens, of
Reinga, Woolwich, offered their beautiful
waterside house as a hospital for convales-
cents. No stipulation as to whether the
sick men came fi*om Liverpool or the Dar-
danelles hampered the loan. The genei-ous
owner also offered to pay the water and gas
bills for so long as the place was needed. So
far so good. Then came the local tug of
war. .To understand “the River” it is neces-
sary to remember that the waterside suburbs
North wood, Longue ville and Woolwich resent
the alleged “superior” manner in which
Hunter’s Hill either stands aloof or patron-
ises its neighbors. A family row had long
been brewing when a public meeting at
Hunter’s Hill brought the squabble to a
head. James Ashton heard the pot boiling
when he rose to address the gathering, osten-
sibly called to discuss means of providing any
extras that might be wanted for the O’Brien
loan hospital. Soon the meeting seethed,
and in the' middle of the uproar Mrs.
Blaxland, of the Northwood Red Cross, sent
in her resignation. If you listen at nights
you can still hear various cats sharpening
their claws.
Writing from Gallipoli Captain Wallis,
cx-A.D.C., remarks in pencil:—
The papers will have told you how valiantly all
the Australians behaved. The landing was Hell,
Heat and millions of flies. I got hit on the third
day and retired to the hospital at Alexandria for
five weeks. Now I’m back and at it again. The
Turks, like ourselves, are dug into their burrows like
rabbits. Tea all day, with no milk, is not exactly
nectar, but the Australians take to it more kindly
than I do.
The Mitchell Library has got hold of
ivory medallions of Sir John Young and
his wife—sub-regal personages in N. S.
Wales in the early ’GO’s. They reveal the
lady’s style of coiffure without any ameliora-
tion. She wetted the comb, smacked her
front locks well down on her head, and gave
them a twist over each ear. The rest of
her hair —which is hardly worth mentioning
—was then curled round in a plait the size
of a door knob. Several old N. S. Wales
portraits in the collection are frankly lab-
elled “not known.” If anyone can give them
a name the Mitchell Library will be much
obliged.
Poor d’Apice, of the Stricklands’ gentle-
man-help department, is still seriously ill.
He is in St. Vincent’s Hospital, but ho
hasn’t thus far responded to its care.
Gordon, on the North Sydney line, is to
have a sale of goods for the benefit of the
bandaged kangaroo on October 2. It will
be opened (d.v.) by the Cullen lady.
That broth of a boy, Father O’Reilly, has
been welcomed as the new chief of St. John’s
College in the University paddocks. He is
just back from a trip to Ireland, and takes
the seat of that most peaceful of clerics, the
late Monsignor O’Brien.
Daffodil-sellers at Her Majesty’s on
Saturday morning blessed (or otherwise)
the rain that washed away potential cus-
tomers. Mrs. Hugh Ward, ehieftainess of
the bazaar, had in consequence a disappoint-
ing balance to hand to the Sheepskin Vest
committee. Mr. Pitt, whose garden at Went-
worth Falls contributed about 20,000 blooms,
intends to next give the bulbs to the fund.
Saturday’s supply of blooms exceeded the
public demand, but private hospitals came
to the rescue and took the residue at a
reasonable figure.
Surgeon-Captain Leslie Dunlop, a strap-
ping young man from WollstOnecraft, is
reported better. He had a narrow escape
after a bad clout on the head at Gallipoli.
Brother Albert, also in the A.M.C., wasn’t
very far away when Leslie fell. Now lie’s
in the trenches —or was when news came
through.
George Rowe, the eloquent Methodist
chaplain from Brisbane, is going to repeat
his successful lecture in Sydney on Septem-
ber 28. Results go to one of the Battalion
Comforts’ funds.
Charles Regan, the wealthy storekeeper
of Tamworth, died the other day, and put
one of the best-known of the State’s R.C.
families in mourning. The eldest son had
just previously. got Dad’s consent to go to
the wax*. Now he may stay home a while
lenger to wipe mother’s tears away.
A very young bride and groom walked up
the aisle of a Stratlifield church last week.
The girl was the pretty and well-dowered
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ross Nott.
Mother used to be a Miss Jones, of the big
drapery firm. The youthful groom, Ser-
geant Cowper, of the Light Horse, beloxxgs
to the family which called the late Dean
Cowper grandpa* He is bound for the big
struggle, after a short honeymoon trip to
Melbourne via Burradoo.
A knitter’s reel, invented and patented by
a Sydney woman named Daza Gibson, is
one of the useful casualties of the times.
Mr. Tom Dixson, one of the tobacco people,
took to flying for a while after he arrived in
England: and liis pretty, plump little wife
was handy to applaud his birdci’aft. Ho
hoped to get to the Front that way. Now,
however, the nevvs comes that the Sydney
man Ims a commission in the Coldstream
Guards—a regiment that took some living up
to iix its gilt-edged days of peace.
The Department of Education has been
moving into its new sandstone palace in
Bridge-street. Among the accessories of a
building that cost nearly £125,000 is a
Gallery, and the Royal Art Society is going
to christen it when it holds its 36th annual
exhibition there next month. The private
view is fixed for October 2.
,T. 11. Humphreys, secretary of the Eng-
lish Proportional Representation Society,
arrives here next week. He has been in
Tasmania, which is the one State in the
world where this frilly electoral system has
been given a thorough trial —thanks to the
activities of a woman, the late Catherine
Helen Spence. Governor Strickland gives
the visitor an official snack on Sept. 24.
Young Tom Dibbs, a grandson of old
banker Tom, has been killed in France; and
another grandson, splendid young Massic, is
wounded again, dangerously this time. The
Dibbs boy was a clever youngster, just
through five years’ study in Europe. In
Switzerland he had lately gone through a
school of engineering with brilliant promise.
South Sydney Hospital is coming to the
end of its sheets and towels. Society, headed
by a mayoress or two, is going to roll up
by tram and car on September IS, and is
expected to take with it fat parcels contain-
ing contributions to a linen tea. The
Willie Cooper dame will be behind the urn
as hostess.
Mrs. O’Connor, of the Veterans’ Home
committee, gave a handsome bit of bunting
to the Soldiers’ Club the other morning, and
Veteran Captain Head handed it over to Dr.
Mary Booth. The club is in a fairly flour-
ishing condition since the Violet Day wind-
fall.
A note from one of Txie Bulletin's
family of artists: —
The first thing that struck me about Egypt was
the luck of the married men. The fashions don’t
seem to have changed since the time of Pharaoh; so
the wives are able to keep the home going instead of
going shopping. Also the gentlemen walk or ride
donkeys" while the ladies struggle on behind with
baskets on their heads. This doesn’t please the
gallants of Australia, and they don’t hesitate to
advise the Egyptian chaps to “Carry the lady’s
parcel,” “Get work” or “Be a sport.” You see, a
lot of our boys are single. And the Egyptian seems
to guess as much, for the gentleman sends a pitying
look our way as if to say, “You’ll know better by-
and-bye,” and leaves the matter at that. Perhaps
he doesn't always understand, lie hasn’t yet quite
mastered the Australian language, though he’s
bravely struggling to rear its most vivid flowers.
One of the oldest members of Paling’s
staff, music-loving Alfred Usher, has passed
out after a few days’ illness. Daughter Con-
stance, a local pianist of some note, lately
went off to Japan, her sailor husband, Sirnp-
son-Baikie, having secured a shore billet in
Yokohama.
Gertrude Tait, the Parkes girl who used
to be matron of the Thursday Island Hos-
pital, and afterwards was supervising nurse
for the Fapuan Government, married her
chosen Lewis in Port Darwin recently. Now
her big Scotsman has gone to the war, and
a rather sad-eyed little lady is in Sydney
waiting for his return.
Sydney women have been so fiercely pur-
suing exchange and barter that the end of
the war will chop out a few hundred ama-
teur shopwomen hard to beat behind any
counter. Mrs. Alex. Gordon and a bevy of
damsels sold flowers at 100 per cent, profit
in a local music-shop the other morning.
At the top of William-street, in storm and
shine, the Yaralla lady, Miss Eadith Walker
-—a smart business woman —was “head” of
a flourishing produce-store on Saturday.
Commerce, the life blood of a great water-
front. is in the veins of our Best People,
and they’re coining money for the war funds.
Running the tea-room at the Chamber of
Commerce Trade Fair has been a paying
game for various regimental funds. Now
that the Fair is flickering out, the burning
question is: “Can’t we rent some suitable
place, and keep it going all through the war-
time?” A number of committee women still
hope to evolve something permanent. Half
the food would be gladly given by enthusi-
astic young cooks, and the profits would make
a steady flow of small coin for patriotic
purposes.
For the Ist Field Artillery Brigade and
Ammunition Column the Comforts commit-
tee has been fitted up with a rent-free room
in Metiers’ Building. 154 Elizabeth-street,
and all parcels delivered there will be sent
forward, free of cost, either to individuals
or to the brigade, as desired. Of course-this,
like every other committee, wants all the help
it can get—work or money ; either will he
greedily devoured.
The season being in the spotty stage, blow-
ing hot and cold in the same day, we can
see the girl with her largest fur wraps
sidling up to another damsel in white muslin
and frilly underskirts. The old hailstorm
muslin, which has burst into new life this
year, has the same disadavantage as it had
of yore. On a warm day it helns the sun to
leave a complete pattern on the neck and
shoulders. But there’s a fascination about
this material, so spotted neck is likely to
be the rage this summer.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
v f N s ?( j: 5 ~ ' -■;
■■<? ' * ■ J f,l ; ’ *
Jllllili
lIH .
«
m;
lAi
«
&3J*
S,
mk
\V
m.
iac®
m
§gg£j|
tow*
11
pPKS|«
/xxil
isss
,!_y?«
i&fessilf
NO
Vs
\\7;
sgsss^i
; „V. -x
>-
i**-
m ■ ':
m
-
m
'•spT\ * ~
< <; f if"v 5 l/ *s' .
( \j/ *s)
m
stei
X
yj
•«J»s<s.
W "1
* !
V
;«fs
x
. E
7
gsa
/?>
Illi
Si i
m
i •<
«;
&&
Cd
VSC^ifr:
' N ■’
Jip&S&f |(s i
AlfafP* .
\ fa
i ?..s
Wi
Wmm
SB
■M
csm
i'Wa
'1
..* ■■• 'l
3 \ •;;
*?&&
1
V %
Wi
■Ms?
1 A.l
I
i 7>t
n&
SC
M
iMSII
Riiflt
»
s**
H
jg|£g&&
HI ■ H-
nam
f>m SB
IP
if
>-•.
■ i
KS»
w
%::JSP
X&Wy-rir.
i*i
Mi
1
>•7
'•7
I !
ife
s:
issn
ii
‘4
Hfilx
il
«
?*.
;iw*f
if%jgw s *
B«9ft
■V j 'i
j. f;
*•> 107
:~" T .f-
■iVTTSA^
e
9%
(d
u
A
0
U
Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Knows a clever
Dodge or two.
Hostile troops
Across the ricHe
o
Have blown up
The railway bridge.
Where the broken
Stone piers sank,
Chunder swings from
Bank to bank
By the . scraps of
Steel that hane.
o
None can beat
The “COBRA”


lm.
18’, o.
SEVENTY-FIVE YEA RE.
MOTOMSTS’ MEEDS
Farmer’s Motor Garments strongly emphasise those desirable
attributes of first-class make and finish, up-to-the-minute style
and lasting' service, which have made Farmer's Clothing notable
for over 75 years.
We illustrate a smart Double-breasted Model, with Raglan
Shoulders, Military Collar, Strap-on Cuffs and through opening-
pockets ; is cut on generous lines in skirt, and fulfils all
demands of style and comfort. Prices as under: —
In BROWN HOLLAND 21 /-
In Drab Linen 25/-
In Drab Crash 30/-
In Grey Alpaca 35/-
In Bine, Brown and
Green Alpaca .... 42/-
Also Single-breasted Styles, at 1/0 loss than the above prices.
We
Pap
Carriage.
F armer’s, Sydney
We
Pan
Carriage.
PITT , MARKET AND GEORGE STREETS.
m
KM
A
: ■
i
i
«
How to Know
Good Hose....
is a problem to many
users of Garden Hose,
for much of it looks alike.
The Surest Way
is to ask for a brand
of Hose that has
earned a reputation
in this country for
Strength, Quality
and Service. In this
respect you will find
nothing better than
law
&
for it’s freshly made,
and will withstand
years of wear without
cracking or bursting.
You can ask for “Dunlop”
Brand and rest assured of
satisfaction. Made in 3
Qualities.....
“DUNLOP,” “OCEANIC,”
and “FEDERAL.”
OBTAINABLE ALL STORES.
9
I
a
* . ;
. . ■
m
JA-C
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO.
All State*
and N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, September 18, 1915.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—-
To help the Children’s Hospital, which is
urgently in need of funds, Mrs. J. K. Merritt
is giving a garden party at Fairholme, Kew.
Cady Helen will open it at three o’clock on
September 25. and Mrs. Derham, Mrs. Walsh,
Mrs. Cowan and the llenty girl will be
amongst the helpers. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme,
Aubrey Campbell and Airs. Leslie Stuart are
running a special stall, and the prettiest
Sassiety girls, who are now almost profes-
sional helpers, will be well on view, with
ribbons streaming from their garden hats.
Winter is dying, and the Glaeiarium with
it. The chilly place wound up on Saturday
night with snow-balling on a large scale.
1 fiscreet and reverend citizens went back t.O
primitive boyhood, and assaulted each other
desperately. Arthur Robinson and ,T. 1,.
Wharton; the Lindleys and the Shields;
Lesly Madden and the Frank Madden
maidens were all there ; so was Airs. Bates —
she of the tremendous opals—and heaps
more. Pneumonia blouses were drenched,
my dear, and altogether the revellers had a
very thrilling time.
Artist B. E. Alinns has arrived in Alel-
bourne with his life, but minus his pictures
and most of his clothes. The fire —or series
of fires —on the ill-fated Benalla caused the
loss. Alinns is out to whet his eye again on our
black brothers. It is 20 years since he was
in Australia, and though he will never forget
the look of an aboriginal, he feels that the
beloved memory needs brushing up. Touch-
ing at Durban he became fascinated by the
Zulus —magnificent savages with an attrac-
tive strut like an ostrich and a commendable
taste in head-dress. He means to draw
some more of them on his way back to Eng-
land.
Captain Fane and his delicate Dresden-
ehina wife left on the last week’s liner, she
for home and he for the Front. The ex-
A.D.C. was wounded early in the war, and
while recuperating in Australia put in
some of the soundest shawl-carrying work
that Alelbourne has seen.
The Frank Aladdens ran a bazaar at
Camberwell which was worth over £2OO to
the Returned Wounded Soldiers’ fund.
The more festive of the two Shields
brothers —the- one from Yea-—is now at
Woolwich (E.) training for the R.A.AI.
Corps. His famous brother Douglas con-
tinues to inhabit the top of the tree in Eng-
land. He did more for Lady Dudley’s
health than anyone else, and also looked
after the children, though those lusty
youngsters needed very little medical atten-
tion. That is supposed to have given
Shields his start in London ; and to one. of
bis capacity a start is the only thing
needed.
Young AValter Landale left for the war
trailing, as it were, golden clouds of race-
course tips behind him —one being to back
Amata for the Sydney Epsom. He should
know, as he rented Amata from the Bail-
lieux and won a good race at Caulfield with
him.
Olive Bridges, daughter of the squatting
Admiral, is ill. I told you how she went
into Alelbourne Hospital as a probationer.
Well, after a few weeks of scrubbing floors
and washing insanitary patients, she devel-
oped tonsilitis. And she has it still.
Airs. Appleton and her daughter arc
leaving again for London. Colonel Appleton
was censoring papers in Alelbourne when
he was offered a War Office job in England.
The Cuthberts came down from their Bal-
larat fastnesses to welcome their warrior
boy who returned wounded on the Osterley.
David Syme’s widow, who died the other
day, was christened Annabella —Annabella
Johnson. She was born in IS3B, an awful
time when Arabella was a popular label for
British girl-babies. As for it
orobablv came into vogue with the early Eng-
lish editions of Edgar Allan Toe, published
in America in 1881. Wasn’t it E.A.P. who
sang of Annabel Lee and his kingdom by the
sea ?
Alassy Burnside, late of the Alotor ’Bus
Co., will be giving up his room at Alenzies’
about the end of this month. This very
unassuming Englishman of business resigned
his ’bus billet in gentle disgust when his
year’s engagement expired at the end of
July, and is now bent on offering his services
to tlie army in London. He would have
been off to enlist before this, but the De-
fence Department persuaded him to stay a
little longer and help with transport.
Tasmania’s old friend Captain Aliles has
sold his country house at Wonga Park, once
the abode of Gillies’s Treasurer, G. D. Carter,
and is constructing a patriarchal home on
a hill overlooking Ring wood. Captain
“Teddy,” by the way, has three sons in the
Scrimmage—one wounded and busy again,
and one in hospital in England through sun-
stroke.
Alelba has left orders with the publishers
of her Gift Book that 12 copies are to be
embalmed in royal-blue kid covers and
given away. One volume is to go to the
King; Australia’s seven Governors are each
to have a copy; who get the other four L
don’t know.
George Cox. shepherd of the Anglican
flock at Yarram Yarram, provides another
argument for conscription. lie has been
accepted for the Front at the second try.
though he is only just ipside the 45-year
age-limit, and there are thousands and
thousands in the twenties and early thirties
who are still at home playing tennis and
catching snails.
Quietly and unobtrusively, through drought
and war, the Broadmeadows Foundling
Home, managed by Sisters of Mercy, goes
on its way saving the lives that Australia
needs so badly. ’ Last year it cost just £lO5O
to maintain an average population of 100
-—mothers, babies and Sisters. Those little
lives were worth so much to Australia that
some day she may be shamed into doing her-
self the work that should never have been
passed over to Private Enterprise.
Mrs. Robinson (her late husband was a
Scotsbyterian minister, and she was one of
the Western District Were sisters) is
leaving for Cairo. Two sons are training
with the Expeditionaries there. She and
her daughters will set up a sort of informa-
tion bureau, and send along news of Aus-
tralians to anxious relatives here. The
kindly offer of the family’s services is open
to all who care to avail themselves of it.
The Ross-Soden widow is preparing to
farewell her son Jack, the doctor, who is
champing at bis stethoscope in a frenzy of
eagerness to be off. Another son, Harry,
tried to go, but the authorities turned him
down on account of his eyesight, which is
poor. In despair he is retiring to the
family’s Riverina sheep acres with his
mother.
Mrs. Tlieo Anderson, one of our
paintresses in oils, having foolishly frac-
tured a rib, was about to play the rOle of
invalid. Suddenly it crossed her mind that
a wounded soldier would smile at such a
trifle. So she pulled herself together, and
is now going round as usual while the bone
is mending with little trouble and at no
expense. But such Spartanism spells a
slump in hospital revenues.
Poor Major Bartrop and his invalid wife
arc mourning the loss of their boy Ludlow,
who has been killed at the Dai’danelles.
The Major, who in spite of partial loss of
eyesight was always cheery in the past,
finds it hard to see any sunshine in the
world at all since the news came through.
John Drought, of Toorak, is off to Lon-
don after a commission. His brother
Derek is already a captain in Flanders.
They are sons of a well-known Melbourne
parson.
Melbourne Stock Exchangers are recover-
ing from another Ricketson celebration. The
first was to celebrate Stan the stockbroker’s
enlistment. There were more cheers and
drinks when he embarked. Then he got hit,
and so provided an opportunity for further
hip hurrahs. Then he was awarded' a
D.C.M. and a commission, and each achieve-
ment was a further cause for jubilations,
brokers at .the war being as scarce as evvs
in April. A touch of yellow-back romance
attaches to the Ricketson story, by the way.
A photograph of his fiancee. Gwen Browne,
fielded a deadly Mauser bullet when it was
making for her hero’s heart.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Governor-General’s visit flooded Adelaide with
patriotism and entertainments. Wattle Day League
and the Victoria League on Tuesday; a Red Cross
meeting on Wednesday; French Flag* Day and the
Mayor’s Concert on Thursday—these were but a few
of the festivities that raged. Lady Helen, speaking
at the Red Cross meeting, deplored the critical
rumors that have been circulated regarding the
work, and Professor Stirling, Chaplain MeNicol and
Josiah Symon contributed • further remarks.
The Mayor’s Concert was an alternative to the
usual ball, and Government House came in two
detachments —the Galways with Miss d’Erlanger and
Mr. Winser first, and then the Munro-Fergusons with
the rest of the party. Lady Helen was in black,
with a cloak of ruby brocade and velvet, and a
ruby and diamond-studded tortoise-shell band in her
hair; Lady Galway wore white, with an embroid-
ered overdress of blue and gold. The 4000 guests
mostly wore last year's clothes.
The Government House reception on Friday even-
ing was distinguished by a scarcity of men, and by
the great age of those who were there. The host
was absent with influenza—a loathly companion
which also debarred him from attending the Com-
monwealth Club lunch.
Another item in the whirl of gaiety in which we
have been plunged this week has been the Anglican
Synod. The town seethed with divines, all vastly ex-
cited by the announcement that a member of a
suburban church had been excommunicated for “dis-
loyalty to his Bishop.” In pre-Reformation days an
excommunicated person had a bad time. He couldn’t
be married or buried; he wasn’t allowed inside a
church; he was treated worse than a dog'. No one
seems clear as to what happens now, but in any
event the excitement was baseless. The rector who
issued the ban found that he had acted ultra vires,
and at once apologised and withdrew his charges,
and in other respects abased himself.
The Maloja bore away the Fred Downers and their
two children; Miss Ethel Davies, who hopes to get
to the Front as a nurse; and Mr. T. Clieadle, one of
the J. J. Duncans, lawyer Charles Symon and Hugh
Davidson, all of whom are bound for the war. Mrs.
Toms and her daughter are going as far as Colombo.
The W. E. Longbottoms have booked for England in
the Medina.
Commander Burford’s son has gone to Melbourne
to join the reinforcements for the Naval Bridging
Train at the Front.
Lieut. R. C. Bragg, who has been killed in action
at the Dardanelles, was a son of Professor Bragg,
Professor of Physics at the London University, and
a former member of the Adelaide University stair.
He began his education at St. Peter’s College, but
was at Cambridge when William started for Paris,
and enlisted as a private in the Field Artillery. He
got his commission fairly soon, and was sent to the
Dardanelles about seven weeks ago. His brother,
W. L. Bragg, who has also enlisted, has done bril-
liant scientific research work in collaboration with
his father.
The youngest son of J. L. Stirling, President of
the Leg. Council, who was reported wounded, is in
London convalescing.
A cable said the other day that, amongst those
who had just been released after long internment in
Germany, was an Australian seedsman, unnamed.
This is probably one of the absurdly wealthy Hacketts,
of Adelaide. His people here have been able to get
barely a word about him for many months past.
Music lovers had a day out at the Audi-
torium on Saturday. Laver’s big orchestral
concert thundered through the afternoon, and
the Belgians made pleasing noises in the
evening. The orchestral concert’s expressed
intention of rendering the O Minor Sym-
phony attracted cultivated crowds from all
over the State. Amongst an eager batch of
Ballarat people was the rich Buchanan girl
with the glorious red hair. She hurried in
with the symphony score under her arm and
a yearning look in her eyes. It was easy to
identify the outbackers, most of whom
had motored to the fray. They swam in with
motor veils flying and fur coats still envelop-
ing them, and the noise of talc motor-goggles
being discarded and motor bonnets being-
straightened was deafening. Some people
in the front row explained loudly that they
had left home “at 11 o’clock that morning,
my dear, just for the C Minor.” Then they
sank back with the satisfied air of martyrs to
their muse.
The orchestra played the Coppelia Ballet,
and it also yearned through “Tristan and
Isolde.” De Bourgignon played and Goossens
sang. Goossens, by the way, means “good
song”—or so somebody murmured who pre-
tends to a knowledge of Flemish.
The big hall was packed to hear the
Brussels opera stars. Dolores sat on high in
the balcony wrapped in a lovely silk shawl
and smiles. She ate butter-scotch in a fas-
cinating manner, an extremely difficult feat.
The Belgians discarded the old theatrical
convention which forbids the performers to
go near the front of the house. As each of
them finished he or she came into the stalls,
sat there and applauded those who followed.
It was a refreshing change. Things have
buzzed so with the Belgians that they are
contemplating more appearances—instead of
finishing on SeM.urday, as was the original
lugubrious intention.
Lady Helen shows a certain Calvinistic
intolerance of self-indulgences on the part of
other people at times. Speaking of the
troopship Ballarat at a recent Red Cross
meeting, she mentioned that the soldiers
wished for “fresh fruit to be sent aboard at
Colombo.” “They expect a great deal,” she
added severely. But the overflowing funds
subscribed for the Red Cross and Australian
wounded are capable of giving a great deal,
and the idea of the people who subscribed the
money was that no sacrifice and no trouble
should be too great to make things easier for
the boys who have suffered for us.
The Quamby Club is sending out cards of
duck-egg green, with an uproarious jackass
laughing in the corner. They are for a
bridge and sale-of-gifts party and will cost
those who get them 3s. 6d, each. Lady
Stanley is to be there, so everybody simply
must go. It happens on Saturday after-
noon and evening. The result will be
handed to the Lady Stanley Fund for
wounded Australians. Besides paying your
3s. 6d. it is necessary, by the way, to have
your name reputably endorsed on the card
of admittance. A dipsomaniacal pawn-
broker. for example, couldn’t force his way
into the party even if he was prepared to
pay as much as a shilling extra. So the
document is really a three-and-sixpenny cer-
tificate of respectability as well as a pass-
check into a sort of mild earthly paradise.
The committee and members of the Mal-
vern Women’s Rifle Club invited their
patrons to the range, a few days ago. Lady
Stanley couldn’t come, but the Forrest dame
turned up with her niece Muriel North,
who, by the way, fired eight rounds as a
novice and became a fascinated convert to
the deadly business on the spot. The range,
a rustic, dingy structure, was trimmed neatly
with gum-branches, wattle blossom and
much hunting. Tea, of course, was on tap
at decorated tables, and in many other re-
spects a warlike aspect was given to the
place. The light in a miniature range has
to be subdued so that the target-lights may
show up distinctly; therefore tea tables had
an afternoon-seance effect. A convalescent
soldier, Corporal Bailey, faced the raking
fire of several hundred feminine eyes with
unflinching gameness. He was wounded in
both arms, and it makes him fascinatingly
helpless. He had a perfectly lovely time
with the girls fighting like mad kittens for
the chances to hr Ip him with his ccat or
put sugar in his tea. At least, the girls
thought he liked it.
The Bowes Kelly girls were there, one of
them in the trickiest of boots. Joan Bagot’s
shooting was unerring. Some of her work
was reminiscent of William Tell at his best.
The Howitts and the Falconer girls turned
up; also Mrs. M. Sharpe (Miss Hobson-as-
was), in a saucy shooting kit; and Mrs.
Ernest Keep and her daughter Heather. Air.
S. O. Williams and Mr. Edwards are the
club coaches. Mr. Williams belongs to a
famous shooting family, and has two sons
exercising the hereditary gift on the Turks.
Mr. Edwards was champion shot of Aus-
tralia, and won the King’s Cup three years
in succession, as well as Bisley honors. He
also intends to get some practice on the in-
fidel of Europe. So you see the ladies have
every chance to become markswomen.
Miss E. C. Hope Campbell scored the
highest aggregate (whatever that may
mean), and I gather that she is a star to be
looked up to by aspiring shootists.
Meditatively pacing a city street the
other day, and ruminating deeply upon the
Higher Criticism, the Drink problem, the
Life and Adventures of Willy Kelly, and
things like that, 1 suddenly came upon Vida
Goldstein and a couple of women accom-
plices. They were agitatedly trundling a
large laundry basket on wheels. “Heavens !"
I ejaculated feebly. “A tragedy! Crime!”
And bending low, in a sleuth-like manner.
I made ready to track them. Picture my
horror when they deposited the body—that
is to say, stopped at the side door of the
Commonwealth Bank. In the basket were
hundreds of yellow collecting-boxes. A man
appeared and opened the things on one of
the bank counters before a teller whose job
it was to count the contents. And mean-
while Vida hung affectionately over the
counter, and lovingly patted the money and
piled the pence and half-pence into heaps.
The cash represented the proceeds of col-
lections for the unemployed women’s fund.
Sadly I folded the wings of suspicion and
faded away. Yours sincerely. Johanna.


~:M:- :v
■ Bj
M
■■■■ :v.:v
-
mss n
:#■; .:
fivlki; Hi
i mr-^
mm
'
il
> - V . . ' , % Tr- ... '*L
i&i. £ . »
: v. : ..... §i... .'
■
-1
'
4 m/M
' 5fP
" il
’is - , a q
*• I*.
1111
> Vfc Iff!
il ; a
W3‘'< ,
■
■
'll
H
(tJteT^P
1* Sj
■ ■
.'."•• i ■ •,;
i all ii- v: ■ ■ s
■ fpt- “ : #
■BB issl ■ l|M|
if”
I € v s
sis
■
I Hi
■s
1® i
I I
11
Hi
I
»*> Ml d
■H |
»> s fc JS
mm ;
JPHjlgr?
V^-
y ' Mri
nsss •-#??;>
;iri' 1
Ml 111 is BHHHmMI
:gfl
'■■mm
' W§h
; * ,
iff'
MHfc
■i ? il
at
....fIHHK illfe '' liliiK:
■
1
iiaM
B i
I
jg 1 ■
ill 111
HKJB
gfe Jill
■ I
Ml
Mf ■"■
-" WM l -i '
■
JHIb"
111 l
Bmbbl 11
' M *
Sill
a
■
bmWhMMB
I«
blB
,^T|U
efc ■ ,all - '-r 'iaiS&SL
; * • ■■
** \-h* -- ■ : -
>.4 ■
m- m
V ....•••!
m
m
n
ggi
■
a i
■
9%* M
m
W* $r
n
mvzyom.
M atera If
NO.
„ 4nT -." ■ 1
SAKIO is made from the best Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root with «sn#*rial
Which is held hr Schweppes Lid., Sariois »r^resh^g bever “ e’"Sd STISI'S?
pit filler has most excellent tonic properties. It is grestly improved hr » slice ot fresh l el l,°“n
Head Offices 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
the World
SARTO is obtainable at all tbe leading' stores throughout tbe Commonwealth.
See that you get SARTO, and do not be put off with imitations which do not contain
tHe same medicinal properties as Sarto.
SARTO—The Health Beverage.


YOUR HAIR
WILL
LOOK BETTER
I
will be finer, softer,
Scurf and Dandruff will
if you take care of it
smoother,
disappear,
by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL,
which will Preserve, Nourish, and
Strengthen it, and as it penetrates to
th 3 roots will replace the loss of the
Natural Oil in the Hair, the want of
which causes Baldness. It is sold in a
Golden Colour for Fair Hair, of Stores,
Chemists, Hairdressers, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton-garden, London, Avoid
cheap worthless imitations under the
same or similar name which have no
Restorative Properties and do not
contain that delightful perfume
Otto of Roses for which Rowland’s
Macassar Oil has been so long famous.
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS
MADAPOLAMS and DRILLS
Have a guarantee if they will see HORROCKSES’
name on Selvedge that they are getting the very
best that the Old Country produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. S
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. IT. Soul,
Pattinson & Go. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
MontserraT
SAUCE
m
,0l B
, ln om T )»i% uujm ***.
%
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE,
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
The Inevitable Balance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AMONG the first to settle on the Tar-
leigh River was Patrick Bailey, one-
time buck’s mate on a Western Ocean
tramp steamer. In those days railways were
simply things to speculate about, and the
name of road was given to any track negotia-
ble by a ten-yoke bullock team. If the
season was wet, traffic was limited to this;
and even then, progress was slow and un-
certain, and indescribably blasphemous by
reason of the difficulties of the road. In the
summer, when the ground hardened up, light
traffic became possible, although—thanks to
the limitations of a road-bed composed of
sun-baked ridges and hollows of slush afore-
time —at the risk always of broken springs
and shafts and human bones.
The country was lightly timbered, and of
exceptional quality; and as Bailey—what-
ever his faults were—was a fine, practical
man, he prospered almost from the first, not-
withstanding his nearest market of any con-
sequence lay 50 miles away on the seaboard.
Being new to the life and in the position
where he needed friendship, it might be sup-
posed that “Bucko” Bailey would be at some
pains to conciliate his few neighbors; or, at
least, would not refuse any proffered aid.
Yet he did refuse consistently to admit any-
one to his confidence. A man full-blooded
and self-reliant, aggressive to a degree and
almost incapable of gratitude—which attri-
butes may be partly accounted for by the
exigencies of his former calling—he trod
wholeheartedly on the corns of his fellows,
and openly gloried in the doing of it. And
if most of them took it lying down they were
only obeying that wise provision of Nature
which ensures that where one strong man
leads a thousand shall follow.
As Bailey prospered, however, his mind
took a strange twist, and he came to look
upon himself as a kind of uncrowned king
of the district. What he said, went; or
there was a social upheaval. So he came
to adopt that active and unjustifiable
assumption of authority which made him
feared and hated for 50 miles around.
It was about this time that Howard came
on the scene, and, by a kind of natural
fatality, introduced himself to Bailey’s notice
by selecting the one patch of land that it
was to Bailey’s interest to keep untenanted.
A little plot of 80-odd acres it was, cut off
by an elbow of the creek. Just a barren
patch of red clay and sand, covered with
bracken and other rubbish ; but frontage to
the creek went with it. and Bailey thus sud-
denly found the water cut off from the whole
of his western side-line. He had often sig-
nified his intention of taking up this very
plot in order to ensure water frontage, but
had never done so. He had always had sole
and undisputed use of it; for so long, in
fact, that people had come to speak of it
as Bailey’s Corner. Indeed, some declared
that the old man had become so used to
alluding to it in terms of ownership that he
came at length to believe that it was his in
actual fact.
A bile Bailey was still fuming over the
’’ows. Howard was so far unconscious of
liis temerity as to apply for permission to
cart the materials for his intended house
through Bailey’s property. The Great Man’s
refusal was couched in terms that did credit
to his Western Ocean upbringing, and
thereafter it was open war between them.
Howard contented himself with a slab-and-
paling hut, splitting his own timber and
carrying it laboriously, piece by piece, out
of the bush. Ilis scant furniture he floated
down the creek on an improvised raft.
Bailey sat back and viewed tfiese proceed-
ings with a sneer. He hadn’t learnt then
to take his opponent seriously. And all the
time that he sweated and slaved over his
work, Howard was seeking the chance to hit
back at his biff neighbor. He took himself
seriously, did Howard, and held the opinion
that he was of quite as much consequence
as his richer brother. So, when an oppor-
tunity came for retaliation, he seized it
promptly.
One evening, the close of a blistering mid-
summer day, a blaspheming stockman rode
in hot haste to Bailey’s homestead and re-
ported that the whole of the creek on the
western line had been fenced off by the new-
comer, and that-half the stock were down
and the rest likely to follow unless watered
before sun-up. Howard had struck back.
Bailey’s language failed him for once. So
cl cl his dignity. He put the horses into his
buggy and personally inquired the meaning
"f the outrage. He found Howard sitting
h.v the fence with a shotgun across his knees.
Bailey altered his mind and let his wire-
cutter stop where it was under the cushion
of the seat. Almost civilly—for him—he
voiced his indignation. Howard replied that
he had a perfect right to fence his own
ground when and where he chose; that he
was a poor man, and couldn’t afford to pay
for sentiment; and that, as he himself had
never yet succeeded in getting anything for
nothing, he thought the rule should apply all
round. In short, if Bailey wanted water he
could have it—if he paid for it. And then
Howard mentioned a sum that brought real
tears to Bailey’s eyes.
In vain the big man blustered. There
was no escape. Water he must have, and
on the spot, too, for his stock were in no
condition to drove. He was helpless, and
knew it. Remained to pull out his cheque
book, and for the first time in his life Bailey
A QUID PRO QUO.
WIFE: “I think, dear, I really ought to get a new gown.”
HUSBAND: “What for? You got one last week!”
WIFE: “Well, you know, dear, Madame bought a ticket for my garden party in aid of
the Belgians, and you are always saying that one good turn deserves another."
found himself forced to agree to terms of
another’s making. Then Bailey pulled down
the fence and brought his stock through,
while Howard rode forty miles to cash the
cheque before payment was stopped. Which
shows that he had sized Bailey up fairly
correctly. But tvlien he got back he found
his hut in ashes; so the game was going
pretty evenly. Then Howard attempted to
fire Bailey’s grass, hut the wind dropned at
the critical moment, and some passing stock-
men chased him off the place with whips.
Thereafter Bailey took no chance, lie set
out deliberately to hound his neighbor out
of the place. Howard retailiated to the best
of his ability ; but the contest was too one-
sided. Work was refused him everywhere,
for Bailey had let it be known that who-
ever offended in that respect would be boy-
cotted in turn. And so it went on. It was
the old storv of the flea and the elephant.
Only, in this case, the flea wouldn’t quit; he
staged right on and starved. Also, he
brooded over his wrongs night and day, and
the end of it was that he took his gun one
night and disappeared into the hills. And
that was the last that anybody saw of him
alive —except one, and lie never cared to talk
about it afterwards.
When “Bucko” Bailey heard of the enemy’s
retreat he felt good. He knew Howard was
roaming the hills with a shotgun, and guessed
his object. Still, he felt pretty safe at
home, and contented himself by forbidding
Bailey, junior, to go among the hills at all.
Not that young Bailey had taken any active
part in the persecution of Howard. As a
matter of fact, the lad was fresh home from
college—an inoffensive youngster with no
vice but a taste for botauising. So Bailey
resumed liis duties as the great I Am of the
district, forgetting that the end was not yet.
and giving no thought to Howard and his
shotgun until one dinner-time, when news
was brought to him that Bailey, junior, had
disregarded his father’s and had
gone off to the hills after a much-coveted
orchid. At the time, he was entertaining
the police-trooper, who was around taking
the census. Bailey’s face went white at the
thought of what might happen to his lad,
and hurriedly mentioning his fears to his
guest, he called together a party of half a
dozen, and set out in pursuit. The trooper
declined to accompany the party, saying that
he would search independently. He had an
inkling as to where this precious orchid was
to be found; and, tightening his saddle-
girths, he mounted and rode at a hard gal-
lop for the gorge known now as Howard’s
Drop. He wanted what kudos there was for
himself.
Up in the hills young Bailey was having
the time of his life. Neither the blistering
sun nor the stiff climb up the slope of the
gorge had damped his ardor. Where one is
an enthusiast much may he endured. Be-
sides, had he not already that morning dis-
covered a new variety of umbrella fern, and
who could tell what further treasures might
not flourish on the summit of the cliff '!
Therefore he disregarded the heat and the
discomfort from the stings of insects and
the whirling sand and grit stirred up by the
coming of the hot north wind. So time
passed; and then, as luck would have it,
he spotted the coveted flower.
It grew on the face of the cliff, low down
and inaccessible. Young Bailey stretched
full length along the bank and made frantic
efforts to grasp the prize, but his reach fell
short. He tried scooping it up with a forked
stick, and that failed him also. Then he
did a foolish thing. The barrel of a huge
tree projected itself some six feet or more
over the edge of the gorge. Part of it was
studded with small, nobby growths. Young
Bailey, gripping one of these, lowered himself
bodily over the face of the cliff. Just for a
moment the hold was good ; then the rotten
wood snapped off short, and the enthusiast
felt himself turn suddenly cold. He
clutched at the tree trunk, missed it, and
dug furiously with hands and feet at the
stony wall in front of him, hung a second,
then slid downwards under a shower of earth
and gravel until he found himself miracu-
lously astride an outcropping rock twelve
feet from the surface. Here he clung dizzily,
afraid almost to stir lest the doing so should
precipitate him instantly on to the rocks a
hundred feet below. Ilis arms were scored
from wrist to elbow, and his body trembled
from the sudden shock. He shut his eyes
and clung tighter. After a time lie began
to shout, hoping against hope that someone
might hear. So he hung for an hour. The
strain on his arms was beginning to tell—
he twisted his head cautiously around until
he could look upwards, and shouted again.
This time, in response, came a movement
on the cliff above, and a head projected itself
slowly over the edge.
Bailey, junior, with a sickening sensation
at the pit of his stomach, found himself
gazing into the insane face of Howard, the
despised and persecuted.
The man was a scarecrow. His clothes
hung in rags. A tangled mass of grey hair
fell almost to his shoulders. His lips were
curled back in a kind of snarl, showing the
yellow fangs of teeth. From the corners of
the quivering mouth two streams of saliva
trickled unheeded into the filthy beard. In-
sane indeed, and unutterably repulsive. For
the fraction of a minute the two men peered
steadily at each other. Then Howard slowly
pushed forward the muzzle of his smoke-
grimed gun. i
“For God’s sake!” cried young Hailey,
reading the purpose in the deadly eyes, and
then fell to whimpering. lie was only a
lad, and there are pleasanter ways of dying.
Stupidly he awaited the report, and the
leaden liail that would shatter his skull and
make of him a thing to shudder at. Then
he took courage and looked again. Howard
was still in the same position, but the gun
was laid aside. Perhaps the unfortunate man
retained some glimmerings of reason,
arguing in his unstable mind that there
were more lingering, more terrifying deaths
than this, and that it might be well for his
own safety that the means of his enemy’s
end should be less apparent. So In* strove
to loosen the desperate hold of the shrinking
body beneath him by a fusillade of rocks and
clods of earth. Young Bailey was violently
sick, hut hung on grimly. Then Howard
tried to choke him with a running noose at
the end of a length of half-inch rope, which
he unwound from about his waistband, and
made fast to the overhanging tree-butt. And,
failing, raved and spat at his intended victim
with foam-flecked lips.
Twice he reached for his gun to make an
end, and twice restrained himself. For a
minute he paused irresolute; then a new
idea filtered into his crazed brain. With
devilish eagerness he gathered a bundle of
dead fern and ti-tree, binding it around the
middle with strips torn from his ragged
shirt. He would light this and cast it
flaming on young Bailey’s head, burning him
horribly, and forcing him at last to release
his hold. The better to make aim, Howard
crawled to the end of the log. and. rising to
his feet, lit the sun-dried twigs, holding them
at arm’s length to catch the wind. The
flame took hold instantly and ran up the
bundle in a flash. As it did so, a rifle shot
rang out from across the gorge, and Jordan,
the trooper, burst from the timber opposite.
Startled by the report and the whiz of the
bullet past his head. Howard spun half-
round, fought desperately to regain his bal-
ance, then fell headlong with a shriek into
the chasm beneath, still grasping his flaming
burden.
In an instant, as it seemed, the whole
valley was afire. Fanned by the strong
north wind a wall of flame shot upwards
and spread with incredible speed across
the gorge. Almost immediately, a tiny
column of rapidly-thickening smoke an-
nounced to the startled settlers of the plains
the approach of the greatest and most dis-
astrous fire in the annals of the Tarleigh
River district. All this the police-trooper
took in at a glance, and Shouted frantic in-
structions. But Bailey, junior, with a great
sob of thankfulness, had already seized the
rope that dangled at arm’s-length and drawn
himself to safety.
Thereafter it remained for each man to
flee to windward as best he might, whilst
the fire, like an unleashed demon, swept
roaring upon the settlement. When “Bucko”
Bailey, twelve hours later, rode wild-eyed
over the smoking ground for home, it was
to find his son safe, but o.f his home only a
heap of glowing cinders.
Financially ruined, Bailey shot himself a
fortnight later, and passed over to join his
enemy'.
BERNARD CRONIN.


RIIfHANANS
WHISKY
%
4
O A ir
X -4
‘
<L
vV
■ll^*
-t> ", - (>, ', <
A.' '■ -y' A, A/'x ■ ' V* w
jig
H mJMmm
HISS;
A '• ■»
>* £/
•*•/** a%s*. v**. v
•-■; . ■
■ ;Sv. ■■.'/'■ v : ,.. 'V: : ■ ;,^Vv?i
< .'
.- .■ ' '''• ’ ..■ 4
, < >
. ft.-
*
m . , 4
: IWI mm
*•*% , -
£>
_ S 9
u< «J
#»■* u
■ ■
ill! i®- \ :v?;^V-
MOTHi
; ' ■ • *' ‘, v ■’ ■• . > ,t -’* - *v- .
■
-4 4: V 44? : ’4
.. 1 1 ? mm.
|? ?
: W V %vte& * ' *>''& mMM
Sj GO
V*
isJ 5
111
4-y. . . <?*#Ss
Hill
“And very
nice too!


i
/
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PTY.
LTD.
Desire to intimate that their extensive facilities are
being utilised to specialise for the production of
MILITARY SERVICE
UNIFORMS and EQUIPMENT
All garments produced are perfectly cut and tailor made
and outfits are supplied at short notice.
fIODERATE PRICES for HIGH=GRADE GOODS.
Creat Coat . .
Tunic
DMS Breeches
£4/10/-
3/5/-
1/15/-
Service Caps. .
Sam Brown Belts
Double Brace
12/6
from
25/-
Fine Quality Khaki Shirts, 16/6.
Write for full equipment price list.
“The Mail-order House for Men.
NOTE OUR
ADDRESS—
ELIZABETH STREET,
Cor. Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish liver
and bowels.
Mother! Your child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy,” with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act natur-
ally, or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, re-
member, a gentle liver and bowel cleansing
should always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals “California Syrup of Figs”
for children’s ills; give a teaspoonful, and
in a few hours all the waste matter, sour bile
and fermenting food clogged in the bowels
pass out of the system, an' you have a
healthy and playful child again. All chil-
dren love this hannless, delicious “fruit laxa-
tive,” and it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.” Directions for babies,
children of all ages and grown-ups are plainly
on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a bottle of “California Syrup of Figs,” then
look and see that it is made by the “Cali-
fornia Fig Syrup Company.” Counterfeits
are being sold here. Refuse substitutes.
All leading chemists sell “California Syrup
of Figs,” 1/1$ and 1/9 per bottle.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“To Wliare”: The slaughter of small
fishes, such as herrings, pilchards, silver-bellies and
garfish, which travel in immense shoals, by their
larger relatives —kingfish, tailer, salmon and the like
-—is rarely observed, but once it was my good for-
tune to witness the carnage on the South Coast of
N.S.AV. A great shoal of garfish passing slowly north
was suddenly attacked by about 30 large kingfish,
and for acres around the sea splashed in spurts and
jets of foam. The terrified beakies fled in every
direction, but the powerful, clipper-built kingfish
easily overhauled them, and a strip of shingle was
soon spread with the maimed and mutilated. Some of
the small fry swam aimlessly to and fro in rock-pools,
bitten and stupefied, while crabs and green eels
were dragging the incapable into crevices and feast-
ing royally. At one period of the attack the king-
fish drove their prey into shallow water and harried
them until the maddened things leapt ashore literally
in showers. A pack of large salmon dashed in to
share the spoil, and the garfish were annihilated.
The massacre lasted about 20 minutes, and with a
mate I gathered up our share of the carcases. Next
day no dead garfish were to be seen. Gulls, sea-
eagles, crabs and eels had been busy, and were sit-
ting round contentedly picking their teeth.
* * * *
“Boronia”: The following is a portion of
a notice issued by the Railway Department of
IVestralia:—•
The following other alterations have been made
in the names of the undermentioned stations or
sidings: Banjupp to Banjup; Burekupp to Burekup ;
Kirupp to Kirup; Benjinupp to Benjinup ; Yab-
berupp to Yabberup; Noggerupp to Noggerup; Tin-
gerupp to Tingerup; Mummballupp to Mummballup ;
Kronkupp to Kronkup.
I don’t know whether the idea is to save time in
pronouncing the words or to put Scaddan’s surplus
to some use.
“Chinky” : The experiment of naming the
stations on the new Elmore-Cohuna (Vic.) railway
line in native fashion has proved a trial to the rail-
way christening branch and the residents of the
localities concerned. The first names officially sug-
gested were Kona, Kotta and Ivyemery, but locally
they were repudiated scornfully, with the hint that
such euphonious local names as Burnewang, AVarra-
gamba, Tennyson and others could very well bo
adopted. Burnewang was rejected by the Dept.,
Tennyson wasn’t poetic enough, Warragamba was re-
luctantly accepted. Crawford (the name of the re-
cently-deceased chairman of the Railway Trust) was,
it was pointed out, the name of a place in Queens-
land, and must therefore be barred. Hunter, the
name of the owner of Burnewang and a fine fellow,
could not be accepted for a similar reason, and AVee-
AVee-Rup was too like Koo-AVee-Rup in the Gipps-
land Swamp lands. The problem is still being
wrestled with. Kona (a snake) and Kotta (a maiden)
and Bamawm (the irrigation settlement), an old
name, will stand; likewise the residents’ choice of
AVarragamba. Terricks Terricks (now The Terricks),
an old-time station name, was, for a wonder, rejected
unanimity by residents in the locality. It will
probably be called Gaba Tepe or something equally
inappropriate, in the end.
* * * *
“F.H.R.”: I want some information re
bark-stripping. Came across a stringybark tree over
2ft. in girth with strips of its overcoat taken from
it for about 40ft. up. There were plenty of other
trees that a bottom sheet could have been stripped
from, so it looked as if this stripper preferred to
do the climbing act and get all he wanted from the
one bole. No ladder could reach that height; no
man could reach round to pull stirrups; there were no
cuts for foot-holds in the tree, excepting those where
each sheet came off. I think myself that the artist
felled the vegetable, stripped it, and stuck it up
again.
* * * *
“L.L.W.”: “Leslie Lee’s” yarn (B.
5/8/T5) about a married couple being drowned while
venturing too far on the beach to gather pippies
looks knock-kneed. Pippies are gathered when the
tide is out. And these people collected a billyful
in half an hour, did they? AVhy, in some places a
cart could be filled in that time! Along the N.S.AV.
North Coast beaches, pippies lie in millions, and
at spots between Evans Head and Ballina certain
wise people are talking of running duck-farms and
feeding the birds on the insects. Even now the inhabi-
tants of one poultry-yard, which supplies the table
of a big seaside boarding-house, are almost exclu-
sively fed on them.
* * * *
“Devilfish” : Another of the seagull family
that has taken a shore job is the silver-gull, who
has apparently settled for keeps on the Great Lake
(Tas.). This lake is not only about 50 miles as the
crow sometimes flies from the nearest salt water, but
is also over 3000 ft. above sea-level. The birds seem
to be there all the year round, and it is said that
they breed on the islands in the lake. The little
sea-pigeons come inland in thousands during storms,
but they don’t go far from the coast, and streak back
as scon as the weather clears.
“SOCKITIS.”
AS A MEANS OF CARRYING CONVICTION.
JACKEROO (dining late) : “What do you call this, cook?”
EXASPERATED STATION COOK (still suffering under the criticism of previous diners): “I
calls it Irish stoo. If ye’ve got any other name for it, conic outside an’ put ’em up.”
“Leo Lear”: Australia has some,‘-superb
robins. There are the scrub robins (oityma(kdoi) : ,
three in number, which inhabit the
interior and dry districts. They 'are
rarely seen, chiefly because of the
harmony of their light-grey tunics
with the scrub they reside in. They
seldom fly, most of their locomotion
being done on their long legs. The
shrike robins (Eopsaltr^, |)*are a genus
distributed everywhere in the Com-
monwealth except" Centralia and Tas-
mania. The commonest and most
beautiful of the family, the yellow-
breasted shrike robin, abounds in the
coastal scrubs and gullies, building
the neatest nest of bark, cobwebs and
hair. To see this bird in numbers,
go when a tree has just fallen in the
scrub and watch him feast on grubs,
white ants and other disturbed inhabi-
tants. The most beautiful and widely-
known genus of robins is Petroica,
some species of which are found in
all parts of the Commonwealth.
Amongst them are the scarlet-, pink-,
rose- and lovely flame-breasted robins,
the red-capped and hooded robins, and
many others. Four of the group sel-
dom move far from the home pad-
dock. The scarlet- and flame-breasted
are unique among migrants of the
southern States. All other wanderers,
among the birds move camp in the
winter and return in the spring or
summer. Isolated scarlet and flame
robins stay the year round in the
coastal scrubs of Victoria and Tas-
mania, coming out with the bulk of
their clan on to the plains in winter,
studding the ploughed fields, grass-
lands and fences with glorious color.
At least, the males do ; Mrs. Robin's
coat and skirt are plain drab. The
main army of these birds spend the
summer vacation elsewhere. For
years the southern forests and Tas-
mania were thought to be their sum-
mer retreat; but this has been proved
an error. They are now said to have
the Christmas spree in high, remote
mountain gullies of Gippsland. There,
also, the beautiful flame-breasted
Bobby and his lawful wife bring out
the family, and, as far as is known at present,
never at an altitude of less than 2000 feet above
the sea.
“S. S. Severn’': I lnmgered, having eaten
tinned bulamacow and little else for moon,
: whilst runningia ' oainp hospital. When Sevani, the
old Kiwai bofebov, came out from Port with a gun,
I said, “Go ahd shoot me a bird.” “What name
birdfc" sinabadk-?” he inquired. “Lokolue, la-se,” I
which meant any but a bird-o’-paradise.
Ostentatiously ' taking but two cartridges just to
show what a shot he was, he vanished. I pondered
over that bird. : I felt it would be a bronzewing, or
a g'oura or a quail, and almost got brain fever won-
dering whether; I’d braize it in a billycan or butter
it on toast. Just as the clouds moved up for the
evening thunderstorm Sevani and his understudy
came down the hillside with something gigantic
slung between their shoulders on a pole. It was the
leg of an old-man cassowary, and weighed 12
pounds. It was a great: prayer I put up for them
that night.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: Between I’lane Creek and
Mackay (Q.), some years ago,' a road-repair party
lost one of its mess to the horrible crocogator.
llaces were to be held in Sugaropolis and the gang
drew lots to decide who should stay at home as
caretaker. The drawer of the unlucky marble, to
fill in time, went fishing in the tidal creek close by,
and just before sundown noticed what he took to be
a log floating on the incoming tide. About dusk
the angler dozed, and the next thing he knew was
that he was struggling on the bank with an awful
reptile. His thigh and ribs on . .one. side were
smashed by a swipe of the saurian’s "tail. Game to
the last, as the animal grabbed him" by the side he
managed to get a thumb into each eye, and in
despair gouged for all he was worth, and did it
successfully too. When his mates returned he had
crawled to the tents, badly mauled, but still sen-
sible. He lived long enough to reach medical aid,
then succumbed to shock.
* * * *
“Outcast”: Most of the coast Papuans
are fairly good boatmen, but one thing seems to be
almost impossible to drive into their woolly heads —
that it isn’t a wise thing to make a sheet fast. Once
they’ve got the sails up every rope is tied, and
the whole crew gets ready to go to sleep. After
spending much valuable language in the course of
many years I have succeeded in converting my crew
to my way Of thinking. One genius evolved a new
scheme the other day. He was supposed to be
attending to the main-sheet, when I discovered that
he had gone to sleep. When I remonstrated, he
pointed to his feet. A turn had been taken round
the cleat, and then the sheet had been twisted round
his big toe. He was quite hurt when I said it
wouldn’t do.
(Continued on page 26.)
“CIVILYUN.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I want a word with you, Thomas Cornstalk,
Before you ride, or before you walk;
And also with you, Jack, before you caulk
Or shiver your timbers. No! you won’t balk ;
But you haven’t begun by a very long chalk ;
And I want to have a serious talk,
Though I know you are worth a million.
AATiatever you do or wherever you go,
Or whether you find it swift or slow,
Or whatever you know, or you do not know,
Blow, if you will, or you have to blow
For the sake of the land you have left “below”
(AVhere the gums will still continue to grow)
Bui don’t use the word “Civilian.”
I heard it. several times to-day,
And it struck my ears in a grating way.
A newclium constable down from Hay
(Or from AVcolloomooloo or AATitson’s Bay)
AA'ho was bait last night for a slv-grog “lay”
AVould tell his Nibs in an off-hand way
Of certain vague “Civilyuns.”
Tcmmy Cornstalk ! lam not one
AVho’ll turn you down when the war is done
(You’ll find a few —and it won’t be fun)
I’d rather be sharp ere the low’s begun.
So I’ll tell you there’s many an office “clurk”
And many a young wharf lumper,
And several bards who were out of work,
And others who only enlisted to shirk
(As they fondly imagined) responsible “lurk,”
From Melbourne to Brisbane, and Sydney to Bourke,
And more than one counter-jumper,
AA’ho’d scarcely slipped into their uniforms,
AVhen they slipped out the word “Civilian.”
Now, most of the men from Hannibal down,
AA'ho’ve fought like fiends for Republic or Crown,
Or home or village or city or town
O'- “Right,” or religion, from scholar to clown —-
The smith in his apron, the priest in his gown—-
Yes, most of ’em, were “Civilians.”
And so, Tommy Cornstalkses, God bless you all!
And Long Live the Empire ! And May Tyrants Fall!
But, always remember that stuck in the ruck
There are many, like you, who have plenty of pluck,
But, lacking the strength or the youth—or the
luck —
Got the chuck !
Now, tired and dusty and misunderstood,
They are doing their best for the General Good.
And, say, Tommy Cornstalk, how would you’ve felt
Ere you got the order of Khaki and Belt,
Or before you had any idea of a war,
Had someone you’d never set eyes on before
Referred to you as “Civilian”?
I don’t know exactly, but, anyhow,
The chances are you’d have “stoushed the Cow,”
Have the pride that in Spain is Castilian !
Call us Citizens now—
AVhere “blokes,” “fellers,” “coves,” or plain
“Blanks” won’t allow
For distinction —-but never “Civilian.”
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


Inspect our Magnificent Display of Jacobean Furniture
32/6
The “PIiYMPTON” Dining
Chair, Spring Seats, Uphol-
stered in Fabrikoid.
£7 151-
The “PLYMPTON,” 4ft. Dinner Waggon, to match Sideboard.
The “PLYMPTON” Extension Dining Table.
6ft. x 3ft. 6in., £5/17/6 7ft. x 3ft. 9in„ £6/17/6
The “PLYMPTON” Dining
Chair, Spring Seats, Uphol-
stered in Fabrikoid.
vd
AMALL&CO.
mmm
wmmm
[liiHiiiiMiiniiiiitiiiii if iif iiiiui iriiif i iiiiiiiiiii mu 11 11 in in i?
Every Mine should have an Oxy-Acetylene Welding Plant
For repairing all broken castings, cracks in furnaces, corrosion in furnaces, building-up oi
landing edges, repairs to tube plates, welding new teeth on broken gear wheels, welding tool-
steel ends to common steel, welding or patching steel rails, etc. With this process at hand you
do away with the expense of keeping in stock duplicate parts ; it is not necessary to have new
drawings, patterns and castings made.
Welding neiv teeth on broken gear wheels with Oxy-Acetylene
at your own works.
OXYGEN.
At the Company’s Works at Alexandria is produced
Oxygen of the highest degree of purity that is required for
the welding and cutting of metals by the Oxy-Acetylene
Process, or for other Industrial, Laboratory or Medical
purposes. The gas is manufactured by the Liquid Air
Process, by a plant supplied by the British Oxygen Co., Ltd.
Write for Printed Matter, giving Complete Pictures and
Instructions re Blow Pipes for Lead-burning and
Brazing.
EVERY ENGINEER
should send for Printed Matter giving full particulars
of the latest method- for welding and cutting steel
and other metals by the OX Y-ACETYLENE
PROCESS.
The Commonwealth Ogygen Co.
The Permanent Trustee Building-,
Agents— 25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE—Fyvie & Stewart,
Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE—Evans, Deakin Co.,
172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE—AIex Ingram & Co.,
Wyatt Street.
PERTH-Ceo. Wills & Co. Ltd.,
Murray Street.


How to Get Rid of Dandruff.
This Home-made Mixture Removes Dan-
druff and Stops the Hair from
Falling Out.
The following simple recipe, which can be
mixed at home or put up by any chemist,
will quickly remove dandruff and stop the
hair from falling out.
To a half-pint of water add loz. of bay
rum, one small box of Orlex Compound and
<foz. of glycerine. These are all simple in-
gredients that you can buy from any chem-
ist at very little cost, and mix them yourself.
Apply to the scalp once a day for two
weeks, then once every other week until the
mixture is used. A half-pint should be
enough to rid the hair of dandruff and kill
the dandruff germs. It stops the hair from
falling out and relieves itching and scalp
disease.
Although it is not a dye it acts upon the
hair roots, and will darken streaked, faded,
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
soft and glossy. [7
fpy
Add exchange
to country
cheques:
Victoria, 6d;
1/- Inter-State.
Buy Direct from the Manufacturer,
and Save 25 Per Cent.
Our Illustration is in Glace Kid or Box Calf. Fair
stitched to heel, on an up-to-date Anglo-American
Model. This is an Ideal Country Boot, with an
appearance fit for a Prince or a Premier. At the price
— l6/6 Carriage Paid —it is the Best Boot Value
being offered in the Commonwealth.
Send To-day for Full Illustrated
Catalogue.
HY. HARRIS,
50 McKean Street, N. Fitzroy,
... MELBOURNE.
•FOUNDED-1888'
PHILLIPS • ORMONDE&O
Consu/A/ryp Sopmccr-^, Pcrfen/'rf/fonney-S
one/7rcrc/e/7or-A&penA3 • 17QUEEN S T
MELBOURNE !
THE
lIN IT Ell insurance
Ulll I CU COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
rSAI'.TIX IIAIG!!. General Manager.
“Te Whare”: For the tenacity stakes I’m
entering the common lagoon and coastal-river turtle.
Lee him once start off across country between water-
places and lie’ll get to his destination or perish in
the effort. I met two the other day that had been
blocked en route to a lagoon by a fence of netting.
One of them was dead, lying liead-to the obstacle.
The other was thrusting his top-piece at intervals
through the mesh, and when I gave him a leg over
he put up the record turtle-time to keep his appoint-
ment. It never seems to enter the reptile’s cranium
to turn back. “Get there or bust” is his motto.
“Outcast” : What is happening up in the
New Guinea territories lately occupied by Kaiser
Bill? Birds-of-paradise are strictly protected in the
adjacent colony of Papua, and their importation is
as strictly prohibited into Australia and most other
British Possessions. Even the Squareheads had closed
their colony to shooting for a couple of years. Now-
adays I understand the military so-called adminis-
tration is issuing licenses to shoot, destroy and col-
lect the birds ad lib. in spite of the fact that South
America is about the only place left where the skins
can be legally introduced. Looks a bit queer. Is it
that the army of occupation wants to provide its
women-folk with headgear by smuggling the chooks
of Paradise through the Australian Customs ?
“J.G.”: Sparrows can be taken in and
done for with poisoned wheat, but you want to know
how to go about it. Take a feed-box, put in a few
handsful of chaff containing a fair amount of grain
and leave it as an open invitation. After a few days
when Jack Sparrow has become a confident customer
give the chaff-box a liberal helping of dope. If
“Sarto,” who asked for the information, makes use
of it I’ll come along with a barrow and help him
collect the dividends.
-x- * * *
“Slushy”: I come out of my galley to tell
“McG.” (B. 29/7/’l5) that it is not gorging him-
self that breaks down the shearer at too early an age,
but bolting his food. The speeding-up system, of
which the shearing contractor is father, makes him a
rusher, and instead of masticating iiis tucker he
swallows it like an ostrich. An A.W.U. organiser
has come to the front with a solution in the form of
two four-hour runs instead of six short sprints. In
the sheds where this operates the wool-hawks come
to their meals calm, and collected, and take their
time. It's the pace that kills.
* * * *
“Moana”: Maoriland is monkeying with
more trouble. This time it is heather frae Scot-
land that a lot of wild Caledonians are howling
for. One of them has even handed out saxpence for
the purpose of importing seed with the idea of plant-
ing it in suitable spots on the high, rough hill coun-
try. The National Meenistry ought to be verra care-
ful. Once heather gets a start it will probably give
a bound and blot out the whole of the local scenery
and choke all the precious Alpine plants. This desire
of Sandy Mcßluenose to make Maoriland look like
Aberdeen is a pathetic circum-
stance. Lord only knows what
kind of wild words he would
mutter over his whusky if some
Maorilander commenced raising
a fund to plant nikau and kaha-
katea aroond the Brigs o’ Ayr.
IVhy on airth can Sandy not be
satisfied wi’ a trustle in his Glen-
garry '?
EASILY SATISFIED.
HUBBY (about to
travel): “Well, I’ll
drop you a line from
every centre I get
to."
WIFEY : “Do, dearest,
do! Even if it’s
only a cheque.”
“Two Seas”: I can’t endorse “Sarto’s”
(B. 26/8/’l5) libel on the burning qualities of
apple-tree. It may be slow, but it is very sure once
it is well alight. I have seen an apple-tree log 3ft.
in diameter burn like a candle for a week without
the fire being re-started. “Sarto” says it wouldn't
burn even if it had a chance to fry the Kaiser. Well,
if the opportunity ever comes my way, I’ll use the
wood and serve “Sarto” up a very well-done sausage.
“Warre”: The Wagga Pastures Protec-
tion Board has revived the old argument regarding
the species of crows—the carrion and the insectivor-
ous. The crow is the worst winged enemy the sheep-
owner has, and no one wastes time on fine points if
he can get within gun-range of the black pest. For
destructive purposes every crow is a crow.
NATURE’S BAD ART.
EMINENT BUT SHORTSIGHTED CRITIC: “Hum! Middle distance putrid! Shy unnatural! Sea
impossible!"
ARTIST: “But, excuse me —you are looking through the window.”
“K.K.”: “Jimmo’s” yarn (B. 22/7/T5)
about balls of wire-netting and other ironware sun-
dries being found in the stomach of his Ayrshire
bull is beaten by that of a farmer of Albury
(N.S.W.). When his cow was post-mortemed they
found a brass plate with a three-inch nail through
the centre, and some bits of iron, it was supposed
that she picked them up while feeding round a
blacksmith’s shop. The brass-plate-and-nail exhibit
entered the museum at Albury, but whether it is
still there I don’t know.
“Wandi” : A handsome, useful little dainty
is the quail. It is one of the farmer’s best friends,
and yet the farmer allows “sportsmen” the use of
his land to shoot it. The most common are the
stubble or pectoral quail and the swamp quail. The
first-named is prolific, laying as many as a dozen eggs
to a sitting, and producing two or three broods in
the season. It favors deep-grassed flats, plains and
weedy fields, rising up from a person’s very toes with
such a whirring noise and startling suddenness that
he jumps in spite of the fact that he has been ex-
pecting it. With the snipe it shares the doubtful
honor of being favorite “sporting” birds with town
shooters. It is the largest Australian quail, weighing
41oz. The king or chestnut-bellied quail, which fre-
quents scrubby areas, is the smallest, weighing only
Itloz. The brown quail, another esteemed game
bird, is often flushed from the.same grassy areas as
the stubble quail. These three and the little plain
wanderer differ from the rest in having a hind toe.
The painted quail is much larger than the stubble
variety, but is not as good eating. Two others that
are acceptable to the shooter are the red-backed quail
and the little quail. Most of these are easily domes-
ticated, and if the man on the land understood them
better he would take pains to keep them about him
instead of allowing them to be exterminated. The
quail is a good mother; the little ones snuggle under
her like chickens under a hen! It is pretty to see
the wee heads peeping out through the long breast
feathers. In the same way as the hen she takes her
brood about in the grass, scratching and feeding, and
now and again the “old man” assists her, giving
titbits to the babies.
“The Ishmaelite”: I read with interest
“X.P.D.” on Papuan roofing. He is an optimistic
soul. I have been condemned, no doubt for the
sins of my ancestors, to live for many years in
houses built of native material; and while they are
sometimes cool enough, after about four months they
become insufferably dirty and infested with vermin.
Personally I have a prejudice against snakes crawling
along the rafters and lizards dropping into my tea,
to say nothing of frogs, borers and all the scum of
the insect world. A grass roof, of which “X.P.D.”
speaks so glowingly, is about the worst and lasts
the least time. You can generally calculate after
six months on having to drag your bed about the
house looking for a fresh dry spot in every storm.
Nipa leaf is about the best, but its life is not more
than two years. And a native roof isn’t cheap ; that
is, if you’re making a permanent habitation. By the
time you’ve paid for a new roof, say, every year
(and a new roof, supposing you pay in tobacco at
3s. 6d. lb., is going to cost you anything you like),
you will find that it would have been very much
cheaper to use iron. Besides, you can’t get decent
drinking water off a grass or sago roof.
THE PERFECT WOWSER.
THE WOWSER : “Certainly not, little girl—
you cannot bathe with me. It would be
most unorthodox.”
“Ivylie”: “Sarto’s” wrong when he says
(B. 5/S/’l5) poisoned wheat is no good for destroy-
ing sparrows. He’ll change his whistle if he follows
this plan. Strew cocky chaff and such-like rubbish
on the grass, and amongst it sprinkle the doctored
wheat. The first day I tried that I bagged 103 of
the enemy, whereas in the same place on the pre-
vious day bj r putting poisoned wheat alone on the
ground all the satisfaction I got was two magpies.
“Eddysou” : “Didja iver know iv a man
desprit in love wid wan iv two gir-rls ’n’ niver able
t’ till the wan?” Flynn doctored his pipe with a
wire nail and then resumed. “Davy Meagher was
that man, ’n’ the rayson iv the oncertainty was the
mischievous ’n’ m’lieious character iv Patsy Came,
father iv twins, 18 lasht birthday, ’n’ aich so like
the other ’twas jue to rare discarnment Mary knew
which was hersilf ’n’ Marie cud shwear wid anny
sartinty ’twas not Mary she was feedin’ when she
tuck her males. Anny way, there was no manner iv
surety ’n’ no reliable ivideuce ’r documenthry proof
which was Mary ’n’ which was Marie, V vicy versy,
the chilther havin’ bin mixt so ripatedly whin in the
cradle niver a wan in the house but give up the iffort
*o distinguish thim fer a matter iv years. Patsy
Carne tuck great injymint frim his twins, V would
bedevil all his frinds wid the pair, ’n’ t’ further his
schames named them ez like ez the law would allow.
’Twas a joke nivir wint.coold on him, ’n’ whin the
poor b’y Meagher wint eoortin’, ould Carne would be
dancin’ hilarious wid himsilf ha’f the time, ’n’ didja
ask him, sez he, splutthei'ing like a coughin’ horse:
‘ ’Tis Davy Meagher eoortin’ there agin. Wisht, man
—he's got the wrong wan!’ Davy wint canoodlin’
wid Miss Carne in a shtate iv mor-rtal perplexity
wan year ’r more, nivir satisfied in his own mind the
gir-rl he had was the gir-rl he was afther. ’N’ the
gir-rl wouldn’t help him in anny way, beeaze, though
he was afther wan, the two was afther him. I dunno
liow't come into Meagher’s head ’twas Marie he was
eoortin’. Possible the poor b’y in his distress iv
mind dthrew wan name out iv his hat, ’n’ shtuck to
ut. lie would be askin’ fer Marie whin he called, ’n’
t’ be certain looked fer the shmall, brown mole behint
her left ear was his on’y mar-rk iv identifyeation, fer
’twas not the intintion iv ayther iv the gir-rls t’ help
him. Aven whin Davy proposed out in the summer
house built iv twigs, ’twas on’y be keepin’ his eye
on the brown mole he felt he cud shwear to havin’
the right one. ‘Will ye have me, Marie?’ sez he.
‘I will,’ sez Marie, ‘but I’m Mary, though ’tis a
mather iv no impor-rt.’ ‘Ye’re not!’ sez Dave. ‘I
am,’ sez she, ‘wid your lave.’ ‘But the mole!’ sez
Dave. ‘l’d know yeh be the brown mole aft yer ear.'
‘Yeh would not,’ she sez, ‘fer we’ve both a brown
mole behint the ear.’ Dave withdrew a yard, ’n’ sat
down in thriminjis dishtress iv mind. ‘Tis Marie
I’m eoortin’,’ sez he; ‘l'll ask j'eh to excuse me,
Mary. Would yeh go in ’n’ sind Marie to me?’ ‘1
will, t' be sure,’ sez Mary, ’n’ wint ’n’ left him. But
whin the other come he misdoubted her, havin’ a
fear ’twas Mary playin’ a joke wid him, .’n’ lie shtood
off. The thing throubled Meagher late ’n’ early fer
annother t’ree mont’s, ’n’ thin a’ idea come to him—
he eloped off wan iv the gir-rls, he didn’t know
which, 'n’ tuck he. to a relation iv his mother’s over
be Lake Burrumbute, ’n left her there, ’n’ come
back, ’n’ coorted the other a clare wake, while Hell
was to play wid the huntin’ fer the lost wan. Dave
married the wan left, ’a’ then he told Carne where
he’d find his lost dauther. ‘Wfaoi didja do ut?’ sez
Carne. ‘For whoi!’ wailed David. ‘I had t’ clare up
the difficulty some way.’ ”


HIGH-CLASS CIGARETTES
ra/
AT MODERATE PRICES.
N e 333
srqK #RfSS
CIGARETTES
10 FOR 6°'
*
■sr
aS5\
QUALITY COUNTS
In all things, but more especially in
cigarette manufacture. Men of dis-
crimination find that after smoking
State Express Cigarettes the smoking
of inferior brands is more of a misery
than a pleasure. Smoke State Express
and you are smoking “ Quality’s Limit.”
N e 333
THE NEW
RED PACKING
IQ 20
6°' 1-
State Express Cigarettes are obtainable of all high-
class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., Ltd., LONDON, Eng.


A Dainty Fabric for Dainty Folk
A COTTON VOILE—so soft —so clinging—with an air of fairy lightness
that seems to breathe the very spirit of Summer. This is Grafton
Cotton Voile, the delightful fabric with an irresistible appeal to dainty
ladies of refined taste. Delicate and yet withal so serviceable —for it is an
ideal washing material —there are many, many designs charming alike for their
simplicity and artistic colouring. In every case fast colours are used, as also
in the special range of plain art shades, for
which the demand is seemingly unlimited.
I*.
A*
a,s
h
ml
v
IK
\y
A LARGE
VARIETY of
DESIGNS and
COLOURINGS.
27 inches widel / 4
40 „ „ 1/10
Obtainable also in a beautiful range of plain colours,
40 inches wide.
ALSO IN PLAIN WHITE VERY SERVICEABLE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Although we have hitherto freely
sold our Voiles in Australia it has
come to our knowledge that other
makes of Voiles have been sold as
“Grafton’s.” When buying Voiles
in future insist on seeing
“ GRAFTON ” STAMPED ON THE SELVEDGE.
Grafton’s Cotton Voiles
are
ALL BRITISH-
made by British labour.
9
s
r
Obtainable from all the leading Drapers.
The Perfect Washing Material for Day and Evening Wear
f
I
'r-
v\ V- 1 ‘‘ /m/i “* .'-•• v
)J\ , ' - I T /y,V
/ , t;V-.*7;-r'V>'2 s ;V(". i
, >*»*s'< i**.- ,4;
v-'> *"'--r,
i.s*Fi‘:
,i 7 ,ii
UV*
£
S(iA
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Estanlished 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WOY, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
An attractive War Fund performance is
to have a trial gallop at St. Kilda (Melb.)
Town Hall on the last Wednesday this
month. Jo Smith, who made his mark at
the Royal and the King’s as a dramatist,
has written an Australian comedy which
is to be then produced. He gives the play
and acts in it (Mr. Smith was on the stage
before he went into other business for him-
self), and the rest of the cast has been
picked from the Repertory co. The whole
co. is prepared to do some touring with the
show if the test performance is a success.
No salaries, no author’s fees. All the profits
to go to the local fund for warriors wher-
ever the performance is requisitioned.
This story is told of a popular singer who
is greatly admired by young persons of the
softer and soppier sex. He was written to
by an ardent Melbourne admirer of 18, who
considers him “perfectly lovely,” for one of
his beautiful photographs. “The one with
the eyes turned up.” The reply came on a
dingy half-sheet of notepaper: “I shall be
pleased to send you the photograph of my-
self with the up-turned eyes on receipt of
ss. 2d. in stamps or postal order. The
smaller photo., with the more thoughtful
expression, is 35., postage Id. Yours very
sincerely, .”
“Norbell” : “A man’s gotter move with th’
times,” said Phil, the side-showman. “Look
at me! You’d er said th’ war’d crool me.
Not a bit on it! I took more’n 20 quid at
the Show Grounds week. I gotter
model of Kaiser Bill, witlT'a moveable ’ead,
an’ I give ’em seven shots f’r a tanner, an’
a Iron Cross ev’ry time yer knocks ’is ’ead
orf. The tugs comes at it like free beers.
Iron Crosses with ‘LIAR’ on ’em costs me
three bob a gross. Then I gives a dollar t’
anyone can knock Bill’s top-piece flyin’ three
times runnin’. Never bin caught that way
once yet. Bad sliootin’? Oil. no! There’s
reason in all things. Y’see, if a bloke ’its it
twice runnin’, I pulls a trick-line, an’ then
nothin’ short of a bloomin’ cannon-ball could
dercappertate his nibs. A great slug? What
do you think! Willyum’s th’ bes’ friend I’ve
’ad f’years.”
“De Oriel ’: Cooktown has two picture-
shows —its only diversion. When the
southern steamer comes in the crowd on the
wharf yells anxiously to the purser, “Are the
films aboard?” Being assured of that, the
day’s work goes on as usual.
Every now and then, Amy Sherwin, the
“Tasmanian Nightingale” of years ago,
holds musical competitions in London,
where she has her sign up as a teacher.
There were 30 fledglings at the latest out-
burst, wherein the winner was a young
Australian, Vera Leslie. Afterwards the
new prodigy was exhibited at a concert in
the Steinway Hall, and was described by
the Globe as a “singer of uncommon pro-
mise” —a verdict with which all the other
critics concurred.
Harry Atkinson, the “Australian Or-
pheus,” has been 26 times across the Atlan-
tic, and he reckons that gives him a lead
in something over all other Australian per-
formers. Atkinson derives his professional
title from the fact that his throat is so con-
structed that he can imitate 19 different
parts of an orchestra. Asa youngster in
Melbourne he was fairly well known as a
singer. Then he discovered that he could
imitate the banjo and tried it on old J. L.
Toole at Menzies’ Hotel. Toole advised the
lad to go to London, and helped him on to
the programme at the Pav. He caught on
immediately. That was 25 years ago, and
he is still everything from a trombone to a
piccolo.
From London :
Seymour Hicks, who always has an eye for advt.,
announces as his new leading lady Rita Jolivet, “who
was saved from the wreck of the Lusitania after
being three hours in the water.” So she must be a
fine actress. Rejane has been doing the old “Marriage
of Kitty,” in which the heroine deliberately makes
herself ugly in full view of the audience. The latest
recruits to moving-picture acting are Pavlova, the
Russian dancer, and Lewis Waller, who is doing
“Brigadier Gerard” with Madge Titheradge. Chevalier
is doing a grim set of dipsomaniac studies, founded
on Cruiclcshank’s old pictures of “The Bottle.”
Charles Frohmann’s memorial service in London drew
a tremendous attendance of the theatrical profession.
It is announced that his brother Daniel will carry out
his contracts. The latest Revue title is “Miss Sauce,
of Worcester.” The papers hail it as novel; yet it
seems an obvious crib from the Yank “Miss Ginger,
of Jamaica.”
“Copabella” : What an unhealthy life the
profesh must live! Hardly a paper may
be opened nowadays but one’s eye meets the
testimony, with photo, (always with photo.),
of some mummer who has been saved from
baldness, embonpoint or death by Some-
body’s Pale Pots for Pink Pros. What
tanksful of patent medicines ac-tors and
ac-tresses (specially ac-tresses) must
absorb ! What complications some must suf-
fer ! One of these dajs an overworked
advertising manager will run some dreary
star’s testimony to a fat-reduction cure and
a why-be-thin specific, and then the whole
grease pot will be in the fire.
Part of the week’s programme at London
Palladium and other ’alls of late has been
an address by Ben Tillett urging workers
to combine for the defeat of the “ruthless
foe,” and not to rest “until the spirit of
militarism is absolutely destroyed.” Tillett
is the professional Socialist who first came
to notoriety at the time when the London
dockers struck for something better than 4d.
an hour. How about the Trades Halls that
lionised him in Australia? Are they supply-
ing any patriot-oration turns at places of
amusement ?
At a Red Cross performance at His
Majesty’s, London, organised by Elizabeth
Asquith, daughter off the British Prime Min-
ister, “Lizzie” appeared in a little comedi-
etta, “The Impertinence of the Creature.”
Pa hurried down from the House of Com-
mons, but was too late to witness the girl’s
performance. She was bowing before the
curtain when he arrived.
“J.F.H.”: An up-to-date burglar sketch,
“A Midnight Meeting,” written by the
Marchioness Townshend, has been produced
here in London. A young woman in a nightie
falls in love with the intruding burglar, a
good-looking “colonial.” He is accepted, and
the marriage is fixed up in less than 20
minutes. There are incidental references
to the wholesale slaughter going on in
Europe and the consequential likely lack of
population, and this is the justification
assigned by the noble lady dramatist for
her greased-lightning marriage. “They ex-
pect it of us in war time,” sweetly remarks
the young lady in the nightie as the curtain
falls.
G. R. Sims, author of “The Lights o’
London” and a lot of other plays familiar in
Australia, has been celebrating his 40th
anniversary as a dramatic author. It was
on July 10, 1875, that his first piece, “One
Hundred Years Old,” an adaptation from
the French, was performed in London. In
the cast were William Rignold, brother of
George; W. 11. Vernon, who toured Aus-
tralia with Genevieve Ward; and G. W.
Anson, an admirable comedian also well
remembered in Sydney and Melbourne. “The
Lights o’ London” has been a money-spinner
for Sims. First produced by Wilson Bar-
rett 34 years ago, it has been running ever
since in the “provinces,” and was lately
“on” simultaneously in Copenhagen, Stock-
holm and Christiana —three capitals that
are lucky enough to be out of the fire,
though near enough to see the smoke.
The Railway Workers’ Union of N. S.
Wales, whose 18,000 members are mainly
employed on the Holman “vigorous works
policy,” has had a barney with the State
Labor Bureau over the way in which men
are sent out to works which don’t exist.
Incidentally, the quarrel throws a little light
on the way in which the loan is blewed. The
Labor Bureau’s business is to supply work-
less men with work ; and, as a rule, it pro-
vides the work by sending away mixed
hatches of unemployed shop-hands, window-
dressers, paper-hangers, and so on, to earn
a bit of loan with a pick and shovel. Natur-
ally, after drawing a few days’ pay for
showing that they are useless at the job,
they return full of bitterness and with corns
on their hands. The Railway Workers’
Union reckons that the Government would
score better results at less expense if it
employed the men it wanted through the
union. It certainly couldn’t get worse
results, anyhow.
“0.K.”: Senator Pearce resents all criti-
cism as an unwarranted “personal affront,
and he considers that the motive of the critic
must necessarily be malign,” says the Age.
But why single out Pearce? Every one of
Pearce’s colleagues regards criticism as a
pers ,ual affront, and affects to consider him-
self malignantly insulted by it. Prime
Minister Fisher, in particular, is a frequent
reminder of what Henry Labouchere said
about Gladstone: “I wouldn’t mind his
always having an ace up his sleeve if he
wouldn’t pretend that God Almighty put it
there.” Fisher has persuaded himself that
he wears a halo, and attributes his own party
motives to patriotic principles every time,
lie and his colleagues are under the impres-
sion that all the criticism they throw about
is clean and wholesome, and all the criticism
from the other side is Dirt. However, this
“touchiness” is a matter of course. As it
grows older the party will become less thin-
skinned, until at last it will rival the
wrinkled Tory rhinoceros in the toughness of
its hide.
Passed through Sydney last week on his
way to. Egypt Robert Heaton Rhodes, Post-
master-General in Massey’s late M.L. Cabinet.
His mission is to handle cash sent by pri-
vate organisations for the relief of wounded
soldiers, and to investigate numerous tales
of corruption. Rhodes is rich and honest,
and before leaving Sydney bought two sharp
axes and a muscle developer.
At one time, before deciding to give it up
as a bad job, the organisation known as the
I.W.W. tried hard to press its propaganda
on the Labor Council of N.S.W., the ruling
body of Ma State Unionism. Its chief
apostle was a brother of Labor-member Tom
Keegan, who possessed indomitable persist-
ence and a habit of maltreating the alphabet.
He spoke on everything. Even on a motion
to adopt the executive minutes he would ex-
pound the principles of the I double yer
double yer. It was a poor night on which
Keegan failed to discover at least four or five
opportunities to make prolonged remarks.
To one stormy meeting there came a fresh
delegate who knew not his Keegan, and
promptly interrupted him with a point of
order. “I don’t know the delegate’s system
of betting,” he said, turning to Keegan, “but
let me tell you this: I’ll double yer, and
double yer again as far as yer want to go!”
The flippancy about such a sacred thing broke
poor Keegan’s heart, and the propaganda was
dropped soon afterwards.
OUTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sat upon the doorstep there
At Mann’s, the picture of despair.
Old happy friends trooped in to drink;
But no one turned to tip the wink.
By Kaiser William he is outed,
And one-time cobbers have him snouted.
Before the war his life was gay,
Ilis job was certain, and his pay;
With nightly raptures he was greeted.
Behold now how the man is treated
Who acted with consummate skill
A German turn in vaudeville!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


h
Two German
300 German
Iticers
©ldlers
From Oa© Germ&a Piano Factory
> .
alone are actually Fighting Against
the Allies in Flanders to-day.
THE same German firm has hitherto supplied thousands of
German pianos to Australians during many years.
Yet German pianos and player-pianos are still actively
advertised in Australia by the Anglo-German Agents, so that once
again your enemy will Regain his footing in Australia, once more to
establish his spy system, and to use Australian money to prepare
his ultimate revenge for his present disappointment !
If you are thinking of buying a piano, will you come and inspect
for yourself the Beale Pianos —made in Australia, your own country,
by your own countrymen ?
If you buy a Beale Piano you
will be actively assisting in provid-
ing a livelihood for nearly 500
Australian families, many of whom
have sent sons, brothers and fathers
to fight the Germans and their
Allies.
Just come and see the Beale
Pianos you will be delighted with
their qualities in every respect.
Mr. Octavius C. Beale,
founder and present con=
trolling Director of this busi=
ness, was born at Mount
Mellick, Queen’s County,
Ireland, of an old Irish
family. The Directors and
Managers throughout the
business are all descendants
of British families for many
generations. There are no
Germans employed in the
business,and no supplies are
obtained from Germany.
Head Office & Factories: Trafalgar & Nelson Streets, Annandale, Sydney, N.S.W.
Showrooms: 136 Liverpool Street, Sydney
George Street, Bathurst
Fitzmaurice Street, Wagga
273 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane
Flinders Street, Townsville
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Argent Street, Broken Hill
Summer Street, Orange
Lismore
Kent Street, Maryborough, Q’land
William Street, Rockhampton
Sydney Street, Mackay
Cairns, Q’land..


25|-
30 1-
Lady’s Solid Silver
Double Case Hunting
Keyless Watch, full jew-
elled, 25/-; extra jewelled,
30/-; 10 years’ guaranteed,
Gold-filled Keystone Case Elgin
Lever, £2/15/-; Solid Gold,
£3/10/-, £4.
9ct. Gold Links,
25/-; loct. Gold,
_9ct. Gold Three-bar Brooch.
Garnet in centre, 17/6.
9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Heart
and Ivy Leaf, any name engraved,
7/6.
9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Pearls and
Amethysts or Red
Stones, 22/6.
Oct. Gold
Necklace, set
Pearls and Aqua-
marines or Tour-
malines, £2.
»« * fg
a
9ct. Gold, Half-round Bracelet, richly
chased, £2. 15ct. Gold, £3.
9ct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 10/-;
15ct. Gold, 15/-
18ct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 40/-
15ct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 25/-
18ct. Gold, 30/-
9ct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 20/-;
15ct. Gold, 40/-
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled,
Lever Movement, £4.
Expanding
£3/10/-
Gold Spray Brooch, set
Pearls and Turquoise, 8/6.
loct. Gold Brooch, set pure
double-cut Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £4/10/-
All Diamonds, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £B/10/-
All Diamonds,
£lO.
9ct. Gold Sou-
venir Pendant,
8/6.
With Enamel
Shield, 12/6.
25-
20/-
Lady’s Solid Silver
Open-face Keyless
Watch, full jewelled, accu-
rate, 20 /-; extra quality,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-;
Solid Gold, 50/-, 60/-,
50/-,
75/-
9ct. Gold Links,
25 /-, richly en-
graved. 1 5ct. Gold,
40/-
20/-
25/-
Gen t.’s Nickel Open-face
Keyless Liever Watch, jew-
elled, patent adjusted balance, non-
magnetic, dust-proof cases, 20/-;
extra quality, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-
18ct. Gold
Rinas set 3
Diamonds,
£lO.
18ct. Gold
Ring set 3
Diamonds,
£lO.
18ct. Gold
R ing, set
Diamonds.
£l2/10/-
18ct. Gold
Ring, set
Diamond,
£2/10/-
1 Set. Gold
Half Hooi*
Kins, sct 5
Diamonds,
£5.
18ct. Gold
Diamond
Cluster
Ring;,
£7/10/-
9ct. Gold Brooch, set fear
and Red or Green Stones, 25/
9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and Aqua-
marines, 25/-
15ct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Aquamarines or
. Tourmalines, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS,
807-817 George Street,
SYDNEY.
so/-
Viwiityli
mitt
wM
ivvvviv.v.'i
iilWsiiw
■fi
V I
WM
m
:
SsiliiSl
msmamm
sn§%v»i
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Watch, jewelled, com-
pensation balance, non-magnetic,
30/-; higher grade, 35/-; 10
years’ guaranteed Gold Case, Elgin
Lever Keystone Watch, £2/10/-;
Solid Gold, £7/10/-, £B, £lO.
35/-
ghdfgvh
F)R the convenience of the man
who is many miles from the big
towns, we have Special Colt re-
volvers made to shoot the same car-
tridges as the Winchester Rifles.
This saves the trouble of having to
carry two kinds of Ammunition.
The Calibres are .32,
.38 and .44, and these
cartrdges are procurable
in any little town
throughout the
civilized world
ONE
Cartridge
DOES'
m
-for
BOTH
df
Catalogs.
Free
The PRICES of the REVOLVERS are-
. 32 cal. 4in. barrel £5 ; .38 ca'. 5‘A in.
barrel, £6/15/-; .44 cal. 7}6ln. barrel,
£7/10/-.
Winchester Rifles— Half or full Maga-
zine-Carbine length, 20 in. barrel, 67/6;
Full Rifle length, 24 in. barrel, 70. -
Alcock & Pierce,
318 Lt. Collins
Street, MELB.
ghvdgfhv
Three
Sizes
of
VA,2
334 K. P.
Make Your Rowboat Self-Propelled
by attaching the
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor, attached at the stern of
any rowboat or canoe, will give all the service
and pleasure of efficient Motor-Boating. For
cruising up the river or around the coast.
For conveying cargo quickly at small cost. It
economizes space, being attached outside the rowboat,
and can be easily taken off without harm to the wood-
work and used on any other boat.
25,000 Satisfied Users. 9 Governments have
adopted the Evinrude Motor after rigid tests.
It is operated by Petrol (gasoline),
with battery ignition or MAGNETO,and
automatic lubrication. Steered by pro-
peller—no rudder required, but supplied if
desired. Reversible. Fully guaranteed.
3]
Descriptive Booklet Post Free from
H. A. GODDAIID, 404 Queen St., Brisbane; 82
Pitt St., Sydney; 37G Collins St., Melbourne;
Cliff e St., Fremantle; Remington Chambers
(opp. G.P.0.), Auckland.
M
I
m
H
Hartness Flat Tarret Lathe
Makers—JONES & LAMSON, U.S.A.
With the Jones & Lamson Turret Lathe
Production Costs are Reduced.
An operator can make one piece quicker than it can be made in an
engine lathe, and if a number of duplicates are to be made, the
system of stops makes duplication possible at highest production
speeds.
TWO SIZES.
Capacity on bar work, 2 U in. x 24in. and Sin. x 36in.
Capacity on chuck work, 12in. diameter and 14in. diameter.
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS.
Sole Agents:
McPherson's)
IProprietary Limited
Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Bathurst Street
Sydney.


HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure
THOSE who have had occasion to take HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE are astonished
at its WONDERFUL HEALING-POWER. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Pain or Soreness in the Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness, Asthma,
experience delightful and rapid relief. This medicine is particularly valuable to those who
are subject to Colds on the Chest, as it STRENGTHENS THE LUNGS, and renders them
less susceptible. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice; and for this reason is thoroughly appreciated by Clergymen,
Public Speakers and Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become Chronic, and in
this respect is ABSOLUTELY INDISPENSABLE in preventing a Cold from
developing into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy or Consumption. No
house should be without a bottle of this WONDERFUL REMEDY, as taken
at the first indication of a cold, a dose or two is generally sufficient.
A Cold should always be “ nipped in the bud,” or serious illness
may follow.
“An Excellent Preparation/'
■V
\%
JA
I
1
IUUUUi
Absolutely THE Finest
Remedy in the World
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST,
WEAK LUNGS,
DELICATE CHESTS
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (Double Size)
The BEST is invariably the CHEAPEST in the
long run.
This Remedy is obtainable from all RELIABLE
Chemists and Stores.
If you have any difficulty in getting HEARNE’S
send direct to
W. G. HEARNE & CO. LTD.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branches at SYDNEY, N.S.W.. and WELLINGTON, N.Z.
,v\\ 1/
N
e-
ft
/T«
m
rf
gv
V
*S
&
r
V,V 1
Ki
1
%m
—i
i
't
w
v:
If
g?
N
\
TS3
16.
KmcSLty-TMtTt-f. g
Bishen Singh, who traded over the lone-
some tracks and accumulated many shekels,
was cremated the other day at Moulamein,
on the Wakool. Bishen was dead. When
the bonfire was lighted the local inhabitants
took a holiday, and it was unanimously
resolved that the Sikh has a decent method
of burial, anyhow.
From a rubber plantation in North
Borneo:—
An outbreak of brown man occurred here lately,
and I am enthusiastic about the energy displayed
by some of its relatives in inducing the discontented
section to be more tranquil. The president of the
local branch of the Native Peace Society went out
one evening with his gun, and returned next day
with 17 scalps. It used to be the fashion to bring
home the entire head, but that was in the bad old
days.
Again the unreliable parson. In June a
Ballarat shepherd, of the Scotchbyterian
persuasion, alleged that, as Lansdowne had
joined John Bull’s Cabinet, the liquor ques-
tion would be shelved, the Markiss being
■“one of the leaders of the liquor trade, and
managing director of five brewery companies
in England.” Melbourne papers reporting
this statement lately reached Hansdowne,
and his secretary has sent back a chilly
letter announcing that m’lord has never held
a directorship in any brewery co. and for
over 30 years has not owned a share.
“Binnacle”: Even the tourist has his little
trials in these crowded times. _ The other
day he was floated into Australian ports by
the 20-year-old R.M.S. Arabia, and if he
had made any bleat about it he would have
been told that he was (just-so). lucky to get
any kind of a passage at all, with the Admi-
ralty commandeering tonnage wholesale. It
was the Arabia’s maiden-aunt voyage to
these waters.
“Stopitsky” sends a purple air-patch:
A French monoplane,* with pilot and observer on
board, was sent to ascertain the exact position of a
German battery in the Woevre district. Anti-air-
craft guns barked at them ; shells burst round them
in clouds; and as they started for home they were
attacked by a German aviatik, which also carried
two men. The French machine out-manoeuvred the
German and caused it to bolt. Our allies, winging
in pursuit, were coming up rapidly, when suddenly
their engine stopped. There was nothing for it but
to descend. When the Germans next looked round
they saw the French machine on the ground and the
crew lying still as though dead. Down the enemy
swooped, and, jumping out, ran forward to investi-
gate. Then the dead was resurrected with an auto-
matic pistol in each hand; after which it piled
itself into the two air-hearses —one ex-eorpse in each
—and returned to the friendly lines. Then their
troubles recommenced, as our guns opened fire on our
own ally in the German craft, and he had to circle
round and round saying blanky till the other fellow
came down and told us to knock off for refreshments.
The State Government and other authori-
ties in Melbourne, as elsewhere, achieved a
successful recruiting boom with the aid of
electric-lighted appeals to the public. Hav-
ing served their purpose, those illuminations
should have been taken down as soon as re-
cruiting dropped back to normal. But the
fat-headed authorities left the gaudy “Duty
Calls” and other texts to blaze away at ex-
hausted local enthusiasm; and the chances
are they will be useless for the purpose of a
future boom. In short, their cry of “Wolf !•’
will get no more attention than the /Esopian
small boy achieved.
“ Jaques”: This is “dinkum.” At Manly
(N.S.W.) the other night a distressed
charmer stopped me and hesitatingly begged
enough money to take her to Lewisham.
She explained that she had come down to
the seaside with a young-man friend who
had so far forgotten himself that she had
run away from him. Now, having only
threepence in her purse she did not know
how to reach home. Would I help her, and
give her my name and address so that she
could remove the monetary part of the obli-
gation by letter-post next day? I was glad
to help so virtuous a damsel. But when
three of us came home with the same yarn
that night, our hash-house wasn’t half big-
enough to hold our mixed feelings. Virtue
its own reward? Nonsense! There are
dividends in it.
“Binnacle”: Exit (temporarily) from
oversea ships the Plimsoll mark or load-line
disc. The Australian water-front has been
mildly surprised at the arrival of big
steamships from London with their load-lines
as well as their names painted over, this
being a serious offence under the Merchant
Shipping Act. Admiralty sanction, if not
orders, must have been given, but for what
reason is not clear, unless it is that the
marks amidships may assist enemy vessels
in picking up range of taking aim or some-
thing else unpleasant. Anyway, what was
considered impossible has happened, and
British ships are putting to sea without old
Samuel Plimsoll’s legacy on their hulls.
“Yarra Ben” : If I hadn’t Mr. Fred Niblo’s
word for it I never would have believed it.
Says he to the N’Yark World: —
Australia is an ideal place for actors. Sunday
performances are not allowed. In Melbourne there
are no Sunday newspapers and it is impossible to get
a drink for iove or money.
The ideal country where you can’t get a
drink for love or money on Sundays! Now
you know why so many Yankee and other
stars want to come this way.
Gallipoli has robbed the medical profes-
sion of Dr. Luther, of Bundaberg. Luther
was born in Ireland, but had lived most of
his life in Australia, and his warm heart
and cool hand had made all Bundaberg his
friend. lie leaves a widow (daughter of
Mowbray, P.M.) and four little Lutherans.


Model 80
5-Passenger Touring Car,
£.395
dghd
Model 81
5-Passenger Touring Car,
£,345
An Unusually Comfortable Car
COMFORT is one of the Overland’s
most noticeable qualities. It has
been carefully and skilfully provided
in the Overland design.
The seats are wide and deep. The
seat-backs are high. The upholstery is very
thick, and is supported by springs in which
strength and elasticity are perfectly balanced.
The wheel base is long— 114 inches
(289.56 cm). The springs are exception-
ally long. The rear springs are underslung.
Their wide opening permits great freedom
of motion, and all shocks are absorbed over
an area so great that no unpleasant jars
reach the body. All this is possible because
practically every part of the Overland is
designed and made in the Willys-Overland
factories —under our own supervision, by
our own master workmen.
To appreciate all of the Overland’s
comfort you must experience it yourself.
You are invited to inspect the Overland at
the local show rooms.
Silent, powerful motor
Instrument board on cowl dash
Individual front seats, high backs
Tonneau, long and wide
Genuine leather upholstery, deep & soft
Windshield, rain-vision, ventilating type,
built in
Crowned fenders
Electric starter—Electric lights
High-tension magneto
SPECIFICATIONS—MODEL 80.
Thermo-syphon cooling
Five-bearing crankshaft
Rear axle, floating type
Springs, rear, % elliptic, extra long,
underslung
Wheelbase 114 inches (289.56 c.m.)
Large tyres, 35 x 4% inches
Beautiful dark-green body finish, with
ivory striping; nickel and aluminium
trimmings
Demountable, detachable rims—one
extra
Right-hand drive
Electric engine starter and generator;
electric head, side, dash and tail
lamps; storage battery; mohair top
and top boot; top curtain box; wind-
shield; speedometer; electric horn;
robe rail; foot rest; tyre-carrier in
rear; full set of tools; tyre-repair kit,
jack and pump.
AUSTRALIA :
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
THE CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., 45 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., 60 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., 1056 Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
NEW ZEALAND:
HATRICK & CO., Wellington and Wanganui.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OP. ASSOCIATION, Christchurch .
MODEL 80
The- Willys-o¥erland Company, Toledo, Ohio, U.S.A,
Manufacturers of the famous Overland Delivery Cars.
Full information on request.


g
Stockings and Sock s
for Patriots’ wear —'
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are guaranteed by the Brand to be entirely
British made, and are produced from pure
Australasian wool. By buying only Jason you
help the Old Country —besides securing the
finest value in the world.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks —which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See thei Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co.. Leicester. Eng.
Aa 61 <?>
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 31st August, 1915.
Tenders for Supply of 18-pr. High
Explosive Shell Bodies, and their
Component Parts.
r I TENDERS will be received, subject io
conditions of tendering, until Three
o’clock on Monday, 20th September, 1915,
for the supply of 18-Pdr. high explosive
shell bodies, also component parts, of Com-
monwealth manufacture.
Tender forms, specification, drawing,
special and general conditions of tender and
contract may be obtained by persons desir-
ous of tendering, from the Secretary, State
Munitions Committee, of the State concerned.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
shell bodies” on the top left-hand corner of
envelope, and addressed (if by post, pre-
paid) to the Secretary, Federal Munitions
Committee, care of the Secretary of the
State Munitions Committee, of the State
concerned.
G. F. PEABCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
Business Announcements.
The Delicate Magneto
is the very life of your cycle or car. It requires the
skill of the expert "to adjust and repair. Send yours to
Rawson Moody Manuf’g Co.
343 Kent Street, Sydney,
who have specialised in electrical work for years, and
who undertake to repair quickly and cheaply, and
guarantee to make it work equal to new again or
make no charge.
NYAL’S FACE CREAM
(with
Peroxide)
Made in
Australia.
This daintily perfumed, vanishing, peroxide
cream does NOT promote the growth of hair.
Non-greasv, nourishing and easily absorbed —
leaves no shine. Ideal for sunburn, and acts
as a mild skin bleach. Applied freely it will
keep the skin soft and elastic.
Price 1/6 & 2/6 per Jar, from Retail Chemists only.
FREDERICK STEARNS & COMPANY,
358 Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney.
Send 2d. Stamp for Sample Jar and Name of
i -.. Nearest Agent. —.... .. ■ .
txpAma
Cures ECZEMA.
No matter how this terrible disease manifests
itself, either dry, scaly or mattery, it quickly
vanishes under the wonderful influence of EXZERMA.
Exzerma is a liquid compound, is non-poisonous,
and cures Eczema with amazing rapidity and
thoroughness.
The worst and most obstinate cases are cured in
two weeks.
SOLD BY ALL ('CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS,
( or by
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
mO NEILS CHRISTIAN NEILSON
_L (sometimes known as Chris, or Chris-
topher Neilson), who left Ivumara, New
Zealand, 20 years ago, for the West Aus-
tralian Goldfields, and to all persons claiming
by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of the Hon-
orable W. B. Edwards, a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, under Sec-
tion 25 of The Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act 1913, you are hereby called upon
to send in to the undersigned, on or before
the first day of January, 1916, your claim to
part of the estate of JEPPE ANDERSON,
late of Picton, New Zealand, Nurseryman,
deceased, who died on the 19th January,
1906; failing which such estate will be dis-
tributed among the persons entitled thereto,
disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this first day of July,
1915.
.T. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, N.Z.
mo CHARLES TRENDELL and FRED-
JL ERICK TRENDELL, late of 3 Briar
Cottages, Lower Morden, Surrey, England.
TAKE NOTICE that an Originating
Summons, 1915 C, No. 1507 In the Matter
of the Courts (Emergency Powers) Act,
1914, has been taken out in the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice by
MARY ELIZABETH CHARLTON, of
Tatenhill Rectory, Burton-on-Trent, Eng-
land, calling upon you and James Trended
to attend at the Chambers of Mr. Justice
Joyce and Mr. Justice Eve at the time
specified in the margin thereof on the hear-
ing of an application by the said Mary
Elizabeth Charlton under the said Act for
liberty to enter into possession of Nos. 497
and 499 Kingston Road, Merton, in the
County of Surrey, England, alleged to be-
long to you and James Trended subject to
a Mortgage dated 30t.h August, 1906, made
between Harold .lames Bate of the one part
and the Applicant of the other part to secure
£630 and interest.
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
the said Originating Summons stands
adjourned to the Ist December, 1915. at
eleven o’clock in the forenoon at the said
Chambers, Room 696 Royal Courts of Jus-
tice, Strand, London, England, when if you
do not attend in person or by your Solicitor
the applicant will ask the Court to proceed
on the Notice or intimation to you of the
said application by this advertisement.
DATED this 30th day of July, 1915.
TIMBRELL & WEIGHTON,
90 Cannon Street,
London, E.C., England,
Solicitors for the Applicant.
IV THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. IN EQUITY.
No. 4694 of 1912.
Between HARRIETT JANE PARSONS.
Plaintiff, and
CHARLES WILLIAM TURNER, Defen-
dant.
Pursuant to an Order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in Equity made
in the suit between HARRIETT JANE
PARSONS, wife of Charles Parsons Plain-
tiff and CHARLES WILLIAM TURNER
Defendant. Number 4694 of 1912 FRANCIS
ARTHUR TURNER (son of Henry Turner
who died at Yass in the State of New South
Wales on or about the sixth day of June One
thousand eight hundred and sixty-four) and
all persons claiming through or under the
Will or in the Estate of the said Henry
Turner deceased in the lands hereinafter de-
scribed in the Schedule hereto are hereby
directed to send their claims addressed to
McCoy and McCoy of 10 Castlereagh Street
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
the Solicitors for the Plaintiff within two
months from date of publication of this
Notice supported by Affidavit sworn in the
above suit.
THE SCHEDULE REFERRED TO:
All that piece or parcel of land situated at
O’Connell Town Yass in the Parish of Hume
County of Murray and being Lots seventeen
eighteen and nineteen of Section Thirty-nine
containing by admeasurement One acre two
roods six perches and being situated at the
intersection of Cooma Street and Browne
Street.
11. P. OWEN,
Master in Equity, New South Wales.
Public Notices.
TYPEWRITING g SIMILAR MACHINES.
"T HE Proprietor of Australian Letters Patent No.
I 1 17631/io for “Improvements in and relating to
I typewriting and similar machines” desires to make
I arrangements by way of License or otherwise, on
’ reasonable terms, with a view of the invention being
worked commercially in .UjsH^lia.
For information apply Wo WALTER S. BAYSTON
k SON, Patent Attorneys, 441 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Fitzgerald’s Brewing and Malting Co.
(Castlemaine, Vic.)
„ Writ- Added
T ten to Re- Re-
' ono* - rofi ts. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
“ £6BU 10 p.c. =£sooo £lBl4 £9,113
190.>.. 6268 10 „ ~ 5000 1268 10,381
inn- 6250 10 » „ 5000 1250 11,631
innn" 6423 10 » » 50 °0 1423 13,054
1906.. 61 41 10 ~ ~ 5000 1741 14,795
e 10,000 of reserves added to capital, making
1 n _ and reducing reserves to .. 4,795
nnV “ 0778 10 p.c. = 6000 —77 S
1908.. 6,05 10 „ „ 6000 705 6,278
1909.. 6308 10 „ ~ 6000 308 6,586
910.. 6463 10 „ „ 6000 463 7,049
911.. 6854 10 „„ 6000 854 7,903
912.. ,354 10 „ „ 6000 £lOO9 345 5,248
91n.. 6u37 10 „ „ 6000 440 97 8,345
1914.. 7033 10 „ ~ 6000 - 1033 9,378
' 1° • • 23 10 „ ~ 6000 723 10,101
On the face of it the co. isn't making rapid
progress. In 1907 it showed £5573 of un-
divided profits; now, eight years later, it
shows only £4528 more. That means, on
the figures, tfiat in eight years the co. has
made £52,528 net, and the shareholders have
had all but £4528 of it. Seeing what a rat-
tling good time most of those last eight
years have been, this would be cutting things
too fine altogether unless the management
was assured that there were no contin-
gencies left to be provided for. When a
management doesn’t care a fig about the
share market, and when it has made up its
mind that it would be indiscreet to pay a
higher dividend than 10 p.c., the pretty gen-
eral tendency nowadays is to whittle the
declared profits down to as little as possible
in excess of 10 p.c. Sooner or later, of
course, the suppressed profits get uncomfort-
able and want to burst out; and
then the easiest escape is to capitalise
what profits have been disclosed and
have not been divided, so that there-
after the 10 p.c. dividend may absorb
more, profit. This appears to be the policy
of Fitzgerald’s Castlemaine. In 1901 cap-
ital was increased from £40,000 to £50.000,
and in 1907 from £50,000 to £60.000. With-
out causing any commotion the dividend has
thus really been put up to 15 p.c.. whereas
the surface indicates that the co. is merely
paying 10 p.c. and making very little besides.
For a Victorian co. in the beer business
the debts are remarkably small. The follow-
ing shows the movements in that and other
lines:—•
1905. 1914. 1915.
Capital .. ..£50,000 £60,000 £60,000
Liabilities .. 6,500 2,438 7,092
Properties .. . 26,965 47,288 48,007
Liquid assets .. 22,997 18,289 23,309
Other assets .. 22,092 9,239 8,807
Gross receipts .. 8,849 8,967 8,793
Expenses .. .. 2,177 1,934 2*069
In the last 10 years nearly £20.000 has been
drawn out of mortgages and put into free-
holds; and probably some undisclosed profit
has gone in that direction, ostensibly to
write down values or otherwise provide for
contingencies. And in this trade there are
plenty of contingencies to provide for. This
co. has two-thirds of its capital and reserves
in “freehold hotels and properties.” The
chances are that a lot of the value of some
of these properties would disappear if the
beer-pump in them was dismantled: and
there is no telling where the dismantling of
beer-pumps will end. Certainly, though
there may be some reaction after the war,
the liquor trade is in for such regulation as
it never had to submit to before.
* * * *
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn. N.S.W.) :
To Re- Rc-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1908.. £972 15 p.c. =£7so £222 £10,364
•Tune, 1909.. 1117 15 „ „ 750 367 10,731
Dec., 1909.. 872 15 „ „ 750 122 10,853
June, 1910.. 1090 15 „ „ 750 340 11,193
Dec., 1910.. 412 15 „ „ 750 10 855
June, 1911.. 1081 15 „ „ 750 331 11,186
Dec., 1911.. 851 15 „ ~ 750 101 11.287
June, 1912.. 1174 15 „„ 750 424 11,711
Reserves disappeared (apparently
distributed), £7982.. .. 3,729
Dec., 1912.. 509 8 p.c. = 400 109 3,838
•Tune, 1913.. 734 8 „ „ 400 334 4 172
Dec., 1913.. 754 8 „ „ 400 354 4.526
•Tune, 1914.. .1139 8 „ „ 400 739 5 265
Dee., 1914.. 611 8 „ „ 400 211 5,’476
•Tune, 1915.. 627 8 „ „ 400 227 5,703
It is the old tale. The gas co. got in first,
ancl, having only dear kerosene to compete
against, charged almost anything. Fifteen
p.c. dividends were the order of the day.
Ihen the local council decided that it was
Goulburn’s turn to supply itself with elec-
tnc light and power. To some extent this
has put a damper on the eo.’s profits. Still
the electric supply will never be a cheap one
at Goulburn, so shareholders may quite
reasonably look to the future without
thoughts of black crepe. Sales for the past
six months were £3452, as against £4Oll to
the end of .Time, 1914, when an exceptionally
iUrge profit was shown. Liabilities total
is pi that there are liquid assets
of £4202. The financial position is thus
very sound. And as to profits, there is a
very fair margin to come and go on after
paying the 8 p.c. dividend.
* * *■ *
Let Frank Grimley, a director of the co.,
have his say :
I he Bulletin refers to the item “Parliamentary
Rights and Concessions, £15,000,” as a “paper
asset” of the Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power
Co., and says, in effect, that it is of the nature of
“Goodwill,” and should not be taken into account.
These Parliamentary Rights and Concessions are, in
effect, a lease in perpetuity, rent free, of the streets
of Sydney for the purposes of the business, and give
to the co. the right to establish itself at any point
along the public thoroughfares for the sale and
delivery of the thing it is in business to sell. Surely
that is as tangible an asset of the co.’s business as
an advantageous leasehold of any business premises
fronting the same thoroughfares is to the business
requiring same, with the added advantage of per-
petuity and freedom from rent. It might be argued
that the cost of the Act of Parliament giving these
rights should, like the price paid for a lease, be
extinguished during the term; bpt the answer is
that these Concessions have no limitation of term,
and therefore are not wasting assets; they are sub-
ject only to a periodic right of the Council to pur-
chase the whole concern at its value whenever that
right might be exercised. The cost of Parliamentary
Rights could not then be ignored. While I think
The Bulletin's practice of disregarding Goodwill
items in balance-sheets is sound, I submit that it is
a mistake to regard these Rights in the same way.
The Bulletin is prepared to agree that
these concessions are just as ‘“tangible” as a
lease. And hot-air and a good habit are as
tangible as either. As a matter of fact, good-
will consists mostly of habits. Some people
have got into the habit of buying The
Bulletin, and that constitutes the bulk of
The Bulletin’s goodwill. In this Hydraulic
case the goodwill consists merely of the right
to sell a certain thing to the public; and if
that thing cannot be sold at a profit, then
the goodwill is worth nothing, no matter liow
much it may have cost. A lease is a some-
what different proposition. The premises are
not usable for only one purpose. If a dry-
grocery fails in the premises leased for that
business, there is at least a chance that a
bootshop will pay there. But when electric
or some other competition makes a few thou-
sands spent in hydraulic mains valueless for
the mains’ original purpose, what else can
Mr. Grimley do with them? By the way, this
paper does not, of course, say that there is
no such thing as goodwill, and that it is
worth nothing. What it does say is that it
is so nebulous and uncertain a thing, and so
liable to sudden and complete disappearance,
. that the only safe course for a co. to take is
to replace it by accumulated profits at the
earliest possible moment.
* * * #
“Sandgroper” : I note in “Wild Cat” (B.
26/8/’l5) a reference to the existence of
wolfram at Linton and Wedderburn (Vic.).
The Linton occurrence is favorablv known
and a co. has it in hand. The Wedderburn
deposits are in broken country, mostly sand-
stone and slate. Though the veins do not
exceed a foot in width, they show fine values;
but as yet the prospectors have no battery
capable of giving satisfactory treatment.
Hence the few prospectors who are hanging
on are just about down and out. Locally we
floated the Springwell Wolfram Co., which is
busy cutting out its bit of capital: but as no
one of us knows how to treat wolfram or
molybdenite, which also occurs in the veins,
I fear that its days are numbered. The
director of the Vic. Geological Survey, Mr.
Herman, visited the field and traversed the
various outcrops, taking bearings, etc., but
gave no information relative to method of
treatment, so that the prospectors are as
well off now as they were before his advent.
I presume it will be the same here as in
Westralia —the prospector finds the lodes, and
later on the geologist merely tells him how
they got there. There are in all seven
leases applied for, all well supplied with the
mineral, the shoots shown to be over a hun-
dred yards in length in some instances.
Surely it is the Mines Department’s province
to help us with advice.
What posterity may read in the State
paper some morning :
The banquet given by the Governor-General at
the Federal capital last week to celebrate the procla-
mation of peace was a solemn function, The gather-
ing took place in the Hall of the Senate, which with
its old moss-covered walls and crumbling facade forms
an historic link with bygone days. On the walls are
some rare old paintings of men who live in national
history. Here one sees the aesthetic face of Reid ;
there the leonine countenance of Hughes, the lofty
brow of Gook, the athletic figure of Spruce Myth.
The jovial features of Fisher smile down through
the years. William Kelly broods solemnly in his
frame of blackbutt.
The menu had been arranged with careful regard
to the national finances and to the unfortunate dis-
pute between the Federal and State Governments
respecting the export of goods from the States into
Federal territory. The hostile attitude of the States
had resulted in three sucking pigs, a round of corned
beef and two pumpkins, which had been despatched
from Yanco, being seized under the State’s power
of eminent domain. Nor were there any raisins for
the Cabinet pudding or oil for the salad-dressing.
Luckily, however, the onions imported from Japan
had kept very well through the winter, some excel-
lent fish were netted in the artificial lakes, and as
two wild turkeys had been 'shot in the Treasury
grounds, a simple, dignified repast was served.
Several bottles of beer had been secured when the
hotel opened for half an hour at midday.
In responding- to the toast of “Parliament” the
Attorney-General stated that with the dawn of peace
a new era would commence in national affairs, and
the Government would proceed to consider the new
problems about to arise. He hoped within a couple
of years to be in a position to allow citizens at
least 3s. 2d. per week out of their incomes, though
of course bachelors would still have to be satisfied
with 6d. and unrepentant wowsers with 2d. every
Sunday. Promotion of industry must be the watch-
word of all parties, and if it was found that the
output of Australian factories could be maintained,
the hours of labor might be reduced from 15 to 14
per day. But they would have to move warily in
this matter, because the susceptibilities of the bond-
holders had to be considered (cheers). It was very
encouraging to know that the population of the
Northern Territory had during the century increased
by seven. The Government would continue the
spirited policy initiated in that direction by the pre-
war Administrations.
The Minister for Home Affairs assured the gather-
ing that there were reasons for looking forward with
confidence to the ultimate settlement of the Murray
Waters question, and that the Meat Trust was pre-
pared to allow a reasonable quantity of beef to be
sold in Australian towns. (Cheers.)
The company vigorously applauded the Minister
for Customs when he said that, pending the imposi-
tion of the new duties to which the Government was
still pledged, every patriotic Australian, resisting the
seductions of the foreigner, should spend his weekly j
allowance on goods manufactured in the Common-
wealth. Foreign cigars and champagne and pianolas
should be rigorously tabooed, even by State Governors
and members of the A.W.U.
“Yellow Flag” : Small-pox in the light form
that characterised the last outbreak has made
a sporadic reappearance in N. S. Wales, and
the usual quarantine restrictions are to be
enforced. Last year officialdom went to
great lengths in this respect, and passengers
from even clean districts found it as hard to
get out of the State as they would out of
Germany to-day. The epidemic was not as
fatal as the present Melbourne outbreak of
cerebro-spinal meningitis, with a mortality
rate of 90 per cent, of patients, nor as ravag-
ing as venereal disease. Yet nothing is done
to prevent people leaving Melbourne, and the
red-plague victim stalks abroad as unre-
stricted as ever.


HYGEIA
Shaving;
Stick.
XOX
'73
In
Hygeia
oil-foam
hard
bristles
row soft
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Stre3t, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
JoKes, TricKs, Puzzles, Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty Catalog We send it Free
1 2 3 4 f> 6
Illustrated above are Six Splendid Wire Puzzles. Each puzzle is put up in neat cardboard box.
PRICE: 4d. each, post free, or the six for 1/9, post free.
Also, a box containing Seven Assorted Iron Puzzles, post free, 2/-
H. L. Hutchinson Ltd.— New York Novelty Co—7oB-710 George St., Haymarket, Sydney
Mr. Walter Bentley, Australia's foremost
teacher of elocution and dramatic art,
writes: “As a rule I am somewhat sceptical
about patent medicines; but in this instance
I desire to say that Mean’s Essence has had
a most beneficial effect upon a sore throat
which I had last week. I have used the
Essence according to your direction since I
received it, and I am glad to say within the
week my throat seems perfectly cured
again. Yours faithfully, Walter Bentley.”
Mean's Essence is the modern treatment
for coughs, colds and sore throats.
Nothing gives more speedy relief. The way
it loosens phlegm, heals inflamed mucous
membrane, and eases bronchial distress
makes it an invaluable family remedy which
should be kept in every home. An ounce of
Mean’s Essence added to water and sweeten-
ing produces a pint of the ready-to-cure
mixture. A pint of ordinary cough mixtures
would cost at least 12s. Mean's Essence
costs only 2s. Only people who don’t value
half-sovereigns stick to old-fashioned cough
mixtures. If your chemist or storekeeper
is so far behind the times as not to stock
Mean’s Essence, send 2s. and you will receive
a bottle per return mail from G. W. Mean.
Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney:
or Hean’s Pharmacy, Wanganui, New
Zealand.*
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
THE SUSPECT.
THE FIRST: “My husband is so unpatriotic.
I almost think sometimes that lie must
have German sympathies.”
THE SECOND: ”Dear me! What has he
done ?”
THE FIRST: “Oh, he made the most AWFUL
row over the cost of my new military
costume.”
“Capital is only worth what it will earn,”
says the Argus. Ancl if it only earned
what it was worth, half the world's troubles
would disappear.
Comment of a Melbourne politician after
inquiring into the Norton Griffiths con-
tract: “It smells like Footscray in the busy
season.”
Prime Minister Fisher went to Canberra
to attend General Bridges’ funeral, and
stayed there to recuperate. He has been
off color and in need of rest; and requiring
a dry climate and solitude he naturally
found the Federal Capital an ideal spot.
Luckily he had no sorrows to drown.
A Labor bulletin, dealing with the Com-
monwealth’s industrial troubles from 1912 to
1914, inclusive, throws scorn at the admini-
stration of the laws against strikes, especi-
ally in N. S. Wales. There were 545 in-
dustrial upheavals altogether, and 369 of
them belonged to the Ma State. Out of
418 occurring in 1913 and 1914 action was
taken in only 38 under the prohibitory
clauses of the Arbitration Acts, and pro-
eeedings were instituted against only 1988
persons out of (>2.574 involved. The total
penalties imposed amounted to £9l4l—and
£2323 has been paid! Stiff-necked politi-
cians have seen that £1792 of the balance
was remitted, and the rest is just “out-
standing.”
Cook’s snarl concerning the syndicalist
designs of the A.W.U., which by the amend-
ing Arbitration Act secures sanction to ex-
tend its membership, shows Joseph at liis
worst. Between the syndicalist and the
trades unionist there is no point of recon-
ciliation. Hi any case, the widely-diffused
A. Vt .l. is about the last organisation to
which the. syndicalist theory could be
grafted : it is where large bodies of men are
concentrated that this very modern microbe
finds its fertile field. Whether the A.W.U
can hold out hope of substantial benefit to
Labor by becoming the nucleus of Aus-
tralia s one big union is another matter,
fuel; a union might have enormous power,
but it is just as likely that it would be too
cumbrous for management, and in the end
would become merely a replica of the Trades
Council and P.L.L.s now in existence.
The Victorian service-seems to be almost
as badly infested with the “temporarv”
official as the Po.-t Office. The railways em-
ploy 31,220 of him. Discarding the 2036
men engaged in fitting up troopships, the
V orks Department’s “temporary” employees
number 898, compared with only 364 'per-
manents. The Lands, Mines. Public Health,
Agriculture and Forestry Departments ali
have a considerably larger number of tem-
porary employees than permanent ones, and
the Education Department finds billets for
L»4S temporary teachers. Altogether about
44 per cent, of the State’s employees are in
tins class. This means that they have not
had to pass the prescribed tests to secure
their jobs, and in perhaps a majority of cases
have had unnecessary billets made'for them
through that “influence” which the Public
Service Act was designed to abolish.
Two extracts from an “Awake and Arise”
article in Brisbane Daily Mail (31/8/T5) :
T.
„ Manufacturers have cried aloud to Heaven and the
Federal Ministry time and time again for more Pro-
tection, saying that unless it were given it was im-
possible to manufacture in Australia. The war has
given more Protection than ever the stoutest tariff
wall could give.
11.
Japanese agents have swarmed upon the Australian
markets for the last few months. Where supplies of
various articles have been cut off from Australia,
Japanese agents have purchased samples here and
despatched them post haste, to be copied by the
cheap labor of their own lands. Toothbrushes,
gloves, hosiery, toys and all manner of things come
within the category of things which the Japanese
are prepared to undertake the manufacture.
The Daily Mail might now explain, in
the light of the second extract, how the war
gives Australian indystries the Protection
mentioned in the first extract.
Freetrade is bowling now for cheap alco-
hol. to be used for fortifying sweet Aus-
tralian wines. Such wines derive their sweet-
ness from the grape-sugar retained after
fermentation has stopped. In Australia, this
stoppage is mostly brought about nowadays
by the addition of alcohol. In times past
the cheaper salicylic acid was used instead,
but it was so bad for the lining of the public
stomach that the practice had to be pro-
hibited. This year, owing to the drought, the
local supply of fortifying spirit is much
below trade requirements, and wine-growers
are faced with trouble, since 80 per cent, of
Australia’s wine-consumption is of sweet
varieties. Vignerons therefore want to im-
port the alcohol, and are asking the Minister
for Customs to abolish the duty of 17s. per
gallon. But that's not the right way out of
the difficulty. In the Victorian Journal of
Agriculture for February last, State viti-
culturist de Castella showed how the local
wine-maker might produce unfortified sweet
wines; and he added: “Experiments -con-
ducted within the past few years leave no
doubt as to the feasibility of making such
wine on a large scale and under Victorian
climatic conditions.’-’ So the viticulturist
can develop his industry without interfering
with other industries —and the Administra-
tion should see that he does it. This habit of
getting out of a hole by dragging someone
else in and clambering on his shoulders ought
to be stopped.
SOMETHING AT LAST!
the President of the United States has requested
Austria to recall her ambassador owing to his pro-
paganda to inaugurate strikes.— Cable.
THE BIRD: “Put it thaar, sonny!”
This business of “making sacrifices" and
“studying economy” is the very thing the
doctor ordered —for the other fellow. In
an effort to save a few necessary pounds
\ ic. Attorney-General Mackinnon lately
closed sundry petty sessions and county
courts —and forthwith deputations flocked
to town to moan about loss of dignity and
danger to business. The last one that saw
Mackinnon got less courtesy than it ex-
pected. lie curtly remarked that the county
court he had taken away from the town-
ship had not been called on to hear a soli-
tary case during the past four years, and as
the State had no money to throw away on
ornament and luxuries the inhabitants
would have to worry through the next four
years without it.
The P.L.L. of N. S. Wales is already tak-
ing a ballot for the selection of the next
batch of Labor candidates for the Senate.
Thirty-eight have been nominated, including
four women—and of these Mrs. Kate
Dwyer may have a chance. Dave Wat-
son, who has to retire with the Liberals
Gould and Milieu, will of course be re-
selected, and the unsuccessful candidates at
the last election, Arthur Rae and Ike
Smith, are in the running again. What-
ever Rae’s fate may be <good Australians
will wish such a good Australian success),
Ike Smith’s selection seems doubtful now
that he is no longer an official of the
A.W.U., whose large influence helped him
formerly. Amongst the other candidates
the most conspicuous is Peter Rowling—
mostly, these days, no-balled.
“General Inkpot’s” communique :
Maoriland’s “National” Cabinet is not a happy
family, and it seems almost impossible that it should
be. It was born in bickering and cradled in a pre-
tence that the old party enmities are dead. They’re
not. The position is becoming more ridiculous every
day, and already cliques are being formed to “fuse”
an Opposition. Here is a tip. After the war (if
it ends in our time) Massey will be attached to the
Imperial entourage at Downing-street, or Earl’s Court,
or the Crystal Palace, or somewhere. Herries, Min-
ister of Railways, will resign (he would do so now
if he could see his way). I-lerdman will mount the
Supreme Court Bench. Fraser, the disgruntled old
Minister of Public Works, will be passed out. Bell,
K.C., head of the Legislative Council, will retire on
his K.C.M.G. (lie has tons of money, so you needn’t
worry), and Allen will probably by that time feel
so overworked and so concerned about his failure as
Defence Minister that he will have committed politi-
cal hari-kiri. ' —’
“Bar None’’: This
is the history of
that contract whose
cancellation has kept
Happy Jack Scad-
dan on the verge of
a political crisis for
weeks past. One
Nevanas, who runs
a meat-export busi-
ness, blew in here at
Perth a little while
ago, and got talking
about meat export
from the Nor-West.
Premier Happy Jack
met him, and to him
Nevanas talked to
such purpose that
a contract for
works running into
£155,150 eventuated.
Boiler-building and
blacksmithing not
being Nevanas’s line,
he sublet the job to
a practical con-
tractor at £137,000.
and then got the
Premier .to guaran-
tee progress pay-
ments of £131,877.
Nevanas undertook
to give his con-
tractor a bonus of
£7OOO if he kept
within his price and
time, so that if
turned
out as it should
there was still
£11,150 profit for
the man who did the
talking in the first
place. Subsequently
the Minister of
Works had words
with the Premier
oyer the whole busi-
ness, and finally
Nevanas was hand-
ed a cheque for
about £BOOO to go
out. In return for
this he handed over
some joinery, etc., at
cost price, and plans which, though valued
for purposes of settlement at £4GSO, would
probably cost quite a fifth of that amount.
Come West, young man—come West! There
is still something to pick up.
This being the time for national economy.
Prahran (Vic.) provided an official luncheon
to councillors and candidates on the occa-
sion of the recent municipal elections. Of
12 councillors five partook of the frugal
meal. As there were only two contests, the
defeated candidates were not numerous. The
bill, which covered the sparkling wine and
everything, came to s. trifle over £l2. This
just shows what can be done when a coun-
THE SACRIFICE.
Mr. Cook said that while he was in favor of the
Government’s taxation methods, ho thought the [?]
on incomes was too high. —Parliamentary report.
THE FAT MAN : “Oo-oo-ooh, I say, bit stiff.
ain’t it?”
AUSTRALIA : “P’raps; but what about the
chap who gave all!”
ell really puts its shoulder to the wheel.
The economy is all the more laudable when
it is remembered that Prahran is one of the
Melbourne municipalities which have had
“unemployment committees" hard at work
through the winter.
OLD CLO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'ilie Austrian army is the finest in Europe in the
matter of uniforms and parade appearance. —English
paper.
The Austrian War Office lias' issued an urgent
appeal for old clothes for the winter campaign.—
S. Af. Herald.
We threw the challenge down to fate,
Resplendent in our arms we shone,
Our legions marched in pomp and state —
Where is the show and glitter gone?
For cast-off' rags our armies plead,
Old clothes to match our pressing need.
«
We sallied forth in splendid style,
We met the Servian where he stood ;
He stripped us of our warlike smile,
And treated us in fashion rude;
For when his hills we tried to storm,
The low brute tore our uniform.
AA’c met the Russian man to man,
V hairy, rugged chap was he;
AVe saw his bayonets and ran.
Lightening our kit for action free;
Amid the high Carpathian rocks
AVe left the Cossack hordes our socks.
Then • AATThelm rolled his Prussian hosts
In furious haste across our land,
And captured those war-battered -posts
So lately left in Russia’s hand.
Slowly retired the growling Bear,
But left no rag for us to wear.
AVe follow up his blackened trail.
Dreading the hour he turns again,
But fearing more the winter pale
Of snow and sleet and cold and pain;
And so proud Austria’s fighting arm
Begs for old clothes to keep it warm.
AA’ith or without our trousers, we
Must march to save an empire’s pride ;
For war is war, as all agree,
Though valor wear a naked hide.
Ho! Sound the word in cot and hall!
“Rags for the brave!” is Austria's call.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


THE BEST of GOOD Reading
Humorous
:: Books ::
“A Curate in Bohemia,”
By Norman Lindsay.
The extraordinary ad-
ventures that befell a
curate who became en-
tangled in the Bohe-
mian life of some art
students.
“The Bulletin Reciter,”
The most representa-
tive Australian reciter
published.
“Loves of Lancelot,”
By Edward Dyson.
A side-splitting series
of adventures of a
young man in search
of a wife.
“ Bill’s Wees,”
By A. G. Stephens.
A unique volume, full
of genuine Australian
humor.
PRICE
Is. each.
A Selection from the
Famous “Bookstall” Series
:: of Australian Books ::
uu!
A splendid record of
the Australian Stage
b y caricature an d
anecdote.
.TI’ST PUBLISHED.
“Double-Bed Dialogues”
liy Henry James
James.
“A tonic for the long-
married ; a revelation
to those uninitiated in
the secrets of mar-
riage.”
fs
■BDnEs^SnE^nES&Bftd-a
AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
BITERS
ROHtBT
KALESKf
“Nobody has ever written
of dogs in the English
language in the same at-
tractive way as Mr.
Kaleski writes of them.”
Historical
:: Novels::
"On His Majesty’s
Service,”
By Roy Bridges.
A great story of Van
Diemen’s Land, and
Australia’s first bush-
ranger, Red Mike-
Howe.
"Mr. Barrington,”
By Roy Bridges.
The adventures of the
famous “gentleman”
rogue, thief and high-
wayman.
"A Rebel of the Bush,”
By Don Delaney.
One of the greatest
Australian historical
novels yet written.
“The Barb of an Arrow,”
By Roy Bridges.
Another brilliant Van
Diemen's Land histori-
cal romance.
POSTED
Is. Id.
Obtainable from all Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout Australia.
Write for a copy of the just-published
SPRING 1915 “BOOKSTALL” SERIES CATALOGUE.
N. S. W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Steel Fence
!!,-•- !i i£N =-1
411
Farmers and
Property Owners.
GIVE your attention to these straining-posts. They require a depth of only
two feet. You do not require to sink holes to considerable distances.
The strainers are the strongest in the world to-day. They are made of
high-grade steel. See these patent slots, which allow the wires to strain through
either way. automatically helping in the self-locking movement which is a chief
feature of the Rawson-Moody fence. Take notice of the anchor-like stays and
feet, which take an octopus-like grip of the ground, giving tremendous stability
and strength. The standards and droppers, which can be fitted to a five-wire
fence in as many seconds, are also a wonderful patent. The wire-straining
ratchets, another Rawson-Moody patent, is a clever feature of the fence. One goes
to each wire, and by its use ties, clips and wedges are done away with.
The weight of this fence is only three tons to the mile, as compared with 12 to 15
tons of other fences. A man and a boy can erect a quarter of a mile a day.
Above all, the fence gives a finely-finished appearance. A few chains enclosing the
approaches to your homestead, and enclosing the house paddocks, will make you
proud of your property. This can be done at small cost and little labor. Write
for full particulars of this all-steel fence. The strainers, standards and droppers,
which are sold separately, are made so that any good standard fencing-wire may
be used.
FULL PARTICULARS, CATALOGUES and
ILLUSTRATIONS from the
Rawson Moody Manufacturing Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney.
Leviathan Riding and
Working Trousers.
You’ll get more wear, comfort and
general satisfaction from these Ready-
to-Wear Trousers than from any you’ve
yet worn.
The materials are the toughest woven.
They’re cut to give ease and room, yet
fit well. Soundly sewn and reinforced
at all parts subject, to strain.
READY TO WEAR.
Riding Trousers. Khaki or Olive Drill.
Strongly made with side straps and loops
for belt.
Price—Post Free - 7/6
Riding Trousers. Leather Tweed. The
toughest of tough materials. Made with
riveted buttons, Denim pockets and non-
split seat seam.
Price—Post Free ... 10/6
Riding Breeches. Made in England with
a free, full "cut” from Khaki Garbicord.
Laced at knee and self strapped.
Price—Post Free .18 6
Working Trousers. A solid worsted effect
Fabric, “just right” for the man who
works hard.
Price—Post Free ••• 6/9
A SIZE FOR EVERY MAN.
When ordering Trousers state Waist, Seat, 1
and inside leg measurement.
WE PAY THE FREIGHT.
by rail or post to any part of Australia.
SATISFACTION OR MONEY BACK
on the return of the goods, is what we
guarantee.
The LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston and
Bourke Sts., Helbourne
j<\ ' M
~ «9*|| „i ing y
taigm*-*
m*s
m
m
10-imcH
3/ each
(N.Z. 3/6.)
DOUBLE-SIDED.
BRITISH-MADE
4 Records 4*
12-inch
5/- each
(N.Z. 5/6.)
DOUBLE-SIDED.
Supplement No. 9 Now on Sale.
509 {
Including First Record by Paul Dufault.
12=inch 5 /=
Mr. PAUL DUFAULT, Tenor (with Orchestra)
Dreams (When Twilight Comes) (Strelezki)
Without Thee (d’Hardelot)
Columbia-Rena Records
12-inch Price 5 - each
Band of Grenadier Guards (Conductor:
Dr. A. Williams, M.Y.O.)—
/ Barcarolle (Tschaikowsky)
ala 1 Valse Creole
516
Burial of Cock Robin
Parade of the Tin Soldiers
Arthur Friedheim (Piano)-
t Firefly (Liszt)
Campanella (Liszt)
517
Mr. Miles R. Bracewell, Bass—
f The Old Sexton
518 When Richelieu the Red
1, Wore
Columbia Opera Company—
f La Forza del Destino: —
519 \ Solenne in Quest’ora
l La Vergine degli Angeli
Robe
10=inch Price 3/- each
Band of H.M. Scots Guards—
( Namur March
' 44a j KRties’ Courtship
f “Scenes Pittoresque” Suite—
-2511 The Angelus
1 March. Prince's Orch.
f Sussex By the Sea —With Vocal
2540- Choruses
l Light Cavalry Overture
Columbia-Rena Records
10-inch Price 3/- each
Concertina Solos by Alexander Prince —
/ Medley of War Songs
(. Medley of Harry Lauder's Songs
Jack Norworth, Comedian—
f Oil, How He Could Sing an Irish
2548{ Song
l My Boy
Jean Schwiller (’Cello)—
2542 j
My Dreams
Salut d’Amour
Mr. Manuel Romain, Counter-Tenor—
I You’re More Than All the World
” ( Itose of the Glen
Cohunbia Quartettes —
Brightest and Best
l Tell Me the Old, Old Story-
Duet.
Peerless Quartette —
( Hello, Bill
~ ) A Ragtime Dream
Miss Carrie Herwin, Contralto—
The Gift
( Love’s Appeal
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., baking: House, Kawson Place. ■,
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Lid., 26!) Snanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King: and King:, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —W. Cornell and Sons, Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan. Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Alien Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH,. N,Z.—Weblejt Sons and Goftort, Ltd., 213 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
That the nation for whose fame our
wounded heroes fought so splendidly may
gratefully make their future smooth is the
hope inspired by that royal spirit, King
George IV. topnotch Scotch.*
GIDDINESS.
“It is with pleasure that I give this testi-
monial,” writes Mrs. Rose Beaton, of 341
High Street, Kew, Vic., “and hope others
will give them a trial and benefit as I have
done, for they are a great woman's medicine.
I suffer a good deal from bilious attacks and
liver complaint. At times the giddiness
that comes over me makes me feel faint and
depressed, but a dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills immediately drives the attack
away. I am continuing their use, and hope
to eventually be free of this complaint.
Altogether I wish the pills every success, and
will willingly state my case to anyone call-
ing on me. You may publish this as you so
desire.”*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Adelaide racing-men are arguing over an
unprecedented position that arose in, and after, a
Tattersall’s Handicap. Devron won, after “interfer-
ing” with Jarwan, who, presumably in consequence
of that, could only dead-heat with Beetive for second
place. Jar wan’s protest was upheld, and the race
was taken away from Devron; but the stewards
used their power, under rule 125, of placing him
“immediately after” the one interfered with. That
is, they placed him third, considering that immedi-
ately behind Jarwan must be immediately behind
Beetive, too; which seems sense. But he was thus
placed “immediately after” a horse he had not inter-
fered with! If Devron were disqualified l ight out
the two dead-heaters must of course move up first
together. But. he was not disqualified straight out,
i he Devron people say. was punished for an acci-
dental interference with > jarwan by having their
places transposed ; that ik.s-Jarwan alone should move
up top, and Devron should move down into his place
—which is dead-heat for second, and that would carry
a totalisator dividend. From Bective’s point of view
e still according to the Devron people) the position is
that there were two horses better than Beetive, but
one of them was knocked back to level with him. It
makes no difference to him if the other is placed
there instead; dead-heat for second is the best he
should hope for. However, the stewards stand solid
on the reasonable theory that a dead-heat is a dead-
beat, and that Jarwan and Beetive must still be
bracketed, whatever their final place. But the fact
remains that Beetive makes a big profit, partly at the
expense of each of the other two, out of an incident
in which he was not concerned.
Said A. H. W. Cunningham, chairman of
the North Queensland Amateur Turf Club, at the
annual meeting last week: “Last year the club
raised £5686 for patriotic funds, of which sum
£3300 was for the Belgians.” If the enormous
quantity of money that has been raised by the racing
bodies of Australasia during the past 12 months for
patriotic purposes were totalled it would be a paralys-
ing answer to the hysterical section that at the
beginning of the trouble howled for the abolition of
racing during the war.
*
G. I*. Hurley celebrated his twenty-first
year of presidency of the King Island Race Club a
few days ago. At least, he didn’t celebrate it. In
fact, it wasn’t until the proceedings of the annual
meeting were interrupted and a gold chain and
trinket were handed up to him that he recalled the
anniversary.
• * * *• *
What the tote can be made to do for a
country in times of stress has again been demonstrated
in Maoriland. The other night when Treasurer lou Ward
was sitting up late searching for an extra two
millions of revenue he suddenly noticed the tremen-
dous sum that was being rolled through the machine,
and which at present bears a tax of 24 per cent.
Joseph leaped from his place in the Representatives
and dropped a war tax of another 24 per cent, on
the gold glacier. This will mean at least an extra
£75,000 per annum.
* * * *
I'robably Garlin was more advanced in
condition than any of the cracks that chased him
down the Randwick straight last Saturday. Up to
the week when money was piled on him for the
Epsom,; the intention of John Wren was to win the
Caulfield Gup with him. Then lie got word from
his trainer that the animal was in great nick—“ready
Vo jump out of his skin”—and would probably be
getting stale before Caulfield Cup dav. So Garlin
was earmarked for the Epsom and Metrop. His
Chelmsford Stakes performance suggests that the
four-year-old was even more ripe than the trainer had
supposed. Anyhow, the stable didn’t back him as
though he were believed to be carrying all his guns.
Punters at Randwick last Saturday were
i umbfounded at the refusal of the Epsom favorite,
Woorak, to win the Chelmsford Stakes. They could
only account for the victory of outsider Garlin by
supposing that the competing horses out of patriotic
motives combined to pay a delicate compliment to
Private John Wren, the prad’s owner, who was on
the course on military leave prior to' sailing for the
Dardanelles. Suspecting that the horse may give
further -demonstrations of approval of his owner’s
enlisting, backers have made Garlin favorite for the
Epsom.
* * * *
“Gus Gosh”: Nosey McMoses gasped in
horror when he saw the totalisator readings for the
Fulham Park Plate, run at Adelaide. In a field of
22 the favorite (the ultimate winner) started at a
shade better than 6 to 4 on. Punters’ second fancy
would have paid 4’s, the third 6’s, and the fourth
9’s. Thereafter the machine’s recklessness was appal-
ling. In order of demand the other readings were,
approximately: Four starters at 20’s, one at 40’s,
two at 50’s, three at 90’s, one at 100’s, one at 160’s,
one at 175’s, three at 190’s, and one at 290’s. The
outsider of the party started at a modest 350 to 1.
The machine was a two-dividend one, and the above-
quoted prices represent, in each case, three-quarters
of the odds it would have laid straight out. Of the
£2300 invested on the race £960 came out of the
pockets of the favorite’s fanciers. What odds would
Nosey McM. have laid on a prad on which 40 per
cent, of the money in his bag was invested ? By the
way, considering the Fulham Park Plate is the first
race of the season in which Australian two-year-olds
appear under silk, punters have shown a remarkable
aptitude for picking the winner during recent years.
Since 1903 no fewer than nine first favorites have
lobbed home. Boastful’s £1 11s. in 1905 is the
lowest dividend on record for the race.
* *
Coolgardie races last week furnished
some object-lessons in the difference between Ikey Mo
and the tote. Bookmakers bet alongside the machine,
and these were the comparative results: —
Winner’s S.P. laid
by the Books. Tote Div.
Ist Race .. 8 to 1 9 1-5 to 1
2nd Race . . Evens 6 to 5
3rd Race .. 14 to 1 30 9-10 to 1
4th Race . . 3 to 1 3 to 1
sth Race . . 7 to 4 2 9-10 to 1
So the investment of £1 on each of four winners
with the tote was worth £l9 9s. more than the
same four investments with Ikey Mo, at his start-
ing prices. In the fifth case the tote investor gained
no cash. He merely saved himself the trouble and
turmoil of pushing around among the yelling books
in search of the best possible price.
Arrived back in Sydney, L. H. llewitt,
the widely-known Australasian horseman. About nine
years ago he left for the Old World, and rode
successfully in England, Ireland, Yarmany (went
there under eng-agement to Prince Hohenlohe Olrin-
gen), Austria, France, Belgium, Italy. While he was
in Sauerkrautville he had occasional mounts from
Dad Hohenzollern. Hewitt was lucky to get away
from his Nibs’s vicinity when war broke out. So
many other British trainers and jockeys were
promptly interned that racing was, and is still,
carried on in Germany under great difficulty, owing
to the fact that the Faderland has few home-grown
jockeys, and mostly depends on J. Bull’s horsemen.
For the first time in the histoi*y of the race the
German Derby winner was steered this year b| 7 a
Squarehead. Danny Maher brought the field home
last year.
* * * *
“Billy Blue”: Amata, winner of the
Heatherlie Handicap at the V.A.T.C. Spring Meeting-,
is an interesting exhibit on the subject of in-breeding.
Amata is by Wallace from Carissima (imp.), and
both sire and dam are by Carbine.
* * * *
“Stan E.”: One of the best sports in
Maoriland is Frank Armstrong, of Akitio, in
Hawkes Bay. He is keen at the game of kings and
bookies, and he owns a horse that proved himself at
the Grand National meeting at Christchurch to be
one of the finest animals That' ever''fa!7red' Over the
big hurdles in the Ricketty Isles. That was Morn-
ing, and he will be a power to be reckoned with
later on. Armstrong has made a specialty of hurdle-
racing, and eight years ago, when the St. Leger stal-
lion Sylvia Park was doing a season in Hawkes Bay,
he put two mares to him —Evening and Patupaearehe.
Evening’s foal was Morning, who won the Grand
National Hurdles in 1913, and Patuetcetera’s was
Hurakia, who won the same race this year. If that isn’t
a record I’d like to be contradicted. Armstrong’s great
ambition is to win the Grand National Steeples, and
two years ago, when Morning won the Hurdles, he
narrowly missed the big cross-country event, his
Spaniard being beaten only by a head. This year
Morning tackled the big fences, but four jumps from
home fell when leading the field. Several jockeys
who were in the race said that that was the only
way he could have been beaten, and that opinion was
confirmed when he won the big steeplechases on the
second and third days of the meeting. He carried
12st. 31b. in his final effort, and made the field look
like hacks.
* *•*■*.
A unique method of perpetuating the
memory of Hulton Sams, missionary, soldier and
athlete, who was killed in Flanders while fighting in
the uniform of a British lieutenant, has been sug-
gested by the present members of the Bush Brother-
hood, Queensland, to which Sams belonged while he
was in Australia. The suggestion, which is signed
by C. M. E. Hicks, E. H. It. Coulcher and W. J.
Park, is in reply to others which have been made
with regard to preserving the dead man’s memory.
In their own words: —
“We would like to feel that there are men all
over Queensland, and perhans further afield as well,
who will volunteer for King and Empire as an act
offered in memory of this brave man, who has done
so much to brighten men’s lives in the West. It
might perhaps be possible to have a Queensland or
Australian regiment formed that would in some
manner or other so be named as to perpetuate the
memory of ‘the Fighting Parson.’ We venture to
hope that many a man in station or shearing shed,
in the drover’s camp or boundary-rider’s hut, in the
. bank or at the office desk, on farm or plantation, in
city or the lonely bush, will offer at once to replace
his loss.”
Whether the idea is practicable or not it would cer-
tainly have cheered the heart of the Fighting Parson
to know that when his body was a-mouldering in the
dust his soul would go marching on.
*• * * *
A mighty footballer before the hosts was
D. R. Bedell-Sivright, the Scottish Rugby international,
reported this week killed at the Western Front. He
played for Cambridge, West of Scotland, and the
national 15 of Haggisland ; but it was as captain of
the British team which toured Australia and Maori-
land in the winter of 1904 that he was best known in
this corner of the earth. He was a hard, battling
forward, taking his play with great seriousness, and
not always inclined to blame his side for its lickings.
After the several defeats of his fine team in Maoriland
he would not admit that the All Blacks, then about
to leave for Great Britain, had any show of beating
any of the top-notch teams. As for downing an
international fifteen he scoffed at a modest hope in
that direction. Subsequently he captained the Scot-
tish fifteen which the conquering Maorilanders de-
feated on its own porridge patch. Peace he to him,
anyhow. lie played fair. Members of that 1904
team have been conspicuous in this war. Two have
been killed (Swannell was the other), and a few days
ago news reached Maoriland (where he was until
lately residing) that A. F. Harding had been
wounded. lie was a Welsh international and a splen-
did forward.
* * * *
Most of the football competitions of
importance in N. S. Wales were settled on Saturday.
In the League rally for the City of Sydney- Cup
Eastern Suburbs ran away with the goblet from
Glebe by 22 points to three —an unholy rubbing out.
This is the second year in succession that the Eastern
Suburbs’ reps, have brought home the Cup. At New-
castle the League competition closed with Western
Suburbs the champions for the season; under Soccer
rules, at Sydney, Balmain Caledonians squeezed a
victory from Sydney by one goal to nil, thus bagging
the Dewar Cup and the championship of the Metro-
politan Assoc.; and, in the Australian game, at Syd-
ney, Paddington beat Newtown, and thereby won the
long-coveted premiership. It was a great washing-up
day.
* * * »
Saturday’s Vic. League football finrfl,
betweeii Carlton and Fitzroy, was bright and strenu-
ous. Both teams had their best men on the job, and
until the middle of the last quarter there was no
saying which way the verdict would go. ’Roy had
the better system, but the Blues marked better, and
this, backed by their determined rushes, more than
made up for what they lacked. Yet their shocking-
goal kicking deserved a worse reward, and, 10
minutes before the close, when ’Roy had crept up
to within six points of them, it looked as though
they would go down. The approach of the disaster,
however, stiffened them, and in the few waning
minutes they bombarded ’Roy’s goal persistently,
though they gained only 10 points where they should
have scored 30. They won by 54 points to ’Roy's
38. Next Saturday the victors encounter the
“minor premiers,” Collingwood, and that will end
the argument. Attendance 80,630 and gate
£lO4B were good in the circs., though far short of
the 1912 records of 54,463 and £1950 in the final
between South and Essendon.
* * ’ ♦ *
“D.F.”; From the gate point of view,
anyway, football is dead in Tassy this season, and the
only matches that draw are those between the men in
LES DARCY'S
championship
smile.
camp and those out
of it. The other
Saturday a match
in II oba r t, in
which an expedi-
tionary-force team
met and drew with
a non-khaki team,_
brought a gate of’
£148; while next
week, with an or-
dinary League
match that might
have settled the
premiership (but
didn’t); the gate
slumped to £lB.
The Expeditionary
Force v. Others
match was a neat
combi nation of
philanthropy and
business. The exes,
ran to over £5O,
and of the net pro-
ceeds the Football
League gave half
to the wounded
soldiers’ f u n d.
Even then its own
half ran to over
£4B, which is
streets ahead of
the fruits of any
other match this
season.
_ “T.F.”; Threatened trouble in N. S.
Wales baseball has duly arrived and war is declared
between the sections which last year split up the
control of the summer and the winter sessions. Since
the Association (the cold-weather play promoters)
disqualified Leichhardt from premiership games—in
a sense because it was invited to do so—there have
been bitter skirmishes, terminating in the hot
weatherites (henceforth to be titled the National
League) launching a 12 months’ programme, and
affiliating itself with the National League of America.
From a “fan’s” viewpoint the burst-up is worth
enthusing over, as the Association has been too slow
to note that baseball has become more popular in
Sydney than any game excepting League football.
The next phase, of the battle will be over the playing ’
spaces, and the body which can get a sound footing
in this particular will very soon push the other into
the dustbin.
* *
Harald Baker, the Stadium referee, pro-
vides an example of the difficulty of getting to the
war in certain cases. He is in a Light Horse regi-
ment. There is a scant demand just now for Light
Horsemen. So, though he has been trying for months
to offer himself up on behalf of his native land, he
is not given an opportunity to do it. The writer
knows one Light Horseman who has been successively
trooper, corporal, sergeant, second lieutenant and
lieutenant, and who is still no nearer the Front than
he was nine months ago. He expects, if the war lasts
long enough, to become a full General without having
seen a shot fired. It is a disheartening business, and
puts the unfortunate warrior in an invidious position
with those who don’t understand the circumstances.
* * * *
Eddie McGoorty, weighing something
near his natural weight (list. 101 b.), put big;,
clumsy Joe Bond out in a shade over a minute at
Brisbane Stadium on Saturday night. It was cruelty
to pugilists to let them meet. Joseph has sparred
with the Oshkosh cyclone, and has a horror of his
punch, which, when the Yankee is in condition, is
undoubtedly an affair to shun. A left hook fol-
lowed by a right cross did the gruesome trick.
Fred Kay and Quendreux met at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. It was a dull contest.
For 20 rounds the Frenchman strove to hit something
which mostly wasn’t there when the blow arrived;
and for the same period Kay tapped the Frenchman’s
eager visage and then faded away. Kay got the
decision on points, though the foreigner punished
him severely about the body during the whole of the
in-fighting.
* * * *
Mick Macguire, a local light middle-
weight (10st. 1211 b.), got a points decision over
Nicol Simpson, of England, in a 20-round contest
at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night. Simpson,
with 71b. advantage, fought in a slow, methodical
way, just using his left, which lie systematically
endeavored to make Macguire swallow. On the other
hand, Macguire careered around the ring executing
some fancy hops, skips and jumps, and using both
hands, especiallv at close quarters. At Benediction
time referee Quirk gave the award to Macguire
wholly and solely because Mick' had made the
affair a fight instead of a footrace. A boxing ring
is no place for a Marathon nor a Peace Society meet-
ing. Simpson is said to have a fair record againsi
several good men in England, but his showing on
Saturday was no advertisement for them.
A crowd of 45,000 is said by the cable
man to have witnessed the 10-round fight in which
Mike Gibbons beat Packy McFarland at Brighton
Beach tN.Y.) last week. If it is even approximately
true the explanation of why Gibbons wont visit Aus-
tralia is supplied forthwith. A 12,000 crowd is a big
house even for Sydney. The yarn fails to harmonise,
however, with that other circumstantial story of
boxers of the calibie of Milburn Saylor being willing
to fight for a 50 per cent, cut out of a 60dol. gate.
•it 4- * *
“Billybunger”: Bennie Doyle, who occa-
sionally draws a house for “Snowy” Baker, is in
between whiles a shearing-machinery expert. On
one occasion, when acting as boss of the board, he
gave a shearer (who was a real tomahawk a refer-
ence which ranks as a classic in shearing circles.
It was a follows: “A fast shearer, but, oh -I”
George Lambert, just dr :td in England at
74, was tennis champion of the world for 14 years
until the English-born Yankee, Sam Pettitt, wrested
the title from him in 1885. Pettitt was 19 years
younger, but at the start the veteran led by five
sets to one. The pace was too hot to last, and
Lambert’s, shoulder giving way he lost half a dozen
sets on the last afternoon of play. For a quarter
of a century he was a professional at Lords, and
Alfred Lyttelton was about the most famous of the
many amateurs he coached in that time.
*** * '
W. Hughes, winner of N. S. Wales
snooker championship at Sydney last week, has only
just discarded knickerbockers. A few years ago.
when he was scarcely tall enough to handle the cue
on the standard table, he was acclaimed as a coming
champion. He is a native of the orange groves at
Dundas (N.S.W.). In the semi-final he defeated
Bedwell (who won the metropolitan billiard cham-
pionship a week previously) in two straight heats;
and in the final A. G. Fay was also defeated comfort-
ably.
* * -X- -X-
Frank Allan, sometimes called “the
bowler of a century,” who was a member ,of the .first
Australian Eleven which visited England in 1878,
is just retiring from the Victorian Government ser-
vice. He was 65 in December last, and for 20 years
has been chief inspector of rabbit-destruction in
the Lands Department. In the 1878 tour he took 35
wickets at a cost of 656 runs, an average of 18.26.
Boyle got 63 wickets at a cost of 656 runs, an aver-
age of 10.26. Garrett, now Public Trustee of N. S.
Wales, had an average of 10.17—-46 wickets for 477.
Spofforth knocked them all with 123 wickets for 1399
runs, an average of 11.46.
* * * *
Sydney Grammar lias once again picked
up the Great Public Schools’ Rugby premiership. In
the round of six matches one drawn game was the
only flaw, and the team scored 118 points against
40. St. Ignatius’ had a better record in points,
scoring 173 against 17, and finished level with St.
Joseph’s for second position.
This season’s High School sports in N. S.
Wales have unearthed performers of encouraging-
ability. R. Cripps (Newington), W. Hutton (Mait-
land) and R. Hunt (Technical College) have shown
the way in sprinting; C. McKellar (Scots’ College)
did well at hurdles and high jumping; and 11. J.
Ludowiei (Grammar School) galloped over distances
and hurled the Weights with distinction. Of these,
Hunt and Ludowiei are specially' promising. Worth
recalling that G. Hansel, Who scooped the pool
at Sydney Technical sports last year, did not take
long to make good his promise. To-day he
is the best amateur sprinter in the Ma State.
To the writer’s eye Hunt looks a likely rival. Over
a stretch of turf 11. J. Ludowiei moves with an even
grace which would stir older athletes to envy, and.
provided he trains with care, there seems a good
athletic future ahead of him.
W. Hutton did a handsome day’s work at Mait-
land (N.S.W.) High School sports last week when
he won championship honors at 100yds., 220yds.,
440yds., broad jump, 100yds. challenge v. New-
castle, and half-mile handicap. That young man
went “on the land” with a vengeance.
* * a
Marduel, the French birdman who has
been inspecting the roofs of Sydney for the past few
months, rose up with the lark the other Sabbath
morn, and flew from Kensington to Singleton, cover-
ing 1364 miles, a or thereabouts, in 14 hours. He got
through in splendid style;’ but in tackling a fur-
ther journey capsized the machine and himself. He
escaped with a scratched nose; but the splinters
knocked off the machine were valued at £2OO.
Marduel has -a pupil, George Barry, who the other
morning climbed 6000 ft. abo-ee Sydney, and canie
down as gently as the dew from Heaven.
* * * *
“Breaker” : The surf clubs are beginning
to get uneasy about the safety of the stay-at-homes
who will be shooting the breakers in a few weeks'
time. The safeguarding- of the huge crowds ; on the
N. S. Wales surfing beaches has been left by the
Government in the hands of the clubs, who in ‘return
for concessions in the way of club houses, etc., are
cast in the responsibility of patrolling the beaches
and being ready with life-lines, etc. About .85 per
cent, of the members of the clubs have enlisted, and
those left are the older and least efficient of the
surfing brigade. So the clubs have notified the Gov-
ernment that their control of the beaches will be
quite unreliable this summer, and the Government,
recognising the cause, has lifted the responsibility,
but up to now has done nothing about replacing the
lost efficiency. And the vast crowds of women and
children require constant watching. What is going
to be done about it?
A serious rival to trout as a sporting
fish is getting a grip on Maoriland waters. This is
the quinnat-salmon, liberated some years' ago in
several of the big rivers. In the way of putting up
a fight that will last many rounds this fish is one of
the best that swims. A lot of fine specimens were
caught last season, the biggest turning the scale at
1511 b. He was hooked at dusk in the Upper Rangi-
tata, and was not landed until well on towards
midnight. Any fisherman who is a glutton for sport
is recommended to argue the point with the quinnat-
salmon.
“Yarrum” : The gambling spirit that pre-
vails in Australia is marvellous. On Sunday morn-
ing I came upon a couple of alleged “sports” in a
back-yard busy with half a dozens chickens of selected
colors. These they slung from time to time into a
patch of marsh-mallows, about a foot high, and
betted on which would, come out first. When I left
one of the lads was “in” 285., and the chicks were
all dog-tired. The old hen, kept in the background,
was using the most fowl language I ever heard.
THE LAY OF THE LAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was registered by the A.J.C. and A.R.C. He
defaulted, and was suspended for the time being,
lie used to both back horses and lay them, and that
caused his downfall. Up to January last he followed
up horse-racing and gambling. Since January last
he had been a wharf-laborer. —Bankruptcy item.
Be warned by my distressing end !
Past follies now on me recoil,
And Solly Shekels must descend
To earning food by honest toil.
Fate’s handicap is most severe;
In lanes I may no longer lurk,
A furtive, odds-on privateer—-
1 take the knock, and go to work!
Cards, hazards, profligate two-up!
O Israel! Were these my gods ?
I backed fond fancies.for the Cup,
Instead of laying fools the odds.
I gambled like a mere pervert,
The blameless ring I oft forsook;
Ah ! Never back a moral cert—
Be virtuous, and make a book 1
Assume the bag of Abe and Mo,
If ease and affluence you’d win,
Their pockets bulge with quids, although
They toil not neither do .h. •- spin.
They smoke expensive, plump cigars;
Each finger boasts a costly gem ;
They bloat themselves in private bars,
Peroxide houris smile at them.
Elysian fielders, gross and sleek,
Their harvest blooms on lawn and flat;
They 101 l at ease with tongue in cheek,
Whilst punters starve to keep them fat 1
Beware the gambler’s stony fate !
Beware the Court of Bankruptcy 1
Eschew all “morals.” Lay, and wait —
You’re betting on a certainty !
QUEENSLAND,
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


OZETTI
Cigarettes
(Egyptian)
All smokers who appreciate a high-
grade Egyptian Cigarette should try
“OZETTI.”
They are mild in flavor, and fairly
large in size (see illustration). Manu-
factured by TH E AIID A T H
r va
O«CTT
“r-.i
TOBACCO CO. of London.
As I have now a big de-
mand for these cigarettes, I
am able to import them in
very large quantities, and
at special rates, which
enable me to sell them at a
price considerably lower
than they were originally
sold for.
Original Price. Reduced Price.
Per 100, 9/6 Per 100, 6/-
.. 50,5/- „ 50,8/-
25, 2/6 „ 25, 1/ 6
Postage on 100:
N.S.W., Od.
Other States, Sd.
Actual Size.
My illustrated catalog of tobacco, cigars,
Cigarettes and all smokers’ goods will be
mailed free on request.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
wm
m
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on
SHELL'
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
'
gg
When Grey Hair begins
to show,, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
KAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
r hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Don’t be a Trailer
Ride an
INDIAN
Two years in succession vve
“scooped the pool’’ at Qoulburn,
and with the same stock model,
T.T. INDIANS. Can you beat it?
Write 'for Catalogue “ D.”
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Edison Diamond
DiSC—Model 8.80, £2O
—the latest and best Phonograph.
The grandest achievement known to the world
of musical invention —The Edison Diamond
Disc Phonograph—should find a place in
every home. It is the one sound-reproducing
instrument that gives the exact character and
quality of the finest music, an<] the richest
voices—reproducing every tone.
There are. various* models, the one illustrated
being the lowest in price.
Handsome in appearance, in either Mahogany,
semi-gloss finish or Quartered Oak, golden
finish. Has 12-inch turn-table automatic
record feed, and is fitted with Diamond Point
Reproducer. Price £2O.
Write for Catalogue, giving full details of
this delightful instrument. Mailed post free
anywhere.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 3GI-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Boole CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, En&
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.-
ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It. is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IT IS A PLEASURE
dgd
to wear RIGNEY SHOES, because they
always feel so good, look so new, and wear
so well.
The illustration shows a TAN WILLOW
CALF DERBY SHOE, Brown Cloth Inser-
tion Tops. “Non-Tread-Over” Brand.
Price - 32(6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR
CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
"The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA.
4010 ®wai,
dalcntie. is 33.
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA
«m mm v m txs him r>m
WW.'U'OA.Yv'.WvY \,\:v»'.w (tt.Vv\X\'XWkV# tMIW
V\NXV' x\\'< \X v'.\'«Vv\W'»\X! VO*i «V< XVAM
<\V X\’\WS\ v .\’v\\' Xv>XSAN»
V.\.\.\.',V \\\Y\'A V.V AYVv'AVW.Y VV f A V'.XBt' «'»
>.\ v'AXN XfN'*ms V*J>\ *.m« .VVNAMUU
It* {A »AX\'.'N\\' XVA «\ V VIA X f A VA» XVAAVI'
MXm m? \'H* \"«{< WAIMAV
*i\VS»«it V«l X«» AXS'tf »«? A\VA\l.»'\t*A
&v\\(|> |X««» >'•? .'A.ViV JA'AUtIIA
Tfc
FELTON. CRIMWAOE & CO.. MELBOURNE
The Australian Remedy lor
j
Indigestion,
Biliousness and
Acidity of the
Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR
OLD AND YOUNG.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS DUE TO
VACCINATION AND TEETHING. A COOL-
ING MEDICINE FOR SPRING AND SUMMER.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
Suits —for —Summer
Guaranteed to come through the Wash Unharm :d.
'C
'/i
e 1
m.
1
■ ■
s
B'Z 5>
B>2 5t
612-54 —Evening & Dinner Suit
3-garment, tailor-made in
white Duck or Drills, materials
thoroughly shrunk, detachable
“Shank” buttons, ivory . or
pearl. Coats with long roll
lapels, two patch pockets,
seam at back 25 / -
Also at .... 27/6, 30/-
812-55-2-Carment Drill Suit
Can be worn without other
underwear beyond a singlet.
Coat with patrol back and
Prussian Collar; four outside
patch pockets 17 /<»
When ordering state Chest
and Waist Measures, Length
of Inside Sleeve and Inside
-Leg.-
812-56—2-Carment Lounge Suit
Perfectly Cut and Thoroughly
Tailored, this is a most useful,
All-Round-Suit for Tropical
Wear. It has patch pockets,
detachable “Shank” buttons —
and may be obtained in
Silk Poplin, 35/-; Tussores,
38/G, 45/-; Assam Silk,
65/-, 70/-
POST YOUR ORDER WE PAY FREIGHT.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty.Ltd.
—244-254 Flinders Street ...■■■Melbourne—


Building up
after typhoid
THE EVIDENCE
Cl ay gate, Robert Street, West Eurl,
Townsville, Queensland. 18/7/11)14.
“ After a serious attack of
typhoid fever, I was a com-
plete invalid, not having
strength to walk, and suf-
fered great pain after par-
taking of the smallest
amount of food. After the
first bottle of SCOTT’S I
felt decidedly better, and
now feel a new woman. I
am better than before my
illness and owe my health
to your wonderful ‘SCOTT’3
Emulsion
(Mrs.) E. F. Stovold.
SCOTT’S Emulsion never fails
to build up weakly men, women
and children.
It strengthens the lungs, en*
riches the blood, revitalizes
the nerves and drives
out weakness and
depression.
You get the finest cod
liver oil in the world
and the advantages
of the perfect SCOTT
process when you
insist on genuine
g
scons
Emulsion
IMITATED BUT NEYER EQUALLED.
Try the tireat British Kemeay
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT AND PILLS
if you have a bad leg or housemaid’s knee it will
act in the same powerful way as testified by
“ERNEST JOHNS,
“ VITICULTURAL COLLEGE, RuTHERGLEN,
“Victoria, Australia.
“I suffered for two years,during which time
I was medically attended by four different
doctors, who treated me with liniments,
paints, leeches and medicines, all of which
gave no relief whatever. Whenlyi gin bed
in great pain I happened to read about the
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills and made up
my mind to buy a box of each. The first
time I ancinted my bad knee I got some
relief. X continued using it, and after using
three boxes my knee was completely cured,
and I now go about my daily work without
any trouble.”
A safe remedy also for a Poisoned Hand,
Poisoned Wounds, Snake and Insect Bites,
Glandular Swellings, Abscess, Bunions, Ring
Worm and all Skin Diseases.
Sold by all Stores; English prices, 1/11 & 2/9 p rfcox.
Wholesalh Agents—
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. 11. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY lIORDEUN & SONS.
S. lIOFKNUNG & CO., etc.
r*-
is? A • ? v:
W", : t
mm
■■
Dr B: Allen’s (USA)
mXIGAN I
WALNUT|
STAIN.
TOR
GREY
11 AIR.
NEW .SOUTH
WALES.
THE. PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor, Administrator, Attorney or Agent.
state guarantee.
LOWEST CHARGES IN AUSTRALIA.
NO PROFITS.
INCREASED BUSINESS MEANS REDUCED CHARGES.
Apply for Particulars to Public Trustee Office, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagli Street, Sydnev.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Mwtelbod
makes
cow's milk like
human milk
Where breast milk cannot be given, baby
should have Fresh Cows Milk modified with
Mellin’s Food. All the nutritive elements baby
needs are thus provided, together with the very
important vital properties of the fresh milk.
Mellin’s Food babies are sturdy and strong —•
proof that Mellin’s Food, mixed with cow’s
milk, is an efficient substitute for mother’s milk.
A Sample Bottle of. Mcilia's Food, together with a useful handbook for
Mothers, “The Care of Infants in Australia," will be sent Free. Write:
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., SYDNEY.
The Distinguishing Mark
u
of the genuine
REMINGTON-UMC
.22 calibre Cartridges is the
U” stamped on the head.
That “U”
18 a guarantee of accuracy
and uniform quality*
Rernjnpon,
Short, Long and Long Rifle .22 Calibre Cartridges are
r noted for their great accuracy and penetrative powers. The next
time you buy.22’s ask for the REM INGTON-UMC brand. Also
ask your dealerj to show you the REMINGTON-UMC .22 calibre
Repeating Rifle. Its many exclusive features will surprise and delight you*
TJ e shall he pleased to send , postpaid to any address , interesting infor-
mation for shooters . When writing, send us the name of your dealer •
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
1). I). BRYANT, Australian Representative,
P.O. Box 686, Melbourne.
d
Contractors to the British and Colonial Governments.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles t/« and 2 9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper k Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can bg obtained
direct from them bv post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORKS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removesthe effects of Sunscorch
A DELICIOUS SOUP
is made even nicer by
adding a little Bisto,
which thickens as well
as colours and salts
Soups, Stews, etc.
gISTO
Splead a
oiso for
Grades.
All Grocers.
Tn Tins.
Wade by CEREBOS, LTD.
GUN
METAL
m
% ACTUAL
size
Sovereign
Lever **
FULLY JEWELLED, GUARANTEED.
90 KING ST
ATsID SOUti-rC ®F* TOTnJ.
Dunedin (M.L.), after raffling and im-
bibing whusky for two months to hel[* the
wounded soldiers, lias sobered up and counted
the siller. Total, £12(5,000 Os. (id, and 7502
more red noses in the Kirk.
Cecil Hartt’s despatch from the suburbs of
Somewhere:—
Our lot had the usual eemnonies when we were
crossing the Equator and Mr. and Mrs. Neptune came
aboard. Police were sent round the ship to make
arrests, and, after judgment, the guilty (they were
all guilty) were passed on to the barbers. One of
these did the lathering, another did the shaving
with a voluminous wooden razor, and the rest shot
the patient backwards into a canvas tank of water.
No distinctions were made. Officers and privates
alike were accused of wife-beating, bigamy, murder
with intent to defraud, abducting a parson’s grand-
mother or stealing a starving bookmaker’s barrel-
organ, and took the consequences of their crimes
like hardened sinners. For the benefit of those who
come after (don’t make it too long after, either)
the best way to face the court of Neptune is in a
smile or two, and—well, if you must wear some-
thing else make it a wreath of roses and an
umbrella.
Andrew Millctt. secretary of the Austra-
lian Literature Society (Melbourne), lias a
large grouch because the Public Library does
not show any patriotism iu regard to Aus-
tralian books. Millett’s complaint, aired
on the somewhat inadequate platform of the
society for which he labors, is that at the
immense new building in which Melbourne’s
library is housed, the Australian poets are
all stowed away on a top shelf which can
only bo reached by a ladder, while
ancient history occupies the lower, handy
levels. And oven when you have climbed
the ladder and reached the top shelf, there
arc many Australian poets you won’t find.
In.these days, when patriotism is the watch-
word. it seems hardly too much to ask that
librarian Armstrong should got busy in the
same direction.
The daily papers have been prevented
from publishing the news, owing to the war
and the necessity for keeping Germany in
the dark; but as The Bulletin lias only a
limited circulation at Berlin, it decides to
take the risk: —
A grave scandal lias come to light at Albur.v,
having been revealed by the vigilance of the - N. S.
Wales secret-service officers. People of very high
standing are involved, and it is believed that the
revelations will cause a social crisis. Though the
border-guards were strengthened to prohibit the
export of pigs from N.S.W. to Victoria, the best
reasons existed for believing that a big leakage
was going on. Several cookies suspected of trad-
ing with the enemy over the Murray became con-
fused when subjected to the third degree, and the
smell of roast pork had several times been detected
in Melbourne. The malefactors are now to be
brought to book. The facts submitted to the Crown
haw officers of N. S. Wales reveal a most amazing
conspiracy carried out with great cunning and
audacity.
For some time past the secret-service officers had
noticed that Mr. Joseph Cook and Mr. Kink O’Malley
were making frequent trips between Melbourne and
Sydney. .The day before yesterday they arrived at
Albury by the first express, travelling in the Gover-
nor-General’s car with his Ex., William Irvine,
Spruce Myth, Sir G. Strickland and Archbishop
Wright. It was noticed that when they went to
breakfast at the refreshment rooms each member of
the party carried his portmanteau, and during the
meal kept his feet on it. The Secret-service officers
had been directed that in this business of holding the
borders inviolate no quarter must he shown. They
therefore decided in this case that, as Messrs. Cook
and O’Malley had been doing a lot of unexplained
travelling, a thorough Investigation should he made.
As Mr. O’Malley left the loom to go to the Vic-
torian train lie was touched on the shoulder by an
official, who asked: “What have you in that hag?”
Brother, replied Mr. O Malloy, “I have here a
Series of lievelations compiled by me while a mem-
ber of the Ministry.”
“And what have you?” said another officer to Mr.
Cook.
“A brick to throw at Billy Hughes,” was the
characteristically facetious answer.
The Archbishop explained that in his “port” was a
chasuble and the rubric; Sir G. Strickland that lie
had the model of a new stable for the Place of
Eviction; the Governor-General that he had his
cocked hat and spurs.
Obviously these answers were mere evasions. The
party was immediately surrounded and the bags
opened. Seeing the game was up they attempted to
run away, hut were immediately batoned by a posse
of female constables. In each hag was found lewt.
of freshly-killed pork. In Mr. O’Malley’s overcoat
pocket was a sucking pig, and a boar’s head was dis-
covered under Mr. Cook’s waistcoat.
It appears that these people have been acting as
tunnels for a firm in Melbourne whose emissaries
were recently engaged in making large purchases of
pig at Wagga, and it is believed that through their
agency seveial thousand baconers have been surrep-
titiously carried over the border.
After being charged at the police court with
treason felony the accused were remanded on heavy
bail pending instructions from the N. S. Wales
Government, which is determined to show that the
Federal compact was designed to absolutely prohibit
inter-State trade.
IN THE FIELD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Germans claim that they have more troops in
the field than at the beginning of the war.”
Tlie summer light is glad and free,
!• rom green to gold the harvest grows,
Where foemen battle knee to knee,
And war’s loud clamor ebbs and flows;
And from the Alps to Belgium’s shore
The Germans in the field grow more.
Some in the crumbling trenches stand,
Some by the great gun's armored shield,
And many, answering no command,
Are planted deeply in the field—
Acs, in the field are surely more
Than war-lord counted e'er before.
The grass grows sere above the head
That wore its pointed helmet ppeud ;
And William, Kaiser of the dead,
Looks on the wastage heavy-browed,
For in the field an army's flower
Lies deaf to fame and blind to power.
More in the field and ever more,
Till war's loud lightnings win to peace—
The quiet troops whose march is o’er,
Whose boastings fail, whose terrors cease;
W bile on the field with thunderous tread
Life stalks triumphant o'er the dead.
x.s.w.
MARY McCOMMON WEALTH.


"
»i|
. ; . -i
: 3F
sa
r
b
.
S ,
m
The
KODAK
in the home
enables you
to snapshot every
delightful happening
and date and title
the negatives at the
time of exposure.
The Autographic Kodak has created a revolution in photography, for it enables
you to write on the negative information that the photograph itself could not give.
It tells the who? when? where?
An Autographic Kodak will give you charming pictures of your children, of the
progress they make, of your favorite cornel's of the house, your friends at tea on
the lawn, your pets, your triumphs in the garden, and a record of every delightful
happening—a record in picture-form with any written information you choose
added.
Here are two popular models: —
Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak — The “Soldier’s” Kodak fitted with
Meniscus Lens £l/10/-
No. 3A Autographic Kodak, pictures 3 x inches £!»
Tlie Kodak is the only camera which can be fitted with the Autographic idea the
greatest photographic advance in 21) years.
If you already own a Kodak, you can make it a few shillings.
For instance, an Autographic back for the 3A Folding Pocket Kodak costs but 10/b.
Autographic Film is supplied at the same prices as the regular N-G 1 ( ilm.
Full details and prices are obtainable from all Kodak dealers and
KODAK
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street. MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: 250-253 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
HOBART: 15 Elizabeth Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
IIKOKEN 111 I/D: 846 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 76 Stuart Street.
Do You Know the
Witchery of Music?
Have you ever experienced its enchantment?
Have you an instrument in your home that
will flood the atmosphere with melody and
gladden the heart with real music? You
may have that experience if you will
introduce to your home
The “ALLISON” Piano.
These celebrated English Pianos have won
a notable place in the esteem of musical
people by reason of their artistic qualities.
The touch is light, elastic and pleasing to
the performer, while in purity of tone they
are excelled by none. *
JUST RECEIVED. A NEW SHIPMENT
OF THESE RENOWNED PIANOS.
Will you call and inspect - or shall we send
you a Catalogue?
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
45 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
-v
Stimulates and
Restores the
Digestive Organs.
Vitafcr
Invigorates the
Nervous System.
if
Southall Bros. 4 Barclay,
BIRMINGHAM.
ritish Owned
VIT AF E R restores strength, memory and the
zest of life, when lost by illness or careless living.
VITAFER has the unqualified recommendation of British
Medical men, and is superior to, and much cheaper than, all
other Tonic Foods.
Vitafer
succeeds where other Tonic Foods fail, as a restorative from nervous exhaustion,
debility, neurasthenia, etc.
AS FOOD FOR THE BODY —VITAFER increases vitality, builds
bone, nourishes tissue and increases weight without adding fat.
AS FOOD FOR THE BRAIN— VITAFER contains Organic
Phosphorus in the only form in which it can be perfectly utilised by the brain
and nervous system.
Jl MR.C.S. write;: “It may interest you to know that I have fourteen
patients taking VITAFER, and I cannot soeak too highly of it. I am using
it in Neuralgia, Neuritis, Debility, Neurasthenia, etc., with exceedingly fine results.
Later. “ I am placing your preparation before all others, which accounts for
my having twenty-one patients now taking it.
N.B.—The moderate prica places it within the reach of alb
Sold in Tins by all Chemists, 4cz, 8 oz, &16 oz. Prices, 3/-, 5/- • 9/-
VITAFER is produced entirely by
SOUTHALL BROS. & BARCLAY, LTD., of BIRMINGHAM. Eng.,
an old established and well known English Firm of high repute,. (Founded 1820.)
All the processes of VITAFER manufacture are carried out in their own
p wor ks at TIPPERARY and BIRMINGHAM.
BRITISH
therefore
BEST


33DK
2?
Business Men
The Turning Point of your
Career may be To-day.
Shipments are not to hand ;
prices have tooled you ;
buyers are leaving. ‘ The
outlook is blaek. The man
in the top picture was dis-
tracted to desperation, ilis
business outlook was dismal.
So He Thought, He had wor-
t ied himself to that idea. He
intended to abandon his business, which
had taken a lifetime to build up. For-
tunately he was advised to take a tonic—-
Fisher’s Phospherine. This he did, and
the picture below shows the remarkable
improvement made. Regular treatment
restored his appetite and in-
spiration. Then followed the
vigor of health, courage, con-
fidence and success. As a
body-builder and nerve and
brain tonic Fisher’s Phos-
pherine has stood the test of
40 years.
Insist upon getting
this great Nerve
Tonic.
AH Chemists and
Stores.
l/= and 2/6 a bottle.
&
y
Fisher & Co.,
CHEMISTS,
337 George Street, SYDNEY.
For PATRIOTIC DISPLAYS
HIRE YOUR COSTUME FROM
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY
COSTUME CO.
whose characters are handsomely and completely'
finished in every detail, whether dressed for FANCY-
DRESS BALLS, OPERAS, PLAYS, AMATEUR
THEATRICALS, CARNIVALS, or CHILDREN’S
FAIRY PLAINS.
Ladies’ Hairdressing and all kinds of hair work,
wigs, beards, moustaches, grease-paint, and make-up
material at
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO.
1.0.0. F. Temple, Elizabeth Street
(opposite Mark Foy’s), SYDNEY.
All is Food in
gdgh
Food
When you prepare Benger’s
Food with fresh new milk, it
forms a dainty and delicious
cream. In this form, all the
nutritive elements in both the
milk and the Food itself are
made soluble, ready for bodily
nutrition.
Consequently Benger’s is
assimilated with ease, even
in illness, when other food
\Vv \
LA
I7BA
causes pain
and distress.
Benger’s Booklet-A little
woric of authority on the
special feeding of Children,
Invalids,and tne Aged, will
be sent post free on appl-
ication to
BENGER’S FOOD, ltd.
Manchester, Eng.
Brand Offices —
Nkw York (u.s.a.)
92, William street.
Sydney (n.s.w.),
117, Pitt Street*
Canadian A rents —
National Drug and
Chemical Co Ltd.,
34, St. Gabriel Street.-
Montreal, and branches
throughout Canada.
Benger’s Food is sold
by Druggists , etc.,
—^everywhere.
T„L AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, (id. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are .cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Ilol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
BEFORE THE MIRROR.
By “JEANNETTE.”
“J° ann ett e ,” the well-known writer on Beaut}' Culture and author of “The B<x>k of Beauty,”
will be pleased to help and advise any reader on matters of the toilet. Queries should be accom-
panied by a stamped addressed envelope, and directed to “Jeannette,” e/o “Before the Mirror,”
13 Gray’s Inn Read, London, W.C., England.
These are undoubtedly days of exceptional nervous strain for one and all of
us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow over the
lives of many of us women, and while, perhaps, a few—the more stoical among
us—csn avoid worrying over past or prospective events, we may all, with a little
care and forethought, succeed in preventing the result of worry from bejing notice-
able in our appearance. To these fortunate few this little dial will, however, be
as interesting and instructive as to those who stand in real need of help in toilet
matters, and may be the means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown
method of retaining, or regaining, that beauty of face and figure which is thibirtli-
right of every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are at present
not generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in*stock.
freckles and How to Cure Them. —It is always
those with the finest and fairest skins who
freckle most easily, but this knowledge is poor
comfort when the face is disfigured with these
ugly little blemishes. To prevent the forma-
tion of freckles, a wash should lie applied to
the face which will form a shield from the
rays of the sun. A simple and inexpensive
one can be made up at home by dissolving an
ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of
hot water. Shake the bottle, and when cold
apply to the face and allow to dry on the
skin. If this is done every day, renewing the
application whenever the face is washed, and a
little mercolised wax rubbed into the skin
every night, freckles will not make their
appearance, no matter how hot the sun. To
remove freckles which have already formed,
apply the wax every night, rub it well into
the skin of the face and neck and leave it on
till the morning. Then wash off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water.
The Hair—To Increase the Growth. —To arrest
an undue falling of the hair and increase the
growth, scalp massage and the application of
a good tonic is absolutely necessary. Part the
hair in the centre, and starting at the forehead
massage for at least ten minutes. Then apply
a tonic. A simple and inexpensive one can be
made up at home by mixing one ounce of
boranium (which can be bought at the chem-
ist’s) with a quarter of a pint of bay rum.
Add the boranium to the bay rum, allow to
stand for half an hour, then strain and add
sufficient water to make half a pint. Dab
amongst the roots of the hair with a soft
sponge.
Blackheads, Enlarged Pores, etc. —Blackheads
are unusually-troublesome things during the
summer months to those bothered in that. way.
The extra warmth makes the skin “give,” and
it looks more greasy than usual, and conse-
quently the blackheads are more noticeable.
To remove them and close up the pores of the
skin dissolve a st.vmol tablet in a glass of hot
water, allow the effervescence to subside, then
dip a soft sponge into the liquid and bathe
the face. After a few minutes, dry the face
with a soft towel, and the blackheads will be
instantly removed.
To Reduce a Double Chin.—To reduce a double
chin, give hard, firm massage every night with
mercolised wax, stroking the flesh firmly back-
wards from the chin towards the lower portion
of the neck. Do this every night, and in the
morning bathe with cold water and rub into
the skin a little parsidium jelly. This treat-
ment will strengthen the flabby tissues and
restore the contour of the face. Occasionally
a double chin is due to stooping over books or
work, but generally it is the result of putting
ou weight. When the latter is the case a feu
clynol berries, eaten regularly every day. will
greatly assist in reducing the superfluous
flesh. A glass of hot water should be sipped
after each meal.
Superfluous Hair.—•■ Dark-complexioned women
are far more frequently troubled with a
growth of superfluous hair than those with
fair skins, and at the first sign of these ob.jec-
tionable hairs steps should be taken to remove
them, or they will develop into a strong
growth which will take a very long time in
destroy. A little powdered pheminol applied
to this growth will remove the unsightly blem-
ish, destroying it permanently if the hairs be
but few. Two or more applications may be
necessary if the growth be unusually strong,
but about one ounce of pheminol should be
sufficient for the most stubborn case. Phemi-
nol can be obtained at the chemist’s, and a
little powdered alum should be obtained at the
same time for dusting the skin before applying
the pheminol.
Grey or Fading Hair.—To restore the color to
grey or fading hair add one ounce of concen-
trate of tammalite to four ounces of bay rum.
Apply to the roots with a soft sponge every
night until the desired result is obtained, then
use the lotion two or three times'a week. After
three or four days a decided improvement will
be noticed, the hair turning gradually to its
original color. An iron tonic will be found
most beneficial when the greyness is caused by
general debility.
Beautiful Hair—How to Shampoo.—Whether
the hair is luxuriant and glossy, or thin and
lanky depends very largely upon the care
bestowed upon it. To keep the hair in good
condition it should be shampooed once in
every two or three weeks. Before shampooing,
massage a little pure olive oil or almond oil
into the scalp, then mix one teaspoonful of
stallax granules in a cup of hot water, fill a
basin with warm water, into which the ends
of the hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax
mixture into the scalp in the usual way.
Rinse, and dry by fanning with a palm fan, or
in the open air, if the weather permits. Should
the hair be naturally very greasy, the oil
massage should be omitted. [3
m
/ *’cn/v
Vi
Very “ faddy ” with his food
Was Mr. well, let’s call him ‘A’
He shrank from eating, and his meals
They simply bored him In a way.
The Chef’s most wonderful creation,
Merely made him take to flight;
But ‘Jelloids, ’ happy inspiration!
Soon found for him his appetite.
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
dgh
(( Mr. M. M. Hvatt, Isleworth, writes: —“ I have derived considerable
benefit from Iron ‘J ell oids ’ —mv appetite has returned, and I am feeling
quite well again. They are the best and most convenient tonic to take.”
A fortnight's trial {Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
tor Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine),
bor Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/1 £ and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BROOKS 890 Patent Road Saddle. Made in several sizes.
Our confidence in BROOKS Saddles is based upon the fact that for
over thirty-five years they have carried in comfort the great majority of cyclists,
and to-day their pre-eminence is more striking than ever before. That must
mean satisfaction
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o >lolice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. ivill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
F.R.M.: One of 597 letters which have
reached this paper wildly demanding that the Com-
monwealth should make it an offence to take a fee
for fillirig in another person’s War Census forms.
Whv the Government should do this you don’t ex-
plain, and neither do the other MG. You all just shout
for a penalty, and leave it at that. Many of the
questions are exceedingly complicated, and to fine a
citizen, for unraveling the affairs of another and
presenting the Commonwealth with the details it
demands could only be excused on the ground that
any old answers are good enough.... Meb: Don’t com-
plain of your, hard luck. Why, we’ve just heard of a
man who, having hastily married the girl, rushed of
to enlist, and got turned down for being short of a
t00th.... Tangled: Knibbs’s idea that goodwill is
wealth is absurd. Knibbs says the value of goodwill
is the mean between what you would be prepared to
sell your business for and what the best buyer would
give for it. Knibbs probably wouldn’t take £lO,OOO
for his business, which is his job. There are others
who would certainly give £lOOO to have it. But
it s safe to lay odds that Knibbs doesn’t enter up
goodwill in his own card at £5500.„. .Tiaki: It
is unfair, and there is a remedy, but it’s hardly
worth while oiling up the machinery. .. .Perima* (and
others) : Spare enough space between the lines to
allow the sub to at least dot an i. Paper was very
scarce a while ago, hut it is quite plentiful now.
the present trouble, by the way, is with pencils
rather than paper. One N.S.W. Government Depart-
ment, which had been tremendously pro-British,
wilted right up the other day and ordered all the
Austrian indelible pencils it could lay its fingers on.
.... Diogenes: The Yanco Commission will soon re-
port on the business Shorn: There’s a wonderful
sympathy between the sub-editor and his basket.
When he yawns the basket invariably gapes. It
happened when your beer stories came in.. . .M.R.Q.:
So the Ministry ’umbug’d you. It . seems incredible.
Out: Yes; caught in the slips Lash: Bash.
Hero: You send us six pages of blots, and ask'
that they be licked into shape. They got licked all
right. . . .W.R.: No difference in the money... .
Roo: Thanks.... A.D.8.: Yes; thanks Vila-ite:
Before the war the Commonwealth Small Arms Fac-
tory was manufacturing rifles at £6 17s. Bd. each;
but overtime charges subsequently increased the
pre-war figures by 15s. 2d. Bayonet charges not
available; apply Gallipoli. .. .Edna: Please don’t.
We are long suffering; but even a B-ear will turn, as
the Ilun is finding out... .N.F.: It escapes print....
Mrs. L. V. B.: Don’t want to know what you imagine
Bethmann-Hollweg outspake H.S.K.: Not for us,
flatterer 1... . .Eric 1).: Nice, respectable, stay-at-
home rhymes... .V.McC.: It’s a rather ponderous
recitation... .F.M.B. : There is a fiend with a nail-
extractor in the lane drawing the steel teeth of
shrieking packing-cases. Your Gallipoli poem affects
us the same way.. . .Louie H. (Q.) : No prejudice
at all. But the verses are too young. .. .E.8.D.: Now
you lay you down to rest in the basket.... Tom A.:
Fair verse, but the claim has been worked by another
man. .. .T.E.G.S.: llair-restorer wanted for one
poem! G.J.E.: Yours is pretty thin stuff, too.
. ...M.S.S.: They all need music to help, them out;
and we can’t supply everybody with an orchestra for
sixpence.... Maphsu: Of no real consequence....
Henry P.: Not enough drive in it Master L.L.S.:
Try again when you’re “Mister.”... .W.E.N.: “I
am 10, and this is my first attempt.” Spare us,
dear girl! It has been a hard winter... .J.M.T.:
You discharge your verses at us like a Royal procla-
mation. But they won’t do —not even with the
corrections... .Jim II.: Proclaim these things to
Parramatta. And may the Lord have mercy on
its 50u1... .H.McN.: Not looking for any little
doggie’s reminiscences, thanks... .L.F.Y.: If any-
thing, it is a subject for the plainest of prose. .. .
C.P.S.: \ou can’t make verse by feeding prose into
a chaffcutter and turning the handle John R.
(Q.) : We really haven’t the time to read it, John.
• •.-William B.: Enter “The Bushman”:—
Oui warmest congratulations on the introduction of
“the glassy hand.” May it never be shattered !. .. .
Agnes M. R.: Only a handful of pages about a
dropped suspender! Why not write a novel about
it ?... . Jaques: Might be done some day Taipo:
(1) Nothing in that; she might even have called
him the boss, or the . head serang, or the gilt-spurred
rooster without being in error; (2) have already
gi\en a cheer for King Island’s khaki enthusiasm.
It,A.: There’s nothing very unusual about that,
particularly in M.L Old Age: Like a lot of other
planks it's apparently not wanted on the voyage,
anyhow, till the war’s over. ... J.8.F.: They’ll have
to be more interesting than the sample. .. .K.W.W. :
Thanks.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Cowsoof: Somebody asked a Jew for a shilling
for a bed, and the Jew asked “Where is the bed?’"
The, story was first told in the land of Baslian of
the bed of Og, of which nine cubits was the length
of it and four cubits the breadth of it. . . .Opal:
Doesn’t matter whether you can draw or not. If
you’ve got an original idea or joke that will illus-
trate, send it, and well attend to the drawing while
the accountant attends to y0u....H0m0: Colt strafe
the artist 1... .T.11.W.: If you get any more ideas
like that, forget them. .. .Y.X.Z.: All your men and
women bulge in the wrong places Sedlitz: The
gag has been tortured, and there is no joy in it.
“Broadmeadows”: Australia desired to do
honor to its dead General; but when you re-
member the two weeks spent in rehearsing
for the funeral march and compare it with
the few weeks’ training given to some of the
lads who go to the Dardanelles, you will pro-
bably lir.d it hard work not to want to kick
somebody.
He;s all muscle from neck to heel,
He s tall and handsome and broad,
His clear grey eyes flash a fearless keel,
And his ways are as straight as a board.
There’s a specimen standing by the stockyard rails,
A decent a one as you'll find,
He’s battled through the years, heads and tails,
And he may look rough but he’s kind.
His clothes I dare say are in the roughish grade,
Still clothes don’t make the man;
Hie stuff he’s built of from the old brigade
That’s the , stuff that makes the man.
So to the man of the Outback band
Of which we can truly boast,
Let us raise a glassy hand
And drink to the honored host.


f
•a*
m
■■
■
a smsmEK
•■ ■■-■•-
" !!
!■'*■• < 8
"^*-
*rrr
r I i
r
i ii
r l
spm#WH
i *1
“VX;4J. ' ..2k
l-r
-
w- - zm
■MMHMiMin!>; *■'"*: "MS
'
HH#
?* '' ’fx l *_<
.
.
■
The
■’ c. p I t,
jondon
Tailored
Man
Faces
the World
with
Confidence
THE “LONDON” TAILORED MAN FACES THE WORLD WITH CONFIDENCE
because be KNOWS that his appearance is such that commands respect and assaies for him a
welcome in either business circles or family or social life.
Better u tailoring service than the u London ” Tailoring Service it is impossible to secuie, for
50
With Extra
Trousers Free.
63
combine ALL that expert cutting, expert workmanship, perfect finish and the world’s best
materials can —suits that have long been and still ARE recognised as the perfection point of the
tailoring art.
Order Yours To-day
—so that you, too, may face the world with that same spiiit of confi-
dence as the thousands of other well-dressed ‘ London -dailoied Men.
Write TO-DAY for Patterns of THE NEWEST and FINEST SUITINGS EVER OFFERED,
Sent POST FREE accompanied by SIMPLE SELF-MEASUREMENT FORM.
ondon
ONE ADDRESS ONLY-
MELBOURNE
Ltd.
“IT"
&
\\A*
\\' v
9°
0^
\3?
c°
o'*
&&
ft*
v°
V)£
'tfcp
\6l 9 '
~’T - '
d dv eS


Hanking, Public Companies, *c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office : 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O'M. WOOD.
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AM) SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- upwards.
INTEREST paid at 3A per cent. on first
£2OO and 8 per cent, on excess to £5OO.
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED RY THE GOV-
ERNMENT.
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interests per
cent.
Branches and Agencies throughout the
State. Post Offices are not now Agencies for -
this Bank.
By Order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL. £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLES’. '
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G
Hon. A. .1. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Maxaokr: J. MACKENZIE-LEES
Head Office: Brisbane,
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE ~
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED.. .. .. .. £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1910) .. £1,195,831
RESERVE FUND £65.000 s
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37TlireadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman ;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Arthur '•S. Barton’
Esq;; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq/; Herbert R.
Lysagtit, Esq.; George F..Tods'IAN, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies ■
Bankers to the Government of Queensland,'TmdeV
agreement extending to June 30, ;I'9§l.
Subscribed Capital .. ~ ..£800"000 0 (0
Paid-Up Capital . . .. .. 480,000 0 0 *
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 190,000 0 *o**
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5«
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
.Tas. Munro, Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.?;
Janies Love, Esq. ; Jasr- Milne, Esq.
General Manager— XV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydrieyr'and
throughout Queensland. ' ■
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Bankingjjo.
of Sydney, limited, j
Capital Paid-up . . . . £2,000,000 -0 0
Reserve Fund .. ~ 1,780,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,780,000 T) 0..
Directors:
George J. Cotien, Esq. .. ~ Chairman.
Hon. IT. E. Kater. M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. IT. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. .Tames Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: 11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)em Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS, v
Guaranteed Stock. . .. .. £528,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. • r 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500.000) '
Paid-up .. .. .. 975,710
Uncalled Canital .. . . . . 524.290
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa. Orent
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial fflutual tile
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments aid
Annuities without Mutual Liability; aUo
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping* &e.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORAMA
OR VIE TO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOYA
ORONTES
OMR Air
- eV "J‘eies,s J eiegrapny. .New and luxnri-
f , Cabines-de-luxe ; Staterooms:- with
bedsteads: Single Berth Rooms, PrivaTe ’Bathrooms!
■n, . . J , ui JAUU
Electric Gifts and Laundries.
from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE andv-EREAf ANTT E
ORIENT S.N. TGO'
Ltd.,
12 .Martin- Ppack, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH* BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
STEAMERS STAS" 21 HOURS AT IVELLTNC
TON (N.Z.), A-ND AT PAPEETE, “THE PEART
OF THE PACIFIC.” r.AKL
Return tickets available by various routes
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND LTD
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma-AVharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Septris.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 22.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 25.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
LeSiVes Melbourne Sept. 29.
Leaves Sydney Oct. 2.
MELBOURNE
(Transhippir.? for
S. A. and V. A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. "2 5.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SEItYICE.
s.s. Poi-eprinc (3500 tons) leaves BrTsliane everv
Friday .ar 8 am. forUTOWNSVILLE, calling at
(jLADSrONE. FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting
at IOMNSULLE with t.s.s. MOUTH f.YA N for ports
as far us COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights,' etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dee. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii'
(Jiving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
Sept. 25; Oct. 23; Nov. 20; Dec. 18.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
m
THURSDAY
V
niKN
V
/ I«
iseuN
yowfy
M£IBD
§2
'Cruises
BurnsPh/lp& cpltp
Send for Pamphlet.
TO PAPUA Se RABAUL
TO SOLOMON I?
TO NEW HEBRIDES
TO MARSHALL&
TO GILBERT If
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
■ Established 1817.
v - Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:—
• • - £3,500,000
- - - £2,550,000
- 1 - - £3,500,000
£9,550.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C
President.
Eichard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker. ' *
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq. .
•J AUDITORSWiIIiam Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq. '
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office-29 Thread needle St., E.C
346 Branches and Agencies in the Australian .States, New Zealand, Fiji, -Papua' and London.
Agents ana Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills neo- 0 -.
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world°
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy anti Delightful Climate, Enelianting Scenery, Liberal Land -Laws.
innri it ifpk®. r iiraitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
a of Dn l )o, iii cl eel scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
piospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office; 279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
dghd
JBanf^Sustmlta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
fo?a n .i
General Banking- Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
pAT.JKu
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened Interest paid on fixed deposits
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Deposit
1/'
_ _ _ _ Post Offices
2550 ir> Australia
and Papua
Interest at no/
per annum <5/ 0
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE
JAMES KELL, Depu-y Governor.
and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
June, 1915 DENIS >N MILLER, Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd
Capital Subscribed .. .. .. .. £250,000
Capital Paid up .. £loo’ooo
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trustee,
Administrat' r or Attorney under Power for absentees,
and Is the only Trustee Company empowered by Act
Of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BIIADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL. Esq.
.TAMES KIDD, Esq.
R. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc’., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
*y"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Compare's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED; RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. AVALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,’
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
-Teamer. £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s-. 6d. “
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
ROOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Sept. 25
and Oct. 23.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairn=.
INNAMINCKA, Sept, 18
RUPARA, Sept. 25.
WOLLOWRA, Oet. 2.
Saloon Passage Tickets arc interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUII,I, &- CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
OANADTAN- A T T S T R A L A SIA N R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadimi Pacific TJnilwav.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING- THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS
t Twin-Screw. *Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
<le - luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
SAN
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at. Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the- new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STRAW SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
"Ulimaroa,” “Wintifrera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern, Construction. *
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular^services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
> HOBART AND SYDNEY,"
r MELBOURNE AND. LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
. ... AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply fo T Illustrated 'Handbook, giving
"T Passage Rates and-Time-tables, i
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■j And AH -Ports,
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ...10,000 tons
T.S.S. " KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T. 5.5. “KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraph}’.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED.
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services
between Australia and United
Kingdom via Suez Canal, Cage
of Good Hope, Torres Straits.
FAST MODERN PASSENGER STEAMERS,
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERirTII ACCOMMODATION.
Large, airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge q,nd Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
Fare to London or Liverpool, £4-8.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPIILETS, Etc.,
apply to
Birt ft Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane; Turnbull
Martin ft Co., Brisbane; Mcllwraith, McEdcharn
and Co. Ptv., Ltd., Melbourne and Newcastle •
Elder, Smith ft Co., T3RT, Adelaide; 11. Jones
and Co., Lid., Hobart. . . .


Here’s the Reason.
It matters not how good a man’s
clothes are, he never looks correctly
attired unless his shoes are rightly
chosen. This is the reason why
all well-dressed men wear
ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate a Patent Golosh Bal.,
Dull Calf Tops, Perforated Golosh.
Price - 27/6 and 32/6,
Also in Tan Willow Calf, 257-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extras
Write for our New Catalog,
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
A
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16« per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel' in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM. . .
HANDSOME DRA,WING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER ail'd LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
■ NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
- are spared to ensure • the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
a
COOKE’S
PATENT
REVERSIBLE
LEVEL
Specially designed with two objects in view:
first, to afford an easy, efficient, and at all
times available means of adjusting the line of
colliination of the telescope to perfect perpen-
dicularity to the vertical axis of the instrument;
and, secondly, to obtain a form of construction
in which elegance and great compactness are
attained and strength and rigidity secured.
Pamphlet describing construction, ar.d on the
adjustment of on application.
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO. LTD.,
189 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE,
Sole Australian Agents.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
Your car may have a strong frame, good transmission, and an excef r ent
motor, but if the tyres, which indeed form the very foundation of the car#
are not equally good, then beware 1
An insecure foundation, whether in houses or in automobiles, is equally
treacherous, and is sure to result in disaster.
The tyres, therefore, form the foundation, not only of your car. but cS
that feeling of security which is so essential to the pleasure of motoring.
Ensure your enjoyment, then, by fitting
Motor Tyres,
MADE IN ONE QUALITY ONLY—THE BEST.
MICHELIN TYRES AND ACCESSORIES
can be obtained Irom all the leading Agents,
.4,
(Michelin Tyres are made in France),
Time shines bright
in darkest saps
with the “Anzac”
Lever.
The “Anzac” Lever turns night into
day where telling time is concerned.
The HANDS and FIGURES are
luminous and show brightly in the
darkest night. These are the details
of this —the finest Officer’s Watch
Stewart Dawson’s have ever handled :
Solid Silver Case; 15-jewel nickel lever movement;
SCREW-OUT movement, absolutely preventing dust,
damp or injury to the movement; compensation balance ;
luminous RADIUM Hands and Figures; solid Pigskin
Leather Regulation Covered Military Wristlet.
Price, postage paid ... 7 5/-
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
Wf
Send one to
YOUR Soldier!
YOU’LL WANT NO OTHER.
VWTV* <
as
XiN
you’ll want no other Razor when you try the “Plum.” It gives as
close a shave as any man need wish for.
“PLUM” RAZOR
is a highly-scientific production, its silver-steel blade being tempered to
such a pitch of accuracy that it leaves the face like velvet. The
“Plum” shaves in a quarter the time.
Price 106—Post Free.
We also keep it in perfect order f<: two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This lfhe makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG 8n AITKEN, 6S+
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
How to Avoid Sick Headache
Many people suffer at regular intervals
from sicK - headache. Generally they can tell
hours in advance when an attack is coming
on. The trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the digestive organs, and when
a certain point is reached this poison pro-
duces nausea, and the attack follows.
If sufferers would take a dose of Pink-
ettes, the new laxative, at intervals these
distressing attacks may be avoided. Pink-
ettes are dainty little, sugar-coated ovals
that arouse no feeling of repulsion, and they
act so gently that they are the ideal laxative
to use in correcting a tendency to sick head-
ache. They have no unpleasant effect to
make them objectionable to the extra-sensi-
tive sick-headache patient. Old-fashioned
harsh purgatives will not do at all in such
cases. If you would like to try them send
for a free sample to the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Sydney, mentioning that you read
of them in The Bulletin. Sold everywhere
Is. per bottle.*
A WOMAN’S HEALTH.
Every woman’s health is peculiarly de-
pendent upon the condition of her blood.
How many women suffer with headache,
pain in the back, poor appetite, weak diges-
tion, a constant feeling of weariness, palpi-
tation of the heart, shortness of breath,
pallor and nervousness? If you have any
of these symptoms, do not despair of getting
better, but begin now, to-day, to build up
your blood with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
See how the nervous energy of the body is
restored as the blood becomes pure and reel
and the entire system is strengthened to
meet every,, demand upon it.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are useful for
all women, but they are particularly valu-
able to girls of school age who show symp-
toms of going into a decline, who become
pale, nervous and languid. These pills aid
ixi securing perfect development and health
by strengthening the system and purifying
and building up the blood. Thin blood dur-
ing the growing years of a girl’s life usually
means a ffat-cliested and hollow-cheeked
womanhood. There can be neither health
nor beauty without red blood, which gives
brightness to the eyes and color to cheeks
and lip«.
You can get Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
from* your nearest dealer: or they can be
had direct from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co.. Sydney.
| A useful booklet on “Diseases of the
1 Blood” will be sent free to any address,


What’s New?
The answer is in
FINNEYS
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHION BOOK.
Write for you 1 y opy to-day—lt’s free
Finney, Isles,& Co.
Limited,
The Drapers of Queensland
o >sre* t
Every Well-Appointed
Office that Prides
itself upon its finished work uses only
KOLOK Typewriter Carbons, Pen and
Pencil Carbons and Typewriter Ribbons.
The Kolok Economy Binder is admittedly
the best in the world. The Kolok trade-
mark means British made.
OBTAINABLE FROM
AL L STATIONERS.
IN BANANA LAND
What a fine thing it is to have a Labor
Government in power! Up-country the
other day a station manager was sworn in
as a J.P. immediately after he had been
fined 30-odd pounds and costs for failing to
comply with the requirements of the Shearers’
Hut Accommodation Act. It was his third
fine, too, inside 12 months.
This lady gets the V.C. for casualness. The
case was before the Divorce Court in Bris-
bane. She admitted that her husband (the
petitioner) was not the father of the recent
arrival, and she couldn’t say who was except
that he was a man “in a blue suit and a
straw hat.”
Extract from a letter written by a N.Q.
lad from Gallipoli:—
An assault by night is generally one confused
mass of Turks, Australians, bombs, rifles, Maxims,
flares, a of a row and clashing of bayonets,
and a mixture of voices veiling “Allah! Allah!”
and “Take that, you !”
Glory be ! Billjim is still Australian.
It is generally assumed that the female
nurse is more tactful and tender-hearted
than the male of the species. But the other
day Justice Chubb, in the course of his in-
quiry into the conduct of the Goodna
Asylum, read a letter from female patients
requesting the “appointment of male
attendants in lieu of female nurses, to
make the place more sociable.” These
female patients have their lucid intervals.
The Queensland Government recently
ukased that no Asiatics should be employed
on the canefields. Hindoos objected strenu-
ously on the grounds that their race is
fighting for the Empire, while Germans, who
may be employed anywhere, are fighting
against us. Then the Jap intervened and
got the prohibition cancelled —as far as
Nippon is concerned. Naturally the Hin-
doo will expect similar treatment, and will
get it. The whole thing has been a piece
of monumental tactlessness.
“Nemo”: H. L. Le Fanu, the Anglican
Archdeacon at Brisbane, just appointed co-
adjutor to Archbishop Donaldson,-is not, as
one might suspect, a Frenchman, but,
queerly enough, an Irishman. The Le
Fanus have long been well known in Dublin.
When the Anglican Church was the “estab-
lished” church of Ireland, though number-
ing only a handful of the inhabitants, the
Le Fanus were big people in it; but they
were never factious —they were always
“gentlemen.” One branch was connected
with journalism. The Warder, an old Dub-
lin Protestant paper which flourished well
before the “disestablishment” of the “Irish
Church,” was one of the family’s assets.
“E.N.M.”: Fired by the reports from
“down South” as to the catches of the N.S.W.
State trawlers, the Queensland Government
is meditating a similar project. The scheme
ought to be successful; for all the fish
caught off Sydney flourish in Moreton Bay
and the offing, while at Tweed Heads (which
is within easy range) there are tales told
of fish that would send the Sydney line-
thrower into transports of joy. The fish-
supplies of Brisbane, like those of Sydney,
have been cornered by inferior Dagoes who,
when they have made their pile, clear out
for their beloved Mediterranean. In conse-
quence, fish is kept scarce and dear, while
the river, the bay and the outside ocean teem
with the goods. At Bribie Island the ex-
cursionist can buy schnapper for Is. 6d. In
the Dago shops they demand and get Is. 6d.'
per Ih.
What a high-minded institution (or
be destitution?) is Parliament!
The Queensland Assembly caterer supplies
aU o exce ueut dinner to members on
a flat tariff of one shilling. As this
has proved insufficient to meet the cost, the
fetate has subsidised the catering for some
years at the rate of £BOO per annum. The
recent rise in prices has of course em-
barrassed the caterer still more, and the
Assembly with noble promptitude has
raised, not the tariff, but the subsidy.
Opposition-Leader Macartney has re-
signed, owing, he says, to ill-health;
Deputy-Leader Rankin is off to the Front;
and portly Jim Tolrnie, of Toowoomba, has
been given the ribbons. Tolrnie is a pon-
derous speaker and an elephantine debater;
but he is a true-blue Tory. And at least
he has the redeeming quality of general
good humor.
The Government has sanctioned a union
m the police force of Queensland. Motto
(not yet finally adopted) : “Eight hours’
sleep, eight hours’ recreation, eight hours’
rest.!’
A MAN OF NO ACCOUNT.
“What do you think of that fellow West?”
“H’m; suppose he's all right, in a way, but — er”
“No; he wouldn't lend me a bob either.”
Counted out, at Richmond, one Boyle,
aged 88, the victim of a deadly climate —a
well-known fisrure on the cattle tracks of
the Flinders River for the past 30 years.
Rumor says that in his earlier days he was
a member of Gardiner’s gang of bush-
rangers. A truer story is that, as a young
man, he was arrested for horse-stealing
somewhere on the Murray. It was raining
heavily on the day of the trial, and Boyle
(who was out on bail) turned up covered
with mud got from a spill off his horse.
The Judge advised him "to go and change.
“With your permission I will, your Honor,”
he replied, and going to the courthouse
door, hopped on his horse, and that was the
last the police saw of him. He was a tough
lot. Three days before he died he had a
heated argument with a selector who wanted
to drive him into the hospital; and he_ actu-
ally rode 20 miles before allowing himself
to be put into a cart.
From a man who hasn’t got used to it: —
They still employ some archaic methods in Bris-
bane in the Year of Disgrace 1915. Last night,
just when the city had woke up for the evening and
was ablaze with electric lights, there was a sound of
weeping and complaining in George-street, close to
the Courts of Justice and right in front of some of
Brisbane’s “toniest” pubs. Two hoodlums, much the
worse for wear apparently, stepped into the glare of
the crowded street, urgently propelling a young woman,
decently dressed, who was sobbing bitterly. Said my
friend, who knows his Brisbane: “Yes; it’s a
shame, but it’s only two policemen arresting a girl.”
Policemen! One wore a battered little pork-pie
hat, and had no collar on; the other was in an old
“pommy” cap and a scarf which hung over his
unbuttoned waistcoat, giving a cheap-pirate effect.
The girl was easily the most respectable-looking of
the three. Slowly and painfully they crossed the
packed pavement, and, after dodging 14 trams, seven
cabs and 122 motor-cars, disappeared into the gloom
beneath the railway offices. Are there no bowels
of compassion in the Queensland “plain” (not to
say, ugly) policeman? Why, even a violent German
wharfie would not be treated worse than was that
unhappy young woman. No wonder the drab-clob-
bered John Hops sometimes get knocked about by an
indignant crowd. The so-called “arrest” might have
been for almost anything, from bigamy up to forging
invoices; but even if it had been for beer and iri-
descent invective in a public place, there was no need
to parade the dreadful crime--with all those cabs
and cars about,,
Queensland Government now holds off
importunate railway deputations by telling
them that a Public Works Committee is to
be appointed to decide on the merits of
various schemes. In plain English, Cohen
is throwing them out of the pawnshop and
the Government wants a cushion to fall on.
“Gumholes”: So the wounded soldier is
to be the next excuse for reviving the device
of land-purcliase for “settlement purposes.”
Consider Jimbour (120,000 acres), which
the Ividston Government acquired at £3 10s.
an acre and fobbed off on to strangers from
other States. The price was fixed by the
Land Court, assisted by a District Court
Judge, the vendor being the Q. N. Bank.
The Ryan Government has asked the
Land Court to inquire into the condition of
the settlers who are clamoring for relief;
but as Kidston is now the dominating mem-
ber of the Court, what good is that? Why
can Ryan not put a knife into independent
hands with instructions to rip up the bag
and tell the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth about what he finds
,r, side?
J. S. Hanlon finished first in the race for
the editorship of Brisbane Worker, in
succession to “Charlie” Seymour. Hanlon
is a comparatively young man of 33, who
graduated in the provincial press of Victoria.
Out of his 14 years in the game, the last
five have been spent on Perth Dairy News.
He is a foundation member of the Austra-
lian Journalists’ Association, and wlien he
leaves Perth the Westralian men will have
to find a new president,
Francis Fox, once of Melbourne Age,
now editor of the Brisbane Daily
Mail, has lost one of his three sons at the
Dardanelles. He has another son at the
Front, in Flanders, of whom there are good
reports; and now the youngest —a mere lad
—is anxious to avenge his brother’s - dea'th,
if his parents will let him go.
Pollock, the newly-elected M.L.A. for the
Gregory, saw at least half the fitness of
things the other day. The members of a
recruiting team were holding a meeting at
Winton, and, among others, Pollock was
invited to speak. In his opening remarks
he said he could not see his way clear to
ask others to do what he, a big lump of a
young man, was not doing himself, so he
switched off on to the Federal Income Tax
and that’s where he went wrong. After-
wards Macartney, M.L.A., stepped up and
got the meeting back on to the rails.
REDUCE FLESH WITH SEA LEAVES.
Any man or woman who is troubled with
a burden of excessive fat can easily reduce
to any desired amount by following the
simple, harmless plan of eating sea leaves
obtained from plants growing in the sea off
the coast of France. Natives of this part
of the coast readily get the plant itself, but
for the convenience of those not so fortu-
nately situated most chemists keep them
in compressed or tablet form under the
chemical name of salith leaves, and if taken
according to the simple directions that
accompany them will invariably reduce
flesh at the rate of two or three pounds a
week, and at the same time greatly improve
the general health. It is interesting to note
that when salith leaves are used the skin
remains firm, without any tendency to
become flabby or wrinkled.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 11, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindait,—
Chaplain George R'owe, who went to Egypt
with a transport full of undamaged soldiers
and returned with another full of wounded,
gave a lecture on Wednesday night in the
Exhibition Hall. Frank Downes, our war-
rior of 21 who returned'blind from wounds,
intends to learn piano-tuning in Sydney,
and the cash raised by the shepherd is to
help pay for his young friend’s training at
Sydney. The hall was packed. The Patri-
otic fund will doubtless add something, and
the Courier fund donates £5O. It seems a
pity the Sydney Blind Asylum couldn’t
manage to train an afflicted soldier without
asking for fees; but we won’t make a song
about that. Bananaland will be at the old
address when the bill comes in.
Neville Sutton, . younger son of Colonel
Sutton, has just passed his final medical
examination at Sydney Uni. By rights the
young man should have sat next March,
but as he was in a hurry to get over to the
racket he vras allowed to beat the calendar.
Dr. Mordaunt Sutton, his brother, is already
en route to the unpleasantness.
The Red Cross has had another uncertain
week. On Monday it was decided to charge
soldiers for sheepskin vests (all other goods
free) ; but the sheepskin sub-committee hav-
ing turned a vinegar face on the proposal,
it was fired out on Wednesday, and the
vests will now go to the men gratis. As
was pointed out by Professor Gibson, it
was a straw-headed scheme that would
have had the effect of making the
hard-up soldier go cold. The common
or garden opinion was that he was
the very fellow to be fitted out with the
things a slender purse denied. However,
horse-sense is back on the premises and all
is peace.
The races and an outbreak of fetes were
the chief items to-day. One of the fetes was
at Windsor, and was in aid of the motor-
ambulance fund. Another was at Red Hill,
another at Wooloowin, another at Morning-
side. Unfortunately for the impoverished
bookmakers the race fete was not well atten-
ded. The Governor was there, but he’s a
difficult sport to clean out. He was looking
very thin and white after his illness. Her
Ex., in blue taffeta, kept a solicitous eye
upon him from under a smart blue hat.
Among the elegant frockers were Mrs. J. M.
Thomson, Miss Eileen Murphy, Mrs. Mus-
tard, Miss Mollie Brenan, Miss Milne and
Mrs. Bob Ralston, who braved a threatened
thunderstorn in thin lingerie. The Eagle
Farm lawns always are a joy and a delight,
but to-day, with masses of stock, clusters of
pansies and beds of larkspur, they made the
show look like the racecourse of Paradise.
Some people in Bundaberg are feeling par-
ticularly anxious for the address of a deceit-
ful Hun. They say he is a Hun, but he
described himself as a Swiss when he re-
sided with the family. One day he
departed and, explaining that he would be
away some time, asked that care should be
taken of a large box. As there was no news
from the foreign gentleman after some
months, the missus decided to see if the
goods wanted protection against moths. The
next minute an excited husband was doing
even time for the police-station. The case
was an arsenal of rifles and ammunition!
The wounded soldier was making slow
progress up Queeh-street on two crutches,
a not-so-badly-wounded comrade on either
side, and a broken foot in a sling.
“What’s the matter with you, mate?” asked
a sympathetic soul at the corner. “Oh,
just malingering,” said the cheerful “loafer”
as he dragged himself on.
Captain Jack Finlay, one of the most
popular skippers on the coast, has gone into
camp as an infantryman. At the beginning
of the war he offered his services to the
navy, but was told to wait. He waited
patiently, but the Unspeakable slew his
younger brother, and that made him in a
hurry. So he gave up his boat, and rushed
to a gap in the field lines. The A.U-S.N.
has told him that his billet will be waiting
for him when he comes back with his bow
covered with medals.
Alice Gallipoli is South Queensland’s
latest adventure in nomenclature, and
Darda Nellie was a recent Richmond River
invention. Krithia Kate and Achi Baby
are understood to be coming.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Brisbane Daily Mail, in reporting the
inquiry into the alleged scandalous condi-
tion of Goodna Asylum, asserted that insect
life was so much in evidence that all the
lawyers in attendance, including a Supreme
Court Judge, were compelled to busily
scratch themselves. It is pleasing to learn
that the Supreme Court did not so far for-
get its dignity. “The statement,” says Jus-
tice Chubb, “that I scratched myself is
absolutely false.”


Ushers
Green Strjpe
m
Ns
’
Sv
%
P
o-
SS*"
y
i
£5
1
"t
k
v
r
*
1
2
<^?J
.<CL.oY\«
« Yv
64
A GOOD SEND-OFF
**
SI 1V


gh
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
IO YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed& DeiiveredFree
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
ittd
The Experienced Motor Cyclist
" ” .finds comfort, even il roads ARE bad,
in the' knowledge that he has "the best
that money can buy” in
BARNET GLASS
MOT® CYCLE TYRES
Made by the Founders o! the
Rabbet Industry in Australasia
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO; LTD.
ALL STATES and NEW ZEALAND. [1
Shear Your Sheep
this Season with a
Little Wonder
i
A Two-Stand Plant with 2-h.p.
Engine, ready for
work, for only
Can be taken to paddock or
fastened down anywhere and put
to work. Engine can be used for
other work. Starts easy and holds
a record for good, fast shearing.
More installed in Australia last
year than all other makes of two-
stand plants combined.
Write to-day for full particulars.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is
rally prepared to clean the teeth,
the breath, harden the gums and
the mouth (thus preventing
EUDENTA is therefore regarded „
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted
RQCTvE. TOMPSTTT & CO.. Melbourne.
scientifi-
sweeten
disinfect
decay).
as “the
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
f‘Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
TO “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
The Motor in Australia, 16 Pitt Street, Sydney,
pays standard price for motor, motor-bike, aero-
plane or motor boat jokes for illustration.
ljos/ocA
THERE is generally one pair of shoes that is
remembered as having been just right. They looked
well, they wore well, they fitted well. Every
woman must have had such a pair, which she remem-
bers with pleasant regret and hopes by some happy
chance to match again. She can do so by securing
her right size in Bostock. The fitting proper-
ties of these shoes are so excellent that one
feels at home and comfortable in them from
the first day of wear: the styles are particu-
larly up to date and delightful, as the present
model goes to prove. Bostock shoes are
obtainable at all the best stores —and are un-
mistakable, the name Bostock being stamped
on every pair.
821
£ /
/ /
Bostock No.
P 6388
dhg
Shave Yourself.
“ Every razor I ever used,” writes
one of our friends, “was a razor
to swear at. Now I have a razor
to swear by—the Gillette Safety
Razor and the smooth keen
Gillette Blades,” British made,
Gillette Standard Sets. One Guinea. Sold Everywhere.
Write for illustrated and descriptive bo klet. Mention this papei
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., L*d., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD, LONDON. ENGLAND.
rwiiggraa
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
L\yo
Write for
particulars to
‘DROIT’
Swedish
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
for all purposes on MARINE. '
Farm, Station, Cou '.try House or Motor Hoac ; Wood and Chaff
Cutting, Dairying, Pu nping, Electri: Lighting, Mining, etc.
Crude oil is cheaper than kerosene and safer. Power costs only
one-fourt 1 that of a petrol engine.
The “DROTT” is the most up=to=date CRUDE=OlL ENGINE.
Our Marine type, for Fishing Boats and small Tugs, a Speciality,
4
Swedish Drott Motors,
C. HILDEBRAND, Agent,
306 Kent Street, Syuney.
P.O. Box 2097.
Calverts
JfSiletSoap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-tabl;t boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Mnrle by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, En%.
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(Spillarine
Many men shave the upper lip
because their Moustache is of
“straggly” growth. If this is
your case, rub CAPILLAR INE well
into the hair-roots for a month.
Then let the Moustache grow, and
note the wonderful improvement.
10/6 Jar, post free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 Ceor * e stl
War or No War
Spoons and Forks are a necessity.
Young couples marrying must
have a Butter Dish and a Teapot,
etc. A present must be sent to
them.
We ease the problem of how ?
AVe simply take the English
Manufacturers’ wholesale catalogue
prices and deduct 20% discount
from them, and so our customers
know they are getting very fine
value, and at the same time first-
class-quality Silverware.
Then, too, our enormous output
ensures the very latest and most
approved goods being shown.
Fairfax 8 Roberts
The Oldest Jewellery I * i
House In Sydney, i/lU.
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET
Cash only.
Handsome Oak Case, containing 56 pieces, very heavily plated
on hard white metal Spoons and Forks, and best hand-forged,
double-shear steel Knives £l2/10/-
Less 20% discount 2/10/-
£lO/-/-
The Inky Way.
“Silas” : George Reid is going to write his
autobiography, I believe. I wish to remind
him of an interesting item. When Bill
Dyson’s show of caricatures was on in Mel-
bourne, somebody bought a peculiar gro-
tesque with a quite startling resemblance to
the then Minister, for whom, in point of fact,
the artist had intended it. George opened
Dyson’s show, and made one or two pathetic
references to this particular insult. In
.London at some sort of literary and artistic
outburst, Mr. High Commissioner admitted
that it was his wife who had bought the
caricature. “I have lived with the dreadful
thing for three years,” he said. “It had not
the remotest resemblance to begin with, but
it exerts some devilish influence, and I find
I am growing more like it every day!”
* * * *
“Gallio”: Apropos the Inky Way par.
CB. 2/9/’l5) announcing the banishment
from Federal Parliament House gardens of
pressmen whose morals might be jarred by
the sight of coy damsels in the arms of
amorous politicians, there are indications
that it has become necessary to draw a veil
over the proceedings of members who travel
in the elevator. This conclusion is the only
one that can be drawn from the latest
ukase, which is that pressmen must not
enter the lift. This decree has been pro-
mulgated at the instance, it is said, of Sen-
ator Givens, chairman of the Joint House
Committee. People are beginning to wonder
just what it is that Givens is so anxious to
hide. Members of the Fourth Estate with
some respect for their reputations are asking
whether it is safe for them to be seen at all
in company with Federal members, in view
of the darkness with which the latter seek
to cover their deeds.
“Snell” : How the character of the literary
man changes! Only the other day an Aus-
tralian poet bit a policeman, and here is
the simple tale of a Melbourne editor, a
slave of the lamp, sickled o’er with the pale
cast of thought. He was going home from
his duties, wearied with the heat and burden
of the day, when he came upon a bulky
individual standing upon the footpath, bit-
terly- traducing Australia in the lump, and
loudly declaring that the average German
could chew up a whole bunch of gumsuckers.
The editor paused and put in a gentle pro-
test. The slanderous pro-germ reached for
the editorial ear, and got it. The man of
letters arose, and without pausing to re-
arrange his toilet speared a left into the
traitor, crossed him, then ripped and hooked.
The editorial repertoire of punches is varied,
and the good man tried them all on the ruth-
less insulter, and then settled down to a
monotonous round of straight lefts and right
crosses. Suffice to say the pro-germ had to
be taken away in a-Jiundle for repairs, while
the editor jogged along, a weary Inky Way-
farer refreshed.
* * * *
“Too True to be Good” : To a Melbourne
newspaper-office jealously guarded by a
janitor who would challenge Kitchener him-
self, came a meek messenger bearing the
announcement of the annual Victorian pil-
grimage to Adam Lindsay Gordon’s grave at
the Brighton cemetery. A hurried, worried
sub-editor intercepted the janitor just as he
had opened the envelope containing the
paragraph. The bearer seized the oppor-
tunity to depart. Turning his guns on The
sub-editor, who is long-suffering and charit-
able. the janitor exploded: “Who’s Adam
Lindsay Gordon, anyhow?” “A poet,” re-
plied the sub., as he hurried on. After an
interval of deep cogitation, the janitor,
athirst for--information, waylaid him anew.
“ ’Ere,” he said. “About poets. They only
scratch for a livin’, don't they-?”
* * * *
Will Hope, artist, late of Maoriland, who
tried his luck at San Francisco and found it
out, has got a start in N'Yark. He is doing
a daily cartoon for the Glore.
These English ! Lord Alfred Douglas,
being apparently unable to obtain a com-
mission in the army, explained why he
couldn’t go along and help save the nation:
There is no other man in the whole army in the
ranks who is in a position at all corresponding to
mine, the younger son of a marquess and a very
well-known poet and man of letters. I don’t quite
see why I should put myself in the position of offer-
ing to serve in the ranks. To do so would be a
tacit admission on my part that I considered myself
declasse, and that I had behaved in such a way as to
forfeit my standing as a son of a very ancient and
poble house.
CANDLE-LIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I mean to mark the day with some achievement;
Too many days go by, and nothing done,”
I said this morning; yet the long hours’ reivement
Has left me weary, and still no white stone
Shines by the path. The candle burns but dimly,
The stars are clouded, and I sit alone,
Counting the empty hours, and musing grimly
On passing years and paltry profits won.
The day is past, and these few lines flow slowly,
Out of cold thoughts, and through an unthriiled
pen ;
While, vaguely, I determine that not wholly
Shall the last hours be lost, nor all the pain
Of'longings unfulfilled be suffered vainly,
Hut from the wasted day be caught some gain,
•Though but a poor, pale fancy, set forth sanely—
A groping hand-grasp, seeking brother men.
f rom the dim candle to the open casement,
From the too earthly to the heaven too fair,
1 turn for lifting of that self-effacement
That sweeps the thoughts of day, and all its care,
Into the great, still night, where one may wander,
Holding, with spirits of the pregnant air,
Converse untrammelled—then return to ponder
That, from the dark, my candle is a star.
From the black hill, at times a far-off dwelling,
Showing the faintest glimmer of a light,
Has touched my heart with welcome beyond telling,
When all the world has seemed but desolate.
So in the gloom of life one pure thought spoken,
One aspiration of a soul, elate
With hope, may be a beacon and a token
To lead one on—may it be so to-night!
MAJORCA, SPATX.
J. LINDO-WEBB.


The comfortable way on a summer's day
V
m
> :
v
3*
GE
ELECTRIC
FLATIRON
The G~E Electric Way
GE
ELECTRIC
fan
Do good, quick, clean Ironing.
You can iron in any room in the house —or on the porch—with a G-E
Electric Iron. Attach it to any light socket, turn the switch and the G-E
Iron is ready in a moment.
Aside from these conveniences, think of the time, money and steps a
G-E Iron saves. Think of the lessened wear and tear on the family linen.
With a G=E Electric Iron you get “ Even Heat.”
No spot too hot; it is no hotter at the point than at the
heel —at the edges than in the centre. This safeguards
against scorches —makes the ironing go quicker and
easier; saves time, which means saving electricity; in
fact
An Average Family Ironing costs
only Threepence for Electricity.
Specially-arranged air chambers in the G-E Iron hold
the heat down directly to the ironing surface. Using
the heat this way also permits you to do considerable
ironing with the electricity turned off.
The G-E trademark on this iron stands for quality —it assures you a
lifetime of satisfactory service.
Banish hot=weather Discomfort.
Turn the switch and command the faintest zephyr, or a sweeping
breeze —as you please—and it shall be yours—in home, office, bedroom,
ballroom or workshop. A simple device places the speed entirely within
your control,
' Twenty years of laboratory study and factory application are Concen-
trated in the smooth-running, noiseless mechanism of the G-E Electric Fan.
Its Oscillating Motion,
silently stirring the air—like the breeze flow of nature —is only one of the
many practical features of this fan.
Its sturdiness of construction, the perfect integrity of its materials and
parts, its delicacy of balance throughout, which prevents vibration and wear,
all assure you a lifetime of satisfactory service.
As to Economy, sufficient to say that the G-E Fan, depending on the
size, can be run
Seven or Eight Hours for One Penny
—less than the cost of burning a single ordinary incandescent light.
G-E Fans are made in many sizes and styles for use in homes, stores,
offices, hotels, restaurants and factories. Any desired finish to match
surroundings may be ordered.
A
*s±
0
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY,
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
Waterman’s
( Ideal 1 _
Fountain Pen
dghdgh
SAFETY
TYPE
Cannot Leak
however
carried.
Pul it in your bag or pocket
upside down, anyhow, and
this particular type of
Waterman’s Ideal will not
leak. It cannot. It is sealed
when open and sealed when
closed. Perfect also in all
other respects.
Of Stilt’oners and Jewellers
everywhere.
LG. SLOAN, J)rn«out« f
London, England.
AUSTRALIA :
3SO, George St., Sydney.
awH
rf'Hi't'V
k/'uiin’S,
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
• 68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
jj ra nrhes in all parts of the world.
\ \ r
€D
•A’
cn
cr
t=TP
3UL
dh
Here are “the outdoor
days” come round again.
Make those picnics real
ENTER TAINMENTS
by taking along with you
“His Master’s Voice”
(Trade Mark Registered)
—the one and only GRAMOPHONE.
You need no modulating devices with “His Master’s Voice.” It
gives the true tone —the true expression.
You can get different needles for moderating or increasing sound-
volume ; there is a controller for the SPEED ; but “His Master’s
Voice” gives you the songs of Caruso as HE sings them, the
violin of Elman as HE plays it; and so on in the case of each
of the hundreds of notables on its lists. Expression devices
would be superfluous. Buy “His Master’s Voice” —and you’ll
buy the BEST.
'lnstrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street Sydney.
Hj 5 Masters'wice
BE
CRITICAL
as critical as you
like over the services
you require from
Calvert’s Carbolic
Tooth Powder.
For the efficient cleansing
and antiseptic properties this
dentifrice possesses, nufke it
easy to maintain that standard
of cleanliness, which satisfies
people who want their teeth
to last well and to look well.
G
I
\jCARBOUCfI
P
r
Sold by local Chemists ami Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,Manchester,Eng.
AVON
il
r p.ade mark
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT


Missing- Friends.
WALKER, daughter late
George Roscholler and beneficiary
under his Will, apply HERRING, Solicitor,
Maryborough, Victoria.
XAMES BOURKE, who was last heard of
** about fourteen years ago at Sydney, a
son of John Bourke, formerly of Launceston,
and also the wife and issue, if any, of the
said James Bourke are hereby requested to
forthwith communicate with the undersigned,
when they will hear of something to their
advantage. If the said James Bourke should
be dead any person other than his own
family giving to the undersigned such infor-
mation as will enable him to obtain a Cer-
tificate of Death or burial of the said James
Bourke will receive a reward.
- ' (Signed) S. S. GOOD,
Secretary.
Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees Association Limited.
Business Announcements.
the
Ha
'Ncubat
BROODY HENS for 10/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg incubator
will hatch every fertile egg, simple
to use, cannot get out of order. Now
is the time to make money by hatch-
ing chicks with the “HATCHO.”
Price, 10/6 complete, carriage paid.
Pgg-testers, 1/- each. Agents wanted.
R. Caston & Co., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
[every man his own tinker]
THE COMPLETE SOLDERING OUTFIT
dg
Only
<3/6
Everything you need to mend or make tin, copper, brass,
zinc and other metal articles: Soldering iron, heating
i stove, solder, scraper, spirits, resin. salammoniac and
16-page ILLUSTRATED BOOK OF INSTRUCTIONS, packed in
a box. With this complete outfit anyone who never
soldered before can do good work. Think of the kettles,
pots, pans and billies that are thrown out because of a
small hole that could be repaired in a few moments with
this outfit. It makes you independent to be able to mend
the breakages that so often happen in the most careful
families. It saves time, trouble and money and it is a most
interesting and valuable accomplishment. The price is only
3/6; we pay carriage to any address. The cost may!
be saved by the first mend. The practical knowledge
imparted by tbe book is worth many times the price of the
outfit. Obtainable only from
The Union Manufacturing Co.
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
D I Ji C H & C A It BOLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Heati Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE
Amusement*.
Harry lUckarda Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOLI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
TWICE DAILY: 2.30 AND 8.
A BRILLIANT ALL STAR VAUDEVILLE CO.
MARY ELIZABETH. TERRY & LAMBERT, DUN
CAN & GODFREY, CYRIL McKAY & CO., WAR-
WICK'S BURLESQUERS, GENERAL PISANO.
"I" IVOI.I THEATRE, JIELItOURNE.
TWICE DAILY: 2.30 AND 8.
STAFFORD & STONE, CROUCH & WELCH, ELLA
CASPERS, WALTER WEEMS, EDWARD MARSHALL,
ANNTE KENT, MYSTO, HECTOR GOLDSPINK, etc.
*J* IVO E I THEATRE, BRI S B A Nl.
A COMPLETE VAUDEVILLE CO.
BRISBANE TIVOLI,
The Palatial New Double Theatre erected by
HUGH D. McINTOSH,
MAY BE BOOKED NOW FOR CERTAIN PERIODS.
MANY CHOICE DATES AVAILABLE
for both
THE TIVOLI ROOF GARDEN,
Capacity 1100
(The only Roof Garden Theatre in Australia),
and
THE TIVOLI THEATRE.
The most up-to-date theatre in Australasia, every
modern convenience, suitable for biggest productions.
Located in Alfred Street, right in the heart of the
city is recognised as the most easily accessible in
Brisbane. Capacity 1600.
Full particulars on application.
Manager, Harrv Rickards Tivoli Theatres, Ltd
Tivoli Theatre, Sydney.
H
"" MAJESTY'S. SYDNE
Direction .T. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Y.
THE NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
In
HIGH JTNKS.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
Q It 1T E lUON THE A TEE, SYDNEY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd., Present
Their Specially Organised Company of Prominent
Artists in
POTASH and PERLM UTTER
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
PAL A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Matin6es WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30,
J. & N. TAIT present
THE ROYAL STROLLERS.
(By arrangement with Austral Gardens—Mr.
J. Waller.)
THE BRIGHTEST SHOW IN SYDNEY.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Reserved 4/-.
__ Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven't seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
TH E A T K E IiOV A L, .MELBOURNE
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present MURIEL STARR
and a Brilliant Company in
UNDE it COYER.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery. 2/-. Plan at Allan’s,
U ER AIA.I IOTV'.s THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
■ * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 18.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the ROYAL COMIC
OPERA CO. in
IIA MIE BOS KIT 13.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-,
P BINCENT'S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Proprietors: GEORGE MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW LTD. present the Play of Deep
Human Interest,
MARY LATIMER, NUN.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
** Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 18.
Reappearance of the Ever Popular BERT BAILEY
CO. in
WHAT HAPPENED TO MARY.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU* TIIEATR E. M E I. B O I* U N E.
FULLF.R-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
Mr. BEN J. FULLER
presents the
Pantomime Co., from the Princess’s, in
BABES IN THE WOOD.
Prices: 2/6, 2/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
J_|OYT’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS. '
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, .
Trouble in the Amen Corner:—
Anglicans in N.S.W. have just been baulked of the
heresy hunt they had been anxiously waiting for.
A. E. Frost, whose dusty corner of the vineyard is
at Broken Hill, arrived there from Fiji two years
ago, and filled his church and kept it full. Some
of the older members of the flock, however, reported
to Bishop Anderson that Frost had been caught by
the snares of the Scarlet Woman. Frost is one of
the school of Anglican clergy, more numerous in
England than in Australia, who are so “high” that
ecclesiastical slang nicknames them “spikes”; and
his uncompromising announcement of “High Mass”
and “devotions to our Lady,” to say nothing of his
candles and chasubles, set his co-religionists of the
Orange hue wagging their heads in horror even as
far away as Sydney. Dr. Anderson, though unwilling
o interfere, at last consented to let his diocesan
court inquire into the “legality” of Frost’s teaching;
but just as the preliminaries of what seemed likely
to be a very pretty scrap had been arranged the
shepherd disappointed the flock by throwing in his
towel. He will take on a sin-shifting job under
another bishop more in agreement with his views,
since what is sternly forbidden in one Anglican dio-
cese may be warmly approved in the next.
The steel used in the manufacture of
rilies at Lithgow has hitherto been im-
ported, the particular metal required being
one of the things that somebody said could
not be made in Australia. But the Hoskins
works were given a show the other day, and
submitted material out of which 50 rifle
barrels were made. The proof test was
entirely successful, and the foreman of the
barrel department declared the barrels to
be some of the best he had ever drilled. The
war is giving Australia quite a lot of les-
sons. In fact the nation has now nearly
mastered the alphabet.
“Fitzwilliam’s” tales of Justice Simpson :
There was one time that the judicial robes were
missing at a N.S.W. circuit town. The Judge fumed
for a while, but presently sent a courteous message
to the Crown Prosecutor, requesting the loan of his,
it being manifestly impossible for a Judge to anpjar
in court in mufti. The court opened with the
Judge properly arrayed, but when the Crown Prose-
cutor got on his hind legs, “I cannot hear you, Mr.
Crown Prosecutor,’ said the Judge. The Prosecutor
said it was no doubt the local courthouse, and tried
again. I cannot hear you, sir. Ido not complain
of the quality or timbre of your voice, but I cannot
and will not hear counsel if improperly clothed. There
is a certain etiquette,” etc. Another time I heard an
advocate get gyp for appearing before him in light
grey tweeds—on the morning of a race-da}', too.
One of “Simmy’s” fads was an objection to see the
Bar table littered with bags or hats. I remember
seeing a very junior barrister incautiously place his
bag of books on the table in front of him. The
Judge frowned, and a senior at the table whispered:
“The old [parliamentary substantive] wants you to
take your bag off the table.” “Quite right, Mr.
Jones,” said the Judge, “I like to see senior coun-
sel instructing their juniors in matters of etiquette.”
“Simmy” was a standing joke at the Bar—when
some other chap was up. When your own case was
on, it w'as not so funny. Taking him all round he
wag a fair lawyer and a bad Judge. Lawyers will
remember case after case in whioh he deliberately
laid down his own law, not from ignorance, nor as a
grreat Judge may, to interpret and perhaps amplify
the statute law, but, as it would seem, out of sheer
cussedness. The High Court came as a useful check
on him, and put a stopper on one or two of his
cherished practices. One favorite trick was to take
a hand in the examination of a female petitioner,
preferably when the ground alleged was desertion.
With silky and sympathetic voice he would draw
from her long tales of her husband’s brutality. And'
in the end he would ask, “And I suppose that no
persuasion would induce you to take him back now,
even if he offered to come?” “Certainly not, your
Honor.” Then “Simmy,” with shocked utterance,
would dismiss the petition. “How can this petitioner
say that her husband has against her will left her
deserted ? She has said in open court that she is
glad to be rid of him, and would not take him back
if he offered.”
Another great gag was to deliver a long judgment,
manifestly in favor of one party, until you thought it
was all over bar shouting. I remember on one occa-
sion, before he had finished speaking, endorsing my
papers “Decree nisi granted.” And “Simmy’s” last
sentence was “And I dismiss the petition ’*-
Lately dead in the Cold Country, after 51
aggressive years on earth, George S. Munro,
a Maorilander whom Seddon dropped into a
comfortable chair in the Industries and Com-
merce Department, and later appointed to
be manager of the big International Exhibi-
tion at Christchurch. When Munro fell into
this last job he blossomed into the most re-
splendent being on earth, and managed things
with a club and a contemptuous “Haw !” lie
also committed the serious indiscretion of
truthfully remarking that everyone in the'
community was “out for loot.” The Minis-
try managed to keep the lid on the seething
pot until the Exhibition closed. Then it
blew off with a loud report, a Commission
of inquiry was appointed, and Munro fled,
with all his portmanteaux, to Liverpool.
There he got profitably entangled with the
frozen-meat business, and amassed more re-
splendent clothes. Two daughters have
twinkled as musical-comedy stars in London.
Claude who died last week,
aged 67, served Great Britain in many out-
landish and hair-trigger places. As a soldier
he fought in Egypt and the Soudan, and as
a diplomat he signed and sealed at Cairo,
Zanzibar, the Niger and the Gold Coast,
among other ragtime outposts. He was lat-
terly Ambassador to China and Japan. Mac-
Donald’s chief claim to historical mention
dates back to 1896 when the “foreign devils”
in Pekin were besieged by Chinese fanatics.
All the European legations put themselves
under MacDonald’s leadership and he pulled
safely through the trouble after an anxious
time. When things simmered down he
crossed over to Japan, and then the Angl’o-
Jap Treaty was consummated.
Few Australians had such a world-wide
reputation as Charles Moss, who for 30
years ran the Seamen’s Institute at Sydney,
a place designed to save over-sea sailormen
fromlbe too ardent temptations of shore-
leave. Moss’s work was confined to mer-
chant seamen, and it was wholly successful.
It isn’t easy to be a wowser in the blue-
ribbon sense and still be popular, yet Moss
was both. His methods were so happy and
so widely appreciated that news of his dentil
p?ill be heard with regret in all the ports of
IfreWorld,
Dr. Peter Lalor, of Ararat (Vic.), grand-
son of old Peter of Eureka, is off to
continue the argument begun in Gallipoli by
brother Joe, and carried on until a Turkish
bullet dropped him. Dr. Peter hopes to
resume the discussion just before his thirti-
eth birthday.
At latest advices Tasmania had only seven
permanent boarders to offer N. S. Wales at
£1 a week; but it is understood that if
Holman can make a reduction in the rate
several more, would be offering. The seven
are a reliable little lot, anyhow. Five are
muiderers (of whom one, John Livingstone,
carries two death sentences) and a sixth is
a gentleman of color from Boston, USA
who got 10 years for shooting with intent
to murder. The seventh did something sud-
den in the manslaughter line. The more
active and desperate of them have lately
been on a chain, to keep them from getting
out of the ricketty old Hobart Gaol. Not
long ago a wife-murderer with the unlikely
name of Darling and one or two others made
a break through the gaol superintendent’s
house and got to the front door. Some
thoughtless beggar had locked it, and before
they could find the key they were nabbed.
Major Edmund Drake-Brockman, a
YVestralian convalescent now on the way
to England from Malta, took a hand in the
first Gallipoli landing at Gaba Tepe, and
was among the shrapnel for 11 weeks before
being wounded. The pioneer Drake-Brock-
men, landed in Westralia, hyphen and all,
' lc tofia took office as Queen, and in
that State the double-barrelled name is now
legion. The _ wounded major, whose mili-
taiy career includes a term as exchange-
officer in India, is a mere youth of 31 He
brother-in-law of Winthrop Hackett,
obtbe V est Australian, and his father is
Yvestralias Acting-Surveyor-General. Two
brothers are at the Front—Geoffry of the
distinguished 10th YV.A. Light Horse, and
Karl, of the Fusiliers.
“8.J.” : Australian artists must crowd the
nring-line. I rom Victoria alone we have
sent W. R. Coleman, D. Barser, F. Noonan,
Jimmy McDonald, P. Corson, George Col-
vtHe, Monty Montgomery. Hector Paterson,
1. R. Crozier, Cyril White, Jack Sommers,
Charley Wheeler, Ralph Waugh. Wallace
Anderson, Eric Robbins (all members of the
Yictonan Artists’ Society), Gibbons F C
Collis, George Benson, Vernon Lorimer and
Blamire loung, the last of whom enlisted in
England and is now a sergeant. Tom
Roberts, Streeton, Fullwood and Coates
joined the Army Medical Corps in the Cold
Country, and Jessie Traill is with the Red
Cross.
“Green Tape’’ looks round for help:—
Nothing definite is yet known regarding the in-
tentions of the N. S. Wales Government in the
matter of increasing the hours of toil of public ser-
vants ; but something will have to be done soon.
That is gradually admitted by all hands except those
who have enlisted, and they’re too busy to worry
about it. As is natural, the best men have gone—
mostly men on the young side. Consequently older
men have to discharge junior duties, and lots of
seniors find themselves compelled to brush up their
knowledge of their tasks of long ago. As a cure
for the congestion that is becoming noticeable, the
lengthening of the working hours is an obvious remedy.
Cynical members of the service, smarting under in-
justice and side-tracking, propose as another reform
that the staff of the Public Service Board office,
who have nothing to do now that increments, regrad-
ing, appeals, etc., are all dead, should vacate their
well-paid sinecures and be distributed and asked to
do a bit for a change.
Herr Dernburg, sometime German Colo-
nial Minister, has been explaining things
to America. “Germany,” he says, “has few
friends among neutrals, because they do not
understand her soul”; wherefore Germans
“must introduce German achievements with
greater _ discretion.” However great the
“discretion” with which they were intro-
duced, such master-strokes as the destruc-
tion of the Lusitania and the massacre of
Louvain would, it is to be feared, fail to
awaken that adoration of the German soul
upon which, in Dernburg’s view, depends
the world’s salvation. Even the steel-shod,
fire-fanged frightfulness which is Germany’s
true policy is, in its honesty, preferable to
this new hypocrisy.
Colonel Repington, the Times man, has
sounded the alarm for a common-sense attack
on Asquith. Talking last week of the
muddled policy of the War Office, he said:
“A strong Prime Minister would have in-
sisted that the views of the General Staff
should be laid before the Cabinet in the event
of any fresh decision.” Nothing has been
clearer for the past six months than
Asquith’s incapacity to insist upon any-
thing. His policy is to wait for other people
to insist, and then give way reluctantly. He
sighed over the reconstruction of his party
Ministry; he was sorry to have to consent to
the taking of a National Service Census,
from which Ireland is exempt; and he will
i weep when, at last, lie has to admit that
| conscription can no longer be avoided.
1 Everything comes to a Prime Minister who
didn’t insist upon having it.
One of the Kaiser’s illusions before the
war was that Canada would shortly be in-
corporated with “the great American
nation.” He was ignoring the French ele-
ment in Canadian politics, and he never
dreamed of how little the great American
nation was going to appear. Also, when he
planned the rebellion in S’Africa, shallow
William forgot that the main body of their
“Dutch” compatriots would be looking to
Britain to save Holland from German aggres-
sion. When you take its keen sense for
treachery from the German political mind
there’s very little left.
Governor Strickland (N.S.W.) sees it this
way:—
People should buy Australian goods not because
they want trade protection or for mere money-
making, but because of self-preservation.
But Australia does want trade protection and
wants it badly, and money-making is the
whole purpose of national industry, and
vital to a country half-smothered by debt.
It is no use talking about self-preservation
to an opium fiend while keeping him well
supplied with dope, nor any good using loftv
phrases to people who have pawned their
bools and sor.l the proceeds to Chicago for
a phonograph.
About 15 years back a dapper young '
Englishman named It. C. Simpson arrived at
Sydney University to give a hand in the
Science School. In the Cold Country he
was in the militia, and, finding he had time
to spare, he founded among the Sydney
undergrads a volunteer corps known as the
University Scouts. Despite ridicule from
some and opposition from others, Simpson,
who expected that the great war would come
in this generation, stuck to his guns, and
infected a few kindred spirits with his en-
thusiasm. -The Scouts progressed and
became a valuable asset, as the Dardanelles
can testify. When Simpson left the ’Varsity
the military chiefs kept their eye on him,
with the result that he is now a lieut.-colonel
with a high command at Liverpool.
Last year, in spite of the instructions
of the Victorian Parliament, John Weary’s
department, a comparatively small pur-
chaser, bought no less than £10,500 worth
of imported goods, and ignored superior
Australian articles, cricket-bats and axe-
handles among them. The cricket-bats,
which were bought for the inmates of men-
tal hospitals, might well have been made
by prisoners in the gaols; it would have
saved the country some pounds and given
useful and improving work for the
non-paying guestg. And there could have
been no outcry about prison labor competing
with local free labor, because the latter
didn’t gef the work as it was. It went to
the usual foreigner.
Listen to the Sydney Telegraph’s plea
for mercy for the merciless: —
Legislation to deal with the evil of the alleged
“child slavery” in the dairying districts will have to
proceed with wariness since the State is on very deli-
cate ground when jt proposes to intervene between
parent and child.
But why should the State permit a greedy
clod to turn his own progeny into dull
drudges when it wouldn’t think of permitting
him to do harm to other children? There is
no excuse, earthly or heavenly, for the Law
to proceed like a shrinking old maid in this
matter. Slavery has been abolished; an'd
even parentage doesn’t give any ownership
over either body or soul.
After all. “the spirit of adventure which
has made the race” is something more than
a Jingo platitude. In witness whereof the
Crown officers in Fiji have been resigning so
frequently in order to go to the Front that
the Secretary of State has found it necessary
to call halt. “It is not for the individual
officer to say in what capacity he can best
serve,’ he wrote. In case this hint didn’t
suffice, the Secretary remarked that any
officer who resigned without permission would
be marked “absent without leave,” and the
Government would have no more use for
him, as either civilian or soldier. So Percy
Macredtape must hang on to his pen in Fiji
while all the time the spirit is moving him
to manipulate a battle-axe.


TO FALL OUT
Head Mass of Irritation. Kept Awake
at Night. Cuticura Soap and
Ointment Healed.
Box 4 G. P. 0., Brisbane, Queensland.—
“About two years ago I began to get an
awful pain and itchy feeling in my head and
my hair began to fall out. My head be-
came one mass of irritation and I was kept
awake at night with the terrible pain. I
had that many sleepless nights that I was
just on the eve of a breakdown when the
wonderful Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment came to the rescue. I was fright-
ened to comb or brush my hair it was falling
out that fast.
“I decided to give Cuticura a trial and
wrote for Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
After a week’s treatment I was cured. lam
proud of my hair it is that soft and glossy.”
(Signed) Mrs. M. Kelly, May 1, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
BIG GAME
m
mm
• 280 Calibre
High Velocity • -
hd
sometimes turns!
Big game sometimes turns,
and then life hangson the speed,
the accuracy, the power of one’s
rifle. THE ROSS .280
RIFRE does not fail.
Five aimed shots have
been fired from it in
2 2-5 seconds and the
.280 Ross sporting cart-
ridge with copper tube
expanding bullet
(patented) delivers a
smashing blow which
fells the largest game.
Not only for the sake
of bringing home the
game you go after, but
just a little for your
own sake take a Ross
.280 with you on your
next trip.
Ross Rifles
Full illustrated catalogue on request.
Ross Rifle Co.,Quebec, Canada.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
? “I simply can’t account for this
trouble with my teeth —and I’ve
'been so particular to keep them
immaculately clean always.” This
is the complaint of thousands.
It’s just this way, Madam.
You’ve spent your time watching
the highwaymen robbers of tooth-
health—-Decay Germs —and for-
got all about their sly, insidious
accomplice, ‘‘Acid Mouth.” Acids
are constantly forming in the
mouth. They are constantly
“working.” But they work
“incognito.”
And here lies the danger.
These mouth-acids, unmolested,
unsuspected, gradually dissolve,
and break down the enamel. The
tooth then becomes easy prey to
decay germs.
Look out for “acid mouth,”
that filcher and falcon of healthy
tooth life. Pebeco Tooth Paste
users have a good chance to keep
their teeth for life.
Send 3d. Stamps for sample
tube and interesting test of Acid
Mouth.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
PEBECO is Made in Australia by
C. ARNOLD,
6 O'Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [6
gh
“ARAB1S” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
Australian Mutual Provident Society,
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
aiul C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Hills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. |W~AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OP INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dikkctoks —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. Janies Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. B. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. fi. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
A LITTLE money spent on
Berger’s Paints is one of the
soundest investments you can make.
It not only improves the appearance
of your property, but lengthens its
life by preventing decay. Get
colour folders from the Berger Agent
and ask your painter to use Berger s
Paints and Varnishes.
“ B-P ” Berger’s Paint
pared) for painting buildings inside
I and outside is guaranteed to work
easier, cover more surface, look
better and wear longer than any
other paint made. Colour folder of
52 standard shades free on request.
Ber
Paints
6r Varnishes
Get Colour Folders and Particulars,
together with name of local
Agent, from Head Office:
16 & 18 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Ask to = day
for your
, colour folder.
i
WEAR WELL EVERYWHERE |
UNDER THE SUN. I
Lewis Berger & Sons
(Australia), Ltd.,
16 & 18 Young Street, SYDNEY
Makers of Paints. Colours and
Varnishes at
HOMERTON. LONDON,ENG.
Since 1760. .
The World Moves—We Must Move with it
Every subject on which you should be informed is constantly changing—
information which is out of date is worse than none at all. The infor-
mation you generally want is a subject of current issue—a live topic of
to-day. The only Encyclopaedia that SOLVES THIS PROBLEM is
*N1
E^IFSO'NVS
1 Perpetual Loose-Leaf
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
Bureau for Special Informatics
i. ‘ "
' L
Ml
xjs;
i\v;
mm
mmm
Keg. U.S. Pat. Office.
That little Bar and Nut has Solved the Problem.
Bound in 12 Handsome Volumes*
The Problem Solved
In 1907 Thomas Nelson & Sons —
established fox* over a hundred
years in Edinburgh, Scotland —
perfected and patented a Loose-
Leaf Binder, a volume so practic-
able that by simply turning a nut
the pag'es are loosened, when the
old, obsolete pages can be easily
removed and the new pages substi-
tuted. The publishers issue to
subscribers, twice a year, not less
than 250 revised pages each —in
March and in October —thereby
making Nelson’s Encyclopaedia
always new and abreast of the
times.
Nelson’s maintains. Permanent Editorial staffs in
New York, Edinburgh and Montreal. The Edi-
tor-in-Chief is John IE Finley, Pli.D., LE.D.,
President of the College of the City of New
York; the Canadian Editor is William Peterson,
LL.D., C.M.G., Principal of McGill University,
Montreal, Canada; and the European Editor is
George Sandeman, M.A., Edinburgh, Scotland.
NELSON’S RESEARCH BUREAU for Scientific
and Special Information is the only institution
of its kind, and is maintained at the expense of
Thomas Nelson & Sons for the special service of
the subscribers to Nelson’s Perpetual Loose-Leaf
Encyclopaedia. It guarantees to furnish all the
information that is available in the civilised
world.
ANSWERS EVERY QUESTION AND IS PERPETUALLY NEW.
NELSON’S DOWN TO MARCH, 1015.
Nelson’s contains the latest word on:—Food Adulteration; The Great War in Europe,
down to March 5; Revised Articles on Naval Guns and Land Guns; Cruisers; Armor
Elates; Earthquakes, including the great Earthquake in Italy, 1915; Chemistry;
Serum Therapy and Vaccine Therapy; New Twilight Sleep Treatment; Gems and
Artificial Gems; Pneumatic Appliances; Panama, Pacific and California Expo- .
sitions; and numerous subjects not to be found in any other reference work.
THE AUTHORITY WITH AUTHORITIES.
Nelson’s Perpetual Loose-Leaf Encyclopaedia and Research Bureau for Special Informa-
tion is an authority in all parts of the civilised world. It is used by the King of
England, President of the United States, Emperor of China, Mikado of Japan,
Viceroy of India, Premier of Canada, Chief Departments of the United States
Government, Universities, Colleges, Libraries, Schools and Educational Insti-
tutions everywhere. FREE BOOKLET..
We have prepared an illustrated booklet, fully explaining this great
publication, and containing sample pages. This will be sent post free
to all enquirers using the coupon. Full infonnati on is given regarding
The Free Research Bureau, which entitles subscr ibers to obtain free
speoialistie information on any subject they desi re. Particulars are
also given of our Standard System, whereby this great Encyclopedia
will be delivered free for a first payment of 20s., the balance being /
paid by a few monthly payments. LOOK IT UP IN NELSON’S. /
Agents— The Standard Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 19 Hunter
Street, Sydney; & Franklin Street,Adelaide
Please send ms
portfolio contain-
ing- sample pages
and full information
of NELSON’S PER-
PETUAL LOOSE-LEAF
. ENCYCLOPAEDIA AND
RESEARCH BUREAU FOR
SPECIAL INFORMATION,
'his incurs no obligation on
my part.
Name
Bulletin, 1G95.
Address
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“De Yid”: It came to an Adelaide den-
tist the other day:—
Dear Sir, —I am sorry that my teeth have been
so long overdue, especially as I am so satisfied with
them and they make my mouth look lovely now.
However, my husband has been sick ever since I
got them, and I have another baby and a lot of
expenses; poor man, he is very bad. However, I
hope to be able to pay you soon now, as the doctor
says there is absolutely no hope for my husband,
and he is well insured, when I will be able to settle
all my accounts, 1 hope. Thanking you for your
patience, and being sorry to have to keep you wait-
ing so long.—Yours faithfully, .
* * * *
“W.C.M.” : Comparatively few varieties of
eucalyptus produce oil, and you can pick
them out by the fish-bone leaf-veining. Hold
the leaf up to the light, and the oil globules
may be easily seen. There are two kinds of
peppermint gum, narrow and broad leaf, and
the narrow leaf is the heavy producer. The
essence of the oil, eucalvptol, is very strong,
so much so that the medicinal eucalyptus con-
tains only about i p'er cent, of it. The leaves
6ven after they have been boiled are strongly
medicinal. I remember two cases of old
chaps, crippled, and almost paralysed with
rheumatism, being made hale within a fort-
night by daily steam baths in the distilling
tanks. After the leaves were boiled and the
covers taken off the tanks, the cripples were
lifted in and left in the steam for about half
an hour. A curious by-product is a black,
treacly substance which hardens like asphalt,
and is as tough as reinforced concrete.
Don’t know if it would be of any use. It
wouldn’t be in Australia, anyway. Germany
would probably use it for an explosive or a
food. But, then, Germany’s a foreign
country, and what’s the good of foreign coun-
tries if they can’t make things that we can
import?
* * * »
“G.J.11.”: “Poon Boon” (B. 26/S/T5)
expresses a desire to hurl a stone at me for
my remarks concerning the Piangil railway,
etc., but only succeeds in floating some gas
my way. I made no comparisons between
the achievements of Labor and Liberal Gov-
ernments in providing border-trading facili-
ties. The fact that McGowen did more in
this direction than Bent or Watt is no sort
of excuse for Holman, who has done nothing.
I’ve been too long in the Labor ranks to
want to judge a Labor Government by what
Liberals have done or failed to do. The
standard a IjLabor Ministry is expected to
live up to is that set by the party’,s plat-
form ; and if “Poon Boon” really believes
that Holman and co. have lived up to that,
he ought to see a doctor. The fact remains
that the Tooleybuc bridge, which would
bring the N.S.W. farmers within a couple
of miles of the Piangil railway, hasn’t been
built, nor does there seem any likelihood of
its being built, and if, as “Poon Boon”
asserts, it is absurd to say the building
of it would divert trade from Sydney, then
Holman is robbed even of that vestige of an
excuse for his neglect.
* * * *
“De Yid”: Among the reforms urgently
wanted in the Australian mercantile marine
is the provision of baths on the coastal cargo
boats. Some of the colliers which run out
froxii N. S. Wales to Fremantle haven’t even a
bath for the skipner and mates. Of course
the fo’c’s’le crowd don’t matter; they never
do. Still at the end of a trip like that in
the summer I’ll bet the whole blessed crew
would give something handsome to get away
from themselves.
From an old hand in the trade: —
The Victorian irrigation cocky is a paragon of
honesty when it conies to baling up lucerne. Buy
(say) a Rochester bale and you get what you pay
for. Buy the N.S.W. stuff and the chances are you
get anything from a load of battens to a coil of
wire. Yankee stuff is worse. ■ The battens on the
bales which went into the droughty parts of Vic.
not long ago made the local hayseeds wonder who was
building a new house.
* * * *
“Moana”: The insane idea of the local
inhabitant that nothing any good can
be made in Maoriland got another
rude bump the other day. For years
the Andersons, who run a big engin-
eering works and foundry at Christ-
church (M.L.), have been turning out a
2J-h.p. oil engine for use by dairy farmers
and the man on the soil generally. It was
ahead of anything imported, the price was
right, and it well deserved support, but it
was badly handicapped because it hadn’t been
dragged from a distance. About a year ago
the makers sent one of their engines to the
Panama Exposition, and now the glad news
comes through that against the whole world,
and a lot of twang, the little contraption
bagged the gold medal.
THE PLAINT OF THE INCURABLE LAMB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Instead of being feared and respected by his
employer, as other workers are, the clerk is looked
down upon by almost every employer of clerks in
Sydney.— Anguished, clerk at a mass meeting oj the
craf t.
I am the meek and tidy lamb
About whom no wolf cares a damn :
Though if we once could get together,
We'd make the wolf go L-for-leather.
I voice my fury with faint “Ba-as,”
Like harmless, distant motor-cars ;
But in this breast, as white as Zion,
I long to roar like any lion.
I am a scufflcr on the earth,
And bosses look on me with mirth.
(They would not be so self-reliant
If I could stride, a full-grown giant!)
Each girl who flicks a ledger’s leaves
A shroud about my future weaves ;
Their cheap, efficient service dreading,
I curse each to a quiet wedding.
The sweating wolf for far Guam
. Would start if he knew how the lamb
Was bursting with suppressed emotion;
But of that rage he has no notion.
Alas, poor lamb ! to, all endeared !
He’s not respected—no, nor feared 1
The tyrant wolf, all teeth and hair—•
I’m not sure that he knows what’s there.
But if the lamb could raise one yell,
The wolf might yawn: “What! Aren’t you well?”
N.S.W.
CASHBOX.


The BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
mm
/1 s
B32—REMINGTON HAMMERLESS REPEAT-
. ING RIFLE, Model 12, 22-calibre, solid
f’S ejecto1 '- straight grip. 24in. round barrel, handles 15
• . J ong or 11 lo “S rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open
fiont sights ; weight 4Mb. Delivered, 52/6.
THE MAXIM SILENCER, for attaching to rifles. Improves
your marksmanship. Ensures noiseless shooting. The
marvel of the shooting world.
Silencer for 22-cal. rifles £l/5/.
Silencer for all other calibre rifles £2/2/6
Postage on one Silencer—N.S.W., 9d. ; Inter-State, 1/2.
Wedging or screwing Silencer on 22-cal. barrel. . 7/6 extra
Screwing Silencer on all other barrels 12/6 extra
EaU
IJIM.GNS Iff
We Repair
AH Kinds
of GUNS
and
RIFLES.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
aii Sporting Goods
Post Free Anywhere.
MAYMARKET
•SYDNEY-
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KINO STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
dg
hd
gh
849-
■MAUSER CARBINE AND PISTOL COMBINED; 10 shot,
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards. '
Delivered £6/10/-
dgh
819-
-“THE SAVAGE” REPEATING
HAMMERLESS RIFLE, 1914
MODEL, 22-cal. rim fire, 24in.
octagon barrel, slide action, dis-
mountable, pistol grip, handles short, long or long rifle
cartridges; magazine holds 20 short, 17 long or 15 long rifle
•ihm!t C -«rn length over all 40in., taken apart 271 m.; weight,
about o4lb. Delivered...... £3/8/-
dhgdgh
B29— REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. 6 Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel,
weight 3Jib 17/6
B3o—With ladder rear sights2l/-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.
2/8 Inter-State.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE, British made. Sample Box of 5—2/6 (post free). I
eKafrvH
B2 —STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
22-cal. R.F., round barrel. 20in. chambered for long
rifle cai’tridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut
stock, open front and rear sights, weight 41b„ 19/6
Postage—N.S.W. 1/9 ; Inter-State 3/2.
Information for the Housewife.
fl ADK’C CAST-IRON
VLAftlt 0 SAUCEPANS,
BOILERS, KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as the lightest Enamelled Ware, and will last
a lifetime instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust. Handles that will not slip in the hand.
Please note the
Hygienic Shape
and the Patent,
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
dghd
SECTION,
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S HOLLOW-WARE IS THE BEST
Australasian Agent: .A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne
SCHUTE, BELL, &. Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Carry an ONOTO with you
To the business man, the student, the soldier or
sailor, the wife at home, no better advice can be
given than “carry an ONOTO with you.”
The ONOTO is the British-made Fountain Pen that fills itself in a flash
from any ink supply—cannot leak—and cleans itself in filling. The ink
flow can be regulated to suit your style of writing. It never scratches,
never splutters, and—may we repeat it?—never leaks.
gh
PEN
SELF
FILLING
SAFETY
FOUNTAIN
Price 12/* and upwards
from all stationers, jewel-
lers, and stores, .
Booklet about it free from Thos. De
La Rue dr'Co., Ltd , 259 Bunhill Row, -
London, E.C., or the Australasian Managing Agents, Norman Baker & J Longhurst,
50 York Street, Sydney.
d
.“AustreJiaai Made
ghd
Combs,
2/= each.
Cutters,
6d.each.
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, Sydney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARING CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
T2S
ft
m
sii
wm
iVi -nbi-te
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUST RATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the-
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is fid. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illns., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s fid. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, fid. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is fid. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
ford), fid. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and is fid.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
ini) Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/8.
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s fid. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is fid
K
m\
mm
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ir-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, <scc., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working fop. Ama-
TKURS, SOI.DKRING, BRAZING, GAS-FITTING, etC., IS 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustavk Is ; post Is 3d. Camillk, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Rkpairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Gamks (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy Rivkp., 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datk, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations'and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schooi.ma.stkr,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
ns 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gat
Life in M elbourne, Is posted. The W aybacks, Is 2d.
AH these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. IMF-Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere tor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, geimine,
Is. Odd Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hit. Midford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotdk, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
Ring, Is 2d. Guide, to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s «d post.
Ingbrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse's Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bbnnarr MAcfaddf.n’s Works, all at os posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife's Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyani e
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music coni!
pie'te), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, dv Paine
posted, 3d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY’.


If,'(I'll
VJ'
X
BnW
vn.’sl
■MGCJP^
8
a
<XD
o
J
iiiimmii
I lit.. I. Hi hi HlUlllli*
rC
t
r*s
I'lllP*.
I I'M.
««««*»
asssss -
ill
7R
zssREEt
wl>!!!
ill**"
/
f
‘V-imw.
■■vi
""mm*,
Tram Guards*Drivers
ALL USE REXONA.
Round the Train Sheds, the Work Shops, on the Wharves and at the
Factories you will hear all the boys say: “Rexona is the best Remedy
in the whole country; we all use it.’’
All these healthy lads know what they are talking about. They
live a strenuous life, and always wish to be in fit condition, but bruises,
abrasions, cuts and hurts are bound to come their way in the natural
course of events, and it is when these occur that they prove the worth of
Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
REXONA Everyone’s Friend.
There are so many uses for Rexona that everyone is using it now. One
day it may be found useful for the minor hurts which are forever occurring in
everyday life, and another day it will prove invaluable for the more serious
troubles, such as Piles, Eczema, and various forms of Skin Disorders. People
in every class of life use Rexona from the highest to the lowest, and Rexona
brings relief to all, so get a 1/(5 pot of Rexona to-day, and you will soon find it
so useful that it will not be long before you are getting the larger pots, holding
nearly four times the quantity, for 3/-.
THE RAPID HEALER
Decorating,
Remodeling or
Building, be assured of
SANITARY as well
as Beautiful Walls and
Ceilings use
BEAVER
BOARD
You need hygienic wails, not only
in sleeping rooms but in every
room in the house.
Beaver Board takes the place of lath, plaster
and wall paper. Better, stronger and more
sanitary walls and ceilings are quickly and
easily built with Beaver Board.
Beaver Board is made of Pure
'Wood Fibre. It beautifies and
brightens the home. It won’t crack,
and will last a lifetime.
Beaver Board is especially recommended for
residences, offices, schools, shops, hospitals,
and churches. It assures well designed, well
built walls and ceilings that give greater
satisfaction, freedom from cracks and repair
expense, and permanent satisfaction.
MADE IN CANADA
Your architect will tell you all about Beaver
Board. Booklets, designs and free samples
are obtainable from any Beaver Board stockist.
WARNING: All wall hoards are not
Beaver Board. There are imitations. Be
sure to get the genuine with name and
trade mark on hack of every fanel.
& J3b
0
0
Solid Comfort!
No torn or dingy wall paper in
this room. No cracked plaster.
The walls and .ceilings are
made of Beaver Board.
Easily put up at any season
of the year without mess or
bother. Lasts without repairs
as long as the house. Resists
heat, cold and sound.
1 reated on both sides to pre-
vent absorption of moisture,
and to protect against changes
of weather. Is scrupulously
clean and makes any room
more cheerful and inviting.
Make a spare room out of the
attic. Use Beaver Board for
partitions. Use it to brighten up
the living room or dining room.
Supplied ready for nailing to
joists or studding or over old
walls. Panels about A" thick,
36" and 48" wide and in even
foot lengths up to 16 feet.
Tke Beaver Board Companies
Ottawa, Canada
4 Southampton Row, London, W. C. England
REPRESENTATIVES:
0. D. Gordon, G. P. 0. 1893, Sydney R. S. Ward, 40 William Street, Melbourne
STOCKISTS:
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide
Cowell Bros. & Co., Adelaide
Gunnersen, Crockett, Ltd.,
379 Kent St., Sydney
James Hardie & Co., Melbourne
G. Gunnersen & Co., Melbourne
Geo. Wills and Co., Ltd., Perth
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth
Geo. Wills and Co., Ltd., Brisbane
James Canipbell & Sons,Ltd,, Brisbane
BEAVER
BOARD
0
IPURL WOOD FIBRII
Recaptured Trenches.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ TIZE recaptured a trench to-day."
"r Columbus led to the onset,
lie knew that the world was round
As surely as Ptolemy knew it a dozen cen-
turies earlier.
Behind him a ragged handful followed his
cry to battle.
To the clash of warring thought.
Scholar and schoolman and pale ascetic
divine,
Soldier and prince and seaman fought him
With mockery;
And the great sea fought him with waves ;
And the devil fought him with poverty.
Yet at his thoughts’ keen point he forced
the gateway of truth.
Wc; recaptured a trench to-day.
We recaptured a trench to-day.
James Watt, watching the kettle or other
utensil
Rattle its lid with the lift of expanding
steam,
Saw where the vantage ground of mechan-
ical force lay unguarded.
Yet when he reached the trench to tear it
from nature’s holding
Some had been there before him in time-
hidden ages—-
Ancient Egyptian priests whirling vain
wheels in tlieir mysteries ;
And, maybe, an engineer king in Atlantis
Grinding out wonders or drawing the trade
of Hy-Brasil
Over railways sea-drowned ere an Aryan
voice was in Europe.
But the beam-engine heaved with its burden
at Watt’s commanding,
And mechanical power was its song.
We recaptured a trench to-day.
We recaptured a. trench to-day.
Long wings gliding on wind, and the swift
Gnome engine
Cleaving the clouds with a purring cat-song
through sleek, warm air.
The ground thing has vanquished the bird
and man is the master
Of ways forgotten since Crete and her
myths were young.
But the wings of man had dipped before to
the sunset,
And the eyes of man had looked from , the
conquered sky
On a world so strange, so new that we
could not know it.
On a world so familiar-old it were like our
own.
Daedalus up in the fleece of the white cloud
sailing,
Icarus melting the wax of his plumes in the
sun —-
And the tale came down for a slack world’s
empty laughter
Till our canvas wings rose eirclewise over
the trees.
We recaptured a trench to-day.
We recapturea a trench to-day.
A little trench in the front of the battle of
man
That stood for the right of them that are
ruled to rule.
The Greeks had held it a while and lost it.
The Roman republic took it in style and
gallantly held it,
But the fat, large Empire, its slothful
purple dripping with wine and its white
hands heavy with plunder, could not
keep it.
Europe, in darker years, saw it, desired it,
Rushed it from age to age to be beaten
backward,
Till at last in a pause of battle the way lay
open
And the world surged over its dead to the
victory.
We recaptured a trench to-day.
We recaptured a trench to-day.
Something men lost in the mist and glamor
of earth’s far morning—
The truth in the smile and the kindlier hope
that kindled
From heart to heart when the tribal brother-
hood stood
One in its strong-armed purpose beneath the
elm-trees
When a harvest ripened for each in the
fields of all.
Call it a socialist’s dream, or a fool’s Ely-
sium—-
Mirage of the desert where action staggers'
to death —-
Nothing may come of it, none may garner
the promise,
But we who have seen grip hands and the
hope is white.
We recaptured a trench to-day.
We recaptured a trench to-day.
England and France and Russia shoulder
to shoulder
Speaking as one in the voice of ten thousand
cannon
That roar their pain in the name of the
peace-to-be,
England aud France and’ Russia as brothers
in effort,
As brothers in truth, as brothers in hell-
barbed death ;
And over that brotherhood set the great
red seal
Of their mingled blood impressed with the
faith of Europe.
England and France and Russia with their
triple grip on one sword hilt,
And the great world rolling sunward out
of the war smoke
To the peace that it knew when Rome- had
the master voice!
Three score generations of curse and car-
nage and plunder
And the vast red rivers of blood run down
to the seas of peace!
We recaptured a trench to-day!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
The Knife of Jowadilla.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOPHY, the ex-cannibal, thrice married
and thrice divorced from Larry, the
black stockman of Ivundi-Kundi, by
his Grace Archbishop Rossitter —otherwise
Walter Rossitter, general manager of
Kundi-Kundi and part-owner of the cattle
on a thousand plains—homed with the
exactitude of a carrier pigeon to all that
Was left of the tribe in the spinifex and
turpentine scrub hills south of Mount
Remarkable. After that last beating at
the hands of Larry she had abandoned civi-
lisation and all its symbols for ever, arriving
at the miserable village of wurlies quite
naturally, which is to say quite nakedly.
As naturally gravitating to the care of her
mother —a spare old gin whose skin was
crinkled so that she looked like a collapsed
rubber balloon —she enjoyed a surfeit of
roasted gohanna and slept the sleep of the
full under a bark wnrly ; then awakened to
a new day. in a world made new by her
first knowledge of Jowadilla.
Jowadilla was of a branch of Sophy’s
tribe; and the differences of their family
totems made him an eligible parti, lie was
a walk-about blackfellow. Labor was not
for him, nor fixity of tenure. lie roamed
the bush, and looked at the sunlight, and
saw that the moonlight silvered ugliness to
beauty, and that night-shadows are blue-
black and thick as pools in basalt country.
Also, being an artist, he saw devils in the
darkness —devils the other men of the tribe
believed without seeing, held by the super-
stition that makes suburban people trust
the printed word of the most mendacious
newspaper. In the hours of sunlight, not
being busy dreaming in the sun, he made
pictures with chrome-iron and hematite in
the big caves at Gunpowder Greek, drawing
men aud kangaroo, emu and gins, as he saw
them, flat as the elevation of a house.
Sophy, with all a woman’s love for llim-
Who-Shall-Be-Sought-After, courted him as
urgently as if she were Mrs. Leo Hunter
pursuing the latest Count Smorltork. or the
most recent genius of eccentricity and faulty
table manners.
And so one day they went a-birding down
to the rock-pools of Gunpowder Creek, seek-
ing duck, parrot or teal —anything that
might come to the water behind the huge
boulder that was their ambush. But Jowa-
dilla, having speared one duck and one fish,
handed the spears to Sophy and forgot her
in his dreams of all the miracles —air, sky,
sunlight and water —never by this artist to
be accepted as common things, but always
full of wonder, Sophy roused him with a
yell of victory as she speared another fish.
He left her to carry the game and gear, and
went ahead up the creek that was wide
enough to want only continuous water to
make it a noble river. She called to him
again, and he saw that she had captured a
turtle. He looked at the beauty of her then
as she stood upon a rock —-a statue of glis-
tening ebony, and the sight changed the way
of his dreams, so that he even waited for
her to join him. She came to him loaded
with the fishes, and the duck, and the spears,
and yam stick, and grasping in her right
hand the long-drawn-out neck of the pro-
testing turtle. In the afternoon they made
the cave of his pigments of chrome and
hematite; and, while she cooked the food,
Jowadilla drew upon the cave wall the fish,
the duck, the terrapin and the spears; and,
lastly, Sophy standing upon the rock. Sophy
came to look at the picture-gallery, and
exclaimed upon the beauty of her present-
ment ; and they ate the full feed of walk-
about blackfellows, and slept happily upon
the sandy cave-floor.
Two days later, while returning to the
tribe, they saw white men; waited until
these passed westward, and then examined
closely the puzzling work of the strangers—-
white insulators clamped to trees, and a
telegraph wire gleaming in the sunlight.
Jowadilla was at a loss; Sophy’s idea that
the mad white men had made a fence with
a wire too highly strung to stop a bullock
did not explain it to his peace of mind. But
the artificer in him made him believe this
hard and gleaming wire to be better as
spear-heads than ironwood hardened and
pointed with fire; and Jowadilla climbed a
tree, broke an insulator, and between two
stones ground the wire until it snapped.
He ground the broken wire six feet from
its end. and thus had spear-heads to admira-
tion. He waited a day in the place of the
theft, to break off six-inch lengths, and
fasten them to the spear-shafts with blood-
wood gum; and before he finished, an in-
dignant line-repairer, who had tested the
line with a field instrument, gave him a
charge of duck-shot in the buttocks as
Jowadilla fled with Sophy. The duck-shot
was. merely a peppering, and Sophy an
admirable exponent of painful extraction;
but it did not spoil Jowadilla’s admiration
of these appliances of the white man as
weapons for the black ; and the artistry of
Jowadilla began to dream of new armament
•—spear-heads thinner than obsidian, brittle
as dry sticks, sharp as thorns, and which,
being attached to the shaft only by gums,
would penetrate and break off. leaving the
soear-head in the wound. He thought of
this to exhaustion, and then, being a philo-
sopher as well as an artist, gave up think-
ing. and wiped out the memory of telegraph-
wire and spear-heads as a flood tide wipes
out footprints in the sand.
A week later, back in the turpentine
scrub about the conglomerate foot-hills of
Mount Remarkable, he and Sophy hid at
the roaring of a man who rode slowly down
the bridle track from Kundi-Kundi, leading
a pack horse: roaring to himself, as he rode,
the loafer’s song which he never put into
practice.
Fo-or—we are hmiis.
An’ jolly good chums,
An’ live like royal Turks;
An’ if we have luck
We’ll cri o' 1 !’ cf'uck.
An* to Hell with the man who works.
“Giddup. ’orse!”
Bummin’ around the stations,
Cadgin’ our rotten rations,
We are bums.
An’ jolly good chums—
F 01-di-rol —adgie-wo-o.
It was the hut-keeper of the out-station
(Continued on next page.)


Affects the Whole System
No patient can live more than a few hours
when the kidneys cease to act.
For the kidneys are the blood-filters. When
they fail to act the blood is left in a poisoned
state.
The heart, the lungs, the digestive organs,
the brain and the nervous system all have to
depend upon the blood for their nourishment,
and they cannot be nourished by poisoned blood.
That is why kidney trouble is so serious—
the vital organs are always liable to become
involved.
The earlier symptoms of weak kidneys are:
Patient feels very drowsy, heavy and irritable;
the sight is affected, and there may be headache.
Later, the watery swellings of dropsy appear,
there is pain in the loins and back, or patient
gets rheumatism. Nearly every case is accom-
panied by some disturbance of the urinary
system, such as irregularity in action, gravel or
stone.
The advanced forms of kidney disease are
not curable, but in the earlier stages Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills often prove invaluable.
Many bad cases of dropsy, stone, stoppage
caused by obstruction of the channels, rheuma-
tism and lumbago have been completely cured
by this remedy, and patients have reported
themselves still well many years later. Doan’s
Backache. Kidney Pills arouse sluggish kidneys
to a natural activity, enabling them to keep the
blood properly filtered, and to throw off the
poisonous uric acid and waste water, which
cause so much mischief when left too long in
the system.
1 Every
Picture
Tells a
Story.”
ar
/
KIDNEY TROUBLE CURED.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
TWO YEARS CURED.
Mrs. F. Furness, No. 1 McLaughlin Terrace, Church
Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says —“For years I
was a martyr to severe backache and other distressing
symptoms of kidney trouble. The pain in mv back
was awful, especially if I had to do any stooping, or
move about quickly. It seemed to centre just above
the kidneys, and never left me, day or night. My
secretions were much affected, being thick and cloudy,
and I always felt tired and had no energy for any-
thing. I tried all sorts of medicines, but it was not
until I had been using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
for a day or so that I got any relief from my suffering.
These pills were recommended to me, and proved to be
the very thing I wanted. Before I had finished one
bottle I felt very much better, and by the time I had
used four bottles of the pills the pain in my back had
gone, and I was quite well again. I now feel a
different woman, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.”
Two years later Mrs. Furness confirms the above: —
“I am still free from backache and kidney trouble, and
have been since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
me over two years ago.”
12 YEARS CURED.
Mrs. Andrew McDonald, 71 Denison Street, Bal-
main, says:—“For three years my husband was bad
Avith a lame back. All the time he did no work; his
back was so crippled. He always reckoned it Avas
caused by the kidneys. He Avas sometimes free of
pain, but at other times he could scarcely get out of
bed, feeling, lie would say, as if he were gone in the
loins. Mr. P. Smith, of Cheltenham Street, Avho had
been cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, Avas
always telling him to get them, and he did get some
at last. These pills soon put him on his feet, and
he was able to go to work, and has kept at it regu-
larly ever since. My son also used them for severe
backache, and two bottles stopped the pain.”
Mrs. McDonald confirms the above: —-“TAvelve
years ago I made the above statement, and I am now
pleased, to bring it up to date by telling you that my
husband is still quite free of every symptom of kidney
trouble. My son’s cure was also permanent, for he
has never had backache since.”
DOAN’
Backache
Kidney
PIUS
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold
by all chemists and stores at 2/9 per
bottle, or post free on receipt of price
from Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
of Kundi-Kundi, returning to lonely labor
after duly and honorably bursting up his
cheque. The last of the cheque was repre-
sented by the egg-bottomed sodawater bottle
ho held to his mouth, and drained of the
last spoonful of rum.
Jowadilla saw that brilliant thing, the
sodawater bottle, for the first time, and was
fascinated. Its shape and gleam put new
ideas into his head; he saw the hut-keeper
suddenly look at the sun and, marking its
declension, put his heels into the barrel of
the riding horse, jerk the head-stall of the
pack-horse, and so canter up the stony ridge
and out of sight.
Jowadilla called Sophy with a glance.
They followed the tracks, which headed
westerly, Sophy obediently following Jowa-
dilla, and Jowadilla hot with the fever of
the artist. But the horses were fresh, and
Jowadilla and the woman lost the hut-
keeper ; lost him till next day, when he was
found for them by a wheeling hawk —drop-
ping lower over the prey to see if it were
really dead. The hut-keeper had been
killed by a spear-thrust through the neck;
his horses grazed a hundred yards away;
the saddle-pouch of the riding-horse was
unbuckled and empty; the pack-horse bore
pack-bags empty, but for a tin of mustard
which had been opened, sampled by a care-
less handful and apparently rejected with
much indignation and soitting on the pack
harness. All this Jowadilla read as quickly
as it might be written; read it silently, with
Sophy gabbling the deduction as much from
Jowadilla’s face as from the actual evidence.
“My word!” said Sophy, breaking away
from her own tongue in her excitement, and,
maybe, because she spoke of the white man.
“That one altogether finish. That one been
killem white man, catchem plenty that one
hot feller. Misser Hotter puttem longa corn
beef. Burnem plenty that one” —as Jowa-
dilla took a black, thin flake of leaf from
the edge of the bag—“ Derby t’bacca that
one.” And as he examined the tracks of
naked feet by the dead man: “That one
black feller walkem longa bush. Byemby
white feller plenty tired. Then he say, ‘By
Crise! I sleepem little feller.’ Then him
been gettem off horse; horse eatem grass
altogether, white feller been sleep quick
feller; black feller been takem plenty tucker.
Then him go thataway.”
Jowadilla left the confused print blurred
by the stragglings of the death-agony ; and
on the western edge picked up decisive
tracks to the westward —the tracks of one
man.
To Jowadilla the tracks of the men he
knew were as the faces of those men. imme-
diately recognisable. As a hungry child of
three he had picked up his mother’s tracks
from the footprints of half a dozen other
gins; and now he read the names off and
turned the two first joints of a finger down
as he drew blank after blank: “Ooorcoordi
■ —Arunga—Mypena—Ivaranda—Wilarga.”
“Walk about feller,” said Sophy, settling
the fact that the murderer was a stranger.
“No been know him.”
Jowadilla motioned her to silence; here
was man’s work and not woman’s gabble.
He searched the pack-bags again, and the
ground about the quiet horses, who looked
at the dead man as if hoping that he would
sleep a long time yet while they fed; and
then Jowadilla sighed as if resigned, and
set his face westward. The jewel—the bril-
liant jewel of the sodawater bottle —had
been reived from the hut-keeper; and Jowa-
dilla settled down to the pursuit, running
lightly as a yearling through the salt-bush.
Sophy, bearing all the gear, panted after
him; black beads of sweat started on her
breast and fell to her haunches. She was
about to sob for rest, when, six miles from
the dead man, the lightly-breathing Jowa-
dilla slackened, and held his hand behind
him to take the spear. Sophy’s pleasure at
the thought of a near killing made her forget
fatigue. Instinctively she handed him the
heaviest spear, headed by six inches of tele-
graph-wire. Jow’adilla smiled at the spear-
head with the self-consciousness of an
artist. He turned off the faint bridle-track,
and made for a great green bauhinia tree,
where a hawk circling spelled the words
“Food” and “Man” and the shriek of a galah
said “Water.”
As he approached the bauhinia he heard
a man singing—singing in full and plenty,
and of safety,"as the hut-keeper had sung;
the songs of gins and old men to the picca-
ninnies at the little camp fires ; songs of kill-
ing men, and rubbing the feet with their
kidney-fat to make the slayer tireless; songs
of the man who swam a flooded river to
steal a girl of another tribe; songs of food
after a killing.
Peering through the scrub Jowadilla and
Sophy saw a very thin and bony black man
glistening with new fat from head to foot —
the kidney-fat of the hut-keeper. The spoil
of the dead man’s pack bags were strewn
around him, the open tea and sugar : bags,
and the flour bag burst at its centre, and
train-bands of ants already in full reive.
The thief was sucking one of his fists ; his
left hand held an opened tin of kippered
herring.
“My word ! Tin pish !” whispered Sophy,
her mouth leaking.
“Ssh!” said Jowadilla, and stepped for-
ward noisily; for the thin man had turned,
and made concealment useless.
The sun gleamed on the sodawater bottle
upon the rock; and Jowadilla, seeing it, was
determined. He lifted the spear, advanced
on the thin black as he rose to arm himself,
and plunged the spear into his belly. The
thin man stood for a moment holding the
spear as if it were helping him. Jowadilla
turned the spear. The thin man’s hands
slipped from the shaft of ironwood, and he
fell dying upon the rock.
Jowadilla preceded Sophy, loaded like a
pack-mule with the spoil; they went
southerly six miles to water, and camped.
Jowadilla anointed himself with the new
kidney fat; he ate all of a tin of kippered
herrings and sugar by the handful.
Then he sang of his doings; of the thin
man, and the white stick which had stolen
the moonlight (and that was the sodawater
bottle then before him) ; of tin pish, and
pflour, and tchugar; of women, and of war;
and of Jowadilla the artist—the greatest
of all men.
The singing done, he made a picture of
the hut-keeper, of the thin black, and of
Sophy and Jowadilla in the sand by the
great outcrop of chert Avliereon he rested;
and then he took up the sodawater bottle,
and with a touch and a graduation of force
as Avonderfully exact as his reading of the
faint tracks of a man over granite, he began
to chip lightly at the rock;
* * ♦ »
Walter Rossitter, the Czar of Kundi-
Kundi heard of the slaving of the hut-
rvunai, ncaiu oi rue staying or tue nut
keeper two days after its event ; and travel-
mg almost Avitliout draAvmg rein, and with
t» lS af UeSt ’/r WlUte ma n n . amed ff Juds , o . n > aad
laddy and Larry galloping after him, he
found the dead man hastily buried him,
and pushed along on the tracks of the
’ ,I, . , r nr, • ,
“Three feller track, Larry,” he said.
“No been altogether,” replied Larry,
reading the big type of the Book of the
Bush printed in the dust. “One, two-feller
day this one feller go; then two other feller
track been come after first feller kill; see
’em track alonga where white man been
fall. After that one go, other two-feller
on ? been i woman.”
Noav how does he knoAV that? asked
Judson, the Sydneysider.
“The man’s tracks are direct, feet
straight out; in most gins’ tracks the toes
of the left foot come close to the ball of the
right.... Old woman, Larry?”
“No—been young-feller gin—my Avord ! I
been know that one track.”
“Whose is it, Larry?”
“That one been Sophy. You know that
one, Marmi. You been daporse me two,
three-feller time. Walk about longa ’nother
feller man.” '
“Noav, how can he possibly name one
gin’s track from another, Wally?” protested
Judson.
“I divorced Larry from her three times.”
Judson laughed. “No wonder he knows
her track. Divorced three times! The
same couple! Darned funny—you must
tell me all about it one of these days.”
“Track deep-feller here,” said Larry in
allusion to the softness of the ground. “Trot,
I think it.”
And so they trotted until the tracks
entered the scrub, and then walked their
horses, and so arrived at the body of the
thin black Avhom Jowadilla sIeAV.
“They quarrelled over the spoil,” said
Walter Rossitter, looking at the swarming
ants and the spilled flour and sugar.
“There’s the tracks of the big nig and the
gin going south ”
® & ® *
Two hours brought them through the
scrub to a hill terraced in outcrops of chert
and quartzite: and they followed its
shoulder, still southerly.
Then suddenly Larry stopped and held
up a.Avarning hand. They sat stock still,
listening to their OAvn breathing and the
creak of the saddle-trees as the weary
horses sighed. “Clink!”—the mere suspi-
cion of a bell and then silence. Momently
it began again. “Clink! Clink! Clink!”
“Him sit doAvn,” Avhispered Larry. “Close
up him been play alonga stone.”
Walter Rossitter dismounted and took his
rifle from its case on the saddle.
Then, followed by Judson and the blacks
he turned the hill, and saw upon a rock and
surrounded by the hut-keeper’s stores the
great, shining black back of a man and a
beautifully-formed run—the thrice-divorced
Sophy—facing him in fear. As he brought
the rifle to his shoulder Fair Weather Sophy
shrieked and ran into the bush; the big,
id*!} 8 up'inii^'^ voS f^, ei ’
ad o v y \ ime admue . tlle P° s e of the
man — c ] eP p imaginative eye, the nose
of and the bl f ow of a thinker—when
mcchan - c ’ lly he fired . Jowadilla bent at
the knees and crashed upon his face dead
as the hut-keeper and his slaver. As he
fell something brilliant fell from liis hand
clinked upon the stone and broke.
„ “ M y word,” said Larry reproachfully.
“no good kill that one !”
“Why, Larrv, he been alonga other feller
killem hut-keener?”
“No fear, Marmi! This one been killem
that one blackfeller been killem hut-keeper ”
“Then I’m sorry.”
“Not much use noAv,” said Judson.
“Seems to me you’ve killed the executioner.
But you don’t mean to tell me this chap
tracked up the thin nigger for the sake of
virtue and ethical principles.”
“He did it, anyhow, and that’s enough,
I should have encouraged this chap. Why
did he do it, Larry—-to get the tea and
sugar?”
Larry held out the fragments of the bril-
liant object fallen from the hand of JoAva-
dilla, and three exquisitely-tbrmed knives of
pale green glass, curvilinear from hilt to
point. _
“This one boy big feller,” he said. “He
been spearem other feller black-feller longa
piece telegraph-wire. This three-feller
knife one time sodawater bottle; hut-keeper
been take that one bottle alonga rum;
jjben this feller been killem other
teller black feller so he get him that one
bottle. . .
Exquisite. said Judson. Knives or
spear-lieads; and out of a sodawater bottle!
how. the blade follows the shape of the
bottle,. AA ally; How did he do it/”
Chip long time alonga rock. That when
been say ‘Clink! Clink! Clink-clink!’
Slow-feller chip • little feller chip—long
time * a List have him good eye longa that
On «V , me b(donga him Jowadilla.”
, <IVT ° U i , •
, ???' . e ra fi, D aga bim
, 2. Jfi-K ~, T’ eye llkeit eagle,
nk bkeit snaPe.
.Walter Rossitter mounted, and Judson
ioined liiro.
“I’m sorry,” he said. “I feel as if I’d
killed an artist.”
“It’s a pity,” replied Judson, “but you
didn’t know. And in all wars many a clown
mav kill a Shakspeare.”
They rode northerly, but more heavily
than when on the track as avengers of
blood. And in Walter Rossitter’s pocket
clinked the knives of JoAvadilla—the con-
summate artist who stood not at murder in
the securing of raw material, and Avho
mixed his pigments Avith blood,
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


WESTINGHOUSE
(Morse) CHAIN DRIVES
mmm
i ml
i
"if " -
fi/fl // jf? £,
I ils f St:-;
\ i w*-y -
*? 4 imf % Is , /! ggg
„ #*. • ■■
Fot ail types of high-speed power
transmission.
Positive in Action,
Silent in Operation,
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to sliding
surfaces. Consequently you have
Full Power,
Continuous Power,
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd
No * Zealand office : 93-107.Featherston sf/wSston. CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
•I
BOILER TROUBLES
and THEIR REMEDY
1
QfeXiqk
M
NOT A
BOILER
FLUID
Let Your Boilerman Make a Test
Give him a Two-gallon Drum of Apexior—see that he applies it
in the right way—-and after a few months ask him if it has
not stopped corrosion and pitting—if there is more scale on the
parts not covered with Apexior—if the small amount of scale
adhering to the part that is covered with Apexior falls off with
the slightest tap—if he thinks the efficiency of the Boiler would
be increased by its exclusive use. We are willing to let Apexior
be judged by his answer. But send for a trial drum while you
think of it.
Tried and Tested and Now Used Regularly by many of the
Largest Steani Users in Australia,
SOLE AGENTS
189
al Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Reducing the Cost of Pipe Threading
For quick work and clean-cut threads use an OSTER.
OSTER. Machines
BEET & MOTOR-DRIVEN.
Note these features —automatic die
release, automatic oil pump, quick-
opening dies, simple, convenient
die-head.
THE OSTER MFG. CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, O.S.A.
or Sale by Leading Dealers in
all Cities.
hg
Threads,
Tubes,
Nipples
p or Bolts.
Built
in 3
Sizes.
dgh
pmm
dgh
Past/f/es
THESE wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a
formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes : " i tnank you for
the boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Sole Manufacturers :
EVANS SONS LESCHER, & WEBB, Ltd., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS” Pastilles and see you get them.
w,
%
8-Hour Diamond Jubilee Art Union
PRIZES VALUE £4OOO.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN OCTOBER 30, 1915.
Ist Prize, talue £B5O. 2nd Prize, value £450.
3rd Prize, value £3OO.
And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was wen by Mr. M. M. Whitt, Sydney,
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET & HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1915.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from
Agents in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
As J pigestWe Medicine
there is no proprietary preparation which has achieved such an enormous success
as Beecham's Pills. And it is worthy of note that their remarkable popularity
is not confined to one class of people nor to one country —-their splendid reputation
is world-wide. The explanation of this extraordinary success lies in the fact that
Beecham’s Pills always do good. They are specially prepared for dealing with
disorders of the digestive organs, and the relief they afford is both speedy and
sure. "Whether the trouble is due to sluggish liver and constipation or an
enfeebled state of the stomach, an intelligent use of
jjwcfai’s pills
will soon correct the faulty conditions. By gently eliminating all unhealthy
accumulations, and stimulating the stomach to normal efficiency, a great im-
provement in the general health is quickly brought about. The appetite
improves—discomfort after meals disappears and there is no more flatulence or
biliousness. A box of Beecham’s Pills is an excellent investment. It pays to
take them. A trial is all that is necessary to convince anyone that as a cure for,
and safeguard against, digestive ailments, Beecham’s Pills
ki Second To pfone.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/14(56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convi
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
dgh
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectuall y
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
DOUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
'he oough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aota like a charm In
DIARR HCEA and simp/B DYSENTERY.
& ORGAN PLAYING MADE EASY
ALL THE DIFFICULTIES OF ORDINARY MUSIC SWEPT AWAY
Not Vamping, but actually PLAYING TONES with BOTH HANDS
Anyone can learn «T. No Teacher NEEDED. FAILURE IS IMPOSSIBLE
j A Large Book of Sixty Page* (11 by 15 inches), 8/6, including postage anywhere
) This new way of playing can be MASTERED IN HALF AN HOUR. No knowledge,
of mnsic needed. You see just where to place your fingers to play the tune, melody
and accompaniment, with both hands, and, without knowing one note from anot *jeri
> find you can produce exactly the same music as a talented player. IT SEEMS
IMPOSSIBLE, BUT IT IS A FACT. Miss Julia Evans, Keyneton, S.A.; Mr. A
Fountain, Wanganui, N.Z.; Miss H. Wickham, Mackay, Q.; Mr. M. J. Pattison, McMahon s
Ck., Vic.j Miss C. Piper, Warwick, Q., and many others have expressed their delight at
the case and simplicity of the new system and their intense pleasure at being able to
play brilliantly without the drudgery of learning scales and keys, sharps and flats and
all the other difficulties of the old method, that are swept away. The book contains a
• « iju| fine collection of popular music, songs, pieces, hymns, dances, waltzes, quadrilles; fantasias
W operatic selections. YOU START RIGHT OFF PLAYING TUNES, and by the time you reach the end of tie book
'yon Me gratified to find that you can perform the most elaborate compositions with ease and confidence*
Obtainable only from THE UNION AGENCY CO, 299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.^
f This lady “ rattles olT" songs -
I and dance music, yet DOCS NOT
\ KNOW ONE NOTE FROM ANOTHER
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Aie & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray's English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials
dg
/y k
&
0
gfctorcc®


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
‘MANSrRQyiTE*
hd
LEATHER
Hflß
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
TRUE
TO LABEL.
Manufactured
exclusively in
HOLLAND.
WOLFES
SCHIEDAM
Schnapps
:
K
Hardie’s Genuine
%7-
Used In place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
Purchasers
should look
for the name
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
TANCYE
CORNWALL WORKS,BIRMINGHAM,ENG.
L AMPLESS KEROSENE OIL ENGINES ,
STEAM ENGINES A VERTICAL BOILERS,
PUMPS _ STEAM & BEL TDRIVEN {aIe types),
SUCTION GAS PLANTS , WINCHES, JACKS, Etc.
DALGETY & CO. LTD. Sole Agents.
Miller's PoinK SYDNEY.
Agents also for “Clayton & Shattleworth” Portable Steam and Traction Engines. Nicholson & Morrow Agricultural Implements. Gane Msifring Tvwhw« 3 etc.
SEE THE
9
W <•
SHEARINC MACHINES
gh
Safety First —Service Always.
It has become an important part in the education of the Engineer to-day
-—the definite knowledge that human life is worth more than
and that SAFETY must become a very necessary feature in every Factory
and Engineer’s Shop.
DODGE
Power-Transmission Equipment
Pulleys, Self-Oiling Bearings, Adjustable Shaft Hangers, Friction Clutches, etc.
are fully up to requirements of all Mill and Factory Laws, and will appeal
to all competent Engineers and Factory Owners interested in the Safety
Problem.
I
s
N
APPLY TO
SOLE AGENTS :
PARKE h LACY CO. Ltd.
Engineers &. Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
And as:
for Catalogue- 11 Power Tra nsmission Al in success
BRUCE PEEBLES
Dynamos, Alternators,
Motor Converters,
A.C. and D.C. Motors.
STOCKS CARRIED.
8/oolr shows Standard S/ip Ring
Induction Motor.
ENQUIRE OF A6ENTS—
r:-r-;~ > >1
JOHNSON & PHILLIPS LTD.
Switchgear, Transformers,
Cables, Arc Lamps, Wires.
WE HOLD ANNUAL CONTRACTS FOR
SYDNEY CITY COUNCIL for
H.T, and E.H.T. SWITCHGEAR and INDOOR
and OUTDOOR TRANSFORMERS .
ENQUIRE OF A6ENTS—
Equitable Building,
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD. George Street, Sydney.
Represented in Queensland by GORDON FAINE LTD., London BanK Chambers, BRISBANE.
