

the Veteran of Whiskies
R. Q. WATKINS SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant. Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty: AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of
■
AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N S W-MONT DE PIETE D SI C? UP
Opposite
National Amphitheatre.
CASTLEREAGH
And at
SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Binms
(3 mfflPiliffff i«h u
WAUSIUHOWT Q£ CJl| UM’,
BE
HOBAfIT.
nn»
Radley’s Orient Rote!
SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
RICHARDSON’S
WINE SPIRIT STORES,
259 LIT. COLLINS ST ,
NEXT SWANSTON ST.
158 RUSSELL ST.,
NEXT BOURKE ST.
12
3
MIITTriMO
liU I a Umi
”
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTIN
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous dbctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA N S e NS
fgf
m
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Entirely B
and the Wo
PALMER CORD
TYRES.
free from
The Silvertown Rubber* Co
■
I
279 George Street, Sydney.
m
m
mL I
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
PLAIN
In future there will be made two kinds of Amiwud—one GRAINED, the other
PLAIN. The GRAINED Amiwud will have the Golden Oak grain on one side
and Jenisero grain on the other. The Plain Amiwud is for use for panelling
walls, dados, ceilings, etc. (in just the same way as the grained), where paint
is to be used as a finish. We shall be glad to send you samples of both Amiwuds,
with booklets illustrating their effectiveness.
The Paraffine Paint Co., Challis House, Sydney.
D. s. EVANS, Australasian Manager,
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
HITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL.
m
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roil Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
uiu ivau
HAOOA
Ia Australian Owned as well as Australian Made. Contains the right proportion of Chlorate
- o£_Pgtggh_to_use : _l/-_per lurge tube, 1/2 Post Free. On dozen lots we pay postage.
ffcPM mr^
The Bulletin
Vol. 36.—N0. 1855.]
[Thursday, September 2, 1915.
Registered at Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W,, Australia; for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


new fiction
Gladioli's fc’idcHtJrv
Little: Straw Wife (The).
Vaitoe: I.oae Wolfe.
Poole: The Harbour.
Makgill: Felons.
Davis: Princess Cecilia.
Wilson’s Ruggles of Red Gap.
'Adams: The Clarion.
Stevenson’s Little Comrade.
Rita: Ink Slinger.
Lincoln’s Thankful’s Inheritance.
Megrue: It Pays to Advertise.
Begbie: Millstone.
Wentworth : Queen Anne is Dead.
Warden: Room Nineteen.
All at 3/6 per vol.; posted, 3/9.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 GO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTE TO THE TRADE.
“SOME BULLETIN
STORIES,”
By JAMES A. PHILP.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Publishers,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
THE MOUTH IS THE GATEWAY FOE THE
ENTRANCE OF DISEASE.
• Professor Miller has proved conclusively that
no fewer than 3S different infections may be
traced with more or' less directness to the
human mouth as a focal or starting point.
The mouth being the gateway for the en-
• ance of disease, therefore it is here that the
fight must begin to keep the enemy out.
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jvyubes
are the most powerful, safe, and pleasant
Germicide and Antiseptic known, being de-
structive to all forms of bacterial life. They
keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
A. The Larynx or
organ of voice. .
B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
m
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. The lobe of one
of the lungs.
Hudson’s Eutnenthol Jujubes contain
no Cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited
for old and young. For Coughs, Colds, Sore
Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza and the Pre-
vention of Consumption.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, in tins, price Is, 6d. (4
The Red Page
Sonnets of Empire
Empire: The Growth of the Spirit.
Out of the dust and clash of war it grew,
Of sea-dogs’ stormy boast and iron pride,
Of lust of Eldorados far descried,
Of liaic of Philip and his hell-fire crew,
Of joy to follow on where Glory flew,
Of gallant galleons harried and defied ,
Of will to die the death that Nelson died,
Of all the dream the soul of Chatham knew.
And now, although the Viking days be done,
Though mercy flower from blood our
fathers poured,
Though lovelier visions light us than of
old,
Yet death is on us and our race is run
If in our scabbard sleep the lightning
sword,
If folly lull us with her dream of gold.
Nelson.
White soul of England’s glory, sovereign
star!
Ne’er shall disaster beat her down, nor
shame,
While still she sees thee by the leaping
• !
That kindled o’er Aboukir, near and far,
Or feels thee quivering through the onset’s
jar
That filled the North xoith fear of Eng-
land's name, :
Or trembles with the joy of all the fame
That died and cast out death at Trafalgar.
Thy name loas lightning, and like lightning
dy
Thine onset shivered, far and swift and
fell;
Ever thy watchivord holds us, and
whene’er
The fierce dawn breaks, and far along the
sky ■
Roars‘the last battle, all shall yet be well —
We keep the touch, thy hand and soul
are there.
Bless Eli j Are . the Strife-makers.
Blessing on him, that in his goodly hate
Of England's breed, hqth smitten and
slain her foes,
Her lust of pomp, her sloth that aped
repose,
The pride that cankered all her queenly
state,
Her youngling brawls and feuds of olden
•! date,
Envy, the jade that pricked her boys to
blow':,
Folly and ease, and all the gleaming shows
That lured her vision from the eyes of Fate.
Never was England great as at this hour
When grief hath lit her soul, and o’er her
leaps
The wings of God’s dark angel hover
and clang,
When pure by trial, she rises up in power
And oti> Hell’s serpent turns her steadfast
gase
And steels her arm to crush his loathly
fang.
—Australia to England.
By all the deeds to tliy dear glory done,
By all the life-blood spilt to serve thy
need,
By all the fettered lives thy touch hath
freed,
By all thy dream in us anew begun;
By all the guerdon English sire to son
Hath given of highest vision, kingliest
deed,
By all thine agony, of God decreed
For trial and strength, our fate with thine
is one.
Still dwells thy spirit in our hearts and lips.
Honor and life we hold from none but
thee,
And if we live thy pensioners no more
But seek a nation’s might of men and ships,
’Tis but that when the world is black
with war
Thy sons may stand, beside thee strong
and free.
Australia, 1914.
The night is thick with storm and driving
cloud,
Lurid at instants through the blackness
break
Quick gleams of war across the perilous
lake
From yonder isles that awe and magic
shroud:
Far in the Northland smite Thor’s hammers
loud
On steel that warlocks for her spoilure
malcc,
Till lo! from sleep Australia starts awake
And lifts the queenly head that sloth had
bowed.
Not yet her eyes are clear: throughout her
brain
Stitt swtirm the antic creatures of her
dream,
The idiot jests, the sports that kill the
soul,
Yet shall not night lay hold on her again.
For through the rack she spies the morn-
ing gleam
Clear on the sword that lights her to
tier goal.
From “Sonnets of the Empire,” by Archibald
T. Strong (Macmillan, 35.).
J*
Archibald T. Strong proclaims himself a
minor master of the sonnet in his fine series
of Sonnets of the Empire, Before and Dur-
ing the Great War (Macmillan. 35.). His
scheme was evidently to trace the spiritual
growth of the British Empire throueh the
lives of the great men who have made it;
but the war intruded, postponing the con-
clusion of the design. In the ante-bellum
davs that seem so far away a poet could
envisage tne whole of such a grandiose sub-
ject as this and conceive its final, conclu-
sive sonnet. But now the scheme is broken:
there cannot be, for years yet, the comple-
tion of the edifice. As Strong says, “The
present struggle opens a new, and, we may
hope, a greater chapter in our race’s his-
tory.” But this disruption of the unity of
the subject is compensated for. by a series
of magnificent sonnets of wartime. It is a
pity, however, that the volume end
on such a weak note as Strong’s “The Keep-
ing of the Door,” already published in
The Melba Gift Booh.
Incidentally, the sonneteer apologises:
“As in the present crisis it seems the duty
of every man of military age who publishes
a book to explain why he is writing instead
of fighting, I may state that I have tried
to follow the latter way, and that it is not
my fault but my bitter misfortune that I
have been thrown back on to the former.”
Ai. apology that should find place in every
other book that henceforth is published in
Australia.
The series of sonnets starts with Alfred,
and leads down, so poor is our knowledge
of the Empire’s land-marks, through many
names that are to most of us merely names,-
to the inconclusive sonnet on Belgium. Thus
this book is not only poetry but a liberal
education. The quality of the sonnets varies,
as is but natural, but nowhere is Strong
guilty of bad craftsmanship, His work is
dignified and concise; he does not love
words for themselves: their work is to con-
vey thought or create an image ; and the
series is throughout infused with a brave
and splendid patriotism, worthily expressed.
The three sonnets upon Australia, one of
which is here .quoted, are permanent testi-
monies to the Australian faith that should
be ours. Our appreciation of this volume
is evidenced by the number of sonnets that
insisted upon quotation.
E verywo m an ' s Business
Angela’s Business (Constable, per Dym-
ock’s Library) is Every woman’s business.
Angela is a temporary spinster, who has no
intention of making her adjective permanent.
Henry Sydnor Harrison, whose Queed and
F.F.’s .Ej(es marked him as an author of pro-
raise, has not improved upon his earlier
successes—nor has be badly disappointed
us. He still keeps to his meticulous exami-
nation of the microscopic souls of women;
his hero is still quaint and “literary” ; and he
j s still humorous; but the humor is also
“literary,” and the cleverness is rather
laborious. Often he commits the cardinal
s j n 0 f th e novelist: he is dull. But his sub-
ject is an interesting one, and it is treated
with the fullness of a scientific document.
Angela and Mary Wing are the types
selected for dramatic contrast. Angela
thinks that if a woman gets wrapped up in
business—and all that—she’s apt to miss
some of the best things of life. For herself,
she {) e ii eves that Just Making a Home is all
the business a woman could possibly attend
to. Her business is The Business of Supply-
ing Beauty and Supplying Charm. She is
mere iy a Nice Girl, with not a thing to do in
the world but to sit and think about men—
one 0 f the Waiting Women of Romance.
She is one of the myriads of girls waiting
over the world: —
“Girls brought up by simple parents who
assumed that life was still as simple as
they. g j r i s made to stake their whole lives
on the vague expectation that, because they
are girls, some man or other will be sure to
want.them some day; a million girls waiting.
da Y by da y and year by year, while all they
have to offer life fades away under their eyes.
•• • - Surely it had not been Angela’s fault if
she was, early apprised though through a
sweet mist, that she had but one faculty of
any value in the world's market,; not her
fault if, amid general approval, she innocently
spent her youth and idleness in tricking out
her value and bringing it steadily to the
attention of the only beings who could have
USe for it Least of all was it hei . fault if
her particular business and her odd special-
ised training were bounded, not by marriage,
» weddmg-day.”
The assumption isj- of course, that all
nice womanly girls would, on marriage,
develop into perfect wives, by instinct, un-
complicated by any expert training or advice.
By refraining from being anything but
womanly a girl would, when wedded, imme-
diately become a competent wife and mother.
Angela had been taught to put a preposter-
ous over-valuation upon the mere possession
of her sex -
Mary Wing is her foil. A thoroughly com-
petent woman, an independent school-teacher
who fights her own fight uncompanioned
through life. Yet Harrison hardly plays
fair: he snatches the best qualities of
Angela to complete Mary’s otherwise one-
sided and too-specialised soul. Mary Wing
is not the j ust antithesis of Angela; she is
ra ther the ordinary clever woman who earns
her own living. Harrison, to be fair, should
have given Mary none of Angela’s softnesses,
presented Mary’s type with a hard honesty,
and then let us take our choice. Or, per-
haps, Mary Wing should have been the in-
termediate, balanced type between the man-
aging woman and the woman who. wants to
be managed. <
Unfortunately, too. for his moral, he pre-
sents us with a hero who is insufficiently
manly. According to Weininger, Charles is
just the effeminate type that Mary Wing
would unconsciously seek and live happy
with ever after. Harrison ought to have
shown us as Mary’s mate the blatantly
masculine bloke.
War Plays
In Across the Border (.Holt, New York;
3s. 6d.) Beulah Marie Dix, a U.S. dramatist
with some past performances, writes an
unusual war drama. The scene of the first
act is laid at the front—any front at any
war; and the characters speak English, but
they are no more intended to be English than
they are intended to be German or Servian.
The soldiers wear uniform, but not the dis-
tinctive uniform, in cut or color, of any one
of the nations now at war. Thus you can
take your choice, though that is really no
choice, since the combatants on only one side
are represented, and there is no villain in the
piece. The hero, a junior lieutenant, has to
cross dangerous country, a tkousand-to-one
chance against death, to bring reinforce-
ments. He goes, leaving his companions to
speculate on his chance. Three rifle shots
ring out. “God A’mighty, they’ve got him!”
exclaims a trooper.
But in the next act the junior lieutenant
enters a quiet cottage, apparently far from
the firing line. He demands a horse. He
has been wounded, and is dazed. The people
seem peaceful and strange. As the lieutenant
threatens them with his revolver, “the w r all
behind him is seen, as it were, to melt.
Behind him, and overtopping him, stands a
dark man, powerfully built, who, without
hurry or noise, pinions him by the elbows.”
To his surprise the lieutenant finds that the
flowers in the cottage are spring flowers, yet
when he left for reinforcements it was
autumn. Other elements of strangeness
startle him, until the master of the house
asks him, “You would never be afraid to
die?”
“What are you driving at?” the lieutenant
asks ; then, controlling himself: “No. Of
course, I shouldn’t be afraid.”
“Ever thought of what it would be like,
after you were dead?” the master asks.
The lieutenant replies: “No.”
Then the other says: “Ever thought that
it would be like this?”
The lieutenant recognises that he has been
killed, that he is now de.ad. But now he has to
be made to understand the real meaning of
war. He is taken by the master to a bleak
place of ice and wind. The lieutenant bad
been a good soldier, and done all the things
that even good soldiers do in war. But he
says that everything he had done, the burn-
ing of villages, the turning of women and
children out into the night, the sort of
things of which the reports from the front
have made us familiar —all this he had done
“according to rule.” And there he is made
to see the results of every one of his acts.
“All we ask,” says his guide, “is that a man
should take a quiet look at what he’s done.”
And the things he is made to see are not at
all nice. But because the lieutenant is,
after all, a rather decent chap, he is allowed,
on his own plea, to go back to the earth —
to tell them all about it.—
He is found lying in bed in an improvised
field hospital, apparently dead. He revives,
tries to tell an officer of what he has seen,
and is gently laughed at for his delusions —
“clean off his head!” He wearily closes his
eyes. A girl—the girl he had met in the cot-
tage “across the border,” appears. She
has come to take him home. _He dies. And
the surgeon,, over-worked, seeing at the door
two Red Cross bearers, with a stretcher, on
which lies another blood-stained figure, says,
“Well, we’ve no time to stand sentimentalis-
ing. Get that bed clear! This is war.”
The drama is vivid and actual, the charac-
ters are clearly individualised; and the
moral —that war is not only hell, but an ex-
ceedingly foolish hell—is brilliantly stated.
There is, too, in the figure of the lieutenant
a touch of genuine poetry. Across the
Border is the sort of war play that we need
in Australia —and don’t get.
d*
It is time Stephen Phillips stopped—or
was made to stop. His Armageddon (Lane,
per Dymock’s Library) is futile. Phillips
uses all the old stage props, the vision of
Joan of Arc, and various views of Hell, with
Beelzebub (whose purgatory is to go through
existence with a comic name), Belial,
Moloch and Satan. There is no necessity
to drag in Hell or Satan in a war drama:
all you need is a trench and a Hun. The
play is written partly in prose and partly
in verse: the prose is poor prose and the
verse is occasionally poetry—and even the
poetry clogs the action. When the mother
and the sweetheart of a soldier learn that
he has been killed, the shock does not find
utterance in brief, unfinished sentences but
in pages of blank verse. The girl would not
remark that she “ stood tiptoe upon youth’s
primrose-hank ,” and “Blew warm kisses o’er
the sea of time.” Nor would the soldier’s
mother mention that she had “labored on
that growing soul as patient as a sculptor
on his marble” and contemplate the differ-
ence between “ the sigh of a girl and a
woman’s agony.” Nor would she look for
metaphors like these: —
Child, xohen a wave long-gathered, and so
vast,
Bursts on the rock, with what a moan at
last
On melancholy shingles it recedes!
The satire is clumsy, too. Stephen shows
us the chief of the German Press Bureau
in Berlin dismissed for inadvertently pub-
lishing the truth. Wrong psychology! The
German believes his lies are the truth, just
as he believes his might is right. Would a
German plead against his dismissal his
“long, honorable career l of ceaseless lies..:.
his stainless record of fabrication”? And
would he defy anybody to charge him “with
telling the truth on any single occasion”?
Yet sometimes the poetry is poetry, and in
place. There is this picture of Belgium:—
It is a land haunted , not habited....
I stand for Belgium; she asks vengeance
here ....
For the old man shot down at his own door,
The girl polluted and the woman raped,
For children that implore us icithout hands,
And figures like disfeatured statues left.
That Phillips might have made a drama out
of his subject is indicated in the epilogue,
where, in Hell, Attila hints that there is a
moral force greater than armed might, and
that this moral force will win the war.
I am aware in mid-rage and mid havoc
Of some strange influence, I know not what;
A Power that is not Force — stronger than
Force —
And soft as summer overcoming me....
What Lord can so subdue the Lord of Huns?
I met not Him when first I scoured the
Earth.
Satan, too, is affected: • -
What beam is this that searches us at last,
And troubles Hell? Soft — yet it more
afflicts me ■. % ' \
Than the fierce fighting that did scar my
face,
When I with all my angels fell from Heaven.
I may not quail; but I begin to suffer
In this beginning of some final light,
In which I fear at last to be absorbed.
Now all my being is in deep travail,
Under a dreadful fall of gentleness,
A flower-soft Influence omnipotent ....
My Power, my Power, why art thou leaving
me? \
Armageddon has already been withdrawn.
The wonder is that ever it should have been
produced.
The Spring number of The Studio is Old
English Mansions, a collection of reproduc-
tions of pictures of these survivals from a
more artistic age. Von Tirpitz will be
pleased to discover how much architectural
beauty there is still in England as target for
his bombs.
Dowell O’Reilly objects to Dunsany
prose: —
The Red Page (29/9/T5) quotes some-
thing by Lord Dunsany called “The Raft-
builders,” which is printed as prose. But is
it? Consider this passage:—
See now oblivion shimmering all around us,
Its very tranquillity deadlier than a tempest.
How little all our keels have troubled it.
Time in its deeps swims like a monstrous whale,
And, like a whale, feeds on the littlest things—
Small tunes and little unskilled songs
Of olden golden evenings—and anon
Turneth whale-like to overthrow whole ships.
See now the wreckage of Babylon floating idly,
And something there that once was Nineveh;
Already their kings and queens are in the deeps
Among
The weedy masses of old centuries
That hide the sodden hulk of sunken Tyre
And make a darkness round Persepolis.
His Lordship gives that passage to the
world as prose. It contains exactly one word
of clean,''wholesome prose guaranteed unde.r
the Pure Food Act —“Among.” A really
beautiful word, when you come to think of
it —in such surroundings. How solid and
restful it seems, emerging above that vol-
canic torrent of rhythmic mud. The mind
clutches at it—clings to it —till finally over-
whelmed by 'f
The weedy masses of old centuries
That hide the sodden hulk of sunken Tyre,
And make a darkness round Persepolis.
Lord Dunsany’s blank verse does not
appeal to me, but among his prose works
“Among” will live: it is a little gem in its
way.
Dunsany is in good company, for R.S.L.
points out that C. J. Dennis’s contribution
to Melba’s Gift Book, an article entitled
“The Year Around in Timber-Land,” though
printed as prose, is almost entirely composed
of iambic pentameters. Naturally I The
author of the blanky Australaise, even when
writing prose, cannot help dropping into
verse. It looks rather well, too, when
chopped up into verse-lengths.
And then he rambles in a plaintive tone,
Asking the Fates what strange thing ailed his mate.
“Full forty head of fowls she had,” he wails.
“What more could woman want? Three pigs she had,
An’ bacon hangin’ on the kitchen wall.
What ailed her? Hadn’t she the two best cows—
The best a woman ever sat beneath?
And yet—ah, it’s a queer, strange world, it is,
An’ I should know it after eighty years— ;
An’ thirty since my missus was alive.”


n
■'
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
ARDATH Cabinet CIGARS
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are justly popular, for the reason that they
are beautifully mild and aromatic, filled with a delicious blend of Selected
Tobacco, uniform in quality, and contain only a minimum of nicotine.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are distinctly in the first rank of medium-
priced Cigars. They are made under perfect conditions, and combine every point
of excellence demanded by the Cigar connoisseur.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS, No. 444 and No. G6G, can only be obtained
at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, and are Cigars that will be smoked with
appreciation by the most critical. We recommend these Cigars with confidence.
ARDATII CIGARS are packed in
artistically-prepared cabinets, fitted with a
spring catch, and make an ideal present for
any man. Our unique system of spot Cash
trading enables us to sell these High-grade
Cigars at prices which offer absolutely the
best value in the land.
Box of 25 50 100
No. <44 ... 8/6 16/6 32/6
No. 666 ... H/6 22/- 42/6
Postage.—Box cf 25: N.S.W., 6d.; other
States, Bd. extra. Box of 50: N.S.W., 9d.;
other States, 1/2 extra.
m
m
mm
QUA
444
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST of TOBACCO, CIGARS and SMOKERS’ REQUISITES,
Posted Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FOR THE SILENT
WHITE Sewing Machines
The WHITE embraces all that stands for efficiency in SEWING MACHINES.
SS&simn-"
25
No. 25V (shown partly open).
THE WHITE PINCH TENSION is with-
out a peer. It pinches the thread just enough
to produce a smooth, elastic stitch.
THE WHITE TENSION INDI-
CATOR shows the state of the tension at all
times. A tension can be changed or dupli-
cated in an instant.
THE WHITE TENSION RE LEASER,
operating with a lifter bar, instantly removes
all tension from the thread.
THE DUST CAPS on needle and presser
bars prevent the ingress of dust; hence easier,
smoother working.
THE WHITE DROP-HEAD AUTO-
MATIC LIFT is the latest improvement in
Sewing Machines, and is a WHITE feature.
The WHITE Vibrating Shuttle Machines are
elegantly constructed, and each machine has
nickel-plated head wheel, hanging centre panel,
and drawers at each side, with beautiful
swell front-furniture, the most attractive style
yet brought out. All WHITE Machines are
fitted with ball bearings, and supplied with
a full set of the latest-style Steel Attachments.
No. 24V, with TWO Drawers £6 12/6
No. 25V, as illustrated, with FOUR Drawers,
No. 27V, with SIX Drawers JL7/15/-
Packing for the Country, 2 6 extra ; Duplicate Parts always available.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
, , FOR
VALUE IN BOOKS
Everyman’s Library of Standard Literature.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly what its
name implies—a library for the professional man,
the business man, the young man, the student, and
all lovers of literature. There are over 700 titles
to select from in the EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY,
embracing the works of foremost authors in the
realms of Fiction, Poetry, History, Theology,
Travel. Biography and Essays of famous writers.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is under the
general editorship of Professor Ernest Rchys,
and contains the best works that have been
written in all times and tongues, from Epictetus,
Cicero and Plutarch down to Dickens; Scott,
Ruskin and the other great Literary Lights of
the Victorian Era.
Each volume in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
is uniformly bound, and printed in large, clear
type on specially made paper, and many are
illustrated.
mm
Sectional Bookcase, to
hold 50 v015.,21/.
Anthony Horderns’ Price:
Cloth, 1/-; Full Leather, 2/-
Postage 2d. volume extra. Full list of titles post free. Send Is. 2d. foi a
sample volume. The value cannot he surpassed.
Handsome Oak Bookcase (as illustrated) specially designed for Every-
man’s Library, made in Fumed Oak, and fitted with novel interlocking
device, to allow for extension. Top Section, G/-; Base l nit, 6/-; Book Section
(to hold 50 vols.), 8/6.
Anthony Horderns’
FOR THE
GEM JUNIOR
Safety Razor.
,4V
V- ..
GE
&
M
THe Man Who Uses the
GEM JUNIOR Safety Razor
MAKES SHAVING EASY.
GEM JUNIOR blades arc as thin as an edge-holding piece of steel can possibly
be rolled. They can be sharpened time and time again, because they're tempered
to receive an edge and to hold it. when they get it.
THE GEM JUNIOR FRAME has a new BAR feature which carefully
spreads the skin so that the stubble is forced out far enough to give as close
a shave as can only be secured with any other razor in the world by going over
the face twice.
THE GEM JUNIOR SET is packed in substantial Plush-lined Box. and in
addition to the Silver-plated frame and seven blades, includes a stropping handle.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, 5/-; by Post, 5/3.
EXTRA BLADES, 2/1 per Packet of 7, Post Tree. ,
m
OLD BLADES Made NEW
Save your old blades. After they have passed beyond the stage
of revival by means of the ordinary strop, the Safety Blade Expert
can renew the keen edge of the hand-ground blade with the
patent power high-speed machine specially designed for Safety
Razors. It sharpens any Wafer Safety Razor Blade.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ PRICE —I I Doz., 7d. Half-doz., Post Free
HORDERN &. SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brick-field Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


IK
u
3l
-v
.22 CALIBER RIFLES
For target shooting or hunting small game, Win-
chester .22 Caliber Rifles give entire satisfaction,
because they are made with the same care and
skill as the “big guns.” There are three different
Winchester .22 caliber repeaters and four different
single shots made. From this array you can surely
pick out a rifle that will suit you. Your dealer has
them. Remember that
YOU CAN’T GO WRONG ON A WINCHESTER.
Bovril develops big
reserves of strength
IT MUST BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE
£5
L
What was
the matter
with Nero ?
We know now. Rome wouldn’t
have burned, and all would have
been happier, if he had had
Cockle’s Pills.
The same internal reasons
that made him cheerful or
depressed are the reasons
that make you cheerful or
depressed. If your diges-
tion is faulty, if wastes
and poisons accumulate
in the system, your outlook
on life becomes poisoned
too. All gloomy and
vindictive people are con-
stipated. Poor old Nero
might have been as cheery
and kindly as you are, if he
could have had —as easily
as you can get them —
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemis's, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond St., London, Eng.
'Tit© ®€K>t|j-Ckx»adk€ar
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene,
'
%l‘ % *
m
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott 8 Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye 8 Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram 8 Son £*£
iourke St., Melbourne.
//orks : 269 Toorak Road,
Melbourne.
m
tx’Wum
CURES ECZEMA
And all Irritations of the Skin.
From the very first application the skin becomes healthy and clean
again, and every disfiguring pimple or rash completely disappears.
The Greatest Skin Cure of the Age.
Exzerma is a household remedy, and no home should be without it.
Compounded from Australian herbs and roots.
Large Bottle,
51-
Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
None genuine without the signature
S. FIELDER.
Small Bottle
216
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
MISS ADDINGTON,
Modern Miracles
—The beautiful daughter of—
Mrs. R. A. Addington, Argent St.,
Broken Hill, is declared to have
been cured of St. Vitus’ Dance by
CLEMENTS TONIC
RECENTLY in France a peasant woman whose little girl had
been bedridden with paralysis for years, had occasion to
visit a churchyard which contained the statue of a well-
Known saint. Some of the mould from the tomb adhered to her
Handkerchief, which, upon touching her child, cured her. This
tact is vouched for upon reliable authority.
Miracles are not all confined to the older countries, for we have
heard also of similar remarkable incidents in newer countries,
ver y often in Australia. A few years ago a certain section
of Broken Hill was electrified by the recovery from apparently
incurable St. Vitus’ Dance of the daughter of Mrs. R. A. Adding-
ton. of Argent Street. It was on the 10th October, 1911, when
first the mysterious cure was reported. The mother, being seen
by a special interviewer, and, overcome by gratitude that her
daughter was healthy again, told the facts at once. She said
that the disorder occurred through her daughter falling from a
tram. This gave her a great shock, and so affected her nervous
system that eventually St. Vitus’ Dance ensued. She became so
bad that it was impossible to hold a knife and fork, and going out
of the house was out of the question. This remarkable condition
continued for some time, medical skill being useless Mrs
Addington declared, WHEN SUDDENLY, AS THE RESULT OF
USING CLEMENTS TONIC, a wonderful change took place. She
gradually improved, and soon regained her normal condition
Nearly two years have elapsed since her complete recovery and
all that time she has enjoyed the best of health. “I have great
faith in Clements Tonic, and always recommend it,” added the
mother, ‘‘and you can make what use you wish of this.”
ALL STORES AND CHEMISTS SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
See you get the Original Medicine. Do not accept any “just as good”
remedy. There is only one real Clements Tonic.


A Great REMEDY for
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yet marvellously soothing antiseptic, which
Kidney&BladderPillSi
| These Pills also act on the £i ver. 4
k NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloqdy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time—guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.-
To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color—a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others—you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why De Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief—every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. !)d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Kidneys Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
m
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
th rough out A ustralasia.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. ,T. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes: —
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been eompletelv cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since 1 last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all mv former
compiaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc. __
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
BONr
4?
pcuo*
CARRA
IRISH MO5
CEORCE BONNIN
Bonnindtorrs
IRISH moss
For Boys
Boys dislike medicine and won’t take it
unless it is pleasant. They are, however,
none the less liable to COUGHS and
COLDS. “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss’’ is
both PLEASANT and EFFECTIVE. The
best household remedy for Colds, Influenza
and Bronchitis. Take none but—
Avoid all
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
Vif§
Every Woman Can Have
A PERFECT
BUST
It matters not if you have been thin and scraggly for years, even if you
never were properly developed your measurements can be increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to pleasing, plump proportions. It is
done every day for others —why not you ?
Mrs. B. Driesden wrote from Armidale, 25tli May, 1913 :
“I do not require any more of Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-Food,
as I am developed as much as I desire. My measurements
have increased satisfactorily, and my health has improved
wonderfully. 1 will tell my friends of your treatment, and
will always recommend if, and I wish to thank you for your
kindness and prompt attention to my wants.”
Many oases gain as much as five pounds a week, and improvements up to as
] )a ve been made in bust measurements. Send or call for full particulars at once,
and recommend this wonderful method. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
much as ten inches
Thousands endorse
SEND US a 2d.
STAMP and
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
BOOK & FREE
SAMPLE OF
‘FLESH=FOOD’
GET THEIR TESTIMONIALS.
We suggest that all lady readers who
see this article will do well to investigate
the truth of these assertions. Send two
penny stamps, and we will post you full
particulars and a FREE SAMPLE
TREATMENT.
We will send you scores of grateful
letters from delighted women and so
much evidence that you must be con-
vinced. Write to-day. If convenient
call for an interview. Lady attendant.
Advice and consultation free.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily.
FAEEIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET. SYDNEY.
Treatment by Post.
So carefully liave
we arranged our
correspondence de-
partment that a
patient at any
point,, no matter
how distant, can
receive the same
careful considera-
tion as though she
were able to visit
us every week.
1819}
ON THE HOP!
A superb library vblume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
m
Lumbago
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THp WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
mm
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Woman Speaks.
There is a spot, a dreadful spot,
Beside a moaning sea,
Where one dear head was bowed in death
That meant the world to me.
I may not shed a coward’s tears ;
I may not nurse my pain ;
I have to face the long,' dull years
Until we meet again.
I have a life, an empty life,
Shaped to no trivial end ;
A life that must be spent, and yet
Is not all mine to spend.
And mine the duty so to live,
Until the lights grow dim,
That at the end I am not shamed
To go to be with him.
We have a land, a glorious land,
That breeds the hero strain ;
For which to die, for which to live,
Through any depths of pain.
They did not count the cost, our men,
When came the time of stress ;
They gave the best they had to give,
And we can do no less.
For us the task, the weighty task ;
For us, by help of God.
To set our sons’ feet in the steep,
Straight path their fathers trod.
That so they face the toils of life,
Or face a hail" of shell.
As not unworthy heirs of them
That stormed the Dardanelles.
There is a spot, a halloweu spot,
Beside a summer sea,
Where those ran gaily on to die
Who died for you and me.
God, make us in this stricken hour
Put all of self aside;
And aid our grim resolve —to live
As bravely as they died !
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
S. TALBOT SMITH.
Dreams and Dust.
Ah me! Again the almonds are in flower!
I know that I have said that once before;
But that was in a somewhat brighter hour,
For she was here —and she is here no more.
No matter how, or why ; no matter if.
Let us suppose .that she was but a myth
Of sentimental fancy, like a whiff
Of blossom-scent, for verse to trifle with.
If she be not, I am no longer I;
And, if that love were dreaming, life’s a
dream,
From which to wake is what we call to die.
And things we cherish are not what they
seem.
I climb the hill, and find the dim retreat,
And seek the ashes of our fires long cold;
I even seek the print of little feet,
And fancy feigns to find them as of old.
And so the dust seems precious, and endued
With vital thrill, and glowing memory ;
And I would guard it from all footsteps rude,
So sacred is this silent shrine to me.
And, if the dust is sacred, for that now
I have lost memory of a love-lit dream,
Where are our values? What is left to vow
Before the shrine of living Love supreme?
I think I see some light. These blossoms pure
Are our fine dreams, that charm, and pass
away;
In perfect beauty only they endure
Until the living fruit has seen the day.
True, true; yet, how so often they may twine
Their bridal-wreaths of fancy, never more
May that lost love-of-dreams again be mine.
Heigho! But there are others, to be sure!
MAJORCA, SPAIN.
JAMES LINDO WEBB.
That Brute Bill.
I met a lady weeping. She
Complained : “Bill is not kind to me.
When I’m home late the door he’ll slam.
He does not care how sad I am.
“I love the theatre,” she said,
“But Bill is such a dunderhead.
When Egbert brings me home at night
Bill uses talk that isn’t right.
“I have a friend who says that he
Is anxious to be kind to me;
But Bill’s so jealous that I dare
Not go with Arthur anywhere.
“I have one weakness, I confess,
A weakness for becoming dress ;
But Bill says furs (you know these men)
Don’t fit a weekly four-pound-ten.
“In motors I adore to drive;
It’s good to feel that one’s alive;
But Billy thinks I’d go too far
In Toby Smith’s new motor-car.
“Platonic friendships I admire,
But Bill says where there’s smoke there’s
fire.
When all one’s instincts are so good
It’s hard to be misunderstood.
“Jim was so good to me when I
Went down to Melbourne last July ;
But Bill says he will punch Jim’s nose
First chance. I hate low threats like those!”
Her foot was small, her ankle slim,
And I felt envious of Jim.
She had a captivating head.
“I think my heart is broke,” she said.
I yearned to comfort her —but how?
Gently I kissed her puckered brow.
My sympathy leapt up in flame :
She was a sore-afflicted dame.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


Rest at leisure
while the hose is workin
“WATERSHED”
Red Rubber Carden Hose
is made in AUSTRALIA. It lias been proved to be the very
highest grade, and we GUARANTEE it free from any fault
in manufacture that would cause it to burst, split, peel or
kink.
Made in 60ft. coils.
in. x 3-ply 9<l. ft. in. x 3-ply 1/- ft.
or or
30ft., lifted with spray nozzle 30ft. fitted with spray nozzle
and tap union 24/6 and tap union ... 32/-
60ft 45/9 60ft 60/9
Carriage extra.
One of our other well-known brands of Australian-made hose
is “Prospect,” a black rubber hose at a very low price.
fin. x 3-ply 6(1. ft. Jin. x 3-ply .... 6^d. ft.
Samples and Catalogue post free.
These brands are our registered trade marks, and are
obtainable from all leading storekeepers or direct from
ihe manufacturers,
loss
:■
V
uuinuiuiiuiimiui
o
"Tiii
53
B
m-
iufi
I
■o
C?
4?
O
o
O’
f^P&id/uau
Rubber 0? Ijp
270 George st # Sydney. 105 Elizabeth St. Melbourne .
69 Gawler Place, Adelaide. 307 Adelaide 5t Brisbane.
312 Murray st. Perth.
mi
gS®*
Inspect our splendid
selection of beautiful
Parian Ware
Electroliers.
The very latest British designs—
unique in pattern and artistic in
effect. Xo advance in prices. Cali
and see these beautiful furnishing
effects.
We are the sole Agents
For H. W. Johns-. Manville
Exclusive Designs in
Parian Ware.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.
“Suppliers of Everything- Electrical,”
279 Clarence Street; 426*430 Kent Street, Sydney
(Just round from the Town Hall).
m
A brighter shine
and less rubbing
Shi-no!eum is easy to use —not sloppy or
spilly does not gather dust, resists smears
and scratches and is non-slippery. A
mere rub over with a soft cloth renews
the beautiful shine. Best for linoleums,
furniture and all leather goods.
Try it. Refuse substitutes.
Sample free on request. The Paget Manufacturing Co,
Ltd., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
MO dsMsnt
Why Do You Worry as to
Where to Lunch?
Your lunch will be more enjoyable and
infinitely more healthful if it includes a
liberal supply of any of the dozens of kinds
of Sandwiches that can be made with
E
BlUtip
m
m
“REX”
HAM PATE
“REX” HAM RATE tastes —oh, so good, because it's made
from the best, “REX” HAM, cooked to perfection, ground fine
to a premasticated form, and seasoned with pure, rich and
wholesome spices. Then put quickly into the tins, sealed at
once, bringing you all the delicious taste when the tin reaches
you.
Try it on freshly-cut, buttered bread —in
sandwiches interlac ed . with lettuce leaves,
tomato, cucumber, anchovies, etc. Try it
for lunches, spreads, and ’tween meal bites.
Be sure it’s “REX” IIAM I*ATE, with the
delicate aroma and piquancy. There is no
other “just as good.”
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are:
“Rex” Veal ami Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, 31b. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, 31b. tins.
“Rex” Pork & Beans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, 31b. tins.
“Rex” Punch Tongues in .Telly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, in decorated tins anrl Opal Porcelain Jars
of British Manufacture.
And
“Rex” Brand Pard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
fKKUfI
X
FOGGITT, JONES 8 CO. LTD.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
aC
E
X
BRMtf
QftM
“ I r\c omp arable"


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post) as a Newspaper.
Vol. 36.—N0. 1855.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1915.
PpacE Go.
THE SLACKERS’ FINISH.
They preferred Slavery to Conscription.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
‘Australia for tlie White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgravc and McLeod Streets, Mosman. for The
Hu l!' etin ISexvspa per Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £t 6s. Gd. ner Annum you can have The
bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
C/iec/ues. drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
au liusrness Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
r . Special Notice.
insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
-lused.
„ {!‘. e . con tents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers The right to reproduce or translate any
pint of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
27/e Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the. form of
1 optical Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
won not f xceedln 9 two columns in length or. say.
r Z words are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
■ill? ° r A ewspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
.. " nE Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or i ansmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest ' and adapted fo~
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph,
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e.. any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for a.? a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- —The Central Neics Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Sor.,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros.. Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency .corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego.
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
Neics Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenelian, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co..
Pandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egvi>t. —lgnace Horn, Port Said. Egypt.
llong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.'— lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
‘Colombo.
rostagre Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua. Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 160 z..
Id.. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.. Sioz. to 10oz.. 2id:;
Kloz. to lloz.. Sd.; elsewhere, hoz.. Id., and id. each
additional ?nz.
f xHdzai,
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1915.
THE LEAK IN THE PUBLIC CASH-
BOX.
Broadly speaking, the argument against
Private Enterprise in certain directions is
that it is a greedy cormorant; that it gener-
ally fleeces the public, sweats the worker,
and, withal, gives indifferent service. And
the justification for Sosli is that by public
management a community can secure a fair
deal; that waste can be eliminated, to the
great benefit of the taxpayer, both as con-
sumer and producer; that the worker can
get a just return for labor performed under
good conditions, and reliability and efficiency
take the place of chaos. These are the
standards by which Sosli must be judged
generally and in detail, since in so far as it
conforms to the plans and specifications will
it be justified as a part of public policy.
Belief in Sosli is not quite the same thing
as belief in Euclid’s theory that if the
sides of two triangles are equal their angles
are equal, or in the doctrine that when a
man is dead he is no longer alive. Neither
that theory nor the doctrine can be altered.
They represent immutable truth, irrespective
of time and space, being of equal certainty
in Greenland and Canberra. Yet a Sosli
cold-drink shop in the Arctic Circle might
very easily prove a rank failure, just as a
Sosli cod-liver oil refinery at Australia’s
national capital would certainly be a
pathetic illustration of lunacy. Sosli is a
good working theory provided that the
ground over which it operates is suitable
for its development, that direction and con-
trol are intelligent, and that the commu-
nity is sufficiently vigilant to insist upon
the protection of public interests. There
was a time in the history of most nations
when national defence was run on Pri-
vate Enterprise principles—when barons and
other persons kept soldiers about their
premises and hurried them around to take
part in any scrap that might be going. But
as these individuals were also accustomed
to break out on their own account and the
land was generally filled with battle and
bloodstain, conditions were thankfully
changed, and Sosli principles came into
vogue. These have often been disastrous
enough, but no one ever dreams nowadays
of an army controlled by Private Enterprise
or a navy by Admiral Individualism. On
the other hand, the person who imagines
that the collective principle of Defence will
flourish on rotten administration, on the
disregard of efficiency and on an insolent
contempt for the public, is harboring a great
delusion. It is not the principle that is
wrong in cases of that kind —and the world
has seen many such cases—but the abuse of
trust by those in whose hands the principle
has been placed for keeping, combined with
the somnolent indifference of the people con-
cerned. This indifference is the most sinister
ot all influences at work to turn collective
effort into failure; for, after all, Sosli in
any form is but a reflection of the civic
alertness of the community.
* * *
Take, for example, the Australian Post
Office. _ A post office run by Private Enter-
prise in Australia is almost unthinkable;
but it would be very little worse, and might
conceivably be better, than a Sosh post office
which eats up £500,000 a year of the tax-
money> which in the largest city of
the Commonwealth provides the most awful
telephone system on the face of the earth,
which employs thousands of superfluous
hands, and is so tied up with red tape as
to be a more dreadful example of circum-
locution than the British War Office. There
is no possible excuse for this. It represents
a Sff'oss administrative scandal, a betrayal
of the public at every point, and a heavy
indictment of the successive Governments
that have allowed such a monument of in-
eptitude to be piled up. The explanation of it
all is obvious. The Post Office has been too
big. a thing for the people who have got hold
of its administration and control. Drift has
been easy and will continue to be easy
unless the people stir themselves and see
that this great national institution is not
allowed to be the sport of politicians or the
material on which some party nominee,
pitchforked from a Eiberal or Labor Caucus,
can try his ’prentice hand or display his
VG j e ~i? a sility. As things are now
and have been for years the Australian Post
Office, with absolute monopoly of the tele-
phone, postal and telegraph services of the
continent, is a sink for public money,
squandered in hatsful because, apparentlv. it
is no one’s business to see that anything
else happens. Even if the nation were as
rich as Crcesus it could not stand this sort
of. thing. As the position is to-day and cer-
tainly will be to-morrow, the obligation
upon the Government to honestly set about
ending the outrage is so definite that every
hour of delay will condemn Parliament as
recreant to a pressing duty. Even if the
people are careless no Australian Govern-
ment can any longer be indifferent to what
becomes of £lo.o€o of revenue per week. It
is beginning to look as if the money wasted
by Governments in Australia would pay the
interest charges on the war borrowings, and
go a long way towards meeting the other
heavy charges that will have to be borne
after the war is over.
* * * *
ffhe need in Australia for brains and cour-
age in administrative and executive positions,
and for an alert public opinion, has always
been acute, but never more so than now. In-
competent muddlers and conscienceless adven-
turers have for a long time been conspiring
to turn public enterprises into burdpns in-
stead of vehicles of relief—-into conspirators
with Private Enterprise for the impoverish-
ment of the people. Westralia’s shocking
exploits with steamers and butcheries; the
\ ictorian closer settlement and irrigation
undertakings; N. S. Wales with its large
sums wasted at .Yanco, its Norton Grif-
fiths shindykit, its dreadful lime works, and
the rest of a disastrous outfit—all these
things call for hard thinking and enlightened
action. To call them experiments in Sosh
and then fall to sleep is merely to encourage
incompetence to go to the Devil. The
poisonous feature of it all is that considera-
tions of Party hang like a nail over every-
thing connected with public enterprise. If
Labs, are in and Jones, of the other side,
challenges the post-office administration or
the brick-kiln or the butcher’s-shop. then he
is overwhelmed with shouts of opprobrium.
If the Libs, are on deck, and the Labs, raise
a howl about the same thing, the Libs, yell
denunciation of such scandalous tactics. "So
tlm weary old farce goes on, each side strug-
gling for party advantages and petty verbal
triumphs, while the public interests are
obscured and vital national concerns are
imperilled. Can anyone believe for a moment
that with a system of non-party Elective
Ministries there would be tolerated by Par-
liament an annual loss of £500.000 bn the
Post Office? That a Postmaster-General
would be considered fit for his job who
allowed such v a thing? Or that the mess
would not be 'denounced as unendurable by
men of every-kind of political faith? To
suppose the contrary would be to believe
that the democracy had a preference for re-
presentation bj idiots.. And it hasn’t. Our
Parliaments are not composed of lunatics —-
though it often looks like it —but of men
who are as well aware of the existing scan-
dals as the rest of the community. The
trouble is that they are tied up hand and
foot by a system which holds them and the
in a thrall that is absolute, and
which, unless they burst it, will bring to dis-
aster every one of the finer civic ideals of the
Australian people, and leave the country a
prey to the logroller and wirepuller.
GINGER MICK’S STRAIGHT GRIFFEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“’Eroes? Orright. You ’ave it ’ow veil
like.
Throw up yer little ’at, an’ come the glad ;
But not too much' ‘Three-’arty-cheers’ fer
Mike ;
Ther’s other things that ’e’ll be wantin’ bad.
The boys won’t ’ave them kid-stakes on their
mind
Wivout ther’s somethin’ solider be’ind.”
Now that’s the dinkum 6il frum Ginger
Mick,
In ’orspital, somew’ere be’ind the Front;
Plugged in the neck, an’ lately pretty sick,
But now right on the converlescent stunt.
“I’m on the mend,” ’e writes, “an’ nearly due
To come the ’ero act again—scene two.”
I’d sent some papers, knowin’ ’ow time
drags
Wiv blokes in blankits waitin’ fer a cure.
“An’, strooth,” Mick writes, “the way they
eat them rags
Yell’d think that they’d been weaned on
lit’rachure.
They read clean through from ‘Births’ to
‘Lost an’ Found’;
They even give the leaders ’arf a round.”
Mick spent a bonzer day propped up in bed,
Soothin’ ’is soul wiv ev’ry sportin’ page;
But in the football news the things ’e read
Near sent ’im off ’is top wiv ’oly rage ;
The way ’is team ’as mucked called for ’is
curse;
But ’e jist swallered it—becos of nurse.
An’ then this ’eadline ’it ’im wiv bokays:
“ORSTRALIAN ’EROES !” is the song it
makes.
Mick reads the boys them ringin’ words o’
praise;
But they just grins a bit an’ ses “Kid
Stakes!”
Sez Mick to nurse, “You tumble wot I am?
A bloomin’ little ’ero! Pass the jam!”
Mick don’t say much of nurse ; but ’tween
the lines
(’lm bein’ not too strong on gushin’ speech)
I seem to see some tell-tale sorter signs.
Sez ’e, “Me nurse-girl is a bonzer peach.”
An’ then ’e ’as a line: “ ’Er sad, sweet
look.”
Strooth! Ginger muster got it frum a
book.
Say, I can see ole Ginger, plain as plain,
Purrin’ to feel the touch of ’er cool ’and,
Grinnin’ a bit to kid ’is wound don’t pain
An’ yappin’ tork she don’t ’arf understand,
lhat makes ’er wonder if, back where she
lives,
They’re all reel men be’ind them ugly chivs.
But that’s orright. Ole Ginger ain’t no
flirt.
“You tell my Rose,” ’e writes, “she’s still
the sweet;
An’ if Long Jim gets messin’ round that
skirt,
Mhen I come back I’ll do ’im up a treat.
Tell ’im, if all me arms an’ legs is lame,
I’ll bite the blighter if ’e comes that game!”
There’s jealousy! But Ginger needn’t
fret—•
Rose is for ’im, an’ Jim ain’t on ’er card;
An’, since she spragged ’im last time that
they met,
Jim ain’t enlisted ; but ’e’s thinkin’ ’ard.
Mick wus ’er ’ero long before the war,
An now ’e’s sorter chalked a double score.
That’s all Sir Garneo. But Mlck ’e’s
vowed
This “ ’Ail the ’Ero” stunt gits on ’is nerves,
An makes ’im peevish; though ’e owns ’is
crowd
Can mop up all the praises they deserves.
“But don’t you spread the ’ero bn too thick
II its exhaustin’ you,” ses Ginger Mick.
“We ain’t got no objections to the cheers;
We’re good an’ tough, an’ we can stand the
noise;
But three ’oorays and five or six long beers
An’ loud remarks about ‘Our Gallant Boys’
bounds sorter weak——if you’ll excuse the
word—
Beside the kind uv sounds we’ve lately ’eard.
“If you’ll fergive our blushes, we can stand
The earty cheerin’ an’ the songs o’ praise.
Ihe loud ’osannas of our native land
Makes us feel good an’ glad in many ways.
An, later, when we land back in a mob,
We’ll probably be arstin’ fer a job.
“I’d ’ate,” sez Mick, “to ’ave you think us
rude,
Or take these few remarks as reel bad taste;
Twould ’urt to ’ave it seem ingratitude,
Wiv all them ’earty praises gone to waste,
vye’ll take yer word fer it, an’ jist remark
This ’ero racket is a reel, good lark.
“Once, when they copped me toppin’ off a
John,
The Bench wus stem, an’ torked of dirty
work;
But, ’strooth, it’s bonzer ’ow me fame’s come
on
Since when I took to toppin’ off the Turk.
So, if it pleases, shout yer loud Bravos,
But, later, don’t fergit ther’s me, an’ Rose.”
So Ginger writes. I gives it word fer word ;
An’ if it ain’t the nice, perlite reply
That nice, perlite old gents would liked to
eard
’Oo’ve been ’ip-’ippin’ ’im up to the skv—
Well, I dunno. I s’pose ’e’s gotter learn
Its rude far ’im to speak out of ’is turn.
Eroes. It sounds a bit of reel orl-right—
“Our gallant ’eroes of Gallipoli.”
But Ginger, when ’e’s thinkin’ ' there at
night
Of Rose an’ wot their luck is like to be
After the echo dies of all this praise,
Well—’e ain’t dazzled wiv three loud
’oorays.
VICTORIA.
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
If We Should Go Down.
The American writer Owen Wister, who,
revisiting it once more, found Germany in
May and June, 1914, “a constant pleasure
to the eye, a constant repose to the body
and mind,” put then to himself the ques-
tion : “Suppose a Soul, arrived o’n earth
from another world, without any mortal
ties whatever, were; given its choice, after
a survey of the nations, which it should be
born in and belong to? In May,
June and July, 1914, my choice,” he
answers, “would have been, not France,
not England, not • America, but Ger-
many.” That much introduction is neces-
sary to the man who has compiled the fol-
lowing sweet serenade for the Saturday
Evening Post, of Philadelphia—the paper
Benjamin. Franklin founded :
Here is an embodiment, a composite statement, of
Prussianism, compiled sentence by sentence from the
utterances of Prussians, the Kaiser and his generals,
professors, editors, and Nietzsche, part of it said in
cold blood, years before this war, and all of it a
declaration of faith now being ratified by action: —
“We Hohenzollerxs take our crown from Go.d
alone. On me the Spirit of Gor> has descended. I
regard my whole task as appointed by Heaven. Who
opposes me I shall crush to pieces. Nothing must be
settled-in this world without the intervention of the
German Emperor. He who listens to public opinion
inns a danger of inflicting immense harm on the
State. When one occupies certain .positions in the
world one ought to make dupes rather than friends.
Christian morality cannot be political. Treaties are
only a disguise to conceal other political aims. Re-
member that the German people are the chosen of
God,
“Might is right, and is decided by war. Every
youth who enters a beer-drinking and duelling club
will receive the true direction of his life. War
in itself is a good thing. God will see to it that war
always recurs. The efforts directed toward the
abolition of war must not only be termed foolish,
but absolutely immoral. The peace of Europe is only
a secondary matter for us. The sight of suffering
does one good ; the infliction of suffering does one
more good. This war must be conducted as ruth-
lessly as possible.
“The Belgians should not be shot dead. They
should be so left as to make impossible all hope of
recovery. The troops are to treat the Belgian civil
population with unrelenting severity and frightful-
ness. Weak nations have not the same right to live
as powerful nations. The world has no longer need
of little nationalities. We Germans have little
esteem and less respect for Holland. We need to
enlarge our colonial possessions; such territorial
acquisitions we can only realise at the cost of other
States.
“Russia must no longer be our frontier. The
Polish press should be annihilated, likewise the
French and Danish. The Poles should be allowed
three privileges: to pay taxes, serve in the army,
and shut their jaws. France must be so completely
crushed that she will never again cross our path. You
must remember that we have not come to make war
on the French people, but to bring them the higher
Civilisation. The French have shown themselves
decadent and without respect for the Divine law.
Against England we fight for booty. Our real enemy
is England. We have to crush absolutely perfidious
Albion, subdue her to such an extent that her influ-
ence all over the world is broken for ever.
“German should replace English as the world lan-
guage. English, the bastard tongue, must be swept
into the remotest corners until it has returned to its
original elements of an insignificant pirate dialect.
The German language acts as a blessing, which, com-
ing direct from the hand of God, sinks into the heart
like a precious balm. To us, more than any other
nation, is entrusted the true structure of human ex-
istence. Our own country, by employing military
power, has attained a degree of Culture which it
could never have reached by peaceful means.
Tile civilisation of mankind suffers every time a
German becomes an American. Let us drop our
miserable attempts to excuse Germany’s action. We
willed it. Our might shall create a new law in
Europe. It is Germany that strikes. We are morally
and intellectually superior beyond all comparison.
We must fight with Russian beasts, English mercen-
aries and Belgian fanatics. We have nothing to
apologise for. It is no consequence whatever if all
the monuments ever created, all the pictures ever
painted, all the buildings ever erected by the great
architects of the world, be destroyed. The ugliest
stone placed to mark the burial of a German grena-
dier is a more glorious monument than all the cathe-
drals of Europe put together. No respect for the
tombs of Shakspeare, Newton and Faraday.
“They call us barbarians. What of it? The Ger-
man claim must be Education to hate, Organisation of
hatred, Education to the desire for hatred. Let us
abolish uni ipe and falso shame. To us is given faith,
"^P e H' ; but hatred is the greatest among
To be saved from the lieel of a race which
has this creed—is it not worth enlisting for?
Is it not worth emptying the pockets for?
The Australian Kid in the Cow-yard.
Again the daily papers are dotted with the
cow cocky and the toiling kids and expres-
sions of fierce indignation at this horrible
exploitation of children. About the broad
facts of this wretched business there is no
possible room for doubt. In all of the dairy-
ing districts of Australia and Maoriland
the families of very many butter-fat farmers
are disgracefully overworked—-robbed of
sleep, drained of vitality, stunted of body
and soul. The scandal is growing as time
rolls on. It was gross 10 years ago; it is
grosser to-day. There has been no ameliora-
tion of the conditions —nothing but talk,
sympathetic and denunciatory phrases, ex-
pressions of disgust that sucb things should
be. Is that the end ? Are the men who
have time after time exposed this abuse to
understand that the community refuses to
recognise any social obligation? It really
looks like that. Yet everyone who knows
intimately the sordid condition of cockydom
also knows that reform is demanded, not
only in the interests of the youngsters, but
equally for the sake of the women and of
the children to come. Bad as the juvenile
slavery is, the women in many dairying
areas are even more cruelly abused. And
most of the men, too, suffer irreparable
damage, _ mentally, morally and physically.
Any citizen who imagines that he is-going
to with this accumulated mass of
evil by confining himself to yelps about the
wrongs done to children is cherishing a large
delusion. The proof thereof is- that after
years and years of yelp the situation is
worse than ever. The thing has got to be
tackled, at the base and the causes of the
family enslavement rooted out. If there is
any-way. of applying a corrective and still
leaving the land problem as it is, somebody
ought to come forward and say how it can
be* done. _ Pending that explanation the
drowsy kid and toil-wracked woman of the
Cow areas must stand as part of the price
the community pays for a land system which
in every other country where the salient
features of the same system prevail has
produced the same crop of social wrong. Can
anyone give the _ name and address of a
single cow-cocky in Australia or Maoriland
who, taking up land at the prices prevailing
of recent years—£2o, £5O, up to £7O and £BO
an acre—has not sweated himself and his
wife and his children? And in nine cases
out of 1,0 such sweating has not been
from choice, but has been forced upon him
by iron circumstance. Taking all wages
into consideration, those paid by dairying
are the/worst. The land owner has a large
reservoir of helpless, dependent labor to
draw on, and it is into his pocket that in
the epd there drifts the difference between
the meagre earnings of the serf and what
should fairly be the full reward of labor
Meanwhile it is good to be told that Aus-
tralia must produce more wheat and butter
and cheese —more fat lamb and bacon and
potato. And also more stunted, .sleepy
youngster. If that is not put into the bill,
then -the list is written in a coward’s hand,
because Australia cannot get one without
the other, as things are now.
♦
V* A System with Holes in It.
The Defence administration is well-meaning
but involved and wooden-headed. The authori-
ties seem to have understood from the first
what a military camp should be, yet con-
ditions are still so bad in certain of them
that hardened bushwhackers fall away after
a taste of the life they offer. Recruiting cam-
paigns are in progress, and simultaneously
recruits are handled so that they become


Involuntary anti-enlistment agents. There
is something wrong also with the financial
organisation. Here is a sample case. A
young man who enlisted at the beginning
of the war was wounded four days after
the landing at Gallipoli, and invalided to
England. From that time to the present,
he asserts, he has not had a farthing of
pay. Incidentally, on his own allegation,
none of his relatives’ letters to him have
been delivered, other than those sent direct
to England. Nothing, again, could be more
short-sighted than the official attitude to-
wards venereal cases. By discussing the
problem of venereal disease in hushed tones,
or by refusing to discuss it altogether, by
omitting to make it compulsorily notifiable
on the grounds that both patients and
doctors would refuse to notify, and by other
devices, the community has established this
trouble on a pinnacle of infamy. If every
politician who acquired the disease were
at once indicated to the public, the Parlia-
ments of the Commonwealth might be badly
depleted. The same applies to the Bar,
medicine and other callings. Only one citi-
zen has his misfortune literally howled into
the ear of the public, and he is the man
who is risking his life to keep the public
in security and comfort. If a private citizen
acquires syphilis the fact is glossed over at
every turn ; in the case of a private soldier
he is put behind a barb-wire entanglement if
the mishap occurs at home, and if it occurs
abroad he is shipped back under conditions
that leave no doubt in anyone’s mind as to
what is wrong with him. _ This paper is
all for compulsory notification of venereal
disease. But it has no faith in a system of
compulsory notification only for the coun-
try’s defenders. To put it on the lowest
possible plane, it must do a lot to_ frighten
men off enlisting, since cold statistics go to
show that 35 per cent, of men between 18
and 35 may look to become affected as
society is at present constituted. All round,
a certain disregard for the rights and pre-
judices of the soldier, once he has been
secured, appears to be the keynote of the
Defence Department’s failure, where it has
failed; and the thousands of able-bodied
ycung men who have not joined the colors
provide the best proof that the country
can’t afford that sort of attitude.
♦
The Relative Value of Pumpkins and
Pictures.
A current British magazine presents a pic-
turesque yarn by J. S. Cormack, N.S.W.
irrigation officer in London and thereabouts,
concerning “Rivers in Harness —Australia’s
Latest Wonderful Scheme to Supply her
Farmers with Water.” It is a profusely-
illustrated story, and all about Yanco, with
views of the dam and the weir, and all the
rest of it. Says Cormack
There is now nearing completion in New South
Wales a vast irrigation scheme, worthy of recognition
on account of its magnitude, its engineering wonders,
its great cost, and as a commendable example of an
enterprising Government’s effort to popularise the
land by making it productive and attractive.
True enough, so far as the cost goes, anyhow.
Yanco represents £5,500,000 of Cohen’s
good cash. But by a coincidence it happens
that at the moment the magazine was print-
ing, Carmichael, M.L.A., was taking evi-
dence as a Royal Commissioner in order to
find out exactly what else Yanco represents.
There seems a lot of confusion on the subject.
While Cormack is assuring the British pub-
lic that Yanco will grow anything prolifically,
residents have been endeavoring to persuade
Carmichael that when they sow wheat they
get tares. Also, Cormack’s assurance that
“Australia takes a paternal interest in the
welfare of the settlers” is apparently not the
view taken by the secretary of one of the
ffiofll unions, for this person informed Car-
that the members considered they
had been grossly misled by the flamboyant
literature compiled by the Irrigation Commis-
sion and by the aforesaid Cormack. He also
spoke about Court proceedings and claims
for damages. Carmichael, who seems to
have tackled his job with proper seriousness,
has already gathered enough evidence to indi-
cate that somebody with a business-like head
on his neck is urgently needed to take hold
of this concern and the incidental p.n. Mean-
time, it seems about up to the -Government
to temporarily call off its picturesque spruik-
ers, and get ready, to make the work-a-day
facts approximate the official fiction. Ay the
beautiful illustrations on earth will not turn
that five millions-odd into anything but a
bill that must be paid. And you can’t do
the paying with pictures. You can only do
it with pumpkins and such grass things.
:—«
The Distressful History of J. Quigg.
These cases in which I.W.W. speakers who
object to military or naval service are being
prosecuted for sedition and the like, recall
the case of John Quigg, the grocer, who
opened a shop in a Melbourne suburb about
six years ago. Quigg was a convert
to I.W.W. principles of national non-
resistance, and logically carried them into his
business. Years of scraping had led to the
accumulation of £650 —and the shop was
stocked. The first customer was a woman
wearing a large apron. She priced several
articles but bought nothing, and as she
walked out Quigg noticed that a side of
bacon went with her. About half an
hour later 17 women carrying bags appeared,
and while Quigg was weighing out a pen-
n’orth of mixed-spice two whole cheeses took
wings. Casting a casual eye at the potted-
meat counter Quigg noticed that things had
been moving rapidly there, too. By the
time the women had given the glad news five
minutes’ run, a large crowd blocked the
thoroughfare and stock was passed out by
active small boys, while Quigg stood on the
counter and denounced the community for
being cohsumed by Greed. Asked why he
did not send for the police, Quigg replied
that police were dhe instruments of capi-
talistic Oppression.,, and people who had for-
gotten to pay for their supplies would reim-
burse him when they realised how essential
was social co-operation. “Bet yer life!”
remarked a bottle-o as he shouldered half a
sack of potatoes and put a jar of treacle in
his pocket. It was very tragic, and when
Quigg called upon a lawyer next day to pre-
pare his will he was la broken man, who
scoffed at the I.W.W. bitterly. _ Six-and-
giGHT asked him gently if he did not see
that the suburban grocery was a microcosm
of the nation—that the loot might easily be
on the wholesale scale. But Quigg only
wept salt tears of woe. Before the week
was out the Coroner investigated something
that had been fished from the Yarra.
' ~
The Commodities of Usury.
“Garnishor” on the law of it:
Last Thursday, in Sydney, judgment was given in
Equity in a suit brought by the executors of a Mrs.
Neale against an individual named Geoko.e Lees
Simpson, to recover £17,000, money advance .
Simpson, did not deny that he had received the
money, but he said that Mrs. Neale was a money-
lender within the meaning of the Act, and that,
since she was not registered as such, he (Simpson)
could not be compelled to repay. The Judge, after
saying things about Simpson which he later on said
ho regretted, was reluctantly forced to admit that
Simpson was justified in law. The case illustrates
the point that even the best laws can be twisted to
the worst uses.
The Act, which is copied from the English Money-
lenders Act of 1900, was passed “to grind the tooth
of usury, that it bite not too much.” The State
assumes that the moneylender is a necessary social
evil, and it defines a moneylender as “every person
whose business is that of moneylending, or who holds
himself out in any way as carrying on that busi-
ness.” It excludes pawnbrokers, Friendly Societies,
Benefit and Loan and Building ditto, bankers, insur-
ance cos., and in general any business not having for
its primary object the lending of money, which final
qualification is a saving one for solicitors, and so on.
Mrs. Neale was a Woman with large cash interests,
and so had a lot of investing to do. Instead of let-
ting a solicitor do it for her she took an office of her
own, attended to her own business affairs, and adver-
tised “Money Lent.” This advertisement caused, her
to fall in, because she thereby “held herself out” as
one who was carrying on the business of money-
lending.
The law, having decided that usurers are danger-
ous, compelled them to register themselves. It lays
down that a moneylender must operate under three
conditions: (1) He must register himself. (2) He
must trade in his registered name only. (3) He
must trade at his registered place of business only.
If he fails in the observance of any of these three
conditions the contract is void and illegal, and the
usurer cannot recover.
This Act was really passed to- control the usury
which was rampant in the West End of London.
Shylock, by adopting a chain of different aliases and
addresses, would first snare his borrower ; then, apply-
ing pressure, he would recommend the borrower to
himself under another name for relief, and so on till
the victim was bled white—often by blackmail. The
Act remedied that. If the usurer made a name for
himself as a blackmailer he had to abide by it.
Lots of semi-social circumstances formerly utilised by
Ikey Mo for doing business were cut off at the meter
by condition No. 3. It was no longer profitable to
lend to voung gentlemen flushed with wine and cards
at late hours of the night, as the loan, not having
been made at plaintiff’s “registered place of busi-
ness,” became unenforceable. The after-dinner loan
died a natural death. Sudden accommodation upon
racecourses or to momentarily-stricken City men at
exorbitant rates, and the thousand kindred instances
one can think of, ceased to be profitable.
Finally, if the Court thinks that any bargain made
under any circumstances with a “moneylender” is
one which is “harsh and unconscionable,” it will con-
demn or review it. The rule in these latter cases is
put thus by Lord Chancellor Loreburn, who says
that “a transaction may fall within this description
in many ways. It may do so because of the bor-
rower’s extreme necessity and helplessness, or
because of the relation in which he stands to the
lender, or because of his situation in other ways.
What the Court has to do in such circumstances is to
see whether in truth and fact and according to its
sense of justice the transaction was harsh and un-
conscionable.”
Mrs. Neale’s estate was not the victim of an
unjust law, but of an excellent one. The miscarriage
of justice was caused by two strokes of bad luc.;.
(1) By advertising “money lent” she became tech-
nically a “moneylender.” (2) She fell in with
Simpson.
+ _
The Teuton in Our Midst.
The Commissioner who examined into the
state of affairs at Liverpool Camp reported,
amongst other things :
The impropriety and inexpediency of the appoint-
ment in war time of a person of German name
and German parentage to a position in connection
with-the defence of the country are so apparent as to
call for no comment.
Theo reference was to Dr. Schlink, an
Australian of German origin, and one of
the Camp doctors. The evidence went to
show that he was that phenomenon,
a man of Teuton parentage and, at
the same time a loyal Australian. The
result has been an outpouring of rather
maudlin sympathy. A big medical society,
for example, resolved unanimously:
That this meeting has supreme confidence in Dr.
Schlink as a patriotic Australian and an efficient
medical practitioner, and expresses its deep sympathy
with him for the cowardly charges that have been
made against him.
Hard cases make hard laws, and the posi-
tion of Dr. Schlink is one more instance
of it. The microscope has been put on him
and he is seen to be unstained. Despite his
name, his family and his associations, he
contrives to be anti-German. But, because
something like a miracle has occurred here,
there is no reason to abuse those who justi-
fiably assumed that nature might perhaps
follow its ordinary course in his case. On
the contrary. The best service Dr. Schlink
could have done Australia at the beginning
of the war was to keep out of any military
position where he would be liable to pre-
judice recruiting or weaken the confidence
of the recruits in Defence administration.
Men of German parentage who have lived
all their lives wholly amongst Australians
and not in German communities may be
loyal; but the experience of Belgium,
France, and especially of Russia, goes to
show that the vast majority.of those who
have lived really German lives are eager
traitors. The retreating Russian army
has been suffering unspeakably from the
fact that Russian Poland is full of osten-
sibly good- Russians who are of German
descent, and whose sympathies, whether in
war or peace, are German. It has been
pointed out by the war-correspondents that
all through the recent advance on Warsaw,,
and beyond it, the Germans were kept in-,
formed of every petrol store, forge find,
food and cash depository in every district
which they reached. In no respect have
Germans who have adopted foreign nation-
alities omitted to help their country ot
origin during the present war. There is
consequently only one safe course tor
non-German countries to take m regard
to resident Gerriians, and that is to
bar them, if they are . so daring as
not to bar themselves. It is better that 19
loval but indiscreet Britishers with names
like Hans and Fritz, should have their
feelings thus hurt than that the life of one
Australian soldier should be endangered.
' ■» ' — 1
Defence-Minister Pearce last week made a
sorry reply to the report of Justice Rich
on the Liverpool training camp. He should
have confined himself to giving the nation a
pledge that the causes for complaint had
been removed, and that the persons respon-
sible for the defects had been scrapped.
Instead he committed himself to long, verbose
argument) designed to show that whatever
went wrong with the works the system was
not at fault. This is the invariable atti-
tude of the tribe of Tite Barnacle all over
the world. When anything goes wrong the
men on top show that if their plans had
been carried out by other people, the men
at the bottom would not have been inefficient
or wronged, and the public would have had
no cause for complaint. It is a fatuous posi-
tion to take up. The duty of the men on
top is to see that the machine they are
running works smoothly, whether it be a
post office, a railway station, an army or a
school. If the thing breaks down some-
where in the middle or the end, and letters
systematically go astray, or trains fall oft
the lines or the schoolmasters omit to give
instruction in arithmetic, then it must be
the funeral of the persons who run and are
responsible for the show. The fact is that
Pearce’s system has enjoyed an enforced
immunity from criticism, and the less fre-
quently he opens his mouth about it now,
and vigorously he sets himself to
the task of tidying-up, the better it will be
for his reputation and incidentally for the
Australian people.
The Yon Tirpitz department lias been mad-
dened by the British naval policy of with-
holding details concerning the “downing” of
German submarines. In only a few cases lias
the death of an enemy sub. been announced
at the time, and then it was usually a boat
with a pirate record that got an obituary
record. For instance, the Admiralty stated
in March that there was “good reason to
believe that the German submarine U 29 lias
been sunk with all hands.” Three months
later the Press Bureau was informed that
“the German submarine U 29 was sunk by
one of his Majesty’s ships.” Concerning
his lost subs, in general, Yon Tirpitz knows
nothing save that they set out with murder
in their hearts and never returned to their
base. It is the mystery that maddens him.
The silence of his pirates’ watery graves
makes the decorated admiral exceedingly
“wet.” Heaven only knows wliat his “wet-
ness” will lead to; but mortals can at least
guess. The sinking of the Arabic —a British
passenger ship bound for a neutral port—
was only a hint of German possibilities in
“frightfulness.” When the Kaiser’s immi-
nent propositions of an “honorable peace”
are received with derision, Yon Tirpitz will
probably send submarines out with instruc-
tions to destroy every vessel they can find in
neutral ports, in the German belief that the
civilised world will go down on its marrow-
bones and implore the Allies to desist from
angering the Lord God Hun any further.
■ « ——
The complexity of modern warfare is seem-
ingly beyond the comprehension of the
people who think that victories can still be
won with patriotic songs. The most useful
part of modern war is its tidying up. A
French general a while ago congratulated
the laundresses and told them they were
helping just as well as their husbands and
brothers who were fighting. Had they , been
within reach, he would no doubt have said
the same thing to the harness-makers, boot-
makers, clothing manufacturers and others
who are toiling to make good the wastage
of material. Australia can and should send
more men to the war. But every extra man
who goes is another wage to pay, another
body to clothe, another pair of feet to shoe.
This is a war of equipment, and in the face
of better equipment the most magnificent
courage must fall back—or down. The
grey, thousand-mile-long line of Russians,
now going sullenly back, league by league,
before the better-supplied Germans is a
gigantic witness to that truth. And it is
witness also to the folly of relying, as Aus-
tralia does, on the outside world for the
necessaries and safeguards of civilisation.
With almost the whole world ready and
eager to help him, the Bear must still go
back, because his hated enemies are between
him and the material he needs to fight with.
In face of the report made by the Aliens
Board after inquiry, _ Premier Massey’s
threat to introduce legislation for the pur-
pose of compelling the Council of the Uni-
versity College at Wellington (M.L.) to
fire Von Zedlitz, Professor of Modern
Languages, looks like a foolish surrender to
the worst kind of blither.. Either Von
Zedlitz is a suspect or he is not. If he is
reasonably s<T, his place is behind barbed
wire; if he is not, then to pursue him with
the boot because of his name is not Austra-
lian or British justice. A scholar-of Trinity,
Oxford. Von Zedlitz was imported to the
College gbout 12 years ago, and turned out
to be; a keen wit -who knew his job. Later he
married a Maorilander. The loud, scoffing
remarks he and Laby, now of Sydney Uni.,
used to make about the Maoriland Univer-
sity’s antiquated system of degree exami-
nations by absentees possibly account . in
some measure for the later outbreak against
him. A good many present “patriots” have
certainly been hurt by the shafts of satire
which lie has hurled at their lack of patri-
otism in times of peace.
—* ♦
Bigjohn Forrest barked across the House
of Reps, last week, during some conscription
argument: “You are all frightened of youf,
skins; afraid of losing votes!” It gives the
outside public a-sort of, shock to find, through
some such outburst as'" Bigjoiln’s, that the
professional politicians are still at their old
games. Because the so-called “war news
monopolises the space in the papers, the
reader hears practically nothing of the tor'
rents of rubbish that are being talked m the
inaccessible place where the politicians spend
their unwatched days. Hansard— that
most indecent of publications is studied and
filed in newspaper offices after various ar-
ticles and fugitive paragraphs have been
wearily written for a totally uninterested
public. And that’s about the end. of it. But,
stowed away in the House which no sane
human being wants to go near, the party
gabblers wrangle on through the weary days
and weeks, while the smoke of a burning
world goes up to the sky. .They may. ie
afraid of losing votes; but they certainly
don’t mind risking their country.
Last week Premier Peacock, of Victoria,
knuckled under to his alleged supporters in
tlm Conservative Corner and abandoned the
main plank in his election platform—the
Greater Melbourne Council Bill. - He ex-
cused his action on the grounds of war and
financial stress, and set out to deal with
that part of his measure which simply can-
not be postponed—the matter of tramway
control—by introducing a Bill to provide a
temporary, Government-appointed liust, ot
five persons, to manage the cable-tram sys-
tem for a year from next July- a ° d
hand it over to a Greater Melbourne Council.
Peacock’s real trouble was that he found
his proposed franchise for the new body
wasn’t democratic enough for the Baboi
opposition, and was too democratic for the
Tories in the House and in the City Coun-
cil • while the Corner party—mostly country
Conservatives—'wanted all the metropolitan
tramway systems nationalised, m the hope
that the profits therefrom would provide a
surplus for country works. This idea had
the cordial approval of all landlords cspeci-
ally those in the House of Fat, and as
Peacock wasn’t out for fight he fluttered
down.
Belgium being in high favor, the N. S.
Wales Government a few months ago
engaged a Belgian to come to Sydney as
director of the new Conservatonum of Music ,
and if a protest is not made quickly and
emphatically, it looks as though t e on
importation will be responsible for a dozen.
The new Director had not unpacked his
pyjamas before he entered into a. defence of
German music and announced that he did
not approve of British musical methods and
proposed to run the Conservatonum m the
“Continental” manner. The profession might
have made the best of this “tarnation that
Australia was going to be dosed with heavy
music entirely unsuited to its sunshine and
its spirit. But Mr. Verbrugghen follows
that up with a petition to the Government to
import for him his own quartette, presumably
to be teachers as well as professional
players. He has no idea yet what material
there is here; but without knowing it he
tells us that it would take five years to
produce such a quartette as he left behind
him. Mr. Verbrugghen’s quartette may
be a poor thing compared with what we
already have in Australia; and even if they
are masters of their instruments it by no
means follows that they have any capacity
for teaching. Yet on his mere say-so, and
before he has done a thing to prove himself,
the State is asked to pay for the importation
and presumably the maintenance of his
friends, whoever and whatever they may be.
The proper reply to Mr. Verbrugghen is
obvious. N. S. Wales has brought him in
to teach and train musicians, not to import
them. He is a manufacturer, not an
indenter. If he feels thus early either that
the material is not good enough or that he is
not good enough, his course is quite clear,
and it ought not to be necessary to more
plainly indicate it to him.
' ♦ :
“Phil” on the swallowing of Jonah and the
fish without argument: —
\ page has been added to the history of heresy
laws by a decision of the British Court of Appeal.
This Court has ruled that a legacy of £lO,OOO to
the Secular Society was a valid bequest. Apparently
by way of obiter dicta the Court declared that dis-
cussion of such subjects as the divine government of
the world ought not in these days to be treated as con-
trary to public policy. This is the first time a
British Court has sanctioned testamentary bequest of
funds for the purpose of critically examining Chris-
tian dogma.
After English kings had for four centuries un-
successfully employed the rack and firestick to sup-
press “heresy and blasphemy,” an Act was passed in
the time of William 111. with the object of extir-
minating these things root and branch. That Act is
still in force, and as late as 1911 was employed. In
South Aus. eight years ago Chief Justice Way had a
legacy case to decide. William Jones, of Eagle-on-
the-Hill, had died leaving property worth £ll,OOO.
He had directed by his will that the annual
income from this should go to his son and daughter
for their lives and at the death of the last survivor
the estate was to pass to the Incorporated Body
of Freethinkers of S. Australia. While the litigation
was in progress it came out that the society had
long ceased to exist. Therefore the point at issue
was removed. Way, C.J., however, said that had the
society been in existence the Court would have re-
fused to recognise the legacy on the grounds tnat the
doctrines of a freethinking society were opposed “not
only to Christianity, but to all religion; and
although the law is tolerant of every form of belief
and the discussion of all questions relative to re-
ligion, trusts for purposes opposed to Christianity,
using the word in its broadest sense, are illegal.”
And so it, had been for over 200 years.
Lawyers will await with interest the full text of
the latest judgment, since, as there has been no
repeal of the old Act, it is difficult to see how the
Court could uphold the will. Perhaps their Honors
just smelt the Act and thiew it out of the window.
- : '!!*«“# _
“Squeal”: Is this leg-pulling or what, this
business of taxing bachelors? If it isn’t leg-
pulling a great void would be filled, and,
perhaps, a way opened to magnificent re-
form, if someone who supports tlrn idea
would rationale of the thing in
coherent terms. Australia is always open
to a message Shd ought to be allowed to
understand the principle upon which this
project rests. From the rambling remarks
that are heard on the subject from time to
time it sounds merely as if the bachelor-
taxers regard taxation and finance as fit sub-
jects for laborious^humbi 1 . The argument that
a married man with £4, £5 or £6 a week is


&•*«• rf Start Mtf
GAELIC WHISKY
THE OLD SMUGGLER
m
fix*
rP
B.
OrmeKFIGWIN^L™
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
• • * in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
' '' r o'. * ‘ . '
distilled in the
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND,
&
YG
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company lAd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
unjustly treated through having to pay
income tax on part of his revenue, may be
sound enough—l believe it is—but to go on
and argue that the revenue lost by exempt-
ing this class should be made up by fining
another class because it has no wife is obvi-
ously absurd. The single man contributes
more to the national revenue than the
manied man of equal income because he
spends more of his cash in luxuries That
can scarcely be denied. He makes'no de-
mfon dS tni n qvH S e ate for , a baby-bonus nor
TT S ate f°-' - an , elabol, ate education
Uncomplainingly he helps his mate
who fell into the soup of matrimony to pay
for these things. Fine him? All wrong'
And are the spinsters going to be made pav
under this scheme as well as the men’ If
not, why not? There are hundreds of women
earning solid salaries and trimming their
own hats. As an alternative, let us get down
to good, payable business and tax Avowsers.
Iliere are thousands of these people, and
so tar as the national revenue is concerned
they are sponging on the rest of the com-
mn-nUy; From taxes and duties on drink
and tobacco an enormous sum is raised
every year. The wowser contributes not a
bean of this. If the bachelor tax is sug-
gested in order to even up taxation, I de-
mand that the principle be applied to
Stiggins and McSnuffle in respect of
the revenue they now dodge paying.
♦—
The Great International Bash.
Mile by mile the Bear is retreating into his
cave, desperately fighting, and leaving to the
Hun a fire-swept wilderness. Soon the rains
will come and after them the snow, and
then will the sum of human woe in
Central Europe be such as modern
Europe has not known before. It is
a fine thing, War! But admiration of
the monster is not for the generation that
sees it glutted with blood, drunk with the
lust of killing. That is one of the privi-
leges reserved for people who have, grown fat
and comfortable and careless in peace. Esti-
mates of the number of casualties suffered
by the contending armies in this mighty
struggle are published from time to time; but
no tally, even approximate to truth, can be
kept of the toll of War on civilian popula-
V Ol °? - crop of misery, disease and
oeath which flourishes in the atmosphere of
battle. What Poland, Galicia and Western
Kussia are like to-day cannot be imagined by
men and women at a distance. Perhaps the
tragedy is not to be fully realised even by the
people themselves in that dismal area, for,
mercifully, there is a limit to imagina-
tion, just as there is to physical endurance.
It is said that Germany has of late made
frequent attempts to bring Russia to dis-
cussion of peace. How much truth there is
in the various yarns relating to this sub-
ject can be only a matter for speculation
more_ or less idle. It is probable that
Kussia has been told that the olive branch
is ready; beyond that it is not wise to
believe anything. With Ivan quiescent the
position of the German would be greatly
improved. With the Russian armies still
active they must, even though greatly de-
pleted, be a terrible thorn in the Hun’s
side. A winter campaign on the enemy’s
territory can, in the nature of things, only
be looked forward to by the German with
horror. For despite his magnificent re-
source, splendid equipment and remarkable
powers of organisation, he is wasting; and
no one realises better than the Kaiser that
to-day, in spite of his successes in the east
and the iron front he maintains in the west,
he has won nothing except an ash-heap; that
Germany is- a vast hospital, with. rapidly
extending cemeteries; that even if victory
came her way in the end, Germany would
be a bleeding wreck. The Royal House of
Prussia knows more about war now than it
ever learned from the memoirs of Fred-
erick. Yet the Ilun is still a powerful
opponent, and the task of dragging him
down will last for many a day. But if the
Allies stand firmly together the brute cannot
escape the muzzle —and he knows it. During
the week he is understood to have assured
the United States that the campaign of
submarine murder will be modified. This
is rather hard luck for the officers of the
German navy, who had been getting in some
useful torpedo practice, and for the children
attending German schools, who had been
accustomed to get a holiday when a batch
<?f babies were blown up by the gallant
sailors of Von Tirpitz. On the other hand
it indicates that the Hun has amended his
policy of friehtfulness to such an extent as
to admit the unwisdom of mere indis-
criminate butchery. The explanation of
why he has done this is not clear, though
the climb-down, coming so soon after getting-
one in the eye at the Gulf of Riga, suggests
that old Von Tirpitz is publicly suspected
of being a lath painted to look like iron.
He may even be wearing false whiskers.
“Colonel” Bob Lowe, the old-time pro-
prietor of Harmston’s Circus, has been up
against his luck lately. For some months
ho has been in hospital at Yokohama, Japan,
and has had a leg amputated.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOxt COMING WEEK
Hbb Matosty’ B “High Jinks”
p • “Mum’s the Word”
kiterion ... ‘Potash and Perlmutter”
, The Royal Strollers
Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
S.“ .:;:;;;;;;;; ;••••• <**:
“The Babes in the Wood”
frJvmT “Not Understood”
Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
U ’ ° u . ' ; • Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville Co.
Gllc !rium N & ° LYMPIA Hoyt's Pictures
Potash and Perlmutter,” manufacturing
clothiers, opened for business at Sydney Cri-
terion on Saturday night and did a roaring
trade. The success is chiefly due to four
or the specialists. The other members of
the co. give adequate support; but the
Play is carried by Abe Potash, Mawruss
1 erlmutter, Mrs. Potash and Marks Pasin-
sky, the buyer. The quartette are so
sharply focussed that the other people of the
play merely provide a sort of blurred back-
ground. Ihe plot is slight, providing just
enough material for a series of frantic rows
between the two excitable partners, whose
Jewish kindness of heart makes them go bail
tor the handsome young Polish Jew clerk
when he is arrested by U.S. marshals on*
suspicion of being concerned in a police mur-
oer. 1 otash’s daughter having fallen in love
with Dads employee, and the valuable girl
dress-designer being in love with his music,
the partners stand to him, even though it
brings them to the brink of ruin. They nearly
go over the brink when the foolish Potash,
who has been informed of a supposed flaw in
the legal formalities, makes the clerk abscond
to Canada. However, the fugitive races back
oniwf a , cc< ?, rfl in time to save the
“H>UUO dollars bail and be proved innocent.
J-hen the handsome dress-designer bestows
herself in holy matrimony on Perlmutter.
«t SUch , things are only put in to round
ott the play. It is the partners’ business
quarrels and interviews that make it. Any
man who has ever seen two worried old col-
leagues nag away at each other until the
inevitable explosion, must appreciate the
I. and P. comedy. It is the essence of the
complicated insanity we know as commerce,
and is being distilled in real earnest in
thousands of offices every day.
* * * *
Paul Burns (Abe Potash) and Sam Le
Pert (Mawruss Perlmutter) earn this
critic’s thanks for getting next to Nature.
Lizzie Wilson, as the kindly, jealous,
bridge-playing Mrs. Potash, is the real
thing as the middle-aged Jewess. Samuel
Howard makes Marks Pasinskv, the buyer
a real character. Most of us have tried to
make profitable deals with his type and
generally failed. Margaret Vinton, who
plays Ruth Goldman, the clever girl dress-
designer, gives a good sketch of a keen, self-
possessed business woman who knows her
work. She has good looks and a gracious
stage, presence; but she isn’t convincingly
emotional in the love scenes. Lewis Wil-
loughby, a young man who always seems
“THE SILENCE OF DEAN MAITLAND ,”
AT SYDNEY ADELPHI.
Lilian Maitland (Jean Robertson) and the
guilty “ silent ” Dean (Walter Hunt).
plays Boris the wrong-
tully-accused bookkeeper, with moderate
success; but pretty Sylvia Bremer isn’t
madly interesting as his petted fiancee. The
programme tries to persuade her that she is
lima Potash, but she insists on remaining
Sylvia Bremer throughout. John de Lacey
a swindling lawyer, supplies another dread-
ful advertisement for the business morality
of the U.S.A. E. L. Delaney makes two
gabbling appearances as a bragging false-
alarm business-getter; and Nancy Winter
is a natural enough girl-typist. The play
offers the business toiler a great chance to
go and laugh at business, which always was
a silly way of getting a living.
H* sjc »Jc »Jc
“The Girl in the Taxi” is back at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, with Dorothy Brunton in
the star role _of Suzanne. Compared with
the capable girl who was imported to play
the part, and who only laid it down at the
insistent call of matrimony, the Australian
actress excels in every respect but the
capacity to suggest maturity. She does not
look like a. matron who has won an unde-
served prize for virtue, though she might
be a lovely flapper who has deceived some-
one into giving her an innocence certificate.
Jacqueline is played this time by a new-
comer, Miss Cecil Bradley. She presents
the broken walk, the dentifrice smile, the
arm waved briskly across the front of the
body—hall-marks of the ingenue of the
moment —and she has also a very nice voice.
Gwen Hughes looks beautiful as Rose
Charcot, but as an exponent of a life of
unbridled vice she fails to get there. Her
metier is to radiate an atmosphere pleasing
but at the same time strictly respectable.
Florence Vie, on the other hand, is uncon-
vincing as the silver-haired and idiotically
imperceptive mother of the festive Hubert.
C. H. Workman is at his best as the roving
tradesman-warrior, and the same applies to
W. H. Rawlins in the Pecksniff!an part of
the Baron. Paul Plunket is a handsome
Rene, and Fred Maguire makes a lot of the
difficult rOle of Hubert. But Field Fisher as
the Head Waiter is the joy of the show.
‘High Jinks” occurs at this theatre on
Saturday next.
Ss & sH *
The Dean of Mqjtland, stationed tempo-
rarily at Sydney Adelphi, still maintains a
strict silence on the subject of his shady
past. How long he will continue to do so and
“THE SILENCE OF DEAN MAITLAND,”
AT SYDNEY ADELPHI.
Johnny O'Neill and Jack Cosgrove.
to interrupt the church service by expiring
on the carpet is unknqwn. But the date of
final exit cannot be far distant, for the
Adelphi is already getting together a bat-
talion of supers for i,ts. next production,
Our Heroes of the Dardanelles,” which the
management claims will make the blood of
any self-respecting meat-axe boil with
patriotism.
* * * sj:
Beaumont Smith, who resides with his co.
at Sydney Royal, is going to make History
repeat herself, but with a musical accom-
paniment. “Stop Your Nonsense” comes off
on Friday night, and “Mum’s the Word”
arrives with song and dance the following
evening. “Mum” is really a musical ver-
sion of “The Chaperon,” and the managerial
advertisement admits as much in advance.
** * *
At this critical stage in the Empire’s his-
tory it pains The Bulletin to observe that
the S. M. Herald and Daily Telegraph are
in bitter conflict. Talking of the latest addi-
tion to the Tivoli’s programme the Tele-
graph says:—
“After the Play,” a powerful one-act drama,
adapted from the French, was presented on Satur-
day, and, Judging from the cordial appreciation with
which it was received, it should be a very popular
addition to the programme. In strict accordance
with the tabloid principle, everything is rigidly con-
densed,. and the incidents of the plot—all of their,
highly dramatic—follow one another in rapid
sequence.
The Herald, on the other hand, breaks her
umbrella over the head of the hussy :
“After the Play,” with the superfluous French
label “Adapted from the French,” was put on as a
dramatic novelty at the Tivoli on Saturdav. The
talent of Mr.. Cyril Mackay and Mr. Arthur Styan is
wasted in this coarse imitation of Sardou’s “Friends.”
The Bulletin would hate to say a word that
would be petrol to the flames; it therefore
merely remarks that “After the Play” is a
powerful one-act drama on Saturdays and a
poor thing with a superfluous French label on
Mondays, a coarse imitation of Sardou’s
“Friends” viewed from the stalls and a con-
densation of highly dramatic events following
in rapid sequence when seen from the dress-
circle. Among other performers Terry and
Lambert and Clemons and Dean, all from
U.S.A., and Rochez’s monkeys (don’t know
where they come from) are the least likely
to be sacked within the next few days,
$
“The Royal Strollers” are in their
seventh week at the Palace (Sydney), and
have extended their lease of the theatre.
Business is so brisk that it is not safe to
rely upon getting a seat any night unless a
passport has been obtained in advance from
the official box-office.
This week’s picture despatches from
Sydney
Lyric: ‘Which Shall It Be?” concerning an old
couple who had plenty of money but no encum-
brances, and another couple who had numerous chil-
dren but no bank balance.
Crystal Palace: Jack London’s “Sea Wolf,” in' six
reels. Something exceptional in the way of films.
Colonial : “Gussle Rivals Jonah,” the Keystone
Co. s version of Jonah and the great fish, 1915 model.
Empress: “Tools of Providence,” wherein the
effectiveness of a six-shooter as a means of obtaining
converts compares very favorably with that of the
collection-plate.
“POTASH AND PERLMUTTER,” AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Perlmutter (Sam Le Bert) and Potash
(Paul Burns).
Save for an untimely burst of merriment
that greeted Muriel Starr’s announcement of
her love for the professed criminal she was
trying to trap, the false situations of “Under
Lover” seemed to hold Saturday night’s audi-
ence at Melbourne Royal spell-bound, as a
rule. Public taste evidently is quite easy
to spell. . Three months ago “Under Cover”
happened in Sydney, and The Bulletin
divulged even more of its plot than is laid
bare in the advts., so there is only need to
remark that the final “surprise,” which this
journal noted aforetime, is a stultification
He? darned show, like the climax
of Seven Keys to Baldpate.” But in this
case it is not presented as a practical joke.
It is supposed, to be accepted as a serious
fact which entitles Miss Starr to remain in
love with C. A. Millward, the impossible
Sherlock Holmes of the proceedings. It
is really more absurd than the idea of a
Sherlock Holmes being able to carry on the
business of grafter-catcher for a long period
without revealing his identity to the grafters,
or the idea of his scheming to avoid being
trapped, when his sole purpose was to trap
the blackmailer who was trying to trap him.
Whv all. the mysterious manoeuvres of Sher-
lock, seeing that he couldn’t achieve his end
until after he was charged with smuggling?
* * * *
In a drama where only minor characters
have, a semblance of truth, the emotional act-
ing of the principals appears mechanical, on
the face of it. Millward suggests no depth of
feeling in his impersonation of a sham
“crook,” nor does Miss Starr quite succeed
m dispelling the audience’s recollection of
her unlovely outfit in the first act. Plumer
is a loud, intimidating customs-house official
instead of a roaring policeman, and of the
other people only Blakiston is concerned in
the plot. EJis sketch of the faint-hearted,
harmless Monty is capital. Lizette Parkes
plays a soulless Sassiety girl; Miss Davies
“UNDER COVER"—A NOD YANK FELODRAMA
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The days are gone when Beauty Bright
Chose Virtue for her lover,
And gave delight the livelong night
To noisy gods above her.
The hero bold, the maiden chaste,
Her dad the cursey farmer —
Their sort of play has been replaced
By Noo Yank felodrama.
Where dudes inane in johnnie tones
Once stammered out excuses,
Policemen now put telephones
To crime-detecting uses ;
The comic-footman, the soubrette
And ruined village charmer,
Have left the track ; they are not met
In Noo Yank felodrama.
Cute specialists in social crimes
The managers are staging,
And “crook” with “crook” these latter times
A war of wits is waging;
Surprise-stienes flit across the plot
Like moving panorama,
And moral purpose matters not
In Noo Yank felodrama.
Once black was black, and plays were built
On primitive emotions;
Anon a lot of ink was spilt
In giving girlies notions.
The bedroom story had its vogue
In nightgown and pyjamas ;
But now they cater for the Rogue
With Noo Yank felodramas.
In “Under Cover” there’s a blend
Of “crook” and bedroom story,
A false surprise that marks the end
Deludes both Rad. and Tory.
I’ll take my virgin aunt to see,
And trust it may not harm her,
This sample of the third degree
In Noo Yank felodrama.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


GOODRICH TYRES
DUVAL S CO.,
13 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
300 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
CORNELL LTD., Adelaide.
Best in the Long Run.
A DELIGHTFUL STIMULANT.
anre
RED STAR WHISKY
Smith’s Easy-Lift Motor Jacks
■ " ""X ,* * ’
;^Sir
SSs
f.
Handiest for Road-side Use.
In the Smith Jacks the handle, though
30 inches long, does not rise at the end
more than 18 to 21 inches.
Thus it can move up and , down between
the springs and petrol tank.
The one illustrated is No. . 363, a sturdy
little Jack weighing only 311 b. Height
when down, 10 inches—maximum run out,
15 inches.
“.Built like, a girder—staunch and strong.”
Good for cars up to one ton.
Price 6/6 Each.
Many other models —all British—made by
Smith & Sons Ltd., London..
ERIC BOULT LTD.,
Managing
Agents,
79-81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone—City 2401.
Elizabeth House,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne
’Phone-Cen. 9527.
is quietly effective as the contented spouse
a polite, boozy old nincompoop ; and feydney
Stirling is the thirsty nonentity. lhe play
is neatly staged, the waits between the acts
are tedious, the young actress who plays the
sinning sister has nearly everything to learn
about acting, and the smuggler lady who pie-
tends to deaf-and-dumbness is the last woici
in stage fiction —Bernhardt couldn t be con-
vincing in such a part.
sj: * * *
“Babes in the Wood," at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, has been slightly curtailed since the
first night, but it still contains more stun
than is quite enough for any panto-vauc.e-
mime to go on with. Besides, the Hebiew
comedians and others have quite recently been
doing the same sort of thing at another house.
The panto goes eight performances a week
and its allotted span of life, has not been
mentioned thus far. What it wants is a
rapid improvement in the war cables, so
that all good patriots will feel encouraged to
come along and help to count the Kaiser out.
At Melbourne King’s they are about to
shunt “The Squatter’s Daughter,” which
commercial-minded drama seems to have
grown thin and lost a lot of its native color
in the space of eight or nine years. On
Saturday the Bert Bailey. co. will get a
drama more to its liking in “Aot Under-
stood.” This is of a domestic character, and
is expected to appeal to the Sex that has the
more graceful understandings, but is the
least understood.
** * *
The entertainment known as “After the
Girl” detained The Bulletin at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) on Saturday. From the
inauspicious start in Paris to the frivolous
finish in London, there is hardly a moment
when the overwhelming comedy element
rises above the level of clowning. Old stunts
like the maladroit Cockney’s mismanage-
ment of the French language are rung in,
and even the hoary business of a heavy
father expressing his anger with table-
smashing emphasis is inserted to cadge
laughter and applause. Certainly,, dressing
and scenery are admirable, especially, the
concluding pub interior, where evervthing is
tidied up with drinks; but those features
only serve to accentuate the banality of a
protracted girl hunt on the part of an obese
Amurkan citizen and his French missus,
with an English johnny, his servant and
various sundries whipping in. The whole
thing is so preposterous that conjecture as
to the outcome of the story is soon swamped
by a strong feeling of sympathy for the
mummers who are obliged to carry on the
joke. Phil Smith is most worthy of public
consideration in this regard, for he has the
most arduous part and does so well. that
frequently he makes a burbling triviality
sound like humor. Bantock is a Yankee
manufacturer on stodgy British lines, with
John Bull whiskers to show that he has a
patriotic bias in the matter. Bantock’s
stout French missus is Maggie Moore, who
would look more suitable if the part was
twins. Still she tries, to make something of
the flimsy role, and if she doesn’t succeed
“THE BABES IN THE WOOD.” AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Dan Thomas as the
Dame.
Maid Marion (Ray
de Vere).
it isn’t lier fault. Miss Thelma Raye,
Maggie’s stage daughter,'® looks winsome;
Derek Hudson revives his tragic bandit
style for a Dago role of no importance;
Jack Ralston finds little use for his voice as
a Dutch Count; Miss Maggie Dickinson’s
dancing is the brilliant feature of a part
that is too big for her; and Leslie Holland
appears helpless in an imbecile character.
“After the Girl” is only for six nights. It
really deserves six months. A revival of
“Our Miss Gibbs” is promised for Saturday.
“Jean Sibi” at Will Dyson’s show
Will Dyson, who has his show of cartoons at Mel-
bourne Centreway, pictures Kultur in all its con-
glomerate agony of cannons and dead bodies, and
makes it look disgusting in many fine creations.
Threatening, chinless Kaisers supported by stout and
arrogant Generals symbolise the German AY ar Spirit
as Dyson sees it, and he pricks the bubble of its
pride and vanity with a hand that never fails and
a satire that never errs on the side of mercy. Pen,
pencil and brush are employed in the righteous job
of baiting Prussianism, and sometimes the artist
uses a light wash of water-color to add piquancy to
his conceptions. The Prehistoric Ancestor in No. 8
seems the better for being green, and Krupp in No.
29 gains in roandness and reality. by having his
complexion mentioned in light, anaemic hues. In-
dian ink unrelieved, however, is strong enough to
reveal Dyson’s opinion of War Materialism and Wai
itself, as savagely depicted in “Honor is Satisfied.
Elsewhere Dyson vigorously damns his old enemy,
Capitalism. The partisan representation is invariably
trenchant and delightful; but it shows base in-
gratitude to Capitalism, nevertheless. For, without
the existence of Capitalism, Dyson’s art might have
long sighed for a fetich to conquer. As things are,
it has lived on the Fat of the land for a long time
now. i.
“THE BABES IN THE WOOD,” AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Simple Simon (Ted
Stanley).
Friar Tuck sings
about the Kaiser.
One of the new turns at Melbourne Tivoli
is a breezy novelty and a charming nature
study, so to speak. Stafford and Co. com-
prises Stafford in person, a plump lady of
limited importance, and a couple of dogs, the
pointer that stands in the centre of the little
sylvan scene when the curtain. rises being
the silent spirit of it. Stafford is a matter-
of-fact actor with a talent for whistling bird-
notes, and making noises like grindstones and
things. And his arrangement of his uncon-
ventional turn is artistic in all particulars,
not excluding the final incident of a dawg
knocking down the lady who falls back upon
Stafford. One so rarely gets an impression
of artistic effect from a plump lady falling
backwards that this exception is worth not-
ing. Marshall, who chalks caricatures with
his left hand, is a bright turn, though he
lasts a trifle too long. Annie Kent, “vivaci-
ous comedienne from America,” cuts very
little ice as compared with the returned Ida
Barr, who leaves vivacity out of her calcu-
lations. Ida is just massive and magnetic,
and her voice deserves something better than
ragged rhymes set to raggy tunes, one of the
melodies being built for a funeral march.
The rest of the bill is crowded with familiar
turns, good and otherwise. Some of the
otherwises, sad to say, are subjected _to
encores, which drive men out to get a drink
after the pubs are shut. Now that pubs
close at 9.80, the encore nuisance calls fox-
drastic legislation.
Two of the Tait entertainments have left
Melbourne to tour around. The Belgian Band
finished at the Auditorium last Tuesday, and
Louise Mack, late of the Athenaeum Hall, is
bound for the West. The chatty Woman
from the War opens at Her Majesty’s, Perth,
on the Hth. Meanwhile she is writing up a
diary book of her travels in this land of her
birth—which, she says, strikes her on her
return to it as being “rather like a big
picnic.”
$ s’! *
The first part of Melbourne Bijou pro-
gramme is now mortgaged by Victor Prince
and Co. in an unmusical aberration called
“The Midnight Club.” _ Prince as a festive
copper and Charles Zoli as a Dago cafe pro-
prietor caper engagingly enough, but the
others are generally amateurish _ and only
occasionally sing up to professional form.
The second part of the bill is a small feast
of odd things, ranging from Princess Indita’s
rattlesnakes to Madam Marion’s protean
tricks,, and including a “baffling”, illusionist
and a musical sundowner. Taken alto-
gether-, a very good lot.
** $ *
Adelaide Tivoli, which H. D. Mclntosh
has been visiting, and which has Crawford
back as manager, has suddenly returned to
its own Variety line with Jack Cannot,
Isabelle D’Armond, and the old familiar
Follies. Meantime Brandon Cremer again
moves into the Royal, and, deserting melo-
drama for farce, himself plays lead in the
venerable “Charley’s Aunt.” The King’s
has got right out of the song-and-dance
groove; the Maxwells cycling, Stevens bal-
ancing, Campbell juggling, and Merlyn in
an alleged conjuring turn, help to build up
a strong programme. Branscombe’s Dandies
(“orange” variety) are at the Town Hall
for a time. Violet Paine has uplifted her
fine voice at the Queen’s Hall in costume
recitals from a lot of operas.
* * * *
From an Adelaide critic: —
W. J. Wadham, who used to paint Maoriland
scenery in a kind of partnership with A. Sinclair,
has come back to Adelaide with a fine bunch of
press-notices and a range of landscapes, many of them
already exhibited at various London galleries. His
one-man show, now open in the Society of Arts’
large room, has pictures from far-west Canada, Hol-
land, Loch Lomond, Tasmania and M.L., Central
and South Africa, and bits of green England. He
has an imposing list of Patrons (English fashion),
and of sales to various galleries. His art seems to
have mellowed since 20 years ago. The coloring is
less vivid. The Scotch and Dutch scenes are charm-
ing, and the whole collection, with two exceptions,
is priced with a modesty that other Australian artists
have outgrown. One of the exceptions is a curiosity
—a Welsh coast scene that seems outclassed by most
of its neighbors; yet it is the only one proudly
claiming to have been “exhibited on the line, Royal
Academy, 1913” ! As a foil to the perpetual land-
scape Mr. Wadham has hung a few figure-paintings
—mostly Early Victorian and quaint—that he has
picked up on his travels.
In South Australia’s Assembly the other
night:—
Mr. Smeaton: I am told that whisky once saved
my life.
Mr. Peake : The effects of whisky always were
bad.
Cordial!
Commonwealth Attorney-General W. M.
Hughes in a memorandum concerning the
War Census says :
It is now, unhappily, only too probable that this
dreadful war will continue for at least another year.
....Two things are certain —one, that we must con-
tinue to fight with every ounce of energy we
possess; the other, that we can do this only by a
complete organisation of all our resources.
Penalties for lying or evasion run up to
£5OO and 12 months on skilly. There is a
large chance to earn the free board and resi-
dence when you come to the question,
“What other occupation (if any) could you
undertake?” The papers must be filled in
and returned before September 15, or the
nearest date thereto that the postal arrange-
ments will permit.
The death of F. A. Badgery, M.L.A. for
Wollondilly (N.S.W.), closes a curious tri-
angle. It was he who refused to surrender
the party selection in favor of William
McMillan so that the latter might get a leg-
up to the leadership when Wade could be
shifted. McMillan then turned to Wil-
loughby and lost his party the seat to “Ted”
Larkin. That threw McMillan out of the
hunt for keeps. Larkin went to the war
and was killed, and now Badgery is dead.
He was a 63-year-old member of a pioneer
stock-breeding and stock-selling clan.
Two Victoria Crosses have just come
South Australia’s . way. Lance Hawker,
who gets one, is a grandson of George
Hawker, the founder of a large family, and
his widowed mother lives on Bungaree
station. His father (killed in the hunting
field) was a naval man who went into the
Boer war from Adelaide as a private sol-
dier, just for the fun of the thing, and nearly
a dozen uncles and cousins are busy in the
present trouble. Hawker’s Cross was for
fighting three German aeroplanes single-
handed. Only three months ago he got the
D.S.O. for bombing a Zeppelin shed at
Ghent. The other Cross belongs to Corporal
Cosgrove, of the Munster Fusiliers, for
going out single-handed and pulling down
wire entanglements on Gallipoli. There
seems to (be not much doubt that he is an
old Prince Alfred College boy who went
from Adelaide with the Light Horse.
The proposition of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment to take long-sentence prisoners from
other States as permanent boarders shows
what a grand thing it is to have earnest
financial reformers at the head of affairs.
As the Ma State (whim grabbed the wheat)
has a certain amdunf of hominy to spare
and some empty tcells, the commercial in-
stinct naturally suggests putting these
cotnmodities to profitable use.
Failing ability to raise a loan, the Ministry
might easily make a few bob a week by
running an inter-State penitentiary. There
are' all sorts of possibilities in the venture.
Pinchgut could be put to its historic use;
old Darlinghurst gaol might have its shabby
glories revived; Cockatoo Island regain
some of its ancient fame. Thus in quite
an unexpected way the birth-stain might be
turned to good, old stocks of leg-irons being
dragged out from dark places and rattled
before the world to show that we are no
new-chums at the business.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Avis” (from somewhere in Mesopotamia) :
Our fellows are laughing yet. We’re at
Basra, or Bussorah or Busrah (any old way
does), in what was until lately Turkish
Arabia, at the head of the Persian Gulf. The
show was run by Chaldeans, who have been
round about the neighborhood since Noah’s
time. For our benefit “Julius Caesar” was
put on —“Julius Caesar” in broken English,
most of it. It was funnier than “Charley’s
Aunt.” Ju. was portrayed in flowing robes,
black stockings, dancing shoes and a pince-
nez. When the followers of Mark Antony
and Brutus got to grips, the Chaldeans,
Syrians and Arabs put up a willing go and
kept at it till the prompter rushed on and
tore them apart. “Kipperlerlyy” was sung
as a finale. The audience included most of
the Australian Flying Corps.
The father of Flo Graupner died early
this year; and as the old man was 88 and
the youngest of four brothers, Dr. “Billy”
Maloney, M.H.R., an old friend of the
family, doubts the truth of a recently-
printed yarn that “the Dr. Carl Graupner
who boasts that he can provide the Huns
with the most murderous gas oil record
is an uncle of Flo Graupner.” So far as
the family in Australia knows, the last sur-
viving uncle died 30 years ago. Dr. Maloney
adds: “Poor Flo, it will be remembered,
broke down utterly in health years ago;
and her family has given her all the skill
that science could offer. Alas, without avail!
'Now the destruction of their factory by fire
has limited their resources; and an appeal
may be made presently to the public, : with
whom the little woman was so great a fav-
orite. Remembering how many she assisted
in her career, I feel sure when the appeal
is made it will be answered so that there
will be no further need to fear for her
future.”
“Nibbidard”: The effort of a corpse to
give a bad “study” a lift is recalled to my
mind by the young woman who took the
part of juvenile lead on the occasion. About
15 years ago “Held by the Enemy” was
being performed at the Standard Theatre,
Sydney. It is a civil-war play, in which
soldiers clank and swank to and likewise
fro, amid much giving of passwords and
countersigns. In one scene a dead hero is
carried through on a stretcher. The sentinel
whose lines were indispensable to the tran-
sit of the corpse with proper military pomp
was a shockingly bad study. As he stumbled
through his words, everyone on the stage
usually prompted him in turn. The climax
came when at last the corpse, stiffly com-
posed under a white sheet, lost his temper
at the delay in the play’s action, and hissed
out the final words required. The retort
they brought from the sentinel, who wanted
to know who was playing this blanky part,
anyhow, was the success of the evening.
E. J. Carroll, the Brisbane showman, is
the latest to feel hurt about it: —
Australia is getting a beautiful advertisement from
the old convict hulk Success! Out of curiosity I
went along, and the gentleman who was “shooting
the spruik,” as they say in U.S.A., was something
long to be remembered. Just to pepper up the show
a bit the owners have added the Kelly gang since I
saw it in Australia, and the dramatic manner in
which the spruiker explained that Ned Kelly’s mother
in her good-bye to him before his death on the scaf-
fold said: “Die like a Kelly, Ned,” was something
beautiful. It is time the Australian authorities took
a hand, and either sank the vessel or hauled it back
home and chained it up there. At present it is being
employed to give entirely wrong and injurious ideas
about Australia, in a country that has too many nefa-
rious ideas about us already.
Saker, the captain husband of Winnie
Volt, one of Williamson’s “Come Over
Here” girls, was killed at the Dardanelles
recently. Saker toured Maoriland with his
wife, and when war broke out just escaped
internment. He was travelling to Dunedin
from Ch’ch, and the police got him tangled
up with a more than commonly dangerous
German, with the result that he was
bumped into the cells. It was Colonel
Malone, since killed in Gallipoli, who per-
suaded the local police that Saker was true-
blue.
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prom rural parts came Joseph Tupp
Upon his annual burst;
For twelve months he had hoarded up
His present gorgeous thirst;
In city bars he drank delight
Of battle with his beers each night.
At half-past nine his roving eye
A playhouse sign descried;
He bought a ticket, heav’d a sigh
And turned to go inside.
A man who wore a large cigar
Stepped forward Joseph’s way to bar.
“No good, you can’t go in,” he cried.
Tupp paused a while to blink.
“W’y no’?” he asked. “Because,” replied
The other, “you’re in drink.”
“O’ course I’m drunk, or else,” hic’d Joe
“I wouldn’t wanner see yo’ show!”
Victoria.
HARRISON O.


ENGLISH-MADE HORSE-HIDE
SHOOTING BOOTS
These Boots are made of genuine
English Horse-hide (the toughest of
all leathers) and specially treated
with a non-greasy preparation that
renders them perfectly ■ waterproof.
Hound toes and welted soles, very
strongly sewn. A boot we thoroughly
recommend for comfort and hard
wear. A pair of these will outlast
three pairs of ordinary boots. In all
men’s sizes, 37/6 pair.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
’A3NGAS Od’D ddo
Keep up
Your Strength
by taking
oyeum
m
m
S&phospv«£s
Of all Chemists,
1/3, 2/9, 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion promotes appetite
soothes and strengthens the organs of
digestion overcomes nervous depression
and builds up strength. Its tonic, invigor-
ating influence makes it of special value
for nervous debflitv and all “run-down”
conditions. It is a very real help in
preventing and correcting digestive troubles
and restoring proper tone to a'l the
digestive functions. Angier’s Emulsion is
pleasant to take and is absolutely harmless.
It is endorsed by the medical profession.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
ANrTFD an r«» nC * a(^res<; ’ pottage, and mention this paper.
-HEMical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney,
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
“Y.Z.” ; Melbourne, teetotallers are invited
in a 1 !? Z f th a y C ? n the marked increase
in arrests for drunkenness since the new
F?mv S1 “VV S pUt int0 operation.
l ' Vish to demonstrate from
advisability of keeping pubs open
nh.?w Ifc , 1S ’ 1 contend, the closing of
pubs that produces the mischief. When the
Melbourne pubs were closed at the later
t 1 , 0 " 1 ; two previous soldier riots in the city
started at half-past 11. The latest disor-
derly outburst and the most turbulent of all
commenced just after the new closing time
haif-past nine. From this it is obvious that
the danger is in shutting the hotels, no
matter at what hour.
* * * *
From an Australian nurse in England •
Not even now can the English drop their follies.
One of our own brown boys—the dearest, bravest old
growlers m the world—grinningly told me what hap-
pened to-day outside in the grounds. He was with
a couple of Marmaduke Percies—all three on
crutches. Arrived some ladies who had met the two
Marmaduke Percies before, and were very affable
Of course they introduced their friend, and in the
course of conversation his rating came under suspi-
cion. “Are you not an officah?” asked a lorgnette
with great frigidity. “No—a private,” he confessed ;
and a large abysmal silence descended. By degrees
he fell till he was addressed as “My poor man,” and
they wanted to know if he had enough tobacco. Yet
he is a Marmaduke Percy, too, and could buy and
sell the others, in spite of being clad in the sickening
habiliments of Billjim. But they were good chaps,
the others. They gritted their teeth and conducted
a masterly retreat.
AN UNSATISFACTORY BILLET.
THE BOSS (reproving cadging black): “Why, I made you king of this station, and you
ought to be very well satisfied”
BILLY : “Mine thinkit common pheller like you got more better job, Boss.”
“Eye-Witness,” from another field of
Blood:—•
The trouble and tumult began when a damsel of
interesting aspect was seen to precipitate herself out
of a doorway, and rush along Bourke-street in the
direction of Swanston-street, holding her head on,
apparently. People she passed in her wild career
noticed that her face was deadly pale, her eyes
were round with terror, and she was liberally blood-
stained.
In the course of 27 seconds a bare-headed man shot
out of the same doorway, and went in pursuit of
the maiden. He had what appeared to be a lethal
weapon in his hand, and his face was set like
cement.
The girl climbed on the dummy of a tram point-
ing north, still holding her head, as if that was her
one hope of retaining it. The man discovered her
there. The girl jumped off, and fled round the car.
The man dashed after her. Twice the girl ducked
and doubled, wilder horror in her eye, the blood-
stains in evidence, and her face ghastly in its pallor.
With a desperate swoop the man secured her.
What he might have done next one can only
conjecture, for at this moment a massive soldier,
bent on preventing homicide within the city limits,
stepped off the dummy, and smote the aggressive male
on the chin. The villain who had pursued her
backed 12 paces, falling all the way, and slid into
the gutter.
The girl, holding her head on with splendid reso-
lution, looked frantically right and left, and ran
up Swanston-street, going north in a splendid sprint.
The man in the gutter sat up, and shook off the
warrior, who was still bent on averting bloodshed.
“Go way, you damfool!’’ he wailed. “I’m a den-
tist. That’s girl’s escaped from my chair. She’s
got three of my instruments in her idiot mouth.”
Then the pursuit was resumed.
* * * *
The more or less blind appointment of a
Belgian as Director of the new Sydney Con-
servatorium and his announcement that he
doesn’t _ think much of British methods and
institutions and proposes to be “Continen-
tal,” recalls that many Britishers ar.e clamor-
ing for a national Protection sentiment in
music. They resurrect an anecdote that Isi-
dore de Lara tells about a young lady fiddler
who had been schooled at a local academy of
music -one of the endowed London acade-
mies. The girl came along to the critic
with a bit of Brahms, and when he asked
her to play an English composition she art-
lessly replied that she had nothing English
in her repertoire. This commonplace re-
minder of Britain’s shocking lack of patriot-
ism in the matter of music is moving a lot of
I reetraders to talk of protective action.
“Something ought to be done,” they say, to
encourage the local producer of sonatas and
things. The fact that the market is swamped
with foreign music and foreign teachers (who
naturally push the wares of their respective
countries) had occurred to these Freetrade
apostles years ago, but now for the first time
they propose to make a move. The war has
done thus much for a few Britishers. If it
laste a very long time they may begin to talk
of Protection for local manufactures in gen-
eral, and finally even the thickest-skulled
hreetrade jingo may get infected with a
vague suspicion that practical patriotism de-
mands a Protective tariff as well as compul-
sory military service.
“Private Jim” : I have been in camp three
weeks, and have seen more stoush than
many a soldier actually at the Front. The
goods are delivered every night in the open
air, and the combats are mostly produced by
some trouble or other about
Jam. Hitherto I had the
impression that Jam was a
harmless article of food;
but, with the abolition of the
wet canteen, the dry grocery
suddenly became more potent
than beer. The allowance
is one 21b. tin to 10 men,
which means 3.20 z. per man.
It seems incredible that such
a paltry ration should rouse
the fighting instincts of men,
but the fact is so well
assured that it is
now the firm belief
of most of us that
the rum served out
to the Australians
before landing at
Gallipoli was doped
with boiled cur-
rants.
INDISCRIMINATE YOUTH.
SHE: "The Boucher hoy is going round boasting of having kissed your wife after the last
waits.”
HE: “Nothing to brag about. Eve done it myself at his age.”
Cachit”: The layman confounds typhus
with what is generally known as typhoid.
The two are wide apart. Typhoid is water-
borne ; typhus, far more deadly, is handed
around by the louse. Servia has just been
ravaged by typhus, but is now said to be
clear, which means that the louse has been
stamped out. Typhus has been the dread of
every army since the hosts of the Pharaohs
went looting. It played old Harry with the
Romans, and while Napoleon’s armies were
sweeping across Europe typhus sent tens of
thousands more to Kingdom Come than did
tbe bayonet. It may be so yet in this war,
for the struggle is being carried on under
conditions favorable to its distribution. A
fighting army doesn’t get up in the morning
from clean sheets and have a bath and a
shave and comb its hair, nor does it brush
its clothes and put on fresh underwear and
change its socks. Instead, it springs hur-
riedly from its verminous straw, swallows
its breakfast and spends day and night in
the togs it put on a month before. It only
washes itself by instalments, and is a frowsy,
prehistoric-looking thing that sits down and
scratches itself like Adam’s grandfather.
The Germans have tackled. the louse with
regiments of barbers and gas and portable
machines for sterilising clothes, for they
know that to an army that is verminous—
as ali armies are—the arrival of the louse
with typhus aboard means death. Thev
a F e . ao . w claiming that Kultur has
absolutely conquered the insect. and
they feel so pleased about it that re-
cently flags were hoisted throughout the
land. Looked at without prejudice it seems
a better excuse than the torpedoing of a
passenger', ship with women and babies
aboard.
*' * * »
“Kodak”: In common with the rest of .
humanity, I am looking on through tear-
dimmed spectacles at the stupendous farce-
tragedy of all time—poor, old, muddled Ger-
mania Gott strafing everybody and trying
to mend the torn pants of History with
guncotton. J
, ‘‘Carfax’: So the Maoris have boon
ing a haka in their trench at Gallipoli, h ave '
they? Veil, they haven’t. Impossible I!
start with. The haka requires space and the
King s uniform left behind. People often talk
of haying witnessed the haka. Have thev u w
seen R performed in theatres, at exhibitions
at Rotorua and outside the country p A
Certainly they have ! But the sort of haka
the tourist consumes is about as much lite
the real thing as a Methodist bunrush is 1 ke
a cannibal feast. Asa matter of fact verv
few pakehas now living have sampled Hip
genuine article, and the Maori himself is ,
bit shy of touching it. Of all savage dances
it is, m its native state, the most awful The
next generation under ordinary ci'rcnm
stances will know nothing about it—unless
the Maoriland Government rises to the ocoa-
sion. A splendid opportunity is at hand or
wil be presently. Let the Maoris who come
back from the war be landed on a remote
part ot the coast, and let their women be in
the bush a couple of miles distant with urn,is
full of te kai. Then if everyone else boEd
and the transport put out to sea the subse
quent proceedings would be haka. A Maori
kinematograph operator of mature years
could be engaged in advance, and if he kept
his head and his handle moving there would
be embalmed a film of priceless value to
students in later years. The liaka of by-
gone days only reached its proper stage of
realism .when the fighting men of a tribe
were returning from a little affair. I saw
one once, and didn’t sleep for a week after.
Such a film as is here suggested might be
made the nucleus of a State picture-palace,
the income therefrom to go towards extin-
guishing the public debt. The audience?
Why, there would be a rush of tourists from
all parts of the stricken earth.
“T. Winkle” : The bishop was at the rail-
way station to give his benediction to an
imported vicar who with a wife was on bis
way to a northern diocese and solitude.
“Now,” said his Gaiters, “gocd-bye. Re-
member the place you are going to is not a
grand one. But it is healthy and comfort-
able. And _ whatever you do, don’t pretend
to be superior to the Australians, because —
well—because you are not. None of us
are. Now jump in! And don’t forget.”
Was this a sign of the Great Awakening or
of the spread of heresy?
* * * *
The earthly affairs of Hannah Maria
Neale, deceased, have been occupying a con-
siderable amount of the time of the Sydney
Equity Court during the last few months.
Various people borrowed large sums of
money from Mrs. Neale at various times,
and they have recently resisted attempts on
behalf of the directors of the estate to re-
cover the principal moneys and interest. The
borrowings are not denied ; but the borrowers
raise the point that Mrs. Neale carried on
business as a money-lender without having
registered herself, and that, therefore, the
agreements and securities made in respect
to the loans were illegal and void under the
Act. So the fate of very large sums of
money is balanced on a point of law, with
Costs drawing substantial dividends from
the proceedings all the time, and Equity
Judge Harvey making blistering remarks
about the people who raise such a defence.
The High Court will probably have the last
word.
THE MEMORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
hisses are like ripe fruit that will not keep.
Stored for a while, maybe, they somewhat mellow :
But kept on red lips they are apt to creep
To meet the parched mouth of some other fellow
Knowing these things, I did not let one waste,
But gathered twenty gross in happy haste.
Alas, that time and tide will wait for none!
The tram arrived, our homeward journey started ;
Our web of dreams in pleasant moonlight spun
Tore into shreds directly we had parted.
Our young romance was ended. All the same,
1 wish I could remember that girl’s name.
N.s.w.
CURSE 0’ MOSES.


FOR YOUR AFTERNOONS
INTRODUCE
ARNOTT’S
4 Orange Slice’
&
§
T
Biscuits
A DELICIOUS
NOVELTY
“P#RVIOLa"
(LUXURIA ‘'SERIES. )
w m s
THE GENUINE'is branded JJARVIOLA Q
OERFUMERYU'
An ExQu/sf/'e/c/ refined and
l.axar/oc/5 /d/'/efi wafer.
“NO VESTE” SPORTS SUITS
for the sunny days outdoors.
For mountaineering, for travel or leisure wear on days that are hot
and oppressive, you will find true comfort as well as good style in
a Peapes’ “No-veste” (Reg’d.) Sports Suit.
They are admirably smart suits, designed and made in a manner
that will appeal to you and to others.
AVe quote one of several new styles.
GREY HERRINGBONE TAVEED, light shade, pronounced pattern.
Goat has yoke back and pleats let into stitched half-band, and four
outside patch pockets to button. Trousers have side, hip and fob
pockets.
READY TO WEAR, 45-
Please state chest, waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES <O. CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
m
“Lancet” : Lister House, named after the
famous British surgeon, rises enormous on
the south-east corner Of Collins and Exhibi-
tion streets, Melbourne, for the housing of
Sawbones. Already there are Forty Th—-
Therapeutics in the Doctors’ Commons of
Collins-street East. I’d like to have
time to write a history of departed
Melbourne medicoes. What appalling
masses of ignorance (according to pre-
sent lights) would be unearthed! _ Our
great Fitzgerald said: “When Lister’s
antiseptic ideas came out, I pooh-poohed
them; but now I would be more cautious
even than Lister.” An eminent and amiable
Melbourne practitioner died of a broken
heart because of the ladies he had innocently
killed. Iiev. Bromby, as a committee-man of
Melbourne Hospital, once asked : “When are
the floors washed?” A surgeon: “Never.”
Bromby thought he was beautifully sarcas-
tic when he retorted: “Well, this is the first
time ever I heard anything against the vir-
tues of soap and water.” Even he lived to
learn that soap and water wouldn’t be of
any great service just there.
INCURABLE.
“That was hard hick of Chesty—outed
because of his feet!”
“Why, whatever was the matter with them?”
“Cold!”
Recently several brutes have written to
the newspapers to express the disgust of
patriotic men that women should attend
patriotic concerts without bringing their
knitting along. This idea that an obligation
is imposed upon every woman to keep her
hands full of socks, pyjamas and other war-
like necessities, in order to assist our forces
to victory, might easily be extended. Men
are just as capable of turning out knitted
goods as women if they like to study the
game; and when the nation is properly
organised on these lines the great dailies
will be able to publish something like this:
Mr. David Storey, who was the first speaker,
handed his knitting to Professor David as he ad-
vanced to the front of the platform. Exhibiting the
certificate of his rejection by the military authorities,
he made an impressive appeal for men, and still
more men, who, he declared, were wanted even as
urgently as loan moneys by the State Government.
Mr. Bruce Smith did not neglect work even while
he was speaking. A neat pile of finished sandbags
was the evidence of his industry, and he added two
more to the heap while he spoke. He pointed out
that the birth certificate which he had had neatly
sewn in the front of his waistcoat explained the
reason why he was saying “Go” instead of “Come.”
Mr. Willie Watt read a letter from Mr. Holman,
of Sydney, stating that his services as a recruiting
agent were required in Australia, and declared that,
on the eve of enlisting, that letter had decided him
to remain, in order to make recruiting- speeches and
pyjamas (loud cheers).
The curiosity which many present at the meeting
felt about the occupation of Dr. Arthur (who during
the other speeches sat upon Mr. Smith’s sandbags and
wrote with great haste) was satisfied when he ex-
plained that he was busy with his fifty-first letter to
the press offering to take charge of the organisation
of the whole of the available men of Australia on a
military basis.
At the conclusion of the meeting there was a
large muster of recruits, no fewer than 57 volunteers
offering to make pyjamas. .
Senator Millen, who, subsequent to the meeting,
provided our representative with instructive figures
making a comparison between the total losses in the
Battle of Waterloo and the number of men who have
already been provided with socks knitted by members
of the Senate and State Legislative Councils, ex-
pressed the opinion that the result of the meeting
was a triumph for the voluntary principle.
A person signing himself “H. Thompson”
has wept half a gallon or more into the
Argus about the iniquity of the income tax.
Thompson, it seems, has to get along
without work on a net income of £l6
per week, derived from property. He
is a widower with six children. His
sister-in-law has
to support her-
self and nine
children, two of
them in employ-
ment, and eight
of them over 16,
on £l5 weekly.
In view of these
harrowing cir-
cumstances
Thompson wants
to know how
he is going to
make both ends
meet after the
income tax has been
shorn from him. As
for his sister-in-law,
the outlook appears so
appalling that unless
somebody comes to the
rescue she will have
to get rid of her gar-
den e r. Apparently
Thompson is quite seri-
ous. At any rate, the
Argus is, because it
gives the wail pride of
place in a column de-
voted to “Hard Cases.”
Can nothing be done
for these afflicted
people? Say, a special
tax on all _ married
men under 23 in re-
ceipt of £2 weekly, the
proceeds to be applied
to the relief of the
plentiful Australian
Thompsons and their
frequent sisters-in-law.
How the bachelor
Thompson with £l6 a
week is going to face
the situation the Lord only knows. *
All the pluck is not in Flanders and Galli-
poli. About five o’clock one morning' last
week the watchman discovered a fire in the
flax and hemp cargo in the Union Go. s
Waimarino, lying at Victoria dock, Mel-
bourne. He rang up the fire brigade, and
a squad, with the chief officer and such of
the crew as were on board, tossed the bales
aside while the water hissed and spat on the
steel floor of the lower deck. Just under that
floor was a quantity of benzine and petrol
shipped at 'Frisco, and had the fumes there-
from become ignited every man would have
gone skyward. At six the danger was over,
but it was a crowded hour.
These are anxious times for great art
centres. Rome and Venice have their air
squadrons on the watch for the flying. Huns;
but the Holman Government’s housing set-
tlement at Kensington (N.S.W.), being
naked to the skies, lately took counsel and
changed its name in a night from Calico-
town to Stannumville. It is hoped that the
ruse will be successful.
HIS AMBITION.
THE AIRMAN (proudly): “Makes you feel
grand up here, doesn’t it? ‘Monarch of
all I survey,’ and that sort of thing."
THE NEWSPAPER MAN (still a bit scared):
“Lord, yes—makes you want the Earth,
doesn’t it?”
Maoriland’s Government statistician has
been digging into the cost of living in the
Loan Land, and finds that Wellington stands
out as easily the best town in which to get
quickly separated from cash. This is mainly
due to the awful rents demanded by P-
Enterprise. The cheapest place to live in
is Waihi, and that is entirely due to the low
rents common to mining towns; and the
low rents of mining towns are due partly to
the miner’s right, which reduces the value of
land to a few shillings a year, and partly to
the fact that the miner and the miner s
missus are expected to (and mostly do) live
in any old sort of hut. What passes for a
four-roomed house in Newcastle costs lig-
and in Broken Hill 10s., while in congested
Sydney the landlord extracts 18s.; for what
costs in Melbourne 14s. 6d. the Ballarat
miner pays 6s. Gd. (Ballarat rents, by the
way, are the cheapest in Australia) ; and
the Moonta miner gets a four-roomed humpy
for 7s. 6d., while in Adelaide the same
amount of inconveniences cost los. Accoid-
ing to Knibbs, Perth is the only Australian
capital city whose rents are not higher than
those of every other considerable town in the
same State. Kalgoorlie beats Perth by the
price of a beer and a half.
Who makes the best spy? A German
expert in the business, Carl Steiber, sup
plies the answer: “A born aristocrat with a
bad record and a worse reputation.” Accord-
ing to Hamil Grant, who lately wrote an
important book on the subject, the German
has no peculiar genius for spying; but-the
system has been drilled into him, so that he
now holds the world s
championship. “Among
the Germans the trade
is not accounted more
dishonorable than any
other,’’ Grant says.
On the other hand,
Napoleon, who used
spies largely, disliked
and despised them.
One of the secret-ser-
vice men of that era
left his bones some-
where in Tasmania —
Jorgen Jorgenson, the
subject of J. F.
Hogan’s book, “The
Convict King.” In the
course of his extraor-
dinary career, from
monarch of Iceland to
transported Tasmanian
prisoner, Jorgenson
was for a time on the
Continent in the em-
ploy of the British
Foreign Office. He
killed two birds with
the one stone. He not
only sent confiden-
tial reports about
“Boney” to the For-
eign Office, but sim-
ultaneously collected
material for a very
readable book of Euro-
pean travels. There
are six big volumes
of unpublished manu-
scripts in the British
Museum. Hogan has
built many a Bulle-
tin \ paragraph upon
them; but is a
lot of interesting matter still untouched.
* * * *
“Sheila”: Kink O’Malley reminded the
Reps, the other day that in Germany, if a
man is a loafer, he is sent to a place where
he is made to work, his earnings being given
to his wife. Would it not be worth while to
print a few thousand posters explaining this
instead of throwing about objurgations from
Macbeth who (unlike McGoorty) is caviare
to the most of the good fighting material
which now decorates the exteriors of Aus-
tralian pubs? These chaps would then
thoroughly understand what the Menace
means.
* * * *
“Southland”: Another long-distance cham-
pionship has been gained in Maoriland, and
the Domestic Service Gup is firmly held
at a place called Otapiri. Twenty-five years
ago a girl entered the service of a locaL
settler. She washed up until she got mar-
ried. Then her sister stepped along and
filled her shoes in the kitchen until she, too,
met the bonds. Thereupon sister No. 6
leaped into the breach and stayed in it tor
eight years, when she also went the way
of all sisters in that sedate household. Now
sister the fourth has entered upon the fifth
year of her novitiate; and, 10, some day the
bridegroom will come and she will say yea,
and sisters the sixth and even unto the
seventh will be called to the trysting-:place.
THE SACRIFICE.
“Why don’t you go to the Front?”
“ Well , I would, if I hadn't promised to stay
behind and play tennis in aid of the poor
wounded soldiers."
OPTIMISTIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The German troops are said to be far from opti-
mistic. —S. M. Herald.
Now, while our hopes go up and down,
And Ivan’s line is shaken,
Thank God, there is one Russian town
The Germans haven’t taken!
Though Warsaw fell in evil days,
Our friends antagonistic
(The Sydney Morning Herald saj's)
Are far from Optimistic.
With silver spires aiid golden domes
It stands against the dawning,
Its mat the snow that softly comes,
The grey clouds for an awning;
A town of fantasy and dreams,
A city realistic —•
For many later years, it seems,
I’ve dwelt in Optimistic.
Though brightest hopes are over all,
Though storm or battle rages;
The pessimistic cities fall,
In peace or war through ages ;
But I will take my oath (and back
My words in combat fistic),
No matter where the foes attack,
They won’t take Optimistic.
N.S.IV.
HENRY LAWSON.
THE ECONOMISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Prime Minister, seconding Mr. Asquith’s
appeal, invites Australians to be systematically eco-
nomical while the war lasts. There are few of us
who are not lavish in at least one direction. The
people will recognise how much better it is to econo-
mise themselves than to have economy forced upon
them. —Melbourne daily.
I took it in my head to weigh
The butcher’s pound of steak to-day.
It went twelve ounces bare, and so
I up and let the fellow know.
I looked upon the milkman’s quart
And saw it was a trifle short;
I made the wretched man admit
That he had also watered it.
Likewise the baker’s products fail
At making good upon the scale.
The baker looked me in the eye;
He didn’t blush, he didn’t lie.
This paring is by every one
For patriotic motives done.
“Economy!” the leader cries,
And nobly they economise.
victoria.
BILLY T.


GULLIVER AMONG THE POSTAL LILLIPUTIANS.
In the Postal Service there are 18,500 permanent and 11,500 temporary employees. The temporary employees drift on in this light and pleasant employ-
ment month after month, year after year Circumlocutory methods entail endless and costly delay. As a common instance, an application for a telephone
may be subjected to no less than 32 handlings. — R. McC. Anderson, appointed by the Government to advise on the business-management of the Post Office


BLOW
and
BUST.
AN ALECKGORY.


/£ are. Born to
(F«R BeNEIUS.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid=up ... 82,500
ACENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State
Write for particulars
W R. CAVE. General Manager,
963 Genrgp Street Svd
SOAPKO
It Surpasses Soar,
Toilet and Motor in
TABLETS.
Household in BARS.
SOAPKO CLEANSER CHEAPEST B oii B Market.
ALT PURELY AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE.
SOAPKA PROP’Y, Box 685, G.P.0., Adelaide.
m
mm
m
lit t U
r °V.K The K«*°
fftph ni;
Wherever you go. the world over, leading men
HATS. They are unequalled in quality, style,
comfort. ALL STOKES.
wear \\ UoimUW
durabality and
(<
n
&M 6
REDUCE FLESH WITH SEA
LEAVES.
Any man or woman who is troubled with
a burden of excessive fat can easily reduce
to any desired amount by following the
simple, harmless plan of eating sea leaves
obtained from plants growing in the sea off
the coast of Frame. Natives of this part
of the coast readily get the plant itself, but
for the convenience of those not so fortu-
nately situated most chemists keep them in
compressed or tablet form under the chem-
ical name of salith leaves, and it taken
according to the simple directions that
accompany them will invariably reduce
flesh at the rate of two or three pounds a
week, and at the same time greatly improve
the general health. It is interesting to
note that when salith leaves are used the
skin remains firm without any tendency to
become flabby or wrinkled.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
r l rickety, M.L.C., of X.S.W., who to-day
writes up 70 against his name, has been in
politics for 35 years. His health was very
doubtful when he joined the Stuart Ministry
in ’ s 5, Jonl; he has survived all his colleagues
except one—.George Reid. Dibbs, Copeland
and Abbott were robust men in those days,
but Trickett went to all the funerals.
Birth centenary of explorer John McDouall
Stuart: September 7. Stuart, born in Fife-
shire, arrived in S. Aus. in 1S39, accom-
panied the intrepid Sturt inland in 1844.
planted the Union Jack in the centre of
Australia in 1860, and crossed the continent
from the Southern to the Indian Ocean in
1861. He died in 1866 and was buried in
Kensal Green. Adelaide has a, marble monu-
ment of brave Stuart, and there is an alleged
Stuart statue on the Lands Department
building in Sydney.
General Bridges’ grave at Cairo has an
Australian canopy—it is in the shade of a
prickly-pear. However, it is only tempo-
rary; the body is being brought to Australia
for interment at Canberra.
“B.B.” : Who’s the tallest monument to his
country in the Australian army? For a start,
there’s H. E. K. Croaker, of Woodville
(N.S.W.), a mere 6ft. Sin. His weight is
13st. Bib., and he bears up under a burden
of 19 years.
Killed in action, Arthur Oakes, the only
son of Anglican Archdeacon Oakes, of
Bathurst (N.S.W.). Graduating ALA. at
Sydney University, the dead soldier joined
a big accountancy house in Sydney and sub-
sequently took over control of its Queens-
land business. When the war trumpets blew
he scrambled into the uniform of a light
horse trooper, and before leaving for the
Front was married. When the enemy sent
him west he was only 28.
Australian aviator Harry Hawker con-
tinues to gather embellishments in England,
the newest adornment being the record height
certificate for scaling, alone. 18.393 feet. The
effort must have well-nigh given him a
vision of Peter at the Gate. Another Aus-
tralian airman in the limelight in England
is lY W. Snook, who last month was
awarded a pilot certificate in the Royal Fly-
ing Corps at Hendon after only five weeks’
tuition. In peace times Snook is a motorist
who stirs the dust around Sydney.
The three monitors which were of such
assistance in the winter operations on the
coast of Flanders were the design of an
Australian, Yaldemar Tuxen, who also
supervised their construction. Tuxen is a
native of Ballarat and the holder of the
certificate of the Alelbourne Working Alen’s
College for marine engineering. The other
day he sent along certificates from Vicars,
Ltd., that the monitors were his job—this
in order to obtain his diploma from the
Working Alen’s College. When he got the
ticket in 1906 he was told that before he
could get the diploma he would have to
furnish proof of practical woik. And, of
course, to do the practical work lie had to
leave Australia.
The ousting of Dr. Barrett from his mili-
tary-service job in Egypt is a further knock
for Alelbourne’s musical autocracy. Barrett
was the one god in the Permanent Orchestra
scheme which is associated with the Lady
Xorthcote Fund, and Alarshail Hall was his
prophet. Or rice versa. When the "dicta-
torial doctor wont to Egypt to work won-
ders in military-hospital management,
Music was understood to he sighing for its
guardian’s return. Now Music may leave
off sighing. for ►Senator Pearce has
announced that its guardian may return to
Australia, as far as the Defence Department
is concerned. Ramsay Smith, the stiff-
hacked S. Australian doctor whom Kingston
imported years ago when a strike happened
at the Adelaide hospital, is relieved from
further service at tiie same time.
D. J. GORDON, M.L.C. (S.L.), wails on
the recruiting officer.
“Adelaide”: As to one Fear getting a
war distinction (B. PJ/8/T5). The South
Australian troops include more than one
Coward. Incidentally, Veal and Mutton
enlisted here on the same day.
Bacteriologist Bull, director <>l tlm
germery at Melbourne University, has made
a frightful discovery—that, of all the sort
drinks now being rushed after 9.30 p.m. in
the absence of beer, the inadequate and
soapy-headed ginger-pop is the most likely to
be the feeding-ground of bacilli. Bull has
been a long time in bis job at the 1 niver-
sity, and throughout has always managed to
keep the public’s eye on the eager lookout
for the efficient control of epidemics, clean
beer-glasses, and so forth. One of the first
fieet of Melbourne motor-cars, by the way.
was run (at intervals) by Bull. It was a
steam-driven motor-buggy, with a boiler
under the seat and an unpleasant habit of
sizzling in unexpected places.
Two of Tasmania's three Supreme Court
Judges have passed out within 14 months,
Dobbie having followed Chief Justice Dodds.
Dobbie was 58 and had only been two years
on the Bench. The most notable ine'dent
of his career
occurred when he
appeared for the
Tasmanian Gov-
ernment before
the Privy Council
in the dreadfully-
tangled case be-
tween the Govern-
ment and the
Y.D.L. Co. about
the Burnie fore-
shore. His leader
on that occasion
was Asquith, now
Britain's Prime
Minister. Dobbie
was born in
Hobart, and was
called to the Bar
in 188 2, bu t
dropped the pur-
suit of Costs next
year to enter the
Civil Service. He
stayed there for
”0 years, the last
12 as Solicitor-
General. Then the
retirement of Jus-
tice M c I n t y r o
gave him a seat
on the Bench and
the chance to
hand out so m e
pretty stiff sen-
tences.
DEPUTY-
GOVERNOR
KELL, of the
Commonwealth
Bank.
It. G. Casey, of Goldsbrouglrs and other
money-making resorts, has lost a nephew at
the Front —Percy Peyton Jones, killed in
France. Peyton Jones the elder was a top-
rung engineer in the Victorian public ser-
vice, but he has been dead these many years
and his widow lives in England. Young
Jones received his military training there,,
and was a captain in the 7th Yorkshires
when Fate tore up his ticket. This branch
of the Jones family does not wear a hyphen,
but it never travels without its Peyton.
Ex-Governor Brassey having gone in the
Sunbeam to the Dardanelles to do Bed
Cross work, tin* Turk is understood to be-
taking special precautions to prevent him
falling off into Constantinople.
Kruse, who followed the very useful Cox
Taylor at Broadmeadows Camp, is now at
Flemington,. teaching the swaddy the diffi-
cult art of extracting trench-soil without
pain. This Major—“Gus”—is one of four
sons whom old Johann Kruse, the Haw-
thorn drug-compounder, left behind him as
a mark of confidence in his adopted country.
Jolmnn the Fiddler is the most distinguished
of these; Felix and Bertie still keep tin-
old druggery going at Burwoocl-road. Felix
is also known as something of a fiddler,
though lie finds more money in pills.
M hen a \ ie. Light Horse crowd of a year
or two back halted at midday during manoe-
uvres, news arrived that the officers’ tucker-
cart had lost itself in the hush. While the
Colonel led his brethren in prayer for tin-
driver, a camp hawker turned up with a
basket of cakes and the situation was saved.
The Colonel was busy carving with a pocket-
knife when an orderly dashed up and an-
nounced that Governor Fuller was in the
offing. Hastily dropping their confectionery
behind a tree the little party advanced to
rhe presence. Fuller expected some ham and
chicken, but it was explained that there was
nothing but cake; so he said he was very
fond of cake. The Colonel was Tivey, who
goes in command of a big lot of Victorians—
a stout, reddish man who saw blood in Africa
and can write D.S.O. after his name if he
wants to.
THE SILVER LINING.
Lady: “It must feel simply awful to be
wounded."
SOLDIER: “Oh. dear, no! You’re simply de-
lighted to find you're not wounded worse
than you are.”
From ‘‘Bad Australian.” who helps to
keep the train which crosses the Andes from
shaking itself to death
My friend the good Australian was born where
the climate (days such havoc with the white man
that few people live after reaching 97. He was lazing
his life away in tropical Bolivia when news of the
war leaked through,
('limbing aboard a
mule, he tackled a 10-
days’ journey to the
railhead, and reached
it just in time for a
native ■ doctor to get
busy on the effects of
a heavy fall down a
hillside beneath the
mule. A fortnight
in bed, and the long
tri. p was continued
t o B u enos
Aires. There
he was told to
say his pray-
ers ; but, in-
stead, he stag-
gered aboard
one of the Nel-
son liners, and,
hanging on to
his vital spark,
got ashore in
the Cold Coun-
try. There a
surgeon took up the
job where the ♦borig-
inal vivisectionist had
left off. Since then a
Bananalander lias be-
come an officer, and
alongside my inkpot
there is a treasured
mud-stained note that
Bill sent me from a
hole in Flanders.
AUSTIN
CHAPMAN, M.H.R.
Dan O’Connor is not to be altogether for-
gotten. The ghost of the old pork-butchering
Demosthenes lots been haunting the corridors
of N.S.W. Parliament .House until politi-
cians have thrown enough into George
Black’s hat to buy a memorial to be placed
over the veteran’s grave in the Waverley
Cemetery.
THE SERGEANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you’re sittin’ ’ome in comfort, reatlin’ papers by
the fireside,
Or you’re talkin' to your kids about the way the
Empire’s saved ;
When you’re praisin’ up your Kitcheners, your
Frenches an’ your Joff res,
Will you put your paper down and think just why
the men behaved ?
Was it through some bloomin' gen'ral pressin' buttons
from a distance,
lira win’ maps and flashin’ wireless, twistin’ regiments
like cogs,
Passim down his blank.v orders to a bookv schoolboy
captain,
Who hands 'em down the trendies like as we was
dirty dogs?
-Vo, it's the sergeant! the sergeant!
The poor, dam’ orderly-sergeant!
lie ain’t no blanky engineer.
Put ’e's jus’ the man for cogs!
Oil, 'e's up at early mornin, ere the bugler blows
reveille,
Cursin' men and kickin’ ’ammocks, knockin’ habits in
their head,
Gettin' growls from raw recruities who can see the
world’s agin ’em,
Settlin’ petty little squabbles till ’e’s blanky nearly
dead.
lie mustn’t worry captains ; if ’e does, the game is
harder.
He just swears, an’ kicks, and does it —then begins
it all agon ;
An’ bis sweatin’, tearin’ labor never figures in
despatches,
But when they starts the scrappin’, then, bv Gawd,
’e knows bis men !
Oh, it’s the sergeant! the sergeant!
The blanky, orderly-sergeant.
’hi don't figure in despatches.
Put '<; makes an’ uses men.
Von kin have your bloomin' heroes, iron dukes, and
dashin’ leaders,
But jest give ’em dirty rabble, and you'll see ’em ’it
the wall.
Its the man wlio makes recruities turn out trim and
decent Tommies
That pulls the army outer ’ell, or it ain’t pulled out
at all.
And ‘e's on the go till “lights out,’’ gettin’ cursed at
by liis captains,
Puttin’ action in bis pupils—gettin’ cursed by them
as well;
Damned on all sides from reveille till the “Last Post’’
sounds above 'im —
An’ the only place for sergeants in the end, of
course, is ’ell.
Oh, sergeant! Salute the sergeant!
The eursed-at orderly-sergean t !
You do your work in spite of all
And you finish up in ’ell.
There’s no ’eadlines in the papers when ’e's raked in
by the Devil,
But 'e’s useful, and Nick knows it, and ’e gets ’im on
the job
Drillin’ stokers, trainin’ tempters, puttin’ angels
through their paces,
And ’e's made a Grand Old Army, you kin bet your
bottom bob.
Vos, they’re winniiT all the battles, but old Nick gets
all the credit,
And the sergeant goes on worldn , buttin’ in like.any
ram;
lie don’t want your bloomin’ papers, coronets or
tinware medals—-
ll is team is workin, workiif, he doesn’t give a
damn.
Oh, a sergeant ! Just a sergeant!
A blanky orderly sergean t !
Tie’s just got to make the ai my,
Put nobody gives a damn!
EtiYl'T.
SARDINE.
A PRINCE'S SACRIFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Ciown Prince’s sacrifices in the Arsronr.e have
been among the heaviest of the war .--Cable.
With scorn they, often speak of him,
The German Prince, a hero slim,
Whose vacant face to some implied
An aching emptiness inside.
To prove him great I will parade
The sacrifices he has made.
When Frenchmen fiercely held their ground,
And piled the Germans mound on mound,
This- Prince a burning spirit shone,
Bushing his mangled legions on.
One life a hero gives, but be
Ten thousand lives gave willingly !
We hear of noble men who give
Their all that England still may live;
lie gives his all in horrid war,
Then generously sends for more.
One spills his blood ; this hero will
Spill rivers, and be bleeding still.
Xav, little orphans, do not weep.
Ye widows, a good comfort keep !
Tom fathers will he buried soon,
Your husbands, dead, outstare the moon!
Yot yours to grieve in sore device —
This is the Prince's sacrifice!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Are You Wholly Satisfied?
Th ere would be no need for this or
anv other word about “Austral I adoring,
j
were we content to go on pleasing the vast
number of men, old and young, their associ-
ates and friends, who have already worn them
and can therefore be counted as permanent
customers.
But a vigorous ambition is second
only to our determination to maintain the
prestige “Austral” Suits to order merit, in
the judgment of. men who are particular
about their dress.
Our invitation is especially for the unin-
itiated, the sceptical, the hard to please. I o
the man who never was wholly satisfied with
his clothes, and hardly ever expects to be, we
say —come m and let us show you the beautiful
weaves of all pure “Australian \\ 001, the pro-
duct and pride of Australian and British mills.
Ask us to make you a suit and prove what
we claim, and you will then agree with the
manv other men that an Austral Suit is
better than you have ever worn, better than
you anticipated, and very much better than
you BA ER hoped to find.
“Austral” Sac Suits to order may be
made from a wide range of exclusive Suitings
which include the famous Marrickville
Tweeds and Serges and West of England
Tweeds and Worsteds.
Choice is almost unlimited, value un-
equalled. If you cannot make a personal
inspection write for patterns.
We spare no effort to make ordering as
easy for the man living at a distance as the
man about town.
Austral Sac Suits made to measure.
Prices: 63/-, 70/-, 75/-; Hand-
made : 84 -, 90/-, 95/-. 105/-,
115/-, 126/-.
We Pay Carriage, on all orders throughout Australia.
Pioneer Di stributors Goods
484 to 490 George St., 3-17 Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.
'9.
>r.
m
ue
*
I


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
New Zealand Insurance Company Limited
PREMIER COLONIAL COMPANY.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Sickness, Workmen's Compensation and General
Insurance* 79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY*
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mercanitle Mutual Insurance Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Bonus to Added Capital
Net Policy- to Re- and Re-
-1 ronts. holders. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1903.. 805 5,869 19|p.c.= 5,869 1,067 80,912
1904.. 16.498 6,067 16 „ „ 6,067 4,364 85,270
1905.. 518 6,247 164 ~ ~ 6,247 2,024 87 300
1906.. 048 6,536 144 „ „ 6,536 1,976 89’276
190 7 „ 1 8, 7 53 6,707 Ilf „ „ 6,707 5,339 94,615
1908.. 15.620 7,048-1 15$ „ „ 7,048* 1,523 96,138
1909.. 10, 1 68 7,571 16J „,, 7,571 626 96 764
1910.. 19.355 7,890* 17* „ „ 7,890* 3,574 100,338
HH”£ 8 ’ 9 ? 9 8)491 16 » » 8,491 12,007 112,345
9)29 H 15 » » 9,294* 3,662 116,007
1913.. 284 10,359 16$ ~ ~ 10,359 5,566 121 573
1914.. 984 11,840 17 „„ 11,840 2,304 123,877
New capital got in . . £54,889 \ 170
Premiums on new shares 9831 i/J)/49
1915.. 32.045 13,949 17 p.c. = 13,949 4,148 183.897
This good Australian co. has done the right
thing during the past year and got in more
capital; and, seeing that shareholders were
allowed to subscribe at par, the operation
was not very painful. Hitherto, though the
capital has been steadily increased, it has —-
for many years, at any rate —only been
done out of reserves; and the growth did
not keep pace with the business. Hence in
1913 the total funds (capital and reserves
combined) amounted to only 105 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums; and that was dis-
tinctly on the small side. Since then 50.000
new £1 shares have been issued, and 10s.
called up on them; and 3s. per share was
also called on the previously issued 200,000
shares. Thus all shares (250,000) are now
paid to 10s. —all, that is, except a few lag-
gard hundreds. So the funds have been
raised to £183,897, which is equal to 135 p.c.
of the net premiums; and that, though
below the average of first-class cos., is a
fairly satisfactory proportion, especially in
view of the very safe class of business done.
The following table shows the co. from
another point of view:—
Ex- Loss Exnense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate
1895. . £34,333 £13,376 £14,356 38.9 p.c. 41.8 p.c.
1900.. 37,235 9,068 18,489 24.4 ~ 49.7 „
1905.. 50,534 12,051 26,961 23.8 „ 53.3 „
1910.. 72,406 21,656 35,078 29.9 „ 48.4 „
1911.. 86,808 21,957 40,090 25.2 ~ 46.2 ,
1912.. 99,701 32,300 49,907 32.4 „ 50.0 „
1913.. 115,817 40,056 54,591 34.5 „ 47.1 „
1914.. 130,673 48,868 62,007 37.3 ~ 47.4 „
1915.. 138,858 50.664 61,458 36.5 „ 44.2
The funds in hand are thus sufficient to
meet claims almost equal to the aggregate
losses of the past five years ; and the position
is really stronger even than that, because to
meet losses in the current year there will
also be available the revenue of the year
less expenses. The loss rate, it will be noted,
is a good deal higher than it used to be; but
so far as aggregate profits are concerned,
this is more than counterbalanced by the
greatly increased turnover. There was a
time when the co., which then restricted
itself to N. S. Wales, confined itself almost
wholly to the very pick of risks. But that
class of business is restricted, and the co.
finds that, even if it can’t make the same
rate of profit out of second-class risks, it
cam at any rate make a profit that is well
worth having. Last year was notoriously
a very bad one for insurance offices; yet the
co. did so much better than ever it did
before that the more progressive policy has
amply justified itself. All the same, it is
doubtful whether the co. is wise in paying
out so much to shareholders. It needs a
larger lay-by to meet the rapid growth of its
risks; and it can't have its <nlded ginger-
bread and eat it too.
* * * *
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd. (Adelaide),
pastoral finance and woolbroking people:—
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1903.. 29.964 9 p.c.= 17,100 5,000 7,884 51.053
1904.. 33.967 9 ~,, 17,100 5,000 11,867 62,950
1905.. 36.532 10 ~,,19,000 4,000 13,532 76,452
1906.. 45.940 10 ~,,19,000 3,000 23,940 100,422
1907.. 10 „ ~19,667 1,500 39,507 139,929
1908.. 43.457 10 „„ 25,000 18,457 158,386
1909.. 51.266 10 ~ ~25,000 26,266 184,652
1910.. 59.521 10 ~ ~ 29,991 29,530 214,182
1911.. 73.784 10 ~ ~30,000 43,784 257,966
1912.. 60.969 10 ~ ~31,681 29,308 287,274
1913.. 79.206 10 „ ~35,000 44,206 331,480
1914.. 76.716 10 „ ~35,000 30,000 11,716 343,196
1915.. 68.282 10 „ ~40,000 28,282 371,478
Taking all things into account, the result
for the year is astonishingly good. There
is a shrinkage in profit, certainly, compared
with the previous couple of years ; but re-
membering that a lot of wool was this year
shipped unsold after the agents had been
put to considerable expense, and remember-
ing also that property sales in S. Aus. have
been rare birds, one couldn’t have been
surprised if the profits had been £lO 000 less.
Even then they wouldn’t have shrunk more,
in proportion, than those of the Bank of
Adelaide, whose profit to the end of March
this year was £53.023, as against £71.946
in 1914 and £81,138 in 1913. But, though
the two concerns have a good deal in com-
mon, Elder, Smith’s have one big advantage
this year—they don’t balance till June, and
by the middle of August, when their audit
was completed, it was clear that the coming
season was going to be just about as good
as last season was bad. Therefore con-
tingencies for which the Bank had to pro-
vide Elder. Smith and Co. didn’t have to
think about. Even so the latter co. couldn’t
hove shown such a profit if it hadn’t been
tor the mountainous price of fat stock,
which has meant sweet commissions for the
auctioneers.
• are no changes of much consequence
in the most recent balance-sheet:—
1901. 1911. 1914. 1915.
.*?' p P° s its,etc. 554,426 1,715,863 1,620,494 1,636,756
Other liabilities 97,320 280,959 40,075 55,997
Premises plant 54,136 133,024 139,590 139 984
Oovt. Stock,
and cash.. 170,435 475,393 637,282 674 468
Advances, etc. 489,586 1,656,905 1,579,535 1,646,’959
Other assets. . 177,626 304,466 64,859 22,821
Capital is £400,000; add reserves £871,478.
lotal £771.478, which is the money the
shareholders have in the business. “Ad-
vances, shares in other cos., goods etc ”
represent £1,640,959. So, besides what the
Soaaaaa" ? re ™ ises > P lant > etc., it has nearly
±900,000 of other people’s money risked in
the business. And, though things have
turned out all right this time, the risks
involved in making advances on pastoral
securities are very solid. There is a prettv
that in the fact that on its
-Ist birthday the co. had only about £50,000
o reserves; all the profits accumulated in
its earlier years went to make good the
losses which showed up after 1893—the one
cold year in which this co. paid no dividend
at all. The risk is, by the way, not to be
measured only by the character of the
security. It depends partly upon how the
money which has been advanced has itself
been got by the co. that advances it. A
security may be all right if you can nurse
it, but you cant nurse it if the man yi6u
have _ yourself borrowed from wants his
deposit back. The worst smashes at the
time the Australian banks burst 22 vears
ago were entirely due to the sudden call for
deposits. Elder, Smith’s give no inkling of
how they have borrowed ; and that is a most
important matter.
The Melbourne Steamship Co.
Added Nomi-
Gross . to Re- nal Re-
-1 l'Otits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dee., ’07.. 13,117 74p.c. = 5,625 7,492 43 963
n 1 6 ’ ,£!" 15)899 10 . V, » 7,500 8,399 52,362
Unp ’no" ’’ ” 7,500 6)508 58,870
June, 09.. 13,40 s 8 „ „ 6,800 6,605 65,475
? eC “ m 2" if’ 809 8 » » 6)800 7,069 72.544
n ne ’ mp" J 5 ) 8 ” » 6)800 8,688 81,232
mn'p m\°" 9 » » 7,650 9,099 90,331
June, 11.. 16,9(8 9 „ „ 7,650 9.328 99,659
? eC " 18)968 9 » 7,650 5,318 104,977
June, 12.. 1 / ,900 9 „ „ 7,650 10,250 115,227
Premiums.on new shares. . 6,800 122,027
£5OOO written off . . . . 117,027
? ec ’’ mo" 8)715 7 p.c. = 6,843 1,872 1181899
n U p 6 ’ mo" I?’, 107 8 ” ” 8)160 11)94 7 130,846
Dee., 13.. 21,164 8 „ 8,160 13.004 143,850
June, 14.. 16,966 7 „ „ 7,149 9,826 153,676
Pref. Ord.
Dec., ’l4. 6p.e. Bp.c.= 8,463 8,946 162,622
June, 15.. 29,371 6 ~ 15,, 16,079 13,292 175,914
The past six months’ dividend on the ordi-
naries is at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a., with
a bonus of 6d. per share. It seems very im-
probable that the co. can go on doing this
sort of thing. How it managed to do so
well in the past six months is a bit of a
mystery. Anybody, of course, with an old
ark capable of bucketing across the deep
seas has been sure of fat earnings: there
are tales told of ships that have paid for
themselves in a couple of years—or would
pay for themselves in a couple of years if
they could keep going that long and earn
what they have been earning lately. Rut
there isn’t any visible reason why the inter-
state liners should be coining money. How-
ever, there’s the fact. And it must be the
war; and if the tide of war can carry pro-
fits up so high, the unpleasant suspicion
miist remain that the inevitable ebb of war
will presently carry them to a very low
lewel. In one respect the shipping cos. and
ad other cos. which show war profits are
likely to be badly hit. Wages boards and
arbitration courts have been steadily putting
up wages ; and in some businesses they will
be pushed up still higher on the strength of
war profits. Thus the Broken Hill cos. the
other day offered their men an extra shilling
a day all round, and the men refused it,
wanting a bigger cut out of the spelter
money some of the cos. are getting. These
profits will end suddenly. But the high
wages based on the exceptional profits won’t
end nearly so suddenly. Even the wages
fixed by the boards during the recent borrow-
ing boom will run on long after the bogus
prosperity induced by the borrowing has
mn out. Therefore the man who places
much dependence upon recent profits is liable
to be disappointed.
, e also that the first column is headed
Gross profits.” The total amount is cut
up as follows :
„ ... Dee.,’l4. June,’ls. Inn.
Depreciation reserve . . £100,352 £108.852 £8 500
Special renewal fund . . 9,000 12,000 s’oOO
Share premiums. . .. 6,800 6 800
Irsurance and general . . 36,256 37 701 1 445
Unappropriated . . . . 10,214 10,561 ’.347
Total .. £162,622 £175.914 £l3 292
Add that £13,292 and the £16.079 paid’ in
dividends, and you get the £29.371 of gross
2io OAO O1 ’ tl ] e ll; df-.year. How much of the
£1 0.29_ ought to be written off against the
half-year s actual wear and tear and to
provide for contingencies The Bulletin
doesn’t know. If as much as 5 p.c. p.a. were
written off everything—including freeholds
—only £9700 a half-year would be called
tor. It is pretty plain, then, that even
after providing for the big dividend and
bonus and for depreciation, the past half-
year left something substantial to the good.
Get a glimpse of five years’ history here:
. , , Ju ne, ’lO. Dec., ’l4. June, ’l5.
Steamships and other
non-liquid assets ..£240,669 £401,416 £398 663
Liquid assets. . .. 50.905 60,853 75 177
Liabilities . . . . 33,142 63,830 41,’ 343
While the shareholders have put up £66,800
of capital (including premiums), £158.000
has been added to the non-liquid and £l7 000
net to the liquid assets, and what didn’t
come from the new capital must have been
supplied by surplus revenue. Some of this
added value must no doubt be written off
against depreciation. All the same, Ihe
record is an excellent one. Whether it is
likely to run over into another five years is
quite a different matter.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney),
station-produce salesmen, etc.: —
Written
•Tune, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1902 ..£12,299 Nil £12.299 £7,500
1903 .. 0,319 Nil c,319 7.500
1901 .. 6,138 5 p.c. =£2,500 11,438
1907 .. 3,523 5 ~ „ 2,500 12,461
1906 .. 12,561 5 „ „ 2,500 7,500 15,022
1907 .. 17,033 10 „ „ 5,500 17,500 9,055
190 S .. 8,277 10 „ ~ 5,500 11,832
1909 .. 13,845 19 „ „ 10,500 15,177
Property written up, £lO.OOO .. .. 25,177
1910 .. 19,859 35 p.c. = 21,000 24,036
1911 .. 17,509 23J „ „ 17,500 24,045
1912 .. 14,793 16 „ „ 13,500 —• 25,338
1913 . . 20,438 21 „ „ 19,000 26,776
1914 . . 25,315 10 „ „ 10,000 42,091
1915 . . 25,366 10 ~ „ 10,000 —■ 57,457
It is rather amazing to find that the turn-
over for the year was £2 260,498, as against
£2.065,905 in the previous 12 months. Cer-
tainly there was an increase of £360,000 in
the property sales; but that the business
apart from property sales should have fallen
only £160,000 is a great tribute to the prices
in the live-meat market, where this co. col-
lects a big part of its commissions. And so
far as one can see those prices are not going
to be very much lower for a long while to
come; which means that this co. can reason-
ably look forward to the prfesent fat earn-
ings from that branch for a year or two
more. As for property sales, it is danger-
ous to generalise. If all the world were wise
everybody would want to buy at the same
time. It is just because there are
probably as many fools as wise men
in the world that there are sales all the
time —sales made by the fools when it is a
good time to buy, sales made by the wise
men when it is a good time to sell. Still
one may doubt very much whether there are
going to be as many sales during the next
seven years as there have been in the past
seven ; and one may doubt still more whether
as good prices will be realised. From past
values there should at any rate be deducted
the capitalised sum of the extra taxation we
will have to carry on account of the war;
and that in itself is going to amount to
something pretty serious. Further, the
dearness of money will depress the price of
land, just as it must depress the price of
shares or any other security. These lower
prices, while they are likely to mean fewer
transactions, will also mean smaller com-
missions in that branch of the business.
Fortunately this shrinkage in property
values does not seriously affect or threaten
the assets of this co. Certainly it has free-
hold property, £126,500; but what little of
this is not represented by the co.’s very tine
city building and wool stores is in saleyards.
etc. Sundry debtors, which item apparently
covers all the advances, total only £43,828.
The co. in this line of business which can
go through a year of mixed difficulties such
as the farmers and squatters have had and
maintain a turnover of more than two
millions, while making advances totalling
less than £44,000 at any one time, must have
an astonishingly sound lot of clients, or its
management must have an astonishingly
persuasive way with it. Besides the free-
holds and the sundry debtors the co. has
£35,244 liquid, while its liabilities of one
sort and another —mostly, perhaps, cus-
tomers’ balances —total £43,115. The fol-
lowing shows how the various items have
moved :
1900. 1910. 1913. 1914. 1915.
£ £ £ £ £
Overdrafts 55,741 17,311 38,159 23,378 9,134
Other lia-
bilities.. 3,009 20,421 15,600 11,814 33,981
A d v a n ces,
foreclos-
ures, etc. 87,087 35,303 56,692 55,282 43 828
Freeholds,
etc. .. 10,718 104,465 128,343 127,000 126,500
Goodwill. . 25,000 Nil Nil Nil Nil
Liquid assets —•— 35,244
Although the co. is in so easy a position
it proposes now to issue 20,000 shares at par
and at the same time declare a bonus
of 4s. which will pay for them. Present
holders will thus get one new share for
every five old ones. Though the 10 p.c. divi-
dend will then call for £12.000 a year, things
will have to slump horribly if the co.’s very
heavy-Weiglit Board can’t pay that rate com-
fortably. But it will have to do a lot better
than 10 p.c. to justify present market prices :
and whether it will continue to do a lot
better is mainly a question of continuous
good management.
* * * *
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic
Power Co. (it started with a deficit of
£15,000. that amount of capital being repre-
sented by only a paper asset —“Parlia-
mentary rights and concessions”) :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1903.. 13,499 10 p.c,= 11,250 2249 1 754
1904. . 13,889 10 ~ ~ 11.250 2639 4'59.3
1905.. 13,260 10 „,. 11.250 2010 6>’403
1906.. 14,187 10 ~ „ 11.250 2937 0'340
1907.. 13,092 10 ~ ~ 11,250 —• 1812 ll'lB2
1908. . 12.636 10 „,, 11.250 1386 12!.568
1909.. 11,268 9,, ~ 10.125 1143 13 711
1910.. 12,300 8„ „ 9.000 3300 17’on
1911.. 12,909 8,, ~ 9.000 3909 90'0 9 0
1912.. 13,145 8„ „ 9,000 2469 1676 22 596
1913.. 12,048 S ~ 9.000 776 2272 24V>8
1914. .11,641 8„ „ 9,000 2368 273 25J41
Jure,
1915.. 5,474 8,, ~. 4,500 1660 24,455
The figures continue to show no improve-
ment ; and it is doubtful whether the position
is even as good as the table represents it to
be. The market evidently has very definite
views about it. According to the table,
which of course is based on the published
accounts, the capital is all there and £24.455
besides, after writing off goodwill, which
figures in this case as “Parliamentary rights
and concessions.” But the market, instead
or allowing that there are any reserves at
all, writes the 20s. shares down to about
V s - od. I lie bulk of the trouble arises from
electric competition. A hydraulic main may
travel a street. Obviously if the customers
in that street change over to electric lifts
the main becomes practically valueless. This
no doubt influences the market in appraising
the value of the shares. True, the market
doesn t usually take much notice —doesn’t
take nearly enough notice —of the value of
the assets which stand behind a co.’s shares.
Here is a cO. paying 8 p.c., yet its shares
are quoted at a discount of 7s. 6d. in the
£. There must be a grave doubt about the
future of a concern which shows such figures
as that.
The management is no doubt entitled to
say that it has nothing to do with the
market. Quite true, the market may be
manipulated. Some people may be bearing
it for their own purposes. The co.’s mis-
fortune is that if there are such people they
have such good material to work upon. For
the three years 1903-4-5 the average annual
net profit was £13,549; for the past 34
years it was £lO,OlO. Down to the last few
years repairs, replacements, etc., were ap-
parently paid for out of revenue and charged
to working account, and a plant renewal'
fund was steadily built up. To-day the addi-
tions to the renewal ftind are almost
balanced by drafts hpon it; Meantime,
while outgoings have steadily incteased, ahd
while Sydney has grown enormously, grbss
revehue shows rid improvement whatever.
Following are the figures for the first half
of the undermentioned years:—
1908 ..£12,461 | " 1912 ..£11,270
1909 . . 12,294 j 1913 . . 12 409
1910 .. 11,436 ! 1914 .. 11,521
1911 .. 11,260 | 1915 .. 11,442
There is something wrong. Shareholders
have been busy discussing whether they
should or should not join up with their com-
petitor, Standard Waygood. But if they
don’t do that, clearly something needs to be
done. Mere turning down of proposals for
amalgamation won’t suffice.
* * * *
Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd.:—
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Protits. Off. serves, serves.
Dee.,’o7.. 40,660 10 p.c. = 7.500 4,355 28,805 91,063
June,’oB.. 27,422 10 ~ „ 7,500 2,291 17.631 108,694
Dec.,’oB.. 25.283 10 „ ~ 7,500 17,783 126,477
June,’o9.. 14.609 10 ~ ~ 7,500 7,109 133,686
£lOO,OOO (one-half) of capital returned.
Dec.,’o9.. 21,954 30 p.c. = 7,500 99,811 48,229
June,’lo.. 15,499 30 ~ ~ 7,500 7.999 56,228
Dec.,’lo.. 30.287 30 ~ ~ 7,500 22,787 79,015
Bonus (80 p.c.) paid to shareholders.. 39,015
June,’ll.. 25,460 30 p.c. = 7,500 1,155 16,805 55,820
Dec.,’ll.. 30,809 55 „ ~ 13,750 1,785 14,774 70,594
June,’l2.. 30,070 120 ~ ~ 30,000 70 70,664
Dec., ’12.. 32,412,120 ~ ~ 30,000 960 1,452 72,116
June,’l3.. 42,393 120 ~ ~ 30,000 937 11,456 83,572
Dec.,’l3.. 40,909 160 ~ ~ 40,000 - 909 84,481
June,’l4.. 30,524 140 ~ ~ 35,000 80,005
Dec.,’l4., 17,421 100 ~ ~ 25,000 - 72 426
June,’ls.. 3,057 60 ~ ~ 18,740 56,743
It looked as though the co. had four years
to go; but the State Government played a
card which didn’t come out of the pack, and
that made all the difference. In return for
the privilege of supplying water to town and
mines the co. was to maintain its works in
good condition and at the end of 28 years
hand them over to the State without com-
pensation. When all but about seven years
of the 28 had passed—in other words, when
the State was within seven years of getting
this co.’s undertaking for nothing—the Gov-
ernment proceeded to spend a third of a mil-
lion on another water scheme. Now the
directors of this co. say:—
Shareholders were advised in the last report that
the TJmberumberka scheme was completed, and that
the Govt, had made it compulsory for the mines and
town to take their supplies from the Vmberumberlca
reservoir.
If a private person had done this, after
entering into such an arrangement as the
State made with the co., there would be no
mincing matters—we should say that he was
guilty of sharp practice, if we did not actu-
ally call him a rogue. No doubt the Gov-
ernment had a complete right to build other
works and supply water. But to grant the
co. a concession to supply water to the town
and mines for 28 years on certain terms, and
then to come in and compel town and mines
to buy their requirements from somebody
else, looks so much like obtaining a water-
works by trick that the difference doesn’t
matter. This is assuming that the co. has
put the case properly in the foregoing suc-
cinct statement.
The co., besides the works, has £52,721 net
of liquid assets and about £30,000 of other
assets, including plant which may or may
not have to be handed over. There are
200,000 shares. It has been a wonderful
money-spinner, and its record has been none
too good; that is to say, it has used the
power the Parliament gave it to make exces-
sive profits out of the business. But while
that may take it out of our sympathy, it
doesn’t justify a Government in giving a
concession to a co. to do a certain thing on
certain terms, and then rendering the con-
cession valueless while exacting the terms.
N.Z. Consolidated Dental Co. (Wel-
lington, M.L.) :
Bonus on Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Purchases, serves.
1909 ..£1737 71 p.c. = £1475 £255 £13,618
Reserves transferred to capital, £9756 3,860
1910 .. 1921 6 p.c. = 1766 230 3,785
1911 .. 3912 6 „ „ 1766 251 5,680
1912 .. 2524 7 „ ~ 2060 253 5,891
1913 .. 2506 7 „ „ 2060 222 6,115
1914 .. 2456 7 ~ ~ 2060 230 6,281
1915 .. 3198 7 „ 20G0 405 7,014
Maybe the chop and the steak have been
tougher ; maybe the Call has sent scores of
young men to the dentists who otherwise
would have pulled through with what
wrecks they had in their mouths. Any-
way, this co., which is in the dental supply
business, has made much better than average
profits; and there is no reason to suspect


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
BOOKLET ON APPLICATION,
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed ... £8,750,000
Annual 1 1\ come Exceeds ••• £1,400,000
The Company is prepared to consider
applications for
MORTGAGE LOANS
on
FARMING AND GRAZING LANDS.
This is truly the day of the specialist. That is
why “Pioneer” leather belting leads the way as a
power-transmitter in Australia. The manufacturers
have studied the belting problem from all aspects.
They specialise in it, and have acquired a first-hand
knowledge of the requirements of every user. They
know exactly what belting is required for the mine,
the factory or any other branch of industry. Write
for particulars to J. 0. Ludowici & Son Ltd.,
“Pioneer” Works, 117 York Street, Sydney ; or
inter-State agents: G. Russell Ltd., Flinders Street,
Melbourne, Vic. ; J. McKell, Port Adelaide, South
Australia; Queensland Machinery Company, Bris-
bane, Q. ; H. Summers, Perth, W.A.*
ALUMINOFEIUUC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. Gd. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 3s. iid.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * *
Extract from The Policy-Holder, London,
November 26, 1913: “The Colonial Mutual has long
had the reputation of being one of the most enter-
prising and ambitious of life assurance institutions,
and to be enterprising and ambitious is to the mod-
ern mind so very much preferable to being inert and
hyper-cautious that the Australian office may well
secure the respectful consideration of many persons
for the commodities it otters because of its up-to-date
pushfulness alone. Only forty years old, almost a
youngster compared with some of our ancient offices,
the Colonial Mutual has, from the commencement of
its career, pressed forward with uncommon determina-
tion and energy. Its growth has been remarkable.”* [7
PIONEER WOOD PIPE furnishes the most eco-
nomical .means of distributing water for all pur-
poses. It is so cheap, so easily laid, that no
station homestead should be without it. Catalogue
from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., contrac-
tors to all State Governments, 57 York Street, Syd-
ney (head office).*
The Australian Provincial Assurance Associa-
tion, Limited. —The A.P.A., in keeping with its
watchword “Progress,” continues to advance steadily
and surely along progressive lines. The results in all
departments of the Association’s business during the
present financial year have been eminently satisfac-
tory, and the results generally well ahead of those
attained during the last financial year, which ended
October, 1914.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hasscl, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grim wade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
. and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscrav, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
The Port Ivembla works of the Electrolytic
Refining Company are freely buying ores containing
copper, silver, gold from all parts of the Common-
wealth. The Ore Purchase Department is at
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.*
“Robey-Leplastrier” Road-Building Machinery
means big saving. One shire in N.S.W. saved last
year £4OOO. Sixty shires equipped already. Apply
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., head office, Sydney.*
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilei's, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street. Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,660 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,451 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 80,500 0 0
£781.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ' ' ~
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Ftiso
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
that even in the times of greater stress ahead
of ns, the business will go utterly t< > pieces.
The older the world gets the worse its chew-
ing machinery seems to be made, and the
more important is good chewing machinery
reckoned to be. The co.’s own statement
of its profits is of course accepted, though
they depend largely upon the valuation or
stock and book debts. These two items
represent practically all the capital, and
there is no way of testing whether they are
conservatively valued or not. All that can
he said is that the co. has been running
nearly 20 years, and on its record appears
to have been managed prudently. Unlike
most Maoriland cos., it gets along with no
debts worth mentioning; its total liabilities
on all accounts are under £l5O0 —a sub-
stantial reduction in the 12 months, due
partly to the equally satisfactory reduction
of book debts. # #
The men having turned down the Broken
Ilill cos.’ offer of an extra shilling a day,
the matter has been pushed on into the
Federal Arbitration Court, and a compul-
sory conference is being summoned. In
addition to the Broken Hill cos. Mount
Lyell has been brought into the proceedings.
The threatened strike has accordingly been
dropped. . * *
B. 11. Junction North, which lias been
pondering how it could avoid its sixth or
seventh reconstruction, has decided instead
to give itself power to call up another ss.
per share. The Bulletin need not repeat
its opinion of this concern. The best thing
shareholders could do would be to try to
sell out the whole undertaking to the Sul-
phide Corporation, B. IT. South, or B. H.
Prop., which knows how to run a business
of this sort, and has the organisation for
the job.
The New Burragorang, Yerranderie
(N.S.W.), reckons it is on a sound financial
footing. During the half-year 379 tons ore
were raised, but some of the best blocks
have been depleted. Some of the ore carries
silver-lead values up to £5O; but no divi-
dend has been declared on the 60,000 shares.
Profits are, however, helping to pay for
driving and sinking and other dead work.
At last New Langi Logan (Vic.), off its
No. 2 shaft, has got a bore up into wash.
Manager Toole reports a prospect of 6gr.
of gold, no water, and that the wash is the
right height for the Cathcart gutter. If so,
this seems to knock out the Langi South
claim that it has the Cathcart gold and
Cathcart wash off its intermediate level.
“Loss, £3965,” sums up six months’ work
at the old Johnson’s Reef, Bendigo. “Due
hank, £5131,” against a fixed deposit of
£1260 is another unpleasant item in the
accounts. All this is due to the old com-
plaint—low gold contents of ore and three
big mines to run. No. 1 mine is pretty well
given over to tributors. In No. 2 the work
of six levels and all the trying on the Garden
Gully and the Paddy’s Gully lines could not
keep the debits from mounting up. The
same luck struck the co. when prospecting
round the Collmann fault, but there is
always a chance of plum-pudding stone in
this part of the property, so John Veale
won’t be satisfied till he does some more
driving round this part of the old claim.
The co. not only lost one of its best sup-
porters in Isaac C. Dyason (George Lan-
sell’s old associate), but George Petrie’s
fall 2600 ft. down the Collmann and Tacelii
shaft robbed it last week of a plucky chair-
man.
Great Extended Tunnel, Wallialla (Vic.),
in its hunt after a new shoot of gold on the
northern extension of Cohen’s reef, has
driven its tunnel a respectable 2000 ft.
Three reefs have been cut, but they haven’t
as a neighbor a dyke such as hugged the
quartz in the Long Tunnel and accounted
for its wealth. Drives have been put in
north and south on all three reefs, but the
co. now goes back to the middle formation,
which lives on the contact of the slates and
the sandstone. The quartz broken so far is
poor stuff, but there are scores of worse
prospecting goes than the little Extended.
*- * * *
Although Great Southern Consols, Ruth-
erglen (Vic.), has mopped up £409.000
from calls and mine products, it has given
only £19,000 in dividends. Yet it moves on
majestically, after shedding its infusion of
Adelaide and Sydney blood. Pees now flow
into the already well-lined pockets of two
or the Staugliton family and an Armytage.
T. E. Thomas, one-time boss of the defunct
Great Southern, has taken command. After
an overhaul in March he shut down on pro-
ductive work to put in a south reef drive
to cut off the too abundapt water. This
spell stops the panelling of green wash with
its usual tally of calls and heavy costs.
When the present job is done he will reach
the drift at No. 3 shoot and can draw on a
fair-sized block of payable ground. Farther
along, off No. 4 shoot, Thomas is into a
narrow gut of the lead. At Rutherglen this
means that the gold has been swished out
into the stretches ahead. Off No. 5 rise
the wash is widening, and hope again sup-
ports the office boomster. What dirt is
exposed in the mine faces is expected to go
IBdwt. If Thomas gets that and has the
pluck to hold off panelling to allow the wash
to drain, he ought to churn out profits —till
ho bumps into the poor patch that sooner
or later gets all Rutherglen mines down.
Alfred Bennett drives Suffolk United, Ben-
digo, along very, very soberly. As soon as he
finds development work falling short lie gets
in tributors. These make about a living
wage, and yield him a small royalty to test
new ground. With the aid of an odd call he
pokes about from 1000 ft. to 1600 ft., and as
lie now gets dabs of 3dwt. stuff he concludes
there may be something doing shortly.
Money is still being spent by Maori-
landers in pursuit of oil. The latest spend
is at Kotuku, Westland, where a local syn-
dicate has collected a bit of cash, an expert
and some boring tools. Millions are sup-
posed to be close handy. Hope snrings
eternal, but so far all the oil that springs
in Maoriland hasn’t made glad the heart of
anyone.
Maoriland has often laughed at its. own
insanity of importing sulphur from distant
lands at great expense when it has enough
of the stuff in the back yard to supply the
needs of half the world. There were works
of a kind at White Island until they were
blown up and the workmen killed about a
year ago, but most of the sulphur obtained
there was carted half-way round the earth
to be treated. Now a new company is being
formed to risk its capital at White Island,
and there is also some talk of trying to do
something with the extensive deposits at
Rotorua.
Kingston Petroleum Territories, in 400
shares of £l.O each, has been promoted to
buy an oil search-license over five square
miles in the Hundred of Murrabinna (S.A.).
This license cost £5 55., being £1 per square
mile and ss. for a miner’s right dated De-
cember 22, 1014. An oil search license is
good for 12 months. Apparently, then, this
license will expire in four months, and if
no work has been done on the property it
cannot be renewed. For this title the pro-
moters are taking £l2OO in shares and £l2OO
in cash. The prospectus states that “Ex-
penses of flotation, brokerage, etc., will be
borne by the company,” so that for an
investment of a fiver and two half-crowns,
the promoters ask the public to pay them
£l2OO in cash and £l2OO in paper. The
prospectus states: “This company’s land is
near Mr. Whaley’s bore.” The land is six
miles or thereabouts from Whaley’s bore,
and there is nothing to show that it might
not just as well be 60.
During the first eight months of this year
13 mines at Charters Towers crushed 30,091
tons for £120,524. The best returns were:
Brilliant Extended, 9144 tons, £30,607;
Mills United, 7600 tons, £27,025; New
Brilliant Freehold, 4138 tons, £15,836;
Papuan, 1444 tons, £13,324; Brilliant
Deeps, 4506 tons, £12,127 ; Clarks, 534 tons,
£6300 ; Victory, 855 tons, £4512. The total
return from the whole field was 34,107 tons,
£148,504. Brilliant Extended, Mills United
and the New Brilliant Freehold are each
holding from £lO,OOO to £12,000 in cash.
Generally speaking, prospects in the deep-
est levels have been disappointing, but the
Extended, Deeps and Freehold are all
developing sections of the Brilliant reef
with slightly improving prospects. Charters
Towers has indeed been quite hopeful that
the Extended in No. 20 East has entered a
payable shoot.
Westonia is wild with delight over Edna
May’s bore-hole developments. The drill
was pointed to strike the reef midway
between its two well-known bulges at a dis-
tance of 69ft. and to get through it at
125 ft. What actually happened is this.
At 69ft. quartz veins of low value were met.
showing that the irregular hanging wall of
the ore body was being traversed. When
the drill got into the reef proper, good
values were struck, and the core showed
the ore to be well mineralised and abso-
lutely free milling. The drill has been in
quartz from 69ft. to 132 ft.. and at the time
this par. was written on the spot was still
in it. Allowing for the angle at which the
bore was put in, the distance between the
points mentioned is equal to an approximate
width of 17ft. Two points anxiously awaited
by shareholders are claimed to have been
settled by the bore: (1) That the underlie
of the reef is normal, i.e., the same between
Nos. 3 and 4 as between 2 and 3 levels;
and (2) that the reef shows no diminution
in width or value. The co. intends to put
in two more horizontal bores from the face
of the No. 4 level crosscut, and also a
depressed one to strike the reef at a vertical
depth of 400 ft. from the surface. Meantime
the water difficulty remains, but this is to
be overcome hv the installation of an elec-
tric pump with a lifting capacity of 50,000
gallons per hour. The shadow of the Edna s
water trouble hangs heavily over the
Deeps, as it is thought that the financial
resources of the co. will be insufficient to
cope with the expected heavy influx in
deeper ground, and at the same time sink
the shaft to the point where the reef is
expected to be struck. There are some
grounds for apprehension on this point; but
if the bore which the managing director has
recommended the Board to put down strikes
the reef and values are right, the co. will
have capital knocking at its door.
From Melbourne: —
The flag is hauled down at Westonia, one of the
latest Edna (W.A.) boom floats. It fluttered out of
Alec Peacock’s upper-storey window in April, but
was ragged by June, when it was shown that the
mine hadn't a golden thread. The co. started off
with a 60,000 share register, and was to part up
£3OOO to vendors. There were 22,000 paids and
38,000 cons., on which ss. was paid. After a wrestle
in the Courts over payment to the promoters, the co.
will yield 4s. 3M. in the ss. A sniffy shareholder
wasn’t satisfied with having his gamble at that low
cost, and put Peacock’s staff on the rack. Compare
the Bulla Bulling, another burst Westralia show.
There vendors sopped up £3500, brokers £563, and
the worker £665. Result: payment of 2s. 9d. in the
ss. accepted without a sniff by the sports who put
up the money for the gamble.
Barrackers for Edna May Central (W.A.)
were cheered the other day when an official
wire was received in Melbourne stating that
the ore disclosed in No. 2 winze, sunk from
the 75ft. level, was Bft. wide and worth over
3oz. Their optimism, however, was shat-
tered a few hours later by another wire
which contained the sorrowful correction
that the value was only 3Mwt. On this
poison-gas attack the bulls sneaked back to
their trenches.
* -X- * *
Some Melbourne money has been found
to test the Riverina South at Mulline
(W .A.). The show has two or three quartz
reefs, and in the last 17 years about £54,000
has been extracted, principally from one of
them. There is a small mill and cyanide
plant on the ground, but years of wear and
tear have about worn it out. The adjoin-
ing Riverina has a production of £46,000
to its credit, and was once sampled by 8.,
M. & Co. But they turned it down, on
account, it is said, of the reef being too
small for a co. of the tonnage they wanted
a mine for.
Ratrut Basin has arranged for the erec-
tion of its dredge in Siam. Ruwolt’s, the
Vic. builders, are under contract to ship the
pontoon in November or December, and it
is not likely that the war will push delivery
back much. On June 30 the co. had £9820
in hand and had paid £2049 on account of
the dredge; but as payments will have to
be made pretty frequently now, shilling calls
will start this month. There are 40.000
fully paids and 42,000 paid to 10s., with 10s.
callable, and 18,000 in reserve.
* * * *
A Launceston (Tas.) syndicate has taken
an option over the Tasmanian Co.’s smelter.
It says it has a chemical process for treating
zinc ore.
Like one or two other disappointed Wes-
tralian mining cos., Brown Hill Extended
has cause to regret its connection with
Nigeria (Africa). Some time ago dazzling
accounts reached the Board of a nine square
mile silver-lead show and a four square mile
alluvial tin area, and it threw in some of
the co.’s money. It has been “backing
up” ever since, and last year the loss was
£lB3O. But for this the royalties obtained
from the tribute parties who for years past'
have been fossicking in the co.’s derelict Kal-
goorlie property would have just about
balanced the year’s expenditure.
One line from the report which induced
the Melbourne-floated Bulla Bulling Co. to
throw up its option on the Gibraltar leases
(W.A.) : “Prospecting demonstrates the en-
richments to be erratic, limited and uncer-
tain.” The Bulletin’s Westralian man
can say, “I told you so” if he feels like it.
From Woodlark Island (Papua) :
Sirce the Australian syndicate threw up its option
on the Woodlark King the owners have got out 30
tons of stone which they have crushed for 5120 z.
melted gold; concentrates and sands to come. An-
other lot of 45 tons, got from driving north, gave
90oz. The Federation has crushed 170 tons for an
average oi loz. 12dwt., and the Marua United has
200 tons ready, and ought to get 30dwt. a ton from
it. Of course, Woodlark would have felt better if the
B. H. Block 10 had taken over the Kulamadau ; but
it doesn’t reckon itself a back-number yet by any
means.
From the other man who examined the
lot: —-
“First Man” persists in claiming that the Edna
Central’s mining and milling costs are the lowest on
the Westonia field (W.A.). They are, on paper; but
the hollowness of the achievement lies in the fact
that, despite the small amount of work done, develop-
ment charges are almost as much as mining costs.
It is easy to debit development with legitimate
revenue expenditure, and thus show cheap mining
costs. As for £5 being the true value of Edna May
shares, if that is so the “First Man” is losing the
chance of his life. He should oversell a few.
* * ■ * *
“Oof Bird”: Britain’s latest territorial
acquisition, German South-West Africa, is
worth hanging on to. The output of dia-
monds began in 1908 with 39,400 carats,
and rose by leaps to 1,570,000 carats, or
about one-fourth of that of the South
African Union, in 1913. One mine, the
Pomona, produced over 600,000 carats dur-
ing the latter year, and did so with less
labor and plant than many British Africa
claims required to produce one-tenth of that
quantity. Through the Diamond Regie the
German Government held a big interest in
the field. Between 1911 and 1914 the South
African Union increased its annual output
by 271,500 carats, whereas German South-
West African sales went up by 405,400
carats. And there are good copner mines,
too; but I can’t talk figures under that head-
ing. I know, however, that the Otavi mine
alone has been giving over 50,000 tons a
year, worth about 13 p.c.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 38.)


v£>
O
<o
CTN
jd
>
ME PLUS ULTRA
Wip*
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A Good Corn
Remover.
Those who suffer from corns and hard skin
on the soles of the feet w'll find it a great
boon to apply a little Atla Resin to the corn,
which, when applied to the corn or hard skin,
and a little covering of cotton wool on the
the top to prevent it sticking to the stocking,
will remove the corn in a day or two. The
Atla Resin seems to act by getting thor-
oughly into complete contact with the .corn,
and thus being able to penetrate it, and not
to act on the surface only. It is certainly
the latest cure for these troublesome and
painful structures, and, according to all re-
ports by those who have used it, one of the
best.* [2
“S. S. Severn”: Re Mr. Ilagelthorn’s talk
that “it is a matter for congratula-
tion that immigrants are arriving to
swell our attenuated population” (B.
12/8/’l5). May I give one instance
of these, “our own stock,” whom our poli-
ticians are assisting to Australia? lie was
a burly, able-bodied male, in robust health,
between 28 and 30 years of age, and, accord-
ing to his own statement, single, with m>
ties. Occupation, since arrival four months
before from England, cleaning boots and
knives for 15s. a week at a boarding-house
in Brisbane. He made no secret that he had
emigrated because he had heard that they
were going to try conscription in England.
An Australian girl working in the same
house said, “It was up to you to stay and
tight for your country,” to which he replied
that because the Colonials were fools enough
to do it, that was no reason why he should.
This man is only one of many who undoubt-
edly left England to be as far from the war
as possible,' and I want to know if it is a
fair thing that we, the wives and children
of good Australians who in many instances
have given up everything to tight for the
Empire, should be taxed in order to pay
“assisted passages” of that kind of immi-
grant ?
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <& CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
1900.
FESQ <Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney,
COGNAC
gSTB?
1795
BRANDY
OTARD
15 YEARS OLD %
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, August 30, 1915.
My Dead Arini, —-
Long before nine o’clock on Saturday
morning a large assembly of citizens shiv-
ered on Wharf No. 7. The day was not
yet aired, and a biting westerly nipped the
noses of the company and tore its feathers
from their moorings. Mayor Richards and
his wife were amongst the first arrivals.
The female millinery wore the hurried ex-
pression of an early start from remote
suburbs. Mrs. Shaw, of Strathfield; the
Wilfred Dockers; the Misses Gother Mann
—the Greenwich ladies whose parent was
in the navy long ago-—and a sprinkling of
official salt got aboard the ferry as soon as
the clattering gangway touched the wharf.
The voyage to Cockatoo Dock ended with
an exhilarating argument between the
skipper and the police oil the jetty. The
ferry made a bee-line for the landing stage.
White cotton gloves waved it off. The Dis-
tinguished Persons’ launch hadn’t yet ar-
rived. After both parties had expressed
their unbiased opinion of one another, the
skipper backed out. Then the launch, which
had the Munro Ferguson and other valuable
cargo aboard, swished up. A reception com-
mittee, consisting of a very plump gentle-
man with a pair of pink cheeks and a genial
manner, stepped forward. This was King
Salter, general manager of the naval ship-
building works at Cockatoo Island.
The Torrens, a torpedo-boat destroyer,
slipped off its dry bed into the tide like a
large grey water-fowl. Lady Helen having
smashed a bottle of vintage against its
sharp nose, the new craft did the right thing
in the most graceful manner. Cheers from
those who had climbed the ofiicial platform
(fortified with white, pink or green tickets,
according to that station in life to which
Providence and local politics had called
them) to watch the event. Workmen, who
had considered well over every nut and bolt,
cheered lustily in reply.
The Ferguson made a stirring speech from
the depths of a gorgeous uniform hung with
ropes of silver. “There’s been only one dif-
ference between Lady Helen and myself in
25 years, and that was as to whether Clyde
or Belfast builds the best ships. Perhaps
avo’ll settle the matter by saying that before
long Australia will build as good craft as
either.” Frantic cheers from the company.
Her Ex. was turned out in dove grey,
rather paler in shade than the sides of the
Torrens. Her white ostrich plumes had a
wild argument with the westerly, but left
the dock intact. State Governor Strickland,
with General Finn in all his finery, attended
the christening. Naval Minister Jensen, fine
and upstanding, handed the boat over to
Australia with the Federal Government’s
kind regards.
Even the hearty appetite of local Society
flagged in the presence of a spread soon after
ten o’clock. Still, the Australian baby’s
baptism had to be celebrated, and the com-
pany did its best. The Censor was amongst
those present, so I wouldn’t for worlds tell
you the size or the horse-power of the
craft or of the crafts that are building,
although Mr. Ivnibbs has printed it all and
when yon buy the information they don’t
even ask you if your name is Yon Tirpitz.
Aide Fane, in his best feathered hat,
dogged the G.-G.’s heels. Australia has put
more flesh on the big frame of the convales-
cent soldier, who means to have another cut
again soon.
During the recent visit of the Fergusons,
his Ex. again put up at the Warrigal Club —•
where men talk beef and wool —and she
climbed the Queen’s Club stairs to change
her hat.
The new Anglican Bishop of Goulburn,
Dr. Radford, was the leader of the High
Church party in the Synod, and there were
wigs on St. Andrew’s lawn when parsons
Boyce, Archdall and other Low Churchmen
got into action. Bishop Radford, who has
been in charge of St. Paul’s College within
the University, was feasted by Governor
Strickland before he put on his new muslin
sleeves.
The Rajah of Pudukota and the new Mrs.
I’udukota honeymooned at the Carrington,
Katoomba. before the lady packed up her
sheaves of diamonds for India. They got
their tremendous baggage safely abroad the
Sonoma, and make a wide detour before
reaching the ’groom’s little kingdom. On the
same boat were Mrs. Holman and Mrs. Hugh
Mclntosh, who unpack their Saratogas in the
IT.S.A.
Governor Strickland and the Victorian
Excellency Stanley have settled down again
after their recent scamper through N. S.
Wales. So have the small towns on which
two Governors threw their brilliant light at
once. Nymagee had never been dazzled
by even one Governor before; so when
a couple burst in, it did something
tremendous. Summoning its local school-
children it fired a royal salute. As no
ordnance was available a heavy fusillade of
Chinese crackers marked the splendor of the
occasion.
Orange, which has never forgotten that it
was well forward in the race for the Federal
capital, poured its old grievance into the
vice-regal ears. While the two Governors
lingered half way up Canoblas to admire the
view, local Mayor MoNeilly, Town-Clerk
Mulholland, Shire-Engineer Beaton, and the
resident gentry recalled the tale of a capital
that wandered from this Band of Promise
into a wilderness of dry bones and often
drier rivers. These tears shed, the party
climbed higher before descending to motor-
level to be whisked back to Orange, whose
waiting lieges were so numerous that the
Town Hall overflowed into the street, and
vice-regal oratory had to be turned on from
the balcony.
To Governor Stanley’s collection of stories
is now added one about the number of
bruises he gathered motoring on the Cadia-
road, which includes about 15 miles of
painful surprises. He can also estimate the
approximate amount of red dust he wiped
out of his eye on the way to Mount Boppy.
The tour was threaded with anecdotes of
Henry Parkes and George Reid. The
raconteur was Sydney Smith, who was the
first Minister of Agriculture ever N. S.
Wales had, and thus was crowned Pumpkin
I. in the lobbies 25 years ago. These days
he is the local director of the English com-
pany which tliusfar to its grief owns the
Nymagee copper mine.
A.D.C. Conant, who came this way with
the Victorian sub-royalty, stopped a" bullet
with his instep during the uproar at Ypres.
There is an interesting limp in consequence;
but it didn’t prevent the invalid giving a
good account of his wind and muscle up the
slopes of Canoblas.
Captain Segrave, the skipper of a con-
verted cruiser” which happened to be some-
where handy, has lost his heart. He went
with the Strickland party out West, and
helped them to find suitable adjectives for
Blue Mountain gorges. He is a linguist of
note, and had he been a talkative sailor
might have replied in the language of the
Allies and the gutturals of the enemy to the
Australian nights’ entertainment provided
by Syd. Smith.
Chaplain Rowe’s story of Gallipoli was
sandwiched between the best lantern slides
we’ve seen for a long while. There was no
confusion on the part of the operator, either.
For once a lecturer was not maddened by
seeing his best slides fall upside-down into
the wrong part of the story. The Town Hall
was so full at 7.30 that the sale of tickets
was stopped. A patient overflow hung on
the bleak front steps and scrambled for a
foothold on the threshold till Authority re-
lented, and allowed some of it to surge round
the rear of the platform. Marsh Little
sang a couple of war ditties, but his voice
wasn’t large enough to worm its way to tin*
back of the hall. Bentley’s band, which is
on the noisy side, blared forth appropriate
tunes and played the sub-regal party into its
seats with the usual anthem.
Private Downes, the lean, well-set-up
youngster who left Queensland to share in
the deathless fame of the third Brigade, got
a cyclonic storm of applause. Behind
shaded glasses this brave youth hides now-
sightless eyes. The naive and modest man-
ner in which he briefly recorded all he saw
of the first wild rush up the Gallipoli hills
set the audience aflame. He stopped in a
bail of shrapnel to help a fallen mate to
shelter; then, with a boyish, deprecating-
laugh—“And that’s all I saw of Gallipoli.”
The boy’s mother, who was in the hall, was
the proudest woman in Sydney at that
moment.
The sportsmen's affair in the Town Hall on
Sept. 4 is after £lOOO for the Australia Day
fund. Hon. organiser Eslick is especially
keen about the Queen of Beauty competi-
tion, which occurs at the fancy-dress ball in
the evening. The Elizabethan bazaar, dog-
show and general uproar will be opened by
Governor Strickland at 2.30.
The name of Archie Scot Skirviug is added
to the toll of the Dardanelles. The whole
family is now on the other side, for Scot
Skirviug, senior, must be nearing the Dover
cliffs on his way to work for the R.A.M.C.
The picturesque mother, whose titian locks
are as lovely as ever they were, was a nurse
in a Sydney hospital when the stern-looking
Scotch surgeon, who had been a sailor, fell
in love with her. She went to England to
be near her two sons when the drums began
1o beat. Father was the last to leave Syd-
ney, and the bad news will be waiting for
him at the end of his journey. The other
son is somewhere at the Front.
Three sons of the late R. E. O’Connor, one
of the first Judges of the High Court, are
doing their bit for Us. .Mother is in Ireland
having a look at son Alan, who is in the 3rd
Leinsters. Max is again on the slopes of
Gallipoli, after recovering from a wound early
in that historic struggle. And Dick was
ready to leave Maoriland with the Dominion
troops some weeks ago.
The Commercial Travellers’ concert in the
Town Hall was for the usual cause —the
bandaged kangaroo. The auction by A. R.
Cooke of cushions, curios and oddments in-
flated the takings moderately. But the
average concert audience yawns nowadays
at too much auction, and stealthily inspects
its watch.
Peter Dawson was the vocal star of the
evening; and his chest looked about two
sizes larger than usual owing to the billow
in his starched shirt-front. Annetta
George, the plump lady who is Mrs.
Peter, was not present owing to bronchitis,
so hubby took extra encores to swell the
programme. Organ interludes arc usually
regarded as first aids to low whisperings
between Him and Her at these affairs; but
Lilian Frost’s silvery way with the big
instrument was one of the charms of the
evening. Esther Kahn, the small, dark-eyed
composer of a “Barcarolle” and “Old French
Minuet,” was in the audience and had the
joy of hearing both melodies insistently
applauded. So organist Lilian gave the
audience another sample of local composition
by the same music-maker.
At the Allies’ Day committee meeting the
other afternoon, various privateering notions
were thrashed out. The veteran T. A.
Dibbs was warmly in favor of a Queen of the
Carnival. As any lady who is so disposed
can barrack for herself to the tune of £5O
worth of voting papers, there’s money in
the idea. Maoriland has tapped this allu-
vial vein with enormous success for patri-
otic purposes. The Day is fixed for Novem-
ber 19.
The Symphony orchestral concert filled
the Conservatorium with the sighs and
groans of fiddles and ’cellos on Saturday
afternoon. Slapoffski conducted with his
hands, and when necessary hushed the ’cellos
into soft growls by hurriedly patting the
atmosphere. But no amount of pawing or
patting from the stage would stay the creak-
ing and the slamming of doors which admit
of no fastening from the inside. Director
Yerbrugghen crept into his seat quietly,
almost furtively—maybe in terror lest some
angry music-teacher should dart out and
slay him for proposing to import the mem-
bers of the Yerbrugghen Quartette at the
State’s expense. The programme misin-
formed those present —a frequent habit with
programmes. So the huge and gloomy Sym-
phonic Patlietique, by Tschaikowsky, fin-
ished the afternoon’s service. It was pre-
ceded by a delightful rendering of Bach’s
“Air for the G string.” Mrs. Slap, revelled
in the perfect acoustics of the official cave
of harmony. The soprano attacked the
florid aria, “Ocean, thou mighty monster,”
in her best form.
A garden fete in aid of the Wounded Sol-
diers’ Fund, held at The Gunyah, Neutral
Bay, on Saturday, was the rendezvous of
some interesting old-timers and their
descendants. The sale was opened by Mrs.
Granville Ryrie, wife of Colonel Eyrie, who
represents North Sydney in the House of
Reps. In the days when Responsible Gov-
ernment began, what is now North Sydney
was St. Leonards, and among those who
gathered round the Oldest Inhabitant on
Saturday were Messrs. W. R. Sayers and
Frank Farnell, the eldest sons of the first
and second representatives of the district.
Australia is growing up. The first time
an expedition left Sydney to help the Empire
it went to the Soudan and brought back a
donkey as its trophy of war. There were
patriotic funds in those days, too, and “A
Little Boy from Manly” won immortality by
sending in a shilling. “Hop,” then just fresh
to these parts, seized the Little Boy to typify
Young Australia; and, the real youngster
being unknown, Ernest Laurence, who was
a little hoy of Manly, served as the model.
Now, when the flour-hag has been spilled on
his head, the model appears, more or less, in
the present great trouble, as the law adviser
of that Julius Blau with whom vai’ions
people think the Commonwealth Government
should have got to holts.
Mrs. Phipps, wife of the Mosman doctor
who is on service in Egypt, was having a
look at the Shamrock when the last news
came this way.
Young Wise, a son of Bernhard, Iv.C.,
now representing us in London, hasn’t shaken
off his recent bout with appendicitis too
well. He left India to convalesce in Eng-
land, and has been doing it by slow stages in
a nursing home.
The Fresh Air League, which sends wan-
faced women and babes to the country in
summer, is trying to attract your notice with
a garden fete. The John Hay dame has
placed her unusual flower beds at Crow’s
Nest at the service of the committee on
Sept. 2.
Artist Minns, the man who can draw for
us Black Sister Mary as no one else can do
it, may be expected to mount The Bulletin
stairs any day. lie was to have been here
early in August by the Benalla. A tire in
the hunkers, however, has lengthened the
trip from London. Minns comes to collect
more types of black brother on this peaceful
side of the maelstrom.
Journalist Quinn and his wife and daugh-
ter were moving across U.S.A. when they
sent a line this way. He is going to tear
up his N.S.W. agency business in ’Frisco to
plant them in A"York.
Queenie Macdonald, of the squatting Want-
abadgery family, is wearing the cap and
apron in a London hospital. She is an extra
voluntary pro., and not taking permanently
to the Nightingale business.
Dr. Arthur’s efforts to lead feminine
fashion into the stern path of thrift are
fainting away before the new spring goods.
In the tiliuy voiles they’re not extravagant
gear. Woman will steadily refuse to get
into a universal uniform so long as she
knows that there are a few men left to be
cheered by her best frock. The past winter
has shown that economy—within reason;
always within reason —has been stoutly prac-
tised. But the dreary pessimist could serve
no good purpose by dressing Woman in a
bolster of sugar-hags. What Australian
women are doing for the Red Cross shouts
itself from the housetops ; and no doubt the
Recording Angel is putting even the rob-
beries she has organised on the credit side
of her account in the eternal ledger. The
small debit —Spring fashions —won’t be
noticed alongside the vast bulk of her Good
Works.
The Army Service Corps committee will
be in charge of the tea-room at the Chamber
of Commerce exhibition, Circular Quay, on
Sept. 4. The Commerce magnates authorise
the A.S.C. to give the profits to the Corps’
comforts fund. The lion. sec. is Miss Hilda
Caro.
The Sheepskin Vest Committee had an
audience which was lean at least in num-
bers to listen to its first annual report. Bui
in person it was mostly plump and opti-
mistic, and it filled the Town Hall vestibule
with a cheery tale of great faith. Its cash
in hand is fairly substantial, but there’s a
bitter winter ahead, so it is after your last
7s. all the same. Chief Justice Cullen took
the chair, while John Mackay, chairman of
the executive, reminded those present and
absent that 20,000 vests have been pro-
mised to George Reid to hand over to the
British authorities as soon as possible. A
large and hearty speaker, A. 11. Moore, waved
aside this mere handful, and suggested
250,000 as a more suitable, gift from wealthy
N. S. Wales. After that. F. E. Winch-
combe. ex-Mayor Cocks, and others had
their little talk.
Mrs. Finlay, who used to be Ilaidee do
Lissa. has returned from California. The
new husband was acquired in U.S., and he
threatens to take very kindly to his wife's
gum trees.
Women writhed in a dense mass in the
Town Hall vestibule on a warm afternoon
last week. The “Women’s Commonwealth
Patriotic Association” was going to discuss
the Teuton host. Every patriot was fiercely
resolved that she’d never buy enemy goods
again so long as she handled Dad’s salary.
But if you had said, “Very well; then it
doesn’t matter, does it, if we block these
goods with a 100 per cent, duty?” there
would probably have been screams of pro-
test from the “Liberal” ladies. Mayor
Richards kept the peace at this corroboree.
The best speaker, in an academic sense,
was Dr. Mary Booth. Miss Annie Golding,
the dominant Trades Hall lady, offered prac-
tical advice to the audience; but, mostly,
meaningless platitudes fell like hail from the
platform.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


‘CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
4k r%
\Si wi
sa®
m&sggt
es&
m
w
m
t M
f n
rH
■Sr.
Iltl®
/ f
SSI
-;■■■ ■'•■■
PsS re
•feßi
m
'---X:
m
bJ&ra.
i
; ;
11
wi r ,
ig
mi
®f«K
m
m
m
m
r r
m
fg - |
Bag
ss
P?
3SPs
S 8»
: .£
eSS-S-*
HXgft
- :
HSfiSSlSi®
' "><
sZM
w
XXXX&rM-*?*
'Wt?
m*n**r*
J-U'. ■ ■ ' *'"
“"•**-*WSsrjj
*■' •;••••••---^r......,.
fc: i_. , v.-JB
,'7^s
JvStSfl! l ?!
>^/; 7^v4^wxc^- //^<^Zfc.>... 1 »i. »<> *>r " mCS
S
Cobra,” Tsho. Boot PolisK.
Chancier Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Can’t resist the
Ocean blue.
Scorning all the
Bullets, he
Plunges straight
Into the sea.
Who cares for
The frowsy Turk !
Fight in £ is
o o
Hot, dusty work ;
So the “COBRA
Three with vim
Revel in a
Bi "ight, clear swim.


FARMER’S CONVINCING VALUES
IN TRAVELLING REQUISITES
m
No. T.R.39
The “Victor"
Suit Case
PRICES
FROM
30 1-
The best is always the cheapest in
Travelling- Requisites. A “cheap” article
may look all right when you buy it, but
under the strain of use it will fail you—
perhaps at a critical moment. Farmer’s
Suit Oases, etc., are sturdy in construc-
tion, smart in appearance, and supreme
value always.
The famous “Victor” is an example.
Made of Selected, Polished Hide on strong
frame, superior side action locks and
straps inside case. 'The “Victor” is com-
pact, capacious, light, yet very strong.
Lengths 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
Prices 30/- 33/6 36/6 39/6
These Gooch sent Carriage Free to
any part of Australia.
FAR MEM’S,
PITT, MARKET &
GEORGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Qualify!
11
0
I
•-. * . :
i • A
*■. mm >. ..:v.
I l '
m
m
In fitting "
DUNLOP
TYRES
you have the highest
grade Tyres made.
They stand alone
for QUALITY OF
MATERIAL—and
STRENGTH-and
SERVICE.
They not only offer you
greater mileage, but more
economical motoring, inas-
much as they can be
purchased from any
Garage at a lower figure
than any imported Tyre.
DUNLOPS
are not only the best tyres
in Australia, but they are
made in Australia and are
worthy of your support.
LIST ON APPLICATION
THE DUNLOP RUBBER COMPANY
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY, ADELAIDE. PERTH
BRISBANE. WELLINGTON. CHRISTCHURCH
AND LAUNCESTON
i
m
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, August 30, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Cliveden buzzed on Friday night with a
carefully-selected carnival. Nearly a thou-
sand tickets were sold at ss. each ; but the
sellers were _ very careful, my dear. Rank
outsiders, y'know, would have rushed a
chance of getting amongst the prize
merinoes for a mere five hob. But they were
not given a chance.
The affair proved to be an extreme un-
dress function. Some nice girls from out-
side, knowing the affair to he merely a glori-
fied bazaar, turned up in neat tailor-mades
and outdoor gear. They were eventually
found in a miserable bunch on a large lounge-
sofa, completely subdued and crushed. The
Cliveden dames stared at them coldly. “Who
are these girls—not in evening dress’?” was
the chill, unspoken curse they laid upon the
sufferers. All those in the know were in the
most radiant undress. The order was for
shoulder-straps and no spurs; fat, naked
shoulders and acres of bare back. There
were ospreys and bandolettes and jewels for
the adornment of the hair, but scarcely a
chiffon rag on the bodies.
State Governor Stanley weathered the
show with the assistance of Nigel Conant.
The Cliveden Maddens showed them both
round, and kept the rank outsiders from
biting them. The concert in the lounge was
the main attraction. Somebody murmured that
Daisy Jerome and other music-hall artists
were on the platform, so early birds made
a rush and perched in the seats, leaving the
late birds to stand on their toes and breathe
hard on each other’s bare back. There was
a lot of hack, the women being in the pro-
portion of 30 to one man. Willy Kelly,
usually debonair and cool when facing the
most fearful odds, looked positively scared
when he found himself alone and unsup-
ported in the concert doorway. Dame
Madden and daughter Lesly sat close at
hand. A crushed, buzzing crowd suddenly
discovered a spinning-jenny in the middle
ot the room. “Oh, quite laike Monte Carlo !”
cooed one expensive matron with a knowing
smirk. A real alcoholic bar was installed
in the corner. A Fenner girl, who used to
be so demure, acted as barmaid with real
vine leaves in her hair. She also had a
gilded wineglass hung behind one ear, and a
bunch of grapes on her side curls. Miss
McEvoy and Miss Rutherford dashed about
with trays and “chits” in approved hotel
fashion. Of course you couldn’t pay for
the drinks. Well, not cash, anyway. But
you could redeem your lOU afterwards.
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald and some girls had
a lingerie stall. One young man was heard
bleating through the crowd, "Where’s the
undies’?” The most embarrassing garments
were held up for inspection, and not even
a dainty nightcap went for less than three
guineas. Pink and mauve bebe ribbon did
the trick. The sale of gifts went on all
night in one bedlam, while Sassiety’s best
amateurs and a few professionals sang their
darndest in another room. Numbers of
naturalised Germans and Austrians were
present, and their cash was interned in
sweet Charity’s name.
Some Clivedeneers had offered their flat-
rooms for bridge, and to these roosts
lovers of quiet stole away, to play into the
small hours. The roof was available at half
a crown a head. But the night was boister-
ous, so this was not the success it might
have been.
The working women of Port Melbourne
claim the right to the pier-welcomes to the
homing Australian wounded. They have
got a sort of lien over the patriotic job by
reason of having been on hand to give food
and cigarettes and general cheer to the first
unexpected boatload. They certainly were
hustled from the gates by the guard; but,
despite that, they got as near as possible.
Later on, when the social frilled-lizards
awoke from their doze and wanted to rush
in, the women of the Port beat them down.
They stuck to their guns, too, with the re-
sult that when the next boat arrived it was
the Port contingent only that wore badges
of admission to the shed on the wharf. The
motor class sent 200 cars to carry the men
in triumphal procession round Melbourne;
but “the Ports” gave the heroes the first
refreshments and smiled the first welcome.
That deathless legion, the Arts and Crafts,
storm fresh heights of glory this year.
President Lady Creswell, who helped
to hatch out the annual show, cautiously
says they would not have exploded
into new rooms had they foreseen the
war; nevertheless things are trundling
along satisfactorily. The rooms are
upstairs in the new Elizabeth House.
Besides being big enough for exhibition pur-
poses, they have fine space for “the Red
Cross work for which the- local military
hospitals commend them.
When you arrive you will see Mrs.
Courtney, from Learmonth (near Ballarat),
sitting in the big bow window spinning wool
straight from the bale, and carding it before
putting it on her wheel. The carding is done
with something like butter-pats. All the old
ladies in Melbourne are foregathering and
humbling the ignorant young moderns with
such remarks as, “My mother used to do it
this way” ; and “ I’ve always seen the w’heel
turned that way.” They are having the
time of their lives. The Irish crochet that
the Carmichael dame loved is shown every-
where, for she left a shoal of devoted imita-
tors behind her. Artist George Dancey has
revived an ancient process of painting on
dry plaster for exterior decoration, which
is said to be sun-proof and damp-resisting.
He shows a large, indestructible painting by
himself. Yon could only disturb it with a
German siege-howitzer. Valeria Correll
shows her white sculped “Sirens.” Being
talented but languid, the lady achieves fine
work spasmodically, doing pottery without
a wheel and other clever things. She has
sculped (roughly) two fighters at close
quarters—an Australian khaki man appro-
priately on top. Tom Carter, now teach-
ing at the Working Men’s College, shows
some pottery of original design.
Miss Baker is trying to capture some of
the German toy trade. She has a table
full of cute things, wherein the detail is
good and the work as careful as that of an
old and devoted cabinet-maker. This gentle
toy-maker lives down at Black Rock, where
she is kept busy on orders for the coming
Christmas. Miss Alsop has a gallery of sil-
houettes. Bertha Merfield signs some big
decorative picture work. One deep, shadowy
gully is just the thing for the hot weather.
Mrs. Courtney supplies woven rugs and
spreads of all sizes. Miss Butchard has
tiny forest and hill scenes set up as Christ-
mas greetings. The bothered Christmas
buyers can get in early and have something
original and Australian for a crown. Sec-
retary Miss McGeorge is prepared to help
visitors after artistic things for all she is
worth —and all they are worth.
Sir Arthur Stanley is in modified mourn-
ing for his aunt Maud, who died the other
day. There’s a strong infusion of Christian
Endeavoring in the family, and the late Hon.
Maud Stanley was well known along that
road. Her specialty was the moral and
physical improvement of the London ’Arriet.
and she will be missed by many girls with
blue draggle-tailed feathers in their Sunday
’ats.
Rupert Clarke’s son-in-law, Reggie
Power, made a few people sit up and stare
when he admitted that he was going off to
fight somewhere as a private and wouldn’t
seek a commission or a discount or anything
like that.
Ernest Williams, killed at the Dardan-
elles, was a son of Hartley Williams, an
ex-Judge of our Supreme Court, now living
in England, and best remembered as the man
who didn’t get the State C.J.-ship. Ernest
Williams had the D. 5.0., and was a major
in the Northumberland Fusiliers. A sister
married Oswald Watt, the distinguished Aus-
tralian airman, a union since dissolved.
Another sister is the wife of Moleswortli
“Greystones” Greene, of Bacchus Marsh and
Broken Hill. Major Williams’s mother was
a daughter of the late Major Horne, a re-
tired British officer who settled in Arma-
dale when that suburb was a village.
Her Federal Ex. motored to St. Ivilda the
other afternoon to open a Red Cross fete at
St. Michael’s Ladies’ College, of which an
old friend of Lady Helen’s —a sister of
Admiral Poore —is principal.
Colonel Burston, the maltster who was
once mayor of Melbourne and is now in
Egypt, is presently to have a visit at Alex-
andria from his wife and daughter, soon to
leave these shores for England. There is
also a son at the Front, Dr. Roy Burston,
with whom the family hopes to foregather
for a few minutes. Mrs. Burston is going
t» England to keep a married daughter com-
pany in the absence on active service of
her British husband, Dr. Cook.
The death of Dr. Langley from spinal
meningitis is particularly sad. He and his
wife (she was one of the Clapp sisters)
were engaged for a number of years, and
now, after a brief 12 months of wedlock,
Mrs. Langley has been widowed through the
horrible epidemic.
Judge Moule’s handsome elder son. a
lance-corporal in the Light Horse, has fallen
at the Dardanelles, after being wounded at
the other Front. His youthful-looking
mother went invalided to Englanu from
Egypt, whither she had pilgrimaged to be
near her boy.
P. N. Tewkesbury, the mining man who
put his money into the Oriental Hotel, has
just been comforted by cable. His wife
and school-girl daughter Vera were on the
torpedoed Arabic, but were saved, though
without their trunks. When you remem-
ber the way Mrs. Tewkesbury dresses it
makes you realise how r horrible these wrecks
are;
A very modest Australian A .C., at present
at the Dardanelles, is James Rogers, a
Gippslander who won his high honor in
S’Africa by rescuing wounded comrades
under fire. Rogers could never be per-
suaded to show his decoration or talk about
the heroic incident. His sister is the wife
of John Wadsley, a farmer at Koo-wee-rup.
She proudly shows two portraits one or her
brother as he departed for the South African
war undecorated, and another of the
splendid khaki fellow as he left for the
Dardanelles, wearing the Y.C. and two other
medals.
The Bert Bailey co. at the King’s is losing
its energetic secretary and press agent,
Regina Varley, who is entering into a long
and permanent engagement with Monty
Grover about the middle of the month. The
bride-to-be is a niece of the late Violet
Varley, and is a petite edition of her relative
in many charming particulars. The wedding
is to occur in Melbourne, and it is understood
that a secluded bit of St. Paul’s has been
pegged out for the ceremony.
Kitty Boyes, a sister of Mrs. Ted Dyson,
is shouting hooray and throwing up her hat
(the brown one with the feather). Her
fiance, Captain Jackson, has cabled that he
is returning to Australia, and wedding bells
are ordered for September 28. The Cap-
tain is a Naval Reserve officer who is usu-
ally very busy with troopships.
Jacques 801, the Belgian tenor who
stranded on these hospitable shores, sang at
the big Cliveden show. A benefit concert
has been arranged and will duly happen on
Thursday night, September 2. Horace
Stevens, Mary Conly and the Jansen lady
will sing. Gwen Richardson is billed to
recite “What Will Ye Give to the Nation V”
and the John Madden pair have promised to
attend and lend an ear apiece. S’John, by
the way, is now sicklied o’er with his pale
forecast concerning the war. He guaran-
teed that it would end in August.
An assisted immigrant named Tony, of
Arrandale, was selected by the judges as the
best animal in the Kennel Club’s cat-show.
Tony is a chinchilla Persian owned by Lena
Robinson, the Malvern meow-expert. The
lady’s name is also associated with a widely-
known breed of Jersey cows.
George Upward, until lately clerk-assistant
to the Senate, and sometime Usher of the
Black Rod, Pole or Perch, has been having
a tough time in hospital at Cairns, North
Queensland. Upward has- for years dwelt
in a somewhat unfashionable region on the
St. Kilda-road, and his pedestrian habit pro-
bably has some bearing on the fact that he
is reported to have the Cairns bacilli beaten
to a frazzle.
The Red Cross has had to entreat people
not to send in any moreT soldiers’ mittens
made from old stockings. Many of the leg-
wraps were green with old age, some had
been darned so much that the original stock-
ing was a myth, and some —well, some
hadn’t been to a very good laundry. In
short, they were more shocking than stock-
ing, and as such were cremated.
State Ex. Stanley opened the show of
Will Dyson’s war caricatures in the
Centreway on Thursday. He remarked at
length that caricaturists are loved by the
giggling friends of the caricature, as well
as by their enemies, but rarely by the un-
fortunate victim. Stanley thinks, however,
that caricaturists are the salt of the earth—
which fact, I am sure, will cheer up the
trade greatly. He quoted the saying that
“a certain amount of fleas is good for a dog
—it keeps him from thinkin’ on bein' a
dog”—and then stumbled as if he had tem-
porarily lost his nerve. But it was a dry,
dusty day, and he had already opened two
vastly different shows since lunch.
Bigjohn Forrest had a birthday party
tendered him at the Grand Hotel last week
by his devoted wife. There were no candles
to the birthday cake, because G 8 would have
been required, and an old politician like
Bigjohn would rather use his breath to
make a speech than lumber round blowing
out lights. Besides, the patriotic hostess
expressed her opinion that it would be
wasteful in these warlike times. The Fanes
and Doris Blackwood drank Bigjohn’s
health with the L. K. S. Mackinnons,
Caseys, Grices, Fairbairns and l.undales.
Margery Withers, the young daughter of
the late Walter Withers, is painting some
nice stuff nowadays. Times are too risky
for her to attempt a show at present; but
she has some work on view as part of the
Arts and Crafts show. There are two head
portraits, vigorous and surprising in treat-
ment. One of a child in a bine snood,
laughing widely over square white teeth, is
infectiously merry. However, portraits are
not her only line, for she has signed two
autumn, briar-bramble scenes which are fine
and breezy, like the weather we’ve been
having.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
There was another Peace Riot at the Botanic
Park on Sunday, and the Premier has threatened
that if the Peace enthusiasts don’t go a bit slower
in the way of inflammatory language there will be
trouble. The members of the Peace Alliance dissent
fiercely. They are prepared, seemingly, to fight
anyone but the Germans.
The Shiels-Brookm.rn wedding occurred on Tues-
day. The bride-elect was the victim at a tea-party
at the Queen Adelaide Club a day or so before the
Mrs. Theodore Bruce has gone to Egypt, to be
near her son, who is with the 4th Light Horse.
The A.R.C. Grand National Meeting began on
Saturday. The Governor was there (he had just got
back from his Broken Hill trip) ; also, several racing
men and a few racing women. But it was a dead
festivity, on the whole.
The newly-launched League of Loyal Women is
opening an inquiry office where ordinary, every-day
information on the matter of addresses to troops at
the Front, etc., will be answered.
Capt. Henry Kent Hughes, of the Ist Battalion
King’s Own Yorkshire Light Infantry, who has been
killed in action in Belgium, belonged to the family
whose name is all over the world. He was a grand-
son of the late Edmund Hughes, a one-time S.M. of
this State. A brother, a captain in the Royal AVor-
cesters, was killed at Mons, and another is a mem-
ber of the Royal Flying Corps.
The Public Library has accepted a copy of the
“Diary and Letters of Mary Thomas.” The writer
was the grandmother of Evan Kyffin Thomas, of the
R roister proprietary, who has edited the book.
Mr. J. 11. Humphreys, the secretary of the Pro-
portional Representation Society of Great Britain,
is in Adelaide, lie gave a demonstration of the tech-
nicalities of the system at the State Electoral Office
on Friday, and will give a lecture on the same sub-
ject on Wednesday night. Furthermore, he is to
speak about Belgian relief work at a Belgian concert
which the Wattle Day League has arranged for
Monday afternoon.
Captain Lance Hawker, who has added the V.C.
to the D.S.O. which he already had, is a son of the
late Lieut. “Harry” Hawker, R.N., and a grandson
of the late G. C. Hawker —one of the State's first
pastoralists. His younger brother, who is in the
Royal Field Artillery, has been in the thick of the
fighting since the first days of the war, and has also
been twice mentioned in despatches, and his eldest
brother Seymour, who married an Adelaide girl, and
has settled on part of the original Bungaree station,
is attached to the force that is in training in tin?
Exhibition camp. It is a useful family record.
News has come through that Lieut. Henry Marten,
the younger of the Humphrey Martens’ sons, has
been killed in action in France. He was in England
when the war broke out, and volunteered at once,
since when he has been in the trenches almost con-
tinuously. He was attached to Sir John French’s
staff, and for two months was second in command
of General Smith-Dorrien’s Composite Guard. It
is only quite recently, that his people heard he had
been mentioned in despatches.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


J
IMPERIAL"
WHISKY
t *e FINES'*
<s
EL
V J I
H
OTLIN
f Wesr&w
° *lPewar
<s
e^ y
Son s
®»ihue
LON° O>J
PERTH
MB


( Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul.
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Re sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Treat your
hair kindly
You desire fine, beautiful hair.
Therefore you must treat it
kindly—nourish it, preserve it,
care for it by regularly using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
“ F ° r Y ° Ur Hair ”
This preparation has been used for over
120 years—it has proved its value time
and time again. Do not try experi-
mental remedies on your hair—get a
bottle of Rowland’s Macassar Oil at
your chemist’s. Also sold in a Golden
co’our for Fair or Grey Hair. Rowland
& Son, 67, Hatton-gardeu, London, E.C.
Buyers of
HORROCKSES'
LONGCLOTHS
MADAPOLAMS and DRILLS
Have a guarantee if they will see HORROCKSES’
name on Selvedge that they are getting the very
best that the Old Country produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all Fi st-Class Drapers and c torekeepera
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS, t
MontserraT
SAUCE
A
MADE DA'OAI THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Slot eko pen.
Fairy Led.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’ f WAS Rory’s eyes were bright with
laughter,
’Twas Rory’s heart a while was
mine—
Och ! Queer are dreams that follow after
A little sup of fairy wine.
’Twas summer-time. The men were reaping;
I heard them sing as I went by.
Sure what was yon small thing lay sleeping
Below the thorn bush thin and dry?
I ler dress was tufts and ends and tatters,
A fringe of green, a flounce of rose,
Like things the ragman Autumn scatters
Across the garden as he goes.
Och, now! And why would Ibe waking
The like of her that sunny day?
“And is it rest, good soul, you’re taking,
Or stopped to smell the new-mown hay?”
She looked up quick to hear me speaking,
She rose upon her crooked feet:
“ ’Tis far across the world I’m seeking
The blue-eyed girl that I must meet.”
“And if you met her would you know her?
’Tis blue for sure my own. eyes are.
What thing is this that you would show her,
Small woman that have come so far?”
She looked me up and down and over.
“ ’Tis light you are to think and speak.
There’s blossom on the standing clover
Will turn to brown, sweet hay next week!”
'Twas something in her old hand shaking.
Dr in her small, brown wrinkled head,
I could not turn myself to making
A mock of that strange thing she said.
M.v heart was like the summer weather,
A quiet thought between us fell.
We walked the long, green road together,
And stayed to drink at Finnard well.
Twas she drank first. A thin branch droop-
ing
Let in the sunlight on her head.
And. sure, her shadow, bent and stooping,
Made all the water purple-red.
Deli, heart! ’Tis idle to be thinking
What spell she set upon me there,
I could not hold my mouth from drinking
For all the gold a queen might wear.
'Twas in my blood the strangest feeling.
’Twas in my head the strangest tune —
Twas Rory’s self that found me kneeling
Beside a thorn tree in the moon.
The moon was white and high and lonely
And Rory’s eyes seemed cold and far—-
“Dch, Rory ! Am I dreaming only,
Dr is it by the thorn you arc'?”
Tis five long days that I came after
And tracked your steps along the hill,
1 heard the small men at their laughter,
Their running feet were never still.
“I tracked you through the summer weather.
I tracked you through the thunder rain
And up the whins and through the heather
And by the thorn trees back again.”
I seemed asleep and near the waking
From some ill dream the dark had grown:
A cold thought in my soul was aching:
His eyes were hard like eyes of stone.
Dch, heart!” I said. “The moon is keeping
A quiet road across the hill,
And half the soul of me is sleeping
And half the dream is with me still.
“And down the night I hear them calling -
Man dear, you will not let me go—
There’s music rising now and falling
And death lights in the thorn and sloe.”
The moon was white and high find lonely,
And Rory’s eyes seemed far away—
"Och ! Tell me am I dreaming only,
Dr have they led my wits astray?”
A song blew up and down and over.
And by the thorn I heard her speak :
“There’s blossom on the standing clover
Will turn to brown, sweet hay next week !”
N.S.AV.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Fires that Never Go Out.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ql FLU, isn t it, how one’s brain re-
sponds to the stimulus of suggestion?
Hear a song, and the refrain of a
second comes lilting through the years, and
images of places and long-forgotten people
crowd on the mind. Strange tricks of the
mental telephone exchange these. A rainy
day, a gleam of sunshine, a bird’s whistle,
a beer —anything and everything seems to
build bridges over time and space and weave
quickly-shifting patterns on memory’s loom.
An idle gaze on the prim suburban fireplace
to-night, and other fires, long cold, but once
so warm, were lighted yet again.
The upper half of the galley door to lee-
ward is open, and the big bos’n, not wait-
ing to shoot back the lower bolt, lifts a
shivering boy through the aperture and
dumps him on the floor. “lie vants a varm.
doctor, grunts the squarehead—he has got
his seaboots filled for his pains—and
splashes away aft. The negro cook sits
propped against the weather side between
his cooking range and bread locker. The
evening’s work is over, and presently he
will crawl awav through the bulkhead into
his berth beyond.
The boy rests upon the thing called a
table, grateful for the warmth of the fading
fire, thankful for the heavy, steam-laden air.
The negro leans over, pushes a poker into
the coal and rattles out some sparks; then
without shifting his seat reaches a pannikin,
and filling it with coffee hands it; to his
guest. The lad swallows tin* black, tepid
liquid at a gulp. llis wet feet are warming
now; his ears beein to thaw. What a good
fire it is! And Africa stares mutely at
the square of darkness framed in the half
door—no word, no movement. Is he dream-
ing. or thinking? Or is lie just an inky
automaton, bowed by the weight of een-
HIGH INTEREST.
HEBREW IMMIGRANT: “Tiny give £5 bonus for each baby, you say? And how much does
it cost to yet married ?”
AUSTRALIAN: “Oh, say ten bob.”
ILL: “ Mine gracious! One thousand per cent.! Tot a glorious country!”
turies, cowed by the curses of fore and aft?
The boy has often wondered since. He
didn’t wonder then.
The bos’n comes blundering in an hour
or so later, with dripping oilskins and
streaming face, to drink coffee and suck a
pipe so atrociously rank as to outrage the
everlasting sea. He, too, drinks and sucks
in .silence.
“I’d better turn in now, Charlie,” says
the boy.
“Right.”
As they get out on the slippery, reeling
deck, a great sea-hardened paw grips the
kid by the arm and stays there till the hatch
over the cabin companion-way has been
slipped back.
“Good night!" grunts a grail voice, and
the cover jerks quickly over.
Good old Charlie! Dead long ago—but
where and how and when? Among men
rough and uncouth always, brutal not in-
frequently, and yet —amazing paradox—tor
many a day ashore and afloat the good friend
and mate of an always-timid boy.
The galley fire that night how warm, how
cosy, how cheerful —the brightest in all the
world !
A log fire is glowing at the end of the big
hut. Half a dozen unkempt men and a lad
are feeding at a table in the centre —boiled
mutton, potatoes, bread, treacle, tea and
duff. They feed with the eager deliberation
of hunger. Their work has been hard and
long. The meal is not a pleasant spectacle,
but there is only one possible connoisseur
there, and he is holding a chop in his fingers
so that he may tear the meat off with his
teeth. Old Peter finds the duff handiest on
the end of a knife. Andy drinks to the
accompaniment of sounds like a suction
pump suffering from asthma. The cook
gathers up the humble properties in a bucket,
seizes one of the two candles and goes out-
The others light up, pull their seats to the
lire, and make room in the middle for the
chop manipulator, who produces a book—“A
Tale of Two Cities.”
To-night’s instalment covers the rescue
from prison of Charles, and goes on to the
execution of Sydney Carton. The pipes go
out: the tire flickers lower; the eager faces
of the listeners seem to be moulded in bronze
as the youth reads on, page after page of that
noble, moving prose. They had never heard
anything like that before —only a couple
could read at all. “I am the Resurrection
and the Life....”
The boy closes the book. The audience
fades away to the tents in the scrub. The
reader is looking into the fire, alone —and
when he wakes only ashes are there.
There seems no warmth in this fire. The
man throws on another log and moves closer.
He is tired with travel and loss of sleep;
the hour is on the boundary between night
and daylight when all Nature shrinks trem-
blingly from the ordeal of waking. The snow
is deep outside. Another man comes in and
takes the opposite chair. “At any time
now,’’ he says- The other nods, with mute
acquiescence and a fantastic attempt to
guess at what a tree feels like on being sud-
denly pulled up by the roots. Then in a
moment the tire spurts up. Yes, it burns
warmly now—brightly like it did in those re-
mote days when he used to sit there by that
same fender with a sister, and a mil. hand-
some woman they called “Mother” told them
wondrous stories of splendid kings and
queens, of kind fairies and wicked gnomes.
of charity and virtue in castle and cottage;
who knelt with them to pray for mercy, poor
wee souls; wlm put them to lied and tucked
them in and kissed them—the one human
being around whom every incident of life ie-
SO TIRED.
“You remind me of a man I used to be very
fond of."
“A former sweetheart?”
“No —grandpa !"
volved —up to the morning he had gone away
and a dear, soft hand had clung round his
neck at the gate. Why, it seemed only the
other day that lie-
“Better come !*' The nurse beckons to the
door, and he follows, the doctor going first.
The lined face is'peaceful now under the
grey hair. The breathing so soft—so regular
that it hardly seems possible there was no
lt stops ! There are others there. Why
do they bow? he wonders. Why does the
white-bearded man who shook his hand as
he came in totter and have to be half-carried
away? Dead! “1 am the Resurrection and
the Life....” once more.
Back before the fire in the old room again.
It is burning low now, .as it sometimes did
when a boy listened to someone singing
“Abide with' me.” How long, long ago that
was! “Fast falls the eventide”
“Why. daddy, you’ve let the fire go nearly
out!, How cold you must be!” And a girl’s
warm little face snuggles down against his
ear.
“Yes, dear; yes—as cold as looking at the
lire makes one.”
“But I’ll build it up again”—and they
built it up again together, and the man
laughed. The cycle had not been broken.
MUJIK.
Gone Is My Youth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I would it were not so,
But it is simple truth ;
My eyes have lost their glow.
Gone is my youth !
All, how he flattered me
In the soft words he spoke ;
Simply a boy was he
My heart awoke !
Youth set my veins a-thrill,
Gave me a thought divine.
If youth could love me still,
Youth still was mine !
Thus, for the hopes he raised
With his infernal art,
Plans of a life were razed —
Youth owned my heart.
Smiles the world scornfully ;
Folly my hope must seem —
’Twas but youth’s courtesy
Gave me my dream !
Now, I the wrinkles feel
That speak the cold, hard truth ;
Grey years upon me steal —
N.S.W.
Gone is my youth !
HAMER.


si
r \s
a?
■ ■ • ... ■
0
y
.y ■'
m
s ■
\
“Well-Dressed” Men
are invariably “ London ” Tailored—for “London” Suits carry with them
that inimitable grace and distinctiveness of the true tailor's art which denotes
perfection in every detail of cut, fashioning, fit and finish.
c/lutS
50/-, 63/-,
:: AND ::
UPWARDS 1
WITH EXTRA TROUSERS FREE
will prove to YOU our claim of offering "the finest tailoring service in the world/' and will make sure
YOUR place amongst the many others who owe their "well-dressed ” appearance to being “ London” Tailored,
Write TO-DAY for Patterns of THE NEWEST and FINEST SUITINGS EVER OFFERED
_ sent POST FREE accompanied by SIMPLE SELF-MEASUREMENT FORM -
ONE ADDRESS ONLY
MELBOURNE
Ltd.
== ir
e£


’*9
X
THE iNV.SiBLE
NECK REINFORCEMENT
MEANS DOUBLE WEAR.
THIS TAB
SLEEVE
LIFT MEANS
COMFORT.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW MEN’S
WEAR CATALOG. SENT FREE.
MEN! HERE’S A
FINE SHIRT
which we offer conscientiously as the best
value obtainable in Australia, introducing
special features which have popularised
The Double Life Shirt
with numbers of discriminating men.
The invisible neck reinforcement ensures
double wear, while the attached sleeve lift is
extremely useful and permits comfort.
Perfectly cut and made in Oxford materials,
stripes of all widths. Blue with white and
white with black stripes..
A GREAT PRSCE
VALUE. 4 6.
SENT POST
FREE TO
ANY STATE.
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PTY.
LTD.
THt MAIL ORDER HOUSE FOR MEN,
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
WHEN “OUT OF SORTS” take
“CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
“fruit laxative” at once.
The vague, discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of “California Syrup of
Figs.” There is no need to put up with these
things until to-morrow, waiting for bedtime
to take medicine. “California Syrup of Figs”
will begin to do you good the moment you
take it —at any hour —and cause no discom-
fort. This pleasant-tasting, refreshing fruit
laxative cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps
away all accumulations of undigested food,
and stimulates thg liver to assist in relieving
the bowels. By evening the tongue will be
clear again and the overflow of bile swept
away: you will be yourself again, with a
good appetite and digestion. This is the
medicine which does such wonders for chil-
dren of all ages; but it is every bit as good
for grown-up people, and there are full direc-
tions for every age with the hottle. Take
care to buy the genuine, as there are imita-
tions on the market. Ask for “California
f yiup of I' igs, and look for the name and
trade mark of the “California Fig Syrup Co ”
All leading chemists sell “California* Syrup of
Figs,” 1/1A and 1/9 per bottle.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Simplex”: Let a mere French novelist
put a mob of Australians right in the making of
clamper:—
Our bill of fare consisted of ham soup, some
haricot beans and damper. Damper is a cake of
flour and water flattened between the hands and
baked in hot ashes.
The authority is Alexander Dumas in “A Modern
Gil Bias,” a tale of the Californian ’forties.
WRONG, SEE!
“Hurt thumb—reckless driving."
“Car?"
“No — nail."
Lou : Up on the Olinda heights (Vic.),
where big rocks jut out from the hillsides, they have an
original method of clearing the slopes for cultiva-
lion. Alongside each big boulder a bigger hole is
put down, and when all is clear the obstruction is
tumbled, in. It s rather a risky caper, especially if
you don t. sink the hole on the uphill side.
“Axehandle”: “Mulga” (B. 5/8/T5),
who says no man ever saw a dingo run down on
horseback in timbered country, overlooked me. I
was mustering on a Monaro sheep-run south and
east of the Snowy River, in open forest country,
when my mate started a warrigal. The dingo had
100 yards’ start of the horseman, who, however,
before they’d gone half a mile, wheeled him in my
direction. I had no difficulty in heading him to
where the sheep-dogs, aided by a crack on the skull
from a whip-handle, put him out of business.
Either of our mounts would have to gallop hard to
be last in a Melbourne Cup. Again, the same mate,
jogging around his paddocks on a prad whose knees
betokened ardent religion, ran upon a full-grown
dingo and, giving chase, kept close enough to the
dog to chop pieces out of him with his whip. The
quarry finally took refuge in a hollow log, from
which he was dragged and given a dose of overproof
whip-handle.
“Billy Bine”: Re origin of tlie word
“jackeroo” (B. 12/8/’l5). Archie Meston (B.
18/5/’96) stated that the word came from the old
Brisbane blacks who called the pied crow-shrilce (Stre-
pera graculina ) “tchakeroo,” meaning a gabbling
and garrulous bird. They applied it also to the
German missionaries of 1838, because of their vab-
ber-yabber. Later, “jackeroo” became the synonym
of all white men. Stuart Russell, in his “Genesis of
Queensland,” tells of the blacks who reported the
invasion of a party of “jackeroos” to the Darling
Downs (Q.) in 1840. They referred to Patrick
Leslie and his brothers, Hodgson and others who
overlanded from N. S. Wales unknown to the white
settlement at Moreton Bay. The news, lacking-
nothing as it passed from tribe to tribe, was that
beyond the range there were “jumped-up” white men
with human bodies on six dog-legs. The abos.
wanted the military officer in charge at Moreton Bay
to sally forth and shoot these jackeroos.
“Solentes”: Permit me to introduce
another abo. monarch. He reigns at Bellinger Heads
(N.S.W.) and displays upon his breast a large
brass plate with the inscription: “Benelong, King
of the Urungas.” The ancient, whose head has been
well dipped in big-pfeller flour bag, has some quaint
flesh carvings on his body, his back being embel-
lished with a rude imitation of a branch of the
bangalow palm, scored deep into the flesh. With
his metal insignia and a glittering crown contrived
from a cake-tin he is a feature of the local agri-
cultural shows.
“Grasshopper”: While Abo. contributors
are hunting up remedies to keep horses out of hay-
stacks, and mice from jumping fences, some cove or
even bloke may find about him a remedy to stop a
dog eating eggs. My brute is an unholy terror for hen
harvests, and a cliook has merely to cackle once
and he is round to relieve her of any anxiety she
niaj feel that her labor of love will go unappreci-
ated. I have thought that perhaps hanging would
cure him, but lie is handy for rounding up other
things than eggs.
“Dajoor” : How is this for endurance?
At Nimmo station, Monaro (N.S.W.), after the heavy
snowfall of last May, a horse was found alive after
being 52 days embedded. On the same property a
mob of 13 draughts are still missing, and the spring
will reveal dumb-animal tragedies without parallel,
I believe, in these parts.
NOT MUCH OF A FRIEND.
COUNSEL: “Mas the deceased in the habit of talking to himself when alone?"
WITNESS : “I don't know.”
COUNSEL: “You don't know! Why, I thought you told us you were his oldest friend?"
WITNESS: “Yes, but I never happened to be with him when he was alone."
“Pick” : Another black monarch is Jacky
Mumbulla, of the Wallagans, South Coast (N.S.W.).
lie was decorated with the insignia of majesty in
l&ll at a corroborCe which many whites attended,
llis name does not appear on the signboard, which
previously was worn for 60 years by King Merri-
man, a noted South Coast blackfellow, after whom
was named Merriman Island, in Wallaga Lake.
Purity of race and not inheritance brought the
honors to Mumbulla. He is the only full-blood left
in a decadent tribe.
* *• * *
“Bilben”: “Devilfish’s” anxiety (B.
22/7/’l5) to know how fish arrive in isolated pools
of water where no fish have any apparent right to
be used to be mine in Scotland. Where I came
from there were a number of disused quarry-holes
which had filled up with rain-water and soakage,
and these swarmed with little fish. One high-brdw
explained to me that the fish had originally arrived
as spawn adhering to the outer garments of over-
landing aquatic birds, and had multiplied in the
usual manner. Seems feasible.
* * * *
“Santo”: Like the bower-bird, the satin-
birds and the gow-wows (alias dirty, dozen, alias
twelve apostles) have play-houses to be proud of.
The blue-black or bronze-green satin-bird has a
great fancy for anything blue—castor-oil bottles for
preference—when decorating the floor of and
approaches to his. house. The premises consist of
an avenue of sticks joined at the top like a dog-leg
fence. The proprietors skip through this with the
grace of a Genge. Although a most beautiful crea-
ture, the satin-bird is a pest to cultivators, his par-
ticular line of destruction being cabbages. The
play-nests of the gow-wow are not so elaborate. They
are built anywhere and at any time of the year,
merely, as far as I can learn, to provide an excuse
for a rough up and a scamper round ; for the gow-
wow with his ‘■‘Hullo! Hullo!” is the happiest fellow
in the bush.
*•**-.*
Manly (N.S.W.) had a call from a couple
of singulai visitors a week or so back. They were
fish (Regalecus banlesii) from remote depths of the
sea, and few human beings have ever looked upon
them. The two, which were cast up on the Ocean
Beach, were lift, and 10ft. long respectively; their
flat, ribbon-like bodies tapered to a point, and were
covered, with silvery slime. The heads were distinc-
tive, with a sucker mouth and a crest of red feelers.
Director of Fisheries Stead reported that the speci-
mens were uncommonly large and of a rare and
interesting character. He accounted for their distance
from home by supposing that they had somehow
generated body-gases which caused them to balloon
to the surface, whence they could not get back to
old Davy Jones’s cellar.
“Combo”: If “L.L.W.” (B. 5/8/’l5) is
itching’ to start a civil war he weiit the right way
about it when he pointed to the Richmond River as
the home of the water hyacinth, and asked why the
Clarence would not harbor the beautiful pest. Let
me tell him that the Clarence was the first river in
N.S.W. which provided a hyacinthine pathway for
pedestrians. Swan Creek, near Grafton, at one time
navigable for miles, could be walked across 15 years
ago, and not so very far back the steamer Orara
was unable to shoulder a way through the plant to
the wharf at Maclean.
“Moana”: The order of things has been
reversed, and Maoriland has started exporting local
products to rid other lands of pests, instead of im-
porting for the same purpose things that promptly
become pests themselves. The other day an order
NOT TO MINCE MATTERS.
OLD RESIDENT (to recruits): “And if yer run
up agen that Kaiser any time, just yon
let 'im know pretty straight out. what
he's thought, of up 'ere at Dog Flat."
arrived from the Cook Islands for a consignment of
native owl, or morepork, for use against a plague of
rats. How a wholesale supply of morepork is going
to be obtained the Lord only knows, for the animal
lives mostly in an inaccessible tree and only wakes
up at night. Collecting him will certainly require
a fresh loan.
(Continued on page 26.)
ON THE SPREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is joy and jubilation
On the Spree;
There’s a mad excited nation
On the Spree;
There are loads of joyous cables,
There are tons of giddy fables,
And a row of forty Babels
On the Spree.
There’s the maddest sort of Kaiser
On the Spree ;
He'll be yet a trifle wiser
On the Spree;
Now on Paris, now on Calais,
He's advancing in a sally,
Heaping crowns beyond a tally
For the Spree.
There’s a town beflagged for ever
On the Spree;
Of defeat it dreameth never
On the Spree ;
there s a subtle Press romantic
Drugs the people till they’re frantic
In a fury Corybantic
On the Spree.
There will be an end of scorning
On the Spree;
There will dawn a day of mourning
On the Spree;
And a town of plumes and hearses,
Broken down with black reverses,
Mill go down in bitter curses
On the Spree!
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.


Suitable Furniture for the Modern Home.
COUNTRY
ORDERS
PACKED
FREE.
■■MM
csi:
. .1.1 i
ill
■
-
m~m
m
■J . !
..; 'j
ii
m
WRITE FOR
OUR LARGE
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
The “HADLEIGH” Suite of 7 Pieces (Closed), showing the saving of space for a small room,
m
£.1510-
SfflSS Sg specially'constructed^to
comioi tame »piiu s t f ie chairs to fit close w hen not in use.
very
allow
m
AHALL&CO.
m
m
m
“Music —the Greatest Good
that Mortals Know”
Have you an Instrument in your home which enables you to
enjoy the melody of music? Let us help you in this matter.
BROADWOOD" & “ALLISON" PIANOS
are British Instruments that, in touch, tone and construction,
reach the highest standard of excellence. Their expressive
features make them the delight of musical critics.
THE “APOLLO" PLAYER PIANO
is the only Player that plays down on the keys with a human
touch. Its wonderful mechanism enables it to interpret the
most difficult music with ease and accuracy.
OUR PLAYER LIBRARY FEES
are the lowest in the Southern Hemisphere, and as we have
the finest selection of Rolls, there is abundant reason why you
should enrol —58-, 65- or 88-note sizes to fit any standard,
cabinet or combination Player. May we send you our Library
STRING AND BRASS INSTRUMENTS.
A splendid selection from the world’s best makers. We can
supply every requirement and give the fullest satisfaction.
Price Lists free on application.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. WYNYARD STREET).
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
21-
each
(N.Z. 2/6)
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
0
10-inch
21-
each
(N.Z. 2/6)
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
Supplement Ho. 10 Now on Sale.
Ask any u p™to -date Dealer to play
over “JERRY JINKS—SCALLYWAG.”
Insist on REGALS.
Q 6874
rJerry Jinks— Scallywag (Dramatic War Sketch).
Part 1 (Virgo)
Jerry Jinks— Scallywag (Dramatic War Sketch).
I Part 2
Descriptive
Descriptive
King’s Military Band-
G 6867 -j
March:
March:
Yes!
Here We Are Again..
Now Are We All Here?
G 6868
Serbian and Japanese National
Anthems .. .
Italian and Roumanian National
Anthems
Stanley Ivirkby—
G 6871 J
The Army of To-day’s All Right
There’s Someone Wants You—
Harrison Latimer
The Temple Quartette-
G 6876
I Surrender All.
The Glory Song
Duets-
cam y
Oil, That We Two Were May-
ing • Kerns & Campbell
Alice, Where Art Thou?
Miller & Croxton
Duets by Campbell and Gillette —
06878 j
On the Island of Pines
On the Shores of Italy
Carter and Carter, Comedians —
G6B7i)
( Kitty, the Telephone Girl
Bring Me Back My Lovin’
l Honey Boy
AValter Van Brunt, Tenor—
G6BBO
When I Dream of Old Erin
Just a Little Bit of Green—
J. E. Meyer
Wm. Thomas, Tenor—
G 6863
f When Irish
Wonderful R
Byes are Smiling
ose of Love —
Sidney Eden
Harrison Latimer, Baritone —
G 6869
( Australia Will Be There
\ When the War is Over, Maggie
<;GB7O
Till the Boys Come Home
When Tommy Comes Marching.
Home— Harry Marlow
Kilgar Trevor, Baritone —
06872
■When We March Through Ber-
lin Town
Make Your Mind L-p, Maggie
Mackenzie
Harry Champion, Comedian —
GGB73
f My Olil Iron Cross
\ A Little Bit of Cucumber
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.YV. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daldng House, Rawson
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston S .
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Etd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—W. Cornell and Sons, Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade. .
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—VVebley Sons and Gofton, Eta., n s
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


HOW I DARKENED MY
GREY HAIR.
Lady (Jives Simple Home Recipe That
She Tsed to Darken Her Grey Hair.
For years I tried to restore my grey hair
to its natural color with the prepared dyes
and stains, but none of them gave satisfac-
tion, and they were all expensive. I finally
came across a simple recipe which I mixed
at home that gives wonderful results. I gave
llie recipe, which is as follows, to a number
of my friends, and they are all delighted
with it. To 7oz. of water add a small box of
Orlex Compound, loz. of bay rum and 1 oz.
of glycerine. These ingredients can be
bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Use every other day until the hair becomes
the required shade, then every two weeks.
It will not only darken the grey hair, but
removes dandruff and scalp humors, and acts
as a tonic to the hair. It is not sticky or
greasy, does not rub off and does not color
the scalp. [5
Buy Direct from the Manufacturer.
m
Add exchange
to country
cheques:
Victoria, 6d;
1/- Inter-State.
and Save 25 Per Cent.
Our Illustration is in Glace Kid or Box Calf. Fair
stitched to heel, on an up-to-date Anglo-American
Model. This is an Ideal Country Boot, with an
appearance fit for a Prince or a Premier. At the price
—l6/6 Carriage Paid—it is the Best Boot Value
being offered in the Commonwealth.
Send To-day for Full Illustrated
Catalogue.
HY. HARRIS,
50 McKean Street, N. Fitzroy,
.. . MELBOURNE.
Ideas
•FOUNDED- 1888-
PHILLIPS • ORMONDE&O
Consu/A/np Fnpinccns , Po/inA AJAforneyS
one/ 7?X7cAe A7onA A7pcn/S • I7QUEE N gT
MELBOURNE
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2/9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholi ne is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them bv post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch
“The Pariah” : The barcoo sickness is not
peculiar to Australia. In the march across the
plains of North China to the relief of the legations
in 1900 the troops were attacked by it. The
generally accepted explanation was that it was due
to the effect of the endless plains on the optic nerve.
Sailors were the worst sufferers, though the land-
crabs came in for their share of the unpleasantness.
Dr. Justi, the bubonic expert, accepted this theory,
and as a counter suggested the wearing of smoked
or red glasses. As far as my personal experience of
the Australian variety went there was no time to
look for any sort of glasses.
“Hay”: Like “Boronia” (B. 17/6/’l5)
and many other children of the bush, I grew up
firmly believing that if a tree had been struck bv
lightning nothing would make it burn, r.ot even
soaking it in kerosene. One day I was sent out with
an empty dray, an axe and orders to bring home a
good load of dry firewood before milking time. In
the fascinating pursuit of wallabies and other bush
game time flew so swiftly that in order to keep my
appointment with Strawberry there was nothing for
it but to load up hurriedly with the lightning-
blasted splinters of an old dry red-gum that every-
body eke had carefully avoided. That night, to my
great surprise, mother remarked: “What splendid
burning wood! Where’d you get it? Yon must go
out to-morrow for some more.” The whole tree
was carted home and burnt to the entire satisfac-
tion of the household, but I never mentioned light-
ning. People hate to have their cherished traditions
knocked out.
* * * *
“Lott” : Talking of liorse-breakers, one of
the best in the Flinders (Q.) country was known as
Professor McGilivray. He was a wonder, though
he had St. Vitus’s dance pretty badly. His scheme
to cure a kicker was to cut open both sides of a
bag longways, roll it up nicely, fasten it to the back
of the saddle and then let it gradually unroll and
hang down over the hocks. The patient lashed out
for a while, but soon gave in, and seldom kicked
afterwards.
* * * *
Last year’s census of Black Brother in
N. S. Wales discovered a population of 6779, com-
prising 1730 full-bloods (745 male adults, 409
gins and 516 children) and 5049 shandy-gaffs (1261
male adults, 1029 lady adults and 2759 pics.). Com-
pared with the previous year there was a decrease of
131 full-bloods. The first census of abos. in the
State was taken in 1882, when the total of pure
breeds was 6540 —approximate, of course, owing to
the difficulty of getting at them. In other words,
while 73 out of every 100 full-bloods alive in 1882
have disappeared and none have arrived to take
their place, the half-breeds have increased from
2379 to 5049. It is a pretty shocking record to
face our own Civilisation with.
Billo, from the midst of his bandages,
explained to the push his three days’ absence:—
Blime! It was this way. The night afore last one
of the guns from the den up the alley whooshed me
a bonzer on the mush with a duster, and I saw two
snifter spangles. But what gave me the rift in the
gizzard was that one of the mob booted the carpet off
me arf-a-quid lid, and another potted a new stook and
four jim that I was goin’ to weigh out for me new
clobber.
A unanimous ve'-’mt of Gorstruth was passed.
THE SCRIPTURAL WAY.
WILLIAM 'ENRY: “Billy, wha's 're think
av our Mary Ann playin’ the orgal?”
BILLY: “She do play ’an accordin’ to the
Scripture.”
WILLIAM: “Wha's 'ec mean?”
BILLY: “She do let not the right ’and know
what the left is doin’ av.”
CULPABLE HUMILITY.
TEACHER (to new pupil): “What is your name?”
PUPH: “Gladys Smith.”
TEACHER: "But that’s not the way to answer. You must say ‘Miss’!”
PUPIL: “Miss Gladys Smith.”
“F.H.” : This is the time of year to make
a list of Australian shrubs for the garden. The
weeping wattle, alleged to be one of the fastest
growers on the market, has a leafy habit from its
early youth onwards, and certainly moves along in
a hurry, filling out into a bushy mass, covered with
blossom, in about three years from the time it
leaves the pot. The black wattle (several kinds) is
a lottery. It may shoot up straight and rather
spindly, or fill out into a fat, squat,
desirable garden-shrub. The golden
wattle is worth while, having large,
shinv-green leaves, while its bloom
is the most magnificent of all. As
for the silver wattle (Cootamundra or
baileyana), it is beautiful when the
greenish-blue tops are sprouting, and
when in bloom ; but on the whole is
a somewhat dingy tree, particularly
when its first youth is past. The
Queensland sugar-gum is liable to
suffer from borer-troubles. But there
are six in this scribe’s garden, of
various ages up to three years, and
they are still going strong—the best
native shade-tree in Australia, and
good company on hot nights, when
the soft clashing of the leaves sounds
like the sea on a beach of shells. For
the acacia longifolia, all lovers of the
beautiful should stand *up and give
three rousing cheers. Its foliage is
of a peculiarly bright and vivid
green, and when its immense yellow
blossoms are crowding every part of
the tree the sight is well worth the
price of admission—ninepence per
plant, potted. The bastard maho-
gany is a galloping grower, with cool,
dark foliage. There are also a few
hundred others; but those mentioned
are commonly-stocked kinds. It
should be noted that the bigger the hole
dug and the deeper, the quicker will' be the
g.owth and the finer the tree. Whatever pruning
is done should be carried out after the tree has blos-
somed.
* * * *
“Ivory”: I.et “Lou” (B. 5/8/T5), who
asks for a cure for “summer sickness” or “barcoo,”
give his patient one or two tablespoonsful of treacle
01 "olden syrup. It's a sure remedy.
“Cheeri-wei”: Of all birds tlie favorite
pupil of the Devil must be the pink galah. In the
Vic. Irrigation areas just now there are myriads of
him, devouring fodder seed with the fierceness of
starvation. Never a bird comes along until cocky
sows his oats. Then the air is thick with feathers
and blasphemy. His nibs is too cunning for gun,
poison or trap, so the infuriated irrigators just
race frantically about heaving stones and language.
Where the pink gourmand comes from and why he
has arrived by the thousand are the great present
problems of the irrigation cocky’s existence.
* *• * *
“Sassafras” : I’ve listened to and watched
the lyre-bird from the Bulga to the Border for 17
years, and I know as much about him as most
bushwhackers; but I’m puzzled on one point. The
lyre can and does mimic the black cockatoo, the
jackass, a small waterfall, pit-sawing and many
other bush sounds, but I have never heard him
mimic the most common of his neighbors, the scrub
turkey and wonga pigeon. I don’t think it’s due
to inability, because any bushman can imitate the
call of those birds. What is it, then?
“Sammy ’ : My neighbor, I’hineas Hash,
should have been a military horse-buyer. He’s wasting
his time planting wheat. Hash had a horse with a
bad habit of stumbling and falling on its neck, and
occasionally on Pbineas’s neck. Wherefore he decided
to trade it. Another neighbor had a prad that he
wouldn’t mind getting rid of, so they decided to
do business. The other chap liked the look of Hash’s
horse and was satisfied. But Hash wanted a trial of
the other moke before he took delivery. lie got on
top, but hadn’t gone a hundred yards before .it
stumbled and fell. Hash came back all smiles. “Well,
I s’pose there’s nothin’ doin’ ?” said the other chap.
“Mr oath, there is,” said Hash. “He’s got a
better style of getting up than mine.”
* * * *
“Rag" : Outback it frequently happens
that neither wood nor iron is procurable; but that’s
no reason for being without a snug, well-lighted
lean-to or caravanserai so long as enough dead
marines are obtainable. A layer of clay about Gin.
deep is put down first; then the bottles, with their
bottoms outward, are put side by side across the
clay. Then other layers of clay and the other in-
gredients are laid on alternately until the walls are
the required height. The advantage of clear glass
bottles over “dog” tins (which are also sometimes
used) is that a certain amount of daylight pene-
trates. Kerosene-tins cut and flattened out make a
good roof. At Niagara (W.A.) there is a township
built of “German bricks,” i.e., clayey loam which is
first puddled, then dumped into boxes (18in. x
9in. x9in.), and left in the sun to dry. So long
as they're protected from rain they’ll stand all
right.
* * * *
“Boronia”: A vegetable much abused in
parts of Westralia is commonly known as “blind
grass.” It grows to a height of about six inches,
and sprouts luxuriantly even in the most poverty-
stricken soil. Although not listed as a poison weed
it does much damage. Remaining beautifully green
throughout the summer months when other grasses
are withered, it tempts the stock; and within a
week after a sheep has had a good blow-out on it
a white film gathers over the animal’s eyes, and
causes permanent blindness. The wocllv-coats, as.a
rule, won’t tackle it unless they are badly needing a
feed. Horses and cattle, though not affected in the
same way, become very weak in the legs and
stagger over the scenery like the midnight
inebriate. Unless speedily and properly treated
they are likely to pass out.
* * * *
“Sarto”: I know an old cockatoo whose .
beak was fastened on to him upside down. That
is, the long part is underneath and curls upward to
meet the short part coming down. I’ve often
wondered if he might be an advocate of the tote
and had his nose put on that way as a guarantee- of
good faith. Anyway, he must be very uncomfortable,
as he has to eat sideways. He boards at Mulwala
(N.S.W.). I once had a magpie who broke a piece
off the top half of his bill. Seeing he couldn't
feed himself I filed the other half down and made
another point for him. He's still using it.
A LUNAR OBSERVATION.
“What’s the matter with my neighbor?”
“Devilfish”: A man line-fishing on the
Cypher reef, off the east coast of Tassy, nearly had
paralysis recently when hq hauled up a huge crab
with claws more than a yard across from tip to tip.
It turned the scale at 2lf lb.
THE ISLANDS OF THE DRESSED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Resident Commissioner of the Gilbert ami
Rllice Islands in a report says that the old method
of lubricating’ the body with cocoanut oil was the
best possible protection from chill. The cotton
frocks for women and shirts for men, which in
the mind of the people seem now so indispensable
to professed Christianity, while reducing the endur-
ance of the skin, render it more susceptible to
chills. —Daily paper.
The heathen in his blindness once
In oil was neatly dressed ;
Until the missionary came,
And, gazing on the sight with shame,
Upon his brother pressed
The shirt of prim propriety,
And pants that stand for piety.
In sinful health the heathen lived
Until with singlets blessed ;
But Brother Chadband and his kin
Have raised the death statistics in
The Islands of the Dressed.
The heathen, heark’ning to the wowsers
Succumbed to an attack of trousers!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


m
CIGARETTES
PERFECT
SATISFACTION
—— nr
There’s luxury in the flavour
and aroma of State Express
Cigarettes.
They are good to the very
last —a test that few cigarettes
can emulate.
State Express have unusual
quality and an individuality
that at once creates a prefer-
ence for this exquisite brand.
State Express Cigarettes are obtainable of all high-
class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australia.
N ? 333
VIRGINIA
LEAF
THE NEW RED PACKING
10 FOR
jy>
K
Sole Mani.facii.ttrs . ARDATH TOBACCO CO., Ltd., LONDON, ENG.


Why Sore Throat is so Prevalent
THESE three striking illustrations
reveal at once the reason why
Sore Throat, in all its varied,
painful and depressing forms, including
Tonsil itis, is so common a complaint ;
how it may be readily cured, on the one
hand, and effectually prevented on the
other.
Sore Throat and Tonsilitis, with
other infectious diseases, like Diph-
theria, Scarlet Fever, Measles, Mumps,
Whooping-cough and Consumption, are
due to germs. These float in the aii,
settle and develop in the throat. Tn
vigorous health they are destroyed by
the blood. If, however, the individual
is beloAv par the blood is not able to
contend against the rapidity with which
the germs multiply, and he gets the
disease whose germs he has inhaled.
During the winter disease-germs are
particularly prevalent, for the weather
conditions are then most favorable to
their growth. People with Sore Throat
and Tonsilitis, those sickening for the
diseases already mentioned, and con-
valescents from them, are constantly
passing through the streets, and going
to theatres, music-halls, concerts and
other public gatherings. Not only do
they exhale germs which infect the aii,
but they carry a great deal of dust with
them. The dust particles, like the
sooty particles in fogs, act as rafts to
float the germs into the throat.
It is obvious, therefore, that these
germs must he destroyed to prevent
them destroying us.
Their enormous number is suggested
by Figs. 1 and 2.
Fig. 1 represents a microscope plate
which was exposed for a short time to
the air and afterwards kept for two
1.
Fig. 1. How air germs develop in two days.
Fig. 2. How dust germs develop in two days.
Fig. 3. How Formamint prevents any development of air and dust germs.
days at the temperature of the human
body. The white dots represent the
growth of colonies of germs, seen under
the microscope. Each dot contains
thousands of germs.
Eig. 2 is a similar plate exposed to
flue dust and treated in the same way.
The colonies of germs carried by it are
seen as the white patches on the plate,
the blurred and fainter markings being
the particles of dust themselves.
Fig. 3 is a similarly-exposed plate
which was previously disinfected with
saliva containing Formamint, the pleas-
ant-tasting throat tablet which a phy-
sician, writing in one of the leading
medical periodicals, recently declared
was “Unquestionably the germ-de-
stroyer of the age.” The power of
Formamint Tablets is adequately proved
by the fact that neither from the air
nor from the dust were any germs able
to develop. In other words. Forma-
mint completely killed all the germs.
It is therefore, a trustworthy cure for
Sore Throat, and a complete preventive
of diseases whose germs multiply in the
throat.
The highest medical testimony en-
dorses these statements of the efficacy
of the preparation. The Chief Medical
Officer of one of our largest Infectious
Diseases’ Hospitals states in one of the
leading medical journals, “I have never
had Sore Throat myself since I began
to use Formamint ’Cablets, although I
suffered periodically before.”
Another physician writes in the
Practitioner: “Having tried all the
British Pharmacopoeia lozenges, and
most of the well-known proprietary
antiseptic lozenges, I have become re-
duced to one, and one only (for sore
throat), namely, Formamint.” Over
ten thousand doctors have have also
written describing the remarkable
results they have obtained in curing the
various forms of Sore Throat and Ton-
sil itis, and preventing the diseases men-
tioned above, by Formamint Tablets.
Of all Chemists, price 2/6 per bottle.
All imitations of Formamint are
worthless. Insist on having genuine
Formamint.
Prove its value for yourself by writ-
ing to-day for a Free Sample to
A. Wul ling & Co., 17 Bond Street,
Svdney, N'.S.W'., mentioning The
Bulletin and enclosing tffio penny
stamps towards postage. An inter-
esting and instructive Booklet will also
be sent, which contains vital informa-
tion to all who suffer with their throats.
Formamint is Entirely British-Made.
Of course the “National” Government in
Maoriland was formed “for the good of the
Empire.” But listen :
Premier Massey : Had it been possible to carry on
even with a slender majority, 1 should have advised
my party to do so.
Ward: The only alternative to a National Govern-
ment was a dissolution, and then it was obvious that
the result would have been uncertain to both sides.
Now if the uncertain brown majority of one
had only been a certain white majority of
two, how about the Empire?
“Jaded Reader” : As' the months clatter
past and the situation becomes more
crowded and involved, the possibility of a
succession of clean military knock-outs gets
dimmer and dimmer. The world is now
flaming with war from pole to pole ; and, like
a burning warehouse, it will presently start
to die down. Then there will be nothing left
but a bad smell in the dark and millions of
voices crying “Who won?” With the blazing-
eye of the minor prophet I can see old, old
men pottering about with systems for finding
out the result of what we are now enduring.
They will score points for fortresses taken
and take off points for retreats, and on
special evenings they will all differ tooth-
lessly but with great dignity before learned
societies. At present all these faddists are
occupied with rattles and feeding-bottles;
but they will come into their own in due
course and make a deuce of a dust about it.
I hope I am not alive to see the beginning of
the historical riots.
“Mujik”: This is not extracted from the
letter of a Russian prisoner-of-war in Ger-
many :
It was five o’clock, raw, cold and damp. “Come
on,” somebody called, and a rough hand shook his
shoulder. “Time to get up.” He turned wearily
over and sleepily dropped his feet to the floor,
struggled into a pair of pants, and, half-dazed by the
waking transition from slumber, staggered outside.
“Plunk ! ” His foot went up to the ankle into mud.
“Plunk!” the other followed—and so, plunk, plunk,
unwashed and unfed, he reached the shelter of a
shed. There he worked for two hours, with bowed
head and bent back. Then another hour fetching
and carrying, and, at last, breakfast and a trudge
of three miles to school carrying a midday meal of
bread and jam. Before leaving he was warned to be
back in good time for the same job again before tea.
Who was lie? Only an Australian kid!
Where? Anywhere! When? Any time
where Cow is King.
Claude Jean Baptiste Eteveneaux shuffled
off at Akaroa (M.L.) the other day, close up
90. Jean was the earliest settler of the
place, having landed from the Comte de
Paris in 1840. It was he and his comnanions
who caused the annexation scare. But most
of the romance of the race for settlement
between the French and the British warship
has been knocked on the head by Robert
McNab, who shows that the French ship-
load of emigrants only wanted a quiet place
in which to settle. So they sailed into
Akaroa the peaceful, put their tents up, and
became some of the best of Maorilanders.
The War Aphorisms of “F. Born” :
Let us speak respectfully of Kultur. We should
temper the wind to the shorn sham.
The attempt to crush Servia was a “little wrong.”
Little wrongs become big ones when they crush little
people.
The wild hog never fights so furiously as when he
is bleeding to death.
Tirpitz’s hiding of his fleet in the Kiel Canal is
the Teutonic naval equivalent of the fighting in land
trenches. The Teuton must have his ditch.
One of the ugliest paragraphs in “The
War Book of the German General Staff,”
lately translated into English by Prof. Mor-
gan, of University College, London, relates to
treatment of civilians in conquered cities
A still more severe measure is the compulsion of-
the inhabitants to furnish information about their
own army. The majority of writers of all nations
are unanimous in their condemnation of this measure.
Doubtless it will be applied with regret, but the
argument of war will frequently make it necessary.
The exact nature of the measure of “com-
pulsion” which all writers, save the German
variety, “unanimously condemn,” is not
specified. The rack and the thumbscrew,
as Wilfrid Shadbolt remarks in “The Yeo-
man of the Guard,” are fine devices for con-
verting obstinate silence into impassioned
eloquence. The threat to spit a house-
holder’s best baby on a bayonet,- or cut off
its limbs one at a time, is quite likely to
make the fond parent say the things he
ought not to say. There is, in fact, a wide
selection of possibilities in torture, and the
War Book of the German General Staff
leaves the method to the discretion of its
students.
The first Westralian to gain the D.C.M.
is Captain Ayling, who, although only 2J,
has seen service now in two countries, ana
is an old hand at soldiering. In 1908, with
the Army in India, he fought in a frontier
war, where he was decorated. Later he
returned to Australia and went on the land;
then answered the Call to go on the track
of the Ottoman. The D.C.M. came to him
for his rescue of a brother officer.
John Terry, who reached Tasmania in
18.18 with sons and daughters and a ship-
load of truck and set up the Lachlan flour
mill at New Norfolk, left a good legacy to
the island State. Forty-one of his descend-
ants are now looking for trouble at the
Front and one has been decorated for being
a little more Australian than usual.
Ten are Terrys, the rest descendants of one
or other of John’s nine daughters.
When Sylvester Browne went seeking a
new fortune in Westralia he took a cook
with him. Browne was a large person and
fond of the right kind of food properly pre-
pared ; but he regarded his cook merely as
a lieutenant, having himself a captain’scapa-
city among the pots. A lady-cook previously
employed by the Gormanstons in Tasmania
held sway for some time in the Browne
kitchen when, later on, he settled with his
family at Toorak. Soon the dame was made
famous by Browne’s praise—she had intro-
duced a method of seasoning roast-goose
quite superior to anything known heretofore
by her boss! Browne, by the way, never
ate onions unless they were incorporated
with other foods, and to that he ascribed the
susceptible palate which he preserved.
A mining identity in the Oberon (N.S.W.)
district passed out recently as the result
of a kick from a horse. Old Tom Deegan,
one-time proprietor of Dad’s Millions mine,
now known as Mount Baring, hung on to
that property for a surprising number of
years, and was responsible for a still more
surprising amount of cash being expended
by different parties on the proposition, into
which so far much has gone and extremely
little has returned. An interesting old person-
olity, born at Ballarat, he was able to tell
unending yarns about the early days of
Araluen and contemporary fields. He was
“Dad” of the “Millions” ; and after all these
years of hanging on to the show he won’t
be there when the battery now being erected
drops its stamps. Just as well, perhaps;
for however wed it may turn out it won’t
turn out as well as “Dad” said it would.
“Scallywag”: Griffith, N.S.W. Minister for
Public Instruction, has been exhorted by a
meeting of irate dairy-farmers to drop the
question of child-labor and attend to the
business of his office. lie ought to take
the advice. The Education Department has
for years been aiding and abetting child-
slavery. From any school in a cow district
you can at three o’clock in the afternoon see
a troop of youngsters wending their way
home, having left a half, three-quarters, and
sometimes a full hour before the regulation
time for closing the establishment. These
children lose from one-fourth _ to one-fifth of
the total hours available for instruction. Not
only do they lose the latter portion of the
day’s school work in order to go home to
milk, but many of them arrive an hour late in
the morning, having been detained to feed
calves, clean the separator, and so forth.
Yet on the school roll these mites are marked
as being in attendance for the whole day!
Therefore let Griffith take the kindly cookies’
advice and mind his own business, by insist-
ing on the provisions of the Education Act.
being complied with. I had charge of a
school of 30 pupils some years ago on the
South Cowst. A third of the pupils never
arrived before 10 a.m., and the school was
always empty at three —every child had left
to go home, to milk anything up to 10 cows
before dark. Griffith can get a heavy punch
in on the Legrees of the cowbails by insisting
on regular attendance at school., and if he
fails to do it then it is a fair thing to ask
whether he really wants reform or merely
something to talk about.
Though George Reid has been told that
if he likes to leave the High Commissioner’s
job in October it will be all right, the Fed-
eral Ministry keeps up the fatuous old gag
that the appointment of a successor lias not
been even momentarily considered. If this
is true, Cabinet ought to resign at once and
place Yawn Murray in charge of things. If
it is not true why all this pretence, whereby
Fisher has made himself look unusually
stupid ?
Brethren, a sermon on Blither : —-
Thus far 1765 lessons have been learned from
the war ; and the 1766th, which The Bulletin offers
for consideration this morning, is that it should be
made a felony, indictable before a court composed
of undertakers, for any' person of any height, color,
sex, beauty or rotundity to speak of war except as
an offence in the sight of Heaven ; or for any person
soever to go to sleep bemused by the delusion that
officials and politicians can ever be trusted to look
five minutes ahead unless they live in constant terror
of being found out and hanged; or for any person
to be a blithering optimist. If this has not been
one of the first lessons of this war and every other
war since the Assyrian came down like a wolf on
tlie fold, then Armageddon is a mere rumor and
tlie shortage of shells part of the Allies’ strategy.
Above all things particular attention should be
directed to exterminating that truculent optimist,
the loud, blitherer who in British countries drivels
about Agincourt and thin red lines, and bursts into
Jingo song on the smallest provocation. These
blatant ignoramuses have been greater enemies of the
British people than the whole barbarian brotherhood
of Potsdam and Vienna. Every nation has been
cursed with them, but none more damnably than our
own. To their sinister influence can easily be traced
a condition of affairs in Britain and Australia which
may now never be corrected; a situation which, if
redeemed, will only be so at terrible cost and
misery.
Therefore, if all goes well with Australia, there
should at the first opportunity be created a Depart-
ment for the Suppression of Blither. For 10 years
the war now devastating Europe was inevitable. But
Hell broke over an Empire doped by ignorance, blind-
folded by folly, trusting with pathetic somnolence
to officials and politicians, and comforted by the
fuddled dream that at the critical moment some-
body would wake and confound all our enemies by
shouting “Up Guards and at ’em.”
THE COWARD CLOAK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In an alley someone stirred,
From the shadows someone spoke,
Wove a garment word by word,
Wove and wore the coward’s cloak.
Are you fools that you do fight,
Are you mad that you do give,
Battle for-an Empire’s right!
Is not yours the right to live!
Shall your shattered bones be strewed
Bleaching on a far-off shore —
You who do not own one rood
Of the land you’re fighting for?
But the dust-brown warriors came
Marching through the busy street,
Passed and jeered at him by name,
Stamped his words beneath their feet.
All you women passing near,
Can a monarch give redress,
Dry a lonely mother’s tear?
Will he heed the fatherless?
Shall he hold your joy in fee?
Surely ’tis a scant reward
That the ties of Love should be
Sundered by the murder-sword!
Then a widow drawing nigh,
Weeping with her vital smart,
Straightway to the passers-by
Rent the cloak and bared his heart l
And a hundred hands with scorn
Pointed at his pallicThead:
“Nationhood through Death is born!
We are living in our dead!”
M AORI LAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


m
Two* German Officers
3>©o German Soldiers
From One German. Plaao Factory
alone arc actually Fighting Against
the Allies in Flanders to-day.
The same German firm has hitherto supplied thousands of
German pianos to Australians during many years.
Yet German pianos and player-pianos are still actively
advertised in Australia by the Anglo-German Agents, so that once
again your enemy will regain his footing in Australia, once more to
establish his spy system, and to use Australian money to prepare
his ultimate revenge for his present disappointment !
If you are thinking of buying a piano, will you come and inspect
for yourself the Beale Pianos —made in Australia, your own country,
by your own countrymen ? —;
If you buy a Beale Piano you
will be actively assisting in provid-
ing a livelihood for nearly 500
Australian families, many of whom
have sent sons, brothers and fathers
to fight the Germans and their
Allies.
Just come and see the Beale
Pianos you will be delighted with
their qualities in every respect.
Mr. Octavius C. Beale,
founder and present con=
trolling Director of this busi=
ness, was born at Mount
Mellick, Queen’s County,
Ireland, of an old Irish
family. The Directors and
Managers throughout the
business are all descendants
of British families for many
generations. There are no
Germans employed in the
business, and no supplies are
obtained from Germany.
Head Office & Factories : Trafalgar & Nelson Streets, Annandale, Sydney, N.S.W.
Showrooms: 136 Liverpool Street, Sydney
George Street, Bathurst
Fitzmaurice Street, Wagga
* 273 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane
Flinders Street, Townsville
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Argent Street, Broken Hill
Summer Street, Orange
Lismore
Kent Street, Maryborough, Q’land
William Street, Rockhampton
Sydney Street, Mackay
Cairns, Q’land,


4-Cup Egg Frame and
Spoons, pure Silver-plated, em-
bossed border, gilt-lined Cups and
Spoons, 27/6.
Honey Jar and Spoon, pure
Silver-plated, richly burnished
Frame, Cut Crystal Glass, 12/6.
Teapot, pure Silver-plated, hand engraved
and fluted, 32/6.
Sugar Scuttle and Scoop,
pure Silver-plated, “Thistle”
design, 25/-
IS
Nut. Dish, pure Silver-plated,
pierced design, complete with two
pairs Nut Cracks, 30/-
Butter Dish, pure Silver-plated,
glass lining, complete with Lid and
207-
white
Knife,
Specimen
Tube, pure
Silver-plated
Nickel Silver,
gilt lined,
richly
burnished,
5/6 .
Afternoon Tea stand, comprising handsome Floral China Dish,
Sugar Basin, Cream Jug, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished, gilt
lined, 25/-
Specimen
Tube, pure
Silver-plated,
on Nickel Sil-
ver, gilt lined,
richly
burnished,
5/G,
Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, hand-
somely engraved, £2/10/-
Presentation Folding Biscuit Box, pure
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, hand-fluted “Shell”
design, £5/12/0.
Cake Basket, pure Silver-
plated White Metal, handsomely
embossed, 25/-
Serviette Ring,
pure Silver-plated, en-
graved and embossed,
Luncheon Cruet, pure
Vei'-plated, Nickel Silver,
Crystal Bottles, 20/-
Oak Biscuit Barrel, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, richly burnished, with
Porcelain Lining, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS 9 Opp. Railway Station, Sydney.
807-817 George Street,
mM 1 itm
COOKE’S
PATENT
REVERSIBLE
LEVEL
Specially designed with two objects in view:
first, to afford an easy, efficient, and at all
times available means of adjusting the line of
collimation of the telescope to perfect perpen-
dicularity to the vertical axis of the instrument ;
and, secondly, to obtain a form of construction
in which elegance and great compactness are
attained and strength and rigidity secured.
Pamphlet describing construction, and on the
adjustment of above on application.
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO. LTD.,
189 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE,
Sole Australian Agents.
m
‘AustreJieui Made
m
Combs,
2/= each.
Cutters,
6d. each.
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, S/dney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARING CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
IFf
fife
TE
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Estaulished 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WOY, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
ON TNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely
and bound ; containing upwards of
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings.
Bulletin size- Price. 21s.
printed
Three
Full
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston —“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free. 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrik
England, 6d. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Sii.unt Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book bv De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle ok the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys ok Like", Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Tickk.t.Writtng Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop llanuyhook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures oka Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, ; j/2. The Yoke, by Hubert. Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.. Is. Beauty's
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science ok Like
10s Od. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals;,
Ss (id. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book ok Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
ok Paris. Is 6d. History ok the Pvou (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
ford), 9d. The Art ok Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My N eighbop, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Bead Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train kor all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases ok Horses,
Is 3d. Theory ok Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering. Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook's Guide, Is fc'd
m
f
■
E
&
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chrbmos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20t.h Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address far SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
i«~ BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is oosted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3n posted. Letter Writer. Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted, speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple, (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Evkry Man His Own Schoolmaster,
]s posted. Cabinet Makkrs’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougali, Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannans Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. §SF~Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
+
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE
m O
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks wmi Gauds, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s od.
Aristotle, 3/6, Adam 1,. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court ok England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s (id post.
Ingersoll's Works, Bd, 2s. How to Head Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wipe, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure. Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary. 1700 pages, 1600 illus,, leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric. Motors. Is 2u. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Meohani :, 1010 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets op Clairvoyant k,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (.words and music com-
piete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA V.


The Aged and Infirm
X vl.'f, /
Urmr
-9
r
c/
:—^
&
«ss
Sx.
3S.
S*
ft
l
w
\
&
\
ro
I
*
* v
w,
«£■
rag
l J
15
are sometimes more sus-
ceptible to Coughs and
Colds on the Chest than
the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets a Cold,
it is of the utmost importance that not only is the Best Remedy
taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that does not
cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken an
already frail constitution. In such a case, Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure is just the proper Medicine to use, as it is the Quickest,
Safest and Best— a Remedy that makes good every time.
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest
Remedy in
the World
For COUGHS, CROUP, COLDS
on the CHEST, WEAK LUNGS.
Price— 2/6 Ordinary, 4/6 Double Size.
The BEST is always the CHEAPEST in the end.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE is stocked
by all reliable CHEMISTS and STORES. If you
have any difficulty in obtaining it, send direct to
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
Branches at SYDNEY, N.S.W, and WELLINGTON, N.Z.
C K~l fMC S
"Y.Z.”: 1 am acquainted with a man of
■Caledonian extraction who is so pathetically
mean and bitterly miserable that it breaks
his heart lo have to buy bread, and breaks
it again to have to eat the bread he has
bought. Pitying his sad state the other
day, I wondered that he continued to live
when, obviously, he must see so much to his
advantage in being dead. 1 recommended
poison. “Aye, yon’s verry true,” he said.
“Monny’s the. time I thocht o’ endin’ it a’.
But Aw’ve bin talkin’ wi’ a chemist laddie,
and he’s for tollin’ me drugs will be cheaper
aif ter the war.”
“Tenaculum”: About decimals (B.
12/8/T5). How long will it be before the
clumsy and cabalistic British mode of pro-
scribing medicines gives place to the vastly
more simple, uniform and accurate Conti-
nental method? Components are given in
decimals of a gramme, and in ordinary
figures, thus dispensing with our archaic
quantity-signs and the Roman notation, ad-
mitting of infinitely minute subdivision, and
practically eliminating chances of error.
Thus 1.0 stands for 1 gramme (roughly,
15| grains) : 0.1 for 1 -10th gramme (14
grains) ; 0.01 for 1-100th gramme (l-6tli
grain), and so on. The decimal points—to
make surer —are represented by a strong,
perpendicular line running from top to bot-
tom of the prescript.
"Billy Blue”: Apropos Brickfield Hill
and Sydney’s old hay market (B. 12/8/ 15).
The old market was on the block facing
George-street, between Campbell and Hay
streets. An ugly old barn faced George-
street, built in the first half of the year
1834. of red bricks under a shingled root.
The hay carts were marshalled in six rows
extending back to Pitt-street. From 1 itt-
street to Castlereagh-street were a set ol
stock saleyards. One of the pens, at the
corner of Campbell and Pitt streets, was the
public pound. In 1875 the George-street
building, having lost its use, was demolished,
and the clock in the tower, which ran up in
the front of the old barn, was removed and
now shows a smiling face from the summit
of the fish-market in Woolloomooloo. The
weighbridge, by the way, has been offered
to the Australian Historical Society as the
first machine of the kind erected in Aus-
tralia.
“Tekelo”: Amidst the present blither
about “capturing German trade,” suppose
we have a look at things as they are. To-
day Sydney is warehousing many accumu-
lated tons of copra, awaiting freights to
Europe. There are also large stocks at
Island depots. Anything wrong with Aus-
tralia turning those cocoanuts into butter?
Modern margarine is as nutritious as butter
and almost as palatable. It costs only half
the price. The Australian prejudice against
margarine lias been not altogether without
reason, seeing that most of the stuff hitherto
retailed in the Commonwealth has been the
product of animal fats. But margarine
made from vegetable oils is in another class
altogether. Let the copra be used in mak-
ing this wholesome and nutritious sort of
margarine, and there will at. once be an
exportable product available, with work and
wages for Australians.
One of the most encouraging symptoms is
the hysterical indignation of the Hun when-
ever he thinks of England. Some ass of a
paper wrote recently: “We confess the blood
flies to our heads when we consider the
wickedness of this shameless people.” Now
the Berlin correspondent of some other foam-
ing rag says of Bethmann-Hoilweg, tne self-
confessed swindler of Belgium, "It was as
if the Chancellor was filled with physical
loathing when he spoke of Sir Edward Grey’s
‘frivolity’ and ‘blood-guilt.’ ” People don’t
go on like that when they have looked at
their cards and see a winning hand.
“Masarcus”: Mention by “Stephen Me”
(B. 12/8/T5) of the black boy who fell 60ft.
from aloft on the training ship Nelson re-
calls a fall by Lock Ward, now shipping re-
porter on the West Australian, from the
yard of a sailing vessel upon which he was
an apprentice. No man ever tore through
(;oft. of atmosphere more rapidly. Ward
landed on deck feet first, but he couldn’t have
done much more damage to himself if he
had arrived any other way. Months of hos-
nital and the end ot a seataring career were
his reward. Another meteoric drop, unat-
tended by ratal results, occurred at the ( utrio
buildings, in Adelaide, some years ago, when
a youth fell headfirst on to the roadway, 40ft.
below. Tie liad leaned out to keep an eye on
a street-fight. Injuries—-broken leg, collar-
bone and sundry ribs; six months hospital.
And he missed the most interesting part of
The luckiest stop was that of
the man w i lu dropped 130 ft. from a new
building in Sydney, broke his journey in a
net . wor k of telephone wires, and thence
x'eached the terminus without any inconveni-
eilce eX cept that his pipe went out and his
inatahes wore j n hi s coat up aloft,
... ~ . T , ~ ~ .
‘ Billy blue : Apropos Judge Callaghan,
whose widow has just died near Sydney
(B. 10/8/ lo). The Judge was one of the
earliest promoters of Australian manufac-
tures. In 1844, vlmn lie published,
ia tvro volumes, a collection of the
Acts and ordinances in torce at that
date. ~ with notes, he had the whole
thing printed from type made in Sydney,
and bound in Sydney by Australian workmen
using material produced in the colony. lie
exhibited a set at the London Exhibition of
1851, and was awarded a bronze medal. It
was probably the first prize ever given at a
big exhibition for a factory product from
Australia.


Model 80
5-Passenger Touring Car,
£.395
m
Model 81
5-Passenger Touring Car,
£345
<eSo\
THE Overland is a car of remarkable
safeness and endurance because it has
extraordinary strength in every part.
We supply forgings in the Overland at
many points where castings are used in
other cars. Forgings are stronger and
lighter. They cost the average smaller
manufacturer so much more that he cannot
afford to use them. They cost us no more
because we make so many Overland cars
that we can afford to own and operate our
own drop forging plant.
In many cars the front axle is made of
two pieces, welded together. The front
axle of the Overland is drop forged from
a single piece. This greatly increases
strength.
In like manner, the Overland is
designed and built throughout to withstand
greater strains than it will ever receive. It
is not an “assembled ” car, made of parts
built by various other manufacturers.
Almost every part of the Overland is built
by The Willys Overland Company. Its
strength and unusual endurance have been
amply proved by years of use on the worst
of roads.
The Overland is on display at the local
show rooms.
SPECIFICATIONS—MODEL 80.
Silent, powerful motor
Instrument board on cowl dash
Individual front seats, high backs
Tonneau, long and wide
Genuine leather upholstery, deep & soft
Windshield, rain-vision, ventilating type,
built in
Crowned fenders
Electric starter—Electric lights
High-tension magneto
Thermo-syphon cooling
Five-hearing crankshaft
Rear axle, floating type
Springs, rear, $4 elliptic, extra long,
underslung
Wheelbase 114 inches (289.56 c.m.)
Large tyres, 35 x 4% inches
Beautiful dark-green body finish, with
ivory striping; nickel and aluminium
trimmings
Demountable, detachable rims—one
extra
Right-hand drive
Electric engine starter and generator;
electric head, side, dash and tail
lamps; storage battery; mohair top
and top boot; top curtain box; wind-
shield; speedometer; electric horn;
robe rail; foot rest; tyre-carrier in
rear; full set of tools; tyre-repair kit,
jack and pump.
AUSTRALIA :
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
THE CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., 45 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., 60 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., 1056 Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
NEW/ ZEALAND:
HATRICK & CO., Wellington and Wanganui.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OP. ASSOCIATION, Christchurch
MODEL 80
The Willys-Overland ' Company, Toledo, Ohio, U.S.A.
Manufacturers of the famous Overland Delivery Cars. Full information on request.


a
in your pocket.
You can carry an Onoto Pen in your pocket
without fear of it ever inking your clothes. It
cannot leak!
That’s why the Onoto is the best pen for those who wear
fine uniforms, or who are the least particular about their
dress.
The Onoto is self-filling ! Dip the nib in the inkwell.
In five seconds it is filled without any mess or soiled
fingers and it holds sufficient ink to write 20,000 words.
The nib is of fine gold, iridium pointed, and cannot
wear out. It runs smoothly and evenly over the paper—
does not splutter or scratch—and adapts itself to every
style of writing.
The ink flow can be regulated to suit any speed when
you use an Onoto.
Cet one to-day from any Stationer —from 12/- upwards.
IS you want to know more about the Onoto Pen
write for our free booklet.
T. De La Rue 8i Co., 199, Bunhill Row, London, E.C ,
Australasian Agents, Norman Baker Si Longhurst
50 York Street, Sydney.
ON OTO
Self-Filling Safety
Fountain Pen
m
“DROTT
Swedish
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
for all purposes on
I >
MARINE.
Farm, Station, Country House or Motor Boat; Wood and Chaff
Cutting, Dairying, Pumping, Electric Lighting, Mining, etc.
Crude oil is cheaper than kerosene and safer. Power costs only
one-fourth that of a petrol engine.
The “DROTT” is the most up-to-date CRUDE-OIL ENGINE.
Our Marine type, for Fishing Boats and small Tugs, a Speciality,
LAND.
Write for
particulars to
Swedish Drott Motors,
C. HILDEBRAND, Ag-ent,
306 Kent Street, Syoney.
P.O. Box 2097.
E>
4
nTHE IDEAL COUNTRY LICHT\
A Complete House £IR/17/6
Plant for <w,w,,,lw
No machinery, weights or derricks.
No possible chance of explosion.
SOO candle-power light '/?&■ per hotnv v,. . i
The GLORIA is the Cheapest Light In Installation and f
Maintenance. No smell, porn TRIAL CIVEN /
kNo condensation. No danger. rKtt I nSHI. MIK"#
\ write for Particulars and Catalogue to M
\ Gloria Chambers, 155 a Clarence St., Sydney;/
A end 152 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. £_—
m
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Shear Your Sheep
THIS SEASON WITH A
m
STEWART BALL-BEARING
SHEARING MACHINE No. 9
It turns easiest aad shears fastest of all hand-
power Shearing Machines. Every joint in the
shearing shaft and shearing head is fitted with
ball bearings.
Price, including Four Sets of
Combs and Cutters,
£3
10s.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
“How I Fooled the Beauty Doctors.
Removed all Wrinkles Over Night.”
After Plasters, Creams and Appliances, Steaming Pots, Massage, Prescriptions,
Apparatus, and all Advertised Methods Had Absolutely Failed.
A Remarkable Interview who for the first time re vealB to Sydney
“Bulletin” Readers Full Particulars of Her Recent Discovery. Nothing lake ,t Mas Ever
Used or Even Heard of Before.
By BLANCHE GORDON.
It lias remained for a woman unskilled in
scientific research to solve, quite by acci-
dent, the problem that has baffled all
science and the entire medical profession
the world over. In a recent interview
Mine. Lawton explained to the writer
why no one need patronise expensive
Beauty specialists now, for any woman can
easily accomplish, in the strict privacy ot her
own home, the seeming miracles which aie
causing physicians and Beauty experts
everywhere to stand aghast in startled amaze-
For the first time Mine. Lawton has gener-
ously consented to reveal how all the network
of lines and furrows left by ten years ot ill-
ness, worry and care were swept from her
face in a single night, as though by the wand
of some fabled
magician. Slie
explained t o
me the embar-
rassment and
humiliation she
felt when her
fa c e became
seared and
seamed by my-
riads of dis-
f i g u ring
wrinkles, how
deep creases
appeared where
once the dim-
ples were, and
li o w she,
though still
young, had the
li e a rtrending
experience of
being looked
up o n wi t h
pity, as a pre-
maturely o 1 d
woman totally
devoid of all
personal at-
tract iveness.
For, after all,
the w o r 1 d
judges a wo-
her appearance, and if her face remains y <)U * h" [
ful the mere passing of years means notnin„
to her. Hut if her face proclaims her old a |
pitiless world sees only the disfiguring marks
of Time and old age, so bids her step aside
for a younger generation.
Mine. Lawton described with deep feeling
the sadness with which she thus viewed the
passing of her own youth, and said it was tue
most bitterly tragic period ot her whole life.
She was able to afford any expense, so could
command the services ot the best specialists m
the land, and she frantically tried massage,
which stretched the skin still more, electrical
treatments that were torture, medicines that
made her ill, suction cups, masks, irritating
lotions and worthless advertised methods
sralore.’ After wasting a fortune in this way,
however, she was compelled to give up in abso-
lute despair.
Imagine, then, her ecstasies of joy and de-
light, the indescribable relief that filled her
soul to overflowing, when, quite by accident,
she one day discovered an almost incredibly
simple process, involving a totally new scien-
tific principle, which quickly banished every
trace of line or wrinkle from her face. Light
lines and erowsfeet disappeared within an
m
I
hour, in a single night the deepest creases were
gone, and in less than a week her face was
soft, clear and smooth as a young child s.
Mine. Lawton found a way to tighten the
loose, sagging, wrinkled skin, and to build up
Ann healthy tissue underneath where the
wrinkles were, so the skin rested on an even
surface and became virtually wrinkle-proof.
Now after nearly two months, I saw with my
own eyes the face of smooth, delicate contour,
the beautiful, velvety skin and complexion like
a rose, where formerly were the deep lines and
furrows that added twenty years to her age.
To describe the method here in full detail
-would somewhat overrun the space allotted to
me for this article, but Mine. Lawton explained
that a perfect deluge of requests for informa-
tion has descended upon her, and many ot the
inquiries are
from lier ac-
q u a i n lances,
but to person-
al 1 y write a
satisfactory an-
swer to every-
one would be
quite impos-
sible, so she
hit upon the
clever plan of
fully describ-
ing her method
in a small
booklet. A lim-
ited number of
these, the first
to be printed,
ha d just ar-
rived, and after
much persua-
sion I was for-
tunately able to
arrange w i t li
Mine. Lawton
to send one of
these attractive
booklets, while
they last, abso-
lutely free of
cost, to any of
our readers
sufficiently in-
terested to write and enclose two penny
stamps for posting expenses.
Mine. Lawton refused to accept tlie slightest,
payment for her trouble, saying she has ex-
plained the method to many of her friends,
from whom she showed me letters proving they
had all used it with wonderful success; and
as it now appears to be practically infallible,
she welcomes this opportunity to show her
gratitude by giving the secret to our readers.
Simply address Mine. Lawton (504. D.), Lm
Regent Street. London, W„ Eng., and I advise
writing promptly, as the supply of booklets is
limited, and the offer expires in CO days, owing
to the amount of trouble and work involved.
Nevertheless, I consider it very kind and gen-
erous of her to subject herself to the incon-
venience even for a short pGriod, especially
when we consider that slie makes no charge
whatever for the booklet. ,
The supply is estimated to last 60 days, but
if you are delayed in writing and no booklets
remain when your letter arrives, the postage
will be returned to you. This arrangement has
been made for the special benefit of Sydney
“Bulletin” readers only, and this article should
be mentioned in your letter as evidence that
you are entitled to receive the valuable mtoi-
mation.
At the Front where worth is measured
by efficiency and readiness, Watermans Ideal
is held in highest esteem.
4 Types — Regular, Safety,
Selt-Filling, Pump-Filling.
“ Safety” Type best for
Soldiers, Sailors, Doctors,
and Red Cross Nurses.
0] Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN,
Cbe |)£tt Corner,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Australia : 350, George St., Sydney,
m
m
Information for the Housewife.
CLARK’S
CAST-IRON
SAUCEPANS,
BOILERS, KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or os QUICK os the lightest Enamelled Wore, and will last
a lifetime instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust.
Handles that will not slip in the hand.
Please note the
Hygienic Shape
and the Patent,
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
SECTION.
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S hollow-ware IS THE BEST
Australasian Agent: A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne.


HYGEIA
Shaving
Stick.
Xo*x
You
won’t
know
yourself
behind
Hygeia
oil-foam.
AVON
n
trade MARK
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
c
¥
I I T"" ‘H
Urv
GUARAJ4TEED.
1 ] »
90 KING ST
m
MAGNESIA FOR DYSPEPTICS.
SPECIALIST RECOMMENDS IT
INSTEAD OF DRUGS.
“Duly those in constant touch with suffer-
ers from indigestion and dyspepsia can fully
realise the harm done by the improper use of
drugs and artificial digestants,” remarked an
eminent specialist recently. “Personally I
rarely advocate the use of drugs in the treat-
ment of digestive or stomach troubles, for in
practically every instance I have proved the
underlying cause to be excessive acidity of
the stomach and consequent fermentation of
the food contents. Therefore, in place of the
once widely-used drugs I invariably recom-
mend the use of magnesia to neutralise the
acidity and stop the food fermenting, and
the wonderful results I have obtained during
| lie past three years convince me that there
is no finer treatment for indigestion, dys-
pepsia, etc., etc. It must, of course, be
clearly understood that I do not employ or
advise the use of such forms of magnesia as
citrates,, acetates, sulphates, etc.—these
would often do more harm than good; no-
thing but pure bisurated magnesia—the form
prescribed by physicians—should ever be
used to neutralise stomach acids. This is
not at all difficult to obtain —in fact, I find
that most chemists now stock the prepara-
tion in tablet form in addition to the ordin-
ary powder. Half a teaspoonful of bisurated
magnesia in powder form or two compressed
tablets taken with a little water after meals
will usually be found quite sufficient to in-
stantly' neutralise the acidity and prevent
food fermentation, thereby ensuring painless,
natural digestion for even chronic sufferers."*
POLITICAL
POINTS
POLITICAL SUICIDE BY AUTO-
BIOGRAPHY.
George Reid hopes to devote his leisure, during
his leave of absence from the High Commissionership,
to the completion of his autobiographical remini-
scences for publication by Cassell’s in May.— Cable.
GEORGE (reluctantly): “Well, here goes;
there seems to he nothing else for it.”
Much grief has been expended of late
over the revelation that many little children
affected with syphilis are treated at Sydney
hospitals. Quite right! But what about
the multitudinous Australian kid that has
not materialised because of the ravages
caused by this disease? The healthy child
we haven’t got must be counted in with the
smitten one we have; and if these in chorus
can't cry loud enough to get the attention
of Health. Ministers and their colleagues,
then politics are hopeless.
B. McC. Anderson’s report on the mis-
management in the P.M.G.’s department is
startling only to such as never do business
or try to do business with a huge Govern-
ment concern. A more staggering document
would be a report on the shortcomings of
the Defence Department, with a list of
commercial anecdotes attached. The tales
of the firms that solicit orders, obtain con-
tracts or get inquiries from the Depart-
ment make a mass of amazingly corrobo-
rative evidence. The Commonwealth De-
fence Department, like the Postal Depart-
ment, was erected on a heap of ancient
States’ muddles, and after the war it will
have to be pulled down and rebuilt on a
fresh foundation.
THE REPORT.
The Vienna Academy is taking advantage of the
presence of Russian prisoners of many faces to insti-
tute a special research into the various anthropologi-
cal characteristics of the different peoples. A pro-
fessor of anthropology has been voted £170 to pro-
secute the work.
DER HERR PROFESSOR: “A most degenerate
rave; nod a sign of kultur among dan,
and nod a man in der lod calable of gill-
ing a vomans or a paBy .”
B hen Finlayson, of Brisbane, urged in
the House of Heps, the other day that the
business affairs of the Defence Department
should be taken out of the hands of
military and naval men and entrusted to
business people, somebody promptly bel-
lowed that the Bananalander was “vilifying
men who were unable to defend themselves.”
The same clod was thrown at Orchard in
connection with another matter. If Finlay-
son is earnest and sincere he will take no
notice of assaults of this kind, and will refuse
to be howled down by party marionettes.
He will go on steadily affirming the grave
dangers of the present system and
insisting that a soldier’s business is to
fight and to train men to fight. As things
are now the soldier called on to run a huge
business concern is placed in an impossible
position, and the people are compelled to
run dreadful risks.
“Temporary” clerks are about as numer-
ous in the N.S.W. Public Service as in the
Postal Department, where Anderson, the
Government’s commissioner, tripped over
them everywhere. They are so frequent,
iu fact, and are alleged to be doing such
important jobs, and many of them are such
ancient institutions, that a bill has been
introduced to give them a status as per-
manent hands. If Parliament were game
to do it, the right thing would be to first
appoint a man of Anderson’s stamp to find
out how many thousands of men in the
public service do nothing worth . mentioning
except on pay-days, for the very good reason
that there is nothing for them to do. In
spite of the existence of a Public Service
Board, which is supposed to bar political
influence, there probably isn't a depart-
mental head who hasn’t had men unloaded
on to him, and who hasn’t sent them down
to the stores or some other convenient loaf-
ing place to get them out of the way.
N. S. Wales State taxation per head has
more than doubled in seven years; and that
is where a lot of it has dribbled.
“Bob” Anderson, the alert commercial man
who is telling the Federal Ministry things
about its departments, met numerous unex-
plained imported officials in the Defence
Department a few months ago, and has since
then been finding large numbers of even more
unexplainable imports in the Post Office. The
policy of the postal service seems to be to
discourage the training of its own engineers,
and then, when vacancies occur, to dash off
to another country and bring along men who
are strangers to local conditions.
The Arbitration Amendment Bill, which
has been passed by the Federal Par-
liament, puts the big A.W.U. and some other
large organisations right. Early this year
pastoralist Ivillen took a case to the courts
praying for the wiping-out of the A.W.U. as
a registered organisation. Though he failed
generally, the union was told that its rules
must be. amended so as to limit membership
as provided by the Arbitration Act. which
says, that members must be employees in the
particular industry covered by their union.
The amending Bill makes it possible to form
and register a composite union under the
Act, and thus permits the A.W.U. to hold
all it has.
The chairmanship of the new
committee of three, to investi-
gate and report on the whole
telegraph system of Australia,
goes to Broad, of Adelaide.
Laird, of Sydney, and Bennett,
of Ballarat, are the other two.
Broad is an organist and choir-
conductor in his leisure mo-
ments. He and Laird have
worked together on telegraph
matters before. The new com-
mittee starts its inquiries in
Sydney.
. Iu the list of Panama Exhi-
bition awards just received in
Australia . Thomas Hodgson
figures with an “honorable
mention” in the Transportation
Section for “models of motor-
car suspension springs.” Tom
Hodgson is a Fitzroy (Vic.)
doctor with a long experience
of motor-cars and a mechanical
bent. When the first Austra-
lian shock-absorber was put on
the local market. Hodgson had
a look at it, and reckoned, lie
could do what the other in-
ventor hadn’t done. He knew
. 7 , , . a Pal going to the U.S.,
handed him his models and left the
rost Providence. Considering that
(he L.S. market, not to mention the F.S.
record of patents, is heavilv loaded with
bump-resisters and jolt-killers, Providence
seems to have managed its share of the busi-
ness rather well. Hodgson is an Australian
product himself.
GERMANY'S REPLY.
BERLIN, August 18, 1915.— Dear Uncle Sam, — In
reply to your note of some weeks ago, Yours as ever,
Germany.
The war and the need to suppress party
feeling did not prevent Joe Cook from attend-
ing a “Liberal Hally” at Parramatta; nor
did they stop him from saying to loud Liberal
applause that “Liberal and Labor principles
were being tested by the war, and Liberal
principles were winning out.” Winning out!
Of course they are! Liberalism fought
against the establishment of the Australian
navy and something approaching a Defence
system, and look how the war has justified
hostility to both those movements!
God is “strafing" one part of the British
Empire all right—the stupid part which was
always sending its jobs away and paying
somebody else to do them. Just now it is
the Lyttelton (M.L.) Harbor Board which is
frantically calling from the soup tureen.
STRENUOUS WORK.
Mr. Holman stated that the Government did not
propose to introduce a Toalisator Bill as a Govern-
ment measure.
THE COMFORTER: “ Brother, fear not, hut sit
tight.”
About IS months ago it ordered a 50-ton
crane from England, instead of handing the
job to one of the many excellent engineering
shops in Loan Land. But the contractors at
the other side had hardly started on the
thing when the War Office ordered them to
drop everything and get busy making cranes
for J. Bull. So Lyttelton will get its weight-
lifter “when the war is over” if it has any
money left after helping to provide local
unemployed engineers, fitters, etc., with soup
tickets.
Last week a beautiful piece of machinery
a 70-li.p. engine—was taken from work-
shops in Melbourne and fitted into an Aus-
tralian-made aeroplane at Point Cook
school, ami is now being given
its trial flights. When the idea
of making these things in Aus-
tralia was suggested, every
Stinking Fishite in the country
sneered. It was absurd; slap-
dash Australians couldn’t make
machines demanding such pre-
cision : they must be imported.
But Captain Harrison, of the
Flying School, thought other-
wise, and pressed his opinion.
Tarrants’ tendered for three
engines, made the necessary
drills, dies, cutters, etc. ; tested
metals and alloys ; made every
part in duplicate: tested each
duplicate to the breaking
strain, and finally turned out
an engine with the maximum
of strength and the minimum
of weight. And they say it
would be equally possible to
turn out machine guns.
Victoria’s new early-closing
law came into force on July 7.
and from that date to August
24 there were 1201 persons
charged with drunkenness at
Melbourne City Court as
against only 1006 for the same
period last year. This in-
crease of about 20 per cent,
looks too large to be accidental,
and seems to indicate that since
the grog sold after 9.30 is now
sly-grog, it is the bad and ex-
cessive grog that sly-grog
almost always is. The most obvious
remedy is not to shut up all pubs
at six or eight or nine o’clock p.m..
but to shut up the mere drinking dens at
seven a.m. and keep them shut throughout
the 24 hours.
THE CURSE OF WILHELM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Aou who have taken your own small voice
For the thunder of God,
You who have made the battle your choice,
Till the blood-drenched sod
Cries from the east and west a curse so loud
That it falls on your ear,
Menacing, out of the front of the grey death-cloud
With its burthen of fear—-
How long shall it be till the fires you lighted return?
If the grain of the world be scorched, shall the chaff
not burn?
For I heard a singing wind go by:
“Who draws the sword by the sword shall die!”
And another voice from a death-cold lip:
“Who stands in blood upon blood shall slip!”
And the dead years rolling took up Hie refrain:
“As it was with us shall it be again.”
Oh, an old, grey, dying man,
Tortured for the brutal mirth
Of your soldiers who o’erran
Ilis one rood of bloodstained earth,
Spake a curse a king might fear
More than gun or Cossack spear.
ou who have challenged the truth with a sword
Nor heeded the cry
Of those the feet of your battle horde
Crushed and passed by,
lou that the world's red lightnings seem to obov
For a mad, black hour,
1 orbing and orbing to make your greatness play
Through the hot blood shower,
How long shall it be till the full blind horror and
shame
Of the hate you wakened breathe on your blasted
fame?
For I heard a singing wind go by:
“In his traitor blood shall the traitor lie!”
And another voice from the sun-kissed height:
“The night for him who has mocked at light !”
And the dead years rolling took up the refrain:
“As it was with us shall it be again!”
Oh, a little Flemish child,
Dying for want- of food.
And a pale French girl , defiled
In the war-rush wild and rude,
Spake a curse you well may fear
More than gun or Cossack spear!
v.s.w,
DAVID McKEE MRICHT.


3N HIS MAJESTY!
SERVICE
BY MIS EXCELLENCY^
OMMAND
Great Novels of
Australian Life
zjxZm
A Few of the Ever=Popular Novels in the
Bookstall Series of Australian Books
1/- each.
Written by Australians.
Printed in Australia.
Sales Already Total 1,500,000 Copies.
I|l Posted.
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE”
By Roy Bridges
An intensely dramatic romance of Van Diemen’s Land. it contains many excellent pen
pictures of that stirring period of Tasmanian history when Australia’s first bushranger, K
Mike Howe, and his gang, were the terror of the little settlement. A splendid love stoij > s
interwoven with the exciting events.
“BILLY PAGAN- MINING ENGINEER” By Randolph Bedford
A first-class mining story by one of Australia’s foremost authors. _ Billy Pagan is a keen.
Sherlock Holmes mining expert who, in many interesting and exciting' adventures, exposes
much roguery in connection with Australian mining ventures.
“SCOTTY MAC—SHEARER” By R. S. Tatt
A series of rollicking sketches concerning a bush nomad.
“ BASE BRANDS ” By H. M. Somer
An exceptionally good bush yarn, dealing with sheep-stealing and cattle-duffing in the
early days.
“ RCC CY SECTION ” By Sydney Partrige
“‘Rocky Section’ is one of the best novels written in Australia,” says the Sydney \\orkf.k,
“for the author knows the busn, has the dramatic sense, and has a cultivated intellect. An
absorbing romance of the bush.
“ BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S COMMAND” By Roy Bridges
The exciting adventures of a woman bushranger. The story of how she defeated justice is
one of the most amazing in the history of outlawry.
“ THE GOLDEN KANGAROO ” . By Ambrose Pratt
An Australian mining story of unusual interest-—a story brimful of dramatic and thrilling
adventures among market-riggers and mine-saltiers.
Obtainable at ail Bookstalls and Booksellers
or from the Publishers.
Write for a complete catalogue.
N.S.
W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mmmmm
Tens of Thousands of Pounds
Sterling are Lost Yearly by Shop-
keepers through Loose Methods.
Losses through want of PROPER SAFEGUARDS must come OUT
OF WHAT WOULD BE YOUR PROFIT.
Thousands of shopkeepers employing ONLY their OWN FAMILI ES
rely too much upon PERSONAL INTEREST. They NEGLECT
SYSTEM and RISK FAILURE.
A National Cash Register is the best System for the careful and
accurate handling of all kinds of transactions IN ANY SIZE
BUSINESS.
Why not look at once into the merits of a “National"' suitable.to
vour business? It may mean THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
SUCCESS AND FAILURE.
Investigate at once without charge or obligation to purchase, or send
for booklet “SAFEGUARD YOUR TAKINT)ST
The National Cash Register Company
of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: 119 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
Branches in all the Principal Cities.
The “3T” Shirt.
One Shirt with Three Styles
I low does this happy idea strike You? —One "Shirt with Three Styles—and
there’s no worry or trouble in adjusting it to the style that suits your whim.
Fie. 1 shows the popular
mt
.
■*
'mm
■tSi
■
£sSjj|
Fig. 1.
The 3T Shirt hi
made Coat style—"on
and off like-a coat”; —
with Military breast
pocket-—" Split sleeves”
—sleeve-lengt h ad jus -
ters improvements
with which you will
be delighted.
Fig. 2.
Price 7/6
post free.
Order a sample shirt by post, under the
guarantee of satisfaction or money back.
Mention size of STIFF linen collar worn.
Or write for free patterns of Cambric.
Zephyr, Oxford. Poplin, White Matte, etc.
.'IT Shirts are made by and obtainable only
at
r Hi. 3.
Tennis vStyle
with the smart, comfortable, turn-over polo
Collar, suitable for Tennis, etc. Then turn
to Fig. 2 for the “nifty”
Tourist Style.
Simply raise the collar, attach tie and pin
and you have an attached double collar to
exactly match the shirt. Or if you prefer
Town Style
turn tin' hinged collar
inside the shirt with-
out a crease from
underneath (not over)
the neckband. Now
you can wear a stiff
linen collar with the
shirr.
'*/
/
COMVJ2J2 OB 1
swAKmdSovmsTS.
ZWZsBOZ/JQNJS
m
The British
m
Electric & Manufacturing C? L*?,
■:: .
■nni
i*
Hi 1
i&H
nr
r,: 7k'
JI j
k•* Ml
Mfe limHl. H
JOES
7faL.
■I
:i
■ ;
Large 3-pliase transformer.
TRANSFORMERS
Westinghouse Transformers are tested to much beyond their
normal voltage and to their full capacity before leaving our works.
What is more important, they maintain the efficiency shown
on test, and can be heavily overloaded without overheating. They
give efficient service—where necessary for 365 24-liour days in
Gctdi year.
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building*, 84 William Street, Melbourne.
New Zealand Agents : TURNBULL
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
& JONES, Wellington, Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin.
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd.
77 King Street, Sydney.
Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd.,
27=31 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder, Shenton & Co. Ltd.,
Williams Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd.,
84=88 William Street, Melbourne.
WORKS—MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIfUTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Will Crookes,. M.P., says the heroism of
the Australians has made the British wor-
ship them. This is the fine brand of senti-
ment inspired by that royal spirit, King
George IV.'top-notch Scotch.*
DISLOCATED SHOULDER.
UNABLE TO USE RIGHT ARM FOR
SIX MONTHS. COMSTOCK’S NERVE
AND BONE LINIMENT AFFORDS
WONDERFUL RELIEF.
“As I always believe in giving credit where
credit is due,” writes Mrs. E. Maher, of Nil
Desperandum, Dartbrook Road, Auburn,
N.S.W., “I am sending this statement in
praise of Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Lini-
ment. Just 12 months ago I dislocated my
shoulder, and for about six months suffered
continually, being unable to do any work
that necessitated the use of my right arm.
I was treated by a doctor, and also tried
various liniments recommended by different
chemists, but all to no purpose, the severe
pains still continuing. After being in this
state for about six months I one day read
an advertisement containing some testi-
monials from people who had benefited by
the use of this remedy, and so decided to
test it myself. After trying the first bottle
I felt much relief. I am now using mv
fourth bottle, and find I can use my shoulder
with considerably more ease, and intend
continuing to treat myself with Comstock’s
Nerve and Bone Liniment, as I know of
nothing to equal it. I am only too pleased
to allow you to use this for advertising pur-
poses, and would confirm same to anyone
calling on me.”
This liniment is sold by all leading chem-
ists and storekeepers, price 2s. (Id., or will be
forwarded by post at same price by The
W. 11. Comstock Co.. Ltd., 2‘> Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney.*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Jeff Smith was ill-advised to drag his dis-
qualification into the Courts in Sydney. He had no
defence to the fouling charge. If he had, there was
about £50,000 to be picked up in libel damages
i from the innumerable papers which, practically
unanimously, denounced him for having deliberately
: and ‘ repeatedly hit Darcy low last month. There
are at least three recognised ways of losing a fight in
the U.S.A. when the pug is squared, frightened m or
satisfied that his chances are hopeless. The boxer
may quit, have his towel thrown in, or foul. Of
these by far the most popular; is to foul, since the
Yankee public has no use for the quitter in ahy
shape or form. Jeff Smith was as much horrified at
Darcy’s methods in their first fight as in their second.
The American fouled on both occasions. The first
time Harald Baker missed the blow and disqualified
Darcy for lying down ; the second time he saw it —
at the fourth attempt—and disqualified the Ameri-
can. That was the Stadium case in a nutshell, and
if it had failed it would have been good-bye to decent
boxing so far as Australia is concerned. The mis-
guided "Lippe faction tried to establish that the
Bakers, having imported Jeff Smith at great expense,
boomed him as a champion, and in general invested
money on him, proceeded then to enter into a con-
spiracy to destroy him as a money-maker, because
Harald Baker had once called Lippe “a swine,” or
words to that effect. The position is that fair referee-
ing has been vindicated ; that A] Lippe has been
given a chance to pour discredit on the Baker bro-
thers ; and that Jeff Smith has paid. So if the boxer
is satisfied no one else is likely to complain.
Fighting Billy Murray, who calls himself
“middleweight champion of the world,” meets Darcy
at Svdnev Stadium next Saturday night, and accord-
ing to the local Yankee section he will win. On
his form in his only appearance here he could not get
a decision in an amateur tourney at Newtown; but
it may well be that he was then badly out of sorts.
A marvellous alchemist is form or condition. Take
the Darcy-McGoorty fight. One still hears on all
sides stories tending to show that it was a hollow
fake, that the Australian was backed in the American’s
camp, and so forth. This may have been so, and
yet it does not prove that the fight was crooked. The
result was largely a matter of form. As this paper
has always contended, McGoorty is not a genuine
middle-weight. To get the weight the day before
the fight he had to be on the road for many hours.
His condition was probably known to his associates
for days before the contest. What wonder that they
laid against him ? The only engagement worth dis-
cussing between these two men would be at catch-
weights, It would draw the house of a century, and
McGoorty might win, though the awful hiding he
took from the Maitland youngster won’t have done
his nerve and confidence any good.
*'-.*.-.*•*
One might have known that Harry Stone
would not let the. greatest war in history come to
an end without getting an aflvt. out of it. The
lurid yarn which was cabled to Australia about his
having had two legs blown off by a German cruiser,
despite which handicap he sivam a quarter of a mile to
a waiting boat and then died, turns out to be
“dope.” The astute young Yid is as alive as ever,
and is ready to box anyone, but preferably Freddie
Welsh, to prove it,
Fred Kay beat Red Watson on points at
Sydney Stadium last Saturday night. Watson’s only
hope of success lay in knocking Kay out, and, the
latter being about as elusive as a seagull, he failed
to do it. Watson, was dug up at the last moment,
Billy Kramer, who was billed to fight, having fled,
without warning, aboard the Sonoma. This practice
of suddenly bolting on the eve of combat is becom-
ing chronic with a certain class of pug. One neuro-
path left for the Mountains in similar circumstances,
and was not found for a week ; another departed, as
Kramer did, and has been cursing this country in
the U.S.A. ever since.
* * * *
Melbourne Stadium staged a very willing
and entertaining lightweight contest last Saturday
night, with Leo Coyle and Jim Duggan as principals.
The pair fought every inch of the full 20 rounds,
and each led in turn. Coyle, at 9st. 1241 b., had an
advantage of 21b. ; also he had more science, and was
in better condition. On the other hand, Duggan was
equipped with a heap of strength, a heavy punch,
and the characteristic ginger of a Duggan. He
fought for a knockout, and in the eighth round
nearly accomplished his desire with a solid left to
the face-hinge. Coyle survived, and, as Duggan tired
from the thirteenth, took command and wore down
the enemy, while the house deputationised Providence
to furnish him (Coyle) with a woodener that the
sacrifice might be stretched for the count-out of the
presiding high-priest. The prayer went unheeded, so
the high-priest took matters into his own hands, and
flattened Coyle out on points.
Harold Hardwick is being tempted to
Maoriland bj' an offer of cash from the Northern
Boxing Association of Auckland to meet A. Pooley,
the M.L. champion heavyweight, for the title. The
shindy is expected to take place at an early date.
Cecil Hartt writes from somewhere between
here and Constantinople: “Everybody in our crowd
is ‘stouslr’-struck. When we have a concert ‘stoush’
is the principal item. Last night we had a sing-
song, but those who weren’t actually bribed to cut
out their turns heard all about it. I did some
lightning sketches under difficulties, and managed
to do. a get-away before the yell of ‘No more!’
shook the ship. It’s the mere -truth to say that it’s
quite fashionable to wear boxing gloves at meals
and discolored eyes between times.”
If the Webb-Hannan sculling match for the
Maoriland championship on the Wanganui River on
September 26 takes place, it will be very different
in one feature from the race between Webb and
Arust for the world’s championship on the same
stream. Fogwell, of N. S. Wales, was Arnst’s philo-
sopher and guide on that occasion, and during the
struggle he was perched up on the mast of the
umpire’s steamer, wherefrom he had a great advan-
tage in signalling his principal how to keep the
course. That has been specially provided against in
the Webb-Hannan articles. It is expected that
Charlie Towns will challenge the winner of the
event.
McGREGOR.
Carlton's centre
(Vic.).
Recent recruits include two fine Sydney
scullers —Tom Rodrick (Enterprise) and R. Symons
(Leichhardt). Rodrick holds about the longest amateur
rowing record in Australia, including No. 3 in
N.S.W. 1913 crew, a seat in two championship
eights, two championship fours, seven senior fours,
senior eights, and a host of others. Symons’s log
shows a place at the bow for N.S.W. in 1913 and
1914, and in two senior eights.
The Victorian Amateur Athletic Associa-
tion, which controls foot-running, cycling, boxing
and wrestling in the Cabbage State, has practically
shut up shop for the time being. So many of the
best amateur cross-country and track runners are
at the Front and in camp that championships run
for the “left” behinds” would be unfair when not
farcical. The big 10 miles C.C.C., which was won
for the first time by E. M. Wilson in 1892, and at
which 300 starters have faced the barrier, is held
over for the first time since that date.
Altogether about 840 names are on the
list of men at the Front or in training compiled by
H. D. Smith, sec. of the V.A.A.A. _ Amongst them
are .a number who have shone in Australasian
championships. For instance, H. H. Hunter, ex-
100yds. and long jump (killed in action) ; L. H.
Kelly, high jumper; L. R. Walker, pole-vaulter;
R. H. Watson, 1-mile flat and 1-mile hurdles ; and G.
A. Wheatley, half and one mile. State champions at
wrestling, boxing, running and other field sports are
also on the roll, which is lengthening.
* * *■ K
R. F. Cripps, who won the school cup and
championship at Newington College (Sydney) on
Saturday, is a promising athlete. He got away
with the firsts in the 100yds., 220yds., 440yds. and
broad jump; seconds in 120yds. hurdles and high
jump ; and third in SBoyds.
*- *- *•
R. J. A. Massie, the Sydney athlete, has
made another record. Two former claims to fame
were that he was Australia’s best fast bowler and
N. S. Wales’s champion heavyweight amateur boxer.
To these he has added the fact that he has been
wounded for the third time while fighting in Galli-
poli.
* * * *
Rugby Union play in Sydney came to an
end for the season with a knock-out competition on
the Sports Ground on Saturday ; and in face of the
fact that there has been more military exercise by
Unionists than football practice during the past
months, the standard of plav was surprisingly good.
Each game lasted two 10 minutes’ spells; and where
scores were even, the side which forced down the
oftener to save took the knock-out. This put u
premium on speed and daring 1 , and wouldn’t do the
R.U. game any harm if it were permanently intro-
duced. Eastern Suburbs and Mosman played off
the final, the former winning try to nil.
The N.S.W. League commenced a series of
games for the Sydney Oity Cup. The principal
scramble was between Eastern Suburbs and South
Sydney on the Agricultural Ground, and resulted in
the occasionally disappointing Southerners being
handed down by 0 points to 3. The big yell of the
afternoon was when the fly-away Horder snatched a
pass in his home lines, and, flashing through the
Eastern Suburbs’ backs, delivered himself of a try
at the opposite end of the field. Other games: Glebe
33, North Sydney 12 ; Newtown 24, Western Suburbs
C ; Balmain 17,” Annandale 3. This leaves Glebe,
Balmain, Eastern Suburbs and Newtown in the semi-
finals.
* X- * *
N.S.W. Rugby League 1.915 premiership
siftings : Balmain’s undefeated run in 14 matches (two
drawn) and its win in three grades go on the slate as a
double record. Best team scores: Glebe, 58 tries ;
Balmain, 50 goals. Highest individual scorers: P.
Burge (Glebe), 19 tries; A. Bolewski (Glebe), 30
goals; W. Messenger (E. Suburbs), five tries, 29
goals (73 points), highest double effort. Balmain,
232 points for and'7l against, has been bettered only
three times in eight years’ premiership matches, and
the difference in the f. and a. points (161) has been
beaten but twice in the same period. Worst record
for season: N. Sydney, 12 games lost- out of 14;
points scored, 83 ; points lost —but this is no time
to raise dissension amongst ourselves.
Shocking weather, combined with the
probability that Carlton would easily down Mel-
bourne, spoilt the attendance at the Vic. League first
semi-final on Saturday, and a mere 14,413 people,
worth £382, passed the turnstiles. Yet the game
was a cheerful interlude in a drab week, and showed
the “home” club at its best, kicking off the mud
accurately and working the ball through the goal
with neatness and despatch. In the first term the
lied Legs ran up 10 points more than Carlton; at
the interval they were four points in arrear ; at the
last change they had three points in reserve, but by
a series of determined rushes the Blues swept over
them, and won by 11 points—ll goals 12 behinds to
10 goals 7 behinds. The stronger team won, but
the other was far from outclassed. Under “Dookie”
IvlcKenzie’s training Melbourne has improved out of
knowledge. Still, you can't build a premier 18 in
one season. The club has gained this much,
though ; it hasn’t been so near the top of the com-
petition tree since 1900, when it was first.
* * * *
The shutters went up on Queensland
Rugby League premiership last week, when Western
defeated Bulimba by 13 points to seven.
Half-time scores were five all; but in the second
spell Wests made mincemeat of the opposition, and
won with six points to spare.
Maoriland heard of the death of three of
its international footballers last week at the Front.
One was the strenuous and burly forward, Charlie
Savory, whom Eastern Australia knew best as a
member of an Australasian League team that toured
England. At one time lie was amateur heavyweight
champion boxer of Maoriland. Another to go was
T. M. Grace, a half-caste, who played in Sydney
with one or two M.L. teams. Finally, J. E. Cuthill,
of Otago, an exceptionally dashing back player (five-
eighths, centre or full). He was a member of the
M.L. team that cleaned up California in 1913.
Probably because football is ‘‘in,” aud his
absence is thus made conspicuous, the toeballer
moving Gallipoiiwards from Australia has been get-
ting all the limelight. Contrariwise, cricket being
“out,” the departing player of that game has re-
ceived less notice than he deserves. But that has
not deterred him from doing his share, and over 750
representatives of the N. S. Wales Junior Cricket
Association are honorably mentioned as having shoul-
dered arms. A spirited appeal has now been issued
by the committee for further recruits from the junior
ranks: “The call comes to us very clear and decisive
. . . .the example has been set for all free men to
emulate. In this dire hour of peril we feel sure that
our juniors will supplement the already magnificent
effort and crown themselves with much honor and
glory.” Good talk!
* * tt *
R. H. Spooner, the Lancastrian amateur
batsman (according to Australian Eleven men one
of the best they ever met), is engaged in hitting the
Germans to leg in Flanders. Spooner and F. S.
Jackson were the two great players who would never
visit Australia, "and no English team was thoroughly
representative without them. The former has played
a fine game at the Front, and is already Captain
Spooner, not out.
Eric Benjafield, a Hobart cricketer, has
made seven attempts to enlist, but ha%jbeen turned
back by the doctor each time. He says lie’ll get
where he’s made up his mind to go if he has to wear
out every stubborn doctor in the Service.
* * * *
Queensland has been making up its latest
list of winning owners, and finds “E. J. Craven” at
the top with £4OBO, E. L. Ramsay second with
£2206, Navlor and Barnard third with £2023 ; then
C. F. White, £1940; Y. I). Bell, £1665; W. J.
Tucker, £1500; W. R. Munro, £1435: Stenidi
Bros., £1355; T. J. Moore, £1260; J. Booth,
£lOB5 ; and E. O’Neil, £1063. That closes the
four-figure men.
* if if *
“Snaffle”: Poaching, mentioned in The
Bulletin (19/8/’l5) as the flier of the North or
thereabouts, and the winner of the fat Metropolitan
Handicap, was picked up for £4O. But that was
nothing to the bargain that Rue Victoria, the winner
of the last Brisbane Cup, was. That speed-beast was
given away with a pound of tea, in a manner of
speaking. Eight pounds was the actual price. Also,
Ngatoa, the horse that won the Grand National
Steeples in Maoriland this year, was bought by a
man in Auckland at an auction sale for £l5. E. W.
Alison, a prominent sport of that town, saw him,
liked his looks, and paid £4OO for him on the spot.
Then he won the biggest steeplechase stake in the
Loanlv Isles.
4f *■ * *
“Outsider”: Though we get the tote to-
morrow, don’t let us scorn the bookmaker utterly.
In a sense we should all he “bar Vons” now.
Considering the smallness, of the popula-
tion of Maoriland some pf. the racing clubs splash
money around in an amazing fashion. During the
past season the Auckland R. O. handed out £41,450
in stakes, which is' an increase of £5710 over any
previous season. It also shelled out £1856 to vari-
ous local war funds—all the result of employing the
betting machines for which the Holman Govt, and the
bookmakers have so much brotherly hatred.
That great horse Stepniak holds the
Maoriland record as the sire of the greatest number
of winners of place money in any one season. Twice
he was represented by over 60 places. The stallions
who have sired over 30 winners in a season in the
history of the M.L. turf are: Stepniak 66, Soult 56,
Birkenhead 51, Merriwee 41, St. Leger 36, Martian.
36, Charlemagne 11. 34, Vanguard 33, and Seaton
Delaval 32.
“.Twosp” : A fine array of sevens attracted
shoals of backers to the right tote ticket at the
latest big trotting meeting in Christchurch (M.L.).
In the Speedway Handicap, the seventh on the pro-
gramme, it was discovered that of the 14 horses
entered seven had been ineligible, seven had been
handicapped, seven accepted, and seven started.
Waterlog, No. 7, on the 7sec. mark, was too good a
thing to miss in the face of that combination. He
romped home, and returned handsome profits.
Tasmanian 1914-35 racing season figures-
-270 events were run on 48 days; stake-money’
£10,695; George Bennett (18 races) heads the win-
ning owners with £ll6l, C. Youl (£800) being
next best; totalisator turnover, £167,641. The
Appleland season’s labors put together don’t come
up to the A.J.C. Spring Meeting at Randwick, at
which £29,550 will be paid away in 24 races.
Tasmania has dropped into line with the
other State clubs and added a Derby to its list of
racing fixtures. The event— £ 5 sweepstake and
£2OO added money—will be run over a mile and a
quarter on Boxing Day, and only three-year-olds
domiciled in Tassy at least three months before the
race will be eligible.
The world’s motor maniacs, who are striv-
ing- to drive 500 miles in five hours, almost did the
trick in the Chicago Derby, with which the new
Chicago Speedway was recently opened. D. ltesta
got home three minutes ahead of Porporato in the
staggering- time of shrs. 7min. 26sec. It was a
hair-raising struggle, the second man taking shrs.
lOmin. 50sec. and the third shrs. llmin. ssec. The
wooden surface proved a great success, being splen-
did to drive on and exceptionally easy on tyres.
Six of the cars to finish did not change a tyre in
the 500 miles. Resta, who stopped five times,
showed phenomenal speed when running. He aver-
aged 97-} miles per hour, and brought the feat of
driving at 100 miles an hour for five hours within
the realm of possibility. Someone will probably
accomplish it before the racing season closes in
U.S.A.
Resta’s whiz is absolutely- the world’s best
to date. It is a full nine minutes inside the time
put up by himself, Guinness and Chassagne when
they- took turns at the wheel of a Sunbeam on
Brooklands track in May, 1914, and fractured the
500 miles and 1000 miles records. The Chicago race
was particularly sultry- from the jump:—
100 miles . . Ihr. Omin. 23sec.
200 ~ . . 2hr. 2min. I7see.
300 ~ . . 3hr. 3min. 19sec.
400 ~ . . 4hr. 4min. 9sec.
And still the world cries: “Faster!”
The curtain lias just rang down on the
slowest bowling season that N.S.W. has experienced
—hardly to be wondered at, considering the war.
However, the old chans showed their patriotism by-
settling- an example in generosity. All the kids
under 40 were shooed off the greens to carry a rifle,
knit socks or peel spuds for soldiers, and the balance
collected or stole 10,000 sovereigns to help pour balm
on the wounded who return or assist the relatives of
those who don't.
* * * *
The wrestling game struggles on among
the coal-miners of the N.S.W. South Coast to keep
what is practically its last hold on Australian soil.
Down Wollongong way regular bouts of more or less
minor importance are maintained. Last week the
bill was a match between A. Holmer, as the light-
weight champion of the Commonwealth, and O.
Glover, ex-champion of Queensland, under catch-as-
catch-can conditions. The first session went half an hour
without a fall, but in the.next two sets falls went to
Holmer in seven and 20 minutes respectively.
Tom Tracey, N.S.W. amateur champion
road cyclist, put up a great ride in the Dunlop
teams’ .championship semi-final at dusty Homebush o:i
Saturday-, when he covered 24 miles in 64min. 27sec.
—4min. ahead of the ether wheelers in the heat and
nearly smin. faster than W. Lee’s time in the first
heat. It was a splendid effort against wind and filthy,
conditions.
Tom Curran, ex-superintendent of Vic-
torian police, died at Hawthorn last week,
a young man at 75. He had been in the
police-force for 36 years when he retired on
a pension, and enjoyed life for 15 years
after retirement. There was a reason for
his failure to pine away on leaving his job.
He never took too much armchair exercise,
but was- always ready to act on a sports
committee or “start something” for a good
cause, and thus he retained a good grip on
life.
“Optic”: Another big steamer, badly
holed, is ashore on Bramble Cay (Torres),
and somebody will be required to
explain. No other frequented waterway in
the world is so bristling with dangers,
except maybe the Dardanelles; and the
Commonwealth Lighthouse Department,
which was going to do so much there, has
done decimal nought. The Lighthouse Act was
passed in 1911, and though the Government
has not forgotten to grab the dues imposed
by its provisions, and though the payment
of officials’ salaries has been promptly
and religiously attended to, the luckless
mariner, groping along the dimly-lighted,
badly-marked Barrier Reef with half a
million in property under his sea boots, has
been unanimously overlooked. With the
war in full blast, no one expects to see a
dado of first-class lights spring up along the
N.Q. coast; but as the said war doesn’t stop
the Federal Government from collecting over
£lOO on every big vessel that goes through
the Straits, it is not unreasonable, to ask
for some of the much-needed protection.
A FORBIDDEN SPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ludus” writes: There is a movement to restrict
football, cricket, bowls, golf, racing, boxing and
drinking. Might I suggest that everybody connected
with these sports should voluntarily cut down things
one-half.— Sydney Evening News.
I’d love to get dreadfully, terribly tight!
I’d love to go out on the spree,
And reel home with crayfish some still summer night
Proclaiming my infantile glee!
1 am splendidly upright and honest and true,
And I’ve never been out on a burst;
But I don’t in the least mind confessing to you
That I’m short of the requisite thirst.
I do not set up for a model—not me!
A saint is a thing I despise.
No, I only refrain from the jag and the spree
On account of my stomach and eyes.
There are times when I’m mad, and I’d love to be
drunk,
To escape from myself and dull care ;
But on every occasion from drink 1 have slunk
When my liver has bellowed “Beware!”
Thus I amble alone on the lemonade track,
Stopping only for dishes of tea,
While the drunk howls with rage at my wowserish
knack
Of avoiding the alcohol he
Finds so good for his heart, and his liver and mind,
And he hates me for shunning Three Star.
If he only once guessed how 1 long to get “blind,”
And to blither at large in a bar !
It is rotten to be a compulsory saint,
The .poor slave of one’s stomach and eyes!
If I only could drink and rise up fresh as paint
To contend' with the sober and wise !
But I can’t do these things! I’m -a' poor,-puny
thing! j
When my thirst has been quenched I must yield.
While the heroes drink on till they blither and sing,
I retire like a beast of the field.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGJOUS EDITOR.


Taddy’s GRAPNEL Mixture
HIGHEST-GRADE TOBACCO.
:• ' ~
I
i ■
I a i
.S :
HKBH ®
MM
m m
m
Hi
Manufactured by
James Taddy
and Co.,
LONDON.
Established 150 Years.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
1/6
PER 2o i. TIN.
Sole Agents for New South
Wales and Queensland :
Scott, Henderson (Q. Co.,
lO LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY.
T.CWiuiAMsC®
m Richmond, p
sirro.-4
8
fc* 1 "* I ’®
WHITE DOSS
Sait ***«» fer «,'».W ,
A. M. SOLOMON.
tta ptrr stWct, stonty
WHITE ROSE
TOBACCO
—one of T. C. WILLIAMS CO.’S (Virginia,
U.S.A.) famous high-grade tobaccos.
Pipe smokers who prefer a tobacco with a
pleasant aroma, that always smokes cool
and sweet, and never varies in qualitv, should
smoke “WHITE ROSE.”
Put up in one strength onIy—‘MEDIUM.
Packed in lib., Boz. and 4zo. tins.
By the lb., 8/3; 41b., 4/3; lib., 2/2.
Plug Form: 12-inch bars, 2/2; three for
6/4. Weight about 14oz.
POSTAGE: N.S.W., lib. 9d.
Inter-State, lib. 1/2.
Write for a copy of my catalog, “A Dis-
criminating Smoker’s Guide.”
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELL
ggjZP
Armoured cars of the
Allies a*e run on
SHELL
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD.
Don’t be a Trailer
Ride an
INDIAN
Two years in succession we
“scooped the pool” at Qoulburn,
and with the same stock model,
T.T. INDIANS. Can you beat it?
Write for Catalogue “ D.”
Hen dee Manufacturing Co.
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
RIGNEY SHOES ARE
the choice of two classes of men —the
one who doesn’t need to count the cost, and
the man who has to get 20/- worth for every
pound.
YOU are included in one of these classes,
we suspect, therefore why not wear
RIGNEY SHOES?
We illustrate a PATENT OXFORD SHOE,
latest perforations —a high-grade, made-to-
order style.
Price - 2716
In Black and Tan Velour Calf, 25/- and
27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of Our Catalog.
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE,
MENINGITIS.
Dr. Bull, the well-known bacteriologist, recently declared
that Eucalyptus Oil destroyed the germ of meningitis.
Some years ago medical men stated in the London
“Lancet” that Eucalyptus Oil destroyed the influenza germ.
Bosisto’s
“PARROT BRAND
Eucalyptus Oil
will destroy the germs of Meningitis,
Influenza, Scarlet Fever, Measles
and other Infectious Diseases.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
Take two or three drops of the oil on sugar or in water several times a day.
Sprinkle a few drops on the pillow at night. Inhale the vapor by means of a
handkerchief.
CAUTION. —The public will do well when purchasing to be sure to look
for the parrot on yellow band on top of bottle-wrapper, and to insist upon
having none other than Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus
Oil is sold throughout Australia.
IV 1
: m
M
R
i
LI
li
'
y
The “L.S, Special”—B(6 (Post Fred
THE LIMIT OF HAT=VALUE
l s represented in our “LA. Special'’ at 8s 6d. Made in a
manner that exemplifies the Perfection of the Best Australian
Workmanship—in All Fur Felt of exceptionally line Quality,
the “L.S. Special” satisfies Every Stand of Comfort and Capa-
■itv for Service, while its Light Weight, its Suitability for
Wear in Sunshine and Shower, the Ease with which the Crown,
Brim and Shape generally can adapted to Individual
Bequirements make it the Hat above all for the use of Aus
tralian men in every part of the Continent.
THE PROPER PRICE WOULD BE 10|6
without saving “On account of the war”—the “L.S. Special’
il i-eallv a 10s. 6d. Hat, and actually worth this amount. It
Z o»h by virtue of our exceptional Buying Fae.lm« tha «
are enabled to offer it at S 3 «o. (post tree). The I-;'• • :
hos a Cut Edge—may he obtained with Bow at Lack
Side and in an.v Far.,datable Shade.
just Two Ways in which it may be worn Its a Hat that l/ou
have need of.
POST-
-YOUR
ORDER.
LINCOLN, STUART 8 CO. PTY. LTD.,
“The House of Guaranteed Satisfaction,”
244-254 FUNDERS STREET— —MELBOURNE.


Mr. H. GRIN DELL MATTHEWS (the Inventor
of Wireless Telenhonv> writes!—‘VJ suflered from.
Mr. ROBERT RADFORD (the well-knownj
Baa Singer) write* i—"l have derived the greatest]
fiß-r.u
some conditions, or for dejectloh, ittid it'imrhe-
diately renews the strength of my nerves, and
exercises a stimulating effect on the whole of
the nervous sSsfcm.'
m
m
HONORED
'ROVAL i
COMMAND
vocally relaxed, Phosferine immediately restores
resonance and brightness to the voice, banishes j
lassitude, and generally tones up the system.'j
63, Havcrstock Hill, London, England.
*\3VEHLEN, the talented and charming 1
hsve used Phosferine with really
( general health. The unusual exertions
Vsals make one nervously anxious and
indoqlj>Q much 'induces dull
tonic for
m
:v-
SritM
•i»S
*
.•■ +y\' / >.r-K-i^r.*-.-?iisj
d to lose
ist effi
old
* Bf \n all
Ex) there
/sfcs her as
fe/)g dreary
£; weather,
jf order, and
jksity as my
ndon. Ene.
i®
M
sm t'. v 1
rv .
at promises to
hosferine
—ll6, invali
will find it as a
seln —164. High Rd., Wo
mother an
Sir. B. C. HUCKS (the '
Englishman to “ Loop th§
-eally must express my aps
rime back 1 fell mystlf in i
brought on, no doubt, by tl
under all sorts of weather
tour last summer. I had
becoming shaken. 1 was
quite astonished at the beneficial
the first few doses. 1 am now fi~
and ready to start upon a season !
considerable more arduous than the lasp
London, £ngleod
At the hands of any Chemist this is what you should obtain
PHOSFERINE is a World-wide Remedy for
Indigestion
Anaemia
Insomnia
Lassitude
Debility-
Neuralgia
Loss of Appetite
All Nerve Troubles
Just 5 to 10 drops of this golden remedy in a wineglass of water.
The original and Genuine PHOSFERINE is in buff packages, and be particular to
moHce thatit is spelt P-H-O-S-F-E-R-I-N-E. Price- 1 ,2 6 & 4/6. 1 f you find any diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies send Postal Note to Ashton & Parsons, 408 Collins St. M elb.
-N.
v
The Smile
of
Satisfaction
ia always prominent on Cyclists
using “B.G” Tyres. They know
no "tyre troubles." The specially
selected rubber, treated to stand the wear
and tear of Australian roads, gives satis-
faction in place of worry. Owing to the close and hne grain of
the rubber in all “8.G.” Tyres, punctures are reduced to a minimum.
Join the happy throng of satisfied cyclists by using “B.G Tyres.
MRNET GLASS
CYCI/E TYRES
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C? L™
289‘93 Swanson srflelb. All States & Mew Zealand
Mcllins
Food
FREE!
A Sample of Mellin’s
Food, together with a
useful Handbook for
Mothers, “The Care of
Infants in Australia,”
will be sent Free. Write:
MESSRS. GOLLIN &
CO. PROPRIETARY
LTD., SYDNEY
If a proper supply v-- healthy
mother’s milk is not forth-
coming, fresh cow’s milk,
to which Mellin’s Food has
been added, is the next best
thing because Meltin's Food
*humanises ’ the fresh cow's milk whilst
preserving those valuable qualities
which only Jresh milk offers.
With Mellin’s Food, cow’s milk can be instantly
modified to suit the requirements of a babe from birth,
and through every stage ■ f babyhood Mellin’s Food
provides just those substances which ensure ihe full,
healthy, and well-balanced development of the child.
The Millaquin Sugar Co. (Brisbane) :
To Ke- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1912. . £55,892 6 p.c. = £30,000 £25,892 £25,892
1913.. 30,394 5 „„ 25,000 5,394 31,280
1914.. 72,441 S „ ~ 40,000 32,441 03,727
1915.. 47,401 8 „ ~ 40,000 7,401 71,128
Among the big properties left on the Q.X.
Bank when the tide went out were Milla-
quin and Yengarrie, of Bundaberg. The
estates might have been cut tip and jobbed
off: but the mills, distilleries and other asset s
and interests were much more difficult
wreckage to salve. The bank nursed them
for years, and things gradually came the
bank's way. Sometimes you hear people
expressing surprise that general-manager
Ralston should have so much truck with
Prime Minister Fisher and the Labor party.
But can you wonder at itV It was the most:
violent anti-Labor party that Queensland
ever knew (and that is saying a good deal)
which smashed the Q.N. Bank and half the
other concerns in the State ; and, years after-
wards, the abolition of the kanaka, which
almost everybody but the Laborites declared
would ruin the Queensland sugar industry,
was followed by prosperity such as the in-
dustry had never known before.
Having seen the business restored to a
highly profitable position, so that they could
capitalise it at a respectable figure, Ralston
and his directors decided to put Millaquin
and Yengarrie into a separate co., no doubt,
with the object of gradually unloading the
shares. The announcement was made in the
beginning of 1911 and a few months later
the co. was formed in 50,000 shares of £lO
each, all issued to the Q.N. Bank, with
another 25,000 in reserve. I luring the first
year the co. bought Hummock and Winder-
mere plantations and Windermere mill from
the Bank of N. S. Wales for £75,500. and
that deal put the co. into debt. (It had
started off scratch.) But partly by the sale
of the Windermere mill and accessories (on
which the co. reckons it made a profit of
£6553 in 1914), the whole of this debt has
now been wiped out. Here is a comparison :
June, 1912. June, 1915.
Assets other than fixed assets
and plant .. .. .. £165,473 £173,725
Liabilities 36,160 24,875
Surplus £129,313 £145,850
So approximately the co. has added £19,500
to its more or less liquid assets in the three
years, besides making additions to plant and
paying for whatever it has hung on to of the
properties it lias purchased. Meantime the
div. has averaged 6 : ;- p.e. p.a. Certainly one
can’t tell from the foregoing whether much
or little property has been sold, just as one
can't tell from the published Profit and Loss
account whether deoreciation has been
allowed for apart from the reserved profits.
On the face of it, however, it looks all right.
If the co. could last year, which was a very
poor year, make 91 p.c. after providing for
all ordinary replacements and renewals, it
doesn't look as though the thing was over-
capitalised to start with. This current
year will be lean, too; but things will be
somewhat improved for the poor sugar-
grower and miller by the commandeering of
the 1915 crop at a figure in excess, it seems,
of the price at which the Commonwealth
Government thinks the goods should be sold.
* * * *
The PETiioi.ETJM Would, of London, pub-
lished in the interests of the oil rings, heads
its leading article for July, “What Shall We
Do With ItV" and proceeds to discuss the.
future of the Papuan oilfields which the
editor ‘looks forward to with some anxiety” !
The Commonwealth Government has spent
about £lO,OOO in locating petroleum in
Papua, and quite properly has forbidden
private exploiters to interfere with the de-
velopment of the new oil territory. This
organ of the oil rings now suggests that
“only the Standard Oil. the Dutch-Shell
Co., Lord Cowdray's group, or the Burmak
Oil Co. can possibly properly develop this
great oil-bearing area.” The chief thing to
be thought of. it seems, is “our Imperial
need.” And what about Australia’s imperi-
ous need of oil for her own navy and her
own mercantile marine? “The British Em-
pire and Sir Marcus Samuel want just such
an oilfield as we believe Papua will be.” Of
course they do —especially Sir Marcus
Samuel, of the Dutch-Shell Co., which is
already paying 27-1 p.c. per annum! “What
shall we do with it?” Come to think of it,
vvliat shall ire do with the PETROLEUM
World? And with Sir .Marcus Samuel's
Borneo and other concessions? The ques-
tion, if Australia asked it seriously, would
be no more impudent than the one the
Petroleum World propounds.
* * *
To the end of May the Broken Ilill Prop.’s
iron and steel plant at Newcastle had cost
£1,237.500. and the land and buildings
another £46.000. “The whole of the output
of the plant to Ihc end of August, 1916, has
already been disposed of.” the directors say.
“the orders including rails for the Federal
Government and the Governments of N. S.
Wales, Vic. and S. Alls.” In spite of the
war. this well-organised co. ran everything
to time-table. “It. is most pleasing to be
able to report,” says general-manager Del-
prat. “t hat each plant started at its proper
time, without hitch of any kind, and at once
commenced smooth and continuous work.”
And there is this good word for the Austra-
lian workman: —
Regular work is now proceeding in all departments.
Although the work is new to most of the men they
have shown remarkable adaptability and intelligence
in acquiring the necessary skill for operating the
various appliances.
But that is characteristic of Del prat, who
is less nervous about the Australian working
man than 99 out of every hundred bosses
you can meet. It is an advantage sometimes
not to have been born British.
* * * *
Mercurial George Mendel] has got on to
road-metal now. For years past stone con-
taining more or less antimony has been used
on the roads at Riug.wood (Vic.). Previous
to IS,SO ihe stuff was worked for the
mineral ; then there was a bad fall in price,
and the property was abandoned as a mine.
In view of the excellent market Meudell has
now taken hold of it.
An Australian Invention.
History of the “Rawson Moody" Fence.
EW Australian inventions have won
1 so much favor in so short a period as
has the Rawson Moody All-Steel
Fence. Three years ago it lived only in the
live minds of two men ; to-day. in its finished
state, it encloses hundreds of acres of farm
lands and scores of acres of country and
suburban homes. And its popularity is
rapidly and widely growing. The West
Australian farmer hastens no less rapidly
than his brother farmer of Queensland and
of New South Wales and Victoria, to speak
in high terms of praise of what is undoubt-
edly a fine Australian achievement. Like
all important and substantial inventions, the
fence has evolved from small beginnings.
Rut, fortunately, the fence was lucky in its
early friends. I'erhaps it was tin 1 wise
foresight of Mr. Moody. At any rate, those
who were invited to see the first finished
article are now its finest advertisers. For
on the completion—after very exact care —
of the first twenty chains of fencing Mr.
Moody went to the trouble and expense of
giving a thoroughly practical demonstration
of it to representatives of the different Aus-
tralian Governments, farming associations
and town-planning bodies. Whether it was
this careful handling or whether the value
of the fence was immense and important,
certain it is that the sales have exceeded all
expectation. So true is this that Mr.
Moody, in addition to his large workshop in
Kent Street, has now purchased a big tract
of land in the suburb of Ruslicutter’s Bay, in
which a larger and more comprehensive work
factory will he built. At the Kent Street
works interested and intending purchasers
may see the fence as it appears when erected
on farm and suburban areas. And no matter
whether a sale be effected or not, everyone
who sees the invention is forced to admit
that the day is not far distant when it will
enclose the land of almost every careful
farmer in Australia.
Untiring and enthusiastic, yet withal
intensely practical, Mr. Rawson Moody
talks interestingly of his invention. But
this is scarcely true, for he carefully explains
that the germ of the idea was supplied by
a friend from New Zealand, who persuaded
him to make steel droppers. For these
there was a tremendous sale. Then followed
steel standards and straining-posts. Again
there was a rush of buyers. Not satisfied,
Mr. Moody played with the idea of an
entirely all-steel fence to take the place of
the old wooden structures on farms and
smaller properties. But this was not a pro-
ject to be taken up in a day. There was the
question of price, and of ease of erection.
The new fence would require to be stronger
in every way. It would require to defy rust,
and it would need to be everlasting. To oust
tlu- old fence the new article Would have to
be guaranteed. The process of the straining
of wires would require to be simplified, and
when once they were in their place it would
need to be a simple matter to keep the wires
tightly and strongly placed. Also a light-
weight fence was an essential. And, im-
portant beyond all, the straining-post had
to be a big consideration. After two years
of studious care the whole of these difficul-
ties were overcome. And two years ago
Mr. Moody offered for sale his perfected
article. The result has been magnificent.
During those two years of planning and
devising, buyers were searching the world
over for the requisite materials. From all
manner of different metals the right kinds
were selected. To-day these, are mostly
manufactured in Australia. Evidencing the
strict care taken by Mr. Moody, it need only
be said that no fewer than four hundred
patent fencing records were closely searched
to avoid mistakes and entanglements.
Experts agree and practical users admit
that this all-steel invention has no equal for
price, durability, strength, simplicity and
effectiveness. The seven important features
which it is said lift this fence above all
others are: —
(1) The price is less than that of any
other—a man and a boy can erect half a
mile a day.
(2) Its weight is only three tons to the
mile, as against 10 tons per mile for the
wooden article.
(3) The straining-post, which is recog-
nised by all as the life of a fence, is made of
high-grade steed, and is for its weight marvel-
lously strong, and has no parallel. Properly
fitted in the ground it takes an octoous-like
grip with its anchor feet and stays, and will
stand any strain required in fencing.
(41 The standards or intermediate posts
are designed on original and simple lines.
There being only one slot for each wire,
which securely retains every wire, wedges,
clips, ties and staples are entirely done away
with, allowing the wires to strain through
readily in either direction. This gives a
self-locking action, as one half the wires lock
the other half. These, too. have anchor
feet, giving perfect uprights and true align-
ment.
(51 The dropper is considered by experts
lo be the simplest yet strongest thing of its
kind ever offered to the Australian market.
-V five-wire dropper can be put on the wires
permanently in as many minutes. This im-
provement. is also self-locking, the same
method being used as that of the standards.
This again allows the wires to readily strain
through in either direction.
(G 1 Another new design is the wire-
straining ratchet, which is simple and easy
in its operation, each wire being provided
with a ratchet, making it simple to tighten
or slacken the wire as desired from time to
time.
(71 Another strong point is that any
standard brand of good fencing-wire is suit-
able for use in the straining-posts, standards
or droppers.
Air. Mocdv claims that the farmer of
Australia, like his prototype of England.
Belgium. France or America, will one day
fence his farm with a view not only to
strengthen his fences, but also to beautify
his property. 'Which means that the ugly,
cumbersome old wooden fence must go. The
neater, immensely stronger and much more
reliable Rawson Moody All-Steel Fence
will take its place.
Write for catalogues of illustrations and
complete information to Rawson Moody
Manufacturing Co,, 343 Kent St., Sydney.


Double the charm of your
Kodak—
uliteaA^Accp
make it
1 he Autographic Kodak is the greatest photographic advance in twenty
years. When you use Autographic Film in an Autographic Kodak, you
can write on the film the date and title of your pictures at the time
you take them.
rhe only difference between the Autographic and the old style Kodak is
in the back. Therefore if you fit an Autographic Back to your old style
Kodak you at once turn it into an Autographic Kodak.
Your Kodak dealer can supply an Autographic Back for any of the
Kodaks in the following price=list:
Autographic I>ack for No. 1 Kodak Junior.... 10/0
» » No. la Kodak Junior.. 12/0
•) >, No. la F.I’.K. (It.lt. type) .1-1/0
n » No. la Special Kodak.. 16/0
>» No. .! F.I’.K 1-4/0
Autographic Back for No. i* Special Kodak .. . 16/6
„ No. oa F.P.K 15/0
„ .. No. i>a Special Kodak.. .17/6
„ ~ No. 4 F.P.K 16/6
„ „ No. 4a Folding Kodak 18/6
Remember there is no extra charge for Autographic Film.
An Autographic Kodak tells you the Who? When? Where?
If you do not own a Kodak —buy an Autographic now.
Here are two popular models :
The Autographic Vest Pocket Kodak, pictures 2 ./in. x l jin.
Price 30/=.
The 3A Autographic Kodak, pictures s|in. x 3]in. (post=card
size). Price £5.
The Kodak is the only camera with which the Autographic idea can
be used.
Of all Kodak dealers and
'
I
-S
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker (Si Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street. MELBOURNE: “The Block.” 284 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: 2" Bundle Street.
HOBART: 45 Elizabeth Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruth veil St reel.
TOWN SVELTE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HICK: 810 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 3 Rome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 76 Stuart Street.
These Two should interest
Fruitgrowers, Gardeners
and Farmers.
THE “IRON AGE’’ No. 6
No. 6 Horse Hoe and Cultivator
Has a long, high steel frame that makes the tool run steady. The hoe
standards are solid steel, securely attached to the frame bars by malleable
ratchet castings. They can be reversed for hoeing, or changed from side
Fig. 160
Packed Weight,
831 b.
391-
m
to side with points for-
ward, for covering. The
ratchet castings can be
placed, reversed, on the
inside of the bars, bring-
ing the side hoes together,
for opening furrows for
manure, etc. Cultivator
teeth, attached in this
position, are 11 inches
apart—the teeth are car-
ried on the hoe standards.
A lever expander changes*
the tool instantly, while
in motion, from extreme
width to the narrowest position. It has a pair of double-steel expander-
bars and long steel lever, placed in easy reach, and with its malleable
connections, is perfectly fitted and pivoted to work smoothly—is strong,
simple, rigid, and has stood the test of many years without change.
(^Pliersong)
Tool Merchants,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
Figf. 100
shows the No. 6 with Lever
Expander, but with Plain
Wheel in place of the
Lever Wheel.
37/6
The EDISON
Diamond Disc
Phonograph
MODEL
8.80
£2O
The Crowning Triumph
of the Great Inventor .
Tlie Edison Diamond Disc Phonograph marks the attainment of
an ideal by a man whose ideals are many years in advance of the
times. It is a new and far superior method of recording music,
which is known and practised only in the Edison Recording
Laboratory.
The ten-inch Diamond Disc Records will play longer than most
twelve-inch records of other makes. The Diamond Point in the
reproducer never needs to be changed —and never wears out.
Great musicians assert that the Edison Diamond Disc Phonograph
is the finest musical instrument in the world. You will agree
with them when yon hear it.
The Model 8.80 is very handsome in appearance, and can be bad
in either Mahogany, semi-gloss finish, or Quartered Oak, Golden
finish. It has a twelve-inch turn-table automatic record feed, is
fitted with Diamond Point Reproducer. Metal parts are nickel-
plated, buffed and polished, and it has a turn-table stop.
It is a beautiful instrument, and really remarkable value at £2O.
Write for catalogue, giving full details of this delightful instrument.
Mailed post free anywhere.
THOS. A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 354-372 Kent St., SYDNEY-


Strengthen
the lungs
| .
is good advice to young and
old. The man, woman or child
whose lungs have been forti-
fied by SCOTT'S Emulsion, is
doubly strengthened to resist
; coughs, colds, influenza, bron-
chitis, pneumonia or eon-
; sumption.
Children with weak throats or
chests need SCOTT’S Emul-
sion every day.
Growing boys and girls, par-
ticularly liable to lung trouble,
need regular courses of Scott’s.
Men and women, subject to
jcolds and bron-
-1
chitis, should take
SCOTT’S regular-
ly during winter
months.
Cut only SCOTT’S
Emulsion as re-
commended by
doctors far over
forty years:- Insist
on genuine „ -- -
a
TRADE MARK
on cve>y package.
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
IMITATED BECAUSE SO GOOD.
Try the Great British Remedy
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT AND PILLS
if you have a bad leg or housemaid’s knee it will
act in the same powerful way as testified by
“ERNEST JOHNS,
“ VITICULTURAL COLLEGE, RuTHERGLEN,
“Victoria, Australia.
“I suffered for two rears,during which time
I was medically attended by four different
■ doctors, who treated me with liniments,
paints, leeches and medicines, all of which
gave no lelief u hatever. When lyi gin bed
in great pain I happened 'o read about the
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills and made up
my mind to buy a box of each. The first
time I ancinted my bad knee I got some
reiie f . I continued using it, and after using
three boxes my k ee was completely cured,
and I now go about my daily work without
any trouble.”
A safe remedy also for a Poisoned Hand,
Poiioned Wounds, Snake and Insect Bites,
Glandular Swellings, Abscess, Bunions, Ring
Worm and all Skin Diseases.
Sold by all Stores; English prices, 1/1A & 2/0 p rfcox.
Wholesale Agents—
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
S. lIOFFNUNG & CO., etc.
M
, : £
■
-rtiir"
Dr B. Allen’s (USA)
FOR
GREY r
hair;
BEFORE THE MIRROR.
By “JEANNETTE.”
“Jeannette,” the well-known writer on Beauty Culture and author of “The Book of Beauty,”
will be pleased to help and advise any reader on matters of the toilet. Queries should be accom-
panied by a stamped addressed envelope, and directed to “Jeannette,” c/o “Before the Mirror,”
43 Gray’s Inn Road, London, W.C., England.
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and all of
us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow over the
lives of many of us women, and while, perhaps, a few —the more stoical amongst
us —can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we may all, with a little
care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results of worry from being notice-
able in our appearance. To these fortunate few this little chat will, however, be
as interesting and instructive as to those who stand in real need of help in toilet
matters, and may be the means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown
method of retaining, or regaining, that beauty of face and figure which is the birth-
right of every woman, gome of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present,
not generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Some Hints about the Hair.—An Excellent
Shampoo. —Few women realise how all im-
portant a really good shampoo is if the. hair
is to be kept in perfect condition. To shampoo
the hair properly, shake it down, comb it out,
then dip the fingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil. and thoroughly massage the scalp.
Then, mix a teaspoonful of stallax granules
in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin with
warm water, into which the ends of the hair
can fall, and-shampoo the stallax mixture into
the roots in the usual way. Rinse, and dry
by fanning, or iii the open air, if the weather
permits. Should the hair be exceptionally
greasy, the oil massage of the scalp should be
omitted. Stallax can be bought at any chem-
ist’s in quarter-pound sealed packages ; it keeps
indefinitely, and one package is sufficient for
twenty-five or thirty■ shampoos.
A Tonic for Thin or Falling Hair. —When the
hair falls unduly, or has become thin and im-
poverished, a tonic should be applied every
night for six or eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most efficacious
lotion, at home, take a quarter of a pint of
bay rum and add to it one ounce of boranium.
Shake thoroughly, and leave for thirty
minutes, then strain, and add sufficient water
to make half- a pint. Every night, massage
the scalp for ten minutes, going over the
entire head, then dab the mixture into the roots
with a soft sponge. Regular brushing for a
few minutes every morning will also help to
improve the condition of the, hair.
The Question of Grey Hair. —The arrival of the
first grey liair is always a worry to a woman,
for, while silver hair is undoubtedly beauti-
ful. iron grey or streaked tresses are far
from being so. and they are not only unbe-
coming. but a sure tell-tale of age in these
days of eternal youth. It is not generally
known that one ounce of tammalite, procur-
able at the chemist’s, mixed with four ounces
of bay rum, makes a most satisfactory lotion
for restoring grey, hair to its original color.
All that is necessary is to apply the lotion
night and morning with a soft tooth-brush.
In a few days the hair will be found to be
gradually regaining its proper shade.
To Wave the Hair. —Never wave the hair with
hot irons—if you value the beauty of your
tresses. The heat makes the hair harsh and
brittle, and in the case of fair or auburn hair
entirely spoils the color, while it undoubtedly
1 astens the advent of grey hairs. To give a
wave to stra : ght hair it is only necessary to
damp it with silmerine, and either plait it
tightly, tying the ends, or arrange it in wav-
ing pins for a short time. A couple of ounces
will last quite a long time.
A Creasy Skin and Blackheads.—A greasy,
oily skin with blackheads and enlarged pores
is a sore trial, and many a girl goes through
life with her appearance entirely '.spoiled with
these unsightly blemishes, which may now be
so quickly and effectively removed with but
little trouble. To remove blackheads, and
the dull, dirty look of the skin which accom-
panies them, dissolve one stymol tablet in a
glass of hot water. Allow the effervescence
to subside, then dip a small, soft sponge into
the liquid and bathe the face. Leave on the
skin for a few minutes, then dry with a towel,
and the blackheads will come right off. For
a greasy skin, bathe the face tliree times a
week with stymol, and spray with cold water
every morning, using a vulcanite throat spray.
The Secret of a Good Complexion.—The secret
of a good complexion is so simple, that were
it only more widely known there would be
no such -thing as a rough, blotchy skin.
Nature lias decreed that the outer cuticle, when
it shrivels and dies, shall be removed, but so
many women fail -to realise this. To remove,
by absorption, the dead outer skin, and pre-
serve the complexion in all its pristine beauty,
mercolised wax is recommended; ordinary
creams and lotions being quite ineffectual for
this purpose. Smear the wax over the face
and neck, rub it gently into the skin, and
leave for the night. In the morning wash it
off, using a good soap, such as Pilehta, and
all the dead skin will he removed with the
wax. Then apply a lotion to remove any
trace of greasiness and brace up the skin,
making it firm and white. The lotion call be
made at home quite easily, by mixing one
ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of
hot Water. Bottle, and, when cool, apply to
the face with a soft sponge or the tips of the
fingers, allowing it to dry on the skin.
To Remove Superfluous Hair.—Superfluous
hair is the bane of many an otherwise pretty
woman’s life. Sometimes it is due to hereditary
tendencies; with others, it is the result of bad
soap or greasy face creams; but be the cause
what it may, the result is always disfiguring.
To remove the growth, apply a little powdered
pheminol. First dust the skin with powdered
alum, then mix the pheminol with cold water
to a paste, which should be spread on the
skin with a bone knife. Leave on for two
minutes, then wash off. About one ounce
should be sufficient for the most stubborn case.
Powdered pheminol can he obtained from any
reliable chemist, and its use not only re-
moves the growth but eventually kills the
roots permanently. [1
m
Shave Yourself.
A man has got to have some
care for his comfort and appearance,
before the Gillette shave can seem
worth while to him. More than
seven million Gillette Safety Razor
users in 1914—nearly a million new
users added every year. British made,
Gillette Standard Sets. One Guinea. Sold Everywhere.
W rite for illustrated and descriptive booklet. Mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON. ENGLAND.
rwiirgraa
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
THERE is nothing like a. dainty up-to-
date shoe for setting off a smart
toilette to the best advantage. It
gives the last telling touch that completes
, the whole effect. Further, one’s satisfaction
is greater when the shoe, is manifestly good
and has delightful fitting properties. Such
desirable shoes are to be found in the latest
shipments of Rostock ; they are the cream of
imported' shoes. See, for example, the style
illustrated here.
All the leading stores supply Bostock
shoes, and you will find the name stamped on
the soles of every pair.
**y
Bostock No.
288 A
819
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
tal:en of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Plum: Higgins, formerly of tlie Dry Creek
works and of Chillagoe, has been the adviser of the
Hughes Government in this metal business. Don’t know
that he is an expert in marketing—he probably isn’t
—but he is all right as a metallurgist on the lead
side. . . .P.P.: ’Would want much more evidence than
that. Who checks the vouchers?. .. .Opportunist:
Cannot find the point.... Swag: Fell heavily on the
track... .R.C.M.: Amputation rapid and successful.
. .. .Sequence: Just consider the squeeze of China. . . .
Rifle: It fell into the W.P.B. Can you fall into the
A.M.C. ?... . Bar: Yarn about the person who drank
nine beers while the clock struck nine received with
rapturous applause by the poets. .. .Wild: Labor has
pawned its soul, and is now raffling the tickets. . , .
P.M.: Six months hard for you.... Sold: Party Govt,
is an habitual criminal.... M.C.: George Robertson
and Co., Melbourne or Sydney... .Umuna: Glad to
consider pars and stories from anyone and everyone.
. ...Pattie D.: What is his name and exact position?
. ...Barcoo: No good saying you have a sheep-count-
ing record up your sleeve; send it along.... George
M. (M.L.) : The chances are he is not the first
snufflebusting Yankee thief’ who has got away with
it. It is just the sort of thing they seize on. Not
worth powder and shot.... A.B. (Q.) : No joke can
stand explanation and remain a joke. We give you
three guesses.... E.K.B.: You’re .too slow a starter.
.. . . D.ll.A.M.: Poem containing .nightingale’s lament
trampled to death. Don’t ask for particulars....
W.P. J.: It begins nowhere and ends next door....
S. 8. Poet: Yes, we’re, praying like that, too....
Enlist: Very screechy item with no address on it. ...
George E. B. : Your skeleton doesn’t rattle amusingly.
. ...M.W. (Q.) : Have mercy on Kipling. Don’t
make him sneeze with your metrical feather-duster.
....Piccolo: It needs a higher polish to have a
chance. .. .W. A.T.: Not quite. ... Duke: Not useable.
. .. . Westernport: The lament —or whatever it is—
belongs here: —-
. . . . R.J.F.: Something in it, but buried too deep in
words. .. .Sprag'g's;: Item fails in chest-measurement.
.... Jas. P. Me®.: Very dry and dusty. . . .K.C.H.:
At the risk of being thought unpatriotic, we assert
that the answer is dull. . . .Fernleaf: Both
miss the target... .M.Y.: Handling is sympathetic
but unskilful.... E.,I. T.: Harmless and uninteresting.
. ...W.J. (N.S.W.) : No value here.... Harold J.:
You don't convey any emotion E.K.B.: Is it a
sermon? Commences like one....Doc: The address
on the envelope was interesting and ingenious, any-
how :—-
The monster is now gloating. You will know the
result latter. .. .L.R.W.: Can’t you do better than
that for Florence?. .. .W.E.: Your shirking rhyme
came short-stamped. It was a bad start for a man
who calls on somebody else to do his duty....
G.D.M.: Who called mining “a small superstition’?
Not The Bulletin, anyway. The Bulletin’s pro-
test was against “the waste of good money in what
is alleged to be mining”—the sort of thing which
the city miner, who never did a day’s real mining; in
his life, mostly lives upon.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.W.M.: It’s homeward bound. .. .S.T.: Feeble
adaptation of a well-known bacon advt. Blush, if
you can....R.C. (N.S.W.) : Have bombed your cross-
eyed Turk.... Kris: Not keen on insect humor....
Jack: Too far-fetched, and a wretched diagram....
Tom F.: The sketch isn’t “ready for reproduction”
—not here, anyhow D.S. (Q.) : Of no commercial
value.... W.E. Q.: Crude and no particular point....
Jack L.: Take it away.... Sid TANARUS.: It’s too late, and
the Hun’s boots are obviously too small for liis Im-
perial corns.... Sniper: You may get on in time.
Just now you’ve got to get out... .Excelsior: Banner
doesn’t interest us.
“Blank File”: I’m getting tired of that
little remark that will creep into the most
friendly conversation —“Why doesn’t he go
to the war?” I have heard it asked of men
who seem to be free and fit but are neither.
It is one of the little defects of the voluntary
enlistment ideal which works so noisily and
with such patchy results. Heaven ' only
knows how many indignant strangers and
semi-strangers have wondered why I don’t
go to the war! They can’t be blamed either,
for I don’t wear a placard on my back stat-
ing that I am married with two children
and have a gallery of false teeth in my head.
The grand old voluntary sham is only being
upheld at the cost of mutual suspicion. For
aii our detestation of German spies, in this
matter at least we are all spying on one
another and frequently criticising ignorantly
and cruelly. It must be a great source of
secret merriment to-the Huns who are still
at large amongst us.
The allegation of the shiftless party which
says the States should borrow and borrow
again is that the money, by developing the
great natural resources, earns more than its
keep. Well. Westralia and N. S. Wales
are the champion pawners of the Common-
wealth. Westralia, whose nublic debt 10
years ago was £67 9s. 4d. per head, now
owes £lll 14s. per head, so the development
of the great natural resources of Westralia
has presumably been something extra. It
has been so extra, in fact, that the Perth
Labor Federation spent a night recently
hunting up odds and ends of work. It
decided, for example, that, to give the
plumbers something to do. all owners of
metropolitan property ought to be com-
pelled to sewer their premises; and, so that
some unemployed carpenters might have a
job, no more prison labor ought to be em-
ployed in preparing for the military camp at
Garden Island. As these citizens are still
unhappy, though paying interest on £llO
per head, it seems a fair thing for John
Scaddan to mention how much more he
reckons it will take to do the trick.
TRUE LOVE'S WHISKERS.
As he languished alone on the merciless billow,
He sent her his whiskers to make her a pillow.
But she swooned right away as a matter of course
When her husband just used them to bed down his
. horse.
Away ! Away ! O’er hills and vales
To Sydney City—New South Wales.
’Tis there ’mid George Street’s busy din
Abides The Sydney Bulletin.
Seek out that ogre in his lair,
Who answers correspondents there:
Present these lyrics that I wrote,
And o’er them let the monster gloat.


Successful Power Stations Use
only the highest quality apparatus because nothing less than the best can be depended
upon for uninterrupted service under arduous conditions.
b B «
T-H
British Made
am
wm
wl: . ,
■
T-H
,\ *V;
fc B <
T-H
British Made
CURTIS TURBO GENERATORS
have a world-wide reputation for high quality andi are unsurpassed for economical and reliable service.
They are of simple design, robust construction, highly efficient at all loads, and since no previous
warming up is required, are available for service at a moment’s notice.
Curtis Turbines possess large internal clearances, with the result that not only is blade stripping
unknown but their high initial efficiency is maintained throughout their life owing to the fact that
wear is reduced to a negligible quantity.
Curtis Turbo Generators are manufactured at Rugby, England, in all sizes from 26-K.W. upwards.
28 Curtis Steam Turbines ('totalling over 50,000 K.W. in satisfactory operation in Australasia.
3D
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.),,Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.j, Ltd., Hay Street.
Agents
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : UnbehaUn Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
m
THE GIES REVERSE GEAR.
The GIES is built in three sizes of the enclosed and open type, so that it
is the best-fitted reverse gear for the greatest number of power boats. It is
the simplest reversing mechanism made. The few parts it has are all inter-
changeable, as they are .jig made to accuracy. High-grade materials and first-
class workmanship, combined With right design, make the GIES the most depend-
able reversing device on the market.
GIES Gears are not an exper'ment, they are the result of
10 years’ experience in building reverse gears exclusively. Over
30,000 satisfied customers are our best recommendations.
DEALERS: We wish to secur responsible dealers wherever
we have no representation. We feel certain that reliable
importers will want to represen: the GIES line, once they have
investigated its merits. The GIES offers any dealer a com-
plete line of reverse gears to fit my make of engine. Rightly
priced and widely advertised, th GIES will be a quick-selling,
money-making line to handle. AVrite for our special dealers’
iWhnnet'tton. to-day. Cable Address :
GIES GEAR CO., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
GIESGEAR,
DETROIT.
Give Your Soldier Friend
a Luminous Watch.
Here’s a watch that is seeing service—night and day—in the
far-away Dardanelles trenches. By a special process
The “Gallipoli” Wristlet
makes telling 1 time by
night easy.
The Hands and FIGURES are luminous and show brightly in
the dark. The time, can be seen in PLAIN FIGURES (not
spots), and is very essential for “active service.” The
“Gallipoli” Watch has 15-jewelled Lever solid Nickel Move-
ment Compensation Balance to counteract shocks and
climatic conditions; Strong Gunmetal Case,
and a solid Leather Strap. Price, posted free
35/-
We can also supply this Watch with.: COVERED Strap for
3/- extra.
Other Wristlet Watches in Solid Silver and Gold up to
£5/10/- each.
Stewart Dawson’s
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
m
ihlwiWttMvl
mm
WAV™
>AC,'-
“I will sing
for you”- —
says Caruso in effect. The world’s greatest
tenor is always the most delighted listener
of all when a new “His Master’s Voice”
record is produced. He knows it is the
living Caruso he hears when the record is
played. Caruso his written to the Com-
pany
“I am indeed satisfied with my
new records. They are magnifi-
cent.”
m
Caruso sings only for
His Master’s Voice
Records.
WE QUOTE A FEW OF HIS SONGS:
7—52026
2—52489
7—52025
7—52039
Canta pe’ me (Neapolitan
Song) ■
Di quella pira (“II Trovatore”)
chera”)
Di’ tu se fidele (“Ballo in Mas-
Donna non vidi mai, Act I.
(“Manon Lescaut”). Harp
accompaniment by Mme.
Regis-Rossini
7—52003
4—2122
2—52641
7—52012
4—2205
7—52003
15 lucevan le stelle (“Tosco”)
For You Alone (in English)
La donne e mobile (“Rigo-
letto”)
Lasciati Arnar (Let me love
thee) • •
Love is Hine (in English)
Magiehe note (“La Regina di
Saba”
Complete Record Lists, Instrument Catalogue and name of
nearest dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 Pitt Street —Sydney.
m


Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- upwards.
INTEREST paid at 3| per cent, on first
£2OO and 3 per cent, on excess to £5OO.
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE GOV-
ERNMENT.
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS f
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest, 5 per
cent.
Branches and Agencies throughout the
State. Post Offices are not now Agencies for
this Bank.
By Order of the Commissioners, ,
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000*.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Gen Eli ai, Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES./
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of (Jomnmce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . .
SUBSCRIBED
PAID-UP (30th June, 1915)
RESERVE FUND
Companies Act.)
.. £2,000,000
.. £1,198,679
.. £1,195,831
£65,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R.
Lysagiit, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government cf Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 190,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gra3 r , M.L.C. ;
James Love, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up .. ~£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,780,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,780,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq.. .. .. Chairman. „
Hon. H. E. Ivater. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibb's, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Tjondon Office: 18 Birch-in Lane.
Directors: F. H. DangaT, Esq. ; Hon. H‘:*S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of ||eui Zenland.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £628,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 975,710
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 524,290
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial mutual [iie
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Lite Assurance, Endowments aid
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 431 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.'Gt.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
Shipping. &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine
ORAMA ..Triple-Screw
ORVIETO . .Twin-Ser
OSTERLEY . .
OTRANTO . .
OTWAY
ORSOYA
ORONTES ..
OMRAH
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12,130
12,129
12,124
12.077
12,036
9,023
8,282
Pitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Reguiar sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO,, Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE^ (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with al! United States and Canadian
Railways.
&JVI.S. IviARAMA,
the largest, finest andinewest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco,
Sails SATURDAY, 11th SEPTEMBER,
T 2 o’clock (noon).
Following Sailings.: OCT. 9; NOV. 6.
STEAMERS STAY 24 HOUURS AT WELLING-
TON (N.Z.), AND AT PAPEETE, “THE PEARL
OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) .
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports) J
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 4.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 8.
Leaves Sydney, Sept. 11.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 15.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 18.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and iV.A. vsorts)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 11.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. Peregrine (3500 tons) leaves Brisbane every
Friday at 8 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at
GLADSTONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting
at TOW'NSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports
as far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dee. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
Sept. 25; Oct. 23; Nov. 20; Dec. 18.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
ft..'---
THURSDAY
V>,
CAIRNS
%
•
/ & «
ISBANE
/ ' --
' - - -V"
noRFOtO •»
3yD LORO
MOW*
kelbourhe
rfJOIiIDAY^
* "CRUISES
to Pac/f/c Isles.
TO PAPUA & RABAUL
TO SOLOMON IS
TO NEW HEBRIDES
TO MARSHALL&
TO GILBERT 1$
Burns Philp& Cp up
Send for Pamphlet.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
£3,500,000
£2,550,000
£3,500,000
£9,550.000
The Hon. Sir Charles li. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORS: —William Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq,
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office- 29 Threadneedlo St., E.C.
346 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world.
.T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
m
JBartk 01 Hustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
in the
principal
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Sayings Bank Facilities
JAMES KEL’i, Deputy Governor. June, 1915 DENIS *N MILLER, Gover
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd
Capital Subscribed .. .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid up .. .. .. ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits .. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.'
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trustee,
Administrat' r or Attorney under Power for absentees,
and Is the only Trustee Company empowered by Act
of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BKADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL. Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
R. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/ -,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLAItENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Ss. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to o £tnd from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports. ,
DIMBOOLA, Sept. 25
and Oct. 23.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And . Ports North to Cairns.
WOLLOWRA, Sept. 4.
-MORIALTA, Sept. 11.
INNAMINCKA, Sept. 18
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUIIX & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALANI), FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
fTwin-Screw. *Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STRAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
"Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ Liimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ VVYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, "as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BORNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, foi’merly Manager White Oliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N..S.VY.
Branches in all parts of the world.


Abbey’s 30
Military Boot
IS THE IDEAL BOOT FOB
MILITARY SERVICE, AND
ALSO FOR FARM AND
STATION USE.
It is as comfortable as an old shoe,
smart in appearance, and very
strong and serviceable. In Strong
Tan Willow Calf, Leather-lined,
Heavy Soles 30/-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a copy of our new Cata-
log. which shows all the very latest
models in distinctive footwear.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
f
’mm
Siife
tm
\*i£U
1
-
U_V
or:
3:
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable —it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
'■ontaining mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their ftiends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
3befs Wald of Wt/res.
r O
WIIIWIH
What is the best tyre for the roads of ibis country?
It is the tyre which best combines the qualities : adaptability, durability
reliability.
The Michelin Motor Tyre is adaptable—i.e., fully suited to the varying
circumstances under which it is used.
It is durable, and effectually resists the roughness of the roads.
It is reliable, so that the automobilist always possesses that (eeling of
security on which his pleasure so largely depends.
That’s why the
Motor Tyre
is the tyre for the roads ol this country. Try it.
MICHELIN TYRES AND ACCESSORIES
can be obtained Irom all the leading Agents.
G. 3.
(Michelin Tyres are made in France).
Exclusive Agents Wanted
to Sell Gasoline Engines
MARINE, STATIONARY AND
PORTABLE, OUTBOARD MOTORS.
2-H.P. PORTABLE,
Write at once to
The Catlle Perfection Motor Co.,
506 CAILLE STREET,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
“WORLD’S LARGEST BUILDERS OF
TWO-CYCLE MOTORS.**
We manufacture every practical type of Gasoline
Motor. Prices Right. Quality First.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
WJ
' EORGE 'HOTEL,
St. KiUa, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF: ■
From 16 - per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
7
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED, EGYPTIAN
HENNA for CjREY HAIR,
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrate® ‘ARAIUS
Kjjyptian Henna before all others; it is the best anu
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” rgvptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Sta.n on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y'U. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2 16.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


FINNEY’S PAY THE CARRIAGE.
<£>
&
HERE’S A
COSSACK -
The Gallipoli
with a Sole that will Outwear
three of any ordinary kind!
SPECIAL
PRICE...
14/6
and Worth Every Penny of it. Men's
Mineral Kip Watertight Cossacks, fitted with
Finney’s famous Diamond Soles, that are put
through a Special Process, making the leather
Watertight, and which gives to it three lives
instead of one. Order a trial pair to-day.
Sent Post Free, and your money back if you’re
not satisfied.
FINNEY’S,
The Big Block, BRISBANE.
James Buchanan & Co., Ltd., the well-known dis-
tillers of Black and White Whisky, have opened their
own offices and stores at 255 George Street, Sydney.
This should be a sufficient guarantee to the friends
of the brand that the quality of the whisky will be
fully maintained.*
CHESS YEAR-BOOK, Bth Annual volume,
3s. 4d. ; Pitfalls on Chess-Board, Is. 3d.; Every
Game Check-Mate, Is. 3d. ; 120 Chess Problems,
with solutions, 2s. 3d. Catalogue of all Chess Books:
all post free.— FRANK HOLLINGS, Great
Turnstile, London, England.
N'P'
EVERY SHILLING
IS REQUIRED.
Spend Your Money Within the Empire.
You know that KOL» O K makes are
British makes. -See at once that your
Typewriter Carbons, Pen and Pencil Carbons
and Typewriter Ribbons bear the Kolok
trademark. The Kolok Economy Binder, the
best on the market, is made also by the
KOLOK MANUFACTURING CO. OF
LONDON.
IN BANANA LAND
A certain Presser, of South Queensland,
who recently recruited, walked 15 miles to
present himself for examination. He has a
wife and five children, and he tells how he
stopped five times on his journey to ponder
whether lie was doing the right thing. Ap-
parently it was once for each youngster;
and every youngster said “Go !”
“Barcoo” : The Fitzroy River at Rockhamp-
ton has the peculiar legend attached to
it that it takes its toll of victims in tripli-
cate. The sequence is simply uncanny.
Immediately a case of drowning occurs the
inhabitants begin speculating as to when
and who the next two will be. The writer,
a short time ago, was having a nightcap
with a young fellow-lodger. There had been
a drowning case —the second that week—
and he remarked. “I wonder who is going
to make the usual third?” Two hours after
sunrise next morning he was fished out of
the river, dressed just as lie was when he
went, upstairs, ostensibly to retire for the
night. The thing had evidently got on to
the weak spot in his brain.
"P.F.”: Is there a more generous spot on
this wide earth than the Barkly Tableland,
which raised £BOO for the Patriotic Eund by
a two-days’ carnival? The population,
roughly speaking, is 100.
Seafaring men are noticing the unusual
freedom from wreck and casualties of late
along the Queensland coast. But some years
you can,go anywhere and do anything down
that seaboard with impunity. A few years
ago the captain of a China boat sailed" into
Rockingham Bay, near Cardwell, over the
Barrier Reef, and then, having discovered
that this was not Rockingham Bay (W.A.),
sailed calmly out again. Only the skipper
who knows that spot can appreciate that
captain’s feat.
The standing joke of Enoggera camp is
about a man who left with the last batch of
infantry for the Front. He was a bushman-
drover, this chap, and knew a horse from
nose to tail. Naturally lie was rejected on
offering for the Light Horse on account of
his riding, but got into the boot brigade.
Home weeks later, the officer who rejected
him put up a prize for the best rider of
Skuthorp’s buckjumpers. The reject en-
tered and won the cash and an officer’s
warm congratulations on his horsemanship.
REINFORCEMENTS.
The -Order of Merit has been conferred on Prince Rupprecht to mollify him, after a quarrel with the
German Crown Prince, because the latter received reinforcements intended for Prince Rupprecht, who
was hard pressed in the Argonne.— Cable.
THE SUBALTERN : “Reinforcements urgently wanted, sir! Our line is being cut to pieces.”
THE GENERAL: "Sorry we’re running short of reinforcements! But help yourself to an
Order of Merit and half a dozen Iron Crosses.”
Colonel Rankin, of the Assembly, is the
first Northern legislator to volunteer for the
Front. Politicians of all parties gave a
kindly send-off to the stiff Tory but unde-
niably sound patriot.
From an interview between Queensland
Minister for Railways and a deputation:—
Mr. Adamson: Some 16 railways were passed by
Parliament last session, and there was not a bean
left in the Treasury.
Mr. Bodge: You admitted yourself there was
£1,700,000.
Mr. Adamson: That money was for other railways.
There were railways to cost 2i millions passed last
session, and not a bean to meet the expenditure.
And on this kind of rotten basis does Party
Government rest! Anything is promised to
gel support, and everything is repudiated
when the time comes for fulfilment. Even
the present Government, with the full know-
ledge of the financial position, has been
making promises and half-promises of fur-
ther railway extensions for months past!
Much of the credit for the proclamation
of the Lamington Plateau as a National
Park is due to a young Queenslander, R.
Lahey, a B.E. of Sydney Uni. Lakey spent
the time between his first refusal for the
Australian forces on account of wanting an
inch in height and his later acceptance, in
lecturing on the beauties of the plateau and
the need of its reservation. While he was
doing this, amazed yokels expressed aston-
ishment at a kid taking on such a job. Then
when the place was gazetted, young Lahey,
believing that the people could be relied on
to prevent alienation (Brisbane’s usual
course seems to be to take park-lands for
railway yards), decided to help keep the
Huns from getting their clutches on the
place.
Stemming the Tide.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gallant Russians, dead in myriads, strew
Galicia’s blackened plains;
Half a million Russian corpses swell the
rivers in the rains ;
Down the reddened waters floating, past old
Warsaw’s famous town,
See them drift in corpse battalions, faces up
and faces down ;
And the nations, ever watching, ask with
anxious, weary cry :
“Will the Russian win and save us? Will
lie fail and let us die?
Will he balk the fell invaders who his
country over-ride?
Will the battered, bleeding legions of the
moujik stem the tide?”
And in Britain tens of thousands who have
never touched a gun,
Never slept a night in trenches, seen a hold-
ing lost and won r
Pallid folk who say: “We’re guarded quite
securely by the sea,
And our battleships will answer that Our
Land is safe and free,”
Read the papers every morning with an
interest close and tense,
Thanking God .that they, of all men, sleep
within the Ocean fence,
And remark, between the tea-sips: “Surely
Heaven is on our side,
And the Lord will aid (lie moujik when he
goes to stem the tide!”
Men who boast of this our Empire, of our
wide dominions free,
Is it just, amid the carnage, that ye shout
exultantly
At the bravery of the Belgian, at the cour-
age of the Gaul,
At the daring of the myriads who in Flan-
ders fight and fall.
While ye whisper as ye shelter in your trim
and guarded field :
"For our land there’s little danger, for their
prowess is our shield”?
Does your manhood never prick you. if it
have not wholly died,
That ye leave the battered moujik to the
stemming of the tide?
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 2S, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Although Governor Goold-Adams is still
indisposed all entertainments have not been
cancelled. The Methody centenary has been
thrilling us all the week, the live wire being
an “Evangelistic bishop”—one H‘oss —who
came all the way from U.S.A. to see what
kind of emus we are.
And then there was the National Council
of Women and the Eternal Comp. The
Council has been holding its annual corro-
boree, and during the proceedings a dame
exclaimed, “Poor dears!” When one of the
local papers quoted her as saying "Poor
devils!” the row was deafening.
Major T. J. Logan has been killed in
action at Gallipoli. He was 38, and a
typical Australian soldier. During the Boer
war he fought with the First Contingent,
and was an extremely popular officer. To
do his share this time he left for the Turkish
Front with the 2nd Light Horse and was
in command when the end came. A widow
and six little Australians are left. a.
younger brother, Private J. M. Logan, has
been wounded, and Corporal A. J. Logan
is in hospital at Malta. Still another
brother, holding, a captain’s commission, left
recently with Light Horse reinforcements.
Captain Colin Douglas Austin, killed at
the Dardanelles, is an old Brisbane resident
who was aide-de-camp to Henry Wiley Nor-
man when that warrior and knight was
Governor . (1889-’95). Captain Austin
fought against Brother Boer and afterwards
.did responsible work in a military capacity.
About six years ago he left Africa, made 'a
trip to the Solomons, and thence to Sydney,
where he had dug himself into business when
the Hun broke out of his cage. Captain
Austin’s young wife is a Sydney girl.
Dr. G. I’. Merz, of Ballarat, the young
Australian aviator, missing somewhere along
the Persian Gulf, was engaged to a-Brisbane
girl, nurse Dora Rowe, daughter of chaplain
George Rowe, who returned from Egypt on
Thursday night.
J. Tyson Doneley, of Tyson Manor, Too-
woomba, passed over on Thursday after-
noon. He was one of the best-known men
in Southern Queensland, and black-trackers
couldn’t have found him an enemy. His
eldest son.. W. 11. Doneley, is in America;
the rest of the family is in Bananaland.
Miss Betty Cockburn passed the festive
scone in honor of Miss' Helen Barnes, of
the Y.W.C.A., last Saturday afternoon. The
Cockburns live at Yeddo, New Farm, the
Japanese house tjjat the late Judge Paul
transplanted bodily from the land of the
‘cherry blossom and set up on a prosaic
block of land in one of our "best” suburbs.
The hostess, who has a beautiful contralto
voice, distributed it sweetly. Lena Ham-
mond also poured out melody, and Gladys
Frost put the piano through its paces.
The Nikko Maru. which left here on Wed-
nesday, carried off a number of Queens-
landers, on holiday bent. Among them were
Mr. G. C. Cory, of Toowoomba, and his
much-travelled daughter, and Mr. .Donkin,
the Belgian Consul. Harry Bell, once part
owner of Noorindoo station, and now of Syd-
ney, also was on board.
To-day the whole town was on holiday in
the interests of various patriotic funds. A
procession about five miles long went out to
the Exhibition grounds, and the chink of the
money-box was like a tambourine accom-
paniment. All the boys from the Expedi-
tionary forces now in camp were in the
march, and several motor-cars, laden with
veterans of the Mutiny and Crimea and our
own lads from Gallipoli, showed the way. A
competition for the Queen of the Day was
won by a nice girl from Finney’s.
“To the Day,” Miss Nora Gpllisson’s. play,
was a big success last night. Mrs. I\ j.
Symes, who represented Britannia, deserves
a cargo of eulogies for her compliment t<j
that lady, as well as for her work in train-
ing over 100 amateurs. The girls who took
part were excellently coached, and the show
was one of the best of the kind seen in
Brisbane. Proceeds (over £800) go into
patriotic coffers.
Phyllis Scholes, a popular nurse at the
General Hospital, was married recently to
her soldier boy, who is now on his way to
Shrapnel-land.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Mulga” :j I’ll tally-o and raise “Viking”
(B. 19/8/T5) one about foxes in the North.
I have seen red-pelt in the. CloncuiTy dis-
trict, and I’ll send “Viking” a copy of the
language of a couple of sheep-owners there-
abouts concerning the brutes on receipt of
an asbestos 1 stamp.-
Ex-Treasurer Barnes was some time ago
appointed arbitrator in a* dispute between
the Maryborough Town Council and one Ei
J. Redmond. Barnes’s “bill of costs” ran to
£1 145., for out-of-pocket expenses. What
an insult; to Bill of Costs to call this con-
temptible thing by such a name !
The good old Chinese custom of ripening
bananas by sleeping among them still flour-
ishes. One Charlie Lee, of Brisbane, had a
three-roomed domicile so arranged that the
middle apartment was packed with fruit
while the two on either side were packed
with sleeping Chows. Fruit ripened under
these conditions has a Celestial flavor-
unique and unforgettable. (Fine, £2 ss. 6d.)
J. R. Taylor, the latest Brisbane press-
man to volunteer for the Unpleasantness, is
a son of R. S. Taylor, who is filling the gap
in the Coubier’s leader-writing staff left by
the departure for the same uncertain destina-
tion of Col. R. Spencer Browne. Other Bris-
bane journalists who have taken rifles out of
the Commonwealth are Bruce Macgregor, B.
White and R. Clay.
The Queensland Government’s alarmed
talk about the need for conserving its scanty
timber lands recalls the respect that Warri-
gal showed for his ancestral forests. A
blackfellow who cut down a tree on the land
of another tribe might be killed when caught,
and many a white man on the River Mary
found a spear in his ribs as a punishment
for having laid a sacrilegious axe into the
butt of a bunya pine.
Even a Legislative Council can be terri-
fied into yielding. The Sugar Acquisition
Bill, which goes the whole hog in at least
temporarily nationalising the industry from
the point at which the cane leaves the hands
of the grower, passed the Council with less
than two hours’ debate, and with only half
a _ dozen negative votes. The most deter-
mined expression of hostility to Ryan so far
raised by the House of Last Say has been a
failure on one occasion to provide a quorum.
11.. L. Le Fanu, of Brisbane, will shortly
hang an apron above the gaiters which he
now wears as an Anglican archdeacon, Arch-
bishop Donaldson having appointed him
bishop-coadjutor of the Brisbane diocese.
The position has been vacant since Stretch,
who now bishes at Newcastle (N.S.W.), left
Brisbane some 15 years ago. Le Fanu is an
Irishman, whose importation was one of
Donaldson’s first acts after his own arrival
from the Cold Country. Though not dis-
tinguished as a preacher, in his 11 years at
Brisbane he has come to be looked upon as
the business man of the diocese, and his new
appointment will give him a further chance
of displaying the powers of organisation of
which his friends accuse him. In Church
politics he is reckoned “moderate High”—a
good deal “higher” than Donaldson. Le
Fanu has twice been left in charge of the
diocese for a year, during Archbish. Donald-
son’s absence “at home.” On the first occa-
sion—now some years back —he raised
£lO,OOO to pay off the debt on the completed
portion of Brisbane Cathedral as a surprise
for the Archgaiters on their return.
When Joe Lindsay, >of Morwell (Vic.),
lay dying at Alexandria of a wound in the
head, lie dictated a letter for his mother
to the Presbyterian chaplain, who duly
posted it. Lindsay died at the end of the
month, and the chaplain sent another letter,
telling how the boy went out. The chap-
lain’s letter arrived; hut Joe’s dictated
message didn’t. Joe’s parents badly want
that letter —want it worse than anything
else in the world. Perhaps some Bulletin
reader may happen on it, among nis mail
from Bill and Jim in the trenches. If so he
will know what to do with it.


ACCIDENT ASSORANCE
DEPARTMENT.
No other office in Australia issues such attractive and liberal
Accident contracts as the
Colonial Mutual Life.
These contracts comprise not only Pure Accident Assurance, but
Accident Assurance combined with Life and Endowment Assurance.
The Society issues contracts providing compensation for
DEATH or DISABLEMENT by
ACCIDENT or SICKNESS
' s |
DEATH (only) by ACCIDENT
DISABLEMENT (only) by ACCIDENT
or SICKNESS.
SPECIAL POLICIES ARE ISSUED
for
MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
DENTISTS
and the
NURSING PROFESSION, etc.
The Bonuses in this Department take the form of Permanent Addi-
tions to the Benefits. Last year’s Bonus was £2% added to all Sick-
ness and Accident Benefits.
ANNUAL BONUSES!
• • •
THE
• • •
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY
LIMITED
Transacts all classes of LIFE ASSURANCE
and ANNUITIES. Its policies are
UNCHALLENGEABLE and INDEFEASIBLE.
They cannot lapse while Surrender Value
is sufficient to pay one Quarterly Premium.
The Total Amount paid to Policyholders in the “Ordinary” Depart-
ment is ,
£6,591,795.
The Total Funds of “Ordinary,” “Accident” and “Industrial” Depart-
ments dre
£3,925,769.
The Total Income of “Ordinary,” “Accident” and “Industrial”
Departments is
£735,796.
The Colonial Mutual Life is an Imperial Office transacting Business in
the
The Commonwealth o/ Australia
The Dominion of New Zealand
The Union of South Africa and
The United Kingdom.
ANNUAL BONUSES!
He Heard the Bugles
Calling.
There s an .old red mill at the foot of the hill.
Hear the mill-wheel turning, turning,
To the drip of tears, through the long, long years.
Of my heart’s relentless yearning.
Oh I the tender note of the catch in his throat
Oh I the tear that he dried with laughter ■ —..
" I’ll be back some day.
Mind the mill while I’m away,’’
And he waved one last kiss floating after
Gone is the miller boy,
Gone from the mill;
Gone up the winding road,
Gone o'er the hill:
Gone with the drum beat up over the hill.
Where he heard the bugles calling.
There's no grist for the mill or siller for the till.
But I've kept the mill-wheel turning.
To the rumble and the beat of a million marching feet.
And my sad heart's muffled yearning.
Oh I the road his brave feet trod, lit with glory
up to God,
Oh I the courage of his call shames my sorrow :
’’ I’ll be back some day,
Mind the mill while I'm away,"
And I caught one last kiss for to-morrow
Gone is the miller bov,
Gone from the mill;
Gone up the winding road.
Gone o'er the hill;
Gone with the drum beat up over tine hill, 6 s
Where he heard the bugles calling. J*
Carey C. V. Briggs
LEFT BEHIND.
The tramp of feet, the crowded street.
The clash of steel, the long array
Of dust'dad men, and then again
The rise and fall of feet that say.
You hale of limb, infirm of mind.
You’re left behind, you're left behind.”
You stout supporters of the post
That rounds the corner to the bar.
You stalwart men who hear the charge
For “Just one more, then catch the car
Can you not hear it down the wind ?
You’re left behind, you're left behind '
By heavens, old chap, you nearly cheered.
Look out I Don't waste your breath like that:
You'll want it yet to sup your beer
And say. “ I .bet old Bill a bob
He'll stop a bullet with his nob;
Ain't he a mug to lose his job ? "
Yet Heaven send that Bill returns.
His duty done, his conscience clear
You’ll line the street to greet the “mug'
(You’d sooner greet a mug of beer).
Let's hope he’ll spurn your proffered hand
You'll understand, you’ll understand
When peace returns and plenty reigns
And two-up schools are in recess,
And |obs are offered to the man
Who helped his country in a mess.
Let s hope this answer you will
find,
“ You' re left behind, you re left
behind.'
The throbbing footfalls die away.
The gazers and the crowd depart.
And still those echoes haunt my brain
And wring... the teardrops from my
heart.
Too old 1 Too blind I Still down
tjjie wind
I catch it—“Left behind: behind.'
R.G.J.H.


IP!
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
IO YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Del i vered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
KJlft
BENGER’S
is the
most easily
digested
Food
obtainable .
It is expressly
devised to be fully
nourishing when
natural digestion
isenfeebled, whether
in child or adult.
It is prepared with fresh
new milk and forms a dainty
and delicious cream, which
fully satisfies “hunger-faint-
ness,” and soothes internal
discomfort. Benger’s is the
safe food in illness, and in
convalescence promotes
rapid recovery.
Delicate children thrive on it
m
Food
For CHILDREN.
INVALIDS and the AGED
is sold by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Benger’s Boo’ let—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids.and the
f. Aeed, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.. Manchester, Eng-.
Branch Offices—N EW YORK (U.S.A.) 92, William Street
SYDNEY (N.S.W.) 117, Pitt Street
Canadian Agents— National Drug Co., Ltd., Montreal.
lBO A
m
Interstate Agents. —SYDNEY: Tucker & Co.;
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.; ADELAIDE:
\V. P. Auld & Co. ; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co. ; GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co. ;
HOBART: J. Ferguson & Co. ; LAUNCESTON:
J. McKenzie & Co: ; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M.
Heddricfeafc Co.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
IOUDENTA is therefoi-e regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCTvE. TOMPSTTT & CO., Melbourne.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Rave yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITION’S. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. Tbe pad TtTmnde of
soft rubber, which exerts a GF.NTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
tti reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PEnri.CT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FiRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women /c children,
IF.SCKIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collinc-st., Melbourne, Vic.
HinOS M3N
m
WALES.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts sls
Trustee, Executor, Administrator, Attorney or Agent.
STATE GUARANTEE.
LOWEST CHARGES IN AUSTRALIA.
NO PROFITS.
INCREASED BUSINESS MEANS REDUCED CHARGES.
Apply for Particulars to Public Trustee Office, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
WOMDE
Do
°PV]_
"HiNfrg
Afternoon tea means afternoon chat,
The subjects are varied—they’ll see to
that.
The last new book—the latest plays—
break dances and the ragtime craze,
The subject of ‘Jelloids’, of course, is
And though we say it—they’re always
praised.
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids ’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed, Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
§
Miss H. Foley, Brixton, writes. —“Iron ‘Jelloids’ are indeed a splendid
“tonic and very pleasant to take. I shall always recommend them to
“anyone who is run-down.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/H and 2/9 per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W .
Crjatliud ((ornady
omimh
£
MIXTURE
Famous
over
40
Years
Winter maladies assail you at all times and in all
p aces. GREATHEAD’S MIXTURE, however,
is known as a most potent remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS. SORE THROATS,
INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, Etc., Etc.
Tonic as well as a remedy. Sold everywhere.
Buy
Your
Bottle
To-day
m
F)R the convenience of the man
who is many miles from the big
towns, we have Special Colt re-
volvers made to shoot the same car-
tridges as the Winchester Rifles.
This saves the trouble of having to
carry two kinds of Ammunition.
The Calibres are .32,
.38 and .44, and these,
cartridges are procurable
in any little town
throughout the
civilized world
ONE
Cartridge
DOES—
m
-for
BOTH
The PRICES of the REVOLVERS are-
. 32 cal. 4in. barrel £5; .38 cab 534 in.
barrel, *6/15/-; .44 cal. 734 in. barrel,
*7/10/-.
Winchester Rifles —Half or full Maga-
zine—Carbine length, 20 in. barrel, 67/6;
Full Rifle length, 24 in. barrel. 70/-
Catalogs.
Free
Alcock & Pierce
318 !Lt. Collins
Street, MELB.
IVORY TOILET
REQUISITES ::
are now largely being adopted by the
wealthy. Nothing is more lovely than
toilet accessories of ivory, with a blue
crest or monogram engraved on them
to contrast with the softness of the
ivory. Then, too, they wear better than
any other material, and are always
so good looking. The Hair ' Brushes
can be re-bristled. We are showing a
fine assortment of these charming orna-
ments —Goods of the highest grade and
at our famous cut prices.
Finest-quality African Ivory-backed Brushes, with
best hand-drawn bristles, £4/17/0 Pair.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Tenaculum” : It is not easy to understand
why the Germans (the same yarn, by the
way, was told of the Japs) should have tried
to corner Australian grass-tree gum for the
sake of its picric acid. Picric —otherwise
tnnitro-phenoi—is freely begotten of phenol
(carbolic acid) by nitric acid, the sire of all
these potent “substitution-products.” Lack of
nitro-compounds is not likely to hobble the
Huns, which is one of the main reasons for
cutting off the supply of the indispensable
base-stuffs —notably cotton. Mightily-boosted
German chemical science, by the way, seems
to have overlooked a very ordinary sub-
stance, which the present writer has found
to possess tremendous explosive possibilities
—wheat-starch, treated with nitric and sul-
phuric acids, and subjected to a further pro-
cess which for the present I wouldn’t tell
you for twice the money you’ll pay me for
this paragraph.
“The Pariah” : The passing of the Pacific
Mail Co.’s Hag from the Pacific at the end
of the year will mark the close of a strenu-
ous effort by. Uncle Dollars to get a whack
of the increasing trade of that ocean, and
build up his mercantile marine. The line
has never paid well, but J. B. Harrington
kept it going out of the immense profits of
his railroad. He was the pioneer of the big
ship in the Pacific, the Minnesota and
Dakota each being something over 20,000
tons. They were a dead loss from the jump,
and the co. must have been relieved when
the Dakota piled up in broad daylight out-
side Yokohama. These boats were the best-
appointed on the run ; but the Jap came up
smiling with two 18,000-tonners which beat
them for speed. Harrington got some con-
solation from the fact that a British-built
ship, the old Empress of India, showed the
faster of the two Japs her heels. The vessels
met in mid-ocean out of Tokio, and the
Canadian challenged Nippon to a race to
Hongkong. Both arrived and left Yokohama
together, and the Empress was first to
Shanghai. But when leaving there she ran
on a sandbank, and roosted there while the
Jap went cock-a-doodling southward. Some
time later the handsome Clvde-built boat got
clear and was driven furiously with a special
supply of-Caledonian oaths until she passed
her big opponent and won to berth with
20 minutes to spare. It was a great day
for McAndrew.
“W.A.8..”: Any Government that is
anxious to help the wheat-grower should
investigate the jute-broking business. I
know a few brokers in that trade who
started not long ago with no capital except
a glib tongue, and to-day are worry-
ing themselves how to dodge the in-
come tax. Every turnover in jute means a
ha’penny a dozen, or Is. Id. on a bale, of
cornsacks and 2s. 2d. on “brans,” all of
which comes out of the farmer’s pocket and
goes to the broker. Thousands of bales of
jute do. somersaults daily on paper without
a farthing changing hands —except for
brokerage. Is anyone going to put a foot on
this business? Or do these Governments
which profess great concern for the farmer
think that threepence a bushel is a fair
thing for farmers to pay for the mere
wrapper that goes round their wheat?
* * * *
A beak over at Nelson (M.L.) was so
moved by the beauty of the law’s ears the
other day, when the animal stuck its head
in the court window, that he immediately
called it brother. A baker was charged with
selling light-weight bread. It was shown
that before purchasing a light loaf the pro-
secuting official had weighed the bread in
the presence of another person. On hearing
this the vigilant beak decided that if the
individual knew he was buying insufficient
weight, there could be no misrepresentation
on the part of the vendor. Case dismissed,
and all the local bffkers impressed by the
majesty of British Justice.
♦ * * *
“0.K.”: In the name of the Prophet, no
figs! None, that is, that are enemy pro-
ducts, as most of them fire. I thoughtlessly
bought some the other day without noticing
the word “Smyrna” on the box.' But the
rest of the inscription was consoling, for the
figs were entitled “Monarch Brand,” and a
portrait c f King George was burned into the
I’d. Evidently their German exploiters have
been teaching the, Turks how to cater for
the export trade.
#• * * ¥r
The hasty legislation passed in the reign
of Charles If:; was ihvoked.again a few days
ago at Dal.vston (Vic.), where.a local farmer
■was charged with “following his occupation
on the Lord’s Day.” He was fined a crown
—the same as the man who sanctioned the
law.
THE LAND OF PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
According to the Washington correspondent of
The Times, President Wilson is seeking a conference
with the six leading South American States, with
the object of endeavoring to discover a policy of
pacification in regard to Mexico. For the U.S. alone
Mexico expresses contempt.
General Carranza, one of the revolutionary leaders,
is losing no opportunity of snubbing the States,
while newspapers report a statement by General
Villa telling the U.S. A. Government to “go to
Hell.”
Can Uncle Samuel take offence,
And storm with shot and- shell
The place of Villa’s residence?
No ! He can go to !
The Kaiser scorns his friend likewise,
Or so the cables tell;
The meaning of his slow replies
To Notes is: “Go to 1”
Poor Uncle Sam! To men of blud
Three other letters spell
Thy name to-day. ’Tis Uncle Mud,
Whom they consign to .
But, whilst the fighting nations take
The deadly goods you sell,
Enough of dollars you will make
To pave the streets of .
Rejoice to think, whilst scorning vice
And doing very well,
That men ,of peace-at-any-price
Can always go to .
VICTORIA.
O. K.


BE
CRITICAL
as critical as you
like oyer the services
you require from
Calvert’s Carbolic
Tooth Powder.
For the efficient cleansing
and antiseptic properties this
dentifrice possesses, make it
easy to maintain that standard
of cleanliness, which satisfies
people who want their teeth
to last well and to look well.
I
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,March ester, Eng.
7///
.imw^
gg*®T«c
Drink
Horliek’s Malted 1
Milk and you know
that you are buying purity
plus strength. Recommended
bv Doctors.
HORLICK3
MALTED MILK ,
Sample will be sent on receipt of
2d. in stamps to Hutchinson
Co.. 26, Jamieson St.,
Sydney, N.S.W
For PATRIOTIC DISPLAYS
HIRE YOUR COSTUME FROM
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY
COSTUME CO.
whose characters are handsomely and completely
finished in everv detail, whether dressed for FANCY-
DRESS BALLS, OPERAS, PLAYS, AMATEUR
THEATRICALS, CARNIVALS, or CHILDREN’S
FAIRY PLAYS.
Ladies’ Hairdressing and all kinds of hair work,
wigs, beards, moustaches, grease-paint, and make-up
material at
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO. ?
1.0.0. F. Temple, Elizabeth Street
(opposite Mark Foy’s), SYDNEY.
Food enjoyed is
Food ',nore nourishing.
THRIFTY HOUSEWIVES
can make every scrap
a dainty morsel with
Bisto. Bis to makes
the best of gravy and
stews—wholesome
and delicious.
gISTO
makes
the simplest fare
most appetising
All Grocers. In Tins. Mode by CEREROS,- L.TD.
Ray’s Hair Dye
mmm
1\
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
k with
RAY’S
DYE,
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
f 4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
‘ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
f -om “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
m
MAKES ONE PINT FINEST,
COUGH AND COLD REMEDY
TRADE MARINI
m
m
Mr. SYDNEY JAMES
the World-famous Ventriloquist,
and Leader of the Royal Strollers
at the Palace Theatre, now provid-
ing one of the most delightful
entertainments ever presented in
Sydney, writes:- —
“Recently, during my act with
‘Billy,’ my automaton, at the
Palace Theatre, I was seized with
hoarseness of the throat. Your
Essence was recommended to me,
and after taking a few doses it
gave me immediate relief; in fact
‘Billy’ says he can talk much better
since I have been using your
Essence. However, joking apart,
I have no hesitation in recommend-
ing your Essence for any throat
trouble, and I shall always he sure
to have a bottle in' my dressing-
room.
2/-
The Great Money-Savin
Remedy for
m
Mr. Sydney James and “Billy.”
Coughs, Colds S Throat Troubles
Costs 2/-
Makes One Pint Finest Mixture,
Equal to 12/- Worth of Ordinary Remedies.
All Leading Chemists and Stores stock it, or it will toe sent by post on
receipt of 2/- by G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; or HEAN’S PHARMACY, Wanganui, New Zealand.
d
W* There*
Are Three
Standard Sizes
of .22 calibre cartridges—the short, long and
long rifle. '
The Remington UMC .22’s are just as carefully
made as the larger calibres, and all three sizes may
be used in the Remington .22 Repeater without
mechanical adjustment.
Your dealer has them
We shall he pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interest-
ing information for shooters. Wh( n writing, send us the
name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Wooiworth Building, New York City
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative,
P.O. Box 686, Melbourne.
m
m
m
Contractors to the British and Colonial Governments.
i
jmx i
SUPREMACY
The “Plum’’ Razor lias won its way to a posi-
tion of absolute, supremacy, and sheer merit
has placed it there. There’s no other razor
with a keener-cutting edge than
The “PLUM,”
and all the science in the world can’t it
keener. Stropped in a minute.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE;
We keep this razor in perfect order for two
years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, dvory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present..
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
BIG PILLS OUT OF DATE
The big, nauseous pill, so long in use for
regulating the bowels is out of date.' It has
been largely superseded by Pinkettes, the
dainty new laxative, which does all that a
good laxative ought to do without causing
sickness and unpleasantness. They neither
upset the stomach nor irritate the bowels,
yet they act thoroughly and efficiently.
Pinkettes will be found valuable by suffer-
ers from constipation. Taken according to
directions they help to correct the irregular-
ity, so that the use of an opening medicine
is not a constant necessity. They are just
the thing that ought to lie kept handy in
every home, and mothers will -find that cliil-,
dren will take them without trouble. Men-
tion The Bulletin, and write for a free
trial sample to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co. of Australasia, Ltd.. Sydney. Sold by
all medicine dealers at Is. per bottle.
Have You Had Influenza?
There arc certain disorders such as influ-
enza that especially debilitate and make the
body an easy prey for more dangerous dis-
eases. Ask those who have had the influ-.
enza regarding the present condition of their
health and most of them will answer : “Since
I had influenza I have never been well.”
They still have profuse perspiration, the per-
sistent weakness of the limbs, the disorgan-
ised digestion, shortness of breath and palpi-
tation of the heart caused by the thin-
blooded condition in which influenza .almost
always leaves its victim after the fever and
influenza have subsided. They are further-
more at the mercy of relapses and compli-
cations, often very serious. In an attack
of influenza there is a rapid thinning of the
blood, and not until the blood is built up
again is complete health restored.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills quickly make
the blood rich and red, drive out the linger-
ing germs from the system, and transform
despondent influenza victims into cheerful,
healthy men and women.
Try the pills for any form of debility
cause by thin blood.
All chemists sell Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Get a box to-day and begin at once to regain
your health.
Write to-day to the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Sydney, for the free book, “Build-
ing Up the Blood.” If you have stomach
trouble ask for a diet book also.*
NYAL’S FACE CREAM
(with
Peroxide)
This daintilv perfumed, vanishing, peroxide
cream does NOT promote the growth of hair.
Non-greasy, nourishing and easily absorbed
leaves no shine. Ideal for sunburn, and acts
as a mild skin bleach. Applied freely it will
keep the skin soft and elastic.
Price 1/6 & 2/6 per Jar, from Retail Chemists only.
FREDERICK STEARNS & COMPANY,
358 Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney.
dend 2d. Stamp, for. Sample Jar and Name of
Apcnt. n
Made in
Australia.
POWER, STRENGTH
AND DURABILITY
in every part of a Kermath Engine.
KERMATH
Marine Engines
built in 4 cycle, 4 cylinder types only.
12 to 20 h.p.
Medium Duty; Medium Speed for
boats 20 to 35 feet.
No better Motor made at any price.
Write for full
Particulars and
Catalogue to
The Invincible Motor
Construction Co.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
KERMATH
MFG. CO.
<Dept. 41),
Detroit, Michigan,
U.S.A.
m
THE CONJURER’S CASKET
Only 2/6
Posit
Apparatus and Directions lor about a Dozen
Tricks. Enough for an Entire Even- i
* ing’s Entertaiument, including Mahomet’s
Sphere, the Pillars of Solomon, the
Mystic Beads, the Magic Pillar, &c.
Anyone can do the feats by fpllowitig
the..directions in...the Book of 32
Effective Illusions illustrated and
explained, that is sent with Casket,
_. n giving also the “patter talk."
Delivered ior 53/0. The flni-jn Co.. 299 Elizabeth St.. Mcib.


Amusements.
“How truly wonderful is life! It is monotonous
only to the monotonous.” — Disraeli.
IVI OT One Monotonous Moment will be
1 ’ possible to the Most. Monotonous at the
ALL NATIONS CARNIVAL!
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
SEPTEMBER 11 TO SEPTEMBER 21, 1915.
Afternoon and Evening.
Under the auspices of the Carlton Hebrew Congre-
gation, in aid of their Building Fund and Public
Charities.
ALL NATIONS’ CARNIVAL,
ORIENTAL BAZAAR and GRAND ART UNION.
SOME OF THE ITEMS ON THE PROGRAMME:—
Amusements Section —NOAH’S ARK ! NOAH’S ARK ! !
NOAH’S ARK ! NOAH’S ARK ! !
NOAH’S ARK ! NOAH’S ARK ! !
Measuring COft. by 40ft. under the Dome.
The delight of Children ! The wonder and amaze-
ment of Men! Specially prepared by Mr. Harry
Grist from plans and designs drawn by the late Iloii.
Benjamin Schlimm-Mazel, author of “Mordecai Mac-
Cobber,” etc.
CONTINUOUS VAUDEVILLE CONCERTS.
By the most popular Vaudeville Artists extant,
including:—
Vernon & Mars.
Mark Phillips.
The Phihncrs.
Sylvia Jones.
Little Marjorie,
liaby Ucris Wright,
Ptbel Williams.
Bel i quo, the Youngest
J. H. Booth, “The Veteran.”
Pagden & Stanley. .
Mario, the Clown Conjurer.
The Three Allies.
St. Louis Brothers.
Hazel Moore.
Merle Stuart, Pianiste.
Conjurer on the Face of the
Earth !
fancy and international dances,
l>y Pupils of the leading Dancing Academies in
Melbourne, including :* r -'
The Misses Hyams, Miss Reata Neagle.
Miss Porothy Gladstone and Mrs. and Miss Green.
THE PALACE OF WONDERS.
The most amusing, mystifying and wonderful Palace -
of Wonders !
PHYSICAL CULTURE DISPLAYS.
By Pupils of Mr. Geo. J. Lj’nch, Kensington; and
J. L. Bailey, Fitzroy.
PALATS DE DANSE.
Punch and Judy of 14 Performers.
MADAME NELROS, Magic Cup Reader.
ORIENTAL BAZAAR STALLS.
1. The Hebraic.
2. The English.
3. The Australian.
4. The French.
5. The Russian.
6. The Belgian.
7. The Italian.
8. The Japanese.
9. The Indian.
10. The Chinese.
In charge of Jewish matrons accustomed to manage
such affairs.
MANAGERIAL NOTE, —The Committee and Ladv
stall-holders have fortunately secured the active co-
operation of 200 young ladies, representative of the
beauty, the talent, the virtue and the enterprise of
the gifted daughters of Israel, assisted by 300 sym-
pathetK; non-Jewish young ladies who have helped at
all the charitable apoeals during recent years, and J
who between them have been a potent factor in
obtaining- for Melbourne the enviable reputation of
being the most charitable and progressive city in
the Commonwealth.
SPORTING.
Under the Patronage of the Victorian Amateur
Athletic Association.
ALLIED AND INTERNATIONAL TUGS OF WAR.
hirst Prize, .£5O; Second Prize, £25;
Third Prize, Silver Medals.
I Referee: Mr. Alf. Venness.
Amateur Boxing, Wrestling, Jiu-jitsu, Weight Lifting,
Posing, Guessing Competitions, Hoop Las,
Dart Games.
THE art union.
100 PRIZES.' VALUE £750.
TICKETS 1/- (including admission to Exhibition.),
lo be [publicly drawn at the close of the Carnival.
PRTZfcS ON VIEW AND TICKETS ON SALE AT
Messrs. Duckling & Son, Collins and Bourke Streets.
Messrs. Ackmans Pty. Ltd.. Smith Street, Fitzrov.
Messrs. Singers’. The Block, Collins Street.
And Messrs. Wertheims' Australian Piano Show
Rooms,.'Bourke Street,, where the Fifth Prize, by
Messrs. S. Brush & Co.—Artistic Combination
Secretaire Chess and Parlor Games, value £3l
Ids. is kindly exhibited bv special permission.
Noak’s Ark & other Scenic Effects;
„. x . Mr. HARRY GRIST.
Stage & Entertainments Director: Mr. J. H. BOOTH
Fancy Costumes; Miss E. NOONAN, St. Kilda
Supervisor of Stalls: Mr. J. II McBEAN
,( President of last Druids’ Cal i), assisted by a host
of U.A.O.D. enthusiasts.
President Ladies’ Committee':
~ „ _ . Mrs, A. T. CHODOWSKI.
I .on. See. Ladies Committee: Miss LEILA GORDON
Full information on application to the umiu-sio-reiL
S. BARNETT, Asst. lion. Socyetarv
Offices: The Olderfleet, 475 .Collins-' St., Melbourne.
PRACTICAL
Mesmeric Theories and Biological Practiced by 1
de Saint Germain,.with 30 Illustrations. By mw
of this remarkable Book anyone may become a
skilled hypnotist and exercise this strange in-
fluence over others. The 6rst chapter explains
how everybody may hypnotise, the second
describes the method of hypnotism, and so on
through 264 pages, concluding with an expo-
sition of curing diseases by hypnotic influence.
ism
Mailed anywhere for 2/3, or with Hypnotic Disc, 2/8.
Thfe Union Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
m
Amusements.
*T* 1 V O L I T II E A T It E. SYDNEY.
■ ITarry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Coyer nins Director HUGH D. MCINTOSH.
TWICE DAILY.
CYRIL MACIvAY & CO.
TERRY & LAMBERT, CLEMONS & DEAN, ROCHEZ’
MONKEYS, PAUL STEPHENS, LOUIS STONE,
WALLACE GALVIN, AL RIPON, MARIE TERRY,
HERBERT WINTER.
“piVOLI THEATRE, .MELBOURNE
STAFFORD & CO.
JARVIS & DARE, MARY ELIZABETH, ELLA
CASPERS, LEE TIY WARS, HECTOR GOLDSPINK,
ED. MARSHALL, ANNIE KENT, FARRELL &
VERROLL, LEE & LIONEL.
TIVOLI T HEAT RE, It It ISItA N E.
DUNCAN & GODFREY.
WARWICK'S BURLESQUERS, CROUCH & WELCH,
WALTER WEEMS, MARVELLE’S COCKATOOS,
ABDY’S DOGS, SILVINIS, LE ROY SISTERS,
SYLVESTOR.
I’IVOLI THEA T R E, ADELAIDE
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
ESTELLE ROSE, MURFAYNE, KLIMO & CLIFTON,
etc.
H E R iM A .1 E S T Y r ’ S. S Y D N E Y.
* 1 Direction ,T. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
THE NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
THE CTRL IN THE TAXI.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 4.
II 1(1 H JINKS.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
QUITERION TIIEAT It E, SYDNEY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
POTASH and PERLMUTTER
SOMETHING ENTIRELY NEW IN COMEDY.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
THEA T R E It OYA L, SYDNEY.
■ Direction Beaumont Smith and Leslie Hoskins.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF STOP YOUR NONSENSE.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 4.
MUM’S THE WORD.
A Musical Version of The Chaperon.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Reserved, 4/-.
Plan at Paling’s.
P ALAC E T lIEAT RIS, SYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Matinees WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30.
J. k N. TAIT present
THE ROYAL STROLLERS.
(By arrangement with Austral Gardens—Mr.
J. Waller.)
THE BRIGHTEST SHOW IN SYDNEY.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Reserved 4/-.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven't seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES.
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
IV. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
TII E A T RE It O Y A L, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present MURIEL STARR
and a Brilliant Company in
UNDER COYER,.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
Hit MAJKSTV’S THEATRE.. MKUtOIItNK.
Direction J. C. WILLTAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 4..
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the ROYAL COMIC
OPERA CO. in
OUR MISS GIBBS.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MEEISOCKNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45. -
GEORGE MARLOW LTD. present the Up-to-date
Panto Extravaganza,
THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Pianola.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 4.
Reappearance of the Ever Popular BERT BAILEY
CO. in
NOT UNDERSTOOD.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
DUO U T H E A T R E. SI E I, B O U It N E
° FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.-
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
MADAM MARION, PRINCESS INDITA, HAMIL-
TON & BARNES, RAFFLING BAKER & CO., MUSI-
CAL SUNDOWNER & VICTOR PRINCE’S REVUSI-
CAL CO. in “THE MIDNIGHT CLUB.’’
Prices: 2/6, 2/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
|y| ELBOIIRNE GLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING
AFTERNOONS, 3 to 5.
EVENINGS, 7.45 to 10.
RICCO’S ORCHESTRA.
PICTURES. MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OAVN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
BI It C II & C A R R O L L
(Queenslii ml).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTIIWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
THE BOY AVIATORS!
m
Splendid Books of Adventure, in Air
Ships, Motor Cars, Motor Boats, with
Wireless Telegraph, &c., by Captain
Wilbur Lawton. Good, wholesome, profit-
able reading. The wonders of modern
science woven into thrilling stories.
Intensely ifateresting to wide-awake boys.
Handsomely bound in decorated cloth,
300 pages, well printed, finely illustrated.
Price 2/9. we pay postage anywhere
ITlie Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St.', Melbourne;!
Jokes, Tricks, Puzzles, Novelties
r THE PERPLEXING PUZZLE
SPILLS
p E R PI IL E X I T V
caj [
PATEKTfO
Write for our
New
a N ove Ity in
itself.
Sent FREE.
m
THE PERPLEXITY PUZZLE.
The Puzzle is to arrange the letters to spell
PERPLEXITY, reading from left to right. ' It looks
easy, but it is full of Mystery. Post Free, with
THE TANGO PUZZLE.
Solid iron puzzle, nickel-plated. The puzzle
Tango the Nigger off. A real Teaser.
Free 9(1.
is to
Post
full instructions, 1/- The Two Puzzles Together Post Free for 1/6.
Also, a Box of Seven Assorted Iron Puzzles, Post Free, 2/-
H. L. Hutchinson Ltd.
New York Novelty Co.
708-710 George St., Haymarket, Sydney
Ah! The
Pleasure and
Convenience
of Motor-
Boating!
Don’t envy the
possessor of a
costly motor-boat.
Enjoy your outings
m
afloat —dispense with the drudgery of rowing; be comfortable, be speedy
by installing the simple, small, yet strong
D
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor is compact
and easily transported. It will drive
any rowboat 8 miles an hour. 25,000
Evinrude Motors are in use in salt
and fresh water. 9 Governments have
adopted it for economy and service.
Steered by the propeller—-no rudder re-
quired, but supplied if desired. Reversible;
battery ignition or MAGNETO, and auto-
matic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
Descriptive Booklet Post Trtrc.
Sizes,
VA, 2,
g3J4hp.
H. A. GODDARD, 404 Queen Street, Brisbane
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
376 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Cliffe Street, Fremantle.
Remington Chambers, Opp. G.P.0., Auckland.
ƑG
Australian Childhood
7/6
FOR EVERY
PHOTO USED.
Portraits
Fifth Series.
THE United Commercial Travellers’ Association of
1 Australasia, Proprietors of the National Annual, Aus-
tralia To-day, encouraged by the success of their
four last yearly competitions, when many hundreds
of photos, were entered from every State in the
Commonwealth, wish to include in their coming -
Christmas issue at least 50 of the most attractive
portraits of Australian children (boys and girls). They
want them from every State in the Commonwealth,
and will pay 7/6 for every photo, used, while all
the others will be promptly returned after judging,
post paid. Ages of children to be from .youngest
babyhood up to 15 years, and photos, must have been
taken during the last 12 months. Previous entrants
may compete, but the photo, must have been taken
during the last 12 months. The help of all Aus-
tralians is cordially solicited in making these pages
of Australian child life worthy of Australia. They
will be circulated all over the world, and among our
soldiers at Gallipoli. No objection to receiving more
than one photo, from same family. Photos, must
be accompanied by name and address
and must reach the Editor of “Australia
To-day,” Box 496, G.P.0., Melbourne, by
September 27, 1915.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy.
Melbourne. 20/8/T5.
Vacancy for Shipping Clerk.
I EXPERIENCED SHIPPING CLERK
li required for a TEMPORARY POSI-
TION in the TRANSPORT BRANCH.
Minimum Salai'y at the rate of £3OO per
annum. KNOWLEDGE of OVERSEA
SHIPPING BUSINESS INDISPENS-
ABLE, and preference will be given to appli-
cants possessing knowledge of SHORT-
HAND and "SHIPPING ACCOUNTS.
APPLICATIONS in own handwriting,
accompanied by copies of testimonials,
addressed to the Naval Secretary, Navy De-
partment, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, will
be received up to 5 p.m. on oth September,
1015.
Applicants must state age and previous
experience.
GEO. L. MACANDIE,
Naval Secretary.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 28th August, 1915.
Tenders for the Supply of Hard Soap—
-1915-16.
TENDERS are invited, subject to the Con-
ditions of Tendering, until 12 noon on
Monday, 20th September, 1915, for the sup-
ply of Hard Soap to the Royal Australian
Navy until 30th June, 1916.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commomvealth of Australia Gazette,
obtainable at any Post Office, or from the
Director of Navy Contracts, Department of
the Navy, Melbourne.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy?.
Missing: Friends.
ALVINA WALKER, daughter late
George Roscholler and beneficiary
under his Will, apply HERRING, Solicitor,.
Maryborough, Victoria.
JOSEPH JAMES LEWIS, left Plum-
stead, Kent, England, about seven
years ago for Sydney; last heard of in Mel-
bourne. Please communicate with airs. E.
Lewis, 3 Riverdale Road, Plumstead, Kent,..
England.
WO WILLIAM LYNCH (son of DANIEL and MARY
1 LYNCH), who was born in NEW ZEALAND,
educated in New South Wales, subsequently went to.s
London and Ireland, and thereafter to America, and
was last heard of at San Francisco about 10 years
ago, and to all persons claiming b>y, through Or
under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of the Honorable •
Frederick R. Chapman, a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, under Section 25 of The
Public Trust Office Amendment Act 1913, you are
hereby .called upon to send in to the undersigned on
or before the Ist February, 1916, your claim to part
of the estate of MARY ANN LYNCH, late of Auck-
land, New Zealand, Spinster, deceased, who died on.
the 18th May, 1911, intestate, failing which such
estate will be distributed among the persons entitled
thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 24th day of July, 1915.
J. W. MACDONALD, '
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Mrs. e. m. mallocii, mrs.
THOMAS, and MRS. GEORGE
MALLOCII, and MRS. SUTCLIFFE, in-
quired for by MR. W. J. MALLOCII, Toke-
land, Washington, U. S. America.
r<?
BEFORE
FOR
QUICK RESULTS
USE
>
AFTER
(fIPILLfIRINE
Why interfere with Nature’s
adornment? Why shave the
moustache ? Why not encourage
its growth by rubbing CAPIL-
LARINE well into the bair-roots?
CAPILLARINE is a genuine mous-
tache-grower. 10/6 Jar —Post Free.
CRAIG g AITKEN, 68 t£23F st -
Established Over,SO Years.
‘ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney,
Walter Beaver, the late rector of Mans-
field (Vic.), who enlisted in July, despite the
general warning of his Archbishop, is one of
the military-camp victims of meningitis.
Beaver was a third-generation Australian,
unmarried, and 39. He had been at Mans-
field five years, succeeding parson Ernest
Mallett, an English friend of the Archbishop,
who was translated to the snug suburban
vicarage at Glen Iris.
The British Imperial Oil Co. (which is
understood to grow more British and less
alien as time goes on) will soon be starting
a new industry in Sydney. The co. is spend-
ing £65,000 on buildings and plant for the
making of tins and cases wherein to sell the
petrol imported in bulk. The 8.1. already
has factories in Melbourne and Adelaide for
tinning and packing kerosene, but the Syd-
ney house will be its first to deal with petrol.
The employees of the co. in Australia are
Australian, and out of 100 of them who
volunteered for the Front more than 70 have
been accepted.
Maoriland is agitated about the case
of Alice Parkinson. She was a domestic
servant at Napier when she “got into
trouble’’ and gave birth to a child. It died,
and her lover did not honor his promise of
marriage. She upbraided him bitterly, and
at a final interview —to which he brought a
mate, who took a hand by knocking the em-
bittered woman down—she shot him dead.
The jury found her guilty of manslaughter
and added a strong recommendation to
mercy. The reply of Chief Justice Stout
was to sentence the prisoner “for the term
of her natural life!” Since then Maoriland
spends much of its spare time arguing furi-
ously which, if either, is the dangerous
savage—Mary Parkinson or Robert Stout.


Very Sore. Suffered Three Weeks.
Used Cuticura Ointment. Hands
Healed. Not Troubled Since.
Montague Rd., S. Brisbane, Queensland.
—“When working in my garden my hands
\
became blistered and. then
were poisoned by some nox-
ious weeds. They became
very sore and boils formed
and then burst and they just
looked like a child’s head does
covered with chickenpox. I
suffered for about three
weeks during which I could
only write with great difd-
culty and pain. I was recommended to try
Cuticura Ointment which I did. My hands
healed up and got quite well and have not
troubled me since.” (Signed) George Wil-
liam Bunce, Feb. 20, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
If our teeth could talk —they
would say something like this:
“Yes, we are thankful for our
friends—the millions of Tooth
Brushes. They do a splendid
work—so far as they go. We
are grateful for the hundreds of
dentifrices. They in turn do a
splendid work—so far as they go.
But both together fall far short of
protecting our enamel —our only
weapon of tooth protection. Is
there no escape from these
‘MOUTH AClDS’—these ever-
present mouth fluids which, un-
seen, unbidden, are working day
and night to break down our
armor plate—and then make the
soft inside tooth structure easy
prey to decay-germs?”
We answer:
“There IS escape from ‘Acid
Mouth.’ Pebeco Tooth Paste is
the one dentifrice to-day which
prevents ‘Acid Mouth’ —the direct
cause of 95 c / c of all tooth-decay.”
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
Made in Australia by
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALB ONLY.) [4
if.
aft«g
The hunters
triple Alliance
—The hunter’s skill —plus a
Ross .280 Rifle and Ross .280
• 280 Calibre
High Velocity ••
Sporting ammunition
with copper tube
expanding bullet —are
sure winners. The Ross
.280 Rifle delivers your
message straight and
strong and the Rocs
copper tube expand-
ing bullet fells the
largest game with its
smashing blow, which
equals at 500 yards,
1500 foot pounds.
Ross Rifles
are sold by best dealers
everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue free on request. 215
Ross Rifle Co.,Quebec,Canada.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng,
lnsist on " Singleton s* —refuse all substitutes,
TO “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
Tiie Motor in Australia, 10 Pitt Street, Sydney,
pays standard price for motor, motor-bike, aero-
plane or motor-boat jokes for illustration.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1549.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral »nd Agricultural Lands, or Security
KATES OF INTEREST.
Zea b land UreS ’ InSCribed * tOCk ° P LOWEST CURRENT
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
• • ' ’ without notice or payment of any fine.
Dim
I
Knox,
F.F.A., .F.S.S.
YV/HAT kind of paint or varnish
* * is best for your particular job
is a question in deciding which the
Berger Agent can be of great help
to you. Tell him your needs, and
he will suggest the Berger Speciality
that will give utmost protection and
best appearance at least cost. Ask
your painter to use Berger s Paints
and Varnishes.
M
“B-P” Berger’s Paint (pre-
pared) for painting buildings inside
and outside is guaranteed to work
easier, cover more surface, look
better and wear longer than any
other paint made. Colour folder of
52 standard shades free on request.
Paints
& Varnishes
Get Colour Folders and Particulars,
together with name of local
Agent, from Head Office:
16 & 18 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Ask to = rlay
for your
colour folder.
rsi
T : ' Vx -
WEAR WELL EVERYWHERE ||
UNDER THE SUN. 1
Lewis Berger & Sons *
(Australia). Ltd..
16 & 18 Young Street, SYDNEY.
IVlakcrs of Paints, Colours and
Varnishes at
HOMERTON. LONDON.ENG.
Since 1760.
(In
} k
/C.
■' 1 M
The Pfotsvne of Szyincf I MADE THAT
Mechanic
YOU can have the pleasure of saying “ I MADE
THAT” of practically anything makeable - from an
X Ray apparatus to a pair of Hand-Sewn Boots,
from a Piece of Furniture to a Picture Frame-if you
possess the “Amateur Mechanic.” And this practical com-
pact 4-vol. guide, with its 6000 helpful “tell-you-how-to-do-it illus-
trations, and simple, easily understood instructions, teac es you
much else —how to Light your Home with Air-Gas, Repair a
Motor Car, Re-Upholster a Couch, Cure a Smoky Chimney
everything in the realm of domestic jobbing. If you use or
would use Tools, you need the “Amateur Mechanic.”
Its price is popular. Send the Coupon there is no obligation
to buy —and get full particulars of our offer to deliver the
Complete Work for a First Payment of Half-a-Crown.
Publishing $ & v
10V FLIN&ERS y MtLBOVRNE
19 HUNTER ST SY&NEy £>-.
AT ADELAIDE ANh LONDO/N • • ,
/X
-•O
,*P
*
\
yf
#
A
.0
The
Standard
Publishing
Co., Pty. Ltd.
100 Flinders Street,
Melbourne;
19 Hunter Street. Sydney
Please send me, without any
obligation to buy. your Free
Prospectus of “The Amateur
Mechanic *'
Name ——
Mention The Bulletin, 915.
Address
The Inky Way.
Recall “Nil’s” singing verses, “The Lach-
lan,” printed in the Christmas Bulletin ot
1904: —•
Bessy Brown! Bessy Brown!
Have vou quite forgot the Lachlan,
In the' time before the banks burst and the squatters
came to grief?
Aii! —green the days and gold the nights we spent
at Bell’s Willandra,
When the billabongs were flowing,
And the clover-burr a-blowing,
And we all were lords and ladies.
(And who but you the chief?)
Bessy Brown 1
“Bessy Brown” was, of course, Sylvester
(“Vessy”) Browne, Rolf Boldrewood’s
bigger brother, who died in Queensland the
other day and left a million friends- behind
him.
* * * *
Mrs. Katherine Andrews, wife of the secre-
tary of the Melbourne Hospital, who lately
died at Caulfield (Y'ic.), once spoke and
wrote a good deal on political and literary
subjects. Iler ambitions soared highest in
the novel, "Stephen Kyrle.” published by
tjoo. Robertson. The book is based upon the
more-or-less real life of a prisoner at Rent-
ridge who had a wonderful gift for model-
ling. A specimen of the man’s work can be
seen in the fountain at the rear of the Cor-
don statue, opposite the Melbourne Treasury
Buildings.
* * * *
The Turk is beginning to sub-edit the
Alters staff. Two of its former member;.
Sergeant A. N. Usslier and Private .T. Gurry
(“Stoiu- Riuldell” of many Bulletin pars),
have been blue-pencilled in Gallipoli. Usslier,
a most likeable chap of 2.“. who bad dist'n-
guished himself scholastically and in athletics
before lie joined the Auers, was sent back
from the trenches wounded. Recovering, he
dared the groat death anew —and lost ilr
game, lie was a g r od rifle-shot, and of the
physique which has so impressed Aslmiead
Bartlett. Curry was a South Australian lad
who. picked up out of an auctioneer's office,
served his apprenticeship to the Tnky Way on
the Barrier Miner at Broken Hill. A bril-
liant youngster, he was capable of great
work; but be was a rover, too, and the best
things be ever did for The Bulletin were
written while he was on the wallaby with
no other cares in the world but to fill liis
tucker bag and keep bis nap dry.
* * * *
Adelaide Register lias a humorous kink
which S. Australia is used to and only smiles
at. In the days when the paper was sorcech-
ingly eager to make itself solid with the Fat-
men of the State, who would give their advts.
to Bonython’s Advertiser, it left off calling
the Labor party by that name and vowed
that henceforth every Laboritc should be
known as a Socialist. In S. Aus. nobody
minds; but it is a mystery why the S. hi.
Herald and papers in other States which get
their S. Aus. misinformation from the
Register should allow themselves to be
inoculated with the Register’s hydrophobia.
The other day, for instance, the S. M.
Herald announced that “a socialist lias
been returned unopposed for the Adelaide
No. 2 district of the Leg. Council.” Some
morning an angry Labor politician from S.
Aus. will surprise “Mr. James” horribly by
firing in a writ claiming damages for misde-
scription, whereupon “Mr. James” will wire
in haste to the Register to leave off making
an ass of itself.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Let us rejoice to know that press-
men are now forbidden the run of the
gardens at Federal Parliament House. Their
keen sense of propriety will thus be safe-
guarded. Wandering around the lawns under
the impression that everything in the garden
was lovely, they might be shocked to dis-
cover an ardent politician engaged in close
canoodle with a lady friend, as happened
one sunny day recently. The newspaper re-
porters were spared the sight, but it was a
demoralising experience for the members of
the Parliamentary staff. An al fresco can-
oodle in the morning may be defined as a
broad-daylight suggestion of what happens
after dark. #
Even Aslmiead Bartlett apparently didn’t
know until recently that there is a wide sea
between Australia and Maoriland. In his
big story of the storming of the cliffs of
Gallipoli the Maorilanders were not men-
tioned once from start to finish. They were
glorified as Australians until the “copy”
reached headquarters, when the necessary
sorting out was done. General Godley, who
is authority for this, states that Australia s
correspondent Bean has much pleased him
bv the way he has endeavored to give the
M.L. men (whom Godley is leading) a fair
show.
JUST LIKE HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I got a letter the other day from a scribbling,
sketching pal of mine,
In a foreign country, far away —somewhere out m
the firing’ line.
II < 0 emx the censor won’t let them say where they
are bearing the battle’s brunt,
So he dates, in the good Australian way, from “Some
Old Place at the Blanky Front.”
He says it stinks, and he says it's Ilell, and there
seems no hope of earthly release;
But somehow the scream of ~a passing shell carries
him back to the Days of Peace.
Where the soldiers howl in the camp at night, and
the groaning and cursing wounded come,
lie says “it’s no use trying to write — it’s just like
truing to work at home!”
I wanted to go to the Front myself to write a book
on the war of wars,
To stand on many a learned shelf, and be translated
in Helsingfors;
But I’ve funked it now, though you need not tell (you
never know how the news might roam),
For I’m perfectly sure that it must be llell if “its
just like trying to work at home.”
God help the woman 1 She docs not know the glori-
ous heights that our minds can scale —
The Inspirations that come and go while her life is
dead and her home is gaol.
The Poet and Artist booze and swear, and wander at
will ’neath the sunlit dome;
She must struggle and pinch and be worried there
—and no man ever should “work at home.”
N.S.NV.
HENRY LAWSON.


ly RELIABLE SPORTING GOODS.
Our Mottos “Goods Right—Prices Right.”
A SATISFIED CUSTOMER is our best advertisement, THAT'S WHY we endeavor to always satisfy.
TENNIS REQUISITES. || GOLF MATERIAL.
a
3
M*
W‘
For full particulars of Tennis,
Golf and all Sporting Materials,
see our illustrated Sports Inst.
Post free to any address.
We specially recommend our M.S.
Haymarket Rackets and Balls as
being absolutely the best value
procurable.
RACKETS.
(Postage on one racket: N.S.W., 9d.
other States, 1/2.)
M.S. Handicap, full size 6/-
C. 8.8. Special 9/6
M.S. Champion 11 /Q
C. 8.8., cork handle .. 13/0
C. 8.8., Quadruple .... 10/6
M.S. Havmarket /(j
Haymarket, Special .... 27/6
llaymarket, Selected.. 35/-
Havmarket, Ex. Special 37/6
Ayre’s Handicap 14/6
GGGGGG
BALLS.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation. . -/G 5/0
Grey Regulation,
superior .. . . -/10 9/-
Ohallenge, covered j/. 11/-
Ay re’s Court, cov’d 1/ . 11/6
Kach. Doz.
Dunlop Champion 1/6 16/6
Hay market Special 1/8 18/6
Avre’s Champion 1/8 18/6
Slazenger’s Cham-
pion 1/8 18/6
NETS.
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, full size, 5/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, wire head line —
13/6, 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/-
Our stock of Golfing Requisites is unsurpassed, and comprises
Clubs, Balls, etc., by the world’s leading makers.
CLUBS.
Postage on one club: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
M.S. Drivers and Irons.. 5/-, 7/6
Auchterlonie Drivers and Irons 8/-
Simpson’s Drivers and Irons. . 7/6
J. Braid’s Drivers and Irons 8/-
Cann and Taylor’s Irons 7/-, 8/-
Spalding’s Irons & Drivers 5/6, 7/9
Brassies .. 5/6, 8/6
Brassies . . 9/-
Brassies 8/-
Brassies . . »/-
Brassies 9/-
Brassies .. 5/6, 9/6
Braid Mills’ Aluminium Putters 10/6
Patrick Bulldog Spoons, Ladies’ favorite 10/6
BALLS.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Standard 1/3 127-
Bobs Bramble . . 1/8 18/6
Zodiac ... 2/9 80/-
Zodia’c, Small S.S. 2/9 307-
Zodiac, Zome... 2/9 307-
Black & White
Bramble .... 2/9 307-
Challenger Bramble 2/9 32/6
Challenger, Star 3/- 337-
Patent Colonel .. 3/- 33/-
Henley’s Why Not 3/. 34/-
Watson’s No. 10
Silver King (Yel.
Dot)
Silver King (Black
Dot)
White Dimple . .
Midget Dimple . .
Domino Dimple
Black & White
Dimple ....
Challenger King
Arch Colonel
Glory Dimple . .
Each. Doz.
3/- 34/-
3/- 86/-
3/- 35/-
3/3 38/-
3/3 38/-
3/3 38/-
3/3 38/-
3/3 39/-
3/6 39/-
4/3 48/-
CADDY BAGS.
Waterproof Canvas, leather bottom and sling—
7/6, 9/-, 12/6, 14/6
Solid Hide, best quality 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
HE
IMMONS b
HAYMARKET
•SYDNEY*
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS' OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
XMK
\wm j
\
A
We are Specialists in all kinds of
SPORTING REPAIR WORK.
Remarkable
Discovery for
GREY HAIR
Mrs. Mary Chapman Restores Her Hair to its Original Color
after Having been completely Grey for Eight Years.
A Simple, Harmless Method, which can be used in one’s
own home WITH COMPLETE SUCCESS.
UNSOLICITED TESTIMONY.
Sheep Hills, Vic.
Dear Madam, —Having received your letter I
ordered one large bottle of your “Genuine
Specific,” which I received safely some time
ago, and am well satisfied with it, thanking
you for the trouble of writing again.—I am,
yours respectfully, N.I).
Wiseman’s Ferry, Hawkesbury Kiver.
To Mrs. Mary K. Chapman.
Hear Madam, —It would be more than
remiss of me not to write to you and tell you
how much pleased and astonished I am at the
efficacy and effectiveness of your “Genuine
Specific” for grey hair. It is nothing short of
a marvellous scientific discovery. No one need
now have grey hair unless they want to have
it. I was greatly struck with the manner
your pamphlet was written. There was a
veri-simile air about it which impressed me.
I do not care to have my name appear in
your advertisement, but you can refer anyone
to me privately. I am very well known in this
colony, and naturally do not wish to set it on
tile housetop that I used a hair-color restorer,
etc.
It is indeed remarkable that you apply a
liquid as clear as spring water to paper! to
hone, to your skin, without any result, and
that the cork in the bottle can remain for
weeks in contact with the liquid without being
discolored, the only thing it seems to effect is
HAIR. Wishing you all the success which
the discovery is worthy of.
—I remain, Revd. J.F.M., B.A.
I
COMPLETE
INSTRUCTIONS
FREE
GFGFGHF
(Mfs AVrl) K.Qjgpn yog at {fa age of 27.) (A\rS.A\a^KXbapfoaqaTSSe present day,age3s)
Ti)is pljotogVapb) sljows b er> Tips pljotogrttph sKows her
8 YEARS YOUNGER. 8 YEARS OLDER.
MY APPEARANCE TO DAY IS A DELIGHT TO MYSELF\
AND A SURPRISE TO MY FRIENDS .
UNSOLICITED TESTIMONY.
Mrs. Mary Chapman. Rose Bay.
Dear Madam, —I have used one small bottle
ol your Hair Specific, and I am highly pleased
with it; nearly all my grey hairs have disap-
peared.
My hair has returned to its color of youth-
ful days. It is simply marvellous the effect
your specific has had on it. I never expected
to get anything half so good. I never intend
to have grey hairs while I can get youi
Specific. Why should I? It is so clean, too;
does not stain the skin nor the clothing. Send
me another bottle now, so that I can keep it
right by an occasional application. You can
use this letter if you wish, but not the name.
Send bottle by return, cheque enclosed.
—Yours faithfully, J.A.B.
———• Kurri Kurri.
Mrs. Mary K. Chapman.
Dear Madam, —Your letter received yester-
day greatly surprised me on first sight, but
now r conclude that my order for large bottle
—which I duly received and acknowledged by
return mail has been overlooked by you—also
alter three weeks’ application I wrote you
stating that I was well pleased with results
attained by using your “Genuine Specific.”
I am still using the remedy occasionally, and
have not got through the supply yet.
I consider myself fortunate in procuring
your Specific in my only attempt to get rid
of grey hair, without wasting time, etc., on
other remedies. Rest assured that I will
always advise the use of your “Genuine
Specific.”—Yours gratefully, J.J.E.
I, who was once Grey Haired, and belong to a prematurely grey-haired
family, address the readers of this paper, in particular persons who have
tried sundry widely-advised preparations for Grey Hair and have been
disappointed with the results. Ido not wish to criticise these remedies,
but useis of my preparation have the firm assurance that IT WILL DO
WHAT IT CLAIMS TO DO. The color-creating cells of the hair, which
have hitherto been dormant, become revitalised under the influence of my
Specific, and they commence to produce fresh pigment and the same shade
as in earlier years. The change comes about GRADUALLY, SURELY
and NATURALLY; the improvement is remarkable. After a few days 7
application the hair' becomes richer in color, and the transformation
increases in strength and intensity until the hair is once again THE
SHADE OE YOUTH. Six weeks’ treatment changed my appearance
from that of a prematurely-aged woman, and gave me back the hair of
my girlish days, to the astonishment of myself and the surprise of my
friends. Since I have introduced my preparation to public notice numer-
ous people of both sexes and of all classes, who I only know through my
extensive correspondence, have written to me acknowledging the same
MARVELLOUS EFFICACY of this formula, which they say is unlike
anything they have hitherto tried. It was through my own greyness that I
came into possession of this wonderful remedy, the fruit of the work of a
Scientist who had made the CHEMISTRY OF THE HAIR the favorite
hobby study (not for money-making motives) of his leisure hours, and
amidst the Legions of Grey Hair Preparations it is the one genuine pre-
scription that RESTORES THE COLOR BY A NATURAL PROCESS.
Many, in fact the great majority, of Grey Hair preparations eventually ruin
the hair, but my remedy is ABSOLUTELY HARMLESS, and will help
develop a strong and beautiful growth 'of hair.
I wish every grey-haired man and woman who reads this announcement
to try my remedy, and I offer a reward of £lOO if this Guaranteed Genuine
Ireparation can be proved not to have restored grey hair to Original,
Natural ( olor. My Genuine Specific opens up a sure avenue of escape from
the grave disadvantages of grey hair, in fact you need not remain grey
another week if you make up your mind to give my preparation a fair trial,
-f you have in the past been disappointed by trying this, that and the other
thing, do not be discouraged, but write or call to-day. Simply write
your name and address plainly on the coupon below. State whether Mr.,
Mrs. or Miss, and enclose two stamps for postage, and I will send you. in a
plain sealed cover, complete instructions.
FH
PREECOUPON
Cut out this Coupon to-day, and post, with your
name and address, and enclose two stamps, to Mrs.
Mary K. Chapman, Suite 88, Linden Court, Sydney,
when complete instructions to restore Grey Hair to
its natural colour and beauty of youth will be sent
by return of post, under plain sealed cover.
Name
Address ..


VA
“When we get home from
school all cold and wet,
mother meets us at the door
and gives us each our dose
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery, and then we know
that we are all right, he cause
it keeps us from catching
cold, or, if we hare a cold, it
relieves us. We call a wet
day Mothers ‘New Dis-
covery’ Day.”
Best for Children and Grown Folk too.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY has won the confidence of the
parents and the love of the children by its wonderful curative effect upon
the throat, chest and lungs. Children are particularly susceptible to
coughs and colds, and the medicine ivhich always protects them from all
dangers is the one mother recognises as best.
It is a wise mother who prepares for trouble in time of peace. She
places Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery on the shelf, and rests secure against
all winter dangers, knowing well she has the remedy which will protect
her little ones against the vicissitudes of cold weather.
ONE MOTHER SAYS:
“My little girl, who is aged eight years, had a nasty hard cough on her chest
for some time,” writes Mrs. McCulloch, 114 Campbell Street, Surry Hills, N.S.W.
“It seemed to be settling on her lungs; she also suffered with shooting pains all
over her body. She became so bad that I had to keep her home from school. She
was very feverish, so I put her to bed. -I tried numerous cough remedies, but
they seemed to have no effect whatever, and I was beginning to despair when a
lady friend advised me to give her Dr. Sheldon s New Discovery. I took her
advice, and bought a large bottle, and after taking this her cough was completely
cured. Whenever she has the slightest sign of a cough I give her a dose of Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery, and she is quickly well again.”
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the mother’s helper and the children’s friend
through all the winter months. It can be given to the youngest child and to the
sturdy school children, to the college student or to the father of a family. Whenever
there is a cold, Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the shortest pathway to good health.
PRICE 1,6 and 3/-
D?SH ELDONS
NewDiscover^
Ll£
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
V\7TIEN Decorating,
~ Remodeling or
Building, te assured of
SANITARY as well
as Beautiful Walls and
Ceilings use
BEAVER
BOARD
You need hygienic walls, not only
in sleeping rooms but in every
room in the house.
Beaver Board takes the place of lath, plaster
and wall paper. Better, stronger and more
sanitary walls and ceilings are quickly and
easily built with Beaver Board.
Beaver Board is made of Pure
VFood Fibre. It beautifies and
brightens the home. It won't crack,
and will last a lifetime.
Beaver Board is especially recommended for
residences, offices, schools, shops, hospitals,
and churches. It assures well designed, well
built walls and ceilings that give greater
satisfaction, freedom from cracks and repair
expense, and permanent satisfaction.
MADE IN CANADA
Your architect will tell you all about Beaver
Board. Booklets, designs and free samples
are obtainable from any Beaver Board stockist
WARNING: All wall hoards are not
Beaver Board. There are imitations. Be
sure to get the genuine with name and
trade mark on hack of every jfanel.
Solid Comfort!
No tom or clingy wall paper in
this room. No cracked plaster.
The walls and ceilings are
made of Beaver Board.
Easily put up at any season
of the year without mess or
bother. Lasts without repairs
as long as the house. Resists
heat, cold and sound.
Treated on both sides to pre-
vent absorption of moisture,
and to protect against changes
of weather. Is scrupulously
clean and makes any room
more cheerful and inviting.
Make a spare room out of the
attic. Use Beaver Board for
partitions. Use it to brighten up
the living room or dining room.
Supplied ready for nailing to
joists or studding or over old
walls. Panels about A" thick,
36" and 48" wide and in even
foot lengths up to 16 feet
The Beaver Board Companies
Ottawa, Canada
4 Southampton Row, London, W. C. England
REPRESENTATIVES:
0, D. Gerdon, G. P. 0.1893, Sydney R. S. Ward, 40 William Street, Melbourne
STOCKISTS:
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide
Cowell Bros. & Co., Adelaide
Gunnersen, Crockett, Ltd.,
379 Kent St., Sydney
James Hardie & Co., Melbourne
G. Gunnersen & Co., Melbourne
Geo. Wills and Co., Ltd., Perth
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth
Geo. Wills and Co., Ltd., Brisbane
James Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane
BEAVER
BOARD
PURE WOOD FIBRE
The Red Mist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE thinks aloud as she sits alone,
And the magpies call in the evening
grey—
Oh, sorrow to her with the heart of stone
Who stole my lover away, away!
There is no peace in the light of the moon,
And little enough in the shine of the sun ;
And it's grieving and grieving that darkens
the noon,
And troubles me sore till the salt tears
run.
There’s Joyce.with the red cheeks says to
me,
Herself as gay as a crowned young queen :
“It’s pale you are, and it's sick, maybe ;
And what is it ails your heart, Noreen?”
At that I say, with a laugh in my voice
(For grief is an ill, dark thing to show) :
“It’s you with your tricks and your capers,
Joyce?
And the imp in your eyes that makes me
so.”
There’s one and another from near and far
Who come with their kind, sweet neighbor-
speech :
“It’s sick you look, and it’s pale you are ;
And what have you done with your bloom*
of the peach?”
1 cannot answer, I may not tell;
As an actor plays I play my part;
It’s little they’d care (as my heart knows
well),
If they but knew the hurt of my heart.
And even Joyce, who is kind as kind,
Would make a jest of my pain, perchance ;
For a feather afloat on an idle wind
Means more to the world than a spoiled
romance.
If I were a man I would do so much—
Be brave, make light of my weight of care;
Bring ease to my mind with a master-touch,
And find fit food for my heart elsewhere.
Yet soft and shy as a cooing dove
(’Twas thus I seemed to him —seem so
yet)
I cannot rest for remembering love,
Nor dream of a time when I may forget.
I think of his kisses that warmed like wine
When the low night-winds in the pine-trees
played;
And the roses white in the white moonshine
A startling light in the garden made.
f think, of his voice in those honeyed hours,
And wonder if words are flowers some-
times ;
All scent and color —are chiming flowers
That thrill the blood with their golden
chimes.
And then, the thought of the Other comes,
Her wiles and wonder and luring lies,
And the blood in my ears is a throb of drums,
And a red mist glimmers before my eyes.
And I go to the place where the thing lies
hid,
And its blade takes fire at my burning
touch ;
And I say to myself: “If the world were rid
Of three lives more, would it matter much ?
“Would it matter much in the big world’s
sight
If the sorry farce to the end were played,
And three ghosts trod through the Outer
Night—
The Loved, the Lover, the Love-Betrayed?
“If one that suffers and two that sing
Were made cold clay, were it well or ill?”
And I grasp the haft of the jewelled thing.
And stand in the lamplight pale and still.
And then I shudder, and sob and sink,
And lie, eyes bid, with the light turned
low,
Like one a-poise on an awful brink,
Wild-eyed, and trembling, and breathing
slow.
And then comes Joyce with her joyous cries:
“Come out in the night, come sing with
me!”
And I smooth my hair and I soothe my eyes,
But I know what the end of it all shall he.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Mollie Maguire.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A BARE horn- before sunrise in the
main street of Jackanbill, and Mollie
Maguire, fresh and bright-eyed, and
accompanied by an under-sized, weak-chinned
individual in a motor dust-coat and goggles,
hurried up to the front gate of Phil Des-
mond’s motor garage.
“There you are,” she cried, “I knew there
was a motor shop here.”
The goggled one was pessimistic. “What’s
the use of it?” he growled. “It ain’t
open.”
Mollie looked at him in despair. He
pushed the goggles off his eyes and peered
through a crack in the fence.
Don’t see anybody about. Not a
machine in the yard. Looks as if the place
had gone bung. That settles it. We’re
copped.” He shrank visibly until his head
seemed merely a peg from which a motor coat
flapped idly.
“We’re not! Get goin’,” cried Mollie, in-
flating her chest and giving a coo-ee that
startled the birds on the other side of the
township.
“How can we get goin’?” he piped.
“Ain’t the bloomin’ tyre blowed out .an’ the
front kerridge in a t’ree-fut ditch l Git
goin’? I only wisht I could. Gripes, if I
ain’t the unlucky bloke.”
“Billy!”
“Well! ain’t I?....Here I snaps you up
under the very nose of your dad, an old Ivat-
zenjammer, honks out your ol’ toy, red
ottermobile; cuts orf wiv yer like a bloke in
a picter show....an’ this ’appens. This,
w’en wif ornary luck you’u been Missus
’Uxley ter-morrer mornin’.”
“You say that again and I refuse to go a
step farther.”
“Yous don’t sye !”
“I do, and I mean it. I am not going to
marry you now. You are only taking me
to Sydney.”
“O’ri, o’ri,” admitted Mr. Huxley, feeling
in his vest pocket for a cigarette. “ ’Ave it
your own wye....l’m on’y takin’ you to
Sydney—l don’t think !”
“And then you lose your head and let the
car run into a rabbit burrow.”
There was a gleam of vindictiveness in
his small red eyes, and his thin lips drew
back from his yellow teeth in a snarl. "So'd
you lose your head if you was bein’ chased
by two bloomin’ maniacs in a car that was
doin’ two miles to your one.”
“Kindly remember,” said Mollie in icy
tones, “that the maniacs, as you call them,
are my father and my prospective husband.
If your daughter and the lady you were
desirous of marrying had stolen your motor-
car and was running away with a perfect
stranger you’d be a maniac too.”
“Ach, don’t gas so much,” remarked the
faded hero William. “Try and get a move
on this bloke. DES... .Desmond’s Garage
and Agricultural Implement Depot. Mebbe
he'll lend us a steam plow or a reaper and
binder if we flash ’arf a quid at ’im. Hi,
hello, hell-o! They’ll be ’ere in two jiffs,”
he explained to Mollie, “an’ then hup goes
the bloomin’ donkey.”
“And you’ll go up, too,” chirruped Mollie.
“Don’t forget that.”
A side door in the gate opened, and Phil
Desmond, wearing his motor coat and cap,
smiled and bade them “Good morning.”
They rushed him with a conversational
duet.
“Say, mister”....
“Our car’s broke down”....
“There it is, at the bend of the road”....
“We want to get to the railway”. .. .
“Can you take us there, quick?”....
“N0w.”....
“Before they cop us”. . ..
Desmond hesitated.
“We are in such a hurry.” This was
Mollie’s solo. “We’ve just got to catch the
train. Can you please hire us a car? Or, if
you wouldn’t mind driving us to the siding
yourself. 8i11y....1 mean Mr. Huxley,
isn’t a very good driver.”
“I am a good driver,” Billy cut in. “One
of the best in Sydney, and I’ve got my
license to prove it.”
“I mean, he doesn’t drive very well in
the country.”
Phil caressed his chin and strove to under-
stand the comedy that was being enacted
before him.
“ ’Urry up,” growled William.. “We
gotta keep movin’.”
“Exactly,” said Desmond. “I was think-
ing. You see, I have only got one car and
that’s engaged.”
“So’re we,” announced William defiantly.
“We are not,” repudiated Mollie, stamp-
ing her foot. “We've given it up.” Des-
mond was beginning to realise the situation
and the next words made it almost clear.
“We are, we are,” he snapped, “an’ don’t
yous back outen it, jest because the bloomin’
car busts up. Look ’ere, mister, this job’s
worth a fiver to you. Git us to the siding
in time to flag the express, and the money’s
yours. It’s a soft thing, but yous can
have it for once.”
Sparring for time, Desmond prevaricated.
“It's the district holiday. I’ll get fined
ten pounds if I do.”
“An’ I’ll get 10 years if you don’t.”
“No, Billy,” gleefully explained Mollie.
“Not 10 years.... Two for abduction, one
for stealing the car, six weeks for furious
driving, and 10 pounds for killing the sheep.
Only about two and a half years alto-
gether.”
Billy refused to be comforted. “Dry up,”
he hissed. “Yous fair gives me the shivers,
you do. Can’t you see, boss, that I’ve gotta
get away. They’re only five minutes be’ind,
an’ they’ll ’ave me as sure as ’ell.”
“Who will?” asked Desmond, directing
his question at Mollie.
“My father and Mr. Sommerfeldt. They,
that is, he” ——
William cut in and stepped between her
and Phil.
“ ’Ere,” he said, “that’s ernuff. Do
you wanter put the ’ole show away? Do
you wanter lay everybody onto me? What’s
it gotter do wiv him, anyhow? ’E’s on’y a
bloke what ’ires us motor-cars. See here,
mister; fergit all her little song an’ darnce.
See?”
Desmond’s brows contracted, but he spoke
with suave mildness.
“It will be much more difficult to forget
yours. And if I am only a bloke what
hires you cars, remember, I haven't hired
you one—yet.”
Billy blinked and opined that there was
no need to get hot about it.
“There now!” shrilled Mollie, “you are
going to fight!”
Billy assured her that her fears were
groundless. It would be another 48 hours
before the battle started. Desmond reckoned
that a low estimate. There was a
flurry of dust beyond the trees. “Gripes,”
yelled Billy, “ ’ere they are.”
Mollie saw it, and Desmond noted the
sudden pallor of her cheeks.
“Come,” he said, “there’s only one way.
If that’s Karl Sommerfeldt's car it’s a
faster one than mine.” Billy spat the stub
of his cigarette on to the road and ground it
into the dust with his heel. “My car’s in
the yard. Jump into it” (He caught Billy
by the coat collar as he was dashing past.)
“Don’t take the road, Miss. Be sure of that.
Follow the track round the belt of trees.
Keep following it....don’t leave it, what-
ever you do. it will bring you” (Mollie noted
the emphasis on the personal pronoun, but
he repeated it again to make sure) —-“it will
bring you out all right. I’ll stay here and
delay them as much as I can.”
Billy had disappeared through the door,
therefore, he did not see Mollie throw her
arms round Phil’s neck in an excess of
gratitude, and kiss him, and call him “a
dear darling man” in between. Thil
(Continued on next page.)


“EVERY PICTURE TELLS A STORY”
Of Weak, Ailing Backs and Inactive Kidneys; of Irritable,
Dropsical, Nervous People who need Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Have you Backache, Headache, Gravel,
Dizziness, Sleeplessness? Are you
Bloated and Sallow ? Losing appetite
and Weight? Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are specially for Kidney Troubles.
But the best story is not the story in
the picture, which tells of pain and
disease—it’s the story told of relief by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
And that’s the good thing one is
always hearing about the genuine Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills—men and women
are continually praising them.
For Doan’s Pills are an honest
medicine, because they are recom-
mended for one class of diseases only,
viz., Kidney and Bladder diseases, such
as dropsy (bloating), gravel, stone, lum-
bago, backache, rheumatism and all
uric acid complaints.
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
‘ Every
Picture
Tells cu
Story.”
\
S:
Backache and Kidney
Trouble.
TWO SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
Mr. W. 11. Jeffi •ies. King Street. Newtown, Sydney,
says:—“About five years ago my kidneys commenced to
bother me, no doubt brought on from hard work, such
as lifting and bending over at my work. My back was
lame and aching, and this handicapped me a lot. for it
was a difficult matter to stoop, and caused increased pain.
I tried a good many remedies, but they did me no good.
A friend advised me to take Doan’s Backache Kidney
Bills, so I sent for some. I used them as directed, and
when I had taken about half a bottle I knew they were
benefiting me. Thus encouraged, I continued with the
treatment until I was quite cured, and I have not felt the
slightest sign of backache since. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Bills have made a different man of me. and I recommend
them to all who suffer with backache.”
Five years later. Mr. Jeffries says:—“Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Bills cured me of backache five years ago,
and lam still free of this.trying ailment. I need.say no
more; my lasting cure speaks for itself.”
Mrs. F. V. Richards, Earlswood, Rawson Street, St.
Leonards. Sydney, says:— “For about twelve months 1
was a martyr to kidney complaint. At times I used to
cry out with the terrible pains in my back. I could not
do my housework. Many a time I have had to get a
neighbor to come and rub my back with liniment. I was
treated by a doctor for a considerable time, but he did me
no good. 1 heard that Doan’s Backache Kidney Bms
were curing similar cases, and decided to try them. They
gave me relief at once, and a course of the pills perfectly
cured me. It is four years since I was cured, and 1
have never had any return of the complaint. 1 can do
my housework now without constant torture. I cannot
speak too highly of Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills.
Three years later Mrs. Richards says:-;-” It is now
seven years since Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills cured me
of backache and kidney trouble, and I have had no retain
of these ailments during all that time.”
Ƒ
Backache
Kidney
FFFF
was dazed. He smiled, lie laughed as he
heard his car being expertly cranked up and,
in reply to Mollie’s “Good-bye, Mister
Motor Man,” he shouted “Good luck, Mollie,”
and wondered if his voice rose above the
whir of his four-cylinder Mignon as she
swerved out of the yard and followed the
track round the trees.
Meanwhile the pursuing car had stopped,
evidently to inspect the ruins of the little
red vehicle at the bend of the road. Des-
mond waited developments. When a man
holds the trump card he can afford to wait
for his opponent’s lead. He could hear them
arguing....a thin, Celtic crescendo and a
deep Teutonic guttural. He turned into
his shed and, picking up a handful of tools,
emerged to fall into the grip of a plethoric
and breathless German.
"Baddy, Baddy,” cried his captor, “gom’
’ere, I haf got him.”
Desmond pushed him away.
"YotV exclaimed Germany. “You ver-
domrned scoundrel, varc is she? Vot you
put mit her? Soli.”
Desmond counselled silence. The trooper
was a light sleeper, and hated early rising,
"Drooper? Yare is he, I vake him, qviek
and life I v. I gif you in scharge—killin’
mein seheeps, steal in’ mein vife, breakiu’
Faddy Maguire’s olt red motor-car all to
sehminters. By Golly, 1 got you in Yar-
manv, so, von vos hung. By dam!”
What more might have happened was in-
terrupted by tlie entrance of Paddy himself,
Small, lithe, lean and red-whiskered. In
his shirt-sleeves, as if his joy ride had been
unpremeditated. He was keenly anxious,
Grief and anger were his contending emo-
lions, with grief several lengths in the lead,
“There’s no sign ov her,” he wailed,
“Mebbe, by the mercy o’ God, the darlin’
wasn’t hurt at all.”
Sommerfeldt didn’t like this. He had all
his money on Paddy’s animosity.
“I dells vou. und vou sees for yourselluf,
lie smash It all up. Der front axel is
dvisted, der enchine der dyres”
“Ach. be quiet. It's me Mollie I’m
tliinkin’ on, not the owld invintion ov the
divide—bad cess to the day I got it!” He
turned to Phil
"Tell me she isn’t hurt, an’ I’ll never say
another wurrd. An' I’ll give you the owld
Belah homestid for a weddin’ presint, be-
sides.”
Sommerfeldt protested that Belah was
already promised to him.
“Only whin I thought me Mollie was goin’
t > marry vou,” explained Paddy. "I’d no
idea then that me darlin’ was to be tuk aff
to glory in a motor-car. Ach, ye big sossidge-
aitin’ pirate, what did ye chase them so
hard for? Makin’ them break their necks.
An’ you” (he turned to Desmond), “ye blun-
dherin’ idjiot! How darr ye meddle wid
cars if ye can’t drive them? I’m in two
minds whether I’ll knock the ugly face aff
ye. Upsettin’ my Mollie! Is she hurt?
Have ye got a doehtor?”
“Mr Maguire,” said Phil, “she wasn’t
even frightened.”
Paddy beamed. “There,” he declaimed,
“d’ve hear that. Karl? Never turned a hair,
There’s pluck for ye. Ah sure, there’s no-
body like the Irish, after all.” And lie shook
Desmond’s hand in thankfulness, until Som-
merfeldt tore them apart.
“Baddy! behave yourselluf. You vos
slmkin’ hands mit the schellum vot breaks
your home and your olt red motor-car op to
bits. And kills mein seheeps, too, by plazes.”
‘‘Luk at that now. So 1 am. Sure, I
was so delighted me Mollie was all right, 1
didn’t know what 1 was doin’. Young man,
1 take it all back. My mistake.”
“Yong man, you hears him. He takes it
all back. Also the homestead and the frau-
lein, which you gives to me.”
"No, to me. She’s mine, my Mollie, ye
petrol-smellin’ villain—ye tbafe o’ the night,
WhurrisheV Me Mollie, that ye stoleV”
“Und mein seheeps vot you kill V”
“Acli, to the div.vle wit’ your seheeps.”
“Is dot so? Who vas to pay me for dem,
eh? I asks you mit dot. Ten scheep cut to
shplinters and vool sefen fife-eights in Syd-
ney vos yesterday also.”
"Be quiet about yer sheep. I b’lave ye
link more o' yer dom jumbucks than ye do
o’ my Mollie. What’s sheep—what’s a mob
o’ sheep alongside o’ her, ye money-grubbin’,
bottle-nosed, bald-headed ould Dutchman!”
Sommerfeldt was staggered. If Mollie
possessed her father’s irascibility, perhaps it
would be just as well to leave her with the
motor-man. At the same time, he wasn’t
going to take too much slack jaw from
Faddy, anyhow. He dosed in on him, flap-
ping his long arms like the wings of his
national emblem.
“Soli,” he spluttered, “you speak to me
once, 1 speak to you twice! Me, dot marry
your Mollie to going vas! Me....me who
have seheeps und seheeps und seheeps ! Fifety
tousand here, fifety dousand dere, in Kveens-
lant. also a liundert tousand acres of beau-
tiful landt.
Faddy was not at all abashed. Calmly
but firmly he said: “ler a loir! Mollie was
not gom to marry you because ye had sheep,
She wuddent marry ye if ye was all sheep.
You an’ yer sheep an’ yer land Show it
to me,” he shrieked. "Bring it here F Put
it d<ton forninst me._ Let me Ink at it an
HI tell ye what I think ov it. I don t want
yer land, l ve got land ov me own an a
bit over. Take it away. I don’t want it.
t want my Mollie.
“Is dot so? Veil, by tarn, haf I gotter?
You like a pickoocket at me swears und I
vos all der time hellup you stopper runs avay
a shoffer she pick mit in Sydney op.”
The logic made Paddy wilt. Sommerfeldt
turned her on another nick,
“Hein, nice pardigular family I vos onto
me get married. I think not. Who vill
she next mit runs away !
“I’ll guess that in wance—lt won’t be
with you. An’ we aren’t a particular family
0 r we wuddent a thought ov you in the mat-
ter at all. D’ye mind me now? It’s takin’
me all me time, so it is. to keep me hands
often yez. Sure now I luk at the laad and
you together I’m not so sure but maybe
Mollie wasn’t right, after all. Even if he
"'as only a shover she picked.... I mane
met m Sydney. Are ye a Sydney shover?
he demanded of Desmond. . , .
“No. Never was. I ve been in business
here for six months. This is my place.
That’s my name, up there.
Paddy cocked his eye at the signboard.
"Tink o’ that now.” he burbled. * Des-
mond—one o’ the Kerry Desmonds, nick
he an’ this dom furriner has been stuffin
me wid tales aboot ye runnin’ a taxi m
Sydney. AYhadye mane b’t? Slandcrm
mv Mollie like that?”
'"On the face of it,” said Desmond, such
an assertion bears the mark of gross impro-
bability.” , , .
Sommerfeldt winced. Paddy nodded his
approval, and Phil fished for five-syllabled
words. „ r . , ~ , ,
“A young lady of Miss Maguire’s highly
refined mentality would never dream of such
a thing.”
“Nein,” gasped Karl.
"Nine be damned,” cried Paddy; “not
wance.”
"Such a procedure would be revolting to
her.”
“It wud so." chorused Paddy. "It wild
be like pintin’ a revolver at her."
“And it was only when liudiug her-
self pestered by the attentions of a
man older than her own father” (ap-
plause from the father) “that she
flies, dazed with fear, from his protect-
ing arms, and trusts her sweet innocence
to*" the chance charity of strangers. You
owe Miss Mollie a deep debt of reparation
for this. Mr. Sommerfeldt.”
‘Wot?” brayed Karl, who hated to pay
anybody.
“No bluffin’. Ye h’ard what the land,
said jist the same as I did. Sure I’ll sum-
mon ye for it, ye owld divvle, drivin’ me
girl from me the way ye did. Ah, Mollie,
come back to me....t0 your ould father,
come back, come back.”
There was a sound of approaching wheels.
A motor horn tooted awkwardly within the
yard, and presently Desmond’s car broke
solemnly through the gate and chocked its
wheels on the debris. Mollie at the steering
gear stepped out. Paddy jubilantly folded
her in his arms and kissed her behind the
ear. Sommerfeldt hovered in the offing, and
Phil waited developments with equanimity.
Blushing like a morning rose, Mollie dis-
engaged herself from the paternal embrace
and said, "I suppose you know my friend
Mr. Desmond. Daddy?”
“Oh. jist to pass the time o’ the day to.”
“That's all right then,” she said, crossing
over to Phil and glancing shyly up at him.
Paddy winked to himself and towed Karl
over to inspect the new car.
"AA T e took that track of yours.” said
Mollie.
“So I see.” said Phil. “It’s a five-mile
testing track I cleared myself. It runs out
of one side of the yard and in at the other.”
“And now it runs out at the front as well.
I’m sorry I bent your gate.”
“That’s all rieht..” said Phil. “AA'hat did
you do with Bill?”
“AYhen he saw we were coming back here
he got off.”
Phil laughed. Paddy straightened him-
self and spoke. “I was thinkin’, Mr. Des-
mond, that seein’ ye’d bruk me owld red
motty car all on. ye’d mebbe drive me back
to the homestid.”
"Certainly,” said Phil, "but let me ex-
plain”--—-
“The divvle an explain until I’ve had me
breakfast.”
“Mollie." said Phil, “he thinks I’m the
man you ran away with.”
“AA ell, sniggered IVlollie, "do you mind?”
D. H. SOUTER.
The Arras.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r COULD have sworn that the arras
moved,
That curtain fringed with the fleur de
] ys ;
lou thought wo wore safe,, who snatched
. . . .and loved,
That a watchful eye could not pierce to
me;
Yet over the sweep of the purple fold
(Like an ocean door in a moonless night)
A ripple ran to the hem of gold—
One petal hid and one leapt to light.
I could have sworn that the arras moved!
You think it is locked in our hearts to-day.
That throbbing moment we clung and loved
is sealed forever and shut away
AY here the jealous eye cannot note and
brood
On loss or profit in provingi shame.
The right of spilling a gallant’s blood.
The right of branding a woman’s name.
To-day we met in the gallery.
You bowed full coldly and passed me by
And bravely went, for the world to see
No lip-betraying, no softening eye.
’Twas well that the gown was tightly laced
Over my heart, and its stung desire.
Over the breast where your kisses placed
The rose of love with its thorn of fire.
A sword-point clashed on the polished floor;
Two heels clicked sharply ere you were
gone.
But I stepped as proud as I went before
By the line of the courtiers all alone.
Yet.... 1 remembered the arras moved
And shaken trust in a world a-reel
Convulsed the air like a faith disproved.
Who dr opt the sword and who clicked I lie
heel ?
I have smoothed my bodice and dressed my
hair;
The snow of my bosom naught reveals.
Was it only fancy that one lurked there.
Kneeling to spy, as a traitor kneels?
Was it only fancy? You kissed so warm,
Your kiss was all for a space I knew;
And the pulse’s riot will jest at harm.
And fear sinks drugged in a glance of blue.
What heart pays toll for its secret sins?
So each heart feareth a torch’s shine,
And up in his tower he sits and spins
Perhaps a snare for your life and mine.
....The King was gracious to me to-day
And the Queen (that model of virtue
proved)
And my lord sent jewels to make me gay....
Yet I wish I knew why the arras moved!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


We are Confident that
THE WESTINGHOUSE-MORSE SILENT
I •• * •*# '' ■ I
m
fm
ROCKER-
JOINT’
CHAIN
will appeal to you as
an important factor
in the problem of
Costs redaction.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8M.310 to—
TV Brake Co. of Australasia Ltu.
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne v Zealand Office: 93-107;Featherston St., Wellington.
Concord West, N.S.W.
.-x ‘ '
s.w.
BOUNDERS No. 20 PLANER 8 MOULDER.
Unequalled Value. Stri<slly Moderate Price.
PLANES, 12in. x 4in.
Double Row Ball Bear-
ings to all Spindles.
Feed Rollers all Gear
Driven and of Large
Diameter.
Vertical and Horizontal
Adjustment to Side
Heads.
Can be supplied with
Plain or Ball-bearing
Counter Shaft.
•• - ,
, » * ■ . .
•• m *
« '
/ Descriptive Leaflet and Price from SOLE AGENTS-
THE AUSTRAL ENGINEERING SUPPLY CO. Limited,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
OSIER
F ƑF
When it comes to Threading Tubes
there is a special tool to fit your particular use
iu the Oster line. 20 years of specialisation
guarantees their quality—an Oster means
clean threads quickly cut.
FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
IN ALL CITIES. ‘
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, 0., U,S.A. [
FF
F
F
ANTISEPTIC
THROAT
Past/f/es
m
THESE wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a
formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes : “ l tnank you for
the boxes of Evans' Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
So/e Manu 'acturers :—
EVANS SONS LESCHER, ft WEBB, Ltd., LV XDON.c
Ask for “EVANS” Pastilles and see you get them. *
3W
'c?
J
i^plSiP^
8-Hour Diamond Jubilee Art Union
PRIZES VALUE £4OOO.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN OCTOBER 30, 1915.
Ist Prize, value £B5O. 2nd Prize, value £450.
3rd Prize, value £3OO.
And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. M. M. Whitt. Sydney
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET & HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1915.
Results of Drawing: will be advertised in this paper on November i.
To any person forwardin'? stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from
Agents in all towns, or direct from
Sec retar,Vj_Trades Hall. Sydney.
IT IS REALLY NECESSARY
for everybody to undergo a periodical cleansing of the bodily
system in order that all impurities may be eliminated and
sluggish organs assisted to perform their work in a satisfactory
manner. As a remedy with gently aperient and tonic properties,
Beecham’s Pills are unequalled for this purpose. There is
no remedy “just as good” and certainly nothing better
TO TAKE
than this old and well-tried medicine which is wholly free from,
any harmful drug, and prepared from the purest vegetable
ingredients of great curative value. As it exerts a most bene-
ficial influence upon the stomach, liver, kidneys and bowels.
Most of the disorders due to derangement of the digestive
system sppedily disappear after a course of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1\ (56 pills ) & 2/9 (168 pills).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BV ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I|, 2/9 & H/b.
FF
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, aid
eftect u a 11 y
cuts short all
attacks •>
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
'he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Aie & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Water® and Cordials.
FF
Dinneford's
Magnesia
DIN NE FORD'S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S’'
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
FF
Do you know
of the superior features of the
MAX AMS complete line of Can-
making Machinery, from the Power
Press or Gang Slitter to the
Double Seamer and Tester?
Have you considered
the value of the AMS features,
and how they would affect your
production figures, convenience of
operating, cost of upkeep, time
in changing from one can diameter
to another, floor space and many
other items too numerous to list
here?
It will cost you nothing
to get these facts, and it may
result in a big saving to you.
re=i£X^>
knit
o (fler
WE INVITE CORRESPONDENCE on this subject and
would be particularly interested in showing you how the
MAX AMS System will give you greater efficiency and
a greater output per dollar invested.
ASK FOR “ BOOKLET W.” NO OBLIGATIONS.
Note. —We will occupy our new and enlarged plant at
Bridgeport, Conn., U.S.A., about JULY 1, 1915.
Max Ams Machine Company,
Mount Vernon, New York.
AftenUi
BERGER (St CARTER CO., San Francisco, Cal.
W. E. HUGHES (St CO., London, E C., England.


?MANGR<y
LEATHER
F
has been awarded the Gov-
ernment Contracts for 1915-
1916.
It is All-Australian— from
Australian Hides, tanned
and manufactured by Aus-
tralian Workmen.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
TRUE
TO LABEL.
Manufactured
exclusively in
HOLLAND.
WOLFES
SCHIEDAM
Schnapps
■
V- X
.:■= !
V,
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES BARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
Courier” Buildings, Brisbane;&Me!bourne
Purchasers
should look
for the name
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
TANCYE Portable Lampleee Oil Engine.
F
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam Engines.
CAME Milking Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters,
Steam Tractors and Road Rollers. Oil Tractors,
WOISEIEY Sheep Shearing Machines.
NICHOLSON & MORROW "Union” Farm Implements, Harvesters, Ploughs, Cultivators, Drills, Harrows, etc.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON, TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
Clayton and Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine
SEE. THE I 915
WovS
LEV
SHEEP
SHLARINC MACHINES
k * *
6SSL*
c
5T
VS
y
Q
N
TO
m
WOODWORKERS
Have YOU realised what it is
costing to handle the Shavings,
etc., in your plant ?
BUFFALO Planing Mill EXHAUST FANS
are recommended for the REMOVAL OP SHAVINGS, SAWDUST AND OTHER REFUSE FROM
WOODWORKING MACHINES, and the installation very soon pays for itself in the saving of labor it
effects. A bis feature in the BUFFALO is the Reversible Housing, which menus that the Fan IS
ADJUSTABLE TO RUNNING EITHER HAND, AND TO ANY DIRECTION OF DISCHARGE.
Write for Catalogue 256-“ Practical Data on Exhaust Fan Systems.
It should interest you.
Agents :
PARKE & LACY CO. 1.15.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
REDUCE YOUR COSTS
BY USING
TILGHMAN’S patent AIR COMPRESSORS
Over 2750 in use
VOLUMETRIC
EFFICIENCY
GUARANTEED.
As Supplied to British Government.
ROPE, BELT,
STEAM or
ELECTRICALLY DRIVEN
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.. Sydney and London.
