

DESIViLIS’S the Veteran of Whiskies
R. <3r. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants akways ava.lable.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N 5W- MONT DE PIETE D 51 Cg LIB
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. ' And at Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Swanston Street, Melbourne.
MoJSbiibw |BJOU*o ‘II3NN3B 39VX8f13
•auuqsug ‘ S B9JJS 9P?«!»PV Of-
iRUIiBKIiIUS
■««? 11l
WAIES IHhONTOC PIETt-Bfc • CHI
a
COMMFRCIU CHAMBERS HSW HOWI BE »lEU OEPO6IT i IMUSTWtItI CIW
MP«***tuoj \ i!'V\
x
ĥ
RICHARDSON’S
WINE SPIRIT STORES,
158 RUSSELL ST.
(Next Bourke St.).
259 LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Swanston St.).
MELBOURNE.
SINGLE BOTTLE AT
WHOLESALE PRICE
RUMS.
SU ER RIFF'S . . 4/3
LAMB’S . . . . 3/6
QUEENSLAND 3/-
GINS.
NICHOLSON’S .. 4/3
GILBEY’S .. 4/6
A.V.H. .. 3/4, 6/9
J.D.K.Z. . . 3/4, 5/9
HOLLAND’S 2/3, 4/6
SCHNAPPS.
SCHADE’S .. 4/-
ALKS. Doz.’ Bt. A Bt.
M’EWAN S 13/-"8/9
BASS’S .. 13/- 8/6
BULL DOG 13/- 8/6
AB’TSFORD 6/6
STOUTS,
GUINESS’S 14/-, 0/-
AB’TSFORD 6/6
LAGERS.
C’RLSBERG 14/- 9/-
FOSTER’S 6/6
ħ
Hulloi\’s
HOKISA 6flCOl\
CHS BB S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
h
ĥ
F or INDIGESTION
anti dyspepsia
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
mast beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded ISO First-Class Prize Medals.
SOBiLXIT.
—_
(jadleys Orient fiotel.
R CORD TYRE
are entirely free from canvas. The rubber* cord
foundation ensures greater resiliency—longer life!
The Silvertown Rubber Co.
279 George Street, Sydney.
.V*
V. ,/*
■■:,
M
;
&
m
-►a
7S!’<
LM»EI
K 9
r:
355
pw
"V
.- t--—.f.-i y>..
. * ~
a
1
n
SV;
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian M anager. AGENCIES EVERYWHERE.
is the aristocrat amongst roofings. It holds pride of place.
It is good to look on is a house that's roofed with White
IW alt ho id. This waterproof, fire-retarding material is
absolutely dependable, easy to lay, and practically ever-
lasting. White Malt ho id is the old trusted Malt ho id with a
coating of Asbestos. Let us send you booklets & samples.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
<3RANVIL_i_E,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL. 8c AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAIL-WAV ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL. & FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8e MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
SHREDDER DISCS
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. «
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
Is Australian Owned as well as Australian Made. Contains the right proportion of Chlorate
of Potash to use. 1/- per large tube, 1/2 Post Free. On dozen lots we pay postage.
OPALOID
The Bulletin
V01.36.—N0. 1852.]
[Thursday, August 12, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ALL AUSTRALIAN.
(Postages shown
in parentheses.)
Mdba Gift Book. 4/- (3d.).
McOrae’fi The Clear Call. 1/-
McCrae’s Soldier, My Soldier.
Australia’s First Naval Fight.
(id.).
1/- (Id.).
II- (Id.).
War Lectures, Nos. 2 and 3. 6d. each (Id.).
Palmer: The Last Shot. 3/6 (2d.).
Wise: War of Nations. 1/- (Id.).
Robinson: Finance and the War. 1/- (Id.).
StaweU’s Women’s Work in War Time. 1/- (Id.),
PROPTY LTD., 25* PITT
SYDNEY.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from Indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and
find themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive
ferments to act, and if taken regularly
after meals they so improve the diges-
tion that a strict diet becomes unneces-
sary. Hudson’s Eumentliol Jujubes
are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dys-
pepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE, TINS I/O.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.'
“The Lancet,” “The Practitioner,” etc*
ON
It isn’t a very clear call that comes from
Dorothy Frances MeCrae in her booklet of
verses. (George Robertson, C.A.). Her
opening piece, “Gaba Tepe,” is too com-
jnonplace for such a stirring theme. This
sort of verse: —
They scaled the cliff, they faced the fire,
They chased the foeman far and wide,
O’er sand and clay, through scrub and briar....
Women are out of place at the Front—even
in verse. “The Call,” “We are too safe oh
God,J” which, by the way, should be “O
God!" is patriotism that isn’t poetry. It
is only where the woman .voices her own
desires, where “The Child Speaks,” or
where the, sister speaks in “No Address,”
that Dorothy Frances MeCrae is welcome.
Such verses'have some feeling and sincerity;
but. the booklet as a whole is too reminis-
cent of- the hurried output of the Australia
Day poets. After Soldier, My Soldier, The
Clear Cull is disappointing. The author
is politely, requested to wait a while before
publishing any more war verse. There will
lie plenty of time.
The Red Page
TRIBUTE.
Killed at the Front! Oh, noble end!
He died pale children to defend,
No woman called on hint, in vain,
No aged creature bowed in pain;
He never shunned his country's call,
But gladly gave his life, his all,
And died the helpless to defend,
Oh, noble soldier, noble end!
Killed at the Front! Triumphant death!
No slow disease has stopped his breath,
No wasted chances mock our grief,
Only a courage past belief,
Only a manhood brave and high,
That dared to suffer and to die,
Though in his heart their swords they sheath
Yet he lives on! Triumphant death!
Killed at the-Front! Glad sacrifice!
Pride dries the tears in yearning eyes.
Had he staged sheltered in your arms,
And shut his ears to war's alarms;
Then he had died to you, indeed;
But by his death he lives to lead
More men to greater victories.
Oh, noble .end! Glad sacrifice!
Dorothy Frances McCrae, in “The
Clear Call.”
How to he a Who-who
To be a Who-who is to be famous. And
the only way to become famous is to attend
Douglas Sladen’s literary at-homes at 32
Addison .Mansions, London. Who is Doug-
las Sladen? The first editor of Who’s
Who? An author, too, he says, in his big
autobiographic Twenty Years of My Life
(Constable, per Dymock's Library). In-
deed, very much of an author. His name is
occasionally mentioned in Australia as the
editor of some books upon Adam Lindsay
Gordon and a couple of anthologies of Aus-
tralian verse-—mentioned usually with a
smile. But it appears that Sladen is much
more of" au author than that: he has written
quite a lot of novels, and a horde of travel
books, mostly titled, Queer Things About
... .various countries. But he is famous
because of his literary at-homes at 32
Addison Mansions. He publishes four
colored illustrations —and they all show
different aspects of 32 Addison Mansions.
There, ,are the roof-garden, the Moorish
room, the Japanese room, and the dining
room, “in which most of my books were
written.” Holy ground. It is a delightful
autobiography, not for its style, which is
slummocky and ungrammatical, but for its
delicious Sladenisms. His modest chapter
headings indicate the contents: “I go to
Japan....We start our Literary Homes in
London.... Lady Authors at Addison Man-
sions.... The Writing of My Books” (three
chapters) and even “Australians in Litera-
ture !” An inexplicable omission is a chap-
ter devoted to “Persians in Literature,”
since Sladen admits that he learnt quite a
lot about Persia by writing, in “collabora-
tion, a book upon that hapless country.
J*
Sladen admits that lie was “a child of a
very active brain,” and at school he was,
using his own capitals, “Senior Prefect,
Editor of the school magazine, Captain of
Football, and Captain of the Rifle Corps.”
At Oxford he had “already conceived the
passion for Gothic architecture” which, he
admits, pervades his books. lie left Oxford
for Australia, where he occupied the Chair
of Modern History at Sydney University
for a short term, and published three vol-
umes of verse. But, being of a very active
brain, he discovered that “Australia was not
the place for a literary career.” So we lost
him, though he admits that “the five years
I spent in Australia were fruitful for my
career as an author —most expanding for
the mind.” But he notes that in Australia
he hardly ever went out without a gun;
and he mentions that in Australia “snakes
shrink from human habitations.”
But then everywhere he went lielned him
in his career as an author. Every city he
visited “inspired” him to write books about
it. In the United States the newspapers
announced him as the “Australian Poet,
and he modestly records that the newspaper
announcements were “as long as they would
give to William Watson now. ,t But he
shed this label when he published a book
upon Japan: he became known as the
author who had been to Japan. His know-
ledge of Japan was acquired in a nmsha,
whence he could see “all that the average
foreigner wishes to see,” and thus lie iden-
tified his name with Japan. # Happily he
resisted the temptation to live m Japan, tor
in that case his books upon Japan would
have been sent home as the productions of
an amateur, which would not have laid the
foundation of my career as a travel-book
writer.” But he frankly admits that “China
had no effect upon my literary develop-
ment.” Seems a pity somehow.
J* '
“I was well known at authors’ clubs and
authors’ receptions long before I was known
as an author. In fact, I doubt if many of
those who swarmed to our at-homes ever
thought of me seriously as an author, or even
realised that I wrote.” They know better
now. The poets thronged 32 Addison Man-
sions : “We had quite a nest of singing-
birds.” And Sladen gossips about them ajl,
the poets, the humorists, the “lady authors”
—all geniuses. Even their relatives were
geniuses. He mentions the sister of one.
“I forget what she did, but she was famous.”
He even manufactured geniuses to order.
“Quite a prominent place among the author-
esses who used to assemble on those even-
ings at Addison Mansions is occupied by
novelists who began as my secretaries, and
whom I trained to write.” In case anybody
has ever missed reading these novelists
trained by Douglas Sladen, here are their
names: Norma Lorimer, Maude Chester
Craven, Ethel Phipps, Ethel Stafana
Stevens.
Sladen’s own novels were highly success-
ful. "My Son Richard was very popular.
A duchess wrote to a newspaper which was
collecting statistics about the popularity of
books, that this was the nicest book she had
ever read, and when it came out as a six-
penny the village grocer at Cookham ordered
hundreds, and told me that every maid-ser-
vant for miles around was buying it. I
wish they would buy all my other sixpennies.
To reach the servant class is a most difficult
achievement.” Duchesses, servant-maids
and village grocers! Could any fame be
wider? No wonder Sladen has such an
enormous admiration for his fellow-genius,
Charles Garbage.
Let us turn to “Australians in Litera-
ture” a mine of recondite information. v-
“To my mind, the best author living in Aus-
tralia at the present moment is” Can
any Australian guess?
The Rev. William Henry Kitchett, president of the
General Conference of the Methodist Church, editor
of a magazine and a weekly newspaper, and principal
of a ladies’ college in Melbourne.
And. “‘The best living Australian poet”—?
W. H. Ogilvy: “He caught the spirit of the Aus-
tralian bush better than any poet except Adam Lind-
say Gordon.”
Incidentally, Sladen quotes a Red Page
review of Eleanor Mordaunt’s excellent
Lu of the Ranges, as from “A nil admirari
Australian newspaper, whose editor could not
have known that she was born in England.”
This page did know that unimportant fact.
Let us turn to the higher literary criti-
cism. “It is natural to couple Hall Caine
with Thomas Hardy, for both of them were
brought up as architects, though they turned
to literature, and reached the topmost rung.”
Both, Douglas Sladen? Anyhow, Sladen is
the only critic who has thought of coupling
these names. Hall Caine, we learn, “looks
the genius lie is,” though “liis conversation
is apt to centre round the work he is doing.”
And Charles. Garbage actually lives exactly
opposite the house now inhabited by Doug-
las Sladen! Garbage “undoubtedly has the
largest sale of any in the world. I
have seen the figures. Last year’s sales alone
amounted to 1,750,000 copies—books of all
prices.” His fame was started in England
by a very kind notice in the Queen [written
by myself.—D.S.]. Early in Garbage’s liter-
ary career he sold his copyrights. “Later on,
I got them back by the simple expedient of
buying the periodical, lock, stock and barrel,
in which they had appeared.”
J*
Yet, despite these Sladenisms, the book is
well worth reading. Douglas Sladen is, of
course, merely an ordinary journalist who
writes books. His appreciation of literature
is on a level with his achievement in litera-
ture ; but though to him the test of success
is popularity, even of the Charles Garbage
kind, within his limits Douglas Sladen has a
genuine appreciation of books and writers.
His personal gossip about these writers for
the public is genuinely interesting, if you are
interested in mere popularity. His anec-
dotes are well found : this autobiography will
be much quoted from. Sladen is probably a
decent sort of bloke, an expert in friend-
ships, eager to know everybody and genu-
inely delighted to give any of his innumer-
able acquaintances a lift in the London
press. His book is a naive revelation of the
extent to which the profession of logrolling
flourishes in the London literary press.
Everybody good-naturedly helps everybody
else—and the innocent public swallows the
dose. Sladen, doubtless, honestly believes
that all his crows are kookaburras —or,
father, he mistakes a large circulation for a
large talent. And the public likes it, as it
will like this book, with its intimate con-
fessions of the personal side of literary great-
ness —Douglas Sladen’s idea of literary great-
ness.
And though we, in Australia, have long
known our Douglas Sladen, perhaps we have
been a bit unfair to him. His anthologies of
Australian verse, his books on Gordon, rotten
as they were, did this, at least for Aus-
tralia. He and Patchett Martin spoke of
Australian literature at a time when Eng-
land did not know such a thing existed. That
they spoke with such little knowledge does
not, at the present day, so much matter: at
least, they informed the amazed London
critics that there was really such a thing as
Australian literature.
Finally, Yoshio Markino’s individual por-
traits of best-sellers give the book an artistic
value.
Kipling
Cyril Falls’ critical study of Rudjurd
Kipling (per Dymock’s Library) is the
most disappointing of Martin Seeker’s
lordly series of literary biographies. Falls
goes elaborately through Kipling’s works,
and tells us which of his writings he likes
best, without adequately explaining why.
Byit he is right in his first sentences: “There
are certain writers whose place in the his-
tory of literature is not determined merely
by their merit. They are men of their
hour, men who voice the thoughts and aspi-
rations of their contemporaries, men who
help to explain the writers that go before and
that follow after.” In English literature
these milestones are marked : Byron, Tenny-
son, Wilde, Kipling and Wells. In Aus-
tralian literature. .. . Ilm ! How many
miles, or yards, have we gone? Let us sug-
gest: Henry Kingsley, Marcus Clark, Gor-
don, Kendall, Boldrewood, Lawson, Pater-
son, Steele Rudd, Bedford, Dennis......
Kipling, says Falls, entered the literary
world of the 19th century “as forcibly and
destructively as The notorious bull in a china
shop. He did not attack the guardians of
the China individually—that was not his
way.. He laughed at their designs and their
workmanship, and put his foot through the
subtly-fashioned and highly artistic bowls
that were their ehiefest delight.”
It is always unsafe to criticise anything
alive, even an author: you never know r which
of your definitions of him he may not choose
to smash. But in the case of Kipling his
critic is safe. Kipling is in his literary
coffin. His work is nowadays more alive
than its author. Throughout this book Falls
is conscious of this paralysing doubt w r hether
he is writing of a living force or a literary
corse. Certainly he is not writing of that
19th century bull. Falls puts the case as
well as he can, but Kipling’s silence refutes
him/
■j*
“There are those who declare that Kipling
is ‘written out.’ Such a statement it is im-
possible to deny or to affirm. It may be that
the old days when subjects came so easily
that it was necessary to check his own exu-
berance are gone for ever,...But the fact
remains that we have had from him no book
since Rewards and Fairies, and that for some
years, save for an occasional poem, he has
been silent altogether. It may be that he is
enjoying a period of complete laziness to
which none can be better, entitled than he,
and that after he has let lie fallow his mind
for a few years there will be a renewal of
productive energy. It is not too much to
hope, for Kipling is not yet 50.... It is curi-
ous, and to be, deplored, that Kim should
have had no successor, that Kipling should
since have attempted no complete novel.
It may be that he feels the critics to be
right, that he is not fitted for novel-writing,
that he has exhausted his powers in that re-
spect by struggling on past three very partial
successes to this master-stroke. It must
indeed be remembered that he has written
but little of any kind since its publication.
Compression is indeed one of the most
striking characteristics of Kipling’s style.
He makes use.of the short story, of the short
paragraph, of the short sentence. He puts
both thought and description into the nar-
rowest possible space.... This must always
be taken into account in estimating the
volume of his work. . . .It seems large
enough, but when we come to think that
there is here what would be for another man
the bones and materials for hundreds. of
books, we realise the vast strain of produc-
tion to which he must have put himself in
early days. It is small wonder if the fount
"begins now to run dry.”
That is probably explanation and excuse.
From 1886 to 1904 every year saw at least
one new hook of his published. Kipling, out
of mere exuberance, went on a creative
“burst,” and he is suffering the usual recov-
ery. He has crowded into one long, glori-
ous literary “jag” what would suffice an
Enoch A. Bennett for a lifetime.
In his stories, though Kipling did not
over-praise the young British officer, he
“spoke as if the whole British Army was
officered by such.” South Africa showed
that there were plenty of British officers
who, honorable and courageous men enough,
were not first-class soldiers, because lacking
in initiative and imagination. Falls thinks
that Kipling, like the rest of us, was sadly
disillusioned by the Boer war. But the pre-
sent scrap will cheer Kipling, as it has
cheered us, more than a bit. And Kipling
fails, as so many writers for children fail, in
Puck of Poole's Hill and Rewards and
Fairies. These stories do not really interest
children. The trouble about children’s stories
is that they are judged by adult critics. Alice
in Wonderland is the outstanding example of
the child-story written, for grown-ups. Its
puns and other examples of Victorian humor
have to be drilled into the mind of, at any
rate, the Australian kid. So these stories of
Kipling’s and The Jungle Books are delight-
ful—to grown-ups. However, in The Just-
So Stories Kipling has succeeded in this
most difficult form of writing.
As the finest; example of Kipling’s mastery
of compression, Falls quotes this sentence,
regarding Strickland’s hound, as “surely the
limit of possible compression”:—
“Strickland owed Lis life to her, when ho
was on the Frontier, in search of a local
murderer, who came in the grey dawn to send
Strickland much farther than the Andaman
Islands.”
“In 30 words we are not only told in what
place and circumstances Strickland owed his
life to his slut, but it is implied that when
Strickland caught the man it would be his
fate to be imprisoned, probably for life, in
the convict settlement of the Indian Govern-
ment, that the man knew this, and intended
that Strickland should be sent ‘much far-
ther.’ ”
In Australia surely we have got the art of
the blue-pencil down closer than that? Any-
body like to try with a compressed sentence,,
or short-story of his own, followed by its ex-
planation? At present, Kipling suffers from
comparative neglect, the inevitable conse-
quence of his early intense popularity. His
biographer, as is natural, predicts that an-
other lease of popularity is Kipling’s due in
the near future. Of course, this ebb-tide in
critical appreciation has nothing to do with
the sale of his books, which shows that the
reading public likes, or remembers, its Kip-
ling better than do the critics. Unfortu-
nately, Kipling himself is not doing any-
thing, and seems not likely to do anything,
that will replace him on his pedestal.
: *
R. L. Stevenson was nearly 33 years old
before he earned so much as £3OO in a single
year. It was not untir he was 37 that his
annual earnings from authorship ever
exceeded £4OO. And as R.L.S. died before
his 44th birthday, he was never self-support-
ing until the last six years of his life. Yet
the returns from his books now are esti-
mated as about £5OOO a year. Stevenson
sold the book rights of Treasure Island for
£lOO, but had an agreement under which he
received additional royalties after a certain
sale had been reached. His first two books, now
earning royal royalties. The Inland Voyage ,
and Travels with a Donkey, were complete
failures. Go on the bookstalls, young man!
“Non-Competitor”: Talking of love-
letters, the best on record is available as
penned by Prior* who (like most other poets)
knew his subject, and, further, had a neat
gift of expression. But it has the unfor-
tunate limitation that it cannot decently—-
well, the word is ill-chosen, perhaps; say
“reasonably”—be addressed to anyone but a
widow. Prior realised what a Bulletin
writer acutely said apropos of Kitchener’s
alleged request to Thomas Atkins not to be
“too courteous” to women : namely, that real
Love is prompted—consciously or not—by a
desire to be very rude indeed. In theory,
regrettable, no doubt; but in practice it has
proved a very good working arrangement,
of which in the long run neither side is
known to complain.
The publication of Hun Hedin's With
the German Army in the West has resulted
in a rush of orders for The book by German-
Australian citizens. The order-list of one
bookseller reads like a German dictionary;
xyhile others, more modest, gutterally refused
to give their names, preferring to purchase
the book anonymously when supplies arrive.
The following paragraph, by “Nil,” after
weary wanderings about The Bulletin
office, finds a well-earned resting-place here.
It was first read by the editor-in-chief —
everybody is an editor on The Bulletin,
including the gentleman who edits the letter-
stamping machine and the treasurer who
edits the .accounts. The editor-in-chief
thought at first that the paragraph referred
to Spruce Myth, but its mention of the
Sphynx led’ him to forward it to the war-
editor. Not discovering anything about the
Australian encampment in Egypt, the war-
editor sent it, with his compliments, to the
Abo-editor, as a contribution-upon cats. The
Abo-editor, for the same reason, thought it
more suitable to the Woman’s Letter. The
female editor hurled this contribution upon
cats with spurn upon the wild-cat editor’s
desk. Thence, in turn, it reached, for obvi-
ous reasons, the Religious Editor, tjiC Oldest
Inhabitant, “Hop,” the Poverty Point editor,
and the editor who answers correspondents
with an axe. This editor suddenly remem-
bered the Red Page editor, who presides
over what is regarded by the innumerable
other editors as the office garbage-tin; and
here finally, without prejudice, it comes to
rest:—
“Nil”: I have rediscovered the “Riddle of <
the Sphynx.” Everybody having either a
cat or a woman on the premises has hal f
a sphynx, Those who have both have the
two halves. But two halves do not always/
make a whole. In order to do that they |
. must be properly combined. Take the woman j
average and the cat average for the last*
hundred centuries, and combine them in
equal proportions, and. you have the sphynx.
One woman and one cat won’t make a
sphynx. Nor yet will a thousand of each.
Turn up a photograph of the ancient statue.
Its attitude is feline: my cat squats and
gazes into the fourth dimension like that for
half-hours at a time. The face of the sphynx
is feline and feminine in expression. As
in ancient Egypt women ruled the “church,”
and eats were sacred, this writer concludes,
that the people who lived under the thrall
of persons called “Hop Step” and “Hu-
Rah” constructed a monument to the com-
bination. And the meaning of the Sphynx
is just what,cats mean when they couch and
look into infinity, and what women mean
when they say what they don’t mean.


.4
xiGe
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Half-Yearly SALE
FINISHES WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 18, 1915.
Genuine Reductions in Every Department.
Agricultural Hits.
6 AViard, No. 21, 1-horse Hillside Plows, each —
Usual Price, 42/6; Reduced to 40/-
6 AViard, No. 100, 2-horse Plows —-
Usual Price, 75/-'; Reduced t" 70/-
6 AA'iard, No. 66, Road Plows —-
Usual Price, *6/12/6; Reduced to £O/7/6
2 AViard, Xo. 203, Double-furrow Gang Plows- -
Usual Price, *9/5/-; Reduced to £8
1 AViard, No. 60, Reversible Sulky Plow —
Usual Price, *l3/10/-; Reduced to £l2
4 Canton, Single-furrow Disc Plows —
Usual Price, £l3/10/- ; Reduced to £l3
12 Ames, No. 40, AVood Beam Plows —
Usual Price, 25/-; Reduced to 22/6
12 Ames, No. 42, AA'ood Beam Plows —-
Usual Price, 30/-; Reduced to 26/6
10 Mathews, No. 10, Hand Plows —
Usual Price, li/-; Reduced to 8/-
18 Mathews, Steel Frame Garden Plows —-
Usual Price, 17/6; Reduced to 1 6 /-
6 AViard, 3ft. Spading Harrows —
Usual Price, £6/10/-; Reduced to £6/5/-
1 AViard, 4ft. Spading Harrow—
Usual Price, £6/15/-; Reduced to £6/10/-
7 AA’iard, 7ft. C Spading Harrows —-
Usual Price, £B/12/-; Reduced to £8
1 AViard, 7ft. F Spading Harrow—
Usual Price, £9/io/-; Reduced to £9
8 sots AViard, 3ft. Discs for Spading Harows, sets —
Usual Price, 44/-; Reduced to 40/-
6 sets AViard, 4ft. Discs for Spading Harrows —
Usual Price, 50/-; Reduced to 45/-
3 sets AA'iard, Oft. Discs for Spading Harrows —
Usual Price, 75/-; Reduced to 70/-
5 sft. Disc Harrows, each —•
Usual Price, £8; Reduced to £7/15/-
6 Oft. Disc Harrows —-
Usual Price, *B/15/-; Reduced to £B/10/-
6 pair Canton 50-tooth Lever Guard Harrows, pair,
Usual Price, 75/-; Reduced to 70/-
18 pairs Canton 60-tooth Lever Guard Harrows—
Usual Price, 84/-; Reduced to 80/-
50 Excel Lever Harrows, each —-
Usual Price, 31/6; Reduced to 27/6
For the Poultry Farmer.
Incubators that tvill Hatch every Egg
Worth Hatching.
The Celebrated Cypher’s Hot-air Incubators—
Nos. 0 12 3
Approximate Capadtv—-
66 140 240 390 Eggs.
Usual Price —
. £7 £lO/15/- £l4 £l7/5/-
Reduced to—
£6/17/6 £lO/10/- £l3/15/- £l6/17/6
The Well-known Buffalo Incubators, made by
Charles Cyphers—-
Nos. 0 12 3
«0 120 249 360 Eggs.
Usual Price—
£4/12/6 £5/17/6 £7/15/- £9/15/-
Reduced to—
£4/10/- £5/12/6 £7/10/- £9/10/-
10 360-egg Buffalo Incubators, slightly damaged, at
Reduced Rates.
0 Buffalo Outdoor Brooders,., slightly damaged on
bases only—•
Usual Price, £6; Reduced to £5/10/-
Bee Keepers’ Sundries.
Empty Supers, 8-frame, sfin. deep, in crates of 25
Reduced to 1/6 each
Frames for ditto— Reduced to 15/- per 100
ideal Sections for ditto—-
Reduced to 3/- per.ioo
All-wood Frames, full depth— ~
, „ , Reduced to 14/- per 100
staple Spaced— Reduced to 17/6 per 100
Dolittle’s Solar Extractor —
Reduced to 23/- each
Hershier Hot-water AVax Extractor, with strong
screw pressure— Reduced to 40/- each
Special Offer during Sale only.
Genuine “AAhite Process” American Foundation—
Medium, about 6' sheets ‘to t'ffe lb. '.. 2/2 lb.
Light, about 9 sheets to the lb. .. 2/5 lb.
Danzenbaker Bee Hive, 1J storey,’ 10 frames with
sections.. ~ 11/6 each iii lots of 5
FIFTY YEARS of “PUNCH”
The first hundred half-yearly issues of Punch, in
25 Quadruple Cloth Bound volumes, each about
11-iin. high, 9jin. wide, and 2fin. thick; containing
30,000 pages, with Admit 50,000 illustrations,
printed from the original plates, to which is added
a 26th volume to match, being “The History of
Punch," by M. 11. Spielmann, enriched with numer-
ous portraits, facsimiles of autographs and other
curiosities of literature.
26 VOLUMES, CLOTH BOUND.
PACK ED COMPLETE.
Sold by “The Times” in London at £45:
Sale price, delivered n K Spot,
in Sydney— Cash.
BOOKCASE, 35/- EXTRA.
• • •
• • •
THE
Bennett Portable Typewriter
Bennett
lyvcivtttec
-c Afowpa*? .VwVAtv
10in. long, sin. wide, 2in. high, weight, 51b.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’*
SALE PRICE—
£4
POST
FREE
The BENNETT is a practical Standard
Keyboard Typewriter, offered at a price
within the reach of all. It is Compact,
Portable and Strong, built for hard usage,
to last a lifetime.
The BENNETT does nearly everything
most expensive machines do, and does it
easily and neatly. Ease of operation is one
of its greatest recommendations.
The BENNETT Typewriter will do beautiful, clean-looking work which cannot
be distinguished from that of the larger machines. It will write plainly and legibly
the work of authors, the sermons of preachers, the briefs of lawyers, and the regular
correspondence of a business man.
The BENNETT Typewriter nufy be operated by all the fingers of both hands,
and takes all sines of paper up to 8J inches wide.
No Course of Instruction, no long hours of practice are necessary to master the
simple features of the BENNETT. The novice quickly learns the universal key-
board.
The BENNETT Typewriter, packed in a neat Leatherette Case, is 10 inches long,
5 inches wide, and 2 inches high, and weighs 5 pounds.
Every part of the BENNETT Typewriter is made of the best hardened steel, and
the most skilled labor furnishes the workmanship. The Type Face is identical with
the larger machines. The adjustment is accurate, and the type alignment is safe-
guarded by a special device.
ROYAL ENFIELD BICYCLE
Manufactured by the Royal Enfield Cycle Co., Redditch, England.
Frame, 22in.; Wheels, 28 x IJin.; Rims nickel-plated with black centres and edges;
Barnet Glass Daddy Tyres; Grips, Celluloid; Front Brake, Rim with inverted
lever; Back Brake, Rim with inverted lever; Free Wheel, Hyde; Mud Guards,
beaded edges; Chain, Jin. x Jin. pitch; Gear, 74 ; Cranks, Tin.; Saddle Gough’s
G. 0.; Pedals, Rat-trap, 4in.; Finish, enamelled black, lined crimson and chrome —
Gent’s Light Roadster .. .. . . .. . . During Sale only, £B/5/-
Lady’s Light Roadster .. .. .. .. .. „ £B/15/-
THE MARATHON BICYCLE
Built of Bonn's Fittings, at our Redfern Factory.
Frame, Reynolds’ Tubings ; Front Forks, box crown, D forks, crown plated ; Wheels,
28in. x lfin., Westwood steel rims, plated spokes ; Tyres, Barnett Glass Daddy
covers and tubes; guaranteed 6 months; Handle Bars, reversible or half-drop bar,
with grips; Brake, Phillips front rim; Chain, Jin. x Jin., roller; Chain Wheel,
Jin. x Jin., detachable, and Tin. crank; Saddle, English ; Pedals, 3|in., Phillips,
rat-trap or rubber; Finish, Black, stove enamel, of good quality.
Complete with Tool Bag. Set of Tools. Oil Can, Inflator and Clips—
During Sale, £5/10/-
li fitted with Eadie Coaster Hub .. .. .. .. ~ £0
Or v r ith Eadie Two-speed Coaster Hub .. . . . . .. ~ £7
Lady’s Marathon Bicycle .. .. .. .. .. .. 20/-extra
With Dunlop Tyres, 20/- extra.
POPULAR TOBACCO.
GUNS REDUCED.
PIGEON GUNS—■Hammerless.
W. W. Greener’s 12 G. D.8.8.L. Gun, Special
iigeon, top lever, side safe, 30iu. steel barrels,
both choke, chambered for 2:iin. cases, nitro
proof, each —
... Plice » £27/10/-; Reduced to £2O.
"• "• Greeners 12 G D.8.8.L. Gun, fitted with
treble wedge, fast cross bolt, 30in. steel barrels,
belli choke, facile priuceps system of breech
mechanism, chambered for 2|in. cases, and
proved for nitro powders, each —
... LsiuU Price, £'2l ; Reduced to £lB/15/-
*' • • Greeners 12 G. D.B.b.g. Guns,. 30in« steel
barrels, both choke chambered for 2jin. cases,
top lever, cross bolt, each—■
t xt E?™, 1 J >ri ? e> 13 / 10 i Reduced to £l2
I. Hollis & Son s 12 G. DJ3.ii.ij. Guns, 30in. steel
barrels, Anson & Deelej' action, Greener’s patent
treble wedge, cross bolt, chambered for 2jin.
eases, proved for all nitro powders, English
Walnut stock, each —
Usual Price, £ll/10; Reduced to £9/10/-
With Hammers.
I Ilollis & Sons’ 12 G. D.8.8.L. Guns, hammers
below line of sight, 30in. Siemens & Martin
steel barrels, cfiambered for 2:|in. eases, re-
bounding hammers, full pistol grip, Walnut
stock. A good, reliable gun for good shooting,
each —-
Usual Price, £B/8/-; Reduced to £7/10/-
I. Hollis & bons 12 G. D.8.8.L. Guns, “The Pan-
mure,” OOin. steel barrels, treble wedge fast
cross bolt, chambered for 2:|in. eases, 'Walnut
stock, pistol grip, eacli—
Usual Price, £0; Reduced to £5/12/-
FIELH SHOT GUNS—Hammerless.
1 Hollis & Sons’ 12 G. D.8.8.L. Guns, 30in. steel
barrels, cross bolt, chambered for 2|in. eases,
proved for nitro powder, pistol grip, walnut
stock, each—
t 'i>>jv Usua i I>r . ic , c ’, £O/io/-; Reduced to £9
I. Hollis <X Sons 12 G. D.8.8.L. Guns, back action,
rebounding locks, doll’s head extension, each —
tn . r Usua l p, ;> ce . BdU; 8 d U; j Reduced to 72/0
J. 0. Hayne 12 G. D.8.8.L. Guns, 30m. steel bar-
rels, treble wedge fast locks, solid bar, engine-
turned rib, Walnut stock, each—-
. _ . r Usual Price, £5 ; Reduced to 85/-
J. 0. Mayne 12 G. D.8.8.L. Guns, 30in. twist
barrels, bar locks, treble wedge fast cross bolt,
Walnut stock, pistol grip, each—
T Usual Price, 97/<i; Reduced to 80/-
J. O. Mayne 12 G. D.8.8.L. Guns, Shin, twist
barrels, back action, rebounding locks, hammer
below line of sight, each —•
a i i * U m ial ’ Reduced to 60/-
Scliolefleld s 12 G. D.8.8.L. Guns, 30in. twist
barrels, bar locks, top lever, neatly “'finished,
each—
Usual Price, G7/G; Reduced to 57/6
SINGLE BARREL SHOT GUNS.
J. O. Ma.vne 5.8.8. L. Guns, 12 G., 30in. twist
barrel, back action’ Walnut stock, each—
„ , , - n H sual „ p "f» Reduced to 52/6
Seholefleld’s 5.8.8. L. 12 G. Guns, 30in. twist bar-
rel, top lever, back action, each—-
Usual Price, G2/6; Reduced to 51/-
Popular Medicines.
80 doz. Little Liver Pills
42 doz. Liver Invigorators, a re-
liable medicine for bilious-
ness
2 doz. Nux Vomica Compound
Tablets, 100 in bottle
38 doz. Pile Remedy Tablets ..
60 doz. Pui-gen Tablets, an aperi-
ent for adults
1 doz. Rhubarb and Magnesia
Tablets, 100 in bottle
30 doz. Soda Mint Tablets, 30
in bottle
20 doz. Walk Easy Tablets, for
sore feet, tin..
40 doz. Worm Cakes, C chocolates
in tin
CURES FOR COUGHS.
90 doz. Muco-Solvent, for sore
throat and inflammation of
the mucous membrane, bottle
36 doz. Ammoiiiated Tincture of
Quinine, loz.
24 doz. ditto, ditto, 2oz.
10 doz. ditto, ditto, 4oz.
2 doz. Cod Liver Oil, A. 11. &' S.,
16oz.
26 doz. Eucalyptus Extract, Vic-
torian, 3oz.
5 doz. Emulsion of Cod Liver
Oil, A. H. & 5.,*160z.
12 doz. Malt and Cod Liver Oil,
A. H. & S., 16oz
12 doz. Glycerine and Linseed,
A. H. & S., Boz
20 doz. ditto, ditto, ditto, 16oz.
54 doz. Cough Cure Tablets, tin
12 doz. Black Currant Lozenges,
box .. .. .. .. -/6
13 doz. Chlorodyne Jujubes .. */6
10 doz. Delectable Jujubes .. -/<>
9 doz. Eucalyptus Jujubes .. -/0
36 doz. Linseed, Licorice and
Chlorodyne Lozenges . . -/i>
14 doz. Extract of Licorice Drops */8
S doz. Menthol and Eucalyptus
Pastilles -/C
9 doz. Assorted Chemists’ Mix-
tures .. .. .. .. -/6
2
boxes
for
-/»
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace ILnvporitxm.
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


,-A
Self-Loading Shotgun, 12 Gauge
The Winchester Model 1911 Self-Loader is a wild-fowl gun par excellence. The
.ecoil ejects the fired shell, feeds a loaded shell from the magazine into the
chamber, cocks the hammer and leaves the gun ready to be fired again. In wild-
fowl shooting, the game often comes fast and when least expected. Shoot a
Winchester Self-Loader and you can always be prepared for a series of shots; for
the loading and firing of this gun are controlled by the trigger finger. As the re-
coil of this gun is used to operate the reloading mechanism, the “kick” of heavy
loads is minimized, making the gun very pleasant to shoot. It is a hammerless,
two-part, take-down, five-shot repeater, that works well with all standard loads.
The working parts being made of Nickel steel, make it strong and safe.
Ask your dealer to show you the Winchester that’s
LOADED BY RECOIL, CONTROLLED BY THE FINGER TRIGGER.
as
aiisisK-fjyt
m
mm
HOTEL
METROPOIE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from ds.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
Tiie Manager.
\ II //////
m/.
. w
%
Rameses’
gloomy
mornings
Your own gloomy mornings
are due to the same cause
as his. The ages have made no
change in the human system.
liis liver, his bile, his
cigestion, his elimination —
his whole system —acted
in the same way as yours.
If he had only had
Cockle’s Pills he could have
been as cheerful every
morning as you can be.
Since their discovery, the
principal advance in medi-
cine has been that doctors
know better and better
the reasons why Cockle’s
Pills are unequalled in
their gentle power to
help nature help herself.
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE <Sc CO., 4 Great Ormon i St., London, Eng.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
BAIL
FITTINGS
“THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.”
c
sti
s
/
(jJJTT
e.
*W
*AA^
YOU will have a jolly time if
your bicycle is built of B.S.A.
Fittings, simply because you will
not be worried with things going
wrong: and the little irritating troubles
which generally accompany the cheap
“ pattern ” machine will be missing,
A B.S.A. will help yon to make the
mOSt Of Cycling —easy, free-from-trouble
cycling—in fact you will get better value for
your money by buying a B.S.A. There's no
"just as good as B.S:A." in bicycles, therefore
see that you get the genuine, which is stamped
with the three piled rifles—the guarantee of
quality.
B.S.A. Handbook Free .
D. Y. RENNIE, (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
B. S. A. CHEAPEST IN THE END
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN (El SONS LTD.
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
fox- SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.13.8.L, GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holidav
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long. .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Hoi***--,
Price.' 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4- BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
IEUSEPSfImPLATING SOLUTIOJV
A Wonderful Preparation It plates with
PURE SILVER any article ’ot Brass, Copper,
Bronzb or Electro-Plate. Warranted brilliant
and durable. Contains no poison. Simply
rub it on and ACTUAL STERLING SjLVER is
deposited in one minute. Renovates spoons,
forks, plated-ware, motor and bicycle fittings,
lamps, brassware, &c. A good-sized bott.le
tor NINE PENCE, posted anywhere, 3 bottles
for 2/- Money back if it fails The UNION
COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Streep Melbourne.
EUREKA
JilvW-finm
PURE SILVEK
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES————
.lust wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
t-u now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
“I SUFFERED DREADFULLY
FRDM
NERVUUS BREAKDDWN
AND
INSOMNIA. I WAS CURED BY
Clements Tonic”
Mrs. Iloare, the wife of the Officer-in-charge of the Guilford Poli<|
Station, N.S.W., writes :
“For about five years I suffered from Nervous Breakdown and
Insomnia. I would shake all over. I had given up all hope of ever
being well again. There is no need to tell people who see me now of
the wonderful results of Clements Tonic. After I had taken SIX
bottles I was restored to my present state of health, WHICH IS
PERFECT.
“You may publish this, as I think everyone should know about
Clements Tonic and what it can do for them.”
(Signed) MRS. MARY ETHEL HOARE.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL THIS SIMPLY WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
GET IT AND GET WELL TO-DAY. IT MEANS HEALTH.


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day. and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —all chem-
ists sell them-—and you will, within a very
STS
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
Bloods—like little bits of broken g'lass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
Do Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief—every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
ħ
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook's Saddles, etc.
MODELS £3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
fleet A2«2 LIVERFCGL
WAR
Prompt Shipment 8 Safe Delivery
Guaranteed. No Advance in Prices
Make£6tofl2lVeekli)
Belling our new unequalled PETROL
table and hanging lamp for lighting
city and rural homes, stores, halls,
and churches. Most powerful light
known. ABSOLUTELY SAFE.
COSTS 1/2 PENNY A NIGHT
More brilliant and many times
cheaper than gas or electricity. Guar-
anteed five years. Everyone a possi-
ble customer. No experience neces-
sary. Exclusive territory free.
Write for prices today.
SUNSHINE SAFETY LAMP CO.
18Factory Bldg., Kansas City, ho., U. S. A.
h
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To kpep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and wd will post vou a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (lilac kail P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “l icas a heavy smoker for 6.1 years,
but after taking your treatment for V t days l
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
l2.
Bormington’
Jubes
For the VOICE *
THROAT (EL LUNGS
? T f *s® Y niq l’ 0 P a . ndT ' 1,,1nb ® curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss
They afford[immediate reliefin ease of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice Huskhaess
Spasmodic Cough, BronchiulTrouble etc. Whilst soothing and antisepticin their actfon
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances. ’
0t?
/ K>
'Els/,
4t*
sir
&
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for u«e by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also And
them the best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonning'ton & Co., Ltd.
17.) HvIMilS STREET - - SYDNEY
PRICE 3/6
Kephaldol(Stohr?
" TABLETS (3 Grains each) [
each tablet CONTAINS M%PHEMACT tin. If i
■V
.
9/£ 3Diad
SJL3ISVJL S£
ft
1(6
GET RID OF YOUR
PAINS AND ACHES.
3|6
(4001)
Would you like to be rid for ever of the racking pain and
aches from a bad head—from NEURALGIA, NEURITIS,
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO and the various
nerve pains that make your life miserable? Use KEPHALDOL.
(MADE: IN AUSTRALIA.)
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. PRICE I/O and 3/6.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Lumbago
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War. enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
t
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCIIEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Home-Coming.
By blink of dawn I came
Where the faint field emboAvers
The broAvn bee round with flowers,
Thorned stalks of scented flame,
Gold cups and fluted bells,
And long flat-seeded shells ;
Black earth and SAveet green sleeves
Of early aspen grass.
Between the leaning leaves
I felt the soft Avind pass.
O God, for this good time)
For sun and warm Avliite rain,
For hedge and stone and grain,
My very heart doth chime —-
Glad to be home again.
N.S.AV.
HUGH McCRAE.
Fog.
Night—and a shroud-like mist on the quay
Moves as a creeping, smothering ghost,
Gliding in from the strangled sea,
Blotting out harbor-lights, sky and coast;
Stealthily climbing the fern-clad hill.
Breathing its death through each helpless
tree,
O’er hedge and grass to my window-sill.
Till its chill, grey terror lays hands on
me!
Night—and this salt-dew’d mist on the hill.
Like the folds of a shroud ! O Heart, be still!
VICTORIA.
M. K. P ATON.
Hoinily.
If you would live a sober life,
And never hear the snarl of Care,
Take Madame Prudence for your wife,
Adore the doleful, shun the fair.
O friends o’ mine, take heed and mark!....
It’s very necessary when
You’d join the huckster and the shark
And live like Christian gentlemen.
Would you be Christian gentlemen,
Well-housed and comfortably clad?
The first thing to remember, then,
Is that all life is hard and sad.
It must be hard and sad, that is.
If you’d do as you ought to do ;
Warm colors and suave harmonies •
Can only make a fool of you.
All hopes are false, all dreams are mad;
Art’s a vain jade who dances stark.
Pray you, be always grim and sad,
Like other asses in the Ark.
So shall you in the end, you see,
Be better off than one in ten,
And hate the laughing world and me,
Like other Christian gentlemen.
MAORILAND.
Selwyn Rider.
Three Sonnets.
I.
Upon a day when all the world was new,
And hope sang till the hills laughed out in
gold,
We met; then, on an impulse uncontrolled,
We kissed, and I was proud, thus kissing
you.
The glad hills shouted, and the shimmering
blue
Soft sky sang rapture. Thus the tale was
told,
And you were mine, Babette, to have and
hold,
While all things else shrank paltry in the
view.
I spoke of love; but you were very wise.
And said : “Not love-—not yet—say prefer-
ence.
We frolic gladly. That path leads above.”
But still ’twixt kiss and kiss I drank your
sighs,
Still fierce delight outsoared the clogs of
sense,
And still in dreams I walked and talked with
Love.
11.
You, lying in my arms, contentedly,
Kissing and kissed, one murmurous after-
noon,
When the chill silvern glimmer of the moon
Half chid the sunset’s ardors —you, maybe,
Some little overpressed by joy and me—-
Do you remember how, as in a swoon,
You ceased from kissing, fluttered, frowned,
and soon,
All dewy-eyed, turned from me petulantly?
’Twas then that first I knew T the depth and
strength
Of this blest bond between us; then I
guessed
The very sweetness of this mystery....
At length I knew my lady—ah ! at length
I saw the heavens opened. For the rest,
I drew you close, and Love came home to
me.
ill.
Dea-, when I come to die, you will remain
Awhile, that harassed men shall stav their
feet
To turn and gaze as, smiling down the street.
You pass, and, looking, love you. Or, again,
Some child who weeps upon his little pain
Shall glance up in swift wonderment and
meet
Your clear, soft eyes, and find you very
SAveet—•
Ah, lady mine, of whom this heart is fain !
But in men’s eyes that praise you. comrade
true,
On the dear lips of children that you kiss,
Still shall you seek your memories of me.
And I. your man, shall watch and wait for
you
Out in God’s silence, you my perfect bliss.
And clasp you close through our eternity!
N.S.AV.
FRANk MORTON.


£
mm
Hasn’t THat Boy Returned--^-?
Efficiency demands that you should discard old methods that waste time and
money. Have you ever thought of the time wasted by boys and girls running
messages to this department and that?
A‘ ‘KELLOGG” Telephone System
installed in your building would save money for you, Mr. Business Man, and
prove far more convenient and efficient.
Phone puts you in touch with every person in your employ—
just press a button and you can call them to your office or give any directions
you wish.
\Ve are Sole Agents- for the “Kellogg” Switchboard and Supply Co., of
Chicago—let us quote cost of installation for YOU.
w. G. WATSON &, CO. LTD.
“ Suppliers of Everything Electrical,”
270 Clarence Street; 426-430 Kent Street, Sydney
(Just round from the Town Hall).
VICTORIAN REPRESENTATIVE: Gee. Smith Marison, Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Leading
Residential Hoteit Melbourne
MW
SWIM
u |g|sf
Eggsf
b &«s2- e
Single Rooms from 4/- per day
Special Weekly Rates =Tariff Card posted on application.
Letters & Telegrams to Manager Grand Hotel
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
A
Examine tHe Heads
of tHe .22*s You Use
If they are stamped with the letter “U”
then they are the genuine Remington
UMC .22 calibre cartridges.
These little cartridges, with a .22 Remington
Repeater or any other standard make of .22 calibre
rifle, will afford you more pleasure at less cost, than
can be secured in any other way.
Learn to shoot with these accurate cartridges; or improve your
score if already a shooter and < protect yourself by insisting on
tiie Remington UMC red ball brand.
We shall be pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When writing, send us the name of your dealer .
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
JL>. J>. BRYANT, Australian Representative,
P.O. Box (iSti, Melbourne.
h
'uifif ro
LAM)
DROTT’
Swedish
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
for all purposes on
/
MARINE.
I-ARM, STATION, COUNTRY HOUSE OR MOTOR - BOAT.
WOOD AND CHAFF CUTTING, PUMPING, ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
Crude oil is cheaper than kerosene and safer. Power costs only
one-third that of a petrol engine with our system of water injection.
Our Marine type, for Fishing Boats and small Tugs, a Speciality,
Write for
particulars to
Swedish Drott Motors,
C. HILDB BRAND, Asrent,
306 Kent Street, Sviiney.
P.O. Box 2097.
Plenty of attention
to the Garden
NOW
will produce
good results as
the summer
approaches.
Watering
and
Spraying
are the main essentials
for success. Get a length «
of
, tf'l
<ni
i 'V|l
'I w
?
:JV lt ?
JiWRIK
WATERSHED Bed Rubber Carden Hose
It is the very higliest-grade hose, and is guaranteed to be free from any fault in
manufacture that would cause it to burst, split, peel or kink.
IT IS MADE IN AUSTRALIA, TOO.
•Jin. x 3-ply -/» per ft. fin. x 3-ply 1/- per ft.
Less Jd. foot for half or full coils (30ft. or 00ft.).
Samples and Catalogues sent post free. i t.
Send l'or a circular of the “Levinson” Automatic Cartridge Sprayer.
“Watershed” Hose is obtainable through all leading Storekeepers, or direct from the Manufacturers,
PERDRIAU
R6bb?r
Co. Ltd.
270 George St., Sydney.
105 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
09 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Also Brisbane & Perth.
GRACE BROS. FURNITURE
B
oy
FOR
CARPS
c
Or
Hv\Y. S
FOR
PININ6
The advantage of this table lies in its compactness. Tt measures
only 4ft. tin. across the top, yet seats six people comfortably whether at
Cards or Dinner; and can be put away in a corner when not in use.
Top view shows Table and Chairs packedbottom view indicates
well the construction and appearance of both.
AIL made of SOLID OAK (“Mission” or any desired finish).
Chairs with spring seats upholstered in DEAL LEATHER- —the whole
nicely finished in every detail. In short, it’s a gentleman’s furnishing.
Price £.16 lOs. Complete.
Our new 128-page Catalogue is a mine of information relative to
styles and prices of Household and Office Furniture. Gives you
unlimited choice of the best kinds. Write for a copy —no obligation.
The Model
Store,
GRACE BROS.
Broadway,
SYDNEY.
IST


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post) as a Newspaper.
Vol. 36.—N0. 1852.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 12, 1915.
Prtce fin.
“THE IMAGE VILE OF FRAUD.”
Lo, the tell monster with the deadly sting,
Who passes mountains, breaks through fenced walls
And firm embattled spears, and with his filth
Taints all the world!...
Forthwith that image vile of Fraud appear'd,
His face the semblance of a just man's wore,
So kind and gracious was its outward cheer;
The rest was serpent a 11....
As ofttimes a light skiff, moor'd to the shore,
Stands part in water, part upon the land.
Or, as where dwells the greedy German boor.
The beaver settles, watching for his prey,
So on the rim that fenced the sand with rock
Sat perch'd the fiend of evil.
Dante’s •• Inferno,” Canto XVII*


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
J 1 or £ 1 6s. 6d. ver Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address. is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or 1 ansmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid, for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e.. any picture
which has to be re-drawn—-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South A erica. — The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
Nen’S Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co.. Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. F. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
llandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Manriland,
Fiji, British Papua. Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lQoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz.. Id., Sioz. to 10oz.. 2id. ;
lOnz. to Koz., 3d.; elsewhere, 1/oz., Id., and id. each
additional ?nr.
IfcT&tzlZeim.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 12, 1915.
“EVERY FIT MAN IS WANTED.”
So ran the legend on banners borne through
the streets of the cities of Australia last
week. For what? To win a politicians’
war? To help put more money in the
pockets of some mighty syndicate? To swell
our already bloated Empire? None of these
things! There is no party that questions
the justifiableness of this war; it is not
being waged for territory; and even if we
won it in an unthinkably short time there
would still be no financial profit in it. It
is one of those Imperial death-struggles
which occur but once in centuries; the sort
of war that Carthage waged—and lost. It
is peculiarly our war. In the mud of
Flanders and the woods of the Argonne, on
the hills of Gallipoli and among the rivers
and marshes outside Warsaw, the future of
thousands of casual Australian citizens is
being decided. The local capitalist is having
his savings defended there. If Germany
wins it will be our capitalists’ privilege to
beggar themselves by the payment of war-
taxes. If the Allies go down it will be the
Australian worker’s lot to pay for the war
with the only asset he will be in a position
to provide—cheap labor, and lots of it. No
part of any of our lives is going to remain
the same if the worst happens—neither our
literature nor our sport, our governmental
institutions nor our drama, our manners
nor our social customs. We shall have to
submit ourselves to be Germanised, or expa-
triate ourselves. Thousands of miles away
from these peaceful shores total strangers,
many of them uncouth and filthy men, miser-
able, verminous, with hate and terror in
their eyes, are being shot down, blown up,
hacked with bayonets and poisoned by
chemicals —for us. They cannot speak our
language ; many of them do not know that
Australia exists. Yet they are defending
our freedom, our money, and our women-
folk as surely as though their trenches
stretched round Melbourne or Sydney. If
they had not yielded anywhere we might
swallow, with a certain amount of com-
placency, the shame of having foreigners
■defend us, reflecting that, though the in-
dignity is considerable, the financial and
other savings are vast. But in point of
fact they have been forced to yield almost
■everywhere. Some of the Allied nations —
Fiance, Belgium and Servi'a, for example-
have put practically all their available men
into the firing-line. With every fresh sol-
•dier killed these countries are weakened.
Bet us, in this dark hour, when every fit
man is wanted at the Front, and when
-every other citizen should be helping at
ihome, take stock of our situation.
After a year of war the Commonwealth
has offered about 12 per cent, of its men
of a fighting age. The record is creditable
enough, in all the circumstances. But such
things are relative. Germany, with a popu-
lation of 67 millions, has already sum-
moned all its able-bodied men between 19
and 45. A new levy is to include all males
between 16 and 65. Austria, with a popu-
lation of 56 millions, is doing likewise.
Australia, recognising that it is not living
up to the requirements of the position, has
lately undertaken a recruiting campaign.
Crowds of politicians are going about get-
ting insulted in the name of patriotism. Two
classes of young men attend their meetings
—those who have already made up their
minds to go to the Front, and those who
not only are resolved to stay away but also
resent that anyone should ask them to enlist.
Young men of the latter type have been
found all over the Commonwealth in the
last few. weeks. They howled at Colonel
Lystek in Brisbane and—reinforced by others
—at Holman in Sydney; 20 of them
“stamped noisily out of a Sydney meeting
addressed by Levy, M.L.A.”; and so on.
Speakers have begun to write to the papers
mentioning as something to be proud of that
they haven’t had insults hurled at them for
trying to serve their country as recruiting
sergeants. Yet for every militant shirker
who goes to a recruiting meeting and makes
a row, there are 50 furtive ones who stay
at home. They justify themselves, in the
first place, by the argument that they are
ready enough to defend Australia, but don’t
recognise the necessity or justice of leaving
the country to do it. In truth, Australia
can only be defended abroad in this parti-
cular war. If Britain goes down in Flan-
ders and the Dardanelles, Australia will
automatically become as defenceless as
Brussels was when Namur and Liege fell.
Our shirkers fall back, in the second place,
on an analysis of what others, whose obliga-
tions are as obvious as theirs, are not doing.
While hundreds of private citizens and
public companies have given generously to
the national funds, there are other hundreds
that haven’t. The names of scores of
wealthy landlords, squatters, barristers,
business men, and great monopolies that
have either given nothing at all or some-
thing which is out of proportion to their
means is on every shirker’s lips. He asks
why he should voluntarily risk his life for
a cause to which the wealthy will give volun-
tarily neither their lives nor a fraction of
their incomes. The assailed plutocrats now
have a fair answer. They can point to a
Federal income tax reaching up to ss. in
the f, and to taxes up to 30 per cent, on
probate; and they can claim that such im-
posts approach to a form of financial con-
scription. The young slacker, who as a
rule is offered more money for his services
than he ever before got in his life, must now
find some other excuse for refusing to do
his duty.
* * * ’*
In Europe munitions and cannon are
being turned out in frantic haste. The
British Intelligence Department estimated
last month that Germany has now close on
2,000,000 workers employed ceaselessly at
war work. This country has not, so far,
made a shell or a field-gun. In the words
of a Melbourne daily: “Nine days ago the
Minister of Defence admitted that all the
information on the subject of shell-making
had been received. Still there are no
results .” One handicap is the continual
atmosphere of doubt as to where the Federal
powers end and the State powers begin, and
vice versa. A measure known as the Enemy
Contracts Bill is now lumbering slowly
through the Victorian Parliament. During
the debate in the Assembly the following
occurred: —•
Mr. J. W. Billson : Where does the jurisdiction of
the Commonwealth cease and that of the State begin?
The Attorney-General: The Commonwealth had
control over Australian contracts ; but many of the
contracts were merely State contracts—in the sense
that they were made within Victoria or South Aus-
tralia.
It is the sort of demented situation which is
arising everywhere, and which is causing
the waste of months of priceless time. And
yet the National Government seems in no
hurry to acquire those fresh powers without
which it can’t go promptly into the gun, or
the munition-producing, or any other sort of
business. There are means by which the
Government could within a week get war
powers as absolute almost as those which
are held by the British Cabinet. The
Bulletin put forward the most practicable
of these devices last month. But the Gov-
ernment of Andrew Fisher isn’t taking
anything of a revolutionary character. It
is all for safety and order and gradualness
and the old, accustomed rut. The time
is ripe—has been ripe for months —
for . the abandonment of the old con-
ventions. The first anomaly that ought to
go is _ voluntary service. The business
of wailing for recruits by means of posters,
politicians’ speeches, white feathers and so
forth is as degrading as those other appeals
by which our hospitals are periodically
rescued from insolvency. Speaking broadly
the system gets the wrong men—the best
—leaving the bad patriots and the cowards
behind, There is everything against
voluntary service as a means of rais-
ing a national army, and nothing but
a few deceptive old catchwords in its
favor. It is especially fatal in a
war where every fit man is wanted,
inasmuch as it can never rope in all the
nation’s fit men. Compulsory service apart,
Parliament needs further powers if it is to
effectively organise the whole of Australia
for warfare. The carriage of the Referenda
questions will give the requisite powers.
There is no doubt about that. But Germany
may have put itself in an impregnable posi-
tion before they are acquired, much less
before they start to operate. This country
wants to get its munition-making works and
its clothing factories in going order now.
not in six months’ time. It may appear a
dreadful thing to a respectable, slow-moving
Labor administration to dash over the garden
fence instead of pacing impressively up the
winding drive, but the present is a case
where the house is, on fire, and where, in
consequence, short cuts and unusual methods
are excusable. This paper is not pessimistic
about the ultimate result of the war, pro-
vided the Empire makes its great effort
within a reasonable time. If compulsory
service and organised war-work had been
introduced last August, there would be
enough trained and armed Australians
available now to make the fall of
Constantinople an imminent certainty—and
it is in Turkey that Germany is going to be
defeated when all is said and done. And
if compulsion and munition-making are
introduced at once, the effect may be felt in
a painful manner by Berlin before the war
is over. But there must be no delay. The
nation that smugly clings to the habits of
a century of peace when other nations are
fighting, working and dying in defence of its
liberties, as well as their own, is mad as
well as base.
SAVING THE COUNTRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One of the regrettable features of Party
Government is the Parliamentary candidate.
What a liar, trickster and all-round
scoundrel he becomes, however unstained
previously!
I fought an election once, my opponent
being a friend of years standing. The deeds
of infamy that were done unblushingly—
nay, with burning eagerness ! Ido not claim
to be what the wowser would call a Good
Man. Par from it. But for various reasons
I was in this business guiltless of
many of the customary offences. For
one thing I didn’t know enough. For
another, I quickly realised that I had
no hope of aught but a “moral victory.” It
was borne in on me, long before the nomina-
tions closed, that, as regarded that constitu-
ency, at least, I could never be other than
what somebody has termed “one of Nature’s
M’s.P.” My views were radical, and the
electors were impregnated with all the re-
lentless Conservatism of the “villa”-dwelling
classes. Still, on general principles, I fought
“all in,” as is the habit with most Parlia-
mentary candidates. Yet I do not think
I ever approached the form of my friend the
enemy. He proved to be, in many vital re-
spects, a born politician; and indeed in that
capacity he has never looked back since.
Various officials hastened to attach them-
selves to me at fixed weekly stipends; which
was as well, since my ignorance of the way
to conduct a campaign of the sort was pro-
found. I learned that all committee-meetings
must take place in public-houses, and that
as many street-meetings as possible must be
addressed from public-house balconies. In
this way the workers’ thirsts are satisfied,
and the publicans are given a chance to be
converted to the Cause. To my first commit-
tee-meeting came a crowd of about 20, most
of whom were destined to march with me
through streams of alcohol and oratory to
my Sedan about a month later. I could
never quite grasp why they stood by me. To
do them no more than justice, they were
mostly good fellows, to whom occasional
helpings of free refreshment meant nothing.
Most of them were earnest sympathisers
with the Cause. And yet the Cause was
patently hopeless from the start. Why did
they leave their comfortable homes every
night, and plot and scheme on my behalf, and
canvass hostile electors, and listen to inter-
minable speeches, none of which contained
so much as the germ of a new idea? I do
not know. But apparently there always are
people available for this service.
My first public meeting was a glittering
function. It was held in a large hall, and
I played the role of the merest supernumer-
ary. The committee had persuaded some of
the leaders of the party to “speak on my
behalf.” They spoke at great length, and
earnestly; but it was chiefly about them-
selves and their enemies, and I was intro-
duced as a sort of after-thought. When I
rose to draw the attention of the multitude
to my existence, it was only to find (1) that
I had forgotten the chief points of my care-
fully-memorised speech, and (2) that owing
to my inexperience in the art of elocution I
could not be heard beyond the third or
fourth row of chairs. The supporters of my
adversary alternately howled at me to “speak
up” and were consumed with noisy amuse-
ment at my inability to do so. And through
it all, in the front row, sat my rival himself,
and wrote menacingly in a notebook from
time to time —presumably criticisms of my
policy or appearance or something, for
future damning use on his platforms. The
first thing an intending candidate should do,
by the way, is to visit an elocutionist. A
genius will make no impression on a crowd
if he can’t juggle with his voice in an effec-
tive manner, whereas a fool will go down
well if he can.
Many people who are ordinarily obscure
assume a tremendous importance at election
times. They are reputed to control block
votes, though, in my experience, they never
do. In fact, it is doubtful if there is a solid
block vote to be controlled by anybody. A
typical experience. I am padding along a
suburban highway through the violent odors
of fish-shops, and over the cuspidor-pavements
which lie outside the more popular bars,
when a drab little man, with “petty trader”
written all over him, heaves in sight. The
bodyguard of committee-men becomes vio-
lently agitated. Someone hisses “Blinks”
—as who should say Kitchener or von
Hindenburg. I realised that 'I am in the
presence of the president of the South West-
ern Suburbs Football and Athletic League,
and prepare to fawn accordingly. His man-
ner is sharp and authoritative. A few stern,
cold aueries and he is gone. You would
never think that in ordinary life he is accus-
tomed to abase himself in connection with
the sale of a pound of tea. I enquire ner-
vously of my supporters whether or no they
think I have made a favorable impression.
They appear doubtful. There is a suspicioii
that the emissaries of the enemy have got at
the potentate. Gloom descends upon us like
a cloud.
It is after about a week’s campaigning
that the strenuous work really begins. At
any rate it was so in my case. On greeting
an electioneering acquaintance—an elderly
man of the Baptist persuasion—with an en-
gaging nod and wave of the hand, I was met
with a scowd of hatred. “I feared as much,”
said the secretary. It appeared that my
opponent, who to the best of my knowledge
had not been inside a church for ten years,
had circulated a report in Baptist and Wes-
leyan circles that I —who was equally lax in
religious matters —was a bigoted Jesuit. I
heard of him being at Mass the following
Sunday, and on the Monday evening he
joined an Orange lodge. Meanwhile we dis-
covered that I was being represented in the
Hibernian quarters of the constituency as a
person of Belfast parentage who “did” the
leading articles for the local organ of mili-
tant Protestantism. We got our chance a
day or so later, however, when there fell into
the hands of our side a dodger designed
plainly for use in L.O.L. circles, inscribed
“Vote for Flatfoot, the Protestant candi-
date.” Flatfoot was my opponent. We had
500 of these re-printed and distributed on
Saturday morning on the pavement outside
the Synagogue. The idea was to alienate the
simple Yiddisher’s sympathies from a candi-
date who could descend to such depths. In
the light of after-events I am disposed to
think that the Hebrews had no use for either
of us, which I have always regarded as a
tribute to their discernment. We would have
strewn the inflammatory literature outside the
R.C. churches of the electorate had not a com-
mittee-man opined that it would be “too
strong” and “over the fence.” The same wise
counsel defeated a suggestion to post consign-
ments, as from the enemy’s camp, to the Car-
dinal, the various parish priests, and the
leading nunneries. There is nothing like a
cool, reasoning brain for the storm and stress
of a political contest.
In the latter stages we were kept busy ex-
plaining things away. There are jnore
charges to rebut in an affair of this sort than
in a murder trial. One of our lady-supporters,
a person of wealth and influence, changed
suddenly from an attitude of friendliness and
admiration to open detestation. It seemed
that I was suspected of having said that all
people who used motor-cars ought to be shot,
or that wearers of ospreys were as the beasts
of the field. We had hardly straightened this
out when another supporter accused me of
saying that he was a drunkard. I hadn’t,
though he was ; and though I won a grudging
forgiveness from him, his family was never
quite reconciled and, by all accounts, voted
for. my opponent. As I was climbing the
stairs of an hotel to address a crowd which
was waiting outside, an enemy committee-
man dashed at one of my henchmen and
smote him upon the nose ; at the same time
uttering inarticulate cries of fury. Both were
elderly men, fathers of families and bowlers.
It transpired that my man had been repre-
sented as saying that Flatfoot was engaged
to the daughter of one of his political chiefs.
Well might the normal person, living in nor-
mal times, ask in a stupefied manner where
the grievance came in. But there is an electri-
cal stage in all election fights when every-
thing is an insult, when any chance word
may provoke a violent brawl, and when the
atmosphere of hatred, malice and unchari-
tableness is absolutely terrific. The explana-
tion is to be found, probably, in the preceding
flood of lies, distortions, misrepresentations
and plain and fancy libel and slander.
With polling-day and my defeat by a
two-to-one majority, the strain ended. Gen-
iality and good feeling returned. My oppo-
nent made a speech in which he very hand-
somely gave the lie to all that he had said
about my moral and mental defects during
the foregoing month. I made a speech
protesting that, though I mourned the over-
throw of my principles, yet I well recog-
nised that the better man had won, and that
the nation was the gainer. This flagrant bit
of humbug seemed to touch the audience.
A gentleman who had spread the report
among the Hibernians that I was one of
Glasgow’s blackest Protestants before having
to flee out of Scotland over a trouble in con-
nection with a cheque, asked for the privi-
lege of my hand. Another who had de-
nounced me as a Romish viper stated con-
fidentially that such was his admiration for
my qualities of heart and head that in any
future struggle he would support me, no
matter what I advocated.
* * * *
A temptation, happily overcome, beset me
when the time came for putting in a return
of the election expenses. Under the Act one
may not spend more than £lOO. I had
squandered about £500; I knew that my
opponent, who had done things on an in-
finitely more lavish scale, had spent at least
a thousand. _ What, I asked myself, if I
should put in a meticulously accurate re-
turn and then challenge the Opposition’s
effort ? However, I dismissed the idea, and
in the classic phrase, perjured myself like a
gentleman. The return, as finally faked and
sworn to, came, I think, to £96 7s. 4d. It
was rather an appropriate ending to an un-
edifying adventure.
ADOLPHUS MUGGE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The First War Tax.
Though the Commonwealth income tax
schedule has not yet been definitely fixed,
since Parliament must say the last word in
the matter, the Government’s proposals are
now pretty well ascertained. At first g-lance,
the scheme looks complicated. Dealing first
with incomes from personal exertion, the
proposal, so far as it has been made known,
provides for an exemption up to £157, with
a tax of 3d. in the £ for the first £SOO of
income in excess of the exemption, 7d. for
the next £SOO, lOd. for the £SOO beyond that,
Is. 6d. for the next £IOOO, 2s. for the next
£IOOO, and so on up to ss. in the £ of in-
come in excess of £7750. The amount of the
tax here and there may be subject to modi-
fication. It may appear inconvenient to
tax an income of (say) £7500 under eight
different rates. But no doubt the notes cus-
tomarily issued with income-tax forms will
contain a table setting out the total amount
of the tax payable in respect of various in-
comes. And in any case the taxpayer’s duty
is not siiow the amount of the tax pay-
able by him, but only the amount of his
income. Further, it looks at- first sight to
be wrong that, whereas a man whose in-
come is £3OOO a year should pay up to Is. 6d.
(which is six times more than is levied on
the man whose income is only £500), the
man whose income is £20.000 should pay as a
maximum only the same ss. in the £ as a man
whose income is £BOOO. But, as a matter of


fact, owing to the income being taxed at
various rates, the bigger a man s revenue
the larger the proportion that will pay tne
highest rate. Subject always to the remark
that the rates may be modified and that
there may still be undisclosed items in con-
nection with the incidence of the tax, this
approximately is how the tax on incomes
from personal exertion will work out:
Tax Average Amount
Income. Pay&ble. per of Income.
£650 .. £6 2d.
1.150 .. •• 20 4d.
2.150 .. •• 02 7d.
3.150 . . . ■ 137 10d.
4.150 .. . • 237 ltd.
6.150 .. •• 387 18d.
6,150 .. .. 562 22d.
7,900 . . . . 912 28d.
10,150 . . • • 1474 35d.
15,000 .. .. 2686 43d.
20,000 .. .. 3936 47d.
So it will be seen that, though the maxi-
mum tax is ss. in the £, which is payable
in respect of all income over £7750, the
actual graduation continues past that
figure, and the man getting £20,000 pays or
the average 4d. more than the man who gets
only £15,000 and Is. 7d. more than the man
who gets £7900. The same thing can be seen
in connection with the income from pro-
perty. Assuming that there is no exemp-
tion in this case the position will be as
follows'. —
Tax Average Amount
Income. Payable, per £ of Income.
£SOO .. .. £2l lOd.
1,000 .. .. 54 13d.
2,000 . . .. 175 20d.
3,000 .. .. 337 27d.
4,000 .. .. 537 32d.
5,000 .. .. 762 36d.
6,000 .. .. 1000 40d.
7,000 . . . . 1250 43d.
10,000 .. .. 2000 48d.
15,000 .. .. 3250 62d.
20,000 .. .. 4500 54d.
30,000 .. .. 5750 56d.
A man or a company could never pay quite
ss. in the £ all round; but as the income
goes skyward the difference between ss. and
the amount actually payable becomes so
small as to be microscopic. Money has to
be got from somewhere, and a lot of it,
and, though there are other sources which
ought to be tanned, still as a rough-and-
ready means of raising money the income
tax will pass muster, and the basis adopted
by the Government is generally not to be
growled at. But having, as it were, got a
foundation for its Treasury requirements,
the Government ought now to look around
and see if it can’t raise money in other ways
that it may perform some national service
while acting as a tax-gatherer. Those are
the ideal schemes of taxation. This one is
not.
“Never Again!”
An illuminating cable message reached Aus-
tralia from London last week —a message so
suggestive, so instructive, that it should be
printed in large type and pasted up in every
shop and pub and on every politician’s bed-
post in the Commonwealth. It reported a
meeting of the people who form the Aus-
tralian Chamber of Commerce in England,
and was about giving orders and indents to
enemy countries after the war. The sug-
gestion seems to have been made that goods
for Australia should not be purchased from
Germany or Austria; “but,” so runs the
cabled story, “no resolution was passed
because the sentiment of the meeting ap-
peared to be divided between patriotism
and profit.” In other words, a meeting of
Australian middlemen’s jackals refused to
pledge itself to abstain from having another
gorge on the old carcass. It is easy to ima-
gine the discussion. “Now, here we
are, business men, altogether. Let us deal
with the matter on business lines” —and
so it would go on to the inevitable conclu-
sion that 5 per cent, was a holy thing and
very handy. Yet a week —a month —a year
ago Australian Chambers of Commerce and
traders and the Sydney Millions Club were
vociferously renouncing German socks and
Austrian hats, and over their. imported
wines were taking a “Never Again” pledge
of tremendous solemnity. No patriotic feed
has been complete without these protesta-
tions, which have invariably increased in
fervor as the menu retreated. Singularly
enough, the commercial and other patriots
who have been making all this noise are
the persons from whom the indentors and
buyers in London get their orders, and for
whom the commissions are executed. Now,
what does it all mean? Or does it mean
anything? Ever since the shout of. “Never
Again” was raised this paper has indulged
in the luxury of an occasional snort, and
the time seems ripe for another. There is
a sort of Commerce that has never had any-
thing to do with patriotism and never will
have. It is concerned only with the profit
of the moment on the immediate deal. Wit-
nesses thereto are the eminently respectable
Scottish firm whose members are now in
gaol for selling iron ore from Nova Scotia
to Krupps’ after war broke out. Commerce
of this kind —the Australian foreign-trade
maniac is usually one of its most active
supporters —knows and cares about nothing
except the size of the rake-off. Whether
the goods come from Chicago, London or
Hamburg is a matter of absolute indiffer-
ence, the only important consideration being
that they must not be produced in the coun-
try where they are to be consumed. At
present trade with Hans Fritzfrtghtfex
is to these people merely suspended because
of a horrid noise; but it is as certain as
summer that the moment the bugles sound
cease firing there will be a rush of drum-
mers across the graves and shell-blasted
landscape buying up job lots of drapery,
pills and wooden-legs. To expect them to
buy, instead, from Boston or Yokohama or
Brussels or Marseilles or even from Man-
chester would be to anticipate the absurd
—unless one or all of those'places can under-
sell Yon I-late and Bloodthurst. And
economically it really does not matter
much to Australia one way or the other.
Nobody knows this better thnn the Chamber
of Commerce in London. Therefore, natu-
rally, it asks itself why it should pledge
itself not to trade with (say) Vienna, when
it can “do better” that way for its Aus-
tralian principals. And apparently the
Australian Parliament is determined upon
making that trade as easy as possible,
because the only weapon by which the
Commonwealth can defend itself effectively
—the tariff—has been deliberately stowed
away on a back shelf. In the meantime,
while Australia has been listening to stories
of “Never Again” and vague talk about col-
laring the enemy’s trade, other people riom
other lands just as remote are coming along
and getting a bit extra trade on their own
account.
No Time to Loaf.
Last week some inspired lunatic, in a posi-
tion of authority, ordered a temporary strike
all over Australia in celebration of the
finish of a year’s unsatisfactory warfare.
Not an hour’s nor a half-hour’s nor a
minute’s extra work all round ; but a total
cessation of toil, in order that the nation
might “meditate.” At a given moment,
accordingly, all hands abandoned their . jobs
and behaved like maniacs. Steam sirens
and motor-horns were sounded; bells and
gongs were rung; tin cans were banged and
rattles sprung; men howled, women yelled,
dogs barked and horses bolted —all in token
of the fact that an Imperial people had
dropped to the magnitude of the job ahead,
and was inflexibly resolved to go through
with it to the end. The actual time lost
didn’t amount to much, but the principle of
the celebration was rotten and dangerous.
This is a war that can never begin to be
won till the entire British Empire springs
unitedly off its tail, and, with the velocity
of desperation, proceeds to work and make
sacrifices on an unprecedented scale. There
is no sign of the needed leap at present.
The Government has not even started to
make munitions or field guns, and the out-
put of small arms is paltry. Our rulers are
handicapped by the industrial supremacy
which the different States possess within
their own borders. That is doubtless one
of the reasons why the Small Arms Factory
is to be shifted from Lithgow (N.S.W.).to
the arid strip of coal-less territory which
the Commonwealth possesses around Can-
berra. In about five months the Govern-
ment hopes- to submit its Constitutional
amendments to the electors, and if it has
luck Parliament will then get the powers
which it ought to have now —such powers
as would place Lithgow as much under the
dominion of the National Government as
Canberra. In the meantime life is as
leisurely as ever. We still celebrate more
holidays than any other country. At the
Cockatoo Dock (N.S.W.) last week a. bank
holiday—which wasn’t a business holiday—
was signalised joyously by a stoppage of
work on the part of the men who are con-
structing the cruiser Brisbane. There is
an anti-toil campaign amongst certain
classes of workers in Melbourne, due to the
efforts of the local anarchists whose motto
is: “Slow down ! Slow down ! Don’t be
a slave; be a man and join the 1.W.W.”
The Government doesn’t counsel a limita-
tion of holidays; or chide those who are
responsible for such scandals as the recent
one at Cockatoo Dock; or gaol the traitorous
anarchists in its midst. On the contrary it
provides the loafer with a good deal, of
moral encouragement. And this at a crisis
when waste of time, however short,
means certainly the sacrifice of Australian
lives, and perhaps the loss of Australia’s
liberty.
Corns and Bunions, and a Rock-strewn
Path.
Sydney Labor Council is going to deputa-
tionise the State Ministry and ask for an
increase of wages for State employees. It
is a good move. The Council may by this
means get light, even if it gets no lucre.
It will learn that the Ministry is in much
the same position as a miner down a shaft
with a hungry and impatient bulldog wait-
ing for him up on top—or of the remittance
man who has melted his cheque with Bung
and is on the way home to meet the board-
ing-house lady and the wrath to come.
Also, the deputation will obtain a view of
some roosting chickens; it will see at closer
quarters the noble outlines of Cohen’s nose;
and it may realise as it has never realised
before the depth of the bog into which the
Labor coach has been driven. The jamboree
has to be paid for. The consequences of
shuffle and evasion and swindle; of reckless
departure from economy, self-reliance and
social justice; of a prolonged razzle-dazzle
on the proceeds of ruinous loan transactions;
of boom and bloat and feeding the parasite—
the consequences of all these things have
arrived, a little before schedule time perhaps,
yet in good working order and healthily
hungry. The possible ways of increasing
the purchasing power of the money paid to
State employees are in all the circumstances
not many. It might be done by an exten-
sion of the wheat-grab principle, which would
pan out possibly at the rate of Is. GJd. per
week per grabber, and, incidentally, reduce
by a corresponding sum the amount at the
disposal of the grabee. It might be done by
reducing the number of employees and put-
ting up the wages of the remainder, which
would make the situation a little worse than
before. Then there is the possible alterna-
tive of raising more taxes and with the
proceeds increasing the wages of a few
people after reducing the value of the wages
earned by other people. Erection of calico
suburbs around Ragtown is within the region
of possibility, and there is always the chance
that another shindykit with £lOO,OOO might
be prevailed upon for adequate consideration
to spend £50,000,000 or so if the Government
could manage to borrow it. These are
some of the openings into which the enlight-
ened customers of Cohen might rush. Mean-
while the cost of living is going up and the
job is becoming less frequent and the lands
of Australia are mostly vacant and Rebecca
and the Duchess of Lazarus are mending
their old clothes in England. So it looks
probable that Labor may have to get back
to the altars of its fathers, and to those
things that were in its creed before it wan-
dered away, crowned with a garland of
straw, to make friends with the Mammon
of unrighteousness.
«.
Always “Woe to the Conquered.”
The national crime of the Hun lies in the
fact that the policy of slaughter and devas-
tation was ordained by the authorities ; but
anyone who thinks that any horde of aimed
men, fresh from the blood-soaked shambles
of a modern battlefield, are going to occupy
an enemy’s city and behave like plaster
saints” is fooling himself shamefully, vV ar
is Hell, and men don’t fight through Hell and
emerge nice, self-sacrificing, polite citizens
—not all of them, anyway. And a few pubs
don’t make them any better. Different con-
querors may vary the amount of hell they
serve out; but there will be quite enough
of it in any case, and the one way to avoid
it is to be strong enough not to be con-
quered. With a large, valuable, attractive
continent in our possession, tlie_ only way
we Australians can avoid these incidentals,
and at the same time maintain national
ideals, purity of race, the right to do as .we
darned well like, etc., is not by imagining
that with one possible conqueror, out of the
running we are safe, but by building up a
large population, a large army and a large
navy, and buying the largest size in guns.
Until nations decide to abandon the gun,
and to keep an international police force
to see that the decision is adhered to, civili-
sation rests on the gun; and the value of
gun is largely dependent on the amount of
man to use it. Britain has never set enough
store on the man. If its industries, mer-
cantile marine, and mining and other posses-
sions abroad had been run primarily with
the view of making the nation stronger,
instead of merely richer; if the great
British capitalist’s first thought had been
to give employment to British workers,
instead of coolies and Kanakas
and Kaffirs and others, and ' if the
Britain’s Government’s first thought had
been to see that he did so, there would
be easily enough man and to spare. Now we
have had our warning; and if we don t
make “men first and then money” our motto
we will have an excellent opportunity of
discovering that the invasion of an armed
conqueror, fresh from a hot time with
shrapnel and high explosives and machine-
gun bullets and cold steel, is a nastier ex-
perience even than 3d. a pound extra on
butter.
Another Australian.
“Kettledrum” finds another: —
When the Australians were in Egypt they saw such
things and, in several cases, did such things as might
be expected in a country where “there ain’t no
Ten Commandments.” Where all forms of exotic vice
were purchasable cheap it would have been wonder-
ful if no investments were made. That these were
relatively few speaks well for the common-sense of
the rank and file.
Still, more than one hitherto clean-blooded Austra-
lian came back tainted under the custody of the
Egyptian guard. One of them confessed with a moral
courage which chilled even scoffers into admiring
silence. Standing, in civilian rig, on the staging at
the stadium of the Seymour military camp, in the
full glare of the acetylene, he told his straight, plain
story as behoves one to tell it who has passed from
folly to wisdom and would bar the gate lest fools
should follow and not return. As he spoke he grip-
ped such a crowd as had never before filled that
soldiers’ forum. It was a tale told point-blank. He
had, he said, been returned to Victoria because he
had contracted venereal disease in Cairo. He was now
cured, and had again been accepted for active service.
Then, fierily fluent, he let his hearers know what
Egypt was and the plagues thereof ; for he had seen
it, undressed —theft, swindling, harlotry in the thou-
sand guises and disguises it assumes in “the East” ;
drink and the defilement of drink; poison and per-
niciousness of every kind and degree. It was Kip-
ling with a home-made edge to it: —
When the ’arf-made recruity goes out to the East,
'E acts like a fool an’ ’e drinks like a beast;
An’ ’e wonders because ’e is frequent deceased —
Which is bad for the young British soldier.
And for the young Australian soldier, too. Having
driven home his points, this soldier who had acquired
knowledge through paying for it made an end of his
speech, and its echoes were merged into a rolling
burst of cheers.
This man’s pluck is here placed on record because
he had fought with the beasts at Ephesus, and had
come back, having been made whole, to sink his pri-
vate shame for the sake of warning his fellows
against such wounds as were his. And this demands
the coldest courage. Wherefore let it be said that
he, also, was an Australian.
«.
Chloroform in Maoriland.
The poor old Party joss has been jumped on
again—in Maoriland this time, and with
musical accompaniments. With an even
weight on each end of the plank and a brown
gentleman named Hen are in the middle the
see-saw wouldn’t work; so after prolonged
wirepulling Premier Massey is forming what
he calls a National Government by dividing
up the Ministerial portfolios equally between
his own lot and the other side. He explained
last week that this was all for the good of
the Empire; and while the Speaker beat
time with the Mace, the House of Reps, sang
“God Save the King,” and the broken old joss
was hurriedly pushed out of sight. The
Maoriland electors thus saw three things
happen. They saw the death of two parties,
the birth of another, and an unrivalled
opportunity lost for inaugurating a system
of Elective Ministries. For, of course, lou
Ward’s talk about there being no fusion, no
coalition, is mere “gagging” in order that
the leaders’ faces may be saved before
the constituencies. Between the Massey-
ites and the WARD-ites there was no
essential difference. The barnacles of
vested interests were about equally distri-
buted, mainly in the form of land and beer.
Hence there was no reason why the two
leaders should not be Cabinet colleagues. In
any case, if they are honest they must now
support one another, working together
frankly and fairly. If they do something
else and try to carry on business with the
edge of the tomahawk sticking up between
them —if they scheme and finesse, each play-
ing for -his own hand—both will come a
cropper. Being politically akin, considera-
tions of self-preservation may impel them
to eliminate any of the old causes of
personal friction that may remain. I revi-
ously they fought because one was In and
the "other Out. Now with both In, and their
supporters singing, why quarrel any more i
The interests of the community are, on the
whole, well served by the move, which, until
the country can agree to accept saner
methods of administration, is about the best
thing that could happen. It will lead to a
healthier division of public opinion, to the
straightening out of an alignment in which
there were many deplorable twists and bends.
An uncritical Parliament would be a national
calamity; but as the necessity arises for criti-
cism of this new Government which masquer-
ades as “National,” there may be a restora-
tion of the Parliamentarian’s function, which
does not merely consist of manoeuvring a few
individuals into jobs. Then the battered joss
or Party will he restored to its weary old
leu', though it can never look respectable
a l 'in- % '
The Casual Happening of Things.
“IJaruspex” seeks information: —
For the purpose of getting abreast of Truth and
finding out where we are, will someone tell me the
principles upon which public policy is moving in
Australia with regard to grabs, prohibitions and
price-fixings? It is an important matter this to
every citizen, for though there is a large mass of
public opinion in favor of these activities by Gov-
ernments, the average man at least wants to undei-
stand the object aimed at in order that he may
judge of the results; or, as an alternative, which
of the experiments can be taken as precedents foi
future policy or regarded as beacons marking the
pathway to danger. .
Item I.—Wheat. The N.S.W. Government seized
all stocks, and the net result was a profit.
Item ix.—Sugar. This is being seized by the Queens-
land Government, backed up by the Commonwealth, and
the result is going to be a loss. Clearly there are two
convicting principles at work. The first appears to
be that in order to secure to the public bread at
4 id. a loaf the holder of wheat shall be made to
i if-ld up his property at a price less than he could
sell it for in the open market of Australia, but which
guarantees the community bread at a comparatively
cheap price and yields the State a substantial profit
as universal middleman. There is no room for
quibbling about this, because the argument by which
the Attorney-General has justified the transaction is
that the producer should bear his 6hare of the
burden, and not leave the consumer to carry the
lot. But when the State seizes sugar it fixes pay-
ment to the grower at a point which will mean a
deficit on the business of passing the goods into
consumption. The moving principle here seems to
be that in order to guarantee the people sugar at
3d. a pound the grower of sugar shall be paid more
than he could get in the open market if this price
were rigidly enforced—that the general body of tax-
payers shall be taxed for the purposes of making
up the loss consequent on paying £lB a ton for the
raw sugar and selling the refined article at 3d.
Item lll.—Butter. The N.S.W. Government pro-
claims the selling price of this at a figure which
makes the importation of butter from America a
losing proposition. The local supply is deploiably
short. Thousands of people weekly have to go with-
out butter, though if the Government lifted the price
so that butter could be bought in ’Frisco and sold in
Sydney at a profit no one prepared to pay for the fat
need go short.
Item IV. —Horse feed for the Defence Department.
The Minister a few weeks ago bought a lot of fodder
in Maoriland, and was proud of saving several thou-
sands of pounds of public money, for had he delayed
the purchase he would have had to buy in Australia
at high prices. “Who will say now that the Defence
Department is not a business-like concern?” asked
Item V. —The production of butter in Queensland
is in excess of the State requirements, and at the
time of writing this the Government was sitting
down hard on export to Victoria, where the stuff
would yield a higher price than it fetches in Bris-
bane.
Now if someone will put these items up in a row
and look at them, and then turn them round and
have another look, and follow this by standing them
up endways and seeing what they look like from
that angle, and then tell me what they mean, I will
be obliged. The man who cheers for cheap butter
is not in the habit of cheering for absent butter,
and, in any case, there is more nutriment in a pound
of the lubricant at 2s. than can be extracted from no
pounds at Is. 9d. And if the democracy of Australia
is expected to burst out into applause over Pearce’s
discernment, which saved cash over a horsefeed deal,
how shall it express its feelings about the dropping
of a far bigger lump over a sugar transaction? And
if the multitude shall say it is a fair thing to tax
everyone in order that everyone shall get cheap
sugar and the grower get a better price than -he
could otherwise get in Australia, in what manner
it regard a deal in wheat which results in the
grower getting a worse price? The Queensland butter
proposition is perhaps the most easily reconcilable of
the lot, for since Federation is only a rumor the
people of a foreign country like Victoria have no
right to a share of Bananaland’s excessive butter fat.
The fact that the population of Victoria will have to
bear their share of the money to be lost on sugar in
order that Queensland sugar cockies may benefit is,
of course, wholly irrelevant.
♦
After having toyed for years with a new
set of building regulations, Melbourne City
Council last week adopted its revised,
amended, overhauled and duly-certified set
—all except the most important clause of the
lot. This was directed against the per-
petuation of slums, and provided that in
future no dwellings should be erected on
land fronting streets or lanes less than 30ft.
wide. Seeing that no decent residential
street should ever be less than 66ft. wide,
The Keeper of the Law.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No violation of international laws by our enemies
will shake our conduct of the war. —Kaiser William.
The German seaman proudly sent
Torpedoes through the waves.
The little fisher-people went
To swift, untimely graves.
“This violation of the rules
Of decency, you British fools,
Whatever you may say,” said he,
“Will make no difference to me.”
The German soldier in his pride
His bayonet of steel
Drove deeply in the maiden’s side.
He saw the father kneel,
And smote the old man through the heart.
“This vile infringement on your part
Of Europe’s righteous battle laws
Will not,” he said, “avail two straws.”
The German from his aerial flight
Showered down the iron bolt,
And slew the women in the night.
“Your deeds,” he said, “revolt
My sense of right. Possessed with shame,
I call on you to play the game;
But no contempt, please understand,
Of decent laws will stay my hand.”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly, N.S. W.
(SYDNEY).
Victorians,
South and West Australians,
Tasmanians,
Queenslanders,
And people of our own State
Should Winter in Manly,
the most fascinating and delightful of
all Seaside Resorts. 1 2
The Brighton and Folkestone of
Australia.
Hot Salt-water Baths and Golf
Links (18 holes) in close proximity.
Surf-bathing all the year round.
WINTER TARIFF, from May to
September, froirh £3/3/- per week
h
ĥ
COLUMBIA CRAPHOPHONES 1
Famous all the World Over as “the Instruments that NEVER Break Down !”
ħ
POPULAR SERIES.
10-inch, 3/- <n.z., 3/e>
12-inch, 5/- <n.z., 5/e>
DOUBLE-SIDED.
m
&
COLUMBIA CRAPHOPHONES
HORN MODELS
75/- to El 5 15/-
HORNLESS
80 - to £45
HEW ZEALAND, £6 to £5O
h
ĥ
CELEBRITY SERIES
from
10-inch, 5/- <n.z., 6/e>
12-inch, 7/6 (n.z., s/-)
DOUBLE-SIDED.
ħ
COLOMBIA RECORDS—They Wear TWICE as Long as Any Others !
ISABf
the new restriction was in no way calculated
i sa P tae foundations of society; neverthe-
less some of the Bumbles perceived in it a
dangerous attack on property, or a gross
interference with the liberty of the subject
or something similar, and wailed about the
great injustice to poor people” if they
werent allowed to rebuild their rookeries
should the said rookeries be burnt or acci-
dentally fall to pieces. The impudence of the
assumption that these dens are occupied by
the owners, when everybody knows they
mostly belong to well-to-do landlords who
live elsewhere, so touched the sympathies of
Bumbledom that it postponed that clause for
provision of an addendum assuring to
the Council powers to resume property “such
ma y think fit.” This brilliant idea
should relieve slum owners of any anxiety,
and it will be interesting to watch how and
why and for whose benefit the Council will
think fit” to exercise those prospective
powers.
♦
Foe the nineteenth time this paper asks how
much longer constituted authority is going
to continue making itself a national danger
by blithering about the “seriousness of the
situation” while doing its best to prevent
the people of Australia knowing anything
about the situation ? The position is pre-
posterous from every possible point of view
except that of the incompetent official. We
have an army fighting in the Dardanelles.
About what it is doing from week to week
-—about its life, its exploits, the great vital
drama it is taking part in—nothing more
informative is heard than about the perform-
ances of the Bavarians. Under a sane sys-
tem this army in the field would be a power-
ful recruiting agency. Under existing con-
ditions it is merely the negative pole of a
magnet. . The result is that in some places
the politicians’ recruiting campaign has been
a cold failure; and there is at least reason-
able grounds for doubt whether it can be
made a success by substituting the coercion
of insult for that full information about
the war and everything relating to it which
people who depend on voluntary enlistment
will have and are entitled to have. The
yarn about keeping information from the
enemy was flyblown long ago. The enemy
knows more about the Australian army
than Australian citizens do. Moreover the
policy of “hush” has been extended to em-
brace the whole administrative system here
in the Commonwealth. This is not good
enough, and the Government will either
have to take a sharp curve in its methods
and give the voluntary system a fair
chance, or bring conscription into force
quickly. To pursue the lines now being
traversed is wild and illogical folly.
Robey, a representative of a very
mercantile family, died at
Manly (N.S.W.) last week. He was a son
of Ralph Mayer Robey, an early Sydney
merchant, who was also largely interested in
sugar,. and lost a fortune in developing that
baby industry. A sister of H. T. Robev’s
married G. R. Dibbs, the N.S.W. Premier
who., damned Chicago.
of Cobar, is the third Ma State
politician to leave the Assembly for the
colors. Braund and Larkin were in front
or him. hern, a married man, was general
secretary of the local branch of the Miners’
Ass. when Donald Macdonell died, and he
«!uL« nto l eat by secu ring the Labor
selection. He has never made any attempt
to shine as a politician; he has regarded
himself merely as a party man whose busi-
ness it was to be always there when wanted
folk r X Pe w°w vr °/ h ® r day ’ at New Nor-
W ; H ; Macfarlane, who had put in
5 ° f a * I ‘ fetime look,n Z after those
of the lunatics of Tasmania whom it is con-
P d * red “ ecessar y to shut up. For 35 years
he had been superintendent of the New Nor-
hoiYv As &T’ and b ? put in a couple of years
before that as assistant. He had few in-
terests apart from the study of insanity and
he knew as much about that as it is desirable
hh own r hMUl OUM t,T '° k " 0W if he ralues
a who died in Adelaide the
Znhnni d a-' u 73 a ’ wa ® a lawyer of the old
fnwShi, blgb 1 1 . 5 ', educated, jovial, eloquent and
forcible—solid every way. He was G C
as far back as 1878, and in Parliament the
® a j“ e J, e f , of four brilliant brothers
will, n o took Up l aw \ h ? was in partnership
with George, who looked after the office
while John was in Court or Parliament. He
never lost an election, and (often unopposed)
sat for Barossa m the S.A. Assembly for 22
years, being m several Ministries and twice
He drafted or consolidated various
nlf j IS tate ’ and represented it in
all the pre-Federal conventions. Personallv
mAriT aS r T I strik i ng ; He anticipated the
modern fashion, of the clean-shaved face in
an era when it was very rare, and was
always a notable figure in any crowd. It
was often said in his younger days—and his
tnend parson Henry Howard has said it
again since his death—that he might have
won equal success as preacher or actor if
his fancy had turned that way.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “After the Girl’’
OYAL “Stop Your Nonsense”
Criterion “Inside the Lines”
*, ALACJ! The Royal Strollers
iIVo LI .. Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Law of the Land”
Royal “Potash and Perlmutter”
Princess s “The Silence of Dean Maitland”
£, ING s “On Our Selection”
i IVOU Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
„ IJOG . • Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating
Auditorium Belgian Concert Band
The importing habit of J.C.W., Ltd.,
reaches its height of unwisdom when it
brings us in war time a war-play from
a foreign, unallied country. “Inside
the Lines,” written by Earl Deer Big-
gars (author of that clever comedy,
Seven Keys to Baldpate”), presented
at Sydney Criterion on Saturday, con-
tains situations and lines that jar on
Australian susceptibilities in these serious
months. Not only is an Australian audience
expected to sympathise with a party of
Americans stranded in Europe at the out-
break of the war, and find a pathos in their
longings for the United States, but one cur-
tain drops on the picture of two alleged
Berman spies triumphing over the British.
The chief spy is an Indian prince, who gives
vent to words of deepest hatred against Bri-
tish rule in India; and an Australian audi-
ence cannot be expected to applaud the
statement of an American girl: “This isn’t
war. I’ll follow my country’s example
and keep out of it!” The construction of
the melodrama also displays curious miscon-
ceptions. We are told that half the British
fleet enters the harbor at Gibraltar, and that
while there the vessels naturally anchor ex-
actly over the mines in the harbor. Further,
we find the wife of the Governor of Gibral-
tar giving military orders to a complaisant
British sergeant; and the same lady calmly
invites a girl who is a buyer of ladies’ hats
to share the hospitality and secrets of Gov-
ernment House—a girl, too, who has no
passport and cannot be immediately identi-
-IThe plot suffers from a cardinal fault.
All through two acts the audience is led to
believe that a certain character is a German
spy; and the audience has to wait till the
final curtain before the disclosure comes.
Consequently the actor has nothing to do
all through but preserve an inscrutable de-
meanor. And it is only in the last act that
anything exciting happens. The first two
acts are filled with a horde of tiresome
Yankee tourists, who talk of the U-nited
States and generally get in the way of what
plot there is.
* * * *
The hero occupies a negligible position.
The first act belongs to James B. Athol-
wood. the second belongs to Roy Redgrave
ana the third is Gerald K. Souper’s. Athol-
wood s conception of the German hotelkeeper
is brilliant and forcible, a perfect piece of
character-work. Roy Redgrave’s presenta-
tion of an alcoholic wreck, who tries vainly to
convince the Governor that there is treachery
at work, is another equally convincing bit
of acting. The sincerity of the man despite
the state of his nerves is conveyed with a
hundred subtle touches. Gerald K. Souper,
as the Indian spy, makes highly dramatic
the contrast between his impassivitv as the
Governor’s orderly and his fiendish ven-
geance in his hour of triumph. lan Mac-
laren makes a fine figure of the minor hero.
He has a good stage presence, a pleasing
voice,. and his work throughout exhibits the
expei lenced actor. Gregan MacMahon makes
his little part of an altogether unnecessary
American Consul stand out as a gem of
humorous characterisation. Fred Cambourne
and Eardley Turner do work fully up to
their reputations. Of the women Celia Ghiloni
displays her ease and charm as, to Austra-
lian eyes, .an almost impossible Governor’s
wife; Marion Marcus Clarke has little to
do i*“nif 0 na tfral as an American matron ;
a . n< ? Charlotte Ives, as a young American
girl, displays but little charm, and fails by
her lack of emotional power and person-
ality, in her only big scene.
** * *
In After the Girl” at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, Phil Smith does a brief bellow-
dramatic act for a theatrical manager. The
latter’s judgment on the effort is “Rotten ”
That expresses tersely The Bulletin’s
opinion of “After the Girl.” The music is
as tuneful and distinguished as a turnip,
and most of the dialogue which is intended
to be funny produces an atmosphere of
gloom. Here and there, by sheer charm
and cleverness on the part of the ner-
formers, the painful affair is lifted out
oi the rut of dulness and depression. Thelma
Kaye,, the girl whom everybody is after, and
who in that capacity flees from Paris to
London, via Amsterdam, Venice and Petro-
ls™’ has a nice voice, a pretty face and
the most alluring ways. It is not in mortal
girl to make the depressing show “go,” but
at least she does a lot to hurry it up. Phil
Smith again succeeds remarkably as a low
comedian ; and Leslie Holland is brisk and
presentable as the Girl’s lover. Derek Hud-
son appears for a scene or two with whitened
hair and moustaches, but in other respects
remains thoroughly juvenile. Finally—
growing weary, maybe, of the too obvious
imposture—he removes the traces of eld and
sings a patriotic number called “The Flag
that Never Comes Down.” A detachment
or platoon of able-bodied young supers join
in the chorus, which makes a distinct hit.
Harry Burgess plays Mr. Pitt, the Girl’s
anxious father. He has some of the most
banal lines in the piece, which is saying a
lot. Maggie Moore is cheery and vigorous
as Mrs. Pitt, and Maggie Dickinson’s danc-
ing is as admirable as ever. If this clever
little lady danced more and sang and acted
less it would be all to the good. The scenic
effects are particularly attractive, and the
chorus and orchestra make the most of their
material.
** * *
Mr. Hashmeat Bloodlet, our special cor-
respondent at Sydney Adelphi, reports that
the strain on both flanks and the centre of
the cash-box is enormous. Nevertheless, at
a conference between the various leaders and
the military authorities of the Daily Tele-
graph and the War Cry called to decide
whether “Under Two Flags” should be with-
drawn, it was decided that retreat, no matter
how strategical and well stage-managed, is
for the present unnecessary. Meanwhile,
Cigarette Ethel Buckley and her few paint-
stained warriors will continue to drive back
the hordes of. Arabian supers, nightly, the
French flag will (for the time being, at any
rate) flap vigorously, and the rabble on the
other side of the footlights, being strict neu-
trals, will utter mild and futile protests
against the vast cloud of asphyxiating gun-
powder-smoke that rolls over their territory.
When approached as to the length of the run
of “Under Two Flags,” General Marlow
announced that it would begin definitelv last
Saturday. Further than that he could say
nothing.
** * *
“Stop Your .Nonsense,” Beaumont Smith’s
new show, will have made its mid-week
start at Sydney Royal by the time this
Bulletin gets on to the stalls. The result
of the Religious Editor’s analysis will be
duly announced on August 19. Meantime
all clergymen below the rank of archdeacon
had better hold off. This will give short-
winded bishops a chance.
** * *
Sydney James and his supporting Strol-
lers continue at the Palace (Sydney) to
brighten things up and soothe the angry
passions of the householder who reads in
his morning paper the protest of the Fat
Stock Buyers and Wholesale Butchers’
Assoc, that the high price of meat
“INSIDE THE LINES,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Capt. Woodhouse (lan Maclaren) as a
“German” Spy.
in N. S. Wales is largely due to the opera-
tions of agents for the American Trusts
doing business in Queensland, and that Hol-
man and the alleged Labor Government are
so busy shouting “Coward!” at the street
corner that they haven’t time to attend
to mere Yankee exploiters, who in their
turn are suspected of being agents for the
supply of meat to the ravagers of Europe,
(i a use here for five minutes to reflect that
y asn, t or Billy James’s fun-making.
Madeline Rossiter’s dancing and the joy :
singing of the Strollers, Sydney would be
much more depressed than it is.)
Herbert Winter, late comedian of the Ran-
dal Jackson co., has amputated himself from
that party, and now, single-handed, dispenses
his stock of capital yarns at Sydney Tivoli.
Otherwise Time has worked no changes in
the House of Mclntosh. Crouch and Welch
keep the pot boiling with little difficulty ; Ida
Barr’s song concerning certain wonderful
eyes goes very near to putting her in the
threepenny class, but her other samples are
all up high ; and Rochez’s monkeys, though
a very passable show, are unfortunate in
coming at a time when Hohenzollern’s Troupe
of Hogs are so much in the public eye. May
Erne and He still discuss at great length
Sister Susie’s Shirts, and Walter Weems
continues to be very much like most other
burnt-cork niggers.
“INSIDE THE LINES,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
The “Governor-General” of Gibraltar
(Allan Wilkie).
“The Law of the Land,” late of Sydney,
is now giving to audiences at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) the sordid realism of the shrieks of
a cheeild in its pain and the dead silence
of a corpse on the carpet, both of which
conventional stage. incidents are cheapened
by the latest war news. For the rest the
Yankee drama is a feast of inconsistencies
and a flow of depressing dialogue, most of
the discussion being dominated, in three
acts out of four, by the aggressive tones of
the Noo Yark police. Inconsistencies are
most crowded in the first act, where a brutal
husband assaults his private secretary,
threatens his wife, flogs his cheeild, bully-
rags his butler, and is stated to be going
around uttering crude criminal libels against
his wife’s former consoler. And he, the
brutal husband, is a brilliantly successful
lawyer! He is supposed to have been master
of this ridiculous domestic situation for 10
years, whereas any wife with a first-class
lover to fall back upon would have sued
him for separate maintenance years pre-
viously. Even when the play opens she
could knock out her terrible old man with
the evidence of the sympathetic private sec.,
the cheeild, the butler and (presumably)
the staff of servants downstairs. But she
continues to bear her cross for purely
dramatic reasons. The audience has got
to witness the lunatic proceedings of Robert
Harding in order that it may rejoice when
his wife stops him with a bullet on his
way. to wallop the kid some more. The
brilliant lawyer gets what he deserves, and
the. cause of his decease is almost the sole
topic of conversation for the rest of the
entertainment.
* * * *
The audience, of course, knows that Mrs.
Harding will escape punishment for her
little indiscretion. The only possible doubts
are as to whether anybody else will have to
suffer. There’s the English private sec. who
saw the pistol fired and then obligingly
placed the weapon beside the corpse to sug-
gest suicide. There’s the English butler
who afterwards goes to the room and gratu-
itously sticks the pistol right in the corpse’s
hand to make the case of suicide look
clearer. And there’s Mrs. Harding’s weari-
some, lover (the illicit father of her chirpy
Bennie), who argues with her for half an
hour concerning, his sacred right to be falsely
suspected, convicted and executed if neces-
sary, so that she may not have to confess
the truth and cast a shadow on the future
life of little Bennie aforesaid. The sec. and
the butler drop into the background of the
dramatic running soon after the police
arrive. Mrs. Harding, the lover and the
policemen engage in a futile farrago of
assertion, cross-examination and contradic-
tion,, which is protracted by a foolish inves-
tigation of finger-prints and some twaddle-
some allusions to the police-inspector’s wife’s
newly-arrived twin-babies. The talk about
twins is. a long-winded method of informing
the audience that Mr. Inspector has a feel-
ing ’eart. When he hears how the late
Harding used to wallop his offspring he
appoints himself chairman of the conspiracy
of silence and suggests to everybody con-
cerned the best kind of lie which occurs to
his limited intelligence.


MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE CALIFORNIA SYRDP OF FIGS.
Harmless “fruit laxative” cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, indi-
gestion, coated tongue, sallowness —take
“California Syrup of Figs.” For the cause
of all this distress lies in a torpid liver and
sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of “California Syrup of Figs” as
a physic. Don’t think you are drugging
yourself or your children. This delicious
fruit laxative cannot cause injury. Even a
delicate child can take it as safely as a robust
man. It is the most harmless, effective
stomach, liver and bowel regulator and tonic
ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of •Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs.” which has full direc-
tions for babies, children of all ages and for
grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Beware of counterfeits sold here. Get the
genuine, made by “California Fig Syrup
Company.” Refuse any other kind with con-
tempt. “California Syrup of Figs” is sold
by all lea’ding chemists, 1/li and 1/9.
IT’S A GREAT CURE
FOR COLDS.
It’s great for colds, especially when the
first symptoms are apparent; you can nip
it in the bud, so to speak, with the
now famous
NAZETHA
THE BIG COLD CORE IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
&
r
m
m
The very simplicity of its treatment has
contributed very largely to its success.
You just pour a couple of drops on your
handkerchief and snuff it up the nose.
The result is almost magical.
IT’S GOOD FOR THE
CHILDREN TOO!
A couple of drops on the pillow at
night work wonders.
try it-
-1/6 Bottle
Post Free.
Ask Your Chemist, or write to A. P.
MILLER & SON, Hobart, sent post free.
Sydney (Wholesale): Australian Drug Co.,
Elliott Bros., and Brausch & Delaney.
TRY *T-
-1 6 Bottle
Post Free.
The lugubrious melodrama is, with one
exception, smoothly acted by an unsuitable
company. George Bryant,. as Harding, is
the exception. lie is a suitable stage per-
sonality, but his acting is much too rough
and noisy for a clever lawyer. Sydney
Stirling has every qualification for the but-
ler part except a sleek, well-fed appearance
and voice. Blakiston, as the secretary, is
evidently less of an ingrained Johnnie chan
the author meant him to be. Millward is
much too hard and unbending to win popu-
lar sympathy for the rather incompre-
hensible lover. And Muriel Starr’s man-
nerisms look exceedingly stagey in this per-
formance of an unconvincing part. Kath-
leen Lindgren plays the child more spon-
taneously—or less mechanically—than in
Sydney, but she doesn’t impart much sem-
blance of child nature to the character. Lin-
coln Plumer is the loud, loquacious professed
father of the alleged twins.
** * *
For one more week the thin, pale voice of
Billy Bearup will raise the dander of Dad
in the Land of Rudd, and then “On Our
Selection” will go into recess for a while,
and “The Squatter’s Daughter” will take
its place at the King’s, in Melbourne, on
August 21.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s, where the bill
ordinarily lasts a week only, and one never
knows for certain until one gets there
whether the Bad Girl of the Family
the Minx without a Home or the Tart Who
Took the Wrong Turning —yea, even at the
temple of quick changes “The Silence of
Dean Maitland” is doing its second week
with a promise of more to follow. _ Dean
Maitland differs from the Village Priest in
that he wears gaiters, and is himself the
criminal who ought to be in quod. In fact,
he is the sinner who suffers from feeling
sorry for his wickedness, whilst wearing the
black gaiters of a blameless life. George
Cross permits his leg-gear to over-rule his
conscience even as a woman loseth her
peace of mind for a new hat. It is a sad
drop in the moral scale for George. He
was never so unvirtuous before that the
present writer can remember. But the ex-
perience should be salutary to the heroic
leading man. It ought to make him more
tolerant of the scowling villain next time he,
George, gets falsely accused and has any
in-no-cence to prove.
** * *
“Potash and Perlmutter” is putting in
its fourth week at the Melbourne Royal.
“INSIDE THE LINES,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Henry J. Sherman (Fred Cambourne).
Sydney Jarvis, supported by Virginia
Dare, came into notice at Melbourne Tivoli
on Saturday. Sydney warbles and cavorts
with the awkward exuberance of a young
man on his first night out, while Virginia
conveys the impression that she is a fugi-
tive from a Salome Dancing Academy. Fur-
ther newcomers are the Leroy sistern, who
appear equally stolid and conventional
whether heard singly or together. The
ambidexterity of Kajiyama is the reigning
attraction in the rest of the bill, though
contortionist Birchley is also loudly recog-
nised for his corkscrew attitudes and weird
reversals of form. As for Mary Elizabeth,
the allegedly subtle anecdotist from America,
she is still endeavoring to make a stage
virtue of simplicity without convincing this
paper that she has the personality for the
job.
** * *
At the Melbourne Auditorium next Mon-
day the Belgian Concert Band Co. will open
fire. Meanwhile Louise Mack is lecturing
for six nights at the Athenaeum on “Shot,
Shell and Shrapnel” in the Belgium where
the Band comes from.
** * *
Amy Murphy, the Maoriland soprano, and
Nellie Black, contralto and violinist, are
combining their talents in a moderately
pleasing act at Melbourne Bijou this week.
Josephine Gassman and her Pics, are a
gleaming dental advertisement in another
part of the bill, while Daisy Jerome is also
intervening with the old business and the
old pin It curls. Other artists present in-
elude Sterling and Love, specialty and in-
strumental duo; Walker and Bunting, a
comedy pair with Seawtch habits; and (me
two Franklins, who misapply their energies
in an item called “On the Farm.”
** * *
Hoyt’s Theatres, Melbourne, are now
featuring “The Man on the Box,” the drama
of espionage, stolen kisses and military
swank that the Hugh Buckler Co. staged
in Melbourne about two years ago. Max
Figman, a popular picture mummer, ap-
pears as Lieutenant Bob Warburton, which
character Hugh Buckler formerly played
with heavy baritone emphasis. Other items
of absorbing interest to Hoyt’s audiences
this week are “Hearts and Masks,” and. the
fifth progress report on the dashing doings
of “The Master Key.”
"THE SILENCE OF DEAN MAIT-
LAND,” AT MELBOURNE PRINCESS'S.
Jacob Hale,
the village
bloke.'
Sir Lionel.
Fred Kehoe
as a parson.
Adelaide shows need watching just now;
they change, or even exchange, their charac-
ters while one’s back is turned for a moment.
Drama at the Royal and variety at the
Tivoli used to be the established order, but
the Tivoli has lately been giving Brandon
Cremer melodrama with success. Last week
the Royal tried the strange experiment
of Continuous Pictures —the Williamson
“Within our Gates” film, acted by Harvey,
Victor and other old friends. A trifle delib-
erate in the development of the story, per-
haps, but a good, stirring sample of what
Australia can do in this line. Now the
Tivoli has made a sudden jump into pictures,
with the Annette Kellerman sea-romance,
and manager Myers at the Royal good-
naturedly takes in the Brandon Cremer co.
for a week with the “Mary Latimer” circus-
and-convent drama. Circus life in earnest,
too, comes into “The Jockey of Death” at
West’s, which house has been sharing with
the Pav. the stirring "Hero of the Darda-
nelles.” Wondergraph reproduces Oscar
Asche in “Kismet,” and new, pretty and
comfortable Queen’s Hall has opened with a
patriotic Wounded Soldiers’ evening. Mean-
while the King’s has a monopoly of variety,
and has stirred up its programme a bit with
Michelet’s modelling and the snake-dance of
an alleged princess.
Sylvester Browne, who died last week, and
his brother, “Rolf Boldrewood,” were sons of
Sylvester John Browne, who came to Sydney
in IS3O and established himself in Mac-
quarie Place as a merchant. He built
Enmore House, from which the suburb gets
its name. In 1840 Browne, sen., decided
upon removing to Port Phillip with all his
belongings, and chartered a vessel for the
purpose. He bought some town lots, and
located himself at Heidelberg. He owned
part of Toorak, but sold it as not suitable
for agriculture. Sylvester, the son, married
a daughter of Chief Justice Stawell, of Vic-
toria ; a sister married F. M. Darley, after-
wards Chief Justice of N. S. Wales. .
Fitzwilliam Wentworth, who died in Syd-
ney on Sunday, aged 81, was a son of the
great Wentworth, and the inheritor of his
wealth. He owned Greycliff till a year or so
aao, when the Holman Government resumed
it, and felt strongly the loss of the place.
Before going to Greycliff the family had in-
habited Vaueluse —also resumed—and the
mausoleum which contains the earthly part
of William Charles still stands on an adja-
cent mound. Fitz Wentworth’s worst specu-
lation was the purchase of Burrabogie, in the
Hay district. It was the biggest real estate
transaction on record 30 years ago—so big
that the London Times wrote an article
about it. It cost the Wentworths a fortune.
A famous feature of the family’s town
place was “The Hut” —a shed on a small
beach where, every Sunday, old Union Club
members used to meet and lunch in an
Arcadian manner on champagne and bronze-
wing turkeys from the Murrumbidgee. Every
notable feeder who visited Sydney was enter-
tained at “The Hut” sooner or later. Fitz
Wentworth married a Hill, and leaves four
sons and a daughter.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Hoyt’s Pictures will be in Sydney pre-
sently. An excellent central site has been
secured for a building on the lines of Hoyt’s
De Luxe in Bourke-street, Melbourne, and
sufficient seats will be placed between the
four walls to accommodate 2000 picture-
viewers. Arthur Russell, who pulls teeth
when not engaged in some show enterprise,
is the moving spirit in the new Hoyt ven-
ture.
Poverty Point had a surprise last week
when it heard that Clifton Clarke had re-
signed the job of general manager and
secretary of the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
About eight years ago the young man was
engaged by Harry Rickards, and twice
accompanied that potentate to Europe in
search of artists. Clarke was originally
intended for the law, but turned to news-
paper work, accountancy, and finally
theatrical management. In the last he
found his line, and proved his mastery of it
when, single-handed, he successfully piloted
the business of the big circuit through the
last small-pox scare.
From Jo Smith, who can speak from
personal experience:—
Apropos of “O.K.’s” reminder of what William
Anderson has done for Australian playwrights (B.
6/8/’l5), I would like to sound an echo. Ander-
son handled two Australian plays of mine, “The
Bushwoman’’ and “The Girl of the Never Never.”
Be cast them well and produced them without
stint. In fact, he told me on each occasion to
discuss the mounting with Rege Robins, and what-
ever we agreed upon he'd stand to. My associa-
tion with him extended over three or four years,
during which time he toured with the pieces; he
was never a fraction out in his accounts, and I
never had to ask him for a cheque. May he come
into his own again some day!
Hugh D. Mclntosh was so much im-
pressed with the Maori performances at
Rotorua (M.L.) that he set about making
arrangements for a co. of haka and poi
dancers to tour the Tivoli circuit. With the
setting that the Mclnsplosh can give the
turn, the investment should pay.
“Dick” Stewart, our Nellie’s brother, and
one of J.C.W.’s oldest and best business
managers, departed with his wife and family
a day or two ago for S’Africa. Dick goes to
look after the interests of “the firm” there,
taking the place of Harold Ashton, who. has
held the reins from the start of the William-
son co.’s campaign in that country, and who,
presumably, returns to Australia. Stewart
of late years has been mostly engaged in
piloting J.C.W. companies up and down
Maoriland, and his travelling on that job
constitutes a record. He is. looking forward
to seeing his home a little oftener in
S’Africa, and he leaves these shores with the
heartiest good wishes of troops of friends.
Austral Gardens, the co. that took over
the old Ayers mansion on North Terrace,
Adelaide, has decided to mark time for the
present. . After Sydney James and his
Strollers finished their out-door summer
season, it got busy preparing a Palais de
Danse; but dancing has heavily slumped
in popular favor, and this is no time to
open any new dance hall. The Pirie-street
skating-rink, which still keeps busy, offers
itself as a dancing-floor occasionally. Mean-
while, Charles Cawthorne, not worrying
about war-times, has taken over the old
Central Hall (formerly controlled by a
democratic German Club, which has melted
away), and made it into a first-class con-
cert-hall, to seat about 900. It is to be
called the Queen’s Hall, and expects to
make a big bid for concerts and amateur
theatricals.
“Private Boxer”: Someone, not neces-
sarily a press-agent, is alleged to have
remarked, after witnessing the show at Syd-
ney Criterion, that “The Law of the Land"
was, taking it all round, one of the best-
acted plays seen on the Australian boards
for 30 years. Without going so far as that,
I will agree that the cast was mostly com-
posed of experienced and well-tried mum-
mers who could not help giving a good
account of themselves even in. a machine-
made Yankee melodrama. So it should be
with the latest ’Murkan mixture, “Inside
the Lines,” to judge by the names of the
old stagers on the male side figuring on the
bill. They long ago proved they can act a
bit, given the material. Such old boys at
the game as “Jimmy” Atholwood, Fred
Cambourne, Charles Wheeler, Roy Red-
grave, Gregan McMahon, Kay Souper and
Eardley Turner could, I imagine, give a
presentable performance of anything in the
way of a stage-play, from Shakspeare to
musical comedy. They serve to show the
difference between “stock” and “stick”
actors.
“H. 0.”: Paul Burns, of the “Potash and
Perlmiitter” vaudeville co., says he can’t
understand why one night a joke “goes big”
and on the next night is received in silence.
Some audiences have better memories than
others.
Hilda Spong got a chance soon after she
landed back among the Amurkans. Dorothy
Donnelly, who created the Yank “Madame
X” and was the original twanged Candida,
had a warm discussion about the size of
her name on the playbills for the revival
of Shaw’s “Candida” by Arnold Daly.
When Dorothy kicked too hard Daly sent
round for Hilda, and the Australian pleased
N’Yark “a whole heap.”
(Continued on page SJf.)
Captain Lionel Michael, the Torres Strait
pilot who died in Sydney last week, was the
only son of that poet-lawyer of the ’6o’s
who has a secure place in Australian liter-
ary history by virtue of his friendship for
Henry Kendall. The elder Lionel Michael
was a solicitor in London, where he became
acquainted with Millais and Ruskin, and
devoted more time to art criticism and verse
construction than to the law. The gold
fever brought him out to Sydney in 1553;
but soon after his arrival he found Costs
a quicker gold extractor than the pick and
shovel. He published two books of verse —
at his own expense, of course —and trans-
lated Dante. Kendall, at the age of 17,
entered Michael’s office as a clerk, showed
his boyish verses to his employer, and re-
ceived a good deal of encouragement and
assistance. Michael removed to Grafton
in 1801. Kendall rejoined him there, and
must have been greatly influenced by the
close association with a cultured man and
by the use of his extensive library. Michael
was found dead in the Clarence River _in
IS6B, with a wound in his head which
pointed to foul play; but some verses left
on his desk suggested suicide.
“Bloggs”: This Stadium business of howl-
ing down a Minister of the Crown has pre-
cedent. When William McLinen and Henley,
M.L.A., organised a Town Hall meeting in
Sydney in connection with the “eviction”
incident, a Minister of the Crown transpired
to explain the Government’s position. He
was counted out, cursed and yelled at till he
left the platform and the premises. The
Liberal press did not call the disturbers
“hoodlums” on that occasion. The word was
“patriots.”
Vic. Leg. Council is t 9 be given another
chance to show where it stands. It has
hitherto declined to allow the State coal-
mine to sell anything but slack (small coal)
to private customers, on the pretence that
the railways needed all the big coal. Now
the people who run the mine allege that the
price charged to the railways will not per-
mit them to extract the smaller seams, esti-
mated to contain nearly 2,000,000 tons of
workable mineral; yet if they had authority
to sell to the public they could place it at a
profit and still charge less than the public is
paying for sea-borne coal. If Mr. Angliss’s
friends still insist on barring private sales,
the only possible conclusion will be that they
would rather the country didn’t have any
great natural resources than that they should
be employed to give the public cheaper goods
than the importers now supply. And in that
case, why develop any of the great natural
resources at all ? And why not fine any
man who speaks of the great natural re-
sources except to curse them?
HER PART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She labored in our kitchen once;
She struck us for a rise;
At ironing she was a dunce,
You couldn’t eat her pies,
She couldn’t wash, she wouldn’t sew—
Reluctantly we let her go.
I met the lass the other day.
“I’m on the stage,” lisped she.
I summoned interest to say:
“One of the hands, maybe?”
She very sharply tossed her head.
“Oh, no, two of the legs,” she said.
VICTORIA.
S. SNELL.
THE INVISIBLE ARTIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He borrowed half a sov. from me—
“ Until I draw my treasury
I’m just a trifle short,” said he;
“On Monday I will make it right.
I’ve got a splendid shop this time,
A fat part in the pantomime;
The show’s magnificent, sublime —
It plays me out of sight 1”
I took his perjured word and went
To see the thing. I now lament
The many shillings that I spent
On seats and shandygaff that night.
The panto, was a lethal blend
Of tripe and tinsel. Till the end
I vainly tried to spot my friend
Who was “played out of sight."
Next day I met him in the street
Upon the mummers' usual beat;
I taunted him with his deceit.
He said, with evident delight:
“True art lies in concealing art.
You saw our Dame’s old horse and cart?
The horse’s hindlegs are my part—
That’s why I’m out of sight 1”
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


RIDING BREECHES
SMART DURABLE EASY
WE are specialists in the making of Riding Breeches.
They are cut to ensure perfect ease in the saddle,
and specially .strengthened where necessary. We
illustrate a SPECIAL LINE in Drab color, or White, Odor-
less Canton Moleskin. Full-cut, strapped knees, laced or
buttoned, all sizes . 16/6
Also, close-fitting, strapped knees 16/6
Geelong Saddle Twist Tweed, Grey or Drab.
Also Drab Twill Garbadine, all sizes 25/-
White Cotton Twillette, all sizes 19/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
m
i
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
OPENt
CLOSED
Portable
Folding
Organs.
“ FOLD LIKE A
SUIT CASE.”
For Camp, Church
or Home.
Used by Chapman-Alexander Missions, Dr
Mawson’s South Pole Expedition, Military and
Seaside Camps.
PRICES.
“Wonder” Folding Organ, £5/10/-
“Marvel” Folding Organ, £6/10/-
“Gem” Folding Organ, £9/10/-
Sole Agents for Australia:—
BUTTON 290 & 292 Bourke St.
NJU 1 lUll \J, MELBOURNE.
BALLARAT, BENPiGO, GEELONG.
MAKES COUGH SYRUP WITH TAR
AND SUGAR.
A CHEMIST’S RECIPE.
As a chemist I have, of course, long been
familiar with the remarkable virtue of bitrate
ot tar in the treatment of coughs, colds,
catarrh and bronchial troubles ; but did not
give it any thought until one day my wife
contracted a severe cough which refused to
yield to all the usual remedies from which
re^ e f- H then occurred to me
tnat bitrate of tar might be just the thing,
and I decided to make an experiment wilii
its use. I made a plain syrup by dissolving
lalf a pound of sugar in half a pint of hot
water and then stirred in 2oz. of bitrate
of tar. This made nearly a pint of a plea-
sant cough syrup, of which I told my wife
t° ta i two teaspoonsfuls every hour. By
the end of the first day, much to her aston-
ishment and delight as well as my own, the
cough had disappeared and has not returned,
i wa s so pleased that now whenever anyone
asks for a cough syrup I advise the use of
tins simple home-made syrup, for I honestly
believe it is the best thing known for coughs,
colds, catarrh and bronchial troubles.’’
f>itrate of tar, as is well known, possesses
peculiar healing and soothing properties;
and owing to the great demand for it all
leading chemists have made special arrange-
ment.s to keep a liberal supply in stock.* '
SOCIETY
in the war, when German atrocities
were a new subject of discussion, it was
claimed for the Bavarians in Australia that
they were not to be classed with Prussians,
ihey were mild-mannered, non-Hunnish
creatures who disliked the Prussians and
their methods. But the French Judicial
Commission, in its latest report, states it as
incontrovertible that at St. Die 30 French
prisoners were shot or beaten to death by
Bavarian troops ; so, henceforward, Bavarian
will seem as good a synonym for barbarian
as any other method of spelling Hun.
THE ADVANTAGES OF EARLY MURDER.
A fund has been started in Germany to present testinonials to the crews of the aubmarines which
[?] the Lusitania and other steamships.
Being a matter in which babies are largely interested, the testimonial might come from
the infants of Germany.
* Kum-kum-pona”: Another massacre of
police has occurred at Cloudy Bay, Papua.
The same tribes that a couple of years ago,
within a day’s walk of the Government
station of Abau, attacked a Resident Magis-
trate and detachment of police, killing one
constable and wounding two, the other day
murdered a sergeant and three policemen,
and with the captured rifles shot a white
planter living in the vicinity. Then with the
firearms and a considerable supply of ammu-
nition they took to the bush, where, at time
of writing, they are making a stand. Within
the last couple of years three white men have
been murdered, and quite close to Port
Moresby numerous native messengers from
outside plantations have been knocked on the
head. Most of them lost their lives through
not having their firearms in their hands, just
as happened to Green and his detachment
of police on the Mambare 20 years ago.
Government parties are frequently attacked
and members wounded or narrowly escape
death. Notwithstanding this, irresponsible
asses continue to bray in the Australian press
that I apua, like Canberra, is a place which
can be tramped over with no more defensive
weapon than a stick, and there is a chorus
of shocked protest when the white settler
asks for reasonable protective measures.
Maoriland’s police the other day asked Par-
liament whether it wanted the country to be
known as the. Dominion that Prefers to be
Dirty.' 1 Having apologised for mentioning
the matter, the Fcrce pointed out that while
cases of scarlatina and measles h to be
reported to. the Health Department and are
promptly isolated, venereal diseases are
allowed to run riot, although vastly more
dangerous and far-reaching in their conse-
quences. Incidentally it was mentioned
that women known to be badly infected with
the most poisonous disease on earth are free
from restraint, the police having power to do
nothing except look on while contamination
is passed along to innocent women and chil-
dren. (McSmiffle, O’Wowser and Co. will
please follow with a sermon on Sin.)
* * *
A conscientious objector” had his scruples
lowered to bedrock at Palmerston North
(M.L.) the other day. He asked to be
exempted from doing military trainin'*
on the ground that he didn’t believe in re-
sisting evil. The Court asked him if he
understood what he was talking about The
peace apostle said he did. “If you had a
sister and the Germans invaded this coun-
try and ill-treated her as they did the Bel-
gians, wouldn’t you defend her?” asked a
brutally-direct magistrate. “No, I would do
nothing, said whalever it was that was
concealed in man’s clothes. “Then the
sooner you learn to do something the better ”
remarked a horrified Solomon ; and the piti-
ful object was sent along to the proper
school.
“EYES RIGHT!”
SERGEANT (to squad of recruits): “Eyes right! Eyes right! Number Four, eyes right!"
No. FOUR: “Sure! Had, ’em tested by the travellin’ optimist at Buggaboo!”
It will be publi lied in the Society columns
of one of the “great dailies” before long:—
Ihe fashion established in England by the Smart
Set and soldiers’ widows of sticking to their clothes
until they are worn out has, of course, spread to
Australia, and at the patriotic concert given in the
town Hall last night the new fashions were strik-
irgly obvious. Melba, whose lovely voice was heard
to great advantage in the aria, “Give Me a Penny,”
was attired in the gardening skirt she had been in
the habit of wearing at her beloved Coombe Cot-
tage. The bertha was caught up with string, and
the carefully-darned fichu showed that busy fingers
had worked upon it for many laborious hours. A
rent in the waist had been patched with khaki. Mr.
Cyril Monk, the violinist, wore a military overcoat.
Tenor Walter Kirby’s dungarees had been carefully
mended, but the openings in his coat, which only
had one sleeve, revealed a pathetic background.
The ravages of time and moths were particularly
noticeable in the costume worn by her Excellency.
It was of dark crepe de Chine and butter cloth,
carried out in a scheme of blue serge underlying
an overdress of jute. Seven years ago, when her
Excellency wore this at the opening of a home for
superannuated milliners, it created a profound sen-
sation, but on this occasion the confection brougnt
tears to the eyes of many. The indications of press-
ing and patching and cleaning refused to be con-
cealed. Among the audience were noticed Miss
Pure Merino, skirt of heliotrope ninon and pyjama
coat; Miss Broadacres, nattier blue with patch of
grey moleskin on left shoulder and piece of tweed
on the corsage; Mrs. Ample-Affable, blue flags; Mrs.
Narrow, jumper of galatea and pleated skirt in twill
sheeting; Mesdames Notes, Boats and Goats, aprons,
closely fitting bodice of warm material resembling
blanket; Mrs. Skittish, robe of patchwork from
which a table-cover cape fell away in graceful folds.
The hats were, as a rule, carried under the arms,
but some were allowed to remain, owing to difficulty
of removal. Mrs. Jack McMoses had a sou’wester,
tilted slightly forward, ornamented with a sprig of
boronia. There was a bunch of wattle in Mrs.
Sellum's coiffure, and each of the Misses Rolls-
Royce, whom she chaperoned, wore a simple piece
of net from the beach at Botany. Some of the
younger ladies had bonnets constructed from lin-
oleum and carpet, tied under the chin with pieces
of clothes-line. Some of these were very fetching,
one sweet girl I noticed having added to the effect
by placing a vase of roses over the left ear. The
matrons, as a rule, however, were content with the
more severe forms of head-dress, a simple pudding
cloth or pillow-slip being easily thrown over the
head and shoulders with negligent simplicity.
It was noticed that his Excellency did not remove
his long, canvas dust-coat, and that his trousers
were badly frayed around the heels. The Lord
Mayor having been in bed for several days was able
to sustain the dignity of his high office with becom-
ing rigidity. The knees of his shorts had been
hoisted an inch or two in order to frustrate a fur-
ther unravelling, and his jersey had been neatly
darned. His Worship had only one sock, and it is
understood that he chivalrously donated this to the
fund for distressed deadbeats. He announced during
an interval that next Sunday a collection would be
taken up in the streets to provide shirts for several
impecunious importers who had lately been seri-
ously ill with influenza.
The concert concluded with the audience solemnly
affirming its intention to buy no new clothes until
the public debt had been liquidated. The sight of
the long- row of ragged drapers outside begging for
food was a terrible spectacle.
The accumulated evidence points to the
fact that that wretched general* Bill the
Butcher, regarded his bloated airships as the
last word in instruments of world-conquest
His glorification of Count Zeppelin as the
mightiest inventor of “the great German
age” admits of only one construction. Fur-
ther, there was the “secret” speech of the
Kaiser which William Le' Queux communi-
cated to the British secret service depart-
ment seven years ago:—
i _^ e ®^ strike as soon as I have a sufficiently
large fleet of Zeppelins. 1 have given orders for tin-
construction of more ships of the improved Zeppelin
1 S; -T h f. n these al ' e read y we shah destroy Eng
lands North Sea, Channel and Atlantic fleets. After
which nothing can prevent the landing 0 f o ur anm
™, Bn l'; sh S0)1 , an d its triumphant march to London.
Ihe Kaisers faith in the potentialities of
enormous airships was not, however, shared
by the clearer-sighted Bernhardi, who wrote
ot them as doubtful experiments; and Zep-
pelin himself expressed his misgivings last
year when he begged Kink William not to
make him ridiculous by giving him the title
ot Ford High Admiral of the Air until his
fleet had done something of serious conse-
quence.
*
Glad rags were hung out at the Lyceum
Ball, Sydney, last week, to celebrate the
centenary of Methodism in Australia.
Samuel Leigh was the original ploughman
m the field. He commenced operations on
August 10, 1815; but his first church, situ-
ated on the “Rocks,” didn’t arrive till 1817.
Ihe conventicle was built by an ex-soldier
aad Presented to the preacher, and lasted
till it was resumed in 1901, at the time of
£ •*r. P L asue scare ' But as ,he elect of this
faith Lave a habit of amassing wealth, Metho-
dism had far more substantial premises in
which to drink the centenary—or do what-
ever Methodists do to show their joy.
THE BACKERS OF THE HUNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“German papers are jubilant over the Welsh strike.”
The British ships in. Swansea Bay
Lie up—they’re short o’ coal;
And France’s vessels crippled wait
Until you’ve taken toll;
In ev’ry trench there’s blood a-flow
By Flemish dyke and down,
But ne’er a man would shame his breed
And throw his rifle down.
From far Australia’s grassy plains
The long, lean bushmen come;
The sturdy sons of Maoriland
They heed the battle-drum ;
How will they look askance and stare
What time their blood is shed
To hear that you, for whom they fight,
Have calmly gone to bed!
It isn’t that we grudge you, mate,
Your extra pence per ton ;
It’s seeing Welshmen with a pick
Hit Welshmen with a gun ;
It’s hearing rise from oversea
Applauses fit to stun,
And knowing that you well deserve
A cheering- from the Hun.
We hung our heads in bitter shame
That once were hung in pride
To hear the alien cheer for you,
Whose brothers bled and died ;
For when in Freedom’s holy cause
They battled, high and low,
Their kinsmen caught their fighting hand.
And paralysed the blow !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


Keep Free
From Colds
by taking
To resist and repel colds, influenza, bron-
chitis, there is nothing better ihan a course
of Angier’s Emulsion. Its soothing, healing
effects and its tonic invigorating influence
upon all the bodily functions make it
unequalled for the prevention of colds
and catarrhal affections. If the cold or
cough has already commenced, Angier’s
is the best means of throwing it off
and repairing the damage it has caused.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper,
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7,. Barrack Street, Sydney.
A Triumph in Hat Value at 12/6.
The hat featured to-day really
merits special comment. It is
quite a new line, produced in
three beautiful shades —a good
grey with slate or black band, a
subdued green with self band, and
a new shade of fawn with dark-
brown band. The bands are
corded and add a distinctive
touch. The hats are of smooth
felt, with raw-cut edge—the
2-J-inch brims being curl-set but
adaptable tb an)’ position.
Despite the many shapes and
shades hitherto introduced, these
hats are different to any others.
Men who purchase them will have
something quite distinctive.
UNIQUE VALUE AT 12/0 EACH.
Please state size and shade.
PEAPES S CO. LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
“Snell”: Ben the bottle-o confided in me
while filling his sack in the back-yard.
“Ya-az, I’m goin’,” he said. “The dic.-doc.
went all over me Monday. I’m solid ez a
block, ’n’ I go into camp nex’ week. ’Twasn’t
all my doin’. Liz egged me on —said I’d
look a twicer if I didn’t have a cut et ’em
with the rest iv the push. She wouldn’t
hear iv nothink till I caved, ’n’ now she’s
stickin’ out her chest ’n’ swankin’ ez if she
owned the lane. I sez to ’er, ‘What’ll you
do if I go?’ Sez she: ‘So ’elp me, Billy, I’ll
put up with Nicko Walsh.’ Seen Nicko,
boss? No? Well, if you ’ad you’d know
what Liz is doin’ fer her country.”
if- * # *
“Hermes” (whom the Romans called Mer-
cury) puts the case:- —-
A hospital ship is on its way back to Australia from
the theatre of war, carrying both wounded and sick.
Among the latter are 106 venereal cases. After the
calamitous chill in which the men on the Ifyarra
came home, the Minister for Defence has ordered
that for the new batch the community shall maffick.
From the first Australian port are to be telegraphed
the names of all the patients—except the venereal.
Honorable compliments and flatteries are to be be-
stowed wherever possible on the returned soldiers —
except the venereal. Why except the venereal? We
know what war is. We know what soldiers are.
Encamped in Egypt, with Cairo close at hand, these
men found certain red-light houses which were perils
incidental to the campaign. Sickness befel them.
Other men succumbed to the typhoid bacillus; others
to the poisons and germs which induce dysentery.
These 106 heroes were the victims of the gonococcus
and the spirochate. I submit that as on Australia
Day we put wounded and invalid soldiers into the
Governor’s carriage and motor-cars, we should do no
less with the 106 venereal cases. That procedure
would stir Puritan remonstrance; but the Puritan
view is the one which keeps the disease widely
virulent. We could not find a better or bolder way
in which to end once and for all the moral priggish-
ness which hides the disease. So, on what day will
the heroes march ? They are no less brave than the
rest. They are only more unlucky. On hospital
ships, I know, they are called the V.C.’s.
* * * *
“Cockroach’s” item :—-
When plague bioke out in Australia 16 years ago,
and was traced to imported rats, ship fumiga-
tion was commenced. Now it is a recognised ordeal,
and twice a year every sea-going ship must produce a
fumigation certificate to the Collector of Customs.
Some firms employ Private Enterprise to do the
work, and in the case of a passenger ship it is a big
thing. All openings are sealed down for 24 hours,
and a mixture of cyanide, sulphur and sundries is
pumped through the vessel. On a big inter-Stater
not long back one of the fumigators happened to
notice a figure steal furtively along the deck, open
a cabin door, and bolt inside. Yelling an alarm a
rescue party was hastily raised. With ready-made
mufflers they dashed into the cabin. The interloper
was picked up where he had fallen at the doorway.
Luckily he fell on his nose, breaking it. The blood
which gushed out is supposed to have prevented
him breathing the gas properly, as, instead of dying
promptly, he woke up some hours after in Sydney
Hospital. He was a steward, who subsequently ex-
plained that he had forgotten his collar-stud.
IN THE DANGER ZONE.
“What would your mamma say if she saw
you smoking those cigarettes?”
“My, she’d go off pop! They're her cigar-
ettes.”
A FASHION NOTE.
THE MISSUS: “ You seem to have a terrible grouch on to day , Edward—anything on your
mind?”
EDWARD: “Um, well, not much! I was just wondering where I should find your waist-
line this time next year!”
“Adelaide”: In an anti-German music-
hall sketch lately shown here, the Kaiser-
like villain is hammered with slapsticks
bearing the names of the various Allies.
The night I saw it all of these but one
did their work heartily—though ineffectually,
till Australia came on the scene. The one
labelled “Russia” cracked across at the
second whack, and at the third split in
halves! Coincidence? Omen?
“Hot Cross Gun”:
At Seymour the
Roman soldiers are
due for church parade
at 8.45 a.m. on Sun-
days, whereas the
Church of England
swaddies are par-
aded an hour later.
Knee-drill is compul-
sory. The early ap-
pearance of the Roman
legions hardly gives
time to place their
tents and themselves
in that state which is
fitting to the Sabbath
of the Lord their God.
And there are other
inconveniences. Last
Sunday the Romans
were being paraded
back to their lines,
when they were halted
and given the stand-
easy two yards from
an oncoming contin-
gent of Prodistans.
“Say, Bill,” came a
voice from the ranks
of Rome, “your place
is here!” Whereto
Bill, who is one of
the Thrue Faith when
he is anything, bawled
back : “Go to Hell wid
you. If you’d had to
wash up dirty dishes
wid cold water you’d
be a Prodistan your-
self.”
“Moana”: The question raised by
“Johanna” (B. 15/7/’l5) of how Colonel
“Plevna” Ryan came to get close enough to
the Turks at Gallipoli for his Plevna ribbon
to be recognised is explained bv Maoriland
war-correspondent Ross, who states that he
got the tale from Ryan himself. During an
armistice, granted for the purpose of burying
the dead, Ryan strolled across to the Turkish
trenches, which were quite close, and there
the famous ribbon was noticed by two Turk-
ish doctors, who embraced the Australian,
and said they were glad to see him. Ryan
says the Turkish doctors and officers spoke
English perfectly, and were very courteous.
The Turkish officer who came across with the
flag of truce was a fine chap and had charm-
ing manners. Ryan told Ross all this in
Cairo just before going back to Gallipoli. As
he said good-bye to the Maorilander, Dr.
‘‘Charley” mentioned that he had a presenti-
ment that he would never return. Thousands
this end will trust that he is a rotten failure
as a prophet.
* * * #
Maoriland wowsers have lately been fran-
tically demanding that the number of race
days in Loan Land should be reduced because
of the “waste of money on the totalisator,”
on which the public last year “squandered
£4,188,594.” This kind of argument is
sheer lunacy. The four millions wagered
on fast and slow prads in Loan Land in
1914 went straight back, less 10 per cent.,
to the public. It changed pockets in
some instances, but was there in the morning
available for use just the same as if there
had been no tote. If there is sin in gambling
it is when the gambler buys a bag and be-
comes a hardened professional and plans to
live on the game. The tote wipes out the
pro. and leaves the business to the! genuine
and strictly-amateur sport. The only part
of the total that he “loses” is the 10 per cent,
deducted. Most of that goes to the racing
club, which hands it out in stakes
to the winners of the races. The horse-
owners in turn distribute it among jockeys,
trainers, stable hands, horse breeders and
farmers. The per cent, that goes to the
Government is handed back as salary to
wowser politicians, so that they can go to
Parliament and denounce the tote and the
“appalling waste” of good cash, and vote for
a low tariff, so that the people’s money may
be sent away to employ perfect strangers
and potential enemies.
**- * *
Was there ever such a shatterer of idols
as this war? It was pointed out in S. Aus.
Assembly the other evening that, now the
recruiting height has been reduced, the stan-
dard for a soldier is lower than that still
insisted on by the railway and tramway ser-
vices. “If a man is fit to fight for the
Empire, surely he is fit to collect fares or
punch tickets!” Peake suggested. And
Jackson, Commissioner of Public Works,
could only say the regulation was anomalous,
and promise to overhaul it.
“Sardonyx”: I’m dead-weary of the
‘hero” label. Eery time I look at a Syd-
ney daily “Heroes of the Dardanelles” blares
like a circus band. I’m certain that our
fellows at the Front, as gallant and deter-
mined fighters as the planet has ever seen,
would be the first to kick against the cheap
melodramatic ring of “hero,” suggestive less
of the grim. Gallipoli death-struggle than
of the flapper love-yarn or the glories of the
Adelphi or King’s. Why not “Men of the
Dardanelles”? Simpler, stronger, more
significant; worthier to live in legend, and
fitter far for the stark and strenuous
battlers who are writing such a splendid
chapter of history.
“Clinker”: This recruiting campaign is
becoming farcical. Men are being rallied
through one gate at the barracks and many
of them emptied out the other for the most
frivolous reasons. One sturdy Australian
of my acquaintance was told to get work
the other day because he had two joints of
the middle finger of the left hand missing.
He couldn’t understand it until I explained
that all soldiers had to take their turn
playing the piano on the night of the occu-
pation of Constantinople.
“Lagani Namo”: So far as. I am con-
cerned Staniforth Smith can wallow in
glory over the Ivikori Expedition. But for
the sake of historical accuracy, and because
k has an important bearing on the_ mal-
administration of Papua, let me dismiss
him from the matter and say that practi-
cally the entire population of the Possession
regards that expedition as a joke. _ Its
ostensible purpose was to penetrate inland
from the Gulf of Papua and examine coal
discovered by the Mackay-Little expedition
in 1908. It was the Administrator’s pro-
ject. The Lieut.-Governor and all official
members' of the Legislative and Executive
Councils were on furlough when the party
set out. There was no one in it competent
to give an authoritative opinion on the coal.
Owing to inexperience and bad organisa-
tion, 11 people out of 28 in the adventure
succumbed, and all instruments and records
were lost. After an absence of five months,
an outlay of unwards of £2OOO and search
expeditions costing as much more, the rem-
nants drifted down a river and found them-
selves back where they set out from ! The
mere fact that the Royal Geographical
Society invited the leader to address its mem-
bers when lie was in London is not proof of
the success of the expedition. The same people
applauded Captain Lawson when he enter-
tained them with his wonderful experiences
in New Guinea.
QUITE HAPPY UNATTACHED
THE REVEREND: “ And so your poor husband
was killed at the tear, Mrs. Bright?”
THE WIDOW: “He teas, Mr. Bloggs. And
if I had another I would send him
to-morrow.”
ART AND NATURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sooner or later, more or less,
In every printed page I scan
Crops up that sadly sweated phrase:
“A soldier and a man.”
And yet whenever I observe,
With careful eye, the giddy whirl,
I see about on every side
A soldier and a girl.
VXCTOEIA.
SYD. C.


“WHO’S GAME?”


I'gwrasft AS visual/
“Wily doesn't' a
(fealtfy laid like
yi>o < so "to ■ike war?
Bootblack :
"CJorbljVhe • lA)koi
l5 attend
to me business ?
"Inhabitants of Prussia are called upon
to give up to the nation all articles of -
brass* copper or nickel, however minute* '
Failure to comply involves a fine of
£500."
A M/MAGEI?! AL-
EX PEPIgNT .
•'fn A short while I will announce new
victories won l>y my soldiers... .The
war drama Is now coming to a close."
—The Kaiser to his sister, the Queen of
Greece.
VAlhclnij^^
-(fo hiTjuttior partners) :
"I Ha.f decided <||
arnioonce last
Veeks for *
reasons ,yoo under*-
itandt”. Qott krrovos
How> many ueeks '
dey uill s |
it is estimated that of the number of
people receiving supplies directly from
the German Government there are
500,000 persons employed by the rail-
ways, and 750,000 at work in Krnpp's
und other munition factories.
f/\oZO
Society women lit England are signing
a pledge to give up luxuries on account
of the war. They agree not to use
motor-cars for private purposes, not to
patronise restaurants, and not to observe
the fashions, but to wear their clothes
until they are worn out
'/lilies Ober Krupp
io be oof
v wKc fir foe
{uWe
Bnfisfr Bobby •
"I \te duchess o'
R mlico be blowed •
you come u>»*
me -f'e*' im 'person afi’r* ’
+tfe "
"My destructive sword tuts crashed the
Russians." —The Kafsei
a^ Ug -
THE WEEK’S WAR.


HYGEIA
Shaving
Stick.
You
won't
know
yourself
behind
Hygeia
oil-foam.
AVON
n
TRADE MARK
THe TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
m
0
ħ
rr»m}' r^ie^? ver ou s °’ ie "orld over, leading men wear YVOOxmOW
HATS. They are unequalled in quality, style, durabality and
comfort. ALL STORES.
LEWIS&WIHTTY
HOW TO RUB OFF FAT.
CIRCULAR MOTION NECESSARY.
An excess of fatty tissues on hips or abdo-
men not only prevents one from looking well
or feeling comfortable, but it is likely to
keep increasing until all the youthful beauty
of the figure is gone. A very simple yet won-
derfully effective means for quickly and per-
manently reducing this superfluous flesh con-
sists in applying night and morning, rubbing
with a circular movement, a harmless herb
mixture composed of one dram of quassia
chips and 3oz. of cirola bark extract, which
you can get at small cost from any good
chemist. Put the quassia chips in a pan
and pour over them a teacupful of boiling
water, in about half a minute strain through
a cloth and add the cirola bark extract, when
it is ready for use. This recipe is also very
valuable for reducing double chin, puffy neck,
arms, hands, etc. The fat shrinks away
rapidly leaving no wrinkles or flabbiness.
CAUTION. —Be sure and apply on both
hips or both arms, for a difference in one of
them iron Id soon be noticeable if the lotion
were only used on one side.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
THE NAVAL CRITICS.
"Every time Bill's on leave that Dread-
nought's cruising around him.”
“She wants a Von Tirpitz for a father, she
does — he'd keep her at home.”
There is not often room in one family for
four lawyers, but the Downers in Adelaide
ga\e four brothers to tlie profession in a
batch.. Harold, who showed great promise
but died young, was in partnership with
Henry, who became Local Court Judge and
Insolvency Commissioner. John, the IC C
and statesman, just dead, partnered Georg.*'
who earned a quiet repute in the profession
as possibly the soundest local conveyancer
Broken down in health, lie is the last survi-
vor of the four. Frank Downer, son of
Henry, and I red Downer, son of John now
carry on the family tradition.
__ “One of Eddy’s men” gets the vacant
N.S.W. Railway Commissionership, taking
the oversight of the tramways in succession
to the late Harry Richardson. Like Rich-
ardson and both of the present Commis-
sioners, Edward Milne is home-trained.
Starting to earn his crust as a railway
telegraphist, he was helping with the traffic
in Eddy’s day, and had special marks of
favor shown him by that big man. A
hard, bronzed, bearded Australian, Milne
will work IS hours a day for the honor of
the country ho is mightily proud of. Inci-
dentally, reckoning that Australia is the
handiest thing for Australia to study, he
has given Black Brother a lot of attention,
and has one of the best private collections
in the world of his arms and household
goods,
“Stephen Me.”: When a boy on the old
training-ship Nelson with the recently-dead
Captain Panter, one of our feats was to
climb to the masthead
and slide to the deck
by the fore-stay.
One day a black boy
coming down severely
burnt his hands, and
had to let go. He
fell about 60ft..
struck the fore-
chains and bounced
overboard. Captain
Panter was on deck
at the time, and,
without waiting to
take off even his hat,
ho went after that
hoy like a torpedo.
Got him, too; and, if
he hadn't been so
rapid the dar k y
would have been
snared by the sharks
that lived in the
neighborhood.
R. McC. ANDER-
SON, who is over-
hauling the Fed-
eral Departments
with a
business-
man's eye.
Johnny Crawford, of Rochester Shire
Council, the inaugurator of the “sixpenny
rate” which raised such howls of derision in
Victoria at the tail of the 1902 drought, died
a few days ago. John never missed a nieet-
ing of the council in all the 27 years be
represented the North West Riding, which
reaches up to the Murray, though in order
to attend he had to drive 30 miles. He was
one of Vic.’s best-known breeder’s and judges
of draught stock. The Reaper found him at
07, just after he had committed fhe indiscre-
tion of getting a lot of teeth pulled out.
“Vic.”; Died last week, in Maoriland, C.
B. Vine, a Melbourne Eight-Hours pioneer,
and our Trades Hall flag was half-masted.
The only recognised pioneer left,
after 59 years, is John McKay.
C. B. Vine’s father, T. W. Vine,
was one of the first presidents of
the committee. He was a carpen-
ter, of such gentlemanly appear-
ance that he was called Lord
Brougham, and indeed there was
a remarkable likeness. His three
daughters, sisters of C. B. Vine,
made the time-honored flag, bearing
the inscription. “Eight Hours
Labor, Eight Hours Recreation,
Eight Hours Rest,” which lias
been carried at the head of the
procession every year since 1556,
when the turn-out was small pota-
toes and few on a hill. At the
beginning there were few in it
besides the stonemasons, with
whom the movement originated.
Those at work on Parliament House were
refused leave that first year; but when the
procession came up to them they downed
tools and fell in.
Charles Dilke, who inherited £120,000, has
married Miss Faithfull, of N. S. Wales. The
lady, Florence Pearl Faithfull, herself worth
about £3OOO a year, is a daughter of the late
“Monty” Faithfull, solicitor, and in his day
a leading member of the University Cricket
Club. After her father’s death a few years
ago she left Sydney, and has since resided in
England. Charles Dilke is the son of the
baronet who was driven out of English pub-
lic life by Mr. and Mrs. Wowser some years
ago, but reappeared after a long absence.
The young man—who is not so young as
to make the match unsuitable —has been
training for the Front with a Yeomanry
regiment.
Private IL H. Weston, reported wounded
at the front door of Constantinople, inherited
the warrior instinct. lie is a grandson of
the late Captain Weston, of Prospect
(N.S.W.), and belongs to a family that has
bred a soldier in every generation, except
one, for over 700 years. One of Private
Weston’s recreations is turning out a neat
Bulletin par. under a familiar pen-name.
Tom Shield, the Melbourne draughtsman
who must put an aeroplane in everything
he . draws, revealed himself before the mili-
tary authorities lately. There is nothing
of the human transparency about Shield;
but his physique went for nothing. Portion
of his jaw-furniture being porcelain he was
passed out, full of suppressed valor and vain
regrets.
In addition to following the King there's a
mort of people who might (but won’t) follow
one McArdle, a Maoriland farmer. The other
day he forwarded £3OOO to the Government,
with an explanation that he had made that
amount extra profit on his produce because
of the war, and he couldn’t burden his soul
with the thought of money made out of the
Empire’s needs. There’s some talk of put-
ting him in the Museum.
Westralia the other day lost one of its
best back-country battlers —“Bob” Menzies,
who quitted for the Pacific slope of the
U.S.A., leaving behind him a town and dis-
trict to go on carrying his name. Like
most pioneers he didn’t make much of a for-
tune. The fortunes don’t go to the man
who knows how to find things. They be-
long to the man who knows how to sell
them.
Harold Denton, the most determined
anti-militarist in Maoriland, who fought
the compulsory training scheme tooth and
claw and had been again and again before
the Court for refusing to drill, has enlisted
and is just about ready to go to the Front.
He still bates militarism as much as ever,
but sees he was wrong in his ideas about
the way to deal with it, and now realises
that the only satisfactory solution is a gun.
Di< d in Kalgoorlie, at the .age of 60,
“Paddy” Whelan, publican, brewer, Home
Ruler and typical Irishman. Whelan, born
in County Clare, came to Australia in 1876,
settled in Adelaide, and took a job as coun-
ter hand in a draper’s shop. Later On he
went into_ rags on bis own account, and
became an alderman of the city. Then he
made an effort do got into the Upper House,
but failed. In 1879 he formed a branch—-
the first in the world —of Michael Davitt’s
Irish National League, - and in 1883 he
represented-Sou th Aus. at the Irish National
Convention held in'Meffifflirne at the close
of the Redmonds’ visit to Australia. When
Coolgardie was discovered he went to
Westralia, and became affluent through
Beer. lie refused many invitations to enter
the West, and also turned down a
safe Nationalist seat in the Commons.
Bright’s disease passed him out.
HIS COMPREHENSIVE LOYALTY.
NERVOUS TRAVELLER (finding himself in
much-captured town): “ Vive la”
SUDDEN MILLITARY APPARITION (appearing
from nowhere): "Vive la vat?”
TRAVELLER (continuing his cheer) : “Oh, vice
la EVERYBODY!”
Luck runs all ways. Last week one
McFadden smashed a leg at Murwillumbah
(N.S.YV.) —-the only leg he had left. On
the other side the S.M. at Mount Victoria
(N.S.YV. 1 was some years ago run down and
the wheels cut off his leg. Horrified por-
ters and public rushed to his assistance, and
were amazed to see the injured man tuck his
cut-off leg under his arm and hop away !
It was a wooden limb that had been severed.
“Chinky” unwinds the village’s roll of
fame:—
Rochester (Vic.) deserves well of Australia. It pro-
duced Hugh McKay, who toiled there at the forge in
the lean clays and
made the first
rough pattern of
the now world-
famous combined
harvester. Then
there is Harry In-
gram, a Restdown
settler, wh o in-
vented a gun with
ingenious periscope
attachment, to be
fired, with the gun-
ner unseen, from
the trenches. His
very rough model
has beeii handed
back by fhe Ord-
nance Department,
with instructions to
go ahead and per-
fect it. Next there's
Alfred Thorpe, who
has the blessings
of the settler for
his sparrow-trap;
and his brother
John David, who
invented the auto-
sledge to reach the
Yukon goldfields.
The latest inven-
tion to which
Rochester lays
claim is the hand-
grenade now under
the Defence Depart-
ment’s eye. It
came from a satel-
lite of . the Inky
Way, Vic. Russell.
FRANK TATE.
Director of
Education,
Victoria.
South Aus. is to lose its stormy-petrel par-
sou, Lionel Fletcher. One State seeros too
small a range for him. anyway. He was
educated at the college in Sydney of which
his father was head, d'd a bit of mining,
shearing and newspaper work, went round
the world as a midshipman, became at 28 a
Congregational parson, and latterly put in
six years at Port Adelaide. It was there
that he said severe things about the morals
of the Port, and met a storm of Abusive
denials with a batch of sworn evidence thai
made, the town council gasp and promise to
look into things. Next, lie refused a profit-
able call to Tasmania: but now ho takes a
summons to Cardiff, Wales, with the pro-
mise of a lecturing tour through England,
talking on Australian subjects. He is only 38.
Admitted to the Victorian Bar, Gordon
Holmes, a son of Charley Holmes, one of
the best known of Victoria’s Police Magi-
strates. The new Gent One comes from a
family with keen noses for precedent. Two
uncles have taken silk (one in M.L., the
other at the Irish Bar) ; a grand uncle was
till recently Chief Baron of the Irish Ex-
chequer Court; a cousin is C.J. of the United
States Judicature. Young Holmes has been
in turn clerk, station-hand and mummer,
and his name has been at the foot of some
good Bulletin stuff. Also lie has stood
twice for selection as a Parliamentary
Labor candidate. About six years ago he
married Bertha White, the dainty little
Collins-street masseuse, and since then lias
devoted himself to law and bulldogs.
Sylvester Browne has passed away at 7b.
He was mostly known to the public as “Rolf
Boldrewood’s” brother. To mining men he
was better known as one who was. always
full of pluck at times when it was necessary
for a man to. take his courage in both hands.
On the Barrier “Baby” Browne made a for-
tune early and quickly, and re-invested it in
the Broken Hill Junction. After a few years lie
left that uncertain property with the remnant
of his winnings, and put his money and pluck
into Zeehan (Tas.) in its earliest days. Ilis
representatives there were his nephew Ever-
ard Browne, Gordon Lyon and Reg Pell, all
of whom did good prospecting work in a dozen
more or less successful mines. Through the
failure of the N.D.L. Bank the Zeehan dis-
trict met hard times, and Sylvester Browne
and his lieutenants migrated to W.A. One
day Sylvester turned up in Melbourne with
an option over Bailey’s Reward, and met
with a discouraging reception from his old
Broken Hill friends. He approached them
all in turns without selling a share. After
several weeks’ failure “Baby” tackled George*
McCulloch, the original chairman of the
Broken Hill Prop. George refused every day
for a week, but at last told Tom Rollason
to draw a cheque to get him out of the office.
McCulloch’s name at the head of Browne’s
list did the trick. The other Broken Hill
people followed the lucky McCulloch as a
bell-wether, and all the shares were placed
within 48 hours. Sylvester Browne was a
giant, with a mind as broad as his body.
THE OUTING OF PIN-WIRE BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The message came to me early, but early I could
not go;
So, double-strung’, I toiled and moiled, and drank at
the cable’s flow,
While down in my heart I was listed—booked for
a seat at the show.
.Vs we cheered one week and we choked the next,
through all of it I could see
I hat just for a while the British arms weren’t
grimly in need of me;
So I toiled and moiled with two men's hearts, till
one day I was free.
In the drum of my ear, incessantly, a bell was beat-
ing loud,
Beating: “Go-ing! Go-ing! Go-ing! with the stark
men’s fighting crowd,
And you’ll get your whack of the glory, lad ; or the
naked soil for a shroud.”
I took the train to Sidney from the back of behind
Beyond,
And I never so much as looked at drink or girls too
easy fond ;
t or I’d scrap-o'-papered me and myself, and was out
to keep the bond.
I guess I shall never wince to a wound as I winced
at his words that day,
When I faced the army medical bloke and heard liis
cool Nibs say:
“The measurements of your chest, young chap, don’t
tally with battle fray.
“Go back for a while, my man,” said he. “Go back
to your home and try
A little physical culture —you'll stretch it by-and-
bye.”
Hod ! He was near to one on the point and a peach
of a purple eye!
1 thought of the cattle-yards at home, gold-brown
’gainst the setting sun,
That I’d cut lone-hand and split and hauled and
built on the old man’s run;
I thought of the steady hand and eye with rifle or
shotted gun.
I thought, with a twisted gurgling laugh, that here
was a queer damn game,
l or Back-o'-Beyond they’d given me Pin-Wire Bill
for a name;
Now a doctor bloke was to call me down, and me
to be nice to the same !
I asked him low to .give me a chance to go where
they fought and bled.
He dangled the tape before me, and, “It’s short by
an inch,” he said.
Then something floated across my eyes and dyed that
tape deep red.
x.s.w.
J. S. HUGHES.


Worth me risk
A
O'
5*
A
IF"
4
Tl
&
2
£
/
s
/
/'
lX>.
W
'C
V
A
aim
SENTRIES
ON
STRICTLYz
FORBIDDEN
to SMOKED
its CAPSTAN!
W.D .& H.O.WILLS.
PIPE
OF PEACE AND QUALITY—
CLMJNp
Pipe Guaranty


IRRIGATION.
Ws carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-dfiven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag" Line Excavators.
Sole Agents—WILLIAM ADAMS (Sb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Attorney-Gijnertil Hughes proposes to
establish his Metal Exchange in Melbourne
next month. After that no metal deals may be
made except through this body. The Exchange
will really only put a little extra expense
on to the producers of the metals. It is
superfluous during the war. While that
lasts no metals can go away, no matter how
or by whom sold or bought, unless the
authorities are satisfied that the goods will
not reach enemies. After the war the Ex-
change will be worthless, because if Ger-
many wants the stuff it will buy it through
American or British or Dutch or other
agents. Even if, after the war, the Ex-
change ruled out German bids (which is
improbable), Belgian bids would still be
taken; and the Belgian works are German
works for all practical purposes.
But (and this is the point which seems
to be persistently overlooked) Germany won’t
want to buy more stuff than it requires for
us own industrial purposes if that stuff is
smelted and refined before it leaves Australia.
It has got command of such an enormous part
of the; metal of the world because it has
specialised in the smelting and refining busi-
nesses. In other words, it buys now not to use
but to smelt and sell again. Transfer those
businesses from Germany and from German-
controlled smelters and refineries in Bel-
gium, France and the United States to
Australia, and the German can be allowed
to bid for Australian metals as hard as he
likes —after the war, of course. He won’t
buy more than he can actually use, any
more than he will buy wool or any other
commodity.
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Syd-
ney) :
I'o Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
, £ £ £ £
•June, 19US. . 64,696 15 p.e. = 60,000 4,696 370,080
Dec., 1908.. 64,626 15 „ „ 60,000 4,626 374,706
June, 1909.. 54,582 15 ~ ~ 60,000 369,288
Dec., 1909.. 63,711 15 „ „ 60,000 3,711 372,999
Premiums on new shares .. 49,988 422.987
June, 1910.. 18,013 15 p.c. = 62,450 378,550
Premiums on new shares .. 10 378,560
Dec., 1910.. 79,279 15 p.c. = 63,750 15,529 394^089
June, 1911.. 68.125 15 „ „ 63,750 4,375 398,464
Dec., 1911.. 79,304 15 ~ „ 63,750 15,554 414,018
June, 1912.. 69,002 15 „ „ 63,750 5,252 419,270
Deficit.
Reserves transferred to capita], £424,998 5,728
Reserves.
Dee., 1912.. 82,765 10 pc. = 63,750 19,015 13.287
June, 1913.. 58,035 10 „.. 63,750 7,572
“A”&“B” “C”
Shares Shares
10 p.c. 7 p.c.
Dec., 1913.. 74,514 63,750 8778 1.980 9,558
9 p.c.
June, 1914.. 68,288 57,375 8925 1,988 11,546
7 p.c.
Dec., 1911., 52,696 44,625 8925 10,692
6 p.c.
June, 1*915,. 53,463 44,625 7650 188 11,880
The figures for the past half-year look
poorer than those for the corresponding six
months of 1914. But the actual results
were probably a good deal better. This
shows what has happened:—
June, ’l4. June, ’l5.
Total revenue .. .. £343,112 £391,485
Working expenditure .. 273,407 280,419
Working profit .. £69,705 £111,066
Less net interest . . 11,417 33,603
Less written off . . Nil 24,000
Profit.. .. £58,288 £53,463
la the earlier half-year £lO,OOO was trans-
ferred from suspense accounts, making the
total profit of £68,288, shown in the table.
Assuming that, if it was a fair thing to
write off £24,000 for the past term, it was
equally a fair thing to write off the same
amount in_l9l4, then the past half-year
was £19,175 better than the corresponding
part of the previous year. The earlier six
months are invariably the leaner of the two
periods. Ordinarily there is a difference of
about £lO,OOO in favor of the July-December
half, given equal industrial and other con-
ditions. Keeping all these things in view,
the figures for the past half-year are better
tl'an look on the surface. Further,
£246,722 has been spent on new works and
charged to capital account in the six
months ; and a great part of this can have
produced very little revenue during the
term. -No doubt, in the grimmer times
ahead, people will economise in coal-gas as
well as other things. But. even so. there is
thus a fair margin of average profit in ex-
cess of the present dividend for the eo. to
come .and go on.
In addition to the £24,000 referred to
above as written off during the half-year,
large amounts have been spent on repairs,
maintenance and renewals. The following
shows the totals thus accounted for:—
June, June,
„ 1914. 1915.
Repairs, etc., of plant .. . . £22,516 £30,718
Repairs, etc., of mains .. .. 20,778 21,464
Repairs of meters and stoves . . 18,834 7*598
Depreciation written off gross profits 24,000
Total . . . . £62,128 £83,780
The accounts have not been itemised long
enough to allow one to say whether the
amounts spent on renewals, etc., are a fair
average for dull times as well as good. In
many concerns, of course, the extra revenue
in good times is seized upon to make more
than average replacements: and it may be
so in this case.
The share capital now stands at
£l,_wo.ooo in A and B shares and £250,000
in C shares; and the co. has raised £BOO,OOO
on debenture stock, of which £500,000
carries 5 p.c. and the balance 4 p.c. It owes
al «? *152,819 raised by temporary loan,
is proposed to reduce by the issue
of 50,000 C shares of £6 each. The stand-
ard dividend on A and B shares is 10 p c
and on C shares 7 p.c.; the standard price
of gas is os. 6d., and a movement of Id.
either way allows of a movement of % p.c.
in the dividend in the opposite direction
The present price of gas is 3s. 10d„ so that!
under the Act of 1912, the dividend on A
and B shares could be put up to 9 p.c.
again without any reduction in the price of
gas.
* * * *
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne) :---
Works Written
Charged Off
r , . , , to Re- Stocks, Re-
Pronts. Dividends. venue, etc. serves.
Dec.,’o7.. 65,181 10 p.c. = 42,860 Id! 926 5,238 57if189
June, 08.. 66,848 10 „ ~42,860 31,076 3,760 562,341
Dec., 08.. 72,737 10 „ ~42,860 15,850 5,526 570 842
June, 09.. 84,831 10 „ ~42,860 17,219 8,286 587,308
Dec., 09.. 76,280 10 „ ~42,860 23,605 11,693 585,430
June,lo.. 7',955 10 „,, 42,860 32,'57 4,468 577,900
Dec., 10.. 93,701 10 „ ~42.860 18,809 33,052 576 880
June, 11.. 97,255 10 „ ~42,860 21,333 26.855 583,087
Dec., 11.. 105,170 10 „ ~42,860 28,223 27,563 589,611
June, 12.. 109,437 11 „ ~47,147 28,923 27.627 595,351
Dec., 12.. 92.231 12 „ ~51,433 30,289 8,066 597,794
June, 13..100,121 13 ~ ~55,719 25,228 7,500 609 468
Dec.,’l3.. 111.473 13 „ ~55,719 29,664 8,940 626,618
June.T4.. 94,798 13 „ ~55,719 34,088 5,607 626,002
Premiums on new shares, £47,210.. 673 212
Plant written down, £63,336.. .. 609.876
Dec.,’l4.. 114,703 13p.c. =58,969 46,897 7,872 6'0'841
Plant written down. £8,812.. .. 602,029
June,’ls.. 104,344 13 p.c. =£8,969 39,799 4,862 602,743
The reserves of £602,743 are made up this
way:—•
Premium on shares .. ..£513,746
General reserve . . . . 32,128
Meter renewal fund. . . . . 20,231
Unappropriated profit . . 36,638
Total., ..£602,743
But these are visible reserves; and there
may be a very large sum invisible, repre-
sented by profits put into new’ works in
excess of the amount necessary to counter-
balance depreciation of old works. During
the past six months no less than £39,799
was spent on “extension and improvement
of plant’ ; and this was in addition to the
following: Repairs, maintenance and
renewal of works and plant, £41.538; ditto
mains, meters and stoves, £28,317; book
value of plant scrapped, £BBl2. That the
pronts have been charged with large sums
which might properly have been paid
out of capital is shown more or less con-
clusively by this comparison :—-
„ , . , 1905. 1915.
local outlay charged to
capital .. .. £2,171,745 £2,334,791
Total revenue . . . . 181,423 386,219
Revenue p.c. of capital outlay 8.3 p.c. 16.5 p.c.
!P bllB vrw'f-ivV 5 months’ revenue has increased
by £-04,(9b mlO years; yet only £163,046
has been spent on works out of capital
the balance, whatever it may be, has been
provided out of profits. Assuming that,
instead of earning 8.3 p.c. gross in the half-
year as they did in 1905 the works now earn
p.c., it would still be necessary
ro r o -Lr dertak . ing t 0 be worth about
.>,OOO to do it at the present time. In
other words, even on the basis just men-
tioned, there is well over half a million of
hidden reserves represented by undervalua-
tion of works, and paid for out of profits
during the past 10 years.
11m fact that such a big sum has been
P u t . works shows how easilv the co.
could maintain the present dividend under
much more adverse conditions. It seems
quite safe to say that if the co.’s profits
shrank by one-third it could still not only
maintain its works and pay the present
dividend, but also put by a trifle to reserves.
•i? certainly will come when the co.
will have to face legislation on the lines of
that of England lately followed by N. S.
. ales. But, unless both precedent and
justice are departed from, the concern will
be capitalised at the actual value of its
tangible property; and selling rate and
standard dividend will be fixed so that the
present profit will be available for distribu-
tion. On the other hand, it will thereafter
be made extremely difficult for the co. to
increase its profits in proportion to capital
invested. This of course will mean that the
stock won't be good holding for a rise, but
will be as good as ever for an investment.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
„ N |t To Re- Re-
looo . Dividends. serves, serves.
1902.. £7 ’ 237 10 per cent. = £2500 £4,737 £26,657
10 ” ” 2500 B > ol9 34,676
ion-" 10 >• .. 2500 9,700 44,376
1900.. 1,«19 10 ~ , 2500 43 5Q5
ioo*7 * ' o' 4 °S 10 „ „ 2500 3.908 47’503
ions” o’oqk ” ” 2500 6 ' 121 53,624
" 9 > 93 5 10 „ „ 2500 4.435 58,059
JOO9. . 7,322 10 „ „ 2500 4,822 62,881
1910- 10,168 10 „ „ 2500 7,668 70.549
1911" 15,24110 .. „ 5000 10.241 80,790
1912.. 14,344 10 „ „ 5000 9,344 90,134
June,
1914. . 21,427 10 „ ~ 7500 13,927 104,061
1915.. 14,290 10 „ „ 5000 9,290 113.351
The trustee co. belongs to the same class
as the insurance office. To the insurance
co. the client pays in money year after year
and trusts to the directors absolutely to in-
vest it and pay over the principal and the
profits after many years—in many cases
only after the death of the investor. In the
case of the _ trustee co. the client
hands over his affairs to be admin-
istered in the uncertain future when
it won’t be able to consult him even
by wireless. Naturally companies of this
kind take a long while to come to maturity
They may spend 20 weary years proving
that they are worthy of trust; and they
may die before they have got enough people
ti> believe it. The mortality amongst
trustee cos. isn't, however, so great as it is
amongst insurance offices: but the waiting
is long and tiresome. Fortunately they
don’t have to put their capital into dead
stock: it can be invested so as to earn a
trifle at any rate for shareholders. Then
the co.’s clients begin to be considerate and
die, and the money starts to flow in. It
flows in so freely, in fact, that it is a serious
question whether as time goes on larger
services _ will not be required for the same
commission or the same services for less
commission. And that movement is likely
to be hurried by the arrival of State trustee
offices. Already the N.S.W. State office,
though as yet a mere infant, has begun to
cut rates. But the Maoriland experience
suggests that, no matter how good a name
a State office may have, there will still be
many fine fat old gentlemen who prefer the
Private Enterprise concern which has the
backing of men known to them. Certainly
there is so very big a field to be worked
that there is room for years to come for
both classes of office. Probably not one-
fourtli of the estates that have to be admin-
istered are so far administered by the pro-
fessional trustee, notwithstanding the enor-
mous advantage.he offers over the amateur
trustee who is liable to die or be guilty of
some other bad habit.
The co. reserves part of its profit. The
past year’s figures are as follows:
Profit as stated by the eo £10,970
Added to Commissions Reserved Account .. 3’320
Total profit .. ..£14,290
The reserved commissions are mainly com-
missions on the capital value of estates still
in hand ; and they are drawn upon as the
estates are gradually wound up. The total
of these unearned commissions is £36,552,
which amount is included with the reserves.
These reserves and the capital are repre-
sented by premises (including very fine
buildings not yet completed) £85,325; loans
and bank deposits, £56,184; cash, £23,222;
and a trifle of sundries. The growth of the
estates in hand, though very striking, is
no more than the excellence of the services
rendered by a trustee co. of this character
should command :
1895 .. £2,424,413 | 1911 .. £8,853,862
1900 .. 3,928,520 j 1912 .. 9,791.590
1905 .. 5,758,223 | 1914 .. 11,44(1448
1910 .. 8,175,990 j 1915 .. 11,890,942
That represents so much business in hand,
guaranteeing very substantial profits for
many years to come. As to those future
profits, it is only necessary to note that,
while the receipts from commissions on
capital values are liable now to shrink,
owing to the passing of the boom and the
heavy taxation ahead, the £70,325 invested
in the new buildings as at June 30 is for
the present unproductive; and this lot wall
very soon be returning something substan-
tial in rents. As usual there are no debts
—£9 covers the lot.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney), who
manufacture and deal in builders’ goods:—
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1906. . £12,921 6 p.c. = £9.900 £3,021 £22,424
1907.. 14,589 7 „ „ 11,550 3,039 25,463
1908.. 16,944 8 „ „ 13,200 3,744 29,207
1909.. 17,636 8 „ „ 13,200 4,436 33,643
1910.. 14,160 8 ~ „ 13,200 960 34,603
Assets written up . . 10,000 44,603
1911.. 16,861 8 p.c. = 13,200 3,661 48,264
1912.. 16,222 8 „„ 13,200 3,022 51,286
Written off leaseholds 2,500 48,780
1913.. 14,151 8 p.c. = 13,200 951 49,737
Freeholds written up 10,000 59,737
1914.. 15,123 8 p.c. = 13,200 1,923 61,660
1915.. 13,266 8 „ „ 13,200 66 61,726
This co. has naturally suffered, especially
in the latter part of the year; and the
chances are that it will suffer a good deal
more yet. So far, indeed, the building trade
has been pretty well carried along by its
own momentum. Further, there were many
jobs, decided upon a year or so ago and
badly wanted, but hung up then on account
of excessive estimates. Revised prices have
been put in for these works during the last
three or four months —a reduction of as
much as 33J p.c. being shown in some cases
-—and the jobs are now under weigh. Inci-
dentally much of that reduction is due to
the far better value that can now be got for
the same wages. When the work in hand
is completed, there is going to be a very
dull time in this trade. Good seasons wiil
certainly help; but with income taxes run-
ning up to 6s. 3d. in the £ and other heavy-
war imposts there will be no boom condi-
tions for a yyhile, and there will certainly
be no fastening down of money in bricks
and mortar. In any case the cities are
not likely to need much more bricks and
mortar for a time. _ It was partly because
we have been pom-ing out so much money
on bricks and mortar that so much bricks
and mortar have been temporarily wanted.
Until a feyv more industries are established
—and that is a slow process—people will
have to get back to the land and produce
something there. When a people can’t bor-
row, that is the only way it can live—by
production. It can’t live by taking in its
neighbor s washing or each building a dog-
kennel for the other.
Goodlet and Smith look to have made
splendid provision for this turn of the tide.
Watch the figures how they have moved:—
1906. 1910. 1913. 1914. 1915.
£ £ £ £ £
Liabilities 90,176 93,552 16,855 7,962 7 715
Properties 100,670 93,670 44,000 T
Machinery & J. 100.274 79,647
plant, etc. 89,867 89,837 78,715 J
Ships ~ 2,200 500 400
Stock .. 62,585 60,497 33,430 18,514 16,131
Cash & book
debts, etc. 32,177 55,251 81,647 122,433 145,263
But there’s one weak point. That item
“Cash and book debts, etc.,” which has
moved on from £32.177 to £145,263 in nine
years, includes “shares in other cos.”; and
that may mean almost anything. Stock
has been reduced from £62.585 to £16,131;
but “shares in other cos.” might mean that
this co. sold to another co. for 50,000 £1
shares £50,000 worth of merchandise stock ;
and the stock might thus be really now held
iu the form of shares. So long as cash and
book debts and shares in other cos. arc
tipped into one heap, there must be a doubt
about a position which otherwise has im-
proved wonderfully. In fact, if the “shares
in other cos.” don’t amount to much and are
liquid at book value, it is hard to imagine
a co. better placed to meet the dull times
which are inevitably ahead. The reduction
of the stock-in-trade to almost nothing, the
selling-off of practically all the co.’s big
blocks of suburban land during the boom,
the fact that the co. enters this period of
dear money owing nothing but a few small
trade debts —these things point to either
uncanny luck or exceptionally canny man-
agement.
-3' vfr 44 44
The Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Bris-
bane) :
Dividends and Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves.
1904 -- —■ -- £l,OOO £4,221
1905.. £2,307 Nil 1,000 5,528
1906.. 800 Nil 5,528 800
1907.. 1,747 2| p.c. - £535 1,012 1,000
1908.. 2,764 5 „„ 1331 1,433 1,000
1909.. 4,477 51 „ „ 1586 2,891 1,000
1910.. 6,585 6-1 ~ ~ 2248 4,337 1,000
1911.. 4,274 6 ~ „ 2761 1,513 1.000
1912.. 11,305 7| „., 3459 2,846 6,000
1913.. 9,710 8 „,, 4920 4,790 6.000
1914.. 15,405 9 „,, 5535 3,870 12,000
1915.. 16,721 10 ~ „ 6150 10,571 12,000
If beer were munitions, the Allies would be
quite independent of the U.S.A. When
Australia wanted to make a shell, it had to
ask someone the other side of the earth
how the wonderful thing was done, and
then it had to build a factory and import
the machinery. But if it had only been
beer! Australia has been for years sending
men round the earth in the hope that they
might pick up the smallest hint about that
necessary commodity. On a Vancouver boat
two or three months before war broke out
there was a brewer who was off to America
and Europe (for the fifth time) trying to
find out a way to cheapen and better his
work at one particular point; two men who
were in the beer-bottle trade, and were
hunting after new ideas for their god; and
a wine and brandy man who was going that
way to further his education. Beer being
what it thus is in Australia, this co., during
the past year of exceptional stress, managed
to make just on 30 p.c. on its capital. Cer-
tainly more than half of what it did make
is written off, or, rather, transferred to a
Contingency Fund, which isn’t included with
the reserves. This fund, made up of the
amounts which have been shown as Written
oft during the last three or four years, now
totals £21,442. Down to three or four years
ago the current profit written off was em-
ployed in reducing the book value of build-
ings, plant, machinery and book debts
Then apparently it was found that all
assets were down to less than market value,
whereupon it was decided to drop any
superfluous fat into this contingency
account. Apparently it isn’t a set-off against
current depreciation, which seems to be pro-
vided for otherwise, though to what extent
isn t ascertainable.
The story of the co.’s life for .10 years is
further written in the following table: —
„ .. , 1905. 1913. 1914. 1915.
Capital .. .. £16,025 £60,000 £60,000 £60,000
Liabilities.. , . 21,819 28.139 26.709 26,888
Land, plant and
properties .. 31,000 51,267 50,636 55 99<>
stock •• 7,124 19,551 16,145 17 617
Book debts .. 5,826 24,654 32,347 38,870
Cash, etc. . . .. 417 916 7,630 30
Gross profits . . 14,022 32,023 41,907 48,645
Management . . 11,715 22,313 26,502 31,924
The co. has resisted the temptation to buv
pubs in order to capture trade: it owns
apparently only one. Hence, though it has
supplied itself with a new brewing outfit as
well as new city offices and stores (the
latter only just completed), it has managed
to keep itself from going further into debt.
Plainly the co. is now in a position to pav
the present dividend, even though trade
conditions become much less satisfactory.
lloav much less satisfactory they are going
to be this paper doesn’t know. It has been
made evident lately that things have to get
pretty desperate before a British community
reckons that it is a fair thing to shut down
on its beer. But there's the woman to be
reckoned with ; and she’s shutting down on
it good and hard every time she can talk at
the polls. At least she is trying to. And
she hasn’t finished yet.
* * * *
The GIPPSLAND AND NORTHERN Co-OPEK\-
ttve Selling and Insurance Co. (Melb.i :
... , Bonus to Con- Re-
JJrot] ts- Dividends. signors, etc. serves.
£ f367 6 p.c. = £358 £6525 £2607
£ ”” 867 4750 3554
5f 47 9 „„ 1223 5225 3953
1915-. <B5l 6 „ „ 1561 5429 4814
This very energetic co. was started in the
usual small co-operative way in 1905 with
a capital of well under £lOOO. In fact, it
ran for over three years on less than £lOOO
In other respects also early progress was
slew. But then it began to move ahead •
and, in spite of a bad year in 1913-14 and
a very bad year in 1914-15. consignment
S moved along from £281,813 in
1909 to £<9(,801 in the past 12 months.
Meantime the co. hasn’t been content with
being only a selling agent; although, as ex-
perience in the butter trade in N. S. Wales
has shown, a co. which is no more than that
can be and has been of enormous value to
the co-operative factories. Instead of pro-
moting a separate box-making co., as the
Coastal Farmers did in N. S. Wales, the
Gippsland and Northern tackled that job on
its own account, and has at the present
time about £17,000 invested in that branch
of the business. Incidentally, for some
reason that is not very clear, it established
also a butter factory of its own at Poo-
wong. This was probablv a mistake ; anyhow
the co. which sells other factories’ butter,
and has a little of its own to sell, is apt to
find that this world is full of spiteful people
who say that it looks out to get the best of


ĥ
ħ
h
The British
I
use
Electric & Manufacturing C? Iff.
Westinghouse Products
Steam Turbines
Turbo-Generator Sets
Condensers
Air Pumps
Diesel Engines
Oil and Petrol Engines
Generators
Rotary Converters
THE LARGEST WORKS.
The largest works of their kind in England are
those of the British Westinghouse Co. 7000
workmen are daily engaged in producing prime
movers, electrical goods, etc., of absolute reli-
ability and high efficiency.
HEAD OFFICE FOB AUSTRALIA:
Westinghouse Produc
Electric Railways
Magnetic Brakes
Transformers
Switchgear
Controllers
Starters
Meters
Instruments
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
New Zealand Agents: TURNBULL Sc JONES, Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch,
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS : Dunedin.
WORKS. MANCHESTER. ENGLAND.
“After all, the real test of anything is the test
of service.” Your faithful servant in the solution of
power-transmission problems is “Chromol” belting.
This type of belt, which we formerly sold under the
name of “Haw Hide,” possesses the widest possible
range of usefulness, and the keenest engineers at
Broken Hill, Kalgoorlie and on other mining fields
swear by it, because they have proved its worth in
competition with all others. Made only by J. C.
Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York Street, Sydney.
Inter-State agents: H. Summers, Perth, W.A. ;
Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd., Albert Street,
Brisbane; Queensland.*
u AL , Ui J [ , ,NO J ERRIC is used b >' th e Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and glaziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
leservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
18 exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
lrfn™ ge M S ii Wl lhani Adams & Company Limited,
bydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth *
* * * ’ *.
/v" 6 \ to Se P te ! llb er the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per' cub.
o ant i i the e< ? s . t of the s P alls Per cub. yard aver -
2 i S- " la V ng a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
m* i broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside , and spreading Is. •
total, ,s. 3d. as against 4s. 10d.— a saving of 2s. ad
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16m. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
A“*™l f° tls bh'g- Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
fr °m The City Review, London, January
Bn e u. C< ? l 0 Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd.. — this led to the appointment by the
Lieutenant-Governor of Victoria of certain distin-
guished actuaries to investigate the affairs of the
Society, with the result that we anticipated. Those
gentlemen reported that at the date of their investiga-
i'vi!!,, ! 606 '’, '!', 31 ’ 1911) the Soc; cty was sound and
sohent, and able to meet all its liabilities, immedi-
nrUrUn d fw P !? tIVe V. and they ex P r essed the emphatic
opinion that the charges of fraud, dishonesty, mis-
management and incapacity made against the direc-
tors and managers were wholly unjustified.”* [4
minI 0 w E i ER W<^ D PIPE is the ideal conduit for
mine waters. Chemicals m solution have no bad
eftect on this pipe, the smooth inner surface of which
uV ittins and incrustation, does not
iI L!! y t ffl h the passage of gritty materials and
Wood Ptae Co Se T?H tS lndefildte! y. The Australian
nood Pipe Co., Ltd., contractors to all State Gov-
ernments, 57 York Street, Sydney (head office) *
* * * *
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and IJassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereasrh
Street, Sydney.*
* * *
The Port Kembla works of the Electrolytic
Refining Company are freely buying ores containin'*
wpnth" Sll Th’ g n fr ° m aII P arts of the Common"
™ ealt . h ; J , °J e , Purchase Department is at
9 Budge Street, Sydney.*
* * * „
‘‘R obey- Leplas trier’ ’ Road-Building Machinery
means big saving. One shire in N.S.W. saved last
year £4OOO. Sixty shires equipped already. Apply
Arthur Leplastner & Co., head office, Sydney.* 1 '
iline managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. CoimisoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. AVrite
us for Inventors Guide.*
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. II B
Silberberg & Co., l td., 8 O’Connell Street, Svdnev ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545 660 n n
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .155451 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 80500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
£781.611 0 0
Gen Man.: Efhvd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannm Street, Lonaon
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. ’ EC
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
iAftEBOANTO
:«r BeNtftra.
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid-up ... 82,500
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State
Write for particulars
W R. CAVE. General Managrer,
263 George Slreet Svdnev.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD.* Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
the market for itself. It is the fact that
the Bernina Co. mixes a little bit of manu-
facturing: with its selling, and this has done
most to prevent the two co-operative butter-
selling cos. combining in N. S. Wales, as
they ought to do in order to secure the
utmost possible economy. Also, besides
having a butter factory and a box factory,
this co. has adopted the very doubtful prac-
tice of dropping a good deal of money into
a city freehold. How that policy panned
out in the case pf the Melbourne Civil Ser-
vice Co-op. has been seen lately. Not once
in 20 times can a co-op. co. afford the luxury
of being its own landlord. It is sufficiently
hard to get farmers and others to put up
enough money for co-operative trading, let
alone co-operative warehouse-owning. The
result is that, although share capital has
been gradually increased to £29,877, the co.’s
debts amount to £102,900. In other words,
it has got all its own funds locked up in
buildings and plant, and it has to borrow or
owe all the money necessary to finance its
trading; and that means that its co-opera-
tors can’t get the full benefit of co-operation
—they have got rid of Private Enterprise
in one form only to be obliged to put up
with him in another. However, it is satis-
factory to observe that the directors are
doing something to overcome this defect by
ruling that in the case of shareholders one
half of the bonus in the dairy-produce de-
partment must be left in as capital, while
the grain and live-stock sales bonuses (last
year £552) earmarked for non-shareholders
are only available on their becoming share-
holders within six months.
( One big Anglo-Australian co., the Zinc
Corporation, whose management is in Lon-
don, makes no bones about it. These people
see nothing for it but to go back after the
war to the German buyers, because that will
pay them best. After setting out elabo-
rately the vain efforts made in England to
get. their contracts annulled, and also to sell
their concentrates, the , chairman (F. A.
Govett) said :
It; has been suggested to us that, in order to get
some benefit from the abnormal price, we should
run up a cheap, temporary zinc smelter quickly.
The answer is that it would take a year to erect
any kind of a new plant, and there is no such thing
as a cheap, make-shift smelter. Apart from war con-
ditions in England and Australia, frankly I doubt if
this 'policy can be justified. There were in existence
before the war even more smelters than were re-
quired to produce the consumption of the world in
spelter. To add to their number would simply mean
to increase the competition and depreciate the price
of spelter. Before the war many of these plants in
America and Holland were actually shut down, and,
except for patriotic desires, it would not seem sense
to increase the number, unless it be to supply our
home consumption, and this only with a full deter-
mination to protect the industry, when established,
from destructive, certain competition. These plants
are expensive to erect; a plant to handle our
production of concentrates alone would cost
£500,000, leaving out of consideration the capital
necessary to carry and finance the business. Not-
withstanding these portentous figures, we spent the
first three or four months of the war practically in
this continuous study of the problem. But, so far as
the erection of works is in question, our conclusion
is that, in the absence of Protection or some State
assistance, our policy must be, on conclusion of the
war, to make some new contract on equitable lines
with some existing smelters.
Govett, who is one of the most experi-
enced men in the London mining-finance
business, propels another awkward-looking
lion into the path of Australian zinc-pro-
duction :
One of the difficulties is the permanence of supply.
That, we think, is one of the conclusive reasons why
smelters cannot be erected in Australia of any size,
for as the accumulated mountains of tailings dis-
appear—and the progress of disappearance is fast—
the current supply of tailings would be insufficient to
justify erection, the latter supply not being assured.
Besides, there would be the expense of highly-paid
labor, and the business would not stand it. I think
that explains the position as it is likely to be at the
end of the war.
-V week ago The Bulletin urged the Com-
monwealth Government to put the Inter-
State Commission on to this zinc problem.
There are two big cos. devoted to the pro-
duction of zinc concentrates' in Australia:
they have secured the output of the B. H.
South, B. H. North and other mines. And
here is one of them saying quite frankly
that, on account of various difficulties, it
proposes to do nothing except wait for the
war to end and then start to feed the foreign
metal works again. The Inter-State Com-
mission should be put on to the job, not
only of stopping it from doing anything of
tlie sort, but of finding arguments to justify
a complete upending of the co.’s proposed
policy. There is Ibis question of insuffi-
cient supply, for example. We have to
make an answer to that, and back it up
h.v action which goes far beyond anything
the piffling little Metal Exchange can do.
We have to show, first, that the mineral
wealth of Australia is to be used primarily,
not to secure the greatest benefits to a
group of London mine-owning capitalists,
but to do the greatest good to Australia. It
is a fact that the zincy tailings dumps of
Broken Hill were being rapidly exhausted
lo feed Belgian, German and French works.
It is a fact, too, that, at the old rate of
removal, they would not last another 10
years. And it may be a fact that it would
not pay to put the required £2,000,000 or
so into the works that would be required to
exhaust these dumps in eight or 10 years.
But why exhaust them in 10 years V Wh y
not spend half the money and spread the
work over 20 years? Or a quarter of the
money and spread it over 40 years ! It
wouldn’t suit the dividend-hungry cosmo-
politan financiers of Loudon, of course; but
it would suit Australia——and incidentally
the Empire —and that is all that matters.
Amalgamated Zinc (N.S.W.) has sold
another 0000 tons of zinc concentrates. This
lot is going to France. The total now con-
tracted for is 70,000 tons. * *
“Jack” Barrett, who could rip out ore
as well as any underground manager
Broken Hill ever had, has been managing
the Wild Cherry, Ardlethan, for the best
part of this year. He r left last week to take
hold of a wolfram mine outside Deepwater.
The Cherry is a mile or two from dividends;
but it shouldn’t have gone any further to
leeward lately. Between May 20 and a
week ago it turned out 1684 tons ore for
38 tons tin concentrates, worth (say)
£2970. *
' Great Boulder (W.A.) did a little better
last year than for some time, but no find
likely to prolong its dwindling life was made.
The profit, as a result of certain economies,
was £300,638, or about £7OOO better than for
the previous 12 months; but ore reserves,
while a trifle up in average value, are a
further 54,500 tons down. They stand at
560,647 tons. Some 135,700 tons of fresh
ore (most of it in the upper levels of Hamil-
ton’s shaft) were taken into account during
the year, and the value of the total reserves
is given as approximately £1,760,000. Divi-
dends paid during the year amounted to 3s.
per share, and working costs averaged 265. 5d.,
or lid. less than for the previous year.
While the Board considers it premature to
abandon hope of finding valuable new ore
bodies, it is nevertheless actively seeking for
a new mine, though so far “without any
definite success.” At the annual meeting
chairman George P. Doolette supported
•“Bull-ant” Mclntyre’s scheme of prospecting,
and said it would be wise for the co. to take
a hand and send out four or five parties of
likely men. *
* * * *
A net profit of £37,136 was earned by Lake
View and Star (W.A.) for the year ended
February last. This surplus has been
applied in the payment of three divs. aggre-
gating 16 p.c., and in providing for directors’
percentage, dividend and income taxes, leav-
ing £11,438 undivided. Since the close of the
financial year an interim div. of 5 p.c. has
been paid. Ore reserves are estimated at
426,301 tons, worth 265. Old. per ton, as com-
pared with 448,038 tons, valued at 265. lOd.
last year. Liquid assets and stores are valued
at £70,000.
vf *- * *
As a result of a final clean-up of the slimes
plant and some royalties from tributors,
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) last year made a
profit of £IIS, and now has about £BOOO in
hand. The co. is still on the lookout for a
new mine.
South Ivalgurli (W.A.) reports cheerfully
that considerable work done during the past
12 months on levels supposed to be denuded
of payable values disclosed bunches of gold-
bearing ore, and that it is quite likely further
prospecting will prove the existence of simi-
lar bundles at depth. The accounts for the
year show a revenue of £137,682. Expendi-
ture absorbed £128,047, leaving (with £446
brought forward) a balance of £lO,OBl. A
9d. div. paid on July 9 mopped up all but
£706.
* * * *
Bullfinch Prop. (W.A.) had its annual
roll-up in Loudon a few weeks ago, when
chairman G. P. Doolette celebrated his 75th
birthday and demonstrated that increasing
age in no wise impaired his optimism. He
claimed that the past year had been a most
successful one, and that prospects at No. 4
level justified the Board’s decision to deepen
the shaft another 150 ft., and thus carry it
to 550 ft. In the shoot on which the mine
was floated, there were at the 210 ft. and
310 ft. levels evidences of excessive leaching,
which was probably one of the causes of the
surface enrichment; but at 410 ft. level a
zone beyond the influence of leaching ap-
peared to be in sight, and the management
was justified in expecting more gold at depth.
Doolette added that besides the reserves men-
tioned in the directors’ report there were
from 10,000 to 15,000 tons of 465. ore yet to
be reclaimed from the creep.
* * * *
Edna May Deep Levels (W.A.) is instal-
ling pumping plant capable of raising half a
million gallons a day, and proposes to resume
sinking as soon as this machinery is in. The
co. expects to deepen the shaft at the rate
of 60ft. a month, and so get down and inter-
sect the dip of the Edna May shoot —if it is
there —before Christmas.
* * * #
M. T. Williams, of Marvel Loch (W.A.),
has given the knock-out to the option held
by a Melbourne crowd over Bulla Bulling,
near Gibraltar. His reasons are that the
enrichments are due to granitic intrusions,
and that they are too erratic and limited to
entitle the co. to go on. If liquidation should
follow over 2s. per share ought to be avail-
able.
* * * *
Despite past failures and broken promises
the Augusta at Laverton (W.A.) has
plucked up sufficient courage to ask share-
holders for more money. It is proposed to
make each share liable for another ss.
*• * * *
From London: The immediate effect of
the Treasury’s refusal to sanction Mount
Elliott’s proposed increase of capital for the
purpose of purchasing Mount Oxide was to
cause an improvement in the price of Mount
Elliott shares. As soon as it became known
that 00,000 new shares were to be issued,
and that these might find their way to the
market within a reasonable time, the “bulls”
of Mount Elliotts, who have been receiving
substantial dividends in the shape of back-
wardations from the “bears” for the past
two years, began to realise their holdings
and the price slumped to 5Gs., very few
shares changing hands. Now that the fear
of the market being flooded with new scrip
has been removed, the “bulls” are regaining
some of their courage and Dears” are
attempting to close. The attitude of the
Treasury is difficult to understand, inas-
much as the new shares were not to be
issued for cash, but in payment for a pro-
perty within the British Empire, and which
would be capable of producing a commo-
dity that is in considerable demand in
connection with munitions of war—though
it is true there is no likelihood of a short-
age of supplies so far as Britain and her
Allies are concerned. The Treasury view
is that the Mount Elliott Co.’s cash might
be remitted to Australia in order to develop
and equip the Mount Oxide Mine, and this
is considered undesirable at the present
time. This is rather absurd, as there is
nothing in law to prevent the Mount Elliott
dilectors from remitting all the co.’s cash
to Australia or America or Timbuctoo to-
morrow if they wish. The Mount Oxide
purchase scheme is therefore knocked on the
head for the time being, and all Sorts of
legal complications and disputes may arise
out of the situation.
* * *
Hampden Cloncurry (Q.) hands out 2s
per share, raising the total to £175,000, or
just 10s. per share on the present issue.
Reserves in the co.’s eight properties total
240,000 cons ore, containing 21,920 tons
copper-. The Duchess is the best mine, but
its reserves above 550 ft. won’t last long
if drawn upon at the rate of 3313 tons per
month. They were calculated early in the
year at only 54,000 tons, containing 7600
tons copper. The ore below 550 ft. isn’t in
a condition to be measured on three sides,
and the drive at 700 ft. isn’t through to the
northern extremity of the ore. Much of the
stuff in practically all the mines is low
grade, so concentration will come in time,
and that’s a tedious business. It has been
estimated that an up-to-date mill will cost
£45,000.
* * * *
Mammoth Copper (N.Q.) has found a
cross lode in No. 3 South level at 355 ft.
from the crosscut. They are now driving
east and west on this npw lode, which is
Spin, wide and assays 19.6 p.c. copper, 9oz.
silver, ldwt. gold. In spite of transport
difficulties the return for 27 days was 100
tons copper, 46500 z. silver, and lOOoz. gold
from 1207 tons of ore. The previous return
from 1700 tons of ore was 140 tons copper,
2150 z. of gold, 67500 z. silver, all in matte.
* * * -x-
Langi Logan South, Ararat (Vic.), got
under way last week with a full head. This
was because its first venturing into the
wash north-west off the rise from the inter-
mediate gave an ounce to the fathom from
a trial lot of nine fathoms. That a drive
had gone into a crab-hole seemed to be a
mere incident after values in the nor’-west
face had yielded Bdwt. from a few buckets
of dirt. Hardly had the weary “bulls”
straightened up their market line on this
prospect than No. 2 rise collapsed—whether
under the pressure of slum or nearness of
the level to the gutter doesn’t matter. The
main working didn’t suffer, but the lesson
conveyed is that it is always a long way
to Tipperary in an alluvial mine. The co.
now can have a shot with a new rise in
the area blocked off under the new control.
There are plenty of good boring prospects
available.
* * * *
Poor old South German, Maldon (Vic.), is
down very low on its luck. It has won
nearly £700,000 worth of gold, and has paid
away half that much in dividends. But
that was in the long ago. Now it is mei-ely
sustained by tributors. The last of these
i , a was the Baxter crowd at
liOOft. Above and below them the co. can-
not get enough to pay Board fees with.
Including all that was earned last: half-year,
receipts kept under £2500, which is poor
P”' , suc h an old treasure-house. North at
17o0ft. a big fault was met with ; and wheu
the reef was picked up beyond it was f. ,ur.d
to be more like its old self than at any time
since the floor came in that sent the co. on
to the call list. The break is a new feature
in the mine, and so a slab of country has
been lured from the Derby United next
door, the presence of a few specks of gold
making such an arrangement desirable. As
fcouth German got its first turn of luck after
passing through a fault at about 900 ft., it
has a precedent for lively prospecting beyond
the crosscourse. It would be satisfactory
it some driving north could also be done at
the shallow levels, as the habit of Maldon
mines is to go poor at depth, and 1700 ft. is
deep for the field. The co. should also
poke about a bit to see if it can drop on to
some more short shoots in other parts of
the old mine.
After inspecting and sampling the new
Yilgarn find, at Mount Holland, 100-odd
miles south of Southern Cross (W.A.).
Assistant Government Geologist Blatchford
has arrived at the following conclusions: (1)
That the area is in granite country of
gneissic character; (2) that only one reef
and not four, as alleged, can he positively
said to exist; (3) that higher values than
justifiable were given by the prospectors,
through not taking the low value of the gold
into account; and (4) that, taken a,s a whole,
the reports of the field have been very much
exaggerated. As, however, gold lias been
found over an extensive „ area in new coun-
try, and as practically no development lias
been done, he considers the expenditure of
limited capital justifiable.


Heelings
a «
HEERirtG
CHERRY BRWW
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
The Wentworth Hotel
SYDNEY.
This modern hotel de luxe is unquestionably
one of the finest in the Southern Hemisphere.
World-Wide travellers never fail to speak
enthusiastically of its comfort, service and
excellent cuisine.
Possessing every modern convenience, it is
especially suitable for families.
Terms on application.
THE WINTER GARDEN.
A favorite resort for luncheons and dinners—
served a la carte from 1/G upwards.
Table d’hote—Luncheons, 37-
Dinners, 5/- & 6/-
MRS. MACLURCAN,
Manageress.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (Q. CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ fit CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
JEFFREYS
SCOTCH LAGER
BREWED IN EDINBURGH
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SvnxKY, Artirsi 0, 1015.
llv DiiAii Akim,—
Excellency Stanley, of Victoria, is coming
ihis way again, about the end of the month,
and will put his legs under the Stricklands’
hospitable board. Aide Fane, of the G.-G.’s
staff, who returns to his regiment shortly,
may shadow him. A trip to Cobar and
Mount Boppy is included in the scamper.
The vice-regal Help Department shifts like
a sandbank since William desired to rule over
the Earth. Kerr-Pearse, who married a rela-
tive of Lady Edeline’s, is again packing up
the perambulator for another billet as
A.D.C. lie was with the Stricklands in
Tasmania, and for a while Helped with them
in Westralia. lie was also a fleeting shadow
of the Northcotes. He had free quarters for
self, missus and infant with the present
N.S.W. Governor. It wasn’t perhaps to his
liking, so he up and gave notice. And ap-
parently he has given notice again. Any-
how, he leaves the Macartneys in Hobart to
stand behind Munro Ferguson.
Premier Holman gives the Australia Day
committee a week-end party at Kosciusko the
latter part of this month. Mrs. Ilolman
talks of going to the TJ.S.A. for change of
scene. She has found it very cold iii Sydney
this winter.
Amongst the memories of Australia Day
is an empty lemonade bottle. This dead
marine was auctioned till it brought £11).
11 easily beat a diminutive red herring
which fetched a mere five shillings in the
vicinity of Martin Place. Here the last
mandarin on a stall was bought by a reck-
less citizen for 15s. A raffled turkey fell
to the number that Mrs. Adrian Knox
chanced to pull. Patriotic poultry, by the
way. did better service on July 80 than in
its accustomed role of providing white
feathers for silly flappers.
Captain Pasco, R.N., who has been trying
to get off the retired list and back to active
service, dropped by chance on a good shore
appointment in Nova Scotia. It fell, appar-
ently, from the skies. A brief mandate to
take over the job of Senior Naval Officer at
Sydney, Cape Breton, gave just time to pack
up and jump aboard the Makura. There is
no mention of a time limit to the engage-
ment. It is a hurried war appointment,
worth £7OO a year and official perquisites.
With his own pay as a retired skipper in
the navy, he’ll rub along comfortably
amongst the Blue Noses. In spite of his
lamb-like exterior, Governor Strickland’s
departed Aide had the reputation of being a
martinet on the old survey craft Fantome.
Melba hung patiently over the rail of the
Makura on Thursday. In these war days,
when the handiest route for the German
escapee is via America, passengers must
be aboard a wearisome time before the moor-
ings are cast off. George Armstrong and
his wife, on the wharf, glued their attention
to mamma’s ball of ribbon, which floated
over the crowd in the westerly wind. Every-
thing except paving stones was blowing
about as the Skylark tossed her end of a
streamer to John Lemmone. The flautist,
by the way, means to now attend to his
own business for a bit. Skipper Pasco,
R.N.. looked over the bulwarks, and his
look spelt boredom. Chief-railway Commis-
sioner Harper and his wife were aboard,
bound for Honolulu. Though all the arrange-
ments had. as usual, been well advertised
beforehand, various people pushed forward
at the last moment and thought they should
bo permitted to run up and down the gang-
ways. Some day, when a polite lunatic
leaves a bomb and a time-fuse on board and
streaks for the shore, the public will begin
to see _ what these now too-easily-set-asixle
regulations are for. Meantime it wouldn't
be at all amiss if someone would give the
youngsters who perform military duty in
khaki at such places a lesson in courtesy.
The preliminary meeting of the Amy
Castles concert committee had Mayoress
Richards in the chair; and Neville Mayman,
the hon. sec., outlined this scheme to throw
more coppers into the Australia Day hat.
High prices will mean bleak rows of empty
gallery seats; but if the management will
try the old Bland Holt cure for the stay-at-
home disease —35., 2s. and Is.—the Town
Hall ought to overflow on August 21.
The Royal Society’s room was packed
with millinery at the rally of the National
Council of Women. The air was thick with
orris root and suggestions to “Get Up!” and
“Be a Man !” No one present had the pluck
to take down the ages of those present. The
consensus of opinion was that woman
should do something tremendous. All in
the way. of course, of getting somebody else
to do something more tremendous. The
Tom Hughes lady, who had to desert the
chair early in the chatter, was succeeded
by Mrs. MacCallum; and Louisa Macdon-
ald, M.A., Mrs. Waugh, Gladys Marks and
others contributed to a discussion which
tailed off into mist. If the ladies really
want definite suggestions, any wheat-cocky
in the country could supply them. With
fair showers in September and October
there is going to be a bumper harvest, and
he’s a lucky farmer who knows how he is
going to get his wheat in. Every recruit
brought from the country adds to the serious
difficulty. What about organising a Corps
of Bag-sewers—or a Cohort of Stookers for
the earlier haymaking? Next year’s bread
depends on something being done.
Mrs. Hugh Ward took over £7OO at her
stall on July 30. This included the pro-
ceeds of raffles, as well as the sale of goods
in Her Majesty’s foyer. With regard to
raffles, an exhausted male survivor owns up
to winning two things. He doesn’t want
either of them, but as he avoided all but 53
gambles he counts himself lucky.
The kiddies’ plain and fancy-dress ball
came too soon after the titanic struggle on
Australia Day. Still, a fair number of
pretty youngsters careered around the Town
Hall during the afternoon, with anxious
mothers in attendance. Mrs. Huvh Ward
did the judging and handed out the prizes.
Among those who caught her eye were two
little Fitzhardinges in early-Victorian garb,
and Alison Rodd, a miniature “Sister Susie,’’
practising “Australia’s new art.” Knitting,
of course. _ A small belle, Elizabeth Knox,
was the daintiest little creature in Spanish
garb on the floor. The Alex. Gordon babes,
tiny girl and bigger brother, were turned
out as a Greenaway youngster and page—
the kind of page who does nothing in elegant
white satin knee breeches. Frances Ross
watched the show under a white lace veil;
and Minnie Hooper’s juvenile ballet came
forth like a family of lively young spiders
in an inch or two of tulle skirt.
C. R. Richardson, a young Armidale
soldier who has won the Military Cross, is
the only son of Russell Richardson, who is
in business in New England. Mrs. Richard-
son is an amateur artist whose autumn tints
in the Armidale district are often hung on
the R.A. Society’s walls. The N.S.W. young-
ster is convalescing in England from a
badly-damaged arm. He was in the historic
landing party at Gaba Tepe.
Manly’s oldest bowling inhabitant, 11. T.
Robey, finished dying last week. In the
course of a long illness he revived long
enough to be told that son George had won
a Distinguished Service medal and been
mentioned in lan Hamilton’s dispatches.
George wasn’t exactly the member of the
family from whom brilliant thinsrs were
expected. He hadn’t buckled-to' with any
particular fervor in Australia. But when
the dreadful business started in that glorious
morning at Gallipoli he found himself. An
early account of the landing told of a boat
which drifted away with every man in it
put out of action, and of a plucky Austra-
lian swimming out under the murderous fire
and guiding it ashore. It was Robey,
trained in the Manly surf, who did that job;
and the father lived long enough to hear
from others the story of it. He is another
of the numerous kith and kin of “Tom”
Dibbs, the just-retired banker, who have
done so finely in this business.
As September 1 comes closer the claims
of Wattle Dav begin to be heard above the
uproar in Europe. A recent statement that
the Kindergarten Union is Wattle Day’s
parent isn’t quite correct. So far as
this backward State is concerned, the
scheme was originated about eight years
ago by Mrs. Clunies Ross and Mrs.
Agnes Kettlewell. They called director
Maiden of the Botanic Gardens to
their aid. A meeting that bristled
with queries was held in the Royal Society’s
rooms and a committee was formed. The
objection raised by the timorous was
that orgies of wattle-pulling would result.
Dreadful destruction of the feathery golden
balls was foretold. But the prophets were
wrong. The kindergarten students sold the
fluffy blossoms in the city about three years
ago. That’s how they came into the annual
celebration.
Macarthur Onslow, M.L.A., once of the Light
Horse, departs on a transport with some
local flourish. There has been a lot of nego-
tiation between the Camden landlord, who
sits on the Liberal side, and the Labor
Government. The Colonel had an idea that
he ought to command a brigade; but as
there wasn’t a brigade available, he took
what was offered —command of a batch of
reinforcements. When he gets to Egypt
(or wherever it is they go) there may be
suitable work for him. At present he is
only in charge of the party till it is broken
up for sei’vice with its respective units.
In pegging out claims for Violet Day, the
Girls’ Realmers discovered an alley which
is more or less outside the city fathers’
rule. This is Rowe-street, the narrow
streak which runs down by the side of the
Australia, from Castlereagh-street to Pitt-
street, and sends forth mixed scents of
onions and boronia from restaurants and
flower shops. It is private property, and
only subject to municipal by-laws in a lim-
ited fashion. For this reason no one had
to go on bended leg to Mayor Richards re
turning it into a Cairo bazaar without the
smells on August 13. Hard-worked letter-
carriers have offered to give up their lunch
hour if secretary Grace Burrows can see
her way to appoint them hon. flower-sellers.
No sales for the Cause —the Soldiers’ Club
—will be allowed in Martin Place on Violet
Day; and no raffles or street collections will
be authorised.
The long-threatened departure of the
Willie Cooper trio is in sight. At least,
mother and son Gerald have booked for
London, and father, who walks stiffly with a
stick these days, is likely to remain in Syd-
new a while longer.
Some time ago Sister Susie managed to
creep through the regulations and darn socks
in Liverpool Camp. Also she put many a
patch on the Kangaroo’s undergarments.
But she could only do these things occa-
sionally, and her position was precarious.
Now Mrs. James Ashton and other Red
Cross workers have dragged official recogni-
tion from the authorities and every Austra-
lian camp is likely to have its necessary
postscript—a Red Cross tent and working
bee. In N. S. Wales this is already assured.
Henceforth Sister Susie will not only make
socks. She will mend them, too!
Billyard-Leake, the large, important-
looking person who wears the Leake by
reason of marrying a moneyed N. S. Wales
lady of that name, went off with his wife in
the Makura. They are bound for England,
via Canada. This State was very kind to
Billyard pyre many years ago, and gave him
the lucrative job of Solicitor-General.
St. Martha’s Home for girls is scraping
round for a little extra help for its indus-
trial efforts. It tries to make the numerous
orphan a self-supporting citizeness, and
teaches her the way she should go with a
needle or a broom. Mrs. John Barlow was
acting-president at a recent meeting which
pledged itself to a melee in the Town Hall
on Sept. 1.
Singer Ruby Michael lost her father the
other day, when the well-known Torres
Strait pilot crossed the bar. The old
gentleman kept an interesting pen for occa-
sional service in The Bulletin. But it
was hard work to make him use it.
“Rosna” sends a note from London:—
Maggie and Lena Chisholm, two Lismore girls who
are working at the Royal College of Music, are play-
ing to wounded warriors at the Princess Henry of
Battenburg Hospital and elsewhere. The William
Macmillan daughters carried them off the other day
to play to our own convalescent boys at Harefield
Park. This thrilling spot is miles from everywhere
and as dull as mud. Australians seeking permis-
sion to visit it arc catechised by 479 officials, and
then probably turned down. So people have taken to
turning up without any permit. They simply ask for
some Tommy Kangaroo, chosen at random from the
list, and the selected marsupial never gives them
away. He’s willing to be a long-lost brother to
anyone who’ll help him smash the general boredom.
11 nth Bannister has been over-sculping, with the
result that she has had a nervous breakdown. The col-
lapse is partly due to her efforts on the overmantel
ordered by the Denmans —a stupendous piece of work.
The thick clusters of flowers and leaves on the side
supports are so delicately carved they’ll actually move
in the wind.
The Commercial Travellers are organising
a show for the wounded, to take place in the
Town Hall on August 28.
Miss Isabelle Ramsay, only sister of the
clever young Sydney journalist who recently
flickered out after months of ill-health, is back
from ’Frisco, and returns presently to her for-
mer billet on the Sun. The tall young scribe
brings back some odd tales of life next the
Panama Exhibition. Amongst other side-
shows she had the privilege of visiting an
Anarchists’ Club. The chief official, who
fancied he was a latter-day Christ, sat in
state in silken robes, wore sandals on his
feet, and spat vociferously on the floor. By
the look of the floor it had got used to this
token of regard.
Charlotte Ives, the new U.S.A. importa-
tion at the Criterion, may be highly com-
mended for her feet and ankles. Some of the
recent alleged stars haven’t got even these
advantages. Muriel Starr had Brains, so
the fact that her ankles had a deer-like
slenderness was generally overlooked by her
own sex. The new leading man, lan Mac-
laren, is a far cry from the beauty actor —
thank goodness ! —-but a whirling first-night
gallery accepted his lean, manly appearance
with mild applause. The gallery girl had
previously let herself go, so to speak, when
Julius Knight’s well-greased pate appeared
in a box. Celia Ghiloni is a bright Aus-
tralian oasis in—well, she’s in floral silk and
bare shoulders in the last act. The tail of
this frock is a neutral. It is semi-detached,
and wobbles from side to side on its own bit
of the Earth. The wildest outburst from Satur-
day night's gallery greeted Florence Young.
She played her part in a front stall.
Melba was among Ihe thousands who didn't
know why every whistle was shrilling the
other morning, when Australia was officially
invited to knock off work for five minutes
to celebrate the anniversary of the declara-
tion of war. Generally abreast of the
times. Melba had on this occasion a travel-
ler’s license not. to know what the fuss was
about. She thought—bless her ! —that Con-
stantinople had fallen. Apparently she
didn’t know we could be so silly as to leave
off work at a time when we ought to be.
working harder than ever. The Town Hall
people expected to have a small and early
10 a.iu. gathering. But the big hall was
packed.
A patriotic dog-show was opened with
yelps on the Agricultural Ground on Satur-
day. Large, massive women, incited by
love of country, led herds of fluffy white
poodles and toy terriers into the arena.
Small, panting women, with their hats
moored on to their back hair, were
towed along by massive bulldogs. Irish
terriers —a very fine section —fought Scotch
collies on sight. Sleepy-looking Pekinese
made stealthy snaps at anybody’s ankles,
and the opening of the proceedings was a
prolonged riot. Colonies of sporting
terriers yapped at the tails of sulky
pugs, and the Pomeranians —the spoilt
beasts of the motor dame—had to be car-
ried out of the danger zone. A seething
mass of dog and woman, sprinkled with
male spectators busy mostly in keeping
their trousers-hem out of biting range, re-
volved round a small football match in the
centre of the ring. Over the adjacent fence
came more howls from football “sports” on
the Cricket Ground.
Wonder if Louise Mack will meet another
pro-German demonstration in any future
lecture. _ The Sydney incident was a small
affair, with two women in evening dress as
the disturbers of the peace. Sitting in
front they began to cackle hostile remarks
when the lecturess made references to the
manners of the enemy, and are alleged to
have sneered audibly. Louise stopped short,
drew herself up to her full 4ft. llMn., and
stared at the female foes. Gathering up
their wraps they flounced out and were
whisked off in a car.
The Cremorne branch of the Red Cross is
getting up a big rally on August 14. George
Marlow, of the Adelphi, has lent his theatre
for a matinee.
The Welsh people who wanted to do some-
thing for the wounded soldiers felt that the
bottom had dropped out when a family coun-
cil decided that overworked Mrs. Alex.
Gordon must draw the line somewhere, and
that it had better be drawn for a begin-,
ning to exclude all concerts not held
in the Town Hall. So the little Welsh lady
sat out the concert in the Repertory
Theatre as a listener only. Yet even from
there she was able to share in a success.
The chief Welsh songstress was Mrs. Lewis
Hughes, whose doctor-husband brought out
a sick boy to Australian sunshine two or
three years ago, and now sees him already
tanned into one of the sort that is making
Aslimead Bartlett wonder. “Of better phy-
sique than even the Prussian Guards” that
experienced war correspondent tells us our
brothers are.
The Women’s Horticultural Guild has a
sound adviser in president Cheek He belongs
to the staff of the Botanic Gardens. At the
recent meeting of the ladies his address
boiled down to cabbages. That’s the sort of
practical adviser the Liberal ladies who w T ant
to save the country should get hold of. The
woman who grows a salad for the cold corned
beef has added something to the wealth of
the country. The other woman who merely
buys a foreign condiment to help the meat
down has added to its debt.
The old bolero has been born again for
the undoing of the fat and short. The
fashion plates make it adorable —of course.
It has sharp-pointed ends in front, instead
of swerving off like the end of a beer barrel.
No, it doesn’t bulge anywhere—just curves
up neatly in the middle of the back. There
the trouble begins. The soft muslin
blouse under the new pancake bolero is sup-
posed to behave nicely and lie down flat.
But will it? Most of us remember its dis-
graceful old habit of getting loose and hang-
ing out signals of distress in sloppy little
blouse-sails that fell down over the waist-
band.
Cyril Monk’s Austral Quartet gave an
item on the Madrigal Society’s recent con-
cert programme. Earlier in the week the
Monk team produced a French quartet, by
Amedie Reuchsel, that was new to Sydney.
John Carlton Fay was at the piano. The
vocal efforts were by the large and comely
Muriel Barton.
Trevor Bridges, a cousin of the late Gen-
eral Bridges, is with a “Terrier” regiment in
the Gallipoli. So is the late Australian com-
mander’s son Noel, though he is in another
kennel.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
VICE-REGAL
BY APPOINTMENT.
PRESENTATION CHIMING CLOCKS
ALL CLOCKS ARE OF HIGH GRADE, AND ARE GUARANTEED RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS.
JEWELLERS
Oak Eight-day Chiming Clock, with Westminster Chimes.
Diameter of Dial, 7 inches. Height, 15 inches.
£ll 10 0
ORDERS BY MAIL RECEIVE
CAREFUL AND PROMPT ATTENTION.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT POST FREE ON REQUEST
SHOWROOMS
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
LONDON AGENCY: 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET W
BE DP TO DATE and
Do Things the Quickest Way
THESE TOOLS GIVE TIME A SETBACK.
ħ
No one would think of returning to the
drudgery of Hand Augers and Bit Braces after
using a
"SWAN" BORING MACHINE
A wonderful time- and energy-saver on all
woodwork.
For putting wire holes in fence posts, and for
any kind of boring, it is unexcelled.
Bores at any angle. Sturdy and strong.
26/-
h
“Iwan” Post-Hole Digger
FOUR TIMES FASTER THAN CROWBAR OR SPADE.
If you have fences to erect, young trees to plant, or any earth-boring to
do, you can save time and money bv using an “IWAN” POST-HOIjE
DIGGER. Bores the hole just big enough for the post—thus you have
practically no ramming, and the fence is firm from the start. The
“IWAN” consists of two steel blades, each with two scientifically formed
cutting edges, and riveted to a strong, malleable arch form the bowl of
the digger. The two blades interlock, having notched edges for this purpose,
thus holding each other firmly in place. Has no loose parts, like other
post-hole diggers, to wobble about.
3 4 5 6 7 8
6| Or 6J 81 9 H
7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 8/- 8/6
9 10
10 111
9/6 10/-
12
21
27/-
14 inches
28Jlb.
34/- each
Earth Scoops are Time Savers
This- Steel Scoop cuts quickly, is light and strong-.
Fitted with Steel Runners, Detachable Handles and
Heavy Bail.
3 cubic feet, 37/6; 5 cubic feet, 40/-;
7 cubic feet, 42/0.
You can save Time and
Money when you want
Tools by getting
acquainted with us.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
ĥ
Jf^Pfiersort|)
Tool Merchant*
554-66 & 582-88 Collina St., Melbourne
\
5^
S
V
li
GUARANTEED
Non-rustable
Non-breakable
Non-tearable
JfZLrrier's
Rust-Proof
@orsets—»
If you want Corsets that will not
only improve your figure but afford
perfect comfort, get “ WARNER’S ”!
Warner’s Corsets have made and retained their name by
always keeping up to a very high standard of perfection. The
cleverest designers and experts are constantly at work using
their best efforts towards this end. All the materials are
thoroughly reliable, and the makers confidently guarantee
every pair. Should any be at all unsatisfactory they will be
immediately replaced.
yfi&rners Qnsefs
NYAL’S FACE CREAM
(with
Peroxide)
Made in
Australia.
This daintily perfumed, vanishing, peroxide
cream does NOT promote the growth of hair.
Non-greasy, nourishing and easily absorbed—
leaves no shine. Ideal for sunburn, and acts
as a mild skin bleach. Applied freely it will
keep (he skin soft and elastic.
Price 1/6 & 2/6 per Jar, from Retail Chemists only.
FREDERICK STEARNS & COMPANY,
358 Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney.
Send 2d. Stamp for Sample Jar and Name of
■ Nearest
STOCK SIZES.
Prices from 14/6
The EDISON
Diamond Disc
PHONOGRAPH
is not a mere
talking: machine
“The greatest musical instrument in the
world" —are the words of a famous musician.
This man was deeply moved when he heard
it, just as you will be. You cannot help but
marvel at its wonderful power, its difference
from a talking 1 machine. It reproduces all the
overtones —upon which music depends for
sweetness—and thus there is opened for the
first time the whole rang'e of the world's
music.
Call on your nearest Edison dealer for a
demonstration. If this is noi possible, write
direct to us for free descriptive literature.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 304-372 Kent St., Sydney.
IT LIGHTENS Your LABOR
It brings forth better results.
It saves time and annoyance and it saves enough in material
to pay for itself in a very short time.
Crowley Dress Model
is the best stand on the market. Come in and see for yourself.
Or ring City 791 S for particulars.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET SENT POST FREE.
C. CROWLEY & SONS,
5 Queen Victoria Markets,
George Street, SYDNEY.


ħ
Special Value “Victor” Suits
IN INDIGO BLUE SERGE.
65/-
the
Suit
Carriage
Free*
In this strenuous age the world judges
quickly, and first impressions are often last-
ing. Hence the importance of beino- well
dressed.
Farmer’s “Victor” Suits (Ready to Wear)
are distinctive—they reflect the personality
of the wearer in a .wav only possible with
garments of expert cut and high-grade finish.
We feature a special value in Indigo Blue
bergc, guaranteed pure dye and All-wool
fabric.
Coat is a 2-button model, slightlv waisted
and has centre seam and vent; Vests cut
with medium opening and four pockets,
trousers have side and hip pockets and cuff
bottoms.
SPECIAL VALUE AT 65/-
Others at 50/-, 60/-, to 84/-
65/-
the
Suit
Carriage
Free.
FARMER’S,
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets,
SYDNEY
HATS, BLOUSES, FROCKS, etc.
PAULINE et CIE
(3rd Floor, Denison House, George St., Sydney)
Announce that they have received and are now
showing their latest models for Spring - and
Summer.
Missing Friends.
JABEZ BEDFORD, DECEASED.
'JVT ESTOR BEDFORD (a son of the
•i-1 above-named), who emigrated to Aus-
tralia many years ago, and who was last
heard of in Melbourne in 1910, is requested
to communicate at once with Mr. F. W.
Livesey, Solicitor, 16 John Dalton Street,
Manchester, England.
In the Estate of George Bond Seyfang,
Deceased.
WILL JESSIE ELIZABETH SEY-
FANG, granddaughter of the above-
named deceased, or any person knowing the
whereabouts of Jessie Elizabeth Seyfang,
please communicate with
BARWELL & HAGUE,
Solicitors,
Port Pirie,
South Australia.
ARNOTT’S
“ORANGE
SLICE”
BISCUITS
for all Occasions
where a Dainty,
Sweet Biscuit is
a Desideratum.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, August 9, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
An immense crowd went to Caulfield for
! le day of the big Steeplechase meet-
ing. Romance and the breath of Adventure
were brought to the frivolous civilians by the
presence of dozens of boys of the Gallipoli
breed. They limped about the lawn
covered with glory and bandages, and
occasionally dashed into the mass to
au acquaintance. Governor
Manley was a neat vision in navy
serge, and the aide with the interesting limp
—Nigel Conant is his name and the famous
Durham Light Infantry his regiment—was
distracting in grey. Mr. Croker was also in
giej and, my dear, you should have seen
his waist. He had tea with the Thompsons of
Malvern, and the Rileys who own the Epsom
Racecourse. Mrs. Riley was befurred and
in black, and Mrs. Thompson was absolutely
Plastered with ermine. Audrey Chirnside, in
red tailorings, took a violent interest in Ux-
bridge in the birdcage—which showed her
horse—sense,, as that gee-gee presently won
ihe Australian Hurdle. Mrs. George Chirn-
side looked like an 18-year-old in short blue
serge and fur edgings. Mrs. Mt. Sc-hank
t larke wore three blue feathers in the Ich
Dien style.
Dr. O Hara was about again with a very
grey face and a huge overcoat. Sam
Mackay came without his women-folk, and
hovered about the birdcage half the day. Mrs.
-Norman Falkiner wore blue and some
ermine. Mrs. Earle spared an hour or two
from making base-hospital bandages. Jess
h airbairn wore putty-colored tailorings
fashionably split at the sides. Miss Rey-
nolds, Mrs. Clive Leonard’s recently-arrived
rfster was aggressively smart, as always,
the Clive Leonards, by the way, are living
m the former home of Franz Wallach, the
litigious metal-man.
Melba has gone. She kissed all the Con-
servatorium girls, and wi photographed
among them. Her farewell at Spencer-
street railway station, from which she left
tor Sydney and the U.S.A., was cheery and
exciting. She was politely mobbed by female
admirers, and in her arms were piled all
the spring flowers imaginable. Fritz Hart
lightly scaled a pyramid of empty milk cans,
a nd, using his walking-stick as a baton, con-
ducted a stave or two of vocal adieu.
Amongst the crowd were Dr. Marshall, of
the Scots’ Church; the Belgian Consul; Mrs.
George Chirnside, buttoned to the ear lobes
in a sable coat; Mrs. Lempriere, the Lark’s
sister, whose husband has just wound the
fiuttees round his slim calves; and Francis
De Bourguignon, the Belgian pianist
protege. Mrs. T. H. Kelly, who had come
over from Bowral to spend a final week
with the songstress, supported her through
this fracas.
Melba’s last visit in Melbourne was to the
Military Base _ Hospital. One of the boys
begged her to sing. “Ask me anything else,”
she said. “I cannot do that.” “Well, what
about some cigarettes?” said the youth.
Melba went off and got them. “Where’s
that,cheeky boy?” she called, flung him some
cigarettes, and bolted. She has informed
the matron of the hospital that Coombe
Cottage is ready for any convalescents that
want to stay there. Mr. and Mrs. George
Armstrong are simply yearning to help
soldier invalids to “pick up” in the soft
Lilydale air.
A Stock Exchange man who enlisted the
other day and was feasted by the “bulls”
and bears, ’ spilt too much butter on him-
self at the banquet; also he showered too
many bouquets upon himself. Throughout
the next day he was subjected to a hail of
telegrams such as: “Accept thanks for enlist-
ing—Kitchener.” “Thank God you have
done your duty.—George Rex.” “Your
action will not be forgotten.—Poincare”—
and so on. The last message, received
late in the evening, read: “What will you
accept to remain neutral?—Wilhelm.”
What a revolutionary is Patriotism! On
Australia Day’ one plump and placid dame
went about with a monster gumleaf spread
over her respectable buzzom. It bore in
striking letters of gilt the legend: “To Hell
with the Kaiser.”
One of the finest side-shows on Australia
Day was innocently supplied by a wealthy
matron who, in a spasm of patriotic fervor,
aired a slightly-elevated window from
which to view the procesh. When the
crowd beheld her and her imposing friends
seated there in armchairs, they momentarily
took the group for a waxwork representa-
tion of the late Queen Victoria and family.
A fervent patriotic demonstration was only
averted by a movement on the part of one of
the majestic females. Whereupon several of
the Common Herd laughed irreverently.
How some Great Men hitherto credited
with a passion for the limelight have been
proven “Not guilty” since the war got
going! For example, John Madden, who has
waived all his official prestige in order to
do his part as a patriotic citizen. On the
list of war workers, whose president is
Mayor Hennessy, he wrote himself down
“John Madden, Carpenter.” I don’t think
the guilty secret has been publicly men-
tioned since there was a paragraph about
it in The Bulletin 10 years ago. At that
time, though, John was at work at some-
thing in the coachbuilding line. Nowadays
when he throws off his wig and gown it is
only to put on an apron and a cap and
carpenter things for sick soldiers in hos-
pital.
Berenice Ed well’s miniature show is doing-
well at the Centreway (take the lift—every-
body’s doing it). The Felton Bequest has
bought a portrait of Miss Edwell’s mother.
Baby Pam., of the Stanley nursery, is there;
also two striking portraits of artist Florence
Rodway. The children of Dr. John Corbin,
of Adelaide (he has gone to the war), Prof.
Spencer’s handsome daughter and Miss Reu-
toul are all in the show. The outdoor
sketch work is strong and vivid. The Blue
Mountains are blue and the peaks are sun-
touched and sand color. An old barn at
Berriedale, Tasmania, is charmingly done.
Poor little Morine Browne, down from
Bananaland on a visit, was selling pro-
grammes at Melba’s concert when news came
through that her twin brother had fallen in
action in Gallipoli. Her cousins, the Roy
Greenes, broke the news next morning.
Another brother has been invalided home,
and a third is still at the Front. And now
father—the everywhere welcomed Sylvester
—is dead.
Captain Fred Barton, of the Hampshire
Regiment, has been killed in action in
Mesopotamia. He was out here three years
ago on a visit to his father, who is manager
of the Mint. A few months ago his brother-
in-law, Col. Yenour, in command of a
Goorkha Division in France, was killed bv
a Hun disguised as a native soldier.
The Flomington Show is off—butchered to
make a soldiers’ training camp-—and the
two lug racecourses are none too safe. Any-
how there is a rumor in sporting circles that
some soldiers were observed looking at Caul-
field in an approving—even affectionate-
manner. And you know the splendid re-
cruiting response this State has just made.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The patriotic race meeting on Saturday added
something like £3OOO to the Wounded Soldiers'
Fund. Out of a totalisator of over £lO,OOO
Epistle’s backers got a dividend of £47 17s. in the
fiist race, and Persian Belle paid her supporters
£l4 19s. in the Red Cross Stakes.
The recruiting campaign has begun. On Monday
the Exhibition Building was packed to suffocation
by half-past seven. The one fly in the butter was
the fact that three-quarters of the audience con-
sisted of women or of men over the required age.
this seems to be a way that recruiting meetings
have. Lady Galway was there, with Miss d’Erlanger
and Miss Macaulay—likewise Mrs. Crawford
Vaughan, Mrs. Logan and every imaginable species
of official. The Governor spoke; also that plump
and cheerful Belgian, Father le Maitre; and Henry
Howard, the eloquent democratic parson, who did
what he liked with his audience for the 10 minutes
that was his allotted time.
A Central Sewing Guild has been opened in con-
nection with the Red Cross Society, and will meet
at the Town Hall every Friday from 10 till 5.
The Mayoress is president, and Mrs. Bishop Thomas
vice-president, with Mrs. McGlew as secretary and
Miss Nellie Plummer as treasurer.
The Oddfellows have presented a motor-ambulance.
It was handed over to the- military powers on Mon-
day by the Governor.
Dr. C. E. Dolling, the cricketer-doctor, has joined
the Royal Army Medical Corps in London.
Major D. K. Tweedie, R.F.A., a son of David
Tweedie, a former Adelaidean, has won the D.S.O.
in France; and the Humphrey Martens’ younger
son, Henry, has been mentioned in despatches.
On Tuesday some of the wounded men from the
Ballarat came up to town. They got a great recen-
tion.
Chief-Justice Way is still something of an invalid.
He got about too soon after his last dose of influ-
enza.
The Alliance Frangaise met at the Lister Hall on
Tuesday evening to listen to a half-hour’s lecture
from Lady Galway, and to music supplied by Miss
Kmg, Miss Lucy Reed, Miss Mabel Morgan and Miss
Halliday.
J - Gorcion > M.L.C., has sent in his name to the
Military authorities, so that he may be called on when
needed. He has two sons at the Dardanelles, and
nis eldest daughter has volunteered as a nurse.
George Patterson, of Melbourne, raconteur
and auctioneer, has been more or less
crippled m England for the last six months
through a fractured hip which has ideas of
its own about knitting. George Patterson
leached 1 orfl Phillip in 1851 with brother
James B afterwards Premier, and tackled
diggings, road transport, beef
and land sales. He reached England on the
eve of the war, to visit son Charlie, a cap-
tain m the Lancashire Fusiliers, who died
ot wounds a few weeks later. Of his other
sons Colonel George, of the Australian
Expeditionary Force, is being invalided
home this week; artist Ambrose (“Mac”)
wields a talented paint brush ; and Tom has
introduced a musical leaven by marriage
with Melba’s sister. Military ardor extends
to the third generation of this family, three
or four grandsons having joined the colors,
the latest recruit being young Gerald Pat-
terson, the inter-State tennis colt.
Eric Marsden, 6ft. 2in. and a tenor of
note, has joined the army. You may re-
member that he had charge of the Fijian
cricketers’ tour of Toorak and other parts
six or seven years ago.
Ben Chaft'ey, one of the Mildura family,
has given his new Rolls-Boyce car to the
Defence people. Mrs. Chaffey and her
daughter Mavis are fitting it out as an
ambulance motor. Other Chaffeys are bom-
barding the hospitals with oranges.
The Defence Department has comman-
deered the big Clifton Hotel—out of Port-
arlington. It is to be a hospital pub.
Race-horse owner Alan Currie is convoying
his wife, her sister (the George Russell
widow) and the children to London, the
family’s well-meaning intention being to
Help. However, with mutton chops threat-
ening to become a daily luxury in the Cold
Country, women visitors are not so welcome
as of old. In fact, one brute—quite an im-
portant brute, too, my dear —wrote out sug-
gesting that the smallest subscription (say,
half the passage money) would be more
acceptable at the present crisis than any
number of feminine volunteers.
They are telling the yarn of a plump and
popular tenor who sang a couple of German
songs for a war charity. Later, he pushed
round the hat murmuring that the smallest
trifle would be thankfully received. Never-
theless, w T hen a smart flapner pressed for-
ward preferring the basest coin in the realm,
the great man was visibly huffed. “What’s
this?” he inquired haughtily. “Copper,”
said the girleen sweetly. “I thought you
were collecting for the Germans !”
One .of the Mertons, of the metal firm
which is being so much discussed at present,
visited Australia about 18 months ago, and
Melbourne saw something of him and his
wife as they passed through to Sydney. A
young Melbourne matron of vast social
importance entertained them because they
had been shipmates of her sister. Mrs.
Merton turned out to be so German that it
was necessary to address all conversation to
her in the deaf and dumb language. You
know, I suppose, that the metal trades have
been so Germanised that these Mertons are
actually the people upon whom the British
Admiralty relies for its copper supplies!
One of the bright spots in the Australia
Day procession was a representation of the
Australian States, got up by the Hugh Pater-
son girls. . . Peg Fisher, daughter of the
Prime Minister, was Bananaland; and
Dorothy Pearce, daughter of Defence Senator
Pearce, Westralia. “Dot” Low, the peach-
like sister of artist David, was a winsome
South Australia. Clarice Dancey, sister of
artist Dancey, represented the Apple Island.
Artist Esther Paterson took Victoria’s part,
and sister Betty was N. S. Wales. They
wore white and gold, with peaked caps and
trimmings appropriate to their various
States. Had they been less crowded
together the effect would have been “quite
too lovely.”
The Automobile Club’s secretary, H.
Chenoweth, begins to look haggard. He is
bombarded with offers of cars to take the
wounded soldiers about. He is practically
bound to lose, whichever way the toss goes.
If there are not enough cars, it is his fault.
If there are too many, and Mr. De Smythe-
Jones-Petrol’s car is snubbed, it is his fault
again.
Three hundred and six State-school
teachers thus far have gone to the war or
the training camp, and a lot of country
schools have had to be shut up in Victoria.
So the city is sending its spare teachers
to the country, and the city schools will work
shorthanded, like the banks, for the sake of
the Empire, till the heroes return.
The “Glassy” gave a carnival last Thurs-
day night in aid of the Red Cross. The
booking was great. Everybody who has a
fancy dress and a pair of skates rushed
along and had a perfectly ripping time in
the name of Empire.
Nearly all the Repertory young men who
appeared as heroes in Shaw and Galsworthy
have gone, to the war. Their patriotic
action having temporarily killed the intel-
lectual movement, Gregan McMahon is play-
ing an infinitesimal part as a Consul in
"Within the Lines” at Sydney Criterion.
Captain. Manchester has been and gone.
He is joining the Garrison Artillery at
Bnursday Island. He was at one time staff-
ofhcer here, but has lately been on the Gen-
eral Staff in Tasmania.
Mrs. Walter Butler has sent out invita-
tions to an “American evening” in aid of
Lady Stanley’s Red Cross campaign. It will
occur at her home, Studley, in the Toorak-
road, on August 14.
Eouise Mack is lecturing attractively at
the Athenaeum on her experiences in war-
devastated Belgium. She looks a very peace
able creature, with her soft, rather timid
voice, and round, bare arms emerging shyly
from a black evening gown. On the open-
ing night she carried a long wand, and peri-
odically gave vicious digs at a bell when the
Picture Boy was dilatory, which he often
was.
The women of the Overseas Club are-giv-
ing Louise Mack a welcoming tea-party on
Thursday.
Irma Caron has been touring the back-
blocks of Gippsland, with the result that Kul-
tur is settling there right and left. She..has
sung in both Italian and French, and Bill
Bush, his wife and all the little Bushes are
reported to be taking to grand opera like
city people to ragtime. Irma quickly dis-
covered the telling quality of her father’s
name. In every audience there were middle-
aged folks who came and sat in the front
rows and gave the “little girl” the glad
hand of applause for Leon’s sake. There
were two good masculine voices in the com-
pany and a comedian. The success was such
that the co. is now buying a large touring
car to get about in.
One of the pests brought to light by every
war is the effusive busybody, eager to be-
come acquainted with a wounded soldier
whom he may proudly mention in conver-
sation. This sort of nuisance butts boldly
into family circles with which he is barely
acquainted, inquires after Bill’s health and
insists on pushing into the convalescent’s
room to put further questions. When he
has the invalid fairly jumping with
nerves, having resurrected all the sufferer
remembers of shrapnel and torn flesh, he
wrings him by the hand, sheds a tear or
two, and rushes off, gasping “Brave fellow,
brave fellow!” all the way to the front gate.
Then the patient lies down for the rest of
the day.
The middle of August is showing round
the corner; and August was the month when
the Allies were to win a crushing victory
and end the war. When he came back from
Lurope only three months ago Waxcellenc-.v
Madden told us this, and told it with the
air of a man w T ho had got his information
irom the stable. Talk always was John’s
trouble; but it’s not often his talk has been
so mischievous.
The man swears it’s true: —
Our nice, new, imported domestic is a willing- lass
and most eager to oblige, but she doesn’t “know'
much about meat. It seems as if in the wilds and
jungles of London from which she comes nobody
recognises meat outside of a tin if it is in larger
pieces than cheese biscuits. The other day the
missus handed her a length of steak, requesting her
to put it through the mincer for a pie. Fifteen
minutes later I went to the washhouse for gardening
■ utensils, and found Jessie busy with the steak. “I’ve
put it through three times, Mister,” she said. “Do
you think it’ll do ?’’ She was running the meat
through the clothes wringer.
Simultaneously with the announcement
that four big cafe businesses in Melbourne
nave _ been put into one pie under
the direction of A. J. J, Lucas (who repre-
sents the Grecian order of architecture)
comes the advt. of old identity Denat that
his is the only French restaurant in Mel-
bourne. Nobody could say his was the
only German restaurant in Melbourne. One
place where departing warriors have been
joyously feeding for a year past is a hotbed
0f teutonic sentiment. At another Hunnish
establishment there was a tumult recently
because a party of Expeditionary troops
were feasting at one end of the room whilst
a clique of the proprietor’s Sherman friends
were snorting their contempt for the
National Anthem at the other. At a third
cafe there was an outbreak of delirious joy
on Lusitania night. The burden of the revei-
jutnlation, “Yell, vot did Shermany
Molly Carew—the local songs-at-the-piano
bird leaves for the matrimonial front in
September. The engagement, which has
already lasted for several months, will be
concluded in a London church.
The Tennis Association is dreadfully busy
collecting-—or should I say collecting for? —
motor ambulances. In those circumstances
I here and now forgive the Association the
dejected, not to say broken-hearted, condi-
tion of the front gate in St. Kilda-road. It
and the fences look as if they had taken
the pledge never to touch paint again.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—Still going strong.
v::;v.
1
o
rs
rtf
9
M
n
<0
i
yn
t>
m
y
s.
*\
H
*
/
v
Jw:
9>
v'S
sk
ry
?
[\
m
CTf
ni
/
/
t/i
« *
c=: fr^
ML
§ Sf
2 *< v 7
Johnnie IValker : “ What ! Are you trying to pass the
age test ?”
Enthusiastic Friend : “No. Unfortunately I cannot do
that as easily as you, but I am going to make a
bare-faced attempt to join the National Guard.
Scotch Whisky Distillers , KILMA R N O C K
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd.,


h
THE INVISIBLE
NECK REINFORCEMENT
MEANS DOUBLE WEAR.
MEN! HERE’S A
FINE SHIRT
which we offer conscientiously as the best
: value obtainable in Australia, introducing 1
special features which have popularised
The Double Life Shirt
with numbers of discriminating men.
The invisible neck reinforcement ensures
double wear, while the attached sleeve lift is
extremely useful and permits comfort.
I erfectly cut and made in Oxford materials,
stripes of all widths. Bine with white and
k white with black stripes;
THIS TAB
SLEEVE
LIFT MEANS
COMFORT.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW MEN’S
WEAR CATALOG. SENT FREE.
A GREAT
VALUE.
PRICE
46,
SENT POST
FREE TO
ANY STATE.
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PTY.
LTD.
THE MAIL ORDER HOUSE FOR MEN,
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE
SOAPKO.
It Surpasses
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR IN TABLETS-
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS.
Send Six Penny Stamps for Box containing Samp
Manager, of each kind.
SOAPRO PROPY., Box 685 G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
CE °*Cfr
THE WHISKY
THE
TOP NOTCH
OF QUALITY
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE CONVENTIONAL LIE.
THE VISITOR: “O h, what a dear little chap,
and so like his father!”
“Eddyson” : He was a person in a Presby-
terian suit, rusty black, with a nice polish on it,
and sagging piously at the knees. He removed his
sedate hat when the door was opened, and held it
against his wishbone with a peculiarly graceful ges-
ture. “I am representing the Wider Grace and
\\ idows’ Mission, dear brother,'’ he said, “dear sister.”
Ite inclined towards us both. “Our purpose, b’loved
filends, is to carry the gospel to non-churchgoing
Masses, and, incidentally, to collect funds for our
provision stores for helpless widows. This is our
list. I am instructed to remind you that individual
contributions are limited to 10s., but as many mem-
bers of a family as care to can give that sum.
Mould you?” He smiled at me winningly, his head
a little on one side. “No,” I said. “Ooh!” he said.
“Would you, sister?” He smiled at her. “No,” she
said. “Ooh!” he said. “Perhaps I should inform
you,” continued the apostle, “that any sum less than
10s., however small, is gratefully received.” Again
he smiled. “No,” said I. “Ooh!” said he. He
shifted his hat to the other hand, still graceful,
squared his shoulders, and said: “You recognise, l’
hope, dear brother, and you, my sister, the need’of
bringing the refinements of trew religion and. the
sweetness of sanctity and the light of grace into the
homes and hearts of those cut off from godliness by
our wicked system of secular education?” “No,” I
said. “Ooh!” he said. “Perhaps you would care to
give shilling to the Illustrated Tract Sustentation
Fund?’ “No,” I said. “You might wish to give
sixpence, sister, to the Food for the Foodless Assur-
ance Society? My own idea.” “No,” said she. He
looked at us sadly as persons no longer worthy'. He
put on his hat. “Then,” said he, “for my part, you
can well go to
Rag : I clambered into a big netting
veimin trap along the W.A. fence once to release a
white speckled native cat. Hardly had the spring-
door slammed behind me than the spitfire landed
with all four claws on my head and face. Pht, phi,
pht went its hind legs tearing keepsakes out of me.
It spat and scratched like 50 cats, and was every-
where except where I grabbed for it. Blood and
curses and fur flew all roads. Presently, with arm.
closely smothering my face, I jumped for the front
door, and the frantic pussy crouched panting and
exhausted at my feet. With a revengeful veil I
leaped into the devil with both heels at once, and
won the contest. But I’d sooner scrap with Jesse
V ’Hard any day-
* *
"Ses”: Some say that the term jackeroo
originated from the fact that one of the earliest of
the brand was named Jack Carew. Another version
traces it from Johnny Raw, the original title of new-
chum. Johnny Raw became Jacky Raw, which in turn
developed into jackeroo. It is told that Jack Carew had
been educated for a parson. One day- he was trying to
pen some obstreperous sheep, which would go any-
where but through the gate. His boss, watching him
fiom behind the stubs, heard him saying to himself:
‘Til swear directly, I will I’m sure I will.
Whey-whoa ! I’m quite positive I will. Shoo! whoa-
back !.... Absolutely certain I will—Dam’! !
There! I've said it. I knew I would. Now, will
you go in!” The sheep went in. Other people
think the name has an aboriginal origin—bestowed
by the Brisbane River blacks on the first horsemen
they saw. These horsemen had ridden across on an
exploring trip from the Darling Downs. There were
plenty of “gentlemen learning colonial experience”
on the squattages in those days, and the stockmen
seized upon the name as one that fitted the torn-
youngsters. Webster, I notice—on what authority
he doesn’t mention—derives the word from Jack 4-
Kang aroo.
* * * *
rick : IJere are a few easy methods by
which “Sammy” (B. 22/7/T4) may effectually stop
his horse from kangarooing his neighbors’ fences:—
(1) Crossline him—that is, use the sideline chain
crosswise from his near hind to his off forele®-.
(2) Hobble him long, and fasten a short “halter
from his head to the hobble-chain.
(3) Pierce the points of his ears, and with a
fine cord draw them somewhat together.
(4) Turn him in through the sliprails.
(5) Sell him.
* * * *
i* liadcrino : ‘liss.” (£>. 15/7/M a) men-
tions the black duck and its occasional habit of
nesting in a tree. The mountain duck, which is
the largest of the Australian duck
family, also frequently builds its
nest up aloft where neither flood nor
fox doth intrude. Gohannas are the
only danger. Sometimes the duck
carries its young* to the ground in
its beak, but often the infants do
tlie journey squatting on the parent's
back. Any old method does some
ducks. Along the Glenelg (Vic.) the
old birds rake together a mound of
dried grass and leaves on the ground
directly under the nest, and when
the fledglings are old enough to give
back-talk they are pushed overboard,
and bounce on the mound with their
feelings more or less bruised. It
makes them hardy. On the lower
Murray, however, the parent birds
are more gentle. They have learnt a
wrinkle or two by watching the river
steamers handle cargo. With a few
sticks and some fencing wire these
intelligent birds rig up a small wind-
lass. A few strips of bark make a
decent rope, and the youngsters are lowered away
to the strain of the popular old chanty out that
way, “AYhisky Johnnie.”
“Porky”: Here’s J ;lie reliable method of
keeping mice out of haystacks asked for by “Slip-
rail” (B. 22/7/’l5). Salt them—the stacks, I
mean. That 11 settle them—the mice I mean this
time.
“Moana”: A prize sample of octopus was
washed ashore at Kaikoura (M.L.) a few days ago.
The body was 9ft. long and the most devilish feeler
had a stretch of 19ft. Two other limbs protruded
15ft. He filled the neighborhood with a poisonous
gas, so I concluded he was a German octopus.
A BRAVE LIE.
LIVERY STABLE-kEEPER: “Well, sir, how did the horse go?”
CUSTOMER (carelessly): "Oh, he went beautiful." (In the corner he may be seen going
beautiful.)
Wandi’ : Though on the whole intellectu-
ally inferior to the blacks of Queensland and N. S.
Wales the Westralian natives show a good deal of
ingenuity in regard to water conservation. After
rain they cross the desert and, at the claypans, dig-
small holes, in each of which they plant a sheet o"f
bark, dished in the centre to hold water. Another
sheet is laid over this, and buried under sand or
earth to prevent evaporation. There is good cool
water there long after the claypans have dried up,
and this enables them to cross the desert when there
would otherwise be no water. Another device is the
log well, copied by the miners. This is made by
blocking one end of a hollow log- and sinking it a
foot or two in the ground so that it will stand up,
the top being covered with bushes or bark. The
blacks -in dry parts of S.A. are credited with obtain-
ing supplies from water-frogs by squeezing them.
Nearly all frogs contain a certain quantity of water;
many at particular times of the year take in a big-
supply and bury themselves until the next rainy
season. 1 apping creek soakages is a much more
satisfactory method, though. The white man spends
hours rooting out sand that is continually collapsing,
and has,, when finished, a hole big enough to bury a
bullock in. The black man merely scrapes away the
loose sand on top, and driving his spear in, works
it down as far as necessary. Down the bore he in-
serts a hollow reed, through which he drinks his fill
with ease and comfort. Anyone who has tried this
method can testify to the deliciousness of such a
drink on a hot day. Water so tapped, however, is
always much better after being exposed to the air
for a few hours, having at first a peculiar‘ earthy
taste, and often a flavor of decayed vegetation. An-
other source of supply is the famous Queensland
bottle tree, which provides man and beast with both
food and drink.
Pick” > If there are still at large sup-
porters of the much-debated theory that eels, only
breed at a depth of 200 fathoms in the sea, will one
of them safe-deposit the information as to how eel-
fry ascend the Snowy River rapids in the Bungarbv
Valley or the Block-up at Talwong on the Shoal-
haven (N.S.W.) ? No other fish can stem those
whirling waters; but eels of all ages and sizes and
religious views are found above as well as below.
Also, if juvenile eels invariably travel from the sea,
liow do they arrive at the head-waters of certain
North Tableland streams, which in their course sea-
ward have sheer falls of 60ft. to ICO ft.? ; A New
England bush-naturalist has put a fresh spoke into
the wheel of the eel-breeding controversy. Recent! v
lie had on exhibition a new eel-float, containing a
dozen or so circular black spots, which, he claimed,
were young eels. Tapping on the float caused the
circles to unwind and squirm forward, and 'micro-
scopic examination revealed the characteristic fins
and tail-fringe.
“CoqMbah”: Outside an Austrian-chair
factory, .where did “Pick” (B. l/7/’IG) see Binghi
steaming the wood to get it into shape for his
boomerang ? The shapes are more or less natural.
In the scrubs of the Coomera River (South Queens-
land) there grew (I speak in the past tense, for the
scrubs have long since been sacrificed to
Cow) a tall, straight, hardwood—the kurrumgul.
This tree developed large root spurs at the trunk base.
Ihese invariably had the natural sweep requisite to
a well-made boomerang. The nig’s method was to
cut deep into the spur, both at its junction with the
root proper and the trunk, split the whole piece out
and proceed to thin down the already flat sides. The
tomahawk first served to remove surplus timber in
the rough, the fine finish being given with sandstone
and a piece of glass. I once proffered Luby, who
was a monarch in that region, a. spokeshave, recom-
mending- it as “budgery one finish him up quick
pheller,V but his Maj., after a minute’s trial, dis-
dainfully reverted to his own superior methods.
THE SOMNAMBULIST.
“Milo”: Owing', it is thought, to the dry-
ness of the season, the brolga is more numerous on
the Herbert River (N.Q.) this season than he has
been for years. Cane-farmers welcome him because
of his recently-discovered virtue of devouring nut
grass, the bane of the cane-grower. Italians—-who
are very numerous on the Herbert—regard him as a
fine table-bird ; and as Signor is more concerned about
quantity than quality, the well-grown ancients are in
greatest demand. Cane-growers are protesting against
the destruction of their friend, and consider the time
ripe to curb the Italians’ rapacity. Native birds,
useful as pest-destroyers, are being so ruthlessly
killed by our allies for table use that the Dept, of
Agriculture has found it necessary to publish lists of
those protected in Italian as well as English.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE CRIME OF CHARLEY CROWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Those were the words of Charley Chown,
His tale of terrible sin,
M Idle the cold, dank drops of new-spilled beei
Showed wet on his stubbled chin:
“I hated the way he swore at me
And the dreadful oaths he used.
A bitter nature had Billy Binks,
And ’twas me he most abused.
“He never spoke; yet whenever I passed
I read in his nasty eye,
‘Be dash well blithered!’ or ‘Damn yer soul!’
Or ‘You misborn blanker, die!’
“A man may die, but his hate will live
To score where he wants to most;
Jlis coffin bears but his bone and hide;
It holds not his vengeful ghost!
“This Billy Binks was a boyhood pal
And in all things we went whacks:
For I would eat all the fruit we stole,
At hile Billy he took the smacks.
“And when the two of us went to toil,
It was pretty much the same;
I gathered the quids for each botched job
; While Billy he took the blame.
“He never swore as a man should swear,
But cursed with his beastly eye, .
Or his leery lips. And his nasty air
Said plainly: ‘Hound, you lie i’
“An evil nature had Billy Binks,
And that’s why we had to part;
For I married the diner he was to wed
His own particular tart.
“The wicked cow never said a word,
But his look was a constant blight :
And he swore at me with his vengeful face
‘You blanker, it serves yer right!’
“The spiteful blanker, he lived two years;
Then he died ; and I don’t know how.
But I presently found that my life was plagued
By the deathless hate of the Cow.
“It would stare at me as I passed it by
And give inimical winks,
Till I grew to know that the thing possessed
The villainous soul of Binks.”
He paused, like a man whose throat has dried,
So I called for another wet;
Arid the beer-drops showed on his stubbled chin
Like a cold and clammy sweat.
“This Binks environed me nwn and night
As sure as the laws of Fate ;
If I dodged the front of the blooming house
It was there by the backyard gate.
“There was ‘Hell to you !’ in its cold, dull eve
Which was just what Binks had said
AYhen he never spoke. In its chewing lips
I read, ‘Oh, strike yer dead!’”
He laised his eye from his emptv mug,
And then, with a sudden yell”
He kicked a cur that had chanced inside—
In the street with a yelp it fell.
“What’s that? AVhy shouldn’t 1 kill the cur?”
He howled at my wordless plea;
“AA’hat right has it with its Binks-like errs,
To sit and curse at me?”
X. S. WALES.
HAMER.


Spring is Just Around
the Corner '
Be ready to
greet it in a
MURDOCH
EVER-RITE
SERGE SUIT
63
A Splendid Range of
New Spring Suitings
—British and Aus-
tral ia n Tweeds.
All New Designs and
Popular Colorings
await your choice.
This is a splendid opportunity for Commercial men
to dress well at a moderate cost.
Let us have your order now —it’s not too early.
Tailored in the Murdoch way the suit will please
in every detail —your money back if not satisfied.
Write now for Patterns.
- - - ' •„ Je|
m
Your smoking needs
will be found at
our Tobacco Kiosk.
The Truth
of this
Advertisement
is personally
vouched for by
Mr. Murdoch.
DESK R.
MESSRS. MURDOCH’S IN PARK ST. LTD., SYDNEY.
Please forward Patterns of your New Spring Suitings and
Ever-rite Serges at 63/-
NAME
ADDRESS
MURDOCH’S
IN PARK STREET LTD.
SYDNEY.
“Australia’s Mammoth Men’s Wear Store.
F-2
*5
A*
4WW
FOR A SOLDIER
THE ONE CAMERA
IS THE
BRITISH-MADE “ENSIGNETTE
The “ENSIGNETTE” is a tiny, Daylight-loading Camera,
made to take Roll-Films. Full-sized postcard pictures
can be made from “Ensignette” negatives by using the
special printing box instead of an ordinary frame. It means that
one can produce full-sized postcard pictures with a camera that
slips into the vest pocket, a camera that you can carry on every
occasion, and one that will never be in the way.
The “Ensignette” is built of metal, and measures, when closed,
3|in. x ifin. x fin. It) has a good lens, with adjustable diaphragm
openings F/11, F/16 and F/22. There is a self-contained, brilliant
view-finder and a new Everset Instantaneous and Time Shutter.
The No. 2 Model is a little bigger, but it will easily fit the
waistcoat pocket.
An “Ensignette.” which can be stowed away in a tunic pocket
or strapped to a belt, is the one and only camera that is really
strong, easy to load, and useful under all circumstances. _ Every-
thing else is too big or too bothersome. Besides, the “Ensignette
is British made.
No. 1 "ENSIGNETTE,” for Pictures 2Jin. x Urn.
complete in Pocket Case
27/6
No. 2 "ENSIGNETTE,” for Pictures Jin. x 2in.,
complete in Pocket Cose
37,6
FREE INSTRUCTION.
All purchasers of a Camera from us are entitled to our Free
Instruction Course, either personally or by Correspondence.
UP
Photographic and Cinematograph Merchants,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Also at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE;
AUCKLAND and WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NELSON’S "VICTORY"
Dispenser’s BAR ARM
sss?
. wmm m
n*
THE NEW WAY
Provides the Great-
est Benefit for the
Hotel Trade at
Lowest Possible Cost.
The ‘VICTORY’
BAR ARM
is an elaborate Silver-
plated, Counter Fit-
ling, ingeniously con-
structed, connected
with jars containing
Lemonade and Ginger
Ale Syrup, enabling
the attendant to serve
draught Aerated
Waters direct into
Customer's Glass or
Bottle.
Plant is installed
with less trouble and
maintained with less
expense than any
other system.
The simplicity of
design and high-grade
workmanship through-
out should make this
system last a business
life-time.
The “NEW WAY"
enables quicker ser-
vice, eliminates
trouble and reduces
expense. These re-
sults are assured.
It forms a combina-
tion of strong reasons
why you should instal
without delay.
FREE TRIAL.
To prove what we claim for it we will send one on trial upon request, and demonstrate on
your premises under actual working conditions. / . , T j.
We have justly won a reputation for High Quality of Machinery at Lowest Prices.
NELSON ICELESS INTERIOR.
Every day sees orders coming in for the Iceless Interior. It sounds early P e * a P s > but; it s
not a bit too soon to instal. If you want to “Lead the Way in your district you want o „
before your Competitor. „ iIW
It will cost you more to instal later on, so decide upon it NOW.
Write us re this matter. AVe’ll post you up with helpful information.
CARBONATORS: Electric, Hydraulic, Hand Power, from £lO each.
MALTED MILK: Borden’s Famous Brand wins trade.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at TURBOT BUILDINGS, TURBOT STREET, BRISBANE.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
a
The Home Where Music Dwells
is indeed a place where one can lorget the daily cares in
the harmony of melody.
Every home can enjoy the refining and elevating
influences which music imparts.
ft
"BROADWOOD” & "ALLISON” PIANOS
are unsurpassed for purity of tone and superior construction.
They are British made and superb in every feature of musical
quality and workmanship.
THE "APOLLO” PLAYER PIANO
is unrivalled in accuracy of construction. The only Player
that plays down on the keys with a human touch it inteiprets
the most difficult music with ease.
OUR PLAYER LIBRARY FEES
are the lowest in Australia, and are'therefore within the reach
of all. We can offer you a splendid selection of Rolls in 58-,
65- or 88-note sizes, to fit any standard cabinet or combination
Player. Join to-day. Library List free.
STRING AND BRASS INSTRUMENTS.
Our large and varied stock of Musical Instruments, by the
world’s best makers, will make your selection easy. Price
Lists free on request.
The British
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp; WYNYARD STREET).
Pianoforte Depot
♦ Ltd, ♦ ♦ ♦ *


STOPS FALLING HAIR.
This Home-made Mixture Stops Dandruff
and Falling Hair and Aids Its Growth.
To a half-pint of water add :
Bay Bum loz.
Orlex Compound A small box
Glycerine ... -}oz.
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a. day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used. A
half-pint should be enough to rid the head of
dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. It
stops the hair from falling out, and relieves
itching and scalp diseases.
Although it is not a dye, it acts upon the
hair roots and will darken streaked, faded
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair soft
and glossy.* [o
WHEN'"
BRISBANE
STAY AT
CRESIUN
o'
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
malm
S US GREEN BL 2, G o T ;® I^'EYELASHES V ’wEAK r SIGHT
a. UKEEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London. Enfi,
Insist on Sineleton s' —refuse ail substitutes.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QJEENtLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET. BRISBANE.
ĥ
r 4s'
ħ
filming end Snell mg autre an pound it
r TDIPLtV^CLO3inO
emasculatob.
This SAFETY
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding'.
Postage Free 45/"
My “Hints on Castrating "
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the ’"Safety ’
either Colts, Hulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of
Emaseulators from
30/- to 50
Zoeller’s “ Handy ”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for eomp/ete
Veterinary Catalog.
It's FREE
“Milo”: A much easier and surer method
of catching' plain turkeys than the snare described by
“\landi” (B. 24/6/’l5) was discovered by a cook
a t a N. . Queensland kangaroo-shooters’ camp. The
plain turkey shows deadly fear when a hawk appears;
it crouches on the ground, remaining perfectly still
until the enemy has vanished. This habit gave the
cook his idea. Expert shots, who could rarely got
within rifle range of a turkey, could never under-
stand why the food-spoiler, armed with an old gun
incapable of doing effective business at a longer range
than 20yds., could go out at any time and return
with a brace or so of turkeys. One day a couple
of shooters stalked the old man. The moment he
spotted some turkeys the spies saw him prepare a
kite, which was soon floating in the air. The tur-
keys immediately crouched to the earth, and the
ingenious party with the kite advanced to the birds
and secured a couple without firing a shot. The gun
was only carried to put the camp off the scent. I
know this yarn is true, because the cook told ii to
me himself.
* * * *
“Mulga”: If “Pick” (B. 8/7/15) will try
“stinking” gidya next time he boils the billy he
won’t go back to his old love, spotted gum. I’ll
guarantee a gidva log', dry or green, to give a
greater heat and bum longer than any other wood
in the bush; while I doubt if a Noah-deluge would
put: out a burning gidya log. Myall, brigalow, belah
and box are all preferable to spotted gum for both
stoking and beating purposes. Boiler men in Western
Queensland will have nothing but gidya if it is
obtainable. For starting a fire in wet weather all
Rsoanaland bushmen swear by sandalwood.
A PATRIOTIC DUTY.
They interned their enemies-Austrians and Germans. Why should they not intern our greatest
enemy of all-drink?-Josiah Thomas, M.P.
SWAGGY ( reading): “Josh Thomas says drink is a ’ evil that oughter he interned .”
OTHER TWO (unanimously): “That’s right, let’s offer ourselves as concentration camps."
“Wodji”: The Maori glutton mentioned
b.v “Tiaki” recalls tlie old binghi that an explora-
tion party of a stock route from the Murchison to
Johanna Springs (W.A.) happened on. He looked
half-starved, as all the nigs, do out there, and it
was decided to test his appetite. He ate steadily
till I thought ho must have hollow legs, and when
we made him understand by signs that seven 21b.
tins of “dog" was all we could spare, he reproached
ns in seven different dialects. We left him eating
the labels of the dog-coffins.
“Frisco”: •‘FlintlerinoV’ climbing fish of
llananaland (B. 24/0/'l5) is probably a variety of
climbing perch (Anahits scandens ), commonly found
along the Ganges and Amazon rivers. I have often
seen them taking a constitutional along a dusty road
in the full glare of the summer sun, also climbing
high up into palm trees. The pectoral fins arc very
stiff, and resemble claws ; the body is fiat and greatly
elevated; and the vertebral column is exceptionally
large, quite disproportioned to the bulk of the fish.
The bones in the head between the mouth and gullet
are much enlarged and modified into a series of
labyrinthine cells, each of which is a natural water-
reservoir. The opening of this tank is over the gill
membranes. As the gills become dry the door of the
outlet opens and allowg a drop of water at a time to
lull on the gills. When the runs dry and
there is no drinking fountain handy to fill it up
again, .1 n(thus just suffocates like an ordinary fish
when removed from the water. Also, he has just as
much objection.
* * * *
“.Risque ’: Giving fish, snakes, firewood
.and damper a rest, let us discuss insects. Here in
Ibe irrigation channel latitudes of Victoria, settlers
have been losing a lot of valuable stock from mys-
terious causes. One expert accuses the variegated
thistle of being the culprit, this vegetable ruffian
having a constitution fortified with hydrocyanic acid.
Hut when the stock die over the road where the Gaelic
blossom doesn’t grow, the wild ‘carrot, alias fool’s
parsley, is blamed for the defunct cow, because that
herbal scoundrel has aconite concealed about him.
Other experts further down the track attribute the
death of Strawberry to trefoil, or sand, or lucerne,
and argue furiously about the possibility of pickled
walnuts. While these various people were examining
innards the other sunset, a Restdown settler, drain-
ing a hole in the Campaspe channel, came across a
lot of weird-looking insects inhabiting his bucket of
drink. They looked like a cross between a yabbie
and a beetle. Cocky had lost a horse a few days
hefoi e, and reckons the visitors know something
about it. Can anyone identify the hybrid? Specifi-
cations: Length, from Jin. to Jin.; shell, light blue;
fwo flyspecks where eyes might be; refuses to live in
a bottle. Cocky imagines the thing may be the
embryo of something requiring a dead animal to
blossom in.
“Zamia” : There is no bigger pest to wal-
labies, dingoes, pigs, ’possums, birds and all animals
that live in the wild than the scrub-tick. It is even
troublesome to a human being. When you brush
against the leaves of the bushes in which it lives it
gets into your clothes, and attacks you oil the back
of the ear, or under the armpits, or some other
soft spot. Sometimes it buries itself so deeply in
your flesh that you cannot pull it out unless you
soak the spot with kerosene. Tumors have been
known to form from a bite of one of these crawlers.
The bite of the tick that haunts the stinging bush is
much more painful than that of the other one which
lives on ordinary trees. I don’t know how the
wallabies and their kind manage to keep the pest
from becoming too numerous on their bodies. Pro-
bably they carry a comb about with them.
THE AMATEUR .
SHE: "Gertie told me you, were once engaged to that Lamour girl"
HE: “Yes. She was one of the most delightful inexperiences I have ever had."
'Has”: Westralian prospectors swear by
gohannas as mousers and ratters, and encourage
them at their camps. In a Papuan trader’s store I
saw a big carpet snake supplied with board and resi-
dence in return for /<?’? services in a similar sphere,
lie was so sure of his employer’s appreciation that
he made no attempt to evade us. Milk with a dash
of spirits was his favorite poison. During the Christ-
mas I spent there he was quite as drunk as his
boss, but I don't suppose he worried much about the
snakes he saw.
*•* * *
“Orara”: The ordinary canary is hard
to beat as a judge of atmospheric purity, and either
his health or his happiness fails quickly in doubtful
surroundings. Miners have such faith in the bird’s
discrimination in this line that they take him down
the shaft occasionally, in order to gain his opinion
of the'state of the air. If it be foul Richard ex-
presses his disapproval by promptly drooping or
collapsing. A family who had lived for two years
m a low-lying and crowded locality had never heard
their canary sing during that period. They removed
to a house in the bush, and on the day of their
arrival they were treated to a burst of joyous melody,
lie has serenaded them every day since
_** * *
Risque : This from a recent Melbourne
Age
Platypus Rug, for Sale, OGin. x 66in„ suitable
for motoring, etc., very rare. W. D. Kewlev, 3, o 7
Bmp ire Arcade, 264 Flinders Street, Melb. ‘
To make that rug meant the slaughter of at least
half a hundred of the quaint, gentle Australians, and
I want the official responsible for carrying out the
protection of duck-hill to tell me what he proposes
to do about it.
* * *• *
“W arr E”: A contributor (B. 22/7/To)
wants a remedy to keep mice out of haystacks.
There isn’t one. But if the crop is cut before the
giain forms there will be no trouble with mice. I
have seen a stack chaffed after standing six years,
and it was quite free from mice or damage com-
mitted by them. In any case, when the crops are
cut before the grain appears the hay is sweeter and
more nutritious, and brings a better price.
“L.N.”: Though much mud is thrown at
the Papuan medicine-man, and civilisation savs be
should be put down, I think, on the whole, the
Australian quack has a better and easier time. Let
me open a sample case. At Buna Bay a native
whose ma-in-law was very ill sent for a pourri-pourri
man. The latter promised to cure the sufferer in
return for a. pig, a dog and certain ornaments. He
received his fee and got to work. After expectora-
ting over the patient and massaging her he departed.
That night the woman died. Next day the bereaved
son-in-law and a couple of chums explained to the
medicine man that as he had not fulfilled his agree-
ment after taking the goods they were going to kill
him. He stoically admitted the justice of their
attitude; and without further parley was speared
and clubbed to death. When was the last Australian
medicine-harpy hanged?
D.E. :My entry for the epitaph compe-
tition. The record can be found by sceptics in Rich-
mond (Tas.) boneyard. It is applied to Henry Green,
and dated February 10, 1838
this world his a pleas full of crooked streets.
Death the marketpleas wearall men meets.
It life Svas merchandyse as men could by
Rich wood live and poor must dy.
let they say that Australia was once short of poets.
'** * *
“Tiger”: Here’s another way of inducing
a horse to quit jumping fences. Take a gin bottle,
or any other thin glass bottle, half-filled with water
and mount the moke. Put him at a fence, and as
he lises break the bottle between his ears, Dunno
whether he thinks lie is bleeding to death, but he
won’t try the experiment again. I'll lav “Sammv"
(B, 22/7/T5) 20 to 1 on this.
Axeliandle’ : Have seen a horse faint.
just as genuinely as Billo’s best girl at a “darnce,”
on meeting a motor-car for the first time. He trem-
bled, staggered and collapsed in quite a lady-like
way. It might have been the smell of the other
animal. I've heard of the same thing happening
w hen Neddy has first been introduced to the per-
fumed camel.
* * *
“\Y errimee” : Once smoke -signalling was
extensively used by both blacks and whites. By its
means hunters were drawn together when one' had
discovered an abundance of game, and the blacks
were mobilised when a white man was found in their
neighborhood. It is recorded that before K(Minedr,
the explorer, was struck down in the neighborhood
of Escape River he noticed the blacks growing ever
more numerous and menacing along his route; but i:
was not known then that the innocent-looking little
fires, sending up their wreaths and clouds of smoke
here and there, were responsible for the gathering.
During the bushranging period it was often a puzzle
to the police how their movements were so well
known to the outlaws. However reticent they might
be, find however secretly they might travel, their
movements were still followed with an accuracy thai
baffled them, and they either rode into an ambush or
came upon a just-deserted camp. The bushrangers
smoke-signalled one another, and friendly blacks and
settlers communicated with them in like manner.
The blacktraekers latterly kept a lookout, but the
outlaws and their friends had a private code of sig-
nals, and very often they were “talking” in the
presence of the police without being suspected. Their
arrival, for instance, would remind the sympathetic
settler that be had some burning off to do. He
might light many fires, and light them all over the
paddock, making a day of it, but it would be done in
such a manner as to convey a message. If only one
column was required it was easily accomplished by
the burning-out of an imaginary dingo, or a nest of
native eats that wasn’t there. And many a signal
went out of the chimney what time the settler’s wife
was making the sergeant a cup of tea.
PRIVATE M'GINXIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M’Hinnis came to town, not sure
What his precise intentions were;
He’d read recruiting literature,
And studied posters here and there.
“But,” said he, “if T go to war,
Are wife and child provided for?”
They said that as no wife he had
This was a point lie might let go.
“Ye’re right,” said he, “just now, my lad
I’ll maybe marry later, though,
An’ would the wife lose what slic'd get
Becaze I’m.kilt before we met?”
Persuaded, Mae went in, and now
He is a soldier taut and true;
“All’s fair an’ proper, I allow—
-1 get me tucker and me screw,
And if I'm made a corpse,” he says,
“I 11 have me pension all me days!”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


The New Sixpenny Packet
Virginia Leaf No. 333 (Red Packing)
Srsre^Pßgss
CIGARETTES.
Created for our Australian friends
to provide High-Class Cigarettes at
In'S
m
umpire
JeNy
V?
«#*
C\A
'J'V
V.S
ofto®
tw
t*°
-o
6
I°'
aO
%
-f^ S
e-f
g
O'
{e\$ uri yve
V-O
tS>
O*
ccO
**
\1
MODERATE PRICES.
r J"HE STATE EXPRESS CIGARETTES forcibly refute
the dictum that high quality necessarily means a high
price. The Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd., are more than delighted
to be able to offer these remarkable cigarettes to the Australian
consumers.
When we were first commissioned by a good many business
friends in Australia to produce a Virginia cigarette of a high-
class quality to be sold at
lO - 6d. 20 - 1/-
so - 2/6 ioo - 5/-
we had it strongly impressed upon us that something special
was essential.
So we concentrated our efforts on creating a cigarette
possessing that note of distinction which is characteristic of
“State Express” itself.
WE SUCCEEDED.
Your palate will appreciate the delicate quality of these
cigarettes—cigarettes that are something special at the price-
something different—something better than you have ever
smoked before.
So
$
Jo,
0,
o>
h
Virginia
Leaf.
9
No.
333.
Of all High Class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON.


Sir Luke White.
Mr. Lancton Rcnaia.
Mr. Hall Caine.
Hr. Henry Arthur Jones.
w
PHOTO BY LAFAYETtS 1?°
Madame Sarah C/and.
a
Hr. C. F. Benson.
Sir F. Milner.
V
Mr. B. W. Leader, R.A.
What do you find best to keep you in good health ?
SOME DISTINGUISHED PEOPLE RELATE THEIR EXPERIENCE.
I HAVE given Sanatogen a fair
trial. My experience confirms
the medical opinion there is no
longer that feeling of fatigue which
one previously experienced, but
there follows from its use a distinc*
restorative effect.”
“ O ANATOGEN seems to me a very
valuable food and nerve tonic,
I have several times taken a course
of it when I have been run down,
and always with good results.”
dir John Uteiiii.
SI R
JOHN
BENN is
deri v i n
m u c
benefit
from Sanat-
ogen.”
bn xi
“ TV Y experience has been that, as
a tonic nerve food, Sanat-
o?en has on more than one occasion
done me good.”
H cum Cm/mj
I FIND Sanatogen an excellent
tonic.”
(vrA
“ jj HAVE been taking Sanatogen,
1 and think that it has decidedly
helped me to get through the ex-
tremely arduous work that I have
had to do during the past few
months.”
SANATOGEN lias done every-
thing for me which it is said
to be able to do for cases of nervous
weakness and exhaustion. I began
to take it after nearly four years’
enforced idleness from extreme
ill-health, and now (after only four
months) I find myself able to enjoy
both work and play again.
SIR FREDERICK MILNER was
much run down from over-
work when he took Sanatogen, and
it certainly did good. He has more
than once sent supplies to poor
people, run down from illness or
overwork, and it has invariably''
proved successful. It seems both to
nourish and give strength.”
/<
/cv
SANATOGEN
IS» BR.ITIISH-MADE.
HAVE for two months been
■l suffering from a rather severe
attack of Congestion of the Lungs.
I am now recovering and rapidly
regaining strength, which I attribute
in a great measure to my having
taken Sanatogen twice daily for
some weeks.”
“ O ANAT.
OGEN
promises,
when you
are run
down, to
pick yo 'u
up. It does
.so.”
Rev. Father Bernard Vaughan.
Sanatogen can be obtained of all Chemist
from 2/6d. per tin.
THE LANGUAGE OF DIPLOMACY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The expression, ‘an unfriendly act,’ lias a definite
significance in the language of diplomacy.”
The language of diplomacy
Means more than it appears to be.
When Huns the Lusitania sink,
Woodrow replies (his weapon, ink) :
“These notes of yours do not attract;
Murder is an unfriendly act.”
The criminal within the dock
Admitted it was quite a shock
When from the Bench his Honor said :
“You will be hanged till you are dead.”
“It pains me, Judge,” he said ; “in fact,
I call it an .unfriendly act.”
Bill Cornstalk at Gallipoli
Has also learnt diplomacy.
And when a sniper shoots his mate,
He briefly says, “I tell you straight,
If we are any more attacked,
I’ll call it an unfriendly act.”
x.s.w.
W. A. R.
The Victorian House of Fat, which has
always posed as a sensitive plant where its
“honor” was concerned, has, in the case of
Angliss, M.L.C., given a demonstration of
what the sensitiveness is worth. In June
last, when unpleasant rumors were floating
around regard.ug the export of meat in defi-
ance of Government prohibition, the Leg.
Council appointed a Select Committee to in-
quire into things, while the Assembly made
Justice Hood a Commission for the same pur-
pose. The independent Judge found that
Angliss, M.L.C., as an exporter of meat,
loaded a certain transport “in order to avoid
a probable prohibition occasioning loss to
himself, and in violation of the duty of ex-
treme candor which his relations to the Gov-
ernment in this matter required”; that An-
gliss, M.L.C., “loaded the transport A 37 in
wilful disobedience of the decision of the
Government”; and that the actions of An-
gliss, M.L.C., “were solely in his own in-
terest and in violation of an honorable
understanding with the Minister, whose ad-
viser Mr. Angliss was, and who was entitled
to a full disclosure by Mr. Angliss of his
intentions.” On the other hand, the Select
Committee, composed of Angliss’s fellow
members, which had only heard scraps
of evidence, reported that the allega-
tions were “not proved.” The other day the
committee’s report came before the House of
Rust —and was adopted! Manifold, the
chairman of the committee, remarked fatu-
ously that he thought “a committee com-
posed of business men as capable of sifting
the,evidence and arriving at a finding as the
highest legal expert in the world,’.’ and de-
clared, amidst “hear, hears,” that in place of
the words that improper conduct “‘had not
been proved’ there should be substituted
‘utterly without foundation’.” He also ob-
served that “the Council is the custodian of
its own honor and that of its members,” and
hoped that Angliss would not dream of
resigning. So the meat man. having been
awarded the condemnation of a Supreme
Court Judge, will not only continue to orna-
ment the Council, but has been handed what
amounts to a vote of admiration by that
body.
What a gradual affair the funeral of Rob-
ert Louis Stevenson’s widow was! It did
not take place until June 22, 16 months after-
her death at Santa Barbara (U.S.A.) .on
February 18, 1914. Mrs. Stevenson had
expressed the wish that her remains should
be buried alongside those of Robert, so her
body was cremated and the ashes taken out
to Vailima, Samoa, by her son-in-law and her
daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Field. The service
over the urn was read by Colonel Logan, of
Maoriland, temporary Governor of Samoa.
“Chudah”: How versatile the Kaiser is!
He preaches to Lutherans, gives the wink to
the Pope that he’s a Roman, and the
Mahometans have an idea that he is one of
the Faithful, like Bonaparte. He is now
behind a memorial, just issued by 25 Ger-
man and Austrian rabbis, to the effect that
the Kingdom of Palestine must be restored
under the joint protection of Germany and
Turkey. What a magnificent chameleon the
Lord’s people is! It is loyal to the back-
bone ami spinal marrow in England, Aus-
tralia. Germany, France, America, every-
where ! And how Sarcastic it can be about
itself! Thus the Kaiser’s Palestine scheme
could not be more effectively slaughtered
than you can see it done by London Jewish
newspapers. The more you think of the
Jew the more marvellous lie is. He leads
the Capitalists ; lie leads the Revolutionaries.
Yet there is a mysterious bond; how well
the escape of the Rothschilds in the
Paris Commune shows that the Jew revolu-
tionary hesitates to put the Jew capitalist
in the pillory with the rest.
The Chicago excursion steamer horror,
with the loss -of 1300 lives, rivals the
Titanic catastrophe in its appalling result.
Yet the cables, obsessed with the war, gave
it only passing mention. As in the case of
the General Slocum, a New York excursion
steamer destroyed by a fire which caused
hundreds of deaths, charges are being 'made
against Government officials responsible--for
steamship inspection. Several were im-
prisoned over the Slocum business. It is
not too soon to apply the lesson of the
present Eastland tragedy to the excursion
and harbor traffic in Australia. So far as
the public knows there is little to complain
of about the present system of inspecting
ferry steamers; still, just as fire on the
General Slocum was responsible for a much
keener interest in fire-fighting appliances on
Australian ferry boats, so the turning turtle
of the Eastland should make it incumbent
on all concerned to overhaul the requirements
as to structural stability, especially with
regard to the older type of boat that still
floats superfluous in some directions.
Hugh Campbell, Victorian M.L.A. for the
Glenelg electorate, has lost his son, Captain
S. J. Campbell, of the A.M.C. —dead of
wounds. Young Campbell was a shining
light at Melbourne University, having
entered Ormond 10 years ago; and later, a
man with honor in his own college, he
earnestly assisted the young pathological
idea to shoot. He was something of an
Edison in ability to dodge slumber in order
to seek knowledge, but'this did not seem to
affect his capacity for punching the ball and
pulling a strong oar.
A lawyer writes :
Would you care to take on the task of crusading
against “agency commission” among lawyers'? I
will always maintain that the profession, as a whole,
is strikingly honest, in face of unequalled opportuni-
ties of being otherwise; but in this one particular,
old-established custom has it by the nose. A simple
example' is the one that set me against it for ever.
It was my first big case. There was a detail to be-
at tended to in another State. I sent the work to a
chance acquaintance in the law there, and it was
quickly done. Charge, £lO. When I suggested that
this was a bit high the reply came pat: “We allow
you the usual one-third as agency commission, so we
actually get less than £7.” My reply was equally
prompt: “My clients pay me quite well, thank yo’i
and I want no cut out of your costs. £7 seems a
fair charge. Will you reduce your bill to that?”
Naturally they would, and did ; and the same firm,
and others elsewhere, have ever since cheerfully-
taken on a similar job on the terms of “£7 offered
—no agency will be claimed.” Law is a matter in
which the buyer can hardly ever form even an idea
whether he is being charged a fair price. If his
bills for fodder, or petrol, or meat, seem too high
he can get some information as to current prices
before interviewing his groom, or chauffeur, or cook.
But he has to trust implicitly'to his own lawyer to
tell him if the fee charged by the lawyer at a dis-
tance is a proper one ; and his own well-paid adviser
may be quietly taking a handsome tip to say that
it is! Thus it seems to me one of the most odious
forms of secret commission. Yet, admittedly, many
firms of unquestionable honor give or take “agency”
as a matter of course. Is there any point of view
that will justify it ?
Westralia added another to its list of
nuggets the other day, when one of 1550 z.
was rooted up at Ora Banda. The first big
nugget found in the State weighed 1270 z.
and was picked up on Pilbarra in ISBB.
Three years later several of lOOoz. and
upwards were dryblown at Nan nine, and in
1893 one of 2980 z. was discovered at Top
Well, on the Murchison. About the middle
of 1894 a big specimen of 850 oz. was broken
from the cap of the Londonderry reef, and
soon after three lumps of nearly solid gold,
aggregating over llOOoz., were brought into
Goolgardie from the Wealth of Nations.
Early in 1895 the Little Hero, of 3330 z., was
got at Pilbarra, and later in the same year
a Black Flag specimen of between 400 and
500 ounces was lodged in the bank. The
next nugget of 4630 z. was found at Lake
Way in 1897, and in 1899 the Bobby Dazzler,
of 4870 z., was unearthed at Sharks Gully,
Pilbarra, where another, the General Gordon,
of 3720 z., was also discovered. Mulgabbie
reported one of 1650 z., and Kurnalpi sev-
eral ranging from 109 to 197 ounces during
the same year, and another of 2300 z. was
found there in 1912. Possibly a few other
lumps were found and nothing was said
about them. In the early days there was a
tax of 2s. per oz. on all gold found, and a
tax of 2s. per oz. would be a great silencer.
Hugh D. Mclntosh, on. a visit to Maori-
land. has been noticed with a far-away look
in his eyes gazing earnestly at sites which
might be decorated with theatres. Hugh 1).
is suspected of anxiety to widen the orbit
for the to" revolve in and give the
planets a chance.
“Barcoo” :._Give me a bid for the largest
open-air picture theatre in Australia. I il
start with Earl’s Court, On
the night the films of the Panama Canal
were shown for the first there weie
5400 tickets issued. Anybody is at liberty
to doubt this and chance being called a war
correspondent by the treasurer of the show.
"Alabama (TJ.S.A.) is -cutting into Aus-
tralia's coal trade with 8. America. Excess-
ively high freights are knocking Newcastle
out. The same Yankee field is also going
to score by the big deal made with the Amal-
gated Zinc Co. for concentrates. The Calusa
is already on the way to Mobile with 0000
tons. The Yankee duty is 10 per cent, ad
valorem on zinc ore; but John Bull w T ill have
to pay most of it. He doesn’t smelt zinc
himself, yet he must have it now, and the
TJ.S.A. is the only country he can get it
from in any jquantity.
Contrasted with the posters issued 100
years ago calling for recruits, those of to-
day are flat a,s yesterday’s gingerbeer. To
supplement the work of the press-gang in
1801, a colonel of Light Horse baited the
trap with the following:—
You will be mounted on the finest horses in the
world. .. .admired by the fair, which, combin’ed with
the chance of getting swished to a buxom widow, or
brushing with a rich heiress, renders the situation
truly enviable and desirable.
The commander of the 42nd battalion of
militia spiced his call with this :
....now quartered in the delightful and plentiful
town of Kingston-upon-Tlull, where, excellent ale is
sold at only 3d. the full quart, and fish of the best
quality at Id. the pound.
Don’t such things make you prouder than
ever of the simple majesty of our great Vol-
untary system and surer that Universal
service is a degrading device of the Devil,
-which is to say the German?
Only very intimate friends could have sus-
pected that lately-dead Stevens, M.L.C., of
Maoriland, would pan out at £300,000. Only
complete strangers will be surprised that he
forgot to detach tuppence from the pile for
charity or public purposes. Always verra
close he in later years became miserly to-
wards even himself. He smoked his pipes
clean out of action. But the old money-
spinner kept a shrewd head as a buyer of
land and shares, and the neighbor who
wanted to best him had to get up before the
sparrows. A lugubrious mourner over the
legislation that drove all the capital out of
the country was E. O. J. Stevens.
Edward Edwards, son of an ex-mayor
of Wangaratta (Vic.), seems to be the
stuff a soldier is made of. Being under 18
he had been reluctantly denied enlistment:
but on reaching that birthday the young
ster. who had a billet in the Commonwealth
Audit Dept., wrote home to dad, who
thought he was still over-young : —-
If I am not allowed to go to the war, I shall never
go home again. I’d sooner die than stay behind,
particularly as I am one of those able to go. Some-
body must avenge Charlie Powley’s death.
So, being 18, with an unfinished job on
hand, he is now going off to get busy on it.


.
m
SSS*
arc
m
5#
W
<■
Win
WTffl
«*EE- rfiiTlTYk /tftQ,
mjjjj
aip
UllilH . " ■'lMJ'
to:
«a
isa»
urn
i
■*»sr *npr— ~i
fliflfc jm sh
xun
tsCJjk
i
•IMU I
1
v\\
i
i i
I I I I
m
•srcr
m <nK
mat, irmra (im /mr\
VMJl'vr s
£X& — n£Z
A
il
i© a sHjf
irfim,
H
dffil;
5§S
3
\v?
m
a
Granny’s Talk To Young Mothers.
“Few mothers realise that a cold lowers the system and makes it
‘ susceptible to contagious diseases The majority of disiaSes atise from
germs, but it is not widely known that a healthy system will repel their attacks.
If a cold was never allowed to run for twenty-four hours without attention, there would be less
sickness for young mothers to worry over.
A good reliable medicine for coughs, colds, croup and bronchitis should always be kept in the home where
there are children. You may say you have no confidence in cough medicines, but that is because you have never tried
A
0
A
COUGH REMEDY
(MADE IN AUSTRALIA)
This medicine is thoroughly reliable—there is nothing in it to injure even the youngest child. In
fact each bottle bears the Government Analysis showing it to have been officially declared free from all
narcotics.
if
%
ouAa
&
<O-
-
,
Mm*
■
WAT WORTH CO.’S
TI-SARKIN
f f
i c
POSITIVELY TAKES FAT OFF. SAFE TO USE I
ABSOLUTELY HARHLESS.
LET US SEND YOU
BY RETURN POST A
FREE SAMPLE
There are many
reasons why you
should get rid of
all that EXCESS
FAT
Excess fat injures your health, impedes your move-
ments, and makes you the joke-butt of your unfeeling
normal-weight friends. People who are excessively
fat never feel well and vigorous like normal folks. You know this is true.
People who have been fat and are now reduced to normal, think other fat people
ridiculous. Excess fat, also, impedes the heart action, rendering its functions
difficult, and interferes with the breathing. Not alone does excess fat injure your
health and endanger your existence, it absolutely destroys your figure and makes
you a ludicrous sight. Why do you stay over fat?
"TI-SARKIN”
positively removes excess fat
and will restore your spoiled
figure to genteel and pleasing proportions, and is always a sure and lasting cure
for obesity and corpulency. A few doses improves your breathing wonderfully, and
the course of treatment will cure you. It is the only successful and at the same
time harmless fat-reducer that has ever been discovered. Its efficacy has been
undeniably demonstrated in thousands of successfully treated cases. It is totally
and absolutely non-poisonous, and can in no wise work any injury to the general
health, even though! it often reduces excess weight by as much as a pound a day.
On the contrary, improved conditions in the general health become noticeable in less
than a week after its use is begun. Guarantee given
“ TI-SARKIN" is not a patent pill sold regardless of individual
symptoms , but is a scientific treatment in each special case.
Obesity cannot be cured bv drastic purging pills. Don't use them.
Sandgate, Queensland.
Manager, Watworth Co.
Dear Sir, —When I wrote you in July last my niece
W'as rapidly improving under your treatment. She was
then over 15 stone in weight, but, has since been reduced
to truly genteel proportions, and is now a very pleasing
figure. She continued her usual diet while under treat-
ment and was in no way inconvenienced, and 1 am
truly grateful to you for the result, for before the
treatment sli-e was absolutely devoid of any semblance
of a figure, ft burden to herself and friends, and un-
happy generally. She lias reduced considerably over
three stone, and her health has improved to a splendid
extent.—Yours respectfully. M. CRAMB.
GET A FREE SAMPLE.
It does net matter how far away you live, we can treat you
and reduce you successfully by post. We want you to see what
hundreds . sly, of “Ti-Sarkin” after using it. We want you
to know ail about it.
SEND P,d. STAMP FOR FREE TRIAL. If you cannot call,
send a 2d. stamp and let us send you a free sample and a very
interesting booklet on the subject of obesity. We will post
same to you in plain package, and free from observation. IF
YOU CAN CALL, we will weigh you privately and supply all
particulars. LADY ATTENDANT and private rooms for inter-
views. Write or Call to-day.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily. Saturdays till 12.
m
m
THE WATWORTH CO.
1903 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
(5802.)


Combination Case 4 o'clock Cake
Forks, Teaspoons and Sugar Tongs, l>ure
Silver-plated, complete in Silk-lined Case,
10/6.
POSTAGE
PAID
TO ANY
ADDRESS.
Ipjp^
Oak Cutlery Canteen, containing |-doz. Table Knives, -J-doz.
Dessert Knives, 6-piece Meat and Game Carvers, finest Sheffield Steel,
Xylonite Handles, 1-doz. Table Forks, 1-doz. Dessert Forks, 1-do/,.
Table Spoons, * doz. Dessert Spoons, i-doz. Tea Spoons, 1 pair
Sugar Tongs, and 1 pair Silver-plated Knife Rests.
In A Quality, £9/9/- B Quality, £B/10/- C Quality, £7/10/-
Good Cutlery
A. SAUNDERS
The House with the Largest Variety of Ai Up-to-date Goods. Write for Free Catalog.
Illlll!lllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllil!i)^^
LONDON & SYDNEV
-- sslESSii Be
ft Piece Carving Set, stag Handles, Silver-plated Ferrules and Mounts, finest
Sheffield Silver Steel Blade, complete in Velvet-lined Case, 15/6.
CAT-
ALOG
FREE
iliiiul
. :■ m
m
6 Pairs Dessert Knives and Forks, Pure Silver-plated,
Carved Xylonite Handles, Hand-engraved Blades, £2/10/-
807=817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Cutlery Set, comprising 3-doss. Table
Knives and Forks, Finest Sheffield Steel,
Xylonite Handles. Complete in Case,
20/-
CAT-
ALOG
FREE
Polished English Oak Cutlery
Canteen, lined throughout, containing
1 doz. Table Knives, 1 doz Dessert Knives,
5-piece Meat and Game Carvers, Finest Shef-
field Steel, Xylonite Handles, 1 doz. Table
Forks, 1 doz. Dessert Forks, 6 Tablespoons,
12 Dessert Spoons, 12 Teaspoons, 6 Egg
Spoons, 4 Salt Spoons, 1 Mustard Spoon, 1
Butter Knife, 2 pair Knife Rests.
In A Quality, £l7/10/- B Quality, £l5.
C Quality, £l2/10/-
A Powerful Magnifier.
vk
r
thefinuer
ft.P.CRLENPIELO
BRISBANE
To examine any object nc
matter how small or what it
is use a “FINDER.” With it
you can see minute details
distinctly which without its
aid. would be absolutely in-
visible.
The “FINDER” Magnifier is
a valuable aid to Mining men.
Rotanists and others.
The “FINDER” MAGNIFIER, 7/6
Post
Free
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO. LTD
189=191 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WO Y, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
SUEPHOEINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTIONS
I'.N'SURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear bv applying
SUEPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2 9
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPH O E I N E
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Fedness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists. J. Pepper & 00., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removesthe effects of Sunscorch
wspissia
%£%• WsMo>fc
9>-
ms 4
?*?>;
ffiggs*?
-
-
E&5%
7
$x 1
:::- 8 85*
.-V
w
aH9S
SB
IpH
liSll
tracer
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNO( H “P.G.” (perfectly gas-
ight) CARTRIDGE —the highest
•lass imported into Australasia. It is a
uperb cartridge for match shooting, being
sed by the best shots. The specially-deep
irass head ensures perfect ejection. 2f
.nthes long.
Uways specify KYNOCH “ P.G."
yhen you want the very best.
Ail British
Manufacture.
2]
I
\
gpfii
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
ĥ
Pens
Seven
Prize HVledeis.
Works g Birmingham, Ewglamclt
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOft
COUGHS .
fioridq
UjkgTon
es
ic
FOR
COLDS .
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL. ENGLAND.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing; over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
When Weaning Baby
The Best Food to give is
The ‘Allenburys’ Milk Food No. 1.
On the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
4311enburgs Foods
I IPF* PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT FREE
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.


|~f E/3RN Elg
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure
Is the FINEST REMEDY in the WORLD
For COUGHS and COLDS
THOSE who have had occasion to take HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure are astonished at its
Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in
the Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness, Asthma, experience delightful and rapid
relief. This Medicine is particularly valuable to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest, as it
Strengthens the Lungs and renders them less susceptible. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving strength to the Voice, and, for this reason, is thoroughly appreciated by
Clergymen, Public Speakers and Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become chronic, and in this
respect, is Absolutely Indispensable in preventing a “Cold” from developing into Bronchitis,
Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy or Consumption. No house should be without a bottle of this Wonderful
Remedy, as taken at the first indication of a Cold, a dose or two is generally sufficient. A Cold should
always be “nipped in the bud” or serious illness may follow.
Always ask for “HEARNES
and see that you get it
a
%
ff
£«£-
/
JP
v
i
r/ZrV,
ill
#
/
m
OOMS
«
6°
OLDS
4
JP»!
nc
fcoL
JifiS
te'ff
A? t >
3ft
(HRO
CX
s?
ss:
%5
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Price, 2/6 and 4/6 a Bottle.
If unobtainable in your District, send
direct to W. G. HEARNE
& Co., Ltd.
Geelong,
Victoria
“Eddyson” ou the inconveniences of
. ..
suicide:
“Ye’ll perhaps be rememberin’ Peter Burke,
will yeh?” said Flynn. “Fat ’n’ well is Misliter
Burke, ’n’ him wan was commit suicide a year
come Chewsdee. Poor Peter had a thriflin’ gouty
affliction took him in the toe, the whisky jar-r was
impty, ’n’ Mistiness Meagher wouldn’t have him if
there was not annotlier man ’twixt here ’n’ the far-r
ind of Purgathory, she said. ‘The wor-rld’s agin
me,’ sez Peter Burke. ‘Life’s nothin’ t’ me.’ he
sez. ‘I ll end it. I will that.’ ’N’ wid not a wor-rd
t’ aunvwan he off V made himsilf aisy, lyin’ acrost
the main line, wid his head on wan rail ’n’ his poor
sore toe on the other. ‘Me toe’s no frind iv mine,’
sez he. He’s lyin’ there tin minutes whin there’s a
goods train come prowlin’ precautions towar-rds the
station, V seeirr Peter it dthraws up. ‘Git t’ hell
out iv that, me man!’ sez the dtliriver in a coarse
vice, utlierlv devide iv sympathy. Peter gives no
reply at all, but is prepared fer his end. ‘Shift, yeh
loafer!’ sez the driver, ’n’ ’the stoker, trowin’ a
tub iv coal, hits Peter Burke back iv the neck. But
there’s no shiftin’ Peter be ar-rgument. Be this
time the guar-rd have arrived at the front. ‘Who’s
idyit are yon?’ he sez, V him ’n’ the stoker takes
Peter be the head ’n’ the heels, ’n’ trows him off the
line, ’n’ the tlirain drives on. Peter is mor-rtified,
but nothin’ will shake the triminjis resolution iv the
man. He’s back on the line wance the train’s past,
wid his coat unther his head fer eomtfort; ’n’ there
‘tis Ryan’s gang on the throlly finds him wan ha’f-
hour later. The throlly is stopped widin an inch iv
Pete’, «r. -wn oblige m<:b«, f
corpse, Misther Ryan,’ sez Burke, n 1 n uo e/.
much fer you wan iv thim days.’ ‘Go home, man,
gez Ry an . ‘if the express catches yeh here she’ll
(io ye )j a mischief,’ sez he. ‘l’ll not shift,’ sez Peter,
‘ ’ n ’ there’s not a man on the railways iv the 1 a e
is the man t’ shift me, sez he. Wid that Ky S
off, ’n’ kicked Burke on the toe wid the di hte: p
to ut; ’n’ while Peter is cuddlm his hurt S °
skull-dthrags him off the permanen .w >
him down the tip. ’Tis a sacrilegious thing t
kick a poor man on the toe all blown wid gout,
Peter, sittin’ up there, huggin ut to his heai-it, is
mortyfied h’yond bearin’. ‘Go yer ways, Ryan, sez
he, ‘yeh shnake iv the wor-rld, sez he. 1 h ao me
suicidin’ ilsewhere fer the future, sez he. M that
Peter stumped oft across the fork, 11 shp ead himself
on the branch line t New Galway, n lay an hou
’r more befure Quinn the plate-layer arrives,
‘Wbat’re ye doin’ here? sez he. I m committal me
sooicide,’ sez Peter. then yer m good time,
Quinn. ‘Till not catch a thrain fer nine horns Tis
a slow death, he sez. Peter Burke is filled wid
disligust. ‘’Tis too much, sez he, when a poor .
can’t have a thrain t’ kill himsilf wid unless he cap
shpare the time t wait all the hours God give him.
I’ll write to the papers,’ he sez ‘consamm the poor
service we have. Manewhoile I 11 go home n maze
me will,’ sez he. Peter wmt home, n come baci e
night t’ catch the ilivin-fifty. But be this time Mike
Morrissey, kep’ the store be the cor-rner-i, have heard
iv his intintion, ’n’ he disheovers Burke lyin on the
rails. ‘Get up, Burke, sez he. Ye re indecent,
man.’ ‘Lave me be,’ sez Peter. Is a man t have
no peace at all wid his own killin’?’ ‘Devil a lave
will I lave yeh t’ kill yersilf while ye’re owin’ me
fifteen shillin’ fer goods, Petlier Burke,’ sez Mor-
rissey, most emphatic. ‘Come home ’n’ find me the
money,’ sez he. ‘l’ll miss me thrain,’ sez Peter.
‘Miss ’r no miss, ye’ll not go t’ yer Maker owin’ me
fifteen shillin’,’ sez Mike Morrissey. ’Tis a week
afther Peter is runnin’ acrost the level crossin’ t’
trow unther the locymotif iv the down
thrain standin’ in the station, when the up-thrain
comes unexpect ’n’ overjue, ’n’ knocks him indways,
breakin’ a leg V crossin’ the ribs iv him in a kind
iv lattice. When well Peter sues fer great damage,
V is awar-rded two hunthred.
Died the other month old Dr. Cummings,
the most historic musical identity in Eng-
land. He was a boy alto in the first London
performance of Mendelssohn’s “Elijah” 68
years ago, and as a young tenor he had sung
as substitute for Mario aud Sims Reeves,
Later on, Cummings was a conductor and
musical schoolman, and a composer in a
small way. Probably he was the best-in-
formed practical musician in the business,
and when he put his knowledge of the origin
of “Gorsave” and “Rule Britannia” into
booklet form controversy on those solemn
subjects was hushed for ever.
“Mil”: To appoint William Laver—or
any other competent Australian—to the
Ormond Chair of Music would be good; but
to suspend the Uni. Conservatorium for a
year to give its Germans time to die would
]je better. On the night the sinking of the
Lusitania was cabled, two of the Conserva-
torium people—a full Bloodwurst and a
sympathiser—turned up at the Repertory
Theatre shamelessly jubilant. Filthy' joy
suc h as that is sufficient excuse for intern-
ment. The scoundrel who would be glad of
the Lusitania horror would also be glad it
the Australians were cut to pieces by the
Turks; and public joy at that would mean
assassination.
F London: While the show business
. g bad h music -halls in the big manu-
factoring centres like Birmingham and
Sheffield are booming. War contracts mean
packed houses twice a night. the top-
liners are transferring themselves to these
blissful localities, where besides their rep-
hir salaries they are demanding and getting
a percentage of the profits. Many of them
are pocketing an easy three hundred a week,
Harry Lauder’s son, Lieut. John, was
lately wounded at the Front. Evidently John
look more risks than his gallant dad takes in
his vaudeville soldiering. In his character
G f a Horse Kiltie the General says to him:
“if there’s a—haw—battle, or a skirmish,
or an affair—haw !—I shall want you to look
aftah the—haw!—colors.” Lauder: “What
are you going to look after?” The General:
“I shall look aftah the—-haw—-canteen."
“Then we’ll keep the colors in the canteen.”
says Lauder.


WAVERLEY PENS
ħ
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
« MELBOURNE :
L~rrrn
TUT UNSHRINKABLE
WOOL
U \i
UNDERWEAR
The Branded Underwear with the Guarantee.
nn a soft silky teel entirely unknown in any other make of underwear.
and'EruTt kV" 1 fi “" d ,' rw « r ' 11 i" 1 * b,i " s * unworlh,,
no(* considered rUS * " *" P, ° S '' °' Von. "* purcha.er. .re
W,„ 8H5.17..„. *. „„ rf , Underwear. [, . lood ho „„, Brill* ,
V , . A " y garment shrinks will be replaced free of cost."
17 7 7 SUPPIV VOU - Inslst on ' laion ' for ever v member of the family.
Jm " / '' C '" , '"^ The J »“" Underwear Co.. Leleeeter. England.
c. r _ thread worms
S ®®®F U L L Y ERADICATED BY
COMSTOCK’S ‘-DEAD-SHOT’’ WORM
lELLETS, STATES IPSWICH LADY.
. daughter, Dorothy, was very
thL ltabl i e -’i a £' iend clrew my attention to
the child s indisposition, and suggested
BABY JOHNSON.
From a photo.
treatment for
Worms,” writes
Mrs. Eos i n a
■T ohns o n, of
Chermside Road.
Hast Ipswich.
Queensland.
“His diagnosis
was correct, and
after following
the directions
and taking a
course of Com-
stock’s ‘Dead
Shot’ W o r m
Pellets, much
benefit was de-
„ . uvea, uorotnv,
®“? 1 passing a number of thread worm's,
was thoroughly restored to perfect health :
* a ,, 1S r yea , rs I now recommend
n l and J ,? u liave my permission to
use this testimony.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
r the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers, price 3s. 6d. per packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price bv The W.
• .Comstock Co., 23 r.v<in or Street
Church Hill, Sydney.* ° ’
POLITICAL
POINTS
ASTRONOMICAL NOTE: THE RET-
TING OF THE CRESCENT.
The South Aus. Parliament mourns the
death of three members of its Leg. Council
within a week. The trio are A. It. Addison,
John Downer, Iv.C. (Liberal members), and
Lrnest Ivlauer (Labor). Never before have
three deaths of members of the same House
been reported in S. Aus. on the same day.
Addison and Downer represented the north-
ern and southern districts, which are safe
seats for the Liberals. Ivlauer represented
a metropolitan area, and Labor expects to
retain that seat.
The Sydney Telegraph represents Attor-
ney-General Hughes as a thief saying to
JJetence -Minister Pearce, concerning the
iathgow Small Arms factory, “Let’s grab
the kid! He’ll be another to keep under
our thumb at Canberra.” In other words,
the Federal Government hasn’t got the Small
Arms factory under its thumb at Lithgow.
Lemg outside Federal territory, it is under
the thumb of N. S. Wales. But N. S. Wales
as a State has nothing to do with the war.
I he only institution in Australia which is
empowered to arm troops is that one which
the State Rights press represents as a loav-
down robber, because it wants to control the
place for whose efficiency it is responsible.
From Threadneedle-street (24/6/15) :
A bombshell has just fallen among the directors of
the Mt. Elliott Co. in the 6hape of the British
Treasury’s refusal to sanction the proposed increase
of capital for the purpose of purchasing the Mt.
Oxide, notwithstanding that it had been pointed out
that the mine might assist considerably in connec-
tion with munitions of Avar The Treasury view
is that the Mt. Elliott Co.’s cash might be remitted
to Australia in order to develop and equip the Mt.
Oxide mine, and this is considered inadvisable at the
present time.
Ike chances of John Bull sanctioning even
(he -Norton Griffiths advances to N. S.
Wales get. colder and colder. It reallv
looks as if Holman and his State mav
presently have to icork for their living.
RECRUITING THE STAY-AT-HOMES.
“Fall in!”
Joe Ward, back at the Maori-
land Treasury, lias for a genera-
tion been the object of more hos-
tile criticism— much of it outrage-
ously venomous—than any other
public man in the Dominion. He
iirst took on the job of looking
after the p.n. 25 years ago; but
when the Colonial Bank smashed
and Joe’s overdraft was pushed
into the limelight, Seddon said he
thought he had better take charge
of the Treasury himself. So Ward
went overboard for a time, but was
pulled in to be Minister for Bail-
ways and Postmaster-General. Sed-
don hung on to the cashbox until
the end of his troubled reign. Then
Ward took the keys again, bor-
rowed like fury, and after five
years’ uproar blundered heavily
into the soup and woke up to find
Massey and Allen running the
show. What the community woke
»P to a little later on was that
Massey and Allen were hunting up
Cohen as vigorously as Joe had
done. An incurable optimist-
glib and superbly confident—Ward
will tackle the fresh situation with-
out a tremor. Well-to-do, with a
, S'°°d digestion, habitually hanov in
with 3111 ! 8 lme ’ a^. d , wlth a preference for soda
any whlsk y in it* Ward at 60 looks
1 y „^ ls younger, and good enough to wear
Sir 1 1( 1 g tl 1 me ‘ ? 1S Principal vices are his
Judah* 1 and passionate love of trade with
Ar^ t^°^ ney " General 11ll S bes . seeing that his
1 etal Exchange won’t go far towards freeing
the Australian metal trade after the war
rom German influences, is now pushing into
the questioii of copper-refining in Australia.
While he is about it he might also go into
the question of silver-lead refining. That
is a still simpler process; the Broken Hill
Prop, has refined its output for the last 20-
odd years. But the next biggest silver-lead
producer in Australia has sent large quan-
tities of its bullion to a refinery in England
with a German name on the brass-plate, and
German influences all over it.
The gum of the grass-tree is another
of the things Australia has been sell-
ing to the Germans so that they could
more effectively murder us. The oil from
this gum contains an incredible percentage of
picric acid, a prime factor in making higli-
power explosives. In the six months before
the war started the slim Germans bought up
about 3000 tons of this stuff from Kangaroo
Island, and didn’t pay more than £6 or so per
ton for it. There are thousands of acres in
Tasmania covered by this tree. But, of
course, no one bothers trying to make any use
of it. And why should we bother? Can’t
we go on mindin’ sheep and.milkin’ cows?
This voluntary service drags
Plain Bill within its net,
But misses Percy where he lags
Behind his cigarette.
.1 lie I reetrade lunacy got a fine advt. from
Hagelthorn, the Vic. Minister controlling
immigration, the other day. Being inter-
viewed on the foolishness of importing able-
bodied men from England—which is 3:0,000
miles nearer the war than we are—Hagel-
thorn prattled: “Seeing the drain made on
Australian manhood, it is a matter for con-
gratulation that immigrants
are arriving to swell our at-
tenuated population.” He made
no remarks on Britain’s crimi-
nal foolishness in permitting
eligible recruiting material to
leave for the place farthest
from the war, while frantically
calling Australia to send men
with or without equipment.
Most of the young men who
are coming this way are
shirkers; and these shirkers
actually find an Australian
.State so unpatriotic as to help
them to retreat. None of these
immigrants who come here are
for Australian purposes as good
as the Australian—probably the
ratio of value to the country
is that we are exporting half a
crown and importing tuppence.
But that’s Freetrade all over;
and that the position is simply
idiotic is proved bv the
Argus’s approval of it. “The
fact that there are people of
uur own stock coming here
should be a matter for congra-
tulation,” says the dishevelled
Y ( ,. ~ . ol d female of Collins-street,
; et rt# ? e Age , of that day published
a statement by a man who put his
tniLL 11 ’ cei 'tain immigrants known
hitrn!?n™u to meri ca if Australia
introduced conscription. Fine people these
shirkers of our own stock” !
Baer, the principal partner of Merton and
Go London, and a “naturalised German who
speaks with a marked German accent,” insists
njt i is.nnpraelieablo to create the spelter
iS, 1 , 11 Biigland because skilled labor is
unavailable, while capital will not take the
risk, since after the war German and Belgian
woiks will be able to compete more cheaply,
that Sf" A , t<ol ;^y- Gen eral Hughes says
Snl ni t T!' ks tle , extent of German con-
tiol of metals, and the crude and splenetic
egotmm characteristic of the German.” He
adds that in these remarks of Baer’s “one
may. see reflected the almost fatal conse-
quences rising out of British apathy,
credulity and trustfulness.” One may also
tlle Breetrade which killed
canitn^ 1 e< r> ? b °£ i ll1 * 1 the “Patriotism” of
capital. But what can be said of the British
Government which allows Mr. Baer—with
Sflv m trS i G T ma ? accent—to be sardoni-
cally tiuthful elsewhere than in internment?
And, still more, what can be said of a
Government which retains Mr. Baer as
metal buyer for the British Admiralty?
Last year Wanganui, which is trying to
tuin itself into a port, decided to have a
modern dredge; and although excellent
dredges are built in Maorilandf the Harbor
Boaid lushed an order away to the Clyde.
Ihe dredgemaster was also sent to Scotland
to tell the engineers there what kind of a
machine was wanted and how to build it.
A start had only just been made .when war
dJonned tb 6 ’ w* P 6 °|de
mHn d f Wanganui dredge and started
wlifle 1-b« w PatChl “? htin S craft. Mean-
while the Wanganui River goes on silting-
up the harbor, while down in Dunedin capa?
hie engineers and dredge-building firms He
1 S“f n a f ew piates and bolts are
nnd s « at 1 , h^° thei - eud of earth,
and a National Government has been
formed to see the Dominion through its dis-
tress. ahe problem of keeping the country
supphed with work and money is under-
stood to be fearfully complicated f yet a Sain
person would suppose that a very good staid
might be made simply by not send mg
and money away. 8
The worst thing against Irvine as a finan
eial reformer is his record. His Victorian
State Cabinet, bluffed or pushed by the
Kyabram “reform" movement, undertook a
magnificent reduction of national expendi-
ture, and promptly raised il all round.
Since the Kyabram revolution, Government
expenditure in Victoria has doubled—in j 0
years! The man who “worked” the Kyab-
ram reform was G. \V. S. Dean, now secre-
tary to the Bookmakers’ Association of
Vic. As a political secretary to Parlia-
mentary candidates, Dean had up to that
time never lost an election.
HIS ARMAGEDDON.
THE LONG: “You assisting recruiting?
What’s yer game, Fatty?"
THE FAT: “If ther Manky Hans win, you
and me ’as gotter work—that’s wot me
game is, ’Erhert.”
i y\ .Churchill, speaking at Dundee
lately, admitted that he and Asquith were
aware of Germany’s warlike intentions in
ii " 011 Kew Year's Day, .1914, their
colleague Lloyd George, now the most active
agitator for national effort in war-making,
told a working-man crowd that the "alarm-
ists _ demand for armaments was "organised
insanity. ’ From that it looks as if Asquith
and Wmston Churchill kept their knowledge
ot Germany’s intentions from Lloyd George.
Churchill certainly stuck to his naval pro-
gramme, but Asquith and Haldane continued
to frown on Lord Roberts as a sillv old
professional soldier, and blow cold upon his
urgent appeals for military preparations.
Ihe rest of the Cabinet either knew nothing
or didn t want to act as though they knew
anything. As for Lloyd George, Asquith
apparently feared that the fiery Welshman
would show a vulgar desire to do something,
too George was allowed to remain in the
state of dangerous misbelief that Lord
Roberts and the other notable alarmists were
lunatics, whilst Asquith and his intimates
were feebly hoping that something would
turn up to delay Armageddon.
Maoriland’s new “National Government”
consists of 111 members—an ominious num-
ber. The amiable Robert Rhodes has
dropped his portfolio of Public Health, mak-
ing way for “Rickety” Russell, who also
takes Bells job as Minister for Internal
Affairs, the Knight being left as honorarv bell-
wether in the Leg. Council. Russell, a loud
person with a printing office in Christchurch,
ffrst came into public notice by defeating old
Rolleston for Riccarton in the davs
ot Ballance, and has been talking at the top
ot his voice ever since. Robert McNab,
lather of Maoriland’s system of compulsory
military service—historian, lawyer and
former Minister for Lands—will now look
after Justice; Joe Hanan, a garrulous little
invercargill man with a wig, has been given
education; Arthur Myers, the wealthy Auck-
r 7.1 rew ?r, who. was handed a large slice
■°-i? i unc * e Ehrenfried’s handsome fortune,
will keep an eye on the Customs. These,
with Joe Ward as Treasurer, and Macdonald,
a farmer from Poverty Bay with a great
capacity for silence, as Minister for Agricul-
ture, make up the “Liberal” infusion. Seven
ot the Ministry represent country constitu-
encies. On past performances they look a
nice, happy family.
“ME MATES IS CALLING ME.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ale mates is calling- me. I ain’t the sort
To put my mag in jess’ to nark a bloke;
I 'o never ’eld with them that thinks it’s sport
1 o shoot their face off in a frowsy joke;
I ain t that kind—not now, at any rate;
1 m sort of waking up before too late.
Before too late? Say, ain't you never tried
lo figure out jes’ what them words imply ?
Ain’t it enough to know we’ve stood aside
l-er long enough—-and let our cobbers die?
Gor’strutli! Suppose them bloody-minded Huns
‘lets loose among our wives and iittle 'uns?
I ain’t no braver than the average cove;
1 ain’t no parson fer to spout Gawd’s will;
I only know it’s ’urting them we love—-
Gawd help us then if we be slackers still I
•ludas betrayed his .Master by a kiss;
let even Judas would ’ave shied at this!
•Acrost the sea me cobbers’ call comes clear,
Kind of bewildered that I ain’t to hand;
“Where’s Bill? Blime, where’s Bill? Why ain’t he
here,
Going his bit .to free the blooming land?”
And once I got the letter on me still—
J’was: “Boys, the swine ’ave got me. Tell old Bill.”
« »b, can’t you see what they must think of it,
these mates of ours that crawl, and sweat, and die
I ighting the bloody trenches bit by bit,
So hell-on-earth-might pass their loved ones by-
fswearm’ and cussin’ like as not, maybe, •
But Gawd-damn saints compared to you and me!
karst night I seen the tart, and put it straight,
Seeking an answer of ’er woman’s soul.
Belljim, ’ I says, “is dead of lust and hate;
1 lance is ’ard pushed, and Russia’s up the pole.
Its up to us and Bull to grab our guns
And deal it out among them blighted Huns.”
1 ou should ’ave seen the fierce pride in ’er eyes.
“Why, Bill,” she sez, “that’s what I’ve looked to
hear!
bet’s done fer good and all with coward lies;
Shoulder a gun and do your duty, dear,
it ain’t like they was fighting on the square—
Hear Gawd, they’re killing babies over there!”
l-’roni out the gathering mist of blood and tears
ftearer and clearer comes the pleading cry:
How shall you face the passing of the years
, If Hel 3 Prevail and Truth and Mercy die ? ’
tor Christ His sake ” Yet only He can know—
Ale mates is calling me.... 1 got to go.
VICTORIA.
MARRAWAIL.


PALING’S
PIANOS
h
Sold Continuously
for over 02 Years.
The ordinary piano-buyer knows very little about
what is most important in a new piano. Therefore, it
is most important to take our advice. WE, with our
vast experience of successful and honest piano-selling,
know real piano value and are not satisfied till we get it.
YOU, when you buy a Paling Piano, get the benefit of
this in lasting satisfaction.
m
See the .
Chappell Pianos
*" i Sames Pianos
When a piano leaves our showrooms we
have the satisfaction of knowing that we
have given the customer genuine value,
whether the purchase made was an exquisite
Boudoir Grand, a massive Upright Grand, or
an ordinary Cottage Model. Every piano we
sell sells another, because of its beautiful
tone-quality and extraordinary durability in
severe climates.
sanies
Hear the .. .
Estey Pianos
»“■* Victor Pianos
If you have an old piano we shall be
pleased to take it in exchange for a new piano,
and allow you its utmost valuation.
We cordially invite you to call at our
warehouse and inspect the various models
now showing. If you cannot conveniently
§*r
We will gladly write
you full particulars.
call, please
Write for Free Catalogue
anti printed Price List.
ĥ
W. H. PALING <a CO. LTD.
| 338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE. TOOWOOMBA and LISMORE.
s
{*MaUCOERIITE
f -&oi(l'prescnrt^a,tjc
[“Seven Sisters ] Vl^Hr
£
f Hazel Dawn /
1 /to beprecenferf irt '
C larissaDaintj Bo&4’
(.
ki ®
JHE FIVE FOREMOST STARS
OF THE
AND
SCREEN
APPEARING EXCLUSIVELY
IN PRODUCTIONS OF THE
FAMOUS PLAYERS
FILM COMPANY
A Quintette
of ike mo st
popular and
attractive
stars ever
assembled
under one
banner
Players who
by their charm,
talents arid
poAver have
added pres*
to the
motion
picture
AUSTRALIAN
FEATURE::
FILMS LTD.
~ THE
MOST POPULAR. STARS
THE GREATEST ELAYS
TOE MOST PERFECT
PRODUCTIONS
Cinema House,
Druitt Street,
:: SYDNEY,
Controlling PARAMOUNT SERVICE


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents; RICHARD HOLMES & CO„ PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Whenever YOU visit Melbourne be sure
to stay at “Scott's.” For comfort,
sumptuousness and convenience no other
hotel can compare with it. Private-
attendance-’phones in all rooms, and Hot
and Cold Mater in Bedrooms. Single
loom or “Private-Suite” Accommodation.
SCpTTS HOTEL
Collins St Melbourne
Telegrams— l * Scott's,’’ Melbourne.
ħ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
h
TO
H.IWI. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair. P
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water. P
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ĥ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
.".Billy” Longworth, son of a rich Sydney
swimmoi- m - a \» and p l l '? babl - y the best long-distance
efeng. Some Why he
part is 'I bat P uts m e off. I reckon
hp : ,h2l everything to serve his country,
he . should be allowed more freedom and a greater
latitude than what he gets in camp. To allow decent
men such a small amount of liberty is a mistake I
i itfon Bl and wfo °+ , Au ? tralia ’ s independence as a
anv wufr A 1 ( d , f look 0,1 the present war as in
any way Australia s quarrel. When in Germany
mans.” mUCh lni Presscd by the efficiency of the Gei>
It was a good judge who said: “Take, any line of
action you like, but never explail). ,,
Water-champion Frank Beaurepaire
Department S” g *£• the Victoriai ‘ Education
oepaitment, has been getting things lately He <>ot
l°, g ° t 0 t , h °. war ’ S°t married, got a comnfis-
, & ot appendicitis, and, after g-etting* the knife
£ now Pottering round in a wheel-chair, preparatory
to getting- away to Constantinople. 1 y
« other day, in front of the Town Hall
S. dney, where recruiting meetings are held daily’
having 5 made'theb t" d • other "'(-11-kiiown. characters
to the cnowd m o f St - I T n f, a !' d carefu lly-sttidied call
to rue ciowcl to get into khaki, a breezy lad in
oim climbed uninvited on to the dais, and had his
the* sh^h-eTofI’nf 1 ’nf 'Tm him s "° sole cted phrase from
bu- eJ ' eb . . or le library. Just a man with tho
fighting spirit rallying- the stragglers and the timid
He had lost two brothers at the Front, he told them*
and where they had fallen thousands’ of other bra-’
thers had perished. He was on his way to avenge
toTordial’lv " h V YAS passi, «'- he took the' opportunity
to cordially invite as many game lads to go with him
crowd U - And at the end of his man-talk the
cioud gave him a ringing cheer, and a record batch
o recruits for the day walked up and signed on for
Burns nuffibsf 8 H,- the S ° ldier ’ His name was - Ta <*
be a good thlL , , , SU - CCeSS SUR = ests that it might
45 and let ° haln Uf> , every P olit ician under
J . ana iet Joose a score of men in khaki ~o
c: ' u , lter *' ,Jhey couldn’t talk like Holman and the
but the khaki U wo„n d ; lot - S0 -° 1(I Parliamentarians;
sincerity. k k ' ld at a,,y rate guarantee their
Melbourne Uni. Athletic Club loses a nro-
sn a n lle , te i n Har °ld Harbison, whose address
, 1 portly be Somewhere on the Firing Line He
began, to make a name for himself at Caulfield
?poS lar Since n tlmn th i e h L gh j , Ump at the All-Schools’
the State at ■ ? - 16 haS beaten all amateurs in
senteu o r at and last year repre-
a son of e nr IC 'H t- A ' iU Aa ;tralasian contests. jftis
a son of Hi. Harbison, ot Xuniurkah is is vear-
young and over 6ft. 2in. tall. ' *
Another fine athlete passed out when
Arthur Kingston Rosenthal, of Manly (N SW ) a
rlshin^footbfu 8 ' Kx ?cdition, sickLs"
a aasnin 0 footballer, a fearless surfer and a canable
adfietic ch-cl ,al H aS eVely , Way a stable" man t!
atmetic cncies. How many lives he saved from the
lowed a past recall His best-remembered rescue fob
Manly steameVwiTile she S'c.^lnfthe^ads-a
heTaLror en ovciboaid -
Incidentally, Rosenthal was the possessor” of the
b A e 11 . 1 , e< a s ]sslled by the Royal Humane Society—
* #
-A. notable figuro .was removofl waaU
Parson” Hulton- Sams was killed i,i
r landeis. He came to Australia eight years a<>o as
h USh Brotberbood and worked in
Ws m l i l he won wide-spread admiration for
“be A snort” ’■ ? 1S - Un / u werving determination to
mandl™ r 7 “ Ch 18 th f Australian’s first com-
teur'boxers °“f f Queensland’s best a.na-
Srjiss? cXefSS ed i'LT
Sr, I SS ieh ß li“ mP i°'!' hIP , the « Chav-
L , Bdljim had a lot of regard for Sams
Ihej understood one another. Once Sams started -i
o-ation I , Ul j n fi Uly - iliffh key ’ aud when the congre-
gation reached the vicinity of the top note its voiep
good ” '■l l P ' aWS - Sams held up hishkntk '“N O
good, he said ; we started that too high ” “Yes ”
“ ,te *-*= '•Wft
q-S 1 ? -Australian Hurdles at Caulfield last
Satmday was an exceptionally slow procession for the
when m jacl- a ßic P a tno? f ' Then j* quickened a bit, and
HH® , ack B,ce took command a mile from homo the
pace became a cracker, as jumping races go. Unfor-
tunately tor The Bulletin's prediction the nice
cracked Jack R. up. Old Uxbridge wore him down
and the”bob?}, 4 .°?. t ° the finish, whilst Lord Grev
o t nf o Iy t~" lighted Flavel beat the Sydney horse
of strut] l f L° ln i th i° tU, ' n dt was t b e prettiest
itSI 8 i ’ the best n.'ig at the weights won
H?>rfHa ge -fL ,10w ? cored two Wilis in the 31 miles
Huidle, with an interval of three years between
them, and Lord Grey has been three times runner-up
m four tries—last year and this in the Grand
National and now in the Australian Hurdle Tlio
grey nag’s consistency is the more remarkable
because his jumping is unequal. Judging by Lord
Grey s running, Rathfarnham, who won so easily
Sat n’dlu Rn? “I’’, h - ave clone bk ewlse on
hatuiday. But the stable seemingly hoped to brine-
off another surprise with Vengeful. This mysterious
da ’ k 'I I '-? complete stranger to hurdles in public—
„ot a,way in front, but clouted the first timber he
p,r“ d ~ “»
Anything may win the four-miles Steeplechase next
Saturday, for which Flash Jack will probably start
favonte on the strength of his GrandNaU! yietory
ni“S F n h JaCk ’ ?, ullcap ' Tolon e, Battleship and
lU,bland Clan are the most likely of the old
chasers, whilst Uxbridge is a fairly good tiling if he
can get over the bigger and more frequent obstacles
as safely as he clears the hurdles. Two sturdy little
and t tt°T’ a,id maybe pattie-
; \ 9sk Plh-) "ill win. He looked pretty certain
to beat Guncap last year until lie chanced to blunder
at the log fence in front of the Stand
* * * *
The quashing <,f three successive sentences
passed by the V.R.C. stipe stewards has left
!!, ? Zl th , IWO distressing alternatives. They
must either do something quickly to justify their
salanes or act as nonentities in order to avoid the
ln?of f th b e I ? R T^ d aS Tv At last week's mS-
mg of the V.R.C. the combative Bowden asked chair-
neiv iot S nf 'I he4h r' the committee intended to get a
m.'t H? t Casey angrily said “No.”
"Ut the satirical question was quite reasonable The
committee has made its stipes look foolish.
* *
On the subject of the tote the V.It.C chair-
man ls unsatisfactory. Asked whether the committee
Z«r hin r le - pro ; tote resolution carried by the
geneial meeting in March last, he said: “Although
the Government is in sympathy with the club as
regards the totalisator, there is little hope of a Bill
, !n,| S r, H Vhll ° *o® n'n r lasts -” Wh y should the
wai stand in the way? Ihe war is distinctly a reason
tor passing the Bill—-not for not passing it. Apart
less’ 1 w. n niwuA dun - n ? . tho war tht; country can
less well affoid to maintain all armv of v>arasite«?
there is the other fact that durLT the war tlm
hospitals are in particular need. The money that
the bookmakers and other sharks are wasting in riot
ought to be available for tending the sick, who must
otheiwise go untended in many cases. A State which
shuts up pubs at 9.30 because of the war and doesn’t
siiut up the bookmaker for the same reason is wildlv
twfi? 1 : A # d 'lu™ a State is as illogical as ail
that it is a fair thing to smell round for a reason.
• * * *
Iveuben Ivoops, the well-known Vic. cross-
country rider, is one of five Ivoops brethren—all of
them jockeys, more or less—who have enlisted for
the war. Reuben had three unsuccessful tries before
. d ° cs ‘ hearkened to his prayer. May the Lord
veep them long on the turf before they go under it!
if . combined Patriotic race-meeting at
i'n 1 ? n ( A d b laide) SaW some odd coincidences
l”*. the c r i , nners ~ Russian Hurdles, Mos-
Q+ m ’ i Cross Stakes, Persian Belle: France
Steeplechase, Southland; British Stakes, Eastern Sea
At tins meeting Double Up, an English four-yean
whnT r -’ hel flrst race in Australia. Wootton
who trained her over there, had several wins and’
t len J. James, Sheppard, Northway, McCann and
Hopwood Most successful jockey, ’ J Sing 155
' lce ®’ 26 firsts, 24 seconds and 104 thirds-’ thou
Brady, Hopwood and Bennett. Most successful
Northwav'T p°ii m ° re thaa 11 races)—J. Jamls,
the 11 A!' Bowm j m and Tremellen all reached
Wvi n St ? won depended greatly on the two
local Cups, and so Tom Kelly, with only five wins
Tames Tb I C^ h /,1 st ’ vvith a modest A 2295, J.
James, b. Bum, Northway, R. M. Hawker qnrl m-
Bennett following*. For winning sires there was
and ShVsV , PiStol had 29 'Vinners, with7o races
96(38 stakes—equal in each case to the next
best four or five added together.
BILL U KELLY ’ Captain of Balmain— the
undefeated N.B.W. Rugby League team.
thews'A A TP^J ackler , hi4 every head in sight at
tnc b.A.J.C, s annual meeting* in Adelaide* “If
+„./ tn . e o-A.J.O. to assume supreme ron-
tol °f racing in the State. He re-retted he
siz-,«¥ °An&^L‘ b °vj
In his oDiu or hl tO ,. enco 1 Ula » e the good horses. ?!
failure In the Pair lp ? ndlary Awards had been a
meetin- t.h?vdL lalll f de case at the Adelaide Cup
tht 7 displayed gross ignorance. Most a-lar-
in„ cases of inconsistent running were seen and no
question was raised. He could rZmW and no
of instances.. . .Another s?eu4rd “oidd !asil? U hive
admitt P e d n Ta? d he ff - He ?” et , hil " recent^find he
Austria ua! " goln / to see the oculist....
It was h am7 fl llin b cf d + y “ of a turf administrator,
for the two see the rubbish that had entered
VRC h was time that the
y .if-L. insisted on horses possessing a ciualificatinn
before being permitted to enter for those races He
” h fi e ’V° be u »derstood that he was not; ’among
®°'.°dd unsuccessful applicants for the position of
. ipendiarv steward. He once applied to the V.R.C
tor such a position, but stated very plainly that if
would"™'! 0n the co inmittee Hautvilliere’s nLe
vvould nevei have appeared as a Blue Riband winner ”
After which W. B. Carr, of the A.R.C. got Lipl id
was no?d S 0 ? e y that for his part he “believed facing
was conducted under better conditions in S. Aus
than in any of the other States.”
* *
Maible .Bar : The Bananaland Govern-
ing’ .5/^ d, Tr totaiisator fractions, as stated
dividend? 8 ' wVvf . decl .ded to rake in all unclaimed
oividends. Which inspires me to ask what becomes
If 1 the . unclaimed; prizes in Tattersall’s sweeps?
Ibej must make a pile, although it’s impossible to
to l th 6 ® ome ° f the est imates. Whatever they amount
to there s no more reason why thev should go into
Tattersall s maw than that the unclaimed tote divb
dends in Queensland should go into the pockets of
rt° proprietaries. The chronically hard-up Treasury
would be a much better destination.
I „r,T rot T tin i ? is st ! n making strides in Maori-
Bnd. Last year, in spite of the war, the various
neaHv i'in nnn 114 - £62 i 26 ? n which was
neaily .£lO,OOO more than in any previous year
Lven this does not include about £7OOO offered by
racing clubs which include trotting events in their
S r T meS ; n Nearly every backbloeks race club pro-
vides for at least one trot. Of course, the honest
and incorruptible tote has a lot to do with the bio-
amount offered in stakes. °
* * * . #
In 1895 the Canterbury (M.L.) Jockey
Club paid out £11,954 in stakes. Last year the
£60 U BQ.IT 37 ’ 89 °- I '“ 20 ye “™ club has spent
£pU,B9o in improvements, and circulated £486 874
.in stake money. A carefully-managed and prosner-
ous institution is the 0.J.C.1 thanks to the absence
machine McShortodds and the presence of the betting-
League football in Melbourne on Saturday
«-hp. Ch u a i C K erised by a riot 011 the M.C.C. ground
where Melbourne and Souths met. The game was
last and even, and so overheated the crowd that it
boiled over in the last quarter. A Melb player
upon ahon? P 9 o nno nt a which felled him, where-
ground b Kiel«°° hi SUPP ° rt f' S 0f Souths ''uslied the
bood 'cniH i,' Uo WS a ? d C '"' ses were traded, and
Diood split in the good cause. Eventually horse-
sense prevailed, the ground was cleared, and the
game concluded. Souths won by 43 points to 36
Sint on f63 ne to ed 62T fr ° m tlollingwood by one
hehhia Vi l f 6 V’ , are now only two points
npPHnVv" 1 ! 01 l° p P, lace - In the Association com-
petition Norths, by defeating- Bmnswick, won the
wen?lh hiP 'i Ils 22 years since ft ny previous team
went through a season unlicked.
“Aii Unemployed Bishop”: The competi-
tions in Sydney amongst the football sects are draw-
ing to a close, and the discreet prophet may ven-
ture to back his fancy. Balmain still leads (bv
two points) m the League game, and, unless this
at ° P e n - ® easo ” , f °r miracles, will be found on top
at the finish. Glebe lias a chance; but I do not
advise any curate to make a book on it. In the
Australian game (Metropolitan Association) Bal-
main will scoop another victory per the Caledonian
team, and if Granville doesn’t get away with the
r list and Reserve League contests in Association
Ili go out of the fortune-telling business and try-
manual labor.
m Tl ', e 0 N ’ Wales estate of ex-footballer
B , lai ? 1 r - SwannMl, killed by the Turk, has been sworn
at ;L 1 2SO. All goes to a brother in England.
Port Adelaides have at last lost a football
W-Tthe first for two years. Still they have a
slight lead from South Adelaide. It was West
Adelaide, a bad third on the list, that unexpectedly
but unmistakably took the Ports down. In lacrosse
Last Torrens so far leads, with Sturt a good second
**' ■ *
The shirking footballer again! Adelaide
Amateur League has parted with so many players
since the Great Scrum started that the season has
to be curtailed. Finals are to be entered upon
immediately On the other hand, there is trouble in
Westralia about a proposal to close the season
earlier than usual. The Perth and East Perth clubs
have gone so far. as to move the Courts for an in-
junction to restrain the League from ending the com-
petitions on August 21. And both clubs are nearly
at the bottom of the premiership ladder, too!
BananaJand has a new lady gflf cham-
P °!!\ s ] le IS Miss, Green, and she played into the
position last week. For the first day’s 18-holes’ play
banded 111 a card of 95 ; for the second, 91.
,V best , was Mrs. Feez, with a total of 201, and
Mrs Fowler with 224. Last year’s champion, Mrs.
1). R. Eden, did not compete, but Miss Green beat her
winning score by two.
* * * #
J. Fahey, a well-known Victorian cyclist,
at present at Port Darwin, is going to make an
assault on the across-Australia (Darwin to Adelaide)
record ; wln , eh is llfild by Reichenbach, the
yd« who, in June last year, made the journey in 28
days seven minutes. Fahey started with Reichcn-
„bc‘o"*hat occasion, but a bad fall after 850 miles
of pedalling forced him to pull out. The attempt
trm°'u?i'. l h vr rd . 1S a - ITlere inoident i] i the long
St MiaiS? “ vrmMy "> <°
*
Two motorists clipped Australasian
nvo? U h i ast W< rf k - H - Norton (Westralia) raged
jack h ßnnth 6 ’ % standln B' in 38 3-ssec. ; and
43 2 k -ss ß ec th (V } fleW across five miles in 4min.
* * * #
fsSvi C °ii Sis - ent HaroW Hayd ™- of Botany
(Sydney) Harriers, won the 10-mile cross-countrv
running championship of N. S. Wales on Saturday
with ease. Time, 54min. 36sec." or Imin
better than his win last year over the Victoria Park
racecourse and a record “for an Australasian purely"
siass track. Hayden reached home about a quarter
and C™r? F he n d i° f P- (Redfern Harriers)
and G. D. F Darke (Olympic A A. 0.) in that order
Irast week Hayden won the five-mile State champion-
ship as he did in 1914, so that he has won the
double in two consecutive years. He won the five
mile event also, in 1912. Team-honoJin the raro
i ~° lyrnpic A - AC - which had seven men in
the first dozen to return from the 10-mile expedition
Redfern Harriers took second points. The seven-mile
walking championship of the State was won by R L
Bonham (Olympic) in 56min. 56sec. S. J Sheaves
(Olympic) was second, and R. F. Stokes ("Fast «wl
ney A.A.0.) was third. Won by a few ya ds after
an all-in struggle with second man.
Three States have got oft five-mile* cross-
country championships this season. The result:—
State. Wi nncr. Timp
sL,h‘ \ Va, f S t ” Hayden 28min. 13 3-ssee
South Australia .. S. Kilg-ariff 29min. 53sec.
Queensland .. W. Hamilton SOmin. 40sec.
Randwick racecourse, with even going and stiff
fences, was used by N.S.W. ; the Queensland event
was contested partly on road with sandy patches
and Partly on grass; while in S. Aus. the race was
run throughout on roadway and finished at a pub
Tet even with such an inducement to go like billv-o’
S ’ Aas - was S I OW - Goodness knows how dilatory it
pub ] d haVe beel ' lf the J ’ ollrney had started from a
* * *
Hughie Mehegan was again put out on
Saturday night—this time at Brisbane by the French
man Quendreux. He was down three several tTmes
before the end amved, and even then, game old bat-
tlei that he is, he lusted for more. It would be
well, perhaps, if Hughie got gracefully out of the
game at this stage. He is well off; he has covered
himself with all the glory that is to be got from his
chosen profession; his qualities of good humor
chivalry and generosity have won him the respecT of
the sporting world. What has he to look for by
going on but the sort of serious injury which those
who linger superfluous in the hempen square fre-
quently achieve?
* * * *
W ? S a . P o( >f fight at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night. The men—heavyweights Joe Bonds
and Harry Reeve, of England—boxed at short notice,
which may have had something to do with their
feeble display. After 12 rounds of earnest but slow
and unscientific punching that eminent humani-
tanan, Inspector Jones, stopped the contest. His
hm- m VaS t r at R £ e !, e had had enough. He hadn’t,
but the audience had, so no one objected.
* * * ' *
Harry Stone, the Jewish-American light-
nenf ,- taken Death’s worst punish-
k L af\ h ci* eriS lc gameness. A shell fired
liL t i f n , e I ? el ' man murder-vessels at the defence-
less Ley land liner Armenian blew the Yid cham-
°4 , “ r °Eed oyer and over till
> /? ched tlle slu P f side, dropped into the water,
and sivam to a lifeboat.” He died a few minutes
aftei being dragged aboard. He was one of the
cleverest .lightweights that Australia has seen.
Though his physique was not of the best, he could
take any amount of punching and come back,
smiling affably, for more. He smoked from 12 to
.4 big cigars per clay all through his training* and
invariably smoked up to within a minute or so of
his most important matches.
N.S.W. Cricket Association looks gloom-
i y at the- financial prospects. Last season’s slump
led^-t°i a i loss °S and. although there is a
ci edit balance of £1229 to begin the coming season
the Ass. recognises that not much more slump will
be necessary to land it on the rocks. However, H.
A. Tyler (the treasurer who takes, over the job of
the retired A W. Green) shoulders the bundle good-
heartedly, and looks to the future with optimism.
. B -T comparison, Victorian Cricket Association is
in clover, and last season winnowed a profit of £678.
Out or this the Ass. is weighing a div. of £25 to
each district club and £l2 10s. to sub-districts.
A good move for the benefit of the game.
-n o °r : W ]le , n las t seen the Sheffield
Shield, for which the inter-State cricketers have de-
cided not to compete next season, was being exhi-
bit'l in the window of a draper in Fitzrov. It
attracted so much attention that one morning the
proprietor of the shop discovered that burglars had
endeavored to force an entrance into the establish-
ment, presumably “to lift’’ the £3OO trophy. The
shield was promptly removed by the Victorian
Lneket Association to safer quarters.
* * * *
Waverley got the call-down of its life-
time m Sydney baseball on Saturday. The sea-
sides record for the season-had been exceptional. In
games out of 11 they scored double figures, while
sifv To the 1 ," B ' hest tall y against them. But, Univer-
sny iel! on them on Saturday, and thev fizzled out
P 3l runs.to 13- (12 of them made iii the eighth
mmngs). The downfall brings new life into the com-
petition, with Petersham and Waverlev on top, and
the balance of the clubs close behind. ' 1
* * *
In sculling business in N. S. Wales the
pioposed triangular match for £5OO aside between
£ 1 '; d ’ Paddon and Towns has gone up in smoke
1 addons reply to Towns’s challenge to row for the
Australian championship included terms regarded as
prohibitive, wherefore that scrap of paper
vaiseied. how the proposed heavy-boat race between
Ihoroughgood and Pinfold lias fallen through, S
Ifnk! llenB ' er P . lllfold being unable to find the £95
stake-money An ofter to pay Thoroughgood’s exes
betterttian a dl? “*} e ’ W burly Ben had nothing
oettei than a deaf ear lor it. The slump be unon u
brethren, and the unprofitableness thereof. P
N.S.W. draughts championship was won
last week by E. W. Smith from E. Griffin wit Vex
champion J. Lee in the third square. Altogether to
competitors worried over the title regardless of w-u-
-and income tax and everything*.
• Everyone connected with the Australasians
in Egypt has a good word to say for’ boxing Tt is
S'' °[
d'ition n flt h for a the t b t? d ° " ith settinff the first Espt
T s «s±>
ships in the ring were the quietest soldiers and rarrlv
got into any of the frequent brawls. When they did
it was generally merely to take the part of 7 less
experienced mate who was being roughly handled.
rc? A r f s r ase ei all P iteLin S ! -At Philadelphia
recently Grover Cleveland Al'exanrW
rocked them in for the home team against Brookh n
and Brooklyn got nothing. There 4s one soS
nine ffihfngs an ifVwfi e® pitch ? d onl V 76 halls in
I* ’uumga. In the first seven innings only 21 men
faced him, and not one reached first base' Un to
then he had pitched only 50 balls, an average die*
than three to each batter who went to the plate
The game ended: Philadelphia, 4; Brooklyn, 0.


Some Day You’ll Get a Mighty Big Hiding
%
from a smaller man than yourself, who has the advantage of knowing
how to “use” his hands.
When it does come, just thing how humiliating it will be for
you to be beaten by a smaller man than yourself. How low
you’ll drop in the opinion of all who see or hear of your drubbing.
Is it wise to risk being a butt for ridicule and pity when I can
teach you how to “get it over” your opponent?
I TEACH BOXING BY POST.
My tuition is simple and thorough. You’ll quickly know how to
apply and reserve your strength. How to confuse your opponent.
How to get him at your mercy.
Read these letters. They’re fair examples of what hundreds of
my pupils write.
"They are all half-afraid to put the gloves on
with me, as they say I hit too hard. So that
speaks well for the instruction.”
C.A.W., Willaura, Vic.
"Before starting on your instructions I thought
a fighter was born. lam now satisfied that
your Lessons will make almost any man an
efficient fighter.”
G.M.R., Peeramon, Q.
You ought to write for my illustrated Booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which gives
fuller particulars, with cost of tuition. Just write your
name and address on this advertisement and post to
me. I’ll know what you mean. Send three penny
stamps for postage. .... .
REG. L. (“Snowy’) BAKER,
422 Belmont Buildings
SYDNEY.
ril
THE
5«
Ride it to work-
Ride it for fun
Write for
Catalogue “ D.”
HENDEE MANUFACTURING CO., 109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbun?.
OZETTI
Cigarettes
(Egyptian)
ARE VERY POPULAR
with those smokers who like a high-
grade Egyptian Cigarette. They are
fairly large in size (see illustration)
aiifl mild in flavor. Manufactured by
r~
oz«t
’Mipmui
' OWAUfTi
the Ardath Tobacco Co. of
London.
Owing to the extensive
sale of these cigarettes I
now indent them in very
large quantities, whifih
enables me to sell them
at a price considerably
below what they were
originally sold for.
Reduced
Usual Price. Price.
Per 100, 9/6 Per 100, 6/-
~ 50,5/- „ 50,3/-
~ 25,2/6 „ 25,1/6
Postage on 100:
N.S.W., 6d.
Other States, Sd.
Write for my illustrated catalog, “A
Discriminating Smoker’s Guide.” It
will interest all smokers.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
6
“dieep Smiling *
In other words $
“iSHELL
BTAI N ABLE
EVE R.VWHEP E
HOTELKEEPERS ! HOTELKEEPERS !
ECKERSLEY S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Soda water and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR! NO BOTTLE-WASHING !
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog; to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE,
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
ħ
THE MASCOT OF THE DAY.
“ROBERT”
BY HASS ALL.
BIGGEST SELECTION OF MASCOTS in Australia.
Smith’s Patent
Foot Pump.
“British” Tyres.
Smith’s Lighting Sets
h
Smith’s
Speedometers.
Smith’s
Carburetters.
PRICE £1 lOs.
Managing Agents:
ERIC BOULT LTD.,
79=81 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telephone—ClTY 2401.
Flizabeth House,
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
CENTRAL 9527.
RIGNEY SHOES GIVE
ĥ
just the finishing touch required to complete
a well-dressed appearance. They are made
in correct styles for every occasion. In lit.
wear, comfort, service and value RIGNEY
SHOES will give the utmost satisfaction.
The illustration shows a TAN WILLOW
CALF THREE-BUTTON SHOE, SMART
AMERICAN SHAPE, “NON-TREAD-
OVER” BRAND. BEST ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE.
Price - 32)6
Also in PATENT LEATHER. 32/0 and
35/-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
C 7
PUNLOP
ir MOTORISTS!
Why Buy Imported Tyres
when you can purchase
DUNLOPJ
which stand pre-eminent
in Australia for
Quality, Service
and Satisfaction
for
LESS....
MONEY
Bao + uo
ITS THE
IROAD RESULTS
JHAT COUNT!
*'t.A Few...
Dunlop Prices.
Compare with Prices of
Imported Tyres of Similar
Sizes and Weights.
COVER TUBE
30x3!$ - £5/3/- 23/-
(American Size)
31x4% - £6/13/- 32/-
(American Size) Oversize for 30 x 31
32x3% £5/12/- 26/-
(American Size)
33x4% - £7/3/- 34/-
(American Size) Oversize for 32 x3i
815 x 105 - £6/15/- 34/-
880 x 120 * £B/5/- 40/-
Ulustrated Catalogue on Application
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Launceston,
Perth, Brisbane, Wellington, Christchurch.
“Fragrant Weed”: The case of Sipithson
satisfied me that any man who really lelt inclined
could persuade his nerves up a dark lane and kick
them into insensibility. Smithson was one ot
those highly-nervous little fellows who look as if they
felt an apology was owing to the world for their
presence on it. He always spoke in hushed tones,
probably out of reverence to the dead soul that
stood in his boots. lie was bullied by his wife,
brow-beaten by his wife’s mother, and barked at by
his wife’s dog. In a pipe or a pot he could not
participate. I met him in the park one night, hat-
less and coatless, though it was as cold as the kiss
of a maiden aunt. “What’s up?” I asked. “Another
row,” he replied. “The wife’s mother brought round
her old man’s boots for me to clean, and when I said
I thought it was coming it a bit thick, they threw
me out.”. I took Smithson along with me to talk
things over. “Have a smoke,” I suggested. “It will
tune up your nerves.” “No, thanks,” he answered
weakly, “I’m not allowed. “Rot!” I said, and
producing a pipe and some “Happy Thoughts”
Tobacco I made him light up. After the first pipe-
ful he said he thought he had been too soft. After
the second he said he knew he had. After the third
he went home with his hair bristling and his nerves
all a-tingle. I never cared to ask what happened,
but whenever I call to see him Smithson is sitting-
back in an easy chair with his feet? on the mantel-
piece, puffing away like an engine, with a tin of
“HAPPY THOUGHTS” Tobacco at his side. Mrs.
Smithson’s mother never visits them now, and the
dog died with a brick tied to its neck.*
George Coates, the artist, has become a
hospital orderly for the duration of the war.
So has Masefield, the dejected-looking
British poet. By the way, the matron of
the French hospital where Masefield is work-
ing boasted of her distinguished helper to
General Joffre. “Masefield? Masefield?”
he said. “I fear, Madame, I do not know.”
“Q. Dee”: John Sanders was turned down
because he had a broken toe, and this is how
his certificate read: “This is to certify that
John Sanders offered himself for active mili-
tary service, but was rejected owing to
feet.” It’s a very prevalent complaint just
now, especially in England. But not that
kind of feet.


Children’s
COUGHS
During winter months young
children are very liable to con-
tiact colds and coughs which
may quickly lead tc bronchitis,
inflammation of the lungs or
pneumonia
Rickets, measles and whooping
cough are also conducive to
bronchitis, one of the most
dangerous of childhood ailments.
For these reasons your children
should be strengthened and for-
tified by a course of SCOTT’S
Emulsion.
Eo other Emulsion can build up
and strengthen weakly children
as SCOTT S Emulsion does.
None can so quickly banish a bad
cold or hard cough.
None an so surely
save your child
from weakness,
wasting and all
ailments ot the
throat and chest.
Why accept an
imitation, when lot-
forty years doctors
have recommended
genuine
TRADE MARK
in tvcry faihagc.
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
IMITATED BECAUSE SO GOOD.
Have You a BAB LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may he discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. Von may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Hites.
British Prices, 1/1 *4 and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS. etc.
Dr B. Allen’s (U-SA)
'WALNUT hair.
STAIN.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1349. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural .Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Hills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. ITAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.G.; The Hon. K. J. Black, M.L.C. : The Hon. F. K Wineheotnbe, M.L.C.. Adrian
Knox, Esq, K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, Ft \
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. '\V. AFPERLY, Secretary.’
ħ
Shave Yourself.
The Gillette Company spend a
fortune every year for blade improve-
ments; experts working the year
round on just this one feature. And
it shows in the blades. Every new
lot is better. Take a packet home
to-day and try them. British made.
Gillette Standard Sets. One Guinea. Sold Everywhere.
VV rite for illustrated and descriptive booklet. Mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD,, LONDON. ENGLAND.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
h
UISO
*rr
Very " faddy ” with his food
Was Mr. well, let’s call him ‘A ’
He shrank from eating, and his meals
They simply bored him in a way.
The Chef’s most wonderful creation,
Merely made him take to flight ;
But ‘Jellolds, ’ happy inspiration l
Soon found for him his appetite.
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
ĥ
“u lr 'c M r M ' Hvatt ’ Jslcworfh, writes : —“ I have derived considerable
„ benefit from Iron ‘Jelloids ’ —my appetite has returned, and I am feeling
quite well again. They are the best and most convenient tonic to take.”
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine),
hor Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/H and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ICAN
MARINE MOTORS
Built for service.
Low fuel consumption and cost.
Will run on Kerosene or other
light oils.
All sizes from 2 to oO li.p.
SEND FOR OUR LARGE CATALOGUE.
American Engine Company,
504 Boston Street, DETROIT, MICH,, U.S.A.
SPECIAL AGENTS.
C. D. WHITING & CO., Adelaide, S.A.
PAGE CYCLE COMPANY, Townsville, Q.
K. It. HUNT & COMPANY, Auckland, N.Z.
Cable:
AMECO.
ħ
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wii Sum.v—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard =
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks. Builders’
Scantling. Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Htc.
FINN Kiss' HAM,. I.ONi:;>\\ K.C.
LORD <TUEKT. •>' A.
QUEEN'S BUI 1 JOE. V, viC.
68J PITT STIIEIiI, ■ s W.
Branches in all pans of me worla.
Mr. RANKIN’S EVIDENCE.
“Please send me another bottle of
Hean’s Essence. The cough mixture
we made from the last bottle did me a
lot of good; also my wife, and her
cough and cold were very bad.—Robert
Rankin, Ganmain, N.S.W.”
Mr. Rankin’s experience is the ex-
perience of all who make their own
family cough and cold remedy by
using Hean’s Essence. The mixture
so easily made in your own home
promptly relieves all kinds of colds,'
coughs, sore throats, croup, whooping
cough, asthma, bronchitis, etc., and
saves io/- for your pocket. All
chemists and stores. 8 0
‘A ic.” : “Potash and Perlmiitter” in
London differs considerably from the original
American version now being played in Mel-
bourne. The heroine in London is stylish
and Jewish-looking, and acts the part of a
smart woman of business, whilst the heroine
in the Australian show seems like an unas-
suming shop lady who is neither stylish nor
Jewish. She is pleasing in her tame, matter-
of-fact manner, but you can’t think how she
came to be a dress-designer and stylist of
first importance. Pasinsky, who looms large
in the Firm’s show, is a quite minor persoh
in the London version, which has been
purged of most of the pifflesome dialogue
that makes the last act drag so at Melbourne
Royal. Potash, the elderly, baldheaded part-
ner, is a less grotesque person than the ami-
able humanitarian offered to Jewish approval
in this country; and Feldman, the cronk
lawyer, looks in London like a Xoo Yark
bounder and boodler, a Very different crea-
ture from the rough, vociferous bully that
the J.C.W. representative makes of him.
Rut what oddsV When a play is novel and
entertaining a better or worse performance
would make no difference to the public. The
public only wants amusement, and never
notices whether a play is convincing or
otherwise.
“Norbell : The J.C.W. fifm is beginning
to have doubts about its spy-play hero, and
is now qualifying its earlier brave words.
I saw him placarded outside Her Majesty’s,
Brisbane, the other day thus: “The Man
Mho Stayed at Home for Eight Nights
Only.”
Lewis Waller has been appearing in a new
r6le in London —as a recruiting sergeant in
Hyde Park. A big crowd congregated
around his waggon, and he had a demonstra-
tive recention on being introduced by the
commanding officer of the Civil Service Rifle
Corps. Lewis in his best declamatory tones
alleged that hundreds of thousands of Eng-
lishmen of military age had not yet realised
that we are up against the mightiest army
ever organised upon this planet, and that
French and Kitchener have in consequence
to put only a thousand men upon a job that
really requires 10,000. Waller wound up
with three recitations: “The Ilun and the
Slacker,” “Suarleyow” and the Shaks-
pearian “Once More Unto the Breach,” from
George Rignold’s specialty, “Henry the
Fifth.” "
Passed out in a London nursing home, a
victim to cancer, J. T. Tanner, librettist of
nearly all the Gaiety musical comedies —
"The Circus Girl,” “My Girl,” “The Coin:
try Girl.” “The Quaker Girl,” and various
"flier “Girls.” “The Messenger Boy,” “The
New Aladdin,” “Our Miss Gibbs,” “The
Dancing Mistress,” and many besides. A
Cockney by birth, Tanner started as a clerk
in the office of an Anglo-Australian ship-
ping co. Taking to the stage, he had some
very rough experiences, but finally got a
comfortable berth in the touring company
of the Lingards, who brought “Our Boys”
to Australia. He made a splendid score in
that best of Byron’s pieces. Horace Ling-
ard was associated with Van Biene in some
musical speculations, and’ this partnership
gave Tanner liis first chance as a writer for
the stage. Van Biene wanted a play writ-
ten round himself and his ’cello. He ap-
proached Pinero and other well-known
dramatists, but without success. Tanner
tried his hand and turned out “The Broken
Melody.” It was just the thing required,
and Van Biene kept it going for 20 years.
In the early ’9o’s George Edwardes engaged
him as “producer” for the Gaiety, and he
settled down there as the stock librettist, of
the establishment.
“H.T.S.”: The writer of the references
(B. 22/7/T5) to Marshall Hall’s orches-
tral work says Hall “did not create the
orchestra, it created him.” He might just
as well speak of the piano creating Pader-
ewski or the violin creating Kubelik. The
conductor needs his orchestra to practise
with as the pianist liis piano or the violinist
liis violin. Marshall Hall had had no oppor-
tunity of conducting an orchestra before he
came to this country; and, although there
were a few experienced players to assist •
hum they did not stimulate his ideas nor
influence liis conception of the works pro-
duced. His great success on the concert
platform must be attributed to his magnetic
personality, to his unflinching punctilious-
ness, even to the smallest detail, and to his
genius.
“0.K.”: Audacity in feminine costumery
takes all sorts of forms ; but I could imagine
nothing uglier than the form it took on
Estelle Rose, at Melb. Tivoli, the other
night. Estelle is a medium-sized serio-chronic
with a whinesome little voice, and on this
night she was gowned in what appeared to
be a tall woman’s petti. It extended from
her ankles to her armpits, or thereabouts.
Straps over the bare shoulders supported
it iu its false position. There were two of
thorn. In one the lower end was contracted
by an elastic band, which made the petti
look very like a leg of a giantess’s bloomers.
It was the crudest novelty in dress on serio-
chronic record.
HIS FILIAL FEELINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
She dances in the ballet there
In saucy skirts of snow,
A rich, red blossom in her hair,
And nothing much below.
Around the toffs with pleasure howl ; •
I only sit and darkly scowl.
They throw her beautiful bouquets,
They gush about her form;
A bald, besotted bounder says
Her dance is oh, so warm!
I tell myself for half a jim
I'd kick the stuffing out of him.
The front row nightly sits and gloats;
It grins and never shifts.
IVith goo-goo eyes, and scented notes,
And many pretty gifts
The gay Lotharios pursue.
Great Scott! a fellow’s mother too.
STARGAZER.


cUiitS
B
W I
sm
■ ■■
v.
m
.. •>
■A'
I '
*
1
bdli
(and Upwards)
EXTRA TROUSERS
FREE
MANY a time a man meets a friend
he knows well enough to
congratulate him on his smart
well-dressed" appearance
and many are the men who
OWE that “ well-dressed ”
appearance to “ London" Tailor-
ing, and the pair of extra
trousers that are ABSOLUTELY
FREE with ALL "London"
Tailored Suits at 50/-, 63/- and
upwards.
“ London” Tailored Suits have long been
recognised as the finest procurable in
Australia —finest in cut and fashioning,
finest in their high-grade of workmanship,
finest in finish, and —finest in the high
quality materials from which they are
tailored.
Have YOUR next suit a “ London ”
Tailored Suit, and win the congratulations
of YOUR heart-to-heart friends.
Remember the extra trousers mean an
assured always ** well-dressed ” appear-
ance, and —they are ABSOLUTELY
FREE.
Write to-day for New Patterns
and Self-measurement Forms
POST FREE .
AgruUm Stale*
Ltd.
0
ONE ADDRESS ONLY
F, S. MEYERS, Managing Director.
h
\' v
cr
0*
V
Vi
c
Vi
20
>o
O
\>
\\'»
v\'


ims.
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10$. cash
10 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Del i vered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machi-n r 0
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
A
&
SRiM
p
SSS
ft
El
o
ELEY
I'Comet'
A deep-shell
dark green
Cartridge
loaded with
Eley (33 gr.)
Smokeless
Powder and
l^o z. shot.
ELEY
'Achilles*
A deep-sheil
dark blue
gastight Car-
tridge loaded
with Elev (63
gr.) .Smoke-
less, Powder
and 1/g ot,
i shoe
88
1
a
- ■.}*
ELEY *32
S. & W.
Revolver
ELEV3O3 Rifle
(Mark VI) tor
British Service
Rifles.
ELEY *25
Automatic
s. & w.
Revolver
ELEY *32
Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADA' S,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Wholesale: Eley Bros., Ltd,,London
BE
CRITICAL
as critical as you
like over the services
you require from
Calvert’s Carbolic
Tooth Powder.
For the efficient cleansing
and antiseptic properties this
dentifrice possesses, make it
easy to maintain that standard
of cleanliness, which satisfies
people who want their teeth
to last well and to look well.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co . .Manchester,Eng.
HE AN’S —Best Cough Remedy.
• Ilean’s Essence mixture is the
oest remedy I have ever used fo
colds. It is splendid in relieving
coughs, and soothes sore and swollen
throats promptly. I recommend it to
everyone, because it is so good and
saves so much money.”—Mrs. P.
Stapleton, Black Springs, N.S.W.
One bottle ot Mean’s Essence makes a pirn
of best cough mixture and saves io/-. Simple
to make, pleasant to take, and always does
good. Try a bottle at once. Sold by chemist!
and stores, pr post free, 2/-, from G. W. Mean,
Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Be
sure you get H-E A-N’- S —the genuine sia
London’s Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty Experts Writing for
the English Press. Simple and Effective Methods.
By OLGA AMSDELL, Special CoiTespondent, London, Eng.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
. There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable, and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But. on the
other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want it.
To turn the hair back to a natural color is
really a very simple matter. One has only to
get from the chemist an ounce of concen-
trate of tammalite and mix it with four
ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair with a
small snonge for a few nights and the grey-
ness will gradually disappear. This liquid
is not sticky or greasy, and does not injure
the hair in any way. It has been used for
generations with most satisfactory results by
those who have known the formula.
Blackheads Fly Away.
A practically, instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into gen-
eral use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a sty mol tablet,
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full of
hot water. After the effervescence has sub-
sided bathe the face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large,
oily pores immediately close up and efface
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears. and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a tew tames ,at intervals of four or five da vs
to ensure the permanence of the result.
Emergency Complexions.
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull
or gieasy can be made beautiful in a moment
by a perfectly harmless home recipe. If you
nave no cleminite in the house, get about an
ounce from your chemist, and add onlv
enough water to dissolve it. The process
defies detection, and the result is an immedi-
ate appearance of velvety, youthful “bloom”
.every woman desires. The effect will
1 tlay "nder the most trying conditions,
indoors or out. and renders powdering quite
unnecessary. This simple substance Is also
'ery good for the skin, and no possible harm
can come from its regular use. , n
Effectually Killing Superfluous Hair.
Many women know how to remove uglv
growths of superfluous hair temporarily but
few know how to remove it permanently.’ For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
r used. Get about an ounce from your chemist
and apply a little directly to the objection-
aom hair. The purpose of the recommended
treatment is not merely to remove the super-
fluous hair instantly, but also to kill the hair
time COmpletely a comparatively short
How Nature Makes New Complexions.
„ *L is 'J vell k J IOWn that the human skin is
constantiy undergoing a tearing down and
building up process. With advancing vears
T-*\ ing vitality this tissue-change lags:
soiled surface skin stays on so
ong that its owner gets a “poor complexion.’’
Common-sense tells us this dead skin cannot
he enlivened or beautified by any cosmetic,
lption or powder. The natural thing to do is
fL h "? y remove the offensive skin—remove
tt*c. bad complexion. It has been found that
ordinary mercolised wax completely absorbs
ed ,, skln • in minute particles, so
fnr.i y ’ grac *n a ily! as to cause no inconveni-
M l rcoll ? ed wa ?> vv : hich any chemist can
r?* u* . on nig’ht like cold cream,
and washed oft in the morning. If you would
have a brilliantly beautiful and youthful com
plexion .lust use this simple treatment.
Falling Hair.
How often one hears the lament: “I have
tried everything on the market, and mv hair
comes out in handfuls.” Not so surprising
either when you come to think it over. Hair
tonics to be effective must be fresh, and there
is no earthly reason why every woman should
not make hpr own lotion at home. The finest
vegetable tonic obtainable is made by mixing
a packet of boranium with J-pint of bay rum
and adding s sufficient water to fill a haif-pint
bottle. This lotion rubbed briskly into the
scalp sets the hair roots tingling with new
life, and will, if persevered with, give von
hack your crowning glory.”
How to Have Thick and Pretty Hair.
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin manr
Iw .’V hea,l V\ f hair - Few People know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
a .^ up . °. f hot water has a natural afflnitv
roi the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair bril-
liant. soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com
Pj.® tely ’ a m. greatly stimulates the hair-
growth. Ihe only drawback is that stallax
AUA m^/ ath , er . expensive. It comes to the
i on } y ln sealed jib. packages, which
retail at about four shillings. However as
this is sufficent for 25 or ".30 shampoos,
really works out very cheaply in the end. fit
3
MS.
% lAr ■
%>.
/M, 'A
s=r^
Tf '
;rt-r
3r
sw*
3s!
y*
#3>»7
Barnet Glass
Waterproof
Garments
are made of
thoroughly waterproof
materials. The "8.G.”
Brand ensures stylish
cut. excellent finish,
lasting wear and most
important of all—dry
clothes. Don’t be content with
any kind of raincoat. “8.G."
Coats assure satisfaction.
Stocked by all storekeepers.
BARNET
WATERPROOF RAINCOATS
BARNET GLASS RdBBER C° Ltd
ZB9-93 Swanson sfflelb-All statisft/w<»Ud
For PATRIOTIC DISPLAYS
HIRE YOUR COSTUME FROM
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY
COSTUME CO.
whose characters are handsomely and completely
finished in every detail, whether dressed for FANCY-
DRESS BALLS, OPERAS, PLAYS, AMATEUR
™^ A ™ICALS, CARNIVALS, or CHILDREN’S
FAIRY PLAYS.
Ladies’ Hairdressing and all kinds of hair work
wigs, beards, moustaches, grease-paint, and make-up
material at
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO.,
1.0.0. F. Temple, Elizabeth Street
(opposite Mark Foy's), SYDNEY.
7
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS'
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
”Arabis’ Egyptian Henna hag the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y-'u. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
ĥ
1
Runs on Alcohol
Aguardiente, Rhum and simi-
lar liquids, anywhere without
electricity, springs or bat-
teries. Superb construction.
12in. blades. Adjustable Roller
Bearing. Reliable. A proved
comfort. Prompt delivery.
KEEP COOL.
Shipped to any port in any part of the world,
carriage prepaid, for $2O gold. Send remittance
by International Money Order, Bank draft, or
order through your commission merchant.
WM. J. H. STRONG, 11* North Jefferson St.,
CHICAGO, ILL., U.S.A.
ALL ALSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Austral
Asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. ivill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
D.M.R.: “Tax” very ingenious rhyming;
its misfortune is that it bumps against B. policy
as it bustles along Austin D.: Very uneven and
too long. Get to work on it with saw and plane:
there’s good wood in it Berowra: Too technical.
Taniwha: Slight thing, rather well done. If The
Bulletin were half as big again the yarn would
be .nailed down in the office till it was printed
E.J.C.: Crisp and cheerful. Just . missed'.
Wandoo: Of course we see the humor of it. We’ve
been seeing it every month or so since we pub-
lished it five or six years ago Cowsoof (and the
world in general): Received, 152 pars, about
the “Wake up, your King and Country need
you,' notice on the cemetery. Another 300,
and we’ll be so annoyed you’ll hardly know us
from Woodrow Wilson I.M.A.: The rhyming is too
lough... .Tiaki: (1) Would like a report of the
trial. (2) The Spence par. was from another con-
tributor. (3) What is the verse being sold in aid
of? (4) Not yet published N.Q.: Better consult
a good medical man... .F.B.A.: (1) He is controlling
the Boy Scouts, who are making themselves generally
useful in England. (2) You might get a eopv by
advertising; we have none N.E.P-O: Thanks;
good luck... .S.W.: When did Barry die?....Euca-
lyptus: No information available.... Luke W.: So
stodgy !... . Mac Leay: Try it on the district editor.
Only room here for stuff that will interest all Aus-
tralia John F. (V.): Afraid the general reader
would break his teeth on it John L. C.: Don’t
want anything in the begorra-be-jabers line of Irish
humor... .Mary II.: Regret unsuitable. L.K •
Poem limps badly... .Miss. E. B.: No heartbreak in
your wild shriek for butter M.T.P.: Written with
a haymier and rejected with an axe. .. .R.F.S.:
Seccwjgjgrade patriotic stuff Learner: They both
lack in%iration. . . .Gus ®. (V.) : Not enough punch
JtWit-v-sE .’Cowill: Very labored.... Bellerive: The
petrol tragedy .
....Butter B.: You are under the influence of
another writer. Sober up R.V.N.: But if all the
battle-poets went to the Front and fought, who
would do the frothing? L.F. (Q.) : Cannot use
your song with the refrain “War, War, what is it
forf’’ It’s a splendid thing of its kind, but we
don t want it Elsie G.: Sorry verses don’t reach
print-level... .E.J.: Its chief fault is its unorigin-
ality. .. .Bill: Good idea, but the verse is painfullv
rough. Do you think you could make the colored
lady steal the shirt again? F.A.F.: Not worth
while F.M.G.: The sort of stuff that is read with
yawns... .Auto-llarp: Sorry the verses are not as
g-ood as the luck we wish you Bill R.: Just a
xittle of it for the sake of the unusual refrain:—
Ihe times are not gay, for the boys are away,
In millions they’ve gone to the fight,
SlnC work y ’ Ve §' o,le for the Turk we have no one to
So the times are deplorably tight;
Our garden wants digging and hoeing so bad
l oung men are so dear, and there is none to be had,
Oui future outlook is decidedly bad—
Do you know where I’ll get an old man ?
Old men are no good but to dig and cut wood,
lo pension old men is not fair;
Th 2 he a^ ar o they will , B ' o if the y - et a fair show,
r hey aie lampageously mad, I declare.
1 have peas, beans and taters to plant in the ground
Cheap labor I want, and there is none to be found • ’
I wish that the Kaiser and Sultan were drowned—’
Do you know where I’ll get an old man?
....Settled: The prices you quote' from the North
are exceeded in Sydney Frank Kyra: Bert Bailey
Kings Theatre, Melbourne Smoko: Cut them out
and give date and page and forward to accountant.
B ' : Good ' Whe - n did you write them?
H.I.C.: Terse and fairly bright ; but hardly
punch enough....Jacko: Fair yarn; but would take
too much carpentering .Twosp: The alliterative
nonsense would have passed muster if it had come
ag °’ When that sub iect was warm....
K.N.O.T. : A gay outburst, barred only by cursed
lack of space.
i 10 ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS. ' ‘
IV.S.: You exceed the seasick limit. It is very
easily exceeded... .F.A.T.: It’s so bad that it’s
almost good.... Jeff: You have fitted two of your
figures with those patent fingerless hands....
C.R.M.: You will not see them here S.T.: Sour,
flat little people and a feeble gag... .A.M.N.: You
know next to nothing H.G.H.: Publication of
your personal fancy-dress cartoons would probably
raise the Devil, Cain and all the lawyers in South
Aus.. .. .A.E.: Bleak, thin, scratchy, flat. We can’t
think of anything else at the moment... .H.S. (Vi):
Fuzzy exhibit; no drawing in it.
x n f'' om London) : One can always
.y l ' o English from the Australian parents
at the Australian Records Office, which sup-
plies the news of Tommy Kangaroo. The
former have one invariable formula: “You
know he is a gentleman, although he is only
a private.” Snobbishness is not entirely re-
sponsible. One factor is a pathetic desire
to get more attention than the relatives of a
mere private have any right to expect accord-
ing to the views of the English clerk. (1)
I osition, (2) Influence, (3) Push run most
things in this island, and the initials spell
whafi we Australians get when we find it
out.
Discussion is still raging in Melbourne
Scotch by tenan circles as to whether the guid
should knit socks for soldiers on the Saw-
batli. Hugh Kelly, who runs the Scotchby-
terian Messenger, has shocked many pillars
of the Kirk by affirming that knitting foot-
vvear for the boys at the Front is an act
of mercy as well as necessity, and therefore
ocotcli lassies should lyave pßsy consciences
p they p y their needles o’ Sunday. But
W ’’ ully i,s holding up his hands in,
and is fervently praying that "neither
the reverend njgister Kelly nor the "lassies
may be visited by a judgment; for their sins,
ve ken. - ’
A MOTOR CAR FATALITY.
Onward, sped a motor car,
Down a hill a rough and steep,
Where speedily, it overturned
And pinned two men beneath :
When aid arrived upon the scene,
The fatality was o’er,
Extricated was a dying man
And the driver was no more;
Full of life at early morn,
With'*spirit light and gay,
Alasy a charred and horrid corpse
Before the close of day.


The British made
&
ii
\ V
n
B
British \T^l/ Made
MAZDA
British
fcß«
T-H
Made
MAZDA LAMPS
DURABLE and
EFFICIENT.
These lamps are
manufactured by
The British Thom-
son-Houston Co.,
Limited, Rugby,
ENGLAND.
In their manufac-
ture they give em-
ployment to thou-
sands of British
workmen, who are
skilled in the
manufacture of
drawn-wire electric
lamps.
OW\ 4 i| 30°V
It is not for patri-
otic reasons how-
ever that you
should use
Mazda Lamps,
but because of
their everlasting
strength, their
durability and
their ECONOMY
in every way, and
their unsurpassed
quality.
Write for Prices
and Particulars.
Australian General Electric Company,
“MAZDA HOUSE,”
Cor. Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Cor. Queen and Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
British
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Hay
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of
Australia (E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and
Charlotte Streets. T ~
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100
Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering
Co., Ltd., Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and
Wellington. , , .
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston,
Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart,
Dinneford’s
Magnesia
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANI
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
ħ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
’
mm
:
■*
m k’l
90 KING ST
ACTUAL.
a
s
\
/
&
Skandia Marine, Stationary
and Portable Motors,.
The most reliable and simple Engine on the market; no valves,
cams or gears. Suitable for any class of work. Runson
CRUDE OIL at 6d. per gallon, and does not require skilled
labor.
We also have the
Alka Detachable Out-board
Boat Motor — 2iBHP —
mm
i m
m
V.-V
mm
m
- -a
■ : i
ai
2J»
can be fixed in a few minutes to any boat, and is strong and
simple. This Motor has patent, self-locking steering device; ... h f
also the propeller turns with the rudder, making easy the rapid manoeuvring of the boat.
Both Engines are of the best Swedish construction. Call and see a demonstration, or write far Catalogues and Prices.
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
I Sole Representatives of the Manufacturers in
Aiistralia 9 New Zealand and the South Sea Islands*


jtonking. Pgbllc Companies. &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD
H. D. HALL.
™£J? RITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- upwards.
£9nrf ER ,?^ T paid 3 - per cent - on flr st
and 3 per cent, on excess to £5OO
ernment!’ 8 guaranteed by the g'oy-
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments eXtendln ® over 31 y ears - Interest, 5 per
Sta B te anC nm Agencie ? throughout the
thfsßaidc ®^ ces are not now Agencies for
By Order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
limited.
<3 A ™™ED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387 500
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C M G
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
, AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
m THE ' ~
Australian Bank of Commerce
. , LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act 1
ssr. cip ™
msSote ftodT:- IMS ? H
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman •’
Es^^Frank S n’ v L D ' ; A ™ S -
Yarwood > Esq.; Herbert R.
Lysaght, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth'
New Zealand, and all the principal towns nf
world. C. M, C. SHANNON, General Manager. 6
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. 178,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray, ML C •
James Love, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ' ’
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial ganking jjo.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
..£2,000,000 0 0
.. 1,780,000 0 0
. 2,000,000 0 0
£6,780,000 0 0
Directors:
George J Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
I!™' Vi m KATE ?; t M A L - C ; " Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C
T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane’
D1 m Ct D S bnh' Pangar Esq. 5 Hon. IT. S. Littleton;
N. D: Cohen, Esq. Manager; F. A. Scrivener
Bank of Ijeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. . ;
Preference Shares.. .. . j
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)'
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital ..
£528,988
750,000
975,710
524,290
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057470
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial Mutual fife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments a->d
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
..The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping, & c .
ORIENT LINE
Australia.
ENGLAND.
ORAM4 DE "?H r f d turbine 15,000 Regd. Tons.
ORVIETO ••Tuple-Screw.. 13,000
OSTERLKY •• I Wlll - S « ew -
OTRANTO . .
OTWAY
ORSOVA .
ORONTES .
OMRAH
12,130
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
ous Fitt S®tmerl W CabfnJ.0 le ! raphy -' NeW Md
bedsteads; Single Berth p duxe ’ Staterooms, with
Electric Lifts £n d Eaundr^ o™’ 0 ™’ Pmate Bath ™°™>
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
T AMERICA B tu O EUROPF tO Per V ° f
S„2is. C ” iM CaSlaS
Leave Sydney
noon.
Leave
Wellington.
Aug. 19
Sept. 16
Steamers.
MOANA
♦MARAMA
betvveen'sVdn’ey andean”'Francisco. tr * din
ErmicisS)? PaClfiC Exhibition now open at S
Return Tickets available by various route*
24 hours
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telesrranhv
P , I bC l arS „ ® nd P arn Plilets obtainable ft
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
- °9 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
I BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACIIAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports)..
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney August 14.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 18.
Leaves Sydney August 21.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 25.
Leaves Sydney August 28.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and iV.A. oorts)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney August 21.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE
S S Peregrine (3500 tons) leaves Brisbane every
rr fnvTnv,? £v m /n, TOWNSVILLE > calling at
it"townwi't /p and BOWEN > connecting
at .TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports
as far as COOKTOWN. lor porrs
„«™ l .L Particulars re Fares - Flights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY ■
August 28; Sept. 25; Oct. 23; Nov. 20.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
SR
l O Ai
THURSOAV
V
CAIRN
r
*
•«
IS BAN£
/DNEX
MELBOURNE
"ORFOID I?
•'fIOJUDAy^
'CRUISES
to Pac/f/c Isles.
TO PAPUA St RABAUL
TO SOLOMON IS
TO NEW HEBRIDES
TO MARSMALL&
TO GILBERT I?
BurnsPrilp& Cpl™
Send for Pamphlet.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
• • £3,500,000
£2,550,000
* • £3,500,000
£9,550.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L C
President. ’
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Hea.cJ A Office— George rl^t Ha Bydne» Palnler ’ Shepherd "Edgeciifl Laidley, Esq.
Mzsuz&tJtibar* si * M.TWra •&&?■
* s«
-•T. ETTSSETJj _FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States
wTT r °“ C,imßte ' EnChantin " , Liberal Land Laws.
land offers a field 6 of to ves? SS °L initi ? 1 development, Queens-
prospective settler and to the honest worker investor ’ the scientist, the tourist, the
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office: » W George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A^MEsJ^lo^DTrtcTor.
h
JBanfe* Australia
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
a^ss."sKs3. o, O 'St d :s!sS"„sriisj'"^o?^r‘ ,l . h '
Advances made against approved securities. interest paid on fixed deposits.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL. Depur,y Governor. Julle , 1915 DENIS »N MILLER. Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd
Capital Subscribed . ..£250,000
Capital Paid up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits .. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE. ’
Jhe Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trustee
Administrate r or Attorney under Power for absentees,
a * l< ' t - s the only Trustee Company empowered by Act
of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K.° MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL. Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
R. M. PITT, Esq.
information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
appllcatlon t 0 JOHN MAIR, Manager.
“ON THE HOP.’’—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
T H F. North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
lady he to:l mPany ’ S magnificent Steamers trade regu-
T WK NAMBUCCA MON M aPT C r a A v ENCE) BEHRINGER,
A ’, macleay and manning
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA. * C ° FF S
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
V ' ALKS and Queensland railways
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE'
rail to Bjron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company’s un to’
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa. P 7 P *
steamCT ND £l l B^ E 6d‘~ FirSt H la r rail and saloon on
onTamer^ 6 £ 4-2s 6d. SeC ° nd ' C,aSS rall a,ld
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST SYDNFV
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing’ Director
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports. /
INNAMINCKA, Aug. 13.
WOLLOWRA, Aug. 27.
(Transhipping at
Melbourne.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORIALTA, Aug. 14. -
•INNAMINCKA Aug. 21.
GRANTALA, Aug. 28.
ft, c o< i n r. assage Tickets are interchangeable after
tne first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on ail services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUIIX & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE’’ to ENGLAND.
OPIATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
BFTWTi'PM ESrI A'T ] ?^ry IPPEI:) VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS :
jjjic-ocrew. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery
wireless, etc.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN
passengers. **
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STRAW SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia," “Westralia,"
“ Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria."
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS
HOBART AND SYDNEY, ’
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports, '
The BLACK OPAL STORE
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gem:
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
The Waterman
Porto Motor
The Original Detachable Rowboat Motor
MAKES A MOTOR-BOAT OF ANY CRAFT
IN FIVE MINUTES.
ĥ
ħ
Fastens over the
stern by means of
two clamps. High-
est grade design,
workmanship and
equipment. Beau-
tifully finished.
Ball thrust-bear-
ing, gear driven
water pump, inde-
pendent rudder,
skeg protected
propeller, float
reed carburetter
underwater exhaust
—an outfit designed
tor hard work, yet
handsome in ap-
pearance.
Bosch Magneto Ignition can be furnished
as an extra where reauired nmisned
(70m/m bore x'7sm/m stroke ) 3 b ' h ' p -
Petrol or Paraffin Motors—
INBOARD TYPE—2 to 84 b.h.p
BOCAE DISTRIBUTORS WANTED.
Baldridge Reverse Gear
Makes Your Boat Safe!
Gives Instant Control.
Forward— Neutral—
with the
unbroken
main shaft.
Astern.
Used by leading
engine builders
throughout the
world.
h
J. E. SITTER LEY
Suite No. 32. 47 Broadway, New York Citv
IT.S.A. ’ ’


‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
y
rv
"S*.
sss
sw*
*&r*
m
al^
w-rj
■rfO
«?
.in
#1
■
m
la
H
8 £ ■ '■':
m
■
:
* s
,
***?■
11
i«
b&B
888
/fi
r s/'ts
y*y
msm
V/fk/.
m
« gES®
I
1
5 95 8
m?,.
:
Bn
i
ess
4,
ii
/x
y
s*^
■
■yy
V
saa
&s^.-
.kW"""*
;
>;; ■
X-i
-!@
,i.
5®
Seg&
is
«'£'
3s
-
.SO<!
IsZe
KS
«S£
J*
/
B9a
- 4
4ss
g&S
. < -■ -
A
S 3
m
W}
\A\
m
§H $
tsKs
rj
S&W/9
■i>2'
•- S .4
«$5?
Hi
/S
a»
:;.^'
-^r^w
4 "
A
«“■ .',«
•/*
lie
ySV r
Cobra,” Sfte Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With his busy
Little crew,
Turns out shells
For ev’ry gun
Full of pepper
For the Hun.
Wont the Prussian
Bullies fly
When they get this
In the eye !
Russia now can
Make her stand ;
“COBRA” s got
The shells io hand;


If cheerfulness under suffering is the highest
heroism, our returned wounded optimists are
right there every time. Another wisely
optimistic spirit is that of King George IV.
top-notch Scotch.*
KILLED BY A KISS!
“Spotted Fever’’ has been raging in the Old Coun-
try this year. Soldiers have brought the germs over
from France, and so spread the disease among
civilians, frequently by means of kissing. Many
deaths have occurred, but the well-known Forma-
mint Tablets have proved an excellent preventive.
Formamint prevents many other infectious diseases
and is also an excellent cure for sore throat. Buv a
bottle to-day, price 2s. 6d.* J
Elastic Sides
that won’t
stretch out after
a few weeks’
wear.
ĥ
Next time you need
Riding: Boots, buy
“WALLABY
EMPERORS.”
They are soft and light. They
are strong and durable. Made
in Queensland from genuine
Wallaby Hides, fitted with
comfortable elastic sides that
will not perish of stretch after
a few weeks’ wear.
Price:
Black, 16/6 pr.
Tan, 18/6 pr.
WJL PAY THE POSTAGE,
SEND FOR A PAIR ON APPROVAL, STATING SIZE AND COLOR PREFERRED.
PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Toowoomba. BRISBANE.. Townsville.
ħ
THE
FIRST TUBE
of Pebeco you use will clearly demonstrate its merits to
the full. The taste is totally different from that of any
otner dentifrice ; not flat, but quite distinctive and agree-
able, a taste remarkably clean, refreshing and purifying,
a taste which, once accustomed to, you will not willingly
miss.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the
Manufacturer.
G. ARNOLD,
(Dept. A), 6 O’Connell St., Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [1
IN
BANANA LAND
Bundabersr held a Girls’ Fair recently in
a:d of the Wdiltided Soldiers’ Fund. Towards
the close a bushman sidled up to the secre-
tary- “I’ve got no money, Miss,’’ he said,
but here s my watch.” The watch was sil-
ver, but the heart that Avent with it was all
gold.
The Bulletin doesn’t believe in milk-
and-water methods of dealing with the local
Gun _ who refuses to behave himself; but
this is carrying things to brutal excess. A
German in West Moreton, found guilty of
exulting publicly over the Lusitania horror,
'l 8 ,! 0(111 / bang on here) —‘has been struck
off the roll of J’s.P.!
Commonwealth officials proudly announce
. building of 240 miles of Transcontinen-
tal West railway in six months,
working at both ends. The Queensland
Governments brightest performance in that
way was in connection with the line from
Richmond towards Cloncurry—l74 miles in
13 months. For a State performance that
is claimed as a record.
A send-off that hurts :
Died of wounds, in Flanders, "Freddy” Hulton
Sams, late of the Anglican Bush Brotherhood at
Longreach. But for one Bananalander who heard
him preach there were a hundred who knew that he
was a clever boxer—a game fighter, a chivalrous
loser (when he did lose, which was not often), and
a clean sport right through. Sams did not believe
that a parson’s job lay solely in ministering to
women and children, nor did he think that a man
who could and did use his hands was “lost.” He
wanted men to talk to, and he got them. He had
been a well-known amateur “pug” in his university
days ; and on the long roving trips which the Bush
Brothers are constantly taking in the West to round
up stragglers from the fold, a pair of boxing gloves
always went in his swag. Every service in shearing
shed or station was either prefaced or concluded by
a few willing rounds with the best talent the
oca i y could offer; and whatever the congregation
thought of his theological arguments, the left hook
seldom failed to convince. AVith the object of
encouraging clean sport, he was one of the founders
of the N.Q. Amateur Boxing Association, and won
its championship at Charters Towers in the light-
weight division for several years in succession. He
was beaten only in the final round for middle-weight
honors also. Under a bishop who is himself a snort
Halford stroked his college eight for three years
a 1 ° X rl~ SamS ' S methods met with no opposition.
A Methodist parson once attacked him for preaching
a gospel of stoush. Sams’s reply was: "A chap who
has learnt to use his hands won’t hit with a bottle
when he gets mixed up in a row.” The Northerners
wanted to send him south for the -State champion- *
ships in Brisbane, but Archbishop Donaldson had not
Halford s liberal ideas, and persuaded Sams not to
fight. Sams left Australia about 18 months ago to
see his parents in England, grabbed up a gun when
the war commenced, and died a lieutenant. What-
ever the Church may say about him and his punch, in
haif a hundred Western townships, in shearing sheds
f r°”? Charleville to Camooweal, and on the shores
of the Dardanelles, where many of his old pals are
keeping their end up, the verdict will be: “A good
little bloke.” And Sams would have wished for no
better epitaph. v...
A Bill is being shouldered through Par-
liament providing for State Labor Bureaus.
Seeing that the House has adjourned for a
fortnight; it will be something more than-
that before the measure becomes law. How-
ever, the director has already been appointed
—W. R. (Jack) Crampton. He is a jovial
young man, with a preference-to-unionists
bump very prominent. For the past year
he has been in charge of the industrial news
of the Daily Standard, the Government
organ.
Brisbane lost a rare old citizen when
Donald Henderson passed out a few days
back. He reached Melbourne 61 years ago,
and saw Ballarat in its prime, the Palmer,
the Etheridge and sundry other golden
shows. IV hen the Burke-Wills expedition
set out, Henderson, who was booked to join
it, missed the trip owing to a coach acci-
d on l ntll the Nortlie ™ climate killed him
a 'n j ~.e never ceased lamenting what he
called his bad luck on that occasion.
Young Roderick Browne, who died at the
Dardanelles the other day, was a son of Syl-
vester, who, after making and losing several
moderate fortunes on half a dozen mining
fields, had settled at Julia Greek. The fine
old man, who had done no end of pioneering
never recovered the shock of the loss of that
boy, and a few days later was found dead in
his bed.
HOISTING THE SIGNALS.
THE PATRIOT: "Hooray! Two more good little Australians !”
Just 50 years ago, at the opening of the
railway from Ipswich to Bigges’s Camp,
engineer Downe let fly a covey of curses
which are coming home to roost in the busy
centres to-day. “There can be no question,”
said Downe, “as to the great inferiority of
a railway laid with a 3ft. Gin. gauge, when
compared with the broader gauges; and I
should not adopt it in any case in which the
character of the country would permit the
construction, of a full-gauge railway at a
moderate cost (say) of two or three thou-
sand pounds a mile more. The narrow
gauge cramps the space allowed for the work-
lr?g. parts of the engine, reduces its power,
diminishes the load, needs a greater number
of engines, and a larger staff to work them.
In these colonies especially the increased
number of hands becomes a serious item in
the working expenses, and will, in many
cases, represent a capital more than sufficient
to build the superior railway.” And he might
have added that in time of war the narrow
gauge, especially when linked up with a
broad gauge, is a peril, a pest, and a con-
gested abomination.
Love’s Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not by the highway does love come; not by
the open, clear highway;
Not to the call of fife and drum, nor with a
rousing roundelay;
But by some crevice in the hedge, some
trailing pathway by the sedge,
\\ hereby a wild bird seeks its home—
Thus Love will come.
Not on a palfrey white as milk, with silver
stirrups’ flash and swing;
Not in a riding robe of silk, gold-looped to
jewelled buttoning,
But in a j'erkin leather-brown, with cord of
cotton lacfcd down,
His buskins murked with grass and loam—
Thus Love will come.
Not by the highway shall Love go, by some
tall portal beckoning wide;
Not in some noon of blare and glow, nor on
a flooded fiver’s tide ;
Not on some wild and blust’ring morn, with
white mask face and brow of scorn,
Noy, where a gipsy moon drifts low
Will spent Love go.
Not with a wrench of breaking chain, a
sudden heat of angry speech
(The broken chain will link again, repentant
lips seek each for each).
But in the fullness of your hour, the lilied
warmth of some dark bower
Secure.... you will not even know
1 1 oio Love shall go !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 7, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
I don’t know whether the attendance of
their Exes, at the Bed Cross Society’s meet-
ing the other night was a mere formality, a
wholesome example to the idle rich, an ex-
pression of sympathy, or a hint that rumors
of a lack of sisterly affection amongst the
good ladies of the Cross had reached vice-
regal ears. The society some time back was
paddling in turbulent water, and the public
is not yet satisfied that the sick and wounded
soldier is the one thought in the minds of all
the lady-helps of Geneva.
A deputation of churchmen, headed by
Archbishops Donaldson and Duhy, paraded
before Colonel Lee and demanded that a wet
canteen be established at the camp at Enog-
gera. That ivas all rivht; for sensible citi-
zens know what damage the sly-grog trade
can do to soldiers. But when the clerics
subsequently called upon Premier Ryan and
urged him to prevent publicans serving men
in uniform after 9 p.m., there was a notable
dearth of sympathy in the neighborhood.
Anything that appears to specially penalise
the warrior is bound to raise a howl. In the
English camps there are canteens where good
beer is sold at lid. a glass; and, on the
word of Australians who have lived in
them, there is no drunkenness.
Exit Hulton Sams, the bush missioner
who. occasionally shocked the hypocrites by
putting a head on his fellow-man with the
boxing gloves. On one occasion when “the
fighting parson” took part in an amateur
boxing tournament, Bishop Frodsham, who
was then in Townsville, booked ringside seats
for himself and a party of Anglican clergy-
men. Hardly anybody in the North thought
of it as shocking ; but in the South the pious
hypocrites still roll their eyes when they
recall the Scandalous Episode.
One recent day Toowoomba heard that
wounded soldiers- would pass through that
night. The girls got busy at once, loaded
themselves with all the delicacies of the
season, and proceeded to do the honors,
mien a word, could be got in edgeways one
blushing lad in khaki explained, apologeti-
cally, that they were not wounded, but sick.
But those girls were just the goods. They
said that that was all right——they knew the
boys would have gone and been wounded if
they could have managed it. It made those
disappointed boys cheer up again.
Alan Marshall, the onee-famous Queens-
land cricketer (lie afterwards carried a
successful bat for Surrey), who went to pay
his disrespects to the Unspeakable with Aus-
tralia’s loth Battalion, died of illness in
Egypt before he could deliver his message.
Two Queenslanders, Charlie Wassell and
Uvedale Parry-Okeden, have been mentioned
in despatches. The former, who is a son of
J. L. Wassell, was referred to glowingly by
Hamilton and Birdwood. Parry-Okeden, who
is a son of the former Commissioner of
Police, was promoted to a captaincy and
mentioned for gallantry.
Marion Dalrymple, a Queensland girl who
left with the Ist A. G. Hospital, is back here
for a week. She came south with a party of
Maoriland wounded, and hurried across the
Tasman on brief furlough. Her engagement
to one Coleman, who manages a meat-works
here, has just been announced.
Justice Isaacs and his daughter are here.
The lady created a sensation among the
wigged fraternity when she accom-
panied her father into court the other day as
his associate. She is the first petticoated
Judge’s help that Bananaland has seen.
Lex Macnaughton, only son of Judge Mac-
naughton, has received a commission in the
Australian Flying Corps. The boy, who is
studying for the law, recently got through
his intermediate.
lolanthe Qualtrough, wearing a very pretty
white hat and gown, changed her name to
Benson at St. Andrew’s Church last Wednes-
day. The ’groom, H. L. Benson, is the only
son of H. C. Benson, formerly of Sydney,
now of London. The wedding was quiet!
only relatives and a few old friends beinu’
present.
Yesterday was Hospital Day, and, from his
boots and the lining of his hat the squeezed
citizen managed to extract £lOOO. Inci-
dentally, Home-Secretary Bowman is talking
about nationalising the hospitals. They all
do.
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Menzies and their
baby girl are somewhere on the ocean between
Frisco and Sydney, bound for Australia,
iliey are lucky to have got so far. They
were passengers from England to America
by the Orduna, which the Huns endeavored
to torpedo.
The usual Show-week gathering surged at
Eagle Farm to-day. The Governor and his
lady were present, and were supported by a
new Gentleman Help. He is Captain
Oouzens, who, having been wounded,
is now recuperating. To me he looked
chubby and cherubic, but I hear that the
enemy took a somewhat different view of
him.
Some fearful and wonderful gowns spoilt
the races to-day. One was a mustard crea-
tion. _ Its wearer deserved a Y.C., but
feminine courage is ever unrewarded. Her
Ex. was, as usual, perfectly gowned. She
wore cream serge and a small black and gold
hat. Mrs. Ryan was abroad in prune cloth
and a small black toque. Others well dressed
on the lawn were Mrs. Jack Thomson, Miss
Ross Munro, Mrs. A. 11. Whittingham, Mrs.
Ned Tully and Mrs. Cecil Palmer.
“The Stenographer Girl’’ closed her week’s
engagement to-night to a house almost empty.
At the Palace Gardens that good old-timer
“Tom, Dick and Harry’’ was staged by the
Harrington Reynolds co., with Janie King, a
Toowoomba girl, playing Molly Summers.
She was a very creditable home-product, too.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Getting in early :
On June 20, at Kelvin Grove, to Mr. and Mrs. A
J. Dean, Newmarket, a daughter, Dardanelle May.
The Browns are hoping to christen their
next infant Constantinople September.
Alexander Maearthur, who died at Towns-
ville the other day, had boiled his billy in
many places. was a lad when he landed
in Australia with his father fra’ beyond
Aberdeen—that Peter Maearthur who
settled on a station now covered by sub-
urban Melbourne. Alexander was in the
first rush to Ballarat, and after hunting for
nuggets on every field from Port Phillip to
Carpentaria became Warden of North
Queensland. Twenty-six years ago he
settled down as Sheriff of the Northern
Supreme Court. The climate had, however,
undermined his constitution, and he was
stricken down at the early age of 91.


Usher’s
ft
r
b diiw loot ~mm
* 4 ** r& ” *V*A f
■ »VJ srfi c 9loltQ - - • - v V
S TRIPE ”
m
\>4
i
4J;
s—s
&
$
0*
p
4
/A-
i^V
<#■
i
<a
\
1
I
4
5?
i
»
\
V
1
Z
m
W 4
N
w
&
45
?A
wr\
X
4
K
/
z'
>
<^Y\
a
ALL


THE BIGGEST GAME DROPS
The Ross .280 Rifle, with Ross
Sporting Ammunition, with
Copper Tube Expanding Bullet,
patented, offers sportsmen a
wonderfully effective help
towards a successful hunt.
h
• 280 Galibre
High Veloerty *
The great power and
consequent low tra-
jectory, the perfect ac-
curacy and easy
balance, are great
helps to the marks-
man’s skill, while the
smashing blow of the
Ross Copper tube ex-
panding bullet brings
down any game it
fairly hits.
Ross Rifles
are used by the most
experienced big game
hunters throughout
the worl d.
SOLD BY LEADING SPORTING GOODS DEALERS. 6r 5
■illustrated catalogue sent free on request.
Ross Rifle Co.,Quebec, Canada.
a
I!(ij:kin:«m
MALTED MILK
There is no need to ques-
tion the purity of your milk
supply if you use Horlick’s,
In addition, it has the advan-
tage of being more nourish-
ing than ordinary cows’
milk. It proves an invaluable
Food-Drink to infants, in-
valids, and in fact all who
need building up.
Sample sent on receipt of 2d.
Samplg
will
be sent on
rec.lpt
of 2d. In
stamps.
©
»wtTi»vtw
s2P-4Sfi T JI
i*ttPSi.fP M S
Hutchinson
& Co.,
26, Jamieson
Street,
Sydney,
N.S.W.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Hough powders, such as cuttle-
hsh, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is
rally prepared to clean the teeth,
the breath, harden the gums and
the mouth (thus preventing
EUDENTA is therefore regarded
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
l’ os t free 1/3. Free sample posted.
POCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
scientifi-
sweeten
disinfect
decay).
as “the
Ray’s Hair Dye.
ĥ
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
KAY’S
Dye,
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order. .
4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
TO “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
The Motor in Australia, 16 Pitt Street, Sydney,
pays standard price for motor, motor-bike, aero-
plane ci—motor-boat jokes for illustration. .
• yK'*
Commonwealth of Australia £5,000,000 4J Per Cent War Loan, 1925
PRICE OF ISSUE, PAR.
THE LOAN IS TO BE UTILISED FOR WAR PURPOSES ONLY, AND WILL TAKE FORM OF
EITHER INSCRIBED STOCK OR TREASURY BONDS, AT OPTION OF SUBSCRIBERS.
„^ T ? oth CAPITAL and INTEREST will be a CHARGE on the CONSOLIDATED REVENUE of the COM-
MONWEALTH. FREE of STAMP DUTY and INTEREST FREE OF INCOME TAX.
Wdl be accepted at PAR in payment of Commonwealth PROBATE and SUCCESSION DUTY.
.The Stock is an authorised TRUSTEE INVESTMENT.
TREASURY BONDS issued in denominations of £lO, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO, or STOCK
INSCRIBED in multiples of £lOO.
INTEREST payable HALF-YEARLY, free of Exchange, at any Branch of the Commonwealth Bank
of Australia. A I ULL HALF-YEAR’S INTEREST WILL BE PAID ON 15th DECEMBER, 1915.
,??? AYABLE at PAR at a, W STATE CAPITAL on 15th DECEMBER, 1925.
PAp MENTS payable as follows:—£10 per cent, on Application. £l5 per cent, on Wednesday,
15th September, 1915. £2O per cent, on Friday, Istli October, 1915. £25 per cent, on Monday, 15th
November, 1915. £3O per cent, on Tuesday, 30Lh November, 1915.
ANY OR ALL OF THE INSTALMENTS MAY BE PREPAID.
APPLICATIONS must be accompanied by a DEPOSIT of £lO PER CENT., and will be received at
Branch of the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, or may be forwarded through Head
Offices and Branches of ANY BANK, or any recognised STOCKBROKER, or any POST OFFICE where
Money Order Business is conducted. INSTALMENTS payable through the same sources.
™™£s, 0S . PEOTUS AND APPLICATION FORMS MAY BE OBTAINED FROM ANY BANK OR POST
OFFICE AS ABOVE.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, 24th July, 1915.
rTK ? de al shoe is the shoe that feels unmistakably
1 one’s own, as if made for oneself and no other.
Something about it, some individuality of style
some perfection of fit gives it this personal quality!
which is the secret of distinction in dress.
Herein lie the charm and excellence of Bo«tock
shoes. Their range is delightfully varied, each stvle
With its own particular piquancy and
originality, and all possessing those re-
markable fitting properties so character-
istic of Bostock.
Ladies who wish to make a trial of
these shoes will find some attractive new
models now on view at all the leading-
stores. The name Bostock is stamped on
the soles of every pair.
St
822
Bostock No.
P 6386
Get More & Better Wool
Jh
This Season by Shearing with this
Stewart Ball-bearing
Shearing Machine.
It takes the wool off evenly all over.
Gets from a half-pound up more from
each sheep, and the job is done easier,
quicker and better. It has the old
hand shears beat a mile.
Price, with Four Sets of Knives, only £3 10S.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD,
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
The Recruiting Song of
WILL HAVE
the Hour!
“Your King and Country Want
Y r ou” —-the song that everyone is
singing, the song that is ringing
throughout the . vast Empire, the
song that the Daily Mail is com-
mending every day.
Hear it on Zonophone Record No.
1370, sung by Miss Bessie Jones.
The same record contains “There’s
a Land,” by Madame Deering.
10-inch, 3/-
11l very Zono. Record has TWO selections.
Many other patriotic numbers.
Ask your nearest dealer to play them over for you. .. Ask him for the catalogue
and supplementary lists.
Hear all your favorites on
THE “CINCH” ZONOPHONE.
Not only is the “CINCH” .'the cheapest GOOD talking machine— but it’s the
most compact, the easiest fo carry from place to place. It is hornless, and
having the famous gooseneck tapered tone arm, you get from it the exact repro-
duction and perfect tone.
The “CINCH” costs only £4. It is the leading value of the day.
Accredited dealers everywhere. , Instrument catalogue, record lists and name
of nearest accreditee!, dealer on request.
THE BRITISH ZONOPHONE GO. LTD.,
HOFFNUNG’S CHAMBERS, 163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Inky Way.
Perth West Australian and Western
Mail were on offer in Melbourne the other
day free of all liabilities except bank over-
draft (fIS,000) for £240,000 in cash and
shares. The proposal was to acquire these
two papers with land, buildings, plant, good-
will, etc., from J. W. Hackett (trading as
the W.A. Newspaper Co.) and to form a
co. of £250,000 in 65,000 preference and
185,000 ordinary £1 shares. Hackett was
to receive 65,000 7 per cent, preference and
35,000 ordinary shares, and the balance of
the ordinary issue—150,000 less 10,000 in
reserve—was to be offered to the public.
Out of the £140,000 thus subscribed Hac-
kett was to get £30,000, his promoting agent
—a shrewd Westralian lawyer and M.L.A.
and the bank its loan mortgage
of £85,000 —the money with which Hackett
helped to buy his former partner’s interest.
That left nothing for working capital; but
in view of last year’s certified profit of
£24,000 the prospectus declared that till
money wasn’t necessary. Just when every-
thing was going smoothly the agent got
word to declare the flotation off, and he
very reluctantly had to do it.
* * * *
Shelly Beach”: One of the Fairfaxes
drifted from Sydney to Warrnambool
(Vie.) about 50 years ago. This William,
a printer by trade, was brought from Eng-
land hy his uncle John, the oldest Fairfax
of them all. He joined the Herald, but
could not hit it with uncle. So he struck
out for himself, and linked up with the late
Professor Laurie in ownership of the Warr-
nambool Standard. Laurie wrote philo-
sophical treatises to serve as leaders for a
purely bucolic clientele; and though that
was a handicap Fairfax and Laurie thrived
moderately, despite the opposition of Dick
Osborne with the Warrnambool Examiner.
In those days the big stations around
YY arrnambool, unfenced and unimproved,
were worth 30s. to £3 an acre, and the
squatters mostly lived on tick at the store-
keepers and overdrafts at the bank. Wil-
liam Fairfax, a handsome, rotund, eter-
nally-genial man, had a fine baritone voice
which might easily have been possessed by
the Bull of Bashan of Holy Writ. He was
precentor to the Pr snyterian Church choir
and led it with a tuning fork. There was
a schism on the_ subject of buying a har-
monium, and a big box o’ whustles was tol-
erated only after many years of internecine
strife amongst the congregation.
* * * *
Pierre Bellew, who acted the part of Napo-
leon during the recent French-day pageant in
Melbourne, is a son of Ivyrle Bellew. once
reporter, then matinbe idol. Pierre is not
beautiful like his parent, but he proved to be
the right man for Bonaparte, being short and
wide with a broad and beetling brow and
a noble nose. These items, concealed beneath
a hat like a.tea-cosy and an overcoat, pro-
duced a Nap. undistinguishable from current
oleographs. Bellew’s income-tax return
merely indicates him as a publisher, but he
has earned many a crumb by running an
agency for the manufacture of public opinion
to the order of the country press.
* * * *
“Court Copy”: Maoriland reporters are
banning to regret that they have emulated
the 00-bob-a-week clerk in scorning the pro-
tection of a vulgah union. Lately some of
the minor stars in the firmament thought
that a union would be a good thing. It
might tend to get them a day off once a week
if only to attend divine service. It might,
also, put an extra bob or two into their
pockets. A union,was duly formed (unregis-
tered and unaffiliated with machinists, comps,
and all the rest of the Devil’s fraternity).
Did they get the extra comforts and cash?
One big Wellington organ gave some of them
the. sack. It then reduced the remainder in
position and held the bag threateningly over
their heads. Lack of unanimity prevented
the whole crowd rushing to the assistance of
the wounded ; and observant newspaper pro-
prietors have made a careful note of the
fact.
v -* * * *
. ‘ S.T.S.”: Have you noticed the madden-
ing brand of “humor” now being produced
in England? It is a reaction from the
snappy style that tells a joke in two lines
of dialogue. Going to the other extreme,
the new sfyle gives an elaborate, waggish
introduction to the characters. As little
Mr. Twizzletoes descended the steps of his
semi-detached suburban abode one fine
morning, swinging his cane (etc., etc.), he
observed (etc., etc.). Hastily reascending
(etc., etc.) he sought for the wife of his
bosom. “Maria,” lie observed in sepulchral
tones” —-and then *the joke begins. Our
-frugal Australian papers are now filling up
bottoms of columns with this kind of thing.
One specially bad example is The Bulle-
tin’s old “Looks like rain” two-line dia-
logue. introduced by 15 lines of twaddle on
boarding-house life. You can’t blame
space-paid writers who turn out this kind
ol thing if editors will accept it; but a safe
rule nowadays is to start about four lines
rrom the bottom when reading any facetious
effort. .
THE POOR EDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I never grudge a shilling for an editorial spree!
1 simply ask them not to dance in thirsty rings
round me.
I give them backsheesh when they come, and send
them all away.
For poets still must rhyme and sweat while editors
go gay.
I cannot see an editor go thirsty for a bob,
Though friends assure me earnestly they’re only out
to rob;
I know 1 shouldn’t do it, but I give them of my
storie
Whene’er for beer they sing and stamp outside my
office door.
I never; grudge a shilling for an editorial burst,
Although, as a teetotaller, I never knew a thirst.
But as I’m very, very rich and fond of charitee,
I fling coins, and beg them not to dance in
rings -round me.
N.S.W.
THE LORDLY POET.


IT PAYS
to buy a GOOD ARTlCLE—there-
fore it pays to wear
ABBEY SHOES.
They are the HIGHEST-QUALITY
Footwear, and will prove the
cheapest in the long run.
The illustration shows a CHOICE
PATENT BUTTON BOOT, with
DULL CALF LEGS.
Price - - 30/-
In HIGH-GRADE GLACE KID,
25/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for otir New Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ħ
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received irom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
h
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy (or Asthma,
Hay Fever, Rose Cold, or
ord nary Cough.
r s olli in i i,u by all Chtmisu and Surat
throughout Australatia.
Hotels, &c.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Mel 100 tam®*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16 - per day
and upwards.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING MAUL AND SUPPER
ROOM. *
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC. TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Quenches
Thirst
Helps
Appetite
ĥ
Sweetens
Breath
Aids
Digestion
3d. per packet of 5
big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners and
Stores, or address
J, C. Gambles & Co.,
Commerce House,
Melbourne.
T
s
A
%
9o
Af
Be Sure
ft’s Wrigley’s
A SHAVE DE LUXE.
Have you ever tried Shaving with the “Plum” Razor?
a treat in store.
If not, you have
The silver-steel blade of
&he “PLUM”
RAZOR
is so finely tempered and set that it does its work in one act, and
leaves the face like velvet. You’ll want no other Razor when you
try the “Plum. pRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep this Razor in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
Pair in Double Case, 30/
All the Above Post Free.
This line makes a lovely present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG &. AITK.EN,
654
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
ĥ
Solid Silver-
plated Ladies’
Glove Hook,
Emu design,
Australian Souvenirs
from Stewart Dawson’s
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
ħ
A very handsome and unique Souvenir SERVIETTE
RING, in solid British Silverplate, on pure White
Metal.’ A Ring such as this would make a very
uncommon and appreciable Wedding or Birthday
, Present. *7/ft
Post Free .......i *'■
HAVE YOU OUR MAILORDER CATALOGUE
featuring thousands of new and Novel Gifts?
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
h
Solid Silver-
Plated Ladies’
Glove Hook,
in Kangaroo
design,
1/6
posted.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
FOURTH THOUSAND.
ORDEAL BY BATTLE. By FRED-
ERICK SCOTT OLIVER. Bvo. 6s.
net. (7s. 6d.)
The Times : “The book is more than an
argument in favor of a special policy. It is
a storehouse of political thought, set out with
a precision and an eloquence which have long
been absent from the literature of politics.”
SONNETS OF THE EMPIRE BE-
FORE & DURING THE GREAT
WAR. By ARCHIBALD T.
STRONG, Acting Professor of Eng-
lish Language and Literature in the
University of Melbourne. Crown Bvo.
3s. net. (3s. 6d.)
The Times : “Mr. Strong is a skilled crafts-
man of the sonnet, and is inspired by a fine
Imperial spirit.”
THE BRITISH EMPIRE. By Sir
CHARLES P. LUCAS, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G. Crown Bvo. 2s. net.
(2s. 6d.).
Spectator : “A most valuable series of lec-
tures.”
Outlook: “A most lucid and readable story,
told in no vainglorious manner, but with a
direct earnestness that will make it an in-
valuable text-book.”
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S
WAR MAP OF THE DARDA-
NELLES, showing Forts, Main
Roads and Railways. 25 x2O inches.
Colored, Unmounted, 6d. net (9d.).
Cloth, Is. 3d. net. (Is. 6d.)
Also—
(1) Between Paris and Berlin, Is. 6d.
net. (Is. 9d.)
(2) Between Petrograd and Berlin,
including the whole of Austria. Is.
6d. net. (Is. 9d.)
NOW COMPLETE IN 6 VOLS.
MACAULAY’S HISTORY OF ENG-
LAND. ILLUSTRATED EDI-
TION. Edited by C. H. FIRTH,
M.A. With 900 Illustrations, includ-
ing 44 in Color and Photogravure
Portrait. In 6 vols. Super royal
Svo. 10s. 6d. net each. (12s. 6d.)
Illustrated Prospectus post free on
application.
Daily Chronicle : “The present volume com-
pletes an excellent piece of work. Macaulay s
History is good; Macaulay’s History lavishly
illustrated is better; Macaulay’s History illus-
trated and re-indexed under the editorial eye
of Professor F irth is best of a 11.... A most
desirable edition of a notable English book.”
1915 ISSUE JUST PUBLISHED.
’HE STATESMAN’S YEAR BOOK.
Statistical and Historical Annual of
the States of the World for the Year
1915. Edited by J. SCOTT KELTIE,
LL.D. Assisted by M. EPSTEIN,
M.A., Ph.D. With Maps. Crown
6vo. 10s. 6d. net. (12s. 6d.)
The Morning Post: “The conflict in Europe
has naturally presented great difficulties in the
preparation of ‘The Statesman’s Year Book’
for 1915, and the editor may be congratulated
on the result of the efforts made to embody the
latest available information in this statistical
and historical annual of the World’s States.”
STORIES FROM NATURE. By J.
A. FLETCHER. With Illustrations.
ls.'6d. Contents include: Tommy
Oystercatcher—How Robbie Watched
the Corroboree —Bennie’s Wabbalee,
etc., etc.
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
Volume.
WINSTON CHURCHILL’S
NEW NOVEL.
646 A FAR COUNTRY. By WIN-
STON CHURCHILL, Author of
“Richard Carvel,” “The Inside of the
Cup,” etc.
The book sets forth the career of a success-
ful man of to-day in the United States, who
has from early manhood been guided solely by
“enlightened self-interest,” and tells of his
eventual awakening to a nobler view of life
and its responsibilities.
JAMES LANE ALLEN’S NEW
STORY.
647 THE SWORD OF YOUTH. By
JAMES LANE ALLEN, Author of
“The Choir Invisible',” etc.
The Times : “The story makes a definite
contribution to the fine and copious literature
of tHe American Civil War —and indeed of war
im general—by its intense presentation of those
secret tragedies which, under stress of war,
test the single soul.”
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON. >


Amusements.
TL V °*' 1 TIIEAT It E. SYDNEY.
Harpy Rickards Tivoli Theatres Etc!.
Governing Director HUGH I). McINTOSH.
WEEK COMMENCING AUGUST 14.
ROCHEZ’ MONKEYS.
™T?™t BARR ’ MAY ERNE & “HE,” CROUCH &
WELCH, WALTER WEEMS, HERBERT WINTER,
££; t RIPON ’ WALLACE GALVIN, PAUL STEPHENS,
LOUIS STONE, MARIE TERRY.
I*l VOW ~
TIIEATItE,
MKWtOUKNE.
MARY ELIZABETH,
JAMES E. BRITT. JARVIS & DARE.
KAJIYAMA. ESTELLE ROSE.
JACK BIRCHLEY. BILLY KINKAID.
THE TYRELLS, etc., etc.
JiVOLI THEATRE, IIItISOANJE.
ELLA CASPERS,
CLEMONS & DEAN.
EDWARD WARWICK’S BURLESQUERS.
DORA SAWYER.
HECTOR GOLDSPINK, etc., etc.
H K ,l n . 'V k s 1 V’ S. SVI)N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
THE FAMOUS ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in
The Revusical Comedy,
APT Eli Til E GTRL.
A Whirlwind of Musical Fun.
_Box Plan Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
Q ItITEKION TII EATIt E, SYDNEY.
THE THRILLING WAR PLAY,
INSIDE THE LINES.
lAN MACLAREN & CHARLOTTE IVES
and
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S SPECIALLY ORGANISED CO.
Plan Paling’s.
Day Sales White Rose.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 31st July, 1915.
COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT
WOOLLEN CLOTH FACTORY,
NORTH GEELONG.
Vacancies for Operatives.
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons
(male and female) experienced in
AI oollen Mills work, who are desirous of con-
sideration for positions in the above Factory.
Forms of application may be obtained from
the Secretary, Department of Defence,
Melbourne; the manager of the Factory.
North Geelong; and the Military Comman-
dant, Brisbane, Sydney, Adelaide. Perth and
Hobart.
Applications must be addressed to the Mana-
ger, Commonwealth Government Woollen
Cloth Factory, North Geelong. Victoria.
T. TRUMBLE,
Acting Secretary.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 30th July, 1915.
Appointment of Temporary Surgeons
for Service in the Royal Australian
Navy.
APPLICATIONS are invited from Medi-
cal Practitioners desirous of appoint-
ment as Temporary Surgeons in the Royal
Australian Navy for the period of war.
Rate of pay, 255. per diem, with Ration
Allowance Is. Bd. per diem, and Uniform
Allowance on appointment £25.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette,
obtainable at any Post Office.
. Applications stating age and qualifica-
tions, accompanied by credentials, to be for-
warded to the Naval Secretary, Department
of the Navy, Melbourne, to reach him not
later than 31st August, 1915.
GEO. L. MAC ANDIE,
Naval Secretary.
Department of the Navy.
Melbourne, 7th August, 1915.
Sale of Customs Motor Launch Undine.
TENDERS will be received, subject to the
conditions of tender, until 12 noon on-
Monday,. 30th August, 1915, for the pur-
chase of the Trade and Customs’ Motor
Launch UNDINE, as she now lies at
Newcastle, N.S.W.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette.
obtainable at any post office.
J. A. JENSEN.
Minister of State for the Navy.
IJus incss Announcements.
LLdRINE
MOUSTACHES
I QUICKLY !
h
Tliis tried and tested
Hair-grower lias pro-
duced splendi i re-
sults .when all other
preparations have
failed. “C'apillarino"
converts a “weedy”
moustache into a
luxuriant growth.
Why not send for a Jar to day ?
PRICE 10/6 JAR POST FREE
Craig- & Aitkero,
664 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
COLORED POST-CARDS. by llarrv J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six. posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co.. 214 George Street. Sydney.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Direction Beaumont Smith and Leslie Hoskins.
EVERY EVENING.
First Production in Australia of the novel two-act
Musical Burlesque,
STOP YOUR NONSENSE.
The fast Fun Express, travelling at 60 smiles
a second.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Reserved, 4/-.
Plan at Paling’s.
PAE A C E THEAT It E, SYDN E V.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Matinees WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30.
J. & N. TAIT present
the ROYAL STROLLERS.
(By arrangement with Austral Gardens—Mr.
J. Waller.)
THE BRIGHTEST SHOW IN SYDNEY.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Reserved 4/-.
- ■ Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven't seen Sydney until you’ve visited
*T" ~K PICT IKE BLOCK THEATRICS.
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
lhe Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 pm
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATFR J D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Mii.lkb, General Manager.
T ll K ATIt K It OYA L, M El, Ito Lit NIC.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Lth.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
£ Williamson Ltd. present something new in
POTASH AND PERLM UTTER.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls 6/-:
Stalls. 4/-; Gallery. 2/-, Plan at Allan's.
I'.lt AIA.IIOTY’S TIIEATIiIC. \l EI.BO L UN 1C
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. 0. Williamson Ltd. present MURIEL STARR in
THE LAW OF THE LAND.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-. 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
PRINCESS’S Til EAT It IC, MIC 1,1401 It NIC.
■ Sole Proprietors: GEORGE MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW LTD. present
THE SILENCE OF DEAN MAITLAND.
FT'ces: 2/-, 1/- and fid, plan at Pianola.
K ING ’ S theatre, meebo u r n e.
Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the Ever Popular BERT BAILEY
CO. in
ON OUR S ELECTION.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Amusements.
BUOt T II E A T It E. M E I. It « V It N E.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
DAISY JEROME, JOSEPHINE GASSMAN & HER
PICCANINNIES, AMY MURPHY & NELLIE BLACK,
WALKER & BUNTING STERLING, AND LOVE AND
OTHERS.
Prices: 2/6, 21- & Gd. Matinees: 1/6, II- & 6d.
fH E AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING MONDAY NEXT, AUGUST 16.
MESSRS. J. & N. TAIT
have great pleasure in presenting
THE BELGIAN CONCERT BAND
and
GRAND OPERATIC COMPANY.
TWENTY-EIGHT STAR PERFORMERS.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
IIE FREDERIC SHIPMAN ENTERPRISES
present
ANNETTE
KISLLURMAN
THE AUSTRALIAN VENUS.
In the Thrilling Picture Play,
NEPTUNE'S
DAUGHTER,
Now in 6th Week.
AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
Al?o now plaving
TIVOLI THEATRE,
ADELAIDE.
Opening SEPTEMBER 18
11. M. THEATRE, PERTH.
Fff 7v»t,\N£> TOUR
opens OCTOBEII 4, at
H. M. THEATRE, Wellington.
The Second Big Shipman
Feature,
DAMON & PYTHIAS,
Will be screened for the first
time in Australia during
August.
All inquiries to
FREDERIC SHIPMAN,
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
ĥ
Oi’l’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO 810 SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
|y|ELBOURNE CLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING
AFTERNOONS, 3 to 5.
EVENINGS, 7.45 to 10.
RICCO’S ORCHESTRA.
Jokes,T ricks, Puzzles, Novelties
Write for our New Catalog, a Novelty in itself, sent FREE.
above four puzzles are strongly made and nickel-plated. They will cause endless amusement,
being very tricky to do. Post Free, with Full Instructions, 6d. each, or the Four
for 1/6. j
A Box of Seven Wire Puzzles, different from the above, Post Free, 2/-; or the
Box of Seven, and the Four Puzzles illustrated, Post Free for 3/-
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.—New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYNARHCT, SYDNEY.
Onoto Pens
ħ
are the only Standard 12 /*
Fountain Pens yMI British Made
by. . a British \ Company with
c British Capital) and Labour.
Thomas de La RuV: &Co Ltd, London
MBSSOBmm
WHY GIVE
Electro-plated Wedding’ Presents when Sterling
Silver costs no more?
Our managing director, when in Sheffield, was
ordering thousands of pounds’ worth of Sterling
Silver Tableware, and got quotations per ounce for
hundreds pf a line of the more ordinarily used
articles, stich as Sauce Boats, Cake Baskets, Salt
Pourers, Sugar Casters, etc. He allowed the makers,
to, make them in slack times, and deliver when con-
venient. We pay spot cash against delivery in
Londonl
Many of these astonishingly-low-priced lines have
reached us.
The above is one of them.
They are unexampled .value.
/
Very heavy Sterling Silver Fruit Dish,
8 inches in diameter £5/6/-
Less 20% discount 1/1/-
£4/4/-
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
Pl-m FTOrRER—— —STRICTLY CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 & 25 hunter Street.
Bi it CH . & CAKJIOLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL ANL> PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville In all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland £pr the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : RQTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Neuralgia and Poor Blood.
There are very few cases of neuralgia that
are not caused by a thin, run-down coMition
of the blood. Almost the first thing the
I doctor looks for in neuralgic patients is the
ana?mic appearance.
There are two things to do for any form
of neuralgia. Apply heat to the affected
part to soothe the pain, and feed the nerves
by taking a tonic containing the elements
needed by them. Heat as afforded by hot
flannel, hot : water bags, etc., lulls the in-
flamed nerves into temporary quiet. It does
not cure. Not until the nutrition of the
nerves is restored will the inflammation sub-
side and the neuralgic state be remedied.
Never under any circumstances should drugs
to deaden the pain be used.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills furnish to the
blood the needed elements, and the blood con-
veys them to the nerves. The only way of
getting food or medicine to the nerves is
through the blood, rtemember that.
Neural2-ia is a general term. It means in-
flammation of a nerve. It is given different
names according to the nerve affected.
Sciatica is neuralgia of the sciatic nerve.
Applications of heat will soothe the pain in
all forms of- neuralgia, and Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills will correct the condition that
causes it.
If you have neuralgia you can send to
your dealer at once for a box of Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills. A useful booklet on “Dis-
eases of the Nervous System” will be sent
free to any address by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney.*'
FREE SAMPLES OFFERED
Free samples of the new laxative, Pink-
ettes, containing sufficient to give it a satis-
factory trial, will be sent to any reader of
The Bulletin mentioning this paper and
sending naine and address to the Dr. Wil-
liams’ Medicine .Co., Sydney. " .
Pinkettes will be found an excellent laxa-
tive combination that should really help to
cure that dangerous condition known as con-
stipation. When they are taken according
to directions they are designed to correct the
irregularity, so that the patient will not
have to take an opening medicine day after
day. They gre a safe family medicine be-
cause they contain no habit-creating drug;
they are daintily got up, easily given to chil-
dren, and -they act thoroughly without-caus-
ing sickness and griping.*
y the
“gUNYIP"
Forest Devil.
h
I Land Clearing Made
a Delight & Profit!
Forest giants, fallen logs, deeply-rooted
stumps, obtrusive boulders are all promptly
and simply removed by the BUNYIP FOREST
DEVIL. -
This truly wonderful invention is of in-
dispensable service to men on the land.
Saves money, saves time, saves trouble.
Write for. Details. ■ !
John Cooper & Sons
287-89 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY: Local Agents, CLUTTERBUCK BROS.,
26-38 City Road.
BRISBANE: Local Agent, A. H. BISSELL,
95-7 Eagle Street.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have yon grown tired of weiring useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want, to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with tailing steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
th-- reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women Ac children.
.lESCKIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collinn-et., Melbourne, Vie.


SANATIVE
SHAVING
Self Shampooing
e
V
With
CUTICURA
SOAP
Assisted in case of irritation of the
skin or scalp by light applications
of Cuticura Ointment, mean up-to-
date care of the skin and hair.
Samples Free by Mail
Cuticura Soap and Ointment sold everywhere.
Überal sample of eaJti, with 32-page book, sent post-
tree. Address R. Towns & Co., Sj’dney N. S. W.
The Oil
Every
H*ndyOllCt>-‘
m
mMO>
For
Purpose
“ TKH.EE-IN-ONH” OIL is
unrivalled for cleaning Gramo-
phones, for lubricating Sewing
Machines, and for polishing
Furniture.
It makes Gun Barrels, Motor
Car Mountings, Ranges, and
Metal Stirfaoes—indoors or out
—rust-proof!
“3-in-one” Oil
is a concentrated, highly refined
article of special quality.
It is a perfect lubricant!
Leading Kinematograph Ope-
rators won’t use any other.
Nor will Phonograph people. ,
Theyknow“3-in-One”isßest! |
Sold everywhere in Bottles
and Handy Oil Can. |
A Post-card will bring Free
S imple Bottle together with
. “ 3-in-One ” Oil Booklet.
m REID AND REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 A, Harri* St,
Wellington,
h
ĥ
Exclusive Agent
Wanted
ħ
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames ami novelties
in art goods. Excellent
i opportunity for any
i Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is very re-
munerative. . You may
charge good prices for our
_ _ portrait novelties. Noex-
trgg
bank references. 20 successful years m tne expon
business i 3 our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co.
1029—D-10 W. Adams St.. Chicago- 111- U- S. A.
MEAT PUDDINGS AND PIES
with plenty of rich,
delicious gravy are
ensured by putting in
a little Bisto. Saves
much trouble and
makes them so nice.
makes
SjpL ndid
Gravy.
All Grocer*. In Tins. Made by CF.REBOS, Ltd.
‘ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
For an Early Start
When there's a big
job that calls for an
early start-a full day’s
work, with plenty of
time to do it right—
let Big Ben in on
your plans.
He will get you up and
get you out surely, and
on the dot. He calls
either way, with a straight
five-minute ring, or ten
gentle taps at half-minute
intervals.
Big Ben stands for seven
inches of honest clock value
well wrought, well set up and
well balanced. His bold black
hands and numerals show plain-
ly in the early morning light.
Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois, U.S.A., by Westclox. H'.s
price is 12/6. postage 1/- extra. If
you cannot find him in your town,
send a money order to the makers
Australian office, V\ estclox, ex. King
and Kent Sts , Sydney. They will
have one mailed to you by the
nearest jeweller.
Firestone
Non-SKid Tyres.
For the hard road - for the hot pace—for the long
grind—for true economy and service.
THE success of Firestone Tyres has proved that the motorist
can have comfort* safety and the “most miles per shilling.
Firestone Tyres are preferred because of highest quality at the least
cost—as the greatest value, even though there are “cheaper” tyres.
The rubber in them is supremely
resistance, of greatest wear endurance,
of this extremely good rubber.
good. It has the quality of greatest heat-
Every Firestone Tyre contains an extra quantity
The Non-skid lettering is an imprint of safety. On every highway of the woild it
challenges the need of other anti-skid safeguards. It holds the standard for endm ance
and economy. The letters prevent spin or skid in any direction, they radiate the *
of road friction, insure perfect traction with gasoline economy, car-protection a
comfort beyond contradiction.
r/2
8
Firestone Tyres are made by specialists in the largest
exclusive tyre factory in the world. This year s Firestone
output..has increased 78 per cent. Firestone are t>res <>t
greatest strength, sturdiness and safety— ,
for the Price oi Only Ordinary Tyres,
Leading dealers everywhere endorse Firestone quality, and
motorists praise Firestone service.
TO DEALERS.
A Firestone Representative-from
the factory at Akron, Ohio, U.B.A.
will shortly make calls on dealers and garages In person. Inter*
ested people may make appointments by writing to Firestone
Tyre & Rubber Co., C.P.O Box 2521, Sydney.
Firestone Tyre & Rubber Co.
Factory : Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.
Manufacturers of Pneumatic and Solid
Tyres; Motor Lorry Tyres j Fire Engine
Tyres ; Rims, Tyre Accessories, etc.
We are
prepared
to supply
all sizes of
pneumatio
tyres.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Charles 11. of pious memory has been
recurring pretty frequently of late, and 1
reappearances are not entirely in connection
with the legality of .lie Sabbath peanut l ie
defendant in a Sydney case, affecting the sale
of a motor-ear, in which damages were
claimed for breach of warranty, introduce*
the long-dead monarch as a plea against the
plaint, the argument being that, the sale
having occurred on a Sunday, the whole
transaction was illegal, and the plaintiffs
therefore had no redress at law. Xhe plain-
tiffs naturally demurred, but were unsuccess-
ful. In another century or two the time
may he ripe. for . a short Act of Parliament
declaring the second Charles dead. *
No sooner had the new arrangement as to
ihe supply of sugar and the regulation or its
price come into force than Melbourne
grocers arrived at the usual horrible under-
standing to get from the public a, bit more
than the law allowed. The wholesalers had
fixed their price, and for the grocers to
charge more than the stipulated 3d. meant
trouble; so they looked round their shops
for the handiest article of general consump-
tion, and perceived kerosene, and kerosene
promptly went up 6d. per tin. Kerosene
not yet being* a “human foodstuff,” the \ 10.
Price of Foods Board lias no control over
its distribution; so the grocer feels good
once more.
* * * *
Said a fossilised Gent. One:-
Ever heard of Wehrgeld? It was a money pay-
ment made In the Early and Middle Ages. nndei
English law by way of compensation to an injured
person or to the relatives of a person who had been
murdered. There was a regular tariff: for GOO solidi
you could murder a man in his own house, and tor
half that sum you could do it in the open. Attemp s
to murder cost 60 solidi apiece, and you could draw
blood for 15 solidi or open the brain for 45. Three
was the fixed price for a slight assault such as
knocking a tooth out or blackening an eye. Those
were the days when a man who wanted to paint the
town red could exactly calculate the cost before-
hand, and on the way home probably have enough
left for a couple of slight assaults on the police.
But all that’s gone—heigh-ho ! # ,
“W.C.M.”: “Chug” (B. 15/7/T5) is a bit
late in urging the introduction of a decimal
system into Australia. I can t speak
elsewhere, but here in Brisbane most hrnm
use decimals for ail work except actua
accounts. The system works m shillings
and decimals, and lias not the obnoxious
farthing. A penny is reckoned as .Its-ot a
shilling, and, as that isn't quite right, to
balance matters 2d. is called j and Bd. .bi*
The other pence are regular. The system xs
easy to remember, and. especially where
discounts are frequently used, easy in prac-
tice and- both labor- and time-saving Ihero
is no reason whv accounts should not, be kei t
thus save that of conservatism, seeing
that costs ai.d prices are all in shillings and
decimals. # *
A firm of stationers is to tlie foie with a
line of black-bordered notepaper, embossed
with flags in two colors, and recommended
as “suitable for conveying, thanks tor sym-
pathy received in connection with mnitar.v
bereavement.” The sting of death comes
nowadays from the bee that buzzes round
to clistii honey from the corpse.
* * *
“Jaques”: This is how they did it at a
colliery in the Newcastle district (N.S.NV.).
The Miners’ Union (local branch) decided
that if a wheeler wanted to work coal (be-
come a miner) he would have to subscribe
30s. The union intimated that it was aet-
in»' on instructions from the Miners’ Federa-
tion. The wheelers decided to “get even
by limiting the supply of skips to each pair
of miners, thus cutting down the latter s
earnings by one-half. Of course, the mineis
wouldn’t stand this, so they came out on
strike, thus cutting off the wheelers’ earn-
ings altogether. That’s what you call strat-
egy, or something.
* V. *
“Citron”: When fruit-fly made its
appearance in Central Cumberland
(N.S.W.), Seville or “marmalade” oranges
were found to be the favorite breeding-
ground of the pest; and as Seville's-weren’t
a good paying crop the growers rooted up
the trees and planted varieties which didn’t
attract the fly. This line of action assisted
materially in checking the insect. But as one
result of the war in Europe there has de-
veloped a tremendous demand for marma-
lade. Tempted by high prices r for Seyill.es,
the same orchardists are rushing the nur-
series for stocks, and are again filling up
their holdings with them. _So one pest
begets another, and the Kaiser and the
Fruit-fly go marching along together.^
A relic of old Sydney turned its face to
the wall recently. It was a weighbridge
erected in the first place for the Brickfield
Hill hay market nearly 70 years ago. When
there was no hay market at Brickfield Hill
ihe City Council decided to make the bridge’s
old hones creak again under the weight of
garbage at Moore Park tip; but the insult
was too much, and the ancient broke down.
Thereupon a sentimental bloke of an aider-
man proposed that the remains should be
interred. Carried. 1i.1.P.
* * * *
During the season just closed the Pawned
Dominion sent .T. Bull 36,000 tons of first-
class cheese, which is easily a record for
Maoriland. And if the climatic conditions
are anything like, it expects to increase
those- figures next season by at least 30 per
cent.
AN APPEAL TO POETS AND POLITICIAN’S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tell me not in mournful numbers
That the end of war is near;
Ev'ry song of love encumbers
Minds that never were too clear.
While the blither-writer slumbers.
Tell us why our meat’s so dear I
Do not hiadden us with lying 1
Make less patriotic row !
While, to Chants of (late replying'.
Other poets beat the brow,
All such sprees yourself denying,
Say why there’s no butter noiv l
N.S.W.
TERMINUS.


The BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
h
ĥ
B32—REMINGTON HAMMERLESS REPEAT-
breech, side elector sf-rn/)^ G Motlel )2 > 22-calibre, solid
short, 12 lone- or 11 l 18 . 1 l-fl SUP ’ “f m * round barrel, handles 15
front sights; weight 411°b 8 ” 6 cartriflges : adjustable rear and open
Delivered, 52/fj.
&
We Repair
All Kinds
of GUNS
and
RIFLES.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
aii Sporting Goods
Post Free Anywhere.
THE MAXIM SILENCER for attaching to rifles I,
marrefo"'Se’sl'i'otfng .W™ " M T m The
Silencer for 22-cal. rifles £l5/.
Silencer for all otlier calibre rifles. ... £2 2/6
Postage on one Silencer—N.S.W., ,9d. ; Inter-State, *l/2. '
Wedging or screwing Silencer on 22-cal. barrel. . 7/6 extra
Screwing Silencer on all other barrels 12/6 extra
MICK SIMMONS I t p'
NAYMARKET
•SYDNEY*
Citv sJt.n . S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
y p ts Depot. 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
849-
■MAUSER CARBINE AND PISTOL COMBINED; 10-shot
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards.
Delivered £6/10/-
ħ
BIO-
— ‘THE SAVAGE” REPEATING
HAMMEREESS RIFLE, 1914
MODEL, 22-cal. rim fire, 24in
octagon barrel, slide action, dis-
elvrvnw’ pistol - grip ,’ handles short, long or long rifle
cartridges ' , mag f Ine holds 7,° short - 1" long or 15 long rifle
? length over all 40in., taken apart 27Jin.; weight.
abGllt °* lb - Delivered...... £3/8/-
h
B2J)—REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. 6 Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel,
weight 3-Jib 17/fi
B3o —With ladder rear sights 21/-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.
2/8 Inter-State.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE, British made. Sampleßoxof 5—2/67posUreeT
ĥ
R2—STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
_2-r-al. R.F., round barrel. 20in. chambered for Ion"
nlle cartridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut
stock, open front and rear sights, weight 41b.. 10/6
Postage—N.S.W. 1/9; Inter-State 3/2.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
... Sdence has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, lever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs,
its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the,|orpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane* lo a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the.4vhole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHU'tj’E, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal, attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial 7
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing ..
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O’Connell St.,
SYDNEY. .
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
ISAPATRIOTISH
imam Your
*7AIM? e -
Then have adtfOT
Ft at smoking
Referee
tk
tv <■
The Australian Tobacco
Cv
1
_L
T
I
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrie
England, 6d. How to Gkt Rich, is posted. Dp,. Lamar-
tink’s Silent Friund, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly's Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition. 40 engravings, is.
How to Danck,, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. ° Moll
Flandhrs, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Hojise, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is fid. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyrook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book. 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport
ingPamphlet, 1/2.' The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.. Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Like
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and tiie Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blaten-
. ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Houses,
’s 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/8.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook's Guide, Is 6d
SK
B
i
il
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-eovered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING GAUDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, F'UTUIUTi, &c., with lull directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
'Vin at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing. Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plav Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That R.ascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to \a.mp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer. Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s' 6d.
Sklf Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers' Handybook, Is 3d!
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wanna S's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
oth-rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee's Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women's Secrets. Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your rash. SW-Established 2o Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 8i 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT I’KO.M THIS ADVT.
W rite for my....
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the ls
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho -eimi’ne
Is. Odd Hush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Mi word's Mid’
wipe's Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/tl. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete"
l/o. Practical Palmistrv, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators Is “>d
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, K ev ’to all
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid Dost
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Sd, 2s. HOW TO liliAD HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Sons
Book, over 300 latest songs, i s 3d post free
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted"
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar."
Boilers Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is -.d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 Nfyv
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pav 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is Dyna
mos and Electric Motors. 1 s 2d. Moore’s Uni vers at
assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pao- es cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com’
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY


©~
m
m
From M. and May Moore■ photo.
MISS ELWYN HARVEY,
The Talented and Charming Young Artiste, PRAISES
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
I wish to tell you how much benefit I have received from the use ol' Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery. In my work my throat often becomes irritated from strai
aud duX aml often U would be impossible for me to go throng my part
if it were not for the benefit I get from, a dose or two of Or. Sheldon s New JJ.s
coverv Also on two occasions I have been so unfortunate as to contract a heavy
cold and on each of these occasions Or. Sheldon’s New Discovery helped me at once,
and always have
coming winter I look to it as my safeguard against the a r
easily when leaving the heated dressing-room and «oing into the chillj night
I assure you I will ri- /e-mmend it to all «iy fren,L 11ARVEV.
SAFEGUARDS FROM WINTER ILLS .
dr. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY is the' quickest,.safest
for Coughs, Colds Pleurisy. Bronchitis and at 1/6, and in
remedy that can always be relied imon. It » omamanic c. j
larger' bottles, holding two and a half times as much, at
D? Sheldon si
New Discovery
OUGHS
AND
OLD'S
ħ
a»ifißftßEEEsaaßSßa«Be»a
Try a “Rex” Cheese
Supper To-night.
When you have finished the evening paper and
feel like getting off to bed, get out the
“REX”
LUNCHEON CHEESE
and a few good unsweetened biscuits (any brand). Spread the
“Rex” Cheese to taste (no need to use butter), and wire-in.
You need not fear nightmare.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese possesses all the valuable, easily-
digested properties of properly-matured Full Cream Cheese.
The taste will take you off to bed happy.
All Grocers, in decorated tins.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are:—
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, 111*, tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for Cooking Purposes, in lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd
Carers of “REX” HAMS and BACON.
Packers of “REX” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS.
Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
H EAPED in their laps
The Grey Sisters hold
Store of small beads,
Ebon and gold.
Each bead a. day,
Golden or Jet;
Days to remember,
Days to forget.
Read after bead
Swiftly they thread,
Till the brief course
Of our journey is sped.
Then, at the last,
Snapping the string,
Touched with disdain,
Careless they fling
Into the dust
The gold and the jet—-
Days to remember,
Days to forget.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
The Double-bed Dialogues.
THE LAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE stood hesitant, adorably wavering,
her eyes lowered.
He looked at her, idly wondering,
yet admiring. The brief year of their mar-
riage had not dulled his appreciation of her
instinctive grace.
She raised her glorious eyes, and in them
he saw a new, ineffable light. She leaned
swiftly toward him, and found his strong
arms comfortably about her.
“What is it, darling?” he asked gravely.
“What is troubling my wee wifey?
She paused, as it were summoning up her
strength to tell him. Yet he was her hus-
band, her loved one.
And feeling her thus weak and wavering
in his arms he was greatly troubled.
Through his alarmed mind swept vague,
hurrying visions of calamities. _ ohe inui
made up her mind to get that Paris model at
seven guineas ; she had forged a cheque , hei
mother was coming to stay tor a tortmgnt
and maybe more ; she had irrevocably quai-
relled with the cook; her best girl-friend had
accused her of getting fat; she had discov-
ered a grey hair; the maid had smashed her
best teacup; she had become a Sultragette,
she had decided to elope with the man who
put down the new carpet; she had found out
whom he was with that Tuesday night he
had been detained at his office ; she had de-
cided to take up Christian Science a hun-
dred possible calamities, liable to happen to
any husband or any wife, took shape and
worried him. Yet he merely tightened his
arms about her slim, shrinking figure, tehe
would surely know that, whatever her crime,
he forgave her. So he held her while she
summoned up her strength to speak.
When she did speak, it was with her head
buried on his breast, and in a whisper
(These dots represent the whisper.)
Amazed, astounded, overcome, he stag-
gered, but with a herculean effort recovered
himself, and, lifting her shame-faced clnn, he
looked long in that beautiful face.
“No!” he asked incredulously. Impos-
Almost proudly she lifted her eyes to his.
“It’s true.” she quavered, as a_ blush sul-
fused her delicate features. “A e're going to
have a little, tiny. ...” , ,
(These dots represent wifely modesty.)
There !It was out. He knew now. 1 hey
both knew. He crushed her to his breast
“No, dearest,” she cried, with a quiet
little triumph. “Don’t kiss me. You know
you must be very careful with me now.
That is how it is done in novels Always
—in novels —the husband is utterly amazed
and incredulous. You see. they were mai-
ried, they loved each other, and they might
have guessed, had either of them given the
matter a moment’s consideration, that when
married people love each other there, is
always the remote possibility of the arrival
of a baby. Yet in novels the husband is the
last person to suspect. Still he ought.to have
had some suspicion. Ear one thing, the
marriage service is brutally frank about tin
purpose of marriage—-so frank that any
novelist who quoted the words in his book
would right!v be censored by the subscrip-
tion libraries. Yet. in novels, this is appar-
ently the one subject that is not discussed by
husbands and wives. .
On the stage it is just the same —something
like this
He (grimly, irrevocably): So this is the end o our
She * struck by a new thought, arresting her
sabs): Harold, listen! I have something to say
He (in a tone of litter amazement): You have some-
thing to say to me?
She (tonelessly): I have something to say to you,
Harold. , .. . • ,
He: It is no use. We two. man and wife, have said
all that can he said. We have said far, far too
much. After this, what more can lie said? (In
a tone, that he strives to make casual) I am
leaving for Macgillicuddy Reeks by the first tiain
after breakfast.
She (sadly): Maegillicuddv Reeks?
He (grimly and finally): Maegillicuddv Reeks!
She: Ah! (She moves a step toward him, hut re-
coils from the cold impassivity of his face.) iso;
it’s no use.
ITb (sadly): Nothing is of any use — now.
She (failing limply into the ottoman): Nothing.
(She wipes the inside corners of her eyes, being
careful not to touch her cheeks.) ......
He (drawn against his will towards her): Alicia.
(The telephone rings. He pauses. The telephone
rings again. After a moment’s hesitation he
crosses up R. and snatches up the receiver ) Yes
Yes.... Yes.... N 0.... Yes.... h 0....
Yes. (lie puts down the telephone and stands a
moment looking down on her. Then, with a
shrug, he moves slowly to the bedroom door, up
L.C.Y Good night. . , , . „
She (without looking up, into her handkei chief).
He (with a yearning movement stretches out Ins arms
to her 'then with a sigh takes the key from the
bedroom door and opens the door. A gorgeous
double-bed is disclosed, He gazes sadly upon it,
then inserts the key carefully m the lock in-
She Ull the while she has been wondering what he
has been up to. The noise of the key arrests her
attention. She looks up. horror-stricken, and
springs toward the bedroom door.); Harold!
He: Good night, Alicia! (Be passes inside andshuts
the door. The noise of the key prating in the
lock is so loud, in that hush of suspense, that it
seems to come from the prompt wing.)
She (rushing up L.C. and hurling herself up> -■
locked door, with low intensity): Haroiai
(There is no answer.) Dinkeydumps! (This is
her pet name for him. This is what she used
call him fondly in those old , old days before i J
were married, seven months ago. She uses i no
in a moment of feminine inspiration. If Uini.ej-
dumps” fails, all is indeed over. She in
a beautifully strainqd attitude. Then the key is
heard grating harshly—quite obviously this time
from the prompt side of the wings, and the <l>
slowly opens. lie is seen standing m the door-
way in his pyjamas—a lonely figure with some-
thing infinitely appealing in his attitude.)
He (in a restrained voice): Well?
She: I have something to say to you, darling.
He: You have something to say to met
She: Something telephone rings. She
rushes to it.) N 0.... N 0.... No ■. • • No !
(She drops the telephone, and rushes bail,..)
Something that might change all our lives, some-
thing that might even prevent you taking
the first train after breakfast for Macgillicudc y
]{ ee kg J
lle (struck): Ha! (Coming down R.C.). You have
something to say to me? ,
She: Yes something but (She hesitates, a
pitiable figure of beautiful distress.) Comeclosci,
Harold. Let me whisper. ~ , ,
He (hesitates, looks longingly at the clouble-bcd.
then, cheerfully contemptuous, with the air that
a husband always adopts to his wife when she is
serious, he takes her outstretched arms and draws
her to his breast.) You have something to whis-
per to me?
She (whispers): ....
He (a look of utter amazement comes to Ins face. lie
straightens himself, triumphant m his striped
pyjamas): No? (With tremendous awe, to him-
self.) A child! " ... , - i.
She (to clear up any possible doubt, with emphasis).
Out child !
He (slowly taking it in): Our —(The telephone rings.
He strides to it and hurls it to the floor.) Our
She 'f'back again in his arms, with infinite humility
and tenderness): So—for his (struck by a doubt)
or her sake, Harold! , „ ~
He (proudly): No, Alicia. For your sake. For the
sake of his mother!
[Curtain.]
Brought up on novels and the diama, as
all of us moderns are, I had imagined that
in some such dramatic way Babette would
some day break the news to me. That was
before I was married. After marriage many
things lose their dramatic quality.
We lay for a long time silent. And then
I wondered : “It’s bound to be a boy .
“No,” said Babette with decision; its
going to be a girl.” T , . ~ .
I capitulated at once. It was Babette s
affair, of course ; and if she had decided on
a girl there was nothing more to be said.
But we talked excitedly for an hour, both
feeling strangely important. There was a
careful calculation of dates, and Babette
decided to go and discuss the matter tuily
next day with her mother. And then we re-
lapsed into our own thoughts, and I thought
that Babette had slipped off to sleep.
I was just lapsing into unconsciousness
when Babette stirred. She was quietly sob-
bing. .
“What is it, dearest?’ I whispered.
“Oh, love, I’m afraid ! Afraid !”
A cold fear struck at my. heart. 'Non-
sense,” I hectoringly said. “It’s only a
natural business after all. Millions of other
women have done it.” ...
“I know,” she bravely ventured. It s silly
of me, but I’m afraid.” , 1
I felt a horrible brute. Wby couldu t men
have their fair share in this business'? nhy
was everything put on to the woman? If
seemed dreadfully unfair.
“Sweetheart.” I said. “I’m sorry dread-
fully sorry. I never thought of what you’d
have to go through—on your own, too. If
only it wasn’t true ! We’re enough for each
other, aren’t we'? —just we two. H e don t
want a third to come between us, do we?
“No,” said Babette: “we do. / do. And it
it must be. I’ll go through with it bravely.
Only, dearest, he kind to me always —be kind
to me.” _ ..
I tried to comfort her, but I could not
comfort myself. She sobbed herself to sleep.
This marriage business isn’t all fun.
And next morning she was pathetically
brave, except for her pondering eyes.
Then began the long, long wait. Babette
had always been at the caprice of her moods:
now she became the slave of them. One day
she would be simply mad with the brimming
joy of life, a day-long song on her lips and a
dance in her toes; and that evening she
would be morose, ill-tempered, miserable,
even snappy. All I could do was to stand
aside and ' watch the life-process taking
charge of her. She had slipped away from
her husband. She had sworn allegiance to
something other. She had days when she
withdrew herself from me; her eyes, bent on
her interminable sewing, saw strange, un-
communieable visions. And then she would
break down and tell me with tears how sorry
for me she ivas. She was going to have a
baby;' and something, not herself, had shut
me out of all her rapture. Then would come
those dreaded wakings in the night, when
Fear —vague, tremendous Fear —gripped her
with icy claws. She knew she was drifting
away from me. yet how pathetically, how
wistfully she blindly sought, with unexpec-
ted little childish tendernesses, to take me
with her on the dark road she must tread
alone —with that glorious light beaconing for
her ahead.
Yet Babette proudly preened herself.. _ She
was managing this new and difficult business
of having a baby with all the ease and cer-
tainty of a mother of ten. Gradually I got
a new respect for my wife. Here she was,
practically an inexperienced child, getting a
baby born as if she had been doing it all her
life. Perhaps she had been doing it all her
lives —all her innumerable lives since the
female first came to complicate this clumsy
old earth.
But there was another aspect of her case
•that saddened her.
“It’s my figure.” she would whisper. “I
looked at 'myself to-day. and.... oh, it’s hor-
ribly unfair.”
“But,” I protested, “I can’t see any differ-
ence.”
“Nonsense! You must. Why only yester-
day Mi's. Marshall asked me straight out.
It’s nice of you to say that you don’t notice
it. dearest; but you’re just saying that to
please me. What makes it so much worse is
that I have a figure to lose. There’s heaps
of girls that haven’t.”
But I convinced her. gratefully, that I
didn’t notice any difference. For the truth
(Continued on next page.)


Keep PEPS handy
&
ff/'
m
0
*
#//
I
AGOEDEN RULE for
mothers is never to
neglect the first sign of a cold
or chill in their children; and the
best and surest way to stop a cough,
and thus arrest the beginning of chest
weakness, is to give the little sufferer a
few Peps breathable tablets. One tablet, or,
in the case of infants, half a tablet crushed
into a powder and placed on the tongue, will
immediately prove beneficial.
Peps have two great advantages over old-fashioned
cough mixtures and cheap lozenges. Firstly, as Peps .
dissolve in the mouth they give off soothing, healing
and lung-strengthening fumes that are breathed into
the throat, bronchial tubes and lungs. This is the
only way to stop a cough and end that wheeziness,
hard breathing, choking, whooping and chest soreness
that distress a child so much.
Secondly, Peps are perfectly free from opium, laud-
anum and other harmful drugs, and can be given to
delicate children with an assurance of absolute benefit.
Pleasant to. the taste and soothing in action. Peps are
favorites with the children. It is an excellent plan to
keep Peps for children’s use before setting out for
school on a damp day, and thus keep at bay colds,
whooping cough, croup, sore throat, bronchitis and even
pneumonia.
Peps are the real safeguard against Winter’s on-
coming dangers, and will keep the children’s chests
strong and their lungs healthy.
PEPS GO DIRECT TO THE LUNGS.
Peps, the great breathing remedy for throat and chest com-
plaints, are excellent for Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sore and
Relaxed Throat, Night Cough, Early Morning Cough, Hoarseness,
Bronchial Colds, Chest Tightness, Wheeziness, Influenza Cough.
Winter Cough, Chest Weakness in Children, Smoker’s Throat and
other Throat, Chest and Lung Ailments. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores at 1/6 and 3/- per box, or direct, post paid, from the
nronrietors, C. E. Fulford (Australasia), Ltd., 39 I'itt Street,
Sydney.
Mother’s Praise for Peps.
“My two children suf-
fered from very severe
colds,” writes Mrs. Ethel
Nyes, of 54 McKenzie
Street, Leichhardt, Syd-
ney, “which were accom-
panied by such fearful
coughs that I became very
anxious. My mother, who
had herself been cured by
P e p s of Bronchitis,
strongly advised me to
administer them to the
little ones, and after tak-
ing a few of the Pastilles
the cough eased, phlegm
was freely ejected, and a
continuation of the Peps
treat ment completely
cured them. Now we are
never without a box of
Peps always handy, es-
pecially in the winter
months.”
For Coughs, Co Ids & Bronchi! is
BREATHE
THE
PURE
A
PINE-AIB
0?
PEPS.
ffininninmiiinniniiiii
nun
ijllllHilllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllll
CSU«lllll!IIIiHIII!llll!!!!lillll!lljill!!H
Hats capS
AND
HELMETS
of all First-class Hatters
throughout the Commonwealth.
The name TRESS stands for the height
h
of English fashion and quality.
Makers —Tress & Co., Ltd., London, Eng.
Wholesale Agents—Cox & Mailer,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Christchurch,
V
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation,
hand suited exactly.
'Swam safety
Every
The
3
Can't L'-aK,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MAtSIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKB, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
was that I didn’t. I don’t know whether all
husbands are. the same: I ana only a begin-
ner as a husband myself; but unconsciously
I had got into the habit of not seeing Bab-
ette’s altered figure.
It was curious to find how interested both
Babette and I got in Mrs, Bi’idges. She was
a mere acquaintance of ours; neither Bab-
ette nor I had ever cared anything for her
Yet Babette got to know, by means of that
world-wide freemasonry among women,
that Mrs. Bridges ‘’expected” the very same
week that Babette did. That fact made my
wife and Mrs. Bridges the closest of friends.
They visited each other constantly, almost
daily conferring—-and comparing. I, too, got
drawn into the friendship, and Bridges—the
sort ot fellow that hitherto I had merely
nodded to —and I had several drinks together
on the absorbing subject, and at least one
bet. That one momentous fact swept away all
our differences. We arranged that whoever
won would inform the other at the first pos-
sible moment. j
Suddenly, amid all these growing excite-
ments, Babette got anxious about
paper in the bedroom. She was sure- thdf it
wasn’t at all the right tint of wall-paper Tor
babies to be born to. Pink, she thought . .
I had to choose new wall-paper.
Once she had been an enthusiastic gar-
dener, spending happy hours pottering about
in a big shady hat with toy tools, pulling up
seedlings and carefully watering weeds.
Now she let the garden go—with excellent
cultural l'esults. She was too busy sewing.
The amount of clothing that new-born babies
require, especially the amount of ribbons!
And the quantities of clothing that new
mothers must have, especially for convales-
cing in ! The main thing, 1 learnt, that new-
born babies insist upon is that everything
must be hand-made. There were, too, grave
preoccupations about cradles.
The nurse had been ordered well in ad-
vance. But a few months later Babett-'
suddenly took a deep distrust to the nurse.
I had thought her an excellent woman—a
little too fond of discussing things in whis-
pers with my wife. Now Babette soooingly
declared that she hated her; and that she
was sure Baby would hate her too.
‘lt would be a terrible thing for Baby to
have to associate with somebody she didn’t
like at the very moment she arrived,
wouldn’t it?”
So I ordered a new nurse. By now the
house was in a. state of wild excitement.
One night it culminated. At 2 a.m. I tele-
phoned for the nurse. And next morning
Babette could look neither the nurse nor
myself in the face. Nothing had happened.
However, it didn’t matter so much after all,
as there was no news from the Bridges’
stable. It was evidently going to be a neck-
and-neek race. .Ml that day the superfluous
nurse waited around, trying to look as if she
wasn’t wanted. But Babette had a deter-
mined look on her face. She felt that she
had deceived both of us. and she meant to
carry out her contract at the earliest possi-
ble moment. But that night nothing hap-
pened either, and Babette declared that she
wasn’t going to have that reproachful-look-
ing nurse waiting about any more, freezing
her with a baleful glance. So we packed her
off; but, unknown to Babette, I used to let
her in surreptitiously every night after 11,
gave her a bed in the spare room, and shooed
her off before Babette got up. So things
went on for a fortnight.
“I’m sure that it’s all a mistake,” Babette
sobbed. She refused to be comforted till I
got the doctor. He cheerfully advised her
to persevere.
This baby business seemed to me shock-
ingly mismanaged. Here we were all ready
to the last open-work bed-jacket and the
last dozen serviettes —and that stubborn
idiot of a baby refused to arrive. However,
the Bridges baby showed the same stupid
determination.
Then, one night, after Babette had gone
to sleep in a dreadfully pessimistic mood, she
woke me up with a sharp erv. I rushed for
the nurse. That hateful woman had a look
at her. then went back and dressed with
awful deliberation, fiddling over her cud's and
appealing to me to say whether her cap was
on straight when looked at from the back.
And Babette pushed me from her with a
look of positive loathing.
After that, I had seven, or seven hundred,
hours to appreciate how useless, how utterly
superfluous, a husband is. I pretended to
make myself useful, telephoning for the doc-
tor, and doing a hundred quite unnecessary
things. I couldn’t stay in the house. I
couldn’t stay outside if. I tracked miles up
and down stairs. I hovered outside that
shut door, listening, and then I had to rush
away so that I couldn’t listen.
And it was our double-bed —that dear
double-bed we had chosen so lovingly, that
double-bed that had been the scene of all our
intimate talks—it was that double-bed that
was now the operating-table for that
brutally cheerful doctor and that balefully
business-like nurse, and it was my Babette
that had to lie on it in torture. That was
its use, its destined purpose. All the while,
through all our interminable, delightful dia-
logues, it-—like Death—had been waiting.
Then —I don’t know how many yeai's after
—ns I waited miserably half-way up the
stairs, 1 heard a kitten crying. A tiny, weak
kitten, mewing with determination. I wrath-
fully wondered where that kitten was. From
the sound it seemed to be actually in Bab-
ette’s bedroom. I didn’t even know that
there was a kitten in the house—it struck
me as dreadfully inconsiderate of our cat to
have kittens just at the moment that Bab-
ette was having a baby. So like a cat! And
how criminally cai’eless of that callous nurse
to allow the animal in the bedroom at this
time! I wanted to rush in and hurl that
kitten out of the window. It was mewing
so strenuously that 1 couldn’t hear a sound
from Babette.
Had they killed her? 1 had always hated
that doctor, with his big. brutal hands. Mad-
dened, I knocked at the door. I didn’t care
what happened, but I was going to wring the
neck of that kitten. . . .and after that I was
going to wring the neck of that doctor.
The nurse opened the door, with a weary
smile on her face.
“It’s a girl—and hasn’t the little beggar
got lungs?” she whispered. There was a
horrible sickly odor about her. Had she been
drinking?
“I must see Babette!” I cried.
She smiled. “Go away for a walk, and
come back in half an hour, and then, per-
haps, if you’re very quiet, you may come in
for just a peep. Everything was splendid,
perfectly normal, and the baby is a beauty. ’
I waited downstairs. The kitten continued
to mew,
At last the doctor came heavily down-
stairs. . “Splendid,” he said wearily. “It's
my third case to-night, and this was the
easiest of the lot.”
“Easy !” I cried. “Easy !”
* * * *
A month later I was allowed back into the
double-bed.
T lay happily watching Babette—the slim
and white Babette of her wedding morn—
feeding Babettekins.
Babettekins was greedy—the greediest
atom I have ever seen or ever want to see;
She guzzled. A horrible sight. Yet neither
Babettekins nor her mother was in the least
ashamed. Babette was even fiercely proud.
And when, at last, the babe lay back, in-
capable, bloated, drunk with milk, she looked
like a Horrible Warning against- the evils
of drink. But Babette didn’t see it. To her
Babettekins was the loveliest, the sweetest,
the most deliciously eatable thing pn earth.
And, to my shame, I admit that I thought so,
too.
And we had beaten the rival stable by
three days!
I lay blissfully content and watched my
wife. Now, only now, I understood why we
had fallen in love with each other, whv we
had married, why we had bought a double-
bed. Her figure, that once I had believed
was merely made to cuddle and caress, I now
saw was meant for nothing of the kind.
Her beautiful bosom was soft and rounded
and white—not for me, but for the babe. And
didn't Babettekins know it! That part of
my Babette was strictly utilitarian—like a
private bar. And Babette was inordinately
proud of herself as a mere provider of nour-
ishment.
I hen, with infinite care—these atoms are
so breakable—Babette placed Babettekins
between us, and we leant gently over her
and watched her sunk in a drunken sleep.
And as we watched, awe-struck, suddenly
Babettekins raised a tiny petal of a hand,
and lifted one absurd little finger, pointing.
“Oh, the ducky kins!” Babette breathed in
rapture.
And “Oh, the duckykius!” I breathed, too.
-1 hen, perhaps an hour later, Babettekins
decided to wake. She opened those violet
depths of eyes and looked gravely aiid sol-
emnly through me. I don’t know what she
s aw,_ but immediately she began, without
emotion or anger, to yell. Babette gathered
her to her breast, and, sitting up in bed,
began furiously to rock the little oink imp.
with a contorted face that looked like a vol-
canic convulsion.
“What’s the matterV” I asked. “Shall I
get the doctor?”
“Nonsense!” Babette scorned the mere
man. “It’s only wind.”
“Babette!” I said.
She didn’t hear me. She was too busy
frying to hush Babettekins. Perhaps she
con Id n t hear me. Babettekins was too busv
yowling.
I knew then that our double-bed dialogues
were over. Never again could we two talk
to each other of intimate things in that
delightful hour of the darkness before sleep.
For there were three in the double-bed now ;
and you can’t have a dialogue when there
are three persons present.
Especially when the third person is busy
all the time soliloquising.
HENRY JAMES JAMES.
The Editor’s Job.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tjn IIK editor always has the last word.
Unless, of course, he is a married
editor.
The ancient British Tommy, after having
lowered the bayonet, on the end of which he
had been tremulously agitating liis cap for
half an hour at the enemy’s moss-grown
trenches without drawing tire, cautiously
exposed his bakl and toothless head, and
cocked his eye over the parapet. Nothing met
his rheumy gaze but the surface of a bat-
tered section of Flanders. With the querulous
oaths of an octogenarian lie hobbled out of
the trench and tottered towards the German
lines.
Here he found a veteran in a mouldering
pikelhaube, dozing in the light sleep of old
age.
A precisely similar drama, at precisely the
same instant, was enacting itself in Russia,
where a decrepit Slav attempted to rouse an
incredibly-wrinkled Bavarian from slumber.
Each man was exhausted; so was his ammu-
nition; so, almost, was the Job-like patience
ot the Russ.
He grasped his enemy’s shoulder. He shook
and shook.
On the Italian frontier a solitary soldier
of the Bersaglieri, old enough to be the
father of Randolph Bedford’s oldest Dago
cicerone, was tremulously driving back on
his second line of defence an Austrian
patriarch in the last stage of senile decay
His hacking cough was pitiful to hear.
Across Gallipoli a venerable Turk hobbled
as rapidly as age and an uneven terrain
would permit from a tottering Australian,
who shook a tremulous and rusty bayonet at
his receding foe. So long had he sojourned
underground that the Australian resembled
an old, old wombat.
On the crumbling remains of the Port
Melbourne pier stood the 999t1i reinforce-
ment of the Australian Expeditionary Force.
While awaiting the transport that never
came he was filling in with palsied hand an
old-age-pension application form.
In the House of Representatives a mem-
ber murmured to empty benches that the
time was not yet ripe for conscription.
In the streets there was nobody to eon-
scribe.
In the Censor’s Office an aged dignitary
informed a centenarian sub-editor that the
name of the Ark might be removed from the
list of transports which it was forbidden to
mention.
In his remote and sacred sanctum a dilapi-
dated editor penned an editorial prophesy-
ing that the war would begin in earnest in
the spring.
KETTLEDRUM.


WESTINGHOUSE
(Morse) CHAIN DRIVES
UK
h#
#■»
lit
<1
HI #3
51
ill
I#
r ■ u
m
s
5' :»** V\
il|P I f
;■ '1
htiit'
For all types of high-speed power
transmission.
Positive in Action,
Siient in Operation,
Unrivalled in Efficiency,
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to sliding
surfaces. Consequently you have
Full Power,
Continuous Power,
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
■ .^LiA
CUT DOWN B
EXPENSES !
SHARPEN YOUR SAWS WITH THE
‘BAHCO’ AUTOMATIC
SAW GRINDING
MODERATE
PRICE
MACHINE.
TAKES FRAME SAWS OF ANT LENGTH.
CIRCULAR SAWS TO 46' IN DIAMETER.
Immediate Delivery from Stock.
SOLE AGENTS!
The Austral Engineering
Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
O sizes in one tool—
® the best- all-round
die-stock you can own.
O STE R
BULL-
DOG
Die-Stocks
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
FOR SALE BY LEADING
DEALERS IN ALL CITIES.
ĥ
OSTER
BULLDOC
No. 104’,
f to r
8 Sizes.
ħ
im
*
ANTISEPTIC
Pastilles
h
THESE wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a
formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading singers throughout the world.
The celebrated t Madame Tetrazzini writes : “ . uiank you for
the boxes of Evans' Pastilles sent me, which 1 find excellent and
efficacious.”
Sole Mnnu ‘ncturer* :
EVANS SONS LESCHER. & WEBB, L»d„ LONDON.a
Ask for “EVANS” Pastilles and see you get them.
m
xr
5:
8-Hour Diamond Jubilee Art Union
PRIZES VALUE £4OOO.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General)..
DRAWN OCTOBER 80, 1015.
Ist Prize, talue £B5O. 2nd Prize, value £450.
3rd Prize, value £BOO.
And 307 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prtre last year was wo« by Mr M M WHltt
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SH HaLlSc! *
C.KT A TICKET & HAVE A CHANCE FOB 1015
Results of Drawing will he advertised in this paper an November t.
i I ’^ son f^ ru , ar ' ,inif ■Sniped addressed envelope a list
of the results will t>e posted k. I t f
Arenu in all towns, or dim t from “ 7 he *“ d from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary,
“bonne camaraderie:
Good mates
and Good Medicine!
«3T*>-
r-\
flr y
\ cMh
N
Nr?
gns
Take
BtCCHAMSPILLS
For Active Service.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Tho Original anti Only Gmnuinm
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL,
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
t/I*. 2/S & 4/b.
Made in England.
ĥ
Checks Fever-
ishness. and
eftectu all y
cuts short all
attacks el
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLOS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aota like a charm In
D/ARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
- -— 1
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray's Engiish Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogrs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Coi
retro I Unions
from 7cL each.
We Cater to Supply the Wants of
THE PETROL COMMUNITY.
No matter what Fitment you require for
THE EXPLOSIVE ENGINE we can fix you up.
OUR. STOCKS COMPRISE:-
Crease Cups
from Bd. each.
Petrol, Oil and Air Cocks,
Valves, Lubricators,
Grease Cups, Strainers,
etc,, etc,, etc.
a
n
w
All kinds of Copper, Brass,
Iron, Tin, Aluminium and
other Metallic Sheets,
Tubes and Fittings.
••nd for Illustrated Catalogues—
Freo.
m
Priming Cocks from V 3 sack.
Sole Agents for the SCHEBLER CARBURETTER
Robert C. Swan S Co. Ltd.
c
Extra Air Cocks
from I B each. fl
Petrol Strainers
from 4/- earn.
304 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.


iNGROvrr
LEATHER F
3520
has been awarded the Gov-
ernment Contracts for 1915-
1916.
It is All-Australian—from
Australian Hides, tanned
and manufactured by Aus-
tralian Workmen.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 WYNYARD SQUARE. SYDNEY.
In the busy Engineer’s Shop
they count for Big Savings
in TIME, POWER & LABOR.
ħ
“CINCINNATI”
Portable Eledric
HAND AND BREAST DRIERS.
HEAVY DUTY DRIERS.
TOOE POST GRINDERS.
BENCH GRINDERS.
The Economy and Convenience of these Tools have been recognised
wherever they have been installed. ALTERNATING OR
DIRECT CURRENT.—Any Lamp Socket is a source of Power,
and Current is consumed only when the Tool is operating.
Call and see a Demonstration, or write for Catalogue.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
¥5
ffggGrfigggj
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Soi.b Agents
Jas. Hardie 8 Co,
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY,
And MELBOURNE.
Is “Economy
jj
Your
———
Watchword ?
If so you will be deeply
interested in the increased
steaming power of your boiler,
the more satisfactory working
of your engine, the greater
efficiency of your whole plant,
and, further, the big reduction
in your fuel bill, all of which
can be accomplished by the
adoption of
Newafl’s Magnesia
Sectional Steam
Pipe Coverings and
Plastic Boiler
Covering
the EXCEPTIONAL EFFICIENCY of which has placed it
FAR ABOVE ALL OTHER MATERIALS.
The above claims are not merely “idle words,” but are all
clinched by FACTS in evidence of which we might mention
that Newall’s Coverings have been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments, and have been used throughout
Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses, in addition to which we have
orders on hand for the insulating throughout of Perth, Melbourne
and Canberra Power Stations.
Should further argument be necessary, we append the comparative
covering capacities of Newall’s Plastic Boiler Covering and ordinary
asbestos.
lcwt. ordinary asbestos will cover 40 sq. ft. x lin. thick.
lewt. Newall’s Plastic Magnesia will cover 100 sq. ft. x lin.
thick.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming
Patent “ Nelyambo ’’ Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
J. A. Fay 8 Egan Co.’s Woodworking Machinery.
FURNITURE, PIANO AND WOODWORKING SHOPS WILL BE
INTERESTED
to know that we have opened up, in our Showroom, a
No. 225 TRIPLE DRUM SAND-PAPERINC MACHINE,
and, If perfect surfaces are wanted, either far varnishing' or painting:, thia is the
machine for YOU.
Also in Stock—Arm, Column, Sash and Door Sanders.
No. 50 Special Patent Band Saw, for all kinds of plain or Intricate scroll
•awing:. This machine represents the “Acme” of perfection in Band Saws:
PLANERS, MATCHERS, HOLDERS, JOINTERS,
DOOR CLAMPS, SURFACERS, TEXONERS.
Carried In stock by Sole Agents:—
H. P. GREGORY ®. CO.,
and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
J
/
A
9
ip*
V
NAT SEMI-DIESEL
OIL ENGINES
MARINE or STATIONARY.
Sole Australian Azcnts:—
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd..
307-311 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
h
ĥ
m
;CjHC
isven
Shearing
Machine
m
m
ħ
SOLE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA
SUB-AGENTS :
MITCrtfU 8 CO. PROPY. ITO.
W. footscray, Melbourne,
BURNS, PHIIP & CO. ITD.,
Townsville.
MAUOCtf BROS.,
Perth, W.A.
A. 6. WtßSTfcl A SONS, LTD.,
' Mofeirl, las.
WINCHCOMBf, CARSON, ITD. #
Brisbane, Queensland.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN f ARMIRS’
CO-OP UNION, ITp,
Adelaide S.A.
REDUCE YOUR COSTS
BY USING
TILCHMAN’S patent AIR COMPRESSORS
Over 2750 in use
VOLUMETRIC
EFFICIENCY
GUARANTEED.
As Supplied to British Government.
ROPE, BELT,
STEAM or
ELECTRICALLY DRIVEN.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney and London.
