

X>XES'VST./^.IES 7 S the Veteran of Whiskies
R. O-. WATKINS £Z CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
Classes of SECURITY,
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5 W- MONT DE PIETE D QI C? HP
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. n( ] # j Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
ElilliiEliili
'S'
1
-—s*s —-
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
RICHARDSON’S
WINE SPIRIT STORES,
259 LIT. COLLINS ST.,
NEXT SWANSTON ST.
158 RUSSELL ST.,
NEXT BOURKE ST.
§
MTTnW
unun
PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
CHUBBS
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
irnEHaza
Junket
fhf
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
k.
m
•if!?
are entirely free from canvas . The rubber-cord
foundation ensures greater resiliency—longer life I
The Silvertown Rubber Co.
279 George Street, Sydney.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
w
H
I
T
E
n
(a
R
O
O
F
S
Have YOUR house roofed with White Malthoid Roofing. There is no roof-
ing that gives such absolute satisfaction as White Malthoid. Not even a
millionaire can buy a better roofing. Write to us for samples and our book-
let telling you how “good” it looks, how easily and quickly it is laid, how
proof it is against cracking and rust, how well it withstands storm and all ex-
tremes of temperature, and how eminently durable it has proved.
ft
THE PARAFFINE PAINT GO.
/ D. 8. EVANS, x
V Australasian Manager;
Challis House, SYDNEY
BULLOCH LADES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
5 TV. O.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. R
STEEL TRUCK
aioivdu
TOOTH
pa k*tit
"mr
Is Australia? Owned as well as Australian Made. Contains the right proportion of Chlorate
of Potash to use. 1/- per large tube, 1/2 Post Free. On dozen lots we pay postage.
OPALOID.
The Bulletin
YoJ. 36.—N0. 1851. J
[Thursday, August 5, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


OOKS ON WAR.
(Postages shown
in parentheses.)
Jane’s The World’s Warships, 1915, illus. 3/6 (3d.).
Barclay’s In Hoc Vince. 1/3 (Id.).
Idams’ (A. 11.) Mv Friend, Remember. 6d. (Id.).
Overheard at the Front. 1/3 (2d.).
Chesterton: Barbarism of Berlin. 9d. (Id.).
Cramb: Germany and England. 1/3 (Id.).
Bulow’s Imperial Germany. 2/9 (3d.).
Cowen’s Wake Up. 1/3 (2d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP'T’Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSONS
Eumenthol
JUJUBES
For COUGHS,
COLDS, SORE
THROAT,
and the
Prevention of
Consumption.
A. The Larynx or
organ of voice.
B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
The
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A lobe of one
Of the lungs.
if ft
mu
LET THE BUYER BEWARE !
CAUTION.—The large sale for “Eumen-
thol JUJUBES" has led to a number of imita-
tions being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S “Kumenthol Jujubes.’’ You may,
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good’’ as Hudson’s “Eumen-
thol Jujubes.’’ This proves that, these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s “Eunien-
tliol Jujubes.”
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Tins, 1/6.
re
The Red Page
Reginald Bliss Wells
Of course, Reginald Bliss, the alleged
author of Boon, The Mind of the Race, The
Wild Asses of the Devil, and The Last
Trump (Unwin), is 11. G. Wells. In the
introduction, written by H. G. Wells under
his own name, ostensibly denying that
he is Bliss, he is really emphatic-
ally stating that he is. Thus, he
deliberately drags in “a certain insepar-
able intimacy betwen Mr. Reginald Bliss
and myself” as the reason for his preface.
Then he goes on to confess that he hasn’t
read the book through, though he has a first-
hand knowledge of its contents, and unneces-
sarily criticises it as “an indiscreet, ill-
advised book.” A writer of Wells’ stand-
ing does not contribute prefaces to books
that he hasn’t read, nor is he likely to be
guilty of the discourtesy of damning the
book that he is introducing to the public.
True, Wells draws the red-herring of The
Life of George Meek, Bath Chairman,
across the scent. The authorship of that
book was, indeed, publicly assigned to Wells ;
but Wells could no more hope to write as
Meek did than he could prevent himself writ-
ing as Bliss does. And in his disingenuous
plea that the reviewer will be able to see
the necessity of distinguishing between Wells
and Mr. Reginald Bliss, the suspicion of
Wells’ complicity becomes a surety.
For he says: “I should be glad if
I could escape the public identifica-
tion I am now repudiating. Bliss
is Bliss and Wells is Wells. And Bliss can
write all sorts of things that Wells could
not do.’ L There it is! Wells could riot
satirise his fellow-authors in the delightful
way that he does, except anonymously.
Hence Bliss, who can write all sorts of
things that Wells could not. If Wells had
deliberately tried to emphasise the fact that
he was the author of Boon, Etc., he could
not have done it with more precision.
It is a curious book, essentially Wellsian,
even to his paragraphed divisions of his
chapters and his vice of trailing his sen-
tences into a tail of dots. Pretending to be
an edition of the literary remains of one
Boon, a popular novelist who gave the pub-
lic what it wanted, and put down his real
thoughts on scraps of paper, this book allows
Wells to range as discursively as in his An
Englishman Looks at the World. There
are serious ideas in it; there is Avicked
parody; there is caricature of his literary
contemporaries; and .there are two delight-
ful stories, one about a minor devil from
Hell, a shivering wretch, who smokes his
cigars from the Avrong end in the vain effort
to get warm ; and the other about the trum-
pet that had been constructed for the bloAving
of the last trump. Ultimately it Avas blown
by a certain young Cockney employed in a
motor accessories works, with stupendous
results —a twin-story to The Wonderful
Visit.
J*
Boon’s grandiose theory was that just as
each of us has a mind which with growth
becomes self-conscious, so there is a mind of
the race, Avhich, maybe, is in process, now,
of becoming self-conscious. It is not the
superman, you see, but the super-mind.
These Overminds, which for the most
part clothe themselves in separate lan-
guages and maintain a sort of distinction
....are the next higher order of being....
they manifest a collective wi11... .Physi-
cally, perhaps, Ave were the children of our
ancestors, but mentally Ave were the off-
spring of the race mind. . . .We emerged into
a brief independence of will, made our per-
sonal innovation, became, as it were, neAV
thoughts in that great intelligence, neAV ele-
ments of effort and purpose, and were pre-
sently incorporated or forgotten, or both, in
its immortal growth.
The quest of the race-mind leads Wells
into curious corners. Familiar figures ap-
pear : “George Moore, who has played uncle
to so many movements, and been so uni-
formly disappointed in his nepheAvs. .. And
William Archer, with that face of his which
is so exactly like Ms mind, a remarkably fine
face mysteriously marred by an expression
of unscrupulous integrity.” And we have a
delicious dialogue between George Moore
and Henry James, in which both gentlemen
pursue entirely independent trains of
thought. And when someone asks: “Ought
there to be such a thing as a literary artist?”
somebody else asks. “Ought there, in fact,
to be Henry James?” which leads naturally
to the art of Henry James, a stinging reply
to James’s recent criticism of Wells: —
He doesn’t find things out... .He is eager
to accept things—elaborately. You can see
from his books that he accepts etiquettes,
precedences, associations, claims. He has
one of the strongest, most abundant minds
alive in the whole world, and he has the
smallest penetration.... He is the culmin-
ation of the Superficial type. Or else he
Avould have gone into philosophy and been
greater even than his wonderful brother....
He sets himself to pick the straAvs out of
the hair of Life before he paints her. But
without the straws she is no longer the mad
woman Ave 10ve.... He omits opinions. In
all his novels you will find no people with
defined political opinions, no people with
religious opinions, none with clear partisan-
ships or with Justs or whims, none definitely
up to any specific impersonal thing. There
are no poor people dominated by the im-
peratives of Saturday night and Monday
morning, no dreaming types—and don’t we
all more'or less live dreaming? And none
are ever decently forgetful. All that much
of humanity he clears out before he begins
his story. It’s like cleaning rabbits for the
table... .These people cleared for artistic
treatment never make lusty love, never go to
angry war, never shout at an election or
perspire at poker. . . .And the elaborate, copi-
ous emptiness of the whole Henry James ex-
ploit is only redeemed and made endurable
by the elaborate, copious wit. . . .The chief
fun, the only exercise, in reading Henry
James is this clambering over vast meta-
phors.
Follows a delightful parody of a story in
the Henry James language.
One gets from this pantomime hints of
Wells’ personal preferences in literature. His
Boon gives a list of Good Books : The Crystal
Age, Said the Fisherman, Tony Drum,
George’s Mother, A Hind Let Loose, Groiv-
ing rains, and he acclaims as modern clas-
sics, with reputations ridiculously less than
they ought to be, Picktkall, W. H. Hudson,
the late Stephen Crane. And following
Ford Madox Hueffer, he laughs at the
legend of the greatness of Goethe, due to
the determination of the Germans to have
a great fleet, a great empire, a great man.
He notes the incredible dullness of Goethe’s
works. Schophauer, “that intellectual
jackdaw, Bernard Shaw,” Houston Stewart
Chamberlain, Nietzsche, are brilliantly ana-
lysed—and found negligible. “But this
kind of thing goes on and goes on, a per-
petually reinforced torrent of unreason
washing through the brain of the race.”
And then the war
War is just the killing of things and the
smashing of things. And when it is all
over, then literature and civilisation will
have to begin all over again. They will have
to begin lower down and against a heavier
load, and the days of our jesting are done.
So Wells runs amok. The subsequent
pursuit of Reginald Bliss by the mob of his
maddened literary contemporaries should
prove exciting.
Australian
The Record of Nicholas Freydon (Con-
stable, per Dymock’s Library) is published
anonymously. It purports to be the auto-
biography of an early immigrant to Aus-
tralia, who, after an adventurous youth,
became a correspondence clerk in the office
of a Sussex-street merchant, Sydney, and
later a reporter on a Sydney paper. He
journeyed to London, starved for two years
as a free-lance, then got a permanent posi-
tion on a London journal and achieved a
minor success as an author. He married
the daughter of his gin-drinking landlady,
and discovered, too late, that the vice was
hereditary. His misery came to an end
when liis wife died in prison. With a com-
petence the author came back to Australia,
took a small cottage in the country apd
there peacefully ended his days. That is
his story, and it does not sound like fiction.
Whoever Nicholas Freydon was. there
seems no reason to doubt that he existed
....and probably still exists, having in-
vented the fiction of his death the better to
assume the anonymity of this personal
record.
That Nicholas. Freydon never attained
anything but a minor success in his writings
could be easily foretold from this autobio-
graphy; for it betrays no sense of style,
no originality of outlook, little emotional
or poetical receptivity, and no suspicion of
humor; but he puts on record with a dour
and faithful realism the main aspects of
his life; and there is, too, the refreshing
frankness of speech that is possible to an
anonymous author. His personality, re-
vealed by this narrative, is that of a some-
what selfish and certainly unattractive
man. But then, if any of us expressed his
motives with absolute accuracy, it is doubt-
ful whether he would appear a hero.
Some interesting pictures of life in the
early days of Australian settlement are
given—the author mentions that lie was 15
years old in “the early seventies”—-and the
boy’s first experience of Australian life had
an aspect of romance—which, however,
N cholas Freydon does not manage to sug-
gest. The boy and his father lived in a
deserted wreck on the Queensland coast.
The death of his father led to the boy being
turned over to a Roman Catholic orphan-
age, .where, he says, “mentally, morally,
emotionally and spiritually, as well as
physically, I was rather starved.” From
that orphanage he ran away to Sydney.
£
The most interesting part of the book
deals with the author’s life with the London
poor. He accounts for “the don’t-care-a-
darnn lightheartedness seen in Australian
faces,” as contrasted with the expression of
the London. slum-dweller, by the fact that
the Australian 'has never known actual
starvation. “The ever-present knowledge
that starvation is a real factor of life, not
in Asia, but in the house next door but one,
if not in one’s own house—that is a great
moulder of facial expression. It plays no
part whatever in the life of the country
from which I had come.”
And how dose Freydon’s acquaintance-
ship with the London poor was may be seen
from this statement: “I have lived under
the same roof with men who beat their
wives ev.ery week of their lives, and figured
in the police courts every month of their
lives, when not in prison; with women who,
in their lives, had swallowed up a dozen
small homes, through the pawnshops and in
the form of gin ; with men and women who,
so degraded were they, were like as not to
kick an infant as they passed if they saw
one on the ground.... I have written
articles about Australian wattle blossom,
about the bush and the sea, with nothing
more than a few inches of filthy lath and
plaster between my aching head and such
human wrecks as these.”
During his first year Freydon wrote at
least 300 articles, etc. —and made less than
£2O. He had arrived with about £5 capital
- to conquer London. For he was knocked
down and robbed of all his savings in Syd-
ney just on his way to book his passage, •
and so had to work his way to England.
Unfortunately Freydon easts a suspicion of
credibility upon his narrative by making
use of a similar incident to explain why
lie failed to marry for the second time. He
had arranged to elope with „a girl whose
marriage with another man was fixed for
the following- day. And he was knocked
down by a vehicle in the street on his way
to. meet the girl—and did not regain con-
sciousness until after she had been married,
Nicholas Freydon, whose appreciation of
Australia is naturally that of Australia
some decades ago, sums up the Australian
iu a telling phrase. “The Australians truly
desire, as a people, that every person in
their midst should be given a fair, sporting
chance in life. ‘A fair thing! 1 Iu three
words one has the national ideal, and who
shall say . that it is not an admirable one,
remembering, that its foundation and main-
spring are kindness, and if not justice, then
desire for justice?”
J*
A. Safroni-Middleton, who writes crude
verse of the outposts of. the Empire, which,
to our cynical delight, is accepted by grave
London critics as the real robustious thing
to be expected from the “colonies,” tells us
of some years Of his wandering life in Sailor
and Beachcomber (Richards, per Dymock’s
Library). These “confessions of a* life at
sea, in Australia and amid the islands of
the Pacific.” are faithfully done, with small
pretence of reticence, but with little of in-
terest to any but the grave London critics
who think so highly of his verse. To them
the adventures and escapades of this violin-
playing ne’er-do-well will convey the pleas-
ant vicarious thrill of the exotic. But there
is a good deal about the charms of the
Samoan girls. ...and some mention of
Stevenson.
• w &
F. S. Burnell, under the absurdly cock-a-
hoop title, Australia v. Germany (Allen and
Unwin; 3s. 6d.), tells the story of the cap-
ture of German New Guinea from the tem-
porary owners. Burnell represented the
Sydney Morning Herald on this expedi-
tion, and politely mentions that “the receipt
of a large consignment of copies of the Syd-
ney Morning Herald on- the morning of
the departure of the transport was appreci-
ated with very genuine gratitude by every-
' body on board” —which shows what an in-
teresting paper that paper must be. His
story is not, in essentials, new to Australian
readers, but, though Burnell is not a Bean,
he contrives to give an excellent journalistic
impression of the adventure. The photo-
graphs illustrating the account display no
originality on the part of the taker; they
consist chiefly of views in Rabaul and of
marching troops. There is no incident in
them.
The Sequel, by George A. Taylor (Build-
ing, Ltd., Grosvenor-street, Sydney ; 6d.). is a
series of wild and whirling prophecies about
the war and after. The narrative is pre-
sumed to be that of an Australian air-man,
whose experiences in the war are full of in-
cident. The Allies make their long foretold
but apparently mislaid advance during this
year, and win. Germany sues for peace, but
not the Germany that began the war. A new
humanist movement sweeps away the German
throne, and the general elections return the
pop.ular party to power. Next, this move-
ment spreads throughout the world. As the
various combatant States had assumed con-
trol of practically all their industries, assur-
ing the laborers work and limiting the em-
ployers’ profits, Labor throughout the world
insists on such a Socialistic- step being con-
firmed, the profits going to the common good.
However, Belgium and Australia resist the
movement; and Australia becomes a paradise
for the capitalists, who form the usual syndi-
cate, “until the world saw the anomaly of a
Socialistic country having all its public works
and great armies of workers under the con-
trol of a capitalistic syndicate.” Belgium,
the single nation that had stood against
Socialism, became “a haven for the thought-
ful and ambitious who were forced out of
humanist nations.” Much more happens, but
apparently Australia finds its salvation as a
syndicate-controlled continent! The advan-
tage of making so many pTophecies is that
there is a possibility that one or more of
them will come off.
• ♦
The Pomegranate Press. London, offers
us a new quarterly, The Gipsy (2s. 6d.).
Artistically it is well enough, with several
good reproductions of paintings, hut with
too much Allen Odle. This artist does
grotesquely ugly drawings in somewhat the
Beardsley manner; be- is a delicate and
clever draughtsman and a brilliant decora-
tor, but his illustrations seem unnecessary
and meaningless. The literacy names pro-
mise much —as names: Arthur Symons,
Richard Middleton, Edmund Gosse, Kather-
ine Tynan, Arthur Machen; but their offer-
ings are slight and disappointing. If Pro-
vidence sent this war it was precisely for
the purpose of smashing for ever the deca-
dent Yellow Book tradition —and here is
The Gipsy, produced in war-time, delicately
trafficking with degeneracy while the Em-
pire is shaking on its foundations ! Shrapnel
—and Pomegranates! Asphyxiating gases—
and Allen Odle!
Bernharai Recants
Bernhardi is hardly as hardy as he was
before the war. In The Neiv Bernhardi
(. L’eafson, Is.) he seems to have wilted. The
book is composed of six articles written by
Bernhardi while on active service, by ex-
press permission of the Kaiser, in which
Bernhardi, sobered by the war, pleads that
he is a much misunderstood man. The gentle
Dernburg prevailed upon the General to un-
bosom himself for the benefit of the United
States, with, probably, the delicate hint that
bullying did not go down with the inhabL
tant of the dollar republic. Bernhardi
eagerly complied. He claims that he has
been wrongly translated. When he wrote
“Weltmacht oder Niedergang” he did not
mean “world-dominion,” but merely “world-
power,” “an independent and autonomous
position of consideration alongside that of
the other great cultural nations of the
earth.” The wolf doesn’t want to eat the
lamb : all he wants now is to lie down by
its side. And Bernhardi forgets that Ger-
many had that autonomous position before
the war, without the need of a war. Of
course, Bernhardi still lies: without lies how
could he justify himself at all? He s'till
asserts that “France, England and Belgium
themselves violated Belgian neutrality be-
fore a German soldier put his foot oil Bel-
gian soil.” lie must have forgotten what
the German Chancellor publicly stated at
the moment of violation. But Bernhardi can
still be humorous. “Almost never is _ the
work of the German scientists or historians
knowingly allowed to take on political
color.”! And he even glibly quotes Long-
fellow’s most hackneyed stanzas—the “Let
us then be up and doing. .. .Learn to labor
and t<s wait” doggerel—as the best descrip-
tion of the German idea !
The weakness of Bernhardi’s case is
proved by the fact that the only writer
whom he criticises is Prof. Crafnb —and
Cramb was almost a pro-Hun. Bernhardi,
looking for puppets to knock down, sets up
the weakest of the lot. And, naturally, he
voices once more the delightful belief held
by the whole Hun nation that Waterloo was
won by German and Dutch troops, though
he admits that the English “did fight bravely
there.” But, returning to facts, he wails,
“We never wanted_war with England” : the
Hun merely wanted to walk hand in hand
with us about the globe. But since we wan-
tonly attacked Germany we are warned that
we will realise “how dangerous it is to drive
to the uttermost a patient and peaceful but
not all-enduring nation like the German”!
And as for being unkind toward the United
States, that wag the last thought in the
mind of the courteous Hun. Bernhardi does,
however, protest too much. He states that
Germany has never even threatened with
her might a weaker State. “Nothing of the
sort has ever happened or even been planned
since the German Empire existed.” And in
the same paragraph he mentions Belgium!
It seems a pity that the French Govern-
ment took the trouble to nail up Bernhardi’s
deliberate falsehoods about French strategy
and the conduct of the war. It was un-
necessary. This book is easily the funniest
of a!! humorous books on flie war. We hope
the German harlequin will write some more.
The July Cartoons Magazine, from Chi-
cago, is naturally full of Lusitania comment
and cartoons. The U.S. cartoonist is unani-
mous in his condemnation of the crime, while
the hyphenated American himself publicly
repudiates the action of his Fatherland. The'
quotations from the whole world’s press shows
that, the only dissenters being the crimi-
nals, the outrage is condemned in unmistak-
able terms. One interesting section of the
cartoons shows the U.S.A. perturbed by the
weakness of her navy. Artistically the finest
series of cartoons issued this month is bv the
Dutch artist, Louis .Raeipaekers—a grim and
powerful indictment of war. “Such a cay,
jolly w r ar!” shows a Belgian mother laugh-
ing insanely over the dead body of her son.
with hex parents lying- shot in the street
behind lier. Another picture shows a Belgian
carrying a little coffin to the burial trench ;
“At Antwerp they did not hit me, but they
have just shot my dear wife and my little son
as franc-tireurs.” Qwing doubtless to the
number of Lusitania cartoons, Australian
artists are not represented in this issue.
Harrington’s Photographic Journal
for July (4d.) contains a beautiful series of
pictures from the cameras of Messrs. Mer-
field and Coulson, of Melb. These photo-
graphic artists also offer the amateur-anany
useful hints in the making of pictures ; and
the issue contains much information about
photography in this continent.


A
Ct(?€
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Half-Yearly SALE
FINISHES WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 18, 1915.
A Great Event for Much Money Saving'.
Horrockses’ White Calicoes
Usual Reduced
Price. to
per yd. per doz.
POPULAR PIPES.
100 doz. Briar Pipes, Vulcanite mouthpieces, assorted
shapes. Usual Price, -/9; Reduced to -/6
20 doz. Briar Pipes, Vulcanite mouthpiece, Silver
band, assorted shapes—-
Usual Price, 1/3; Reduced to 1/1
-4 doz. Briar Pipes, \ ulcanite mouthpiece, Silver
band, assorted shapes—
Usual Price, 1/9; Reduced to 1/6
0 doz. lie Luxe Briar Pipes, Vulcanite mouth-
piece, Gold band, assorted shapes—
Usual Price, 8/6; Reduced to 7/6
6 doz. Imitation Goudron Pipes, Vulcanite mouth-
piece, assorted shapes—
Usual Price, 3/3; Reduced to 2/11
6 doz. Imitation Calcined Pipes, Vulcanite mouth-
piece Usual Price, 1/6; Reduced to 1/4
100 doz. Cherry-wood Pipes, Vulcanite mouthpiece,
assorted shapes—-
Usual Price, -/9; Reduced to -/8
12 doz. Kopp Cherrywood Pipes, Vulcanite mouth-
piece, assorted shapes—
Usual Price, 1/4; Reduced to 1/2
60 doz. Corn Cob Pipes—
Usual Price, -/3 each; Reduced to 2/6 doz.
18 doz. Corn (ob Pipes, with extra long Vulcanite
mouthpiece—
Usual Price, -/6; Reduced to -/5
9 doz. Corn Cob Pipes, with Amberoid mouth-
piece Usual Price, -/6 ; Reduced to >/5
9 doz. Corncob Pipes, with Cherrywood stem and
Vulcanite mouthpiece—
Usual Price, -/9; Reduced to -/7
Labor-Saving for the Busy Housewife.
0-Cedar Mop Polish
(Reg. U.S. Pat. Office and all principal countries).
Makes it EASY TO CLEAN those
Hard=to=get>at Places.
Medium Size: Reduced to 4/6.
Large Size: Redueed to 6/3.
Your POLISH MOP should be RENEWED with
O-CEDAR POLISH
for it combines freely with water, and permits you
to easily and quickly wash clean and renew your
Mop.
You will find that O-Cedar brings out the beauty
of the grain of the wood, and gives a lasting lustre.
Cse it tlic O-Cedar Polish way. Follow the direc-
tions on tlie bottle. 1 |
4oz. 12oz. Quart. Gallon. Gallon.
Reduced to 1/- 2/- 4/6 6/6 12/-
a
Stone
SP| OI Allt JPri paw o
A LACE EMPORIUM . SVDN
Anthony Horderns’
UNIVERSAL PAINT.
Specially prepared to meet the demand for a Mixed Paint
ready for use, and one that is inexpensive, yet will wear
well.
The UNIVERSAL, PAINT is put up in many shades, and
the large range of colors afford ample scope for decora-
tive effect-
Offered during
1
the Sale at the following prices:—
2 4 7 14 281 b. tin
-/is -/*
3/2
7/9
1/3
4/-
JAP-A-LAC VARNISH STAIN
Renews Everything- from Cellar to Garret.
It is a wonderful renovator of old furniture, as it covers up all marks, scratches
and disfigurements, producing a brilliant and beautiful finish, and can be successfully
applied, even by an inexperienced person.
It is not affected by hot or cold water, nor by soap and water, and does not
mark white when used on floors.
Sold in the following colors: —Walnut. Oak. Mahogany, Satin wood, Cherry and
Green.
1-quart tins. 1-pint tins. 1-pint tins.
During Sale . . . . . . . . 3/9 2/- " 1/3
Color Cards free on application.
GUddens’ Waterproof Flat Finish
FOR INTERIOR DECORATION.
These finishes are prepared for the special purpose of decorating all interior
surfaces, viz.: new or old plaster, plaster of paris, smooth or rough finish, sand and
cement rough coat finish, plaster wainscotting or panels, composition piaster or
stucco surfaces, wood fibre wall linings, metallic ceilings, or side walls, and wood.
They can be cleansed by the application of a good soap and moderately hot
water, making them an economical and sanitary finish for most interior decoration.
. Their covering capacity varies from .100 to 600 square feet to a gallon under
ordinary surface conditions.
In the following shades: Pink, Light Blue, Pearl Grey, Cream. Buff. Light
Yellow, Chrome Yellow, Light Green, Eau-de-Nil, Dark Green, Cardinal Red, Brown.
. 1-gallon. 1-gallon. 1-gallon.
During Sale . : T 12/- 0/3 3/6
Shade Card free on application.
AN EXCEPTIONAL OFFER.
We have decided to sell 6 ONLY 3-h.p. Royal Enfield Motor Cycles,
brand new and in perfect condition, 1914 pattern, at
£6O each for SPOT CASH
THE ROYAL ENFIELD 3-h.p. Motor Cycle
Fitted with Knlicid Patent Two-speed and Free Engine Lear, Chain Drive
and Patent Cush Drive Ilub.
A BRIDGED SPECIFICATION.
•’> h.p. Twin Cylinder. Bore and stroke, 60 x 75 m/m
Engine
Two-s p e e <1 and
Free Engine Gear
Transmission
Ignition . .
Carburetter
Lubrication
Petrol Tank
Tyres . .
Saddle . .
Finish
M.O. overhead inlet valve.
Royal Enfield Patent expanding clutch type.
Roller chains. Royal Enfield Cush Drive fitted to rear hub.
Bosch waterproof magneto.
A.M.A.C. Multiple jet.
Royal Enfield Patent mechanical forced feed.
Capacity: 1A gallons.
Dunlop. 26in. x 2 jin.
Xall.
Frame best black enamel, tank enamelled Green and artisti-
cally panelled. Usual parts polished and heavily plated.
PRICE
;£6Q.
This is a reduction of £2O per machine, and it is safe to conclude that
such value will never be offered again.
CARPETS CUT.
ARTISTIC AX.MINSTER CARPET.
A favorable opportunity to purchase this
Luxurious Floor-covering at Anthony
Horderns’ Famous Sale Prices.
I 500
8000
yds. Axniinster Carpet, Imperial quality- last,
season s designs, with Holders, to be cleared
per yard
i suai Price, 7/6; Reduced to 5/0
yds, Axni mster Carpet, Imperial quality, all
new designs, borders to match, per yard—
-1 suai Price, 7/0; Reduced to 6/3
Fine
550
750
WILTON PILE CARPET.
quality Hilton Pile, guaranteed to stand the
hardest wear. All good designs,
yds. Wilton Pile Carpet, best quality, new
season s designs, per yard—•
tsuai Price, 9/-; Reduced to 5/11
yds. \\ ilton Pile Carpet, Special quality, new
season s designs, per yard—
I suai Price; 7/6; Reduced to 5/6
BRUSSELS CARPET,
Economical, Strong and Durable.
400 yds. Best Five Frame Brussels Carpet, with
borders to match, all good designs anil rich
colorings, per yard—-
Fsmil Price, 6/6; Reduced to 5/3
000 yds. Special Quality Brussels—
Usual Price, 5/3; Reduced to 3/11
SPECIAL QUALITY AXMINSTER
SQUARES.
All new designs, suitable for Drawing, Dinim- or
Bed rooms.
17 12ft. Oin. x 9ft. Oin.—•
Usual Price, £5/12/6; Reduced to £4/10/-
15 12ft. Oin. x 10ft. 6in.—
Usual Price, £6/2/6; Reduced to £5/2/0
22 13ft. 6in. X 10ft. Oin.—
i suai Price, £7/5/-; Reduced to £5/17/0
Pianos for Australians
JHF BREW STUB PIANO, made in New York, is
an instrument which we can honestly recommend as
being faithfully built, and possessing a tone quality
winch places it in the front rank of Pianos.
IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BREWSTER
special care is given to the Sound Board (this being
the heart or tone-giving feature), tfhieh is con-
structed on a curve similar to a violin. This forms
a. greater resistance to the strings, hence a greater
tone quality.
THE BREWSTER PIANO is built to last, every
modern improvement being embodied in its construc-
tion. A personal acquaintance with The Brewster
is certain to make staunch friends and sincere
admirers.
MODEL 501—Upright Cottage Grand, in highly fin-
ished .Mahogany case, 4ft. 4in. high, sft. wide,
2ft. Sin. deep, seven and one-third octaves, over-
strung, patent action and 3 pedals.
1 suai Price, £5B/10; Reduced to £57/10/-
MODEL 502—Upright Grand, in highly polished
Mahogany case, 4ft. 7in. high, sft. 2in. wide,
2ft. 3*in. deep, seven and one-third octaves, over-
strung, patent action, 3 pedals.
Usual Price, £6O; Reduced to £59
MODEL 504—Upright Grand, in highly polished
figured Oak, 4ft. Sin. high, sft. 2 fin. wide,
2ft. 4in. deep, seven and one-third octaves, over-
strung, patent action, 3 pedals.
Usual Price, £66/io/-; Reduced to £65/10/-
Aiso in Mahogany.
Usual Price, £ 05; Reduced to £64
2 only Cottage Pianos by Mellerton & Sons, England,
Iron frame, Walnut eases, seven octaves, over-
strung, action.
Isual Price, £49/10/; Reduced to £47/10/-
PACKARD ORGANS.
STYLE 281 —Church model, low top, solid Walnut
case, five octaves, having 2 sets of reeds of 2
octaves each and 2 sets of 3 octaves each, 11
stops.
Usual Price, £lB/15/-: Reduced to £l7/10/-
STYLE 341—Heavy cabinet top, with bevelled mir-
ror, Walnut case, 5 octaves having 2 sets of
reeds of 2 octaves each and 2 sets of 3 octaves
each, 11 stops.
Usual Price, £1915/-; Reduced to £lB/15/-
STYLE 283 —Church model, low top, Walnut case,
5 octaves having 2 sets of reeds of 2 octaves
each, 2 sets of 3 octaves each, and 1 octave
sub-bass, 12 stops.
Usual Price, £2l; Reduced to £l9/15/-
STYLE 28S —Church model, low top, Walnut case,
5 octaves having 2 sets of reeds of 2 octaves each,
4 sots of 3 octaves each, and 14 octaves sub-
bass, 15 stops.
Usual Price, £25; Reduced to £22/15/-
168 “Rouser” Alarm Clocks
6-inch DIAL.
Usual Price, 9/3; Reduced to 7 6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


4
-
A WORLD’S RECORD TARGET.
Composite target (reduced 3,16 of an inch) of
200 shots fired by G. W. Chesley in ten different
matches of the U. S. Inter-Club series. Score 1950
out of 2000 —A World’s Record. Made with Win-
chester .22 Long Rifle “Lesmok” cartridges and
a Winchester Musket.
If you go in for target shooting or hunt with a .22
caliber rifle, of course you want to excel. To do so
you must use uniform, dependable ammunition.
Some makes of cartridges are as variable as the
weather. Some shots go high, some go low, and some don’t go at
all. For accuracy and all around satisfaction, you can bank on
WINCHESTER
.22 Caliber Cartridges
In all kinds of shooting they continue to excel. They are made by people who
have learned in making firearms many fine points about cartridges that could be
learned in no other way. No matter what the make or style of your favorite arm is,
you can bring out its possibilities to the fullest degree by using Winchester make
of cartridges. Dealers everywhere sell them,
and a trial will convince you that it
is worth while to insist upon having A
I
*
'm
THE
w BRAND
(
w
Fortify yourself
with Bovril
IT MUST BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
r
%
*
<r\ ?
til
Columbus’
good liver
did it.
But for his buoyant optimism
(active liver) he would have
stopped before he started.
To-day human nature and the human
system are precisely what they were in
his day. They have not changed in
the least. All the active, persevering
optimists, the people who lead and
achieve, have good livers and take
good care of them.
And all the doubting, disapproving,
gloomy, pessimistic people are those
whose livers are weakened and over-
burdened ; and whose blood therefore
is loaded with wastes and toxins
affecting their thoughts and impulses.
People who for years have perse-
cuted and weakened their liver with
drastic pills or draughts are reluctant to
believe that kindness can do it any good.
Yet kindness is the whole secret of
Cockle’s Pills. By making its task
easier they give the weakened and
injured liver a chance to regain its
normal strength and activity. Result:
Emancipation from the gloom-poisons,
from lassitude and half-health.
You cannot send anyone else to
make this discovery for you. You
must make it yourself. A New World
of finer pleasure-in-living awaits your
discovery when you have encompassed
the tinv Globes called
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond St (| London, Eng.
Exclusive Agents Wanted
to Sell Gasoline Engines
MARINE, STATIONARY AND
PORTABLE OUTBOARD MOTORS.
2-H.P. PORTABLE
Write at once to
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
506 CAILLE STREET,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
“WORLD’S LARGEST BUILDERS OF
TWO-CYCLE MOTORS.”
We manufacture every practical type of Gasoline
Motor. Prices Right. Quality First.
POWER, STRENGTH
AND DURABILITY
in every part of a Kermath Engine.
KERMATH
Marine Engines
built in 4 cycle, 4 cylinder types only.
12 to 20 h.p.
Medium Duty; Medium Speed for
boats 20 to 35 feet.
No better Motor made at any price.
Write for full
Particulars and
Catalogue to
The Invincible Motor
Construction Co.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
KERMATH
MFG. CO.
(Dept. 41),
Detroit, Michigan,
U.S.A.
*
MoNtserrj\T
SAUCE
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
§
&
m a
f
. “"wmi uw'jh ><
au^
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
i ■
THE PIES REVERSE GEAR.
The GIES is built in three sizes of the enclosed and open type, so that it
is the best-fitted reverse gear for the greatest number of power boats. It is
the simplest reversing mechanism made. The few parts it has are all inter-
changeable, as they are jig made to accuracy. High-grade materials and first-
class workmanship, combined with right design, make the GIES the most depend-
able reversing device on the market.
GUOS Gears are not an exper'ment, they are the result of
10 rears’ experience in building reverse gears exclusively. Over
30,000 satisfied customers are our best recommendations.
DEALERS: We wish to secur responsible dealers wherever
we have no representation. We feel certain that reliable
importers will want to represent the GIES line, once they have
investigated its merits. The GIES offers any dealer a com-
plete line of reverse gears to fit any make of engine. Rightly
priced and widely advertised, th • GIES will be a quick-selling,
money-making line to handle. Write for our snecial dealers’
pronosition to-day. Cable Address :
GIES GEAR CO., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
GIESGEAR,
DETROIT.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop's” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 2 ls.
MISS AGNES MURPHY
THE ORGANISING SECRETARY OF THE
Quinlan Opera Coy.
AND THE
Biographer of Madame Melba,
WRITES HER OPINION OF
CLEMENTS
—TONIC
DEAR SIRS, —
“I have sincere pleasure in informing you that I have found Clements
Tonic an excellent and most agreeable restorative after exhaustion due to
overwork, and that as a brain and body builder I can highly commend it.”
I am, gentlemen, faithfully yours,
(Signed) AGNES MURPHY.
Members of any of the large theatrical companies, whose duties are of a
strenuous character, whose long and exacting roles compel heavy and con-
tinuous taxation of the brain and nerves, should strengthen their systems
and fortify their health by the use of Clements Tonic. Testimonies to this
great nerve medicine have been received from many theatrical favorites,
well known in England and Australia, and each of these speaks in highest
praise of this excellent tonic nerve medicine. Theatrical artists new to the
climate will find this remedy invaluable. For the relief of Insomnia, or
loss of sleep, Weak Nerves, Indigestion, Poor Appetite, Depression of Spirits,
Anaemia or General Weakness, it has no equal. Send for it and health at
the same time. ~ .' , ~
In volcanic times like these, when the whole world is at war, and the
nerves of everyone are on edge, this is the medicine that keeps the nerves
sound and the body well. As the Rev. Hosking, Fitzroy, says: “It is worth
its weight in gold.” It is just the very medicine for that tired brain and
those jaded nerves.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
GET IT AND HEALTH AT THE SAME TIME.


RHEUMATISM
Its Cause—and Cure.
Rheumatism is caused by a curious,
poisonous acid in the blood. This acid, just
like tiny pieces of broken glass with rough
edges, settles in the joints and muscles and
causes that awful agonising pain of back-
ache. rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the
bladder, etc.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder rills
strengthen the kidneys and drive the
poisonous pain-causing acid right out of the
system.
k
1
_ To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid
of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change to
a . rmi .dd,y bluish color—a feature which dis-
tinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Rills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing
touch on the right spot—the kidneys and
the bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to
the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s pills
give such amazingly quick relief—every
time. A permanent cure follows in almost
every case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s.' 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or how badly
you have suffered.
DeWITTS
Bladder Pills
Nature’s Safest Remedy.
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough—you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quicklv and surelv with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. ,T. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes:—•
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Soz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke ; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble* which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well,; and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
N. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
___ [i-
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21 /-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Bonninptorrs
IRISH^MOSS
For Elderly People
fl™^ eople so often suffer from BRONCHITIS,
Ab i HMA, and other complaints of the throat and
c lest. A neglected COLD leads to more serious
/°i! if/’ Instant relief is given by “ Bonnington’s
n-ish Moss,” and young and old benefit alike. Take
none but—
./AVXV.
Beware of
Imitations
S.NOIONINNO9
V
w
THIN WOMEN!
Would You
Like a Well Developed
and Well Proportioned
FIGURE?
ANY WOMAN without full bust development lacks the one essential
that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow
cheeks and salt-cellars” quickly take from a woman the bloom and fresh-
ness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in so far
as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct
your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and have
)een attenuated all your life, if you suffer from no wasting disease, your
bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased to normal....
Jheie are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-bosomed,
hoiiow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering the effects of
amemia and defective digestion, who are now for the first time in their lives
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-clieeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood, as the result of a few weeks under our wonderful
„ . , , PR. FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD.
riesh-Food is totally f haunless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its use is
no demand upon the subject s time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week, and an
increase in bust measurement up to eight or ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers relief
development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever possessing
L P r ent, s * fig £ re - f T l t 15 a ne ™ e and tissue food-treatment that adds weight and permanent
development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
HUNDREDS OF LETTERS LIKE THIS:
Manager Flesh-Food Co.. Cympie, Queensland, May 5, 1913.
Dear Sir, As a nurse, I was very interested in your Fie3h-Food treatment, and was greatly
surprised at the wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote to you I was only skin and
bone, and I have good cause to be thankful that I wrote you for a free sample, for I feel certain
now that I am one of the very best advertisements you could possibly have, as I am developed in
every way satisfactory to myself, and I have waited a grood while to prove if it was lasting in
its effect, and I am now glad to say that your splendid treatment has done absolutely all you
claimed it would, my weight and measurements being ample.—l am, yours gratefully,
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE,
Mrs. E. Wingrove.
We publish an interesting book on the
subject of attenuation and development.
Let us Send
You a Free
Sample.
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you FREE OF CHARGE
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications are
treated as strictly confidential. Call if convenient. 1817
FALIAERE FLESH-I OOI) CO.. 1103 ASH STREET." SYDNEY,
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
Kruschen Salts
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fiddle Song.
The blackest sloe will twist your mouth.
(Ocli, Shemus Righ’s away to France!)
A wind came up that kissed the South
And made the heads of clover dance.
The whitethorn blooms on Tulloch hill.
(Black troopers came and burnt the thatch.)
Och, Kate and Norali, laugh your fill
Till love’s young treason lift the latch !
The fairy queen was in Ivnockawn.
(The winter bit us hard and sore.)
But. sure, the black bog turf w T as drawn
And spring comes tapping at the door.
Och, set the fiddle to the tune.
(Row how will hunger pay the rent?)
The blackest day is gone too soon
To mark the way the traitor went.
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
To Lamia.
Cool finger-tips of pearl and rose,
Jade buckles fast’ning red-bronze hair,
Une fille de joie, so sweet and fair.
With round, white breasts and childish pose.
Her lamp a wraith-like picture throws
Of Age in Youth; her beauty rare
Has vanished like the last year’s snows.
Some subtle fire about her glows,
Turns bitter-sweet the heavy air,
Turns passion’s flame to cold despair.
Who made me thus, the Devil knows,
Cool finger-tips of pearl and rose.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
A. HOWE.
Song.
The high hills, the grey hills are whispering
together,
Carry me a secret, O vagabonding wind ;
Bear it to my ears with a breath of southron
weather,
From the farthest ridges with their clouds
entwined.
Trembling together are the tender little
grasses,
Oh ! my pretty universe one inch above the
ground,
Giving me a pleasure as a silent shadow
passes,
Weaving me a symphony more musical than
sound. -
Quiver of the river and the rustle of its
sedges,
Pulsing to the measure of my heart’s quick
beat.
Age is deep in slumber on the highest hoary
ledges,
Youth is in my being, and is springing
round my feet.
Clouds will always gather on the mountain
peaks eternal;
Underneath the grasses how the earth breaks
cold !
Yet within my valley-place the world is
gay and vernal—
I can still be thirty and forget I’m growing
old.
maoriland.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Santiago.
I have been here before to-day,
In Santiago town,
Though how I came that magic nighi
Be never said nor known.
The stars were like a silver rain
Upon a white rose moon ;
A banjo through the languid air
Was tinkling out a tune.
I crouched among those bushes there—
They rioted with bloom—
While in that open snaoe a girl
Danced in the semi-gloom.
Her cheeks were like two lotus buds
Afloat on waters brown ;
Her lips were like two precious sins,
Her eyes were Heaven brought down.
She danced and danced. Her clicking heels
Were like two twinkling stars ;
The rattling of her castanets
Broke through the strumming bars.
Her form was as a living flame
That flickered, died and leapt;
Around in licking tongues of fire
Her golden draperies swept.
She ceased, and with a little sigh
Sank down upon her knees ;
She plucked a foamy jasmine spray
That languored in the breeze.
And as she toyed she wove a song.
A lilting song of love,
Of red, red lips and blue-black hair
And eyes that should not rove.
She steeped the song in orange scent,
And piled it high with flowers ;
In it she wove the stars, the night,
The passion of the hours.
And then she glided down a. path
That lay between long lines
Of fierce geraniums blazing in
The shade of soaring pines.
I wonder how I came before,
And yet I came, I swear.
These oleanders I recall.
These rows of blossomed pear.
And over this old yellow wall
These creepers raining down—
I wonder how I came that night
To Santiago town.
N.S.W.
CHARKES FIRTH PETTINGER.


ALLEN WEST CONTROLLERS.
Made in BRIGHTON, ENGLAND.
For use with
Motors,
Driving' Cranes,
Winches, hoists,
flachine Tools,
etc.
These. -Controllers are constructed from tlie best possible materials
and with the greatest accuracy.
They have proved themselves over many years the most economical
Controllers on the market. Their special features are Huger
Pressure by Spiral Springs, Pure Mica Insulation throughout,
Finger Pivoted in solid hearings, Extra heavy section Copper for
finger tips, Shunts, Drum Rings and other features 'which are all
explained in ,o::r Technical Bulletin.
Send for a -‘West Controller Bulletin” to-day.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.
“Suppliers of Everything- Electrical,”
279 Clarence Street ; 426-430 Kent Street, Sydney.
VICTORIAN REPRESENTATIVE: George Smith Morison, Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
uuuw >
\» rite for
particulars to
LAND
“DROTT
Swedish
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
for all purposes on
/
31A RINE.
FARM, STATION, COUNTRY HOUSE OR MOTOR = BOAT.
WOOD AND CHAFF CUTTING, PUMPING, ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
Crude oil is cheaper than kerosene and safer. Power costs only
one>third that of a petrol engine with our system of water injection.
Our Marine type, for Fishing Boats and small Tugs, a Speciality,
Swedish Drott Motors,
C. HILDEBRAND, Agent,
306 Kent Street, Syaney.
P.O. Box 2097.
iBlBBBBBBBBBBBBfiDBBBBM
Even the Cook
Had Preference.
“How about the new cook?”
"She says she wants three nights out a week,
beefsteak at every meal, and a room with
southern exposure.”
‘‘Has she any references?”
"Xo, all she has are preferences.”
Menfolk, womenfolk and kiddies all have their preferences, but
“Rex” Pork and Beans
will satisfy the most hard to please.
Just place a tin of “REX" PORK & REAMS in boiling water
while the table is being set. Then serve. Without bother or
fuss, without hours of preparation, you give your family a
meal that is distinct and unique. The Beans are cooked in a
slow, painstaking way—the one way that produces the flavor,
and makes them more satisfying and nourishing.
We bake the Tomato Sauce and Beans together, so
the zestful tang goes right through.
Always see that you get “REX” PORK
and BEAMS—the Australian-packed goods.
Everyone likes them.
SOLD BY ALL GROCERS.
Other “REX” CAMMED DELICACIES are:
“Rex” Hiim Fate.
“Rex” Veal ami Tongue Fate.
“Rex” Fork Drawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Fork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib.
tins.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues in Jelly,
lll>. tins.
‘Key” Sheep Tongues in .Jelly,
111), tins.
‘Rex” Luncheon Cheese in
decorated tins, and
‘Rex” liraiid Lard, for rooking
purposes, in lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “REX” HAMS and BACON.
Packers of “REX” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS.
IT IS NEVER TOO LATE FOR
A MACINTOSH
In this country one never knows when
to expect the next shower, and a
PERDRIAU MACINTOSH
AVill be found extremely useful all the
year round.
Bend to-day for complete run pc of patterns
and illustrated Price List Xo. Jpt.
M e quote three lines front this List: —
MEN’S.
TWEEDS, in good assortment of
Dark Grey Shades f
35/-
SUPERIOR CASHMERE, in latest j
shades of Fawn and Olive. ... j
45/-
WOMEN’S.
INDIANAS, in Green and Dark \
shades j
2 51-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Manufactured entirely in Australia by
/
/
ri&s
!s
ƒ
Rubber
Co. Ltd.
210 (leorjje Street, Sydney.
105 Hlizabetli Street, Melbourne.
07a (Jawler Place, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
hf
Bright, well-kept Linoleum
adds wonderfully to the appearance of any room
and it is marvellous what an added charm Shi-
noleuin gives. It is extremely easy to use, too,
and is lasting in effect. There is never any
wasted, for you cannot spill Shi-noleum. It is
a firm paste, is exceptionally convenient to use,
and saves you both money and time. When the
glossy Shi-noleum surface is produced —a rub
over with a soft cloth occasionally will keep >Oir
floors bright for a very long time.
Get it from your storekeeper.
wJwmKjUi/ni
—"mini
THORNES WHISKY
Incomparable’


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 36.—N0. 1851.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 5, 1915.
Price 6d.
A YEAR ON THE TRACK.
THE KAISER: “On, on! Twelve months have passed since first we drew our sword in righteousness, and, see, Victory is before us!”
THE SULTAN: “Brothers, my Faithful know it too well. It is the Mocker of the Desert, the Mirage!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
ror £1 6s. 6d. ver Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
.The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, uhether in the form of
I olitical, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or 1 ansmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
Direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
E-C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))1 Hastings Street,
I ancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street
San Francisco; C. IP. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal- j Bay City News Co., San Francisco / Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.-; IP. E. Lenehan, 585
20th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon.— lP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland
Fiji, British Papua, Norfcrlk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
tOoz., id,; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., SJoz. to 10oz., 21 d. :
Woz. to 120 z., sd.; elsewhere, 40z., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 5, 1915.
AUSTRALIA’S DEFECTIVE GUN.
Is no course open but either to bullock the
Referenda questions through at the end of
the year, regardless of the delay, expense
and party feeling involved, or to carry out
the Liberal scheme of holding them up in-
definitely, and, with them, any hope Austra-
lia has of organising itself efficiently for
war-purposes? This paper sees a lot of
political humbug in the conflicting howls of
both parties. There is reason to suspect
that the Laborites would rather have a sen-
sational victory and the needed powers in
five months than the powers without the
triumph next week. • As to the Liberals
they are, as they always have been, obstruc-
tionists. They are fighting what they have
always fought—the idea of change. The
Liberals who delayed the creation of our
navy and the institution of compulsory ser-
vice did the nation a, certain amount of
harm; but if they are allowed to keep the
Australian Parliament weak at a time when
it has special need to be strong, complete
ruin may result. That phrase is used with
sober intention. Though in the end we
shall beat Germany, that Dloodstained nation
is going to be dangerous to the British
Lmpire for a long time to come. That is
to say, till the German preponderance in
trained men, strategic railways and machine
guns is overcome. Until then Australia is
in danger of its life as much as France or
oven Belgium. The only thing lacking is
the presence of the invader, and he would
arrive automatically with the failure of our
arpis on the other side of the earth.
* * * *
Obviously it is not a position in which the
Commonwealth can afford to take chances.
But the Commonwealth is taking chances
with every day that it clings to a Federal
form of government; and it is not too much
to say that it will lessen the danger with
every step that it takes in the direction of
the “unitarian” system. Dicey, in laying it
down that “Federal Government means weak
Government,” expressed the opinion that, if
two nations were in conflict, and if one was
a Federation and the other was not, then,
everything else being equal, the Federation
would succumb. The reason is clear enough.
Under the Federal system nothing can be
done suddenly, and the range of legislation
is limited by the four corners of a written
instrument. Whatever the Minister of
Defence, or of any other Department, may
do ho does as delegate of the Parliament.
Whatever the. Parliament does is done sub-
ject to revision. As Attorney-General
llttohes put it last month: “The High Court
is (he final arbiter of our powers. What
the fligh Court says our powers are, those
are our powers. What the High Court
says the Constitution means, that it does
mean.” This may be an admirable system
for peace _ conditions. It does away with
the possibility of a dictatorship offensive to
a free people; and it provides for the gradual
creation of an ideal Constitution by the
minds of some of the best men of the nation.
But the moment it is put to the test of war
it fails. The central Government in the
United Kingdom has just provided for the
abolition of trade union regulations “during
the continuance of the war.” Any em-
ployee who strikes, any employer who locks
out, any agitator who incites to either course
will be guilty of a penal offence. Unpunc-
tuality and absence from work are penal
offences; also drunkenness during working
hours. In the munitions factories the
profits of. the owners are to be limited,
and likewise the earnings of the workers.
The whole of this industrial revolution is
practicable in Britain by a short Act of the
National Parliament. In our Federation
any one of the reforms would involve months
of embittered argument pro and con. The
State Righters would certainly claim that
the proposed change was an infraction of
the States’ rights to control their internal
trade and commerce; and the High Court
might agree and say furthermore that it was
vlira vires the Commonwealth’s war powers.
Laborites and Liberals are wrangling on this
very question now. They will always wrangle
so long as we are a Federation, and at war.
Ihe thing to do is to provide that there shall
be as little justification for wrangling as
possible.
* * * *
It was with this idea that The Bulletin
submitted its proposed Bill last week. If
Parliament put through an Act on those
lines, and if the High Court said that the
Act was valid as an Act, then we should
still be a Federation. But we should save
a lot of money; we should exterminate the
principal, bone of contention between the
two parties, since the device would, like the
British munitions legislation, be “for the
continuance of the war” only; and, above
all, we should strengthen Parliament’s hands
without a minute’s needless delay. “Where
the Germans score is in their concentration
of energy upon the sucessful prosecution of
the struggle.” That is the summing-up of
a distinguished neutral, who has just com-
pleted for the London Times a series cf
articles on Germany at War. The Bulle-
tin’s notion is that the Australian Senate
and Representatives should at least be in as
good a position to “concentrate their energy”
for war-purposes as the German Bundesrat
and Reichstag. Germany’s powers for war
purposes are clearly defined. The central
Government has full and independent con-
trol of everything relating to the army and
navy; to commerce; to finance; to the rail-
ways; and, of course, to the postal services.
There are many other powers held by the
National Government ip Germany which the
Australian Government should have had long
ago—the control of patents, banking and
all waterways, for example—but the rest
of the war powers mentioned are essential.
No better proof is needed that this country
hasn’t got them in effective measure than
the fact that argument is unceasing on the
question. When a man is sitting behind a
good modern gun which is known to be
loaded, there is no contention as to his
authority. It is accepted without a word.
* * * *
Granted that in the race to build arms
and clothing and munitions—a race which
we must help to run against the Germans
and their heelers before this war can be
won for the Allies—it is necessary that the
National Parliament should have the un-
disputed powers of a “unitarian” Govern-
ment, then obviously time must be the
essence of the contract. Every month
wasted represents the squandering of pre-
cious capital. A delay of five months might
bankrupt us. That is why The Bulletin
urges that such an Act as it foreshadowed
a week ago should be put upon its trial by
the High Court at once. There is nothing
revolutionary about the project. Part of
the machinery has already been provided
by the Judiciary Act (1910) which says in
Section 3:—
Whenever the Governor-General refers to the High
Court for hearing and determination questions of law
as to the validity of any Act or enactment of the
Parliament, the High Court shall have jurisdiction to
hear and determine the matter.
Incidentally, the Act provides that “any
person or class of persons” claiming to be
interested in the matter shall have their
“reasonable expenses* thereby occasioned”
paid by the Commonwealth. The one
vestige of an argument against the proposi-
tion is that the High Court might say
that the- procedure asked of it was not an
exercise of its Judicial power. In plain
language, it is conceivable that the Court
would jib. But is is only just conceivable.
It is immeasurably likelier that, in view of
all the facts, it would do all that it could
to help the Government. And it must be
remembered that the Court is a complete
despot. Whatever power the Statp pos-
sesses is concentrated there. As W. M.
Hughes expressed it. “What the High
Court says the Constitution means, that it
does mean.” It is hardly imaginable that
the men who compose the High Court, know-
ing that a National Government requires to
be strong for . the purposes of waging war,
should interpret the Constitution in such
a way as to leave that Government Weak ;
°x should perpetuate a condition
of affairs involving dissension, narty feel-
ing. great expense and months of delay when
by the uttering of a sentence they could end
the trouble out of hand-
THE PUBLIC AND THE TWO
MILLSTONES.
Australian politicians and electors have
lived too long in the atmosphere of “Fill-’em-
up-again” to bother their heads much about
methods of taxation. By the splashing round
of loan money in millions a boom was main-
tained from which, successive Treasurers
could lazily skim enough cream for purposes
of the moment. And as the great mass of
the public were satisfied so long as the politi-
cian furiously declared that Fat was being
skimmed, everything seemed to possess a
beautiful symmetry, particularly when Fat
raised bogus yells of pain. Even the Federal
the 3 wav k f a V onSpirCd t 0 assist in makiQ S
easv hv a? r ßf aSUrers and oth ™ politician!
fnstend fu- ty en oouraging a tariff which,
mafnfv ,/ genuinely protective, aims
fc secur . ln g. a maximum of revenue.
The pressure of circumstance, however, is
thiOudl t US i quastion of taxation out from
hidden ll TL tie? fu n - W l Mch ifc has so long been
offine’iwi W1 u k ha , s come f orth a clutch
rooft h rrh y S hlcke . ns looking for a place to
roost. Therefore Australia begins to hear
sHtntinn d lssions tha t the Federal Con-
rWlll have to be thoroughly over-
hauled. Irvine, Peacock, Forrest, Wade
and many others of similar kidney have
lately expressed this view ; and most of their
filends know it to be inevitable. Nothing is
more certain than that after Australia has
shouldered the current year’s cost of the war
S 3 th co “ seqaentlal taxation—has begun to
roliEMIcr, 1 cr ,, eated hy tb e scarcity of
Co ien at the old address — a radical change
!“ t*? 1 ' of debt control and
will be imperative. For this reason
nnntp ß f^’ enda -P Pr ° P ? Sals al ' e quite
wW •« lf ca 7 ied the y will not touch
what is fundamental. At the best they repre-
sent only the first step on a long, circuitous
journey to reach an objective to which a
Rvn’n^^ 1S ev< ? ry da y b emg blazed,
tostand Call ° n a ° ne w * d the nation be able
The raids made on incomes are going to be
found embarrassing, not only because of the
size of the twin tax (one to the State, the
other to the Commonwealth), but also
because incomes are going to be harder to
earn with the collapse of the foreign demand
tor Australian p.n’s; and when a country
levies income-tax on the man whose revenue
is only sufficient to rear a family on princi-
ples of penurious economy, it is managing
things in a pretty bad way. Also, when a
country exempts from direct taxation
millions of income derived without exertion,
merely because the owners’ capital is in-
vested in a national bond instead of in a mine
? r f.*r a 1 c 1 tor y' if does something that may be
justifiable on grounds of immediate expedi-
ency, but for which no other convincing
argument can be advanced. The present cir-
cumstances are such that almost any effort
to raise money can be understood, since it is
important that the nation should prosecute
its Avar obligations with determination. But
the circumstances of the day after to-morrow
will be but little different from those of the
day before yesterday, when Australia’s great,
vital need was that Australian savings,
enterprise and labor should be devoted to the
development of Australian mines and forests
and lands and factories. And if anyone
imagines that, by throwing extra penalties
on men who make this their life Avork, we
are showing great wisdom, he imagines a
vam thing.
* * * *
An income-tax, Avithin reason, is a fair
toll; so, too, are probate duties. But such
taxes when levied by tAVo Governments can
be easily made insupportable, especially if
certain people are surreptitiously presented
with the heavy end of the log. So, while it
is unquestionably right that every citizen
sbotdd bear his share of the common burden,
there comes a time in every country—and it
comes quickly to a debtor country—Avhen the
question of hoiv that share shall be ascer-
tained becomes something more than a simple
sum in arithmetic based on the number of
people in the country and the total amount
of the national requirements. When that
time does come, an excuse will have to be
found for the present system of allowing an
immense reservoir of unearned wealth to re-
main untouched, while heavy demands are
made upon income-earners, most of whom
lead lives of sustained effort. In Australia
the taxation of incomes is getting to substan-
tial proportions ; the taxation of land values
is ludicrously inadequate. By the inflation
of these values through loans and the con-
struction of public Avorks, enormous addi-
tions have been made to land values, Avhich
additions have been used chiefly to exploit
the income-earning, rent-paying public; to
strangle industrial enterprise; to increase
the cost of commodities in the cities; to skin
the farm-seeker in the country. Australia
has every year given its largest, most gener-
ous, cut of the national earnings, not to the
men who produced things and did things,
but to those Avho speculated in land—not to
use. but for ransom by those Avho Avould use
it. The Labor party in Australia has always
professed to have some clear-cut ideas on
this subject. It has a plank about it on the
party platform. Vague promises to grapple
Avith the subject have been made from time
to time. But if the party’s sincerity is to
be gauged by the party’s achievement, it
must surely be by noiv scoffing at its oavd
ineptitude.
A DEVICE FOB WASTING THE
PUBLIC’S CASH.
The security of the Party Government sys-
tem arises in great part from the taxpayer’s
ignorance of the amount of money which it
costs. The party, the Minister, the Civil
Service, and the people whom the Civil Ser-
vice employs are all inter-related ; and each
assists to penal'se the community. The com-
munity does not know. It has a large, vague
faith in “the purity of our public life,” and
it never stops to think that a rotten system
may be more expensive than open bossism—
that, economically, there is not much differ-
ence between unchecked incompetence and
bocdling. This paper the other day inves-
tigated a matter in connection with that
lamentable error, the Canberra capital site.
It was a comparatively trifling affair—a sum
of £75,000 was at stake —but it contained all
the vital ingredients. There was a Minister,
the variety of Minister who usually trau-
spires under the Party Government insanity ;
a Department with the sort of permanent
heads who mostly decorate such institutions ;
a practically unlimited supply of public
money ; and the practically inevitable waste
to wind up with.
* * * *
Before plunging into details let us consider
the way a costly enterprise like the building
of the capital city of a vast continent is
carried out under our system. At the head
is the Minister, lie is the Czar, the Panjan-
drum, the ultimate authority. That is to say,
in name. In practice in 99 cases out of a
hundred he is a nonentity, and one who is
treated as such, being palpably the last man
who should be allowed to administer so much
as a schnapper-fishing party. He owes his
seat, in the first place, to talents which are
social if anything; and he becomes a Mini-
ster, sometimes because he is a faithful Party
man who merits a reward, sometimes because
he is a cute wirepuller, sometimes because
he is so unthinkably bad that enough votes
* thrown away” on him by aspirants to
office to get him a place in the Cabinet, and
m a few cases because he has proved a
strong debater and a clear-headed legislator.
Hardly ever does. a Minister go to a Depart-
ment on his merits as an administrator. It
is inevitable that his authority should be
nominal. The real bosses are the permanent
heads. The Minister, knowing nothing, or
next to nothing, except that if he dares to
kick he will be immediately strangled by 750
miles of red-tape, yields gracefully at every
turn. Thus he achieves a comfortable income
and an honorable position with the minimum
of e ®o r t. The patronage and power rest with
his officers. In other words, with the Civil
Service. . A weird old upas-tree is the Civil
Service in many of its manifestations. The
ordinary civil servant is a mediocrity in the
nature of things. He is a cog in the wheel
ot a vast mutual-protection machine—an
engine which becomes disorganised if any one
part gets ahead of another. The civil ser-
vant sees a mistake. It is no part of his
business to draw attention to it. Reflections
on the capacity of others are discouraged in
High places. In fact, they are fiercely re-
sented, the great aim beii% to keep the order
of seniority intact. No better organisation
could be devised to prevent efficiency,
smother originality, and get in the way of
new ideas. It is this irresponsible body of
fourth-raters which, under the purely nomi-
nal direction of a Minister who is ordinarily
a tenth-rater, administers the nation’s great
public works.
* * * *
For some. years the Commonwealth has
employing as Federal Capital Director
of Designing and Construction a U.S. citi-
zen named W. B. Griffin. This paper was
opposed to the importation of Griffin, con-
sidering that an Australian with at least
equal qualifications might have been found.
But, for all that, Griffin knows his job—
which is town-planning in all its phases—and
it is a fool-policy for a blind man to buy a
dog and then watch at the front gate in
person. Therefore when Griffin (who is
not a civil servant). raised lonely cries
some months ago against a sewage scheme
propounded by the Commonwealth Director
of Works and Mr. Tiiomas Hill (who are
civil servants), The Bulletin suspected
there might be something in the protest. The
Departmental scheme was to carry a certain
portion of the “city” sewage far into the
country at a cost of £75,000. Griffin had
no scheme, but he took the point that the
dragging of sewage a great distance at enor-
mous expense when there are known to be
devices for consuming such stuff cheaply near
at hand,, was wasteful and out-of-date.
Griffin is not an engineer in the profes-
sional acceptation of the term. He has not
been through a five or six years’ course, and
followed that up by other years of practical
experience. The Federal Works Director
and his colleague are understood to be in a
somewhat similar position. It has been said
that an engineer is a man who can do for
£1 what anyone can do for £2. The idea
was to get the expert advice of one of Aus-
tralia’s numerous £1 engineers. After con-
siderable agitation and protest and argument
Joseph Davies, N.S.W. Director-General of
Works, was persuaded up to Canberra, and
he cut down the Department’s estimate by
upwards of £30,000. Since then the Depart-
ment, in collaboration with a Minister who
knows as much of engineering, probably, as
he does of Choctaw, has reverted to the old
scheme, and the taxpayers will have the
privilege of paying the difference.
* * * *
This is merely .a sample of the way Party
Government hits the unconscious taxpayer
all the time, and from every sort of angle.
There are several methods in which the de-
tails of the building of great national works
such as a capital or a trans-continental rail-
way can be undertaken :
(1) A Department of non experts or semi-experts
may tackle the job. With a dash of experience, a
fair supply of nerve, and a library of text-books an
intelligent man can design and carry out almost
anything in the engineering line. The result is
liable to be unsatisfactory, and the cost will be great,
but the thing can somehow and at some time be
done.
(2) Interested parties, with both knowledge and
experience, may advise the Department for their own
ends. Such people invariably add the value of their
counsel to the cost of the goods supplied, with 100
per cent, or so piled on for luck.
(3) And then there is the kerbstone expert. lie
may be a genuine expert. But, like the doctor who
is buttonholed for a diagnosis in a street, he is not
given a fair show. A leading question is dashed at
him, such as: “Would you recommend this system or
that? With all the facts before him he might damn
both. As the situation stands he probably plumps
for one; and again the taxpayer is bled.
(4) Remains the professional man of high stand-
ing who is paid a reasonable fee j is given access to
all the facts; and after gaining the concurrence of
the man who is to provide the money, is allowed a
free hand within his own province and time to
decide on the best line to take.
Our governmental system makes No 4
nearly as infrequent as the auk, and No. 1
rather commoner than the sparrow. The De-
partment naturally hates to hand over its
powers to anyone. The Minister doesn’t
know enough to make it do this economic
service to the nation. Instead of standing
by to see an expert’s orders carried out, each
Department strives to be an exper,t on its
own account. In consideration of the result
ing prestige it is ready to take on gn.s, electri-
cal, mechanical, sanitary or any other form
of engineering, however dreadful the finan-
cal and practical effects may be. and blandly
regardless of the fact that in all these mat-
ters the employment of consultative experts
is obviously the better way. However, the
public is the only one that suffers. And the
public is such a complacently thoughtless ass
that it never realises how much hard cash
it is losing.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Folly of Waking Up Uncle Sam.
The German has shown himself to be a
wretched diplomatist, from the beginning
of the war to the present time, but never
more so than in his boorish handling of the
U.S.A. Let it be granted that at present
the Land of the Tin Ham appears a safe
thing to kick. Yet constant assault wears
a\\ay the epidermis, causing the humblest
of God’s creatures to revolve at last —often
with deadly effect. After the U.S.A. have
had most of their mercantile marine tor-
pedoed, and after the President has
despatched two thousand more ultimate,
penultimate, final, absolutely final, last and
Very Last Notes, Old Glory may decide to
state officially that it is annoyed with Ger-
many, and to follow that up by arming.
This will be a slow process, no doubt.
Senator Bryan’s spirited remark about
someone stamping on the soil of the U.S.
and immediately finding himself surrounded
by a million fighting men in arms was, of
course, “hot air.” Still, by the time the
war is at an end the United States may
possess an army capable of taking the field
against modern troops, and a navy effective
both in ships and personnel. And an un-
comfortable moment that will be" for Ger-
many. Starved and beaten out of the
countries which it invaded at the height of
its power, robbed of the colonies which it
acquired, and settled at such immense cost,
bankrupted of. gold, and its oversee trade
ruined, there will be but one part of the globe
to which it may turn for business or colo-
nial possessions or both. If Wilson’s
Republic were still the bloated weakling
which it now is, Germany’s task would be
easy. With Europe too war-worn to feel
like upholding the Monroe doctrine as in
the past, the world’s burglar could, without
serious opposition,. take in South America
what he had lost in Africa and the South
Seas. If, on the other hand, President
Wilson is bludgeoned into arming, by a
series of pointless murders on the high seas,
the earth-hungry Hun will insert his battle-
scarred and beer-stained countenance into
Mexico, or Chili, or Bolivia, or wherever he
happens to fancy a bit of real or other pro-
perty, only to get it smitten and kicked and
generally pushed in. There will then be
nowhere for the earth’s outcast to turn in
ouest of loot. Taking his stand in the spot-
light, to the sound of low and eerie music, he
will file his schedule and die miserably amid
the falling snow.
«
Another War Horror.
That sturdy old Tory, John Forrest,
awoke last week to a painful possibility. The
war may bring about Unification. In a
misty, involved sort of way he was right.
For years the Federated States of Australia
have been living above their means on the
assumption that nothing dreadful would ever
happen. Simultaneously with one of the
worst droughts on record they have—been
smitten by the most, dreadfuL.war on record.
The States, as States, spend a vast sum of
money in keeping up a nebulous asset called
their dignity. Much of the millions which
they all owe has been squandered with this
in view; and more is being spent daily to
the same end. Even now a movement is
afoot to shift the superfluous State Governor
of N. S. Wales from his present reasonable
abode to the palace overlooking Farm Cove.
That will mean more glory for the State —
and more taxation for its inhabitants. The
bloating of the big State capitals is regarded
by every true State-righter as essential to
the dignity of the States concerned. So are
a herd of Agent-Generals and a hundred
other unproductive institutions which cost
money. With the arrival of the greatest
crisis in its history Australia is faced with
three alternatives. It can pay for the war
and State flummery at the same time.
It can abandon State flummery, or at
least as much of it as is patently absurd
and wasteful. Or it can retire from the war
and accept the varied and dreadful conse-
quences. As the third is unthinkable and
the first promises to land many people in the
insolvency court, there seems to be a reason-
able chance of the second coming to pass;
and that means Unification. To be accurate,
the war won’t have produced Unification. It
will merely have brought the taxpayers to
their senses. One sees the same thing some-
times in private life, when twins arrive and
a man abandons the motor-car which he
bought on the time-payment system and
could never really afford to support.
1 :
How About Trying to be Ready?
“Quill” on how it might be worked: —
The appointment of an additional Federal Minister
and the creation of a non-party Committee of Advice
are fairly sharp reminders of our slummocky, shift-
less methods. They suggest a man who, having
spent years of life constructing a machine for use
in emergency, finds at the critical moment that it
requires continual patching. When war is the busi-
ness in hand, the time to prepare for it is in peace;
and the measure of the faithfulness with which the
work has been done must clearly be the freedom
from friction with which operations are conducted
when war happens along. In respect to all the
requirements of war anterior to battle, the German
machine worked on ball-bearings. What had been
prepared in advance fitted into the scheme of things
without a hitch. On the other hand, Britain finds
herself, after agonising losses of men and enormous
expenditure of money, doing in the midst of the
fig’ht the things which the more far-seeing enemy
Would not even have dreamed of leaving undone.
So with Australia. Twelve months after war com-
mences it is discovered that the Minister in charge
of warlike preparations is overloaded, and he gets
a mate to help. It is all upside down. In view
of this illustration of how not to do things at the
proper time, how about seeing that we dou’t go
floundering on in the same old way into another
kind of bog ?
Docs anyone know just cause or impediment why
Australia should not have a Minister for Tcace?
Let it be assumed that the war will eventually come
to an end. Is there a reasonably sane citizen pre-
pared to deny that Australia will not then
face problems as difficult and as urgent as
the present problem of how to get recruits,
clothe and drill them and put them on transports?
If the country was not ready with a smooth-running
system of war, merely because in the days when
there was no war it neglected to get ready, how is
it going to suddenly grapple with peace unless it has
the apparatus for doing so? Out in the street every
second man has a notion that this, that or the other
should be done, and no clear idea about how to do
anything. Among parliamentarians dozens of nebu-
lous propositions are drifting' round —just as they
were about defence and war before the guns were
wanted. So let us have a reconstruction of the
Cabinet system, under which there will be constituted
a dormant Department of Peace, which shall come
into being as soon as necessity arises. There would
then be a Minister who would separate himself from
the riot, in order to appply himself steadily to the
task of preparing information and definite proposals,
and generally to be ready with a more nourishing
diet than the large masses of dough that will other-
wise be flung before the people for partisans to
quarrel over. I don’t pretend to know anything
about the position in Germany just now, but am
prepared to swear that the pestilential enemy is as
hard at work getting ready for what comes on the
tail of war as he was in fixing things up for butting
in. Under the Australian methods of to-day the
stoppage of war will be followed by about 15 years
of embittered argument. So we shall be handicapped
when the order comes to cease firing just as we were
when the order rang out to fix bayonets.
»
The Men Who Howled at Holman.
On Saturday night Messrs. Holman and
Wade attended Sydney Stadium with the
object of making recruiting speeches. The
Premier led off, and was received like a
militant teetotaller at a licensed victuallers’
picnic. In the end he and his colleague had
to “throw in their towels” and get out of
the ring. The general purport of the scan-
dalised comments which followed was that
the noise was made by a small and negli-
gible class. If it was so it would be well.
But it was not so. The people who demon-
strated at the Stadium are everywhere.
Some of them tried to howl down speakers
at a great meeting held elsewhere on the
same night for the sole purpose of recruit-
ing. They crop up at music-halls, and they
counted out Colonel Lyster, the State Com-
mandant, at a theatre in Brisbane the other
night. They represent tjie numerous class
which doesn’t want to go to the war. People
who don’t know talk airily of these men as
“larrikins.” No description could be fur-
ther from the truth, if it is intended to have
a social application. The “larrikin” class
—meaning thereby the bottle-o and his kind
—does not patronise the Stadium when ad-
mission costs between ss. and two guineas.
The crowd which howled at Holman didn’t
consist —such crowds never do consist—of
criminals and outcasts. It was made up of
every-day prosperous citizens —doctors,
merchants, farmers, station-owners, law-
yers, bookmakers and their clerks, trainers,
jockeys, artisans, young-men-about-town of
all callings. Moreover, they have their
prototypes in thousands amongst men
who never go near a sporting contest. There
are young men who won’t risk their com-
fort or their skins to fight for their country,
if they can help it, at every church service
and picture show and tea-party. All they
lack to make them vocal on the subject are
semi-darkness and the knowledge that the
pack is with them. Naturally they hate to
have the subject mentioned to them. And
the less personal respect they have for the
man who does ' mention it, the less
disposed naturally they are to listen.
What is to be done with these
young curs? To shut down the places
which they frequent is about as reasonable
as the ancient recipe for cooking a pig by
burning down the house it is in. Recruiting
appeals are largely futile. The resolute
shirkers, who are the ones that need to be
spoken to, don’t go to such entertainments ;
and if they are sought out they behave
according to their kind. The one and only
medicine is compulsory service.
♦
Why Not Legalised Collusion?
“Whitehall” on a Divorce matter :• —
A reform called for in the interests of morality,
veracity, the honor of the Bench and Bar, the happi-
ness and well-being of the public, and several other
things, is collusive divorce. Not that there isn’t
plenty of it already. Fully eight divorces out of 10
are collusive at present; and no one knows it better
than the Judges, unless it be the barristers. But
the present system necessitates a tremendous amount
of lying and perjury on the part of litigants, and
of snuffle on the part of both Bench and Bar —all of
which would be obviated by a simple change making
legal that which is now done despite the fact that
it is not legal.
In the United Kingdom the collusive divorce suit
is much rarer than it is here —which is only another
way of saying that in the U.K. more married couples
live together in misery, or apart in what is known
as “open shame” —because there divorce is expensive
and is only granted for adultery. Conviction of
adultery does a man no great social harm these days.
When two English people find, therefore, that their
marriage is a failure —that they are irritating and
repulsive to one another —it is usually the man who
agrees to “sin.” To this end he takes a complaisant
female, who is usually found for him by his legal
adviser, to a well-known hotel; they are entered in
the register as husband and wife; the attention of a
chamber-maid is drawn to their presence; and the
Court does the rest.
In Australia things are even simpler. The dis-
illusioned couple who are squeamish about the adult-
ery issue can'fall back on “desertion.” As litigation
on these lines is cheap, hundreds avail themselves
of the device every year. It is immaterial whether
the husband deserts the wife or vice versa. As soon
as it is decided which is to be the deserter, a letter
is drafted imploring the latter to come back. The
draft should be dictated by a solicitor. Manj r a
promising divorce has Lad the bottom blown out
of it by unskilful phrasing on the part of a person
inexperienced in the proper conduct of a collusive
suit. When the Judge has listened to the facts,
and has had the bogus document read to him by a
barrister, he controls his features firmly and makes
an order directing the deserter to return to the
home where, if he did transpire, he would be
greeted with annoyance and dislike, if not missiles.
A period elapses. The barrister re-appears and in-
forms his Honor that his order has been defied.
Decree nisi returnable in six months.
The present arrangement is not fair to the Divorce
Judges, whom it puts in utterly false positions many
times a day. It is not fair to the reputable members
of the legal profession. It necessitates perjury an!
false swearing on an heroic scale. And it does not
even achieve the questionable benefit of minimising
divorce. Lord Gorell, after nearly 40 years’ Divorce
experience, considered that the only solution of the
problem was to allow mutually antipathetic couples
to separate, the Law’s chief concern being to see
that the children were not prejudiced unduly by
the arrangement. And no one has made a more
sensible pronouncement on the subject up to date.
+
The High Court.
“10-2-4” discusses the defender of the
Constitution :
On every side one meets Conservatives who bless
the High Court and Democrats who curse it. Very
few understand, seemingly, that in theory, at any
rate, the voice of the High Court is the voice of
Australia. The confusion arises because we have
got into a habit of misusing words. We first call
an elective body a Parliament—which it is not —
and then proceed to argue that it should do such
things as real Parliaments do —which in the cir-
cumstances is impossible. The key to the apparent
mystery is contained in the well-known legal doc-
trines of Concentration of Power. It starts with
the assumption of the existence cf a despotic power.
In all British communities this power flows from
the people. But it has to be concentrated some-
where, and it is with the varying systems of concen-
tration that the doctrine deals. In Britain it is
lodged in the Parliament. The Parliament means
(1) the Sovereign, (2) the Lords, and (3) the Com-
mons ; and it is as supreme a despot as a cannibal
.king.
In Canada the States hold certain specified powers
and the “residuum” is with the Federation. A
somewhat weaker form of government, but still
strong.
The electors of Australia have selected a system
under which the Canadian Constitution is turned
upside down. The powers are allocated in a scat-
tered manner. A few are given to the Federal body,
while the unspecified “residuum” is with the States.
The result is that the bulk of the power of the
Australian people is concentrated in the High
Court. It has an absolute power of interpretation,
while the Parliament —which nominally speaks for
the people—has not and never could have an abso-
lute power of any sort. Chief Justice Griffith,
and not Andrew Fisher, is Australia’s nearest
parallel to Mr. Asquith.
There is nothing astonishing about this. The Aus-
tralian people adopted a Federal form of Govern-
ment of their own choice, and the essence of Federal-
ism is “to limit on every side the action of Govern-
ment and to split up the strength of the State
among co-ordinate and independent authorities.”
That being so, there must be an arbiter. Federations
are like partnerships, inasmuch as they are aggre-
gations of entities whose rights under the terms of
the federating deed have to be construed ; and so the
arbiter must be a Court. The arrangement is fairly
well suited to peace-times. But how has it stood
the test of war ? The constant bickerings between
the opposing parties on the subject of the national
referee are the best answer.
The question is: What does Australia mean to do
about it? With a terrific war raging it doesn’t want
“to limit on every side the action of Government.”
And just because there is war it can’t afford to
suddenly introduce Unification, and thereby make
the Parliament of Australia a real Parliament. The
Bill put forward by The Bulletin, last week, is a
fair compromise. It practically provides for Unifica-
tion during the currency of the war. It would be
worth much to achieve that. Let us go back, if
we must, after the war, to the old Party rows and
inter-State jealousies and hatreds. In the name of
sense and patriotism, let us be unified now.
♦—:
Somebody, without being rule, should point
out that the appeals for cn \\ in the State
schools have degenerated into a scandalous
cadge. A couple of months ago thousands
of pounds were raised through the children;
during the past couple of weeks the whole
business of teaching has been suspended while
the school staffs devised fresh plans for dredg-
ing pennies and pots of jam and suites of
furniture from Young Australia. Dolls and
bags o’ potatoes and fiddles and antiques
like pickled cucumbers and pats of butter
were given, and the youngsters were sent out
to raffle them. Thousands of infants spent
the best part of many days skirmishing round
for cash for tickets in multitudinous sweeps.
Officialdom presumably calls this “organising
the community.” This paper prefers to call
it a manifestation of intoxicated muddle. It
is scandalous that such an outrage should be
permitted. Putting it on its lowest basis
this sort, of thing places the poorer class of
parents in a most unhappy position. But
there are other and deeper reasons for objec-
tion, one of them being that the children
have been given the very worst conceivable
lesson in civics. Take up a collection in the
schools for the wounded, by all means. But
let the occasion of giving be one of solemnity
and pride, not of cadge and shuffling evasion
of the law.
*
Maobiland’s House of Reps, has finished
wrestling with the problem of pensions for
disabled soldiers. The net result is that the
original proposals have been widened and a
uniform pension of £1 15s. weekly provided
for all disabled men not of commission rank,
with certain additional allowances in the case
of a pensioner having a wife or family, the
maximum running to £3 12s. 6d. If the
war lasts another year the expenditure under
this scale will be a million annually. If it
runs beyond that time, as it quite likely
may, the bill will go leaping up accordingly.
But whether the war collapses to-morrow
or rages on for years, the getting of the
money to fulfil her proper obligations is
going to be a tough proposition for Maori-
land, with her heavy burden of unproductive
debt and her dreadful habit of leaning heavily
on Cohen ; and when the guns are put away,
and the loan peters out, and the Hebrew
sits whining on the doorstep for his peauti-
ful ducats, and an impoverished world sets
out to clean up the dreadful mess, the
Dominion will have to toil harder than ever
it did before and live more soberly.
Concerning a business which fell into the
wrong hands :
Plans and specifications for a new steamer are
being prepared to the order of the Westralian Gov-
ernment ; which clearly indicates that Scaddan has
not yet had enough of what has so far proved a
disastrous experiment. The State ships have not
only proved a bad bargain in themselves, but have
made a steady annual loss of about 20 per cent, on
their purchase price. The first balance-sheet —for
the year to the end of June, 1913 —was belatedly
presented to Parliament without having passed the
Auditor-General. It showed capital cost of vessels
to be £102,629 and loss on year’s operations
£19,395. The Auditor-General, subsequently re-
viewing this balance-sheet, protested strongly against
the expedient of charging alterations to capital ex-
penditure, with the effect, of course, of making the
loss appear smaller than it really was. The next
balance-sheet (for 1913-14) showed a net loss of
£17,273. But again the Auditor-General kicked
and complained that £15,421 spent on surveys of the
Una and Western Australian and £12,871 on a re-
survey of the latter vessel had not been charged up.
How the next balance-sheet will turn out is a mys-
tery ; but the Treasury returns for 1914 indicate a
further heavy deficit. Meantime the public has been
getting none of the benefits which were promised
from the service. The old Darius, re-christened the
Kwinana, which was to be employed paralysing the
meat ring by bringing cheap beef to Perth, has been
scraping revenue together by carrying timber cargoes
to Maoriland and Natal. The Western Australian
has proved so utterly unfit for the Nor’-West passen-
ger and mail traffic that she has been superseded by
a German prize re-named and chartered from the
Commonwealth. Desperate efforts have been made to
sell the repeatedly and expensively improved Western
Australian, and as a sort of last resource she is
being sent to London on appro. This “fast passenger
steamer” carries a freight of sleepers, which the
Government is arranging to sell in England. She
sailed about a fortnight ago from Fremantle, and
two days later was back in port for repairs. Then
some of her crew struck for a guarantee of pay for
the return trip. When this was settled, more of
them struck, alleging that the vessel was not sea-
worthy. Twelve were sent to gaol, and it seems
likely that the vessel will have more adventures
before she reaches London.
The Select Committee which is inquiring
into venereal diseases in N. S. Wales has
extracted a couple of definite statements
from two of the men who are best qualified
to speak. David Welsh, Sydney Univer-
sity Professor of Pathology, said: —
People suffering from syphilis were more liable to
tubercular and other infection. Also cancer. Prac-
tically all cases of locomotor ataxia were syphilitic,
and all spinal diseases except infantile paralysis.
Syphilis also had an important bearing upon apo-
plexy, and to some extent on softening of the brain.
Infants affected with hereditary syphilis were more
liable to convulsions than normal children. Apart
from acute and chronic rheumatism many of those
suffering from heart disease were more or less vic-
tims to syphilis, hereditary or contracted. There
were many instances of a syphilitic child being born
and the mother remaining healthy, only, however, to
contract the disease from the child during suckling.
Dr. Palmer, first Government Medical Offi-
cer in Sydney, said :
He was of opinion that the Act, under which the
authorities were able to detain certain prisoners for
treatment, should be strengthened to enable them
to detain and deal with short-sentenced prisoners,
who often, at present, were discharged suffering
from acute forms of venereal diseases. If all per-
sons could be detained until cured it would be a
great thing for the future of the race.
Apparently this expert’s only complaint
against the Prisoners Detention Act —about
the most prescient bit of humanitarian legis-
lation to the credit of the Liberal party in
N. S. Wales —is that it doesn’t go far
enough. He approves of the segregation,
not merely of diseased criminals, but of
diseased persons of all classes. Therein he
is more democratic than the State’s allegedly
democratic Government. The members of
the Government know —none better —of the
success of C. G. Wade’s Act. The informa-
tion supplied by Professor Welsh was not
neyvs to them. But they jib at doing the
logical thing because, while they don’t mind
dealing rigorously with the infected among
the, outcast classes, they do not dare to be
“harsh” with similarly polluted citizens who
happen to he well-to-do. It is the same iu
Rallying Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Germany is vanquished the time will be ripe
and opportune to overthrow the enemies within our
own gates. —English paper.
Now the host of the Despoilers through the
world is creeping, creeping,
Flinging down the shrines our fathers bled
to build;
Now that Bigotry and Malice all our rights
are overleaping,
Sowing tares in those fair fields our hands
have tilled,
Brothers! gird yourselves like freemen, let
your battle-cries ring out,
Let the flag of your defiance be unfurled ;
Smite with valiant arms and tireless, put
the slimy hordes to rout,
Let your manhood work its purpose in the
world!
This our heritage of ages that the English
peoples cherish,
Is it nothing to you English of to-day?
Must the freedom patriots fought for in the
olden days all perish,
Knocked to pieces by fanatics dour and
grey ?
Are you stalwarts now, or weaklings? Are
you cowards now, or men?
Is your birthright so much trash that you
despise ?
Drive these jackals to their burrows in the
wilderness, and then
Raise your cordial shouts of triumph to the
skies!
All the hypocrites are banding to outpace
you, and to-morrow
It may be too late to make your protest
good.
Will you dawdle still and whimper, to your
shame and to your sorrow?
Is the ancient spirit dead within yourilood?
Superstition, greed and slander are the
weapons of the foe,
There is venom in each javelin they fling.
Precious little will be left you if they work
your overthrow....
Life will be a tragic farce when Cant is
King.
Brothers! you may join the battle, or just
slink aside and fritter
Priceless time away in apathy and ease ;
But the aftermath will find you, and
awakening will be bitter
If you yield your rights to helots such as
these.
Now’s the time! Be up and at them, smash
their strongholds where they stand,
And their squawkings as they huddle soon
will cease.
Let us have a little decent toleration in the
land!
Let the people be secure and live at peace!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


GAEjLIC WHISKY
the old smuggler
hfd
B
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
• • • in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
distilled in the
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
•lO
&
L
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney.
the other States. Australia could be the
first clean continent that the world has
known since it came down out of its primal
bough and started to grow luxurious. It
remains unclean, and it continues to pass
its uncleanliness on to the race, because its
bogus Laborites are over-awed by the fetich
of Propputy.
♦
Though the full extent of the Russian
reverse has not yet been revealed, the
general position is clear enough: along the
whole of his front Ivan has been severely
shaken. Under no conceivable circum-
stances can his recovery be other than
exceedingly slow; certainly not until the
now not-distant winter has passed. No good
purpose is served by attempting to minimise
this blow. It is a serious one, delivered
with an emphasis entirely irreconcilable
with comforting theories about the waning
strength of the enemy. For months past
this paper has warned Australians that no
evidence existed to justify the daily trash
they read about the war; that they have
before them a long and desperate struggle:
that confidence in victory would be a sin-
ister delusion until the full military and
economic strength of the allied Powers was
employed to the highest possible point of
efficiency. The events of the past few weeks
repeat the lessons of the preceding year.
After 12 months of struggle the enemy has
thrown back the foe along the whole of his
eastern frontier, and while doing this has
not been shifted in the west an inch. Pro-
vided the Russian has not been too griev-
ously handled, the influence of Italian inter-
vention may to some extent neutralise the
consequences of the Polish-Galician cam-
paign. That, however, remains to be seen.
The forcing of the Dardanelles, too, might
have a salutary effect, but there the position
remains one of grave doubt and difficulty,
the material progress made being relatively
trifling. In any case, the Prussian jack-boot
is more menacing to our liberty than ever.
The fight for life is to Australia more real
than at any time before, and—why blink at
it any longer?—unless every man in the
Empire capable of bearing arms is put into
the field the tiger is not going to be locked
in his cage with crippled claws.
♦
Unless the schedule is remodelled at the
last moment the first Commonwealth war
tax is to be an income tax running up to ss.
in the f on revenues derived both from
property and from personal exertion. No
revenues from property will be exempt;
among the others nothing under £157 will be
bitten into. This dreadful business of war
has to be paid for, and however burdensome
double imposts are, and however desirable it
may be that certain other sources of revenue
should be tapped, there is not likely to be
any general howl against the principle of the
present drag-net. The only thing to do is
to see that it is reasonably fair in its opera-
tion. The point upon which it was liable to
be most unfair was in connection with the
taxation of companies. In N. S. Wales,
for example, at the present time every com-
pany is taxed as though it consisted of one
individual. If the same principle were to
be applied to the Commonwealth tax, it
would mean that every shareholder, no mat-
ter how small his means, in practically every
company in Australia, would be taxed on
the same basis as the Fattest man in Collins-
street. To carry on industries successfully,
it has often become necessary for small
businesses to combine. Jones and Smith
and Brown throw together their capital, re-
presented by their works. The conjunction
does not make them one penny the wealthier.
Yet under the system of taxing the co. as a
co., they would each pay as though each
owned the entire wealth of the concern and
had the benefit of the whole of its profits. This
is no more just than it would be to assume
that the income of each Commonwealth
Minister is about £15,000 a year, because the
total paid to the Cabinet, and to be divided
between nearly a dozen of them, is some-
where about that figure. Australians must
co-operate if this country is to collar the
industries which hitherto the German has
carried on for us, with the present disastrous
results. But the co-operation of the people
of very moderate means would be discouraged
if the man who draws' £5O a year in divi-
dends were taxed, as a shareholder, on exactly
the same scale as if he were a Fatman
drawing a bloated £lO,OOO a year from
investments. 'ln an attempt to do justice to
the small investor the Government has de-
cided that the individual shall pay the tax.
but that the company shall pay tax on the
undivided profit. Smith owns 1000 £1
shares in a co. which pays 10 per cent. If
that is his only investment he will pay lOd.
in the £on £100; that is, £4 3s. 4d. Had the
Government done the unwise thing and com-
pelled the co. to pay the tax, then (assum-
ing its income was over £7000) little Smith’s
proportion of the tax would be £2o—ss. in
the £ on £lOO. As for the rest, if the
co. makes £25,000 but divides on lv £20.000,
it will itself pay tax on the £5OOO. This
provision may pass, although it is quite
possible that tax will be paid twice over.
For instance, suppose the £5OOO, instead of
being divided in 1915, is divided in 1916.
Then the co. will pay on it in 1915 and the
shareholders individually in 1916. It might
lead to complications if an attempt were
made to remove this defect. Yet it unques-
tionably would be more just to provide that
income which has paid tax in one year shall
not be liable for tax up to the same amount
in any subsequent year.
The 4} per cent, interest on the Common-
wealth War Loan will be payable on June
15 and December 15 in each year. The loan
is repayable at par on December 15, 1925.
A full half-year’s interest is to be paid, on
December 15, 1915, though the instalments
of principal are only to be paid in as fol-
lows : £lO per cent, not later than August
31; £l5, September 15 ; £2O, October 15 ; £25,
November 15: £3O, November 30. A sub-
scriber will make an investment worth
£4 14s. lid. per cent, per annum, nominal,
convertible twice a year (using actuarial
jargon), free of all taxation, State and Fed-
eral. This taxation (combined State and
Federal) is not at all likely to average less
than Is. in the £, so that the Loan is a better
investment than an ordinary gilt-edged 5
per cent, investment subject to income-tax.
The security is the best available in this part
of. the world, and (in view of the very small
existing debt of the Commonwealth) is not
surpassed in any part of the world. The
War Loan in the Old Country is 4J per
cent.,, subject to income-tax, which at pre-
sent is half a crown in the pound; so there
is a difference of from I to 1 per cent, per
annum in favor of the Australian loan as an
investment.
A. R. Addison, M.L.C., of South Aus., just
dead at 73, was a pugnacious but mostly-
silent battler for the interests of his Northern
district. He was a miller all his adult life.
The nearest he ever got to Cabinet rank
was as Hon. Minister in a Peake Cabinet
for a few months in 1910. In private life
he was an enthusiastic Anglican lay-reader,
an equally keen racing man—the steeple-
chaser Vistula was the best he ever owned—
and one of Australia’s finest shots with rifle
and revolver. His son was a King’s Prize
winner at Bisley, and the father was gener-
ally his match.
South Aus. having established the woman
J.P., Judge Russell, of the Adelaide Local
Court, thought it right that she should per-
form as such. Consequently, on July 29,
1915. for “the first time in the Empire’s his-
tory,” there was a woman among the Jus-
tices sitting with a Judge as advisory col-
leagues. This first step was taken, fittingly,
by Mrs. Price, widow of the Labor Premier
who died too young; and she had an un-
familiar glimpse of the seamy side of things,
this being “U.J.S.” day, when, under the S.
Australian system, debtors who have judg-
ments out against them come up to be cross-
examined as to why they don’t pay and when
they can. In these bad times “No order” is
often the kindly verdict.
The first works for the manufacture of big-
gun munitions in Australia are to go up
alongside the Broken Hill Prop.’s new steel
works at Newcastle. The B. H. Prop, is the
parent, and some of the plant has already
been shipped from the U.S.A. Somehow it
doesn’t make us want to give three cheers
for ourselves to know that this first decisive
move is made by a co. whose chairman is of
German parentage and whose general mana-
ger is Dutch,
John Downer, whose prize-fighter’s face
has been _ to the front in S. Australia’s law
and politics for close upon 40 years, died this
weeL Thirty-four years ago he was Attor-
ney-General; 30 years ago he was Premier;
nearly 40 years ago he was made a Q.C.,
and for 30 years he and Josiah Symon were
the undisputed leaders of the local Bar. A
good Protectionist, and in other respects a
good Australian, he was a stalwart fighter for
Federation, and a man whom all parties
respected. When the Federal Convention
met 18 years ago in Adelaide, under the
presidency of Charles Kingston, Edmund
Barton, the leader, invited O’Connor and
Downer to join him as a sort of drafting sub-
committee. The greater part of that historic
work was done at John Downer’s house.
It was left for Johnson, who decorates the
House of Reps, on behalf of a N.S.W. Lib-
eral constituency, to urge the Govt, to ex-
empt members of Parliament from war taxa-
tion because “they have expenses not borne
by other sections of the community.” John-
son, by the way, is also a passionate advo-
cate of Parliament taking a prolonged holi-
day. He has also been heard making re-
marks about “the last man and the last
shilling.”
John Flood Paige, who died the other day,
aged 87, was a very well-known Sydney
banker 30 years ago. He was connected
with the unfortunate Oriental; and when
that big Anglo-Indian and Australian con-
cern failed he set up as an accountant, and
was for many years auditor for the A.M.P.
Society and the Savings Bank of N. S. Wales.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “After the Girl”
** OYAL “Stop Your Nonsense”
Criterion “Inside the Lines”
Palace The Royal Strollers
iivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Law of the Land”
Royal “Potash and Perlmutter”
Princess s “The Silence of Dean Maitland”
Ti\rr.r ? “On our Selection”
iivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bi jou ...... Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville Co.
lloyt s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating
To-night sees the last of the Muriel Starr
season at Sydney Criterion. “Within the
Law” was revived on Monday evening for
the last four nights. Compared with the
nrst production this revival fares badly.
Ihe new hero, Theo Boase, does his uncon-
vincing best; Florence Heston, though reviv-
ing delightful memories of Mary Worth,
lacks the sparkle of that clever comedienne ;
m the absence of E. W. Morrison, the fat
pait of forger Joe Carson is shorn of
its pre-eminence by Lionel Walsh, who
assiduously imitates the voice and gestures
of Morrison without indicating any sign of
his artistic ability; the part of the “stool-
pigeon” suffers, too, in the hands of Hobart
Cavanaugh ; and Dorothy Davies is thrown
away on a mere trifle. But the parts of
Gilder, senior, played by William Lockhart,
and of Helen Morris, played by Ger-
trude Boswell, constitute an artistic improve-
ment upon the originals. Were it not for
these two,, and the remnants of the original
company in their old parts—Muriel Starr,
Boyd Irwin and Lincoln Plumer—this
performance would cry out for wholesale
condemnation. Better a closed theatre than
its opening for the exhibition of this com-
pany’s deplorable tail.
** * $
On Saturday evening, at the Criterion, an-
other war-play, “Within the Lines,” with a
couple of imported leads, will be given its
premiere in Australia.
** * *
“After the Girl” will be staged at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday night.
After the Recruit,” a stirring piece in which
the leading rbles are taken by politicians,
will be put on in the interval.
** * *
The. latest news from the front of the
house is that “\\ ho’s the Lady?” will occupy
Sydney Royal until Tuesday, August 10.
Stop Your Nonsense,” Beaumont Smith’s
latest pick-me-up, will be v served up or
poured out for the first time on the follow-
ing night.
* * * *
To-morrow night “My Mate” will take to
the road with Matilda. Sydney Adelphi’s
freak black-tracker will then cease to do
long journeys on his hands and knees, the
two Australian settlers will go back to their
respective churches, and Edmund Duggan
will collect his cheque for royalties. On
Saturday night “Under Two Flags” will
come on; and any blood that has been left
lying around the premises by previous
bellowdramas will boil with enthusiasm and
patriotism.
“THE ARCADIANS,” AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY’S.
Father Time (with American twang),
Harry Burgess.
Palace Tabernacle, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Saturday, 2.30 p.m. and 8 p.m.,' Syd-
ney James, of the Holy Strollers’ Mission.
Subject: “Let Joy Dwell in Our Midst for,
Behold, there is a Change this Day.” Solo-
ists, Bros. G. W. Desmond and F. Halpin,
and Sisters Rossiter, Brae and Lewis. Pews
as usual. All welcome. The usual evening
services will be conducted to-night and 'to-
morrow night. Reflection: “Their sound
is gone out into all lands and their words
into the ends of the world.” —Psalm xix.
* * *
Rochez’s Monkeys are the star item at
Sydney Tivoli this week, and with slight
aids from behind the scenes they supply a
rather good animal turn. May Erne and
He, who are largely concerned about Sister
Susie’s shirts, are responsible for the big
item among the mere human -beings. Crouch
and Welch, a U.S.A. coitple, depend ipainly
on their capacity for keeping the mercury
well up in the thermometer; otherwise there
is nothing startling about their attempt.
The rest of the programme, from the
familiar legs of Eileen Watson to the won-
derful cycling of Frank Wilson, is sufficient
to keep the bailiff out of the Tivoli for a few
weeks to come.
❖ ❖ sfc ❖
This week’s Sydney movies:—
Crystal Palace : “Her Other Self,” a female
Jekyll and Hyde—one moment the sweetest creature
that ever broke the movie-actor’s heart; the next out-
Hydeing the Gerhog at his worst.
Lyhic : “The Bomb Boy,” wherein a youthful mes-
senger puts the kybosh on an anarchist plot and
saves the heroine’s life. Wherefore she marries a
pug., and spends her life surrounded by money and
cauliflower-ears.
Colonial: “Scales of Justice,” concerning a Judge
who, having pardoned a criminal, returns home to
find his wife carrying-on with another man. Com-
plications and corpses.
Empress : “According to Their Lights,” a Tennessee
yarn dealing with the evil effects of no license on
whisky.
“THE ARCADIANS” IN SYDNEY.
Peter Doody ( Robert, Whyte) and Maria
(Maggie Moore).
The aforementioned partners in pizness
and adversity continue to run their store at
Melbourne Royal, and Rosie is still remark-
ing in a hard, matronly tone of voice that
vereas Abe’s slim dress-designer can always
gir notice if she vants to, his plump lawful
vife has got to stick.
** * *
The one regrettable circumstance about
the revival 0 f “The Chocolate Soldier” at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.) is that it came only
last Saturday and will be gone to-morrow
In several respects this is the best perform-
ance we have had, and in no essential is it
conspicuously otherwise. Miss Ladd, though
not the proud and picturesque Nadina of
Shaw s fancy, sings well and acts verv
daintily. The Mascha of Dorothy Bruntoii
is a joyously impish damsel whose voice
mteHigence and activity are equallv effective
Ethel Morrison, as Aurelia, is both droll and
majestic (which is a blessed combination of
qualities in woman) ; Roberts and Kav-
anagh have been there before; and Work-
nian s rather middle-aged creation of
Bumerli may be said to carry more weight
in the story than the Bumerli' of yore. Also
Massakroff (Victor Prince) and the chorus
girls are quite all right, as far as they go
but the men choristers still labor under the
suggestion that they must be unsexed when
they come to search Nadina’s bedroom in
the first act. Anyhow, the ladies who have
just been looking at those 12 hairy scare-
crows turn presently to greet Bumerli as
the first man they have seen for months ”
They must be thinking of Massakroff and
his little lot as mere gollywogs or hideous
dreams.
** * *
The drama wherein Muriel Starr and Co
will appear at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) next
Saturday is to be “The Law of the Land”
not “Sunday,” as was aforetime stated. The
reception that this co.’s “Sunday” got in
Sydney may account for the change.
$$ $ $
The business that is usual with “On Our
.Selection” is being done at the King’s
(Melbourne).
POTASH AND PERLMUTTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Potash and Perlmutter pair
Are ministers of grace;
They seem to bid us not despair
Of God’s own Chosen Race.
No vulgar views concerning Jews
Would Gentiles ever utter
If some as good as Potash were,
And others like Perlmutter.
All traders would be keenly fair
And jealous of their fame
And gently o’er the stile would bear
Poor doggies who were lame ;
Our daily bread we’d gaily spread
With sympathetic butter
If half the world like Potash were,
The other like Perlmutter.
No crafty money-lender’s snare
Would catch the buzzing fly ;
No fool oppressed by care
For help would vainly sigh.
Of funds bereft he’d not be left
To perish in the gutter
If Hebrews all like Potash were,
Or upright as Perlmutter.
We’d raise our hat to Ikey Mo
On street, or ’change, or mart,
And to the breezes as they blow,
Cry “Bless his simple heart!”
And love the Yids who bag our quids
Next time we have a flutter,
If all as square as Potash were,
Or honest as Perlmutter.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


A FAMOUS NOVELIST ON THROAT TROUBLES.
Everyone has heard of Mr. Jack London, whose
stirring adventure stories are based on his own ex-
periences. Mr. London is a tough man physically,
but he takes good care of his health. “Formamint,”
he writes, “is a real destroyer of mouth and throat
germs.” Try Formamint when you have a sore
throat. Buy a bottle to-day, price 2/6.*
DANIEL CRAWFORDS
c r\ STAR
RE WHISKY.
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, o. w. ehrlich, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113-Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
•Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
“The Silence of Dean Maitland” seems
thin skilly to offer to audiences accus-
tomed to frequent bloodstains; but* , e
same, it was favorably received by Marlow s
supporters at Melbourne Princess s on Satur-
day night. George Cross thrust his
avoirdupois in the limelight as the naughty
young parson who went a-wooing in the pro-
logue and subsequently expiated his error
by dramatic explanations in the pulpit.
Early in the proceedings George’s sufferings
caused an epidemic of tear-sodden bandanas,
and even hardened spectators were touched
by the lacerated looks with which the actor
epitomised the agony of the Gaitered Mute.
Miss Oriel Hotson as Maitland’s seductive
victim provided the sultry atmosphere in the
prologue, and J. J. Ennis represented her
dishonored father, carrying his shame in
hoarse language to the grave. Herbert
Linden, who is generally a villain by occu-
pation, ironed out his professional scowl and
did 18 years’ hard for Maitland’s crime with
a thorough-going nonchalance that not all
the waves of misfortune could ruffle. Her-
bert’s sweetheart and Maitland’s sister (Miss
Remee) was the only character in the play
who managed to keep Time at a respectful
distance. While her contemporaries whitened
and withered she maintained her passionate
prejudice in favor of sweet seventeen for a
period of ever two decades. As the ancient
Maitland pere, Fred Kehoe bore his terrible
load of birthdays with the uprightness of one
of the old noblesse; while the plump John
Kirby just got into the rDle of the Dean’s
illicit youngster without altogether look-
ing too large for his clothes. Frank
Neil and Miss Hellmrich, appearing as mem-
bers of two serious Anglican families, were
the only disappointments in the entertain-
ment. Inanimate small talk is not their
metier. They prefer to employ the flat-iron
and the flying decanter to demonstrate the
finer shades of acting. “The Silence of
Dean Maitland” will be continued until
further notice.
** * *
Laver’s Orchestral Concert at Melbourne
Town Hall last Saturday was thinnest in
the familiar Boccherini Minuet for strings
and heaviest in the concluding Tschaikowsky
symphony, which had its most soulful
moments towards the end of the fourth
movement. In between came the same un-
pronounceable composer’s concertoj with Miss
Violet Ewart at the pianoforte. The clever
lady showed a strong set of fingers and a
good grip of her arduous contract, but in
the lighter and more soloic parts she was
hardly a Carreno. The next concert of the
series is due on the 20th or 27th.
* * * *
On Wednesday (11th) Amy Castles sings
for the boys who have done their bit and
lived to tell the tale. The concert is to
happen at the Melbourne Town Hall under
massive social conditions, and 200 voices
and 75 instrumentalists will support the
songstress-in-chief.
Hs :!: *
Of several new people at the Melbourne
Tivoli the remarkable one is Kajiyama, a
Jap. who stands in front of a black sheet
and writes on it in chalk with his hand
behind his back. Kaj. reverses the laws of
caligraphy, so to speak, for whilst he moves
across the stage in one direction his letters
to the audience run the other way. Also
ho writes with both hands at once in front
of him, and puts a ..complete order of words
“THE ARCADIANS ,”
AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY’S.
Maggie
Dickinson
as Bothy.
Phil Smith
as Simplici-
tas.
into a seeming chaos of letters. The dex-
terous Jap. is more interesting than Mary
Elizabeth, a Yank lady who talks two or
three songs in twangful accents and reveals
no Other reason for her arrival. A new
contortionist is clever enough; and James
Britt, ex-champion boxer, has at least the
recommendation of being a better entertainer
than J. J. Corbett. Ripon, Clemons and
Dean, the bioscope, and others make up a
full-sized bill.
% * * *
Mann and Franks were the only fresh
people observed at Melbourne Bijou on
Saturday. Though they describe themselves
as musical comedy artists, they mostly in-
dulge in tongue-duels of an undecided charac-
ter. The rest of the programme is as
before, Bert Le Blanc’s Co., Charles Zoli,
the Musical Ibsons and others all doing
their little bits with profit to themselves and
the Brennan-Fuller management.
* * * *
Pinero’s strange little farce, “Playgoers,”
was given a trial in Adelaide in a patri-
otic programme. It is a foolish trifle, any-
way, and needs brisker acting than it got.
The mingling of experienced Repertory play-
ers with clever but inexperienced others
did not go well somehow. Also, the Royal
is a big house to ask amateurs to face, and
much of the dialogue did not reach far
beyond the footlights. When the same pro-
gramme, or thereabouts, was repeated for a
similar purpose the item was quietly
dropped.
* * * * .
Playgoers who went to Adelaide Tivoli ex-
pecting Revelations (as hinted at by the
Brandon Cremer management) in “Secrets
of the Harem” were very properly disap-
pointed. What they did find was a bustling
melodrama with an unusual setting. The co.
has now revived the well-known Girl who
took the Wrong Turning but Hadn’t Go Far.
The Royal, after being crammed for a patri-
otic effort, has made an unexpected excur-
“POTASH AND PERLMUTTER ,” AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Pasinsky, the buyer
(Samuel Howard).
E. L. Delaney, the
Salesman.
sion into the continuous-picture business for
a week, with the Austral-Gallipoli “Within
our Gates,” packed with sensation. The
“Hero of the Dardanelles” —much rushed at
Wondergraph and Pav. —was curiously
anxious to avoid anything melodramatic.
But it becomes evident in this class of film
that one cannot realistically act a bayonet
fight-to-a-finish without spoiling a _perfectly
good super; so Australia’s heroes are apt to
resort to Nature’s weapons, and finish off
their Turk with a few half-arm jolts. Won-
dergraph and other houses find pictures of
Adelaide crowds on Australia Day go as well
as anything. The whole city was a kind of
perambulating variety show. At the King’s
Max Martin dances, and Nat Phillips, in a
farce, shows good low comedy. Jennie
Opie had a great week, singing with the
support of boy-scouts, soldiers and aged
veterans. The little house has seldom seen
such enthusiasm.
Some idea of the awful muddle that Maori-
land’s Defence Dept, has got into can be
gauged by the fact that men who are now
fighting at the Dardanelles have lately been
frantically chased with official notices warn-
ing them that if they don’t step up at once
and do their Territorial drill they will be
promptly dealt with. In one case the man
chased had been killed at Gallipoli in April.
Premier Holman resisted a motion in
favor of taking a plebiscite of N. S. Wales
on the question of early pub-closing with
the argument that such an appeal to the
people was not included in the Labor plat-
form. It is for the same reason, of course,
that the Norton Griffiths shindykit, and
Cohen, and the wheat grab and Ikqy Mo
have all been turned down by Willie Hol-
man and his fellow-defenders of the Labor
policy pure and undefiled.
The cold, bloodless Irvine begins to look
like the man that a Big Australia has been
searching for since Charles Kingston passed
away. In his speech on the War Loan Bill
the Iceberg declared that “the States must
be brought to heel.... There is absolute
need for a clear and definite understanding
with the States, not only as to restrictions
on borrowing, but as to immediate economy
in the State departments.” To Fisher’s
excuse that he had not the power to amend
the Surplus Revenue Act of 1910, he replied
with a warmth that thawed his own edges :
“You have every power. You have complete,
unlimited control of the whole Customs
revenue. No Parliament could, even if it
wished, bind future Parliaments for 10
years.” To all of which and much more
the only reply Irvine got is that he is a
Unificationist —which disposes of the whole
matter just as completely as the burglar dis-
poses of his trouble when he calls the arrest-
ing Law “a cow.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: People who remember what Bill
Anderson did for Australian playwrights in
his palmy days are sorry to see him drop out
of the theatrical running in Melbourne. He
gave Australian melodrama its first big
chance when he staged “The Squatter’s
Daughter” at the Royal. Subsequently he
tried “Thunderbolt” at the same house, and
in later years, at the King’s, he was always
game to produce a local play—bellodrama or
comedy drama —that had any promise of
money in it. Anderson was really the father
of the Bert Bailey managers, who took the
lease of the King’s when it passed from his
hands. Bailey and Duggan were members of
the Anderson co. long before, and for some
years after, they wrote “The Squatter’s
Daughter” and reaped a good sum in royalties
on that,successful shocker ; and Julius Grant
was the Andersonian business manager be-
fore he went into partnership with Bailey,
and began to count the gains of “On Our
Selection” —which, by the way, has been a
little goldmine also to Steele Rudd. But
for Anderson the dawn of modern Australian
drama might have been delayed for years.
There were, of course, previous producers of
local plays with local color. George Darrell,
from 25 to 35 years ago, was an actor-
author-manager, whose “Sunny South” was
his trade-mark. Leach dramatised “His
Natural Life.” So did Dampier and Garnet
Walch; and Walch also made a bad play out
of “Robbery Under Arms.” But there was a
long lapse of time between those things and
the first of Bilanderson’s ventures in Aus-
tralian plays with a mostly-Australian-born
co. He was the good sport who ran the
home-bred drama with Australian colors up,
and he deserves more than the infinitesimal
amount of credit he got for his pluck.
“H. 0.”: At a patriotic auction at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) a crowd of romantic
youths competed furiously for Dorothy Brun-
ton’s garters, which were knocked down for
£6. It was felt that it would have been
a worthy action on the part of a well-known
beauty mummer who was present if he had
given the female voluptuaries a chance by
placing his flannel binder under the hammer.
Even actor-rs are not immune from life’s
little ironies. Thus Reginald Roberts’s first
public appearance since his execrable revol-
ver practice at Paddington (N.S.W.)as a
protest against the playing of music by
enemy composers, is made in an opera, “The
Chocolate Soldier,” the work of an Austrian
—Oscar Straus !
“Kaniva”: For close on half a century
the late “Nick” La Feuillade tuned his
fiddle through Australia and Maoriland.
He also lived long enough to _ cover his
eightieth birthday. “Corkonion” (B.
22/7/’l5) mentions three troupes which
visited Australia in the early days, but
omits Tottens Harmonions, an Ethiopian
combination which included J. E. Kitts,
afterwards basso with Lyster’s Opera Com-
pany. This combination opened on Feb-
ruary 18, 1856. The Court Minstrels came
also in those days: they opened at the Mel-
bourne Apollo Hall in August, 1862. With
them was Harry Leslie, the stump orator.
“Corkonion” is wrong in his dates as to the
appearance of the Original Christy
Minstrels. His “1860” should read “Feb-
ruary 2, 1863.” Also John Smith’s troupe
appeared on March 27, 1865, not in 1863.
Smith’s company included T. H. Rainford,
basso, and Joe Brown, the jig dancer.
Will Dyson has been busy for some time
preparing an exhibition of his cartoons —
war subjects mainly—for the Australian
market. A select consignment is afloat, and
will be opened for inspection in the Mel-
bourne Centreway during the second week
iu August.
Johnny Cowan, a veteran of the burnt
cork and Massa Johnson era, put his wild
tambourine behind him the other day and
fled to Abraham’s bosom. His first appear-
ance in Australia was at the Canterbury
Music Hall, Bourke-street (Melb.), now
occupied as a caf 6, and for many years after
he sat on the “corner” with different troupes.
John’s children, Ray and Joe, took to
vaudeville work and became very well
known.
When Knoblauch’s new and daring play,
“Marie Odile,” was produced in N’York in
January, the leading juvenile part was taken
by Maorilander A. J. Patrick.
L. J. Lohr, who has been in bad health
lately, is putting in a long holiday in Maori-
land. It is about 15 years since “Daddy”
was last in that land of promise.
“Busk”: I wrote here about the most
common names in the Australian theatrical
profession. Let me expand a little upon two
families, the Edouins and Nelsons, each con-
tributing six members to the stage world.
The Edouins included three brothers.
Charles, John and Willie, and three sisters,
Eliza, Rose and Julia. They made a London
hit as “The Living Marionettes.” Coming to
Australia they were popular at the theatres,
but did better round the goldfields, living in
a van with which they travelled. Their real
name was Bryer. Charles was a good
manager as well as clown. He married Lizzie
Naylor, and died in India, leaving Lillie and
George Bryer and another son. John ex-
celled most as harlequin. He married Tilly
Earl, who afterwards married Newton. Eliza,
who died young in Australia, was reputed
the cleverest of all. Rose, the only survivor,
is the well-known Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis.
Julia married in India —a pretty little
woman with whom I had the gratification of
appearing. The Nelson Family, as known
to the public, was headed by Sam, the
father, excellent composer and musician.
There was one son, Alf, a comedian. The
family’s strength was in four daughters,
Eliza, Marie, Carry and Sara. Eliza married
H. T. Craven, actor and dramatist, after-
wards well known in London for his “Milky
White,” “Chimney Corner,” “Meg’s Diver-
sion,” and other plays. Marie was the first
wife of Alexander Henderson, who chris-
tened the Melbourne Princess’s. Afterwards
he married Lydia Thompson, sister of Clara
Thompson (Mrs. Bracy). Carry, who wedded
one MacFadyen, was by long odds the smart-
est of the Nelsons. The sisters Carry, Marie
and Sara were in the cast of “Camralzaman
and Badoura,” the Christmas piece at Mel-
bourne Princess’s in 1858, when Greville
made his first Melbourne appearance.
“Floater”: Paul Kester, who made a lot
of money out of “Sweet Nell of Old Drury,”
is becoming fashionable again in Noo Yark.
His latest, Balance.” has been
such a success that the pay-box staff is
working three shifts. A Noo Yark critic
describes the piece as containing “the most
charming comedy, the most original plot
and most witty dialogue revealed and spoken
this season.” Margaret Anglin is shining
in the leading rOle.
“J.F.H.” from London :
Dropped in at the Coliseum the other evening- and
found a couple of Australians on the bill —J. A.
Watts and Albert Whelan, born Waxman in Mel-
bourne. Jews are fond of assuming Irish names,
and the Irishmen of New York, where the practice
is very prevalent, have been trying to stop it. How-
ever, nobody would ever mistake Waxman for an
Irishman, as he carries a map of Jerusalem on his
shoulders. Both Watts and Whelan depend almost
entirely upon imitations of other performers—a line
of business terribly overdone in the London halls.
For a long time Whelan relied on reproducing Chirg-
win, but at present he is giving the White-Eyed
Kaffir a rest and turning his attention to Caledonian
comedians and other entertainers, sandwiching his
imitations with stories mostly of American origin.
Ever since his first appearance in the halls Watts
has been giving a burlesque of Maud Allan’s dancing
in Mendelssohn’s “Spring Song,” and although the
nearly-nude Maud is a long-faded memory in London
he continues to present this imitation —very good in
its way—as if it were of current topical interest.
It is pitiful that these fellows do not strike out
some line for themselves. Watts in particular has an
excellent voice, a vivacious manner, a good style,
and first-rate acting capacity. He could well carry
a monologue entertainment.
“J.F.H.”: At the annual meeting of the
Rehearsal Club in Leicester Square—the
gayest and giddiest of London blocks—Clara
Butt, proposing a vote of thanks to Princess
Christian, the Lady Bountiful of the place,
incidentally remarked that it would be a
great thing if similar “shops” were set up
in the chief cities of Australia and Maori-
land. But it is doubtful whether the
theatrical populations of Sydney, Melbourne
and Pipiriki are large enough to run these
“havens of rest for minor actresses.” The
fact is the family homes of the small fry of
the profession in the Australian and M.L.
cities are easily accessible, so that stage
flappers go home between shows, whereas in
London, which is miles from everywhere else,
they turn into the Rehearsal Club. They
can get their grub cooked there for a
ha’-penny, I believe. You could never run
a kitchen as cheaply as that in Sydney or
Melbourne, not to mention Pipiriki.
“Bern”: That once-nopular bellowdrama,
“Her Second Time on Earth,” was all right,
after all. S. M. Herald (22/7/’l5) dis-
covered a man who performed the same act:
“One of Sydney’s oldest residents, Mr.
Richard Horsley, died at his residence. . . .on
Monday at the age of 92. By a singular
coincidence Mr. Horsley died on the anni-
versary of his death.”
UNCLE TOM ON TOUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our show expired at Gargledoo,
Accompanied by vulgar shrieks
Of “Gorn git work !” and “Rats 1” and “800 1”
And so we died, aged just three weeks.
If those the gods esteem die young,
Why did they make that sinful fuss
At Gargledoo when we went bung?
The gods there simply hated us!
We perpetrated “Uncle Tom.”
The show was weak in some respects,
But we derived much solace from
Our “Great Mechanical Effects!”
We all stood on the O.P. side,
And mimicked the fierce bloodhound’s bay.
Instead of being terrified,
Our shilling patrons yelled “Hooray!”
And when Eliza crossed the ice
(Three tinned-dog boxes draped in white)
She wobbled badly once or twice —
And then the wretches laughed outright.
And Uncle Tom disgraced us all.
The house was full —and so was he.
He let angelic Eva fall,
Then danced, and tried to kiss Legree!
When Tom was flogged there came a roar
Of wild, unqualified delight;
The ribald scoundrels howled “Encore!
Bog in, Legree ! It serves him right! ”
The show’s defunct, and idle talk
Won’t raise black Thomas from the dead ;
And as his ghost declines to walk,
We’re doing that ourselves instead!
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


SOFT FELT HATS
NEWEST SHAPE and SHADES
FOR SPRING and SUMMER.
A shipment is just to hand of the newest shape and
shades in Men’s Soft Felts. brims with cut
edge ; good, serviceable, smooth felt; can be worn witli
brim at any angle.
Shades Light Grey, Oyster Grey and Beaver.
All with Black Bands. In every size—6J to 7J,
15/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD,
Opp. G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
« m
Build up
after Illness
by taking
Of all Chemists,
1/3, 2'9, 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion is both healing and
strengthening. Soothing to the entire mucous
tract —throat, lungs, stomach and intestines
—an aid toappet'te and digestion and a most
nvigorating tonic and restorative, it is
invaluable for restoring proper tone to the
digestive functions and for building up health
and strength after illness or when run down
from any cause. Pleasant to the taste and
absolutely harmless, it may be taken with
certainty of benefit. It is endorsed by the
medical profession.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper,
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
SOCIETY
Broken Hill has been playing up again.
A while ago, after the hotel and restaurant
employees had been on the usual strike for
a few weeks, a wages board sat and made
an award. The dispute having been thus
settled, various members of the union went
to work on the award wages and conditions.
These foolish people forgot that at Broken
Hill the Trades Hall is a High Court; and,
as it wasn’t consulted about accepting the
award, it declared all such employees
“scabs.” There were 40 of them; and their
employers—on award wages and conditions
—-were picketed. When the Minister for
Mines was in Broken Hill the matter was
brought before him, and he interviewed the
union magnates on behalf of the condemned
members, pointing out that their only
offence was that they had refused to con-
tinue to break the law. The union reply
was that the law did not apply in Broken
Hill. The Minister said it was a shame,
shed tears and went back to Sydney. One
of the victims then wrote to the Labor
Dept, asking for redress. The reply was
that if the victim (a penniless servant)
chose, she could “make application to the
Court for the cancellation of the registration
of the union !” A couple of members, see-
ing no other law open to them but the law
of retaliation, enticed the president of their
union to an appointment. While one woman
held a revolver to his head, others stripped
him to the waist (at least), flogged him.
tarred him and feathered him. Some women
(whether the ones concerned or not time
alone can tell) are charged with the offence
of doing the president grievous bodily harm,
and are committed for trial. The victims
of this amazing union’s tyranny in this mat-
ter are mostly women, and women are
illogical creatures. These, for instance,
think that because a union can defy
the law and administer punishment to indi-
vidual members who obey the law, indi-
vidual members who feel aggrieved will be
allowed equal freedom of action by the same
Government.
ft * * *
Kinematograph films showing the train-
ing, embarkation and departure of Maori-
land troops are regularly made by official
photographers for purposes of historical
record. But they are all nicely brushed-and-
combed pictures, and don’t suggest that any-
body has ever marched out of step. Those
taken at the big Trentham camp show no
troops going to bed with measles, or leaping
into hospital with pneumonia or drying their
wet blankets and shirts out in the rain. Nor
is there any permanent record of the Pre-
mier being dragged out of the mud, or of the
tornado that followed the Defence Minister’s
speech about the healthy surroundings, or of
the Opposition emitting loud guffaws as the
camp was frantically pulled to pieces and
hurried away to other sites. History was
a dreadful lie while it depended on tongue
and pen; it doesn’t look as though it will
be much less of a lie now that the camera
has been dragged in as a reinforcement.
* * * *
The curious “Branson case” has been
worked out in the Adelaide Insolvency
Court. Branson is the chaff-merchant
who, after a bad year, wrote to a
friend that he was going to commit
suicide; after which his motor-car and
boots and clothes were found on the
seashore —but no body. The body was
presently recognised in Sydney, on its
way to the American boat, and was arrested
at Auckland on arriving there with. a girl.
The proceedings under which the warrant
was issued were presently dropped, but
“charges” were laid under the Insolvency
Act. Branson’s simple claim was that he is
liable to sleep-walking, and that his mind is
a blank as to what happened from the time
he left home at Freeling (S.A.) on the after-
noon of Tuesday, January 12, until he found
himself in the train at Serviceton, on the
Victorian border, on the Thursday night.
But a cold-blooded Insolvency Judge called
it “a deliberate and well-laid plan to ab-
scond,” went on to mention “an unwarrant-
able and fraudulent gift of £lOO to a young
woman as a Christmas present” and “an
improper payment to his sister of £2OO
between January 8 and 12,” and concluded
“that insolvent did quit South Aus-
tralia and take with him £l6OO is clearly
proved.” “I reject the whole of his story
as being unworthy of belief,” said his Honor ;
so a plot that might have brought its deviser
a lot of money if used for a novel merely
earns him a year’s imprisonment.
“BAD FORM .”
PERCY (after watching his bush uncle sampling asparagus for the first time): “ Mother,
don’t you think you had better tell uncle not to swallow the ‘handles’?”
THE FUTILE HAT.
THE BOSS: “Great idea, these street collections! My fifty-shilling cleric pays—I escape
with scarcely a scratch."
You have to know how many churches
and chapels and “local preachers” there are
in S. Australia to realise what sort of a
bomb was dropped into the Assembly the
other day when a Labor member was ac-
cused of speaking of the Bible with a
and of the swearing-in ceremony with a
different —— There had been awed whispers
on the subject for some days, and members
went about the place visibly shuddering. At
last a statesman—one of the Opposition, of
course—could stand the suppressed horror
no longer, and proceeded to uncover it. Then
there was whispered consultation, and a
reference to the fact that ladies were in the
gallery. But, ladies or no ladies, the dread-
ful gibbering skeleton had to be dragged
forth. As the awful thing was presented
to Mr. Speaker the atmosphere grew heavy
as though all the earthquakes of all ages
were about to repeat themselves. Then
the alleged father of the Shame arose. In
a voice assaying 90 per cent, of emotion he
declared that so far from ing the Book
he reverenced it and read it as regularly
as he did the Advertiser, and- —how could
the wicked Opposition say such a wicked
thing! _ After which three members rose
and said they had heard the wickedness
with their own ears ; and they all assayed
90 per cent, of emotion too. Obviously the
House couldn’t settle down to work with this
Frightfulness undisposed of; so it went
heme early, and gave the matter its most
prayerful consideration; and next evening
there was a sivh of relief that could be
heard, out into North Terrace when the
Premier rose and announced that the matter
had been gone into behind barred and bolted
doors, and the misunderstanding had been
cleared up, and the skeleton had been
broken into powder and melted and carried
out to sea and wasn’t ever to be referred to
again.
* * * *
That popular article of indigestion,
“fancy” bread, was considered from another
point of view by a Sydney magistrate the
other day. For some reason or another
(most likely another) it has been taken for
granted by bakers that the weight clause of
the N. S. Wales Bread Act does not apply
to “twists,” “turn-overs,” “Vienna loaves”
and other variants of the standard 21b. loaf.
But an inspector of weights and measures
with an interfering habit wasn’t convinced,
and ran a baker to Redfern Police Court.
The dough-puncher called to his aid a flock
of “expert” witnesses, who all testified that
the inspector was mistaken in his view that
any old kind of 21b. loaf should weigh 21b.
The magistrate, however, couldn’t find any
exemption mentioned in the Act, and, observ-
ing that what the Act said had to go, passed
down a fine of £lO. The trade is now talking
of wasting a lot of good money on an
appeal.
“Mujik”: Archgaiters Wright, of Sydney,
hits the nail square on the head :
The cplt of luxury, whether the means are large
or small, stalks rampant through the land,
Especially does it stalk through the laby-
rinth of mean, squalid streets within stone’s-
throw of the chastely-carved cathedral pul-
pit. It takes morning and evening stalks
with great solemnity between rows of
hutches called houses, which I myself go
at times to see for the good of my eternal
soul-—houses you can step into from the
street; mansions that expose all the inti-
mate details of family life to public view
when the door is opened ; wherein the in-
habitants can be seen luxuriating in viti-
ated air on fried bacon, lifted direct from
the rancid-smelling fat on to the plate. And
the same cult of luxury goes stalking west
and north and south, among the miners and
cookies and timber-getters and teamsters,
The excesses these people 101 l amidst are
demoralising. Why are they devouring treacle
and duff and rabbit? It is enough to make
one’s blood boil, when delicate curates are
unable to get anything except oyster soup
and chicken. In the cities artisans are to
be seen actually asking harassed grocers to
sell them butter. Wharf workers and foun-
dry hands think nothing of eating a chop
an d having two shirts and a second pair of
boots. So inured are their families to luxury
that they go to picture shows and surrepti-
tiously munch peanuts in the dark, wallow-
iug in every kind of enervating self-indul-
gence. These devote.es of fashion would be
greatly purified and the nation exalted if
they cut down on the grosser pleasures of
life and paid the landlord more regularly,
Then, also, would the episcopal chauffeur
have a less anxious passage when navigat-
*ng bishops to dinners and other errands of
mercy. With so much luxury stalking round
there is always a chance of running over a
washerwoman.
* * * *
“Rags” : Mrs. Chest-Expansion was afraid
that it scarcely suited her figure. “It might
do at any other time. But, now, with the
war on? Oh, no! Much too luxurious!”
She picked up the shimmering, delicate
thing and looked at it with envious eye.
“How much did you say?” “Fifteen guineas,”
murmured the maiden with a sigh of regret
at the film’s habit of throwing things away,
Taking her scissors the guileless creature
deftly severed a rosette fully half an inch in
diameter. “Well, I am sure no one could
criticise it as being luxurious now," she
remarked with great respect. “Oh no! How
clever of you to think of that! It makes all
the difference. I will look almost like a
nurse!” And they laughed happily together,
and the “head of the room” said a very
careful messenger would carry the pai’cel,
and Mrs. Chest-Expansion moved off to “the
Millinery.”
THE MARCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DM you hear the children singing, oh, my brothers?
Did you hear the children singing as the troops went
marching past,
In the sunshine and the rain,
As they’ll never sing again—
Hear the little school-gills singing as the troops
went swinging past?
Did you hear the children singing, oh, my brothers?
Did you hear the children singing for the first man
and the last,
As they marched away and vanished,
To a tune we thought was banished—
Did you hear the children singing for the future and
the past?
Shall you hear the children singing, oh, my brothers?
Shall you hear the children singing in the sunshine
or the pain?
There’ll be sobs beneath the ringing
Of the cheers, and ’neath the singing
There'll be tears of orphan children when Our Boys
come back again I
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


ABBOTT’S
“OBAN GrE
SLICE”
BISCUITS
for all Occasions
where a Dainty,
Sweet Biscuit is
a Desideratum.
PaßvioLa”
(luxupia Series. )
w m &
THE GENUINE 'IS branded /OAR VIOL A ff)
OERFUMERyIJ
An fixQuhfie/e/ refined aod
Ctncc/r/oc/s /o/Ze/- wafer.
. ,
mm
? . Li
o
wm.
I! s
The New Crepe Shirts
—MATERIAL NOW BETTER THAN EVER
Have you ever worn a Peapes Crfipe Shirt? If so, you know
liow long they last, how comfortable they are, how cool and
porous This season we have material even better than before.
The shirts are excellent—the value really unique. Absolutely
the best line available for summer. Despite increases in cost
we are quoting them at
5/9 each
for all stock sizes ready to wear. Colored soft collars will
not be worn this season.
The shirts have linen neckbands and soft cuffs. Send to-day
for the patterns—they will please you. White Crfipe Soft
Collars, 1/- each. Please state linen collar size-
Peapes (St Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 (St 311 George Street, Sydney.
The other Sunday night a heavy explo-
sion of gas occurred in a Collins-street
church during the progress of the sermon.
One Melbourne paper explains carelessly:
“It appears that while the reverend gentle-
man was preaching the gas was accumulat-
ing in a small room behind the pulpit.”
We wonder these mishaps in churches are
not much more frequent.
* * * *
“Chug”: Now that the Hogman has vio-
lated all the rules of the game of war, and
there is talk of reprisals, I want to advocate
the use of something which would get trench
THEIR TWO POINTS OF VIEW.
GEORGE: “You will make me a good wife, I
know.”
JANE: “I know I will make you a good
husband .”
warfare forward at the rate of knots. Any
reader of Robinson Crusoe knows that that
hero conducted most of his battles against
numerical odds by means of the shot-gun.
The shot-gun would be much more deadly
at close quarters than even poison gas, and
its use seems justifiable enough against an
enemy like the Hogman. All that is neces-
sary is to have the forces of the Kaiser
declared game. The sporting instinct of the
British people will do the rest. In a rush
a rifle must be well aimed to stop one man.
A shot-gun loaded with buckshot and slugs
must be particularly badly aimed if under
similar circumstances it doesn’t stop half a
dozen. My suggestion is sufficiently bar-
barous, but it was the Prussian who assured
us that war is war.
This seems to have happened almost
anywhere:—
Splinks, warned by what he had seen in the papers
and the activities of Mrs. Splinks, thought he had
better see if the street was clear. So he proceeded
to push his hat round the gatepost, and his face
followed just in time to meet the melting eye of a
neighboring flapper. “A cigar, Mr. Splinks?” she
cooed. Splinks said that was just what he had been
looking for, parted with a bob, lit up, hastily
dropped the awful thing over the fence, and tackled
the street. At the first corner he was ambushed, but
got away with a pincushion, a pot of jam and a
coat-hanger. Breaking away from a cauliflower and
three onions, he fell into the tram. There he was
decorated with a kangaroo, two rabbits and a bunch
of wattle, and achieved two snorts by dropping a
pair of pennies into a couple of boxes.
Springing nimbly out of the tram with his spoils,
he found himself confronted by an oil-painting, a set
of baby’s rompers, and a pair of gamboge stockings.
Splinks sternly repulsed the work of art, and was
proceeding to annihilate the remainder when the
boat began to move. Grabbing the drapery and
dashing down some uncounted coin, he leaped franti-
cally along the wharf, fell aboard the transport,
shoved the accumulating loot into his bag, and read
with critical eye some illuminating cables about
the Grand Duke’s strategy in Poland. “Cripes,” he
said, “I wish I had the handling of that job!”
On the city side Splinks knew a short cut to the
office along some back lanes. That would be his line
of advance. So he put a confident hand into his
pocket for the gateway pass. “Damn that ticket,”
he said. “Where is it?” He put his bag down and
the other hand sought a pocket. The contents —keys
and cash and matches—were dredged forth. “How
lovely of you,” babbled a voice. Splinks looked up.
There were 17 money boxes waiting for him. He
bought his way through, achieved a packet of tooth-
paste, four oranges and a ham, and dived for the
lane. He got into it all right, but encountered the
enemy laughing with conquest. Turning to execute
a strategical movement to the rear he found a regi-
ment of Huns loaded with works of art, and in
search of more plunder. Splinks tried the white
flag. No use. He pleaded poverty and measles in
the house. The barbarians only laughed. They
stripped him as bare of valuables as a lamp-post,
and decorated him with ribbons and large animals
and ridiculous little hats and a bag of oatmeal, and
left him leaning against the wall, blithering about
thruppence for lunch.
Splinks hid under the office table till night, and
sneaked out under cover of darkness. On the ferry
Swank and Prank bailed him up and tore his ham
from him and sold it by auction and raffled his pin-
cushion, and gave the jam to a little boy. Home at
last; “Thank God,” muttered Splinks; and when
he opened the door he found his wife in hysterics
and the kids in bed violently ill. They had found
the cigar he had spilt over the gate!
Splinks sat meekly down and pensively removed
the bunting from his hat and coat. In the night he
dreamed that Australia had been asked to provide
funds for helping her wounded soldiers, and had
responded with the dignity of a quiet enthusiasm.
The new issue of kangaroo-embossed en-
velopes, now available at 30 for 32d., was
previously available at 30 for 36d., and re-
mained on sale until the kangaroo was
officially abolished by
Liberalism. The kan-
garoo again appears by
itself on the present
issue; but the Agar
Wynne design, carrying
King George as the
main figure, surmounted
by two bunches of
wattle-bloom, and having
an emu and a tailless
kangaroo in the mar-
gin, is the only loose penny-stamp yet avail-
able. Wherefore when a citizen uses an
embossed envelope for an overweight letter
his missive now arrives bearing the artistic
choice of both political parties.
» * * *
“W.A.R.” considers whether any great
war nowadays can be either lost or won: —
The general Franco-British advance predicted for
this spring has been delayed or missed or overlooked
or something. While Warsaw is being sternly be-
leaguered the cables cheerfully report that all is calm
on the French front! That is just what the Jeerman
wanted —while he pulverised Poland. The truth is
that the modern weapon has utterly overturned every
conception cf strategy and tactics. In olden days one
army met the other army in close combat, sword to
sword, pike to club, and after a day’s fighting the
defeated army was not only defeated but destroyed.
There was no possibility of retreat, except as a scattered
and disorganised horde, with the victors hacking at
the flying shins of the vanquished. Every battle in
ancient times up to the defeat of the Moors in
France ended that way; a victory meant the conclu-
sion of a campaign. Even at Waterloo contemporary
weapons were of such inaccuracy and were only use-
ful at so short a range that defeat meant annihila-
tion. The Battle of Waterloo was fought in a few
paddocks; the modern battle extends from one sea
to another. The fact that modern weapons keep the
opposing armies at a distance from each other is the
sole cause for the extraordinary revolution in strat-
egy. Between the armies lies a dreadful no-man’s
land, over which neither host can advance. When'
one army gives way a little the other army creeps
along in its rear with that no-man’s land still
between it and its prey. Modern artillery can squirt
from its muzzles a stream of shell that holds the pur-
suers at a safe distance. No army can be outflanked,
no army can be beaten. It retires; it does not re-
treat. So a campaign settles down into winter
quarters though summer is with it. Even in Gallip-
opli the Australians are in winter quarters now.
Stalemate—for how long yet to. come ?
THE PASSIONATE PILGRIM.
“Didn't I write to you every day, and now
when I come back I find that you’ve
been flirting all over the place.”
“ Dearest , they were such passionate letters
I couldn't help it.”
A bit of the real thing and the real man
from a Maorilander: —
During the night orders came to extend the trench
and get ready to attack. But the enemy moved
first and in great force, and we were pushed back.
Just before the order came to give way I got a
bullet through the groin, and as the retirement was
in a hurry the wounded had to be left. All I
could do was to try and roll down the steep slope
after my mates. By bad luck I struck scrub and
came to a full stop. Then the shrapnel began, and
I stopped a piece with my other leg. That knocked
me right out. I was waiting for the count when
an Australian happened from somewhere, just picked
me up and, as coolly as if he was carrying a bag
of potatoes to a truck, got me back to a dug-out.
There he handed me his water-bottle, gave me his
helmet to keep the sun off, and disappeared in search
of further trouble. Never said who he was, never
asked who I was—just risked his life to save mine,
gave me his hat and his water-bottle, then hit out,
and I shall probably never see him again.
As the Small Arms Factory is to be
removed from ahthgow to Canberra, it looks
as if the Federal authorities have in mind
the old proverb about keeping the powder
dry.
“J.F.H.” There has been
a lively meeting of the
Quakers here in London.
The sect of the great cocoa
manufacturers—the Frys,
the Cadburys and the Rown-
trees—is grievously dis-
turbed by the fact that 300
of their young fellows have
put on khaki and gone away
to pot Huns in flagrant
opposition to the Quaker
“Book of Discipline,” which
commands every Friend to
“maintain an unequivocal
testimony against war.”
Somg_. of the old-fashioned
Quakers urged the expul-
sion of these young soldiers.
But the subject was shirked,
and the meeting decided to
take no disciplinary action.
One speaker who described
himself as the descendant of
a long line of Friends
openly declared that “it is
perfectly right to fight un-
der existing circumstances,’’
and another proudly pro-
claimed that he had
two sous and a score
of other relatives
working for peace by
showing the Kaiser’s
hordes that war
doesn’t pay. So it
seems that William
among his other
achievements has put
the Quakers’ creed in
the pot; and for the
future the Australian
Government will have
an ace up its
sleeve when the anti-
militarist comes along and plays the
“conscientious objection” card.
Opinion about Sister Susie expressed to
an anti-war meeting of the Australian Peace
Society at Melbourne Bijou:—
Then there is the Awful Spectacle of the female
knitter 1 Could anything equal in Horror the sight
of all our womanhood transformed into so many
Mesdames Defarge, knitting, knitting at all times,
and knitting Blood and Hatred into each stitch? The
Pity of it; and, above all, the Frightfulness of it!
And here are other women Screeching for
Peace, knowing quite well that men, if
peace comes, will put in a lot more time
Getting Drunk, and Hammering their
Wives, and committing other Crimes against
the Sex. Oh the pity of it—that women
should join hands to thus Promote the
Wretchedness of Other Women. And oh
the Frightfulness of it!
MYTHS.
HE: " Er — do you believe in love in a cot-
tage
SHE: “Do YOU believe in Santa Claus?”
The inventive Maorilander has been at
it again. This time he has produced a new
form of aluminium splint for military am-
bulance work. The new thing is light and
compact, and on account of these qualities
could be taken quickly in large numbers to
dressing stations near the firing line, and
wounded men could thus be quickly made com-
fortable. The inventor is F. W. Thompson, a
Christchurch dentist; and after the device
had been shewn to a conference of medical
men the Government promptly ordered a big
supply. Some doctors venture the opinion
that Thompson’s splint will soon be used by
every army in the world.
GERMAN WOOD FOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Haberlandt, though unsuccessful in his
first attempt to manufacture a nutritious wood, bread,
is persisting in his experiments, and there is now
every prospect of a successful issue. Germany in her
forest trees possesses an unlimited food supply, which
science will turn to good account.— German report.
Hard-pressed, no veteran need beg;
He’ll scorn the old expensive roast,
And dine upon his wooden leg,
Or, at a pinch, will eat his post.
The toff will take a sawdust mash,
Or chew a noble bowl of ash,
And parents mean will be reviled
Who spare the rod and spoil the child.
Responding to a kindly whim,
You’ll take your friend, and wooden him,
While every dosshouse may afford,
At one cheap helping, bed and board !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
SPRING FANCIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring is early this year.” —Daily paper.
Spring is early. So am I.
Here, beneath a dimpled sky,
On the green grass let me wait
For the fresh, spring look of Kate.
Young men’s fancies lightly turn
From the cigarettes they burn,
And the little birds that flirt
To a hat and smile and skirt.
Belted khaki is my wear,
Arms of sorts at drill I bear;
Facing death and chasing Turk
Soon will be my daily work.
Just at present I am free.
All the world seems proud of me.
Half a hero I appear
When a muslin frock comes near.
Right on time! Here comes her smile !—
Tell her walk at half a mile!
Spring has nothing good as this
To a chap who knows her kiss.
Small blue wrens flit here and there—
See the sunshine on her hair!
Wattles show their tufts of gold—
Isn’t hers a waist to hold!
War is war, the Germans eay.
Death is death, and some must pay—
Lord help those that I go after
Nerved by Kitty's lips and laughter!
N.B.W.
GEORGE STREET.


EXCELSIOR UP-TO-DATE.
“Oh stay!” the maiden cried, “and rest
Thy weary head upon this breast.”


German papers complain bitterly of
the sinking of the cruiser Konigsberg on
the east coast of Africa, describing it as
"a savage attack on a defenceless craft."/ .
ON THE U 2178 '
THE LOOKOUT: “One of those damned
Englishmen that sinks poor defence-
less cruisers, sir.”
OFFICER: "Submerge at once! We
won’t be seen on the same sea with
such brutal ruffians."
There has been a persistent
decline in the number of babies
born An Great Britain. In the
provinces there are now 1500
fewer births weekly as compared
with 1914.—Cable.
at the camp hospital. /
'"Cheer-o, Bill! We’ve kidded ’em
you’re a bloomin’ German, and
they’re taking you to the Concen-
tration Comp.”
MA GRUNDY: "What about|
them war babies, you II
wicked fraud! Shame on t
yer to deceive a.poor ole7
lady."
Conditions may easily arise when
■one of the sacrifices demanded from
us will be a voluntary reduction in
meat eating: so that the troops fight-
ing for our liberties may be properly
fed. —Daily paper.
IN THE GARDEN OF EDEN.
Woman gets her first lesson as a
I collector for Australia Day.
AT KIEL.
THE FAIR NEUTRAL: “1
suppose sailors get used
to the sea, Admiral?"
ADMIRAL VON TURNIPS
(proudly): Fraulein,
dere haf not been a single
case of sea-sickness for
nearly twelf monts."
If it’s merely a matter of “meat sup-
ply at the front,” we know the
sort of man who ought to be in
training.
”= SHIFTING HIS RESPONSIBILITY.
TtOBINSON: "What did you lend Jones your lawn-moWfct
for? He never returns things!"
SMITH: "That’s why. I’m reducing my wealth before I
make out my war-tax.”
ON AUSTRALIA DAT.
AUSTRALIA DAY AND A PEW OTHER THINGS.


v£areßoanto
VIZO BCNCIU*.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid-up ... 82,500
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State
Write for particulars
W. R. CAVE, General Manaper,
263 Genrere Street. Svdnev.
SOAPKO.
It Surpasses
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR IN TABLETS}
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS.
Send Six Penny Stamps for Box containing Samp
Manager, ot each klnd -
SOAPKO PROPY., Box 685 0.P.0.. ADELAIDE.
hfd
hfd
hfd
h
dfh
fdh
tr * y° u so, the world over, leading men
HATS, They are unequalled in quality, style,
comfort. ALL STOHES.
wear WOOmtOW
durabality and
ft
V.
y •
GAS IN THE STOMACH IS
DANGEROUS.
PHYSICIANS RECOMMEND THE USE
OF MAGNESIA.
Sufferers from indigestion or dyspepsia
should remember that the presence of gas or
wind in the stomach invariably indicates that;
the stomach is troubled by excessive acidity.
This acid causes the food to ferment, and
the fermenting food in turn gives rise to
noxious gases which distend the stomach,
hamper the normal functions of vital internal
organs, cause acute headaches, interfere with
the action of the heart, and charge the blood
stream with deadly poisons, which in time
must ruin the health. Physicians say that to
quickly dispel a dangerous accumulation of
wind in the stomach and to stop the food fer-
mentation which creates the gas, the acid in
the stomach must be neutralised, and that for
this purpose there is nothing quite so good as
half a teaspoonful of pure bisurated magnesia
taken in a little water immediately after
meals. This instantly neutralises the acid,
thus stopping fermentation and the formation
of gas. and enables the inflamed, distended
stomach to proceed with its work under
natural conditions. Bisurated magnesia is
obtainable in powder or tablet form from
any chemist; but as there are many differ-
ent forms of magnesia it is important that
the bisurated which the physicians subscribe
should be distinctly asked for.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Dr. Frederick Robinson, M.A., professor
of modern languages at the Australian Mili-
tary College at Duntroon, has been bitten
by the martial fever of the establishment,
and lias enlisted as a full private.
The campaign in Gallipoli is such a
powerful reminder to John Wren of his own
struggle behind wire entanglements when
the old Collingwood tote was being besieged
that he has awarded a gold medal and £5OO
to Corporal Jacka. of Geelong, the first Aus-
tralian to receive the V.C. during the cur-
rent disturbance.
Capt. T. W. White, the first officer of the
Australian Citizen Forces to qualify in
aviation at Point Cook, has his diggings
round about the Persian Gulf with the rest
of the Australian Flying Corps which left
Melbourne in April. The corps is now
known as the Indian ; Capt. White is ad-
jutant. They have already seen service, and
have considerably worried the Turk round
about where the local house-agent reckons
the Garden of Eden once was.
Died in Adelaide, suddenly, Alfred
Dawkins, secretary of S.A. Gas Co., aged
only 53. A son is a distinguished chemist
at Melbourne University, and a brother is
secretary to Anthony Hordern’s in Sydney.
Archbishop Clarke says the war has given
Christianity a great uplift in Melbourne.
Evidently old “General” Booth’s hawk eye
saw further than all the bishops of his time
when he gave the Salv’army its motto of
blood and fire.
The Schmidt who is not British-born and
did not change his name to Smith before
August 1 will have to bear his affliction till
the end of the chapter. A Federal Execu-
tive order has prohibited any further altera-
tion of names of enemy suDjects or
naturalised subjects of enemy origin. But
it will still be open to the man who is Aus-
tralian in body to make himself Australian
in name too.
It is something of a coincidence that a sou
of Colonel Borthwick, of Armadale (Vic.),
should have had his name in a late Ghezireh
hospital-list just above that of Lieutenant
Ilenty (Bth Light Horse), from Hamilton,
in the Western District. The two young
men were pals and had occupied the same
tent while in training at Broadmeadows.
A Ilawkesbury identity, Colonel C. S.
Guest, dropped out of the ranks last week.
Born on the Hawkesbury 66 years ago, he
was for over 40 years secretary of the local
race club % a famous one in the days when
Andrew Town and other prominent sports-
men were thereabouts. He was also secre-
tary of the Agricultural Society and of most
other public movements in that district—the
first “bush” to be conquered in Australia.
Hal Gye, the black-and-white artist, is
contributing three brothers to Gallipoli. They
are all younger and larger than Hal, whose
appearance, by the way, is so sweetly boy-
like that he sometimes comes to altercation
with benevolent citizens who want to pat
him on the head and give him sixpence to buy
toffee with. Warlike spirit is in the blood. Gye
paterfamilias—a brother of impresario
Gye, who ran Italian opera in Lonaou of
old, with Adelina Patti for his star—had
his baptism of fire in the Maori war. And
Hal is now busy expanding his chest when
not otherwise engaged.
W. MASSEY GREENE . Federal
Opposition Whip.
Australian artists Fullwood, Streeton.
Coates. Blashki, and veteran Tom Roberts
are all R.A.M.C. orderlies, which means
regular army men. They are stationed at
Wandsworth (Eng.). Another Australian
who has had large experience of the wounded
finds that most of the men coming from
centres of hard fighting are a little de-
mented, and remain so for a week or two.
The chief grievance of Tommy Atkins is
against, not the cruelty or danger, but the
smell of war. Even a peace society couldn’t
want Mars to be in a more shockingly bad
odor than he is.
South Aus. Senator Lieut.-Col. J. Y.
O Loghlin, the first Federal Senator to
enlist tor service, used to be Minister for
Defence in the Kingston Government. He
has had over 25 years’ service in the Defence
forces, and passed through all grades from
Plicate to field-officer. The Colonel, who is
in his 63rd year, was a noted rifle shot
in his day, and figured prominently in Par-
liamentary rifle matches. He raised the Irish
?nn? s ,. at ..r££ elaide :ln(i commanded it from
1901 to 1910.
SPRING FASHIONS.
Then, again, the better-to-do section of the com-
munity must lower their standard of living. They
could eat meat once a day instead of two or three
times, and be all the better for it; they could wear
out their old clothes, and cut down their expenditure
on amusements and travel.— Dr. Arthur, M.L.A.
Lieut. B. G. C. Simpson, killed in France,
was grandson of two men wlio had acted as
Chief Justice of N. S. Wales—of G. B.
Simpson and the late Julian Salomons. He
was the son of the only son of Justice Simp-
son, and of the only daughter of Julian
Salomons.
Thomas Hickey, who passed out recently,
had licked many a leading citizen in his
time. Born in Dublin in 1545, he reached
Sydney 54 years ago with letters of intro-
duction to Governor Young, and received
an appointment under the old National
Board of Education. During a long and
honorable _ career he was in Fort-street, at
West Maitland, Albury and other schools,
and left his mark on many a pair of pants
everywhere.
J. C. Woore, for many years Coroner of
Sydney, died a few days ago. Woore was
originally police magistrate in a South Coast
town, where he was a bit of a martinet. His
capacity that way led to a decision affecting
the conduct of police constables in court-
rooms. Unlike the other policemen present,
the sergeant conducting the prosecu-
tions usually seated himself at the table, and
stood only when actually prosecuting. To
this Woore objected, ordering that he should
stand throughout the proceedings. The ser-
geant obeyed, but communicated with the
Inspector-General, who, after consultation
with the Minister, put it on record that the
prosecuting officer need stand only while
actually conducting a prosecution.
William Bednall, printer-scientist, has
died in Adelaide. In the ’7o’s he ran the
N.T. Times at Darwin, and then for 40
years was in the Register office in Adelaide.
In his leisure hours he specialised in
heraldry, in book-plates, and especially in
shells, on which subject lie was a recognised
expert. A Voluta Bednalli. discovered by
i im r . nea) ' Darwin, was a new thing, and
the find was his most prized achievement.
He died at 77, after long ill-health.
The Russell who has been in
the limelight lately in connec-
tion with a new hand-grenade
is a well-known North Victoria
pressman, until recently on the
Rochester Irrigator. ’ Russell
has worn out many boots pur-
suing Fame and news. He lias
a fly-trap on the market, and if
his tinful of sudden death is as
devastating in its effects as the
other contraption, the Turks
will soon be wishing the young-
man had stuck to paragraphs.
Lord Brassey, the ex-Gov. of
Victoria, with the remarkable
capacity for falling off. has
gone to the Dardanelles as
skipper of his own Sunbeam,
which has been converted into
a naval hospital. Early in the
scrimmage “Tom” placed his
yacht and its crew and his
purse at the Admiralty’s dis-
posal, and he has been employed
taking stores from England' to
France and bringing back
wounded. The old man is now
80 and can only walk with the
aid of a couple of sticks; never-
theless he glories in his master
mariner’s certificate, and is
determined to skipper the Sun-
beam until he finally falls off the planet or is
blown up by a German submarine.
After escaping with an injured leg from
Gallipoli beach, where he was in charge of
landing arrangements, Lieut.-Col. R. M.
McVea, of a Victorian Infantry Brigade,
chats modestly of the actions of his family
who were among those present when the
Turks held their reception. He saw one son.
Lieutenant E. T. McVea, wounded in several
places, covered with blood, and ripping the
shattered butt of a Turkish rifle, which he
said he would keep as a memento. The
youngster was rescued, and is once more at
the Front, cured of his wounds. So much
for the luck of Scotch College, where he
was educated. At Alexandria, where
Lieut.-Col. McVea paused on his passage
home invalided, he was surprised to meel
another son —Corporal J. G. McVea. The
lad was in bad health, and returned with
his father to Melbourne. Asked what a
recruit must know, McVea senior replied:
“Rifle shooting, the use of the bayonet, and
the use of the pick and shovel for entrench-
AROUND THE CORNER.
“Well , he can't bluff this!'’
A. C. Wright, the late manager of the
Lithgow Small Arms Factory, about whose
departure there was an atmosphere of mys-
tery, and concerning whom Joe Davis, the
N.S.W. Director-General of Works, made an
equally mysterious report, left last week for
America. It transpires that the combination
of factories he is to take charge of is in the
U.S.A. He will be located in Boston. As
his connection with the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is not terminated (he will return
to supervise the extension of the plant, etc.),
and as his departure is understood to be in
the Allies’ interest, it looks as if Ii.S.A.
factory-owners are counting on the war
lasting a day or two longer.
THE LETTERS OF THE DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A letter came from Dick to-day;
A greeting glad lie sends to me.
He tells of one more bloody fray—
Of how with bomb and rifle they
Have put their mark for all to see
Across rock-ribbed Gallipoli.
“How are you doing? Hope all's well.
I’m iu great nick, and like the work.
Though there may be a brimstone smell,
And other pungent hints of Hell,
Not Satan’s self can make us shirk
Our task of hitting up the Turk.
“You bet old Slacks is not half bad
He knows his business in a scrim.
He gets cold steel, or we are glad
To stop him with a bullet, lad,
Or sling a bomb his hair to trim;
But, straight, we throw no mud at him.
“He fights and falls, and comes again,
And knocks our charging lines about.
He s game at heart, and tough in grain,
And canters through the leaden rain,
Chock full of mettle—not a doubt
’Twill do us proud to put him out.
“But that’s our job ; to see it through
We’ve made our minds up, come what may.
This noon we had our work to do.
The shells were dropping two by two ;
We fairly felt their bullets play
Among our hair for half a day.
“One clipped my ear, a red-hot kiss,
Another beggar chipped my shin.
They pass you with a vicious hiss
That makes you duck; but, hit or miss,
It isn't in the Sultan’s skin
To shift Australia’s cheerful grin.
“My oath, old man, though we were prone,
We didn’t take it lying down.
I got a dozen on my own—
All dread of killing now is flown;
It is the game, and, hard and brown,
We’re wading in for freedom’s crown.
“Big guns are booming as I write,
A lad is singing ‘Dolly Greiq’
The shells are skipping in the night,
And, square and all, I’m feeling right.
For, whisper, Ned, the fellows say
I did a ripping thing to-day.
“Soon homeward tramping with the band,
All notched a bit, and with the prize
Of glory for our native land,
I'll see my little sweetheart stand
And smile, her smile, so sweet and wise—
With proud tears shining in her eyes.
“Geewhiz! AVhat price your humble when,
Triumphant from the last attack,
We face a Melbourne crowd again,
Tough, happy, battle-proven men,
And while the cheer-stormed heavens crack
I bring the tattered colors back” I
A mist is o’er the written line
Whence martial ardor seems to flow ;
A dull ache holds this heart of mine—
Poor boy, lie had a vision fine ;
But grave dust clouds the royal glow: *
He died in action weeks ago!
He was my friend—l may not weep.
My soul goes out to Him who bled ;
T pray for Christ’s compassion deep
On mothers, lovers—all who keep
The woeful vigil, having read
The joyous letters of the dead.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.
“VENI VIDI VICI.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VERNON.-—At 14 Cavendish-street, Geelong, the wife
of Hugh Vernon (late Chief Scout, Field Intelli-
gence Department, South Africa) —a daughter
(“Veni Vidi Vici” Vernon). Another little Briton !
Now then, boys, enlist, and keep her so.—Aimes.
Veni! Little care you now
How your elders name you ;
But, if later on you vow
Vengeance, who shall blame you?
You have come, a tiny mite,
Chubby, soft and creasy,
Wondering into the light—
Veni Vidi Vici.
Vici! Little have you seen,
Thus far of men’s doing.
For you, back of Fate’s dark screen.
What has Fortune brewing?
Should you grow to capture fame
With a form Medici,
Then, how will you like your name,
Veni Vidi Vici?
Veni Vidi Vici, child,
When we’re down and under
(Little matter how you’re styled;
We are prone to blunder),
May your sons, whose clearer sight
Shall see more than we see,
Put their fathers’ blunders right,
Veni Vidi Vici!
VICTORIA.
DEN.


-X
&
/ t
puf'M'i. \\\\ l \\\\\\\\\\\\
I <■* c
\\\\
vm?
X
DO YOUR BIT
for Australia, not only by giving freely to help her soldier sons, but also by fostering
Australian Industries. The more you do this, the more work you will be providing
for the boys who come back from the war.
AUSTRAL SAC SUITS
Made to Measure
are an example of what we can
do in Australia. They are
made from finest Vicars’ Mar-
rickville Tweeds, manufactured
in the Country, from wool grown
in the Country. For those who
prefer them, there is a long
Send for full Catalogue, Pattern Books
and Self=Measurement Forms.
Pioneer Distributors Goods
484 to 490 George Street;
3 to 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
range of liigh-class British
materials to seledt from, and in
either case there is no better
clothing value obtainable. The
Cut, Style and Finish of our
Austral Sac Suits have set the
standards for Australian man-
hood. Prices —635., 705., 755. ;
Hand-made— 845., 905., 955.,
1055., 1155., 1265.


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Also Large Stocks
Cash or Terms,
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
New Zealand Insurance Company Limited
PREMIER COLONIAL COMPANY.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Sickness, Workmen's Compensation and General
Insurance. 79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLLUMN
To the controversy between the metal-
mining cos. and Attorney-General Hughes
the most important contribution was made
by the Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavay’s) Co.
Hughes’s idea to enable the Broken Hill and
other cos. to break away from German ore-
buyers is the establishment of an Australian
Metal Exchange confined to pro-British
members. The De Bavay Co. is. mostly inter-
ested in zinc, the metal for which Britain is
paying over £lOO a ton, while Germany is
getting it for under £3O. Says the co.: —
In 1912 the world’s production was -977,000 tons,
contributed by the following countries: Germany,
28 p.c.; Belgium, 20 p.c. ; France, 7 p.c. ; United
States, 32 p.c. ; Great Britain, 6 p.c. When Ger-
many invaded Belgium and Northern France it
secured control of 50 p.c. of the world’s [zinc] dis-
tilleries, together with the accumulated stocks in
both countries.
That illustrates by figures what was put
into general terms in The Bulletin last
week. Britain is paying so enormous a price
for zinc because, long before the war, it
permitted the zinc-smelting business to go
out of its hands; and, seeing Britain’s need,
U.S.A. producers have put up the price
to the last possible farthing. Still it would
have gone up without any special effort at
all, because, as a rule, the U.S.A. don’t pro-
duce much zinc for export—most of the out-
put is consumed in American industries.
/ •
As pointed out last week, Britain produces
no zinc worth mentioning. Its output is a
mere 6 p.c. of the world’s total; and a large
proportion of even that small lot comes from
the Central Co.’s works at Seton Carew, which
have never earned a dividend, and have only
been kept going by a subvention received
from the Sulphide Corporation, a Broken
Hill co. This English co. can’t take outside
ore —it can take only a small proportion of
the output of the Sulphide Corporation,
which guarantees it a small dividend. Natur-
ally, therefore, when the Amalgamated Zinc
Co. sought a British market for its concen-
trates on the outbreak of the war. it couldn’t
find one: what was the use of Britain buying
stuff it had no facilities for treating V And
facilities for smelting zinc are not established
in a month. It is 10 years since the Broken
Hill Prop, started to establish works at Port
Pirie, and the output at present is only 100
tons a week —less than one-half of 1 p.c. of
the world’s total! Further than that, not
the smallest attempt appears to have been
made in Britain in the 12 months since the
war started to establish zinc works. More-
over, the mere establishment of a Metal Ex-
change won’t put those works a day or an
hour nearer. British cos. could get all the
ore they could possibly handle if they were
established. It isn’t the lack of material
that stops them. It is mostly the dis-
heartening experience of works like those at
Seton Carew, which have been going for
years without making a profit.
Of course the position is serious—appal-
lingly serious. Here we are faced by the
fact that we have been providing Germany
with the raw material for one of its great
metal industries —an industry which now
gives the enemy an enormous advantage over
the Allies —and when the war is over it
seems that we must either abandon the zinc-
producing business, which has been bringing
us in, directly and indirectly, many millions
a year, or go on providing Germany with
the raw material for its industry. We must
get down to first causes. Why can the Ger-
man do what Britain evidently thinks it
can’t do successfuly, and what we in Aus-
tralia evidently think we can’t do? What is
the matter with us? It isn’t a question of
coal. As a fact —and this is an illustra-
tion of blazing British folly—much of the
coal which is used in the Continental zinc
industry is exported from Britain ! As for
Australia, the Broken Hill Prop, has found
no difficulty at all in getting suitable coal
and coke. Nor is there any trouble now with
regard to clay for making the retorts. That
brings the whole matter down to a question
of labor and organisation.
We have an Inter-State Commission,
which has been pottering about collecting a
vast amount of information about clothes-
pegs and hairpins and the like. Though
Attorney-General Hughes doubtless knew
nothing at all about the metal business lw
months ago, he now know r s perhaps more
than any other member of the Cabinet. Yet
what even he knows is that little which is
liable to be a dangerous thing. For 2o
years present writer has talked ore and
metals and lived with them and on them
most of the time, and doesn’t yet know halt
enough about the subject to be cocksure, lhe
Commonwealth Government needs far more
information than it has got. Here is a
job for the Inter-State Commission, and a
job that is worth while. Let the Govern-
ment set Mr. Piddington and his colleagues
to take evidence (there is plenty in Aus-
tralia) as to why, after all these years,
Australia is producing only 100 tons of Spel-
ter a week, and why Britain isn’t rushing
the job of establishing zinc smelters, and
what things are necessary to get the busi-
ness into Australian and British hands.
The position with regard to copper, lead
and tin differs altogether from that of zinc.
These other three metals have been smelted
for years in Australia with complete suc-
cess, and there is no reason why a ton of
them should be sent away from the Com-
monwealth unrefined. There is smelting
capacity here to handle all the tin and
copper produced, and when the additions
in progress are completed at Port Pirie there
will be furnaces enough to also handle all
or nearly all the lead. Far too much copper
has, however, been sent away unrefined ; but
the bulk of it has gone to the U.S.A. and
not to Germany. So also the chief com-
petitor of Australian tin-smelting works has
been not Germany, but the Straits Settle-
ments ; and in a Metal Exchange confined
to pro-British, the Straits Settlements
would be as well off as they are to-day,
though in the Malayan business Dutch and
Chinese are really the predominant factors.
And presumably in Hughes’s Metal Ex-
change the U.S.A. refinery buyer would be
as free to bid as he is to-day ; and German
influence in U.S.A. refineries is tremendous.
Similarly, before the war, presumably Bel-
gium and France would not have been shut
out from an Exchange whose operations
were directed against Germany; yet four
times more zinc concentrates from Australia
went to Belgium alone than to Germany;
and France and Holland also took consider-
able quantities. Of course no Exchange is
needed to direct the flow of metal during
the war. No metal is allowed to leave the
country until the authorities are assured of
its destination, and that rule would have to
be enforced in any case.
If Australian refineries get no other pro-
tection than a Metal Exchange affords them,
they will always be liable tp be knocked out.
A former general manager of Australia’s
biggest copper refinery told his people
frankly that they were working on suffer-
ance—that the U.S.A. refineries could knock
them out in 12 months if it was worth
while. The thing to be first aimed at —the
only thing that is worth aiming at —is to
secure the smelting and refining of all Aus-
tralian ores in Australia. In spite of the
war we go on turning out lead and tin
because we have lead and tin smelters here;
and the prices of those metals are hardly
affected. Mount Morgan and Mount Lyell
and Wallaroo and Moonta and other big
copper-producers also continue at work as
usual, because they too smelt here and refine
here. The price of that metal has advanced
only about one-third; and that compara-
tively small rise is chiefly due to the extra-
ordinary demand, coupled with American
manipulations. But zinc has gone from a
little over £2O to £lOO per ton because we
have no works here outside the few pots at
Port Pirie. The mere establishment of pro-
British buying agents is merely playing
with this difficulty. As before shown, had
Belgium, France and the U.S.A. been re-
garded as pro-British, four-fifths of the
metals we exported before the war would
have gone where they actually did go. And
the other one-fifth might have gone where
it actually went, too, seeing that once the
pro-British agent had bought the stuff it
could go anywhere. Attorney-General
Hughes has just extracted from the Elec-
trolytic Co. (Port Kemblal a promise not
to do any business with Smiths, of London.
Yet if anyone in the trade had been asked
which of the big metal brokers of London
could be described as most pro-British, he
would almost certainly have said Smith and
Son.
* * * *
The Bank of Victoria :
Dividends.
, —* , Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Profits. 5 p.e. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
Dec., 1907.. 49,921 10,419 26,531 12,971 205,461
June. 1908.. 50,063 10,419 26,531 13,113 218,574
Dec., 1908.. 50,394 10,419 26,531 13,444 232,018
June, 1909.. 40,605 10,419 26,531 3,655 235.673
Dec., 1909.. 50,198 10.419 26,531 13,248 248,921
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
June, 1910.. 50.012 12.503 31,837 5,672 254,593
Dec:, 1910.. 52,097 12,503 31,837 7,757 262,350
June, 1911.. 55.266 12.503 31,837 10,926 273,276
Dec., 1911.. 58,829 12,503 31,837 14,489 287,765
June, 1912.. 61,685 12,503 31,837 17,345 305,110
Dec., 1912.. 67,073 12,503 31,837 22,733 327,843
June, 1913.. 61,980 12,503 31,837 17,640 345,483
Dec., 1913.. 61,972 12,503 31.837 17.632 363.115
June, 1914.. 64,567 12,503 31,837 20,227 383,342
5 p.c. 5 p.c.
Dec., 1914.. 59,756 10,419 26,531 22,806 406,148
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
June, 1915.. 52,646 12,503 31,837 8,306 414,454
The directors seem to hold with The
Bulletin that this isn’t the time to reduce
dividend, if dividend at the old rate is
unmistakably earned. No management can
reasonably ask to be allowed to put by now
as much as was put by in the times of peace
and prosperity. Special circumstances may,
it is true, demand a special lay-by. In
other words, there may have been far too
little reserved in good days to provide for
the losses which show up in these bad days.
But if there are no such special circum-
stances, then this is no time to cut down divi-
dend in order to bring the lay-by up to
somew’liere about what it was in the days
of peace and plenty. This paper therefore
throws no bricks at the Victoria’s manage-
ment for going up to 6 p.c. again, even
though the lay-by is thus cut down to about
half of what it lately was. Not knowing
how shockingly bad the drought was going
to be, or how long it was going to last, the
directors did the prudent thing in coming
down to 5 p.c. Now, with the drought
broken, with all drought losses ascertained,
and with excellent prospects of a prolific
season, they are well justified in restoring
the 1 p.c.
The profit is nearly £12,000 less than it
was in the corresponding half of 1014. Yet
even now the profit is more than it was five
years ago; and that is really remarkable
when you take into account the recent whole-
sale slaughter of profits from foreign-
exchange business, owing partly to war and
more largely to drought. That, notwith-
standing its recent two great handicaps, a
bank should be doing as well as it was under
normal conditions five or six years ago
shows how much we owe to the prosperity
ot the four or five years preceding the war.
_V\ e accumulated fat, and we have been liv-
ing on it.
. r J-^ ie next table shows the chief movements
m the 12 months:—
June, 1914. June, 1915.
Notes in circulation £9,138 £7,939 Dec. £1,199
Bills, etc. . . 667,466 528,125 Dee. 139,341
Deposits at interest 4,366,077 4,279,069 Dec. 87,008
Free deposits . . 2,481,461 2,461,956 Dec. 19,505
Liquid assets . . 2,654,948 2,360,747 Dec. 294 201
Advances.. .. 6,431,156 6,502,821 Inc. 71665
Premises, etc. .. 343,728 350,326 Inc. 6,598
Deposits and other money belonging to the
public have been drawn upon, and a little
further help has had to be given to lame
dogs. These things, coming together, have
meant a drain on the liquid holdings, which
have been reduced till they represent rather
less than one-third of the liabilities. So
the bank has lent just about all it can lend
on its present resources. Its safety of
course isn’t in question: as a matter of fact,
there are few banks in Australia with more
money behind them. What the figures
probably do mean is this: (1) The bank,
having lent out too much in good times, is
handicapped in helping its customers through
bad times; (2) it isn’t in a position to
collar new lending business, even though
something very alluring may come along;
(3) there is no expansion of profits to be
looked forward to unless more deposits can
be got to work with. If there was plenty
of deposit money about there would be no
reason why the Victoria shouldn’t get it.
Other things being equal, depositors will find
the best security in that bank whose own
funds (capital and reserves) are greatest
in proportion to its liabilities. It isn’t
thought out of the way when £1 of share-
holders’ funds has to safeguard £8 of the
public’s money. In this case the Millers
and the Clarkes and the other well-nour-
ished shareholders have £1,892,464 in the
business, and that means £1 to safeguard less
than £4 of the public’s money, which makes
the public’s money exceptionally secure.
The capital is £416,760 in £lO pref. shares
fully paid and £1,061,250 in £lO shares paid
to £5; and the uncalled £1.061,250 adds to
the creditors’ security. The first lot are
5 p.c. prefs., ranking equally with ordin-
aries for anything over 5 p.c.; but the
preference falls dead after 7 p.c. has been
paid for 10 half-years.
* * * *
The Australian Bank of Commerce
(Sydney), formerly the A.J.S. Bank:—
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1910. . £11,670 3 p.e. = £8,441 £3,229 £3,229
Dec., 1910.. 18,421 34 ~ ~ 18,103 318 3,547
June, 1911.. 14,957 24 „ „ 14,550 407 3,954
Dec., 1911.. 12,268 24 „ „ 14,850 1,372
June, 1912.. 24.249 24 „ „ 14,936 9,313 10,685
Dec., 1912.. 25,863 3 „ „ 17,929 7,934 18,619
June, 1913.. 28,312 3 „ „ 17,932 10,380 28,999
Dec., 1913.. 28,808 3 „ „ 17,932 10,876 39,875
June, 1914.. 26,145 3 „ „ 17,9.34 8,211 48,086
Dec., 1914.. 28,094 3 „ „ 17,934 10,160 58,246
June, 1915.. 2/,241 3 ~ ~ 17,937 9,304 .67,550
Good ! Tiie Bulletin doesn’t know how
the A.B.C. did it; but it is good all the
same. Perhaps a bit came from sales of
property at more than book values. The
old A.J.S. was at one time fearfully in-
volved in back-country station accounts.
Gradually the properties which fell into its
hands were written down and got rid of;
but a trifle still remained in Queensland.
During the last few months buyers have
come along for these, and, so the chairman
told shareholders, “the bank no longer owns
a single head of stock or a station property
of any kind.” There are people who w r ouldn’t
reckon it any catastrophe to own a few
thousand head of fat bullocks or even lambs
just now. But for all that squatting isn’t
banking, and the A.B.C. does the right
thing in getting out. It probably would
have done just as well if it had got out
three years back. Except in rare spots
values of freeholds and leaseholds have gen-
erally eased since then. However, even re-
cent prices ought to be a good deal in excess
of the book values fixed by the late chairman
and the late general manager—W. P. Man-
ning. who died during the half-year and has
been succeeded by Mark Shejdon ; and A. I*.
Stewart, who is enjoying the rest that every-
body earned who spent 25 years trying to
get the old A.J.S. out of the bog.
The next little lot of figures show no
serious movements in the 12 months: —
June, 1914. June, 1915.
Paid capital .. £1,195,592 £1,195,831 Inc. £239
Inscribed deposits 1,653,399 1,614,689 Dec. 38,710
All other debts 3,322,720 3,363,404 Inc. 40,684
Liquid assets .. 1,770,849 1,906,588 Inc. 135,739
Advances, etc. 4,090,774 3,980,587 Dec. 110,187
Premises, etc. .. 361,108 357,237 Dec. 3,871
It would be more satisfactory if the liquid
assets were £135,739 less and the advances
£110.187 more. The bank didn’t want more
liquid assets. It is in the very unusual posi-
tion of having too many—or too much,
whichever you like. Look at the position
now. Liquid assets total £1.906.588. To be
very strict, deduct £286.785 represented by
bills on London and remittances in transit.
That leaves £1,619,803. The bank owes
£3,363,404 apart from the inscribed deposits,
which have to be repaid only at the rate of
£15,000 a half-year, and may therefore be
regarded as fixed debt. Practically then of
every £1 of deposit and other money it keeps
10s. in the till or at short cajl in London or
(to a very small extent) in public securi-
ties. Its position would be safe enough if it
had £600,000 more out in advances and the
same amount less in liquid forms. The
A.B.C. can take the business when it offers.
Meantime, as above mentioned, it has
£1,619,803 of cash and very liquid assets.
Apart from the inscribed deposits it owes
£1,743,601 more than it could pay out of
the till; and as against £1,743,601 it has
non-liquid assets valued in the books at
£4,624.608; and no doubt many of these
assets have been written down with an axe
and are worth more than book value. Any-
how, if some tremendous disaster happened
and they were worth only half of their book
value, depositors and others would still be
quite secure. It is a position of most excep-
tional safety so far as new depositors are
concerned. The abnormal capital fixed and
as-good-as-fixed in the business gives to
depositors this security, and at the same
time provides the foundation for a business
three times greater than is now done. But
it also makes the increase in the rate of
dividend a slow process, inasmuch as it takes
£6OOO per half-year to pay each extra 1 p.c.
* * * *
Sydney Febbies, Ltd. :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., ’07.. 12,044 10 p.c. = 8,999 3,045 26,489
June, ’OB.. 12,583 10 „ ~ 8,999 3,584 30,073
Dec., ’OB.. 18,019 15 „ „ 14,500 3,519 33,592
June, ’09.. 16,098 10 „ „ 10,000 6,098 39,690
Dec., ’09.. 12,119 10 „ ~ 10,000 2,119 41,809
£30,000 of reserves transferred to capital 11,809
June, ’lO.. 17,276 10 p.c. = 12,498 4,778 16,587
Internal reserves disclosed .. 79,410 95,997
Dec., ’lO.. 19,571 124 p.c. = 15,623 3,948 99,945
June, ’ll.. 19,473 10 „ „ 13,125 6,348 106,293
Dee., ’ll.. 21,866 10 „ „ 15,000 6,866 113,159
June, ’12.. 19,023 10 „ „ 15,000 4,023 117,182
Dec., ’12.. 16,782 10 „ „ 15,417 1,365 118,547
June, ’13.. 16,260 10 „ „ 16,249 11 118,558
Dec., T 3. . 16,827 10 „ „ 16,250 577 119,135
£116,373 of reserves transferred to capital 2,762
£293 apparently paid as cash bonus 2,469
June, ’14.. 18,036 8 p.c. = 17,889 147 2,616
Dec., ’14.. 16,379 7 „ „ 16,333 46 2,662
June, ’15.. 17,685 7 „ „ 16,333 1,352 4,014
Six months ago the directors pulled a long
face, and said that, not only had the divi-
dend to be further cut, but the provision to
meet wear and tear had also to be reduced.
As a matter fact, the cut in the dividend
from 10 to 8 and then 7 p.c. is nominal.
Down to the end of 1913 the capital was
£824,986, much of it water. Since then only
£25,000 has been actually paid up by share-
holders ; total £349,986. The present divi-
dend is therefore better than a 9 p.c. div.
would have been in 1913. Of the present
capital of £466,667 only £220,000 has been
paid in by shareholders; so the concern is
even now giving about 15 p.c. on the capital
actually put into it.
Certainly a very large proportion of the
shareholders are not getting more, than 5
p.c. on their investment. Some of them are
not getting 4 p.c. But that is their own
fault for paying an absurd price for
somebody else’s shares. Just because
the co. had been issuing bonus shares freely
during a period of exceptional prosperity it
was foolishly supposed that it would go on
doing it for ever or thereabouts. What such
people forgot was that the more bonus shares ,
that are issued the more difficult it becomes
to continue the bonuses and at the same
time maintain the dividend. A concern with
a capital of £60,000 makes £12,000 a year.
On that it can pay a 10 p.c. div. and make
a 10 p.c. issue of bonus shares. But if this
goes on for a few years till the co.’s capital
is watered up to £lOO,OOO, it will then have
to make a profit not of £12,000 but of
£20,000 in order to pay 10 p.c. in dividend
and distribute 10 p.c. in bonus shares. The
constant struggle to continue the old divi-
dend on newly-watered capital has been re-
sponsible for this co. neglecting to give the
public the benefits which should have come
with the tremendously increased traffic. It
was seen just now that, in order to continue
the old dividends and bonuses, a co. with
only £40,000 more capital (provided by pro-
fit accumulations) would have to earn £BOOO
more annual profit. That means 20 p.c. ;
and a new investment rarely gives 20 p.c.
A ferry co., for instance, when it extends
its business, usually goes to the less popu-
lous parts, and is there likely to earn for a
while only 3 p.c. or 4 p.c. on the capital
thus employed. This means that in order
to maintain the old rate of dividend, etc.,
the old capital must earn far more than its
old 20 p.c. That is why again and again
travellers on the older lines of the Sydney
Ferries have been called upon to pay higher
fares; or they have been crowded into half-
hour boats when a quarter-hour service
should have been provided. But there
is a limit —somewhere —to what the
public will stand; and that is what
seems to have been forgotten by the
people _ who rushed up the shares till
the dividend showed less than 3 p.c.
on the market price. A Board is bound
to be careful not to pile on the last straw,
lest worse thinsrs befal than befel the gas
cos. in N. S. Wales.
The co. is paying 7 p.c. and may possibly
be permitted to pay 10 p.c. on the present
watered capital. There is a certain amount
of doubt as to whether it will be permitted
to do even that. Whether it will be per-
mitted to again water its stock is still more
doubtful. The prudent investor must allow
for these doubts. That any injustice will be
done is unlikely. If the co. is a shark it will
be told, as the gas cos. were, that it may
use the teeth it has, but mustn’t grow any
more. That there will be less profits than
there are at present to divide is highly im-
probable. In the past six months, besides
ordinary maintenance, “one or two of the
older steamers have been extensively over-
hauled” ; and notwithstanding that outlay,
the co. has £7402 net more liquid and semi-
liquid assets now than it had six months
ago. This isn’t net profit in excess of
dividend. Some part of it should no doubt
be put by for replacement of vessels, etc.
But the figure indicates that the present
div. has been very comfortably earned. And
though sooner or later restrictions in the
matter of dividends are bound to be placed
upon the co.. it is highly improbable that i*
will be stopped from paying the present 7
p.c. or a trifle more.
*• * *• *
The Zinc Corporation, Ltd., was re-
formed as at July 1, 1911, to amalgamate the
old Zinc Corporation and the Broken Hill
South Blocks; and it is not much use carry-


The Personnel of an
EXECUTOR
and TRUSTEE
is a very serious matter for a Testator’s Widow
and Children if the best selection is not made.
The wisest course is to appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
(The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia),
which, having- had twenty-eight years’ experience,
and employing an Expert Staff, is much to be
preferred to any private Trustees, no matter
how trustworthy.
A Booklet sivint> full particulars as to
the Company’s Methods and Charges
will he sent on application.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £045,6G0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,451
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 80,500
0 0
0 0
0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
£781.611 0 0
Gen Man.: Edw'd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND H.C
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed £8,750,000
Annual Income Exceeds ■• ■ £1,400,000
The Company is prepared to consider
applications for
MORTGAGE LOANS
on
FARMING AND GRAZING LANDS.
“After all, the real test of anything is the test
of service.” Your faithful servant in the solution of
power-transmission problems is “Chromol” belting
This type of belt, which we formerly sold under the
name of “Raw Hide,” possesses the widest possible
range of usefulness, and the keenest engineers at
Broken Hill, Italgoorlie and on other mining fields
swear by it, because they have proved its worth in
competition with all others. Made only by J. 0.
Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York Street, Sydney.
Inter-State agents: H. Summers, Perth, W.A. ;
Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd., Albert Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.*
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle, dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.*
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* fl
* * * *
Extract from The Review, London, December 6,
1913, re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Ltd.: —“Life policies alone do not appeal to some in-
dividuals. Therefore, the Society’s combined accident
and sickness policy, if fully advertised, should meet
with the acceptance deserved. This is a branch offer-
ing much scope for energetic development. This
office, we are sure, will press forward and transact a
much larger business of this kind in coming years.
It is an interesting office in every way, being
thoroughly equipped to carry on its work with the
maximum amount of good for its policyholders.”* [3
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the ideal conduit for
mine waters. Chemicals in solution have no bad
effect on this pipe, the smooth inner surface of which
remains free from pitting and incrustation, does not
wear away with the passage of gritty materials and
in constant use lasts indefinitely. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., contractors to all State Gov-
ernments, 57 York Street, Sydney (head office).*
The Australian Provincial Assurance Associa-
tion Ltd. —Following upon the successful progress
already made this Association reports that last week
the New Business received constituted a record both
in New South Wales and Victoria for this Financial
Year. When we consider the conditions that pre-
vail at the present time within the Commonwealth
it emphasises the strength of the Association’s organ-
isation, and reflects great credit on the management. *
* * ' * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * * •
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co.. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Tn addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
The Port. Kembla works of the Electrolytic
Refining Company are freely buying ores containing
copper, silver, gold from all parts of the Common-
wealth. The Ore Purchase Department is at
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
“Rqbey-Lqplastrier” Road-Building Machinery
means big saving. One shire in N.S.W. saved last
year £4OOO. Sixty shires equipped already. Apply
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., head office, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and AVilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances* Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silherberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Chatlis House, Sydney
ing the figures back beyond that amalgama-
tion. Since then: —
Dividends. Writ-
, , ten
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. Off. Deficit.
July, £ £ £ £ £
’ll. - - L 877
D ea Reserves,
’ll. .’75,121 30p.c. = 36,854 20p.c. = 32,657 Nil 3,733
T2..266,276 37i ~ „ 92,135 35 ~ ~ 114,299 40,636 22,939
13. .210,236 35“ ~ ~85,992 30 ~ ~ 97,971 22,551 26,661
T4..143,636 10 ~,,24,569 —- 22,275 123,453
But though last year’s profit after paying
income tax and royalty was £143,636, the
co. was so short of money that the final divi-
dend for 1913, paid in June, 1914, had to
come out of an overdraft. This penury was
the immediate result of the purchase of a
controlling interest in Barrier South, Ltd.,
a concern which holds what used to be called
the South Extended —a goat-run that never
was any good as a mine, and never would be
if it were worked as an independent proposi-
tion. The directors say they paid a “large
sum” for the interest in Barrier South.
Such vague language should have no place
in a document of this kind. Later on the
finances didn’t improve sufficiently to justify
the directors in giving the ordinaries a bite.
The German firm with which the co. had a
contract for zincs has of course not been
allowed to pay the Zinc Corporation the
£41,773 it owes. Also this was no time to
realise securities or call in loans. Later on,
when the smelting of lead concentrates was
resumed at Port Pirie, things began to im-
prove. But then it became necessary for
this co. to find £lOO,OOO towards the capital
of the co-operative co. which w T as put in the
position of having to buy the B. H. Prop.’s
works, so the finances were strained again.
Hence the continued absence of anything on
the plate of the ordinaries. The suspension
of divs. has of course had the effect of piling
up a big nominal surplus. Of more or less
liquid assets there was on Dec. 31 £301,000
in excess of liabilities, as against £229,000
twelve months before. But the surplus has
since been cut into by the smelters deal.
Further, a good deal of the liquid assets
wouldn’t exactly run out of the pot without
help. Investments (mostly American rail-
road stocks and industrial bonds) represent
£226,946; stores stand for £57,742. The
liabilities on Dec. 31 were £181,433.
The co. was formed to buy old zinc-tailings
dumps and treat them by the Elmore or
other process. Difficulties were met, of
course, and the co., which was spending
money like water, got into such disfavor that
it was generally referred to as the “Sinks”
and had to pay—or somehow did pay—2o
p.c. for an issue of pref. capital. Later on the
South Blocks were unloaded on to the co.
But that property turned out far better than
it did under either of its former owners;
and it may give the co. a life when the zinc-
tailings dumps are all used up. The follow-
ing shows tonnage treated and available: —
Treated.
1913. 1914. Available.
Zinc tailings, tons .. 350,120 221,620 1,522,074
South Blocks ore, tons .. 162,956 141,667 1,185,870
In the dumps and visible in the mine there
is about six years’ full work for the zinc
plant; and there is seven years’ work ahead
of the lead plant, at the recent average rate
of extraction. But in addition there are
zinc tailings coming in from outside mills
under contract. In 1913, of 350,120 tons
treated, 178,417 tons came from the
dumps; in 1914, of 221,620 tons treated,
169,180 tons came from that direction.
The future assays 97 p.c. of uncertainty.
The South Blocks, though a greatly improved
mine, is low : grade, and isn’t capable of
supporting a capital of £572,262, of which
£245,692 is 20 p.c. preference and entitled
to share for further profits with the ordin-
aries. It is from the zincs that the big
profits have been made, and only from them
can big profits be made in the future. Now,
the contract for the sale of the zincs is with
a German firm. So far it is understood that
it hasn’t been annulled. The truth no doubt
is that the co. can’t see any chance at all
of making an immediate English contract
anything like as good, if it can make one at
all. On the other hand, it is exceedingly
doubtful whether the German buyers will be
able to stand up to their contracts after the
war, even if those contracts remain nomin-
ally in force. So far as zincs are con-
cerned the Broken Hill cos. are thus between
the Devil and the deep sea ; and, as said
just now, the future consequently assays
about 97 p.c. of uncertainty. The other
3 p.c. is gloom.
The City Bank of Sydney :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£££ £ . £
Dee., '07.. 7,205 3 p.c. = 6,000 1205 12,325
June, ’OS.. 7,098 3 „ „ 6,000 1098 13,423
Dec., 'OS.. 7.030 3 „„ 6,000 1030 14,453
•Tune, ’09.. 7,055 3 ~ ~ 6,000 1055 15,508
Dec., ’09.. 7,088 3 „ „ 6,000 1088 16,596
June, TO. . 9,063 3i „ ~ 7,000 1000 1063 17,659
Dec., TO.. 10,130 4~ „ „ 8,000 1000 1130 18,789
June, ’ll.. 10,047 4 „ „ 8,000 1000 1047 19,836
Dec., ’ll.. 11,059 4j ~ „ 9,000 1000 1059 20,895
June, ’l2. . 13,102 5~ ~ ~10,000 1500 1602 22,497
Dec., T 2.. 15,120 5 „ ~10,000 1500 3620 26,117
June, ’l3. . 15,586 5 „ ~10,000 1500 4086 30,203
Dec., T 3.. 15,947 6 „ ~12,000 1500 2447 32,650
June, T 4. . 14,798 6 „ ~12,000 1000 1798 34,448
Dee., T 4.. 15,009 6 „ ~12,000 1000 2009 36,457
June, T 5. . 10,096 4 „ „ 8,000 2096 38,553
Twice a year The Bulletin comes to the
City Bank and reads: “It was moved,
seconded and carried. —That the thanks of
the Proprietors be and are tendered to the
Chairman, Directors and Officers of the
Institution for their able management of
the affairs of the Bank during the past six
months.” This paper trusts the proprietors
know a great deal more about the manage-
ment and the position than it does.
It confesses it knows so little about them
that it seems a shame to take sixpence for
the information. In the ’9o’s there was
some silly notion that if this bank could
avoid shutting its doors and reconstructing
it would score a great advertisement. The
great ad. didn’t come off. It might have
done so if the bank had been so well man-
aged that there was no need of reconstruc-
tion. . The actual position was that it was
gangrened and refused to have the limb cut
off. So, while the Commercial of Sydney
sensibly reconstructed and has prospered
amazingly, this other foolish institution pre-
tended that it was all right when everybody
knew that it was very wrong, and —well,
look at the table. It may be able man-
agement. The Bulletin can only put it
this way: If, after 51 years six months,
able management has secured a business
running to £2,140,434 of deposits and
£1,630,650 of advances, with a dividend of
4 p.c. on a share capital of £400,000,
what would be the result of merely average
management in 52 years four months?
The next comparison shows the principal
movements in the past 30 years:—•
Liabilities.
June, ’O5. June, ’l4. June, To.
Deposits, etc. .. £1,069,097 £2,067,531 £2,140,435
Notes .. .. 67,787 7,129 6,243
Assets.
Coin, etc 260,208 551,517 678,288
Public securities.. 50,000 92,000 92,000
Advances . ; .. 1,096,237 1,685,452 1,630,650
Premises .. .. 142,821 193,140 192,293
This at least can be said : On paper the bank
is stronger than it was either 12 months
or 30 years ago. In liquid assets (mostly
coin) it now has 35 p.c. of its liabilities;
and that, though not a cumbersome holding,
may be regarded as thoroughly substantial.
As for the future, nothing definite can be
said. The fact that profits for the past
half-year toppled so dreadfully, and that
the dividend was whopped back from 6 to 4
p.c., suggests (1) that the management
wasn’t previously keeping much if anything
up its sleeve; (2) that in consequence there
is no contingency fund worth mentioning;
(3) that very little disturbance was required
to send this co.’s profits headlong; and (4)
that the 6 p.c. dividend shouldn’t have been
paid until profits in excess of £12,000 pel-
half-year were much more securely estab-
lished than they seem to have been.
At the meeting of the Cope’s Creek Cen-
tral (N.S.W.) chairman Jardine made some
encouraging observations about the new lease
adjoining Skeleton Creek. If the returns
verify bore-hole tests and black tin doesn’t
slump to 6d. per lb., this dredging co. —-
which has recently acquired its third plant—
may earn a crust for the next 30 years.
Some of the land is freehold, and under the
agreement the ground-landlord receives about
£7 per acre. There are 30,000 shares of ss.
each.
* -* -X- *
Hawkins Hill Reward (N.S.W.) has cut
a new reef in a crosscut from the Exhibition
shaft at 200 ft. It is parallel to the reef
that has been driven on for many months
in the direction of the Robert Emmet cross-
course. This new body is 9in. thick and
worth an ounce. Altogether from 250 to
300 tons per month are crushed for from
15 to 18dwt. per ton. The weak feature has
been the small ore reserves; but as new
discoveries are made the visible life is pro-
longed and the chances of a punch increased.
The capital is £20,000 in ss. shares.
* * -X- *
A number of prospectors from the South
announced at Southern Gross recently that
they had located a new find near Mount
Holland. Deemingsville enjoyed a passing-
thrill ; then it occurred to it that some of the
alleged discoverers were those who had said
the nicest things about the Central and other
shows at Westonia. After this, the Cross’s
enthusiasm waned, notwithstanding numer-
ous glowing accounts furnished by other
Westonians returning from the new field.
Meanwhile the new find faded from “a second
ivalgoorlie” to a “gold-bearing area with
possibilities,” and the latter at present is
sufficient to describe it. Southern Cross
failed to nibble at all, and Westonia is left te
do the business. The find is 100 miles from
anywhere, and cost of transport is heavy,
and when summer comes there will be no
water other than what may be condensed
from salt lakes. The find is about half-way
on the dreary 200-mile stretch between
Southern Cross and Ravensthorpe, and many
who have accomplished this trip have just
pulled through—all out. The gold may be
there all right, but the chances are it is not
there in sufficient quantities to pay in pre-
vailing conditions. This seems the more
likely as the country is granite. The coun-
try has a chance, but whoever gambles on it
is fond of a long shot. Blatchford, the Gov-
ernment Geologist, has been there, and,
according to a brief message from Perth,
says that the value of the find has been
greatly exaggerated.
* * * *
Edna May (W.A.) struck exceptionally
heavy water at the No. 4 level; the flow rose
to the No. 3 level, and was only stopped
there with difficulty. Scrippers were anxious
to see what the face was like; but those in
control kept their heads and, having got the
water down, simply drilled holes in the face,
into which pipes with valves attached were
inserted. In this way the reef is being
drained and the water kept under control,
only so many valves being opened as will
permit of the pumps coping with the flow.
* * *
The numerous Westonia boom cos. (W.A.)
are being interred one by one.. Centrals,
Greenfinch and Battlers have a kick left.
Deeps is still hazarding on a continuation
of the Edna reef with depth. The locating
of the reef at the Edna No. 4 level will make
things look good for Deeps. The Edna, how-
ever, has a big job ahead of it in its efforts
to beat the water at that level. As regards
the other Westonia propositions, their early
demise is imminent.
John Leishman, who made his big rise
out of the old Madame Berry mine, sticks
to the Bii'thday Tunnel, Berringa, which
Louis Hansen manages. The mine has
crushed 385,000; tons for 72,7370 z. gold, so
the ore has been on the low side. Still,
smart handling has meant £68,000 in divs.
But the Tunnel adds another to the long
list of Ballarat-district mines that won’t
respond to the pick below 1000 ft. The co.
stopped the battery in June, and since then
has been troubling shareholders to put up
cash to deepen the Kangaroo Hill shaft.
Here Hansen thinks a fresh run may be
got. As payable stone has been found north
and south in the reef at shallow denths.
there may be a flutter in scrip. Williams
Fancy, on the same field, after dreary plug-
ging work, not long since got on to good
gold. So the prospecting of the big south
block held by the Tunnel is far more at-
tractive than beating about lower down
among miserably poor quartz.
* * * *
Star of Erin, Enoch’s Point, is another of
the Victorian mountain shows which are
standing up to war-finance troubles with
moderate prospects. It needs one of the old-
time floors of quartz ; meanwhile, it is bur-
rowing about in the big basin with enough
leaders and veins to keep itself in a simmer
of joyous expectation. The scheme is to
reach out for the downward runs of stone in
the north end of the dyke on their junction
with the slates. To go on with the co.
has ISin. of quartz in the drive, and this
carries odd specks of gold. But there will
have to be a bit more of the metal to keep
the Star aglow.
Main Reef. Maindample (Vic.), has at last
got into the current as a gold producer. The
shoots on the Lady Hopetoun reef carry
gold, but are short. The main reef is better.
There driving at 240 ft. points to a junction
of the north and south shoots. If so the
co. will have mild reserves, though it takes
a lot of 15in. reef to run into a decent ton-
nage. Still, small fish are often sweet, as
for instance the Sin. stone at the old Baker’s
Creek (N.S.W.), which paid £250,000 in
divs. Against this has to be set the fact
that Maindample has a tricky reputation,
and until the 400 ft. on the main reef is
proved it is wise not to build castles on the
nice-looking stone coming forward.
* * * *
Few people expected A 1 Gaffney’s (Vic.)
to end the half-year with a cash credit of
£7029 after shelling- out steady divs. The
gold reserve, revealed by John Friel prior to
quitting, made such a thing possible even
after a natty sum had been spent for plant
and development. John Till now works the
claim with the luxury of a consulting-
engineer, one 11. James Daggar. The latter
has been scrapping plant and installing new
oddments ; but he doesn’t talk big about ore
reserves nor testify as to values. All he
will say is that there “is some months of
battery work” ahead, of about the past
months’ average grade. Till, on the other
hand, labels the stone exposed in Nos. 3, 4
and 5 floors as 80s. stuff. As 3263 tons last
half-year gave 643540 z., there is a bit to
come and go on while the upper part of the
big basin is prospected and the low-grade
stone is sampled.
Things at Lode Hill (Q.) aren’t painted
so badly by John Northey as they were by
Lewis when he was sent up to inspect by a
despairing Melbourne Board. As it was on
Northey’s report that the thing was floated
the outlook would have been bad indeed had
Northey damned the show now. He gives the
Roaring Meg flat a fair and profitable life,
and he sees good prospects at No. 2 face.
The douche is applied in respect to the mine
itself, as the scheme of work now laid out is
to take a year before operations “can be
resumed to advantage.” Then there will be
“some years of profitable work.” This bit of
optimism depends on the Roaring Meg carry-
ing “good tin,” and on the drift on Lode Hill
getting free of the boulders which smashed
up all previous aspirations. According to
Nor they, there is a bit of a gamble left in
Lode Hill. But for whom? The co.’s cash
position isn’t bad, as it has very light debts
and £lBOO t- pmv with.
The Austral Malay Co. has switched off
all its other options, and is concentrating
on the Asam Kambung at Taiping. This
includes about 150 small options. From the
lot it is expected, on preliminary tests, that
1000 acres in a compact area will bore over
fib. per yard. This isn’t rich, hut with tin
at its present price fib. means 7d., and costs
have been got down to or below 4d. on simi-
lar ground. Outside tin-dredging a mining-
proposition which could he guaranteed (given
constant metal markets) to yield a profit of
40 p.c. of the gross proceeds would be re-
garded as amazing.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page .jS.)


Dimes
Heidsieck's
CifDM
f
NE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR
SALLOW COMPLEXIONS.
Everyone may have a clear and bright
complexion, free from furrows or wrinkles, if
they will only take a little daily trouble in
the following manner: Buy some Puritol wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply every
night, lap a little cold water on the face ten
limes with the hands every morning, allow-
ing it to get thoroughly round the closed
eyes, and pinch the skin very gently across
all wrinkles. Puritol Wax Soap, which
leaves a fine film of wax on the skin, should
be used; this acts as a protective during the
day. This treatment arouses the dormant
nerves and blood vessels, and undoubtedly
accounts for many of the clear complexions
so much admired by those who do not yet
know the secret.* [3
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (S t CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
COGNAC
gSTB?
1795
BRAN DV
OTARD
15 YEARS OLD %
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney.. August 2, 1915.
My Deak Akim, —
Melba will have another glimpse of Sydney
as she leaves here for Vancouver in the
Makura on August 5. The Fiji Governor,
Bickham Sweet-Escott, jumps aboard the
same craft at Suva. He’s the man who put
up such a helpful bluff a while ago when
Suva had only a carving-knife or two to
defend itself with, and enemy cruisers were
prowling around the Pacific. Melba is half-
expecting to come back in about six months.
Early on Australia Day Martin Place
surged with lady shopkeepers setting out
their wares. Miss Brennan’s notion of turn-
ing the G.P.O. thoroughfare into a market-
garden was a vast success. Over £lOOO
rolled into these stalls before nightfall. The
old inhabitants who habitually sell flowers
thereabouts had been paid to get out. But
they haunted the kerb with bits of string
and useful advice, and tied them up with
Inand invitations to the crowd to “Come awn
—spare a bob.” Mrs. Macarthur Onslow,
entrenched behind a colossal apron, did a
rattling trade in green stuff; and the Frank
Davenport lady, Mrs. Gilbert Lodge and
Mrs. Lewin (who used to be Ruth Dangar)
were tall enough to see over trophies of flow-
ers, fruit and cabbage. The morning air
was full of cries to buy, buy, buy, and a band
supported their efforts with “Somewhere a
Voice is Calling.”
In Castlereagh-street a ruinous procession
of marts had to be passed before the com-
paratively peaceful Hunter-street area could
be reached by the most fleet-footed. Mrs
Bonthorue and Mrs. Louis Henderson had a
special menagerie attraction—a patient kan-
garoo, who nibbled the wire of his cage by
way of morning grass. The Willie Cooper
dame, further on, was head lady in a fancy
shop, with Mrs. Tom Watson and a bevy of
enthusiasts to sell you all the things you
didn’t want. The same firm was responsible
for a first-rate refreshment room on the other
side of the road. Miss Eadith Walker, a
smart business woman, was surrounded by
youth and beauty and a general produce
store. The Knox girls lent their aid here.
Housekeepers had a riotous morning out.
They were able to buy more fresh butter
than their starving families had seen for
weeks. Mrs. Arthur Dowling, in charge of a
big general store near the top of William-
street, took, with the help of her shop-
walkers, over £5OO before she put the shut-
lers up.
The crowd tossed itself together long
before noon in the congested Town Hall area.
After Ihc mounted troopers’ horses had
rubbed their velvet noses along the human
line, the procession, which was mostly khaki,
straggled into sight. The Governor’s car-
riages held a few of the returned warriors,
and his Ex. motored up in a car. On the
portico Mayor Richards and Ids lady, Pre-
mier Holman, the Belgian Consul —back
from his trip to the Islands—and Consul
Chayet. with the Japanese Consul Shimizu,
foregathered to help the 12.50 p.m. cheering.
Governor Strickland having waved his hat in
the air the crowd bellowed a joyful response.
Miss Florence Clark, an ex-Mayoress, knitted
vigorously in the select crowd on top of the
stone porch. The Neville Maymans; John
Spencer Bruntou, under the brim of a very
light-grey bowler of the new pudding-basin
shape ; and Town-Clerk Nesbitt and the un-
ruffled Layton Avaved their arms when sub-
royalty gave the Avord.
As usual, that most experienced charity
highwayman, Mrs. Leahy, of Mosman, made
a valuable haul. Tier attack Avas carried out
on the Mosman wharf at Circular Quay, and
the day’s brigandage Avas worth £6OO.
Australia Day was folloAved by a carnival
in the same cause at Manly. The Avaterside
village breaks out into a procession on much
less proA’oeation than this; and the present
effort was expended Avith no Avorse acci-
dent than that Japan fell off the lorry in
which she Avas posing Avith the Allies. lloav-
ever, she landed if not with dignity at least
in moderate comfort, and after pursuing the
cart was restored to the Alliance by the com-
bined efforts of Servia and Italy. A couple
of thousand pounds Avere yarded up alto-
gether.
The Manly mothers avlio have sons at the
Avar conspired to make a flag for sale. It
Avas auctioned according to the now Avell-
knoAvn Rules of War, and Avas knocked
down eventually for a couple of hundred
pounds. But that didn’t end the local com-
mittee’s luck. That night the purchaser at
two hundred Avas reAvarded Avith a much-
desired son. As children are worth money
how that numerous income taxes have to be
paid, the grateful purchaser promptly added
a hundred to his last bid.
The hopelessness of getting anything but
a cup of tea to drop down one’s back in the
congested city restaurants on Australia Day
gives wise women a tip. Good as the lady
shopkeepers’ efforts were to sell produce,
they hadn’t realised what a money-spinner
the sandwich would be. Some of our oldest
nobility were prepared to sink on the kerb
and munch the usual ’am or corn-beef if
money could have bought it. Strong men
fought their way to Mrs. Fell’s stall, which
fainted up against the Equitable Building.
The lure was the magic label, “Sandwiches.”
But the multitude had devoured every avail-
able crumb at an early stage in the mel#e.
We’re likely to have another Australia Day
or two before Wilhelm becomes calm. So
the good old advice, “Feed the brute,” must
be put into action next time.
The rain which had obligingly kept off on
Australia Day tumbled down on the chil-
dren’s display at the Sydney Cricket Ground
on Saturday. The youngsters from the
State Schools are dogged by wet weather,
and a patriotic outing in which they were
starred would break up any drought. The
human Bed Cross, with its white ground,
was got through before the skies began to
drip. After that, babes in thin muslin
frocks, and youngsters in cheese-cloth toil-
ettes, had to be forcibly removed by able-
bodied teachers before they’d give in to the
weeping heavens. “Display abandoned —
schools closed on Monday” was the sugar-
coated pill the kiddies had then to swallow,
and the red, blue, and white hordes melted
away under raincoats.
, The Stricklands motored out. Lady
Edeline was so absorbed in the juveniles
that she was oblivious to the very wet
shower that fell on her best feathers.
Minister Griffith, the attenuated Under-Sec.
Board, and other beacons gathered round
the sub-regal Hat at early-closing time.
One section of the crowd had its heartiest
laugh during a pretty maypole dance. There
was a queen, of course, and she played her
regal part until she wanted to “ask teacher”
about something. Then up fIeAV the royal
hand —the school-kiddy’s Avorld-Avide appeal
for permission to speak.
The French residents were both wise and
kind m putting off the proposed .Tulv rally
for their oivn Red Cross. The Melbourne
date was not departed from, and the result
was rt very disappointing. Not much over
±4OOO was gathered. This has inspired the
local Freneh-Australian League to make a
desperate effort when the time comes.
N.S.W., which has tossed about ±400,000 into
the Australia Day hat. ■will not disregard
gallant Francois later oil.
Grace Dangar, a smartly-gowned daughter
of the late A. A. Dangar, was married at
Singleton the other week. The groom, Roy
McKenzie Bell, belongs to a pastoral family
in the Avoolly Denman district. The A. A.
Dangar Avidow and her daughters generally
flit between Medlow and their home nest,
Baroona, in the warm Singleton district.
Two-thirds of the company at the wedding.,
belong to the leading mutton clans in the
Mother State, and included the Reggie
Whites, MereAvethers, Dights, Bettingtons
and Mackays. The late A. A. Dangar, by
the way, Avas the wealthy pastoralist aalio
was almost persuaded to believe in the Aus-
tralian Navy by the arguments of Admiral
King-Hall. lie got near enough to comple-
tion to give about 10 guineas’ worth of sub-
scription to the Navy League.
Cecil Darley, who used to be in the Civil
Service hereabouts, has been extending the
glad hand to Tommy Kangaroo in England.
Ills headquarters at Little Bookliam are
the _ terminus of various outings the Aus-
tralian War Contingent Association is stage-
managing. Darley, 1.5.0.. is a younger
brother of the late N.S.W. Chief Justice.
__ Taffy is to have his turn next. On the
7tli he will give a concert in the Repertory
Theatre, under the Aving of the Welsh Musi-
cal Society. Mayor Richards, Avho claims
Lewellyn ap Something as his compatriot,
is patron. The cash goes to the boys in
splints and bandages.
The Girls’ Realm Motor Ambulance
dashed up to Victoria Barracks on a
showery morning last Aveek. Grace Bur-
rows then put in an agitated 10 minutes
hunting for someone to hand the vehicle
over to. Colonel Wallaek, Avho Avas to have
been on the spot, was absent —just as he
was when Justice Rich badly wanted to
ask him a feAV questions at the Liverpool
Camp on the same morning. No one inter-
viewed kneAV anything. A feAv recruits
gathered round, and a fatigue party wasn’t
too fatigued to saunter over and admire the
handsome creamy car with its great Red
Cross. At last the quarry was landed. It
consisted of Colonel Luscombe and Dr.
Perkins, P.M.O. Mrs. Crichton Smith—the
Wahroonga dame who first had the Great
Idea —presented the car, the vei’y latest and
best of its kind. A neat brass plate about
the size of a coffee biscuit mentions the
donors. The car is intended for the use of
the army’s sick and wounded in N, S. Wales.
Longstaff contributes a picture of Sep-
timus Power to the Royal Portrait Painters’
show in London, and Tom Roberts lias a
pretty damsel in the same exhibition. Long-
staff, _by the way, has been made a member
of this society. John has two pictures also
in the Academy—one on the line. Even
the cold Athenaeum brackets it with
Sargent’s work. J. C. Watson, now home
again, gave our greatest portrait-painter
sittings for the study which has been ordered
by the Federal Government.
On Sunday afternoon a band bleated in a
pensive way outside the Randwick military
hospital. Friends and strangers tried to
stalk heroes both on the grass plot in front
and indoors. But most of the sick warriors
were too convalescent to hang about the
premises. Of the 100 or so who first arrived
in the serious old stone building—originally
a hospital for the Randwick Asylum kiddies
—only a possible 30 now swallow physic o’
nights in the wards. Surgeon-Captain Nome
was in charge, supported by Red Cross
nurses in the picturesque red-and-grey uni-
forms that Australia is beginning to know so
well. The wards are bright and airy, con-
sidering the ancient design of the hospital.
Every immaculate white bed with its Red
Cross coverlet is a mark of admiration or a
token of esteem from someone or other. An
unpretentious shed has been hurriedly turned
into a decent dispensary, and filled with life
or sudden death—according to the dispenser
—in fat glass bottles.
In the same grounds you will find the big,
barracky Asylum. Superintendent Coulter
has sat for 44 years at Board meetings in
the official lair of this pile. A full-length
portrait of the famous Catherine Hayes, an
early benefactress, peers over his shoulder
as he adds up the totals of the exits and
entrances of his precious waifs. In the
great quadrangle behind the main building
are two tall Norfolk pines. The wilted one
was planted by the late Duke of Clarence.
A-inany years ago his Uncle Alfred stuck
the other in the sod.
Just now the Randwick Asylum officials
have a quaky feeling that they will be
ordered off the premises. The Government
Avants the building and its 60 acres of land
for a Soldiers’ Hospital and Home. For 30
years the institution has been entirely sup-
ported by private subscription. So there
will be a lively general row if the place is
seized “without compensation.” Amongst the
many highly-indignant ghosts that may
whisk along Macquarie-street to interview
the Premier will be the wraith of the late
Mrs. Mary Roberts, who gave £20,000 to the
old place.
At the morning wliisky-and-milk, or what-
ever it was, on the U.S.A. steamer Colusa,
which brought us a cargo of butter, Attor-
ney-General Hall said he hoped he wouldn’t
have to attend to the breakfast-table neces-
saries in perpetuity. So do we. Much trav-
elled grease is not all it’s cracked up to be;
and Uncle Sam’s missus is no hand with the
churn, to begin with.
Barbara Gordon, the trim, graceful Syd-
ney girl who won the stemming competition
on skis at Kosciusko, is shown in 1400 feet
of film which was reeled off at a nrivate
view last week. The company recognised
its friends with yelps of joy. Whenever a
sport named “Henry” doubled up in the
snow or fell into his ski the audience whin-
nied with glee. Miss D’Ebro, the upstand-
ing Melbourne girl who Avon the ladies’
open race, careers through the film in her
bloomers and jacket. Mrs. Walter Raffan,
from a Mudgee sheep run, an active little
woman on ski, got in second in the big five-
miles race across country—something to
bray about, as she was only a novice last
year, and the event is contested by male
experts. The first-in was the veteran J. E.
Toole, a Sydney man. Frank Moulden. a
member of an Adelaide family which has
been charging six-and-eiglitpence since the
beginning of things, handed over the nrizes
in the absence of the Alpine Club’s presi-
dent.
The Women’s Horticultural Society has
survived the dual shocks of war and drought,
and intends to discuss its unshaken desire to
go on the land. Its corroboree occurs on
August 6.
He Avas inevitable. He has arrived. He
appeared in the most comfortable corner of
a first-class carriage to toAvn the other morn-
ing. He might have been 60 ; he Avas fat,
and spatted, and muffled, and overcoated,
and he had a large, bland, pink, Avell-shaven
face. When he had fairly settled doAvn and
other passengers had resorted to books and
papers, he dreAV a tissue-paper-covered
parcel from his bag. unrolled a ball of avool.
four knitting needles and a section of woollen
hose, and set placidly to work knitting a
sock.
A head-hunters’ canoe, from Solomon
Islands, is tucked away in the back prem-
ises of the old Museum in Sydney. Its 46ft.
of dug-out timber is too unhandy to be
dragged to the front door. So only the most
determined sightseers get a glimpse ot tne
craft, which is built for 22 cannibals and
their short, wicked-looking paddles. The
high bow is trimmed with demure white
cowry shells, and hung with trophies that
look like the false teeth of an outsize in
sharks. On the funereal black hull is a thin
scrape of mother-o’-pearl. 11. Wickham, of
New Georgia, gave this canoe to the Aus-
tralia Day funds. As a money-spinner its
usefulness has suffered from its exclusive
address. But the committee is patient; and
if you would like a head-hunters’ canoe for
your sewing-room you still have a chance to
give yourself the happiness.
The National Council of Women may not
be looking for trouble, but it is quite likely
to find it in its desire to become a Public
Benefactor. At this week’s meeting it in-
tends to form itself into a Department for
Prying into the Affairs of its Own Sex. Its
ardent desire is to know every woman’s age,
occupation, domestic habits and capacity for
Doing Something. I know a very rude
woman who is going to tell these unauthor-
ised ladies that she has a tremendous capacity
for minding her own business.
The clarion cry of a small black pig out-
side Her Majesty’s Theatre on Australia
Day caused the crowd to surge that way,
while distracted traffic managers wrestled
with the disorganised tram service. Lincoln
Plumer held the squealing porker aloft and
sold it, along with other protesting live
stock. Mrs. Hugh Ward had a bazaar
inside the theatre entrance. At least I’ve
heard so. After a life-and death struggle
to get inside the theatre early in the after-
noon, I actually saw nothing but a herd of
women writhing round some inanimate
objects pinned against the wall.
The matinee in Her Majesty’s missed that
live-wire individual, Hugh Ward. The pro-
gramme wasn’t within cooee of the menu for
the Belgian Day banquet. There was a good,
but not a great audience. The faithful
Arthur Allen, who will be found at every
benefit matinee till the crack o’ doom, had
taken a number of d.c. seats. Veteran
theatre-box buyer Fisher was also a. strong
supporter. The Stricklands and the usual
squad from Parliament House were in the
front stalls. But the show dragged, and
Society—that small portion of it which
wasn’t selling eggs and butter in the
streets—yawned behind its gloves.
Railway Commissioner Harper, who is
taking three months’ sick leave, has been
rusticating at Port Macquarie with an
attendant daughter. Being now more or
less in a condition to take the sea-trip the
doctor has prescribed, the party returned
to town on Sunday morning.
That pleasing Sydney pianist, Constance
Brandon Usher —in private life Mrs. Simp-
son Baikie—has departed hence. Hubby,
who Avas a skipper in a line of steamers
that called here, has taken to the shore. He
has been appointed Lloyd’s surveyor at
Yokohama. So Mrs. Constance takes her
music-roll to the same address..
“The Strollers’’ at the Palace Theatre
give their mirthful nonsense without plung-
ing into any extravagances of modern
fashion. A hat the size of a jam tart, and
worn by the lively Stroller Desmond, comes
nearest to up-to-date feminine millinery.
Madeline Ilossiter’s ballet legs are the most
muscular pair of understandings the local
stage lias exhibited for some years. Seen
through transparent black hose, they look
like the supports of a grand piano. But
when they dance, and the sinewy feet kick
a tambourine —there’s nothing the matter
then!
Dr. Mary Booth suggests a Violet Day. (o
get a few comforts for the Soldiers’ Club.
Already the movement is faking shape in
the terrifying enthusiasm of the Young Girl.
Gardens with likely violet beds will be raided
on the dawn of August 13.
Mrs. Essie Jenyns Wood is again on the
wing to the other side. The former Juliet
has no taste for even the pale-drab social
gatherings that survive the war, and for the
most part lives shyly behind a veil of
silence at Newcastle, where even her mani-
fold Good Works are done by stealth.
Hornsby and Waitara, regardless of rain,
spent Saturday afternoon in the open.
Waitara Park was turned into a mixture of
Ballyhooley Fair, football match in fancy
dress, and a schools’ display. Booths lined
the green, and the North Shore Highlanders
splashed through the local mud till night-
fall. All for Australia Day Fund, of
course.
Life-belt drill adds to the thrills of the
voyage to England nowadays. Some nurses
who left here in a mailboat for “somewhere
in the Mediterranean” sent back to tell us
what life-belt practice really means. If
your dress fastens down the back the alarm
is likely to clang out when the first hook is
going through an agonised search for its
mate. “However, we’re getting so handy
at dashing into our cork savers,” says the
Sydney nightingale, “that we’re ready for
any accident.”
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
sas
Rase
j.Jme*.***
vn
Sgj)
rrvr
t.gs&j
B 2
WM
ass?
•m
ffiSSB
ijj£i<
ns
m
.
■
;
W&J&A
. 'W&rA
■if., #tj
m
o
If I
a 32
'. H®
.•assesr
y
ms
'/y?irp
\ . ;
mbev
'-'■■
:-_, y ±* t £iLe&i3‘\s - * f * i
S?V
'lpfc
'«£*&& ’fee*
kis
SSH?
.? /
ifliW'
>ss«b
J 1
Wm£j
WA
Ipms * t&sr
feti|
\, V
£i ?!
J/f
Jjr'
mm MmmA
Wi./.fJ' j
s.A
mm
:
#7i
gH
SKSSI&iXSKS
Bhhk
sss
@«SSg®E
S'rjijS^S/^w!
WMmdM^k
Mg i
■&?
¥Vk
?,<M
m-i
Wo
AfA-y
m&mk %
>*',v r AAA V Mv .// ’A.-//)
■
<f .?' A j, /|V /P,
RHB: :
■
/V
/.yv
•'-■A
'/M
/v
I»II1§§
MSEgaBBSaBBBSgSBS^SEBBBRi
■fW
fig
raft
,:f '
A:A£j4 A. ;r;.
m
<? ’'
VA/n-’J; ■
I ;v' 1!
kopu^
/•> 4
K^j0 r .:s'J r ’ ’ ~-%&\i<ii£A
v>y
.vA
T!ii“vis^
:v - : 4:
:
.
i^Vr
i
f/V'/s’;
V\
5^
4 • # 'Syf'i&r W ,? - =
>•' :•*A
* /r ! it' -/.,*» ••
’^SB§
•Lyi
tmmoY
m
m
aSAifSi
IS
s';s>*
wr Mm^rnm
dFV&$*& K '& £ ' '
Ssgje?
LON
K
Cobra,” TSho. Boot PolisK.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Wakes the German
Snipers, who
Think the dummy
Is alive.
LISTEN ! One —two
Three—four —five !
Five good bullets
Less for war,
Wasted on a
Thing of straw !
Germans just hate
To be had !
“COBRA" tricks will
Drive them mad !


POPULAR CREPE SHIRTS
3/6 eacii
3 for 16/.
Fashioned by Experts from Carefully -
Selected Materials, Farmer’s Shirts are
a triumph of specialised effort and
uniformly good value.
The CREPE SPORT SHIRTS featured are
suitable for all-the-year-round wear.
Strong, yet porous, and excellent washing.
Latest designs in White Grounds, with
Heliotrope, Black, Blue and Green Stripes.
Made with double turn-back cuffs and
linen neckbands. No collar. Sizes: 14
to 18 inches neck.
Also obtainable in All White.
CARRIAGE
FREE.
CARRIACE
FREE.
FARMER’S
-Sydney
hfd
ENJOYABLE
MOTORING
depends on the
Tyres fitted. You
can make a cer-
tainty of getting
Tyre Satisfaction
by using
DUNIDP
TYRES
They combine the
necessary Quality,
Strength and Weight
—to ensure you
thousands of miles of
running on our roads.
They Stand
alone for
Service.
FIT THEM—IT PAVS!
STOCKED IN ALL SIZES
AT LEADING GARAGES.
Illustrated List on Application to
DUNLOP RUBBER COMPANY
108 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
103 105 FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE
67 KING STREET, PERTH.
268-274 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE
53 CAMERON ST., LAUNCESTON
95 COURTENAY PLACE.
WELLINGTON.
116 WORCESTER ST..
CHRISTCHURCH.
mm
%
\
/,
m
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, August 2, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Lady Stanley’s barrow on Australia Day
was up near Paddy’s Market, at the corner
of Bourke and Exhibition streets. Her hus-
band hurried round buying bouquets from
Corner Girls, and had them sent to his ener-
getic lady at the matinee, where she sat in
the box opposite the one for which Fan
Dango had bartered 500 guineas.
The town was indescribable—more like a
large Asiatic bazaar that had gone mad than
a heavily-respectable city of British origin.
At the hour when wearied business men were
plodding home, skinned of every scrap of
ready money, women dashed forth like vul-
tures (or should it be hyaenas?) and at-
tempted to tear the fugitives down, financi-
ally speaking, and when they failed their
howls of despair were frightful to hear.
The Wounded Soldiers were in the van of
ihe procession. They got a great reception,
and money was flung at their heads in a
lavish way. The only items that challenged
taeir supremacy were some huge wool-bale
waggons which dominated the picture by
their sheer bulk.
The mummers procession on the morning
of Australia Day was a great success. The
gems of the profesh meandered in motors
through clouds of enthusiastic citizens —and
every cloud had a silver lining. The most
astounding sight in the pageant was a
popular bellowdramatic actor, whose magnifi-
cently combustible appearance as a barbaric
Norseman nearly sent the Fire Brigade rush-
ing to the rescue. But what impressed me
most, my dear, was the spectacle of two
Hebrew comedians squatting dejected and
serious amid the rain of coin. The Gentile
freedom with the monish made the occasion
too solemn for any display of flippancy on
their part.
Melba’s concert for the wounded soldiers
was like nothing that has happened since the
war. The gaiety and dressiness of it, the
general air of care-free expensiveness, brought
to mind the period—long vanished, alas!—
when none of us had heard of Przemysl, nor
realised the meaning of the fall of Warsaw.
No one talked either war or buttons—only
Melba and heroes. The G.-G. and his house
came along; likewise the State Governor and
/u'.9 residence, which included more Aides, of
one sort and another, than Melbourne has
seen for many months. Aides are as rare as
emus in Collins-street just now. Lady Helen,
regally robed in crimson and fur. had a fillet
of fine old pearls in her hair. The pearls
were monsters, and each was surrounded
by its own particular circle of diamonds.
-Lady Stanley glode to her seat in a heavenly
clpak of sky-blue shot with gold and edged
with grey fur. A covey or gaggle of pipers
iiad settled on the platform ; and as the viee-
legals entered they set up ear-piercing wails
to the obvious delight of the Fairrggussson,
whose hair curled visibly as the dreadful
music tore through the atmosphere. The
blameworthy parties, or performers, were the
! ore and South Melbourne Thustle Pipers,
and the chief instigator appeared to be Pipe-
Major h isher. The latter was a braw, graun’
sieht, ye ken, as he markit time in the fore-
ground, and never a Scot in the audience but
was prood tae call him brither.
Having proved that I can speak the Scotch
language, I now get back to the softgoods and
jewellery business. Melba sang “God Save” in
a breastplate of diamonds, some tulle, an etch-
mg of fine gold lace and a magnificent court
train of pink-lined silver-satin. Her hair
Avas simply knotted back as in her Rod way
portrait. Before her was a Union Jack, made
mostly of violets that had come from Coombe
Cnttage. Some chorus people filled the organ
loft with the help of a few others, at a guinea
These had been late at the booking-
office. The balconies Avere bound up in red.
Avhite and blue, and Everybody was everv-
where.
Mrs. George Chirnside looked remarkably
handsome in a cloak of bougainvillaea brocade
in velvet and silver tissue. There was a
rush on AA r arm cloaks, by the Avay, as a guard
against pneumonia. One slim little woman,
however, sat heroically in the main line of
draughts, clad in little else than two strings
of diamonds and some tulle. The diamonds
Ayere almost as lovely as her shoulders, so
the risk was perhaps Avorth it. Dr. Daven-
port brought his daughter, a bewildering
vision in white. Mrs. Parse blazed Avith
jewels, and she wore other clothes as well.
Mrs. Bowes Ivelly plumped for ermine-edsred
velvet and warmth. Mrs. EdAvard Miller
was magnificent, from her white hair to her
very smart slipper-tips. The Mt. Schank
Clarkes AA’ere in great fettle, Mamma looking
as like Queen Mary as possible (she had
to .leaAm her umbrella in the cloak-room),
whilst the girls sold gollyAvogs.
De Bourguignon played a piece and accom-
panied Melba’s songs. The Belgian managed
his solo in a detached, dreamy way. Then
Melba sang “Since that Day.” from' “Louise,”
Avith all the Paris-haunted music weaving
round it. The delicacy of her singing was
indescribable. Melba’s voice takes new
marvellous leases of youth. It was enchanting-
on Thursday. But oh, drat those Sassiety
programme-selling girls! Always absurd,
their conduct on this occasion called for
serious action—say a flogging, followed by
electrocution.
The Fairnbairn Ball for Children caught
all the vice-regalities bending, in a manner
of speaking. Lady Helen, in black and white
and diamonds, brought the Blackwood boy,
her small nephew; and Lady Stanley was
in command of her entire nursery. She only
stayed about half an hour, however, as she
had to take the baby, Pamela, home to bed
again. The saintly-looking little Pam. won
a prize; she was dressed as the Spirit of
Peace, and wore misty white and doves, and
very large blue eyes. Jane—the five-year-
old baby of the Geoffrey Symes—won an-
other prize. She has coal-black eyes and
plenty of dimples, and was wrapped in a
snow-leopard skin as a baby Bacchante,
Sister Mardi was magnificent as a Rajah, in
a velvet cloak and a huge silver turban
mounted with an osprey. Hilaria, a young-
beauty with a black mane of hair, wore a
Persian dress in startling black and white.
All the Baillieu parents were there with
their respective broods. Mrs. Stuart Mur-
ray s small daughter was a Golden Butterfly,
and did a solo dance fixed up by Jennie
Brenan. The baby’s butterfly wings were
painted by scenic artist George Upward, of
the Firm. Jennie Brenan’s small pupils,
who danced at the Australia Day matinee,
repeated the performance.
Fritz Hart’s Conservatorium had the time
and advt. of its life at the Town Hall last
week. Melba directed the show, and Lady
Helen gave it her patronage. Lady Stanley
came along in sky blue, with gold set tur-
quoises in her hair. Fritz, who has had his
mop cut, showed her in and out again with
so much exuberant ceremony that his pro-
gress looked like a dignified dance. The new
Aide—the one with the big blue eyes and
the interesting limp—took charge of the little
lady s cloak, furbelows, programme and flow-
ers. He gave every evidence of being a mas-
ter-hand at this job. but it is over-early to
judge yet. Melba, the organiser, glowed with
pride as she sat in the vice-regal section
clothed in a voluminous soft-grey cloak. Two
lofty sparkling diamond antennae rose out of
her hair, giving her the general appearance of
a soft, grey night-moth. Her sister, Mrs.
Lempriere, was there; also someone who
wore her back square to the house, and was
consequently unidentifiable. All I could
gather was that she was large and blonde,
and wore a black and pink Toby frill at her
neck and a Greek key-pattern sheet down the
back where the gown is supposed to fasten.
Melba went behind scenes at half-time to
buck up the students, despite the fact that
one girl, Miss Pearl Campbell, had the temer-
ity to sing Down in the Forest,” a song
which is peculiarly the property of Melba.
Margaret Jewell put a real professional touch
into a Welsh song, and Stella Power was
sweet in a Semiramide number. In fact,
everyone was gratifying in something or
other; and, finally, Melba and a chorus and a
half-dozen verse-soloists joined in a Folk
Song. It was a great concert, and must have
brought stacks of badly-needed cash to the
Red Cross Fund.
Australian Army Nurses borrowed
by Maoriland in Egypt to convoy the first
baych of wounded homewards in the
\\ llloclira have 'written over in ecstasies
about the glad time they fell into on arrival.
I irst, the Government produced free railway
passes. Then they were whirled into motor-
cars and taken to lunch and to dinner and
to supper, and early next morning large
committees woke them up and invited them
to inspect the local beauty spot and sang
Aiild Lang- Syne” to them. Glad hands
and eyes were everywhere. The girls earned
the jollification. There were nearly three
hundred men on the ship, and every one of
them had a good word for the ministering
angels. Eighty patients were so ill that they
had tojie carried aboard at Alexandria, but
only 1.) had to be carried ashore.
i-i S ’ Murray cleared £3OO from her
Collins-street shop. Everything was auc-
tioned at the last —even a galah parrot,
whose language, when it understood what
was being done with it, was wicked. Dona-
tions are still pouring in, somewhat to the
embarrassment of the organisers ; and now.
m kindly desperation, they are thinking of
taking a permanent stand somewhere. It
is very hard to cease well-doing once von
start.
Mrs. Man rice-Car ton and Mrs. Boulanger
(she is that very' attractive step-daughter of
Jules Homery, Consul for France) will give
® French party at the Reps, on August 6.
.the Belgian soldier-pianist. De Bourguignon,
is to play, the Consul will talk about the
I rencli Soldier, Gwen Richardson will recite
from Victor Hugo, and Nap Boffard will
sing “The Marseillaise.”
A recent San Francisco paper announced
that “Lady Constance Waugh” had
arrived. It is Melbourne’s dashing friend,
presumably. Well, she could carry off a
courtesy title as well as most of them.
Kenneth McWhae, whose papa is a Mel-
bourne stockbroker of ancient reputation and
an M.L. C. with the bloom barely rubbed off,
lias just married Caroline MacLeod, and is
off to the war. The lady is an orphan grand-
daughter of the late Frank llent.v, of Merino
Downs squattage, and her father, the re-
cently deceased A lick MacLeod, had a tidy
bolding in the same district.
When the Australia Day procession was
passing the Stock Exchange the brokers
enthused over many of the displays, especi-
ally where pretty hospital nurses (or make-
believes) were concerned; but they made
their biggest noise in honor of the Mining
Industry set-out. They hailed the “diggers”
in red shirts and sham beards as brothers-in-
toil. For the moment promoters and jobbers
forgot their market rigs, and thought only
of themselves as patriotic servants of a great
national cause. An outsider who had dared
to breathe a word against dredging just then
would have had his boxer smashed in.
The sock-making habit has produced a
shortage of knitting-needles. So Miss
Lorimer, who is a resourceful girl, fixed an
emery wheel on an electric current, bought
up some fencing wire, got to work, and
turned out needles by the dozen. She has
been selling them at a shilling a set, and
handing the proceeds to the Red Cross fund.
Miss Lorimer has been made a Life Gov-
ernor of the Queen Victoria Women’s Hospi-
tal. She and Miss Ethel Webb run that
roof-garden gymnasium of which I have fre-
quently told you. They have volunteered
now to keep the_ supply of nurses up to con-
cert-pitch with judicious massage, sun-baths
and so on.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
This State’s Wounded Soldiers’ Fund is well past
the £lOO,OOO mark ; and there are other returns to
conie. All day the streets were packed. There
wasn’t a furlong of footpath that didn’t have its
bandit. There wasn’t a street corner without its
stand containing anything from a meat pie to a lace
scarf. There was a street procession—which pro-
ccshed for unending hours—and innumerable auction
sales, a carnival, a concert, a Paddy’s Market and a
cafe, and at the theatre in the evening a “gala
performance.” Collectors were up with the first of
the market gardeners, and they were still at it when
the last benighted reveller reeled homewards. Alto-
gether it was a strenuous day.
At the beginning of the week the League of Loyal
Women was floated in the Town Hail, with the
Governor in the chair, Lady Galway as chief speaker
and League’s president, and an audience that over-
flowed half-way across King William-street. The
projects are admirable, and as anyone can become
a Loyal Woman for Is. Cd. the movement should
boom.
The usual bi-annual invasion from Melbourne has
occurred, to the fury of local “emporiums.” ITats
and blouses and coats and frocks all bear the Mel-
bourne touch, and incidentally the Melbourne label.
And the feminine public buys freely in spite of war
and drought and everlasting subscriptions.
Dorothy, eldest of the George Langridge daughters,
of Armadale (Vic.), is to marry Gerald Hack, of
this city, and the Bollens’ eldest daughter, Christobel,
has got engaged to E. D. A. Bagot, of Kilboon 't
Ireland. A
Grace Palotta left on Tuesday. “Your King and
Your Country Need You” was sung instead by Clara
Serena last night.
I oung van Senden has a commission in the
Imperial forces. Which reminds me that lawver
W. Henderson, from Victor Harbor, is going to the
Front.
There is to be no Spring Show this year. The
Defence Department wants the large halls for the
soldiers. Also the grounds.
Died in camp last Sunday, of meningitis, a son of
Colonel Lovely, of the Semaphore. He had enlisted
as a private, and had expected to go to the Front
with an early batch of reinforcements.
One of the hottest of the burning questions
ot the moment is why various folk on whose
incomes will now fall the five-shillings-in-the-
pound blight have not given Something Big
to Belgian or Australian Day. Various
names are tagged with scorn as non-givers
or donors of Something Paltry. Perhaps
George Ade in his Fables in Slang has hit
on the reason. One item in Ade’s stock-in-
trade a climber—“had the extreme foxiness
to refrain from giving liberally to gilt-edged
Charities.’ It seems that “the Outsider who
crowds into the Charmed Circle and makes
a Grandstand Play with the Bank Roll is
thanked effusively and listed as a vulgar
Pretender.”
M the Conservatorium on Australia Day
Fritz Hart was in an ecstasy. Melba had
arranged to have tea with him, and you can
imagine what that means to an emotional
little musical man. The Con. stairs were
one surging, gushing crush, and Melba just
escaped the ordeal with her life. Her hat
was severely wounded, but her temper was
not visibly ruffled.
On Saturday afternoon Laver conducted
an orchestral concert in memory of poor
Marshall Ila*. It opened with the Funeral
March from Beethoven’s Eroica symphony
Ihe vice-regal seats held a party of men and
the Madden dame. She wore a lovely purple
toque and a fur coat and looked as blithe
and well as though she hadn’t done a stroke
ot work for Australia Day, which, of course,
was far froin being the case. Governor
Stanley was in a spick-and-span new grey
suit, with a delicately-indicated waist and a
duck-egg-blue shirt. He was backed up bv
a particularly beautiful aide, and he had
the moral support of Mayor Hennessy, whose
trusty high hat was observable couchant
beneath a chair. The star pianist was Miss
' mlet Smart —a promising Conservatorium
student. She seemed nervous, but it didn’t
affect her playing, and she got guns of
applause at the end of her rendering of
Tschaikowsky’s B Flat minor concerto.
Francis Syme—a son of David—has now
given four sons to the war. The last and
youngest enlisted recently from his college
at Edinburgh.
Walter Campbell, of Toorak, is leaving
shortly for the war. His brother Donald,
who was at Sari Bair, is now in hospital in
Egypt. Clive Miller is also going, but not at
once. Mrs. Clive wants to go to England at
the same time, and so do the little Clives.
Hence the martial move will not be made till
it gets cooler in the Red Sea—say, about
September.
The Luke sisters, back in their native land
after many years abroad, are being re-
introduced to the social world. They are
understood to be suitably impressed.
You remember the carpet in the big ball-
room of Federal Government House, of
course? Well a few weeks ago it was re-
placed, and what do you think has been done
with the old one? They have made it into slip-
pers for soldiers! The same has been done
with the floor covering which until lately
was in the State dining-room. I think the
slippers should be put up for auction, as I
feel sure that many patriots, anxious to show
that they know the inner meaning of snob-
lesse oblige, would pay big prices for the
honor, of having their feet encased in
material on which vice-regal feet have trod.
The Melbourne Hospital is enthusiastic
about the Arts and Grafts workers who are
making splints and crutches. They went
to hospital headquarters for accurate de-
signs and measurements, and are turning
out the articles by the hundredweight.
Through having won a pair of Belgian
Fund earrings worth £2OO or less a small rav
of limelight has fallen upon Mrs. Charles
Pleasance, the stout, comfortable, unpreten-
tious old soul who once helped chemist
Pleasance to be Mayor of Melbourne. In
these days when German-made sundries are
scarce in chemists’ shops and trade in pain-
killer is greatly diminished, not even the
lady of a topside medicine-mixer is likely to
sniff twice at a pair of diamond earrings
worth £2OO.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


:
■
■ fl||
HH
Us
■' *
■
1 ■
■■
■■ : : :
■
■—
•ijoJißvgwarsSonsjd
■
Vi
■
ill
w;ii
m*
■ ■ Pill
■
■
f@P fl) TNK MCMk&ll**


IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
"CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach,
liver and bowels, for mamma,
daddy and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest: liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful
of “California Syrup of Figs” to-night and
in the morning all the constipation poison,
bile and clogged-up waste will gently move
out of the system without griping, and you
will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use this
fruit laxative as occasion demands. It is
just as effective for grandpa as it is for baby.
It simply cannot injure. Even cross, sick,
feverish children just love its pleasant taste
and mothers can rest easy after giving it,
because it never fails to effect a good “inside
cleansing.”
For thirty years “California Syrup of
Figs” has been recommended by physicians
as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califor-
nia Syrup of Figs,” which has full directions
foi babies, children of all ages and for grown-
ups plainly printed on the bottle. Beware
of counterfeits sold here. Get the genuine,
made by “California Fig Syrup Company.”
Refuse any other kind with contemDt. “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs” is sold by all leading
chemists, 1/1$ and 1/9.
THE INVISIBLE
NECK REINFORCEMENT
MEANS DOUBLE WEAR.
-»•
£3
7ft
Sk
/lit
s//.
THIS TAB
SLEEVE
LIFT MEANS
COMFORT.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW MEN'S
WEAR CATALOG. BENT FREE.
MEN! HERE’S A
FINE SHIRT
which we offer conscientiously as the best
value obtainable in Australia, introducing’
special features which have popularised
The Double Life Shirt
with numbers of discriminating men.
The invisible neck reinforcement ensures
double wear, while the attached sleeve lift is
extremely useful and permits comfort.
Perfectly cut and made in Oxford materials,
stripes of all widths. Blue with white and
white with black stripes.
A GREAT
VALUE.
PRICE
4,6.
SENT POST
FREE TO
ANY STATE.
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PTY.
LTD.
THE MAIL ORDER HOUSE FOR MEN,
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
‘Tiaki ’: When I camped one night under a
tree in company with Mr. Hurila'no a “more-pork”
treated us to a record. He commenced with “toa-kwey,
toakwey, toa-kwey,” and ended up distinctly with
“Kou kou.” Ilurikino then told me the old Maori
fable of the fight between the land birds and the
sea birds, the gulls being the invaders. After the
rout the owl got busy, and, when the night came on,
he pursued the enemy with his mocking cry of “Toa
koe, toa koe, toa koe,” which means: “You’re a
brave, you’re a brave (I don’t think).” That didn’t
prevent me from shooting our visitor, because I
hadn’t had any tucker since the previous night I
wrapped him in a blanket of clay, and made a sacri-
fice of him. He tasted like a first-grade bush-rat.
Hun was true to his tradition; he wouldn’t touch
a rib of his old friend, principally because his ances-
tor’s spirit had entered into the M. Pork tribe o-en-
erations ago. It hasn’t affected me as yet.
FAMILIAR CONDITIONS.
OFFICER: “I want you to understand what's
in front of you. You may he called up at
unearthly hours in the morning; have to
work perhaps up to your knees in mud;
and maybe get very scanty food now and
again."
R ECRUIT: “ Cripes, Boss, you make it jest like
’owe. I bin workin ’ in the cow country orl
me life."
‘•J.W.M.”: Came across a mass of rock
which puzzled me lately. It’s a big, flat, circular
ledge of granite, with a lot of grooves running from
the outer rim to the centre, like the spokes of a
wheel. They are of various lengths, from 6in. to 3ft.,
and run from a quarter to an inch in depth. A man
told me that this was the grindstone on which Black
Brother used to sharpen his spears, and I think he
may know, as he has studied 81. Bro. closely while
overlanding from Lismore (N.S.W.) to the top corner
of Westralia, and from there to Darwin.
“Leslie Lee”: “Flinderino’s” shellfish (B.
8/7/’l5) that the N. Queensland natives call wirrell
seems to be the same submarine that is known as the
pippy on the N.S.W. North Coast—smooth-shelled,
creamy white near the hinge and merging into blue-
grey. You get him by working the beach with
your bare feet, using your legs with a sort of gimlet
motion. Have seen a billy-canful gathered in half
an hour. Stewed in milk they are prime. Pippy
soup is a favorite dish along the coast, but collecting
the ingredients has its dangers. The deeper the
water the more frequent the pippy.; and a few years
ago a Ivempsev man and his wift * were carried away
to sea while pippying.
Mulga : 111 vouch for the correctness
of “Wyangaru’s” statement (B. l/7/’l5) that dingoes
can be run down on horseback. But no man ever
saw it done in timbered country. Given plain coun-
try, and with the beast too interested in the sheep
to notice the approach of horsemen, there is a chance
of a mounted man killing a dingo. But even then
an exceptionally speedy horse and a strong hand with
the stirrun-iron are required.
ORDERED REEL AND QUIET.
THE WAITER: “The manager says would
you kindly pass soup to-night, sir—a lady
on the top flat ’as a bad ’eadache.”
Axehandle ’: Three men recently search-
ing- for a horse in the mountains around liiandra
(N.S.W.) came across the animal apparently all
right, duly belled and rugged as when last seen.
One of the searchers rode up to him and attempted
to pass his whip through the bell-strap and discov-
ered the horse quite dead, albeit standing in a
natural position, not bogged, but with head
hanging down. Sceptics can lose a tenner over
this, as the defunct prad is still there, and still
dead. In the same country, during a heavy fall of
snow, a brumby took shelter under a tree, and was
snowed in, the snow building a wall feet high round
hnn. After being there over a week a stockman
came suddenly upon him and cracked his whip,
whereat the horse immediately dropped dead.
YV errimee”: Murri at his dinner is an
edifying spectacle. He doesn’t bother about putting
on a collar. As a rule, when dining at home, he
doesn t bother about putting on anything at all. He
squats on the ground, with his feet doubled under
him, and holding the ’possum leg in his hands, tears
he flesh off with his teeth. His manner convinces
you that he is enjoying the meal. A little fire burns
near him, on which a portion of the banquet is still
cooking; lie or Ins gin, who squats near, attends to
it from time to time. Much of the tucker is eaten
half-raw. Murn’s dogs—a regiment of them—crowd
lound during the feast, and sometimes snatch a
bone from the master’s mouth. They also share his
g-unyah and his bed, nestling all about, under the
blankets, and on top of him. He appreciates their
company on a cold night, for dogs’ bodies are warm
borne dogs snore terribly; others are given to bark-
ing and hunting imaginary wallabies in their sleep-
but Mum is used to all that. He loves his dog, and
cuddles the pups in his arms. He keeps all that
comes; when the mother dies the little orphans are
reared with tenderest care, often on the woman’s
breast. I once saw a gin sitting in a gunvah suckling
a piccaninny at one breast and a pup at the other.
they sit down on the chops, or roll over the
grilled snake, he merely brushes them aside. At the
5, d °P he is contin ually yabbering and shouting
while the tuck-out is in progress, but very rarelv does
he hit one. They arc privileged to dine with him.
iheir eager, greedy eyes watch every morsel lifted
a 1 on the alert, for Murri, after picking each bone’
tosses it this way or that. Should a dog for which
a bone is not intended leap across and take it, the
gorge is suspended while Murri requests the mongrel
to behave himself. Sometimes the miscreant tries
to steal the second course from the ashes, at which
there is an excited yell and more protracted address
on table manners.
Billy T.”: I had met him on a small
Gippsland farm, where he was acting in a humble
capacity between 5 a.m. and 11 p.m. for a trifling
remuneration, pending the happy time when he would
get_ what he spoke of fervently as “reg’lar work.’’
Ihe man who did not consider 18 hours a day “reg’-
la.r work” fascinated me in a way, and I remembered
him well when I discovered him standing on the
west side of Swanston-street, gazing somewhat
despondently at the crowd about the recruiting office
at the Town Hall opposite. “Hello, Ned!” I said.
He grinned bashfully, with a characteristic twist of
the body, and answered: “’Elio! How’re yer doin’?”
He was looking exactly as when I saw him last on
the farm ; traces of the cowyard lingered, he was fluffy
about the face, and his hair had the old, curious
appearance of having been knocked off with a nullah,
“"hat are you doing in Melbourne?” I asked. He
wriggled again, looked guilty, and then said in a
low voice: “T’ tell yeh the Gorstruth, I come down
to enlist. I bin down three days.” “Have you
enlisted?” “Nah. I’m thinkin’ of goin’ back
t-morrer.” “They turned you down?” “Na-ah.”
He wriggled again, and grinned. “I ain’t tried. I
hadn't the cheek.” “What do you mean—the cheek?”
“Ah-h-h. They wouldn’t have me. Look at me
boots.” I could not understand what his boots had
to do with it, and told him so. “Look et me ’at ”
he said. He took the tile from his head and stuck’a
finger through the crown. “They wouldn’t look e'
me. See, how’d I keep that from them?” He gar
a momentary glimpse under his coat where his pant
had succumbed to wear and tear.” “Don’t be s
fool,” 1 said—“have a dash at it.” He shook hi
head. “’S no use,” he persisted gloomily, “I ain’t
tawf enough.” Digging out a corporal friend, I lr 1
him to Ned, and left him endeavoring to persuade
Edward that he would not be turned down for the
holes in his clothes if the rest of him was all right
About 20 minutes later Ned came out of the depot.
Sail right,” he said. “They took me. Hut,
’struth! I thought it was all up when thev seen me
shirt. I’m erbliged to you,” he added with his old
wriggle. Then more brightly: "I’ve alwiz wanted
reg’lai* work.”
* * * *
“Y.F.E.”: The mail-order department of
Bungs business gets some queer communications
On» up-country (Vic.) pubkeeper received this from
a thirsty soul in a no-license corner of thV Mallee:
Deer Sir pleas send the dosen hotels of beer on
tonights train do not send 1 dosen like larst time
wen vow ony send 1 dosen we get annoied and
tl je dam lot in the drink thank you
respekferdy Jim Dobbsswallow Goanner Crossen
Incidentally, how is Bung’s mail-order business going
to boom with the early closing of the bars!
Sarto ’: Can any Abo.-ite tell me how to
poison sparrows? Now don’t all trot out poisoned
wheat. That’s no good. I’ve given the little
nuisances about four feeds of non-poisonous wheat •
and on the fifth morning ladled them out a fair help-
ing of the poisonous variety. Then I made prepara-
tions to bury the dead. I got two. Jack Sparrow
is too cunning to be had that way. If no Abo.-ite
can supply the information I need I’ll ask Bill
ITohenzollern. He’s sure to know.
* * * *
“Squid”: The strange fish found on the
beach at Sorrento (Vic.) recently by “Masetto” is
a well-known denizen of Port Phillip Heads, where it
fives on kelp reefs, and its scientific name is
“kelpe.” The smaller species are often hauled up in
crayfish pots. Fishermen on the spot ridicule the
idea that a specimen isn’t in the Melbourne Museum.
It is as common as it is inedible.
JUDICIAL.
OFFICE BOY: “ There's a lady to see yer,
sir.”
OLD GENT.: “Lady! Lady! What’s she
like?”
OFFOCE BOY: “Not bad!”
The new-chum was gazing- with astonish-
ment at the exhibition of buckjumping. “Bai jove,”
he said; “awfully good rider, eh! ” “Not bad,'”
replied the man from Brumby Plat, “but you ought
to have seen me when I was a kid. Why, up in
Queensland once they stuck me on a big chestnut
gelding that started bucking a treat. It bucked
clean out of sight into the bush. The mob saddled-
up and started after me and got me three days later
asleep m the saddle with the colt still bucking.”
NO OBJECTION.
BELATED ONE: "Hi! I want to stop here
all night."
THE ONE ABOVE: “Well, damper, stop there
all night if per wanter, only don't kick
up such a blasted row about it."
Lou” : “Barcoo,” the summer sickness of
the western cattle camps, collars a man at the hour
when he’s busy with his food. There’s no prelimi-
nary announcement. He just gets an urgent message
from his cupboard that war is declared, and he
makes a .hasty and sometimes untidy exit. There’s
no 'after-effects. The patient can back his cart in
again as scon as he returns, and, if his luck is in,
see it right out to “that comfortable feeling.” But
it he deserves it he 11 make another undignified rush,
and I’ve seen men unlucky for days. I never heard
of any ,‘cure excepting persistent efforts to “keep one
down.” i
“Te Babarantiko”: Referring to riding
down dingoes (B. l/7/’l5), what about running down
rats? It can be done with the Islands species—the
rodent that does so much damage to the cocoanut
groves by climbing up the palm-trees and gnawing
through the stalks of the young nuts till they fall.
We used to nail bands of tin, or wind the
fallen leaf of the pandanus around the stems. Given
clear and fairly level ground it is easy enough to
cut off any foraging or exploring rat, and easier still
to run him down and stamp on him. As with the
domestic rat his speed is more apparent than real
and he is very quickly exhausted.
(Continued on page 2^.)
A BUSH MURDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A bird with eyes for darkness
Flapped wings like a heavy mane,
A dingo crept from a broken gorge
And ' loped across the plain.
But the wings were poised in mid air,
And the dingo sniffed and stood,
For the look of death was about the place
And the smell of human blood.
A wind came from the seaboard,
With perfume of gum and fir,
And the breath of boxwood lying to south
And ryegrass and scented burr.
It made the trees in the valley
Mouths for the message it voiced;
The trembling stars flashed anger,
And bird and beast rejoiced.
“I bring the perfume of flowers,
Of the stateliest trees of earth,
And dash their scent with thg-smell of brine,
For the sea it gave me birth?’
Redder red stars lightened,
And whiter white stars all,
And tongues of fire in north and south
Shot out at the seawind’s call.
“Murder,” shivered the red stars,
“Murder,” trembled the white,
And the radiance streaming along the air
Sent shudders through the night.
For murder is Heaven’s horror,
• The killing by craft and snare
In the lonely Bush, with no man beside
To see that the fight is fair.
But while the stars and sea wind
Went over their pleas again,
The murderer rose from his victim’s side
And slunk across the plain.
The dingo eyed him, and, dodging,
Whisked bushy tail and moved
Stealthily through the brambly grass,
Still sniffing the scent he loved.
And the wings, like a mane, of .the nightbird
I lapped heavily on their way,
Till they sleepily circled, round and round,
The spot where the dead man lay.
N.S.W.
E. LOWE.
OUR TROOPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They sent him back to Muddy Creek,
For, reared afar from city’s reek,
He scoffed at their Y.M.C.A.
C.E.M.S., S.P.C.K.
To him were' only so much Greek.
His language was at times unique—
He even gave the C.O. cheek.
And so (’twas just the other day)
They sent him back.
Fighting to him was merely play—
“A first-class marksman,” so they say.
At mustering a sort of freak—•
The keenest eye on Muddy Creek.
He drank, of course? Well, anyway,
They sent him back.
MAORI LAND.
MOTHER.


Correct Furniture for the Up-to-date Living' Room— Solid Oak
A COPY OP OUR
LARGE
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
AND FURNISHING
ESTIMATES WILL
BE MAILED FREE
ON REQUEST.
I
i
m
Wr v «••
I
AM GOODS ARE
MARKED IN
TRAIN |
NET ;gf
CASH f
PRICES.
£B/17/6
The “SHIPWAY” Solid Oak Suite of 8 pieces, comprising G dining and 2 arm chairs, spring seats,
splendidly upholstered in Fabrakoid, Brown. Red, Green, Blue or Grey.
r~f
;
HI
-r
rm
HHHBII
**€
■
m
V
■:
m
11
I
I
H
■
■
i
£.13/10/-
The “SHIPWAY” Sideboard, sft. wide.
Inspect
our
Mag'nificent
Display of
Mission
Furniture.
'
The “SHIPWAY” DINING TABLE.
42in. circular £.3/5/-
*3/ 15/«
48in. circular
A. HALL & CO.,
Complete House Furnishers,
561, 561 a, 563, 565, 567 George Street, Sydney.
mm
This safety razor shaves you smoothly
because it keeps its blades sharp.
It is the only safety razor that strops itself. It takes
only 12 seconds to strop the blade you simply slip
the strop through the razor and move the razor to and
fro—that’s all-no skill required. It is equally easy to
clean —just a rinse and a wipe with the towel nothing
to unscrew or take apart.
STANDARD SET (No. 1).
In handsome velvet-lined leather-covered case as illustrated. Contains
heavily silver-plated self-stropping razor, one dozen blades, and hrst quality
horsehide strop complete.
Price in Australia - - 22/6
Price in New Zealand - 25/-
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Auss'rala&ia.
Managing Agents for Australasia —
PARTRIDGE, ABERCROMBY. LTD.. York Chambers. Market Street, SYDNEY.
Auto&trop
Rj£ f z et oß
AUSTRALIA’S WAR SONGS
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
2f-
0
10-inch
2 1-
N.Z. 2/6.
Sung by HARRISON LATIMER, Baritone (with orchestra).
69899
Australia Will Be There (Australia’s War Song) ( W . W. Francis)
When the War is Over, Maggie ( Cuyler and Ashton)
06881
Only One of the Toys . .
If England Wants a Hand
( Erickson, Boecker and Ingham)
. ( Chas. Vaude and Joe Slater )
G 6882
Some Hearts Will Be Joyful (Herbert Rule)
It Is the Men (A. Mansfield)
Great DESCRIPTIVE RECORD.
rra
gJS€
s
&-!»
SP
»* v’ffJßHF* • •Ji
■'■«< .-?rtfnsr
■w
WR
%
«i
\«lfcr !
&
«
77
G 6883
Departure of the Australian Troops for the Front
Arrival of the Australian Troops in Egypt
Descriptive
Descriptive
With Full Band, Crowds, Australian Calls, and all Effects of
Departure and Arrival. Introducing Chorus by Soldiers, “Australia
Will Be There”
The Most Wonderful Record ever published, being true to life in every
detail, and performed by Australians for Australians.
These Records are now on sale, and if your Dealer cannot supply,
please write to any of the undermentioned firms: —
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.YV. —Grafonola, Ltd., Baking House, Rawson Place. A
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Svvanston St,
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —VV. Cornell and Sons, Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —11. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
Regal Records—British-made.


ACTRESS TELLS SECRET
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Harkened Her Grey Hair and
Promoted Its Growth With a
Simple, Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
.preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview made the following state-
ment: “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of Bay Rum, a small box of Orlex Compound
and :}oz. of glycerine. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until it:
becomes the required shade. This will make
a grey-haired person look 20 years younger.
It is also fine to promote the growth of hair,
relieves itching and scalp humors*, and is
excellent for dandruff and falling hair.”* [1
Martin’s Pills are sold by \V. H. Soul.
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them!
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin. Chemist. Southampton.*
•FOUNDED-1888-
PHILLIPS - ORMONDE&O
C ° / I?JJ / r nS L^y ,ncen ' s '
one/ 7rr2cte/-7os*A /?pcr>A3 • I7QUEEN S T
MELBOURNE
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS
MADAPOLAMS and DRILLS
Have a guarantee if they will see HORROCKSES’
name on Selvedge that they are getting the very
best that the Old Country produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Diapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS.
3
Treat your
hair kindly
You desire fine, beautiful hair.
Therefore you must treat it
kindly— nourish it, preserve it,
care for it by regularly using
ROWLAND'S
MACASSAR
OIL
“ For Your Hair.”
This preparation has been used for over
120 years—it has proved its value time
and time again. Do not try experi-
mental remedies on your hair—get a
bottle of Howland’s Macassar Oil at
your chemist’s. Also sold in a Golden
colour for Fair or Grey Hair. Howland
& Son, 67, Hatton-garden, London, E.CJ.
“Rag”: I remember in the Westralian
Never-Never discovering a Derwent jackass’s nest in
a mulga tree. Another youth climbed for it while
1 flung sticks and stones to frighten the wild mother
bird away. As the climber reached the branch upon
which the nest was, the anguished missus swished
down, snapping so savagely and persistently at the
robber’s face that he could do nothing but whirl his
arms to keep her off. At last l flung a stone and she
dropped at mv feet. (Interval here while I kick
myself three times.) The chicks soon learnt to
look after themselves. At dawn they’d wake me
with harsh squawkings which nothing hut tucker
could stop. Their capacity was amazing. Each at
first ate its own weight in meat at a meal, and in
an hour or so would be ready for another picking.
We used to try to flick tiny gravel through the
cage without the jacks catching it, but they were
as quick as thought, and nothing bigger than a
pin’s head would escape them. If there was any-
thing they preferred to raw meat it was “dead"
wax vestas. They’d eat these by the snore and
scuffle for minutes together over one. They were
the most popular camp mates I ever knew...,. ~
“P.H.T.”: “J.A.W.'s” yarn (B. 17/6/’l5)
about driving sheep out of a paddock per motor-car
describes an easy job compared with yarding 20 or 30
horses from dead-timber country with a motor-cycle
for a mount. Two young Australians up Coota-
mundra (N.S.W.) way do that regularly. And I
myself have had a fly after a fox in a green-timber
paddock on a 6-h.p. cycle. I won’t swear I caught
him.
“Y.Z.”: Melbourne is never without its
crank. It has had a large variety in my time.
Sometimes there are two or three in action contem-
poraneously. so to speak; but there is always one
who stands out as the crank of the moment. Just
now he is a gentleman whose conspicuous weakness
is afternoon tea. Apparently he devotes his life to
the pursuit of afternoon tea. He stalks it to any one
of its seven hundred and twenty lairs within the
city limits, steals in with the velvet tread of the
practised hunter, and attacks it forthwith, go would
seem to he impressed with the idea that afternoon
tea is something dangerous and calling for repres-
sive measures. He growls at it once it is within
his power. He takes seed-eake with his tea. Seed-
cake is equally obstreperous. To hear him snarling
over his seed-cake you would think a gouty tiger
had just taken its prey. With the milk and the hot
water he has bitter disputations. He stabs bis tea
with the spoon as if inflicting mortal injuries, and
every now and then he raises the lid of the pot, and
peers in. He is very cautious about it—lie knows
what tea is. At the smallest sign of its flying out
at him he snaps the lid, and holds it down with two
hands. “Would you?” he says. “Oh, no you don’t!
Oh, no, no, no, you don’t!” He talks all the time
to the tea, or the milk, or the hot water, or the
seed-cake. They’re all in it—he suspects the lot.
The other day he fell out publicly with the butter.
It was only a small globule, pale and perfectly still.
Cut lie resented its inaction ; he suspected it of
hiding something from him. Its ominous silence
implied pro-German sympathies, perhaps. So he
heaped insults upon it, spoken in a fierce whisper,
with an intensity worthy of much stronger butter.
Then finding it deaf to reason in an uncontrollable
burst of feeling he jabbed his fork into its vitals and
flung it from him. Then commenced a hunt. He
looked in everything on the table, then under the
table. He felt his pockets, and looked in his purse.
He pursued the quest on his knees till he came to
my boots. He regarded me sternly. “No equivoca-
tion,” he said. “Have you met my butter? Ah-ali!”
said he, and pouncing on a globule on my plate put
it in his watch pocket.
THE VAGUENESS OF HIM!
"Woman, I hare heard of your past!”
“Have you — which one?”
"VVodji’ ; During the construction of the
Westralian rabbit fence instructions were issued that
rabbit-pits were to be put in every five miles at right
angles to the fence. About a week later one old
ganger stopped an inspector, and scratching his head
in a puzzled sort of manner, said: “These instruc-
tions aie wrong, Oi think. Oi ve been 50 moiles
along HP flues', an’ divil a roiglit-angle can Oi f'oind
at ail !”
A DEADLOCK.
ACCOUNTANT: “Settled with Flceecm for eondnetiny that law-ease for you last year?”
MEDICO: “No. not yet. I operated on him for appendicitis, and I want to know what his
hill is before I make out mine. And he's eridently waiting for mine.”
“Lon": Tommy Silver, the last king of
the Savanah tribe (Western Q.), owned an oval-
shaped brass plate with “Tommy Silver, King of
Savanah,” painted on it in inch-and-a-half black
letters. It was about half the size of a Bulletin
page, and hung suspended from his neck by a brass
chain. I noted that lie wore it only on coach, days
or some such special occasion. Not 30 years ago
there must have been at least a dozen “kings” in
Australia with similar insignia. Lately I’ve neither
seen nor heard of one. Have the monarchs with the
signboards all gone?
* * * *
“L.L.W.” : The broom of timber and rope
which is being used on the Richmond (N.S.W.) by
local steamer-owners to clear the hyacinth pest is a
futility; but it pleases the said
steamer-owners, who are hand-
somely subsidised by a fool-Govt.
for the circus. At Woodburn
steam ferry there is an eddy on
the south approach which often
piles the curse a solid 10ft. deep
against the shore. Each time the
ferry bumps it the mass becomes
firmer until it can bear the weight
of carts and horses, which are
driven over the stuff to reach the
boat. In a creek near Woodburn
the children walk across the green
carpet on their way to school,
where formerly they had to cross
in boats. Dogs often hunt red-
bills straight across Swan Bay,
which is choked with the weed.
A year or two ago I saw a photo-
graph of ocean-going steamers im-
movably wedged by a. species of hya-
cinth in one of the American riv-
ers. Those boats hadn’t budged
for several months, and were
likely to stay as long again.
Well, similar photographs are
going to be taken on the Rich-
mond before many more years have
passed. By the bye, why won't
the water oevil flourish on the Clarence?
“Viking" : “Pick's” swaggie who ridded
the Monaro of a cunning dingo slut (B. 24/6/’l5)
will make a comfortable living if he humps Matilda
along- the Cainvsr hinterland, as the beasts are making
their presence unpleasantly felt throughout the
region. So acute has the pest become that in and
around Gooburrum it is not safe’ to leave cattle
under a year old lying around unprotected. Inci-
dentally, I wonder if “Pick’s” sundowner is re-
lated to one who happened along at Ballina (N.S.W.)
a decade ago. A dingo had caused trouble on our
C.P. allotment and defied our efforts at assassination.
A swaginan who borrowed some tucker and tobacco
left a suggestion which was followed out. We
mounted a 12-gauge shot-gun in the fowl-house and
connected the trigger with a. shingle covered with
soil. the dingo was to oblige us by entering a
nice opening, when his weight was to do the trick.
Next dawn we went for the dingo’s scalp. It wasn't
there. The opening had been carefully avoided and
another hole dug further along, and six hens had
either disappeared altogether or what was left wasn’t
sufficient for egg-laying purposes.
*.* * . *
lt,ss : A lot of people look upon dairy-
ing as slavery, but there are worse jobs. I have
been on a dairy farm and on a corn plantation, and
if I had to choose between the two 1 would rather
milk Strawberry and feed Poddy. I spent much of
my schooldays on the other sort of farm, and in
winter, when the corn was ripening, had often to get
a hurry on my shivering limbs at dawn to frighten
away cockatoos and parrots. The : frpst crackled
underfoot, the corn leaves and weeds shed icy drops
at every touch, and as the pests had to be followed,
and took a lot of chasing when hungry, it was half-
frozen misery that returned to breakfast. There
was no time to sit over the Are, for I had to walk
far to school over wet melon-hole flats, covered with
long grass. I was only one of a score who went
through this five days a week. Some of them were
barefooted, and were often drenched to .the skin
during the early-morning cockatoo hunt. And when
we returned from school in the dusk it was only
to husk corn all the evening.
Pick” : In order that the Royal Society
may not he deceived by “A. Nehoe” (B. 24/6/’15),
I am impelled to say that no fish is possessed of voeal
■ organs. The sounds emitted by certain of them are
simply due to the ejection of air from the gills, or,
as with leather-jackets and granny-sharks, the grating
of the teeth. The Murrumbidgee bream and the por-
cupine fish are grunters, the former because he ejects
air when landed, and the latter because under similar
disagreeable circumstances he sucks air in until he's
inflated like a Soccer football. Tn tin’s condition of
rigidity his spines prong threateningly forth, and
then only fools and dogs shake hands with him.
Fresh-water mullet at times float up an unexplainable
‘■(•luck,” like the drawing of a cork, from the depths
of the pools. Anglers know by the sound that a
banquet is on down below, and that is the time to
drop in their worms.
THE BUTTER IDOL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With blitter one-and-six a pound
The Cow we venerated :
Her praise we chanted all around
M ith zeal that never bated.
Hut when it flew to one-and-nine,
That product born of cream,
What worship then, O Cow, was thine
By ev’ry coastal stream !
It soared again to shillings twain—
The public ’gan to shudder;
But we prepared to" build a fane
To Daisy's golden udder.
IVith finest hay, ’tis clear, I hope,
The beauty: must be fed ;
Her teats be washed with scented soap,
And perfumes dew her head ;
And should it chance that half a crown
Be yet her butter’s worth,
By fell and field, bv vale and town,
She'll boss the blooming earth.
QUEENSLAND.
MICHAEL O'MARGARINE.
“Eddyson”: “Wanst in a way I’ve med
mention iv Paddy Mann,” said Flynn, “him was the
son iv Patsy, a divil iv a b’y risin’ nine whin the
Stlirollin’ Hogans come t’ Ryan’s Gap wid their
thriminjis rippvtwa iv dthramas. First, the Hogans
prisint ‘His Unlawful Wife’ wid mod’ratei success,
’n’ then they perjooced the play iv a century, ‘The
Light iv Her Life.’ Be rayson iv somethin’ havin'
happened the soobvet played the suff’rin’ shmall b’y
orthinary, Patsv Mann was approached t’ lave
Paddy study the par-rt. Sez the fat Hogan: ‘ ’Tis
our utmost indeavor,’ sez he, ‘to incourage local
talent ez we go along,’ sez he, ‘ ’n’ frim what I’ve
seen iv yer shweet b’y,’ he sez, ‘he is destined t’
become a shinin’ light iv the Austhralian stage,’ sez
he, fer a fine, tall, palaverin’, smoodgin’, fat devil
was the same Hogan. Well, ’twas agreed, n’
mesilf wint wid the rest t’ see Paddy Mann play
Willie Mullholland., his mother’s j’y. This Paddy
Mann is a rampageous natural bla’guar-rd, wan
Mr-rd t’ hold, ’n’ eonthrarv be nature, ez pleasin’
’n’ pugnacious a young scoundrel ez yi'd wish t’ be
blessed wid. In the part iv Little Willie he have
nothin’ much t" do or say, but ’tis his call t’ look
pale ’n’ consmnptif in a white shimmy, ’n’ die
becomin’ on the hands iv his mother, a lone widdy,
be ha’f-past nine. I have me own misg'ivin’s wid
regard'd t’ the same Paddy Mann, ’n’ be the time
the dear b’y’s bin on the boa.r-rds five min-utes me
doubts is justified. They tows Willie Mullholland,
the dyin’ child, on et a quarther t’ nine, aftlier a
dale iv talk consumin' his disthressin' ailmint, V
the angel nature iv him, ’n’ the love he have his
mother; ’n’ the way the poor woman’s hear-rt is
brealcin’ -becaze iv the cough he have, ’n’ him fadin'
like a flower would squeeze tears frim red-gum
butts, ’twoulcl thut. I’m cryin’ mesilf tin minutes,
bearin’ iv the lovin’, pritty sayin’s iv the swate
child, when Willie appears. Willie’s most reluc-
tant ; he have the sullen expression unther the waste
iv flour dthredged on him t’ give him the outward
aspect iv a sick child. The aspect’s there more ’r
less, but the demeanor is missin’. Paddy is in a
long', white shirt wid a frill to ut, ■ ’n’ is mortal
ashamed to be seen in the faine* ’n’ when the sufferin’
mother dthraw him to her chest, ‘n’ murmur, yi "1 [
hear him mutterin’ wid disgust. ‘Och, git out!’ sez
he. ‘Lave me alone, will yeh?’ he sez. Then they
put Willie in his little white; bed, Tv the good,
kind docthor, which is the fat Hogan, comes ’n'
holds his hand, TT. sez he: ‘Yer little Willie will be'
an angel soon.” There’s soft talk till Willie can
bear no more, V he fights his way up, ’n’ sez he:
‘Gerrout!’ he sez, ‘I’m full up wid yer nonsinse, TT
all me IplgdsT-siftin’ out there makin’ guy uv me.’
They sniothers Little Willie wid a : TT holds
him down, ’n’ there’s more ’n’ more soft talkin', TT
manny tears, Paddy' flghtin’ fer breath all the while,
lie is quieted sufficient t’ say his ! speech, ‘Mummy,
I'll mate you wid the angels!’ ’N’ there's an
answerin' wail iv anguish frim the gal’ry, a. long-
dthrawn, comic howl it is, ’n’ a v’ice iv anguish sez:
‘Oh, Paddy Mann, git on wid yer dyin’. Ye’re too
sbwate t’ live.’ This is too much fer Paddy, TV
fer ha’f a min-ute the dyin’ child is flghtin’ wid
his ma, TV the kind docthor, ’n’ the sorrowin’
famTv, ’n’ he gets his head up above the welter, TT
sez he : ‘I know yeh. Phinny Dovle, yeh scut l‘ he
sez, ‘ TV whin me dyin’s done, I’ll come TT bate
yeh,’ sez he. They got Little Willie at list agin,
him near dead, TV the good, fat docthor almost
sit on him t’ kape him down. In Act III. Little
Willie is dead enough on his little white bed, TT
-Ms hear-rt-broken mamma is . pushi iT a han’kercher
.to her left eye over the cor-rpse, almost prostrit wid
grief, ’n’ the fat docthor j's boldin' her other hand
acrosst the body, TT quotin’ Scripture, TT pratin’ iv
the shwate dead b’y t’ comfort her, when Tophet TT
a dog-show breaks loose in the gall’ry, ’n’ there's
cries, ’n’ thumpin’, ’n’ cursin’ aloud. ‘Poke mud
et me, ’n’ me an acthor, will yeh, Phinny Doyle?’
yells wan. ‘Take that, yeh shnake iv the wor-rld,
TV thut, too!’ Then the fighters is locked ’n’
tumblin all over the place, n' the play is stopped,
TV the aujince is laughin’ fit t’ shplit, TV well ut
may, for up there in the gallery, flightin' wild wid
Phinny Doyle, is Willie -Mullholland, the dead b'y
they’re supposed t’ be condolin’ over on the stage.
Yeh see they’d not thrust Paddy Mann t' play the
cor-rpse, TV so put a dummy in the bed the while
Paddy is seekin’ t' avenge himsilf TV lavin' fer
Phinny. ’Tis the end of. Paddy Mann as an actor,
TV the end of the Hogans, too, et. Ryan’s, fer. they’re
unaccountably missin’ in the mornin .”


m
...
. ,
w
m
■
:-• . ■
m
I. 1
IV
lip ,
»Jll
■ \
Wm
:
a a
1 s
Hi
I
.
1
■
ymm
. m
V-
|gif§|i
■
: wvWMi
Iks
% -
Ik
v ■
i\ v wmMwSmm '■
M
* » ■■ :
VVm\W*
-. I ■
V • >\i
'
OAW?
% \ II
m > W". « \f% %?%
uonopai l/o
Pr 'ime-Minister
iq Union Forces
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
THE above reproduced portrait drawing; of General Botha, Prime Minister of South Africa,
is the seventh of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History.
The series, specially drawn for us by W. Jardine, have been reproduced on the finest
art paper, and retain the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, being
entirely free from advertising, are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward the complete
set to any address in Australia and New Zealand on receipt of 6d. in postage stamps to cover
cost of mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
S
W
I
M
[
N
c
3
o


Why Sore Throat is so Prevalent
THESE three striking illustrations
reveal at once the reason why
Sore Throat, in all its varied,
painful and depressing forms, including
Tonsilitis, is so common a complaint;
how it may be readily cured, on the one
hand, and effectually prevented on the
other.
Sore Throat and Tonsilitis, with
other infectious diseases, like Diph-
theria, Scarlet Fever, Measles, Mumps,
Whooping-cough and Consumption, are
due to germs. These float in the air,
settle and develop in the throat. In
vigorous health they are destroyed by
the blood. If, however, the individual
is below par the blood is not able to
contend against the rapidity with which
the germs multiply, and he gets the
disease whose germs he has inhaled.
During the winter disease-germs are
particularly prevalent, for the weather
conditions are then most favorable to
their growth. People with Sore Throat
and Tonsilitis, those sickening for the
diseases already mentioned, and con-
valescents from them, are constantly
passing through the streets, and going
to theatres, music-halls, concerts and
other public gatherings. Not only do
they exhale germs which infect the air,
but they carry a great deal of dust with
them. The dust particles, like the
sooty particles in fogs, act as rafts to
float the germs into the throat.
It is obvious, therefore, that these
germs must be destroyed to prevent
them destroying us.
Their enormous number is suggested
by Figs. 1 and 2.
Fig. 1 represents a microscope plate
which was exposed for a short time to
the air and afterwards kept for two
1.
Fig. 1. How air germs develop in two days.
Fig. 2. How dust germs develop in two days.
Fig. 3. How Formamint prevents any development of air and dust germs.
days at the temperature of the human
body. The white dots represent the
growth of colonies of germs, seen under
the microscope. Each dot contains
thousands of germs.
Fig. 2 is a similar plate exposed to
fine dust and treated in the same way.
The colonies of germs carried by it are
seen as the white patches on the plate,
the blurred and fainter markings being
the particles of dust themselves.
Fig. 3 is a similarly-exposed plate
which was previously disinfected with
saliva containing Formamint, the pleas-
ant-tasting throat tablet which a phy-
sician, writing in one of the leading
medical periodicals, recently declared
was “Unquestionably the germ-de-
stroyer of the age.” The power of
Formamint Tablets is adequately proved
by the fact that neither from the air
nor from the dust were any germs able
to develop. In other words, Forma-
mint completely killed all the germs.
It is therefore, a trustworthy cure for
Sore Throat, and a complete preventive
of diseases whose germs multiply in the
throat.
The highest medical testimony en-
dorses these statements of the efficacy
of the preparation. The Chief Medical
Officer of one of our largest Infectious
Diseases’ Hospitals states in one of the
leading medical journals, “I have never
had Sore Throat myself since I began
to use Formamint Tablets, although I
suffered periodically before.”
Another physician writes in the
Practitioner: “Having tried all the
British Pharmacopoeia lozenges, and
most' of the well-known proprietary
antiseptic lozenges, I have become re-
duced to one, and one only (for sore
throat), namely, Formamint.” Over
ten thousand doctors have have also
written describing the remarkable
results they have obtained in curing the
various forms of Sore Throat and Ton-
silitis, and preventing the diseases men-
tioned above, by Formamint Tablets.
Of all Chemists, price 2/6 per bottle.
All imitations of Formamint are
worthless. Insist on having genuine
Formamint.
Prove its value for yourself by writ-
ing to-day for a Free Sample to The
Formamint Co., 17 Bond Street, Syd-
ney, N.S.W., mentioning The
Bulletin and enclosing two penny
stamps towards postage. An inter-
esting and instructive Booklet will also
be sent, which contains vital informa-
tion to all who suffer with their throats.
Formamint is Entirely British-Made.
The Inky Way.
Penpusher having sniffed gunpowder and
hearkened to some of the assorted shrieks
from the organ he worked on, dashed up to
the recruiting office. Then he came back,
announced that he was off to the fray, and
suggested leave of absence. The boss said
he would have to consider it. “Good Lord !”
said the staggered warrior. “You don’t
mean to say you’d shut down on me if I
came back?” But Penpusher could get no
guarantee. Then he tried a higher power—
the supreme authority. After being worried
at great length it wrote to say Penpusher
could have extended leave —if he strictly
understood that this included no money.
The great organ still peals out every day
that it is the patriotic duty of every young
Australian to sever himself from his job and
bolt off with a bayonet.
The Daily Citizen, the official organ of
the British Labor movement, has caved in
after a vigorous career of two years and a
half. It hopes to resurrect by-and-bye ; : and
meanwhile its staff' is going to try to; earn
tucker with a weekly to be called the Inde-
pendent. For the first four months the
Citizen’s circulation was about 130,000;
then it began to rise steadily until it
mounted to upwards of 200,000. But: —
Our revenue from advertisements was very much
less than it would have been had we not been a
Labor journal.
Then, when the paper was already very near
the rocks, Bill set the world ablaze; and
“extra expenses and lessening revenue pro-
duced a state of affairs under which it was
impossible to continue.”
“Tussock”: Maoriland has ambitions
about a “Gift Book” of its own. Whitcombe
and Tombs are asking for contributions
from Maorilanders towards a volume to be
published by them for the fund for the sick
and wounded soldiers of the Dominion. The
title is to be “The Countess of Liverpool’s
Gift Book.” How redolent of the Domi-
nion! Who is the Countess of Liverpool?
It looks as if she might be the wife of the
present Governor. But Governors and
their wives come and go—and leave no mark
upon the life of the community they fleet-
ingly board with. Melba’s Gift Book
honors Australia’s best-known woman, an
artist and a good Australian. Hasn’t the
Dominion any woman of note? If it
hasn’t, why not “The Maoriland Gift Book”?
“Quarter Single”: J. A. Raws, of the
Argus staff, who has turned in to the ranks
as a private, has a brother, Lieutenant 11.
G. Raws, already at the Front. Another
brother, W. L., is a Lieutenant-Colonel in
the South Aus. forces. The father is a
well-known clergyman. Strange how many
of these men of peace breed sons for the
fighting line !
“Revilo”: Down at Westland (M.L.) the
skirt controls a printing lever. She is a
widow with two children, and took the
paper over from her aged father. Since
July last year she has not employed assist-
ance. She sets the paper, makes it up. does
the jobbing and works the press. Years
ago in the same land o’ rain the Atkin girls
ran the old Lyell Times and the Kitson
ladies handled the Charleston Herald.
Two Dutch cocoa firms have “cut” their
winter advertising campaign in Australia.
Alleged reason —short supplies. Real reason
-—Germany a better market?
Bro. Abdul Itazzaq, merchant, Cawnpore,
posted The Bulletin liis new calendar “on
gratis” recently, with the following instruc-
tions on the label:—
Please deliver to any of the Raja, Nawab, F. Chief,
State Heir apparent Raj-Coomar, Prince, P. Secy,
State Admtr., Dewan, Minister, Taluqdar, Amir, Rais,
Zamindar, Hony. Magte, Lawyer, Attorney, M. Comrs.,
Upper & Lower Sundt., Judl. & Rev., Tahsil, Police,
Municipality, Distt. Board, Forests, Survey & Survey
Settle., Agricl., T. Garden, Canal, Educational, Jail,
Salt, Excise, Custom, Post & Tele., Octroi Deptt.,
Court-of-Wards, Audit Office, Finance, Inspr. Thaugyi
& Dacoity, P. Training School, College & School Mas-
ter, Librarian, Military & Arsenal, Bankers, Treasurer,
N. Doctor, Hakim, Baid, Vaccinators, lianoongo, Pat-
wari, Overseer, Draftman, Clerk, Poundkeeper, Store-
keeper, Rly. Work-shop, Engine-shed, St. Master,
Factory, Mills, Merchants, Contractors, Timber Mer-
chants, Shop-keepers, Coffee-shop, Tailoring shop,
Hotel-keeper, Dak-Bunglow, Khansama, Molvi, M. M.
Registrar, Paish-Imam, Pundit, House-owner, Land-
lord, etc.
“Inspr Thaugyi & Dacoity” can have it on
application.
* ' *- *
The Victoria district of the A.J.A. is
about to retire from its camp-oven in
Empire-buildings and take a first-floor flat
in Swanston-street. The new location will
be at Columbia-buildings, handy to each of
the three dailies, opposite St. Raul’s Cathe-
dral, and just over the way from the
Cathedral Hotel. As soon as funds permit
the place will be decorated with an after-
noon-tea bar and bun-fountain. At present
the carpets are being put in position.
* * * *
The Inky Way does not often get the lime-
light turned on it at a funeral, but it hap-
pened when Archbishop O’Reily was buried
in Adelaide. His successor, Archbishop
Spence, “thought it necessary to say a few
words of gratitude to the editors and all
others, concerned with the newspapers, for
the kindly, sympathetic and full-hearted
manner in which they had not only dealt
with the Archibishop during his lifetime, but
also for the splendid sentiments they had
given utterance to since his death.” And he
went on to talk of the late prelate’s affection
for the reporters, and reckoned there must
be something very attractive about a pro-
fession which could so hold a man’s friend-
ship for so long after he had left it.
* * * *
“Quarter Single”: “When they march
through the streets of the city with proud
and victorious tread, the Editor, Printer
and Devil shall travel not far from the head.”
As he wrote those lines Will Carleton’s pro-
phetic eye evidently saw the rally of Mel-
bourne pressmen for the march into Con-
stantinople. Those who have so far en-
listed are R. A. Lowry, A. N. Ussher. L. G.
Short, C. N. Macaw, J. A. Raws, E. N.
Robinson (Argus) ; L. St. C. Grondona, I.
T. Birtwistle, W. F. Kensitt (Age) ; George
Lee, W. H. Phipps (Herald) ; and F.
Coffee (Sydney Sun). Ussher has been
wounded, and Macaw is reported wounded
and missing. In addition to these are the
war correspondents, P. Schuler (Age) and
C. P. Smith (Argus), who are watching the
battle from afar.
THE VICTORY OF LITTLE REEDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You plucked large reeds to make a pipe,
I one small reed to make a pen;
The harvests of the world were ripe,
Your tune seemed sweet to elder men.
I could not blow the pipes so well,
My music faltered lame and flat,
But that fine word my pen could tell
Remained for kings to wonder at.
The wine cup circled at the feast,
The war-lords drank in splendid state,
The treasures of the West and East,
Spear-won,' -were piled beside the gate ;
And you, your lips against the reed,
Blew notes that filled the great with pride;
You magnified the soldier’s deed
Before the blood of battle dried.
They heaped their honors on your name,
They cast you gold for your reward ;
The mounting splendors of your fame
Were theme for every lesser bard.
The wind about your singing dress
Breathed warm through all your tuneful day,
Then lightly, as for wantonness,
Blew fame and music both away.
I on the dry papyrus leaf
With sign and symbol wrote my song—
The simple word of human grief,
And love that over grief was strong.
None heard my lay, none praised my toil;
I languished in the scorn of men,
Straining the gourd for midnight oil
To light the labor of my pen.
No king had ever heard my name,
No conqueror cast me smile or gold ;
I recked not of the breath of fame,
But taught black ink my dreams to hold.
My life was full. The world went on.
I felt its great heart throb and beat.
And when the large reed songs were gone,
My small reed writing stood complete.
With you who piped the reedy song
I passed away to silent death ;
And then the new years, hale and strong,
Filled my cold ink with pulse and breath.
The new kings read the thing I wrote,
New conquerors gave me place of pride ;
Ten thousand pilgrims came to note
The dust in which I lived and died.
And still the large reeds fill with sound,
And still the small reeds toil with thought;
And as the ripening years go round
New dreams are from my dreamings caught.
Above the tombs of passing kings,
Above the rout of conquering spears
My reed-spilt ink forever sings
Its music in the world’s wide ears.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
RAPTURES AND ADS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A new compromise between the “Various Verse
poet and the advertisers who march to right and left
of him. Company !—For-rm Fours!.... Right
tur-rn !....Quick — March! Left! — Left. Left.
Left!....
She looked on me with pitying eyes,
And stars rained out of Heaven ;
The roses in the dark were wise ;
The lilies numbered seven.
BEETLECRACK’S BOOTS ARE BEST!
Buy a Pair and Give your Feet a Holiday.
They Need It!
The lady took me by the hand ;
The wind fled on before us,
And, like far drums upon the sand,
We heard the night-waves’ chorus.
HOWLER’S SCREECHOPHONES.
They make the Home less like a Tomb.
Only £3O.
“I saw a Shade, a threat’ning Shade!”
I heard her whisper faintly.
The moonbeams on her young face played ;
She looked aloof and saintly.
Why Walk Lame when You Can Get
BOODLE’S CORN-PLASTERS for a Shilling?
Any Chemist.
Then, with an organ-note, the gale
Its charge to battle sounded ;
By wave and arrow-flights of hail,
Through darkness we were hounded.
To Get Rid of Those Dreadful Headaches.
Have Your Eyes Tested.
FIZZLE is the Best Man.
257 Blink Street.
A tiger with two eyes of gold
Came from a cave’s recesses,
And, stricken, on the damp marge rolled.
She sobbed amid wet tresses.
YELL’S OINTMENT Will Heal Anything.
Put up in Kegs at 6d. and Is.
You Can’t Do Without It.
(Special section for one-line yelps.)
I left her sobbing on the sands,
Why Not Wear One of Toot’s Cork Legs?
The tiger slowly dying ;
Stringler’s Stain for the Hair and Beard.
She held dead roses in her hands ;
Wirewind's Funeral Bouquets Keep Fresh.
A cold dawn wind was sighing.
THIS BEAUTIFUL POEM WAS WRITTEN
WITH SMEAR’S INK.
(Company —Halt t)
N.S.W.
KODAK.


m
*
cj.
w
0
HE steady rise in sales of these beautiful instruments proves
their unsurpassed quality. The rapid increase in the sales
of the more expensive models
—uprights, grands and player-
pianos —is significant and eloquent
of the growing appreciation of the
discriminating musical class, who
demand superlative quality of tone,
tasteful appearance and undoubted
durability.
Beale Pianos are entirely British.
They are manufactured in the
largest and most comprehensive
piano factory in the British Empire,
and have achieved their position in
the forefront with the worlds best
makes despite the most unscrupu-
lous, clever and bitter German com-
petition.
Your personal comparison of the
Beale Australian Piano with im-
ported pianos is sought by us.
One of our most popular models.
Code Name:—Melochord, 4ft. sin. high,
PRICE, £B6.
Mr. Octavius C. Beale,
founder and present con=
trolling Director of this busi=
ness, was born at Mount
Mellick, Queen’s County,
Ireland, of an old Irish
family. The Directors and
Managers throughout the
business are all descendants
of British families for many
generations. There are no
Germans employed in the
business,and no supplies are
obtained from Germany.
Head Office & Factories: Trafalgar & Nelson Streets, Annandale, Sydney, N.S.W.
Showrooms: 136 Liverpool Street, Sydney
George Street, Bathurst
Fitzmaurice Street, Wagga
273 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vi
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane
Flinders Street, Townsville
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Argent Street, Broken Hill
Summer Street, Orange
Lismore
Kent Street, Maryborough, Q’land
William Street, Rockhampton
Sydney Street, Mackay
Cairns, Q’land.


4-Cup Egg_ Frame and
Spoons, purfe Silver-plated, em-
bossed border,,: gilt-lined Cups and
Spoons, 27 /6,
Honey Jar and Spoon, pure
Silver-plated, richly burnished
Frame, Cut Crystal Glass, 12/6.
Teapot, pure Silver-plated, hand engraved
and fluted, 32/0.
Sugar Scuttle and Scoop,
pure Silver-plated, “Thistle”
design, 25 /-
fm
b&h&bb
\ut Dish, pure Silver-plated,
pierced design, complete with two
pairs Nut Cracks, 30/-
"Butter Dish, p'.ire Silver-plated, white
glass lining, complete with Lid and Knife,
20/-
Specimen
Tube, pure
Silver-plated
Nickel Silver,
gilt lined.
richly
burnished,
5/6.
AfterilOOll Tea Stand, comprising handsome Floral China Dish,
Sugar Basin, Cream Jug, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished, gilt
lined, 25/-
Specimen
Tube, pure
Silver-plated,
on Nickel Sil-
ver, gilt lined,
richly
burnished,
5/6.
Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, hand-
somely engraved, £2/10/-
hf
hf
hf
Presentation Folding Biscuit Box, pure
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, hand-tinted ‘"Shell’*
design, £5/12/6.
Cake Basket, pure Silver-
plated White Metal, handsomely
embossed, 25 /•
Serviette King,
pure Silver-plated, en-
graved and embossed,
4/0.
m
m
m
Luncheon Cruet, pure Sil-
ver-plated, Nickel Silver, Out
Crj'stal Bottles, 25/-
Oak Biscuit Barrel, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, richly burnished, with
Porcelain Lining', 30/-
807-817 George Street,
A. SAUNDERS 9 Opp. Railway Station, Sydney
A Powerful Magnifier.
#
TMEFINDER
& P.CRtENntLD
BRISBANE
To examine any object no
matter how small or what it
is use a “FINDER.” With it
you can see minute details
distinctly which without its
aid. would be absolutely in-
visible.
The “FINDER” Magnifier is
a valuable aid to Mining men,
Botanists and others.
The "FINDER" MAGNIFIER, 7/6
Post
Free
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO, LTD.,
189=191 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WOY, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR. COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2 9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., L'rn., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them by post or from
\l L Cl 1 1C MISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removesthe effects of Sunsco/ch
E)
4
IDEAL COUNTRY L!CHI s
n“«'"C“ H °“" £l6/17/6
No machinery, weights or derricks.
No possible chance of explosion.
500 candle-power light >£d. per hour.
The QLORIA Is the Cheapest Light in Installation and
Maintenance.
No condensation.
No smell.
No danger.
FREE TRIAL GIVEN
Write for Particulars and Catalogue to
Gloria Chambers, 155 a Clarence St., Sydney;
And 151 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
G=li
VERY NICE GRAVY
is made from the direc-
tions on the Bisto tin.
You don’t need flour,
salt or browning and
Bisto mixes much more
easily than flour.
JJIST°
makes
the simplest fare
most appetising.
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by CEREBOS, LTD.
Stewart
Light
Delivery
Motor Van
Solves the Parcel Delivery Problem
TEWART Light. Delivery Van means much to the merchant and tradesman
Prompt and better service.
Lower delivery service costs.
your times more delivery mileage.
Access to more customers.
One Stewart will do the work of three or four horse-waggons. It means an efficient delivery service at
all seasons of the year. The Stewart is simple to drive and take care of—is handsome, reflecting good taste
and “quality”—costs far less per mile than ordinary touring car —carries extra loads with ease. Petrol
consumption is low; automatic lubrication for motor; has long working life. Pays for itself several times
over.
Built in one chassis size, of 15001 b., to which our entire energy and accumulated experience have been
devoted.
Used in no less than 8 5 different kinds of business, by many of the foremost firms in the world.
IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT GUARANTEED.
Write for catalogues and full information. Special
care taken in assembling and packing for export.
Dealers are invited to write for Special Informa-
tion. Representatives wanted in Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart (Tasmania).
Stewart Motor Corporation
Buffalo, New York, U.S.A. <
Terms, F. 0.8. New York. Cable Address : STEWART, Buffalo .
h


Children Going to School
are very liable to catch cold. They have to go in all weathers —
often having to sit in school with wet feet. Apart from this, they
are always face to face with the risk from infection—especially
when Epidemics of Whooping Cough, Measles, Diphtheria, In-
fluenza, &c, are about. Mothers of school boys and girls, how-
ever, can be always free of anxiety IF they have a bottle of
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
in the house, as one dose of this medicine at the first
indication of a “Cold” will at once “nip in the bud”
what might otherwise prove to be a serious illness.
Cork the bottle up; the rest will keep.
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST
The REMEDY with the REPUTATION
Price
2/6
and
4/6
The BEST is the
CHEAPEST in
the long run.
iw
-vL>^
n
Si
'*T;.
b-
sr/ii
5f
m
0%
&
S
h
S?
T Ls
r/,\
%
\se
r/-'
1
>is
1
i
\
c
&
S 3
E
X*
27:
*
I 2CU' ttmcv_->Hmv- *
if ga«A maumifm»Mmm
Sold by all Reliable CHEMIb 1 o 2
and STORES.
If not obtainable in your District
send direct to
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.
GEFXONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices:
SYDNEY. N.S.W. WELLINGTON. N.Z.
Queensland may lead Australia in having
government by an elective Ministry. There
are now six distinct parties in the Assembly.
The Opposition is represented by 21 mem-
bers. The Farmers’ party numbers five, and
the Billy Murphy Independent party and
the Bebbing’on Independent Farmers’ party
each has a fighting force of one. Of course
there is the Labor party, and from that
quarter Murphy may not have to wait long
for reinforcements When there are 20 sep-
s
tryins a "
Interesting item from the just-published
report of the Footscray (Vic.) Friendly
Societies’ Dispensary :
So far we have been able to dispense any prescrip-
tion ordered ; hut with the possibility and probability
of a complete stoppage in the near future, the head
dispenser recently interviewed the doctors, and placed
before them our position in regard to the scarcity
of certain drugs of foreign make.
The idea that Australians could manufac-
ture drugs is of course so blankly absurd,
The Hun does these things much more
efficiently. Heaven knows why we are kill-
ing him ! If he thinks himself the salt of
the earth, the superman, how much of the
blame for it rests with ourselves for depend-
ing on him for the brains while we supplied
the mere brawn?
“Milo” reports that Julius Caesar marches
south as well as north: —
The Italian population of the Herbert River (Q.) is
approximately 2000, and last season they had almost
a monopoly of the cane-cutting. They stand up foi
the award rates, it is true, but with the Britishers
they are not too popular, because they begin work
with the aid of hurricane-lamps and finish in the
same way. They live very poorly; and they don t
ask for a draw in the middle of a job in order to
get into town for a few days. Hanging on to every
possible penny, they are fast becoming owners of
farms on the Herbert. One of them buys the farm at
£l5 to £2O an acre and pays a deposit, and then
a number of his countrymen help with the balances
as they become due. The little village of Halifax
has already become Italianised. Of four public-
houses two are conducted by Italians, while boarding-
houses and refreshment-rooms are monopolised by
them. This season they have spread to the Johnstone,
the Mossrnan and the Mulgrave ; but they will return
to the Herbert at the close of the season. The tide
of this class of immigration has lately been stemmed
by Italy’s entry into the war; but, so far, none of
those here have been recalled. Few of the women
and girls engage in domestic employment. They
remain with their own people even to the extent of
working in the fields.
A terrific argument in favor of keeping
Australian White can be dug out of a new
South African novel, “A Daughter of Sin.”
It is written by Mary Martens, and dedi-
cated to “those women of Natal who have
suffered under an unjust, one-sided and most
iniquitous law.” To the S’African men the
idea of a white woman cohabiting with a
native is so horrible that a white woman is
actually liable to gaol for having a child by
a native. But, while gaol is thus prescribed
for the white woman, the white man may
misconduct himself without any legal conse-
quences whatever, though the other conse-
quence is precisely the same little hybrid in
either case. “If even justice were done, the
gaols of this country would be filled to over-
flowing.” this S’African woman-rebel says—
and no doubt says quite truly. From all of
which it is plain that, no matter how wide
the social gulf between the black and the
white, it can’t be wide enough to prevent
the mixed breed and the consequent deterior-
ation of the race.
How a hospital is made—the story of
Sergeant Deane, of the Quartermaster’s
staff, Ist Australian General Hospital,
Heliopolis:—
During the 24 hours of June 8 and 9 approximately
1100 patients were admitted, 500 following 24 hours
later. Our staff issued lime-juice, biscuits, pyjamas,
shirts, towels, mug, soup-bowl, plate, knife, fork and
spoon, socks, handkerchiefs and shoes to each man.
Late on the second day we got orders to convert a
machinery workshop into a 350-bed hospital, as fur-
ther large numbers of wounded were on the way.
This meant the supply of linen, blankets, stove,
hospital and cooking utensils, the erection of a
kitchen, special sewerag'e and ventilation arrange-
ments, instruments, drugs and bandages. The 350
beds were ready for occupation within 24 hours, and
the hospital was filled on the 10th by a fresh batch
of wounded. While this work was in progress, word
came that the house of a golf club had been
commandeered, and 200 beds were to be erected there
immediately. At 3.30 p.m. on the 9th I drank a
limejuiee at the club bar. The people then had no
idea of our intended occupation. At 6.30 p.m. the
first mattresses and beds were delivered, and the
making of the hospital commenced. It was fully
equipped and ready for occupation on the night of
the 10th. Our staff is for an establishment of 520
beds. The beds now available are 3500, and the
patients approximately 3000. Only one man failed
to stand the strain, and, as he was dropping asleep
at his work through sheer exhaustion, I sent him to
bed. We now control six hospital buildings and
two nurses’ homes in Heliopolis. In addition, we
have stocked and staffed two convalescent homes of
800 beds each —one at Alexandria and one at Ilelouan.
Instead of the original 520 beds we have actually
expanded to 5200.
By the way, Sergeant Deane had two games
of golf before the Club House was com-
mandeered. “The course was in the desert,”
he writes; “but a desert is not all flat. There
are stones of all sizes and colors. I know,
because I got behind every one of ’em.”


COUGHS ARE DANGEROUS.
USE TAR AND SUGAR TO GET QUICK
RELIEF.
Coughs and colds are dangerous because, if
neglected, they so frequently lead to more
serious complaints. Pneumonia, bronchitis
and lung trouble would he almost unknown if
coughs and colds were taken in hand in time.
To be sure of getting instant relief and to
prevent danger of your cough becoming deep-
seated you should always keep on hand a
supply of bitrate of tar cough syrup, which
can easily be made at home for a few pence
by dissolving half a pound of sugar in half a
pint of hot water and then adding 2oz. of
bitrate of tar. Stir thoroughly, pour into a
pint bottle, and when cool it is ready for use.
One or two teaspoonfuls of this simple, inex-
pensive home-made cough syrup taken every
hour or two will quicklv relieve the severest
cough or cold, loosen up the phlegm and clear
out the head in the most astonishing manner.
Tickling throat coughs may be stopped by
slowly dissolving in the mouth a lump of
sugar on which you have first put 15 to 20
drops of bitrate of tar. Be sure to ask your
chemist for the bitrate of tar, as this is the
only form containing the valuable remedial
agent found in the pine, wild cherry and
guaiacol, and is also very pleasant to the
taste.*
Overall, icCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Sanison Windmills,
Sheep and Cattle Troughlng, Pumps, &c.
Galvanised
Water Pipe and Fittings,
Send for Catalogue.
Our Guinea
:: Brooches ::
Are Solid, 15ct. Gold, set
with Choice Whole Pearls
or other Jewels.
The range of designs is
a large one.
The designs are unique,
absolutely new, and from
the latest approved in
England.
We make them in our
workshops. We finish them
exquisitely.
We receive the Pearls
direct from the fisheries.
Our Prices are less than
those of London.
6 Fine Whole Pearls, set
15ct, Gold, Choicely Cased
21/-
o rine Aquamarines or Whole
Pearls, set in 15et. Gold,
Choicely Cased, 21/-
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
FLAW FIGURES. CASK ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
HYGEIA
Shaving;
Stick.
In
Hygeia
oil-foam
hard
bristles
grow soft
Xox
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
In use since 1596.
CURES Write for Book
ft US ™LIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
o. uREENt 210, Lambeth Road, London, Hng,
Insist on Singleton j»* —refuse all substitutes*-
POLITICAL
POINTS
Bir George Doughty’s widow, formerly
“Tryphena” of The Bulletin, writes in
the Grimsby Telegraph as an Australian
on “Australian Gallantry” :
We had no doubt of ourselves. Even when we
started to build a navy and to create a soldier
citizenship we did it as a growing son starts his
career, to work out his own manhood and fashion
his own ends.
A lot of similar reminders of Australia’s
“soldier citizenship” will help to set many
towns besides Grimsby thinking hard.
Britain, which can’t be talked into a
national defence system, may at last be
shamed into it.
LOOKING UP HIS RELATIVES.
The probability of obtaining money from America
was mooted in the Senate to-day. Senator Russell
replied that he would bring the matter before the
Treasurer. —News item.
THE JACKASS (tentatively): “Good day,
Uncle.”
“D” : What a noisy collection of frauds the
members of the “Ulster Army” h.n'e proved
themselves to be. A year ago they were
understood to he thirsting for battle: there
were 120,000 of them armed, trained and
eager to burst up the Empire unless they had
their own way. It is now officially stated
that owing to the impossibility of filling up
the units of the 36th Division of Kitchener’s
New Army (the 36th being the “Ulster
Army” Division) the War Office is going to
allow it to be recruited with Irish Catholics.
Other unedifying intimations are that the
Ulster Division stands last on the list for
active service and that out of the 120,000
anti-Home Rule volunteers only li,ooo are
in khaki.
Irvine says that the States will have to
be content with less than the 255. per head
they get from the Commonwealth. Bigjohn
I orrest and Joe Cook are horrified, and won’t
’hink of such “repudiation.” It sounds
high-principled and all that; but suppose
the Act provided for the gift being made
for 100 instead of 10 years, and doubling
after the first seven years, would Bigjohn still
say the “contract” must be carried out? But
whatever the position of the Commonwealth
in the matter, that of the States is unequivo-
cal; There may be some sort of moral
obligation on the Commonwealth to offer the
2os. per head which it was mad enough to
undertake to pay for 10 years; there is no
obligation on the part of the States to hold
the Commonwealth to the payment. And if
the payment is irksome under the very
changed conditions, the Commonwealth—
which has all the war business in hand —
shouldn’t need to suggest to the States what
is the decent thing for the latter to do.
THE STATE OF THE STY.
A deputation of German bankers recently waited
on the Kaiser, and represented to him that the finan-
cial position was serious.
SPOKESMAN OF THE HOGS: “All Highest ,
there is very little left in the trough!”
A 70-poimder dropped into the quacks’ de-
partment the other day, when the Federal
Executive passed an order prohibiting the
importation of electric or magnetic belts, or
any belt alleged to produce therapeutic effects
by electricity or magnetism, and similar
money-saving devices. The good work
might be made better by prohibiting the
importation of State Governors, loans, small-
pox, bishops and tired feeling.
“Quill” puts it this way:—
Holman with difficulty got a hearing at the big
Red Cross meeting in Sydney Town Hall a month
ago, and would have been counted-out then had his
audience been composed of more vulgar elements.
The bulk of the people connected with Australia Day
were only restrained from yelling him down because
they feared that that would imperil the movement.
A politician with the odor of Holman’s record
about him cannot expect to obtain immunity from
the bray of disfavor when he takes the floor, no
matter for what purpose. The average Bill and Jim
see in him not a missionary of Empire, but an in-
dividual who- has shirked all his political obliga-
tions—who has proved himself to be “no sport”—
and it is not from his mouth that they will take
sermons on civic duty.
Talking of the Sulphide Corpora-
tion s proposal to take over the Cen-
tral Co.’s zinc works in England, and
extend them under some sort of Im-
perial guarantee, the Times says, accord-
ing to a cable, that the spelter business
never has been a success in that country,
owing to the laborious and skilful nature of
the operations. But it has been a success
in Germany, Belgium and the U.B.A. ; so it
seems that where skill and sustained effort
are concerned the Britisher is the inferior of
these ,other people. What Britain suffers
from is the absence of some large, command-
ing person or paper that will push argu-
ments to their logical conclusion. The
Britisher has filled himself up with aphor-
isms like “It’s dogged as does it” —he being
the incarnation of doggedness—and then he
admits that he fails at an industry which
demands doggedness, while others succeed.
As a matter of fact The Bulletin doesn’t
believe that Uncle Sam (who produces 32
per cent, of the world’s zinc) is half as
dogged as John Bull (who produces only 6
per cent, of it). But at any rate Sam has
had the sense to protect himself against the
foreigner with a high tariff, while John has
been so sure of his doggedness that lie lias
kept his ports open. The alleged skilful-
ness in the zinc business can be ruled out
altogether. As to nine-tenths of the work
there is nothing that an intelligent laborer
couldn’t master in a fortnight. It isn’t, for
example, nearly as skilful an operation, so
far as the vast bulk of the work is con-
cerned, as sheep-shearing. And, for that
matter, not so laborious, either.
Even before the war gong sounded the
Commonwealth Government, so long almost
impeccable, was drifting, drifting. For ten
solid years the inflexible policy of George
Turner was strictly maintained. Then, in
1911, the trouble started —and this is how
the record of Commonwealth Loan Expen-
diture looks now:—
1911- .. .. £660,476
1912- .. . . 1,188,027
1913- .. .. 2,155,261
Total".. .. £4,003,764
Add to that £3,359,891 taken over along
with the Northern Territory and £1,935,431
taken over with the Pt. Augusta-Oodna-
datta railway and £9,787,011 taken over
with the post offices and other properties
transferred by the States., and Australia
was in debt £19,086,097 before a shot was
fired, and when a mere couple of millions
had been spent on the new transcontinen-
tals. With the public works expenditure
and the war expenditure, this financial year
threatens to end with an interest-bearing-
debt of well over £60.000,000 —and George
Turner is still alive, and the Commonwealth
is only in its middle teens !
“Quill”: If necessary authority can be
otherwise obtained, why bother about the
expensive Referenda, two things being so
obvious—(l) that even if the proposals are
carried the Federal position will only be
a little less deplorable; and (2) that the
war and the p.n. and taxes and the vast
pile of debt are daily hurrying to a point
where Unification will be achieved almost
without effort, certainly without serious
opposition? Even Sydney Telegraph, the
not long ago rowdy denunciator of Unifica-
tion as something akin to blasphemy and
bigamy and highway robbery, is getting
ready for the plunge. Listen: —
The one irresistible certainty is that.... there will
arise a public demand for the consolidation of the
functions of government in unification and for alto-
gether extinguishing the States as sovereign legislative
bodies.
Also listen to the way Irvine and Forrest
and Glynn are talking nowadays. As patch-
ing up and tinkering with the existing Con-
stitution can at the best be only of tempo-
rary utility, why waste time and tissue and
enthusiasm if present purposes can be served
some speedier way?
“MR. PRESIDENT” HAS A CALLER.
THE CANNON: “Say. Woodrow! What about
sending for met Mine is the only note
that counts.”
It is expressly provided in the agreement
that Norton Griffiths & Go., who are being
paid a handsome commission by N. S. Wales
for spending £10,000,000, shall be kept
plentifully provided with cash for paying
wages and salaries and purchasing plant
and material. And the calamitous “Labor”
Government which perpetrated this smell
had the effrontery to say that no firm in
Australia could take on the job 1 Dozens
of men could have been discovered in an
hour ready to pay tens of thousands of
pounds to get in on such a transaction.
When it comes to contracting for die re-
moval of Sydney’s garbage to sea, or other-
wise disposing of it, all the aroma doesn’t
come from the rubbish. Recently, when the
City Council called tenders for a five years’
undertaking of the job.
one contractor quoted
7s. 6d. a ton, while a
rival offered to do the
work at 2s. .'id. On
this staggering infor-
mation reaching No. 1,
he hurled in with an
amended quote of 2s.
3d. Being turned
down at that price, he
explained that what he
really meant was one-
and-three a ton. At
time of writing the
Council was still hold-
ing its nose.
Britain last year
made a commercial
treaty -with Portugal,
under which the use of
the word “Port” was
to be limited to wine
produced in that coun-
try. The treaty hit
Australian trade hard
in a tender place, but
appears to have hit-
parts of Portugal
harder. There have
been riots in the Douro
province because the
southern provinces are
permitted by the treaty
to export a cheap wine
and call it Port; and
the local State-spites
reckon that that is
robbery and bigamy
and arson. The riots
have led, mostly, to the
people of Douro
smashing their public
buildings, railway sta-
tions and wine depots.
If a Portuguese merely
jumped on his hat, tore
his coat to pieces, and
threw his boots into
the water, no one would ever suspect he was
annoyed about something.
N. S. Wales lias just got a glimpse of
another of those permanent and reproductive
works paid for out of loans, and so perma-
nent and so reproductive that it wasn’t
necessary to provide anything in the way
of a sinking fund to liquidate the debt. The
permanency in this case is the Otford tunnel,
on the South Coast line. It was one of the
most expensive burrows ever made in Aus-
tralia ; but it is now reckoned that running
expenses can be saved wholesale bv a devia-
tion to cost about a quarter of a million,
ihe deviation will no doubt reduce running
exes, all right; but that won’t alter the fact
that until one lot of debt has been paid off
the traffic will be burdened with two lots of
interest.
[?]ONDWARD, CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let us have one borrowing body.— Fenton, M.11.1t.
We are not divided,
All one body we —
Six States, all decided
To borrow £s. d.
QUEENSLAND.
Now comes Comrade Fenton,
Urging o’er and o’er,
That the bust they went on
Should be done some more !
Quite four hundred millions
Are the Six States’ debts ;
Holman would raise billions,
Suffering no regrets ;
Even Fisher’s party,
Breaking from its pledge,
Borrows good and hearty—■
Totters on the Edge!
Guffs now yawn, tremendous,
Right beneath our feet;
Heaven may not send us
Half enough to eat.
Not new borrowing bodies
Do we want to-day—■
Though my scheme quite odd is,
We need one to pay!
E. N. M.
OF TOMBSTONES AND TINNED FISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•€1,000,000 worth of marble was imported to Aus-
tralia during the year prior to the war.
—Age correspondent.
We buy toy lambs in London, now that German
stuff’s taboo,
And partly we do this because we're loyal through
and through ;
Year in, year out, ten thousand miles across the
fishy sea
We bring the tin of kippers which we have for
Sunday tea;
And the dead Australian’s tombstone is imported, as
a rule,
Though much more boshter monuments abound at
Bungledool.
And when the rites are over and the tombstone-touts
request
The recently-bereaved one, with his chin upon his
chest,
To anchor the departed with a ton of Dago stone,
The miserable widow gives the order with a groan ;
But the marble-buying mourner kicks like any other
mule
When he’s asked to spend his money on a block from
Bung’ledool!
When, busted up by foreign boots and barbers’-chairs
and beer,
We perish as a nation, some of us will live to hear
The bitter truth. We’ll hearken as another nation
hews
New fortunes from the marbles the Australian failed
to use.
As the hewer in imported speech expounds it:
“Blanky fool,
To drag his tombstone round the world —with this
at Bungledool 1 ”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


BUSH
delanbt
31
fh
TKB FITTIES
DON
DELANEY
NOVELS of ADVENTURE
FROM THE
“Bookstall Series” of Australian Books.
1|- each All One Price 1/1 posted
“THE TRADER,” by Cecil Ross-Johnson.
A thrilling story of adventure in Papua. The author, who was for some time a
resident of the country, tells convincingly of a young trader’s foolish attempt to
establish a plantation at a spot where the natives were most treacherous.
“ SOUTH SEA SINNERS,” by Arthur Crocker.
A South Seas story with an entirely unconventional plot. The incidents amongst the
natives are full of excitement, and the love interest is particularly strong.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,” by Don Delaney.
A splendid Australian historical novel dealing with the Macquarie regime. A story
of rushing excitement that holds the reader’s attention from the first page. An
interesting love story is written into the exciting events.
“ THE KNIGHT of the MOTOR LAUNCH,” by A. H. Adams
The amusing story of a young man who seeks adventure on Sydney Harbor in a
motor-boat, and who is ovenvhelmed with all manner of strange situations.
“ STELLA SOTHERN,” by I. A. Rosenblum.
A fascinating story, full of incident and exciting situations. Adventures in the
Northern Territory, unusual happenings in the Outback, and the rollicking Bohemian
life of some city artists and writers offer fine opportunities for the author to invest
his characters with unconventional adventure.
“ FOR TURON GOLD,” by Don Delaney.
A brilliant Australian goldfields tale in which a murder mystery, thrilling bush-
ranging episodes and a fine love story combine to make the novel one of the most
popular of this widely-read author’s books.
“ THE SIGN OF THE SERPENT,” by J. H. M. Abbott.
A capital secret-society story by one of the foremost Australian authors.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Music’s the Medicine
of the Mind ”
So runs the old Danish ode, and truly music hath
soothing and tonic qualities that revive and invigorate.
No home should be without the stimulating influence of
music.
Let us help you in this direction.
“Broadwood'and
Pianos
are instruments of supreme
merit. British made, they
possess tonal excellence and
superior construction, which
places them in the front rank.
May we supply YOU with one
of these Pianos?
String and Brass
Instruments
We can supply every need from
our large and varied stock of
instruments.
Will you call and inspect, or
shall we forward Price List?
The “Apollo”
Player Piano
is wonderfully constructed, and
gives maximum results in
musical quality.
The only Player that plays
down on the keys with a human
touch.
Our Player
Library Fees
are within the reach of all.
Absolutely the lowest PlJayer
Library Fees in Australia. We
can supply Rolls in 58-, 65- or
88-note sizes, to fit any Stan-
dard Cabinet or Combination'
Player.
Enrol to-day—Library List sent
free on request.
The British Pianoforte Depot, Ltd
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Wynyard Street).
“Konfidence” Boys’ Suits.
JKSnfT ’
LOOK
for this
Trade Mark
then you will solve the problem of
dressing your boy smartly at a moderate
price.
“KONFIDENCE” —the mark of Satis-
faction—is placed on Boys’ Suits
Made in Australia
by The Leviathan
from Fox’s Celebrated Rough Navy
Serge—proved fadeless by acid' test.
Wear and satisfaction are guaranteed
by Fox’s —and by us.
“KONFIDENCE” Suits are cut with-
out skimping, soundly stitched and
genuinely Tailor Made. They become
any boy—being refined in appearance
and durable in wear.
Order a ‘ ‘ Konfidence ”
Suit by Post.
Mention age of boy and chest measure-
ment. You have a choice of three
smart styles. We pay freight through-
out Australia and guarantee satisfac-
tion or money back.
Special Prices during
“ Konfidence ” Campaign.
at
S' *
J
7
/
c ■ -
<v ■ -
yawn
fh
/
COI2JV&J2 OF
smmma some srs.
7VJ2Z,BOUI2NE.
am
The British
I
Electric & Manufacturing C? L^.
-
I .
mmm
I H '■ :
rr*»
■
1
i m
• *
a
8-C.v Under 1000-h.p. vertical gas engine, direct coupled to D.C. generator.
GAS ENGINES
Vertical Tandem and Horizontal.
From 1 to 1000 Horse-power.
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84 William Street, Melbourne.
New Zealand Agents:
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TURNBULL & JONES, Wellington, Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin.
fd
WORKS—MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
A CHANGED MAN.
EATS WELL, SLEEPS WELL, AND
WALKS WELL AFTER RHEUMATISM
REMOVED BY DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS.
“I write to tell you how much 1 like your
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,” writes
Mr. Peter Gay, of 3 Marion Street,
Fitzroy, Vic. “I have been taking
them for two years, and during that
time I have been in the best of health. I
can eat well, sleep well and walk well. Be-
fore taking them I used to walk with ■ diffi-
culty with a stick, now I need no stick and
feel quite a different man. I am 67 years of
age, and feel about 40. I have recommended
these pills everywhere I go, and everyone that
has taken them is very pleased. Before tak-
ing them I was troubled with rheumatism.
I_ am glad to say I have not been troubled
since I have been taking your pills. I have
been the means of selling a great quantity
ot your pills, and I am agreeable to your
using this in whatever way vou think pro-
per.”*
TO
f T/m
The Branded Underwear with the Guarantee.
fm ,I 1 TTf
unshrinkable
wool
U M
UNDERWEAR.
Jason Und rwear is British made through and through -gives long and honest
wear, complete comfort to every wearer, and is expertly finished by skilled British
labour with a soft silky “feel’’ entirely unknown in any other make of underwear.
Shun the German-made unnamed underwear. It only brings discomfort, unworthy
service, and distrust—it is all profit, for the makers. You, the purchaser, are
not considered
Wear Jason, the perfect Underwear. It carries a good honest British guarantee:
Any garment that shrinks will be replaced free of cost.”
Your dealer can supply you. Insist on ‘Jason for every member of the family.
Sole Manufacturers— The Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, England.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Council of the M.L. Amateur Swim-
hiing Association has decided to hand the certificate
of the Legion of Heroism to the former well-known
At ellington sport and swimmer, Lieut.-Commander
B. C. Freyberg, who earned the D.S.O. at the Dar-
danelles by swimming ashore under fire towing
rafts. The certificate is a very handsome one of
parchment, and is very rare. This is the first time
it has been awarded in Maoriland for over 20 years.
Anthony Wilding had his moment of
vision on the day the flying metal of the Hun put
him out of the game for good. That day, being-
taken temporarily out of the air-scouting service, he
wrote a letter containing these words:' “For the first
time in seven and a half months I have a job likely
to end in my gun, myself and my whole outfit being-
blown to Hell. However, it is a sporting chance,
and if we succeed it will help our infantry no end.”
The only thing wrong with the story is that Hell
wasn’t where Anthony was bound for when he went
west.
“Billy” Hart, the Parramatta (N.S.W.)
birdman, who came a cropper last year and had to
go on the shelf for repairs, has again offered his
services to the Defence Department. Hart, fortu-
nately, didn’t,follow the lead of “Captain Penfold,”
throw his aircraft to the moon, and shoulder a
rifle; and Australia should be the better for that.
AA ide scope offers for aviation work in Australian
defence, and with birdmen Pickles, Hawker, Badgerv
and Hart there is a fine groundwork to build on.
* * * *
Among cricketers who recently answered
the bugle call are Gordon Campbell, A. G. Moyes and
C. E. Pellew (all S. Aus. reps, last vear), T. J.
Matthews (Vic. rep.), and H. L. Collins, G. C.
AVilleocks and D. Muller (N.S.AV.). Tasmanian tennis
champion H. L. Barclay has also marched into camp.
’The flow of good athletes to the colors has been sued!
that abandoned inter-State annual fixtures include
cricket, rowing, football, hockey, tennis, pedestrian-
ism and boxing.
* * * *
The response of the bowling community of
X. S. Wales to president John Spence’s appeal on
behalf of the Australia Day funds was most gener-
ous. About £BOOO will be handed in—an example
that ought to make one or two other pastime bodies
feel mighty insignificant.
Controlling authorities of various sports
bodies are wisely coming into line and cancelling
representative and championship events. The latest
announcement is that, by general consent, the Aus-
tralasian field and track championships have been
abandoned, as have the inter-State cross-country cham-
pionships and the amateur boxing championships.
The racing clubs are a handy lot to have
about the place just now. In Melbourne while the
war lasts the V.R.C. and V.A.C. will hand up their
profits to various patriotic funds. In Sydney the
A..J.C. has already paid about £23,000 in the same
direction, and is to consider shelling out another
£lO,OOO and all profits over £lO,OOO made during
the year. There’s another sermon on the mount
there.
* * * *
The Sydney metropolitan proprietary race
clubs’ meeting at Randwick in the interests of Aus-
tralia Day will show a profit of about £5OOO. This
helps the great fund to roll on its way towards the
half-million-mark in N. S. AA’ales.
* * * *
The war may be a poor excuse, but all the
same the time was ripe for reducing the number of
race meetings in A'ietoria. That small patch has
368 meetings a year, 159 of them being held in
Melbourne and thereabouts. A large number hap-
pen at: times when the ordinary sporting- public;-is i
ena-aged on its grub-hunting job, and are attended:
almost solely by Ikey McNpsebag and the profejs-
sional punter, both of whom should be encouraged
to get work. Also, too many meetings lower the
standard pf racing, for good oats are wasted lon
almost any old nag so long as it has the usual
number of legs, in the hope that it may bring pff
one of a multitude of small events on some dav
when all the others are dead.
* * * *
The long Australian Hurdle Race at Caul-
field comes due next Saturday: Thy field is not crowded.
Sixteen horses have accepted, and there is Inot
much chance of a great surprise turning up. )lie
two winners (Uxbridge and Ballista) that have dbne
tlie three miles 778 yards in the best tinies are 1/oth
engaged this year, and Uxbridge, who scored in 1012,
has only 61b. more to carry. The old chap is strongly
fancied, but he is ,no cert., even on paper, Bai
lista, weighted: at a stone more than liis handicap of
two years ago; might heat him,, hut the somewhat
heavy son of Carbinier wants a Tot of riding. Lord
Grey looks preferable to Wisconsin (lost, 31b.). The
objection to AA isconsin is his frequent indfepofi tion
to jump. He might clear the Sever-so-many-hfirdles
kindly enough, but, on the other hand, he might
suik over the job. Jack Rice is *. reasonable selection
in the lightweights. ' A
In Banari aland all tote fractions - have
been collected by the racing elubs. Henceforth, /the
Government will sweep them into general revenue
The responsible Minister (Fjhollv) said the oiher-
day: “Burglary is rather a harsh word, but it-djC"
about the only one to describe the audacity off tire
racing institutions in appropriating the fractions* for
all these years....l am surprised that the race-
goers have not protested before this.- .. .Had bankers
only proposed: the establishment of a home fo* tlie
maintenance of aged and indigent punters Thei;cir-
cumstances might have had redeeming features.”
Last year the fractions of tlie Q.T.G. machines
alone amounted to over £2OOO.
“Barcoo”: Re “Saddle and Silk” (B.
22/7/T5) and numbers of winning mounts. The
Blumes’ performance is still remembered in
combe (0.Q.). In the early ’9o’s Ted Biume and
his brother Bally as amateurs piloted fhejr own
horses in a two-days’ programme. The forniep, rode
10 winners and two seconds, and his brother brought
home two firsts and six seconds.
J. J. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, jus!
out, comes all the more useful this year for being
later than usual. The horserace records run into the
middle of July. This is the 40th annual issue of
the treatise. Where are the champions of
yester-year? And the records? Mostly gone, like
snow upon the desert’s dusty face. But Carbine re-
mains the same old record-breaker. That triumphant
gee won the largest number of important races and
the biggest amount in stakes. He was the only
top-weight to get placed first or second in two
successive Melbourne Cups. He is still on the
pedestal. The pamphlet bears witness to the fact.
During- last racing season in Maoriland
44 horses earned on the track £lOOO or more apiece
for their owners. This is the biggest number that has
ever,reached the thousand mark in any one season
Five animals gathered over £3OOO each. They
were Warstep, Reputation, Desert Gold, Chortle and
Balboa, while Flying Start was only £7O short and
Pavlova £7.
J. B. Ileid, of the Elderslie Stud, is the
man who has done most for the breeding of race-
horses in Maoriland. His latest purchase is the
stallion Solferino. and half a dozen mares from the
King’s stud. This is reckoned by many good judges
to be the best collection of imported mares in
Austi alasia. For years past Reid has been a con-
sistent buyer of the best that could be got in the
Cold Land, and with the late G. G. Stead he im-
ported Charlemagne 11., St. Ambrose, a famous
English horse who raced in Australia, was also
secured for the .Elderslie stud, and there sired a lot
or winners. Varco and Downshire, who afterwards
went to Australia, and Bezonian, were other pur-
chases. Solferino does not look to be the best
purchase that the canny man from Elderslie has
made, for he was at the stud in England in 1910,
and neither his three-year-olds nor his two-year-olds
have been heard of. Reid used to own the great
maie Gladsome, and raced her in Maoriland and
Australia, where she won the Caulfield Futurity
before being sold to Sol Green. Incidentally J. B.’s
brother, J. F„ breeds a lot of horses near Elderslie,
and owned Rokeby and Stepniak. Another brother,
C. W„ recently became a partner in the firm of
Pyne and Co., who are called the Tattersalls of
Maoriland.
FRANK SMITH,
Billiard Champion,
N.S.W.
.. There is a type of citizen who won’t have
it that anything is square. He sees ramps and fakes
and swindles in the most obvious transactions. This
individual was prominent before, during and after
the recent Darcy-McGoorty fight, at Sydney Stadium.
Ine tact that at the races on Saturday odds were
laid on Darcy confirmed the local pessimist’s gloomi-
est apprehensions: On form, he explained, the bet-
ting should have been two to one on McGoorty. An
absurd proposition this, whichever way it is re-
garded. McGoorty was knocked to pieces by Jeff
Smith a couple of years ago. Darcy the other day
overwhelmed Smith, and had him so cowed as to be
useless after three rounds. McGoorty, as this paper
has always insisted, is not a genuine middle-weight
He probably had a lot of trouble to get down to
list. 61b. He won’t admit it directly, for some
reason, but he did so by inference on Monday when
he expressed Ins desire to meet the Australian boy
again at catch weights. Fighting as a heavy-weight
McGoorty might have a chance. Tired and wearied
by the strain of shedding five or six pounds of very
necessary tissue, he was no match last week for a
youngster who hits nearly as hard as he does ; who
is quite as strong, rugged and courageous; and who
is an infinitely faster and better boxer. The like-
liest reason for McGoorty’s defeat ,is a simple one.
He wasn t class enough.
The fight was a somewhat monotonous affair, with
Darcy on top practically the whole time. He hit
McGoorty pretty much where he liked, the principal
places visited being the Irish-American’s nose—
which bled freely—his jaw and his ribs. McGoovtv
repeatedly flung his famous left hook in the direc-
tion ;of the enemy’s chin, but it never landed. Some-
tunes the American’s blows missed by inches, some-
, tunes by feet, Darcy’s side-stepping- and back-moving-
being superb. Bj r the 14t$ ; *£Qmid McGoorty was a
w i eck. Strength, speed, confidence and aggression
had all been battered out “of . him. The man who
. bad never gofe to the boards before was knocked
gown four times, and he was only saved from the
finishing stroke by the intervention of the police
If, as the pessimists declare, he was acting distress,
fatigue, < pain and fear, then he is 'wasted in the rin«-
He should be starring- in drama.
V
There was a clean, willing go lit Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night between Charlie Simpson
(9st.) and Bert Spargo (Bst, 121 b.). The former
is a rugged little fighter, while Spargo is a boxer
with a fine, scientific style. The decision at the end
of 20 rounds in favor of Simpson was tendered a
very mixed, reception. But the referee was in the
right. Spargo never looked like winning, and from
. the 14tli round was treated to, a whirlwind of wallop.
Tlugliic Mehegan, ex-champion light and
welter, of the Commonwealth, has an affecting- motto:
best ..friend is his smother.”
* * * *
“Snell” : I am reminded of a sort of a
fig'bt in a sort of a barn in Fitzroy some years ago.
As Australia’s best had all gone to the scrapheap
and the game was at its lowest ebb, this was, for
the time being', the only establishment at which one
might see a fair-to-iniddling mill in Melbourne. The
two lads engaged for the assault and battery in
question were supposed to be deadly enemies, and a
frightful fight was expected. Alas! Chips Milligan
sickened very early, and went out from a terrific belt
that nearly hit him. To give plausibility to his
sudden slump the conquered remained out. Five
minutes later they were still working over him.
Then Constable McGuire intervened. “Git up, Milli-
gan,” he said, “or, blast me, I’ll arrest you for
loiterin’!” Milligan got up and walked off.
*.**■*
“0.K.”: It seems to me that appeals to
the slackers, here as well as in Britain, have never
embodied the argument which should carry most
weight with do-as-little-as-possible unionists. Ger-
many toils more steadily arid persistently than any
other nation, except, perhaps, Japan, The industry
of the Chow is light and trivial compared with the
unremitting endeavors of the work-obsessed Hun.
Appeals to our slackers ought, therefore, to be
exhortations to make a game effort to defeat the
Power that would cut further into the time for rest
and recreation of the civilised world. The tens of
thousands of methodical toilers at Krupps’ foundries
. muttered recently of an eight-hours’ day, but the
treason’ was no sooner muttered than suppressed.
Ail methodical work and no careless recreation has
made the Hun a brutal, overbearing animal, whereas
the British slacker is the offspring of a system which
errs in the other direction. The slacker is neither
a good workman nor a true sport, though he foolishly
reckons, himself one. The appeal, then, should be to
Ins amiable weakness or proper vanity. Whilst the
persistent, unscrupulous Hun is thinking of himself
only as a patriotic worker with business ends in
view, , the Britisher in every country prides himself
on ms sporting instinct. So the war-cry of the
politicians should be: “Be a sport, and try to win
the game, for there’ll be darned little sport if you
dont! ’
* *
By walloping its sturdy enemy, Glebe (12
points to. two) at Sydney Sports Ground on Saturday
the dashing Balmain team is leading the League
competition by two points. Next comes Glebe with
18 points, Newtown with 15, South Sydney with 13
Eastern Suburbs with 10, and AVestern Suburbs,
Annandale and South Sydney with four each. Bal-
mani is the best team of the bunch, and it looks
as if the best team will win this time.
t jp’out or) ly interest in Vic. League
football until the finals is the fight for places in the
tour. Collmgwood is practically certain of first
position, Melbourne of fourth, and Fitzrov and Carl-
ton are neck and neck, though the fact that the
former still has a bye to work off damps its pro-
spects somewhat. On Saturday Fitzrov met Rich-
™ond nla(ie 311 exhibition of it by 125 points to
49 Melbourne demolished St. Hilda with neatness
and despatch, South Melb. galloped over Essendon—
-97 points to 40—and Carlton had the best of its
contention with Geelong by 74 to 60.
The second semi-final was the only item on the
Association menu, and the certainty that North
Melbourne would pulverise Williamstown accounted
for a paltry attendance. In the play North simply
did as it liked, regardless of ’Town’s. feelings, and
collected 80 points to 32. The victors meet Bruns-
wick on Saturday to decide the destination bf the
pennant. North will make a special effort to win,
so as to finish the seqson u nbeaten.
The evidence that the footballer 'is a
shirker accumulates—in the wrong direction for the
people who parrot-talk through tlieir hats. The
Wodonga (Vic.) team which had not lost a game in
its competition made a concerted bolt for an adjacent
camp the other day and enlisted to a man!
* * * *
They’re gradually curtailing play in
England and thinking more of the strength of Prussia
and the tough main which that fowl of ill-omen has
S ? J .t the^ Allies ' Recently, at the annual meeting
°5 a ,^ orthern Union (equivalent to the League in
N. S. Wales), it was decided to shut off during the
war all competitive football except that played bv
boys under 18. Also, no payments are to be made
by . any union or official to a professional player.
It is a momentous decision, lint public opinion was
growing insistent for it in the Cold Land.
Two States ran off tlieir five-miles’ cross-
country championships last Saturday. In N. S. Wales
the extra-strenuous event was contested on the
Randwick racecourse steeplechase track. In the
teams race five clubs were represented, Olympic
A.A.O. winning from Botany Harriers and Redfern
Harriers in that order. The individual champion
turned up in 11. Hayden, of Botany Harriers, in
28min. 13 3-ssee., which is 33 3-ssec. better than his
last year’s record for the Randwick track. T. Fitz-
gerald and P. Longman, both of Redfern Harriers,
filled the second and third places. The 10-mile-cham-
pionship will (n.v.) be pursued on Saturday at
Victoria Park racecourse.
Bananaland was the other State to sort out its
champions over five miles of country. East Brisbane
supplied the winning team, with Toowong second.
W. Hamilton, of Toowong (30min. 40sec), won the
individual championship; F. Caldwell, of East Bris-
bane,_ was second ; and Rustling, of Maine, was third.
Hamilton has a sort of mortgage on. the event. This
is_ the fourth time he has won it. East Brisbane’s
win makes its eleventh over the distance.
* * * *
There was a unique ped. event at Dunedin
(M.L.) the other day at a patriotic sports carnival
when a 220yds. Chinamen’s Championship was run.
Dunedin shelters a lot of Chows, and there was
much interest in the scurry. Eight entered, but only
four faced the crowd and the starter. Peter Jan
Luk landed the money after a good race, with
Charlie Kim second and Peter Chin third. Kim
would have won. if he hadn’t bought a new felt , hat
for; the occasion. It was too small, and he had .to be
si continually raising his hands to keep it on his head.
He preferred to lose the race. rather than the hat.
All the Chinamen had the same style, running from
the knee with the body above ‘ that joint per-
fectly rigid. The result was .not productive of speed.
* * * *
Sydney baseballers completed their second
round of fixtures on Saturday, and Waverley, Peter-
sham, Bunvood and University will comprise the
semi-finalists in the closing wages of the premier-
ship. Thus far this season two first-grade records
have been embossed on the ' State book—-Waverley’s
four “chicagoes,” and a 12-innings game between
St. George and Mosman-N. Sydney. The roll-up
of supporters each week-end at the various games
shows that baseball is getting a strong grip on the
public, and if some scheme of educating, them into
the points of the play could be devised it would
soon menace all other sport, “gates.’’
* ■* X- *
Tom Tracey, who has reaped a fine harvest
of'fastest times in this season’s N.S.W. League of
Wheelmen road races, capped all efforts in the Parra-
matta-to-St. Mary’s event by whirling over the dis-
tance in 79min. 46see., which is 43 3-ssec. better
than the record put up by 1). Kirk in 1911.
Yet another professional cyclist is trying
his hands at the sculling business. Ex-Maorilander
Fred (“Jumbo”) Wells, the top-notch track pedallist
in N.S.W. this season, had a trial in the spider boats
last week, and received flattering testimonials for
the performance.
N.S.W. Rowing Association’s tally of club
points for the just-ended season give an easy win
for Enterprise (184 points). On the next rungs are
Leichhardt (42) and Mosman (40). Enterprise’s
was one of the most noteworthy wins in the history
of the water sport in the Mamma State.
* * * *
The job hasn’t yet been invented that waft
too strenuous to stop the Australian from arguing
about sport and making a bet about it during
smoke-oh. Among last week’s consignment of waste-
paper scraps and pieces of cardboard which serve
as post-cards from the trenches in Gallipoli was a
request scribbled on the back of an Army biscuit
tin-label: “Please let me know per return mail when
the Towns-Stanbury boat race was rowed, to settle a
bet.”
* * * *
As a sporting offer this is in a class by
itself:—
PUBLIC CHALLENGE !
Doubts have been expressed as to my right to the
title of Champion Bellringer owing to a recent bell-
ringing performance by Mr. J. J.'Keil, and to decide
the question, I, Alfred George Rodier, registered
bellman of Mildura (Vic.), herewith challenge John
James Keil, chairman of Mildura Workingman's
Club, to a Bellringing Contest for the Champion-
ship of Mildura. Contest to be conducted under
Rule 29 of the Professional Bellman’s League, viz.,
style and quality, 25 points; endurance, 25 points;
pose, 25 ; underhand work, 25. The citizens of Mil-
dura to be the judges; failing to agree to this, the
contest to be decided at the South-street Competi-
tion, Ballarat. Signed and authorised by Alfred
George Rodier, registered bellman, winner of silver
bell and gold medal for champion of the world.
Thus Antonio: “By Cri’, mistare. I say to
you, to*, is the good countree, eef you think not of
the robnais here. They are worse than the ban-
deetee of Eetalie. When I first come here I starta
the fri’ feesh shop, and though the beesiness small
T . sa y .it weel improve. An’ it deed. Then one
night in coma three men and orda the big supper.
Bi-an’-bi they feenish, and starta playa the polc'a
game with the ca-ards. Eet was a slacka the night,
so I watcha them. After a time they aska me hava
the game too, an’ I think I trya the luck. I soon
pleased with myself, for in a few hans I win the
eight queed. Then one of the head deala me the
good han’ an’ I bet the queed and two men throw
in their ea-ards. But the third man say two queed,
and when I bet up to 12 he see me. I larfa and
say, In my han’ the four Jack,’ and I reach out for
his cash. But he say, ‘The four Jack no good, I
have the bonanza.’ I did not know the bonanza, and
I tella him so. He say, ‘Eet ees the three club and
the two heart, which I have. Reada the rule.’ He
handa me the rule, all typa the wreet, an’ hi cri’,
Mistare, e was ri’. Eet read, ‘Number 1. The
bonanza ees the best han’ in the game. Eet con-
sists the three club and the two heart.’ I doa the
block then an’ say I geta back mi cash. For a few
hans after that I hava the bad luck. Then I geta
the hand delecto. Mistare, it was a bonanza. I
bet the five queed and once more two playa throw
in their hans, leaving to me the head that get my
sugar before. He say a the ten queed and I nearly
choka with joy. I sav fifteen and he niaka twentee.
I nearly busta and raisa one onlee, so he not fa da
the way. But he come again an’ again and at last
bet up the seventee queed, an’ I swear because
seventee quid is all the money I have. So 1 see
him. He produca the folir ace. I say, ‘A lovelee
han’, but passa the monee, I have the bonanza.’ He
say, ‘No. The bonanza no good. Reada the rule
again.’ I looka the rule, and ri’ down at the bottom
it say, ‘Onlee the one bonanza allow in the one
game.’ ”


Taddy’s GRAPNEL Mixture
highest-grade tobacco.
.
jfj■;
fill
MB
9m
:
SMOHIN
Manufactured by
James Taddy
and Co.,
LONDON.
Established 150 Years.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
1/6
PER 2oz. TIN. .
Sole Agents for New South
Wales and Queensland
Scott, Henderson O. Co.,
lO LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY.
My “Cigarillos”
ARE FINE SMOKES.
Their quality is the same as
Shilling Havanas, their
flavor delightful, and value
exceptional.
Send for a sample
lot, and if you don’t
like them return
them, and I will only
charge you for those
smoked.
m
gj Actual Size of Cigarillos.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
2/3 V- 1/9
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
5/3 4/9 4/3
In Cedar
S>oxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1 . 2. 3.
10/- 9/- 8-
Postage Extra
on 100:
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Write for a
Copy of my
Illust rated
Catalog —
Post Free.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
in 1 '
SP*
Kten
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on
SHELL'
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO LTD.
Don’t be a Trailer
Ride an
INDIAN
Two years in succession we
“scooped the pool” at Goulburn,
and with the same stock model,
T.T. INDIANS. Can you beat it?
Write -for Catalogue “D.”
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
COMFORT PLUS SMART APPEARANCE
RIGNEY SHOES fit the feet perfectly,
which means COMFORT. They are made
from the very best materials, and retain
their smart shape until worn out, hence
RIGNEY SHOES give you COMFORT,
plus SMART APPEARANCE.
The illustration shows a Choice Patent Calf
Oxford Shoe, Latest Perforations. A High-
grade Made-to-order style.
Price - 27|6
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf,
25/- and 27/6.
Postage ?d. extra.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR CATALOG.
hfd
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
•* Why, Yes ! All Athletes use
Bosisto’s ‘Parrot Brand’ Eucalyptus Oil
Hi
■
h
V
I
S
m
1;
m
V
l
u
V"
V,
a
6.
-J''
ca,
C 5
<>--
V^i
The Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis.”
{*l r” .
c/''
T
K
I
Horsemen!
IT WILL PAY YOU and PLEASE YOU to
investigate the valuable offer we make you i%
connection with Riding Trousers to Order-. Dis-
tance makes no difference. Samples are Post
Free We make to a 6-day schedule. We Pay
Freight and GUARANTEE SATISFACTION.
44
Riding Tr’s, 12/6
(Tailored *0
Measure).
In Medium-weight
Khaki Drill (as
supplied to the
Military Forces) —
guaranteed to give
Seasons of Wear.
Will not soil
easily, and Im-
proves in the
Wash. Regulation
Riding Cut —Full
Seat —-Tapered to
Ankle Fitting
' losely over Boot.
“ i4s.\»
hfkes, 2 2/6
(Tailored to
Measure).
111! Medium-y.eight
Khaki Drill ot
the same qualify'
as s used -in the
Trousers. Style as
shown, which does
away with the
necessity of Wear-
ing Leggings.: Cor-
rectly and Com-
fortably Cut, and
Tailor - m a d e
throughout. Un-
equalled for Ser-
vice.
A
KJi'
a mm
''l!
WRITE FOR PATTERNS
—they’ll reach you by return, Post
Paid, together with a -copy of our
Mail-Order Catalog,
Forms, Tapes, etc. „
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
PTY. LTD.,
“ Mail-Order Tailors & Outfitters,”
244-254 Flinders Street, MeSttitefee.


Keep your child
sturdy and strong
Your child’s future depends on
the thought and care you
bestow upon him now,.
Are you doing your best for
him TO-DAY? Are you helping
those little bones to grow firm
arid strong? Are you sure his
chest is right—that he does
not suffer from weakness or
disease?
A course of SCOTT’S will un-
doubtedly do him good. It will
build him up, strengthen him
and protect him from weakness
and wasting ailments.
a
tk
No other nourish-
ment is so good for
growing boys and
girls because no
other kind of
nourishment has
the body-building
power of the mag-
nificent cod livcroil
contained only in
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
IMITATED BUT NEYER EQUALLED.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to , walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
Try the great British Itemedv:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which \ou will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
British Prices, 1/1 and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. 11. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN k SONS. etc.
Dr B. Allen’s OJ-SA)
tor
GRFY
WALNUT hair.
Figure It Out for Yourself.
VVHAT YOU
EXPECT.
WHAT YOU
GET.
Did I make as much money last month as I
had expected ?
Did I increase my bank account?
Did I buy any property or stock?
Do I owe less money ?
J
THINK.
I will investigate without delay the business
o j
system that will increase my profits. I
will write at once to
The National Cash Register Company
of Australasia Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE—II 9 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN ALL THE PRINCIPAL CITIES.
PURE WOOL
UNDERWEAR
Retail Selling Prices
“JAEGER” MEN’S UNDERVESTS
Single over Chest, Short Sleeves.
THE JAEGER CO.’S
“EWE” BRAND
Long Sleeves, 6d. extra.
“JAEGER” MEN’S PANTS
Waist 32 34 36 38 40 42 45 in. Sir. M. PS. OS. XOS.
Inside leg.. 25 28 28 28 31 31 31 in. 28 28 28 31 31
Gauze G H/3 11/9 12/3 12/9 18/3 13/9 14/9 ... 234 7/9 8/3 8/9 9/3 9/9
Light K 12/6 13/- 13/6 14/- 14/6 15/- 16/- ...230 9/- 9/6 10/- 10/6 11/-
Medium KK 14/9 15/3 15/9 16/3 16/9 17/3 18/3 ... 120 9/6 10/- 10/6 11/- 11/6
“JAEGER” MEN’S UNITED GARMENTS
Shirt and Pants in one, or Vest and Pants- in one, with
short or long sleeves or legs. In Qualities G, K, KK, or
EWE Brand, 230, 102.
“JAEGER” NIGHTSHIRTS, PYJAMAS, SHORT DRAWERS
in Quality Iv.
“JAEGER” LADIES’ Combinations, Undervests, Drawers,
Spencers, Nightdresses.
“JAEGER” CHILDREN’S Combinations,
Vests, Knee Pants, Drawers.
“JAEGER”
COLIC BELTS,
Ladies’, Child.’s
for Men’s,
or Infants’ wear
Catalogues
Obtainable.
August
1915
JAEGER GOODS
are on Sale by all
LEADING RETAIL
DRAPERS, MERCERS, etc.
tte /a'/i&'f* & £4 A.
x> tt/zcfar Cffirt/tjA Gmfo/
&
i
- 8^43
“S’gazer”: I have been privileged to see
a letter written by one pro. to another.
The writer is at the Front in Gallipoli.
One passage attracted me: “It’s very dif-
ferent here to what I expected, old man.
I find my professional experience of no use
whatever. This is not a bit like what we
were used to.” Evidently the writer wished
his reflections to be taken quite seriously.
It reminus me of the leader of a co. operat-
ing in a Vic. township, who happened to
witness the death of a quarryman after a
blast. “Yes,” said the master mummer,
“very sad. But the man should have fallen
further down-stage.”
Victoria and Maoriland have just fixed up
an interesting bit of reciprocity. Each has
a fairly stringent workmen’s compensation
law; and each agrees that for purposes of
that law the relatives of injured men may
live in either country, and it won’t make any
difference. Thus if a man is killed in Maori-
land and his dependents live in Victoria, they
may recover just the same as if they lived in
Maoriland ; and vice versa.
What promised to be an interesting law-
suit will not come before the Sydney Courts,
the litigants having been suddenly stricken
by sense. A suburban inhabitant was bitten
by a bee, and in his haste and anger em-
ployed a solicitor to breath threats against
a neighboring bee-farmer. In peril of an
action for being a person who kept a notor-
iously ferocious animal —to wit, a bee—to
the danger of the subjects of his Majesty,
the farmer also rushed, to a solicitor. This
solicitor denied that, if the plaintiff was
bitten, it was by the defendant’s bee; and
a warning was also given that slanders
upon the habits of defendant’s stock must
cease. Proceedings had reached the copious
filing of documents when the two principals
met by accident. “Have a drink,” said one.
“Mine’s a beer,” said the other. They
shared the costs.
“Gordon G.”: In litigious matters there
are regular fixed charges which Gent One
must, in the main, follow. Hence, provided
the client is not inveigled into appeals, he
stands a moderately good chance of getting
a fair run. If Gent One attempts to step
over the scales, an ever-ready Taxing Officer
can be requisitioned to “cut him down.”
But in other branches of Law scales are
very rare, and the custom is to charge
woolly clients just as much as they can
stand. For instance, the cocky who gets
the Law to put through a purchase and a
mortgage is almost invariably well shorn.
With a scale he would know exactly what
he had to pay at the inception of the busi-
ness. Now he has to rely at best on nebu-
lous verbal arrangements. Another wrong
which has long been shrieking for rectifica-
tion is the absurd distinction between what
are called “party and party” and “solicitor
and client” costs. Under the present system
a successful litigant is more often than not
required to pay his lawyer costs over and
above those recovered against the adverse
party. His lawyer has a most frequent habit
of informing him that much extra though
very necessary work was done in his be-
half, payment for which cannot be got out
of the other side. The client has perforce
to accept the statement —and pay. A judici-
ous compromise between the two scales,
resulting in amalgamation under the super-
vision of the Taxing Officer, is the obvious
and most just remedy. The whole business
of Costs should, in fact, be closely peered at
and put on something approaching a reason-
able basis. The lawyer regards the present
system as a and the layman who has
had experience considers it a bad species of
nightmare.
More forecasts from “Callan Park”:—
If the war lasts another two or three years, and
President Wilson’s peace policy continues, practi-
cally the whole of the world’s gold must gravitate to
the U.S. What a change the phenomenon is going
to produce in civilisation’s social customs and ideas !
The attention of Europe will be centred on the pro-
blem of repleting its vanished gold supply. The
savior of his country, the true patriot, will be the
citizen who can effect the return of the largest
amount of the precious metal. The fortune-hunter,
for example, will become a popular hero. Youths
who show the glimmerings of a genius for fascina-
tion will be State-aided to exert their gifts for the
benefit of the nation. Socialistic clothes made by
Clifford-street tailors; badges entitling the holders
to free manicuring, hairdressing, dentistry, and so
on; grants from the Consolidated Revenue to enable
the public-spirited wooer to cut a creditable figure
at U.S. horse-shows, race-meetings and parties—these
are likely to be some of the means used to attain
the great end. Picture the home-coming of the
proud young Briton who has snared a Yankee bride
worth three or four million golden dollars. The
aklermanic reception and address of welcome at
Southampton; the wildly-cheering crowds; the por-
traits in the illustrated papers with their stirring
legends, such as “He Did His Duty,” “Married for
Money for England,” “He Has Immolated Him-
self: What Are You Doing?” And, finally, the inves-
titure at Buckingham Palace with the Empire’s high-
est Order—the Marital Cross, with its nobly-simple
inscription, C.O.D.
The snide company-promoter, hitherto regarded
with coldness by the authorities, will be not merely
tolerated but encouraged, provided he can show that
the majority of his victims were U.S. citizens. It
will be a good defence for any three-card expert,
Fiji uncle, gold-brick operator, or card-sharper that
the person swindled wore a pork-pie hat, chewed
gum, and appeared to be dyspeptic.
The higher birthday honors, instead of going to
statesmen, soldiers and sailors, will be awarded to
the nation’s real benefactors —hotel proprietors who
rook the travelling Yankee.
Simultaneously gibbets will spring up all over the
country, and Tower Hill will come into its own
again, and Hounslow resound, as in the past, to the
clank of malefactors hanging in chains. Attendance
at certain executions will, on patriotic grounds, be
universal and compulsory. And so on any pleasant
Sabbath afternoon British crowds will be seen faring
forth to witness the dreadful end of Joseph Smith,
importer, convicted of sending away the nation’s
gold to pay for foreign goods. And as the'bolt falls
and the traitor’s worthless form gyrates convulsively
at the rope's end, hymns of praise will rise on the
ambient ether, and the Union Jack will be waved
furiously, and everyone, except the importer, will
have a most enjoyable time.
THE QUEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In days of old the heroes bold
To seek the Golden Fleece were borne;
The newer land a nobler band
Has sent to take the Golden Horn!
VICTORIA.
E. D.


With the
to,
Kodak
you can write your notes on the film at the
time of exposure, and the autographic negative
furnishes you permanent and positive identification.
Open ilie door at the back of the Ivodak, write what data you
choose, expose to the light of the sky, and, after development, you
will find printed on the film the exact identification of the pic-
ture, a record that will add immeasurably to its interest and
value.
THE KODAK IS THE ONLY CAMERA WITH WHICH
THIS REMARKABLE INVENTION CAN BE USED.
THE PRICE.
No 4 Autographic Kodak, pic-
tures 5 x 4in
No. 4A Autographic Kodak,
pictures 0-J x 4-|in
Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak
Meniscus Lens
A'est Pocket Autographic Kodak
F 7.7 Anastigmat
No. SA Autographic Kodak,
pictures 3| x 54in
No. 3 Autographic Kodak, pic-
tures 3| x 4lin
£5 3 0
8 0 0
110 0
’ 210 0
5 0 0
4 2 0
No. 1A Autographic Kodak,
pictures 24 x 4}in £3 13 <)
No. 1 Junior Autographic
Kodak, Meniscus Lens, pic-
tures 3i x 2|in 119 0
Do., with R.R. Lens 2 0 (i
No. 1A Junior Autographic
Kodak, Meniscus Lens, pic-
tures 4J x 24411 2 6 0
Do., with R.R. Lens 216 0
If you already own a Kodak make it Autographic.
Any No. 3 or No. 3A Folding Pocket Kodak, any No. 1A Folding Pocket
Kodak, K.Rj, Type, or any of the No. IA, No. 3 or No. 3A Special Kodaks
or Six-Three Kodaks can now be converted into an Autographic Kodak by
the use of an Autographic Back in place of the regular back.
THE TRICE.
Back, for No.
F.P.K., R.R. Type
*Do., for No. 3 F.P.K
*Do., for No. 3A F.P.K
Do., for No. 1A Special Kodak
Do., for No. 3 Special Kodak.,
1A
14/6
14/6
15/6
16/6
16/6
Do., for No. 3A Special Kodak .. 17/6
No. 4 P.P.K 16/6
No. 4A P.P.K 18/«.
No. 1 Junior 10/6
No. 1A Junior 12/6
*These BACKS also fit the Six-Three Kodaks.
Autographic Films are supplied at the same prices as the regular
Kodak N-C Film.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street. MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
HOBART: 43 Elizabeth Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street,
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HIED: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street.
AUCKEAND, N.Z.: 3 Eorne Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 76 Stuart Street.
,\'o:
•-
:• : '■ ■'
I
wm
■&'' '.y'wi
■
■anus
. >.k : a
■> \
H
.
To play
Blue Amberol Records
on the Edison “GEM”
2 = minute Phonograph.
Though the Edison Blue Amberol Records are no larger
than the ordinary 2-minute records, they play twice as long,
so that your “Gem ” 2-minute Phonograph will play the Blue
Amberol Records when fitted with the “Gem” Combination
Attachment. This attachment includes a 4=minute speaker
(list price of which is 12/-), yet only costs 12 6 complete.
The slight additional cost is insignificant when compared with
the great improvement effected. By fitting your phonograph
with the “Gem” Attachment you bring the instrument right up-to-
date, and open up a new field of delightful music and entertainment.
While there will he no more XEW two-minute records issued,
Kew Blue Amberols are arriving every month. Besides, the Blue
Amberol is wonderfully life-like, pure in tone, and far superior to
any Record previously used. It is practically indestructible, and
~ M *3V
\
HJVBD©nOHJ
Nosiaa hhi
lias been played over 3,000 times
without any moderation in its
charming quadities.
'When the attachment is fitted we
guarantee your “Gem" will play any
four-minute record through.
Take advantage of this equipment
right away. Call on the nearest
Edison dealer, who will advise yon
more fully, or write direct to us.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only).
304-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
GAILLE PERFECTION ENGINES.
8 H.P. Unit Plant.
Single-Cylinder “ Perfection ”
with igniter and Plug Cover.
Photograph of Actual Test.
This shows that the “Perfection” igniter is abso-
lutely waterproof. We challenge any engine manu-
facturer in the world to produce an engine with an
ignition system that will stand a similar test.
Kverv part of ignition system was submerged in water
and engine continued to run and showed the same
Dower and speed as when running perfectly dry, thus
proving our claim-AN ABSOLUTELY WATER-
PROOF IGNITION SYSTEM.
“Perfection” Special Gasoline and Kerosene Engines are the greatest value ever placed on the
market. , . TV .
M \HINE ENGINES, suitable for Canoes, Tenders and Fishermen.
WATERPROOF IGNITION SYSTEM.
NO COILS, NO BATTERIES, NO TIMER, NO DANGER OF YOUR ENGINE
STOPPING IF CAUGHT IN A STORM, as the IGNITION SYSTEM
cannot be touched by water.
CAILLE PERFECTION ENGINES
Yankee Outboard Motors, with Battery Ignition, £lB
or with H.T. Reversible Magneto, £22
The 1915 Caille Outboard, with H.T. Magneto in
Flywheel and Reversible Propeller, £3O
Scripps Motor Company’s 4-Cycle Engines
This is the Engine which propelled the 35-footer “Detroit”
from Detroit, Michigan, to St. Petersburg,Russia—6soo miles.
Benson Brothers, Limited
(CITY 4143),
60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
51*53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY.


hfd
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
IO YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed&Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney
GRIPPED BY
CATARRH!
YOU are in the grip of Catarrh. Isn’t
it a most discomforting and humiliating
affliction? The indications are unmis-
takeable—
—the uncomfortable stuffiness In
the nose.
-the constant sniff, sniff, caused by
moist accumulations;
—the difficulty of breathing through
the nostrils,
the persistent necessity of clearing
the throat by hawking, and
—the frequent soreness of the throat,
—or you may suffer from frontal
headaches,
—your hearing may be affected*
—you may have nerve-racking noises
in the head,
—you may be subject to frequent
colds, or
_ —awake always with a heavy, tired
feeling.
This terrible Catarrh makes you down-
hearted, and is ruining your life, wreck-
ing your hopes and threatening you
with even greater pain and misery.
WHAT ARE YOU GOIRG TO DO
ABOUT IT ?
You can’t go on suffering; you cannot
neglect your condition, because that
would be fatal. Perhaps you have tried
many things without securing any last-
ing relief; perhaps you’re so down-
hearted and discouraged that vou feel
there is no hope. But THERE IS A
WORLD OF HOPE FOR YOU in my
great “KAT-AR-AH,” and the proof
is FREE.
TrialTreatmenfFree
Try “ KAT-AR-AH ” at my expense.
You’ll marvel at the results. Let me
send you a trial bottle at once.
Its healing effects are simply remark-
able. You can notice an immediate
improvement. It quickly starts its
work of killing the disease germs, of
reducing and eventually stopping the
discomforting mucous discharges in
the nose and throat—mucous that is
finding its way into your stomach
poisoning your system. It does this in
the only sane and safe way—by its
health-giving and purifying sero-sana-
tive effect on the diseased parte and by
cleansing all the passages of accumul-
ated mucous.
With the trial bottle of “KAT-AR-AH "
I will also send you a copy of my new
illustrated book. It imparts informa-
tion of the greatest value to'sufferers.
The trial bottle and book will be sent
by mail in a plain wrapper to all who
answer this announcement.
Write to-day. Be sure to mention this
paper and answer at once if you really
wish to be released from the terrible
grip of Catarrh. Enclose 3d. in stamps
to help pay postage.
HERBERT HERDER,
22 Daking House, Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Suppi.v—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston— “WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, Od. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
London’s Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty Experts Writing for
the English Press. Simple and Effective Methods.
By OLGA AMSDELL, Special Correspondent. London, Ena-.
Why’ Have Grey Hair?
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days. It
is only necessary to get from the chemist an
ounce of concentrate of tammalite and mix it
with four ounces of bay rum. Apply this
simple lotion to the hair for a few nights with
a small sponge, and you will soon have the
pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy, and has given perfect satis-
faction for many generations to those in pos-
session of the secret.
Blackheads, Oily Pores, etc.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment rids
llie skin of blackheads, oiliness and enlarged
pores almost, instantly. It is perfectly harm-
less, pleasant and immediately effective. All
you have to do is to drop a stymol tablet,
obtained from the chemist’s, in a glass of hot
wafer, and, after the resulting effervescence
has subsided, dab the affected portions of the
face freely with the liquid. When you dry the
face you will find that the blackheads come
right off on the towel, the large pores contract
and efface themselves and the greasiness is all
gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft and cool.
This treatment should be repeated a few times
at intervals of several days, in order to make
sure that the result shall be permanent.
The Magnetism of Beautiful Hair.
Beautiful hair adds immensely to the per-
sonal magnetism of both men and women.
Actresses and smart, women are ever on the
look-out for any harmless thing that will
increase the natural beauty of their hair. The
latest method is to use pure stallax as a sham-
poo, on account of the peculiarly glossy, fluffy
and wavy effect which it leaves. As stallax
has never been used much for this purpose it
comes to the chemist only in -jib. sealed orig-
inal packages, enough for twenty-five or thirty
shampoos. A teaspoonful of the fragrant
stallax granules, dissolved in a cup of hot
water, is more than sufficient for each sham-
poo. It is very beneficial and stimulating to
the hair, apart from its beautifying effect.
How to Remove a Bad Complexion.
Cosmetics can never really help a poor com-
plexion; often they are positively harmful,
The sensible, rational way is to actually re-
move'the thin veil of stifling, half-dead scarf-
skin from the face, and give the fresh, vigor-
ous and beautiful young skin underneath a
chance to show itself and to breathe.
This is best done in a very simple way, by
merely applying mercolised wax at night, like
cold cream, and washing it off in the morning,
(food mercolised wax can be obtained from
any well-stocked chemist. It absorbs the dis-
figuring cuticle, gradually and harmlessly,
leaving a brilliant natural complexion. Of
course, this also takes with it all such facial
blemishes as red blotches, tan. moth patches,
sallowness,-liver spots, pimples, etc. As a
freckle remover and general complexion beau-
tifier this old-fashioned remedy is unequalled.
The Powder Puff Passes.
Every normal woman is always interested in
any plan by which she can quickly enhance
her beauty, provided the plan is perfectly safe
and simple. Ever since the discovery that
ordinary cleminite, such as any chemist can
supply, is an instantaneous and harmless beau-
tifier, there has been a growing demand for it
from smart women everywhere. They usually
get about an ounce and add just enough water
to dissolve it. A little of this perfectly harm-
less lotion gives a beautiful complexion to any
face instantly. It renders face powder quite
unnecessary. Moreover, its use cannot be
detected. The skin is instantly beautified but
appears perfectly natural under the closest
scrutiny.
Falling Hair.
How often one hears the lament, “I have
tried everything on the market, and mv hair
comes out in handfuls.” Not so surprising
either when you come to think it over. Hair
tonics to be effective must be fresh, and there
is no earthly reason why every woman should
not make her own lotion at home. The finest
vegetable tonic obtainable is made by mixing
a packet of boranium with -J-pint of'bay rum
and adding sufficient water to fill a half-pint
bottle. This lotion rubbed briskly into the
scalp sets the hair roots tingling' with new
life, and will, if persevered with, give you back
your “crowning glory.”. r 2
0
'HE outstanding feature of
A Barnet Glass Tyres is “More
Mileage." This, combined with
the greater comfort, less worry
and luxurious ease they assure
motorists, makes them the best
and cheapest tyres for all makes
of cars The severe test all
“8.G.” Tyres are put through
enables you to purchase them
with the assurance of satisfaction.
Tyre your car with Barnet
Glass “More Mileage" Tyres, and
watch the difference
BAENET (HASS
MOTOR TYRES
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C? LTR
289-93 Swanson Sfflelb. All stafe &: jNew Zealand.
hfd
Shave Yourself.
Where is the man who can’t
shave every day! Let him get a
Gillette Safety Razor and the keen
Gillette Blades—let him lather well
—and he’ll find his beard slips off
smooth, every day, v/ithout the
slightest irritation. British made.
Gillette Standard Sets. One Guinea.—; Sold Everywhere.
Write for illustrated and descriptive booklet. Mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA: t?
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON. ENGLAND.
r* msm
NO STROPPING NO HONING
I
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
■ Member T. P. Association : The Bulletin
didn’t say that the Town Planning- Assoc, had any-
thing to do with the lay-out of the new Sydney Zoo.
What it did say was that town-planners, or people
who fancy they are town-planners, have been push-
ing themselves into that business. And The Bul-
letin says so again.... Platman: Malay cos. usually
quote what they receive for their tin net —-that is,
after paying the Government royalty. That explains
the apparent discrepancy between Malay and Aus-
tralian tin-oxide values.. . .D.M.R.: Both very close
up W.H.L.: Admirable in sentiment as a Lenten
sermon; jagged in form as the wave-beaten cliffs of
Gallipoli... .1.P.: Yes, it reads like a first attempt.
And you’ve tried a most difficult form —the yarn
with a moral, which only a touch of genius can
carry A. P. Ass: See B. 24/12/’l4 C. If.
Street: Good idea ; but most of the verses would have
to be recast, and the recasting department is busy
on munitions F.A.: That was merely a skit....
J. C. Buscall: Thanks. ... G. A. V. s Your: post-bellum
prophecies are cheering, but unconvincing. For
example:—
There will come to our dull senses a perception of
the purpose
Of the things that really matter, of the simple
things that count;
And we’ll put aside the folly of our cherished super-
stitions
And we’ll need no other sermon than the Sermon on
the Mount.
We wish we believed it Cecilia Wright: Glad to
hear that “85 per cent, of the U.S.A. public is
strongly pro-Ally.” The other 15 per cent, seems
able to make the crowd eat a lot of coke. .. .Billy-
bunger: Some very old friends in that batch
8.E.N.: Yes ; that yarn would take with our readers.
At least, it did ten years ago Ginger: Verse 111.
epitomises the almost invariable situation in such
cases:—•
But when the day dawned
And a thorn of nameless grief
Pierced her breast,
Where was he? Co-partner in her sin
Him who dragged her down; and sent her soul to
hell!
A fortune’s favorite ; smiled upon by young and old
Acclaimed a good fellow. Did he heed the despair-
ing cry ; the anguished moan ? Ah, no ! His
face to the sunny lights of day was turned.
From which, dear brethren, two lessons are to be
learned. (1) Don’t be a co-partner in sin. (2) If
you do go into the business, try to be cheerful about
it. Nothing puts one of fortune’s favorites off more
than the despairing cry and the anguished® moan,
especially in the early morning F.A.8.: lie
“Imshi Yalla.” All this paper has to say is “Beni
Berri”—which is Wallagonese for “turned down.”
... .W.F.C.: The long thing is music-hall verse. The
others are commonplaces in unmusical jerks
1LD.1.: Point too small to be seen from all parts of
Australia... . Wm. C.: Very long and very dull. .. .
E.M.C.G.: Pretty good, as such things go. But one
Parody a year is a full dose 1.8. L.: Two verses
go, Edward :—•
TO SILVA.
Let not a veal that face eclipse.
Where love and beauty dwell,
Oh shade not those glorious lips
I love to kiss so well.
In vain for fault shall roam my eye
Upon thy glorious being.
All natures masterpieces vie
In thee my matchless queen.
Send us word if a veal eclipses her face at any time.
The Agricultural Editor has an infallible cine for
use in such cases. .. .H.A..J.: “A Reverie” doesn’t
ring true. For example, “a kookaburra filling
the world with glorious melody.” Also, “the
laughing song of lads at play upon the village
green.” flow many village greens do you know in
Australia?. .. .Tommy : Name and address please. .. .
Quaker: The story that Germany is doing very well
on American Notes for breakfast is probably incor-
lect. They are a flatulent diet... .Bannerman: Try
it on the> local paper. ... P.L.P.: Sentiment admi-
rable, poetry deplorable.... 11. AAV.: Poem in praise
of Warneford, V.C., jettisoned out of respect for tiie
heroic dead.. . .ILJ.W.: “Roused” is the worst lion
poem received to-day, and the basket is already a
menagerie of them. .. .G.M.: You lack the gift of
sketch-writing Nev: Last we heard of him he was
at Ardlethan (N.S.W.). Try there.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.8.M.: Your drawing shows considerable skill
-in avoiding difficulties of drawing. You don’t
offer fair value when you present a mere 'back-view
of the upper half of your characters. . . .Laura F.:
Some promise; but you’ve a long way to go to get
to Tipperary.... Sid T.: Just misses.... Geo. 11. D.:
Drawing not bad; joke too local E.C.R.: Old
gag....N.: The drawing made your cold-sweat joke
contagious. .. .M.Q.: It’s a long time since we last
heard that original idea.
Dr. Thacker, member of Maoriland Reps,
for the Bast Y\ ard of Christchurch, is one of
the latest recruits to the banner of Joseph
Ward. He is a large person who is well
known in connection with the feats of Dick
Arnst and with League football, which he
tnes hard and very unsuccessfully to run
in Maoriland. His main aim in life is to
get a canal cut from the sea to flat, inland
Chnstchurch, but indifference is his only
recompense so far. lie possesses much land
and a pile of coin, and, as he doesn’t care
a colonial whose bunions lie leaps on, he
may yet be definitely heard of in politics.
One of the men who did the fine
organising work for the great Aus-
tralia Day successes in N. S. Wales was a
young, little-known man named Lewis Deer.
Lntil a few years ago Deer was a school-
teacher ; and while getting his crust that
way made a name for himself in the De-
partment by helping along the annual
shows given by Sydney’s children on the
Cricket Ground. A. C. Carmichael, when
Minister for Education, promptly collared
the hustler as his secretary, and took him to
Europe to study educational matters. Since
then Deer has been passed along work of
ever-increasing importance. In addition to
his other qualification he is a first-class
journalist, and when the Australia was due
to reach her home waters for the first time
was selected by Sydney Telegraph to
accompany her from the West and write a
series of special articles.


A WOMAN’S HEALTH, j
Every woman’s health is peculiarly depen-
dent upon the condition of her blood. Ho_w
many women suffer with headache, pain m
the back, poor appetite, weak digestion, a
constant feeling of weariness, palpitation ot
the heart, shortness of breath, pallor and
nervousness ? If you have any of these symp-
toms do not despair of getting better, but
begin now, to-day, to build up your blood
with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. See how the
nervous energy of the body is restored as the
blood becomes pure and red and the entire i
system is strengthened to meet every demand
upon it. .
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are useful for all
women, but they are particularly valuable
to girls of school age who show symptoms of i
going into a decline, who become pale, ner-
vous and languid. These pills aid in secur-
ing perfect development and health by
strengthening the system and purifying and
building up the blood. Thin blood during
the growing years of a girl’s life usually
means a flat-chested and hollow-cheeked j
womanhood. There can be neither health
nor beauty without red blood which gives
brightness to the eyes and color to cheeks
and lips. „
You can get Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills from
your nearest dealer; or they can be had
direct from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney.
A useful booklet on “Diseases of the
Blood’ - will be sent free to any address.*
Troublesome Constipation.
Sufferers from constipation know from ex-
perience that after temporary relief has been
obtained by the use of a purgative, the condi-
tion often becomes worse. Most strong
purgatives have a tendency to cause consti-
pation after their immediate effects are over.
Pinkettes, the new laxative, are a real help
in correcting the irregularity. They do not
wear out in their effects, and taken accord-
ing to directions the patient will find that
they soon help to create a healthy regularity.
They are a safe family medicine because
they contain no habit-creating drug; they
are daintily got up ; are easily given to chil-
dren, and they act thoroughly without caus-
ing sickness and griping. Send for a free
trial sample to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Sydney, mentioning the Bulletin.
Pinkettes are Is. a bottle at all medicine
dealers.*
✓ THE
“gUMVIP -
Forest Devil.
f
!
Land Clearing Made
a Delight & Profit!
Forest giants, fallen logs, * deeply-rooted
stumps, obtrusive boulders are all promptly
and simply removed by the BUNYIP FOREST
DEVIL.
This truly wonderful invention is of in-
dispensable service to men on the land.
Saves money, saves time, saves trouble.
Write for Details.
John Cooper & Sons
287-89 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY: Local Agents, CLUTTERBUCK BROS.,
26-38 City Road.
BRISBANE: Local Agent, A. H. BISSELL,
95-7 Eagle Street.
NYAL’S FACE CREAM
(with
Peroxide)
Made in
Australia.
•".5
mi
This daintily perfumed, vanishing, peroxide
creafn does NOT "promote the growth of hair,
Non-greasy, nourishing and easily absorbed-
leaves no shine. Ideal for sunburn, and acts
as a mild skin* bleach. Applied freely it will
keep., the skin soft and elastic.
Price 1/6 & 2/6 per Jar, from Retail Chemists only.
FREDERICK STEARNS & COMPANY,
358 Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney.
Send 2d. Stamp for Sample Jar and Name of
~ ’ —Nearest Agent.-
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot he com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
F
L,egal Notices.
“the - "SUPREME court of
QUEENSLAND, TOWNSVILLE.
IN THE LANDS OF ALFRED MOLLER
late of Gordonvale near Cairns in the
State of Queensland Farm Laborer de-
ceased Intestate.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that, after
the expiration of fourteen days from the
publication hereof, application will be made
to this Honorable Court that administration
of the real estate of the above-named Alfred
Moller deceased, who died intestate, may be
granted to CATARINA MARGERITA
MOLLER of Gordonvale aforesaid Widow the
lawful mother of the said deceased. Any
person interested who desires to object to
the application or to be heard upon it may
file a Caveat in the Registry at any time
before the grant is made.
DATED this twenty-second day of July
A.n. 1915.
MacDONNELL & HANNAM,
Solicitors for Administratrix,
Abbott Street, Cairns.
Town Agents: Mac Donnell, Hannam &
Hamlyn Harris, Flinders Street, Towns-
ville.
V
A SLICK,
SATISFACTORY
SHAVE.
A slick, satisfactory shave, in double-quick
time, can be obtained
WITH THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
It will become your favorite once you try it.
Thousands of men swear by the “Plum.”
Less bother to keep in condition than any
other Razor known.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE,
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List. <
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Onoto Pens
From
12/-
upwards.
arc the only Standard 12/*
Fountain Pen* All British Made
by a British Company with
British Capital and Labour.
Thomas de La Rue & Co. Ltd, London.
usfr&la.siarv Mana<iitv«s A<Jervfs .
Norman Baker s_Lonchurst.Sydney
Jokes,Tricks, Puzzles, Novelties
Write for our New Catalog, a Novelty in itself, sent FREE.
hfd
h
4
The above four nuzzles are strongly made and nickel-plated. They will cause endless amusement
he big very tdcky to do. Post Free, with Full Instructions, 6d. each, or the Four
for 1/0
A Box of Seven Wire Puzzles, different from the above, Post Free, 2/-; or the
Box of Seven, and the Four Puzzles illustrated, Post Free for 3/-
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.—New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
dfh
ONE
Cartridge
DOES —
F)R the convenience of the man
who is many miles from the big
towns, we have Special Colt re-
volvers made to shoot the samecar-
tridges as the Winchester 111 ties.
This saves the trouble of having to
carry two kinds of Ammunition.
The Calibres are .32,
.38 and .44, and these
cartridges are procurable .
in' any little town
throughout the
civilized world
.
-for
BOTH
The PRICES of the REVOLVERS are-
. 32 cal. 4in. barrel *3; .38 ca l . sJ4in.
barrel, £B/15/-; .44 cal. in. barrel,
£7/10/-.
Winchester Rifles— Half or full Maga-
zine-Carbine length, 20 in. barrel, 67/6;
Full Rifle length, 24 in. barrel, 70/-
Catalogs.
Free
Alcock & Pierce,
318 Lt. Collins
Street, MELB.
OUR NEW CATALOG
will greatly assist you in choosing
your footwear requirements. It
illustrates all the very latest and
most exclusive models in
ABBEY SHOES.
The Boot we illustrate is a Tan
Willow Calf Bal.
PRICE 25/-, 27/6 anti 28/6.
Box Calf, 21/-, 22/6, 25/- and
27/6.
Glace Kid, 22/6, 25/-, 28/6.
Special Grade, Leather Lined, 30/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR A FREE COPY OF
OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (j.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Shear Your Sheep
tHis Season witH a
Little Wonder
A Two-Stand Portable Plant with
2-h.p. Engine, ready
for work, for only
£6O
Can l>e taken to paddock or anywhere
and put to work. Engine can he used
for other work. Starts easy and holds
a record for good, fast shearing. More
installed in Australia last year than all
other makes of two-stand plants
combined.
Write to-day for full particulars.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
THE NIPPON MIDGET ACCORDEON
lllli Musical Novelty, only by 4 by 3
inches. Good Tone. Anyone can pSay
I this prettv little Accordeon by the Special
Figured Tunes. Knowledge of Music
not needed. You simply touch the keys
according to the numbers and you play
anv of the good selection of well-known
Tunes FAILURE IS IMPOSSIBLE.
Anyone-who can read print can play.
Only 2/9, carriage .paid anywhere.
The UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Mclh
Only
2/9
1 with
(Tune*
Mk
mm
,r
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Oflice, Sydney.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—■
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- upwards.
INTEREST paid at 3J per cent, on first
£2OO and 3 per cent, on excess to £5OO.
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE GOV-
ERNMENT.
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest, 5 per
cent.
Branches and Agencies throughout the
State. Post Offices are not now Agencies for
this Bank.
By Order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE '
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198 679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1915) .. £1,195,831
RESERVE FUND .. .. .. £65,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lysaght, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 178,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.;
James Love, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerloa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Qo.
of Sydney, limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,780,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,780,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . ~ Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)ew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £528,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 975,710
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 524,290
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial Mutual [iie
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual ' Life Assurance, Endowments ai’-u
Annuities without Mutual Liability; ah’)
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assuranc'.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office fob New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman,
rbc Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shippings &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA
ORMONDE . . Geared Turbin!
. .Triple-Screw.
ORVIETO . .Twin-Screw .
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO .. „
OTWAY .. ”
ORSOVA .. ’
ORONTES .. „
OMRAH . . ”
ENGLAN JO.
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12,130
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
ous Flt Stlmir h Wi r, e u- S New and luxuri-
Hsteads n blr l e >f' < l e ' luXe; stat e™oms, with
Electric Lit?, ffl
ORIENT S.N. CO., I,td.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITiSH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.). RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
TI J?OUGH BOOIONGS to any pan of
» 9J EUROPE, i„ connection
R.awSlL U ” ,ted Sta " S a " d Canadian
me largest, hnest and newest steamer tradint
between Sydney and San Francisco. J
Pacific Exhibition now open at
Panama
Francisco.
Return Tickets available by various routes
the S padfic!” Stay 24 hOUFS at Papeete > “ The Pearl
Steamers .equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND LTD
259 George Street, Sydney. ’
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports)..
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney August 7.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 11.
Leaves Sydney August 14.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 18.
Leaves Sydney August 21.
MELBOURNE
(Transhippirg for
S.A. and W.A.ports) J
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney August 14.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. Peregrine (3500 tons) leaves Brisbane every
Friday at 8 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at
GLADSTONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting
at TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports
as far as COOIvTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
August 28; Sept. 25; Oct. 23; Nov. 20.
Applyr-OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
SR
l oa,
THURSDAY
v
CAGfiN
V
If
• %
ISBANc
370Nt7
LORD
now t
MELBOURNE
'fIOMDAy-'
Bruises
to Pac/f/c Isles.
BurnsPh/lp& Cpltp
Send for Pamphlet.
TO PAPUA St RABAUI
TO SOLOMON I?
TO NEW HEBRIDES
TO MARSHALL*
TO GILBERT If
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
• .... £3,500,000
• - . . . £2,550,000
- • - £3,500,000
£9,550,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
WIVO .
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORS: —William Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepbeard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office— George St., Bydney. London Office-29 Threadncedle ft., E.C.
346 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and tollected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
offe .rs a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TKOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. .MESTON, Local Director.
Commomvcaltl.'
fdh
Jfianfe ot £taralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
■For all
in the
principal
General Banking: Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum 1
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Saving's Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Gorernor. June, 1915 DENIS MILLER, Governor
m
Splgfydid WiQter ToCirs
TO THE
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
FIJI
Quaint Customs,
Rugged Scenery.
TONGA
Palm-fringed
Coral Islands.
SAMOA
The Gem of the Pacific.
Union Company’B GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at SUVA is NOW OPEN.
PAMPHLETS AND AI.L INFORMATION FROM
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF SEW ZEALAND, LTD.
Shipping. _____ —
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quaensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIIIIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
August 28. (Carrying
First and Second
Saloon and Steerage
Passengers).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
WOLLOWRA, Aug. 7.
-MORIALTA, Aug. 14.
IN NAMING K A Aug. 21.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
In conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” TO ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS :
fTwin-Serew. ’Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe , suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,”
"Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
‘Westralia,
'Wimmera,
'Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between ?
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N.Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ...10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade •
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: — *
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA. &
Combination tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N S. V, ALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE’
rnfi nC L Twee n n eads—steamer to Murwillumbah.'
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company’s un-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa P
ROUND TICKETS. First-class rail' and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d. ”
For Guide and all particulars apply;—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
*9 Market Strezt, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd
Capital Subscribed .. .. • • • • £250,000
Capital Paid up .. •• ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits .. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trustee,
Administrate r or Attorney under Power for' absentees,
and is the only Trustee Company empowered by Act
cl Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
The Hon. Sir CHARLESK.° MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL. Esq.
JAMES lviL»D. Ksq.
R. M. Pi'll. Esa.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
%
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
it with
RAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
w 4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
HEAN’S
ESSENCE
MIXTURE.
COUGH
Simple to Make—
Pleasant to Take.
“ I have used your Hean’s Essence
and find the mixture easy to make and
pleasant to take. It has proven fully
reliable for coughs, colds, and sore
throats.”—Mrs. J. L. Cook, East
Moree, N.S.W.
For tickling coughs, night or day
coughs, sore, inflamed and swollen
throats, croup, bronchitis, whooping
cough or asthma Hean’s Essence is
immediately comforting. Try it and
see how quickly it soothes the throat,
removes phlegm, and heals sore lungs.
One bottle of Hean’s Essence makes
a very big bottle of splendid cough
mixture. Just follow the easy direc-
tions on each bottle. It is as simple
as preparing a cup of tea, while the
saving for your pocket is loj- for each
pint used.
Hean’s Essence is genuine. Sold by
chemists and stores, or post free on receipt of
price, 2/-, from G. W. Hean, Chemist, 178
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Be sure you get
H-E-A-N-’S. 14-15
HOW TO GET RID OF YOUR
GREY HAIR
A Simple, Sura, Harmless Treatment
which can be used at home with
complete success. Age no obstacle.
COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS
FREE
I AM A WOMAN who belongs to a prematurely
grey haired family. My father was grey before he
was 30, and two of my brothers as well as my sister
became grey early in life. Before the age of 25 * I
developed grey hairs, which became Quite embar-
rassing to me - socially, and also in business. I
LOST THREE GOOD POSITIONS for no other reason
than my fading hair. The greyness increased with
alarming rapidity, and at 28 I LOOKED LIKE A
WOMAN OF 45. One day I was seriously thinking
of buying one of the many Grey Hair Restorers
that are extensively advertised, when I casually
mentioned the subject, to an acquaintance —a scien-
rm
tine man, and, as I after-
wards learnt, a great
student of the t he-
mistry of the Hair.
He strongly ad-
vised me to have
nothing what-
ever to do with
these concoc-
tions. He poin-
ted out that
SUCH PREPAR-
ATIONS EVENT-
UALLY RUINED
THE HAIR and
in the meantime
rarely deceived
even the casual
observer. He sug-
gested that I try a
lormu'a that he had
perfected after a con-
siderable time, which,
. by a certain chemical
action on the pigmentary colouring cells restored
the hair to its normal colour. In repW to my en-
quiries, he assured me that the formula was not
only absolutely harmless, but would develop A
STRONG AND BEAUTIFUL GROWTH OF HAIR. My
friend wrote out his prescription, whiah I had made-
up, and after carefully following the instructions for
a few days, I was surprised and delighted to find mv
hair becoming richer and darker in tone. The re-
colouring process continued until after some few
weeks my hair actually once again possessed the
natural shade of my girlish days. Since then I HAVE
SEEN INUNDATED WITH ENQUIRIES from friends
and also persons unknown to me, who came to hear
of this wonderful preparation. Having become con-
vinced that I have found A REMEDY OF EXTRA-
ORDINARY MERIT, and which is quite harmless, I
have resolved to offer it for sale, as I am certain
from my own experience that it will prove an ines-
timable boon to any man or woman who finds grey
hair to be the same serious handicap it was to me.
It is a Guaranteed Genuine Preparation, and I
OFFER A REWARD OF £lOO if it will not re-colour
Grey Hair to Original, Natural Shade.
If you are interested in this wonderful prepa-
ration I am willing to send you COMPLETE IN-
STRUCTIONS FREE
under plain sealed
;over. Simply write
pour name and full ad-
FREE
dress plainly and enclose 2 stamps for postage, and I
will write you by return pos f , or if convenient call.
Mrs. MARY K. CHAPMAM
Suit'- as Lind n Court. SIDNEY
V
ww
do
fdh
stand
for?
I stand for
Quality,
Simplicity,
Durability—
in other words, I stand for
Tyres.
(The fame us French make)
MICHELIN TYRES AND ACCESSORIES
can be obtained from all the leading Agents#
G. f .
Watermans(Ideai)RuntainPen
fd
Held in highest esteem.
Waterman’s Ideal has millions of
friends all over the civilised world, and
many are the tributes that have been
paid to it. At the front it- is held in
the highest esteem for its simplicity,
durability, and absolute reliability.
As a token of regard for military or civilian
friends no better gift can be chosen. Send
the “ Safety ” type.
4 TYP£S—Regular, Safety, Self-Filling, Pump-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Jt |kn (fm’ntt, London, England.
AUSTRALIA—3SO, George St., Sydney.
hf
■
HHBK
% i
wm
ISf
m
DWELLED. GUARANTEED.
c
'
HORLICK'S
MALTEDI
milkH
FOR ALL AGES
Horlick’s Malted Milk
is more beneficial than
tea, coffee or cocoa,
and is the best food
for invalids, dyspep-
tics, and those who
are below par. Ask
fpr Horlick’s at the
Soda Fountain.
MAUEDHILK
"»«« MU* »P^
.^jgy»iA<
K'.»^
i.-g» mamtip f~-
Hotels, &c.
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNU It and LOUNGE'BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH. Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


FINNEY’S PAY THE CARRIAGE.
This is not only the
Newest
but quite the Smartest!
§£.
And with the new Spring “Shorter”
Skirt Fashions, Shoes are more im-
portant—a feature of good, correct
dressing.
The
"Salome Shoe
as
illustrated,
hfd
POST
FREE
a High-grade, Patent, Colt Shoe, decor-
ated with Brilliant Ornament on Ankle
Band. Fitted with high, wooden heel.
FINNEY’S,
The Big Block, BRISBANE.
CENTIPEDES TO CURE SORE THROAT.
A powdered centipede made up in butter was the
favorite remedy for sore throat in seventeenth-cen-
tury England. Nowadays the most effective and
pleasant cure for sore’ throat is Formauiint, the
throat tablet. Thousands of doctors prescribe it, and
it is also widely used as a preventive of infectious
diseases. Buy a bottle at your chemist’s to-day,
.price 2/6.*
WHEN
IN
STAY AT
GRESHAM
o' ST e*
BUSINESS MEN
Look now if your Office Stationery is marked
with the KOLOK trademark.
If not it should be, for it’s the BEST
AND IT’S BRITISH.
The Kolok Typewriter Carbons, Pen
and Pencil Carbons, Typewriter
Ribbons and Economy Binder are
all made in London by the Kolok Manu-
facturing Co.
No man in Queensland is doing better
work on the Defence and munitions question
than Professor A. J. Gibson. The fact that
Brisbane generally and the engineering pro-
fession in particular are waking up to
Bananaland’s duties and capabilities in this
matter is largely due to Gibson’s energy and
enthusiasm.
With Might on both sides Right holds the
balance, and the triumph of the Allies is
certain, as is that of the Royal brand, King
George VI. top-notch Scotch.*
Editorship
Queensland “Worker”
Applications invited for the position
of Editor, Queensland Worker.
Salai-y, Four Hundred and Sixteen Pounds
(£416) per annum. Applicants to state
qualifications and be willing to serve proba-
tion period 'of three months. Applications
must-reach undersigned not later than 24th
August next.
ALBERT HINCHCLIFFE,
Business Manager,
Queensland Worker,
Brisbane.
IN
BANANA LAND
“P.F.” : What stories some of these men
could tell! I have just passed in the street
J. G. Macdonald, fii-st squatter, then P.M.,
and “Visiting Justice” to-day. Fifty years
ago last month it was since this courageous
pioneer published an account of his explor-
ing trip from Port Denison to Carpentaria;
and he was a hardened bushman, full of ex-
periences, even in 1865.
A Bi’isbane soldier back from the Dar-
danelles tells how a man of his company,
having been shot thi’ough the stomach, suf-
fered such agony that he begged his mates
to despatch him. As none of them would
do so, he crawled away, climbed on the
parapet of his trench, and exposed himself
to the Turkish fire, which was incessant. It
was two hours before his mates could get
hold of him, and in that time he did not
receive a scratch. The mercy of the mock-
ing Fates!
That Bananaland’s loan moneys will
peter out about December next, and that
further loan-i’aising in Britain is virtually
impossible, doesn’t worry the bucolic
Queenslander very badly. Requests for new
lines are still pouring in wholesale, despite
that Bi’itain’s available loan money is
going up in smoke at the l’ate of three
millions a day, and that the States have
been warned that no advances for public
works will be authorised until the full extent
of the war-requirements is known.
Some people take their duty in war time
seriously enough. A young fellow named
Hart shot himself at Strathpine (North
Coast line) because he had been rejected
when he applied for enlistment. Hart cer-
tainly had one qualification. He could shoot
—and shoot to kill, as he quite successfully
demonstrated.
“Politicus”; A Royal Commission is to
inquire into the working of the Queensland
Public Sei’vice. Does anyone expect any
practical result? The only .Queensland Royal
Commission that ever did its work effectively
was one appointed to inquire into the liquor
question 20 years ago. It went north, south,
east and west; it sampled the liquor in every
pub it encountered; it kept sober when it
could, and got drunk when it couldn’t, and
then embodied its views, visions, suggestions
and serpents in a Report of 1100 pages which
remains untouched- and unread to this day.
Ihe results otherwise were nil. Which was
exactly what it was intended they should be.
It is mentioned by a Brisbane daily as an
alarming fact and a sign of unprecedented
times that meat frozen for the London
market is detained and retailed in Brisbane.
But in 1901 you could see meat frozen in
Maoi'iland sold in Brisbane shops; maize
grown in the Argentine sold in Brisbane
markets; prickly pear raised on the; Downs
dragged down in railway trucks to feed Bris-
bane dairy cattle. This is by no means the
first spell of bad times in Bananaland, and
the only people who try to persuade them-
selves that it will be the last are those who
don’t want to put by any of the fruits of the
good times as they come along.
NO IMMEDIATE DANGER.
C OHEN: “Heavens! A fearful thought strikes me. I believe I haf left the safe open in
der shop.”
MRS. COHEN: “Veil, vot’s der matter? Ve're all here, aind’t we?”
The Queensland Leg. Council has ,pow
got so far advanced in its dotage that it
can’t even toddle together to form a
quorum. This is as it should be. There
should be no Fossils and no quorum.
Ethel Willett, who lectured with much
acceptance in Bi’isbane some yeai’s ago, is to
trip round the schools on a .tour of
instruction in the gentle arts of thrift and
domestic economy. Queensland passes its
debts on to the kids, and so it proposes, quite
logically, that they shall be taught how to
hump the bui’den.
“ J.N.C.”: Lieut.-Col. Bi’aund, mentioned
Bulletin 22/7/Y5) as having won the
D. 5.0., first saw active service during the-
Boer scuffle. He fought in 1900-01 in-'
Rhodesia, Transvaal, Orange River Colony
and Cape Colony, and as mementoes of the
occasion he values a Queen’s Medal with five
clasps.
Queensland is at present getting another
instalment of the long, expensive farce built
upon the struggle to make ports where
Nature long ago decided that no port
should be. The scene this time is Rock-
hampton, which is praying Commissioner
Evans to take over the Port Alma railway
line, uproot Broadmount, and release the
town from the expense of maintaining the
white elephant. Evans is likely to agree
that the thing is hopeless, and pull up the
line and use as much of it as he can else-
where.
“E.N.M.” rediscovers a Vigorous Austra-
lian :
There is at least one Government department in
Australia that is run on up-to-date, sensible, hon-
est and fair lines; and all parties concerned, from
the State Treasurer down to the newest boy in the
service, find it a good place to be connected
with. This is the Government Printing Office, Bris-
bane, ruled over by Anthony James Gumming, for-
merly of Sydney Stak and Sunday Sun, and before
that of Scotland. Cumming’s remarkable person-
ality pervades and dominates everything and every-
body he handles on behalf of the State that employs
him. When he came to Brisbane, in 1908, the old
Government Printing Office was the scoff and alms-
house of the public service. Cumming took one
look at the thing, then collared his axe and chopped
the ruin to pieces. After that he carefully selected
the finest available site—which happened to be
alongside the Lands Office and nearly opposite the
Public Library—and began to build, equip, organise
and teach to his big limit. To-day the visitor to
Brisbane will find the Government Printer’s Office
at least as big as the Lands Office, and still growing;
and if Cumming stops there another five or 10 years
he will probably have built clean over the top of the
Lands Office and all about the lawn in front of the
Public Library. Incidentally, the office is now the
home of James Edmond’s celebrated Seven Devils.
There are two on top of the front parapet; three
more at the back ; a very big fellow over the arch
of the main entrance —and the Seventh Devil lives
on top of the big safe in A. J. Cumming’s own office.
They are stone devils, vigorously done, and quite
affable in aspect (as devils must be, if they are to
succeed in life) ; each with a carven shield held in
front of him to hide his paunch. This State printery
is the largest in the Commonwealth; it does work
for nearly all the other States; it successfully com-
petes with that knowing old soldier, Private Enter-
prise; and last year it cleared £16,000 odd for the
Treasury—and an office which is and does all that
and a great deal more is not to be sneezed at. Even
Holman might learn a lesson from Cumming in
How to Make a Thing Pay under State Management.
They were all heroes —soldiers and Red
Cross men and chaplains. It is, strangely
perhaps, a chaplain to whose memory Driver
Scanlan, a well-known Bi’isbane boxer, takes
off his forage cap with the profoundest ad-
miration. His letter: —
When Father Finn was appealed to not to leave
the ship he replied: “A priest’s place is beside the
dying soldier.” He stepped on to the gangway and
immediately a bullet struck him in the chest.
.Undeterred he made his way across the lighters and
received another bullet in the thigh and another in
the leg. By the time he reached the beach he was
riddled with bullets.... It was while he was in the
act of attending to the spiritual requirements of his
men that his head was shattered by shrapnel.
There has been no frenzied rush for the
Gregory seat. At least three city aspirants
for the soft snap have developed cold feet
before closing time. The Labor plebiscite
will deal with a grocer, a cab proprietor, a
shearer, two A.W.U. organisers, and Jimmy
Magoffin, the Labor squatter and owner of
two stations. The betting favors one of the
organisers, though Magoffin has an outside
chance. At the recent elections Bill Hamil-
ton (now in the Leg. Council) got the ver-
dict without opposition. The seat will
almost certainly go by default this time.
A German Calendar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
August.
Russ is the foe that we deeply detest,
Barbarous, ignoi’ant, whiskered he goes ;
Hew him to bits as a plague and a pest,
Unworthy to number as one of our foes.
September.
Belgium! The midget that rose in our
way—
Teutons, curse now with unanimous
breath ;
Cut up the Belgian in field and in fry ;
Hurl him to ruin and drive him to death.
October.
England! O England, the bane of our race!
Smug and perfidious, concealing her mind ;
Smite her and tear her from Empire and
grace,
Blot out her name from the book of man-
kind !
November.
France is our enemy ! Soaked in black guile,
Preaching revanche to the lofty and low,
Luring the nations with prostitute wile,
Everywhere breeding for Deutschland a
foe!
May.
Italy! Down with the ci’ow on the fence,
Watching the way that the battle will run.
Curse her and crush her and banish her
hence;
Carrion unworthy of Germany’s sun.
Envoi.
This is the challenge our people must fling
If they would bide to their Fatherland
true;
Every fresh morning this chorus must ring—-
“Off with the old Hate and on with the
new!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 31, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Our vice-regal luxuries were at Rosewood
this week adding tone to the Show. Prior
to their departure from headquarters the}'
assisted at the annual meetings of the Chil-
dren’s Hospital and the Lady Lamington
Hospital. On Tuesday his Ex. was a grass
widower at Sampson’s Orchestral Concert,
and faced Beethoven’s Choral Symphony with
that British courage and determination
which will yet win a way to Constantinople.
The Cr&che and Kindergarten Association
treated its friends to a party on Friday in
order to welcome home Mrs. Denham and
farewell Mrs. Pagan. The latter was a
melancholy rite because Mrs. Pagan is going
north (her husband has been made chief of
the northern section of railways), and as
you know, my deal’, the North picks one’s
bones in the flush of health and the heyday
of youth.
“The Man Who Stayed at Home” has been
at Her Majesty’s during the week explaining
to sympathetic and crowded audiences why
he did it. As a set-off Colonel Lyster, one-
time Commandant of the State, delivered a
recruiting speech on Monday night in the
theatre during an interval; but his remarks
were presently counted-out, whereupon the
genial Colonel took the tip and cut them
off at the meter. So far, nobody has sug-
gested that we ought to shut up all theatres
to punish the few people who made the noise.
All through the evening a Wagnerian
chorus of coughs filled the house, and at times
almost drowned the soliloquies of the spy
detector. Wherever men from the camp are
gathered together there is incipient bronchitis
in their midst. They call it the Liverpool
cough in Sydney, I believe. It’s the Enog-
gera cough here.
On Tuesday night a conversazione was
held at Palace Gardens, Miss Hunter-Watts
and Harrington Reynolds being the guests of
honor. To-night, in the midst of a heavy
and most unexpected thunderstorm, the Rey-
nolds co. is opening its season with “Mrs.
Dane’s Defence.” Some of the frocks Miss
Watts is wearing are calculated to make
any woman boil with envy. And that’s what
frocks are for, isn’t it?
To-day the Public Service entertained the
public in aid of Patriotic Funds. In the
afternoon there were sports at the South
Brisbane Cricket Ground, and at night a
concert at the Exhibition. All seats were
booked days ago, but the rain kept them
empty.
The Brisbane Patriotic Comic Opera Co.
commenced to play to-night, at the Tivoli,
“The Stenographer Girl.” Eric John conn
posed the music, and a Maorilander
named Stewart Brown “did” the book.
Fred Monument’s fine baritone had much
fat” throughout the piece; Lottie Richter
sang delightfully and looked charming ; and
Tessy Mulcahy, who has hitherto aired her
rich contralto only on the concert platform,
surprised even her admirers by the
way she managed the numbers that came
her way, and by her easy stage manner. It
is a bright little opera and has a really
plot.
The Brisbane Caledonian Society held its
annual saraband in the Centennial Hall on
Tuesday night. The proceeds go to the
Wounded Soldiers’ Fund-—which is quite a
habit with proceeds these days.
There is a distinctly annoyed woman in
Brisbane. Her son is somewhere in Gal-
lipoli, and fond mamma sent him a bundle
of foot-gloves, singlets, etc. An official in
Cairo has now written to her to say that
the millinery has arrived, and concluding.
“What are we to do with it?” When I met
the lady she was careering to the cable office
to wire the intelligent clerk, “Frame it and
hang it in the drawing-room;”
Arthur Leslie, of Sandgate, is a proud
man. lie has one son, a big, handsome lad
of about 22, who has just gone into camp.
He would have gone there at the beginning
of the trouble, but he was twice rejected
by the medical men, and each time under-
went an operation so that he could satisfy
them. He is now pronounced quite fit.
and is busy learning how to stuff Turkey
with raw bayonet.
Yet another pressman has decided that the
pen is not as mighty as the sword. He is
Jim Taylor, of the Courier, son of “Dicky”
Taylor, one of the most popular pressmen
in Bi-isbane.
Vida Pelham. Clayton was manned to
Cedric Douglas, of Barcaldine, on Wednes-
day evening. A sunbrowned youth named
Armstrong was the groom’s off-sider aim
Phyllis Pelham Clayton was bridesmaid.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


Model 80
5-Passenger Touring Car,
£.395
hfd
Model 81
5-Passenger Touring Car,
£.345
Finest Electrical Equipment
THE Overland is supplied with the
most advanced and efficient two unit
11 electrical system.
An electric motor starts the car.
An electric Generator furnishes current
for the motor and the lights.
Motor and generator are separate
machines. Each does its work more
efficiently than a machine which serves
both purposes.
A high-tension magneto furnishes
ignition. No uncertain and troublesome
dry batteries are required.
There is a full-toned electric horn.
The entire electrical equipment is
controlled by buttons on the steering post.
The buttons, placed in the most con-
venient position, are reached without even
leaning forward.
The Overland is as completely satis-
factory in point of electrical equipment as
it is in point of beauty, comfort, economy,
safety and durability. These qualities ary
guaranteed by the fact that the Overland is
made entirely by the tremendous Willys-
Overland organisation. It is not an
“ assembled ” car. Every part is made by
our own workmen under our own direction.
Inspection may be made at the local
showrooms.
SPECIFICATIONS—MODEL 80.
Silent, powerful motor
Instrument board on cowl dash
Individual front seats, high backs
Tonneau, long and wide
Genuine leather upholstery, deep & soft
Windshield, rain-vision, ventilating type,
built in
Crowned fenders
Electric starter—Electric lights
High-tension magneto
Thermo-syphon cooling
Five-bearing crankshaft
Rear axle, floating type
Springs, rear, 94 elliptic, extra long,
underslung
Wheelbase 114 inches (289.56 c.m.)
Large tyres, 35 x 4 inches
Beautiful dark-green body finish, with
ivory striping; nickel and aluminium
trimmings
Demountable, detachable rims one
extra
Right-hand drive
Electric engine starter and generator;
electric head, side, dash and tail
lamps; storage battery; mohair top
and top boot; top curtain box; wind-
shield; speedometer; electric horn;
robe rail; foot rest; tyre-carrier in
rear; full set of tools; tyre-repair kit,
jack and pump.
AUSTRALIA:
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
THE CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., 45 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., 60 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., 1056 Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HE AT HORN & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
NEW ZEALAND ;
HAT RICK & CO., Wellington and Wanganui.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OP. ASSOCIATION, Christchurch
MODEL 80
The Willys-Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio, US.A.
Manufacturers of the famous Overland Delivery Cars. Full information on request.


For All Conditions of Service
and every clasc of work there is a B.T.H. ELECTRIC MOTOR which possesses
just the required characteristics.
BRITISH
CB<
T-H
MADE
Totally Enclosed Type D.H. Motor
Commutator End.
SHI
m
Protected Type D.H. Motor —Commutator End.
ELECTRIC MOTORS
are the outcome of years of experience in the design and manufacture
of electrical apparatus, and embody workmanship and material of the
highest quality.
B.T.H. Electric Motors, for both alternating and direct current,
are so designed that by simply adding suitable covers which are
trifling in cost they can be converted from protected into totally
enclosed or drip=proof types in a few seconds.
This feature enables the motor to be quickly and inexpensively
modified to suit changing conditions when alterations are being made
in the workshop.
B.T.H. Electric Motors are low in first cost and inexpensive to
maintain, require the minimum of attention, and are capable of
dealing with heavy overloads.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BULLETIN.
0
“ Mazda House,’ ’ Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY,
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
—Agents
“Mazda House,’’ Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver. Ltd.. MacQuarie Street. Hobart
DINNEFORDS
=7d
p.gH7i;mfc
INNEFORD'S
Magnesia
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
m
WIND THIS WATCH
ONCE A WEEK
Forgetful men should find this EIGHT-DAY
Watch a handy, useful companion. The
spring is extra-long, and will run for EIGHT
days at one winding—thus eliminating the
usual nightly wind. The Movement is
beautifully made and finished—with compen-
sation balance —handsome, enamelled dial—-
Keyless wind —fitted into a strong Nickel
Case. This Eight-day Watch commands 22/6
everywhere in the City—Our policy of buying
direct from the maker enabling us to sell it
at
IT/6j Post Free,
Write for Catalogue To-niglit.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
h
It has the
Patent Gooseneck
Tone Arm-
The “Cinch”
Zonophone
The “Cinch” goes everywhere—because ii
pleases everyone.
In the city home, on the selection, in the
shearing shed, aboard the launches —because
it is so compact, being hornless, and because
its tone is clear and full.
You’d save its cost in the first month because
you’d then get most of your entertainment
at HOME.
Ask your nearest dealer to play it over.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name
of nearest dealer on request.
£4
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
165 Pitt Street SYDNEY.


Benger’s Is
natural food entire-
ly free from any
chemical substance
whatsoever.
X
It is different
from all other
foods in being
scientifically
combined with
natural diges-
tive principles.
■
A
Food
is prepared for child, invalid,
or aged person, with fresh new milk,
and in course of preparation, both
the Food and the milk are pariiaJly
digested, as desired.
This unique feature enables Benger's Food
to be assimilated under almost all conditions
of illness and digestive disorder,
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere .
An interesting booklet explaining how Benger’s Food ‘assists NatureP
for Invalids ana Convalescents, post f ee from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER,Eng.
Branch Offic■ s :
NEW YORK (U.S Ad 92, William St. SYDNEY (N.S.W.) 117, Pitt St.
Canadian B gents —Nat'o al Drug Si Chemical Co., Ltd., 34, St.
Gabriel St., MONT REAL, and branches throughout CAN AD A.
KITZS
CIDER
Interstate Agents. —SYDNEY : Tucker & Co. ;
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co. ; ADELAIDE:
W. P. Auld & Co.; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co. ; GERALDTCN: A. H. Mountain & Co. ;
HOBART : J. Ferguson & Co. ; LAUNCESTON :
J. McKenzie & Co.; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M.
Heddrick & Co.
5 aimed shots in
21 seconds
The choice of your rifle and am-
munition help to decide the success
of the hunting trip you have planned
• 280 Calibre
High. Velocity •
4
><?
for months.
To see game, after you
have hunted it for days
and anticipated it for
months,and have your shot
drop short, or your bullet
whizz over it, or pass
through without bringing
it down—these are keen
disappointments. With
the Ross .280 and the Ross
sporting ammunition with
copper tube expanding
bullet (patented) you have
the best combinatiom to
ensure the success of your
hunting trip.
Rossßifles
Ross Sporting Rifles are
used by the most exper-
ienced cf big game hunters
all over the world.
Full illustrated Catalogue on request.
Ross Rifle Co.,Quebec, Canada.
515
For PATRIOTIC DISPLAYS
HIRE YOUR COSTUME FROM
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY
COSTUME CO.
whose characters are handsomely and completely
finished in every detail, whether dressed for FANCY-
DRESS BALLS, OPERAS, PLAYS, AMATEUR
THEATRICALS, CARNIVALS, or CHILDREN’S
FAIRY PLAYS.
Ladies’ Hairdressing and all kinds of hair work,
wig 3, beards, moustaches, grease-paint, and make-up
material at
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO.,
1.0.0. F. Temple, Elizabeth Street
(opposite Mark Foy’s), SYDNEY.
V
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARAUIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used."
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price X/- and 2 16.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
r. A
m
Commonwealth of Australia £5,000,000 4-| Per Cent. War Lean, 1925
PRICE OP ISSUE, PAR.
THE LOAN IS VO BE UTILISED FOB WAR PURPOSES ONLY, AND WILL TAKE FORM OF
EITHER INSCRIBED STOCK OR TREASURY BONDS, AT OPTION OF SUBSCRIBER,
Both CAPITAL and INTEREST will be a CHARGE on the CONSOLIDATED REVENUE of the COM-
MONWEALTH. FREE of STAMP DUTY and INTEREST FREE OF INCOME TAX.
Will be accepted at PAR in payment of Commonwealth PROBATE and SUCCESSION DUTY.
The Stock is an authorised TRUSTEE INVESTMENT.
TREASURY BONDS issued in denominations of £lO, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO, or STOCK
INSCRIBED in multiples of £lOO.
INTEREST payable HALF-YEARLY, free of Exchange, at any Branch of the Commonwealth Bank
of Australia. A FULL HALF-YEAR’S INTEREST WILL BE PAID ON 15th DECEMBER, 1915.
Loan REPAYABLE at PAR at any STATE CAPITAL on 15th DECEMBER, 1925.
INSTALMENTS payable as follows:—£10 per cent, on Application.
£l5 per cent on 15 th September, 1915.
£2O per cent on 15th October, 1915.
£25 per cent, on 15th November, 1915.
£3O per cent, on 30th November, 1915.
ANY OR ALL OF THE INSTALMENTS MAY BE PREPAID.
APPLICATIONS must be accompanied by a DEPOSIT of £lO PER CENT., and will be received at
any Branch of the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, or may be forwarded through Head
Offices and Branches of ANY BANK, or any recognised STOCKBROKER, or any POST OFFICE where
Money Order Business is conducted. INSTALMENTS payable through the same sources.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, 24th July, 1915.
Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained from any Bank or
Post Office as above, or THIS FORM MAY BE USED.
FORM OF APPLICATION.
To tub COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
I
We hereby apply for pounds £ of
Commonwealth of Australia 44 per cent. War Loan, 1925, according to the Prospectus of the 24th July,
1915, and hereby engage to pay instalments due thereon according to the terms of the Prospectus.
The sum of £ , being the amount of the required deposit (namely 10 per cent.
of amount applied for) is enclosed herewith,* and also £ in payment
of Instalments.
Signature
Name of Applicant in full
Communications to be addressed to
(State Mr., Mrs., or Miss.)
At
Date 1915.
Cheques should be crossed “NOT NEGOTIABLE,” and will be accepted free of exchange.
Applications must be accompanied by the amount of deposit thereon.
If Treasury Bonds are required, state here the number and denominations which are desired.
@ £lO @ £lOO @ £5OO. @ £lOOO.
Total, £
m
rhree little merry maids are we,
Winsome, gay, lighthearted, tree.
Hear our bright and merry talk,
Note our light and springy walk,
Rosy cheeks and sunny curls
We’re the Iron ‘ Jellold ’ Girls 1
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
I
Miss J. F. Dubery, Southall , writes : —“I find your Iron ‘Jelloids ’
“a great boon, being so easy to take, and so palatable. I always take Iron
“ ‘Jelloids’ as soon as I feel a bit J run-down,’ and after taking a few I feel
“ a marked change ; it is a splendid form of taking Iron.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/1 i and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
mTtUt
Crcathead
Remedy
roua SOM THROAT
b3@S3&
mmM
MIXTURE
—
Famous
over
40
Y ears
Winter malad es assail you at all t.mes and in all
p aces. GREATHEAD’S MIXTURE, however,
L known as a most potent remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS. SORE THROATS,
INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, Etc., Etc.
Tonic as well as a remedy.——Sold everywhere.
Buy
Your
Bottle
To-day
LJOs/oGt
THERE is generally one pair of shoes that is
remembered as having been just right. They lock: 1
well, they wore well, they fitted well. Every
woman must have had such a pair, which she remem-
bers with pleasant regret and hopes by some happy
chance to match again. She can do so by securing
her right size in Bostock. The fitting - proper-
ties of these shoes are so excellent that one
feels at home and comfortable in them from
the first day of wear: the styles are particu-
larly up to date and delightful, as the present
model goes to prove. Bostock shoes are
obtainable at all the best stores —and are un-
mistakable, the name Bostock being stamped
on every pair.
■ :
■
Bostock No.
P63BS
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1907.. £1940 12 p.c. = £9OO £lO4O £12,178
June, 1908.. 1980 10 „ „ 750 1230 13,408
Dec., 1908.. 1957 12 „ „ 900 1057 14,465
June, 1909.. 1507 10 „„ 750 757 15,222
Dec., 1909.. 1421 12 „ „ 900 521 15,743
June, 1910.. 1351 10 „ „ 760 601 16,344
Dec., 1910.. 1913 12 ~ „ 900 1013 17,357
June, 1911.. 1826 10 „ „ 750 1076 18,433
Dec., 1911.. 1907 12 ~ „ 900 1007 19,440
Tnno iqio J 1838 10 ~ ~ 750 1088 I cog
June, 1912..-j Transferred to capital, £5OOO f 1 ’
Dec., 1912.. 1732 12 p.c. = 1200 532 16,060
June, 1913.. 1528 10 „ „ 1000 528 16,588
Dec., 1913.. 1758 12 „ „ 1200 558 17,146
June, 1914.. 1610 10 „ „ 1000 610 17,756
Dee., 1914.. 1878 12 „ „ 1200 678 18,434
June, 1915.. 1488 10 „ „ 1000 488 18,922
The Ballarat co. is doubtless interested in
the administration of many pastoral and
agricultural properties; and there hasn’t
been much commission to be earned from
that source this year. However, the future
should be all right, for the prospects of Aus-
tralian rural industries are excellent, and
the war isn’t likely to do them much, if any,
harm. The trust funds in hand at the end
of June were £1,941,590, as compared with
£1,817,893 12 months previously. As regards
the co.’s own funds, paid capital is £20,000,
and there is another £30,000 callable, and
the reserves almost equal the paid capital.
Liabilities are nil. The funds (capital and
reserves) are represented by cash £1943 and
public securities of no less than £34,675, and
war will have no bad effect on the interest
earnings of those assets. From the share-
holders’ point of view, the position is very
comfortable. The public securities alone
should bring in about 6 p.c. on the capital,
and the commissions and other income have
even in the past shockingly bad year pro-
duced another 10 p.c. or so. Looking at
it from the clients’ side, the £30,000 of call-
able capital and the large holding of gilt-
edged securities make things equally comfort-
able.
* * # #
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship
Co., Ltd. (Sydney) : —-
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£> £>£>£>
Dec., ’OB.. 16,551 10 p.c. = 4,400 12,151 20,659
June, ’09.. 13,335 10 „ „ 4,400 8,935 29,594
Transferred to capital, £17,601 .. 11,993
Dec., ’09.. 11,341 10 p.c. = 4,840 6,501 18,494
June, ’lO.. 13,280 10 „ 5,280 8,000 26,494
Dec., ’lO.. 18,971 13* „ „ 7,040 11,931 38,425
June, ’ll.. 24,477 13* „ „ 7,040 17,437 55,862
Dec., ’ll.. 23,861 13* „ „ 7,040 16,821 72,683
Transferred to capital, £52,803 . . 19,880
June, ’12.. 19,245 13* p.c. = 10,561 8,684 28,564
Dec., ’12.. 23,705 13* „ „ 10,561 13,144 41,708
June, ’13.. 21,405 13* „ „ 10,561 10,844 52,552
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £52,803 .. 251
Reserves.
Dec., ’13.. 54,765 13* p.c. = 14,081 40,684 40.433
June, ’14.. 18,606 13* „ „ 14,081 4,525 44,958
Dec., ’14.. 19,791 13* „ „ 14,081 5,710 50,668
June, ’15.. 17,210 13* „ „ 14,081 3,129 53,797
The profits for the past year have been dis-
posed of as follows :
Dividends . ; .. ..£28,162
Dividend Equalisation Reserve 7,500
Steamers’ Insurance Fund .. 4,403
£40,035
Less reduction in P. and L.
balance .. .. £2,400
Ditto Public Risk Fund . . 664
— 3,064
Profit for year .. .. £37,001
The Bulletin won’t swear that that is all
profit. The amount added to an insurance
fund, for instance, may be merely accumu-
lations of premium towards meeting a risk
which is still current, though pretty often a
steamers’ insurance fund is a stocking into
which a co. drops profits which seem a bit
in excess of a fair thing. The true profits for
the year may, therefore, be less than £37,001.
On the other hand, they may be more,
because the co. doesn’t tell you what profit
it has written off ostensibly against depre-
ciation, and the amount thus put by may be
far more than the case calls for. Look at
this
Dec.,’l3. Dec.,’l4. June,’ls.
Assets other than steamers,
freehold and plant .. £70,737 £85,407 £96,207
Liabilities 2,247 1,509 1,021
Surplus liquid assets.. £68,490 £83,898 £95,186
According to the first table the reserves have
grown by £13.364 in 18 months. That is to
Bay, the visible profits (including reserved
profits) have been that much in excess of
dividends. But the facts are that the earn-
ings of the co- during this period have (1)
paid the dividends, (2) provided for all re-
pairs and additions to the fleet, and (3)
allowed of a lay-by of £26 246 in cash and
liquid assets. A trifle of that money may
have come from the sale of assets; but there
is no trace of it.
And that would be by no means an excep-
tional experience- In 11 years the only
money got in for shares has been through the
exchange of a trifle of debenture debt for
£4335 of capital at 100 p.c. premium. In
that period, apart from this trifle, the pro-
fits have'not only provided the dividends and
a fleet of very fine boats, but have allowed the
co. to also put by £93,000 of hard cash. It
is an amazing performance. And there is no
indication of anything approaching a col-
lapse. Bad times will no doubt peel some
of the gilt off the gingerbread ; but the regu-
lar Manly traffic is now a big thing, apart
altogether from the picnic business. Any-
way, the gingerbread had so many layers of
gilt on it that it could lose a good deal and
still be heavily gilded. The biggest risk the
co. faces is of a possible smash, involving
heavy claims for damages. How disastrous
such things may be you can tell from the
fact that a couple of recent Victorian rail-
way accidents ran away with about a quarter
of a million.
*‘ltan”: In Australia they sit round and
bark their offers foy wool in all sorts of
tongues. In Denmark they sell millions of
eggs by machinery and never a word is
spoken. The bidder presses a button in front
of his seat in the arena, and this tells the
tale on a dial beside the man in the seller’s
rostrum. He replies to the highest bidder
on another dial, which seals the offer for the
consignment.


Missing Friends.
JABEZ BEDFORD, DECEASED.
■VT ESTOR BEDFORD (a son of the
Jji above-named), who emigrated to Aus-
tralia many years ago, and who was last
heard of in Melbourne in 1910, is requested
to communicate at once with Mr. F. W.
Livesey, Solicitor, 16 John Dalton Street,
Manchester, England.
SMITH. —Edmond, son of Thomas and
Margaret Smith, and brother of the late
Reverend Michael Smith, of Chiltern, Vic-
toria, supposed to have left Sydney about
1913 for Queensland, will hear of something
to his advantage by communicating with
National Trustees Company, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
In the Estate of George Bond Seyfang,
Deceased.
WILL JESSIE ELIZABETH SEY-
FANG, granddaughter of the above-
named deceased, or any person knowing the
whereabouts of Jessie Elizabeth Seyfang,
please communicate with
HARWELL & HAGUE,
Solicitors,
Port Pirie,
South Australia.
TO WILLIAM LYNCH (son of DANIEL and MARY
t LYNCH), who was born in NEW ZEALAND,
educated in New South Wales, subsequently went to
London and Ireland, and thereafter to America,. and
was last heard of at San Francisco about 10 years
ago, and to all persons claiming by, through or
under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of the Honorable
Frederick R. Chapman, a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, under Section 25 of The
Public • Trust Office Amendment Act 1913, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the undersigned on
or before the Ist February, 1916, your claim to part
of the estate of MARY ANN LYNCH, late of Auck-
land, New Zealand, Spinster, deceased, who died on
the 18th May, 1911, intestate, failing which such
estate will be distributed among the persons entitled
thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 24th day of July, 1915.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
■Wellington, New Zealand.
i Government Notices.
Commonwealth of Australia.
NOTICE.
{War Precautions Act 1914-1915.)
RETURNS OF FOODSTUFFS, ETC.,
To be furnished to the Commonwealth
Attorney-General, Melbourne.
IT is hereby notified that all persons, firms,
or companies who or which, at any time
after the date hereof, hold stocks of, or have
at any time since the. Ist day of July, 1915,
held stocks of any of the undermentioned
commodities in. not less , than the. minimum
quantities set out below, must immediately
furnish in-writing to the Secretary,. Attor-
ney-General’s Department, Commonwealth
Offices, Melbourne, their full names and
postal addresses, and also the ' names of the
commodities of which they hold stocks.
already furnished to the . Commonwealth
Attorney-General returns relative to all such
commodities in their possession.
W. M. HUGHES,
Attorney-General for the Commonwealth.
Melbourne, 17th July, 1915.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 31st July, 1915.
COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT
WOOLLEN CLOTH FACTORY,
NORTH GEELONG.
Vacancies for Operatives.
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons
(male and female) experienced in
Woollen Mills work, who are desirous of con-
sideration for positions in the above Factory.
Forms of application may be obtained from
the Secretary, Department of Defence,
Melbourne; the manager of the Factory,
North Geelong ;, arid the Military Comman-
dant, Brisbane; Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
Applications must be addressed to the Mana-
ger, Commonwealth Government Woollen
Cloth Factory, North Geelong, Victoria.
T. TRUMBLE,
Acting Secretary.
For Sale.
FOR SALE, Mining Property known as Caloola
Creek Gold Mine, near Rockley, compris-
ing- Leases, area 34 acres, and working plant. Will
,e submitted by Public Auction on 13. th AUGUST,
it 12 o’clock, in the rooms.
Particulars on application.
RICHARDSON <fc WRENCH, Auctioneers,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Large bodies of low-grade ore and abundance of
vater.
Amusements.
TIVOLI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
* Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres litd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
ROCHEZ’ MONKEYS.
Presenting the Monkey Music Hall.
JARVIS’ & DARE, MAY ERNE & HE, COE,
DETRICKEY, WALTER WEEMS, CROUCH &
WELCH, EXCELLAS, TIVOLI GIRLS, FRANK. WIL-
SON, DORA SAWYER.
Plan Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
yin oli theatre, Melbourne
JAMES E. BRITT.
MARY ELIZABETH, CLEMONS & DEAN.
BILLY KINKAID, KAJIYAMA.
BIRCHLEY, AL RIPON.
HERBERT WINTER, ESTELLE ROSE.
Plan at Glen’s.
IVO LI THEATRE, BRISBANE.
GENERAL PISANO.
THE ITALIAN SHOOTING STAR.
WALLACE GALVIN. LOUIS STONE.
PAUL STEPHENS. IDA BARR.
TYRELLS, LEE TIY WARS.
MARIE TERRY. VAUDE & VERNE.
HE R MAJESTY’S, S Y D N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
THE FAMOUS ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE ARCADIANS.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 7.
The Revusical Comedy.
AFTER THE GIRL.
The Latest Joy in Musical Successes.
Box Plan Paling’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, AUGUST 7.
The Thrilling War Play,
INSIDE THE LINES.
With
lAN MACLAREN, CHARLOTTE IVES
and
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S SPECIALLY ORGANISED
DRAMATIC CO.
Box Plan Paling'’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY,
■ Direction Beaumont Smith and Leslie Hoskins.
LAST NIGHTS.
WHO’S THE LADY?
A roar of laughter from start to finish.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 11,
STOP YOUR NONSENSE.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Reserved, 4/-.
Plan at Paling’s. :
!pAL A C E, THEA T R E. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Matin6es WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30.
J. & N. TAIT present
THE ROYAL STROLLERS.
(By arrangement with Austral Gardens—Mr.
J. Waller.)
THE BRIGHTEST. SHOW IN SYDNEY.
Popular Prices: 3/.-, %]-, 1/-, Reserved 4/a.
i Plans at Nicholson’s.
1 You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The. picture block theatres.
In GEORGE STREET.
1 CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
Tiieatre ii oya l, melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT'B.
J. C. .Williamson Ltd. present something new in
Comedy,
POTASH AND PERLM UTTER.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-.■> Plan at Allan’s. .'
H ER .MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 7.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present MURIEL STARR in
THE LAW OF THE LAND.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and" 1/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE MARLOW LTD.
EVERY ..EVENING' AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW LTD. present
THE SILENCE OF DEAN MAITLAND.
I
j Prices: 2/.-, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Pianola.
Amusements.
ATHENAEUM, MELBOURNE.
** Direction J. and N. Tait.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 7.
LOUISE MAO K,
WAR LECTURER,
“MID SHOT, SHELL AND SHRAPNEL
IN BELGIUM.”
Brilliantly Illustrated by Films and Slides.
Plans at Allan’s.. Prices 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
KING’S THEATRE, ME L BOURNE.’
Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and' Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the Ever Popular BERT BAILEY
CO. in
ON OUR SELECTION.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU T II IC A T RE. ill £ L li O V li N E.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
MUSICAL IBSONS, MANN & FRANKS, MARZON
& FLORENCE, CHARLES ZOLI, AND BERT LE
BLANC’S TRAVESTY STARS in “THE SAN
FRANCISCO EXPOSITION.”
Prices: 2/6, 2/- & 6d. Matinges: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
ALL NATIONS’ CARNIVAL AND CHARITY
ART UNION.
EXHIBITION BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
SEPTEMBER 11 TO 18, 1916.
Conducted under the auspices of the
CARLTON HEBREW CONGREGATION,
In aid of their Building Fund and Public Charities.
100 PRIZES. VALUE £750. TICKETS, 1/-.
Art Union Drawing on Final Night of Carnival.
Results advertised in public press the following
days.
Agents and friends assisting in sale of tickets will
be supplied with result slips by first mail after the
drawing.
NOTICE TO SHOWMEN.
Novelties of e.very description required; also side-
shows and other attractions. Particulars to
' S. BARNETT, Asst. Hon. Sec.,
The Olderfleet, 475 Collins Street, Melbourne, i
PICTURES, MELBOURNE/
BEST AND MOST.
TWO 810 SIIO W S.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
M ELBOURNE GLAC I A R I U M .
REAL ICE SEATING
AFTERNOONS, 3 to 5,
EVENINGS, 7.45 to 10.
RICOO’S ORCHESTRA.
Birch .& .ca.r r o l l
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND' PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from. Toowoomba to
Charters Tower?.-
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in- all the Leading Theatres of
which we'have the-Booking-Control.-
r Representatives in Queensland for. the .’General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHtVELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
THE THUMB BRANDER,
A New and Good/
Practical Joke )
fh
I A Great Surprise for your Friends. {
You can have lots of fun with the!
' Thumb Brander , It is .attached toj
a spring ring that fits on your thumb,]
and when, you shake hands with a friend you “ brand ” him',
and it'won’t wash off easily ; soap and water help to fix it.
You may select any one of these choice epithets •—ASS,
FOOL, OWL, DOLT,. BABY, CALF, OAF. Only
NINE PENCE each, posted anywhere, with Ink and f*ad.,
The UNION COMPANY, • 299 Elizabeth Melbourne^
TRADE MARK
THe TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
fd
All Through the World
You will find REMINGTON-UMC .22 calibre Cartridges growing in popular favour,
—the unfailing choice of expert shooters and all discriminating users of .22 calibre rifles.
Calibre Cartridges
gojKI
are sold by leading dealers everywhere at reasonable prices. Ask your
dealer for them and request him to show you a REMINGTON-UMC .22
calibre Repeating Rifle.
We shall he pleased to send; postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When writing, send us the name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co*
Wool worth Building. New York City
b. D. BRYANT. Australian Representative, P.O. Box 686, Melbourne.
hf
u ►
-p
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
<7
Whether you have a
Moustache or not use
Capillarine. You’ll
change your mind
on the Moustache
question shortly, and
in the meantime
Capillarine will
strengthen the hair-
roots wonderfully.
Price 10/6 Jar-Post Free.
Craig & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established, Over 30 Years.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
m i..
m
m
m
)W&
mm
mm, .
m
&088
m
l
vm
i
&
w
Vi)V
BE
CRITICAL
as critical as you
like over the services
you require from
Calvert’s Carbolic
Tooth Powder.
For the efficient cleansing
and antiseptic properties this
dentifrice possesses, make it
easy to maintain that standard
of cleanliness, which satisfies,
people who want their teeth
to last well and to look well.
m
i
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert Cr Co.,Manchester,Eng.
Never-Slip Tie Holder & lyksilk Ties!
Fixed in a moment, save time, save ties, save
temper. Always in good shape and proper
position. Ties of rich and'beautiful colors;
and patterns, brilliant and silky lustre. The
Never-Slip Tie Holder is just what every
iman wants. Makes the ties look better and
wear longer. Tie Holder and One Tie 1/3,,
Tie Holder and Three Ties 2/6, Tie Holder and Six Ties if- j
an extra link with every tie. We pay carriage. State colors
preferred Just try one. It will save you all tie trouble.
1 The UNION COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Street, j
p
for'the<
STYLISH (
DOUBLE ]
I
the magic
INK ERASER
Only 1/3 each
posted anywhere
hf
Very Easy to use
Strong and Durable
Instantly removes writing and printing like magic, leaves the]
paper perfectly clean and smooth. It is a dry cleaning pro-]
I cess, no mess or trouble. The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.l


RASH ITCHED
Af BURNED
All Over Cody. Could Not Sleep.
Nearly Mad With Pain. Scratch-
ing Made ItWorse. CuticuraSoap
and Ointment Completely Healed.
Kin Kin, Via Cooran, Queensland. —•
"For two years I suffered with a rash all
over my body being particularly bad on my
back. After a time it broke out in small
sores which used to itch and burn so much
that I could not sleep at night and when I
was working it used to nearly send me mad
with the pain. At first I scratched it but
as it made it worse I refrained from doing
so again. Seeing an advertisement in the
paper about Cuticura I obtained some Cuti-
cura Soap and Cuticura Ointment and
after using them as directed I was completely
cured.
“ I also found the Cuticura Ointment good
for a cut on my hand which it healed up
in two or three days.” (Signed) D. Abra-
hams, Apr. 21, 1914,
Samples Free by Post
In the care of baby’s skin and hair, Cuti-
cura Soap is the mother’s favorite. Not
only is it unrivaled in purity and refreshing
fragrance, but assisted by Cuticura Oint-
ment its gentle emollient properties are
usually sufficient to allay minor irritations,
remove redness, roughness and chafing,
soothe sensitive conditions, and promote
skin and hair health generally. They are
also most valuable in the treatment of ecze-
mas, rashes and other itching, burning in-
fantile eruptions. Cuticura Soap wears to
a wafer, often outlasting several cakes of
ordinary soap and making its use most eco-
nomical. Cuticura Soap and Ointment are
sold everywhere. Liberal sample of each
mailed free, with 32-p. Skin Book. Address
K. Towns & Co,, Syduey, N. S. W.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
“I simply can’t account for this
trouble with my teeth —and I’ve
been so particular to keep them
immaculately clean always.” This
is the complaint of thousands.
It’s just this way, Madam.
You’ve spent your time watching
the highwaymen robbers of tooth-
health —Decay Germs—and for-
got all about their sly, insidious
accomplice, “Acid Mouth.” Acids
are constantly forming in the
mouth. They are constantly
“working.” But they work
“incognito.”
And here lies the danger.
These mouth-acids, unmolested,
unsuspected, gradually dissolve,
and break down the enamel. The
tooth then becomes easy prey to
decay germs.
Look out for “acid mouth,”
that filcher and falcon of healthy
tooth life. Pebeco Tooth Paste
users have a good chance to keep
their teeth for life.
Send 3d. Stamps for sample
tube and interesting test of Acid
Mouth.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
PEBECO is Made in Australia by
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ' ONLY.) [6
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us. and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collin*- *t., Melbourne, Vic.
‘ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debenture*. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. WAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman: The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. : The lion. F. E Winchcombe, M.L.C. . Arlriar-
Knox, Esq. Tv.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormiek, M.D. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. P.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. . HEAD OFFICE: ST PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
■yHERE is no single paint that
will suit all surfaces and con-*
ditions, but there is a range of paints
which contains a special material
for each surface. Write or call on
the Berger Agent for advice on
which of the Berger Paints and
Varnishes is most suitable and most
economical for your purpose.
hf
“B-P” Berger’s Paint (pre-
pared) for painting buildings inside
and outside is guaranteed to work
easier, cover more surface, look
better and wear longer than any
other paint made. Colour folder of
52 standard shades free on request.
JBerger’
1 Paints
£r Varnishes
s
Get Colour Folders and Particulars,
together with name of local
Agent, from Head Office:
16 & 18 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Ask to = day
for your
colour folder.
I
1
1
WEAR WELL EVERYWHERE |
UNDER THE SUN. |
Lewis Berger & Sons
(Australia), Ltd..
18, Young St., Sydney,
Makers of Paints, Colours and
Varnishes at
HOMERTON, LONDON.ENG.
Since 1760,
N
©
***
The
Amateur
‘Mechanic
THe
Handyman’s
Encyclopaedia
IF there’s anything to be made or mended you can find how best
to do it in this handy work for handy men.
Whether it’s a Model Monoplane you wish to build, or a
Gramophone or an Arm Chair; whether it’s the Piano, a Motor
Car or your Watch that wants Repairing, there are simple, plainly
put instructions, free from all technicality, that will tell you how
it should be done.
Six thousand Illustrations, helpful and Educative, lend valu-
able assistance.
The Publication is in Four Volumes, and Contributed to by
over 20 Experts—Specialists in the various Home Handicrafts.
It is needed in every Workshop, and its Price is within
easy purse reach of all.
Send the Coupon for an Illustrated Prospectus. It will give
you all particulars of our offer to deliver it for a First Payment
of Half-a-Crown, the Balance being paid by a few Monthly
Subscriptions. There is absolutely no obligation to buy.
Publishing etx
lOT FLINDERS ST AIELBGVR/SE:.
19 MVNTER STREET SYDNEY
V ANM ATjADfLAIPE AMP LW,QN V
M
A /
Sty,-
■w
&■
/T/
V Os
S-"
#•
The
Standard
Publishing
Co. Pty. Ltd.
100 Flinders Street,
Melbourne;
and 19 Hunter Street.
Sydney
Please send me. without any obligation
to buy. your Free Prospectus of “The
Amateur Mechanic'*
Mention TIIE BULLETIN. Sl5.
Address
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Copabella”: When the gentle price-fixer
goes a-lixing lie mostly starts like this:
(lost of goods, so much; expenses of selling
them (wages, rent, horse-feed, etc.), so mucn
more ; interest on money invested, so much -
total, the fair price. What he doesn’t take
into his calculations is the vagaries of cus-
tomers like Mick McAndrew. Mick had
come in with what he called his "dtit of an
ardther.” The order came to ISs. Td. Mick
paying cash, the “robber behind the counter
reluctantly deducted sd. as discount. The
lot included a tin of kerosene and a quahcl-
ther of potatoes ; and as ”th’ roads do be that
bahd the till’d be burst, so it would,” Mick
received a case (value 4d.) in which to pack
it. He also said he would have to borry a
bahg. The groceries were then —also on
account of the roads —-packed in another box
(value 3d.) and a bag of lollies dropped in
for the kids. As Mick gathered up the reins
he mentioned casually that as it would be
after dinner before he got home a few bis-
cuits would come iu handy. The store-
keeper was counting on his fingers as he re-
turned to the shop, and before the next cus-
tomer arrived had deftly altered the set of
the patent butter-cutter and adjusted the
patent scales. “Two: as' a penny-ha’-penny
to catch up to before night,” he moaned.
*■ * l<r *
“Matey”: “Z.A.N.” (B. 10/6/’l5) surely
would not agitate for the building of houses
with Tasmanian hardwood? Cheapness
isn’t everything. The blessed stuff ties knots
in itself and wriggles like a snake as soon
as the weather gets to it. Let the carpenter
use good N.S.W. hardwood, and the dove of
peace will descend on the builder; and if
Andrew Fisher gave us a big export duty
to silence the departing footsteps of our best
hardwood, two doves would descend on hint.
But for our national peace and quiet never
cut Tasmanian hardwood into building sizes.
Leave it for piles and decking.
* * -X- *
“De .Oriel”: The cockies around Kinga-
roy (Q.) make “coffee” from maize and
treacle. The mash is soundly baked and the
brew from it is not more unlike the genuine
article than a dozen Yankee substitutes are.
3f you ask me why they don’t grow the real
thing—as they have done for years at
Ivuranda —I can’t tell you.
“Croson”: I have acquired some further
information about that “little article used
by every housewife” —the flour-sifter I
wrote of a few weeks 'ago. The scarcity of
shipping having interfered with Uncle Sam’s
monopoly of the supply of sifters, prices
were raised from 95., 10s. (Id. to 12s. per
dozen. A Melbourne firm then started mak-
ing a better, because stronger, article, which
was sold wholesale at 10s. (id. Now —two
months later—the retail ironmonger who
orders from the usual hardware merchant is
Charged 12s. a dozen for either the local or
the imported line, lie is told "the Associa-
tion has fixed that price.” This apparently
means that the Hardware Merchants’ Asso-
ciation, which includes practically every
wholesale man in the Melbourne trade, is
coolly pocketing Is. (id. a dozen on this line.
There are, however, two big retail houses in
Melbourne —understood to be really the one
concern—which import their own hardware.
They are not in the Ass., and the parties
don’t play speaks in trade matters. These
houses charge Is. 3d. each retail for im-
ported sifters, and “don’t stock” the local
article. Which suggests that the local manu-
facturers have been ordered by the Ass. not
to supply these two houses on pain of being
themselves passed over by that august body.
“R.”: The Vic. hotelkeeper is having a
bad time, and the more decent and law-
abiding lie is the worse for him. The wine
and spirit merchant has passed on the 3s.
a gallon extra duty, and is making an extra
profit on the duty, reducing spirits from
22 to 19 o.p. The most profitable part of
Bung’s day has been cut out, yet rents
remain the same. Presumably the bad time
ahead for Bung was one of the causes of
the sudden offering for sale of all the Sam
Gillott estate’s hotel properties in Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
A bundle of refuse from the cleaning
machines of a N.S.W. firm, which treated a
consignment of oats from America, was
examined by the Government Botanist.
Eighteen undesirable emigrants were found
in concealment, five of them noxious. It
looks as if the cocky who secures uncleaned
imported cereals for seed purposes is going
to get a powerful stimulant to exercise with
the hoe.
“BUSINESS AS USUAL.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met a patriotic Bung,
And drank with him a pint or more ;
lie thought that people should he hung
Who, while we are immersed in war,
Did anything hut think of it —
And drink, of course, their little bit.
“It makes me sick,” he said, “to see
The thoughtless people rushing out
To race or football match. To me
The War’s the thing tp care about.”
With auger in
lie tilled the glasses up again.-
“And here’s the Government engaged
In raising party strife, as though
Xo War at all was being waged!
The scoundrels should be told to go.”
With patriot wrath he filled his tones —
Then paused to serve a pint to .Toms.
“Von see some people unconcerned -
1 watch them going by liiy 'door
To balls and theatres. They've learned
No lessons from this awful Mar.
/ like a man who can discuss
Just what ami all it means to ux!”
liis indignation rose and fell,
'Midst joyful ringings from his till ;
It seemed to him all would be well
If blit the world would stand stock still
And let him serve. (Don’t think it strange
The patriot forgot my change!)
N.S.W.
HAMER.


834. ‘‘THE CERT” D.8.8.L. GUN, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever 30in.
steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap
fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock ; weight about 71b
Postage on one Gun, 2/9 N.S.W. ; 5/2 Inter-State.
37/S
h
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-gauge top
action, solid
case hardened
locks, decar-
bonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about 611 b. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary
Doubie-barrei Gun. Auto-Ejector, 25/-1 Non-Ejector, 22/6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W. ; 4/8 Inter-State.
fdh
82. The Continental 5.8.8. L. Gun,
410 gauge, improved walnut action,
steel barrel, walnut stock, pistol grip,
weight about 541 b
(Postage: N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
35/-
K
HAYMARKET
•SYDNEY*
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET : also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
and ail Sport-
ing Goods,
Post Free
Anywhere.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST HOUSE for
GUN REPAIR WORK.
all kinds of
Smoke “SUN O L”
Tobacco. Dark or
Light. Plug or cut.
2ox. pkt. 11 ft., or
lib. 6/6 (post free).
©
833. National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener
cross bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels,
pistol grip, walnut stock, engraved, weight of 32-gauge about
Oilb. to <lb.; of 16-gauge, 611 b. to 6Jlb. DELIVERED
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge at 12/6 extra.
\\e are the Sole Agents in N.SAV. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
£4.
©
9.
828. The “ Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full
choke, 12-gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about T^lb.
£7 7/
Information for the Housewife.
CLARK’S
BOILERS,
CAST- IRON
SAUCE. PANS,
KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as the lightest Enamelled Ware, and will last
a lifetime instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust. Handles that will not slip in the hand.
riease note the
Hygienic Shape
and the Patent,
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
SECTION
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S HOLLOW-WARE IS THE BEST
Australasian Agent : A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
txu/una
CURES ECZEMA
And all Irritations of the Skin.
From the very first application the skin becomes healthy and clean
again, and every disfiguring pimple or rash completely disappears.
The Greatest Skin Cure of the Age.
Exzerma is a household remedy, and no home should be without it.
Compounded from Australian herbs and roots.
Large Bottle,
Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
None genuine without the signature
S. FIELDER.
Small Bottle,
2(6
[1
fdh
“Australian Made"
fd
Combs,
2/= each.
Cutters,
6d.each.
Z2^
pi
m
$5
Sfc
:Ai
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, S/dney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARING CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
TINK’S SILKNT FRIEND, Is 6d. NICD DONNKLLY’S ART
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrkstlk, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating thb
Horse, is. Ykntiuloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, l/G.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & G ames,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ingPamfhlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illns., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, ls6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Thicks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d
W
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Du. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromes. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
PF-BOOK SELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ~ms
GIPSY' FORTUNE TELLING GAUDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Ruies for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hbptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
15E GOT FROM THIS ADVT,
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Hew Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dk. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op the
King, Is 3d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. dd. Secret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Wipe, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted".
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
1s 2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (tvhv pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is ?d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyant k
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs t words and music com!
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine"
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAy’


How Mothers Use
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
VWfSt■»
ciM fs' 7
'Wwfi
$»»&&?*
a - r>y
-V.IW
mm
n
WV
<*r*
J
«* ■
When baby is ill he creeps into
mother’s arms, knowing that she
will soothe and help him. A mother’s
responsibility is great, anil she. must
he ready to cure all the little ills of
her family before they develop into
serious ailments. l)r. Sheldon’s New
Discovery is the mother’s refuge in
all cases of Coughs and Colds. Win-
ter’s ills all vanish before its heal-
ing influence. She has proved its
worth in epidemics of Whooping-
Cough, when she sees her little ones
get a ctuiet night’s rest by bedtime
doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discov-
ery. Instead of the long siege of
coughing and sickness the attack is
cut short, and all danger removed.
When measles are abroad she pro-
tects her children by warding off
each threatened cold with Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery, so as to pre-
vent the likelihood of contagion. If
a case of measles is developed she
controls the cough by doses of Dr.
•Sheldon’s New Discovery, so mini-
mising all tendency towards Pneu-
monia.
The children love Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery, and beg for it, real-
ising in their little minds that
mother and Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery will keep them safe and well.
Stops Coughs,
Banishes Colds.
Winter is now liere, and we
are all liable to sudden chills and
colds. The time for action is
upon the appearance of the first
symptoms when you should at once take Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery in teaspoonful
doseVeyeV three hours, with an additional dose at bedtime when you will at once
experience a wonderful soothing effect upon the mucous membranes, easingthethroat
and chest thus enabling you to enjoy a good nights rest. Dr. Sheldon s «ew ms
covery stops the cough and cold, and prevents any serious complications. U is un-
co nailed for Influenza and Bronchitis, and is invaluable tor Croup or At 1 00l g
Cough? for while it is most powerful in its action yet it can be administered to the
smallest child with the same safety as to the full-grown adult.
Price 1/0 and 3/-
D? Sheldon s|
New Discovery
hf
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
'V\7HEN Decorating,
* ™ Remodeling or
Building, be assured of
SANITARY as well
as Beautiful Walls and
Ceilings use
BEAVER
BOARD
You need hygienic walls, not only
in sleeping rooms but in every
room in the house.
Beaver Board takes the place of lath, plaster
and wall paper. Better, stronger and more
sanitary walls and ceilings are quickly and
easily built with Beaver Board.
Beaver Board is made of Pure
~Wood Fibre. It beautifies and
brightens the home. It won t crack,
and will last a lifetime.
Beaver Board is especially recommended for
residences, offices, schools, shops, hospitals,
and churches. It assures well designed, ; well
built walls and ceilings that give greater
satisfaction, freedom from cracks and repair
expense, and permanent satisfaction,
MADE IN CANADA
Your architect will tell you all about Beaver
Board. Booklets, designs and free samples
are obtainable from any Beaver Board stockist
WARNING: All wall hoards are not
Beaver Board. There are imitations. Be
iure to get the genuine with name and
trade mark on back of every J>anel.
Solid Comfort!
No torn or dingy wall paper in
this room. No cracked plaster.
The walls and ceilings are
made of Beaver Board.
Easily put up at any season
of the year without mess or
bother. Lasts without repairs
as long as the house. Resists
heat, cold and sound.
Treated on both sides to pre*
vent absorption of moisture,
and to protect against changes
of weather. Is scrupulously
clean and makes any room
more cheerful and inviting.
Make a spare room out of the
attic. Use Beaver Board for
partitions. Use it to brighten up
the living room or dining room.
Supplied ready for nailing to
joists or studding or over old
walls. Panels about A" thick,
36" and 48" wide and in even
foot lengths up to 16 feet.
The Beaver Board Companies
Ottawa, Canada
4 Southampton Row, London, C. England
REPRESENTATIVES:
0. D. Gordon, G. P. 0.1893, Sydney R. S. Ward, 40 William Street, Melbourne
STOCKISTS:
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
G. P. Harris Searfe & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide
Cowell Bros. & Co., Adelaide
Gunnersen, Crockett, Ltd.,
379 Kent St., Sydney
James Hardie & Co., Melbourne
G. Gnnnersen & Co., Melbourne
Geo. Wills and Co., Ltd., Perth
G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth
Geo. Wills and Co., Ltd., Brisbane
James Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane
BEAVER
BOARD
PURE WOOD FIBRE]
1111
The Rebel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I NEED no pity, sister mine ,
He fought as I would have him fight—
A unit in the dauntless line
Which strikes forever for the Eight.
He died as I would have him die,
Facing the Liar and the Lie.
You talk of sin, and you the Priest!
And all the tattlers of the town
Make of my “shame” a scandal-feast,
With holy-wine to wash it down.
Here ! take my pity for their scorn;
My babe is for a hero borne.
I knew no better way to show
That I was his whate’er betide ;
And I was glad that he should know
The strength of my great love and pride;
And I am glad, dead though he be,
That he will live again through me.
I wear no ring. 1 want no ring!
My love was deeper than your pain
Whq to a pale convention cling ;
Does not the one great fact remain -
He, in the glory of his youth,
Died in the cause of Right and Truth >
Speak nothing more of scoffs and scorn ;
The dawn of mother-love is mine ;
And I would have my baby born
A sacrifice for Custom’s shrine
Rather than own the father-right
To some pale cur who feared to fight.
But he shall be no sacrifice;
In him a hero shall re-live
Who faced the odds and paid the price,
Giving the all he had to give
Back to the womb of Mother Earth
That endless Peace shall have its birth.
QUEENSLAND.
E. S. EMERSON.
The Romance of Ginger Mick.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
« T KNOWS a bloke who knows a bloke,”
I was the commencement of one of Ginger
Mick’s anecdotes to me. I didn’t under-
stand at first what he meant, but discovered
that the reference was to a confidence man
the man who knows of a man with a job, o:
of an uncle with rich possessions m lij •
Owing to the prevalence of idiom of the sort
conversation with Ginger Mick was at fust
difficult; but his history, when he condes-
cended to make his language plainer, was
interesting. ~
“The police never give a man a chance, ,
complained Mick. “Once you get up ag in
them you can’t get away from their teeleis.
Six years of my last ten I’ve spent in gaol.
“An’, first of all, I was a ard working
young feller, an’ I didn’t want any truck
with the law at all; but one night, when I
’ad a few in, a couple of Johns got on to a
cobber of mine, an’ I stuck fer un and
stoushed one of the cops. Never you stousli
a cop, young feller.”
I hastily assured him I wouldn t.
“No, don’t,” he said; “because if you do,
the Johns have a derry on yer ever after.
When I come out they landed me m again
quick-en-lively. They charged me with
stealin’; but they knew I ’ad nothin to do
with it. I did know who done it —he was
a mate of mine ; and what they wanted was
to get my evidence ag’in’ him. Of course,
when I wouldn’t give them the straight
chat I went up with the other chap as a
cobber of his, though he swore I had nothing
to do with it. ... • i i.i
“Out at quod their idea is to keep the
numbers apart, so as they won’t contami-
nate each other. But there’s heaps of clianst
for one bloke to chat another; an’ before you
come out you’ve fixed it up to work some job
with fellers who are in with you. The sys-
tem gives you over a dozen hours each night
in yer cell with nothin’ to think of but plan-
ning what yer going ter do when ver out.
I used to read er lot one time, but the time
I spent inside got me outer the habit.
“I’m out a couple of days, _an back 1
goes again. The police don t give a man a
show. I was coming out of a Dago joint
picking me teeth, when Big Thompson comes
erlong an’ says, ‘Yer doing it well, sajs lie.
‘Well.’ says I, ‘a man must feed is face
sometimes.’ Then ’e says: ‘What yer doing
it on?’ The cow knew I wasn t workin . ho
I goes erlong. An’ I didn’t steal the money
at all; all I ’ad was ten bob that Steel
Chiller ’ad parsed me, but I wasn’t goin’ to
put Chiller away by mentioning it.
“I was only keeping nit on the corner, he
added, explaining things.
“That’s ’ow I got into the habit, pur-
sued Ginger Mick, “and they got to know
me so well in quod that if I wasn t there fei
a month or so they’d tell me they was
thinkin’ I must be dead. Mostly, I was
never caught fer ther things I did, but went
up fer the things other blokes did. iou
know what ther police do? They nab a
bloke they think knows aH erbout a job, and
try an’ get him to*squeal. If he won’t, they 11
put the job'on him if they can. A man won t
squeal, not often. He’s liable fer stousli it
he does. , .. .
“Last, I met a bosker little clmer, who
made me hate gaol. I met her old ’un m
quod, and we was going into some jobs to-
gether; but after I’d seen the tart a few
days I fergot the jobs, and hunted up hard
graft an’ settled down to it. We d have
rybuck chats on the verandah while the old
’un and his missus threw plates in the kit-
chen. ,
“She was the squarest little tart ever,
and a neat piece, too; but Gawd knows
where she got her squareness from. ’lO
spent ’alf ’is life in dinky, an’ th’ other ’alf
fightin’ 'er ; an’ sometimes ’e would say ther
girl wasn’t ’is; an’ other times the old bird
would tell him the same was a fact—the
girl wasn't ’is. Yet this muslin was as nice
a bit of goods as you could fancy.
“She worked as a waitress, and kept ’erself
well. I think she must ’ave got to ’ate the
life ’er mother lived, and that idea kep’ me
straight; fer it was a fixed thing that she
should be my mutton.
“One of the chaps as useter hang round
was Bill Wilson, but he had no ehanst with
the diner, although he got thick with the
old man. One day the old bloke suggests a
job for the three of us; but, of course, I
turns it down. Next night I was working
late, which meant that, after I had changed
me clobber, it was after eight before I got
along to May’s. On me way I pars Bill
Wilson scooting along quick, lookin’ dis-
turbed. ‘Oh,’ I says to myself, ‘they’ve done
tlier job.’
“Then I met Snowy Peterson —not a bad
chap fer a John ’Op—and he passes the
day, pleasant, and remarks that I seem to
be keeping out well.
“ ‘Never, no more inside fer me, I says.
‘l’m workin’, living square, and goin’ to get
married,’ says I.
“ ‘Good luck to you !’ says ’e, and passes
on.
“While I’m chatting May on the verandah
Sergeant Robertson passes, words us for a
minute, and then goes on.
“You see how it happens, sometimes. A
robbery takes place within a hundred yards
from the spot where I meets Snowy a few
minutes later; and after that Robbo sees me
at the ’ouse where the goods are found.
May’s old ’un told ’em I wasn’t in the busi-
ness ; but, of course, he didn’t say who was,
an’ I don’t blame ’im. An' Bill Wilson kep
dark. An’, of course, I didn’t blow the gall
on ’im—a man can’t do that. So I goes up
as an example of ’ow a criminal can’t nohow
get the criminal impulse outer him.
“But I comes out at last.
“You know how bashful er bloke gets erbout
er tart’e’s square shook on? I goes to May s
place an’ starts gaffing to the old ’un erbout
things, an’ never mentioning May, ’oping
she’ll look in. But she doesn’t. So at larst
I arsks, casual: ‘Where’s the diner?’
“ ‘Oh. she’s hitched it with Bill Wilson,
seys the old ’un.
“I can tell yer that druv me fair balmy,
an’ I don’t know ’ow I left the place or ’ow
I gotter know the place where they was
livin’. All I know is I sails up to their
bloomin’ roost, and there’s May, a sight fer
sore eyes, sewin’ clobber on the verandah.
But my eyes ’ad somethin’ wrong erbout ’em
that day, an’ I seemed to ’ate ’er.
“ ‘Oh, Mick !’ she says, in greetin’.
“But I goes right up to ’er an’ don’t take
any kind o’ notice of ’er ’and.
“ ‘I thort you wus my fair dinkum tart,
an’ ther clianst o’ ther other pebble wus
Buckley’s,’ says I. ‘You made me think so.
says I, ‘an’ I always thort you a square
piece. I’ve a good mind ter wollop you.’
“ ‘That’s no way fer a gentleman ter speak
ter a lady,’ says May, on ’er dig. at once.
“ ‘Did yer treat me like a lady?’ says I
bitterly. ‘And did Bill?’
“ ‘Mick,’ she says, ‘it was yer own fault.
I cried me eyes out when I ’card of what
yer’d done, but I wasn’t takin’ any risks on
that kinder life. I wants a man who keeps
away from gaol an’ the things what plants
’im there. So when Bill arsks me, I marries
’im.’
“That fair knocks me.
“‘Bill!’ I says; an’ I wus goin’ to say as
’ow it was Bill’s fault that ’ad landed me in
quod, but I thinks ter rneself that’s not the
game. ‘Bill! I’ll deal Bill all the stoush
that’s coming to ’im,’ I says.
“ ‘Mick,’ she answers, an’ there’s a sort
of pleadin’ in ’er voice, ‘you’re a bigger man
than Bill, an’ you was always plucky. You
ain’t goin’ ter be a coward, Mick,’ says she,
‘ ’itting a smaller man then yerself? Besides,
what’s ther use? I couldn’t ’ave never
married you.’
“Of course, she didn’t know about things.
“ ‘You’re fond of ’im, are yer?’ I says. ‘An’
only six months ergo you said you was fond
of me !’
“ ‘Promise me you won’t touch Bill.’ she
says. I don’t know whether she done it pur-
posely or by accident, but just then she
’olds up the clothes she's been rnakin’ —an’
I tumbles.
“So I promises ’er erbout Bill, an’ I
promises ’er never to arsk ’im to ’ave any
drinks, which made me" think, when she
arsks me, that there’s trouble a’ready in the
caboose. An’ I sits waitin’ fer Bill, watchin’
’er as she’s sewing; an’ although I’m feelin’
lonely an’ miserable, there’s a sort of soft
feelin’ all over me.
“When Bill comes in ’e looks as if he
knows what’s due to ’im ; but when all goes
along smooth ’e gets over that, and we ’ave
tea together. Bli’me, it made me sick to see
May handing out the fodder and to think it
wasn’t my table but Bill’s! .Afterwards,
when Bill suggests beer, I says I’ve chucked
it, an’ I goes out and gets soft tack.
“It seemed to me, all the evenin’, that Bill
had something on his mind—something quite
different from the frightenness he showed
when ’e first saw me. When I was going ’e
says ’e’ll walk down the street with me. ’E
says nothin’ fer a while, but, suddenly, ’e
pulls up.
“ ‘Look ’ere,’ ’e says.
“There, in ’e’s ’and, was some rings an’
other hangings of a flash diner. Good stuff
it was. too!
“‘What d’yer been up to?’ I says; an’ I
was feeling madder’n a mad bull.
“ ’Arf’s yours if you’ll pass ’em for me,’
he says.
“ ‘What yer been doing?’ I repeats.
“‘I was forced to this,’ he says. ‘I mort-
gaged me week’s money playin’ two-up, an’
when I found the chanst of takin’ these, I
grabbed ’em. I want to give the missus ’er
quids, and you can ’ave orl the balance if yer
like.’
“Fer a moment I was full to me ’ead with
rage. I wanted ter tell ’im that I didn’t
want to ’ave anything to do with any more
thieves’ business, that ’e ’ad got my diner
by a fraud, an’ lots of things. But orl of a
sudden I don’t see ’im an’ ’e’s ’andful of
joolry any more, but a woman sitting down
sewing baby clothes, an’ ’umming an’ ’appy,
an’ tliinkin’ that ’er ’usband was a sight
different from a chap who’d ’ad the gaol-sacks
on ’im. So I takes the joolry from ’im, an’
goes off without a word.
“Next day I passes the goods, and meets
Bill near where ’e works to give ’im the spon-
dulix. I puts my hand on ’is shoulder.
“ ‘Bill,’ says I, ‘l’ve stood er lot from you ;
but this ends it. I don’t want none o’ ther
money —keep it fer the kid when it comes
erlong. I’ve done gaol for you, and, likely,
I’ll do it again; an’ you’ve got my diner
because she thinks you a saint. But she’s
my diner still, in a way. You’ve got
to cut this business and ther two-ups
and ther beer, and settle down to look after
(Continued on next page.)


SYMPTOMS" KIDNEY TROUBLE
such as Lumbago, Rheumatism, Dropsy,
Backache, Gravel, Stone, Sciatica
and Bladder Disorders
ARE SERIOUS.
>
r
‘ ‘ Every Picture
tells a Story,
\ou never know what-complications kidney trouble may lead to.
Healthy kidneys purify the blood and enable it to vitalise the system,
but when the kidneys are weakened or diseased this all-important process is
reversed. Poisons and waste matter remain in the blood, to spread disease
throughout the body.
. J . ri< ' l acld ,s y° lir worst enemy in this respect, for its jagged crystals
settle m the muscles, nerves and joints, and agonise each movement of vour
limbs. '
That sharp, shooting pain in the back is Lumbago—the pain that darts
t nough tne thigh or leg is Sciatica—the sickening ache and constant pain
across the shoulders, and in the hands, knees and joints is Rheumatism.
g 1 most careful treatment and a special kidney medicine can revive
t )c failing kidneys, and Doan s Backache Kidney Pills are for the kidneys
and bladder only—they gently regulate, heal and strengthen them, and
enable the kidneys to drain the uric acid and collected water from the body,
to cleanse and purify the blood and to flush and soothe the urinary system.
Doans Backache Kidney Pills do not act on the bowels.
Cured to Stay Cured.
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. \\ . James. A’Beckett Street. Gran-
ville. says:—“l strained my back when
I was quite a lad, and ever since I have
suffered greatly from backache. I tried
all kinds of remedies, but only got tem-
porary relief. My work used to be very
laborious, and I have had to leave it at
times on account of the intense pain.
However, Doan's Backache Kidney Pills
cured the backache, and strengthened my
back. I always tell friends who suffer
from had backs to try Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills; they are certain to give
relief. It is two years since I used the
pills, so my cure has been well tested.'’
Mr. James confirms his previous state-
ment two years later, and says :—"I am
sfill free of the torture of backache, and
have been since Doan’s Backache Kidne.\
Pills cured me four years ago.”
NVWOAV V>\'(lA9 V
Mrs. 11. Smith, fruiterer, 97 Itedfern
Street. Redfern, Sydney, says:—“l was
troubled with my kidneys for a long time.
I had pains in my back, which made me
weak and exhausted, and if 1 stooped I
could not straighten my back without
assistance. The secretions were dis-
ordered and contained a sediment like
brick-dust. I got very little rest at night,
and always felt tired, and my head ached
incessantly. T thought I would never gel
any better, but one day a friend advised
me to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills,
so I got some. Within a week after com-
mencing their use I began to improve..
and from that time on rapidly grew bet-
ter. I used eight bottles in all. and was
cured. Every distressing symptom has
gone, and 1 feel splendid.”
Four years later Mrs. Smith says:—
"Doan's Backache Kidney Bills are a
wonderful remedy. They cured me of
kidney trouble four years ago, and I have
been in good health ever since.”
i o
0.,
Doans Ilackaehe Kidnev I’ills
por Dot tie (six bottles 10/3) ;
7G I'iit Street, Sydney.
are sold by all Chemists ;
or posted on receipt of price
and
by
Storekeepers at
Foster-McClellan
DOAN’S
«AA(* *
PILIS
ECZEMA
A Lasting Cure by
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mi - . 11. Matson, senr.. 210 Denison Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says:—“A
couple of years ago I had Eczema break out very badly on my chest. It was shortly
, tea 1 had returned from a trip to India, where I had gone with horses. I had fever
badly m India, and the Eczema seemed to be the result of this sickness. It was yen-
severe, and spread rapidly, until I was in such a state that the pain and irritation
nearly drove me mad. When I went to bed at night my sufferings were worst, and it
was nearly morning before I could gel to sleep. A man I know advised me to gel
Doans Ointment, saying that he had heard of excellent results from the use of this
preparation. I thought it a good idea, and obtained a pot. The first application
was cooling, and the second soothed the itch, and after that I got along splendidly.
Every tune I applied the Ointment there was a marked improvement, until I was
quite cured. Within a month from the first time I used the Ointment not one trace
ot Ihe ailment remained. Doan’s Ointment is a splendid preparation for Eczema,
skin irritation, to take inflammation from the skin, and to heal.”
T , years later Mr. Whitson confirms the above:—“lf is now len years since
Jloan s Ointment cured me of Eczema, and I am pleased to say that the cure has
stood the test of time. I am stilJ quite free of this dreadful complaint.”
Doan's Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
e;\ .She’s a square, good tart, an’ deserves
it. By the rules of the game. I ought to
stoush yer now, good an’ ’ard. fer ther ways
you’ve played on me. but the stoush won’t be
any ther less fer waiting, if I find you haven’t
played the game to her!’
“Then I left ’im. Fat O’Reilly. when he
nabbed me, knew well enough I 'adn't stole
the things, but I'd pawned ’em; and. as I
vonldn t blow the gau, of course I went up.
When I comes out I goes erlong to see May
and Bill ergain.”
“How were they getting on V” I asked.
"Tip-top. A brand-new baby, and every-
thing running smooth, and Bill a member of
a. Iteehabite lodge.
“But I was sort of froze out. Mav thinks
you see. that I’m not a tit cobber for Bill! - ’
HAMER.
The Rhyme of the Terrible
Turk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’ nineteen-hundred-and-ten, I
I guess—
I make no count of a year or less,
in this tale of the sweat-rag parade—
When Laddie Brezzieres. he yelled for
steam.
And iluit was the end of their longshore
dream with many a Sydney maid !
So Roaring Macarthur, he lifts his voice,
ith language free and with adverbs, choice
that soar to the screaming mews,
And the old Maheno she gets a grip
Of Rod’s own sea like a baresark ship, and
she toils with her turbine screws!
I>ut Ninety Conway, who’d fired with me
The trip, before on the Terrible T.. with a
mighty oath, he says, says he:
“I’m sick of this crimson work;
Take er out yerself. Sir Thingummy Mills,
/ won’t for a ’undred Broking Tils” —
For, filled with booze to the fighting sills,
I beg to state that they’d carried his jills
On board of the Terrible Turk !
That’s the old Maheno I’ve named before —
Well. I’d jammed my slice through a fur-
nace door, and was shaking her up like
mad,
Y\ hen Ninety Conway, who’s on the watch.
Still full to the sills with poisonous
“Scotch.” starts using a trick he had !
He outs with the stick of an ancient broom,
► ays. Damn their steam for the enging-
room —/'ll show ’em the way ter fire !
ain t come ’ere not to raise no steam” —
So he prods away with a maniac gleam,
and the steam-gauge lifts no higher!
1 hen the whole of the watch, they twigs his
game,
And all of them does the blanking same,
and things goes dead with the furnace-
flame —
\N hich happens sometimes at sea.
Then Roaring Macarthur. he lifts a yell :
Why! What the blank blue-purple
hell”
But I stops him there, and I savs, “Sir.
well,
The Australian fireman — hr s a swell
Who goes to his job from a clean hotel
For the sake of the £ s. d. !
"But these English wasters, they are no
class —-
They make for the shore and they bust
their brass, and then come aboard like
this” —
And I points at Ninety, who’s flat on his
back —
Stuck fair iii the way of the wheeling track,
and the Second, his steam-pipes hiss!
I’ °r he hears the Chief—that’s old Brez-
zieres—
Descending those sinful iron stairs which
lead from the realms above,
W here women they smile and laugh and
flirt,
And a man looks out for a bit of skirt
whilst firemen holler and shove !
W e gets one glance from his nibs the Chief,
then. “Mister Macarthur”—his words were
brief, but charged indeed with a Scotch-
man’s grief
When his engines stagger and jerk :
Yes, "Mister Macarthur.” he snapped like
that, then squinted his eye and scowled
and spat—
"l could raise more steam with mv blasted
hat.”
1 hen yelled, as he kicked the Poplar rat —
down the Terrible Turk!”
Now. the old Maheno, she carried a chap
W ho talked of Fight with an endless yap,
and this was the cove 1 mean
W horn the Chief had christened the Terrible
Turk,
Cos falkin of Fight makes firemen work
and hustle their steam machine!
So, the Second, lie goes and howls for
(leorge,
W ho d handled the tongs at many a forge
with Bob Fitzsimmons, he said ;
This George Roezzini, he irus a cove
To skite of Griffo and Jeff, by Jove, with
"a lead to the bleedin’ ’('ad” !
But Ninety, who hated all such players.
Lpon the; flute, yells "(hr! ’oo can’s for
blanks with swank Orsetrylian airs? —
So be blanked to the Terrible T. ;
Be blanked to the ship an’ the bleedin’
crew ! Be blanked to the Union Com-
pany too —
TV blanked to boilers an’ crimson screw!
Be blanked to passengers! Bleedin’ —
boo !”
And his face spread wide as an open flue —
“O Gawd ! ’ow I 'ates this sea !”
M e’d christened him Ninety, this nark,
becos’
Just ninety discharges, you see, there was
that this mad Conway had;
Just ninety crinkly old certifss —
Good Lord! I’ve had enough of those stiffs!
and every one of them bad !
An English nark, he was, for fair.
And a fighter of booze beyond compare
from Cardiff to the Bluff;
So he lifls a slice with an ugly snarl
As the Turk comes down the ladder, but
Karl McGlore, he chips: “Enough!”
Aye. this was the voice of the sour-eyed
Third
WVkrh bit the air with a single word. Then
hate, fierce hate, in Conway stirred —
“You’re a German-Irish cow!”
Mad Conway yells, with bloodshot eyes, but
the harsh, sententious Third replies:
* 'e. ,no none of your Ifs and stow your
A liys—
Make the crimson steam in the boilers rise,
kor you’ll do no fighting now!'’
And there we were in the glory-hole,
Controlled by a man with a German soul
and an Irish list, forsooth;
for an ugly Third was Karl McGlore—
A man cursed well on many a shore where
firemen slake their drouth!
•Now, nobody minded when Roaring Mac
Jdew off his steam with a thunder-crack—
it was only his way, you see:
I*ut Karl McGlore, the crossbred Third,
lie would stand by the hour with never a
.word whilst we made her turbines gee !
Against the stanchion he’d simply lean
n lus watch in charge of this steam-
machine. whilst the glint of his eve
went stabbing clean
ini’ s . aw eacl ! gauge-glass jump ;
llien, silent, still, he’d shut them in, each
water-check from the ocean-bin,
•' lH j- I .von. the frowning ghost of Sin
' talked down the pass with a ghastly grin
Each time that Karl McGlore came in—
Great Scott! He gave us the hump!
hen down the ladder comes Nosey Sayers,
J he union delegate—such affairs are carried
as well as crews
I»y every ship that’s on the track—
'' liilst Ninety’s face was thunder black
with the surging fumes of booze!
,!'/• this was the jest, that Nosey came
lake Innocence into that pit of flame, and
nodded to Karl McGlore;
He hadn t a notion that things were wrong,
Rut collared a slice to push her along to
the old Dominion shore!
A hundred-and-ninety-turns." he said.
"She’s doing this watch—God’s truth! She’s
dead ! Hey, Terrible Turk ! let’s push
her ahead —
Shake up those fires like Hell!”
So life indeed was a jest just then, in that
steel box of angry men.
Where Ninety stood like a beast in a pen
Red-eyed to the butcher—-that boiler-den
\\ as gripped by the union del. !
uu’- 1 wouldn’t have known him. off the ship,
this Nosey Sayers, who took the grip when
Death on the Terrible Turk
Hissed snake-like, coiled, and readv to
spring—
lhat union delegate was a king not named
in Debrett and Burke!
He rated as greaser, this Nosey Sayers.
And tended the dynamo—then took shares
for fun with the rake and slice :
A ; \ e, steam was his idol — hail to steam! —
Like a drunken dredge in a fireman's dream
he shifted coal for shic-e!
"Three-hundred-and-twenty she ought to do,”
He yelled, then pitched for a minute or two
whilst Conway painted the climate
blue
For the vanishing Karl McGlore.
\\ ho, reckoned that Ninety would onlv talk!
Ihere was stiff contempt in the Third’s
slow walk
As he moved away with a piece of chalk
lo the engine-room, where Laddie used stalk
And dainty passengers stare and gawk
At the revolution-score!
1 hey smile, and stare for a second at most
At the signs chalked up on that cryptic
P ( ist beloved of Laddie Brezzieres;
Ihe post that stands in the engine-room
A itli the turns per minute marked up.
whilst spume, from each screw-blade
leaps and flares !
Dear dainty passengers! Visions in lace
lhat enter into yon sacred place where
Roaring Maearthur smiles
And shows them the rotors, twelve feet
long,
lhat fashion each screw-blade’s- turbined
song and master the ocean-miles!
let what of the pit that throbs beneath
Lack deck like Hell in an iron sheathV
Aye, what of the coal-dust air we
breathe.
And what of the dark fore-peak V
It’s sailors up on the forward deck! It’s
Percy’s arm round Katie’s neck —-
lor us it’s “Collar your monthly cheque.
I hen drink and he damned!” And who
shall reck V
For we haven’t a man to speak !
Save Nosey Sayers and such as he.
Our union delegates—“scum of the sea”
they rank in the first-saloon.
A here pious sweaters they talk for hours
Of Labor’s sins and terrible powers!—God's
gas in the world-balloon
Are they whose Energy moves the coal
Midst sweat and flame in the glory-hole.
and I reckon they’re clean to Him
Aho rings “Burn down!" on planet and
star —
Arch-Engineer whose screws beat far be-
yond Areturus’ rim !
I reckon they're clean, I say, to God
A’liose ships go out at the" Master s nod-
aye, planished and sleek each piston-
rod ;
Maybe He has turbiued craft?
Rut I only hope that on some ship—some
sUir in Space, the rich men strip,
Ihen find each slice red-hot to the grip.
A hilst the firemen sling the steward a tip.
A ith many a glass of the best to sip—
Ur stroll with the ladies aft!
Our union delegate! Nosey Sayers—
God! Hear all firemen's ocean-pravers for
Ihe Priests of the Under-Dog; "
'Shall rich men always collar the loot—
Rid trimmer and fireman serve them mute
whilst Man has the seas to flog!
the seas to thrash with his bladed screws—
> hall they have no goal but endless booze.
and only the Ninetys rise
As types of Ihe stokehole? Spirit of
Drake —
Speak for the heroes of Shovel and Rake!
God ! Open Australia’s eyes !
Lord! Teach them the lesson that Nosev
Sayvs.
Aho wt rs lips Steam, goes up Life’s stairs
as in ) of the Under-Legion’s pravers
I’or the ii v reward of Work :
“Takc'cr c, t yerself, Sir Thinyammy Mills!”
* ;'! l ,’j 1 , orc h how the bare suggestion
chills!
So, filled wD*' spunk to the fighting-sills.
I fling this y 'yme for the Jims and Bills
ror whom th * earth with its thousand ills
is a float \ g Terrible Turk !
n. s. WALES.
GRANK HERVEY.


a?
\ Sslf
• ■ >
#
m
$ m
:I.
ilim
A Fair Question.
Have You Tried the
Best Practical Hethod
of Eliminating Your
Belt Losses ?
WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES
will Overcome Your
Difficulties.
Write To-day for Booklet
B.M. 310.
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents -Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Stop That Leaking Joint
UNEQUALLED for
High Pressure and Highly
Superheated Steam,
Ammonia and Acids,
Also
Gas and Motor
Engines.
\
O'
MADE
IN ENGLAND.
Sample supplied
on application.
The Austral
Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
OSTE®
hfd
When it comes to Threading Tubes
there is a special tool to fit your particular use
in the Oster line. 20 years of specialisation
guarantees their quality—an Oster means
clean threads quickly cut.
FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
IN ALL CITIES.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, G., U.S.A. a
OSTER
✓
ANTISEPTIC
THROAT
hf
dh
THESE wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a
formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes : “1 tnank you for
the boxes of Evans' Pastilles sent me, which 1 find excellent and
efficacious." „ , , ,
Sole Manufacturers :
EVANS SONS LESCHER, ft WEBB, Ltd., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS” Pastilles and see you get them.
SiS
8-Hour Diamond Jubilee Art Union
PRIZES VALUE £4OOO.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN OCTOBER 30, 1915.
Ist Prize, value £B5O. 2nd Prize, value £450.
3rd Prize, value £3OO.
And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. M. M. Whitt, Sydney,
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHIELING.
GET A TICKET & HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1915.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 4
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had fro
Agents in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades_Hall,_Sydney i .
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
may be taken with a perfect sense of security because they are entirely
free from any injurious substance and compounded only from the
purest ingredients ofvegetable origin. Beecham’s Pills are accordingly
quite safe for everyone. This fact should be clearly understood,
because it is of great importance that you should have confidence in the
rrysdicine you use. Proof of the valuable properties of this popular
preparation is supplied by an immense body of opinion, for Beeeham’s
Pills have been in use for years in many thousands of homes, not only
in England but across the seas. At home and abroad they are esteemed
as the best Family Medicine to keep at hand for those common ailments,
soprevalentin these days, arisingfrom disordered action ofthe stomach,
liver & kidneys. Beeeham’s Pills have a long and honourable record and
ARE A SEVENTY YEARS’ SUCCESS
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1| (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
OXY-AGETYLENE WELDING CO.
The Metals we Weld—Cast Iron and Wrought Iron, Steel and Aluminium,
and other Alloys. Send along your Broken and Worn Farts and we will
weld them for you as good as ever. Cutting any thickness. Portable
Plants sent to all parts. First-class Workmanship Guaranteed.
Under the Personal Supervision of
J. W. McPH
The Welding E
Address : Head Qfficz —50 Day Street, off Erskine Street, 8 opp. A.U.S.N. Co., Sydney.
Telephone -City 8966. Works: Jones Street, Pyrmont.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Tha Original anti Only Gtenuina
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BT ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/b.
Made in England.
fdh
Checks Feve-
rishness. and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks sf
SPASMS and COLIC.
- The Best Medicine for
DOUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he oouffh of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acta like a charm
DIARRHCEA and simp/e DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
v . ;,>s
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
Murray’s Engrlish Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers &t Aerated W aters aiid Cordials.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
| —I —S
The Seal
of Safety.
Arras Automatic
Double Seamers.
The Trade Standard.
Progressive Seamers for
Progressive Canners.
Make Your Cans with Ams Machinery
We furnish, machines for mak-
ing tin cans of every descrip-
tion, for Sardines, Peas, Fruit,
all Food Products, Spices, Teas,
Coffee, Tobacco, Paint and Oil
Cans.
These machines are automatic throughout, and are fitted with Cover
Feed, Can Straightener and Plunger, and make a very complete and service-
able Double Seamer. They are rigid in construction, complete lubricating
svstem ease and convenience in operating, plenty of speed, and will do the
work cut out for them. The can stands still during the seaming operation
and boy or girl can run these double seamers.
Takes all standard sizes including No. 3’s. Out-
put over 50 per minute. Tlie 988 for gallon cans
from 40 per minute. We are specialists in this
line. It is not a side issue.
We build complete can-making equipments.
Write to us about your intentions. We are in
business to answer questions. Experiment if you
like, but come to' v Ams for standard.
Send us a sample of what you want to make.
CORRESPONDENCE AND ESTIMATES IN EVERY
LANGUAGE.
MAX AMS MACHINE COMPANY,
MOUNT VERNON, N.V., U.S.A.
CHARLES M. AMS, President.
Address us direct or through any EXPORT
COMMISSION HOUSE.
m
eaU.


NGRovrr
LEATHER
LTI
has been awarded the Gov-
ernment Contracts for 1915-
1916.
It is All-Australian—from
Australian Hides, tanned
and manufactured by Aus-
tralian Workmen.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
WOLFE’S
Schiedam
SCHNAPPS
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID S ANT PROOF.
ERECTBD COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARDIE * CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
nPHIS favorite spirit is, and always has been, exclusively MANUFACTURED IN HOLLAND, but
inasmuch as certain malicious persons have circulated FALSE REPORTS concerning the COUNTRY
OF MANUFACTURE OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, we have since the circulation of such slanders secured
CERTIFICATES OF ORIGIN from the BRITISH PRO=CONSUL at ROTTERDAM, HOLLAND, for each
shipment, certifying that WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS has not been produced or manufactured in enemy
territory.
Any person, after this notice, spreading false reports to the detriment of the sale of the said
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS will be prosecuted with the utmost rigor of the law.
M. MOSS & CO., Sydney & Melbourne,
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TANCYE Portable Lampless Oil Engine
HIGH-GRADE and RELIABLE MACHINERY
for all industrial purposes
AGENCIES —
TANCYE Lampless Kerosene Oil Engines, Benzine Engines. ' Stationary type Steam Engines. Vertical Boilers.
r Steam and Belt-driven Pumps of all types. Suction Gas Plants. Irrigation Plants. Blocks, Jacks, etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWOBTH Portable Steam Engines. Steam Tractors and Hoad Rollers. Oil Tractors, etc.
CANE Milking Machines. MONRO Chaffcutters. WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machine*
• NICHOLSON & MORROW “Union” Farm Implements, Harvesters, Ploughs, Cultivators, Drills, Harrows, etc.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED .
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, H&*?' . v>l
ROCKHAMPTON , TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE, PER
Clayton and Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
SEE THE
¥
_
W to
HEE P
RINC MACHINES.
C&ll <£
v
S'
D
y
c
s
H
04.
& '
MODERN TOOLS for MACHINE-SHOP EQUIPMENT.
if
KEMPSMITH -The Universal Milling Machine
that stands to-day as the type of highest development in Milling Machine Construction
Study its design. Its sturdiness and strength is one of its features. It will stand up to
the severest strains imposed by modern milling methods. Perfect lubrication—
every wheel and lever is within easy reach of the operator—no time lost in
unnecessary movements.
If you are interested we should liKe to send you a copy of our booKlet, “ Milling Sug-
gestions, **giving # concrete examples of the worK accomplished by this improved miller.
Sol®
Agents:
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Machinery Merchants,
REDUCE. YOUR COSTS
BY USING
TILCHMAN’S PATENT AIR COMPRESSORS
VOLUMETRIC
EFFICIENCY
GUARANTEED.
Over 2750 in use
As Supplied to British Government.
ROPE. BELT.
STEAM or
Electrically driven.
LTD., Sydney and London.
